4^4 The Popliteal Space tibial and dorsalis pedis arteries. Coldness and gangrene quickly supervene, and amputation above the knee has to be resorted to. The most certain method of treatment consists in ligation of the femoral artery at the apex of Scarpa's triangle ; compression of the common femoral and forcible flexion of the knee sometimes prove successful. But, when an aneurysm is large and its walls are likely to yield, the femoral must be tied at once. Popliteal abscess may begin in one of the lymphatic glands, or in the connective tissue of the space, and the pus may eventually find its way into the joint, or amongst the muscles of the back of the thigh or leg. The strength of the fascia lata delays its spontaneous escape to the surface of the limb. The abscess should be evacuated by incising the skin, super- ficial and deep fasciae, in the groove between the ilio-tibial band and the bicipital tendon, the director and dressing-forceps being used for the deep part of the exploration. The lower end of the femur and the depths of the space are readily accessible in this way, and without risk of damaging important structures. The track being made in front of the external popliteal nerve, all that the surgeon has to guard against wounding is the superior external articular artery. Sinuses left after the evacuation of an abscess may refuse to heal unless the limb is kept in absolute rest in a splint ; and it may be well to have the knee gently flexed. In amputation at the knee-joint the long anterior flap, being but poorly supplied with blood, is apt to slough. The mass of condyles needs a very large flap. This flap is made by an incision extending from one tuberosity of the femur down over the tubercle of the tibia, and up to the other femoral tuberosity. The joint is opened through the hgamentum patellae ; the lateral and crucial ligaments are divided, and the knife is passed through to the back of the joint, and, cutting downwards and backwards, severs the popliteus, the pop- liteal vessels and nerves, the hamstring tendons, gastrocnemius, and plantaris. As it descends behind the tibia and fibula, it detaches a short posterior flap. carden did a sort of 'Syme' (p. 499) at the joint, shaping the ordinary oval, anterior flap, removing the patella, and cutting straight back, making no posterior flap ; he removed the condyles just as Syme sliced off the malleoli in the case of amputation at the ankle. Gritti's is on the principle of a ' Pirogoff' (500) ; it is much like Cardcn's, but instead of the patella being removed, a slice is taken from its articular cartilage, and the denuded surface is then turned under the sawn end of the femur. An excellent amputation at the knee is by lateral flaps, the scar being eventually drawn up out of the way of pressure, behind and between the condyles. In the case of malignant disease in the leg it is safer to amputate