Internal Saphenous Vein 451 of the internal malleolus, by the inner and back part of the knee, and up the front of the thigh between the two layers of the superficial fascia. It pierces the cribriform fascia, and passes through the saphenous opening into the common femoral vein. Before doing so it receives the veins which correspond to the superficial branches of the common femoral artery from the iliac, epigastric, and pubic regions. A large tributary also joins it from the back of the thigh by winding round the inner side of the limb. As a result of pressure upon the inferior vena cava or the common iliac vein—-of ovarian tumour or in pregnancy—the saphenous becomes dilated and thickened—varicose (varus, crooked) ; the valves being rendered useless, a wound or ulceration of the vein may then cause fatal bleeding. I have seen a bunch of varicose branches of the vein form a very definite swelling at the base of Scarpa's triangle. The tumour could be emptied by placing the man supine, and it recurred only gradually when he got up again. A femoral hernia by pressing against the common femoral vein may so hinder the venous return that dilatation of the surface veins and oedema of the limb may occur. The inguinal lymphatic glands are placed between the two layers of the superficial fascia ; they consist of two groups, one lying along Poupart's ligament, the other along the saphenous vein. The upper set receive lymph from the abdominal wall below the level of the umbilicus ; absorbents from the penis, scrotum, and anus also enter the innermost glands of this group, whilst those from the buttock and outer side of the thigh enter the outlying ones. Some- times lymphatics from the genitals enter the lower glands as well as the upper. The lower group receive the absorbents from the inner side of the foot and leg, and from the thigh. Lymphatic vessels generally run with the veins ; those, therefore, from the outside of foot and leg pass with the external saphenous vein, and end in the popliteal glands. The lymph from all these glands ascends through the iliac and abdominal glands towards the thoracic duct. Inflammation of a gland is commonly called bubo (@ovl3a>v, gland). Practically it does not matter in which direction the suppurating gland is opened provided that the undermined and unhealthy skin be removed, and the gland- capsule be scraped out. Infections conveyed from one gland to another may involve the groin in sinuses which have to be opened up before healing can take place. If a sinus run with the lymphatics through the saphenous opening, and into crural canal, it must not be laid open by bold incision but scraped out to its depths, and drained by a short tube. The fascia lata is attached to the iliac crest, Poupart's ligament rami of pubes and ischium, to the great sacro-sciatic ligament, the sacrum and coccyx. It is especially thick on the outer side on account G G 2