55 Medulla Oblongata Though the pons consists chiefly of white fibres, it contains also grey matter, and helps in co-ordinating muscular movements. There also decussation of the fifth and of the seventh nerves takes place. If a lesion, a small haemorrhage, for instance, occur above the crossing of the facial fibres, there is pai-alysis of the opposite sides of face and of the body, whereas if it be below the crossing the facial paralysis is upon the same side as the lesion, whilst the hemiplegia is upon the opposite side, for the motor fibres of the cord cross in the medulla. Haemorrhage into the pons is usually accompanied by contraction of the pupils. The medulla oblongata extends from the lower border of the pons to the ring of the atlas. Its anterior surface lies upon the basilar process of the occipital bone, and its posterior surface rests between the hemispheres of the cerebellum. Being an enlargement of the spinal cord, it consists of symmetrical lateral halves in which the various columns of the cord can be traced. In front is the median groove, which ends at the pons as the foramen caecum, and the posterior median groove becomes widened out into the fourth ventricle, the grey commissure of the cord being exposed in its floor. The anterior columns of the cord are represented by the a?tterior pyramids; the bundles of fibres which decussate at the lower part of the groove between the pyramids actually belong to the lateral columns—they are called the crossed pyramidal tracts. The outermost fibres of the pyramids do not cross—they constitute the di?-ect pyramidal tracts. {See Spinal Cord, p. 213.) The olive belongs to the lateral column. The restiform bodies (restis, rope) are cord-like bundles of fibres continuing the posterior column into the cerebellum ; they bound the fourth ventricle. The posterior pyramid continues GolPs column along the median border of the restiform body, and its fibres gradually pass into the restiform body. In the exposed grey matter of the fourth ventricle descends a narrow median groove, which at the apex of the ventricle was origi- nally continued into the central canal of the cord. The medulla oblongata is described by Ranney as ' the true nerve- centre of animal life' ; all the cranial nerves from the seventh to the twelfth arise directly from it, whilst others can also be traced thither, that is, to the floor of the fourth ventricle. It contains much grey matter : its action, therefore, is ' largely reflex.' Taking the nerves arising from it in numerical order, wc find the seventh controlling the reflex movements of the facial muscles ; the ninth (glossopharyngeal), of deglutition ; the tenth (pneumogastric), of respiration ; the eleventh (spinal accessory), of the larynx and heart ; and the twelfth (hypo- glossal), of the tongue. The special centres of the medulla are respiratory, under the influence of the pneumogastric, trifacial, and other afferent fibres. 1 This centre also presides over the acts of laughing, sighing, sobbing,