Popliteal Space In the superficial fascia ascends the external saphenous vein, which, beginning in an arch on the dorsum of the foot, in communica- tion with the internal or long saphenous vein, passes behind the external malleolus, and between the bellies of the gastrocnemius, to pierce the fascia lata at the middle of the space. Like the long vein, it receives tributaries just before traversing the deep fascia ; these are cutaneous branches descending from the back of the thigh. Sometimes when a tumour presses upon the popliteal or superficial femoral vein these descending branches are engorged and dilated. There is a communication between the venae comites of the posterior tibial artery and the external saphenous vein near the ankle, and a branch on the thigh again links the two saphenous veins. The short saphenous nerve accompanies the external saphenous vein between the bellies of the gastrocnemius. The cutaneous nerves of the space are branches of the small sciatic. In the undissected limb the space is small, as the muscles which bound it closely overlap the artery. Thus, superficially, on the outer side, are the biceps, the outer head of the gastrocnemius, and the plantaris ; and on the inner side are the semi-membranosus and the other head of the gastrocnemius. The deep fascia is a continuation of the fascia lata, and it receives slips from the hamstring tendons. Its density prevents digital explora- tion of the depths of the space unless it be first slackened by bending the knee. Close on the inner side of the tendon of the biceps runs the external popliteal nerve ; the internal popliteal nerve descends in the middle line. The popliteal artery enters the top of the space with the popliteal vein. The fact of these vessels coming through the opening in ih; adductor magnus, at the lower end of Hunter's canal, on the inner side of the shaft of the femur, suffices to place them well on the inncr side at the top of the space. And, inasmuch as they are coming from the front of the thigh, they are very deeply placed on their entrance into the ham. Now, as the internal popliteal nerve is coming boldly down the back of the thigh into the middle of the space, it necessarily lies at first considerably external and superficial to the popliteal vessels. The relative position oc' tlie vein and artery at the top of the space is the same as (p. 454) in Hunter's canal—which actually ends at the top of the space ; the vein is on the outer side of the artery, and they are both resting upon the femur. The passage from the crural to the sural (sura, calf) part of the ham is the notch between the condyles of the femur, and it is far too narrow to allow the nerve, the vein, and the artery to go through abreast ; they are arranged, therefore, in single file, the vessels still b> ing deeper than the nerve. In their preparation for the passage I 1