432 The Testis A urethritis extending backwards may invade the openings of the common ejaculatory ducts, and, spreading along their lining membrane, may reach the epididymis and the body of the testis. That the in- flammation travels by continuity of tissue is evinced by the swollen and tender condition of the vas, which thus becomes as large as an ordinary cedar pencil. The term 'gonorrhceal orchitis' is incorrect ; the condition is almost invariably ' epididymitis' to begin with ; and for some time the soft and unaffected gland may be found in front of, but obscured by, the enlarged epididymis. Epididymitis may come on in the course of a gonorrhoea or gleet when no injection or instru- mentation has been employed ; the use of an injection has, as a rule, nothing to do with its occurrence. Epididymitis is sometimes caused by a slight damage to the mucous membrane of the urethra by the passage of a lithotrite or by the removal of a fragment of stone. At times, too, it follows the passage of a catheter or sound when, in all probability, not the least abrasion of the mucous lining has occurred. In acute orchitis and epididymitis the pain is intense, on account of the unyielding nature of the tunica albuginea. A few punctures of the inflamed gland allow the escape of effusion into the tunica vagi- nalis and afford almost immediate relief. Atrophy of the testis is apt to follow acute inflammation, on account of the disturbance of nutrition which was thereby caused. At an early period of foetal life there is no connection between the vas deferens and the testicle, but, like the Fallopian tube, the vas begins by an open and disconnected extremity ; so, through an arrest of development, the vas deferens may end blindly in the spermatic cord, without association with the testis ; each organ may, however, be in it- self thoroughly developed. The developmental distinction between the vas deferens and the testis proper explains the frequency with which an inflammation of the vas deferens and epididymis may extend itself in those structures without implicating the immediately adjoining testicular tissue, as in the case of gonorrhceal epididymitis. Vessels and nerves of the testis. As the testis was originally formed in the neighbourhood of the kidney, the vessels and nerves which supply it are all derived from, and kept in permanent communication with, the corresponding systems of that neighbourhood (v. p. 353). Thus, the spermatic artery comes from the abdominal aorta close to the renal artery, whilst the right and left spermatic veins empty into the vena cava and the left renal vein respectively. As the testis de- scends, the artery becomes elongated, and by the time that the gland has reached the scrotum the blood-vessel has become so long and slender that the student who does not understand the development wonders why the blood was not supplied by one of the iliac trunks or by some artery which was still nearer to the scrotum. In its downward course the spermatic artery lies behind the peri-