The Liver 340 which then lodge in the liver and become infecting foci. Sometimes it follows surgical operations upon the lower bowel, or simple ulcera- tions of the stomach or small intestine. Jaundice is the result of the absorption of bile by the efferent vessels of the liver. The vena porta? carries up the elements of bile, and the liver prepares that fluid from them. Thus, if the bile cannot flow out into the intestine, as when a calculus blocks the hepatic or common bile-duct, or a tumour presses upon them, the intra-hepatic tension becomes so great that the blood-staining fluid has to be carried away by the branches of the hepatic veins. The student is apt to think that jaundice is always the prominent symptom of liver-diseases ; but when the bile-secreting cells are destroyed, as in certain cases of abscess and cancer, there is too little bile formed ; and if it be possible to imagine malignant disease destroying all the liver-cells, it is certain that no jaundice could occur, for no bile would be formed. The hepatic circulation and the secretion of bile are under the influence of the pneumogastric and sympathetic filaments, and when the central nervous system is upset, not only may digestion be im- paired or lost, but jaundice may occur. As an example of this, refer- ence may be made to the brief clinical report of the lady in ' Twelfth Night,' who, concealing her too great love, pined in thought and was, in consequence, overcome by a ' green and yellow melancholy.' The arterial supply is chiefly from the hepatic division of the cceliac axis, whose branches pass with ramifications of the portal vein, hepatic duct, and Glisson's capsule between the lobules. A small quantity of blood also comes from the right phrenic. The blood brought by the vena portas and by the hepatic artery is conveyed into the vena cava by the hepatic veins ; the descent of the diaphragm at each inspiration compresses the liver and helps to empty these capacious and valveless veins. Of the lymphatics, some pass out by the transverse fissure to glands between the layers of lesser omentum, whilst the superficial ones join the anterior and posterior mediastinal glands. The nerves are sympathetic filaments from the solar plexus, and twigs of the pneumogastric and phrenic nerves. The pain in the shoulder in hepatic congestion has been explained on p. 339- The gall-bladder is pear-shaped ; its larger end reaches to the sharp edge of the right lobe of the liver, just behind the ninth costal cartilage. Its upper surface adheres to the liver ; the under surface is covered by peritoneum, and overhangs the pylorus or the beginning of the duodenum, and the hepatic flexure of colon. The stalk of the pear extends upwards and backwards to the transverse fissure, where it joins the common hepatic duct to form the common bile-duct, w hich opens with the pancreatic duct into the second piece of the duodenum. When a gall-stone blocks the cystic, or the common bile-duct, the gall-bladder becomes distended, and may form a