Posterior Tibial Artery 489 Division of its tendon may be performed above the malleolus by a puncture made close behind the posterior border of the tibia, which is exactly halfway between the anterior and posterior aspects of the limb ; or in the hollow between the tip of the malleolus and the tube- rosity of the scaphoid. The latter is the better site for its division, as there the tendon is quite subcutaneous, and out of the way of the posterior tibial artery. But it is equally convenient for the surgeon to divide it deep in the sole, by the same wound by which he cuts every other fibrous structure which hinders his straightening the deformed foot. The three muscles of the deep layer of the back of the leg are supplied by the posterior tibial nerve. They all extend the foot ; two of them also flex the toes, whilst the third inverts the foot. The posterior tibial artery is one of the trunks coming from the bifurcation of the popliteal at the lower border of the popliteus, the other being the anterior tibial (p. 492). It divides under cover of the abductor hallucis into the two plantars. Its coarse may be marked by a line which begins about an inch below the lower part of the ham, and ends in the mid-space between the inner malleolus and the os calcis. Relations. — At its origin, and for an inch or two down, it rests on the tibialis posticus, then on the flexor longus digitorum, and afterwards, as the muscles narrow into tendons, and the tibia expands, it lies upon the bone, and finally upon the posterior ligament of the ankle- joint. Posterior to it are the skin, superficial and deep fascia, the gastro- cnemius and soleus ; the sub-soleus fascia (that is the second layer of deep fascia) ; and the posterior tibial nerve, which crosses the artery two or three inches below its origin. To the injter side are the tibial origin of the soleus, the first few inches of the posterior tibial nerve, and, near the ankle, the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum. To the outer side is the fibular origin of the soleus, the flexor longus hallucis, and, in the lower three-fourths of its course, the posterior tibial nerve. Venae comites, one on either side, join with each other by short branches across the artery, and they ultimately flow into the popliteal vein. Ligation of the posterior tibial artery in the upper part of its course is performed by bending the knee and extending the foot, so as to slacken the deep fascia and the gastrocnemius, and by resting the limb upon the fibular side. An incision of four inches is made down the leg about a finger's breadth behind the posterior border of the tibia, care being taken not to wound the long saphenous vein. The deep fascia is then incised on a director, and the inner belly of the gastrocnemius, if encountered, is turned outwards. The tibial origin of