The Tcctli ii4 Its sac may then become distended into a so-called dentigerous cyst. In rare instances, as age advances and the jaw is less crowded, one of these belated teeth may make its appearance, which phenomenon may raise the vain anticipation of a third natural set of teeth. When the teeth are irregularly crowded along the alveolus, a judicious weeding out of some of them may effect a great improve- ment. That there is considerable plasticity about the alveolar process in a child is evidenced by the fact that a constant and vigorous thumb- sucking causes repression of the lower incisors and an unsightly pro- trusion of the upper. Cases are not rare in which the alveolar process is drawn entirely out of the mouth by the contraction of an extensive cicatrix left after a burn of the front of the neck. When it happens that the jaws cannot be separated, the surgeon must not propose the extraction of a tooth in order that the patient may be fed : as the patient lies in bed fluid food poured between the cheek and the back teeth readily finds its way into the mouth. The Tongue The tongue is a mass of intrinsic and extrinsic muscles covered with a mucous membrane. It is connected with the floor of the mouth, lower jaw, soft palate, epiglottis, and hyoid bone. The mucous 7nembra7ie consists of a basement membrane which is elevated into papillae, depressed into glands, and covered with squamous epithelium. Down the middle of the dorsum is the raphe, which ends posteriorly in the foramen caecum. Fixing the tongue to the middle of the lower jaw is a fold of mucous membrane, the frcenum. Sometimes, as a congenital defect, it is so short that the tip of the tongue is closely bound down behind the gum, and sucking is performed with difficulty ; the infant is then said to be tongue-tied. It is best treated by raising the tongue by inserting the left index and middle finger, one on each side of the fraenum, and then snipping the band below the fingers with blunt scissors. This being done, the band is torn through and the front of the tongue freed. As the ranine vessels run beneath the tongue, on either side of the fraenum, there would be danger of cutting them should the scissors be directed upwards. The old-fashioned steel director is still made with a flat, '"^-■"■^ ' • - ^ expanded, and cleft handle for raising the tongue and shielding the ranine vessels during division of the framum, but it is rarely used for that purpose. That the ranine vessels arc in danger of being wounded by a clumsy operator is evident : the vein is readily seen through the thin membrane at the side of the fraenum. Some children have a dangerous trick of swallowing the tongue, and it may be necessary in such cases to shorten the fraenum by a plastic operation.