133 TracJieotomy again, and the engorgement of the tributaries of the innominate veins subsides. In the high operation the surgeon opens the trachea above the isthmus of the thyroid gland. A great deal is discussed about the misfortune of wounding the isthmus ; for my own part, I never give it a thought, but clear all the tissues from the front of the top rings of the trachea by using a director and pair of dissecting-forceps. If the isthmus happen to be across this track, and not easily displaced, it must be sacrificed. But, if the surgeon proceed to open the trachea below the isthmus, not only will he find it deeply placed, but he will also be traversing the region of the important inferior thyroid veins which descend from the isthmus to the innominate veins. Moreover, should the left common carotid come from the innominate, should there be a thyroidea ima, or should the left innominate vein cross above the level of the episternal notch, as sometimes happens, the complications might be extremely grave. He may even surprise himself by coming against the apex of the thymus, which in young children ascends well into the neck, as is shown by the figure on pp. 132 and 155. The metal tube should not be too much curved, lest its sharp end impinge against the front of the trachea and set up an ulceration, which may eventually implicate the left innominate vein, or the innominate or common carotid artery, and entail a fatal haemo- ptysis. Fallacies in the operation.1—' The skin wound may be too low and too short; the trachea may have been dragged aside, or not sufficiently incised, so that the tube . . . does not enter, but slips down in front of it. The trachea may be altogether missed if the dissection be not kept in the absolute middle line. If the wound in the trachea be made with a dull scalpel, and without the little plunge, the mucous lining may escape transfixion, the tube passing down between it and the tracheal wall. If air do^jiot pass through the tube, either naturally or on compressing the chest, the chances are that the tube has not been passed into the trachea. . . . The tube may be blocked with mucus, or its aperture obstructed by false membrane. If the tracheal wound be open, search should be made for a membranous cast of the trachea, which might be drawn out by forceps. For thorough exploration, the tracheal wound should be enlarged slightly upwards, and a pair of forceps introduced. . . . Much more likely is it that the tube has been passed down amongst the ribbon muscles at the front of the trachea than that its end is blocked by a membranous cast of the trachea. ' I know of a case in which, from the windpipe having been twisted from its position, the tube was found post mortem to have been introduced into the trachea through the oesophagus; and of another 1 I-'rom The Surgical Diseases of Children, Casscll & Co., 1889.