The Lungs 198 secondary to uterine disease. In the case of dyspepsia there is irri- tation of the gastric filaments of the vagi, which, passing to the pul- monary plexus, is reflected along the sympathetic filaments. An asthmatic attack usually comes on suddenly, air being locked up in the pulmonary vesicles, and the percussion-note becoming hyper-resonant. Under the influence of an emetic, or of some special antispasmodic, the muscular contraction yields, and air once more freely passes to and fro. Though there is but little connective tissue in the healthy lung, as the result of chronic interstitial pneumonia, or fibroid phthisis, large quantities are formed, which ultimately undergo condensation and atrophy {see cirrhosis of liver, p. 336). The disease may follow chronic bronchitis, or may be due to the irritation caused by particles of coal or grit (saw-grinder's phthisis). As the fibroid lung contracts, the walls of the bronchi are dragged asunder and the tubes are dilated into enor- mous cavities, under the atmospheric pressure {bronchiectasis : ftpoyxos, windpipe, eK-Taaarco, draw out), the diaphragm rises, and the chest-walls fall in. When the fluid which collects in these cavities is decomposed it may be necessary to tap and drain them through the chest-wall. In extensive bronchiectases the right ventricle is hypertrophied (p. 175), and the veins are full even to the tips of the fingers, which are usually clubbed. Thus, in fibroid phthisis and in hepatic cirrhosis atrophy of the new connective tissue ruins the histological structure of, and obstructs the flow of blood through, the viscus, but, whereas the cirrhotic liver dwindles to insignificant proportions, the lung is unable to do so, be- cause, in obedience to the laws of atmospheric pressure, its exterior must lie close to the parietal pleura. So great is the contracting force, however, that, though the periphery of the lung cannot be pulled in- wards, the bronchi, as just described, are widely stretched. The ' pull' continues in each case, but it is easier for contracting elements in the lung to drag the walls of the bronchi towards the surface of the lung than the surface of the lung towards the interior of the bronchi : so the tubes are opened out into large cavities. In phthisis {<p8ia, waste away) the lungs ai-e small; the chest as- sumes the expiratory type, being low and flat; the neck is long, because the clavicle, the first rib, and the sternum have dropped ; and the ab- dominal viscera hide in the phrenic dome. The shoulders arc narrowed and sloping, and the supra- and infra-clavicular regions are flat, on account of the contracting fibrosis in the apices, and the percussion note there is dull. In phthisis, as in emphysema, the capillary area of the lungs is diminished, and the right ventricle grows large in its constant struggle to get its contents passed through the degenerate pulmonary area. But the lungs, though poor, remain honest, and decline to send forth blood which is of inferior quality. Branches of the pulmonary artery pass behind the bronchi to