116 The Tongue The stylo-glossus arises from the tip of the styloid process and from the stylo-maxillary ligament, and runs with the stylo-pharyngeus, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, between the external and internal 'carotids, to blend with the upper part of the hyo-glossus and the lin- gualis. It is supplied by the hypoglossal nerve. The llngualis, the intrinsic muscle, consists of four sets of striated fibres, namely, a superior and inferior longitudinal, a transverse, and a vertical. The inferior set, the more important, extend from the base of the tongue, and even from the hyoid bone, to the apex, lying between the hyo-glossus and the genio-hyo-glossus, the ranine vessels resting upon them. They help in retraction of the tongue. The transverse fibres pass from the median fibrous septum to the border ; their action is to narrow, and thus help in protruding the tongue. The vertical fibres help to flatten and curl up the tongue. Supply of the tongue.—The arteries are the lingual of the external carotid, and, perhaps, twigs of the ascending pharyngeal and-ascend- ing palatine. The veins run to the internal jugular. The lymphatics end in the deep cervical and submaxillary glands. Nerves.—The gustatory branch of the inferior maxillary, a nerve of common sensation, is distributed to the mucous membrane at the side and tip. The extremely delicate sense of touch of this nerve is utilised by the dealer in precious stones when the eye alone cannot be trusted. Neuralgia of the nerve is sometimes so severe in cancer of the tongue as to demand its section (p. 64). The glosso-pharyngeal is the special nerve of taste behind the circumvallate papillae. The hypoglossal supplies all the muscles, except the lingualis, which re- ceives its stimulus from the chorda tympani (p. 66). Excision of the tong-ue.—A strong-looped suture is first passed through each side of the tongue near the tip, the loops being dragged forward and slightly asunder ; then the tongue is split with scissors down the median raphe, and each half is detached from the jaw, and from the floor of the mouth, by short snips with blunt-ended scissors. The loop of the ecraseur is then passed far back, and fixed round one half by a firm pin, and as the wire is slowly tightened up the mass is cut through without loss of blood, the tough lingual artery being dragged out entire. The evulsed artery is then tied and divided ; if necessary, the other half of the tongue is then similarly treated. Sometimes one of the lingual arteries is found quite small. When the lymphatic glands and the jaw are implicated the opera- tion is much more serious, and must be commenced by an incision from the front of the sterno-mastoid down to the hyoid bone and up to the symphysis, laryngotomy having first been performed. In one case in which I thus proceeded in the removal of advanced cancerous disease I had to tie the external carotid, and, before the operation was finished, I had removed the side of the pharynx and the tonsil. The structures divided in an ordinary excision are the mucous