269 Palm of Hdi/i/ of these muscles form a prominence on the back of the lower third of the radius. Then comes the ' anatomist's snuff-box,' in the depths of which are the tendons of the radial extensors, and on the inner side of w hich descends the oblique tendon of the extensor secundi. Still more internally pass the tendons of the extensor communis. The radial styloid process descends considerably lower than that of the ulna (p. 283). At the front of the wrist, between the lower end of the radius and the root of the thumb, are the prominence of the scaphoid and the ridge of the trapezium, and on the inner side, behind the movable pisiform, is the cuneiform. (See fig. on p. 286.) On the back of the hand axe. seen the venous arches from which the radial and posterior ulnar veins ascend. The spaces between the metacarpal bones are filled by the dorsal interosseous muscles ; the chief of these is the abductor indicis, which, together with the adductor pollicis, makes the thick mass between the first and second metacarpal bones. When the ulnar nerve is paralysed these muscles waste and the bones become strangely prominent. At the front of the first metacarpo-phalangeal joint can be felt the sesamoid bones in die heads of insertion of the flexor brevis pollicis. In the ball of the thumb are the abductor, opponens, and the super- ficial head of the flexor brevis pollicis, and in the ball of the little finger are the abductor, flexor brevis, and opponens minimi digiti. For the sake of strength and protection, the palm of the hand is continued a short distance beyond the bases of the first row of the phalanges. The transverse creases of the palm.—If you gently flex the fingers to the palm you will see a thick ruck of integument stand out across the level of the metacarpo-phalangeal joints. This ruck is bounded below by the short transverse furrows at the roots of the fingers, and above by two well-marked creases which together stretch right across the palm. The inner of these creases stands across the heads of the fifth, fourth, and third metacarpal bones, the outer and superior across the head of the index metacarpal bone. This second crease would not be needed were all the metacarpal bones of the same length ; but, the index metacarpal being shorter than the middle, a fresh crease has to be started in the outer part of the palm. If the skin and the subjacent soft parts of the palm were but a thin layer, the transverse crease would correspond exactly to the line of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint ; as it is, however, its thickness entails a double crease, in order that the fingers may be bent. This ruck of skin and fat plays a useful part in the hand of the oar's-man, cricketer, and labouring man, shielding the heads of the metacarpal bones from pressure ; the firmer the grasp, the thicker becomes the transverse pad. When one understands the reason of the appearance of the trans- verse fold of skin and fat, and appreciates its usefulness, one realises