102 The Ear When a tuning-fork in vibration is placed on the vertex of the head of a person with healthy ears, and one external auditory meatus is then blocked, the sound is best heard on that side, as dissipation of the waves along the meatus is prevented, and they are, therefore, echoed again and again from the tympanic membrane to the perilymph. When the deaf ear of a patient cannot hear the tuning-fork so placed the auditory nerve must be at fault. When the ' deaf ear hears the vibrations better than the other there is probably obstruction of either the external meatus or the Eustachian tube, and treatment may be hopefully undertaken, for the auditory nerve is evidently healthy. Development.—The pinna is formed by the fusion of six small tubercles upon the integument at the end of the first visceral cleft, which is between the mandibular and hyoid arches. The fusion, how- Development of pinna from six tubercles. Supernumerary and persistent auricular (After His.) nodules. (Bland Sutton.) ever, is never absolutely complete, for those tubercles from which the tragus, anti-tragus, and the lobule are developed assert their indepen- dence throughout life. Occasionally the fusion is extremely incom- plete, supernumerary auricles and pendulous growths near the meatus resulting. (For a Note upon Development v. p. 123.) Sometimes the tragus-nodule is prevented from blending with the elongated nodule just above it (from which the helix is formed) by a recess of the epiblast which sinks between them and forms an auricular fistula. I saw such a case the other day, in which the in- volution caused a fistula which ran beneath the superficial temporal artery. From time to time it discharged a viscid secretion. It had to be laid open and scraped out. (See also Trans. Soc. Med. Chir. vol. lxi.) Occasionally a similar fistula exists between the lower part of the helix and the lobule, and sometimes the minute opening of one of these fistula? becomes occluded, and the secretion collecting within distends it into a dermoid cyst of pinna. Occasionally the tubercles are joined over the meatus in an elon- gated or confused mass which represents the pinna; this malforma-