368 The Pelvis Unless the bleeding be furious and fatal, it trickles into Douglas's pouch (p. 390), where peritonize adhesions may enclose it, coils of small intestine forming the roof of the cyst-wall. When the effusion is extra-peritoneal it is most likely between the layers of the broad ligament, and is due to the rupture of a varicose ovarian vein ; or it may be diffused within the pelvis, in which case it may float the uterus out of the reach of the finger. In the case of sub-peritoneal extravasation, the hasmatocele is not encysted. When the bleeding is into the peritoneal cavity there is sudden and great shock ; the pressure upon the front of the rectum causes constant desire to defalcate, and the patient lies on her back with the knees drawn up. Suppuration may occur, the tumour discharging itself by the rectum or vagina, or into the general peritoneal cavity. The cavity may be evacuated by puncture through the vagina or rectum, as the bulging may indicate. THE COMMON ILIAC ARTERIES The common iliac arteries come from the bifurcation of the aorta at the left side of the fourth lumbar vertebra ; and as they divide opposite the alas of the sacrum the right has to run the longer course. (For surface-marking see p. 164.) The artery begins about half an inch below and to the left of the umbilicus—in the line connecting the highest points of the iliac crests. Each is about 2 in. long, and the longer they are the shorter are their terminal trunks. Relations.—The right artery rests upon both common iliac veins, upon their confluence to form the vena cava, and upon the fifth lumbar vertebra ; the left similarly rests upon that vertebra, and upon the left common iliac vein. (See fig. on p. 353.) Infro7it of each common trunk are the peritoneum and coils of intestine, and close to the bifurcation is the ureter. Additional anterior relations on the left side are the beginning of the rectum, and the end- ing of the inferior mesenteric artery in the superior hemorrhoidals. Between the common iliac arteries are the rectum and the left common iliac vein. External to each trunk is the psoas, and, in addition, on the right side are the ending of the right vein and the beginning of the cava. Rule. Below the diaphragm the veins of the trunk are on a plane posterior to the arteries (except the renal), and inclining generally to the venous, the right, side. Irregularities.—The common iliac artery may fall short of, or exceed the average length of two inches. Sometimes the trunk gives off the middle sacral or the ilio-lumbar artery. ligation of the common iliac artery.—A curved incision of \\ or 5 in. is made through the skin and superficial fascia; from the outer