Fallopian Tube 401 it is sufficiently empty and flaccid, it is drawn out of the wound. The pedicle is then transfixed, and, its spermatic vessels being securely tied with the broad ligament, the cyst is then cut off. The other ovary must be inspected; if enlarged, it also should be removed. The sponges and forceps are then carefully counted, and the wound is closed by sutures which enclose the parietal peritoneum as well as skin. The Fallopian Tube The Fallopian tube, 4 in., lies in the highest part of the free border of the broad ligament; it leads from the serous coat of the ovary into the cornu of the uterus, with which it communicates by a minute orifice. The ovarian end is trumpet-shaped and fringed, one of the fringes serving to connect it with the ovary, as shown on p. 390. Structure.—Its external coat is of peritoneum, and is derived from the broad ligament. Then comes a muscular layer of longitudinal and circular fibres ; and lastly the mucous lining, which is continuous with the peritoneum at one end, and with the lining of the uterus at the other. The epithelium is columnar ciliated. Through the tube micro-organisms, septic matter, and vaginal douches may find their way from the uterus into the peritoneal cavity. The Fallopian tube depends for its supplies upon the vessels and nerves of the ovary and uterus. The functions of the ciliated epithelium are to sweep the ovum into the uterus and to hinder the ascent of spermatozoa. When in- flammation, possibly of gonorrhceal origin, has stripped the tube of the epithelium, the descent of the ovum is retarded and the ascent of spermatozoa little hindered, extra-uterine pregnancy being then specially apt to occur. As a result of the original infection, on exami- nation of patients who have died from the effects of tubal pregnancy, old peritoneal adhesions are often met with. Such women have commonly been sterile, because ' their procreative machinery was out of gear.' (Lawson Tait.) Rupture of the pregnant tube may occur into the peritoneal cavity—a dangerous casualty—or between the layers of the broad ligament. Though the tube has normally a lumen only the size of a bristle, it may become greatly dilated and may be converted into a mucous or purulent cyst—hydro-salpinx or pyo-salpinx {uak-my^ tube). The elongated tumour of a dilated tube may be recognised by the finger in the vagina. If allowed to remain, pain continues and great risk of suppurative peritonitis, from the bursting of the tumour, is incurred. The symptoms and treatment of pyo-salpinx have been clearly described by Lawson Tait. D D