66 The Cranial Nerves is to say, there is paralysis of the face muscles upon the side of the lesion, with hemiplegia upon the opposite side of the body. When cerebral haemorrhage, for instance, occurs within the anterior part of the pons, the decussating fibres of the facial nerve are damaged, together with fibres from the motor area which are passing down to the crossing of the pyramids, and so facial paralysis is, like the hemi- plegia, upon the side of the body opposite to the lesion. But when the clot is formed in the lower part of the pons, the facial nerve upon the side of the lesion is paralysed, whilst hemiplegia still occurs upon the opposite side. ' Such clinical facts as these indicate that some of the deep fibres of the facial nerve pass upward into the cerebrum.'. (Ranney.) Before the function of the portio dura was understood, Sir Charles Bell once divided it for facial neuralgia ; its function was thus at once manifested; and, out of compliment to this experimental physiologist, the peripheral effect of lesion of this nerve is called Bell's paralysis. In its course through the petrous bone the nerve gives off the great petrosal branch, which runs in the Vidian as the motor root to Meckel's ganglion, and so to the muscles of the soft palate. The facial also gives off the chorda tympani, which passes across the upper part of the membrana to leave the tympanic cavity by the Glaserian fissure. This slender branch supplies the transverse lingualis, which narrows and protrudes its own side of the tongue. When, therefore, the facial nerve is damaged in the aqueduct, that side of the tongue cannot be narrowed, and consequently, when, in protruding the tongue, the opposite lingualis contracts, the paralysed side cannot advance in due proportion, and so the tip of the tongue is pulled over to that side. The chorda eventually joins the gustatory nerve (p. 63), and is closely concerned with the sense of taste, perhaps through its associa- tion with the submaxillary ganglion and gland. Outside the stylo-mastoid foramen the facial nerve gives off the posterior auricular branch for the hindermost of the muscles of facial expression, namely the posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis and the retrahens aurem. The main trunk then supplies the posterior belly of the digastric and the stylo-hyoid. The temporo-facial division, emerging from the parotid gland, crosses the external carotid artery and breaks up into temporal, malar, and infra-orbital branches. The temporal branches supply the attra- hens and attollens aurem and the anterior belly of the occipito-frontalis, the upper part of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and the corrugator. The malar branches also send twigs to the orbicularis, and the infra- orbital supply the buccinator and orbicularis oris, and the neighbour- ing muscles of lips and nostrils. The cervico-facial division breaks up into buccal and supra- and infra-maxillary branches. The buccal branches cross the masseter to supply the buccinator and orbicularis.