393 Uterine Vessels The cavity of tlie uterus is small and triangular, the apex being con- tinuous with the cavity of the cervix through the os internum, whilst the superior angles receive the Fallopian tubes, or oviducts ; through the oviducts the mucous membrane is directly continuous with the peri- toneum ; hence, uterine injections escaping above may set up peritonitis. A uterine soundpasses for about two and a half inches into the normal uterus ; it is marked in inches and fractions of an inch. The elbow in the sound is to render introduction more easy along the axes of outlet and inlet of the pelvis. Its reckless use may cause abortion or inflam- mation. The mucous lining: of the uterus consists of a basement mem- brane covered with a single layer of columnar ciliated epithelium. It is continuous with the lining of the Fallopian tubes, and, through the cervix,'with that of the vagina. Its deeper layer is very vascular, and rests upon the muscular layer without the intervention of a submucous stratum. The surface of the membrane is smooth and closely studded with the openings of tubular, glandular inflections of the basement membrane. The membrane swells during menstruation, being then partially cast off; in certain cases of dysmenorrhoea nearly the whole of the lining comes away in pieces, with loss of blood. Much of the discharge in leucorrhoea comes from the tubular glands. Vascular outgrowths of the mucous membrane may start into the cavity and, growing downwards, become pedunculated. Such polypi are a common source of haemorrhage and dysmenorrhoea. Supplies.—The arteries come from the tortuous ovarian branches ot the aorta, and from the internal iliacs. They reach the uterus between the layers of the broad ligament, and anastomose freely with each other and across the median line They form a close and delicate plexus in the mucous membrane, which eventually empties into venous sinuses in the muscular wall. The uterine veins and ovarian veins form a plexus in the broad ligament and enter respectively the in- ternal iliac and the vena cava (right), or (left) the renal vein—like the spermatic veins. They communicate freely below with the vaginal veins also. The dense plexus of ovarian and uterine veins is liable to dilatation. The lymphatics pass from the mucous and muscular coats into a delicate network beneath the peritoneum, and eventually enter the pelvic and lumbar glands. The nerves are derived from the hypogastric plexus, and from