379 Sacral Plexus and emerges above the pyriformis ; it courses between the gluteus medius and minimus, supplying them and the tensor fascias femoris. Thus it is the motor nerve of the internal rotators of the thigh. The inferior gluteal comes partly from the back of the plexus, and partly from the lesser sciatic ; it supplies the gluteus maximus. The two gluteal nerves are named from their situation as regards the pyri- formis, one leaving the pelvis above and the other below that muscle. The small sciatic nerve passes out below the pyriformis, under cover of the gluteus maximus, which it helps to supply. Its remaining branches are cutaneous ; some of them curl round the lower border of the gluteus maximus, to supply the skin over the buttock, whilst others, descending, pierce the fascia lata at various points to supply the skin over the back of the thigh and the upper part of the calf. Another branch, the long pudendal, winds round the outer side of the ischial tuberosity to the outer part of the scrotum or to the labium. Pain in that region may be due to pressure upon the trunk of the long pudendal, or the lesser sciatic, or upon that part of the plexus, or of the spinal cord, from which the nerve-filaments arise. The internal pudic nerve emerges below the pyriformis from the lower part of the plexus, and, winding round the ischial spine, enters the ischio-rectal fossa, where it divides into the inferior hemorrhoidal (which supplies the external sphincter and the neighbouring integu- ment), the perineal, and the dorsal nerve of the penis or clitoris. The perineal nerve runs superficial to the pudic artery, in the outer wall of the fossa, and gives off two superficial branches to the scrotum and the penis, and motor twigs to the anterior part of the levator and sphincter ani, to the transverse muscle, and to the accelerator urinse and erector penis. {See fig. on p. 440.) The dorsal nerve of the penis ascends between the two layers of the triangular ligament, where it supplies the compressor urethras, and then passes through the anterior layer of the triangular ligament and the suspensory ligament, and along the dorsum, to end in the glans penis or clitoridis, and the prepuce. Peripheral annoyance of the internal pudic nerve by a long or adherent prepuce may set up reflex irritation of so general and serious a nature as to entail want of co-ordination of the muscles of the ex- tremity, paralysis, or other obscure nervous affections. Amongst the commonest of the reflex results of phimosis are priapism, incontinence of urine, and nocturnal emissions of semen. The great sciatic nerve comes from the upper part of the plexus, and, passing out below the pyriformis, and under cover of the gluteus maximus, descends, shielded from pressure, in the hollow between the ischial tuberosity and the great trochanter, over the small external rotators, and on to the adductor magnus. It supplies the posterior surface of the great adductor, and, just below the middle of the thigh, divides into the two popliteal nerves.