Stiperficial Temporal Artery 31 mose with the occipital and the superficial temporal. Its stylo mastoid branch enters the Fallopian aqueduct as the portio dura is leaving it, and anastomoses with the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal. It supplies the tympanum, the mastoid cells, and the three semi- circular canals. In childhood a twig of this artery enters into an anastomotic circle with the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary upon the membrana. The ascending pharyngeal is a slender and irregular branch which mounts from the beginning of the external carotid, between the internal carotid and the pharynx, to the base of the skull. It gives pharyngeal, tonsillar, and palatine branches, and some meningeal twigs which enter the skull through the middle, the posterior lacerated, or the anterior condylar foramen. The superficial temporal comes from the bifurcation of the artery in the parotid gland ; it ascends over the zygoma, and soon divides, upon the temporal fascia, into an anterior and a posterior trunk. The anterior division anastomoses with the supra-orbital and frontal branches of the ophthalmic, the posterior joining with its fellow across the vertex, and with the posterior auricular and occi- pital arteries. Branches of the superficial temporal :—The transverse facial emerges from the parotid gland and runs forwards over the masseter between the zygoma and the duct of the gland, and anastomoses with the infra-orbital branch of the internal maxillary, and with the facial. The middle temporal dips through the temporal fascia to supply the muscle and to anastomose with deep temporal branches. It also sends forwards an orbital twig between the layers of the temporal fascia which may anastomose with the lachrymal and palpebral branches of the ophthalmic. Auricular branches anastomose with others upon the pinna. Arteriotomy.—' Bleeding' is sometimes done from the anterior division of the artery, instead of from a vein, in the case of severe ophthalmia or meningitis. For arteriotomy the main trunk of the superficial temporal should not be selected, as it lies close to a large tributary of the external jugular vein and by divisions of the facial and auriculo-temporal nerves. The anaesthetist conveniently feels the temporal pulse instead of the radial during an operation. When there is an obstruction to the flow of blood through the capillaries the anterior temporal artery becomes elongated and extremely tortuous, and its pulsations are apt to attract attention. I l.i morrhage from the branches of the superficial temporal, and ot other vessels in the scalp, is often extremely troublesome to arrest, as the vessels are incorporated with the surrounding fibrous tissue, and, therefore, unable to retract and contract. A deep suture is the most, certain method of stopping the bleeding.