to XII. Inferior Thyroid Veins The tributaries of the innominate veins are the vertebral, internal mammary, and inferior thyroid ; in addition, the left vein receives the left superior intercostal, which passes obliquely to it over the front of the transverse aorta. The inferior thyroid veins descend in front of the trachea, on either side of the middle line ; the left ends in the left innominate, but the right slopes over the front of the arteria innominata, to end at the con- fluence of the innominate veins. These thyroid veins are important in tracheotomy below the isthmus, and in ligation of the innominate artery (p. 182). The superior vena cava, 3 in., is formed by the junction of the innominate veins, behind the first right chondro-sternal joint. Course and relations.—It descends by the right side of the ascend- ing aorta, behind the inner end of the first and second intercostal spaces, to the right auricle. Just at its beginning it lies on the right side of the innominate artery. To its outer side and in front are pleura and lung. Behind it is the root of the right lung, over which the vena azygos major is hooking to enter the vena cava (v. p. 185). THE PLEURA The pleura consists of an external fibrous and an internal serous layer. It is a large lymph-space, and com- municates by stomata with the adjacent lymph-vessels. By its outer surface it ad- heres to the chest-wall, diaphragm, and peri- cardium ; it surrounds the lung, passing in between the lobes. The interval between right and left pleura? is divided into the me- diastina (p. 154). There is actually no cavity between the parietal and visceral layers, but, with a pene- trating wound of the chest, or with rupture of the lung, or with a fistulous opening from a bronchus or cavity, air enters the pleural sac ; the lung then collapses on account of the elasticity of its' wall, and that side of the chest becomes tympanitic, and ceases to move in respiration. This condition often follows compound fracture of a rib. The lower border of the pleura is marked by a line passing obliquely from the costo- xiphoid articulation to the vertebral end of the twelfth rib, but the border of the lung does not descend quite so far, not even in deep inspiration, nor does the pleura quite fill in the Showing crevice between cos- tal and phrenic pleura ; pul- monary pleura ; phrenic and hepatic peritoneum ; ribs, ix