4QO The Leg the soleus, and that important second layer of deep fascia beneath it, are divided in turn, and the artery is looked for at a considerable dis- tance outwards, where it lies upon the tibialis posticus or flexor longus digitorum. The nerve is crossing it from the inner to the outer side, so the needle had better be passed from the inner side. A good deal of fibrous tissue may be met with on the deep aspect of the soleus, which has to be traversed before that second layer of the deep fascials seen. The division of the soleus should not be made too close to the border of the tibia, or the operator will be apt to lose him- self amongst the fibres arising from the periosteum ; thus he may possibly detach the flexor longus digitorum from the tibia and work outwards beneath it—even into the substance of the tibialis posticus. In the lower third of the leg the aitery may be tied by making the incision midway between the inner border of the tendo Achillis and the posterior border of the tibia, care being taken not to wound the internal saphenous vein, which is, or ought to be, a good deal to the front of the incision. Two layers of deep fascia again require division ; the artery is found to the outer side of the tendons of the tibialis pos- ticus and flexor longus digitorum, between its veins, the nerve being on its outer side, as before. Still farther out is the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis. The artery and its vena? comites, the nerve, and the tendons are here spread out flat on the surface of the tibia. The needle had better be passed from the outer side. At the ankle the artery maybe reached through a two-inch in- cision which curves round the inner malleolus, halfway between it and the inner tuberosity of the os calcis. There is no fear of damaging the internal saphenous vein. The layers of the deep fascia have here joined to form the internal annular ligament, which has to be divided on a director, when the arteiy is found laced in by fibres which form a sort of sheath. It lies between its vena? comites, with the large nerve external to it. The needle had better be passed from the outer side. Branches.—The peroneal is given off an inch below the border of the popliteus ; resting at first on the tibialis posticus, it descends along the inner border of the fibula, in the substance of the flexor longus hallucis. It is covered, in addition, by the gastrocnemius, soleus, and sub-soleus fascia. At about two inches above the ankle it divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior peroneal reaches the fr< nt of the leg through the interosseous membrane, and anastomoses with the external malleolar and tarsal arteries. The posterior division descends behind the outer ankle, and anastomoses with the branches just enumerated, and also with the external plantar. Other branches of the peroneal are muscular, nutrient to the fibula, and a transverse communicating branch to join a similar vessel from the posterior tibial, which crosses about two inches above the ankle, under the flexoi longus hallucis. Irregularity.—Sometimes the peroneal is as large as the posterior