IIO Deglutition far are concerned. If the student will try to swallow with the mouth open and the lower jaw unfixed, he will accomplish the act only with difficulty ; but if he fixes the lower jaw by biting something, though the mouth remains widely open, the act is readily accomplished. In the second stage of deglutition the soft palate is raised by the food being pushed against it by the tongue, and is fixed and tightened by the levator and tensor ; the palato-pharyngei are also fixed, and, the posterior wall of the pharynx being drawn forwards by the superior constrictor, the back-way into the nares is completely shut off. (If the soft palate be cleft or perforated, it is at this stage that the food passes into the nose, to be ejected by the anterior nares.) The larynx is now drawn forwards, and, the tongue being thrust backwards, the glottis is protected beneath its hinder part, the epi- glottis also being shut down. In diphtheritic paralysis of the soft palate food passes through the nostrils, or, at this stage of deglutition, if the muscles of the larynx and tongue be not working in harmony, some ' goes the wrong way' into the larynx and sets up coughing, or, perhaps, food-pneumonia. To avoid these risks, therefore, such patients must be fed by a soft catheter introduced into the pharynx through the inferior meatus of the nose. In the third stage the constrictors take charge of the bolus, and, the larynx dropping, the food is carried from the posterior air-way, and hurried down the oesophagus. The nerves concerned in the reflex act of deglutition are first those which convey the stimulus (afferent) to the medullary centre ; they are palatine branches of the fifth, pharyngeal of glosso-pharyngeal, and oesophageal of vagus. The efferent or motor nerves are the hypo- glossal (for first stage), mylo-hyoid of inferior maxillary, and pharyn- geal branches of vagus which have come from spinal accessory. The uvula consists of a double layer of mucous membrane with the azygos muscle included between them. Its office is not clearly known. Some compare it to a gargoyle which guides the mucus from the nares to the back of the tongue and prevents its dripping into the glottis. Others deem it to be needful to fill in the interval between the posterior pillars of the fauces, and to block the naso- pharyngeal straits during deglutition. Nevertheless, many are benefited by its partial amputation. In certain people it is greatly elongated ; and, its blood-vessels being dilated after swallowing anything hot, or after smoking, it hangs against and tickles the back of the tongue to such an extent as to set up uncontrollable cough or retching. A medical friend of my own who possessed a long uvula, and a strange aversion from the perform- ance of even a slight operation upon himself, was through five consecu- tive nights kept awake by a distressing uvula-cough. The ultimate removal, however, of half an inch of the cedematous mass brought him absolute and permanent relief.