103 Orbicularis Oris tion is likely to be associated wi tympanic end of the first post- oral cleft. Sometimes the tubercles join over and hide the meatus ; sometimes there is neither meatus nor pinna. On the other hand, by a sort of carelessness, or, possibly, over- zeal, on the part of Nature, a supplementary pinna, or an attempt at one, is sometimes developed at the end of one of the lower clefts. The Eustachian tube and tympanum ' are developed in connection with the inner end of the first post-oral cleft, while the meatus externus and pinna are formed on the outside, the membranatympani being inter- posed between them. (Quain.) imperfect development of the Rudimentary pinna developed at dorsal end of third branchial cleft. (Bland Sutton.) THE MOUTH The lips consist of striated fibres of the orbicularis and other muscles covered on the outside by skin, and on the dental aspect by mucous membrane which is continuous with that of the gums and mouth. This entire mucous surface is covered with squamous epithe- lium. Where the membrane is reflected from the middle line of the upper and lower jaw to the lip, a prominent fold or freeman occurs, that of the upper lip being well-marked. Beneath the mucous mem- brane of the lips racemose labial glands are placed ; and, should the orifice of one of them be occluded, a labial cyst occurs ; sometimes the glands become the seat of suppuration. The orbicularis oris, a sphincter of striated fibres, consists of a semi-elliptical portion in each lip ; the fibres of each piece blend and cross at the corners of the mouth, where they join other muscles of expression ; they become continuous externally with the anterior part of the buccinator. The orbicularis arranges the lips in whistling, and when the facial nerve, which supplies it, is paralysed (p. 67) all efforts in that direction are attended with characteristic failure. Contraction of the separate halves of the muscle may spoil the plastic operation in hare-lip ; it was to check this strain upon the wound that hare-lip pins were formerly so much used. The employment of abundant fine sutures