Iliac Fascia 307 As the transversalis fascia completely lines the anterolateral aspect of the abdominal cavity, no hernia can escape thence without deriving a covering from it. The femoral variety takes an investment from it under the name of the anterior layer of the crural sheath ; the oblique inguinal hernia is, like the cord, invested by the infundi- buliform process, and direct inguinal and umbilical hernise derive special investments from it. The coverings of an oblique inguinal hernia are, then, skin, two layers of superficial fascia, intercolumnar fascia (of external oblique), cremasteric fascia (of internal oblique), infundibuliform fascia, sub- peritoneal fat, and the sac. In the female an oblique inguinal, labial hernia may enter the labium pudendi ; it has the same coverings as a scrotal hernia, except that there may be no representative of cremas- teric fascia. The iliac fascia is a strong investment for the iliacus and psoas ; it is beneath the iliac vessels, and is connected above with the internal arcuate ligament. Internally it is attached to the vertebral column and to the brim of the true pelvis ; externally it meets the transversalis fascia at the iliac crest and along the outer half of Poupart's ligament. Passing down beneath the external iliac vessels, it forms the posterior layer of the crural sheath, and on the inner side of them it joins the transversalis fascia at Gimbernat's ligament. The branches of the lumbar plexus are beneath it. (For crural sheath see p. 313.) The iliacus arises from the iliac fossa and ilio-lumbar ligament, and slightly from the capsule of the hip-joint, over which it passes to its insertion into the tendon of the psoas and into the femur below it. It flexes, adducts, and everts the thigh. It is closely covered in by the iliac fascia and has in front the external cutaneous nerve, peritoneum, caecum or sigmoid flexure (according to side), and, more internally, the psoas and anterior crural nerve. It passes under Poupart's ligament, a bursa intervening between it and the hip-joint. Lower down, it is covered by the fascia lata, sartorius, and deep femoral vessels. The psoas arises from the bodies and transverse processes of the last dorsal and the lumbar vertebrae, and from the intervening discs. Its upper end extends beneath the internal arcuate ligament ; it descends below Poupart's ligament and is inserted into the lesser trochanter. Its action resembles that of the iliacus, but, in addition, it acts upon the lumbar spine. It is invested by the iliac fascia, and in its substance is the lumbar plexus—the ilio-hypogastric, ilio-inguinal, and external cutaneous emerge along its outer side, the genito-crural pierces it in front, the obturator lies along its inner border, and the anterior crural is em- bedded between it and the iliacus, which is on its outer and posterior aspect. The vena cava, on the right, and the aorta, on the left, and, lower down, the common iliac vessels, lie along its inner border. x 2