Ophthalmic Artery Si a fold of conjunctiva is pinched up, midway between the cornea and the caruncle, and is divided with the scissors, the capsule of Tenon being also opened. The tendon is then caught up by a blunt hook and divided. Unless the capsule of Tenon be opened, the rectus cannot be effectually dealt with. If after the operation the external rectus overact its part, its tendon will also require division. The ophthalmic artery is given off from the internal carotid, and enters the orbit through the optic foramen, to the outer side of the optic nerve. It then crosses the optic nerve, beneath the superior rectus, to reach the inner wall of the orbit, and it eventually divides into the nasal and frontal arteries near the lachrymal bone. Branches.—-The lachrymal runs above the external rectus, and ends in twigs for the lachrymal gland and for the eyelids (the latter branches anastomose with the palpebrals). From it some emissary branches pass through the malar bone into the temporal fossa. The arteria centralis retina imbeds itself in the optic nerve and enters the eye-ball at the ' blind spot.' The supra-orbital emerges through the foramen of that name, supplying the eyelid and the forehead, and anastomoses with the superficial temporal artery. The posterior ciliary branches pierce the sclerotic around the optic nerve, and pass to the choroid ; but on either side of the nerve one of them {long ciliary) runs on to pass between the sclerotic and choroid to the ciliary muscle and iris. The anterior ciliary are derived irregularly from the muscular branches ; ' they form a vascular ring beneath the conjunctiva at the fore-part of the eye-ball, and then pierce the sclerotic within a line or two of the margin of the cornea,' having formed an interesting and important anastomosis with the subconjunctival vessels. The anterior ethmoidal artery passes with the nasal nerve through the anterior ethmoidal foramen, into the anterior fossa of the skull, where it gives off anterior meningeal branches to the dura mater, and twigs through to the ethmoid cells and to the nasal fossa. The pos- terior ethmoidal artery is smaller, and ends in the posterior ethmoidal cells and in the nose. The ethmoidal arteries may be torn across in fracture of the anterior fossa of the skull, and may cause suggestive bleeding from the nose, or beneath the conjunctiva. Two small palpebral branches are given off near the front of the orbit. They supply the conjunctiva and the lachrymal sac, and then run outwards beneath the orbicularis to anastomose with the lachrymal. The nasal artery ramifies at the root of the nose, anastomosing with the angular branch of the facial, and so completes a link between the internal and external carotids. The frontal artery turns on to the forehead near the root of the nose where it anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side.