Mesentery 325 determine peritonitis. The typhoid ulceration, like the Peyer's patch, has its long axis with that of the bowel, whilst tubercular ulceration generally extends across the long axis, that is, in the direction of the blood-vessels which encircle the bowel. A special outgrowth, Meckel's diverticulum, is found about 2 ft. above the ileo-cascal valve: it is the remnant of an early foetal canal, the vitelline duct, which extended from the interior of the ileum through the umbilicus ; a loop of intestine is occasionally strangled around it or its remnant Persistence of the duct may cause umbilical fistula, or may involve a fatal snaring of a coil of bowel. The arteries of the small intestine are the superior and inferior pan- creatico-duodenal (from the hepatic and superior mesenteric) and vasa intestini tenuis (superior mesenteric). The pan- creatico-duodenal, or the gastro-duodenal (hepatic), is occasionally implicated in duodenal ulcer following a severe burn. The vems pass by the superior mesenteric vein into the vena porta?. The lacteals and lymphatics course between the layers of the mesentery to end in glands at its base. The nerves come from the aortic plexus of the sympathetic along the mesenteric artery, together with pneumo- gastric filaments. On opening the abdomen in the case of intestinal obstruction absolute size of bowel is no guide to its recognition, for small intestine may be distended to the size of the forearm whilst the colon may be no larger than the thumb. Also when the colon is distended its three longitu- dinal bands of muscular fibres are temporarily effaced. But the large intestine may always be recognised by the presence of appendices epiploicas, of which the small intestine is entirely destitute. The colon may also be recognised by its comparatively fixed position in the lateral and upper transverse parts of the abdomen. The ileum occasionally shows offshoots, nearly as large as the bowel itself, called diverticula ; structurally they resemble the parent bowel. They are generally hernial protrusions of the mucous mem- brane through the muscular coat. The mesentery (/xeeroj, middle ; evrepa, bowel) is the thin doubling of peritoneum by which the jejunum and ileum are surrounded, and are hung from the vertebral column ; blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves course between its layers. Its attached end is from four to six inches wide, and slopes from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra l>, duodenal ulcer after burn ; a, pylorus ; c and d, bristles passed through ulcerations in pancrea- tico-duodenal arteiy and vein. (Holmes.)