94 The Ear Beneath the skin are ligamentous and muscular slips, some of which connect the pinna with the side of the head. The skin of the pinna and of the meatus contains many sebaceous glands by which the wax is secreted for lubricating the canal and for preventing the entrance of insects. Sometimes it is secreted in excess, and forms at last a plug which blocks the canal and causes deafness. As the result of violence, blood may be extravasated beneath the skin of the pinna, forming hematoma auris, or the cartilage of the ear may be crumped up and permanently disfigured. Both these con- ditions may be found in vigorous and forward foot-ball players. Passing down the meatus, the skin becomes gradually thinner, and is at last blended with the periosteum. It forms also the outer layer of the membrana tympani. Supply of the pinna.—The arleries are derived from the posterior auricular and the superficial temporal. The veins take a correspond- ing course. The nerves.—The great auricular, from the second and third cervical, supplies the lobule and the back of the pinna, the lesser occipital also gives twigs to the occipital aspect of the pinna, as does also the auricular branch of the pneumogastric. The auriculo- temporal branch of the fifth supplies the outer aspect of the pinna. The posterior auricular and temporal branches of the facial supply the intrinsic muscles of the pinna. (It is noted elsewhere (p. 64) that pains in the neighbourhood of the ear may be due to a lesion of the fifth neive, and (p. 145) that pain at the back of the pinna may be the result of cervical caries ) Muscles of the external ear.—The attollens, fan-shaped, arises from the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis, and is inserted into the front of the helix. The most anterior fibres of this muscle constitute the attrahens. The retrahens passes from the mastoid process forwards to the back of the concha. Though the contemporary human anatomist hardly considers these as muscles of expression, the suggestive fact, nevertheless, remains that the facial nerve still supplies them : the retrahens by the posterior auricular, and the attollens and attrahens by filaments from the temporal division. The attollens may also receive a supply from the lesser occipital nerve. The external auditory meatus is an osseo-cartilaginous canal about \\ in. long, and is directed forwards and inwards. At the bottom of the concha its greatest diameter is vertical, but near the membrane it is transverse ; the narrowest part is about the middle. It is developed by the outgrowth of the tympanic bone (p. 12). To make a thorough inspection of the canal, the pinna should be drawn backwards, upwards, and a little outwards, the tragus being tilted forwards. In the young child the meatus is extremely short ; the bony wall is a subsequent development.