67 Facial Paralysis The supra-maxillary nerve takes its name from its position upon the. lower jaw, and must not be confused with the superior maxillary nerve, the large sensory trunk which emerges from the infra-orbital foramen (p. 62). The supra-maxillary branches supply the platysma and the small muscles of expression connected with the lower lip and chin. The infra-maxillary nerve is so called because it lies below the jaw ; it supplies the platysma and joins with the superficial cervical nerve {v. p. 145)- It must not be confused with the inferior maxillary nerve (P- 63). When the facial nerve is paralysed, as in fracture of the petrous bone, all the muscles of expression on that side of the face are paralysed, and the wrinkles and furrows of the skin are smoothed out. The forehead on that side can be thrown into neither horizontal (occi- pito-frontalis) nor trans- verse (corrugator super- cilii) creases, and the patient cannot close his eye (orbicularis palpe- brarum). Thus even during sleep the cornea remains exposed ; and so, in such a case, to prevent inflammation, the lids had better be kept approximated by strips of adhesive plaster. But when the paralysis is of cerebral origin the orbicularis escapes, owing to the existence of certain commissural fibres. The tensor tarsi—the muscle which holds the puncta lachrymalia against the eye-ball—being powerless, the tears fall over on to the cheek, and, as the orbicularis can no longer wash them inwards, the eye-ball becomes dry and irritable, though this may not occur if the patient keeps it clean and moist by dragging down the lid with his finger. The mouth, which is naturally balanced in the middle line, is now dragged by the unopposed, muscles over to the sound side of the median line, as is particularly noticed when the patient laughs, for then the muscles contract with greater energy. On account of paralysis of the orbicularis oris, the saliva dribbles Branches of facial nerve : — i, to occip. front: cular; 3, temporal brs. ; 4, malar brs. ; brs. ; 6, buccal; 7, supra-maxillary; 8, (Holden.) 2, post-aun- 5, infra-orb. infra-maxil.