63 Trifacial Nerve Meckels ganglion lies in the spheno-maxillary fossa, being con- nected with the under part of the superior maxillary nerve by the twigs which constitute its sensory root. Its motor filament comes from the facial through the Vidian nerve, and this also brings a sympathetic communication from the carotid plexus. Branches from the ganglion supply the nasal fossa, gums, soft palate and uvula, roof of mouth, upper part of pharynx, Eustachian tube, tonsil, levator palati, azygos uvulae, and palato-glossus and pharyngeus. The infra-orbital nerve is found by dividing the orbicularis and the levator labii superioris above the second bicuspid tooth. If it is desired to remove the nerve, and also Meckel's ganglion, the course of the nerve may be followed backwards by trephining the front of the antrum and by breaking along the infra-orbital canal. The spheno-maxillary fossa is thus reached, and the nerve is found emerging through the foramen rotundum, near which it is to be cut with curved scissors. The Inferior maxillary nerve leaves by the foramen ovale, and divides into an anterior and a posterior trunk. Most of the motor root of the fifth nerve enters the anterior trunk, from which the follow- ing branches pass off: the masseteric, which, in its course through the sigmoid notch, supplies the temporo-maxillary joint ; deep tem- poral, and pterygoid. It also gives a large buccal branch which traverses the external pterygoid : this is not, however, the motor nerve to the buccinator, for when the facial nerve is damaged that muscle is completely paralysed (p. 67). This buccal branch of the inferior maxillary is a sensory nerve, and ends in the supply of the skin and mucous membrane of the cheek. Thus, when the motor part of the fifth nerve is impaired there is paralysis of all the muscles of mastica- tion on that side, with exception of the buccinator, which is supplied by the seventh. Rut, nevertheless, mastication does not appear to be much affected, as it is being efficiently carried on by the muscles of the opposite side. The posterior trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve gives off the auriculo-temporal, gustatory, and inferior dental branches. The auriculo-temporal embraces the middle meningeal arteiy between its two heads of origin, it then turns up behind the condyle of the lower jaw and beneath the parotid gland, giving off auricular and temporal branches. The former supply the front part of the pinna and the meatus, whilst the latter end in the skin of the temple. The auriculo- temporal also gives twigs to the temporo-maxillary joint and the parotid gland, and supplies the sensory root to the otic ganglion. The gustatory nerve descends between the two pterygoids, across the superior constrictor, along the side of the tongue and to its tip, lying just beneath the mucous membrane. It is a nerve of extremely delicate but common sensation. It is joined in the pterygoid region by the chorda tympani (p. 66), and upon the hyo-glossus by branches of the hypo-glossal ; it gives branches to the anterior two-thirds of the