23 Common Carotid Artery clavian, and ascends obliquely behind the manubrium to the clavicular joint. To mark out the root of the artery.—As the transverse sternal ridge corresponds to the lower part of the transverse aorta (p. 179), a line drawn across the manubrium at about a thumb's breadth above that ridge marks the upper border of the arch. The innominate artery springs from the middle of that line ; the left carotid, therefore, comes from a little to the left of the middle of the line, and mounts to the inner end of the clavicle. To mark the course of the common carotid artery in the ?ieck, the shoulders should be raised and the head thrown back, the face being slightly turned to the opposite side. A line is then drawn from the sterno-clavicular articulation to the interval between the condyle of the jaw and the mastoid process. This line, up to the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, corresponds to the common, and above that to the external carotid. The groove in the side of the neck running along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid is the surgeon's guide to the arteiy. The higher that the vessel mounts in the neck, the more superficial it be- comes, because the sterno-mastoid passes backwards from it, whilst the sterno-hyoid and thyroid have left it upon the inner side. There- fore the surgeon, who is free to choose, prefers to tie it in the upper part of its course, that is, above the omo-hyoid, which crosses at the level of the cricoid cartilage. Remembering that all the large veins incline towards the right side of the median line—the right side of the heart being the venous side —the left internal jugular vein in its descent through the lower part of the neck gradually gets to the front of the common carotid, whilst the right vein slopes away from the outer side of its artery, to descend in front of the right subclavian artery. Rule.—Above the level of the diaphragm the large veins are upon a plane anterior to the arteries ; below that level they are on a posterior plane, with one exception (p. 356). The carotid artery may be compressed with the employment of a slight force against the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra—the carotid tubercle. This may readily be made out a little below the level of the cricoid cartilage, in the situation of the carotid sheath, that is beneath the anterior border of the sterno- mastoid. The level of the fifth cervical vertebra is an important station in the anatomy of the neck : it corresponds pretty nearly to the site at which the omo-hyoid crosses the carotid sheath, and to the position of the cricoid cartilage—thus marking the ending of the larynx and the beginning of the trachea, the ending of the pharynx and the beginning of the oesophagus. At that level also the inferior thyroid artery crosses inwards behind the sheath of the carotid, whilst the sympathetic cord,