Brachial Plexus 249 considerably abducted and the relaxed tissues allowed the fingers to be thrust high into the space. In enucleating glands which have become implicated in scirrhus mammae the surgeon employs his fingers, not his scalpel, lest he wound the large vessels ; but in tearing them out he runs the risk of rooting a little alar thoracic artery from the main vessel. He must proceed with very great care when removing glands from the outer part of the space. In the case of scirrhus mammae the surgeon cannot be sure that there is no secondary implication of the glands until he has opened up the fascia of the floor of the axilla and introduced his finger. It is advisable, therefore, in every case of malignant disease to prolong the incision into the arm-pit in the search for implicated glands. The axillary glands are associated beneath the clavicle with those at the root of the neck. When, therefore, the surgeon is considering the advisability of operating in mammary cancer he should carefully examine the supra-clavicular region as well as the arm-pit. The Brachial Plexus The brachial plexus is formed by the anterior divisions of the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves, and by the chief part of that of the first dorsal, which has come up in front of the neck of the first rib. Resting in the grooves on the transverse processes of the lower cervical vertebra:, the nerves emerge between the anterior and middle scalene muscles, which arise from the anterior and posterior tubercles of those processes, respectively. The subclavian artery also lies behind the anterior and in front of the middle scalene : the plexus is, thus, chiefly above the artery in the second and third portions of its course, but the lowest strand of the plexus is partly behind it. In this relative position the plexus and the artery descend beneath the cla- vicle and the subclavius muscle into the axilla. The anterior divisions of the fifth and sixth nerves join to form a single cord, as do also the divisions of the eighth cervical and the first dorsal, the division of the seventh passing on by itself. On the outer side of the scalenus medius each of these three large bundles splits into an anterior and posterior trunk, of which the anterior trunks of the upper and middle unite to form the outer cord of the plexus. The lower anterior trunk runs on independently as the inner cord, whilst the posterior cord is formed, as might be anticipated, by the union of all three posterior trunks. In the top of the arm-pit these cords lie above the axillary artery ; behind the pectoralis minor they lie, as their names express, one to the outer side, one to the inner side of the vessel, and one behind it ; and in the third part of the course of the artery they are breaking into their terminal branches.