337 Hepatic Disease atrophy on account of the compression. In the centre of the lobule is the tributary of the hepatic vein (intra-lobular); between the peri- pheral and the central part of the lobule is an intermediate zone, in which the hepatic artery breaks up. In disease of heart or lungs the escape of blood from the hepatic veins into the vena cava is delayed, so that the central part of the lobule, which contains the radicle of the hepatic vein, is engorged ; and, on section of the tissue being made, the dark centre and the paler periphery of the lobules give the appearance known as nutmeg-liver. The peripheral cells are pale because they have undergone fatty degeneration ; and the cells of the intermediate zone are stained yellow by the stagnant bile. In albuminoid disease the cells in the median zone of the lobule— that is, in the region of the chief distribution of the capillaries of the hepatic artery—are most infiltrated. In fatty degeneration the peri- pheral cells of the lobule are earliest affected, as the fresh products of digestion which are brought up by the vena porta? first come in contact with them. As already remarked, the liver may become greatly enlarged in heart-disease (p. 178), reaching even to the umbilicus, and this enlarge- ment is often, as Dr. Wilks remarks, a great help to diagnosis. ' A medical man may be called to a patient for the first time, whom he finds dropsical, with albumen in the urine, and a state of heart which, from its weakness and the sounds of bronchitis, is not at once easy to make out.' Is it a case of cardiac or of renal disease ? The former: kidney disease does not cause hepatic enlargement, but morbus cordis entails both that and bronchitis. In albuminoid and fatty disease the liver may become enormously enlarged. It makes room for itself partly by pushing up the dia- phragm, but chiefly by thrusting the abdominal viscera downwards and to the left, and by causing a bulging of the lower right ribs and their cartilages. When hepatic enlargement does not implicate the gland evenly throughout, as in abscess or hydatid cyst of right lobe, the encroachment is chiefly towards the thorax, as already noted. The portal vein (3 or 4 in. long) is formed behind the pancreas by the confluence of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins; it also receives the venous blood from the stomach and pancreas. The inferior mesenteric opens into the splenic vein, and the vein from the gall-bladder into the portal vein. The inferior mesenteric vein communicates upon the rectum with the hemorrhoidal plexus ; thus hepatic congestion may be directly relieved by leeching the anal region. In hepatic cirrhosis (<a/3poy, yellowish) on section, the escape of blood from the vena porta: is retarded ; the portal capillaries are engorged, and transudation of serum takes place. Thus, the lining of the stomach becomes sodden, and the patient loses appetite and becomes Z