The Foot The internal saphenous nerve supplies the inner border of the foot nearly to the ball of the great toe, but no farther (p. 358). In the sole the plantar nerves are distributed, the inner to three toes and a half, and the external, like the ulnar nerve, to one and a half. An additional plantar cutaneous branch comes through the in- ternal annular ligament from the posterior tibial nerve. In amputation of the great toe with its metatarsal bone the ridge across the base of the first metatarsal is made out—the joint with the internal cuneiform is close behind. A longitudinal dorsal incision is made from half an inch behind this till the head of the metatarsal bone is approached. The incision then divides to make a racquet-shaped wound. The first metatarsal bone is then enucleated, disarticulated, and removed, together with its two phalanges. During the operation the folloiving structures are divided :—Skin and superficial fascia ; plantar fascia; tributaries of the internal saphenous vein, and branches of the internal saphenous, musculo- cutaneous, anterior tibial, and internal plantar nerves ; the dorsalis hallucis ; branches of the communicating, and of the internal plantar arteries ; the extensor proprius hallucis ; the innermost tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum ; the first dorsal interosseous muscle ; the transverse ligament and muscle, the adductor, flexor brevis, and abductor hallucis ; flexor longus hallucis; tibialis anticus and peroneus longus ; and the ligaments connecting the first metatarsal with the internal cuneiform. Care must be taken not to wound the communicating artery as it dips through the root of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. Amputation of the little toe with its metatarsal hone is per- formed on a similar plan, the dorsal incision being begun behind the articulation of the fifth metatarsal bone with the cuboid. The struc- tures divided are tributaries of the external saphenous vein ; branches of the external saphenous, musculo-cutaneous, and external plantar nerves, and of the dorsal interosseous, metatarsal, and external plantar arteries ; the outer part of the plantar fascia ; the outermost tendon of the extensor longus digitorum and of the flexor longus and brevis digitorum, and the fourth lumbrical ; the transversus pedis muscle and ligament ; a plantar and a dorsal interosseous muscle, and the in- sertions of the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti ; the peroneus tertius and brevis, and the ligaments of the outermost tarso-meta- tarsal joint. The web of the toes reaches about an inch beyond the head of the metatarsal bones. In amputation of a toe the web makes an excel- lent covering for the head of the metatarsal bone, but, in amputation of the great toe, the head of that metatarsal bone requires a large flap, which is best obtained from the under surface. The head of this metatarsal bone should, if possible, be preserved, on account of its importance in standing and walking.