Dislocation of Femur 469 but this is due partly to further excavation of the acetabulum, partly to caries of the head and neck of the bone, and partly to the disease having arrested growth at the upper epiphysis (v. p. 461). Often in an advanced case of disease with apparent dislocation, as the surgeon proceeds to excise the head of the femur, he finds that it has already been carried away by molecular disintegration, the top of the great tro- chanter being high above the acetabulum. Thus there is no head to be dislocated, and no proper socket from which, or capsule through which, it could be dislocated were it present. Excision of head of femur may be performed through a long in- cision over the great trochanter, or by one passing through the gluteus maximus. The latter site offers advantages for drainage. The knife should be used but little after the fascia lata has been traversed, the soft parts being thrust aside and the muscles detached by a strong raspa- tory. The bone may be divided above or below the great trochanter, according to circumstances. If the bone be much diseased, and the trochanteric part of the shaft be taken away, the following muscles must be partially or entirely detached :—From the shaft the gluteus maximus, vastus externus, crureus, and pectineus ; from the great trochanter, the gluteus medius and minimus, pyriformis, gemelli and obturators, and quadratus femoris ; from the lesser trochanter, the psoas and iliacus. When excision is being performed for disease in childhood, the great trochanter with the attachments of the gluteus medius and minimus is frequently detached, but unless it be diseased it need not be taken away. Resection by the anterior method is performed by attacking the joint between the tensor fascia? femoris and the glutei on the outer side, and the sartorius and rectus on the inner, the Y ligament and the front of the capsule being traversed. Amputation at the hip-joint by transfixion is an operation of the past ; Furneaux Jordan's method has superseded it. The latter operation consists in making a vertical incision on to the femur from above the great trochanter, and a third of the way down the thigh. Bleeding vessels in this longitudinal wound are secured one by one. The upper third of the femur is cleared of muscular attachments and dis- articulated, the bared part being brought out of the wound by adduct- ing the thigh. The assistant then grasps the hollow shell of the soft parts, firmly compressing all the vessels in them, and the surgeon cuts it with a circular sweep. The limb being thus amputated, the vessels are leisurely secured ; the bleeding is very slight. In a case in which I enucleated a femur from the periosteum, the upper fourth of a new thigh-bone became developed in the long stump.1 Dislocations of the femur are rare, for the hip-joint is planned for 1 Proceedings of Med. Soc. Lond. vol. ix. p. 205.