279 Superficial Palmar Arch The anterior carpal joins in the anterior carpal arch beneath the flexor tendons, and the posterior carpal winds beneath the flexor carpi ulnaris, and then beneath the tendons at the back of the wrist, to help form the posterior carpal arch. It gives off the dorsal inter- osseous branches to the two inner spaces. Ligation of the ulnar artery.—In the upper part of the fore-arm the artery cannot be reached by an incision in its course (p. 277), as that would entail the division of the pronator teres and other muscles ; it is sought, therefore, between the adjacent borders of the flexor sub- limis digitorum and the flexor carpi ulnaris, by drawing a line from the internal condyle of the humerus to the pisiform, and by making an incision of 2^ to 3 in. in that line, beginning it ii in. below the condyle. Probably this incision implicates the posterior ulnar vein. The deep fascia is then exposed, and, beginning in the lower end of the incision, the surgeon opens up with a director, or the handle of the scalpel, the septum between those two muscles. This separation is easily effected if it be begun below ; higher up the muscles are far more closely connected with each other. The ulnar nerve is seen lying on the flexor profundus digitorum, and after raising the flexor sublimis and searching beneath it the artery is seen with its venae comites. For ligation of the ulnar artery in the middle of the fore-arm, or nearer the wrist, a 2-in. incision is made close along the radial side of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris. A thickish layer of fascia has to be divided, and the artery is found with its vense comites. The nerve is between the vessels and the tendon ; the needle must therefore be passed from the inner side. At the wrist the ulnar artery continues over the annular ligament, close to the radial side of the ulnar nerve and the pisiform bone. It is covered by skin and superficial fascia with the transverse fibres of the palmaris brevis, and by the inner part of the palmar fascia, which is strengthened by a slip from the insertion of the flexor carpi ulnaris. Xn the palm the artery curves downwards and outwards from the pisiform to make the supe7-ficial palmar arch, the convexity of which is directed towards the fingers. The position of this arch is shown by abducting the thumb and drawing a line across the palm at the level of the inferior, or distal, border of the web of the thumb. Sometimes the ulnar artery anastomoses at its outer end with the superficialis volae, but the arterial anastomosis is more usually completed by the communication with the radialis indicis at the tip of the index- finger. delations of the superficial palmar arch.—It lies close beneath the integument and the strong palmar fascia, and rests upon the digital branches of the median nerve, and upon the tendons of the flexor sublimis digitorum.