240 Region of Shoulder lip of the bicipital groove, the clavicular part passing down in front of and below the thoracic part of the muscle. Relations.—The mamma rests upon its anterior surface ; therefore, in the case of disease of that gland, the arm must be fixed to the side for the sake of perfect rest. Behind it are the ribs and the intercostal muscles ; the subclavius, the costo-coracoid membrane, the pectoralis minor, the axillary vessels, and the brachial plexus. Its outer border lies along the inner edge of the deltoid, an important interval separating them near the clavicle. The cephalic vein is lodged in this inter- muscular groove. The pectoralis minor ascends from the third, fourth, and fifth ribs and the intercostal fasciae to its insertion along the thoracic aspect of the coracoid process. It lies beneath the larger muscle, and covers the second part of the axillary vessels, and the brachial plexus. The lowest border of the muscle is subcutaneous, and lies along the fifth rib. Suppuration may occur between the two pectoral muscles or beneath them both. In the former case the pus is likely to descend to the lower border of the larger muscle and there to point. In the latter case it may eventually break through the floor of the axilla, or may ascend beneath the costo-coracoid membrane, and along the course of the vessels and nerves, into the neck ; the abscess may possibly find its way through the intercostal spaces unless promptly evacuated. Nerves.—The two pectoral muscles are supplied by the anterior thoracic branches of the brachial plexus. Bursas.—There may be a small bursa over the acromion or over the outer end of the clavicle ; a large one between the deltoid and shoulder-joint ; and small ones between the tendons of the infra- spinatus and teres minor and the capsule of the joint, which may com- municate with the interior of the articulation. The bursa sheathing the tendon in the bicipital groove is a continuation of the synovial membrane of the shoulder-joint. A separate bursa intervenes between the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major in the bicipital groove. The costo-coracoid membrane is spread between the first rib, clavicle, and coracoid process ; below, it blends with the fascia of the lesser pectoral muscle, and with the sheath which the axillary vessels have brought down from the fascia about the scalene muscles. The membrane and the sheath of the vessels are pierced by the cephalic vein in its course to the axillary vein, and by the acromial thoracic artery. The subclavius arises by a tendon from- the cartilage of the first rib, and is inserted into the groove on the under surface of the clavicle. It is hidden by the origin of the pectoralis major, the costo-coracoid membrane intervening. Beneath it are the subclavian vessels and the brachial plexus, and when the shoulder is drawn down the muscle closely overhangs the highest part of the axillary vessels.