io6 The Mouth borders are fused with the ingrowing maxillary parts, the fissure is exactly median. This condition, however, is extremely rare.1 The operation for hare-lip consists in freshing the sides of the cleft, freeing the maxillary attachments of the lip, and adjusting the cleft by stitches and strapping, arrangements being made that the muscles do not pull the edges asunder. The cheeks, like the lips, with which they are continuous, consist of skin and mucous membrane, with intervening muscular tissue, namely, buccinator, zygomatici, platysma, and masseter. They con- tain, also, a good deal of fat ; and beneath the mucous membrane are minute salivary glands resembling those of the lips. On the mucous lining of the cheek, opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw, is a flat papilla upon which is the opening of the parotid duct, which has just traversed the buccinator. To save himself the annoyance caused by the flow of saliva during certain dental operations, the dentist sometimes stuffs a piece of cotton-wool between the upper jaw and the cheek so as to block the orifice of the duct. The buccinator arises from the alveolar process above the molar teeth of the upper, and below those of the lower jaw; and, posteriorly, in the space between the jaws, from a fibrous seam connecting the muscle with the front of the superior constrictor—the pterygo-maxillary ligament. Thus the mouth is directly continuous with the pharynx. Action.—The buccinator helps the man to ' blow his own trumpet'; it is thus a muscle of expression, and is, therefore, under the control of the facial nerve. Its chief office is to gather up the half-chewed food which falls outwards from between the molar teeth, and to push it again into the mill. When the facial nerve is paralysed the food persistently collects in the cheek, whence the patient has to dislodge it with his finger. So useless is the muscle in facial paralysis that there can be no manner of doubt that the branches which the muscle gets from the inferior maxillary nerve (p. 63) are but sensoiy. delations.—The muscle is covered by skin, superficial fascia, and the muscles which draw the angle of the mouth downwards, back- wards, and upwards ; it is crossed by the facial artery and vein, and by branches of the facial and buccal nerves. Stenson's duct passes through it opposite the second upper molar. A good deal of fat is packed in between it and the anterior border of the masseter ; in phthisis this is gradually consumed and the cheeks sink in. Behind the muscle is the pharynx ; in front is the orbicularis, and lining it is the mucous membrane of the mouth. Pteryg-o-maxillary ligament—The student is advised to pass the tip of his index-finger behind, and a little to the inner side of, the last molar tooth, where he will find a band beneath the mucous membrane. The more widely the mouth is opened, the tighter the 1 Sec case reported by Bernard Pitts, Lancet, 1889.