112 The Tonsil towards the middle line of the fauces by toothed forceps, and then slicing it off with a blunt-ended bistoury, the edge being kept in the vertical plane. Should the point of a knife be directed outwards, the whole depth of the tonsil and the superior constrictor might be traversed, and the internal carotid wounded ; but such a disastrous accident is very unlikely to happen. Occasionally a malignant ulcera- tion of the tonsil implicates the arteiy. Adenoid vegetations are the result of hypertrophy of the lymphoid tissue, which, like scattered tonsillar elements, are placed in the mucous membrane of the upper and back part of the pharynx, and constitute a ' pharyngeal tonsil.' Quinsy (acute tonsillitis) is associated with difficulty of swallowing and breathing ; pain extends along the Eustachian tube ; and because the inflamed mass is moved in deglutition that act is painful. If abscess have formed, or with the view of preventing its occurrence, the tonsil should be punctured, from before backwards, by a guarded bistoury; or, as the tissue is very soft, the swollen tissue may be painted with cocaine and the abscess opened by a backward thrust of the dressing-forceps. With ordinary care, however, there is no risk whatever of wounding the artery when operating upon the tonsil with a knife. The gums consist of a layer of mucous membrane which is closely connected with the alveolar periosteum. The periosteum is continuous with the thin layer in the sockets of the teeth, and when caries attacks a tooth the inflammation may spread and give rise to a sub-periosteal alveolar abscess, or gum-boil. The pus being bound down by the dense membrane, there may be much pain until the gum-boil breaks or is lanced. Necrosis may follow this sub-periosteal suppuration. For the supply of the gums the vessels and nerves of the jaws, teeth, palate, and lips contribute branches. The Teeth The temporary teeth are, in each half-jaw, two incisors, one canine, and two molars—giving a total of twenty. The permanent set number thirty-two : thus, two incisors, one canine, two bicuspids, and three molars. The root of the third molar, or wisdom-tooth, shows but a trace of fangs. It often issues clumsily and painfully through the tender gum, and causes much swelling in the mouth and in the neighbouring lymphatic glands. Sometimes the process is accompanied by profuse suppuration. Structure.—The chief part of a tooth is made of line brandling tubes of dentine, which imbibe nutriment from the pulp-cavity. The pulp consists of connective tissue, cells, and twigs of nerve and artery.