416 The Urethra spongiosum—upon the front of the triangular ligament—is the bulbous portion. Though usually represented in diagrams as a hollow cylinder, the urethra has its roof and floor closely approximated ; it thus forms a long valve to the bladder. It possesses, when the penis is flaccid, two curves, of which the concavity of the posterior is turned upwards and of the anterior downward. The hinder of the curves is permanent ; the other is obliterated when the penis is raised, the urethral curve being then like that of an ordinary metal catheter. The fixed part of the urethra is the more likely to be ruptured by injury. Wax cast of normal urethra : a, prostatic ; /', membranous ; c, spongy. (Thompson.) The prostatic portion of the urethra lies nearer the upper surface of the gland. It is wide and dilatable, especially in the middle, and readily admits the passage of the finger during lithotomy. Extending along the floor is the veru montamcm, beneath which a tunnel, the sinus pocularis, runs from before backwards for nearly half an inch. This sinus is the homologxie of the uterus, and the common ejaculatory ducts open within it, or upon its margins. On each side of the veru the floor is grooved by a prostatic sinus, which receives the secretion of about a dozen follicular glands. These glands are the chief source of that fluid which escapes from the urethra during strained defalca- tion, or under the expulsive efforts of the levatores ani at the end of micturition. The hypochondriac imagines it to be semen, but micro- scopic examination shows it to be destitute of seminal filaments. On the theory that involuntary seminal emissions may be the result of irritation about the veru montanum, close to the opening of the common ejaculatory ducts, it has been recommended that the small mucous area be touched with a strong solution of nitrate of silver. This speculative treatment has, in the practice of some surgeons, been believed to produce satisfactory results. From the extension backwards of urethritis to the opening of the common ejaculatory duct, or from its being bruised by the passage of a catheter, or by an escaping fragment after lithotrity, inflammation may extend along the vas deferens to the epididymis. That the trouble is not ' metastatic orchitis' is shown by the fact that the vas deferens is tender and enlarged, whilst the body of the testicle is soft. Thus the vas deferens may be enlarged to the size of a pen-holder. The mild injection prescribed for a gleet should not be held accountable for