406 The Vagina shortness and capacity of the urethra and of its immunity from gleet. The signs of retention are inability to pass urine ; dribbling from over- flow ; the presence of a rounded tumour—which may be made out by palpation and percussion above the pubes and by examination per vaginam. In a lady with every one of these signs it was discovered that an ovarian tumour growing centrally had compressed the bladder until it could contain no urine, the 'overflow' being the constant escaping of the urine directly after its exit from the ureters. Development.—Early in fcetal life a hollow growth, like the finger of a glove, starting from the hinder end of the rudimentary intestinal canal, extends through a wide gap in the front wall of the abdomen. On the closing in of the abdomen, the part of the diverticulum be- tween the intestine and the umbilicus persists as the bladder ; a small portion only (just behind the umbilicus) becomes obliterated, and constitutes the superior ligament—the remains of the urachus. Then a partition grows downwards and forwards, and converts the existing cloaca into two passages—the rectum and the urethra. Thus, at birth the fusiform bladder is found in the abdomen rather than in the pelvis ; it becomes rounded, and settles down, as the pelvis grows capable of receiving it. In perineal lithotomy in young children the knife must be thrust well upwards in order to open the bladder. (For scheme of development see p. 383.) In rare instances the obliteration of the urachus is delayed, so that, after birth, urine, or even vesical calculi, may escape through the opening at the umbilicus. Owing to an arrest of development the ab- dominal walls may fail to meet in front, and, there being at the same time an absence of the anterior wall of the bladder, the posterior wall and base of that viscus bulge out as a bright vascular tumour. On it may be seen the openings of the ureters and the trickling urine. The term congenital hiatus better describes the deformity than does the one more generally applied to it—extroversion of the bladder. It is associated with absence of the pubic symphysis, the urethra being represented by an open channel on the dorsum of an ill-developed penis (epispadias). The front of the bladder being deficient, its posterior wall and base are thrust forwards as a convex tumour by the subjacent viscera. The Male Bladder Relations.—When empty, the bladder lies deeply behind the pro- state, triangular ligament, and body of pubes. When distended, it mounts behind the recti abdominis and even to the umbilicus. Pos- teriorly are the rectum and recto-vesical pouch ; into the pouch coils of small intestine are falling ; lower down are the vesicular seminales and vasa differentia. Laterally are the pelvic walls, and around its