The Subclavian Artery 228 The Subclavian Artery On the left side the subclavian arises from the left end of the transverse part of the aortic arch, a little to the left of and behind the left common carotid. Thence it ascends through the superior medias- tinum (p. 154), and, arching over the apex of the pleura, passes behind the scalenus anticus, just as it does on the right side. Relations of the first part of the left subclavian.—It is much longer and more vertical than that of the right. It has in froiit the manubrium with the origin of the sterno-mastoid. and sterno-hyoid and thyroid, a little of the left lung and pleura intervening. As the artery ascends a little posterior to the left carotid the internal jugular vein and vagus, descending along the outer side of the thoracic part of the carotid, are on an anterior plane to the subclavian. The vertebral and the subclavian vein, the beginning of the left innominate vein, and the phrenic nerve, which has slipped down from the front of the anterior scalene, are also in front. Behind are the oesophagus and thoracic duct, and the longus colli. The left carotid and the trachea are to the right side ; and as the subclavian ascends it has the oesophagus also to the right. Because the thoracic duct hooks forwards to the confluence of the jugular and sub- clavian veins it lies close on the inner side of the artery. The lung and pleura are to the outer side. As already remarked (p. 184), aneurysm of the innominate artery is of common occurrence, because that vessel receives much of the shock of the contraction of the left ventricle; on the other hand, dilata- tion of the first part of the subclavian is very rare. The right subclavian artery springs from the innominate, behind the sterno-clavicular joint, and runs outwards and a little upwards to the inner border of the scalenus anticus, where the second part begins. It courses (first part) above the level of the clavicle, and, being some- what horizontal, its rela- tions are anterior, posterior, superior, and inferior. In front are the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and stemo-thyroid; the internal jugular and vertebral veins, the pneumogastric and phrenic nerves, and cardiac branches of the sympathetic. Plan of branches of right subclavian artery.