184 Innominate Artery from its fellow, but the supra- and posterior scapular arteries would be useless. The superior intercostal helps by its anastomosis with the first aortic intercostal, but its anastomosis with the occipital could not serve ; by its thoracic branches, namely, the short, the acromial, the axillary, the alar, and the long ; and by the ending of the subscapular on the chest, all of which anastomose with aortic branches. Aneurysm of the innominate artery causes a bulging to the right of the manubrium, especially into the first right space. Eventually it may cause absorption of the upper ribs of right side, and of the manubrium, and appear as a pulsating tumour on the front of the chest. It is often impossible to diagnose it from aneurysm of the ascending aorta ; indeed, both of those trunks are often dilated at the same time. The dilatation interferes with the due filling of the trunks coming from the innominate, so that the carotid and radial pulse of the right side are altered. The left innominate vein (p. 186), and perhaps the right also, is compressed ; the trachea is pushed towards the left side, the voice is feeble, and respiration may be spasmodic and difficult. The frequency of the occurrence of aneurysm of the innominate artery may be due to the fact that the root of that vessel, together with the right side of the first part of the arch, receives the shock of the ventricular stroke. Relations of the pulmonary artery.—A coronary artery comes forward from the aorta on either side of its root. Springing from the right ventricle, the pulmonary artery is at first in front of the aorta, but as the first part of the arch ascends to the right the pulmonary artery is soon found to its left side. As these two large trunks were developed together, they lie in the same serous tube of pericardium. The bifur- cation of the pulmonary artery is connected with the left side of the concavity of the aortic arch by the ductus arteriosus. (For Root of Lung v. p. 194.) The thoracic aorta continues the third part of the aortic arch from the lower border of the fifth (p. 179) to the twelfth dorsal vertebra, where, passing through the diaphragm, it becomes the abdominal aorta. At first towards the left side of the dorsal column, it gradually inclines towards the middle line ; and, lying upon the spine, it has also a curve with the concavity forwards. Relations.—It rests upon the vertebral column and the left inter- costal veins, and has in front some of the root of the left lung, the peri- cardium and heart, and the oesophagus. To the left are the pleura and lung; and just above the diaphragm the oesophagus also is to the left. To the right arc the oesophagus above ; the thoracic duct and vena azygos major, and the spinal column. Aneurysm of the thoracic aorta may extend backwards, causing erosion of the vertebrae and ribs, producing spinal curvature ; irritating the intercostal nerves, and causing ' pleurodynia,' or neuralgia in the