273 Lumbricals olecranon heads the ulnar nerve enters the fore-arm, and in that same interval is the anastomosis between the inferior profunda and posterior ulnar recurrent, over the internal lateral ligament of the elbow. The flexor profundus digritorum is a bulky muscle arising from the upper two-thirds of the inner and anterior surfaces of the ulna, and from the adjacent part of the interosseous membrane. Its four tendons pass through those of the flexor sublimis, opposite the first phalanges, and are inserted into the bases of the ungual phalanges. The nerve- supply for its outer part is the anterior interosseous of the median, and, for the inner part, the ulnar. Relations.—Superficial to it are the flexors sublimis digitorum and carpi ulnaris, the median and ulnar nerves, and the ulnar artery. The flexor longus pollicis lies along its outer side, and in the deep and narrow crevice between these muscles run the anterior interosseous nerve and arteiy. On its inner aspect is the flexor carpi ulnaris. The lumbricals arise from the tendons of the deep flexor in the palm, and pass into the radial side of the common extensor tendons. These muscles are much used by the piano-forte player. CThey extend*? the first phalanx, and flex the second and third phalanges.3 The two outer are associated with the tendons of that part of the deep flexor which is supplied by the anterior interosseous nerve of the median, and consequently derive their nerve-supply from digital branches of the median, whilst the two inner are supplied by the ulnar nerve, which has already supplied the inner part of the deep flexor, from which come the tendons for the ring and little fingers. When the lumbricals are paralysed the metacarpal phalanges are drawn backwards and the middle and terminal phalanges are flexed into the palm. 1, metacarpal bone ; 2, tendons of flex, sublimis and, 3, profundus, bound down by fibrous sheath; 4, extensor communis; 5, lumbrical muscle; 6, interosseous muscle. The flexor longus pollicis arises from the front of the radius between the flexor sublimis and the pronator quadratus, and from the adjoining part of the interosseous membrane. Its tendon passes over the square pronator, under the annular ligament, and between the heads of the flexor brevis pollicis, to be inserted into the base of the ungual phalanx of the thumb. Its nerve is the anterior interosseous. Superficial to it arc the flexors carpi radialis and sublimis digitorum, and the radial artery. Its ulnar border is separated from the flexor profundus by the anterior interosseous nerve and artery. T