467 Hip-Joint Disease Disease of hip-joint begins in the synovial membrane or bone, the first result often being an acute effusion into the synovial mem- brane. The joint is at once swollen, stiffened, deformed, and pain- ful ; it is swollen, because effusion distends the capsule, causing it even to bulge slightly into the buttock and into the base of Scarpa's triangle. Thus, the psoas and the common femoral arteiy are pushed forwards, the arteiy beating prominently beneath the skin ; and the crease of the groin is obliterated by the general articular fulness. The stiffening and deformity are caused by the great intra-articular tension. Acute effusion into a joint always stiffens it. This is readily shown in the case of the hip-joint by injecting fluid into it from the pelvic side, when not only does the femur become rigidly fixed, but it passes first into the position of slight abduction, and then into that of flexion with inversion. Muscular action, as explained by Hilton, has probably no direct influence on the assump- tion of these positions, the limb taking them because, the joint being full, more room is found for the fluid when the femur is so arranged. In these positions, therefore, there is least tension of the sensory filaments of the joint. It is the unyielding anterior part of the capsule which determines the position of the limb. The pain first complained of in hip-joint disease is on the inner side of the thigh, above the patella, in the popliteal space, or at the knee —that is, in the area of distribution of the terminal branches of the obturator nerve (p. 358). The reason of this is not clearly understood. The explanation usually given is that the obturator nerve supplies the hip-joint, thigh, and knee, and that when one set of peripheral fibres are irritated the trouble is referred to the area of distribution of those of the other division. In a similar manner we find that, when the bladder-branches of the sacral plexus are irritated by vesical calculus, the painful area is at the end of the penis, where the peri- pheral branches of the nerves supplying the bladder are distributed. As the disease advances, the fulness of the groin and buttock increases, and an abscess forms which bursts through the thin, posterior part of the capsule. The pus may then find its way under the gluteal muscles to below the great trochanter, round by the obturator externus to the inner part of Scarpa's triangle, beneath the great gluteus and into the upper and back part of the thigh, or through the floor of the acetabulum and into the pelvis. This last is by no means an uncommon event, and in examining an old case of hip disease the surgeon must not fail to pass his finger into the rectum so as to make a full exploration on the inner surface of the os innominatum. The pus is not in actual contact with the wall of the rectum, though it is felt by the finger (v. p. 363) close to it ; it is separated by the periosteum of the os innominatum, the ob- turator internus and obturator fascia, and the levator ani and its fasciae It is quite possible, however, that the pus may by pressure effect a n 11 2