73 Conjunctiva finger over the outer end of the lids and then cause the orbicularis to contract, the inward sweeping action of the muscle is manifest.) It is supplied by the facial nerve. The tendo oculi is for mooring the inner ends of the tarsal cartilages. It is attached to the nasal process of the superior maxilla anterior to the lachrymal groove, and passes outwards over the front of the lachrymal sac, giving accessory fibres to the sac. It can easily be felt when the lids are firmly drawn outwards ; the sac should always be opened by incising just below the tendon. Blepharo-spasm (P\e(papa, eyelids) is spasmodic contraction of the orbicularis ; it may be caused by a piece of grit lodged under the eyelid, in which case a sensory impulse is sent by a twig of the fifth nerve upon the conjunctiva, which returns from the brain as a reflex stimulus by palpebral twigs of the seventh ; or it may be caused by conjunctivitis. When the spasm is inveterate, as it is apt to be in strumous ophthalmia, it may be expedient to sever the elliptical fibres at the outer commissure. As a result of blepharo-spasm, the free borders of the lids may be ' turned inwards,' entropion (ev, in ; rponrj, turn), against the front of the eye-ball, so that the eyelashes irritate the cornea. This complication is called trichiasis (#pt|, rpiKos, hair), and may demand not only the re- moval of the eyelashes, but even some operation devised to everting the edge, for producing, in fact, an artificial ectropium (e£, outwards, and Tponrj) or eversion of the lids. It may be due to the contraction of a scar of the face, to paralysis of the orbicularis, or to the weakness of the muscle which is often found in old persons. The levator palpebrae superioris arises just above the optic foramen, and runs forwards beneath the roof of the orbit and the frontal nerve, and above the superior rectus, to be inserted into the front of the cartilaginous foundation of the upper lid. It is supplied by the third nerve. The muscle is, as its name implies, the opponent of the orbicularis palpebrarum, which is the sphincter of the lids. It is supplied by the third nerve, and the lid con- sequently droops, ptosis (nTaxris, falling), when that nerve is paralysed. On the posterior surface of the lids is the delicate mucous membrane, the conjunctiva, which, reflected thence over the front of the eye-ball, 'joins together' the eyelids and the sclerotic. Like other mucous membranes, it consists of a basement membrane, with vessels, nerves, and connective tissue beneath it, and with epithelium on the free surface. The epithelium is for the most part columnar, but it gradually becomes squamous as it approaches the free border of the lids. Over the front of the cornea the conjunctiva is represented only by the layers of epithelial cells, the most superficial of which are stratified. Where it lines the lids it is thick and vascular, and is studded with papillae, which, under the influence of chronic inflammation, become