12 The Bones of the Head being filled by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid. There, also, a meningocele may protrude. At the line of articulation with the ethmoid are the ethmoidal foramina, by which the ethmoidal arteries and the nasal nerve enter the cranium. Fracture of this part of the skull may cause sub-conjunctival haemorrhage from the ethmoidal arteries, and when this is associated with severe bleeding from the nose, and with escape of sub-arachnoid fluid (which must not be taken for the effect of a nasal catarrh), there is ample evidence of fracture having taken place. The upper surface of the plates is marked by the orbital con- volutions of the frontal lobes. The frontal bone is developed in lateral halves. The temporal.—The squamous part lies in the temporal fossa, and its bevelled margin overlaps the parietal bone, whilst its lower and hinder part is bounded by the posterior root of the zygoma. The anterior root of the zygoma is the eminentia articularis, which is covered by cartilage, and receives the condyle of the jaw when the mouth is widely opened. Behind the eminentia is the glenoid fossa, cleft by the Glaserian fissure through which the chorda tympani leaves the middle ear ; a branch of the internal maxillary artery also tra- verses it. The front of the fossa, covered with cartilage, articulates with the condyle of the jaw, and the hinder part lodges some of the parotid gland ; a thin lamina of bone partitions it from the tympanic cavity and the external auditory meatus. Thus it is that a parotid abscess may burst through the external ear. The inner surface of the squamous portion is deeply grooved by the middle meningeal artery. The mastoid portion scarcely exists in childhood ; it is developed with the petrous portion under the name of petro-mastoid bone. But as puberty comes on it is hollowed out into air-cells which open into the back of the middle ear, their mucous lining being covered with columnar ciliated epithelium. It is by way of these cells that tympanic suppuration sometimes reaches the surface as a post-auricular abscess, raising the skin and pushing the pinna forward ; sometimes, however, the pus finds its way into the external meatus, thus the matter reaches the outer surface of the membrana tympani without traversing it. In the same way, in the case of fracture of the base of the skull, blood may escape from the external ear though the membrana, as shown by otoscopic exami- nation, has not been damaged. In every case of suppuration in the mastoid process the surgeon should be prompt in securing evacuation by the gouge or trephine. Ossification of temporal bons. tympanic ring ; c, petro-mastoid.