Gluteal Region 459 Practically, Scarpa's triangle occupies the upper third of the thigh, Hunter's canal the middle third, and the popliteal space the lowest third. After ligation of the superficial femoral the circulation is carried on by the many unnamed, empty muscular branches of the femoral below the ligature bringing in blood from muscular branches above it; by the deep part of the anastomotica magna bringing in blood from the descending branches of the external circumflex; by the superior muscular branches of the popliteal anastomosing with the lower per- forating arteries and with the comes nervi ischiatici (in a dissection which I once made this was the most important collateral route) ; and by superior external articular branches anastomosing with the external circumflex. As an anatomical exercise the following question may be answered ;—What structures are divided in a transverse section across the middle of the thigh ? Ans.: Skin and superficial fascia, and, in the latter, branches of the internal, middle, and external cutaneous nerves, and of the lesser sciatic ; also the long saphenous vein and lymphatics. The fascia lata, which is especially strong in the region of the ilio-tibial band. The sartorius, rectus femoris, vasti and crureus, and branches of the anterior crural nerve. The gracilis, adductors longus and magnus, and the obturator nerve. Hunter's canal, with the superficial femoral vessels and the saphenous nerve. Descending branches of the internal and external circumflex vessels ; the termination of the profunda vessels, and of a perforating artery. The biceps semi-tendinosus and membranosus ; the beginning of the internal and external popliteal nerves of the great sciatic; perhaps the comes nervi ischiatici, and ascending muscular branches of the popliteal artery ; the femur and its periosteum. The gluteal region.—Between the ischial tuberosity and the great trochanter a shallow space can be made out by thrusting the fingers into the gluteus maximus. In its depth are the small external rotators of the femur, and in the higher part of this space, under cover of the rotators, is the capsule of the hip-joint. In the case of acute effusion into the joint, a deep-seated fulness may be detected here, which may be aspirated through the muscle. It is difficult to show by marking on the rounded buttock the position of parts which lie in the flat beneath it, and in attempting to do so the student must work at first with the dry bones beside him. He begins by tracing the iliac crest backwards to the posterior superior spine, which overhangs the side of the sacrum ; descending an inch, his finger is over and upon the sacro-iliac articulation; in sacro-iliac disease there are a swelling and tenderness at that spot. A little below this is the posterior inferior spine. This spine, which is at the lower part of the sacro-iliac joint, and may be easily made out in a thin person, is to be the starting-point for a bold, sickle-shaped