494 • Anterior Tibial Artery ligament. The tibialis anticus tendon is well to the inner side, and that of the special extensor of the great toe, running along the artery from its outer side, must be drawn outwards. The nerve is most likely to the outer side, and from that side, therefore, the needle should be passed, the artery having been isolated from its companion veins. The great point in this operation is to keep close on the outer side of thei tendon of the tibialis anticus, which is itself close to the tibial crest. The c-Hater >l circulation after ligation of the anterior tibial would t>2 carried on through muscular and periosteal branches ; by inosculations of its empty branches with branches of the anterior pero- neal and the posterior tibial arteries through the malleolar, tarsal, and metatarsal branches ; and by the junction of the communicating branch of thedorsalis pedis with the external plantar in the plantar arch. The extensor brevis dig-itorum appears as a firm elevation through the thin skin on the outer side of the dorsum of the foot. It arises from the front of the upper and outer part of the os calcis, and from the anterior annular ligament. The innermost of its four ten- dons is inserted independently into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, but the three other slips join with the three inner tendons of the long extensor. Each of these conjoined tendons spreads out and divides into three s'ips, of which the middle piece is inserted into the base of the middle phalanx, whilst the lateral slips pass on to the last phalanx. Relatio?is.—The muscle is covered by a layer of deep fascia, by the peroneus tertius, and by the tendons of the extensor longus digi- torum. It rests upon tarsal and metatarsal bones, the interosseous muscles, and the outer, ganglionic, branch of the anterior tibial nerve, which supplies the muscle as well as the tarsus. The dorsal artery lies along its inner side, and the inner border of the muscle may just overlap it. The innermost tendon crosses over the vessel in its course to the first phalanx of the great toe. The innermost border of the short extensor is the surgeon's guide to the artery. The dorsalis pedis artery continues the anterior tibial from the middle of the front of the ankle in the line which passes thence to the cleft between, and the great and second toes. But, let it be well noted, the dorsal artery itself does not reach this cleft ; a couple of inches behind this, at the root of the first interosseous space, it divides into the dorsalis Jialfucis and the communicating. Relation*.—The artery rests upon the astragalus, scaphoid, and internal cuneiform, and their dorsal ligaments. It is covered by the integument, superficial and deep fascia;, and by the innermost slip of the extensor brevis digitorum. On the inner side is the special ex- tensor of the great toe, and on the outer side are the long and short extensors of the toes, and the anterior tibial nerve. On cither side is a companion vein.