Motor Area ing parietal convolutions. The wrist and fingers have their centres in the middle of the ascending parietal convolution, and the lowest of them is close against the centre for the mouth and face. Watch a man trying his very hardest to tie, or to untie a knotted cord, and note how the muscles of the corner of his mouth and of his face are at work. The vigorous motor impulse generated in the hand-centre is brimming over and stimulating the neighbouring oro-facial centre. Suppose that during this effort the branch of the middle cerebral artery which supplies the hand-centre were to burst, there would at first be a meaningless twitching of the hand and mouth, and, as the blood- clot grew, the centres would become disorganised, and the man might be left with brachio-facial paralysis—on the opposite side to the injury, of course (p. 49). And thus it comes about that brachio-facial paralysis is of more common occurrence than brachial monoplegia or facial monoplegia. There is no anatomical boundary between the arm- centre and the centres adjacent to it. In cerebral paralysis there will be neither loss of consciousness nor sensation if only the motor area be implicated. Again, watch the demagogue upon the rostrum. The louder he speaks, the more he throws his arm about, because the energy in his speech-centre flows into the neighbouring hand-and-arm-centre. And, as the speech-centre is upon the left hemisphere, it is the right arm with which he gesticulates ; it is training only which makes the orator use his left arm to vary the monotony of the brachial movement. I do not know if the man whose speech-centre is upon his right side in his oratory neglects the use of his right hand, but I expect that he does, unless, indeed, he be a well-trained speaker. Some untrained speakers, or ranters, throw out both arms in an emphatic manner ; this is because the centres of the two sides are held in association by certain commissural fibres. The need for such fibres is evident ; were there none of that sort, the facial muscles of one side, for instance, would be able to act without regard to those of the other, expression being reduced to an absurdity. In very many of our common acts, such as eating, talking, breathing, walking, it is essential that the muscles on the two sides of the body be in harmonious association, and the existence of commissural fibres by which this is effected must not be overlooked when problems in paralysis are being worked out. Facial monoplegia is rare ; facial paralysis of cerebral origin usually being associated with brachial paraplegia when the lesion spreads upwards, or with aphasia when it implicates the base of the third left frontal convolution. The oro-lingual centres (which are at the lower end of the fissure of Rolando) of one hemisphere are associated in their work with those of the other side by certain cross-fibres ; for, as already suggested, one does not use a lateral half of the tongue separately, nor does one E a