8 Muscles of Head and Neck are the buccinator and the lower jaw. The parotid gland is be- hind it. The temporal fascia binds down, and gives origin to, the temporal muscle. It is attached above to the temporal ridge, and below, in two layers, to the zygomatic arch ; between these layers, and running in a little fat, are the orbital branch of the temporal artery (p. 31) and a twig of the temporo-malar nerve. Upon the fascia are fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum ; the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis; the attollens and attrahens aurem ; and the superficial temporal vessels and nerves. The temporal muscle arises from the temporal fossa and also from the temporal fascia, and, passing beneath the zygomatic arch, is inserted into the coronoid process—down to the last molar tooth. Its action is to raise the jaw and draw it backwards. Its nerve supply is from the third division of the fifth. Relations.—It is covered by the temporal fascia and the structures lying thereon. Behind it are the masseteric vessels and nerves passing through the sigmoid notch, and beneath is the floor of the temporal fossa, with the deep temporal vessels and nerves. The external pterygoid, pyramidal, arises from the outer side of the external pterygoid plate and the great wing of the sphenoid, and, running outwards and backwards, is inserted into the condyle of the jaw and into the inter-articular fibro-cartilage. When the jaw is dislo- cated the cartilage follows the condyle. Action.—To advance and depress the jaw, and to carry it towards the opposite side. Relations.—Below it are the internal pterygoid, the inferior dental vessels and nerve, and the gustatory nerve. The internal maxillary artery winds round the muscle to enter the pterygo-maxillary fossa between its heads. The internal pterygoid arises from the inner surface of the external pterygoid plate, and passes downwards, outwards, and backwards to its insertion on the inner side of the angle of the jaw. Thus its action is to raise the jaw, to thrust it towards the opposite side, and to bring it forwards. Both pterygoid muscles are supplied by the third division of the fifth nerve. Relations.—With the ramus of the jaw and the external pterygoid it roughly forms a triangular space through which pass the internal maxillary vessels, the inferior dental vessels and nerve, and the gustatory nerve. Tetanus (reravos, re'ivco, strain), a continuous spasm of the muscles of the body, often begins in the maxillary region, so that the patient cannot separate the teeth or swallow without great effort or choking. This local tetanus is 'lock-jaw'or trismus (rpifw, creak, gnash the teeth).