109 Cleft Palate teeth may be found in an osseo-mucous tuft which is upon the tip of the nose, and when the inter-maxillary bones are attached to the tip of the nose (p. 17) the cleft is wide in the extreme, as is shown in the adjoining woodcut. The palatine ingrowths from the maxilla are a comparatively late development of the bucco- pharyngeal cavity, and when their union fails to take place, on look- ing into the mouth, a view is ob- tained of the bright red membrane covering the turbinated bones. Many infants who are thus affected die of inanition, as they can neither suck, nor satisfactorily swallow the milk which is poured into the mouth. For feeding they should be held upright, so that the milk may drop directly into the pharynx. If, as the child grows up, the cleft be so wide that merely a trace of the maxillary plates exists, operative measures will be impossible, but the mechanical dentist may eventually be able to mould a service- able obturator (odluro, -avi, stop up) to prevent the food entering the nostril, and to improve vocalisation. The plastic operation for cleft-palate consists in freshening the edges of the cleft, detaching the muco-periosteum from the hard palate, and incising it close along the inner border of the alveolar process, so that the lateral flaps may be approximated, and secured by stitches. The flaps must be as wide as possible, so as to contain many branches of the posterior palatine artery, otherwise sloughing may occur. The apeneurosis of the soft palate must be detached from the hard palate, or the halves cannot be brought together. When the cleft in the soft palate has been stitched up, the halves would be drawn asunder again by the levator and tensor, and by the palato-pharyngeus of each side, if these muscles were not divided. Their division is best effected by a bold cut right through the outer part of the soft palate, in an antero- posterior direction. In my experience, the freer these cuts, the greater the prospect of the success of the operation. In several cases lately I have operated with the child's head hanging back over the end of the table, so that the blood may escape by the nasal fossa and the anterior nares, rather than trickle into the larynx or oeso- phagus. This position serves well also in the removal of nasal polypi from the adult, especially if bleeding is likely to be free. Deglutition In the first stage of the act the mouth is closed so as to give the tongue and the muscles attached to the lower jaw a fixed point ; then the food is pressed backwards by the tongue along the roof of the mouth—the facial and the hypoglossal nerves being those which thus