The Ear 96 the lower the Eustachian tube ; they are separated by the cochleari- form process of bone. Behind the tympanum are the mastoid cells. On the inner wall of the tympanum is an oval foramen which is appropriately filled in by the oval plate of the stapes, but which other- wise would open directly into the vestibule. Below this foramen is a round one which leads towards the cochlea, but which is glazed with a threefold layer, like a miniature membrana tympani (p. 97), the innermost layer being the serous lining of the cochlea. Above the oval foramen is a slight ridge which marks the passage of the facial nerve in the subjacent aqueduct of Fallopius. The first turn of the cochlea, bulging outwards, forms a projection, the promontory, upon the inner wall ; and farther back is the pyramid, from the interior of which the stapedius arises. After the loss of the membrane the inner wall of the tympanum is clearly shown by otoscopic examination, and Mr. McGill tells of a case in which a minute bubble of air under a film of mucus upon that part which is called the pyramid was for some time mistaken for the glistening head of a pin, which, according to one account, had been pushed into the ear. The ossicles.—The head of the malleus, or hammer, articulates posteriorly with the incus. Its tapering handle descends vertically between the inner and middle layers of the membrana, the tensor tympani being inserted into its upper end. The top of the incus, or anvil, articulates with the head of the hammer. Its short limb passes back to be lodged in the mastoid cells, and the long one runs parallel with the handle of the hammer to articulate, by the os orbiculare, with the head of the stapes, or stirrup, the plate of which blocks the fenestra ovalis. The joints between the ossicles are enclosed in delicate capsular ligaments, lined with synovial membranes, and are liable to attacks of disease. Thus chronic inflammation of the middle ear stiffens them, and so interferes with the oscillation that deafness steadily advances. The subjects of this troublesome complaint hear better when riding in a train or car- riage, as the shaking of the vehicle imparts the needful vibration to the chain. The tensor tympani arises from the walls of the bony canal by which it enters the tympanum, and is inserted near the root of the handle of the hammer. It is supplied by a branch from the otic ganglion. Its action is to draw inwards, and so to tighten the mem- brana ; at the same time it presses upon the perilymph and causes a disturbance of the auditory filaments. When the buzzing in the ear which is supposed to result from this pressure is constant, certain aural orthopaedists have recommended a speculative tenotomy of the muscle. An artilleryman, who is awaiting the firing of a big gun, keeps his mouth open, so that the aerial concussion may rush along the Eustachian tube as well as down the auditory meatus, and that