6o The Cranial Nerves enters the upper surface of the superior oblique. Fibres of the nerve decussate in the grey matter around the Sylvian aqueduct, so that there may be harmony in the action of the two superior oblique muscles when the head is turned. When the nerve is paralysed and the head is moved sideways, the eye of the paralysed side moves with the head instead of being steadily fixed upon the object, and the subject sees double—diplopia (SlttXovs, double ; o^, con-or, eye). No. 5.—The trifacial derives its name from its supplying the skin of the face in three situations, namely, in the supra-orbital, infra- orbital, and mental regions. It arises from the pons by two roots, of which the anterior, or motor, is quite small ; the deep origin being in the floor of the fourth ventricle. The sensory part of the nerve expands on the apex of the petrous bone into the Gasserian ganglion, from the front of which come the ophthalmic and the superior and inferior maxillary nerves. The motor root takes an independent course beneath the ganglion, and eventually leaves by the foramen ovale to join the inferior maxillary trunk, the first and second divisions of the nerve being purely sensory. Tic douloureux, or neuralgia of the fifth nerve or of one of its divi- sions, may be caused by pressure upon the main trunk, or upon its root- lets in the floor of the fourth ventricle, or by pressure upon a trunk as it leaves the skull—or elsewhere in its course. Sometimes the distress is due to peripheral irritation of a single filament, as in a carious tooth, and amongst more remote causes are cold, dyspepsia, and nervous ex- haustion. The pain may shoot along the filaments of the supra-orbital or supra-trochlear nerve, along a division of the temporo-malar, or the branches of the superior maxillary nerve in the cheek, nose, or upper lip; or along the twigs to the teeth, the temple, chin, lower lip, or side of tongue. On any branch of the nerve there may be a specially painful spot which the patient can precisely indicate. Sometimes the attack is associated with flushing or sweating of the surface, and sometimes it clears up with a profuse secretion of tears, nasal mucus, or saliva, showing, as Ranney remarks, the implication of the vaso- motor filaments in the nerve. This association explains also the inflam- matory changes which the skin of the affected region may undergo, and also the falling out or blanching of the hair which are sometimes associated with the neuralgia. When the ' tic' is spreading, and is associated with deep-seated headache and with paralysis of certain of the motor nerves, a cerebral lesion may be suspected. Because there is pain in the teeth it by no means follows that the teeth cause the pain, and their extraction should not be hurriedly resorted to. Clavus is that variety of neuralgia in which the pain, though limited to a single spot, is so ' intense' that the patient (generally an hysterical young woman) feels as if a nail (clavus) were being hammered into her flesh and bone.