434 The Testis subjects of varicocele are not liable to constipation. It is probably a congenital defect, though its discovery is not made until puberty—that is until the rapid development of the generative apparatus is taking place. The thickened and dilated veins feel just like ' worms in a bag.' They give rise to a sensation of fulness in the cord, and up to the loin- region. When they are much dilated before puberty they are likely to prevent the due development of the testicle. In the palliative treatment of varicocele the bowels should be kept thoroughly open so as to remove pressure from the spermatic vein ; the scrotum should be sponged daily with cold water to brace it up, and to stimulate the dilated veins a suspensory bandage should be used. A light truss may be worn over the external abdominal ring, to prevent the downward pressure of the long column of venous blood. If these gentler measures fail, it may be necessary to excise an inch of the veins, having tied them above and below; but, as the spermatic artery may possibly be entangled amongst the veins, the operation may be followed by atrophy of the testis, even if this have not already been determined by the defect in the venous return. The reason for excising a piece of the packet of veins is that after a mere ligation their continuity may not improbably be re-established. In the case of malignant disease of the testis the .heavy mass drags itself away from the external abdominal ring; in the case of fluid collecting in the tunica vaginalis the fulness ascends along the front of the cord towards the ring. In all cases of disease of the testis the scrotum should be raised, so as to diminish the vascular supply. The patient should lie on his back when the epididymis or testis is acutely inflamed, with the scrotum supported over the pubes. The lymphatics commence in and upon the gland, and on the surface of the tunica vaginalis ; they ascend in the cord to end in the lumbar lymphatic glands. Unfortunately, when the surgeon is con- templating the removal of the testis for malignant disease, he is unable to inform himself whether the lymphatic glands are implicated or not, because of their deep situation at the back of the abdominal cavity. As a rule it is only when the cancer of the testis has invaded the scrotum that the inguinal lymphatic glands are invaded, but in rare instances it happens that they are implicated, and extensively so, whilst the scrotal tissues are remaining sound. This is explained by the lymphatic vessels of the testis having formed anastomotic communications with those of the inguinal integuments—a communi- cation resembling that which exists between the spermatic artery and the cremasteric branch of the deep epigastric. If there be much mechanical pressure upon the lymphatics or veins of the cord, from malignant disease of the lumbar glands, or from any other cause, the connective tissue of the cord may become infiltrated