Luschkds Gland 355 may be avoided. The arteria sigmoidea, from the inferior mesenteric, communicates with the colica sinistra above and with the superior hsemorrhoidal below. The lumbar arteries, four on each side, run outwards, like the intercostal arteries. They pass beneath the psoas and behind the quadratus lumborum, and then between the inner oblique and the transverse muscles. They anastomose with branches of the internal mammary, deep epigastric, lower intercostal, ilio-lumbar, and deep circumflex iliac arteries. They also give branches (spinal) along the lumbar nerves, which supply the cauda equina, spinal cord, and the vertebral periosteum ; and a branch (dorsal) which runs back between the transverse processes for the erector spina?, and for the integument of the loin. The middle sacral passes from the bifurcation of the aorta down the middle of the fifth lumbar vertebra, and the sacrum and coccyx ; it gives branches to the anterior sacral foramina and to the rectum, which latter anastomose with other hsemorrhoidal arteries. On either side the sacra media anastomoses with the lateral sacral branches, and at the tip of the coccyx it supplies Luschka's gland. The coccygeal, or luschka's gland, at the tip of the coccyx, is a pisiform tuft of small vessels derived from the ending of the sacra media. It is surrounded by granular cells, and by a fibrous coat which sends fine processes into the interior. Nerve-filaments enter it from the ends of the neighbouring sympathetic chains. The gland is of surgical importance in that it may be the starting point of certain coccygeal, sacral, and pelvic tumours of infant life. The Inferior Vena Cava The inferior vena cava begins at the right side of the fifth lumbar vertebra by the confluence of the common iliac veins. It ascends upon the right side of the aorta, being separated from it above by the right cms ; it deeply notches the back of the liver (where it receives the hepatic veins), and, passing between the right and central leaflets of the phrenic tendon, opens at once into the right auricle. The right renal and lumbar arteries cross between it and the vertebrae. In front of it are coils of small intestine and mesentery ; the right spermatic artery ; transverse duodenum, pancreas, portal vein, and right lobe of liver. To the right side are the kidney, ureter, psoas, and ascending colon. Its tributaries we the lumbar, which closely correspond in distribu- tion with the lumbar arteries. The left lumbar veins are the longer as they have to pass beneath the aorta. The upper lumbar veins com- municate with a vena azygos. The right spermatic and supra-renal and lower phrenic veins end A A 2