2JO The Fore arm, Wrist, and Hand the fact that the creases themselves are not landmarks to the joints, but that the line of the joints lies halfway between the palmar creases and the creases at the roots of the fingers, that is along the middle line of the tranverse fold. The deep fascia offers a strong investment to the superficial muscles of the fore-arm, and, dipping between them, supplies inter- muscular septa from which they take additional origin. It receives important accessory fibres from the insertions of the biceps and triceps. It is attached along the posterior—the subcutaneous—border of the ulna, and above it is continuous with the deep fascia of the arm; below it passes to the front and back of the hand, being thickened to form the annular ligaments. The posterior annular ligament is firmly connected by transverse fibres with the lower end of the radius, converting certain grooves into tunnels for the passage of the tendons ; it slopes downwards, inwards, and forwards to the cuneiform and pisiform bones. The tendons at the hack of the wrist. -Beneath the fascial /'and are six canals for the extensor tendons, each being lined by a separate synovial sheath : the outermost is for the extensors ossis and primi ; the second is for the extensors radialis longior and brevior ; the third, narrow and oblique, for the extensor secundi internodii ; the fourth, wide and shallow, is for the extensors communis digitorum and indicis ; the fifth, between the radius and ulna, is for the tendon of the extensor minimi digiti ; and the sixth, at the back of the ulna, is for that of the extensor carpi ulnaris. Superficial to the posterior annular ligament are the radial and the posterior ulnar veins, and the radial and the dorsal ulnar nerves. The anterior annular ligament is the thickened band attached to the prominences of the scaphoid -and trapezium on the outer side, and to the pisiform and unciform on the inner. It strengthens the bony arch of the carpus, binds down the flexor tendons of the fingers, and affords origin to certain muscles of the thumb and little finger. Superficial to it pass the tendon of the palmaris longus, the palmar cutaneous branches of the median and ulnar nerves, the superficialis volse, and the ulnar artery and nerve. Beneath it are the tendons of the flexors carpi radialis, sublimis and profundus digitorum, and of the longus pollicis ; the median nerve and the comes nervi mediani. The palmar fascia, continuous above with the anterior annular ligament and with the insertion of the palmaris longus, spreads more thinly over the muscles of the ball of the thumb and of the ball of the little finger. Its median piece is extremely thick, protecting the subjacent branches of the median and ulnar nerves and the superficial palmar arch. It sends slips to join the sheaths of the flexor tendons of the four inner digits, also to the webs of the fingers, and to the transverse ligament connecting the heads of the metacarpal bones.