271 Pro it a for Radii Teres Dupuytren's contraction.—Sometimes, as the result of pressure, and especially in gouty men, the bands of the palmar fascia descending to the ring and little fingers become perma- nently shortened, so that those fingers are rigidly bent into the palm, the flexor tendons and the joints being unaffected. Subcutaneous division of the contracted bands sets the fingers free, but relapse is apt to occur. The ad- jacent woodcut, from Fergusson, shows that the skin also may be im- plicated in the contraction. The supinator iongus arises from the upper two-thirds of the ex- ternal condylar ridge of the humerus, and is inserted into the base of the styloid process of the radius. Its chief action is to flex the fore- arm ; as regards supination, all that it can do is to evert the pronated fore-arm until the thumb points upwards. Its nerve-supply is from the musculo-spiral. Relations.—Just above its insertion it is overlaid by the tendons of the extensors ossis and primi. It overlaps the brachialis anticus ; the origin of the radial extensors of the wrist; and the insertions of the supinator brevis and pronator teres. Along its inner aspect are the musculo-spiral and radial nerves, the anterior part of the superior pro- funda, and the radial artery and its recurrent branch. In the upper half of the fore-arm its fleshy, anterior border has to be everted in order to expose the radial artery. The pronator radii teres arises from the region of the internal condyle of the humerus, and, by a small deep head, from the adjacent part of the coronoid process of the ulna ; between these heads the median nerve enters the fore-arm. The insertion is into the middle of the outer surface of the radius. It is supplied by the median nerve. Relations.—Superficial to it at its insertion are the supinator longus and the radial nerve and artery. Its origin overlaps the brachialis anticus, the anterior ulnar recurrent artery intervening. It rests on the origin of the flexor sublimis digitorum. Along its ulnar border slopes the flexor carpi radialis ; its outer border limits the triangle at the bend of the elbow, and, therefore, is close to the inner side of the brachial artery and its division into the radial and ulnar. The ulnar artery passes beneath it, being separated there from the median nerve by the deep head of the muscle. The flexor carpi radialis arises from the inner condyle ; it ends in a long tendon which passes through a separate compartment in the anterior annular ligament, and through the groove in the trapezium,