373 The Iliac Veins 5 to the outer side of the right common iliac artery, to mark the point of origin of the cava. Then, with a blue pencil, let him place the ex- ternal, and internal, and the beginning of the common iliac veins to the inner side of their respective arteries. Having done that, let him draw in the commencement of the cava. To continue the common veins into the cava, he must bring the left vein away from its artery and beneath the right artery, and send the right vein more quickly beneath the right artery and even to its outer side. Tributaries.—The sacra media vein conveniently falls into the left common iliac vein as it crosses below the division of the aorta ; the ilio-hunbar vein enters the corresponding common iliac vein. THE SACRAL PLEXUS The sacral nerves descend from the lowest part of the lumbar en- largement, which is at the level of the last dorsal vertebra, in the cauda equina, and divide into an anterior and a posterior branch. The posterior sacral nerves emerge by the posterior sacral fora- mina and give internal branches to the origin of the erector spinse, and external branches which form loops about the great sacro-sciatic liga- ment, from which twigs pass through the origin of the gluteus maximus to supply the skin of the hinder part of the buttock. The sacral plexus is formed by the junction of the lumbo-sacral cord with the anterior divisions of the first three sacral nerves and with part of that of the fourth. The fourth sacral 7ie?-ve also sends branches to the rectum, bladder, vagina ; to the coccygeus, levator ani, and external sphincter, and to the skin near the side of the coccyx. The anterior division of the fifth sacral is an unimportant twig which passes out between the sacrum and coccyx, for the skin near the coccyx, together with a still smaller nerve, the coccygeal. Relations of the sacral plexus.—The plexus lies upon the sacrum and pyriformis, and is separated from the rectum and bladder, and from the divisions of the internal iliac artery, by the pelvic fascia. The upper part of the plexus consists of the lumbo-sacral cord and of the anterior divisions of the first and second and part of the third sacrals, and forms chiefly the great sciatic nerve ; the rest of the third and the part of the fourth forming the internal pudic. But, in addition to these trunks, the plexus gives off the superior gluteal (from the lumbo- sacral cord), the lesser sciatic, and the inferior gluteal, and muscular branches to the pyriformis, obturator internus, gemelli, and quadratus femoris. The nerve to the obturator internus runs round the ischial spine, with the internal pudic nerve ; and the nerve to the quadratus passes beneath the tendon of the obturator internus and the gemelli, and gives a twig through the back of the capsule of the hip-joint. The superior gluteal nerve comes from the lumbo-sacral cord,