2J2 The Fore-arm, Wrist, and Hand to be inserted in the base of index metacarpal bone. The median nerve supplies it. Relations.—The fleshy part of the muscle is between the pronator teres and the palmaris longus, and rests upon the flexor sublimis digi- torum. The tendon is just slightly to the outer side of the middle line of the fore-arm. Half an inch to its outer side, midway between it and the tendon of the supinator longus, is the radial artery with its com- panion veins ; and close along the inner side of the tendon, between it and the outermost tendon of the flexor sublimis digitorum, and under- neath that of the palmaris longus, is the median nerve. The palmaris longus arises from the internal condyle, and its slender tendon passes over the annular ligament to be inserted into the palmar fascia. It is often absent. Like the next muscle, it is sup- plied by the median nerve. The flexor sublimis digitorum arises from the internal condyle, coronoid process, and the oblique line of the radius; it is thin and wide and lies beneath the three preceding muscles. About halfway down the fore-arm it divides into four tendons, those for the middle and ring fingers lying, as they pass beneath the annular ligament, superficial to those for the index and little fingers. At the root of the first phalanges each tendon is pierced by one from the flexor profundus, and then sends a slip into either side of the middle phalanx. Relations.—This flexor is mostly under cover of the foregoing muscles, but some of its tendons are superficial between those of the flexor carpi radialis, or palmaris longus, and the flexor carpi ulnaris. The deep fascia sends down a linear septum between this muscle and the adjoining flexor carpi ulnaris. It is by working through this sep- tum that the surgeon seeks the ulnar artery in the upper part of its course ; the septum is in the line extending from the internal con- dyle of the humerus to the pisiform bone. Beneath the flexor sublimis are the flexor profundus, flexor longus pollicis, the median nerve, and the ulnar nerve and artery. In the palm the tendons lie beneath the superficial parts of the ulnar artery and median nerve, and, of course, beneath the deep fascia, whilst they rest on the tendons of the flexor profundus and the lum- bricals. The flexor carpi ulnaris arises from internal condyle, the inner border of the olecranon, and the posterior, the subcutaneous, border of the ulna. Passing along the inner side of the fore-arm, it is inserted into the pisiform and the fifth metacarpal bones, sending also a small slip outwards, across the ulnar nerve and artery, to the front of the annular ligament. Its nerve-supply is from the ulnar. Relations.—Along its outer aspect are the flexors sublimis and pro- fundus digitorum, and the ulnar nerve and artery ; indeed, the outer aspect of the muscle is the ready guide to the ulnar artery in the lower two-thirds of the course of that vessel. Between its humeral and