332 In tcslinal Obstruction passes from the colon to the lateral abdominal wall. Such an injury result of the operation. But if the surgeon, after prolonged search for the bowel, fail to discover it, it is better for him deliberately to incise the peritoneum and to bring up the colon with his hooked finger, rather than to blindly open some neigh- bouring coil of small intestine which he has encountered in the renal region, through a rent in the peri- toneum. I have known this accident happen more than once, and, on the other hand, amongst the most suc- cessful cases of colotomy may be some of those in which the peri- toneum has been accidentally or intentionally opened in the ' extra- peritoneal ' operation. If the colon happen to have a short mesentery, or, practically, no mesentery at all, Amussat's operation is simple enough, but when the mesentery is long, as sometimes happens, it is absolutely impossible to perform an extra-peritoneal colotomy. The Liver The liver (50 oz.) is situated in the right hypochondriac and epi- gastric regions ; it often extends also into the left hypochondriac region. In the child (and in the adult when it is enlarged) it reaches to the left false ribs, in front of the cardiac end of the stomach and spleen. At birth it is very large, reaching across to the spleen, the umbili- cal vein entering the longitudinal fissure in the median line of the body; but with the subsequent growth of the child the proportionate size of the liver diminishes, so that the left lobe lies behind the linea alba, the round ligament and the falciform ligament being dragged towards the right hypochondrium. In the adult, therefore, only the left lobe occu- pies the epigastric region, and its border slopes downwards and to the right, crossing the middle line about three inches below the base of the xiphoid cartilage. {See illustration on p. 163.) Normally, the highest level of the liver corresponds with the right sixth or seventh rib; for draining an empyasma on the right side, therefore, the opening should not be lower than the fifth space. In the case of a large abdominal tumour, and of great inflation of the would be apt to prejudice the Lumbar colotomy; peritoneum necessarily opened. (Herbert Allingham.)