Male Urethra 417 the occurrence of the so-called swelled testicle, which generally comes in a natural sequence of events. The membranous portion is between the two layers of the triangular ligament, at about an inch below the symphysis. Because of the backward projection of the bulb, the floor is rather shorter than the roof. Around the mucous lining is a thin erectile layer, continuous behind with the tissue of the veru montanum and in front with that of the corpus spongiosum. More externally are pale muscular fibres, and around all is the compressor urethra?. The compressor urethrae is an arrangement of striated fibres which sling up and encircle the urethra between the two layers of the triangular ligament. It has a slender origin from the upper part of each descending pubic ramus. It acts as a sphincter to the urethra, and assists in erection by compressing the efferent veins of the corpus spongiosum. Its nerve-supply is from the internal pudic. Spasmodic stricture may be the result of energetic contraction of the compressor urethrae, but such spasm must be of short duration. 1 I will tell you what spasmodic stricture often is. It is an exceed- ingly useful excuse for the failure of instruments. It is " a refuge for incompetence.'" (Sir H. Thompson.) Cowper's glands lie below the urethra, between the two layers of the triangular ligament. Their slender ducts pass forward—through the anterior layer of the ligament—to open upon the floor of the bulbous portion of the urethra. The spongy portion measures about seven inches, the posterior part being enclosed within the bulbous enlargement, the anterior within the glans. The bulbous part of the urethra is very capacious ; externally it is covered by the accelerator urina?. There is also a considerable dilatation, the fossa naviadaris just behind the meatus urinarius. The meatus is the narrowest part of the canal ; often it has to be incised to admit an instrument which readily passes along the rest of the urethra. Such incision should be made towards the frasnum— not upwards into the tissue of the glans. The junction of the membranous and bulbous portions of the urethra is also narrow. A slender catheter is apt to leave the canal in a false passage through the floor, and to pass up below the prostate and bladder. By the left index finger in the rectum the error is immediately recognised ; it is less likely to happen if the beak of the catheter be kept along the roof of the canal ; and if this rule be observed the instrument is less likely to hitch against the front of the triangular ligament, or to be caught in the sinus pocularis. A full- sized instrument'is less likely to be intercepted than a fine one. Chronic inflammation (gleet) is apt to linger about the bulbous part of the urethra, with the result that stricture is of frequent occur- rence just in front of the triangular ligament. E F.