11 Frontal Bo/id the lower parts of the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid, though, with the internal jugular vein and the pneumogastric nerve, it is popularly believed to be contained in it. Then, by only a very little more imagination, the inferior thyroid artery, the recurrent laryn- geal nerve (p. 70), and the cord of the sympathetic are seen within the space—all of which are behind the carotid sheath. The trachea and the thyroid gland are similarly given in the triangle. THE BONES OF THE HEAD The frontal Done.—The vertical part is marked by the frontal eminences, which correspond to the frontal lobes of the brain. Below them are the superciliary ridges, which are continuous internally with the root of the nose. They correspond with the frontal sinuses and give origin at their inner end to the corrugator supercilii and the orbicularis. In the case of fracture the external table may be driven into the sinus without the inner table being damaged, and on the man coughing, or blowing his nose, air may escape into the scalp and cause extensive emphysema. The frontal sinuses are absent in childhood, and they are com- paratively small in women. They communicate with the middle meatus by the infundibulum. A chronic abscess of the sinus which has opened externally must be drained into the nose. Below the superciliary ridge comes the margin of the orbit, with the supra-orbital notch or foramen to the inner side of the middle. As the supra-orbital vein traverses this notch it receives a small diploic vein. The supra-orbital arch ends at the strong external angular process, which articulates with the malar, and the temporal ridge ascends from it. This pro- cess overhangs the fossa for the lachrymal gland. The internal angular process articulates with the nasal process of the superior maxilla and the lachrymal ; a hernial protrusion of the dura mater—a meningocele—sometimes occurs at that spot. Close behind the internal angular process is the fossa for the pulley of the superior oblique. On the cerebral aspect, where the r lateral halves join, is a ridge for the attach- ment of the falx cerebri, and the groove for the superior longitudinal sinus. Anter!or Meningocele (Bxyant). The horizontal part of the frontal con- sists of the thin plates for the roof of the orbit, the notch between them