26 Arteries of Head and Neck there is much difficulty in reaching the vessel the sternal origin of the sterno-mastoid should be divided and turned outwards. The collateral circulation would be carried on by the empty branches of the external and internal carotids. Of the external the following would prove useful : the superior thyroid with its fellow, and with the inferior thyroid ; branches of the lingual, facial, super- ficial temporal, and occipital, with their fellows of the opposite side ; and the occipital, with the profunda cervicis and the vertebral. The internal carotid would take in blood, by its anastomosis in the circle of Willis, from its fellow, and from the vertebral. The external carotid is destined, as its name implies, for the external parts of the head ; therefore, in its ascent, its lies superficial to the internal carotid, which is the direct continuation of the common trunk. For convenience, in giving off the superior thyroid, lingual, and facial branches, the external carotid bends forwards from its origin, and thus it is at first superficial and anterior to the internal carotid ; but, inclining backwards again, it ultimately lies superficial to the internal trunk, and in the same line with it. Ascending into the parotid gland, it ends by dividing into the superficial temporal and internal maxillary. Its course is marked by that part of the line, given on page 23 for the common carotid, which extends from the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage to the fossa behind the condyle of the jaw. Relations.—Superficial to it are skin, platysma, and fasciae ; the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and the hypoglossal nerve; and the lingual and facial tributaries of the internal jugular vein. In the parotid gland it is crossed by the facial nerve, and in a muscular subject its lower part is considerably overlapped by the sterno- mastoid. The beginning of the external jugular vein is also super- ficial. Betieath it are the internal carotid and the intervening stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve; and, lying more deeply than the internal carotid, the superior laryngeal nerve. Externally are the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid and the commencement of the internal carotid; and internally are the pharynx and hyoid bone, and, just before its termination, the ramus of the jaw. ligation of the external carotid.—The patient is arranged as for ligation of the common carotid (p. 25), and an incision is made in the line of the artery, from just behind the angle of the jaw to the level of the cricoid cartilage. The superficial fascia and platysma having been traversed, the deep fascia is divided on a director; then the digastric, or the hypoglossal nerve, and some veins are seen crossing obliquely. The sterno-mastoid must be pulled outwards, the head having been raised, and the digastric must be drawn upwards.