The Peritoneum 316 On account of the close proximity of the peritoneum and pleura, pleurisy sometimes sets up peritonitis. The intestines being inflated, the diaphragm is so greatly raised that the heart and Lungs work with difficulty, and the patient is thereby much distressed. Sibson advised that in such conditions a long flexible tube be passed into the stomach or colon, or that gas be removed by puncture of bowel. The pains of colic may be relieved by pressure, but in peritonitis even the weight of the bed-clothes may be intolerable. In local peri- tonitis a roughened serous surface, of the liver, for instance, may rub against the parietal layer during respiration and so give rise to a friction-sound. The convalescent from peritonitis walks about with a stoop ; standing up straight causes pressure upon the still tender sac. Hernial sac.—As, with certain exceptions, the whole of the in- testinal canal (in addition to its proper sei-ous coat) is enclosed within the general peritoneal cavity, no knuckle of bowel can escape from the abdomen without taking before it a pouch from the parietal layer ; this constitutes the hernial sac. The great omentum, attached above to the stomach and transverse colon, and descending as an apron in front of the small intestine, is apt to form part of the contents of a hernial sac ; it escapes in front of the intestine through an abdominal wound. When, at a herniotomy, bowel and omentum are found in the sac, the bowel should be returned first. Omentum is almost certain to enter an umbilical hernia, and it may have to be torn through before the strangulated knuckle of bowel is reached. When the end of the omentum is fixed in a hernial orifice, or has, in some other way, formed an attachment to the abdominal wall, it may strangle a coil of in- testine ; a loop of bowel is sometimes caught in a hole in the omentum. Malignant tumours are apt to start from the pendulous folds. Ascites (ao-Kor, a skin bottle) is effusion of serous fluid into the peritoneal cavity. When it is associated with dropsy of the body generally, it is probably due to obstructed flow of blood through heart, lungs, or kidneys. But when peritoneal dropsy is unassociated with oedema in other regions, obstruction is to be suspected in the liver, the serous fluid oozing from the congested capillaries of the tributaries of the vena porta;. If the amount of effusion be