218 The Spinal Cord except in the area of distribution of the supra-clavicular nerves (p. 146), becomes anaesthetic. (The phrenic nerve comes from the third, fourth, and fifth nerves, chiefly the fourth, which passes out above the fourth cervical vertebra.) When the lesion is in the mid-cervical region the diaphragm acts imperfectly and the whole of the brachial plexus is paralysed, as are, of course, all the nerves below. Death rapidly closes the scene. At the second, third, or fourth cervical vertebra the diaphragm, intercostals, and all other muscles of the trunk and extremities are paralysed ; sensation may persist for a while in the upper part of the neck and in the face, but immediate death is the general result. In the case of a man with a tumour of the dura mater, which pressed upon the back of the cervical cord, giving rise to agonising girdle-pains and paraplegia, Mr. Horsley removed the laminae of the vertebrae, from the third to the sixth, opened the dura mater, and successfully removed the growth. It has been remarked elsewhere (p. 411) that the centre for micturi- tion and defalcation is in the lumbar enlargement. When the cerebral control is cut off, as in compression of the cord, the patient ' passes everything beneath him.' That is to say, he empties the bladder and rectum without intent or even knowledge. As soon as the viscus gets full the stimulus is conveyed to the grey matter of the cord and passes out as a motor influence to the muscular tissue of the viscus. Let it be remembered that these viscera, though containing non-striated mus- cular tissue, are under cerebro-spinal and not merely sympathetic con- trol. {Seefourth sacral nerve, p. 378.) When the centre for micturition is itself destroyed, as in extensive lesion of the lumbar enlargement, or in disease of any part of the circuit, reflex is lost, and the bladder quietly fills and overflows. The grey matter in a cross section of the cord is seen as two crescents with their convex borders joined by a transverse band. This commissure is exposed at the bottom of the posterior median fissure by separating the lateral halves of the cord, but it is shut off from the bottom of the anterior fissure by a transverse band of white tissue. The posterior horn of the grey crescent tapers to the surface at the postero-lateral fissure through which are issuing the sensory roots of the spinal nerves. The anterior cornu is thick and tuberculated, and does not reach the surface of the cord, the anterior roots of the spinal nerves passing into it through the anterior column. That part of the lateral half of the cord which the tapering posterior cornu cuts off constitutes the posterior column, that part of it which lies close along the median fissure being called the posterior median column or GolPs column. Disease of this column gives rise to no known symptoms. Large, multipolar, ganglionic cells occupy the anterior cornu ; they regulate the movements of the muscles, and preside over their nutrition as well as over that of the muscles and bones. The trophic