Female Perineum 445 dexterity in operating, the student and young surgeon should lose no opportunity of rehearsing the operation on the cadaver, both of the child and of the adult. median perineal cystotomy is the operation of cutting into the bladder through the middle line of the perineum; should the incision be made for the extraction of a stone, the word 1 lithotomy' takes the place of ' cystotomy.' Cystotomy is performed for exploration, and for intractable inflammation of the bladder. Median lithotomy is an excellent operation for the extraction of small stones or foreign bodies, as no blood-vessel of importance is wounded ; it is an operation of dila- tation rather than of cutting, and is thus performed :—A rectangular staff with a median groove is passed into the bladder ; its elbow is lodged in the membranous urethra, where it is readily felt through the perineum when the patient is placed in the lithotomy position. The surgeon makes an inch-long button-hole in the median line, down to the elbow, and passes a steel director along the groove of the arm and into the bladder. The staff is then withdrawn and the finger is 'screwed' along through the membranous and prostatic urethra. The stone is felt, and then the director is withdrawn and the forceps are introduced. The only parts incised are the skin and the superficial fasciae for about an inch; the base of the triangular ligament and the com- pressor urethras and the membranous urethra. The prostatic urethra is dilated, the prostate itself escaping the knife. The risk of haemor- rhage may be disregarded. As the opening is made high up under the pubes, where the arch is extremely narrow, this operation does not serve for the extraction of a large stone. The perineum of the female is much shorter than that of the male, only about an inch intervening between the vulval and anal openings. In the female the longitudinal lateral folds (labia majora) fail to meet (in the male they are fused together to form the scrotum). Thus, the vulva is a cleft between the lateral halves of an undeveloped scrotum. The deep layer of the superficial fascia is continued along the labia majora and the rami of the pubes up into the inguinal region of the abdomen. The transversus perinei is but a rudimentary band ; the erector clitoridis corresponds to the erector penis, and the sphinc- ter vaginae represents the accelerator urinae; the ' artery of the bulb' supplies the vaginal wall. The triangular ligament supports the urethra, much as in the male, and contains the compressor urethras, but the base of the ligament is defective owing to the passage through it of the vagina. Tillaux cleverly demonstrates the closeness of the resemblance be- tween the female and male perineum, by uncovering the muscular tri- angle, and then splitting the bulb down the middle line, and separating the lateral halves. The median cleft thus represents the vulva, and the halves of the bulb of the urethra represent the bulbs of the