427 Scrotum ; Testis The lymphatics pass to the upper set of the inguinal glands. In malignant disease of the testis the inguinal glands are implicated, usually only when the disease has invaded the scrotum. In hot countries the lymphatics of the scrotum are often dilated and varicose. The disease is probably due to the irritation of micro-organisms circu- lating in the vessels. The effect of the disease is an enormous thicken- ing of the integument, known as elephantiasis. Such tumours may attain enormous size, weighing more than the patient himself. The late Mr. Wordsworth assured the author that he saw one in the West Indies which was computed to weigh 200 lbs. ; the patient had been ' anchored' to it for many years and declined separation by surgical operation. The nerves are derived from the ilio-inguinal (of the first lumbar), the genital branch of the genito-crural (second lumbar) lying in the cremaster ; the superficial perineal branches of the internal pudic, and the long pudendal branch of the small sciatic. In caries of the highest lumbar vertebrae, with inflammatory pres- sure upon the afferent nerves, the patient may refer pain to the scrotal region of one or both sides ; and, from an association between these trunks and the renal and spermatic filaments of the sympathetic, there may be similar complaints when calculi are passing down the ureter. But, in the latter case, the neuralgic distress usually affects only one side ; there might also be retraction of the testicle from stimulation of the cremaster muscle. The covering-s of the cord and the testis beneath the skin and superficial fascia (which together constitute the scrotum) are con- sidered elsewhere (p. 307); they are the intercolumnar, the cremasteric, and the infundibuliform fasciae, and, as regards the testis itself, the peritoneum, or tunica vaginalis. The intercolumnar, cremasteric and transversalis fasciae form a thin and close, but a comparatively un- important, investment of the testis and cord, quite distinct from the scrotum, on the one side, and the tunica vaginalis on the other. The Testis Early in fcetal development, two important tubular organs are found in the abdomen by the side of the spinal column—the Wolffian bodies. They probably play the part of rudimentary and temporary kidneys. Before they are many weeks old they dwindle and make way for the permanent kidneys, which appear from behind them, and for certain organs of generation which appear in front of them. At this period the foetus is sexless ; there is nothing in the structure of the genera- tive organ to show whether it would be evolved into ovary or testis (v. p. 399). Then, just above the generative organ, a slender duct commences, which descends in front of the temporary kidney to open into that