Hypogastric A rteries 373 As already shown (p. 311), the hypogastric artery, in its ascent between the peritoneum and the abdominal wall, causes a ridge- like elevation of the peritoneum ; at the sides of the ridge are slight depressions through either of which a direct inguinal hernia may pass. After birth the hypogastric arteries dwindle into fibrous cords which, pervious nearly up to the top of the bladder, constitute the superior vesical arteries ; the middle vesical branches are derived from the superior, whilst the inferior vesical comes as a special branch from the anterior division of the internal iliac, and supplies the base of the bladder, the prostate, and the seminal vesicle, and gives off the artery of the vas deferens. This last-named and thread-like vessel leaves the abdomen with the spermatic cord, and may eventually anastomose with the spermatic artery. The vesical arteries anastomose with each other and with their fellows of the opposite side, and with the lower rectal, vaginal, and perineal arteries. The uterine artery ascends between the layers of the broad liga- ment, and anastomoses with the ovarian artery above, and with the uterine vessels across the middle line, and below with the vaginal arteries. The vaginal branch anastomoses with its fellow ; with the uterine above ; and in front and behind with vesical and rectal branches. The middle naemorrhoidal anastomoses with the ending of the inferior mesenteric (p. 354) ; with its fellow of the opposite side ; with the hemorrhoidal branches of the internal pudic and per- haps lateral sacral, and with the vesical arteries. The obturator artery runs forwards from the anterior trunk of the internal iliac to the upper part of the obturator foramen, through which it passes with, but below, the obturator nerve (p. 358). Before emerging it gives off a pubic branch which anastomoses with its fellow, and with the pubic branch of the epigastric {v. p. 306) behind the pubes. The obturator may also give off a vesical branch, and a twig to anastomose in the iliac fossa with the ilio-lumbar artery. Outside the pelvis the obturator artery divides into a couple of branches which, diverging, form an arterial circle around the thyroid foramen ; the branch which runs inwards supplies the origin of the ad- ductor muscles, and anastomoses with ascending twigs of the internal circumflex. The outer division sends a branch to the hip-joint through the cotyloid notch, and, supplying the muscles about the ischial tuberosity, anastomoses with the sciatic. The irregular obturator artery has been described on p. 371, and the internal pudic on p. 441. The sciatic is one of the terminal branches of the anterior trunk of the internal iliac artery. It emerges below the pyriformis and passes over the small rotator muscles between the ischial tuberosity and the great trochanter to join in the upper part of the cruciform anastomosis ; that is to say, it joins with the inner and the outer circumflex and the superior perforating arteries. The sciatic also