77 Periosteum of Orbit bone, and so into the nasal fossa. Below the floor of the orbit is the antrum, and tumours from that region readily bulge into the orbit. Im- mediately beneath the floor runs the superior maxillary division of the fifth nerve (p. 62). Through the inner part of the floor descends the nasal duct, close to the outer side of which arises the inferior oblique. On the roof is a depression, at the outer part, for the lachrymal gland, and at the inner part is lodged the pulley of the superior oblique. A large mass of yellow fat fills the back of the orbit, and forms a soft bed against which the eyeball rests. In phthisis and other wast- ing diseases this store of hydro-carbons is drawn upon and the eye becomes sunken. A periostitis, an erysipelas, or other inflammatory condition of or about the orbit may spread by direct continuity of tissue through the optic foramen or the sphenoidal fissure into the interior of the skull, and there give rise to meningitis or to intracranial suppuration. In the case, moreover, of septic phlebitis in the ophthalmic vein the clot may extend into the cavernous sinus and set up fatal thrombosis. The periosteum of the orbit is continuous through the optic foramen and the sphenoidal fissure with the dura mater; and anteriorly it turns round to spread into the pericranium. As the fibrous offshoot from the dura mater enters through the optic foramen to line the orbit it gives a tubular investment along the optic nerve, which, spreading out upon the sclerotic, is ultimately reflected from the antero- lateral part of the eye-ball, behind the conjunctiva, to the margin of the orbit, where it blends with the periosteum. By this arrangement of the fascia the eye-ball is completely shut off from the back of the orbit. A point of great surgical interest in connection with these fibrous layers is that after removal of the superior maxilla (p. 18) the lower periosteum becomes thickened and strengthened, and forms so useful a floor to the orbit that there is but little permanent dropping of the eye-ball ; the double vision which results from the first sinking of the globe soon passes away. The capsule of Tenon is that part of the orbital fascia which sur- rounds the optic nerve and eventually spreads round the eye-ball. It has already been described as sending a post-conjunctival offshoot to the periosteum of the orbit, but, in addition, it sends back fibrous sheaths around the muscles of the eye-ball, which are intimately joined with their proper fascial investments. The capsule of Tenon is connected with the sclerotic by delicate filamentous tissue, and forms a smooth bed in which the globe moves with absolute freedom. It is lined with endothelium, and is, in reality, the outer wall of a large lymph-space, like the pleura or peritoneum. The choroidal lymphatics enter the space around the venae vorticosEe, and the space itself is in communication, under the fibrous sheath of the optic nerve, with the subdural and subarachnoid areas of the cranium.