Abdominal Muscles 302 of one or two intercostal spaces, is herpes zoster (fao-Tr/p, a girdle), or shingles {cingiilnm, a belt). Muscles.—-The external oblique arises from the eight lower ribs by as many digitations. The anterior part of this fleshy mass ends on a wide aponeurosis which passes over the rectus to join the aponeurosis of the opposite external oblique in the linea alba. The hindermost part is muscular, and descends from the last rib, in a free border, to be inserted into the anterior half of the outer lip of the iliac crest. The shining aponeurosis is recognised during the operation of ligation of an iliac artery. The fleshy part of the muscle extends very slightly in front of a line running from the outer part of Poupart's ligament vertically to the eighth costal cartilage. Poupart's ligament is that part of the aponeurosis which stretches over the iliacus and psoas, and over the femoral vessels, from the front of the iliac crest to the pubic spine, and to which the fascia lata of the thigh is fixed. It is imperfectly marked in women, but in man it forms an important seam between the deep layer of the superficial fascia; of the abdomen and of the front of the thigh, and between the transversalis and iliac fasciae (see crural sheath, p. 313) and the fascia lata. It also gives origin to the internal oblique and transversalis. The direction of the ligament shows, of course, the direction of the fibres of the muscle itself—downwards and outwards. Its inner end is firmly attached to the pectineal line through the medium of Gim- bemafs HgameJit, which is a triangular septum extending, in the erect posture, almost horizontally between the pelvis and thigh. Its base is concave and free, and extends outwards as far as the crural sheath. Femoral hernia passes below Poupart's ligament, inguinal comes out above it; the neck of a femoral hernia is placed below and to the outer side of the spine of the pubes, while an inguinal hernia is above it, and to its inner side. The spine of the pubes is an important landmark in the differentiation of the two hernia;, and is specially valuable in the case of a fat subject. The structures beneath Poupart's ligament are the external cutaneous nerve, iliacus, anterior crural nerve, psoas ; external iliac vessels in crural sheath ; crural branch of genito-crural nerve, and lymphatics passing from the thigh towards the pelvic glands. Between those fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique which are incorporated with the inner half of Poupart's ligament and those which blend with the linea alba there is a triangular or oval gap, the external abdominal ring. The base of the opening is at the pubic crest; the outer, and lower, side is formed by Poupart's ligament; and the inner boundary is made by those fibres which run downwards and inwards to the pubic symphysis. Certain transverse fibres which stretch as a kind of lacing across the opening constitute the inter-colwnnarfascia, a prolongation from which descends as a cover-