331 Colotomy flexure through the anterior abdominal wall, and through that part of the bowel which is covered with peritoneum. The operation is ex- tremely simple, and, as the bowel is usually stitched to the skin wound, and is there allowed to become glued by adhesive inflammation before it is opened, the risk of peritonitis is very slight. A curved incision of about 3 in. is made in the iliac region with the convexity towards the anterior superior iliac spine—much as for ligation of an iliac artery (p. 295). But after the two obliques, the transverse muscle, and the transversalis fascia have been divided the peritoneum is opened and the sigmoid loop brought up; it is easily recognised. Before it is stitched to the abdominal wound all its slack folds should be drawn clown, so that the artificial anus may be made in the highest part and the risk of subsequent prolapse of bowel may be diminished. By drawing out a spur of the bowel evacuation can be completely and permanently secured by the artificial opening; unless this is done merely a fascal fistula will be formed and much of the motions will escape again per anum. Amussat's operation is best performed upon the left side, as ob- struction in the large intestine is likely to be in the sigmoid flexure or rectum; thus the artificial anus is made much nearer the end of the canal than when the colon is opened on the right side, and faecal ac- cumulation is the more effectually obviated. Before operating, the surgeon inflates the bowel through the rectum, so as to steady it and to widen out the strip which is destitute of serous covering. He feels for the last rib and the iliac cr.est and makes his incision through the intervening space. A line is drawn up from \ in. behind the middle of the iliac crest to the last rib, and a 4-in. or 5-in. incision is made across that line. The outer border of the erector spinas is easily made out, and the incision is begun, or ended, just over it—say 1^ to 2 in. from the spine. (By the horizontal incision the lumbar arteries are avoided.) Skin and fascia are divided, and the fleshy borders of the latissimus dorsi and external oblique (figs, on pp. 303, 327) are notched; the posterior part of the fleshy internal oblique is freely incised on a director just as it arises from the lumbar fascia, and the transversalis muscle, chiefly a shining aponeurosis (fascia lumborum), though slightly fleshy at thefront of the wound, is opened up. Then the outer border of the quadratus is bared, and, crossing from the front of it, the anterior division of the last dorsal, or an upper lumbar nerve is seen. Next comes a quantity of fat through which the surgeon carefully works with director and forceps ; in front of this is the unimportant transversalis fascia, which is to be carefully torn through. Then the lower end of the kidney is felt, and the colon, which lies upon it, is traced down, and opened well on its posterior and internal aspect. Unless the surgeon keep quite to the back of the wound, he is apt to injure the peritoneum where it