51 o Bones of Foot dissected foot, a dot is made close behind the ridge on base of the first metatarsal bone, and another behind the tuberosity of the fifth, and these dots are provisionally connected by an oblique line. Then the shaft of the second bone is traced back into its expanded base amongst the cuneiforms, and there a squared, but a slightly oblique, notch is depicted. The latter part of this plan has to be made by estimation, as the mortise cannot be actually felt. It is about a quarter of an inch deep. It is shown on p. 507. The tips of the index-finger and thumb are kept upon the inner and outer landmarks of this tarso-metatarsal joint in Hey's and in lisfranc's operation. The latter amputation consists in disarticu- lating all the metatarsal bones ; but in the amputation which bears the name of the English surgeon the base of the second bone is not disarticulated, but sawn across, or the internal cuneiform is divided. In Hey's and Lisfranc's amputation a very short dorsal flap is raised, as in Chopart's operation (p. 500), whilst the sole of the foot is made to supply the covering for the naked surfaces of the cuboid and cuneiforms. This flap should be cut longer on the inner side, as the surface of the internal cuneiform which it has to cover is deeper than that of the cuboid. Branches of the two plantar arteries will require ligation ; but the main trunk of the external, which crosses the roots of the metatarsal bones, may just escape the knife. Hallux valgus.—As a resulfof wearing boots with narrow toes, the great toe is thrust outwards, until it may lie under or over the neighbouring toes. The partial out- ward dislocation of the base of the first phalanx leaves the inner surface of the head of the first metatarsal bone prominent beneath the skin, and unprotected from the pressure of the boot. It is, however, the strain upon the joint, not the pressure of the boot, which sets up the trouble and pain in the joint. The ap- pearance presented by the great'toe is something like knock-knee, and is called hallux valgus. When the deformity is slight it may be treated by wide-toed boots, and by wearing a pad of cotton-wool in the first cleft. But, if it be severe, the shaft of the first metatarsal may be divided, the distal part of the bone being so arranged that the phalanges may lie in the direction of the inner border of the foot. Unless the case be duly treated, the mucous bursa which is apt to be developed by friction on the inner side of the head of the meta- tarsal bone becomes inflamed. The large round and painful swelling then produced is called bunion (3ovi>os, mound).