The Bones of the Head H The posterior surface shows the internal auditory meatus, down which pass the facial and auditory nerves in their arachnoid invest- ment, and the auditory branch of the basilar artery. The facial nerve enters the aqueductus above the sieve-like part of the end of the canal through which the auditory filaments reach the internal ear. The styloid process gives origin to small muscles for the pharynx, hyoid bone, and tongue ; the piece of the deep cervical fascia which separates the parotid and submaxillary glands (p. 2) is also attached to it. The temporal bone is developed in four pieces : one for the squamous, one for the petrous and mastoid, one for the tympanic horse-shoe, and one for the styloid process. The sphenoid.—The body is hollowed out into an air-chamber which opens into the back of the superior meatus of the nose, and on either side is a broad groove for the internal carotid artery and the cavernous sinus (p. 40). The posterior part is connected with the occipital bone by cartilage until the eighteenth year, after which the union is osseous and perfect. The upper surface of the great wing enters into the middle fossa, and is marked by the round and oval openings for the second and third divisions of the fifth nerve, and of the middle meningeal artery and vein. The outer surface enters into the temporal and pterygoid fossae, and the anterior surface forms most of the outer wall of the orbit. The lesser wing forms the back part of the roof of the orbit, and supports the frontal lobe. Its posterior border is lodged in the Sylvian fissure of the brain. Between the two wings is the sphenoidal fissure, which transmits the third, fourth, ophthalmic division of fifth, and the sixth nerves, the ophthalmic vein, and some sympathetic filaments. At the root of the process is the foramen by which the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery enter the orbit. The external pterygoid process is a wide plate which gives origin to both the external and internal pterygoid muscles. The internal process descends parallel with the vomer, and forms the outer wall of the posterior nares. It ends below in the hamular process, round which the tendon of the tensor palati is reflected. This hook-like process is readily felt in the mouth (p. 107) ; to it are attached the superior constrictor and the pterygo-maxillary ligament. The tensor palati arises from the scaphoid fossa between the roots of the pterygoid processes. The ethmoid consists of a vertical plate which enters into the septum of the nose, and of a horizontal, or cribriform, plate which forms part of the anterior fossa of the skull, and on the under surface of which are fixed the lateral masses. The front of the vertical plate extends into the crista galli, between which and the frontal bone is the foramen C£ecum, transmitting a vein from the nose to the superior longitudinal sinus. At the side of the crista is the slit for the nasal nerve. Through the cribriform plate descend the olfactory filaments, and at