Nerves of Leg and Foot 381 malleolus it has the artery and its venae comites close upon the inner side, and the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis a little to its outer side. It supplies the tibialis posticus, flexor longus digitorum and flexor longus hallucis, and gives an additional branch to the soleus. It also gives off a plantar cutaneous branch for the inner border of the foot (which pierces the internal annular ligament), and articular twigs to the ankle-joint. The internal plantar nerve is larger than the external, and comes from the division of the posterior tibial midway between the inner malleolus and the tuberosity of the os calcis, from under cover of the abductor hallucis. It supplies the plantar surface of the inner three and a-half digits (corresponding thus to the median nerve); the branch for the inner side of the great toe pierces the deep fascia near the middle of the inner side of the foot. The bed of the nail is supplied by the plantar nerves. Muscular branches are given to the abductor hallucis, flexor brevis digitorum, flexor brevis hallucis, and to the two inner lumbricals. The external plantar, like the ulnar nerve, gives off few digital branches (to the little toe and the adjoining side of the fourth only), and many muscular branches, namely, to the flexor accessorius (over which it passes), to the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti, the two outer lumbricals, all the interossei, the transversus pedis, and the adductor hallucis. The external popliteal or peroneal nerve descends close along the inner side of the tendon of the biceps, and, winding below the head of the fibula into the peroneus longus, divides into the musculo- cutaneous and anterior tibial. It gives three branches to the knee-joint, two of which accompany the outer articular arteries, and a recurrent branch which ascends to the joint through the tibialis anticus ; some cutaneous branches to the outer side of the leg, and the commwiicans peronei to join the external saphenous. The musculo-cutaneous nerve descends between the peronei longus and brevis and the extensor longus digitorum, and divides into two branches which pierce the fascia lata in the lower third of the leg ; the inner of them supplies the inner side of the great toe and the cleft between the second and third toes (leaving the first cleft for the anterior tibial nerve), whilst the other division supplies the two outer clefts (leaving the outer side of the little toe for the short saphenous). Muscular branches pass into the peroneus longus and brevis. The anterior tibial nerve gains the outer side of the corresponding artery by passing through the origin of the extensor longus digitorum ; afterwards it holds relations very similar to those of the artery. Though the nerve may lie over the artery in some part of its course, it is again to its outer side beneath the annular ligament, where it divides into an inner and an outer branch, of which the former passes along