Internal Ear 101 been brought forward enough, but is lodged in the space between the posterior part of the opening and the back of the pharynx—the fossa of Rosenmiiller. The catheter being securely inserted into the tube, the surgeon connects his own ear with that of the patient by a flexible stethoscope and listens for the result of pumping air along the catheter. If the obstruction be absolute no air is heard rushing into the tympanum ; if the tube be abnormally dry the sound is harsh, and if the tube and the tympanum contain mucus the air enters with a bubbling. But, if the obstruction be suddenly overcome, the air enters with a rush, driv- ing the membrane outwards with a slight click. If the membrane be perforated the air escapes with a hissing sound. If the catheter be so clumsily introduced as to tear the mucous membrane, and if air be then pumped up with considerable force, tem- porary emphysema of that neighbourhood may result. The internal ear is a labyrinthine chamber hollowed out in the petrous bone, and consisting of three parts, the vestibule, semicircular canals, and the cochlea, which have a delicate lining for the secretion of perilymph. The bony labyrinth contains a membranous labyrinth of corresponding shape ; it is hollow and floats in the perilymph ; it, like- wise, contains fluid, the endolymph. Thus, the auditory filaments, which are spread out upon it, are securely placed between the peri- and the endo-lymph. The membranous labyrinth is supplied by a small audi- tory branch of the basilar artery, which enters by the internal auditory meatus. The semicircular canals occupy suggestive geometrical positions : the superior is in a vertical transverse plane ; the posterior in a vertical antero-posterior plane ; and the external one arches outwards in a horizontal plane. Their function is probably for maintaining the equi- librium of the head and of the body ; when they are diseased the subject cannot keep upright. When the amount of fluid in the labyrinth is excessive the patient has sudden attacks of giddiness, headache, and sickness, and he promptly falls in a definite direction. He may at first think that the associated troubles, which are accompanied by deafness, are due to in- digestion. The disease is named after M. Meniere, who first described it, and, because of its associations, it is often spoken of as ' ear vertigo.' The auditory nerve passes down the internal auditory meatus and breaks up into branches which run through small holes to the vestibule, semicircular canals, and cochlea. The waves of sound reach these terminal filaments by the mem- brana tympani setting the ossicles in vibration, the oval plate of the stapes imparting a similar movement to the perilymph, by which the acoustic filaments are irritated. The nerve-filaments may also be set in vibration by the conduction of sound through the bones of the skull.