157 Thoracic Duct costal, and, in loose connective tissue, a little deeper, but in front of the triangularis sterni, or pleura, is seen the artery with a vein on either side. If the artery be tied in the second space, where the triangularis sterni is not behind it, extra care must be given not to damage the pleura in passing the aneurysm-needle. The superior intercostal artery descends from the second part of the subclavian in front of the neck of the first and second ribs to supply the topmost spaces, which the aortic intercostals cannot con- veniently reach. The artery lies behind the apex of the pleura and against the anterior division of the first dorsal nerve as it ascends to the brachial plexus. Its intercostal branches anastomose with the internal mammary and with thoracic branches of the axillary. It gives off the profunda cervicis, which resembles the dorsal branch of an aortic intercostal artery. Passing backwards between the seventh cervical transverse process and the neck of the first rib, it eventually ascends beneath the complexus, and anastomoses with branches of the vertebral and with the princeps cervicis of the occipital (p. 30). Of the superior intercostal veins the right turns down into the great azygos, whilst the left passes across the second part of the aortic arch to end in the left innominate vein. The thoracic duct brings the chyle and lymph into the venous cir- culation, with the exception of the lymph from the right side of head, neck, and thorax, the right upper extremity, the right heart and lung, and the phrenic surface of the liver. It is eighteen inches long, ex- tending from the abdomen, through the thorax, and into the neck, to the confluence of the left internal jugular and subclavian veins. It begins on the front of the second lumbar vertebra in the recep- taculum chyli, a dilatation into which is poured the contents of the lymphatics of the lower extremities, pelvis and abdomen, and of the lacteals. Relations.—The duct is placed behind the abdominal aorta, and between it and the right cms. It enters the posterior mediastinum through the aortic opening, and ascends on the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae, between the thoracic aorta and the great azygos. As it is reaching the back of the transverse aorta it inclines towards the left, and, passing behind the oesophagus, ascends between it and the left subclavian artery. Having thus reached the root of the neck, it arches downwards and forwards in the gap between the carotid and subclavian arteries, to end in the confluence of the internal jugular and subclavian veins, on a plane anterior to the arteries. At a post-mortem examination the duct is easily found, when the pleura has been opened, by drawing the right lung towards the left, and tearing through the parietal pleura along the right side of the dorsal vertebrae. The duct is there lying in some loose connective tissue between the great azygos and the oesophagus, whence it may be traced upwards or downwards.