268 The Elbozv Joint been dissecting dangerously near to it. The lower end of the humerus having been cleared of the attachment of the lateral and the anterior ligaments, and other indefinite fibres, is thrust out of the wound and sawn off. The olecranon process is cleared of the insertion of the anconeus, and of fibres of origin of the flexor carpi ulnaris. The lower part of the coronoid process is then cleared of the insertion of the brachialis anticus (and of fibres of origin of the flexor sublimis digi- torum), but as much as possible of the process and of the insertion of the brachialis should be left; the ulna is then sawn across. The head of the radius is also removed. The arm had better not be fixed on a splint after the operation, as the surgeon desires to obtain a fibrous ankylosis, not a bony one as in the case of the knee, and, therefore, the sooner that he begins to move it, the better. THE FORE-ARM, WRIST, AND HAND Surface marking's.—From the olecranon process the posterior border of the ulna may be traced down to the styloid process, and the head of the bone may be made out between it and the inferior radio-ulnar joint. In the groove between the styloid process and the head of the ulna runs the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris, and in the gap corresponding to the radio-ulnar articulation passes the special extensor tendon of the little finger. The tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris may be traced along the front of the inner side of the fore-arm to the pisiform, and on flexing the wrist, so as to slacken that tendon, the sesamoid bone may be moved at its arthrodial joint with the cuneiform. Along the radial side of the ulnar flexor tendon runs the ulnar artery, but its pulsations cannot be made out as readily as those of the radial artery, first, because the vessel is overlapped by the tendon, and, secondly, because the finger compresses the ulnar artery not against firm bone, as in the case of the radial, but against the less resisting mass of the flexor profundus digitorum. On the radial side of the groove in which the artery descends are the tendons of the flexor sublimis, and in the middle line of the wrist, and quite superficially, is the tendon of the palmaris longus. Close to the outer side of the last tendon is that of the flexor carpi radialis, immediately on the ulnar side of which is the median nerve— under cover of the tendon of the palmaris longus. About ^ in. ex- ternally, in the groove on the ulnar side of the radial styloid process, is the radial artery, which here rests upon the pronator quadratus, and lower down on the radius itself. The tendon of the supinator longus can just be made out descending to the root of the styloid process. Proceeding outwards and backwards, one encounters the prominent ridge of the tendons of the extensors ossis and primi, just beneath which the radial artery and its veins are winding. The fleshy bellies