Musculo-spiral Nerve 2 51 clavius, the branch to the last-named muscle descending in front of the third part of the subclavian artery. The fifth also gives a root to the phrenic, which thus comes from the fifth as well as from the third and fourth cervical nerves. The nerve of Bell arises from the fifth and sixth nerves in the sub- stance of the scalenus medius, and enters the apex of the axilla lying on the side of the chest. Coming out through the scalenus medius, it lies behind the trunks of the plexus, and posterior also to the first part of the axillary artery. It supplies the serratus magnus. The supra-scapular nerve comes from the fifth and sixth after their junction, and descends beneath the trapezius, and through the supra-scapular notch, to supply the supra- and infra-spinatus, and the shoulder-joint. Below the clavicle the nerves given off are : the external and internal anterior thoracic from the outer and inner cords, respectively, to the pectoralis major and minor. Three subscapular branches come from the posterior cord (which is composed of fibres which are derived from the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves, and from the first dorsal nerve) ; of these three, the short subscapular supplies the subscapularis, the middle the subscapularis and the teres major, and the long the latissimus dorsi. The circumflex, from the posterior cord (formed as above), winds with the posterior circumflex artery round the surgical neck of the humerus, through the quadrilateral space (p. 244), to supply the shoulder-joint and the deltoid. It gives off also a gangliform twig to the teres minor, and many branches to the skin over the lower part of the deltoid and the upper and back part of the arm. The musculo-spiral, containing twigs of the fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, and first, continues the posterior cord from behind the third part of the axillary artery, and winds in the spiral groove, with the superior profunda artery, between the inner and outer heads of the triceps, under cover of the long head. Piercing the external septum, it lies between the supinator longus and the extensor carpi radialis longior, on the outer side, and the brachialis anticus on the inner. In front of the external condyle it divides into the radial and posterior interosseous. It gives off an inner cutaneous branch which descends to the interval between the inner condyle and olecranon, and two outer cutaneous branches which are distributed along the front and back of the fore-arm, almost to the ball of the thumb. It also sends branches to the triceps and anconeus, the supinator longus and the extensor carpi radialis longior, and sometimes to the brachialis anticus. The radial nerve descends from the musculo-spiral along the inner side of the supinator longus, and at about a third of the way down the fore-arm joins company with the radial artery ; near the