224 The Spinal Cord the ganglion impar. From these knots, or ganglia, offshoots join the spinal nerves, and branches pass off, frequently in intricate plexuses along the neighbouring vessels. The chief office of the system is .the control of the non-striated muscular tissue of the blood-vessels, lym- phatics, and hollow viscera, and it is through them that the calibre of these vessels and viscera is regulated (asthma, p. 197). . In the cervical region the knots are represented by three ganglia which lie behind the carotid sheath, the superior ganglion being a long fusiform mass opposite the second and third vertebra?. The middle ganglion is at the level of the inferior thyroid artery, and the lowest ganglion is near the neck of the first rib, whence it sends filaments up with the vertebral artery. From the superior cervical ganglion filaments ascend into the skull with the internal carotid artery, to form the cavernous and carotid plexuses, from which branches pass along the ophthalmic and the cerebral divisions of the artery. Other offshoots of the cervical ganglia accompany the branches of the external carotid, certain twigs join the pharyngeal plexus (p. 138), and some descend to the .cardiac plexuses. Communications also pass to the spinal nerves. The cardiac plexuses.—The superficial plexus is below the arch of the aorta, and receives branches from the cervical part of the left vagus and sympathetic, and from the deep plexus. The deep plexus receives a large number of branches from the gangliated cords, and also from the vagi in the neck. From these plexuses networks extend along the coronary arteries and into the pulmonary plexuses. In the thorax the sympathetic ganglia, lying near the heads of the ribs, close behind the pleura, send branches to the dorsal nerves. The upper six ganglia also give filaments to the thoracic aorta and to the pulmonary plexus, and the lower six send down the splanchnic {a-rrXdyxva, viscera) nerves to the viscera of the abdomen. The great splanchnic is formed of offsets from the sixth to the tenth, and, descending through the crus of the diaphragm, ends in the semilunar ganglion and in the renal and supra-renal plexus. The lesser splanchnic, from the tenth and eleventh, passes down to the cceliac plexus, and the least splanchnic to the renal plexus. I?i the abdomen the four or five pairs of ganglia send branches on to the front of the aorta, and others over the common iliac arteries to form the hypogastric plexus. The solar plexus, part of the aortic network, is between the crura and behind the stomach, and sends filaments along the chief visceral branches of the abdominal aorta, under the names of supra-renal, renal, spermatic, cceliac, and superior mesenteric plexuses. The solar plexus contains several ganglia, of which the semilunar receive the ending of the great splanchnic nerves. The aortic plexus is that part of the network which sends off the inferior mesenteric plexus; it ends in the hypogastric plexus.