476 The Hip-Joint exceeding strength. The head of the bone presses most forcibly against the capsule during over-extension, but it is prevented bursting through it, not only by the great thickness of that part of the capsule, but also by the strap-like arrangement of the rectus femoris, psoas, iliacus, and gluteus minimus, which are then tightened to the utmost over the front of the joint. Again, the strong, overhanging roof of the acetabulum is a sure check against the head of femur escaping through the upper part of the joint during forced adduction. I apprehend that the thigh-bone would sooner break than that this could occur. In abduction, however, the head of the femur partially rolls out of the lower and unprotected part of the acetabulum ; and when abduction is extreme, the bone escapes through the neighbouring and weak part of the capsule, tearing a ragged hole in its inner aspect. The ilio-femoral ligament remains entire, but the ligamentum teres is, of course, torn through. The head of the bone may then remain just below the acetabulum and form a dislocation into the obturator foramen, the limb being stiff, a little lengthened and abducted. Obturator dislocation ought to be the commonest variety of dis- placement ; but when the bone is in the act of escaping, or has actu- ally escaped, either the direction of the violence, spasmodic muscular contraction, or a rotatory movement of the thigh or the trunk causes the bone to glide on to the dorsum ilii or into the great sacro-sciatic notch. The dislocation on to the dorsum ilii is the commoner result, the smaller gluteal muscles being ploughed up, and the great trochanter being rolled towards the front of iliac crest. Let the student take the haunch-bone in one hand and the thigh-bone in the other and work out these luxations for himself; or, better still, let him use a moist preparation of the joint with ligaments prepared, and he will thoroughly understand them. He will find that in the dorsal dislocation the limb must be shortened because the head now occupies a higher level. That as the head has passed backwards the great trochanter is rolled forwards, and, being raised, that it lies near the anterior superior iliac spine. The upper end of the femur being thrust backwards, on to the flat bone, its lower end must needs be advanced. Thus, the limb is fixed, shortened (by two or three inches), and inverted. Fixation characterises every dislocation ; a bone could hardly be as movable when its end is out of its socket as it is when in it. As the patient lies in bed, or attempts to stand, the flexed and inverted position of the thigh carries the knee across the lower part of the sound thigh, the ball of the great toe resting somewhere about the opposite ankle. But it should not be thought that a man who has just dislocated his femur stands up for inspection, as the sketches of some text-books might suggest 1 When the head of the bone is dislocated into the sciatic notch