100 The Ear The lining membrane of the tube contains mucous glands and is covered by columnar ciliated epithelium, except at the pharyngeal opening, where it is squamous. The osseous part of the tube receives its arterial supply from the vessels of the tympanum, and the carti- laginous part from those of the pharynx. The lymphatics end in glands about the angle of the jaw. In the case of inflammation of the pharynx, the tube and the tym- panum may be secondarily implicated, and when an acute inflammation has travelled back, abscess may be set up in the middle ear. Thus may be explained the destruction of the membrana tympani and the permanent deafness which sometimes follow scarlet fever, or which, in an unhealthy child, may result from acute tonsillitis. On account of the tonsil being below the soft palate (p. hi), and the soft palate close below the opening of the tube, enlargement of the tonsil may, indirectly, cause obstruction of the tube and deafness, but more often the blockage is due to hypertrophy of the neighbouring adenoid tissue, which is affected at the same time as the tonsil. Obstruction of the Eustachian tube is usually caused by inflam- mation. Air being then unable to enter the tympanum, the pressure on the exterior of the membrane is in excess of that within. The result is that the membrane and the malleus are thrust inwards, and, the incus being forced against the stapes, there is a constant pressure against the fluid of the vestibule ; this causes irritation of the terminal filaments of the auditory nerve, which is recognised as a meaningless but annoy- ing buzz or singing. If the blocking of the tube be but slight, the singing may cease after the act of swallowing, as these movements pull down the lower end of the expanded opening of the Eustachian tube (p. 108) and allow air to pass along. If this fail, success may follow on the person holding the nose and blowing it hard, which effort may force the compressed air beyond the obstruction, thrusting out the membrana tympani, and drawing upon the plate of the stapes at the oval foramen. If this also fail, the surgeon may pump air up the nostrils by Politzers apparatus at the instant that the patient swallows a mouthful of water, so that the compressed air may be locked above and behind the soft palate and the palato-pharyngei, and, instead of being dissipated down the oesophagus, may find its way into the middle ear. As a last resource the Eustachian catheter must be used. This instrument, which is like a short and small silver catheter, is passed lightly along the floor of the nose, with the point downwards, until it touches the back of the pharynx. (It must not be allowed to enter the middle meatus.) It is then withdrawn a little, the point being turned outwards, and it should be felt to hitch against, and jump over, the posterior edge of the cartilaginous expansion of the tube ; it is then gently pushed upwards and outwards into the tube, after which it should be felt to be in the firm grasp of the tube, otherwise the beak has not