296 The Abdomen median line ; and, as the child lies supine, one's fingers may be thrust inwards through the chink. The viscera immediately behind the linea alba are the left lobe of the liver, stomach, transverse colon, great omentum, small intestine and mesentery, and the distended bladder or pregnant uterus. The linea semilunaris marks the splitting of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique along the outer border of the rectus ; it extends from the eighth costal cartilage to the outer end of the pubic crest. Like the ' white line,' it possesses neither muscular fibres nor blood- vessels ; it is the site of puncture when the ascitic patient is tapped lying upon his side ; in that position the fluid falls against the one flank, whilst the intestines float against the other and are thus out of the way of the trocar. Through the linea semilunaris also the kidney may be conveniently reached in the transperitoneal operation, or the stomach opened. Xiineae transversse.—Extending across the recti are several ten- dinous intersections which show on the surface of a well-developed man as slight depressions crossing from the white to the semilunar line ; quadrilateral segments of the muscle stand in relief between them. One of the lines is at the level of the umbilicus, one at the ensiform cartilage, and a third midway between them. Sometimes a fourth is found between the navel and the pubes. Occasionally a segment of muscle between two of the lines has been mistaken for abscess or tumour, and in hysterical subjects irregular contraction in them may produce a variety of '•phantom tumour! In a fat subject two transverse creases intersect the linea alba : one at the umbilicus, the other a few inches above the pubes ; the bladder may be conveniently tapped at the spot where the lower furrow crosses the middle line. These furrows are the result of a folding of the front of the abdomen in leaning forward and stooping, a certain amount of the fat being absorbed by the constant pressure. The superficial fascia consists of a fatty and of a deeper, mem- branous layer, between which the main tributaries of the superficial blood-vessels and the lymphatic glands are placed. The superficial layer has slight connection with the abdominal aponeurosis except at the umbilicus. In the female, just above the pubes, an extra deposit of fat in the subcutaneous tissue produces an elevation, the mons veneris. The deeper layer of the superficial fascia is a firm, thin sheet, which, coming on either side from the thoracic and lumbar regions, is attached to the iliac crests, and along Poupart's ligament down to the pubic spines. Thence it passes in a loose investment around the spermatic cord, and helps in the formation of the scrotum. From the back of the scrotum the membrane runs on to the outer lip of the pubic and ischial rami (covering the cms and erector penis), and eventually joins the base of the triangular ligament. On the median side of