448 'The Thigh with precision, it may be said that the artery begins ' under the middle of Poupart's ligament.' The artery is felt pulsating half an inch to the inner side of the middle of the ligament. Unless the subject be fat, the head of the femur may be felt ro- tating in the middle of the base of Scarpa's triangle. It lies beneath the crease which runs from the scrotum to the ilium. When the capsule is distended this crease is partially effaced. The head of the femur has the same direction as the inner surface (tuberosity) of the internal condyle. Weiaton's line is drawn over the buttock from the anterior superior iliac spine to the ischial tuberosity. In the sound limb it just touches the top of the great trochanter, but when injury or disease has seriously damaged the acetabulum or the joint, or the head or neck of the femur, the top of the trochanter may be above that line. It is useful in cases of doubtful dislocation, and of fracture of the neck of the femur. Bryant's measurement is made when the patient is lying straight and flat on his back. A string is passed across the front of the abdomen at the level of the iliac spines, and another over the thighs at the tops of the trochanters. These strings ought to be parallel ; but if, from injury or disease, one trochanter be raised, the vertical measurement, C D, between the lines is diminished on that side. In measuring- a lower limb it is not expedient to pa)' too much, attention to a difference of one-fourth or one-third inch ; often, indeed, the limbs are unequal in length from birth. In comparing lengths in a child, a good plan is to lay him on his back, and, keeping the pelvis flat and square, and the knees fully extended, to raise the soles of the feet towards the ceiling. A slight difference in the level of soles or of the inner malleoli is then at once manifested. When measuring by a tape, the pelvis must first be arranged flat and square ; a line is then taken from each anterior superior iliac spine to the tip of the inner or outer malleolus, the limbs being straight down, or, at any rate, in corresponding positions. For the thigh, the measurement is made to the top of the patella, or from the pubic spine to the adductor tubercle (p. 449). For the leg alone, the tape is carried between the malleolus and the upper border of the tibial head. Between the front of the iliac crest and the great trochanter is the thick mass of muscle consisting of the tensor fasciae femoris, and of much of the gluteus medius and minimus—the three internal rota- tors of the thigh. They are supplied by the superior gluteal nerve (p. 378). The tensor fasciae femoris arises from the outer side of the an- terior superior iliac spine, and, passing downwards and backwards, is inserted into the fascia lata about a quarter of the way down the thigh, from which level the thickened ilio-tibial band descends to the outer tuberosity of the tibia. This band receives two-thirds of the in-