The Uterus 392 hangs against or through the os uteri as a polypus. It is a source of constant irritation, and the muscular wall of the uterus, in its attempts to expel it, undergoes hypertrophy, like the left ventricle in aortic obstruction or the bladder in prostatic disease. The cervix is nearly an inch long, and ends in a transverse aperture, something like the mouth of a tench, os tinccc. On account of the backward slope of the cervix, the anterior lip is also inferior ; it is also the larger, and is the first seen through the vaginal speculum. The upper part of the cervix has a slight serous covering behind, but none in front, as shown on p. 389. The cavity of the cervix is fusiform, opening above by the os internum, and into the vagina by the os externum or os tinea;-. The mucous membrane in the cavity of the cervix is arranged in a longitudinal and transverse pleat to allow for dilatation during preg- nancy. The epitliclium of the interior of the cervix is columnar ciliated, but that upon the outside is, like the epithelium of the rest of the vaginal cavity, squamous. Sometimes the squamous epithelium on the cervix ends quite abruptly, being replaced by crops of projecting and close-set filiform papillae. To the touch these patches are soft and velvety, and through the speculum they appear florid and pathological. They may be called phantom ulcers, and they deserve not that amount of personal attention and treatment which are at times so assiduously bestowed upon them. They are not the result of disease ; but when the surface is persistently rubbed with lunar caustic a genuine ulceration is easily made. During pregnancy the cervix grows broad and soft, and is drawn up from the cavity of the vagina, the os tincae being blocked by a plug of mucus. From chronic disease it is at times enormously hypertro- phied. Stricture of the neck may cause dysmenorrhcea and sterility ; it may be dilated by graduated sounds. Dilatation may also be so thoroughly effected as to allow complete introspection of the uterus, and the enucleation of large tumours. The cervix is often the seat of epithelioma which may extend to the body of the uterus, the vagina, bladder, or rectum, so that fasces and urine escape by the vulva. It is of the columnar variety. In the early stage the cervix may be con- veniently amputated by the ecraseur, but, later on, if operation be still justifiable, the entire uterus and its appendages should be taken away, either with or without abdominal section. The presence of cancer of the cervix does not necessarily prevent conception, but if the disease be advanced natural delivery at the full time is almost impossible. In such circumstances the abdomen is opened through the linea alba, and the supra-vaginal part of the uterus, with the foetus, ovaries, and tubes, are removed ; this is Porro's operation.