277 Ulnar Artery interosseous muscle (abductor indicis), and lies, therefore, very deeply beneath the tendons of the flexor profundus and the lumbricals. Its position on the surface may be marked by a transverse line an inch nearer to the wrist than that which shows the situation of the superficial palmar arch. Branches.—The princeps pollicis descends between the abductor indicis and adductor pollicis, and at the base of the first phalanx- divides to supply the sides of the thumb. The radialis indicis descends between the same muscles to the radial side of the index-finger, at the tip of which it anastomoses with the outermost digital branch of the ulnar to complete the superficial palmar arch. Perforating branches pass between the heads of the three inner dorsal interosseous muscles to join the dorsal interosseous arteries, and three palmar interosseous twigs descend to the clefts of the fingers to communicate with the digital branches of the ulnar. The ulnar artery is the larger division of the brachial, and, beginning at the middle of the bend of the elbow, eventually reaches the palm under the protection of the pisiform bone, to the radial side of which it lies as it descends over the annular ligament. To mark the course of the artery in the fore-ar/n, a slightly curved line, with the convexity inwards, is drawn from the inner side of the tendon of the biceps to a little above the middle of the fore-arm, and from that spot, straight down the radial border of the flexor carpi ulnaris, to the outer side of the pisiform. In the curved part of its course the ulnar artery is burrowing deeply beneath the pronator radii teres and company, and is occupy- ing a position of more interest to the anatomist than the surgeon. The surgeon does not attempt to reach the artery by cutting across those muscles, but prefers to wait for it until it is approaching the inner border of the upper part of the fore-arm. Relatio?is.—The guide to the artery is the flexor carpi ulnaris, but, as just remarked, in the beginning of its course the artery is separated from it by the group of muscles arising from the internal condyle, namely, the pronator teres, flexor radialis, palmaris longus, and flexor sublimis. To reach the flexor carpi ulnaris the artery does not pass over this group, or it would be dangerously superficial, and it cannot pass through it, so it passes beneath it. As it dips beneath the deep head of the pronator teres the median nerve is passing between the two heads of that muscle, therefore the median nerve is an additional superficial relation to the beginning of the artery. The manner in which the median nerve crosses the ulnar artery is clear to the student when he traces on the surface of the fore-arm the boundaries of the triangle, and places in their proper position the tendon of the biceps, the brachial artery, and the median nerve. If the line of the median nerve be then prolonged to the inner side of