Male Perineum 439 diameter averages 2i '»•> >ts transverse 3I in. {vide Planes of Pelvis, p. 364). If a line be drawn between the ischial tuberosities the space is divided into the urethral and the anal triangles : superficial to the former are the tissues of the perineum ; the posterior is occupied by the lower end of the rectum and the ischio-rectal fossae. Thus the anterior triangle is subservient to •genito-urinary functions, and the posterior to the alimentary canal. For the most part these two func- tions have separate and distinct sets of muscles, nerves, and vessels. Surface markings.—In the middle line is a soft, antero-posterior elevation, caused by the hinder part of the corpus spongiosum and the bulb of the urethra ; over it is the median raphe". The raphe is not a trustworthy indication to the middle line, it is easily displaced to one side or the other by inflammatory adhesions ; it is the embryonic seam in which the integumental halves of the perineum were joined. At the side of the urethral projection the finger can be thrust into a shallow space beneath which the triangular ligament blocks the front of the pelvic outlet; more externally can be traced the rami of the pubes and ischium. Passing forwards, the corpus spongiosum loses itself within the base of the scrotum. Beneath the skin is the superficial layer of the superficial fascia, which is continuous with the non-striated muscular tissue of the scrotum, laterally with the fat of the buttock, and behind with the fat in the ischio-rectal fossa. This layer of fascia consists of loose con- nective tissue with a little fat ; it has no deep connections. The deep layer of the superficial fascia is thin and membranous ; it loosely covers in the corpus spongiosum, and, passing forwards, enters the tissue of the scrotum, becoming continuous with the dartos ; it also invests the penis and passes up on to the abdomen, being attached below to Poupart's ligament and to the iliac crest. Laterally, in the perineum, this important fascia is attached to the pubic and ischial rami ; posteriorly it loses itself on the base of the triangular ligament. An incomplete and unimportant septum attaches the deep surface of this fascia to the triangular ligament. (The student should demon- strate the arrangement of this fascia, with a sheet of muslin, upon a pelvis to which the ligaments are attached.) When, in rupture of the urethra, urine is extravasated beneath this fascia, it cannot pass backwards into the fossa;, nor laterally on to the buttocks, but, coursing along by the penis and scrotum, it ascends by the spermatic cords to the iliac and hypogastric regions. In the dis- secting-room air forced beneath the fascia takes the same course. Perineal abscess.—Urine or pus locked in beneath this fascia causes a tense bulging behind the scrotum and beneath its root ; as the fascia is too dense to allow of fluctuation, the tumour may feel as hard and solid as a cartilaginous growth. The pressure of the fluid beneath the urethra drives the floor against the roof, rendering mic- turition difficult, and the introduction of a catheter distressing and