39 Lateral Sinus and turns in at the transverse fissure to form the velum interpositum and the choroid plexuses. It adheres closely to the cerebral cortex, whilst the arachnoid passes from convolution to convolution without dipping" into the sulci. ralx and tentorium.—Sickle-shaped processes of the dura dip between the hemispheres, down to the corpus callosum, and also be- tween the lobes of the cerebellum ; and a horizontal layer, the tentorium, forms a roofing to the cerebellum, and a support for the posterior lobes of the cerebrum. The attachment of the tentorium may be marked by a line from the external occipital protuberance to the external auditory meatus. Venous sinuses are formed by a splitting of the dura ; being part of the vascular system, they are of course completely lined with a flat- tened endothelium. They receive emissary veins from the skull, as well as from the cerebrum and cerebellum. The superior longitudinal sinus begins at the crista galli by a vein which it receives from the nasal fossa; through the foramen caecum. The sinus grooves the middle of the frontal bone and the adjacent edges of the parietals, and, descending on the occipital, communicates with the torcular Herophili and turns, for the most part, into one of the lateral sinuses. Trephining in the neighbourhood of the sinus may give rise to serious bleeding, and should generally be avoided. The vein which ascends to begin the sinus is in communication with the vessels of the nose ; thus headache which is due to over-fulness of the cerebral vessels may be relieved by epistaxis or by leeching the nose. In its course the sinus receives the superior cerebral veins and a peri- cranial communication through the parietal foramen. The course of the sinus may be marked by a line beginning at the root of the nose, passing up the middle of the forehead, backwards along the interparietal suture, and to the external occipital protuberance. The lateral sinuses carry the blood from the region of the in- ternal occipital protuberance to the posterior lacerated foramen, and so into the beginning of the internal jugular vein. After leaving the occipital bone the sinus grooves the posterior inferior angle of the parietal, and then the mastoid part of the temporal. As a rule, the right sinus carries away the contents of the superior longitudinal, whilst the left empties the straight sinus. In the case of injury, the surgeon will be loth to trephine near the mastoid process ; but in the case of disease he may have no choice. In its course the lateral sinus receives the superior petrosal sinus, and at its termination in the jugular vein the inferior petrosal. It communicates with the veins of the pericranium by the mastoid vein, and by small vessels which enter through the posterior condylar foramen. The short mastoid vein runs from the posterior auricular vein through the mastoid bone. When, in the case of meningitis, leeches arc applied behind the ear, it is by this vein that the intracranial circulation is relieved. The