220 The Spinal Cord the leg.' (Gowers.) If there be a serious flaw in any part of the chain the reflex does not work, and if there be a break in the fibres descending from the brain we cannot control it. The reflexes are controlled by an inhibitory impulse descending by the antero-lateral columns of the cord (pyramidal tracts). When these columns are diseased the afferent impulse awakens in the grey matter a motor wave of disproportionate vigour. The reflex is then spoken of as ' exaggerated.' Thus there is exaggerated knee-jerk when the pressure of angular curvature interferes with the antero-lateral columns of the cord. Tetany,muscular spasms,limited and general convulsions—exagger- ated spinal reflexes—are met with so frequently in young children because the control-fibres of the pyramidal tracts are late in acquiring due functional activity. A reflex being lost, this question arises : ' Is there disease of the postero-external column with which the sensory roots are associated, as in locomotor ataxy ; or in the grey matter, as in antero-polio- myelitis which had occurred in infantile or diphtheritic paralysis ; or is there some degeneration affecting the anterior nerve-roots?' On account of the disturbance in the grey matter, exaggeration of a reflex often precedes its abolition. Special reflexes.—When the skin in the pubic region of the thigh is stimulated, an impulse is conveyed by the ilio-inguinal nerve to the lumbar enlargement, and thence by the genital branch of the genito- crural to the cremaster, which, contracting, draws up the testicle. This is the cremaster reflex ; it is generally well marked in childhood. Its absence in the adult does not necessarily imply disease. The ' centre' for this reflex is in the lumbar enlargement. Other superficial reflexes are the plantar, gluteal, abdominal, epi- gastric, and scapula?: It is unnecessary to describe each in detail, but one may say briefly that by irritating sensoiy nerve filaments in any one of these regions a gentle motor influence is duly passed out to the subjacent muscles provided that the reflex chain be in working order. In the case of the scapular reflex, irritation of the skin between the shoulder-blades sends a quiver through the teres major. The reflex centre for the scapular muscles is in the lower part of the cervical enlargement. When the cerebral control is lost, or the segment of the cord within an indivi- dual circle is excited by disease, the reflex is ' exaggerated.' By trying one reflex after the other on each side of the body, and duly comparing them, the condition of the cord in almost its entire length can be ascertained. The deep or tendon-reflexes are obtained by irritating the sensoiy nerves of the muscles themselves. The muscle must first be placed in a condition of moderate tension and then smartly struck or over- stretched.