Pliarynx 137 focation by blocking the laryngeal opening, or by setting up a spasmodic contraction of the muscles which close it. The finger, thrust directly backwards along the dorsum of the tongue, comes in contact with the body of the axis, and, when slanted slightly upwards, with the anterior ring of the atlas. On thrusting it somewhat downwards the body of the third vertebra is touched. In the case of fracture or displacement of any one of these three vertebra? valuable information may be obtained by digital exploration through the mouth. Relations of the pharynx.—Behind are the vertebral column with the longus colli and rectus anticus major, and the layer of prevertebral fascia. Suppuration in this region constitutes post- pharyngeal abscess (p. 210). Laterally are the stemo-mastoid, the lobe of the thyroid, the com- mon, internal, and external carotids ; the lingual artery ; the internal jugular vein; and the vagus, glosso-pharyngeal and hypoglossal nerves. In front are the nares, mouth, tongue, hyoid bone, and larynx. The muscular coat consists of three constrictors, which are gener- ally described from below upwards, because the lowest is the most ex- ternal. They are of striated tissue. The inferior constrictor, the thickest of the three, arises from the side of the cricoid cartilage, and from the thyroid cartilage behind the oblique line. Its lowest fibres are continuous with those of the oesophagus, and beneath then"Tase^nds the recurrent laryngeal nerve (p. 70) ; the other fibres pass upwards^and inwards to the median raphe over the lower part of the micWte^CTa^trictor. The middle constrictor arises ^om^the greater and lesser cornua of the hyoid bone, and is inserted inro^he'median raphe. Its lowest fibres pass beneath the inferior constrictor, and its highest over those of the superior constrictor, from which it is separated by the stylo- pharyngeus. As the inferior constrictor arises from the thyroid carti- lage, and the middle arises from the hyoid bone, the superior laryngeal nerve, which traverses the thyro-hyoicL-fflren-ibrane, necessarily passes between their adjacent borders. \ The superior constrictor arises from the* intsernal pterygoid plate, and from the pterygo-maxillary ligairient,\wl*ich takes it to the mylo-hyoid ridge, from which also it arises, asNv^-^a^fronythc side of the tongue. The fibres curve backwards to be insertetrlnto the median raphe\ Just beneath the base of the skull, where muscular fibres could be of no use, the superior constrictor is deficient ; thus, above the upper border of the muscle there is a gap, the sinus of Morgagni, through which the levator palati, the Eustachian tube, and branches of the ascending pharyngeal artery enter the pharynx. The plan of the pharynx is like that of the canvas ' wind-sail' which is used on board ship to carry fresh air into the hold—it is closed at the top and sides, whilst its anterior part is held wide open by being