420 The Urethra finger, which thus guides it to the meatus urinarius. In childhood the meatus is, proportionately, very far back, and the sound is apt to enter the vagina instead of the bladder. In case of doubt, a second sound may be introduced into the vagina, or the finger into the rectum. Development.—For a considerable period of its existence the fcetus remains sexless ; there is a rudimentary penis or clitoris (a, pc), as the case may be ; immediately below which is the uro-genital orifice (C, ug). On either side of this is a tegu- mental fold (a, Is) ; should the sex prove female, these folds remain separate—the labia majora ; but, should a male be developed, they fuse in front of the anus (D, s), to form the scrotum. The median ridge upon the scrotum—the raphe — shows where the folds have joined. The lips of the uro- genital sinus remain as the nymphae and enclose the clitoris above. The clitoris enlarges but slightly. 'In the male the penis continues to enlarge, and the margins of a longitudinal groove on its under surface gradually unite from the primitive urethral orifice behind, as far forwards as the glans, so as to complete the long canal of the male urethra, which is, therefore, a pro- longation of the uro-genital sinus.' The corpora cavernosa, which are at first separate, become fused together in the chief part of the penis, but remain distinct against the pubes. In cases where the fusion of the lateral halves of the body has been imperfectly accomplished, a deepish dimple may persist in the skin of the middle line of the sacral or coccy- geal region. Such a dimple is often associated with spina bifida. Should the depression extend still more deeply, it might in time become separated from the skin and remain as a closed sac beneath it; then, collecting epithelial elements in its interior, it would constitute a dermoid cyst. Dermoid cysts are often met with in the sacro-coccygeal neigh- bourhood. Amongst the commonest of the twenty-four malformations w hich arise from arrest of development of these parts are the following :— Hypospadias (wo, beneath ; anda, tear), from the floor of the urethra having been apparently ' torn' away. As the distal part of the canal is the last to be closed in, the deficiency is of more frequent occurrence towards the glans than along to the root of the penis. Some- times the entire length of the floor is undeveloped. The urethral fissure