398 The (Tferus In procidentia, after rupture of the perineum, or as the result of a yielding of attachments, the uterus sinks between the thighs, and in due time its mucous covering, which is the everted vaginal lining, becomes dry and tough like skin. Hematocele.—The escape of the ovum from the ovary is associa- ted with slight bleeding, but when this is unusually severe the blood trickles down into the retro-uterine pouch [v. p. 389). A hematocele may also result from a leakage from the veins of the Fallopian tube or from the uterus. Eventually the blood may undergo coagulation. By vaginal and rectal examination a doughy tumour is made out which may compress the rectum and thrust the fundus uteri forwards ; if the effusion be sufficient, a hypogastric tumour may be detected. The collection may burst through the vagina or rectum, or it may be absorbed or become inert. Frequently such collections have been successfully tapped through the rectum. Rupture of the pregnant uterus may be caused by violence, or by muscular energy during labour, especially if the passage of the foetus be impeded. The rent is generally near the junction of the neck and body, but it may be so extensive as to allow the escape of the foetus into the peritoneal cavity. Flagging contractions of the uterus may be stimulated by the ad- ministration of ergot, but this drug should not be given until the os is so fully dilated as to offer no impediment to the passage of the foetus, or rupture of the uterus might occur. Reflexes.—The uterus has a strange and wide influence over the person ; the word ' hysterical,' as applied to certain nervous phenomena, is derived straight from hare pa, the womb. Hilton went so far as to ascribe the frequency of ' hysterical' affections of the hip and knee- joints to an association, through the sympathetic filaments, of the ovarian and uterine nerves with the sciatic and obturator ! The Ovary The ovary has the shape of an almond, and weighs about £ oz. It is placed between the layers of the broad ligament, being attached to the corner of the uterus by a short, slender ligament just behind the Fallopian tube ; externally it is joined to a fringe of that tube {v. p. 390). It floats freely in the pelvis, but is apt to wander in childhood down the inguinal canal ; I once had occasion to operate for a strangulation of the ovary through the crural canal. It may also be prolapsed into the antero- or retro-uterine pouch, where it can be felt through the vagina, movable and, perhaps, very tender. It consists of a fibrous coat, tunica albuginea^ which sends delicate processes into the interior to support the blood-vessels and the Graafian follicles. The broad ligament invests it with a serous coat, tunica vaginalis, which is covered with columnar epithelial cells.