Parovarium The Graafian follicles are lined by the cellular membrana granu- losa and contain fluid and an ovum ; as they ripen and approach the surface of the ovary the fluid increases. During menstruation a follicle bursts, the ovum escaping through- the peritoneal coat and into the Fallopian tube, through which it reaches the uterus. The burst follicle is then tilled w ith a yellowish substance, the corpus luteum, which quickly shrivels up if conception have not taken place, but which grows into an important mass if pregnancy have occurred ; the latter mass is a true corpus lute urn, the former a false one. Abscess in a follicle {suppurative ovaritis) may burst into the peri- toneum and involve it in a fatal inflammation. Cysts of material 'like skin' (dermoid cysts) are often found in the ovary, containing hair, fat, epithelium, teeth, and such like ; their origin is congenital, and is probably due to an island of the external blasto- dermic layer having become entangled in the middle layer, from which the ovary is produced. From a foetus of three months : a, uterus. b, round ligaments. c, Fallopian tubes. d, ovaries. e, remains of Wolffian bodies. (See p. 390.) The parovarium, or organ of Rosenmiiller, may be seen between the ovary and the Fallopian tube by holding a fresh broad ligament up to the light. It is about an inch wide and consists of a series of tortuous tubes opening by one end into a slender canal, the duct of Gaertner, whilst the other end is connected with the ovary. Uoran has counted as many as twenty-four of these tubes in the parovarium. They are lined with cylindrical epithelium and contain a small amount of fluid, which, increasing in amount, may form a ' cyst of the broad ligament.' The parovarium is a remnant of the Wolffian body. The tubes of the parovarium correspond to the vasa efferentia and coni vasculosi, whilst the ovary represents the body of the testis. Supply.—The ovarian arteries come from the aorta (spermatic) ; in the broad ligament they anastomose freely with the uterine of the internal iliac. As in the case of the testis, the veins form a pam- piniform plexus, which ends in the caval or left renal vein. The nerves come from the aortic plexus with the ovarian artery, whilst others are derived from the pelvic plexus, and accompany branches of the uterine artery. Though malignant disease may attack the ovary, the common form of ovarian tumour is due to a collection of fluid in dilated Graafian follicles ; thus an enormous dropsy may be produced which