Obturator Nerve 359 (behind the pectineus and adductor longus) and ends in the obturator plexus, though it sometimes wanders thence to the skin on the inner side of the upper part of the leg. In its course it gives a branch to the hip-joint, and branches to the adductors longus and brevis, the gracilis, and the pectineus. Its articular branch enters through the cotyloid notch and is chiefly distributed to the ligamentum teres. At the lower border of the adductor longus, beneath the sartorius, the superficial part of the obturator nerve joins with branches of the internal cutaneous and of the internal saphenous to form the obturator plexus. The deep divisioti of the obturator nerve enters the thigh through the substance of the obturator externus, which it supplies, and descends behind the adductor brevis and in front of magnus, supplying both those muscles. It then passes through the large adductor into the upper part of the popliteal space, and, after resting upon the popliteal artery, enters the knee-joint, probably in company with the central articular artery. Peripheral neuralgias are apt to disturb the obturator nerve in disease of the hip, sacro-iliac, and mid-lumbar joints. Pain in the knee, or the thigh over the region of the obturator plexus, is one of the most usual and early symptoms of hip-disease. I cannot explain the cause of this, but must content myself with calling attention to the fact that the superficial division sends a twig to the ligamentum teres, and that the deep division ends in the knee-joint. Analogous instances of the transference of neuralgia are : pain at the end of penis, sympto- matic of vesical calculus, and at the point of the shoulder, of aortic disease or of hepatic disease. The fact of the obturator nerve supplying also the sacro-iliac joint (Hilton) accounts for the pain about the knee in disease of that synchondrosis. The weariness and aching of the thighs and knees in lumbar caries is readily explained by the effect of inflammatory pressure not only upon the obturator nerve but upon other branches of the plexus situated in the diseased region of the spine. The great feature in these pains is the symmetry of their arrangement. The child complains of both' thighs or knees aching. When, after rest, the pains cease to be symmetrical, and are confined to or chiefly felt upon one side, the formation of abscess in the sheath of the psoas must be suspected. The accessory obturator, an occasional branch of the third and fourth nerves, runs along the inner border of the psoas, and out of the pelvis over the horizontal ramus of the pubes and beneath the pectineus which it supplies. It also gives a twig to the hip-joint, and then merges its filaments with those of the superficial part of the obturator nerve. The anterior division of the fifth lumbar nerve emerges below the fifth lumbar vertebra, and is at once joined by a branch from the fourth. The nerve thus formed is called the lumbo-sacral cord ; it descends from the inner border of the psoas beneath the common iliac vessels, and joins in the formation of the sacral plexus ; many of its strands, however, pass out into the superior gluteal nerve.