Occipital Bone 15 its outer border, where it articulates with the frontal, are the foramina for the anterior and posterior ethmoidal arteries, the nasal nerve accompanying the anterior vessel. The lateral masses contain the anterior and posterior ethmoidal sinuses, which open respectively into the middle and superior meatuses. The superior and middle turbinated bones help to make up the mass. They are covered with mucous membrane in which the olfactory filaments are spread. The turbinated bones play the part of a re- spirator, warming and moistening the inspired air, and filtering it of solid particles. The outer wall of the lateral mass, the os planum, forms part of the inner wall of the orbit. The occipital bone has its vertical part greatly strengthened by a protuberance (to which the ligamentum nucha? is attached), by an in- ternal and external median crest, and by two curved lines, or groins, which arch laterally from the external crest. The trapezius and occipito-frontalis arise from the superior curved line, and the sterno- mastoid and splenius are inserted into it. Between the lines the complexus and superior oblique are inserted ; the ' straight' muscles of the back of the head are attached to the lower line. The condyles have their long diameter sloping forwards and inwards, the movements at the occipito-atloid joints being only flexion and extension. Between the condyles is the foramen magnum for the transmission of the medulla oblongata and its membranes, the spinal accessory nerves, and the vertebral arteries. At the front and outer part of each condyle is the anterior condylar foramen for the trans- mission of the hypoglossal nerve, and perhaps of a twig from the ascending pharyngeal artery. A vein may enter the lateral sinus through the posterior condylar foramen. In front of the foramen magnum is the basilar process, with a spine for the attachment of the superior constrictor of the pharynx. The cerebral surface shows the cruciform markings of the superior longitudinal, the occipital, and the two lateral sinuses which meet at the internal protuberance over which the torcular Herophili is placed. The two superior fossae thus marked out are for the occipital lobes of the cerebrum, the two inferior for the lobes of the cerebellum. The lateral sinus, having grooved the vertical part of the occipital bone, passes on to the posterior inferior angle of the parietal, the mastoid portion of the temporal, and then to the jugular process of the occipital, where it ends in the jugular fossa. The superior angle of the bone is received between the parietal bones, and corresponds to the site of the posterior fontanelle. The upper surface of the basilar process supports the medulla and pons. Its border is grooved by the inferior petrosal sinus passing backwards to the jugular foramen, which also transmits the blood of the lateral sinus to the internal jugular vein, and the glosso-pharyngeal,