309 Inguinal Canal Small tabulated offshoots from this subserous layer are. apt to pro- trude through the linea alba, and sometimes they grow into mushroom- like masses which closely simulate omental hernia?. They differ from omental hernia in that they are enclosed in no peritoneal sac ; but this cannot be recognised until they are exposed by an incision, as in an attempt to perform a radical operation for their obliteration. In puerperal cellulitis inflammation spreads rapidly through the sub- serous layer, and an abscess in it may open into the peritoneal cavity, into an abdominal or pelvic viscus, or, passing outwards, may find escape through the abdominal wall. Anastomosis between parietal and visceral blood-vessels.— In the sub-peritoneal tissue there is a delicate but general anastomosis between the blood-vessels of those viscera which are on any particular surface destitute of peritoneum, and those of the adjacent abdominal wall. Thus, the hepatic vessels communicate with phrenic and inter- costals ; renal and supra-renal with phrenic, intercostal, and lumbar ; pancreatic and duodenal with phrenic and intercostal ; colic with ilio-lumbar, circumflex iliac, lumbar and intercostal ; ovarian with iliac ; haemorrhoidal with sacral, iliac, and pudic, and spermatic with cremasteric and perineal. These important anastomoses explain the value of cupping and leeching in hepatic and renal congestion, and in ovaritis, epididymitis, and orchitis. The inguinal canal is the tunnel, 1^ in. long, through which the spermatic cord descends. It runs obliquely, so that there may be less chance of a piece of bowel entering it—in a similar manner the ureter passes through the strata of the vesical wall, so that in disten- sion of the bladder the sides of the passage may be pressed against each other and regurgitation towards the kidney prevented. The upper end of the inguinal canal is the internal abdominal ring, about an inch above the middle of Poupart's ligament; the lower end is the external ring, on the pubic crest. As the canal follows the downward course of Poupart's ligament, the internal ring is further from the middle line of the body than the external. Behind the canal the deep epigastric artery runs in a direction upwards and inwards. The artery lies, therefore, to the outer side of the external ring (but at a much deeper level), and to the inner side of the internal ring, as show n on p. 306. Boundaries of the canal.—The floor is formed by Poupart's liga- ment and the pubic crest. Posteriorly is the conjoined tendon. Above are the arched border of the transversalis muscle and the lower part of the internal oblique. In front are cremasteric and inter- columnar fasciae. Loosely investing the cord is the funnel-shaped process of the transversalis fascia, which thus lines the canal,