C ervical Plexus 143 The inferior thyroid, coming off also from the thyroid axis, lies to the inner side of the muscle till it turns inwards ; and the vertebral artery, running up from the first part of the subclavian to the hole in the sixth transverse process, is to the inner side of the scalenus anticus, which, as already remarked, is inserted into the outer end of the transverse processes. The Cervical Nerves Though there are but seven cervical vertebrae, there are eight cervical nerves, the first of which appears above the atlas, and the last below the vertebra prominens. The anterior divisions of the first four make up the cervical plexus, and those of the lower four join with part of the first dorsal to form the brachial plexus. The posterior primary divisions of the cervical nerves divide, for the most part, into an inner and an outer branch. But the posterior division of the first, or sub-occipital nerve, does not divide ; it emerges between the vertebral artery and the posterior arch of the atlas, and supplies the obliqui, recti postici, and complexus. Some- times it sends up a cutaneous branch to the back of the head, which may be in great distress in the case of suboccipital disease. The posterior trunk of the second is much larger than the anterior. Its internal division is the great occipital, which, as its name implies, is a large branch for the back of the scalp. Passing through the in- sertions of complexus and the trapezius, it accompanies the occipital artery, and communicates with the lesser occipital nerve. The external divisioii is distributed solely to the erector spinas. The internal division of the tJiird sometimes sends up an occipital twig in addition to a branch for the skin of the nape of the neck. The i7itemal divisions of the fourth and fifth nerves give branches to the erector spinae, as well as to the skin over the trapezius, whilst those of the three lowest usually give off no cutaneous twigs. The external divisions of the posterior cervical nerves are for the muscles only. The cervical plexus is formed by interlacements of the anterior divisions of the first four cervical nerves. The anterior part of the first, or sub-occipital nerve, is a slender branch, which winds forwards from beneath the vertebral artery on the posterior arch of atlas, and at the front of the first transverse process joins with a branch from the second nerve. It ends in the supply of the recti laterales and antici. The anterior part of the second winds round the vertebral artery in its course from beneath the posterior ring of the atlas, and gives a division to the first nerve and one to the third. The anterior part of the third divides to join the second and the fourth ; and the anterior part of the fourth, having received the last- named branch, sends down a communicating twig to the fifth nerve, which belongs to the brachial plexus.