Ligation of Anterior Tibial Artery 493 Its course is marked by a line from the inner side of the head of the fibula to the middle of the front of the ankle. Relations.—The artery is covered by skin, superficial and deep fasciae, by the muscles between which it passes, and especially by the extensor proprius hallucis, which, descending from the front of the fibula to the great toe, crosses the artery a little above the ankle. The anterior tibial nerve sometimes rests upon the artery. On the i?iner side are the tibialis anticus, the tibia, and, near the ankle, the tendon of the extensor proprius hallucis. On the outer side are the extensor longus digitorum, the extensor proprius hallucis (in the middle third of the leg), and the anterior tibial nerve. Branches.—Recurrent, which ascends through the tibialis anticus to the front of knee-joint, where it anastomoses with the lower arti- cular branches of the popliteal, and perhaps with the anastomotica magna. Muscular twigs, which, in addition, supply the skin. The internal malleolar descends obliquely under the tendon of the tibialis anticus, to anastomose near the inner ankle with twigs of the posterior tibial (calcanean) and internal plantar. The external malleolar passes beneath the tendons of the extensor longus digito- rum and peroneus tertius to anastomose with the anterior peroneal, and with tarsal branches of the dorsalis pedis. The supply of the ankle-joint is partly derived from these branches. A ligature may be applied in the upper or in the lower part of the leg, but in the middle, where the great toe extensor is passing on to, or is crossing over, the artery, it is obviously inconvenient to attempt to secure the vessel. I j the upper part or the leg it is by no means easy to find the vessel, on account of the depth at which it lies between the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum. An incision having been made through the skin and superficial fascia from the inner side of the head of the fibula for three or four inches down the course of the artery, the strong, deep fascia is exposed. Search is made for the interval between the two muscles just mentioned. This is best accomplished by working with the director, or handle of the scalpel, in the lower part of the incision, where the space between the muscles is commencing. Thus the muscles are parted from below upwards, and are afterwards held asunder by spatuhe. The finger may then be passed upwards between the muscles, so as to make more room. The artery is found on the interosseous membrane, with a com- panion vein on either side. The anterior tibial nerve will probably be seen coming through the origin of the long extensor of the toes, and approaching the ou er side of the artery. The ligature, therefore may best be passed from the outer side. Just abovj tn* ankle the vessel is exposad by an incision of two inches and a half through the skin, superficial fascia, and deep fascia. The deep fascia is here thickening into the anterior annular