Brandies of Thyroid Axis 233 condylar foramen, and it gathers many branches from the spinal cord and column, and from the muscles of the neck. The thyroid axis comes from the front of the first part of the artery, and at once breaks into the inferior thyroid, and supra- and posterior scapular branches :— The inferior thyroid, in order to reach the thyroid body, winds beneath the sheath of the common carotid and the middle sympathetic ganglion, at the level at which the omo-hyoid crosses the front of the sheath—opposite the fifth cervical vertebra. Ligation.—Sometimes this artery is tied in the case of enlargement of the thyroid gland. An incision of 2 or 3 in. is made in front of the lower part of the sterno-mastoid, and the vessel is then sought opposite the cricoid cartilage. Branches.—Unimportant twigs are given to the muscles in its neighbourhood. The ascending: cervical runs in the groove between the scalenus anticus and the rectus anticus major, giving twigs to those muscles, and others to anastomose with the vertebral in the spinal canal. Tracheal, oesophageal, and laryngeal branches also pass off. The termination of the inferior thyroid anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the superior thyroid artery in the lower part of the thyroid body. The supra-scapular artery passes outwards in front of the scalenus anticus and phrenic nerve, and behind the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid. And, as the supra-scapular notch is below the level of the clavicle, the artery sinks behind the clavicle, where it lies in front of the third part of the subclavian artery, and gives twigs to the sterno-mastoid and subclavius. Then, winding on above the ligament, it ramifies beneath the supra- and infra-spinatus muscles, supplying the shoulder-joint, and anastomosing with the posterior and the dorsal scapular {v. p. 231) arteries. It sends a twig through the trapezius, on to the acromion process, which anastomoses with the acromial thoracic. The posterior scapular, in order to reach the vertebral border of the shoulder-blade, runs across the root of the neck ; this course gives it the alternative name of transversalis colli. The artery passes over the phrenic and the scalenus anticus, and lies in the subclavian triangle, but at a higher level than the supra-scapular artery. It leaves the triangle beneath the omo-hyoid, passing over the brachial plexus, and reaches the anterior border of the trapezius, where it gives off the superficial cervical branch, which anastomoses with the superficial part of the princeps cervicis of the occipital (p. 30). The continuation of the artery then descends along the border of the shoulder-blade, beneath the levator anguli scapula? and the rhomboids, anastomosing with the supra- and subscapular arteries, and, in the neighbourhood of the rhomboids, with the posterior intercostal.