210 Disease of Spine be pains, possibly called ' head-ache,' over the area of the occipital branches from the second cervical nerve ; or in that of the great auri- cular from the second and third. A little girl suffered constant pain, darting over the region between the chin and the sternum, which she described as ' belly-ache in the neck'; it arose from pressure upon the trunk of certain nerves as they issued from the diseased region of the column. The third nerve joins in the formation of the transverse super- ficial cervical nerve, which supplies the skin over the front of the neck. Pains due to caries of the atlas are generally confined to one side because only one lateral mass, at any rate at first, is implicated. If the disease be lower in the neck, symmetrical pains may be re- ferred to the pectoral or deltoid regions, where the supraclavicular branches are distributed, as shown in the figure on p. 145. If the lowest cervical vertebrae be inflamed the nerve-trunks of the brachial plexus are liable to compression, pain being referred to the shoulders, elbows, or even to the fingers. When the dorsal vertebrae are diseased neuralgia may be felt in the intercostal nerves, or their peripheral branches. And when any part of the lower half of the dorsal column is affected pain may be referred to the epigastric or umbilical region, or even to the skin over the ilium, where the lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve is distributed. With lumbar disease the pains are referred to the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves, or the genito-crural or external cutaneous. Pains in the front of the thighs, that is, over the region of the anterior crural or obturator nerves, should direct attention to the neigh- bourhood of the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae. If it happen that the nerve-fibres destined for the long saphenous branch are irritated as they leave the column, pains will be referred to the inner side of the leg or foot, or to the ball of the great toe. Unfortunately obscure pains are too often ascribed to rheumatism and gout. Symmetrical pains arc the result 0/'central mischief, and generally of spinal disease. Spinal abscess.—Spinal caries, like ulceration elsewhere, is usually accompanied by suppuration, and, unless the disease be very quiet, abscess forms in front of the vertebrae. Thus cervical caries gives rise to post-pharyngeal abscess, the bulging against the back of the pharynx causing difficulty in breathing and swallowing. The abscess has to be opened, the patient inclining the head forwards for that purpose ; if the abscess were allowed to burst spontaneously, the pus might be drawn into the larynx, and the patient might die of suffocation or of septic pneumonia. Sometimes the abscess from cervical caries points in front of or behind the sterno-mastoid, or follows the oesophagus into the posterior mediastinum. In dorsal caries the pus collects in the posterior mediastinum, from which it may pass between the transverse processes to the back, there