463 Signs of Fracture of Femur when the patella is broken across, the leg is not knmedTat<dy and forcibly flexed, and that when the olecranon is separated the: elbow is not rigidly flexed? A sound limb does not rotate on the long axis of the femur, but on an imaginary axis which ascends through the mass of the adductors to the centre of the femoral head. The centre of gravity of the limb is far to the outer side of this axis, because the neck of the bone is fending the shaft from the pelvis and from the other thigh. It is this arrangement which makes eversion the natural position of the limb,, as occurs when one is at rest in the supine position. When the femoral neck is broken, the impediment to further eversion is absent, and the limb rolls into the characteristic position. Sometimes, though very rarely, fracture of the femur is followed by inversion; this is clue to> the violence which effected the fracture having lifted the limb into,, and temporarily left it in, that position. Unless the line of a fracture in the shaft be transverse the lower fragment is apt to be 'unhitched' from the upper, and to be steadily drawn upwards by the elastic pull of muscles, nerves, vessels, fasciae',, and skin; thus shortening- is a sign of fracture. In children,, riiow- ever, in whom the plane of fracture is generally square, there h no overlapping of the fragments, and therefore no shortening ; and, as the neck of the femur is not directed much outwards, fracture of the shaft is not characterised by eversion. That the shortening after fracture is not due entirely to muscular con- traction is evinced by the fact that the amount of shortening is apt steadily to increase for some time; if it were due to muscular contraction the short- ening should be immediate, and to the full. If the eversion were due to muscular contrac- tion, how is it that it generally is to its full extent directly after the injury, while the shorten- ing, which some attribute to the same cause, is but gradual ? When the shaft is broken, unless the surfaces are inter- locked (impacted), when an assistant rotates the limb, the trochanter remains stationary. And, if the fracture be in the neck, the trochanter simply rotates in its long axis; it does when the sound limb is rotated. Fracture of the neck is a common injury in old subjects Inlra-capsular fracture. not sweep in a semicircle as it does: the