423 Suspensory Ligament of Penis time subsequently circumcision should be performed or para-phimosis will recur. A long prepuce is apt to give rise to ' irritation of the bladder' ; it is the converse of the proposition of stone in the bladder giving rise to an itching at the end of the penis. By day, the boy endeavours to allay the symptoms by pinching the prepuce ; but by night, when the brain is dormant, the voluntary movements suspended, and the super- \ ision of the genito-urinary tract given over to the cells of the grey matter of the cord, physiological mismanagement is apt to occur. The sensory filaments which are distributed to the muco-cutaneous tissue at the end of the penis are derived from the internal pudic trunk, itself a branch of the sacral plexus (p. 379). The nerves of the plexus lose themselves in the grey matter of a certain part of the spinal cord, from which are passing out, through that same interlacement, the efferent fibres, which are destined for the supply of the muscular w alls of the bladder. But more than this, the same colony of cells receives the filaments which carry up sensations from the mucous membrane which lines that viscus. It may be on account of the ex- ceeding instability of the protoplasmic substance of those cells, or that by education and design they are occupied with the care of the bladder rather than of the end of the penis ; but in one way or another they are induced to interpret the irritation of the filaments coming from the latter and less important area as evidence of distress from the bladder itself. For this disquieting condition they have only one means of affording relief, and, putting it in force, the boy is punished in the morning, perhaps, for wetting his bed. Circumcision may be rendered a bloodless operation by gently emptying the penis of blood, by compression, and then slipping an india-rubber ring over its root. The prepuce being cut off, the mucous membrane is torn back by two pairs of dressing-forceps and secured by fine catgut sutures. Sutures are not absolutely necessary, but they diminish the risk of secondary haemorrhage and promote rapid healing. One suture should be passed deeply through the fraenum, for thence haemorrhage is most likely to occur. The operation should not be performed by passing a director under the dorsal aspect of the foreskin and then incising; for it has happened that the director has been run along the urethra, and that the dorsal part of the glans itself has been thus divided. The frcenum contains an artery of good size, and if the band be torn through during coitus, or if the artery be implicated in a venereal ulceration, serious haemorrhage may result. A short fraenum may cause discomfort, and may require division. The suspensory ligament of the penis is attached above to the pubic symphysis, and descends in a fan-shaped manner to surround the penis in a thin aponeurotic layer, which, under the name of fascia penis, invests the vessels and nerves (p. 385). Pus forming beneath this fascia