3o3 Abdominal Muscles and Fascice Additional anterior relations are the kidney, ureter, and renal and spermatic vessels, peritoneum and colon, and, lower down, the external iliac and common femoral artery. Behind it are the quadratus lum- borum, the anterior division of last dorsal nerve, the anterior lumbar arteries, the brim of pelvis, capsule of hip-joint, and the bursa. Below Poupart's ligament the internal circumflex artery intervenes between its inner border and the pectineus. The iliacus and psoas are supplied by the anterior crural nerve. The course taken by spinal abscess is greatly controlled by the arrangements of fascia; and muscles. Pus from caries of the lower dorsal vertebras may find its way beneath the internal arcuate liga- ment into the substance of the psoas—beneath the vertebral part of the iliac fascia—and may descend beneath Poupart's ligament into the front of the thigh. Pus from lumbar caries may pass at once into that sheath, or, working behind the psoas, may enter the sheath of quadratus lumborum [see p. 305), and point on the outer side of the erector spins (lumbar abscess) ; or it may infiltrate itself between the large, fiat muscles to point against the linea semilunaris, or it may- wander into the inguinal canal and so reach the scrotum. From the lower lumbar vertebra; the matter may course under or through the psoas, to get beneath that piece of fascia which binds down the iliacus, and will then bulge in the inguinal region (iliac abscess), or, possibly, on the front of the thigh. Or, sinking in the pelvis, it may find exit by the great sacro-sciatic notch (gluteal abscess) or by the ischio-rectal fossa. When suppuration occurs between the transversalis muscle and the transversalis fascia, or between that fascia and the peritoneum, there is nothing to prevent the abscess extending across the middle line. When the sheath of the psoas is filled by pus there is a fulness in the iliac fossa, the furrow over Poupart's ligament being partially effaced, and fluctuation being obtainable between the base of Scarpa's triangle and the inguinal region—that is, beneath Poupart's ligament. The thigh is kept flexed so as to diminish the pressure on the lumbar plexus. The presence of matter in the psoas gradually determines the absorption of the muscular tissue, and at last the sheath contains only the lumbar plexus bathed in pus. Psoas abscess is almost in- variably the result of spinal caries. The sub-peritoneai fascia is a loose layer of connective tissue and fat between the peritoneum and the transversalis and iliac fascia:. It is thick in the loins, where it forms a soft bed for the kidneys. There is a good deal of it also in the iliac fossae, where an unimportant horizontal fold of it, the septum crurale, blocks the innermost com- partment of the crural sheath. A loose investment from it surrounds the cord, and gives an unimportant covering to inguinal hernia. (The cover ngs of the hernia are, therefore, skin, two layers of superficial fascia, intercolumnar cremasteric, and infundibuliform fascia; and sub- peritoneal fat.)