The ' Seat of Elcciion ' in the lower third of the thigh than through the joint, as all the lym- phatic glands, which may possibly be invaded, are thus taken away, and also the origins of the gastrocnemius, poplitcus, and plantaris, and the bursas about the joint, any of which may be the seat of a secondary and lurking malignancy. Amputation at the ' seat or election' was the favourite operation years ago —before the days of Syme—in all cases demanding a sacri- fice of the leg. The tibia was sawn just below the tubercle, and the patient went about subsequently upon a kneeling-crutch, the cicatrix being out of the way of all pressure. An improved and cheapened system of artificial legs, and a greater conservatism in practice, have now rendered the psrformance of this amputation of comparatively infrequent occurrence, and the quaint title almost obsolete. The surgeon now ' elects' the amputation which involves the least mutila- tion of the limb. Method of operation at the seat of election.—With the left thumb and index-finger the operator marks two spots on the sides of the leg, two inches below the level of the tubercle, and from them he- shapes out liberal convex flaps of skin in front and behind. The muscles are divided straight down to the bones ; the fibula is sawn, and then the tibia, a piece being removed from the sharp crest of the latter bone. The arteries requiring ligation are the anterior and posterior tibial, and possibly the peroneal—and some large sural branches. The Leg The deep fascia on the front of the leg is thick, and gives origin to the tibialis anticus, extensor longus digitorum, and peroneus tertius. It is attached to the crest of the tibia, and follows the curve of tin: external tuberosity on to the head of the fibula. Down the latter bone it is attached indirectly by the septa which dip on either side of th - peroneus longus and brevis. Below it is attached to the malleoli, forming the anterior annular ligament. The upper part of this ligament is a horizontal band which binds down the extensor tendons of the toes and the peroneus tertius. In addition, the tendon of the tibialis anticus passes beneath it, invested in a synovial sheath. Just below the bend of the ankle there is another, a vertical piece of the annular ligament, under which three synovial sheaths descend, namely, the one already mentioned, around the tibial tendon, a second invest- ing the great toe extensor, and a third for the long extensor of the toes and the peroneus tertius. This lower part of the annular ligament is attached to the inner malleolus above, and to the front of the os calcis below. Beneath these ligaments pass also the anterior tibial vessels and nerve, under cover of the extensor proprius hallucis, or, lower down,