118 The Parotid Gland the glandular concatenate. The nerves are derived from the great auricular, auriculotemporal, the facial, and the sympathetic. The duct, stenson's, comes off from the anterior part of the gland, and, crossing the masseter below the transverse facial artery, but above the chief part of the facial nerve, pierces the buccinator opposite the second upper molar. The duct consists of a strong fibrous coat with a mucous lining covered with columnar epithelium. To mark out the course of the duct, a line must be drawn from the lower part of the concha to the middle of the upper lip. When the jaws are tightly closed the duct may be made out by running the finger up and down the front of the masseter. In operations upon the cheek, car,e must be taken not to wound the duct, as a salivary fistula may occur, which is a most troublesome one to obliterate. Sometimes a small calculus blocks the duct, and a dilatation then occurs upon the parotid side of the obstruction, the cavity becoming distended at the smell or sight of food. It is. often a very difficult matter to extract the calculus from the dilated part of the duct, as it may slip back towards the gland or into a pouch developed behind the angle of the jaw, or even beneath the ramus. When malignant disease has invaded the parotid gland extirpation is impracticable, and an attempt to accomplish it is likely to entail profuse haemorrhage, facial paralysis—and disappointment. A specific inflammation (mumps) is apt to attack the gland ; the swelling causes a bulging close below the jaw, and when it is sym- metrical it renders the face very broad. The movements of mastica- tion disturb the gland and cause pain. In rare cases facial paralysis is caused by pressure on the portio dura, and more rarely still deafness or abscess supervenes. In the latter case the pus might find its way into the external auditory meatus. Mumps is distinguished from cervical lymphatic enlargement by the fact that the chief swelling is above the angle of the jaw. The submaxillary gland is placed in the submaxillary triangle (p. 9) resting upon the mylo-hyoid, and covered by skin, superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia, and by the overhanging border of the jaw. The deep part of the gland turns round the free border of the mylo- hyoid and rests on the hyo-glossus and stylo-glossus. Posteriorly, the gland is separated from the parotid by the stylo-maxillary ligament, and, anteriorly, from the sublingual by the mylo-hyoid. The hyo-glossus separates the gland from the lingual artery {v. p. 27). The facial artery runs through, and the vein over, the gland. Wharton's duct comes up from the deep part of the gland, passing between the sublingual gland and the genio-hyo-glossus to open on a conspicuous papilla at the side of the frsenum. The beginning of the duct rests upon the hyo-glossus, between the gustatory and hypo- glossal nerves. Supply.— The arteries and veins are branches of the facial trunks.