202 Examination of Chest consolidation, for condensed lung-tissue is a good conductor (p. 189). Bronchophony is a lesser degree of pectoriloquy. Sometimes the voice sounds cracked, or like the bleat of a goat (m£, aiyoi, goat ; cj)o)vt], voice)—segophony. It is due to a break-up of the sound-waves as they come splashing through a thin layer of fluid— probably of pleural effusion. Dyspnoea—When the free entry of air is prevented, as in laryn- geal diphtheria, or oedema glottidis, the inspiratory muscles w ork with great energy, diminishing the intra-thoracic pressure ; and, as the balance cannot be restored by air entering through the trachea, the equilibrium is partially restored by the jugular, intercostal, and epi- gastric regions falling in with each inspiratory effort. THE MA AIM A The mamma in the female reaches from about the third to the sixth rib. The nipple is over the fourth space, and points slightly outwards and upwards for the convenience of the infant in the mother's arms. As the ribs ascend in inspiration more than the breast, the nipple which lay over the fourth space on expiration will be over the fifth rib on inspiration. In emphysematous patients the nipple is considerably higher than in the phthisical, for in the latter the chest represents the type of expiration. The developing breast at puberty is often tender and tingling. With old age the gland becomes wasted, and, when this retrogressive physiological change sets in, cancer is especially apt to invade the tissue. The breast is placed within the superficial fascia, and is connected with the skin and with'the deep fascia over the pectoralis major by slender ligamentous fibres. The nipple may be absent in the virgin, its future site being surrounded by a pinkish zone, but in the second month of pregnancy it begins to grow, and the areola darkens and extends until it forms a deeply pigmented circle two inches in diameter. After parturition and weaning, the pigmentation does not entirely clear away, so that darkening of the areola is important as evidence of the first pregnancy only. The skin of the nipple is somewhat leathery, on account of the fibrous tissue which it contains ; it is, moreover, rich in sebaceous glands, which increase during pregnancy, to diminish the risk of cracking and tenderness during suckling. Along the centre of the nipple the milk-ducts (fifteen to twenty in number) ascend, and around them are pale muscular fibres, to the contraction of which under stimulation 1 erection ' of the nipple is due. Structure.—The breast is surrounded by a fibrous capsule from