215 Spinal Nerves the anterior containing motor, and the posterior sensory fibres. The posterior, the larger root, has a ganglion upon it—just as has the posterior or sensory division of the fifth cranial nerve. Just beyond the ganglion, which lies in the inter-vertebral foramen, the roots join. The mixed nerve then breaks into an anterior and a posterior primary division, each of which contains both motor and sensory fibres. The posterior primary divisions pass backwards to supply the erector spinas and other muscles, and to carry sensory twigs to the back of the head, neck, and trunk, whilst the anterior divisions end, for the most part, in plexuses, except in the dorsal region, where they run forwards in the intercostal spaces. Nerve-roots.—The filaments of the anterior root arise from the ganglionic cells in the anterior cornu of the grey crescent and pass out to the muscles. They are under the control of the motor strands descending from the brain in the direct colwmis of Tiirck and in the crossed -pyramidal tracts. In the posterior root, which is afferent, or sensory, are also fila- ments which preside over the nutri- tion of the skin—trophic filaments (rpe(f)co, nourish). Bed-sores are apt to occur when the function of the posterior roots is disturbed—as when disease or pressure interferes with the posterior columns. When the anterior roots or columns, however, are in distress, as in angular curva- ture of the spine, dermal trophic changes are conspicuous by their absence. Of the fibres of the posterior root some straightway enter the tail of the grey crescent, but others pass into the postero-external column of Burdach, as shown in the adjacent diagram. All these sensory fibres pass over into the opposite half of the cord, and so up to the brain. If, therefore, the right half of the cord be destroyed, there is loss of sensation in the parts below on the left side of the body, the motor paralysis being on the right side, for the motor strands cross in the medulla oblongata (p. 55) and not in the cord. In the case of a lesion d c, direct cerebellar tracts; c p, crossed pyramidal tracts; G, Goll's sensory columns ; T, direct pyramidal (motor) tracts—Tiirck's columns ; m, motor ; ss', sensory roots of spinal nerve; of these sensory filaments some pass through the posterior cornu of the grey crescent, and some through postero- external or Burdach's column. (After Ranney.)