Ligaments of Uterus 391 upper borders of these folds with the included uterus form a vertical septum in the pelvis, whilst the lateral margins of the pouches con- stitute the two anterior ligaments—vesico-uter'me, and the two posterior ligaments—recto-uterine. The blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves of the uterus are placed between the folds of the broad ligament in a good deal of loose connective tissue ; so are the ovaiy and its ligament, the Fallopian tube, and the round ligament. The last-named is a fibrous cord, five inches long, which is attached to the corner of the uterus just below the Fallopian tube, and which passes through the inguinal canal to spread out on to the tissues of the labium. In its descent it carries a follicular process of the peritoneum, the canal of Nuck, into which a piece of bowel, or even the ovary itself, may stray (inguinal hernia, p. 310), and down which serous fluid may gravitate (congenital hydrocele, p. 429). I have also seen an enormous encysted hydrocele in this funicular process. Operations have been designed for shortening these ligaments in the case of a backward tilting of the uterus. It has likewise been thought that a forward tilting might be due to a preternatural shortness of the ligaments. The broad ligament, the vessels and nerves of the uterus and ovary which are within the broad ligament, the Fallopian tube, and the round ligament constitute the pedicle of an ovarian tumour. Unilocular cystic tumours—not ovarian—are often found in the broad ligament. The delicate sub-peritoneal tissue which connects the serous and muscular coats of the uterus is liable to inflammation—peri-metritis— but it may be impossible to distinguish this disease from inflammation of the peritoneal coat itself. Structure.—Beneath the sub-peritoneal coat is the thick wall of non-striated muscular tissue, the fibres of which pass longitudinally, obliquely, and transversely—the longitudinal fibres being chiefly external. Numerous blood-vessels run through this coat to the mucous membrane. Hypertrophic outgrowths from the muscular tissue, with a mixture of fibrous tissue, constitute the uterine fibromata or myomata ; they may extend towards the cavity of the uterus, or appear as upheavals beneath the serous coat ; the latter may grow harmlessly into the peritoneal cavity. According to their size and situation these tumours may prevent conception, arrest gestation, and complicate parturition. The intra-uterine growths cause frequent bleedings and constant distress, and should, if possible, be enucleated. These tumours sometimes shrivel up, or detach themselves under a long course of ergot; and sometimes, after parturition, they undergo involution with the rest of the uterine wall. Their presence may be determined, and size estimated, by the bimanual method of examination, and by the uterine sound. With one index-finger in the vagina and the other in the rectum, further information as to the size and position of a tumour may often be obtained. Sometimes a submucous tumour growing into the cavity stretches its base into a slender pedicle and