13 Fracture of Skull In certain cases in which the Eustachian tube has been blocked, the surgeon has endeavoured to ventilate the middle ear by making a permanent drill-opening into the mastoid cells, but the proceeding is dangerous, meningitis being apt to follow. The mastoid foramen transmits a large vein into the lateral sinus, and a branch of the occipital artery for the dura mater ; and in acute otitis, when every neighbouring vessel is engorged with blood, the application of a few leeches behind the ear affords direct and imme- diate relief. If matter be long pent up in the mastoid cells it may find its escape into the cranial cavity and set up a purulent and fatal meningitis. Moreover, the lateral sinus, which is close upon the inner side of the cells, may become inflamed in the course of otitis media, and, septic coagulation of its contents taking place, pyaemia ensues. On the inner aspect of the mastoid process is a fossa for the origin of the posterior belly of the digastric, and, more internally still, is the groove for the occipital artery. On the cerebral surface of the mastoid portion is the wide and shallow groove for the lateral sinus (p. 39), into which the mastoid vein is opening. When the question arises of trephining in the region of the mastoid cells the surgeon must remember that the lateral sinus specially grooves the front of the cranial aspect of the mastoid pro- cess (Tillaux). The petrous portion, hard as a stone (nerpos), is wedged forwards and inwards into the floor of the skull. Its base is between the squamous and mastoid portions, and receives the external auditory meatus, which is surrounded by the outgrowth of the horse-shoe auditory process, to the surface of which the cartilage of the pinna is attached. Through the petrous portion winds the canal for the internal carotid artery (p. 33) ; by the articulation with the occipital the jugular foramen is enclosed. The internal and middle ear are also contained within the petrous bone, and the facial nerve winds through it from the internal auditory meatus to its exit from the aqueductus Fallopii at the stylo-mastoid foramen. Fracture across this brittle bone may be followed by rupture of the large vein and artery, and of the membrana tympani, and, further, by bleeding from the ear. The perilymph may also escape from the internal ear, diluting the blood, or staining the pillow long after bleeding has ceased. The facial nerve having been torn across, paralysis of the muscles of expression ensues. On the anterior surface of the petrous bone is the upheaval which is caused by the superior semicircular canal of the internal ear ; just outside this is the thin plate of bone roofing in the middle ear. Nearer to the middle line is the hiatus Fallopii, by which the petrosal branch of the facial escapes from the aqueduct to join the Vidian nerve.