Massage of Liver 341 tumour in the right hypochondrium—near the ninth cartilage. It may readily be reached through the upper part of the left linea semilunaris, fixed to the abdominal wound, and drained, the obstruction being re- moved secundum artem. A distended gall-bladder may open spontaneously into the stomach, duodenum, or colon, or through the abdominal wall. By persistent kneading, Dr. Harley has successfully dislodged gall-stones which had blocked the duct. If by such artificial help the torpid gall-bladder could be made to empty itself eveiy day, there would be little chance for the formation of concretions. When the duct is blocked the gall-bladder is full, and its contents may be made, by kneading, to play a useful part in dilating the duct and pushing the concretion onward. The Spleen The spleen (8 oz.) lies between the cardiac end of the stomach and the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs, from which it is separated by the arch of the diaphragm, a wedge of lung intervening between the dia- phragm and the ribs. It is placed in the interval between lines which continue the anterior and posterior folds of the left axilla, its long axis corresponding with the length of the ribs. The tip of the spleen lies beneath the apex of the eleventh rib ; its anterior border is gener- ally notched. The external surface is convex. The inner surface is concave, and is secured to the stomach by the gastro-splenic omentum, between the layers of which the vessels pass to the hilum of the spleen, and the vasa brevia to the stomach. The hilum is one-third nearer to the posterior border than the anterior ; the inner surface behind the hilum is in relation with the tail of the pancreas, the kidney and its capsule ; that in front with the convex surface of the stomach. Behind and above is the diaphragm, and behind and below are the kidney and its capsule, and in front and below is the splenic flexure of the colon. Placed thus between the base of the lung, the stomach, and the transverse and descending colon, the area of normal dulness of the spleen varies according to circumstances, and in pneumo-thorax or emphysema it may altogether disappear. When the left pleura is full of fluid the spleen may descend considerably below the ribs. On the other hand, when it is greatly enlarged it raises the heart and left lung, and causes palpitation, coughing, and shortness of breath ; it may extend also to the linea alba, and to the pelvic brim. Its identity may be established by the characteristic notch in its front edge ; its outline is not obscured by intestines floating in front of it, as is the case with the kidney. Moreover, a suppurating or enlarged kidney hides in the loin ; it does not encroach anteriorly as the spleen does. Unless enlarged, the spleen cannot be felt by the fingers on the surface of the abdomen, but by hooking them round the lowest