347 Contracted Kidney into a small cicatricial mass. The fibrous capsule is so firmly incorpo- rated with the thickened trabecular of the interior of the gland that at the post-mortem examination it cannot be stripped off. In the early days of cirrhosis the new fibrous element of the kidney is soft and vascular, but its subsequent contraction is only a matter of time ; and during its progress, by pulling irregularly upon different parts of the kidney, it throws the histological arrangement into com- plete disorder, and, obliterating certain tubes, causes retention of their secretion and a wide-spread cystic degeneration. Renal dropsy.—When the kidneys are or have been inflamed, their function, which is the excretion of urine, is necessarily impaired, and the vessels generally, and the capillaries in particular, are over- full. But from over-filled capillaries a certain amount of exudation is sure to occur, and the result is that in renal disease serous transuda- tion takes place into the lymph-spaces and into the connective tissues generally. Thus, the eyelids and scrotum swell, the feet and ankles become 1 puffy,' and the legs pit on pressure ; the lungs become water- logged, and dropsical effusions fill the pleura, pericardium, or peri- toneum. Pulmonary oedema is a very common and serious complica- tion of kidney disease ; so also is cerebral anasarca. Because the feet are the lowest parts as the man walks or stands, the oedema first appears there. After the night's rest in bed the feet may resume their normal size, the fluid being absorbed and deposited, perhaps, in the face, which then becomes ' bloated.' But, after the patient has been up and about, the face improves again and the feet in turn are enlarged. The serum actually trickles down through the loose tissue, so that, as Watson remarks, a tight waistband may pre- vent the descent of the fluid and keep the upper part of the body alone cedematous, whilst if the patient lies constantly on one side that side only is infiltrated. Dropsy of the submucous tissue of the air- passages is frequently a cause of death. Free purgation is often useful in the case of dropsy, as it diminishes the amount of fluid in the vessels and so encourages them to soak up and utilise the extravasated serum. Dropsy from liver-disease appears first as abdominal ascites, whilst that from heart disease generally begins as anasarca in the legs. It is quite impossible to draw a hard-and-fast line, however, between these conditions. Indeed, kidney disease and heart disease often go hand in hand, as it were ; for valvular disease of the heart begets venous congestion of the kidney, which is a common cause of nephritis. Thus the kidneys,'being diseased, cannot work properly, so that impure blood is being circulated, and the capillaries throughout the body struggle to resist its passage through them, their muscular and fibrous walls becoming thickened. To overcome this resistance the left ventricle works with extra energy, and its walls increase in strength in consequence, just as a blacksmith's biceps grows by exercise. As a