40 Venous Sinuses of Head nearness of the sinus to the middle ear explains how in abscess of that cavity septic thrombosis may. occur. The position of the lateral sinus is indicated by a line running horizontally outwards from the occipital protuberance to within about an inch of the external auditory meatus, and thence downwards to the mastoid process. The cavernous sinus, at the side of the body of the sphenoid, receives the blood of the ophthalmic vein, which flows into it through the sphenoidal fissure. It also receives cerebral veins. It is emptied by the two petrosal sinuses. On the inner wall of the sinus winds the internal carotid artery, with the sixth nerve on its outer side, and in the outer wall of the sinus are the third and fourth nerves and the first division of the fifth. Tillaux alludes to some cases of aneurysmal communication between the internal carotid and the sinus ; the signs of such lesion are dilatation of the ophthalmic vein and a pulsatory swelling behind the internal angular process of the frontal. The inferior longitudinal sinus runs along the concave border of the falx, and ends in the straight sinus, which latter passes along the union of falx and tentorium to the torcular Herophili or into one of the lateral sinuses. The straight sinus also carries blood backwards, which the veins of Galen, emerging from beneath the corpus callosum, have brought from the interior of the brain. The straight sinus also receives veins from the upper surface of the cerebellum. The veins of the diploe do not take their respec- tive names pre- cisely from the bone in which they ramify; they are not confined to any individual bone, but com- municate across the sutures. The frontal diploic vein joins the supra-orbital as it passes through the supra-orbital foramen. The anterior temporal comes chiefly from the frontal bone, to end in a deep temporal vein, and the posterior temporal emerges from the parietal bone to empty in the lateral sinus. The occipital flows into an occipital vein or into the lateral sinus. frontal VEINS OF DII'LOE 1 2 and 3, ant. temporal ; 4, post, temporal 5, occipital.