Orbit 8o keeping the head in such a position that there is no work for the inferior oblique to do ; thus he keeps the head tilted upwards and outwards. When the superior oblique is paralysed there is deficient abduction and depression of the cornea, so the head is turned to that side and is kept somewhat depressed. Rule.—To enable the practitioner to detect the exact muscular paralysis by merely looking at the patient's face, Dr. Ranney has given this formula : ' The head is so deflected that the chin is carried in a direction corresponding to the action of the affected muscle.' strabismus {squint) is that condition in which the visual axes are not parallel. One eye or both eyes may be at fault. The commonest form is that in which the axes are directed towards the nose— di- vergent squint. Upon the retina of the eye which deviates inwards the object falls to the inner side of the yellow spot, and double vision is produced, which, however, the person is able to educate himself to disregard. To detect the squinting eye, the tip of the finger is held about eighteen inches in front of the eyes. One eye promptly fixes on to it ; the other wanders. Then a piece of ground glass is placed in front of the eye which watched the object, and the wandering eye after some hesitation becomes directed on the object. Then, on the observer looking through the dull glass, the original working eye is found adrift. As a rule, the subject of convergent strabismus has that congenital defect—a shortness, it may be—of the eye-ball by which rays are not brought to a focus until they have passed beyond the yellow spot. Therefore his ciliary muscle has to struggle in a forced effort at ac- commodation, so that the rays may be duly focussed. But accommo- dation is closely associated with convergence (p. 58), and so the child in due course has his eye-balls adducted. Thus the frequent occurrence of convergent strabismus is fully accounted for. With double convergent squint the object must fall to the inner side of the yellow spot in both eyes, but the child acquires the art of moving his head and arranging his eye-balls so that he can depend on the image falling correctly on one eye—which, in due time, becomes the ' working eye' ; moreover, he at last takes no notice of the image in the other eye. Thus, he is believed to squint with one eye only. If the ' working eye' be covered, and he focus the object with the ' wandering eye,' which he can quite well do, and the' working eye ' be then uncovered, it is found to squint ; but it promptly turns on to the object, as is its custom, and allows the other eye to get adrift again. The treatment of convergent squint.—If the deviation be caused by hypermetropia (p. 86) it will yield in due course to convex glasses. But if the defect be permanent, subconjunctival tenotomyof the internal rectus or recti is demanded. The operation—-The lids having been fixed apart by the speculum,