Veins of Pelvis 377 of its artery. The external iliac vein joins the internal opposite the ala of the sacrum to form the common iliac. Because of the general inclination of the veins towards the right, the right external iliac vein in its ascent gradually sinks beneath the corresponding- artery ; whereas, on the left side, the vein keeps always along" the inner side. The external iliac vein receives two tributaries just above Poupart's ligament, corresponding to the branches of the artery, namely, the deep epigastricand the deep circumflex iliac veins. The latter branch, having come from the region of the iliac crest, reaches the iliac vein by passing over the external iliac artery. The internal iliac vein is formed by the confluence of the venae comites of the branches of the internal iliac artery ; though, of course, the single umbilical vein, which corresponds to the two hypogastric arteries, has no concern therewith. These venae comites form a free anastomosis about the vagina, uterus, rectum, bladder, and prostate ; and the hemorrhoidal branches have an important communication with the inferior mesenteric vein, that is, with the beginning of the vena portae. The prostatic plexus of veins is placed between the capsule of the gland and the investment of the recto-vesical fascia. It is in free communication with the vesical and the lower hemorrhoidal veins, and receives anteriorly the dorsal vein of the penis, which enters it through the triangular ligament (p. 413). The vesico-prostatic veins are often much dilated ; they are liable to imflammation after lithotomy, and they sometimes contain calcareous concretions—phleboliths. The common iliac veins are formed opposite the ala of the sacrum, by the confluence of the external and internal iliac veins ; and, passing upwards and to the right, they unite at the right side of the fifth lumbar vertebra to form the inferior vena cava. The common iliac veins lie, at their commencement, to the inner, the median, side of their respective arteries, and, to reach the right side of the fifth lumbar vertebra, each must pass beneath the right common iliac artery. Thus, in its ascent, the left vein is always on the inner (right) side of the left artery, and it ultimately crosses the right artery —on a posterior plane, of course. {See Rule, p. 368.) The beginning of the right vein is slightly to the inner side of the right common iliac artery, and, to reach the right side of the fifth lumbar vertebra, it has to cross the right common iljac artery—on a posterior plane. In its ascent, the right vein lies, for the most part, behind, and, ultimately, as it swells out into the beginning of the vena cava, a little to the outer side of its artery. The student will best understand the arrangement of the iliac arteries and veins by making an outline sketch of the aorta, the com- mon, external, and internal iliac arteries, placing a figure 4 at the division of the aorta—representing the fourth lumbar vertebra—and a