Club-Foot 503 This operation should not be undertaken, however, until the gym- nastic exercises have had a prolonged and patient trial. Talipes {talus, ankle ; pes, foot), because, in the commonest variety of club-foot, the patient walks on the outer side of the ankle—this variety is equino-varus, the heel, or heels, being drawn up (as in equus), and the soles being turned inwards towards each other, varies. Before birth the feet are nor- mally in this position, in order that the embryo may be packed in the smallest space ; the com- pression of the uterine wall, in all probability, causes the arrange- ment. If, after birth, their posi- tion be not improved by development, the retaining bands become permanently shortened and the bones misshaped. The structures which may require division in talipes equino-varus are the tendo Achillis (and in slight deformity this may suffice), the tibialis anticus, tibialis posticus, and flexor longus digitorum ; the anterior part of the deltoid ligament, which is holding back the tuber- osity of the scaphoid bone ; the inner part of the plantar fascia, and possibly also the abductor hallucis. Indeed, every structure is to be divided until the foot can be placed in the proper position. After this it is fixed in a gypsum case till the wounds are soundly healed, then massage is employed. There need be no anxiety about the non- union of widely sundered tendon-ends, so long as they are not divided in tlieir synovial sheath. At the present day the tendons are divided by a free incision in the sole, rather than above the malleoli, where they lie in synovial sheaths and in the neighbourhood of important vessels. The tendon of Achilles is divided from before backwards an inch above its insertion ; the tibialis anticus is divided from the outer (the arterial side) just below and in front of the inner malleolus. The tibialis posticus is divided between the tip of the inner malleolus and the tuberosity of the scaphoid, and here also the anterior part of the deltoid ligament may be severed. The other bands are cut wherever they can be felt firm and resisting beneath the skin, and, as remarked above, by a free incision, so that the surgeon may see wha: he is doing ; subcutaneous tenotomy is often disappointing. The flexor longus digitorum rarely needs section. In the adult a wedge of bone has occasionally to be removed from the upper and inner part of the tarsus, before the man can become a plantigrade, or, better still, the astragalus is excised, as advised by Lund.