Vocal Cords 127 The superior aperture of the larynx is triangular, the base being formed by the epiglottis, and the sides by the arytaeno-epiglottidean folds and the arytaenoid cartilages. In the folds the cuneiform carti- lages may be recognised. The glottis (yXcoacra, yXaiTTa, tongue, th?~oat) or rima glottidis (rima, chink) is the narrow triangular opening between the true vocal cords and the bases of the arytenoid cartilages. The apex of this space is forwards, corresponding to the thyroid attachment of the cords. In ordinaiy respiration the glottis is wide open, the arytasnoid car- tilages being far apart, but in vocalisation, and when respiration is forced, the space is narrowed. The rima is the narrowest part of the larynx. In the adult male it measures about an inch from before backwards. The false vocal cords are folds of mucous membrane lying parallel with and above the true cords ; they are attached in front to the retir- ing angle of the thyroid, below the epiglottis, and behind to the front of the arytsenoid cartilages. The interval between them is wider than that between the true cords. The true vocal cords are delicate elastic bands between the re- tiring angle of the thyroid and the anterior angle of the arytenoid cartilage. They are covered with mucous membrane, continuous below with the upper border of the crico-thyroid membranes. The epithelium upon the true cords is squamous. Between the true and false cords there is on each side a space, the ventricle of the larynx, which is continued upwards for nearly half an inch between the false vocal cord and the ala of the thyroid. It con- tains a large number of mucous glands for lubricating the vocal cords, for the membrane of the cords themselves is too delicate to contain glandular tissue. Muscles.—The crico-thyroid, triangular, arises from the side of the cricoid cartilage and is inserted into the lower border of the thyroid. Its action is to tilt the thyroid down to the cricoid (or the front of the cricoid up to the thyroid), and so to tighten and elongate the cords. It is supplied by the external branch of the superior laryngeal nerve. The posterior crico-arytaenoid arises from the back of the cri- coid, and, passing upwards and outwards, is inserted into the outer angle of the arytenoid cartilage. Drawing this angle backwards, the two muscles rotate the anterior angles outwards (abduction of cord) and widen the glottis. ' They come into action during deep inspira- tion. If paralysed, the lips of the glottis approach the middle line and come in contact with each inspiration, so that severe dyspnoea may be produced. Expiratory efforts, however, are not impeded, and vocalisation is unaffected.' (Quain.) The lateral crico-arytacnoid arises from the upper border of the side of the cricoid, and, passing back, is inserted into the outer angle