375 Ligation of Internal Iliac membercd :—The gluteal artery coming out of the pelvis above the pyriformis is at a higher level than the pudic, which emerges below that muscle. The line to cross its course must, therefore, be that running from the posterior superior spine to the higher of the two processes of bone, namely, to the great trochanter. The line for the low er artery (pudic) runs to the lower land-mark—the ischial tuberosity. Further, the higher artery is at the junction of the highest third with the middle third of the upper line, the lower artery, the pudic, being at the junction of the lower third with the middle third of the lower line. ligation of the gluteal artery might be performed by making a five-inch incision in the line just given, namely, from the posterior superior spine of the ilium to the great trochanter, the body being placed in the position which is adopted in the dissecting-room when the buttock is being worked at. The coarse bundles of the great gluteus having been reached and separated with a director, and the mass of the muscle being traversed, the vessel is seen emerging above the pyriformis. The limb is then raised to the level of the body, so as to slacken the gluteus, and the ligature is applied as deeply as possible. The ilio-lumbar artery passes upwards and outwards from the posterior division of the internal iliac, and beneath the psoas, and, as its name implies, divides into an iliac and a lumbar branch. The iliac branch supplies the iliacus, and anastomoses with the circumflexa ilii and with one of the lower lumbar arteries, whilst the lumbar branch supplies the quadratus lumborum, and likewise communicates with the lower lumbar arteries, and, perhaps, even, with the intercostals. The lumbar branch sends a twig into the spinal canal. The anastomoses of the ilio-lumbar artery are of great importance when the common or internal iliac is tied. The lateral sacral branch, or branches, run from the posterior trunk of the internal iliac to the lateral part of the anterior surface of the sacrum, whence anastomotic branches are sent to the sacra media, to the branches of the opposite side, and to the rectum. Spinal branches enter the anterior sacral foramina, and send out twigs on to the gluteal region. Ligation.—The internal iliac artery may be reached by a pro- cedure like that described (p. 368) in the case of the common iliac ; the external iliac is followed up until the bifurcation of the common trunk is reached ; from that spot the internal iliac may be traced towards the depths of the pelvis for about half-an-inch, and there tied. The ureter would be raised from the artery in raising the peritoneum. The vein is behind the artery. Collateral circulation would be abundant, the following vessels anastomosing across the middle line with their fellows of the opposite side : from the anterior trunk, the middle haemorrhoidal, three vesical, uterine, vaginal, obturator, and internal pudic ; and from the posterior trunk, the lateral sacral. In addition to these sources, the empty middle hcemorrhoidal