Inguinal Hernia lis, T v. Inguinal Hernia Oblique inguinal hernia follows the course of the spermatic cord through the internal abdominal ring and along the inguinal canal. Emerging on the outer side of the deep epigastric artery, it is also called external inguinal hernia. It passes in front of the spermatic cord, and may enter the scrotum or the labium. If the protrusion be arrested in the inguinal canal, it is called bubonocele, from its resemblance to a gland (fiovftw, gland; /cr/Xr; tumour); its coverings then vary with the extent to which it has advanced. On account of the recent descent of the testis, and the imperfect closure of the canal, oblique inguinal hernia is common in childhood ; in the subsequent growth and development of the child it may be ex- pected to disappear under the influence of a truss. This hernia passes clown into the funicular process of peritoneum which accompanied the testis (see p. 429), and if it descend far enough it comes in contact with the testis, lying above and in front of it. Though this kind of hernia is fre- quently met with in adults, it bears the name con- genital, as expressive of its anatomical peculiarity. In the female, congenital hernia descends in the canal of Nuck (p. 391). When the funicular process is closed only at the ab- dominal end, a hernia in a sac of its own may descend behind the tunica vaginalis, so that in front of the bowel there are three layers of peritoneum, the two layers of the tunica, and its own sac. This constitutes an infantile hernia. If the sac of an in- fantile hernia push its way into the top of the open tunica the variety is called encysted. Occasionally an inguinal hernia in the adult, though emerging through the ex- ternal abdominal ring, has not passed down with the cord, but has escaped from the abdominal cavity through that part of the anterior wall which is bounded externally by the deep epigas- tric artery, internally by the rectus, and below by the inner end of Poupart's ligament and the pubic crest. This space is Hesselbach's triang-le, and the hernia which passes through it is designated, from the short and straight course which it takes to the surface of the body, direct, or, from the position of its egress as regards the epigastric artery, internal. The triangle is figured on p. 306. The coverings of direct hernia vary according to the part of Congenital her- nia ; t, testis. Hernia behind tunica vagi- nalis, TV. Encysted her- nia into tu- nica vagina-