382 The Popliteal Nerves the outer side of the dorsalis pedis artery, to the cleft between the great toe and the next, whilst the outer branch ends in a ganglionic thickening beneath the short extensor of the toes, which muscle it supplies. Its other muscular branches are to the tibialis anticus, extensor proprius hallucis, extensor longus digitorum, and to the con- tinuation of the last muscle, the peroneus tertius. When there is paralysis of the external popliteal nerve the patient cannot flex or evert the foot, nor extend the toes. The foot remains in the position of inversion and extension, the toes being curled towards the sole ; as the patient walks the toes catch against the ground, and progression is rendered difficult and dangerous. When there has been complete section of the nerve, as may happen after careless tenotomy of the biceps, sensation is impaired on the outer aspect of the leg and the dorsum of the foot ; and, on account of the implication of the trophic filaments, sores may occur in the skin of those neigh- bourhoods. THE RECTUM This last part of the large intestine is by no means 'straight.' It begins opposite the left sacro-iliac joint, and inclines to the middle of the sacrum (first piece) ; then it follows the curvature of the sacrum and coccyx (second piece), and afterwards it bends backwards for IJ in. between the levatores ani, to end at the level of the external sphincter (third piece). It measures about 8 or 9 in., and is capable of enormous distension. The curves taken by the rectum must be specially remembered in the introduction of an enema-tube or bougie. An ignorant and clumsy operator pushing an enema syringe directly upwards might injure the prostate or the recto-vaginal septum, and entirely fail to irrigate the bowel. And in the case of imperforate rectum, when the bowel is being sought through the perineum, the dissection must be carried well back along the sacro-coccygeal curve. In the young child, how- ever, the rectum runs a comparatively straight course. Though not properly a reservoir for fasces, the rectum is in some cases accustomed to contain a large amount of accumulation, as is often made out during digital exploration. In the healthy condition of the bowel the presence of fasces is a stimulus to the muscular wall to contract. But in the subject of habitual constipation the nerves and muscle become degenerate, and cease to act. The sensitiveness of the lining of the rectum is very slight at a little distance above the inner sphincter, and thus it happens that the bowel may be over- loaded with faeces without the patient being in discomfort. In such a case a doughy tumour may be found in the left lumbar and iliac regions. The pressure thus exerted upon the iliac veins may cause cedema of the left thigh and leg. The more dilated the bowel, the