Paracentesis Pericardii 161 that there might be pain on pressing the epigastrium ; there would be also a prominence of the sternum and of the left costal cartilages, especially in young subjects. If, as the patient lies in bed, the water- tumour press against the trachea, the dyspncea may be relieved by let- ting him sit up, so that the fluid may be brought forwards. Pressure on the oesophagus may cause dysphagia, especially when the patient is lying down ; and by bulging against the right auricle and superior vena cava it may produce fulness of the veins of face and neck, with, possibly, oedema. In the treatment of acute pericarditis venisection and purgation may be of great service by relieving the heart of some of its work. Paracentesis pericardii may be necessary when the pressure of the fluid seriously interferes with the heart's action. The puncture may be performed in any part of the area of absolute cardiac dulness, but the course of the internal mammary vessels at half an inch from the border of the sternum must be remembered (p. 156). The sternal end of the fourth or fifth space serves well. It has been customary to operate on the left side, but I would urge that the sternal end of the fourth right space is preferable, as the pericar- dium is sure to be bulging there and the needle is less likely to injure the heart. In suppurative pericarditis the abscess must be thoroughly evacu- ated and the cavity washed out and drained, the incision being made, layer by layer through the fourth or fifth intercostal space, to the outer side of the line of the left internal mammary artery. When the pericardium is reached it should be drawn well forwards so that the pus and the irrigation-fluid may not escape into the anterior medias- tinum. There is no definite sign by which adherence of the heart and peri- cardium may be absolutely recognised, but in such cases the contract- ing ventricles may be seen pulling-in the neighbouring intercostal spaces, and even the lower end of the sternum and the adjacent car- tilages. THE HEART The heart is, roughly, of the size of the closed fist of the individual; its weight averages 10 oz. It rests by its flat surface upon the dia- phragm ; its base is directed upwards, backwards, and to the right, opposite the foitr middle dorsal vertebra:, and its apex points downwards and to the left, beating against the fifth space. It lies behind the lower two-thirds of the sternum, encroaching on the left side of the thoracic cavity, and filling the space between the spine and the breast- ' bone. The heart is free within the pericardium, and between the latter and the chest-wall the pleurae and lungs intervene, only a small : triangular part of the heart being uncovered by lung during inspiration. M