Fracture of Surgical Neck inner side of the scapular end of the bone, which, perchance, is hitched outwards by the upper end of the shaft. The pectoralis major and deltoid may have something to do with the displacement. This frac- ture resembles somewhat a dislocation, but the presence of the head in the arm-pit at once negatives it. For treatment, a pad must be placed in the axilla, to thrust out the lower fragment, and, as in the former case, the arm must be bandaged against the side, and the shoulder protected by a stiff leather or gutta- percha cap. An inside splint is of no possible value for steadying the fragments, for the seat of fracture is high up in the axilla and out of reach. When the upper end of the shaft-fragment is drawn inwards the displacement may be recognised by thrusting the fingers up into the arm-pit, and a biggish pad may be needed to keep the bone in position. As this shaft-fragment is apt to be drawn upwards on the inner side of the head-fragment, the elbow will require no support, for that might be to still further elevate the shaft-fragment. Indeed, when the overlapping is marked, it may be necessary to hang a shot- bag upon the elbow, the wrist only being supported in the sling, so as to bring down the end of the shaft-fragment. In fracture of the upper end of the humerus the presence of the head of the bone beneath the acromion process contra-indicates dis- location, which the inward displacement of the shaft might at first sight suggest; and the fact of the head not moving when the elbow-end of the bone is rotated is clear evidence of fracture. Fractures of the lower end are specially liable to occur up to puberty, a common form being that in which the epiphysis is carried backwards from the shaft together with the upper ends of the radius and ulna. The appearance is much like that of dislocation of the radius and ulna backwards, but in the latter injury the bones are rigidly fixed, whilst in separation of the epiphysis pronation and supina- tion are still possible, and flexion and extension also, if, by a little gentle force, the epiphysis be brought into position. Such slight force could not bring the dislocated bones into position. As soon as the force is removed the elbow-end of the broken humerus slips back again. If the sound fore-arm be extended the top of the olecranon process is on a level with the condyles of the humerus ; the relative position of these three pieces of bone is not disturbed in the case of the fracture, but it is in dislocation, for the upper ends of the radius and ulna are carried backwards and upwards behind the lower end of the humerus. A condyle may be detached without the joint being implicated, but usually such a fracture extends obliquely into the articulation. The internal condyle may be detached by violent action of the group of pronators, or by a fall upon the elbow. The accident is most likely to happen before the eighteenth year, when ossification on to the shaft takes place ; this fracture does not extend into the joint. It should be