Tendon, of Achilles The gastrocnemius arises from the condyles of the femur, and spreads out into two bellies, of which the inner is the larger ; it is inserted with the subjacent solcus into the tendo Achillis. The short saphenous vein courses up between the bellies, separated from them by the deep fascia. (For bursa, see p. 478.) The solcus arises from the back of the head and the upper part of the fibula, and from a tendinous arch over the ending of the popliteal artery which carries it to the oblique line of the tibia, along' which it also arises, and down the middle third of the posterior border of the tibia. The muscle lies beneath the gastrocnemius (the opposed surfaces being aponeurotic) and joins.with it in the formation of the tendo Achillis. This tendon is inserted into the lower part of the posterior surface of the os calcis, a bursa intervening between it and the upper part of that surface. It is most slender at about an inch above the heel. The soleus covers the deep layer of muscles, the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, and the peroneal vessels, all of which are separated from the soleus by the second layer of deep fascia. The gastrocnemius flexes the knee, and, acting with the soleus, extends the foot. The two muscles are supplied by the sural branches of the internal popliteal nerve. Aeniltes-tenotomy.— The tendon may require section in talipes equinus, in fracture of the tibia when there is difficulty hi adjusting the fractured surfaces, or in keep- ing them in apposition, and after ""^fBl subcutaneous osteotomy of a bowed leg. For the operation, the foot is flexed, so as to tighten the tendon, and the slender knife is introduced beneath its deep surface.. If the knife be directed from the skin-surface of the ten- don, there is a risk of dividing the posterior tibial artery, and especially so when the operation is being done for talipes, as in that case the tendon lies very close behind the artery. Rupture of the tendon may occur with a sudden and painful snap from muscular action, the patient thinking that someone has hit him above the heel. It is treated by bending the knee and extending the foot, the limb being kept in that position by a strap which runs from a loop in the heel of a slipper to the back of a collar