Muscles of Tongue "5 An ulcer may form at the franum of a little child whose tongue is constantly being scratched in a whooping-cough over the serrated edge of his lower incisors. Of the papillce, the largest are the circumvallate, about ten in number, arranged in two oblique rows which slope back to the foramen caecum. The fungiform, skittle-shaped, are chiefly scattered over the sides and apex of the tongue ; they are deep-red, and in scarlet fever, when the tongue is coated with a yellow fur, they are conspicuous by their bright colour. The filiform are arranged as a protective layer over the anterior two-thirds of the dorsum. At the back of the tongue there are many mucous glands and crypts like those in the tonsil. The fur upon the tongue is the result of desquamation of the epithelium which is constantly taking place. When a person sleeps with the mouth open the fur becomes dried by the air passing over it, and the tongue gets hard and rough. Muscles.—The genio-hyo-glossus, fan-shaped, arises from the upper of the genial tubercles, and is inserted in the middle line of the tongue from apex to base, into the pharynx, and into the hyoid bone. Action.—Its anterior fibres retract the tongue, its posterior fibres raise its base and help in protrusion ; they also increase the antero- posterior diameter of the pharynx, and draw upwards the hyoid bone and the pharynx. When, during operation, the muscle is detached from the maxilla, the tongue is apt to fall back, and, the epiglottis sinking, suffocation may ensue. Its nerve is the hypoglossal. When a patient under an anaesthetic is breathing with stertor, his lower jaw should be raised, so that the attachment of the genio-hyo-glossus may be pulled upon, and the base of the tongue thereby drawn out of the pharyngeal air-way. Relations.—Its inner surface lies in contact with its fellow. Its outer surface touches the inferior lingualis, the hyo-glossus, the lingual artery and gustatory nerve, and the sublingual gland ; the hypoglossal nerve enters its outer surface. Its inferior border rests against the genio-hyoid, and its superior border lies just behind the fraenum. The hyo-glossus, an oblong muscle, arises from the body and cornua of the hyoid bone, and is inserted into the side of the tongue. It is supplied by the hypoglossal nerve. Relations.—Its deep surface rests against the lingualis, genio-hyo- glossus, and the middle constrictor of the pharynx. The glosso- pharyngeal nerve turns under its upper and posterior corner, and the lingual artery runs beneath it (p. 28). Superficially, it has the tendon of the posterior belly of the digastric, the stylo-hyoid, and the hypo- glossal nerve ; the gustatory nerve ; the mylo-hyoid, and the deep part of the submaxillary gland rind its duct.