The Ovary 400 has to be distinguished from abdominal ascites. When several follicles are dropsical, mullilocular cystic tumours occur. Both in ovarian and abdominal dropsy there is a rounded swelling giving a wave of fluctuation on palpation. But as the patient lies supine the ovarian tumour bulges more on one side, the area of dulness on percussion varying little with change of position {v. p. 316). If the tumour extend across the middle line, it pushes away the intestine and renders the area absolutely dull ; whereas, in ascites, there is generally some inflated bowel floating up under the umbilicus, rendering percussion resonant. The finger in the vagina makes out the semi-elastic tumour, and probably finds the cervix uteri swung over to that side by the body of the uterus having been pushed over to the opposite side by the tumour ; the uterine sound also shows lateral deflection of the uterus ; but let it be remembered that miscarriage is apt to follow the careless use of the sound. It should not be introduced if there be the least chance of pregnancy existing—I know of an instance in which a physician was spared the operation of ovario- tomy itself by the patient giving birth to twins very early on the morning of the proposed operation. When the diagnosis is between ovarian disease and pregnancy bimanual examination should be resorted to, the os uteri and the breasts should be examined, and the fcetal heart-sounds should be listened for. If still there were doubt, time would certainly clear it up. A large ovarian tumour presses upon the bladder and irritates it ; upon the rectum and obstructs it, producing haemorrhoids ; upon the iliac veins, causing cedema of one lower limb. It may also irritate the stomach, and, by pushing up the diaphragm, impede the action of the heart and lungs. If it compress the ureter there will be renal pains and albuminuria. The legs may be painful and greatly swollen. At first the tumour occupies only one side of the false pelvis, but as it ascends into the abdomen it passes to the middle line and evenly occupies the cavity. By pressing upon the bladder it may entirely efface that cavity, so that the urine runs away by the urethra as quickly as it flows from the ureters. Ovaritis, acute or chronic, may follow sexual and other irritations of the vagina and uterus, just as epididymitis is caused by irritation of the prostatic urethra. It is especially apt to follow specific (gonor- rhceal) inflammation which has extended up the Fallopian tube. There is pain in the back and down the inner side of the thigh, as in orchitis, and tenderness deep in the iliac region. Ovariotomy.—The bowels should be empty, and a catheter should be introduced into the bladder just before operating. The incision, which need not measure more than a few inches, should be made in the median line from an inch or so below the umbilicus. The parietal peritoneum is then opened, and the cyst is seen and tapped ; and when