Orbit 84 In the treatment of corneal ulcer atropine should be used, so that, the pupil being dilated, the border of the iris may be unlikely to prolapse. Then, to diminish the risk of the aqueous bursting through the elastic layer, eserine must be used ; ox paracentesis of the anterior chamber may even be expedient. This operation is performed by intro- ducing a slender blade through the sclero-corneal margin, taking care that it does not pass between the layers of the cornea, and that, in withdrawing it, the iris do not escape with the aqueous. In the case of a perforation of the central part of the cornea, atropine should be used, so that the pupillary border of the iris may be secured against collapse. But if the wound be near the periphery the pupil should be made to contract by eserene. If, however, a piece of the iris be already prolapsed, and it be found impossible to return it, it must be cut off flush with the cornea, the stump being tempted to return by the use of atropine, or eserene, as the case may be. With interstitial keratitis, which is often the result of inherited syphilis, effusion takes place between the layers of the cornea, spoiling its transparency, and giving it the appearance of ground glass. If inflammation run on to the formation of pus between the layers, and the corneal abscess be not promptly evacuated, it may cause perforation. Sometimes the inflammation is attended with separation of the lamellae, so that the pus sinks to their lowest part, where it forms a collection, the form, size, and tint of which are like the little white crescent at the root of the nail (oi>u£), and is therefore called onyx. Similarly pus in the anterior chamber forms a small crescentic abscess, but this may be distinguished from onyx by its altering its position as the head is inclined to one side. The pus must be let out by paracentesis. The cornea is the most important of the refracting media, refraction being the effect produced on rays of light passing from a rarer to a denser medium. Should it be too convex—a somewhat frequent con- genital defect—it overacts its part, and rays are brought to a focus before they reach the retina. They have, therefore, to be somewhat scattered before they reach the cornea by biconcave lenses. (Myopia, p. 86.) On the other hand, should the cornea be abnormally flat, the antero- posterior axis of the eye-ball is too short, and the rays have to be collected, somewhat before reaching the cornea, by the aid of convex glasses. (Hypermetropia, p. 86.) If the curvature of the cornea be irregular, either in the vertical, horizontal, or oblique diameter, the rays come unevenly to a focus, some of them missing their mark, the error being called astigmatism (a, priv., a-riyna, mark). Permanent unevenness with a resulting astig- matism is more apt to follow the extraction of a cataract when the incision is made through the cornea than when made through the corneo-scleral tissue. Sometimes the cornea grows thin and prominent, corneal—it is not