196 The Lungs The muscular tissue, which in the trachea lay only behind, in the small bronchi completely encircles them, and may be traced even into the divisions of the air-tube which are too small to possess any cartilage. The columnar epithelium which lines the tubes is rarely expectorated, even when bronchial catarrh is severe. Ultimately the small bronchial tubes lose both cartilage and muscle and expand into air-cells, which are lined with flattened epithelium. Between these cells are crevices (stomata) which open into an alveolar lymph-space ; through them germs, particles of soot or grit, may reach the lymphatic vessels. The group of air-cells into which an ultimate bronchial tube expands is cone-shaped and is called a lobule. The lobules are distinct, and are separated by a delicate fibrous tissue which is connected with the sub-pleural coat. Emphysema (ev, in ; (pvaaw, blow) is just that condition which would be induced by inserting the nozzle of bellows into the trachea and vigorously ' blowing into' the lungs. Some of the air-cells burst, and allow air to escape into the connective tissue of the lungs (extra- vesicular or interlobular emphysema), whilst others are over-stretched, and in some places many cells are blended into one large cell (vesicular emphysema). Interlobular emphysema is especially apt to occur in the delicate chest of a child with severe whooping-cough. When emphysema is imitated on the cadaver the anterior edges of the lungs glide over the heart, and their bases depress the diaphragm, liver, stomach, and spleen ; the ribs are raised, the upper ones notably so, the chest becoming high and barrel-shaped, and the neck being shortened by the elevation of the sternum, the first rib, and the clavicle. And, if only the bones were soft enough, the expanding lungs would make the spine bow forwards, rendering the subject round-shouldered. The chest of the emphysematous man is hyper-resonant, even to the twelfth rib, and on opening\tfiost mortem the lungs do not collapse, for much of their elasticity has been destroyed in the vesicular dilata- tion, and the tubes are plugged with bronchitic mucus. The border of the lung generally has, moreover, a bubbly fringe, and if during life some of the billables had burst pneumothorax would have resulted. The trombone-playe -, by his forcible blasts, over-stretches the air- cells and becomes emphysematous. So does the man with chronic cough, for emphysema is developed during expiration. But there is an additional reason for the subject of chronic bronchitis being emphy- sematous, for many of his small bronchial tubes become permanently plugged, the lobules associated with them collapsing ; but at each inspi- ratory act the chest must still be filled, so the adjacent lobules undergo double expansion, for when a part of the lung is permanently thrown out of working order the air-cells in the healthy neighbourhood struggle to fill its place, and suffer in the act. The emphysema thus produced is called vicarious ; it is likewise a constant accompaniment of chronic pneumonia.