205 Spina Bifida It is possibly caused by an increase in the amount of cerebro-spinal, subarachnoid fluid in the early development, whereby the coalescence is prevented. The tumour is in the exact median line and has a firm attachment. It is often associated with imperfect innervation of the pelvic viscera, and with arrested development of the lower extremities. When the child screams, some of the cerebral fluid is displaced from the interior of the skull and into the spinal canal, the tumour becoming more tense ; and by gentle compression of the tumour some of the fluid can be squeezed into the cerebro-spinal canal, with the effect of causing irregular muscular movements or even convul- sions. Sometimes the sac contains no nerve cords or branches ; some- times the nerves are spread over its inner surface. The sac may be lined by the substance of the cord itself, the serous fluid being con- tained in the immensely dilated central canal of the cord. This is likely to be associated with internal hydrocephalus (p. 56). If the cord or the large nerves of the cauda equina be in the sac, they occupy the median part. Operative treatment is directed towards obliterating the communi- cation with the interior of the spinal canal, and the more slender the communication the greater the prospect of cure. To put a ligature round the base of the tumour,may be to set up a meningitis spreading from the cord to the brain ; to tap and empty the sac is to leave the brain high and dry, with no counterpoise to the cerebral circulation ; and freely to inject a stimulating fluid may be to excite meningitis and encephalitis, the child dying in convulsions. The spinous processes of the upper cervical vertebra; can just be made out at the nape of the neck, especially that of the axis ; the spines of the sixth and seventh are long, horizontal, and conspicuous. Indeed, the spine of the seventh {vertebra prominens) sometimes juts out so conspicuously as to suggest the appearance of angular curvature. The dorsal spines are long, and overlap one another so as to pre- vent extension in the chest region, otherwise the heart and lungs might be interfered with in their work. The tip of a dorsal spinous process descends well over the body of the vertebra below. The lumbar spines are large and horizontal, and well hidden between the large masses of the erector spinas. In counting the spinous processes the seventh cervical is at once recognised, with the sixth close above it, and the first dorsal just below. The third dorsal spine corresponds with the root of the spine of the scapula, and the fourth lumbar spine is on the level of the top of the iliac crests. In the cervical region the spinal cord may be readily injured by a stab, but in the dorsal and lumbar regions it is well protected by the imbricated laminae. The transverse process of the atlas stands well out in the side of