Lingual Artery 29 carotid triangle, but, as its course and position are there subject to variations, it is better to seek it at a spot where it is sure to lie, and in the depths of an area with very definite boundaries :—The head being thrown back, and the face turned to the opposite side, so as to get the angle of the jaw out of the way, a curved incision is made from behind the symphysis to just in front of the angle of the jaw, reaching the middle of the side of the hyoid bone, through skin, superficial fascia, and platysma. The deep fascia is then incised ; a large superficial vein or two may need to be tied and cut. The lower border of the sub- maxillary gland, which is then seen, must be detached with a director and turned up out of the way. Then a very small triangle is made out which is bounded above by the hypo-glossal nerve, behind by the pearly tendon of the digastric, and in front by the posterior border of the mylo-hyoid. The hyo-glossus forms the floor of this triangle. Possibly the digastric tendon may have to be drawn down, the better to expose the depths of the triangle. Then, with the director, the hyo-glossus is scratched through close to the hyoid bone, and the artery is laid bare, resting upon the middle constrictor. The facial artery, given off in the superior carotid triangle, has to turn over the maxilla in its course to the inner corner of the orbit, where, as the angular artery, it anastomoses with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic—itself a branch of the internal carotid trunk. Winding out of the superior carotid triangle beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, it enters the sub-maxillary triangle, embedding itself in the sub-maxillary gland. It then turns up over the maxilla, at the anterior inferior angle of the masseter. It courses beneath the platysma and the zygomatici, and rests upon the buccinator and the elevators of the upper lip. It is accompanied by the facial vein, which is thin-walled, and does not take the tortuous course of the artery. The vein is posterior to the artery and passes superficially to the salivary gland. Below the jaw the facial artery gives off an ascending palatine and