Nasal Polypi 121 posterior ethmoidal branches of the ophthalmic ; and, in the case of a fracture extending across the anterior fossa of the skull, these vessels may be lacerated, and severe bleeding may occur from the nose. The facial, and the spheno-palatine and the descending palatine of the internal maxillary, also afford branches, and the superior coronary sends a twig to the front of the septum. The veins correspond to the arteries. Of the lymphatics, some pass with the olfactory filaments into the subdural space, and others enter the glands near the angle of the jaw. Of the nerves, olfactory filaments are distributed to the roof and to the inner and outer walls near the roof; the nasal of the ophthalmic gives sensory branches to the anterior part of the fossa, and the anterior dental, Vidian, spheno-palatine, and descending palatine also send in branches. Chronic purulent discharge from one nostril is very apt to be caused by necrosis or by the presence of a bead or a bean in the meatus. Discharge from both nostrils is more likely to be the result of consti- tutional disease. It may be treated by sending a gentle stream of tepid water from an irrigator up one nostril whilst the patient breathes through the open mouth ; the soft palate and the palato-pharyngei (p. 10S) then keep the nasal part of the pharynx shut off from the buccal tract, so that the lotion, turning round the back of the vomer, flows out through the other nostril. In two cases of necrosis high in the fossa I have successfully performed Rouge's operation, which consists in incising the superior labio-dental fold of membrane, and then detaching and everting the lip and the soft parts of the nose. In this way exploration of^ and operation upon, the upper spongy bones can be most effectually carried out. Mucous polypi generally hang from the superior and middle tur- binated bones, and are usually covered with ciliated epithelium. They grow in crops, and, blocking the nostril, ob- struct respiration. Pressing outwards, they may widen the nose, and, com- pressing the nasal duct, may cause the eye to 'water.' In inveterate cases, when crop succeeds crop of polypi, it may be expedient to draw out by the forceps the middle and superior spongy bones—taking care, of course, not to damage the cribriform plate. Bleeding: from the nose, if not the result of fracture of the base of the skull (p. 81), or of other injury, may be a general oozing from the en-