Sacro-iliac Disease 361 may be peripheral pains referred to the knee, on account of the obturator nerve sometimes giving a twig to the sacro-iliac joint, and to the thigh, on account of associations between the nerves of that joint and other branches of the sacral and lumbar plexuses. There- is pain on pressing the fronts of the iliac crests together, and defalcation may cause distress. Abscess from the joint may open on to the back, or into the pelvis, or into the sheath of the psoas, or into the rectum. ligaments.—The fifth lumbar vertebra is connected with the sacrum by the ordinary ligaments of the vertebral column, but there is in addition a strong intertransverse ligament which spreads down into the lateral mass of the sacrum. The ilio-himbar ligament widens out from the tip of the last lumbar transverse process along the back of the iliac crest, giving origin to the quadratus lumborum. The great sacro-sciatlc ligament is attached by a broad base to the posterior inferior iliac spine and to the side of theiSacrum and coccyx ; as it passes downwards and outwards it gathers up its fibres into a thick band which afterwards spreads along the inner border of the ischial tuberosity, a falcifor)ii process being continued up the ischial ramus. A good deal of the ligament is continued into the origin of the hamstring muscles, especially the biceps. The ligament bounds posteriorly the pelvic outlet and the ischio-rectal fossa, giving origin to the gluteus maximus, and closing in the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen. The lesser sacro-sciatlc ligament spreads from the ischial spine into the side of the sacrum and coccyx, anterior to the attachment of the greater ligament ; it closes in the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and the internal pudic vessels and nerve wind round it. The great sacro-sciatic foramen transmits the pyriformis, and, above it, the gluteal vessels and the superior gluteal nerve ; below it, the sciatic and internal pudic vessels and nerves, and small branches of the sacral plexus. By the smaller foramen the obturator internus and its nerve leave the pelvis, and the internal pudic vessels and nerve re-enter on their way to the ischio-rectal fossa. The pubic symphysis is enclosed by anterior, posterior, and superior, and the sub-pubic ligaments. Each osseous surface is covered by an oval fibro-cartilaginous plate, and between these plates is an elastic pulp ; as pregnancy approaches a synovial membrane may be developed in the joint. Arterial twigs enter the joint from the obturator and deep epigastric ; filaments of nerve come from the obturator. The articulation of the fifth lumbar vertebra with the sacrum forms the sacro-vertebral angle, which may be felt by a long finger in the rectum. It must not be taken for a stricture of the bowel, nor for a pelvic tumour.