374 The Internal Iliac Artery anastomoses with the obturator artery. It is covered by the gluteus maximus, which it freely supplies, anastomosing in it with the gluteal artery. Before leaving the pelvis the sciatic artery may give off some branches to the bladder and rectum ; but its first-named branch is the coccygeal, which pierces the great sacro-sciatic ligament to supply the lower part of the origin of the gluteus maximus and the integument over it. The other named branch is the comes nervi ischiatici, which enters the great sciatic nerve and anastomoses with the perforating arteries and with superior muscular branches of the popliteal ; it is an important branch in the collateral circulation. To find upon the surface of the buttock the spot at which the sciatic artery is leaving the pelvis, see below. The other terminal branch of the anterior division of the internal iliac is the internal pudic artery. The posterior trunk of the internal iliac gives off the gluteal artery, which, passing through the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic notch, at once divides into a superficial and a deep branch. The former appears between the gluteus medius and pyriformis, and ends in the supply of the gluteus maximus, anastomosing with the sciatic. The deep part of the gluteal artery remains under cover of the gluteus medius, and divides into a superior and an inferior branch, both of which run towards the interval between the front of iliac crest and the great trochanter, where they anastomose with ascending branches of the external circumflex. The upper branch runs close around the border of the gluteus minimus, and, sending branches through the medius, anastomoses with the deep circumflexa ilii. The lower branch may anastomose with the sciatic as well as with the external and internal cir- cumflex. Surface-marking-.—The spot at which the gluteal artery leaves the pelvis may be marked on rotating the thigh inwards and drawingaline,AG, from the posterior superior iliac spine to the great trochanter. The junction of the inner, A E, with the middle third, E F, of this line gives the position of the artery. The pudic artery lies over the spine of the ischium. To find it, draw a line, A D, from the posterior superior iliac spine to the outer side of the tuber ischii, and take the junction of the middle and lower thirds, c. The junction of middle and upper thirds, B, marks the point of emergence of the sciatic. (Holden.) The following rationale may make this scheme more easily re-