477 Threefold Displacement of Tibia is specially apt to occur in a knock-kneed subject, as the rectus femoris then inclines a good deal inwards in its descent to its insertion. And when it contracts with vigour it drags the patella a little outwards. An unusual amount of this outward movement lodges the bone on the front of the external condyle. Sudden flexion of the limb generally suffices to reduce the displacement; but, if not, the leg should be straightened to the utmost, the thigh being flexed so as to slacken the rectus, when the bone can usually be slipped into its place. A characteristic threefold displacement of head of tibia occurs in cases of advanced and neglected IMIPP knee-joint disease.—The limb rests on the outer side with the knee bent, this being the most comfortable position ; and, as the ligaments become softened, the weight of the leg causes it to sink outwards, so the inner femoral condyle projects more and more, and the outer tibial tuberosity slides outwards from beneath its condyle. The flexion of the joint continuing, and the biceps, gastrocnemius, and the other posterior muscles contracting at times with a spasmodic start, the head of the tibia is steadily pulled into the pop- liteal space. Lastly, the weight of leg and foot in this flexed and everted position of the limb causes external rotation of the tibia. Thus the threefold displacement of the tibial head is outwards and backwards, with some external rotation. If the disease subside, the knee, even thus deformed, may be extremely service- able. At any rate, forcible straightening will not improve the shape ; to attempt it is to make the tibia slide still further back, or to detach the femoral or tibial epiphysis. If the deformity be extreme, ex- cision may be needed before the limb can be made straight and useful. A foreign body in the joint may be a piece chipped from a femoral condyle or a semilunar cartilage ; a pendulous bud detached from the synovial membrane, or an organised blood-clot. The substance is apt to become suddenly caught between the femur and tibia, and to lock the joint. The sensory nerves are stretched and pained, and the injury is likely to set up an attack of synovitis. The joint must be opened at the side and the material extracted ; but if the trouble be due to a loose fibro-cartilage (the inner most likely), the periphery of the crescentic disc must be firmly sutured to the capsule, so as to prevent further slipping. Supply.— Artcrics for the knee-joint come from the external circumflex, the anastomotica magna, the popliteal (five in number, Fracture of patella ; stretching of liga- mentous union. (Holt house.)