Middle Ear 91 the membrane may be evenly struck on each side ; at the same time also he sets the tensor tympani in action so as to steady the membrane ; otherwise the explosion may rend it. The stapedius arises in a small pyramid of bone upon the inner wall of the tympanum, and is inserted into the neck of the stapes. It is supplied by a tympanic branch of the facial nerve. Its action is to drive the plate of the stirrup farther into the oval foramen, and so to compress the fluid in the vestibule. The tympanum and the mastoid cells are lined by a delicate mucous membrane, which is continuous with that of the pharynx through the Eustachian tube. It covers the ossicles and the nerves, and forms the inner layers of the membrana tympani. Its epithelium is of the columnar ciliated variety. Supply of tympanum,—Arterial twigs come from the internal carotid, stylo-mastoid, internal maxillary, and middle meningeal. The tympanic veins end in the petrosal and lateral sinuses, and in the internal jugular. The nerve-supply is from Jacobson's branch of the glossopharyngeal (p. 69); but Arnold's nerve also helps with a delicate twig. The chorda tympani wraps itself in mucous mem- brane as it hurries through the tympanum, passing between the handle of the hammer and the long process of the incus, but it gives no branch to the cavity. The lymphatics descend to glands behind the angle of the jaw, and massage over them, downwards from the mastoid process, may give much help in emptying mucus from the middle ear. The membrana tympani is stretched obliquely at the bottom of the external auditory meatus. In the adult its border is fixed in a groove in the bone, but in the child to the tympanic ring. The ring being deficient above, the attachment there is less firm—only to the periosteum—and thus it may be unglued by a box-on-the-ear, or by blood or pus escaping from the tympanum. (Tillaux.) The membrane is composed of circular and radiating fibres, which are covered on one side by a thin layer of skin from -the external auditory meatus, and in the other by the mucous lining of the middle ear. Between this mucous membrane and the fibrous layer the handle of the malleus descends as far as the centre, to which part it is attached, drawing it slightly inwards at a sort of umbilicus. Its arteries are derived from the tympanic branch of the internal maxil- lary, and from the stylo-mastoid of the posterior auricular, which ramify respectively upon the lower and upper parts. The auriculo- temporal nerve endows it with sensibility. Paracentesis of the tympanum may be required for the evacua- tion of abscess from the middle ear ; also for the transmission of waves of sound through a membrane which has become thickened and stiff by chronic inflammation—the auditory nerve being known to be healthy (p. 102). In this case it is often impossible to maintain the desirable patency of the opening, whereas after the opening of a tym- U