'7 Superior Maxilla to the finger and thumb the sensation of there being a parchment patch in the skull-wall. There is a fontanelle at each angle of the parietal bone, as may be seen on p. 366, but those at the sphenoidal and mastoid angles are comparatively un- important. In the case of tubercular inflam- mation attacking the membranes of the brain in a child before the fontanelle is closed, a bulging may be found at that region. The superior maxilla is marked upon the anterior surface by the ridge caused by the fang of the canine tooth, which can be felt even through the lip. Just external to this is the canine fossa, from which the levator anguli oris arises. Above the origin to this muscle the infra-orbital nerve emerges under cover of the levator labii superioris and of the orbicularis oris. The orbital surface articulates behind with the vertical part of the palate, internally with the lachrymal and ethmoid. It is separated from the great wing of the sphenoid by the spheno-maxillary fissure, which ends externally in the vertical, pterygo-maxillary fissure. Thus the hinder part of the jaw has no direct articulations. In a bony canal beneath the floor of the orbit run the infra-orbital artery and the second division of the fifth nerve. The under surface of the palate process is rough, and at the front it may be marked by a delicate articulation which runs outwards and forwards from behind the anterior palatine canals to the interval between the lateral incisor and canine teeth ; it shows the limit of the inter-maxillary bone. This segment has a separate centre of ossification, and is developed in connection with the vertical plate of the ethmoid and the vomer. In extreme cases of hare-lip the inter-maxillary bone adheres to the tip of the nose. The antrum communicates with the middle meatus by a small round opening ; its inner wall is made up by the vertical plate of the palate, the lateral mass of the ethmoid, and the inferior turbinated. The cavity extends into the alveolar, malar, and zygomatic parts of the bone, and is shut out from the orbit only by a thin osseous plate. The roots of the first and second molar teeth cause projections upon its inner wall. Abscess in the antrum may be tapped by raising the lip and cheek in the neighbourhood of the canine c Fontanelles: a, anterior posterior.