Female Bladder 405 divisions of the internal iliac trunks, and from the uterine branches. The front and back of the vagina also derive twigs from the vesical and hemorrhoidal vessels respectively ; and the entrance receives twig's from the internal pudic. The lymphatics pass to the pelvic glands. The nerves come from the vesical, hemorrhoidal, and uterine ramifications, and from the hypogastric plexus itself. As shown on p. 389, the upper part of the vagina is separated from the rectum by the retro-uterine pouch of peritoneum, which thus gives a partial serous covering to the vagina ; there is no peritoneum upon the front wall. I have known the peritoneal cavity opened in paring the edges of a fistulous communication between the upper part of the vagina and the rectum, some shreds of omentum appearing in the vagina. When epithelioma attacks the upper part of the posterior wall of the vagina the peritoneal cavity is quickly invaded, fatal peri- tonitis being entailed. A loop of small intestine may be driven in this pouch to bulge into the upper part of the vagina, constituting a vaginal hernia. The female bladder is placed behind the pubes and the triangular ligament, and in front of the vagina ; and, when distended, it ascends in front of the uterus, being separated from it by a pouch of peritoneum. As there is no prostate gland, and as the base of the bladder is separated from the concavity of the rectum by the vagina, there is no pouch behind the vesical outlet in which urine can collect. The base of the bladder can be thoroughly explored by the sound when the index-finger is in the vagina, and in this way the presence of even small papillomatous growths may be detected. But, as remarked above, the finger may be conveniently passed into the bladder for the purpose of examination. On account of the size of the urethra, cystitis and vesical calculus are rarely met with, and urethritis is uncommon. In crushing a stone, the lithotrite should be placed to one side of the elevation which the neck of the uterus may form at the back of the bladder. The base of the bladder is closely adherent to the front of the vagina, without, of course, the intervention of any peritoneum ; and in amputation of the cervix uteri by the ecraseur it has happened that part of the anterior vaginal wall and of the floor of the bladder have been accidentally included in the noose and taken away. By the inter- vention of the vagina and uterus between the bladder and rectum the female bladder has less of a peritoneal coat than that of the male. As in the male, there is no peritoneum on the anterior or antero-lateral aspect. For chronic and intractable cystitis free dilatation of the urethra and irrigation of the bladder may be unhesitatingly performed, but vaginal cystotomy can rarely be necessary. Retention of urine m the female, except from hysteria, or after par- turition, or after an operation upon the rectum, is rare, because of the