The Larynx thyroid are hinged at the lower part of the side by capsular ligaments and synovial membranes. When more room is needed in tracheotomy it may be expedient to divide the cricoid (vid. inf.). The arytfenoid cartilages are two small pyramids which articu- late by their base with the upper and back part of the cricoid. Of their three surfaces, the inner looks towards its fellow, and is covered by mucous membrane ; the posterior is connected with its fellow by the arytasnoideus, and the anterior receives the insertion of the thyro- arytsenoid muscle. To the anterior angle is attached the true vocal cord ; the external angle receives the insertion of muscular slips which arise on the cricoid, and the apex is connected with the corniculum laryngis, which is hidden in the arytasno-epiglottidean folds. The epiglottis, shaped like an obovate leaf, is attached by its stalk to the back of the thyroid, just above the vocal cords ; its anterior surface is connected with the back of the hyoid bone by the hyo-epi- glottic ligament, and with the base of the tongue by three bands of mucous membrane—the glosso-epiglottidean folds. The posterior surface looks towards the back of the pharynx during respiration ; but when the larynx is hidden beneath the base of the tongue during de- glutition, and the glosso-epiglottidean folds are relaxed, the epiglottis falls over the laryngeal aperture, and its posterior surface is turned downwards. Structure.—The epiglottis is composed of yellow fibro-cartilage, w hich does not ossify, but the thyroid, cricoid, and arytenoid cartilages are apt, like the costal cartilages, to ossify as age advances. The thyro-hyoid membrane is attached to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and, ascending behind the hyoid bone, is con- nected with its upper border, a bursa intervening between the mem- brane and the back of the bone. On rare occasions this bursa be- comes inflamed, or, being distended with fluid, forms a cyst. The bursa is placed there in order that the thyroid cartilage may ascend freely behind the hyoid bone during deglutition. Through each side of the membrane run the superior laryngeal vessels and nerve. The crico-thyroid membrane fills the interval between the cricoid and thyroid cartilages, and is firmly connected with them in front; laterally, however, it ascends free on the inner side of the thyroid, and becomes continuous above with the lower border of the true vocal cord. The anterior part of the membrane is subcutaneous, but its sides are covered by the crico-thyroid muscles. Upon it rests the anastomotic loop between the two crico-thyroid or external laryngeal arteries. The membrane is traversed in the operation of laryngotomy, and sometimes the insertion of the tube fails to arrest bleeding from the divided artery.