Haemoptysis ; Hcsmatemesu 195 into ; fiaWetv, cast), the larger the vessel plugged and the more important the resulting asphyxia. An embolus caught at the forking of an artery does not completely block it, but allows a small quantity of blood to pass beyond it; this additional fluid coagulates in the capillaries and eventually involves them in a hemorrhagic iitfarction (infarcio, stuff-into, in allusion to the engorgement of the tissue with blood). The anatomy of infarction is the same whether it be in the lung, spleen, liver, kidney, heart, coronary artery, or the brain ; but only in the lung can the plug come from a systemic vein, for such, unless it be a very minute one, must lodge in the lung. An embolus in any other viscus may come from a pulmonary vein, from a vegetation detached from a mitral or aortic valve, or from a fragment which has scaled from a diseased artery—but not from one of the systemic veins. A patch of liver- tissue may also be damaged by an embolus brought through the portal vein. The infarcted area may slough, or become the seat of abscess, or may quietly undergo decolouration and organisation. Pulmonary infarctions are often associated with haemoptysis. Sometimes, on the occurrence of an extensive pulmonary infarct, a murmur which was previously heard on the right side of the heart dis- appears, the vegetation which caused the murmur having been washed off into a branch of the pulmonary artery. The pulmonary veins, two from each lung, return the arterial blood by separate openings into the left auricle ; they have no valves. A vein comes from each lobe, and, as the third lobe of the right lung belongs to the upper lobe, so the median pulmonary vein joins the right upper vein. In the root of the lung the veins are in front of the pulmonary arteries and of the bronchi. The right veins pass behind the right auricle and the ascending aorta, and the left pass in the root of the lung, in front of the third part of the aortic arch. Blood brought up from the lungs is necessarily mixed with air, and is therefore bright-red and frothy ; it is alkaline, and is coughed up (hemoptysis, al/xa, blood ; tttvw, spit). That issuing from the stomach comes up with retching—it is dark, and often is mixed with food and gastric juice ; it is, therefore, acid (hematemesis—e/xeco, vomit). When blood which has been coughed up is small in quantity it usually comes from the bronchial capillaries, whilst severe bleeding is usually due to a large artery in the lung having been eroded. But even copious haemorrhages can occur from the bronchial capillaries, just as fierce bleeding may occur from the capillaries of the nose. The trachea consists of about sixteen horse-shoe cartilages. (For the anatomy of the trachea sec p. 131.) The mucous membrane is covered with columnar ciliated epithelium, and contains in its depths mucous glands and lymphoid tissue. The bronchi resemble the trachea in structure, but the smaller ones are not flat behind, the horse-shoe cartilages becoming complete circles. 0 2