Innominate A rtcry 183 the trunk may happen to be altogether intra-thoracic—dividing low down. In reaching it there may be alarming haemorrhage from an accidental or inevitable wound of the right inferior thyroid vein, or of the left innominate vein ; or the right vein, or even the vena cava itself, may be pierced by the aneurysm-needle working in the depths of the wound—and in the dark. The pleura may be damaged and become inflamed, or fatal secondary haemorrhage may occur on account of imperfect plugging of the artery after the application of the ligature. After tying the innominate, a ligature should also be placed upon the common carotid artery so as to prevent the collateral circu- lation interfering with the formation of firm clots. Operation.—The shoulders are raised so that the head may be thrown back with the view of pulling upon the carotid and raising the innominate to the utmost, the right arm being drawn well down. The root of the sterno-mastoid is to be raised by an L-shaped incision, one limb of which runs down the anterior border, whilst the other detaches at least the sternal head, each limb of the L being at least two inches long. The skin, superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia are divided, layer by layer, until the sterno-mastoid is reached. After re- flection of the large muscle the sterno-hyoid and thyroid are divided on a director, and the right inferior thyroid veins are seen and care- fully hooked aside, or, if necessary, tied and severed. The root of the carotid is then sought and followed down until the innominate trunk is reached. The left innominate vein is then de- pressed, the right being drawn downwards and to the right, and the aneurysm-needle is gently passed from the venous, the pneumo- gastric and pleural side—the outer side—upwards and inwards. To find the channels by which collateral circulatiofi may be estab- lished, the best plan is to follow the empty trunk and to see what branches from it, or from its divisions, are likely to meet with well-filled vessels. Such branches quickly imbibe blood and bring it in the opposite direc- tion to that in which they were accustomed to convey it—towards the occluded part. Thus the right common carotid divides into the external and internal carotids ; the external gives off the superior thyroid, lingual, facial, occipital, temporal, and internal maxillary, which would bring in blood from their fellows of the opposite side. The internal carotid would bring blood by the anterior communi- cating from the opposite side. The anastomosis through the posterior communicating would not serve, as the posterior cerebral which it joins has, because of the ligature, no blood to render ; it might, however, obtain a little blood from the left vertebral through the basilar. The subclavian trunk would be very serviceable : by the internal mammary it would bring up blood from the aortic intercostals, the deep epigastric of the external iliac, and the phrenics. The vertebral would bring blood direct from the basilar and from branches of its fellow of the opposite side. The inferior thyroid would bring in blood