154 The Thorax front of the pericardium. It inclines, therefore, to the left. In front of it arc the sternum and the adjoining parts of the fifth, sixth, and seventh cartilages. The triangularis sterni covers the anterior boundary of the space and shuts out the internal mammary vessels. It contains lymphatics ascending from the liver, and some small lymphatic glands which are associated with the inner part of the mamma (p. 203). Abscess in the root of the neck readily finds its way into the anterior mediastinum by following the trachea or the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles. The middle mediastinum contains the heart and pericardium, and the arterial and venous trunks which the pericardium encloses ; the roots of the lungs, and the various structures associated therewith ; the vena azygos turning over the root of the right lung, and the phrenic nerves. The posterior mediastinum is limited by that part of the spine which is behind the pericardium and the roots of the lungs. In it are .the third part of the arch and the thoracic aorta ; the oesophagus with the vagi ; the azygos veins, the thoracic duct, and some lymphatic glands, and the sympathetic chains with their splanchnic offshoots. The superior mediastinum is defined by drawing an imaginary horizontal plane from the transverse sternal ridge (p. 149) to the lower border of the fourth dorsal vertebra. It contains the origin of the sterno- hyoid and thyroid muscles, the remains of the thymus gland, trachea, oesophagus, left recurrent laryngeal nerve, thoracic duct ; the trans- verse part of the aortic arch with the origin of the innominate, left carotid, and left subclavian arteries ; the innominate veins and the be- ginning of the superior cava ; the phrenic, pneumogastric, and cardiac nerves, and lymphatic glands. The thymus (8v/jios, soul, life) is a ductless gland lying between the manubrium and the aortic arch ; in early life it ascends into the root of the neck, in front of the trachea ; below it reaches to the peri- cardium. It increases in bulk to the end of the second year, at which time, as regards size, it is an important anatomical structure. (See wood-cut on next page.) Its arteries are derived from the internal mammary, and the in- ferior and superior thyroid. The veins end in the internal mammary and left innominate. The nerves come from the sympathetic. The vena azygos major is the great link between the vena; cava;. Further, it receives the venous blood from the retro-cardiac region, where, of course, no vena cava exists. It begins by tributaries from the right lumbar and renal veins, or from the inferior cava itself, and, passing through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, ascends upon the right side of the spine to the fourth dorsal vertebra, whence it turns forward over the root of the right lung to enter the vena cava superior just as it is about to