6 Muscles of Head and Neck upon the sternothyroid and thyro-hyoid, being covered by the platysma and fasciae. The omo-hyoid crosses the carotid sheath at the level of the fifth cervical vertebra (see p. 23). The Elevators of the Hyoid Bone The digastric arises posteriorly from the deep aspect of the mastoid process, and, therefore, under cover of the sterno-mastoid, splenitis, and tracheo-mastoid, but upon the outer side of the occipital artery. And. as the parotid gland fills in the hollow in front of the sterno-mastoid, it also lies over the posterior belly of the digastric. This part of the muscle soon ends in a shining tendon, which, piercing the fleshy stylo-hyoid, joins with the tendon of the anterior belly, being bound down to the hyoid bone by the deep fascia. Relations.—The posterior belly rests upon the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus, the internal jugular vein, pneumogastric nerve, and internal carotid artery; the occipital artery and hypoglossal nerve ; the external carotid, and the lingual and facial arteries, and then upon the hyo-glossus (see p. 27). Its course is indicated by a line drawn from the mastoid process to the body of the hyoid bone. The anterior belly arises from a depression close against the symphysis, and, passing downwards and backwards to the central tendon, rests upon the mylo-hyoid, being covered by skin, platysma, and fasciae. The posterior belly, with the stylo-hyoid, forms the upper limit of the superior carotid, and the hinder limit of the submaxillary triangle. Nerve-supply.—The anterior belly helps the mylo-hyoid in raising and drawing forward the hyoid bone, and in depressing the jaw, and receives its supply from the mylo-hyoid nerve. The posterior belly acts with the stylo-hyoid in raising and drawing back the hyoid bone, and, like that muscle, is supplied by the facial nerve. The stylo-hyoid arises from the outer side of the styloid process and is inserted into the body of the hyoid bone. It is pierced by the tendon of the posterior belly of the digastric. Its course, actions, and relations resemble those of the posterior belly of the digastric ; and its nerve supply is identical. The mylo-hyoid descends from the ridge at the back of the maxilla to the body of the hyoid bone, the posterior border being free, whilst the anterior is blended with its fellow in a median raphe. Relations.—It is covered by the platysma and fasciae ; the anterior belly of the digastric ; the mylo-hyoid nerve and artery ; the sub- maxillary gland, and submental artery. Its deep surface helps to form the floor of the mouth, and is in contact with the genio-hyoid, genio-hyo-glossus ; the hypoglossal and gustatoiy nerves; the deep part of the submaxillary gland and its duct, and the sublingual