Henna pi11 'oditis m 42l may extend deeply into the maining separate. Occasion of the perineum at the site , of the urogenital (C, tig) aperture. In the case of doubt arising as to the sex of an imperfectly formed subject, the probability is that the subject is a male, in whom the process of deve- lopment has been arrested. (Epispadias, p. 406.) Oc- casionally, during the fusion of the halves of the scrotum, and the closing in of the urethra, the penis becomes drawn down into and blended with the scrotum, so that the imperfectly de- veloped subject is taken for a female. A glance at the adjacent woodcut shows its close re- semblance to fig. c above. It represents the parts of an imperfectly developed male, who had ' lived in a state of wedlock with three different perineum, the halves of the scrotum re- ally, the urethra opens on to the surface Hermaphroditism, the result of arrested development: a, a, halves of scrotum; 6, penis ; c, perineal fissure ; if, urethral aperture ; f,f, mucous glands. men.' (See Todd's Cyc/o- fi&dia, vol. ii. p. 693.) The illustration closely represents also the external genitals of a person whom I recently saw in consultation, who, having been brought up as a female, was not aware of his true sex until near twenty years of age. In a case of doubtful sex the testes may often be pressed down from the higher part of the inguinal canal; their discovery at once shows the child to be a male. The Penis The skin of the penis is thin ; its loose subcutaneous tissue is des- titute of fat, and is quickly infiltrated and distended by serous or urinary effusion. In case of a bulky hernia, or a large hydrocele, the lax penile coverings are requisitioned to such an extent that the penis is scarcely distinguishable in the full scrotal mass, its situation being marked by a mere depression whence the urine escapes. The skin is extremely movable, and in amputation of the penis it must not be drawn too far forward, lest the body and root of the organ be denuded.