Scarpa's Triangle 456 The deep femoral artery (profunda femoris) comes off from the back of the common trunk, an inch or two below Poupart's ligament, and, passing at first outwards, winds downwards and inwards to the adductor magnus. Relations.—At first close beneath the superficial femoral vessels, it is afterwards separated from them by the adductor longus, and the deep femoral vein. At its origin it touches the front of the iliacus ; afterwards it rests upon the pectineus and the adductors brevis and magnus. On the outer side is the femur, covered by the vastus internus, and on the inner side are the adductors. The branches of the deep femoral artery are the two circumflex and the three perforating, which, as their names imply, are either bent around the femur, or perforate the adductor magnus in their course to the back of the thigh. The external circumflex passes outwards through the divisions of the anterior crural nerve, then under the sartorius and rectus, and over the crureus. It divides into ascending branches which pass under the tensor fascia? femoris to the space between the iliac crest and the great trochanter, where they anastomose with the gluteal and the circumflexa ilii. Transverse branches pass backwards through the vastus externus to anastomose with the sciatic, internal circumflex, and superior perforating, completing the cruciform anastomosis ; and desce?iding branches run in the vastus externus to anastomose with thfe superior external articular of the popliteal. The internal circumflex leaves Scarpa's triangle between the psoas and pectineus, and, passing below the obturator externus, and above the adductor brevis, hits the interval between the quadratus femoris and the adductor magnus, by which it enters the cruciform anastomosis. When it is passing above the adductor brevis it gives a branch to anastomose with the obturator artery, and to help in the supply of the hip-joint. Another branch may pass by the tendon of the obturator externus to anastomose with the gluteal and sciatic. Of the perforating: arteries, the first runs through or above the adductor brevis to ' perforate ' the magnus. It joins in the cruciform anastomosis, and communicates below with the second, which pierces both brevis and magnus, and anastomoses with the first and with the third. The third pierces the large adductor below the level of the short one, and anastomoses with the second and with the termination of the profwida, which comes through the magnus as a fourth perforating, and anastomoses freely with the superior muscular branches of the popliteal, and with the higher perforating branches. The second perforating gives the special nutrient branch to the medulla of the femur, which enters by the linea aspera in an upw ard direction.