The External Iliac Artery 372 The accompanying vein has to cross over the external iliac artery to enter the main vein (v. p. 353). Ligation of the external iliac artery.—A curved incision of 3 or 4 in., with the convexity downwards and outwards, is made from a little above and to the outer side of the middle of Poupart's ligament to just above the front of the iliac crest. Integuments, muscles, and fascia are divided, to the length of the skin wound, as detailed on p. 369. The peritoneum is then gently drawn up, and the artery is felt pulsating on the pubic ramus. The trunk is followed up for an inch, - and is then freed of a little connective tissue which attaches it to its vein and to the sheath of the psoas. The aneurysm-needle is passed from the venous, the inner, side. (For line of incision v. p. 295.) In aged persons, and in those with diseased capillaries, the external iliac artery is elongated and tortuous, and sometimes drops from the inner side of the psoas to form a considerable loop into the true pelvis. Collateral circulation.—The deep epigastric would bring in blood from its fellow of the opposite side, and from the obturator, by the anastomosis behind the pubes ; from the spermatic (aortic) through the cremasteric branch ; from the lumbar and lower intercostals, and from the internal mammary (p. 156). The deep circumflexa would help by its communications with the iliac branch of the ilio-lumbar, and with thelower lumbar arteries. Of the branches of the common femoral, the deep external pudic might join with the superficial of the internal pudic. Of the deep femoral, the anastomoses of the external circumflex with the gluteal and the sciatic, of the internal circumflex with the sciatic and obturator, and of the superior perforating with the sciatic would all help. The Internal Iliac Artery The internal iliac artery descends from the bifurcation of the common trunk, for about i£ in., to the great sacro-sciatic foramen, where it divides into an anterior and a posterior trunk. Relations.—In front are the peritoneum and rectum, and the bladder and ureter. Behind' are the internal iliac vein, the lumbo- sacral cord, and the side of the sacrum, the anterior division of the artery being continued over the sacral plexus and the pyriformis. To the outer side is the brim of the pelvis, the obturator nerve, and the external iliac vessels. Internally is the rectum. Hypogastric arteries.—In the infant the internal iliac arteries are so large that they seem to represent the divisions of the aorta itself, the external iliacs coming off as mere branches. They give off twigs into the pelvis, and run, but little reduced in size, along the brim of the pelvis and up the side of the bladder to leave the abdomen at the umbilicus, carrying impure blood to the placenta. Within the abdo- men they are the hypogastric arteries^ but outside they are the arteries of the umbilical cord (v. p. 298).