Palm of Hand 292 abductor, flexor brevis, and adductor pollicis ; if manipulations then fail it may be necessary to divide the abductor and the outer head of flexor brevis before the phalanx can be replaced. Sometimes the capsule of the joint or the intervention of the tendon of the long flexor is the impediment to reduction. The palmaris brevis arises from the inner part of the anterior annular ligament, and is inserted into the skin along the inner border of the hand, which it raises to form the cup of Diogenes. Crossing over the ulnar vessels and nerve, it is supplied by the superficial part of the ulnar nerve. In the ball of the thumb the most superficial muscle is the abductor pollicis, which arises from the annular ligament and is in- serted with the flexor brevis into the outer part of the base of the first phalanx, through the medium of a sesamoid bone. The oppone7is is so named because its action is to 'place the thumb opposite' the other digits ; it is, therefore, inserted along the outer side of the metacarpal bone itself. It arises from the annular ligament and the trapezium, lying beneath the abductor. The flexor brevis has a bulky origin from the annular ligament, the trapezium, os magnum, and the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones. Its outer head is inserted with the abductor, and its inner with the adductor pollicis, into the sides of the base of the first phalanx, through the medium of sesamoid bones. The tendon of the long flexor passes down between its heads of insertion. The adductor arises from the middle metacarpal bone, and is in- serted with the inner head of the short flexor. Nerve-supply.—The muscles of the ball of the thumb are supplied by the median, but the deep part of the flexor brevis, and the adductor pollicis are supplied by the deep part of the ulnar nerve. The muscles of the little fi.7iger are the abductor, flexor brevis, and opponens. They arise from the pisiform region of the hand. Two of them are inserted into the base of the first phalanx, and the opponens is inserted into the metacarpal bone itself. They are supplied by the deep part of the ulnar nerve. Of the interossei, four are dorsal and three palmar. The former are abductors, as is shown by looking at the outermost of them, which, lodged between the first and second metacarpal bones, constitutes the abductor indicis. The dorsal interosseous arise from two bones, and between the heads of origin of each passes an artery. In the case of the abductor indicis the artery is the radial, in the case of the others it is the perforating of the deep arch. The interossei are inserted partly into the bases of the first phalanges, helping to flex those phalanges, and partly into the extensor tendons, helping, therefore, to extend the second and third phalanges, as is shown on p. 273. In the third month of fcetal life the flattened distal end of the lappet or bud, A, B, from which the arm is developed, shows four notches, C