321 Gastric Ulcer vomiting brings immediate comfort; in catarrh the trouble is more constant. With ulcer there is pain in the back, over the lower dorsal spines, and, generally, blood is vomited. Gastric ulcer is usually preceded by catarrh, the epithelial lining being detached over small areas ; the ulcer is most liable to attack the pyloric end of the posterior wall, near the lesser curvature. Should it implicate a large branch of arteiy, fatal haemorrhage may result. In haematemesis (efjuais, vomiting) the blood comes up in vomiting, not in coughing ; it is not frothy or bright-coloured, but it is acid from admixture with gastric juice ; blood from lung, pharynx, or nares may find its way into the stomach and be voided by vomiting, so that blood which is vomited is not necessarily the result of gastric haemorrhage. If the ulcer cause perforation, the extravasated matter from the stomach may come directly in contact with the solar plexus, death occurring rapidly from shock or peritonitis, unless adhesions have glued the margin of the ulcer to liver, pancreas, duodenum, or colon. On the front of the stomach conservative adhesions are less likely to occur. Sometimes, however, the ulcer opens harmlessly into the duodenum or colon. If an ulceration be diagnosed upon the posterior wall, the patient must be kept lying prone. When ' ulcer' has been diagnosed the diet should be of the lightest kind, and the patient should be kept lying down, so that if, as often happens, ulceration extend to the serous coat, local plastic peri- tonitis may glue the treacherous area to the liver, general peritonitis being thus averted. Grave collapse is the great sign of perforation, and of extravasation of food having occurred into the peritoneal cavity. To ensure absolute rest, no food whatever should be given by the mouth. Dyspepsia.—In disease of the heart, as also in cirrhosis of the liver, there is impeded circulation, the vena porta? being overladen, and gastric catarrh and dyspepsia resulting. Thus it happens that1 indiges- tion ' may be the most prominent symptom of morbus cordis. The nerves of the stomach grow over-sensitive, and, as soon as food comes in contact with them, there is discomfort, a feeling of fulness, or actual pain, which may be relieved only by vomiting. As the patient gets worse the food and glairy mucus which he vomits are streaked with blood which has escaped from the over-loaded capillaries, and as the disease still further advances the vomit consists of acid mucus and darkened blood. This is the ' black vomit' so often seen in the dying. Vomiting- is accomplished by the abdominal muscles compressing the stomach against the diaphragm and liver, the cardiac orifice being relaxed. First a deep inspiration is taken, so that the diaphragm may lie at its lowest level; it is then fixed by the firm closure of the glottis ; a patient with an opening in the trachea cannot vomit, as the diaphragm cannot be fixed. The fuller the stomach, the easier is the Y