204 The Mamma Contraction of the new elements of the breast causes so much compression of the mammary tissues as to impede the return of blood from the skin of the pectoral region, so that the superficial veins are dilated and conspicuous, and the affected gland is even smaller than the other. The lymph-channels running from the breast to the axil- lary lymphatics are often invaded, and, like the glands themselves, should be cleared away. When the scirrhus is situated to the sternal side of the breast the axillary glands are involved later than when it is to the outer side. In the former case the glands in the anterior mediastinum are specially likely to be involved, and they may there form an enormous tumour against the heart or lung. Abscess may occur in the breast or in the loose connective tissue superficial to or beneath it ; from the rapidity with which the tension of the sensory nerves is produced, it is accompanied with much pain. A sub-mammary abscess, if left to itself, is likely to point near the anterior axillary fold. HypertropJiy is a multiplication of the normal elements throughout the breast, and ade7i07tia (adrjv, gland) is a 'chronic mammary tumour' of the normal cellular elements of the gland in a bed of fibrous tissue. Cystic disease (serous) is due to the dilatation of ducts or of lymph-spaces throughout the gland. When a suckling woman has an abscess in one breast she ought at once to wean the child, as putting it to the sound breast inevitably causes physiological disturbance and irritation of the affected one. In amputating the breast the arm should be abducted, so as to tighten the integument and the pectoralis major. A semi-elliptical incision is then made on either side of the nipple in a direction towards the armpit, so that the axillary glands can be extracted by a slight extension of the wound. It does not matter whether the upper or the lower incision is made first. It is important, in operating for cancer, that the whole of the gland and the nipple be taken away, even if only a part be involved. After operation the arm should be fixed to the side, and even when the wound is perfectly healed the arm should be worn in a sling, so as to ensure rest. In the newly-born child, whether male or female, the mamma often contains a watery epithelial wreckage which looks like milk, and on rare occasions this pent-up secretion determines inflammation and suppuration. THE SPINAL COLUMN Spina bifida.—A vertebra has three primary centres of ossification, two for laminae and one for body. The lamina: are fused in the root of the spinous process. If development be arrested the spinal canal remains unenclosed posteriorly, the membranes with the cerebro- spinal fluid bulging as a soft tumour. The defect is found most often in the lumbar and sacral region, for there the lamina; are last ossified.