246 The Axilla fossa (p. 241) ; and that the very end of the third part of the vessel is comparatively superficial. He does not consider the relations of the three parts separately, but regards the artery as a continuous trunk. In front are the skin, superficial fascia and platysma, the deep fascia, and the pectoralis major and minor. Just below the clavicle the vessel is covered by the costo-coracoid membrane, and is crossed by the cephalic vein. The subclavius also overhangs the beginning of the artery, but in operations at that part the clavicle is raised, so that the muscle may be out of the way. The formation of the median nerve takes place over the third part of the artery. Behind.—As the axillary artery is the continuation of the sub- clavian, which rests upon the first rib, its beginning must needs rest upon the first intercostal space and the top of the serratus magnus. The nerve of Bell descends behind the beginning of the artery to reach the chest-wall. The artery there rests upon the subscapularis, the posterior cord of the plexus and its derivatives—the musculo- spiral and circumflex—and on the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major. And, as the shoulder-blade does not lie flat against the ribs, the artery crosses a gap in its course from the intercostal space to the subscapularis. To the inner side is the axillary vein in the whole of the course of the artery, the inner cord of the plexus and its derivatives inter- vening between the two vessels in the second and third parts of their course. To the outer side are the brachial plexus and the derivatives of the outer cord, namely, the musculo-cutaneous and the outer head of the median. At the lowest part of the artery the last-named nerve is to the outer side, as are also the coraco-brachialis and biceps. Branches.—The first duty of the axillary artery is to give off branches to the side of the chest. The further that the artery descends, the wider is the gap between it and the chest, and the longer are its thoracic branches. The first is the short one. The second is the inner division of the acromial-thoracic; the third is'the long one ; the fourth is the alar; the fifth is the subscapular, which is very largely concerned in the supply of the serratus magnus and chest-wall. All these arteries anastomose with vessels which are already between the ribs—the superior intercostal of the subclavian in the back of the highest spaces, and the aortic intercostals in the lower; and the anterior intercostals of the internal mammary in the front of each space. The acromial division of the acromial-thoracic runs through the costo-coracoid membrane, and anastomoses in the region from which it takes its name with branches of the supra-scapular and circumflex arteries. A descending branch runs in the inter-muscular groove with the cephalic vein. The long thoracic descends by the lower border of the pectoralis minor to the chest, giving branches through to the