Syphilitic Teeth "3 Hexagonal rods of enamel cover the working part of the tooth and protect the less durable dentine ; when they are worn away the den- tine soon perishes. The crusta petrosci is a thin layer of bone which covers the hidden surface of the tooth ; it contains rudimentary Haversian systems. In old people outgrowths from it are apt to form large exostoses. Development of the teeth.—In the second month the margin of the rudimentary jaw is marked by a primitive dental groove ; the enamel is developed from the epithelial lining of this groove. The rest of the tooth grows up as a small papilla from the subjacent part of the groove and eventually becomes capped with the enamel. Each rudi- mentary and temporary tooth then becomes shut into a separate com- partment of the dental groove, the small chamber constituting the dentinal sac. The permanent teeth are developed in secondary dentinal sacs which are budded off from the backs of the primary sacs. Eruption.—It is impracticable to remember when each tooth of the two sets should be making its appearance, but every student should know that the first tooth of the milk-set is cut in the seventh month, and the first of the permanent set in the seventh year. The lower teeth appear before the upper, and the eruption of the lower central incisors should be taken as a hint that the child should be weaned. In the first set the lateral incisors appear after the central, and, at the end of the year, the first molars : then come the canines, and, in the second or third year, the back molars. As regards the permanent set, in the seventh year the first lower molars appear. In the seventh and eighth years, respectively, the middle and lateral incisors emerge. In the ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth years come the first and the second bicuspids, the canines, and the second molars ; just before the subject comes of age he is supposed to have cut his wisdom teeth. It should be noticed that the temporary incisors, which are cut well within the first year, must needs be formed and calcified many months earlier, and that when hereditary syphilis attacks the mouth it is powerless to affect them. In the first year or two, however, when the congenital taint is exerting its prejudicial influence on nutrition, the teeth of the permanent set are being developed. They, therefore, and not those of the milk teeth, are de- faced by the disease. Syphilitic teeth are unevenly arranged, and their narrowed cutting edge is marked by a crescentic notch. The ' test-teeth' of Hutchinson are the central, upper incisors of the permanent set. If the teeth of the permanent set are very large, or the alveolar processes are too small to hold them, one or more of them may fail to reach the surface, and may migrate towards the antrum, or nasal fossa. I