Female Urethra 419 the roof of the urethra, just behind the triangular ligament, the beak passing into the cellular interval between the front of the bladder and the pubes. Blood might escape but no water, and the beak might be clearly felt behind the abdominal wall. Digital exploration by the rectum would not distinguish the catheter in the bladder. Rules for catheterisation.—Be very gentle. Keep the beak of the catheter along the roof of the urethra. When you can no longer feel the beak in the perineum introduce your finger into the rectum, as a guide and guard. Keep the handle in the exact median line, and in depressing it mind that the beak does not catch against the front of the triangular ligament. Learn, and remember against a future occasion, the geographical peculiarities of that urethra. Should spasmodic contraction of the compressor urethras obstruct the passage of the instrument, pause until the muscle has yielded, and then gently proceed with the operation. Cock's operation.—When retention of urine results from stricture of the urethra, that part of the canal which intervenes between the prostate and the stricture is {see fig. on p. 408) distended ; if the end of a scalpel be boldly introduced into it the bladder empties itself, and, rest being secured, the stricture ultimately gives way. For the operation the patient must be placed in the lithotomy position, and the finger having been introduced into the rectum, and resting against the apex of the prostate, the scalpel is thrust up to it, with the back towards the rectum. The urethra is then opened from behind forwards. Urine at once escapes ; if need be, a tube is easily passed into the bladder. The Female Urethra The female urethra opens into the vulva about an inch below the clitoris. It is an inch and a-half in length, and descends close in front of the anterior wall of the vagina. Its coats consist of vascular and elastic tissue, and of an abundant lining of mucous membrane, which is thrown into longitudinal folds. The epithelium is transitional and squamous. Passing through the somewhat indefinite triangular ligament, the urethra is surrounded with the representative of a com- pressor urethras. It is extremely dilatable, and may, by careful management, admit the index-finger for exploration of the bladder. Even in the child a lithotrite may be safely passed along it, or a good- sized stone removed through it, without more serious consequence than a temporary paralysis {v. p. 389.) To pass the female catheter without exposure of the parts, cannot be done without practice ; the operation should be learnt upon the cadaver. Descending from the anterior fourchette, the tip of the left index-finger just touches the clitoris ; at about an inch further down is a flat papillary enlargement, in the centre of which is the urethral opening. The catheter is then run along the pulp of the e e 2