194 The Lungs gradually incline inwards behind the sternoclavicular articulation, and the manubrium, to the middle of the transverse ridge on the sternum ; they then descend together as far as the fourth cartilage. From this level the border of the right lung descends straight to the end of the gladiolus, whilst the other slopes outwards in a line from the fourth left cartilage to a spot two inches below and one inch internal to the left nipple—that is, to the apex of the heart—thus leaving a triangular surface of the right ventricle uncovered by lung ; the size of this super- ficial cardiac region (p. 165) is, of course, in the inverse ratio of the size of the lung, being large in phthisis, small or effaced in emphysema. There is scarcely any lung-tissue behind the manubrium, the narrow space between it and the spine being occupied by the trachea and oesophagus and the large blood-vessels ; but, as the aorta is fixed to the back of the chest by its intercostal branches, when the sternum advances in inspiration the edges of the lungs must then glide inwards towards the middle line. The root of the lung consists of the pulmonary veins, the pul- monary artery, and the bronchus—in that order from before backwards. From above downwards the order is : on the left side, artery, bronchus, veins, but on the right side the bronchus is higher than the artery, the veins being still below and in front. The left bronchus descends to a lower level than the right in its course beneath the aortic arch. The root of the lung has pleura in front and behind, constituting the broad ligament, between the folds of which are the bronchial vessels, sym- pathetic and pneumogastric filaments, and lymphatics and lymphatic glands. Relations of the root of the lung-.—On the right side, in front, are the ascending aorta and the descending cava, the vena azygos major {v. p. 185) arching over the root to end in the vena cava. On the left side the root lies in front of the oesophagus and the third part of the aorta, and slopes beneath the aortic bend. Malignant stricture of the oesophagus often occurs at the spot where it is crossed by the left bronchus—perhaps as the result of pressure. In front of the left bronchus is the left auricle {v. p. 177). The phrenic nerve and the anterior pulmonary plexus are in front of each root, and the vagus and the posterior pulmonary plexus are behind. Infarction.—The branches of the pulmonary artery pass in with the bronchi and continue to divide until the ultimate capillaries enter their respective lobules ; if a clot be dislodged from one of the systemic veins—say from an iliac vein, as after 'white leg'—and be carried into the right heart and into a pulmonary artery, by acting as a plug it throws out of work all that area of lung which the artery supplied. This area will be wedge-shaped, with the apex at the site of the plug, and the base at the surface of the lung ; in conformity to the arborescent distribution of the vessels, the base must reach the surface, for there the capillaries end. The larger the embolic clot (o»,