343 Relations of Kidneys The duct leaves the substance of the gland at its head, and joins with the common bile-duct to open into the duodenum. The arteries come from the splenic, and from the pancreatico-duo- denal loop of the hepatic and superior mesenteric. Its venous blood enters the portal circulation. The nerves come from the cceliac plexus of the sympathetic. In enlargement of the pancreas, especially if the patient be thin, the pulsations of the aorta are distinctly conveyed to the surface of the body in the epigastric region. The Kidneys The kidneys (each 5 oz.) are not quite on the same level, the right being depressed half an inch by the intervention of the liver between it and the diaphragm. On the under surface of the right lobe of the liver there is a depression for the kidney and supra-renal capsule. The kidneys lie against the outer border of the psoas, behind the peri- toneum, in a bed of loose connective tissue and fat, and they rest upon the slope of the diaphragm, the twelfth rib, and the quadratus lumborum. Thus, they are about on a level with the last dorsal and the first and second lumbar vertebrae. (See illustrations on pp. 164 and 333.) In front of the right kidney are the descending piece of duodenum and ascending colon ; the descending colon lying on the front of the left. The tail of the pancreas may also just touch the front of the left kidney above, whilst the great end of the stomach is in anterior relationship with it; the spleen is above and to the outer side. A horizontal line through the umbilicus passes just below the normal kidneys, and a line drawn upwards from the middle of Poupart's ligament parallel to the linea alba runs nearly through the middle of each. On the posterior surface of the body their situation can be marked a little way from the spinous processes, from just above the last rib nearly to the iliac crest, the right being a little lower, and the notch of each being directed towards the spine. Renal abscess and calculi may escape through the loin. Fissures and indentations of the surface of the kidney are often