290 Pah11 of Hand In amputating a metacarpal bone its base should, if possible, be left, as to remove it would be to open up a considerable extent of synovial membrane (p. 286). But this remark does not apply to the first metacarpal, which has an isolated joint with the trapezium. In amputating this bone, however, the utmost care must be taken lest, in attacking its base, the radial artery be wounded as it is pass- ing to the root of the first space, as shown in the fig. on p. 287. Amputation of the thumb at its joint with the trapezium may be performed by a racket-shaped incision, the ' handle part' of which runs from the root of the metacarpal bone and down the dorsum, whilst the ' loop part' encircles the head of the bone. The three ex- tensor tendons are cut, and the abductor, opponens, flexors brevis and longus, and the adductor. The root of the first dorsal interosseous muscle is detached. The radial artery must be very carefully guarded, but its branches, the two dorsales and the princeps, must needs be severed. In amputating a finger or a phalanx a difficulty may arise in hit- ting the articulation unless the finger be first bent. The knife should be passed so as to strike the middle of the head of the metacarpal bone, not its dorsal aspect. The joint being traversed from behind, a flap is cut from the flexor aspect. It is important to remember that the prominence of the knuckle is made by the head of the meta- carpal bone or of the phalanx, and not by the base of the phalanx ; unless this be understood, the operator ma)- be expending his time in useless cuts against the head of the metacarpal bone or phalanx. Amputation through the first inter-phalangeal joint is apt to leave the phalanx stiff and unmanageable, because it receives no insertion either from the flexor or the extensor tendons. It is preferable, therefore, to amputate through the middle of the second phalanx, as the stump then retains the slips of the superficial flexor and of the common extensor. But when only the first phalanx is left the tendons may still find a cicatricial insertion and render the stump extremely useful. The metacarpal bones have a centre of ossification for the shaft which appears at the eighth week of foetal life, and one for the head which appears in the third year ; they coalesce at manhood—20th year. The phalanges are developed on the same plan, except that in them the epiphysis is at the base instead of the head. The first metacarpal bone, let it be noted, has its epiphysis at its base ; thus, developmentally, it is a phalanx. Occasionally the first metacarpal bone is dislocated at its saddle- shaped joint with the trapezium ; sometimes its epiphysis is detached, in which case the appearance is a good deal like that of dislocation ;