Spinal Curvature 207 Kyphosis. common ligament, just as the posterior occipito-atloid ligament repre- sents the ligamentum subflavum. The posterior ligament is attached above to the back of the foramen magnum, and is pierced by the verte- bral arteries and the suboccipital nerves. In front it is intimately connected with the dura mater as it descends into the spinal canal. The lateral ligaments pass between the transverse process of the atlas and jugular eminence of the occipi- tal bone. The occiput is connected with the axis by an upward prolongation of the posterior common ligament, which blends at the front of the foramen magnum with the cranial dura mater. Beneath it are two cheek ligaments, which pass from the tip of the odontoid process to the inner sides of the occipital condyles, and a third slip which runs up to the front of the foramen magnum. When the weight of the head and the upper part of the body is greater than the spinal column is able to support it bends forwards in an exaggeration of the normal curve of the dorsal region, just as the stalk of corn yields when the ear of wheat is large and full. In the human subject the bending may be due to a deficiency of earthy matter in the bony segments, as happens in the rickety child, or to a settling down of the vertebrae and the intervening discs from long-continued pressure, as in the rheumatic or old and worn-out labourer. The curvature is dignified by the name of kyphosis (icvcpos, bowedforwards). Lordosis, or saddle-back (kopbos, curved), is the opposite condition, the trunk being thrown backwards by exaggeration of the normal lumbar curve, the con- cavity of which looks backwards. It is usually a com- pensatory curve which the subject instinctively acquires in order to keep the centre of gravity from being ad- vanced too far, and unstable equilibrium being thereby produced. Thus, it is found in pregnant women, who are compelled to throw the shoulders backwards in walking ; and, to a less degree, in the very fat man. It is still better marked when caries of the high dorsal ver- tebras has allowed the head and shoulders to fall for- ward, and also when, from congenital displacement, the heads of the femora are behind their normal position, as figured on page 472. Lateral curvature.—The commonest variety is that in which the right shoulder is raised, the convexity of the lateral dorsal curve being Lordosis.1 1 These and similar figures are from Erichsen's Surgery.