326 T//c Large Intestine to the right sacroiliac synchondrosis. It is spread out like a fan, and its intestinal border is about 20 ft. long. The measurement from the spinal to the intestinal border is 4 or 6 in., and the question still remains unanswered if, in a hernia, the mesentery was so deep as to let the bowel slip into the inguinal or femoral canal, or if the fold was pulled down and elongated by the emigrant bowel. The lymphatic glands at the root of the mesentery are prone to tubercular inflamma- tion ; the disease may spread and glue together adjacent coils of intestine, or may determine a suppurative peritonitis. After resecting a piece of small intestine the edges of the tri- angular gap in the mesentery must be carefully adjusted by sutures. The end of the ileum, especially in children, is apt to slip through the ileo-caical valve, and, with the invaginated ccecum, to be carried along the colon and possibly through the anus. In a few happy cases of this sort the invaginated bowel has sloughed off and the patient recovered. Forcible inflation of the lower bowel occasionally succeeds in un- sheathing the piece when the adjacent serous surfaces have not become too closely adherent by plastic effusion ; abdominal section, too, has in rare instances availed (' Lancet,' August 4, 1888). Opium is the only drug to be prescribed : absolute quiet is essential. The colon, about 5 ft., ascends from the right iliac fossa through the right lumbar into the hypochondriac region, passing in front of the quadratus lumborum, kidney, and descending piece of duodenum to the right lobe of the liver. Thence it turns across the top of the umbilical region below the stomach ; reaching the spleen well behind the stomach, it descends in front of the left kidney and quadratus, and, at the end of the sigmoid flexure, is continued on as the rectum. As it passes across the abdomen it lies over the vertebral column and the large vessels ; aortic abdominal aneurysm is apt to burst into the transverse colon. The transverse colon is often found in the sac of an umbilical hernia. Gall-stones may escape into the hepatic flexure, and renal or spinal abscess may be evacuated through the ascending or descending parts. The sigmoid flexure is apt, in habitual constipation, to be so laden with faeces as to form a doughy tumour in the left iliac fossa. Some- times a sigmoid loop swings over, producing that form of obstruction known as volvulus. With obstruction so low in the bowel the abdo- minal distension is extreme. In obstruction of the rectum the sigmoid flexure may become an enormous faecal reservoir which occupies the chief part of the abdominal cavity. The ascending and descending colon are not generally entirely invested with peritoneum; the postero-intemal strip is likely to be bare, and it is through that part that the bowel is opened in lumbar colotomy, as is shown on the next page. The caecum, which as a rule is entirely surrounded by peritoneum,