285 Interosseous Membrane middle, or lower third. What may be called the ' favourite situation' is just below the middle, so that the stump may be left under the government of the pronator radii teres as well as of the supinator brevis and its powerful ally, the biceps. In amputation at the wrist the flap is dissected from the palm, and turned back over the lower end of the radius and the triangular fibro- cartilage. The head of the ulna and the membrana sacciformis are not exposed or interfered with. Below the level of the superior radio-ulnar joint the bones of the fore-arm are connected by an oblique ligament which runs downwards from the coronoid process of the ulna to the radius, just below the tuberosity. Then begin the fibres of the interosseous membrane, which are oblique in the other sense, namely, downwards and inwards. Between the upper border of the interosseous membrane and the oblique ligament is a triangular gap through which the posterior inter- osseous vessels pass; the nerve, however, reaches the back of the fore-arm by passing round the outer side of the radius through the supinator brevis. Relations of the membrane.—Upon the front lie the origins of the flexors profundus digitorum and longus pollicis, and deep in the interval between them run the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve. The pronator quadratus covers its lower third. Upon the posterior surface rest the supinator brevis and the origins of the three extensors of the thumb and of the index-finger. Because of these oblique extensors covering the membrane, the posterior interosseous vessels do not reach it, but the anterior interosseous artery, which comes through above the pronator quadratus, and the ending of the posterior interosseous nerve, lie upon it just above the wrist. The inferior radio-ulnar joint consists of the lesser sigmoid cavity of the radius, and the head of the ulna. These surfaces are covered with cartilage and lubricated with a loose synovial membrane {sacci- formis), and are connected in front and behind by short bands of fibres. Extending from the root of the styloid process of the ulna to the lower border of the lesser sigmoid cavity of the radius is the triangular fibro-cartilage, which shuts the ulna out of the wrist-joint. The lower surface of this cartilage articulates with the cuneiform, and is lubricated by the synovial membrane of the wrist-joint. Sometimes the synovial membranes above and below the joint blend through a hole in the carti- lage. {See next page.) The joint is supplied by branches of the two interosseous arteries and nerves. The wrist-joint is formed above by the radius and the triangular inter-articular fibro-cartilage, and below by the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones, the last-named articulating with the fibro-carti-