450' The Thigh so also are the hollows at the sides of the ligamentum patella. This ligament is inserted into the lower part of the tubercle of the tibia. The prominent part of this tubercle corresponds with the level of the head of the fibula. On the outer side of the knee, a little above the joint, are two thick fibrous bands, one anterior to the other: the larger and posterior is the tendon of the biceps, descending to the head of the fibula ; the anterior is the ilio-tibial band of the fascia lata descending to the outer tuberosity of the tibia (p. 448). Between these bands is a shallow groove through which abscess in popliteal space is best attacked. The external popliteal nerve (p. 381) may often be made out close to the inner side of the biceps tendon ; it pierces the peroneus longus, at the neck of the fibula, and ultimately divides into the musculo-cutaneous and anterior tibial trunks. Tenotomy of biceps is often needed when a stiff knee is being straightened. The strong and narrow blade must be introduced close on the inner side of the tendon, feeling its way down, as it were, between the tendon and the external popliteal nerve. Section of the tendon is then accomplished by a sawing motion in the outward direction. If the tendon were divided from without inwards there would be considerable risk of the knife passing ' with a run ' through the last bundles of fibres, and thus wounding the nerve. When the joint is slightly bent, the fascia lata at the back of the thigh and knee is relaxed, and the fingers can explore the popliteal space, and also the slackened hamstring tendons. On the outer side is the biceps, and below and internal to it is a head of the gastro- cnemius. On the inner side is the semi-membranosus, and a little to the fibular side of that tendon is the slender tendon of the semi- tendinosus. The tendon of the gracilis is more towards the front, and is not always very readily made out, especially in a fat subject. Still more to the inner side and to the front is the flat musculo-aponeurotic sartorius ; its position is not marked by a tendon, but one can tell where it is by following its course from the groove between the vastus and the adductors, and noting, perhaps, a soft prominence caused by the muscle as it passes over the side of the inner condyle. On the fibular side of the inner hamstrings is the inner head of the gastro- cnemius. The superficial fascia consists of a fatty layer continuous with that of abdomen and buttock, and with the dartos, and of a deeper layer which is thin and membranous. The latter is beneath the saphenous vein and the lymphatic glands of the groin ; it blocks up the saphenous opening ; but at that situation it has so many perfora- tions for blood-vessels and lymphatics that it is called cribriform. It is one of the coverings of femoral hernia. The internal saphenous vein begins in an arch with the external or short saphenous on the dorsum of foot, and passes up in front