226 The Clavicle readily reduced, it is often impossible to keep the clavicle in position without obtaining, by a cutting operation, permanent ankylosis. The joint has a synovial membrane and a capsule which is thick- ened by superior and inferior fibres. Sometimes the joint is divided by an inter-articular fibro-cartilage. The conoid and trapezoid ligaments bind the outer third of the clavicle to the coracoid process; the conoid is behind and to the inner side of the trapezoid, the base of the cone being upwards. The chief muscles attached to the clavicle are the pectoralis major in the cylindrical and the deltoid in the flattened part, in front, and the trapezius behind the deltoid. The sterno-mastoid arises along the sternal third of the upper aspect, and the subclavius is inserted into the groove on the under surface. Fracture of the clavicle usually occurs at about the middle of the convex part, the cause being a fall on to the hand or shoulder. Signs of the fracture.—The shoulder at once drops, for there is now nothing but the trapezius and the levator anguli scapulae to support the weight of the arm. The dragging is so painful that the man usually holds up the elbow in the other hand, and inclines his head to the injured side. The collar-bone is intended not only to hold the shoulder up, but to fend it from the chest. When, therefore, the bone is broken the pectoralis major and minor, latissimus dorsi, subclavius, trapezius, and rhomboids drag the scapula inwards, whilst the pectorals also drag it somewhat forwards. The inner fragment does not stir : the costo-clavicular (rhomboid) and the adjacent ligaments hold it firm. As the finger is run along the broken bone the sternal fragment certainly does seem to be displaced, but it is not. It is the outer part that has fallen in beneath it. The treatment consists in raising the elbow—and with it the drooping scapula—and in bringing the elbow across the chest, a large pad being placed in the armpit. The pad acts as a fulcrum to the humerus —a lever of the first order : when the elbow is drawn inwards the scapular end of the bone is thrust out- wards. The hand is laid flat over the opposite breast, and the arm, forearm, and hand are secured by a wide roller, or strapping, for about three weeks. When the clavicle is broke?! outside the conoid ligament there is usually no displacement, for the shoulder-blade is still suspended by that ligament; there may be some dropping of the shoulder, however. Complications.—The broken bone may, if the violence be great, wound the external jugular (p. 35), subclavian, or in- ternal jugular vein, or even the subclavian artery. It may also lacerate the brachial plexus. Fracture of cla vicle. (Druitt.)