453 Mtiscles of Thigh front of the iliac piece of the fascia lata, along which it sometimes travels to the iliac crest. The sartorius arises from the anterior superior iliac spine, and passes downwards and inwards over the iliacus and rectus, and the anterior crural nerve. It then descends vertically over and between the vastus internus and the adductor longus, covering the superficial femoral vessels, passing over the adductor magnus, gracilis, long saphenous nerve, and the internal lateral ligament of the knee. It is inserted below the inner tuberosity of the tibia, and into the deep fascia of the leg. It is supplied by the middle cutaneous and other branches of anterior crural nerve. Lying in the groove between the vastus and adductors it is the guide to ligation of the femoral artery, both at the apex of Scarpa's triangle and in Hunter's canal. The surgeon looks for its long parallel fibres as soon as he has incised the fascia lata. The rectus femoris arises from the anterior inferior spine of the ilium, and from just above the acetabulum ; these heads join in a tendon which soon spreads out into a bipenniform, fleshy mass, which, lying over the deeper part of the quadriceps extensor (crureus and vasti) is inserted with it into the patella. Relations.—The origin of the muscle is deeply placed, lying upon the capsule of the hip-joint, beneath the gluteus minimus, iliacus and psoas, and the tensor fascia? femoris ; but in the rest of its extent-it is beneath the fascia lata. When the muscle contracts with excessive energy it may break off the anterior inferior iliac spine, or detach its epiphysis, or it may tear through the lower tendon. If it be acting with the rest of the quadri- ceps the patella may be broken across, or its ligament may be torn through. The adductor longus arises by a slender tendon from the front of the angle of the pubes—just below the pubic spine—and passes downwards, outwards, and backwards to the middle third of the linea aspera. It separates the superficial from the deep femoral vessels ; and, passing to its insertion behind the origin of the vastus internus, it forms the postero-internal boundary of Hunter's canal. Behind it descend the adductors brevis and magnus, and the anterior division of the obturator nerve. Along its outer and inner borders are the pectineus and the gracilis respectively. The adductors longus and brevis and the pectineus are powerful external rotators as well as adductors of the thigh ; they are supplied by the obturator nerve, but the gracilis is a pure adductor, and is supplied by the obturator nerve. The pectineus is as much a flexor as an adductor, and is supplied both by the anterior crural and the obturator ; the psoas is simply a flexor, and is therefore supplied by the anterior crural only, or by twigs of the lumbar plexus.