4/4 The Knee-joint As a matter of fact, however, the limb has to be straight ; for when it is flexed the patella is tightly dragged down below the condyles and the quadriceps is so tense that it is impossible to work beneath it. The cushion of fat behind the ligamentum patellae is made very apparent when the knee is extended ; it is apt to be mistaken for abscess when attention is directed to it in the case of knee-disease, so soft and ' fluctuating' does it seem to be. The outline of the membrane may be traced upon the skin by making a crescentic mark across the thigh, convex upwards, three inches above the patella, with its horns descending in front of the femoral tuberosities, and by then making a transverse line just above the apex of the patella. The latter mark shows the lower limit of the membrane, which does not cover the patella in its whole extent, but slopes from it down to the front of the tibial head. The line is then to be kept close along the top of the tibia and to skirt the femoral condyles below the tuberosities (to which the lateral ligaments are attached). Having crept through to the back of the articulation, the membrane ascends to line the posterior ligament, and to cover the back of the condyles. Synovitis causes effusion into the joint, and if the effusion be rapid, the sensory nerves are suddenly stretched, great pain resulting. The tension of the capsule is then extreme. But if the effusion be gradual, as happens in chronic synovitis, there may be little pain, even though the joint contain several ounces of fluid, and bulge high above the patella, as tlie stretching of the nerves is slow and easy. At the sides, where the lateral ligaments strengthen the capsule and prevent it yielding, there is no bulging. Fluid collecting between the trochlear surface and the patella floats the patella off that surface, and the knee is slightly bent, as in that position there is more room for the fluid in the articulation. In effusion into the joint the fluid is obviously behind the patella, whilst in effusion into the bursa patella? the fluid is in front of the bone, obscuring, or even hiding, it. When the knee is distended with fluid there is a bulging above and at the sides of the knee-cap, under the quadriceps, and on either side of the ligamentum patellae. As the patella is actually in the sub- stance of the capsule, when the latter becomes distended the knee-cap is carried forward or 'floated' from the trochlear surface, which it can be made to touch by being thrust back through the fluid. By grasping the front of the lower part of the thigh with the flat of the hand and laying the fingers and thumb along the sides of the knee-cap, the fluid may be made to bulge—even if only small in quantity—on either side of the ligament ; and from this region it may be driven by pressure with the other hand up again to the supra-patellar pouch, with a de- finite fluctuation beneath the patella. To open an abscess in the joint, a bold incision on one side, or on both sides of the patella should be made ; if necessary, the incisions