171 Cardiac Murmurs ringing is their slamming, and thus is explained the accentuation of the second sound. When an abnormal sound is heard over the heart, the first point is to find if it is synchronous with ventricular contraction or not; this is settled by listening to the sound whilst the finger is laid on the radial pulse. If the murmur be occurring with the ventricular contraction it must be due either to obstruction to the outflow of blood into the pulmonary artery or aorta, or to a reflux through an auriculo-ventri- cular valve ; and if it be heard during diastole it must be caused by re- gurgitation from the pulmonary artery or aorta, or by a difficult passage from an auricle into a ventricle ; almost for cei'tain it is due to re- gurgitation, and, almost certainly, the regurgitation is from the aorta. The aortic and pulmonary valves slam at the same time, making the second sound, which should be heard over the cai'otids, bgi&g pro- pagated along the aorta in the blood-stream. If it cannot be heard in the neck the listener concludes that the aortic valves are unable to slam together, and this loss of the second sound makes him suspect aortic regurgitation (p. 173). When the segments of the auriculo-ventricular valves do not slam exactly together the first sound is spoken of as ' reduplicated.' A similar occurrence may be noticed as the lateral halves of a door-way are pushed asunder ; if they swing back into the middle line at the same instant a clear sound is heard, but if one of them lingers the noise of the closure is blurred or reduplicated. When there is a want of harmony in the closure of the aortic or pulmonary valves the second sound is reduplicated. Cardiac murmurs. -When the aortic or pulmonary orifice is narrowed by chronic inflammation (endocarditis) or the presence of warty excrescences (vegetations), the blood passes through it with a scraping or whistling sound, called a bruit. Such bruit occurs, of course, when the ventricle is contracting, and is, therefore, systolic. (Systole, contraction ; a-va-reWco, contract, <rw with, areWa, send. Diastole', dilatation ; Sta, asunder, rrreAAco.) A river flowing peacefully in its wide bed becomes excited as it approaches the artificially narrowed passage under a bridge, and rushes from between its piers with an audible sound. So it is with the blood-stream which traversed a valve which has been made narrow and rigid by disease, and then dashes into a roomy space. The murmur is probably produced just after the blood has passed through the straits. In the same way, when a stethoscope is placed over and made to compress the common femoral artery, the bruit does not occur in the compressed part of the vessel, but in the roomy part just beyond the obstruction, where the blood-stream is opening out again. The perfect working of a valve depends on the integrity of each individual segment, and if the valve be so defective as to hinder the passage of the blood its segments will probably fail completely to close