267 Disease of EIbozv-joi)tt separation of the lower humeral epiphysis, but this is excluded by the fact that when the lesion has recurred the top of the olecranon process is far above the horizontal line of the humeral condyles. Other dislocations may take place, a not very uncommon variety being that in which the head of radius tears through the front of its orbicular ligament and the thin anterior ligament of the joint, and, slipping up above the capitellum, rests against the front of the lower end of the humerus. The characteristic features of the lesion are the absence of the head of the radius from the pit below the external con- dyle, and a mechanical impediment to full flexion of the joint, on account of the radial head impinging against the front of the humerus. In children the head of the radius is apt to be dragged out of the orbicular ligament by a sudden pull upon the hand or fore-arm, the elbow at once becoming swollen and tender. To replace the bone, the elbow should be bent to a right angle, so that the head of the radius may be brought close to the empty collar, and then, by firmly and fully pronating, the bone is ' screwed' again into its place. In synovitis there is a general fulness about the joint, with a bulging on either side of the olecranon and of the insertion of the biceps, and in the fossa below the external condyle, in which region the joint is com- paratively superficial. The intra-articular effusion fixes the joint in a position midway between flexion and extension, the greatest use as well as the greatest comfort, moreover, being secured in this way ; later on, the weight of the hand may carry the radius round to extreme pronation—a most undesirable condition. At the commencement of treatment, therefore, the elbow should be fixed at a right angle, and only halfway pronated. Abscess in the joint.—If suppuration occur the pus will be likely to escape between one of the condylar ridges and the triceps, where the capsule is thin and comparatively near the surface of the limb. Excision of the joint is performed by an incision of three or four inches through the triceps in the middle line, down to the bone, divid- ing the skin, superficial and deep fasciae, the triceps, and the peri- osteum over the olecranon process and down the prominent posterior border of the ulna. By the aid of a raspatory the periosteum and the triceps are peeled from the humerus, and the insertion of the muscle is detached by a scalpel. In doing this the edge must be kept close to the bone, all those fibres which run to their insertion in the deep fascia being carefully preserved, so that the muscle may retain as much of its power of extension as possible. Chiefly by the raspatory, and slightly by the knife, the origins of the muscles from the condyles of the humerus are detached, but no transverse cuts are to be made, lest, by chance, the ulnar nerve be wounded and useful bundles of fibrous tissue be sacrificed. The ulnar nerve is raised from its bed between the condyle and the olecranon and turned inwards, but the operator ought not to expose it. If he do sec it he has evidently