Temporo-Maxillary Joint 2 I symphysis, and when this is done the tongue must be brought out by a strong loop, lest it fall back against the glottis. As the surgeon pro- ceeds to denude the angle and ramus, he keeps his knife or raspatory close to the bone, lest he injure the internal maxillary artery ; its inferior dental branch, with the.vein and nerve, must be cut just as they enter the substance of the bone. The mucous membrane and the floor of the mouth (mylo-hyoid) and the sub-maxillary and sub- lingual glands are detached early in the operation, and the ramus is at last held merely by the ligaments of the joint and the insertions of the temporal and external pterygoid ; these are easily severed, the coronoid process being perhaps snipped off with much of the temporal insertion. Necrosis of more or less of the bone is generally the result of acute inflammation, which may be caused by a bad tooth, or may occur in the weakness left after measles or scarlet fever. The necrosis is due to the fact that the lower jaw abounds in compact tissue, inflammatory effusion quickly choking the vessels in the Haversian canals. The temporo-maxillary joint belongs m man to the division arthrodia ; in some animals, as the badger, it is a perfect hinge. Entering into its formation are that part of the glenoid cavity which is in front of the Glaserian fissure, the eminentia articularis, and the condyle. Each surface is covered with articular cartilage, but interposed between the upper and lower planes of the joint is a sinuous layer of inter-articular fibre-cartilage, which, receiving some of the insertion of the external pterygoid, closely follows all the movements of the condyle. The external lateral and the capsular ligaments are also attached to the fibro-cartilage. The external lateral ligament, a strong and short band, descends from the tubercle at the root of the zygoma to the neck of the condyle, being attached also to the inter-articular fibro-cartilage, as just noted. The internal lateral ligament is a long and unimportant band between the spine of the sphenoid and the inner edge of the inferior dental foramen. The internal maxillary artery and the inferior dental vessels and nerve pass between it and the jaw. As Tillaux remarks, the external lateral ligament of one side is the internal lateral ligament for the other. The stylo-maxillary ligament is but a piece of the deep cervical fascia ; it separates the parotid and sub-maxillary glands. The capsular ligament, a loose and unimportant sac, is attached around the glenoid cavity and the neck of the condyle. There are two synovial membranes, one between the temporal bone and the fibro-cartilage, and the other between it and the condyle. They may communicate by a gap in the middle of the cartilage. Supply.—The arteries are branches of the masseteric, and of the vessels in the neighbouring parotid gland. The nerves zom<z from the masseteric and the auriculotemporal of the third division of the fifth. Movements.—The jaw is depressed by the platysma, mylo-hyoid,