Tympanic Abscess 99 The pus may be absorbed, or may happily escape along the in- flamed Eustachian tube ; but, if it be allowed to remain uninterfered with in the tympanum, it may take its time in bursting through the membrane, and may, but not necessarily so, leave the ear permanently deaf. Complications.—The abscess may burst through the roof of the tympanum and cause meningitis, and an intra-cranial abscess, in the neighbourhood of the petrous process and of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. Sometimes the matter burrows into the mastoid cells, in which case its prompt escape may be helped by drilling behind the pinna, or by cutting through the inflamed and softened mastoid process with a gouge. In the case of a boy who was recently under my care, the in- flammation had extended from the tympanum throughout the entire petromastoid bone, which came away as a large sequestrum without implication of the internal carotid artery (which passes through it, p. 13), but with, of course, total destruction of the portio dura, per- manent facial paralysis resulting. Extension of ulceration from the tympanum may involve the carotid, or the jugular vein, fatal haemorrhage occurring through the external meatus. Suppuration from the petro-mastoid bone may reach the neck and cause cervical abscess. If the inflammation extend downwards, it may cause phlebitis in the internal jugular, and if downwards and backwards to the neighbouring lateral sinus it may there set up an in- flammation ; in both cases coagulation of the blood supervenes, and, pieces of the septic thrombi being carried into the circulation, pyaemia and metastatic abscesses result. Cerebellar meningitis and abscess may follow extension of the inflammation from the back of the tympanum and the mastoid cells. The treatment of acute otitis demands the free application of leeches behind the pinna and in front of the tragus, with subsequent fomentations. If the membrane be found congested and bulging, paracentesis must be promptly resorted to. If the mastoid cells be apparently involved they should be freely opened. The Eustachian tube, i£ inch long, leads into the pharynx from the middle ear, at the level of the inferior meatus ; its direction is forwards, inwards, and slightly downwards. Its posterior part is osseous, being at the junction of the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal bone. The anterior part is fibro-cartilaginous, and ends by a trumpet-shaped expansion, from the lower aspect of which the tensor and levator palati arise. Contraction of these muscles during deglutition opens the tube and allows air to enter the tym- panum. A 'singing in the car' may often be made to disappear by setting the tensor palati in action by swallowing, the inrush of air causing the membrane to yield with a slight crack. h 3