Superficial Cardiac Area 165 The superficial cardiac area is that part of the front of the heart which is not separated from the chest-wall by lung. The larger the lungs, the smaller that area : thus in emphysema the heart may be entirely covered by lung, but in phthisis, where the lung-tissue is wasted, the superficial cardiac area is extensive. It is triangular—one side of the space being formed by the straight margin of the right lung; the base corresponds with the flat border of the heart, resting on the diaphragm ; and the third side by the sloping margin of left lung, behind the fourth left cartilage. During systole the apex of the heart displaces the little tongue of lung shown in the wood- cut, and impinges against the fifth space. To mark out the superficial car- diac area, draw the line, as given above, from the xipho-sternal joint to the apex—this gives the base of the space ; draw a second down the mid-sternum from the level of the l fourth cartilage to the xipho-sternal Joint, to define the margin of the right lung, and a third from the top 1 of this line to the apex. This border of the space usually slopes down i with the fourth cartilage or with the fourth space of the left side. The tongue of lung which laps the apex of the heart is the lowest I part of the upper pulmonary lobe, and it easily slips aside for the con- venience of the movements of the apex of the heart. The Interior of the Heart The endocardium is a serous layer which lines the cavities of the heart, and is continued from them along the arteries and veins. Its reduplication, with some fibrous tissue intervening, forms the valves. It consists of pavement cells upon a stratum of connective tissue. In- flammation of the endocardium (as in acute rheumatism) may cause the growth of warts upon the cardiac valves. Endocarditis generally jeeurs on the left, the hard-worked side, of the heart, and it is often secondary to pericarditis, the inflammation having traversed the mus- cular wall of the heart to reach the endocardium. The right auricle has a capacity of about tw o ounces. It consists