The Sacral Plexus 38o Its course may be chalked by a line which connects the middle of the hollow between the tuberosity and the trochanter with the top of the popliteal space. It is crossed obliquely by the long head of the biceps. The nerve supplies the biceps, semi-tendinosus, and semi- membranosus. Its companion artery, the comes nervi ischiatici, is a branch of the sciatic artery. Sciatica is a painful condition of the large nerve, and may be due to spinal disease, to intra- or extra-pelvic pressure, or to a chronic inflammatory condition of the connective tissue in and around the nerve-trunk. In due course it may cause wasting of the muscles and stiffening of the joints. The neuralgia may sometimes be relieved by massage along the back of the thigh, or by acupuncture. Bloodless stretching of the nerve may be accomplished by flexing the foot to a right angle, extending the leg on the thigh, and then forcibly flexing the thigh upon the abdomen. A more efficient way of stretching the nerve is through an incision of five or six inches down the back of the thigh, extending downwards from the gluteal fold at a point midway between the tuberosity and the great trochanter. The incision passes through the superficial fascia (fat) and the fascia lata, down to the upper part of the hamstring muscles. These muscles are then drawn inwards, and the nerve is isolated from its bed of fat and connective tissue and steadily hauled upon for some minutes, first downwards, then upwards. The internal popliteal nerve is much larger than the outer division of the great sciatic, and it continues the original course of the great nerve. In the upper part of the ham it lies superficial and ex- ternal to the popliteal vessels ; in the inter-condylar notch it is placed directly over them, and at the lower border of the popliteus it is to their inner side. Thence it is continued on as the posterior tibial. The internal popliteal nerve gives off three bra7iches to the knee- i'oint which accompany the superior and inferior internal articular, and the azygos articular arteries. Muscular branches supply the gastrocne- mius, soleus, plantaris, and popliteus. The external saphenous branch descends between the bellies of the gastrocnemius, and, piercing the deep fascia below the calf, is joined by a branch of the external popli- teal. It passes below the outer malleolus with the short saphenous vein, and ends on the dorsal aspect of the outer side of the foot and of the little toe. The posterior tibial continues the internal popliteal nerve from the lower border of the popliteus to the inner ankle, where it divides into the two plantars. For the first inch it is placed to the inner side of the posterior tibial artery ; it then passes over the artery and lies for the rest of its extent to the outer side. It is covered by the gastro- cnemius and soleus, and by a second layer of the deep fascia, which separates it from the soleus. It rests upon the tibialis posticus, the flexor longus digitorum, the tibia and the ankle-joint. Behind the