37 Cervical Lymphatic Glands must be used with discretion, and for the most part only at the ends of the gash, as to close the wound might be to lock discharges beneath the deep fascia and to have them guided into the chest. Still, in these clays of antiseptic surgery, so much may be done to prevent suppuration that the edges of the wound may in appropriate cases be sutured, especially if tracheotomy have been resorted to. If there be a wound of the trachea there is great risk of emphysema being set up if the skin-wound is closely sutured. Death may result from entrance of air into the veins. As deglutition disturbs the muscles and tissues of the hyoid region, the man should be fed by a soft oesophageal tube. Lymphatic glands are scattered in the occipital and posterior auricular regions. They are often enlarged in constitutional syphilis, in inflammation of the scalp, and in otorrhcea. Other glands are found in the parotid, zygomatic, buccal, and submaxillary regions. The arrangement of the lymphatic vessels which enter the respec- tive glands usually corresponds to that of the neighbouring veins. The superficial cervical glands are grouped along the external jugular vein, and in the subclavian triangle they receive communica- tions from axillary glands, and tributaries from the windpipe and gullet. They may be enlarged in malignant disease of the breast, and also of the oesophagus and stomach. The deep cervical glands are grouped along the internal jugular vein ; they receive supplies from the mouth, pharynx, tongue, and larynx, and from the tissues of the neck generally. They are in free communication with the axillary and thoracic glands. The course taken by the lymphatic vessels is often erratic and peculiar ; those coming from the occipital scalp, for instance, may enter glands beneath the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and those from the right side of the tongue may pass to the glands of the left side of the neck. MEMBRANES OF BRAIN AND VENOUS SINUSES The dura mater, though forming the internal periosteum of the skull bones, is but loosely attached to them, except in the neighbourhood of the sutures and foramina : thus it is often separated from them in a considerable area by haemorrhage from the middle meningeal artery, or by suppuration—the result of a blow on the head. It is firmly attached at the base of the skull and at the margin of the foramen magnum. From the foramen magnum it becomes continuous with the dura mater of the spinal cord. Its outer surface is rough, and from it small veins pass into the diploe. Its inner surface, paved with endo- thelium, is smooth, and bounds the subdural space. Tubular sheaths of the dura mater emerge with the cranial nerves, and blend eventually with the external periosteum. In the