Cornea; A reus Senilis «3 The strands of the optic nerve riddle the sclerotic in. into the nasal side of the axis at the lamina cribrosa, at the centre of which is a conspicuous opening, the porus opticus,hy which the arteria centralis reaches the retina. Although the sclerotic is extremely strong, nevertheless, as the result of long-continued inflammation and intra-ocular pressure, the choroid stretches and bulges through it under the name of staphyloma, from the resemblance of the protrusion to a bunch of grapes (crra<pvXr]). The cornea, the transparent part of the fibrous envelope of the eye-ball, stands out like the convex glass in the front of a watch-case. It is continuous peripherally with the sclerotic, by which it is some- what overlapped. It is on account of this overlapping that in the operation for cataract the surgeon makes his incision through the sclerotic just beyond the cornea. As a matter of fact he divides the bevelled edges of both sclerotic and cornea. Some operators, however, make the incision entirely through the uncovered part of the cornea. Sometimes a degenerative (fatty ?) change occurs at the periphery of the cornea, rendering it white and opaque. As it is chiefly met with in old persons, it is termed areas senilis. Structure.—The cornea consists of a central, thick fibrous layer, which is covered in front by several layers of the epithelium of the conjunctiva, and behind by a homogeneous elastic lamella, at the back of which is the epithelium of the anterior chamber. The fibrous foundation consists of about sixty lamella? connected by a transparent cement ; in this cement delicate lymph channels run, by which the nutrition of the cornea is carried on. The nerves, represented only by the axis cylinders, come from the ciliary branches, and pass between the lamellae. The cornea receives no blood-vessels, but just beyond its periphery is an important circle of conjunctival vessels which are engorged in corneitis or keratitis (cornu, Kepas, horn, lantern ; and His). But, when keratitis advances to ulceration, a branch of a ciliary or conjunctival artery may pass boldly over the cornea to it. If the ulcer extend into the substance of the cornea it may ultimately traverse the elastic and the endothelial layer, and involve the escape of the aqueous humour. The pupillary border of the iris, escaping with the stream, may protrude upon the surface and there become glued by plastic effusion—synechia anterior (<TW€)(r)s, a keeping together). If the perforation be extensive, even the lens and the vitreous may escape. The cicatricial patch which eventually makes the site of an ulcer may look like a little puff of smoke (nebula) upon the clear cornea ; but if it be pearly white (XevKos) it is called leucoma. A central leucoma blinds a most important area of the retina, and compels the surgeon to let light through an artificial pupil (p. 88). After this operation the white patch may be tattooed with a fine needle and Indian ink, and so rendered unnoticeable. G 2