408 The Bladder wards, lest, as 1 have seen happen, it descend in the cellular interval behind the pubes, and fail to enter the bladder. In a fat subject the trocar may be introduced where the linea alba is crossed, a few inches above the pubes, by the transverse crease. The muscular coat consists of non-striated longitudinal fibres chiefly at the front and back ; some of them are connected with the prostate and also with the true ligaments ; chiefly towards the neck of the bladder circular bands exist ; they are associated with the prostate and form a kind of sphincter. When long-continued and extra work is muscular fibres extends between the two ureters—the inter-uretal ba?id —and in cases of old-standing urinary obstruction it is recognised after death as a prominent ridge bounding the front of a deep depression of the mucous membrane. The mucous coat, which is attached to the muscular by a layer of connective tissue, is thrown into rugae which are effaced as the bladder fills. But in the triangular part of the floor which intervenes between the openings of the ureters and the beginning of the urethra there are no rugae, the mucous coat being smoothly spread. This area is called the trigone ; against it the stone is forcibly and pain- fully driven during micturition. In certain conditions the mucous coat is thrown into firm, permanent ridges, which, when the urine is alkaline, may become encrusted with phosphates. The epithelium is of a modified squamous type. Stricture at bulb ; membranous urethra dilated ; bladder thickened, and mucous membrane roughened. thrown upon the muscular coat, as in the case of old stricture, hypertrophy results ; and sometimes a pouch of the mucous lining is forced through a gap between the thick muscular bands and forms a herniated sac in which a stone may be lodged. Should a calculus fall into such a sac, there would be a sudden cessa- tion of symptoms, and the surgeon might thence- forth fail to strike it. In such cases examination by the rectum should give valuable assistance ; and the stone might be suc- cessfully removed by a supra-pubic operation. A definite band of