454 Scarpa's Triangle Scarpa's Triangle Scarpa's triangle has its base at Poupart's ligament and its apex at the junction of the upper with the middle third of the thigh, where the sartorius passes over the inner border of the adductor longus. It is covered by skin, two layers of superficial fascia, and by the fascia lata. In the superficial fascia are the lymphatics and glands, branches of the ilio-inguinal, genito-crural, and middlecutaneous nerves, and the internal saphenous vein and its tributaries. The floor of the triangle is formed by the iliacus, psoas, pectineus, perhaps by a little of the adductor brevis, and by the adductor longus. The space contains the trunk of the common and superficial femoral artery, which bisects the triangle, and the corresponding veins, the deep femoral vessels and their branches, the anterior crural nerve breaking up into branches, and the external cutaneous nerve near the iliac crest. Hunter's canal begins at the apex of Scarpa's triangle, and ends at the opening in the adductor magnus. Thus it occupies the middle third of the thigh. It is bounded on the outer side by the vastus internus, and behind and on the inner side by the adductors longus and magnus. It is roofed in by a fibrous expansion from the adductors to the vastus, and over the roof lies the sartorius. The canal contains the superficial femoral vessels in their proper sheath, and the long saphenous nerve outside that sheath. The vein is behind the artery, and slightly external to it ; and the nerve is crossing over the sheath from the outer side. The nerve eventually passes through the roof with the superficial part of the anastomotica magna, a branch given off from the femoral whilst in the canal. The femur winds round the mam artery.—The femoral and popliteal trunk of artery runs straight from the groin to the knee, lying first to the front of the head of the femur, then to inner side of shaft, and lastly behind it. In this changing position it is the femur that winds round the artery, and not the artery round the femur. The common femoral artery is the continuation of the external iliac from beneath Poupart's ligament for about two inches into Scarpa's triangle, where it divides into the superficial and the deep trunk. As the superficial femoral is the direct continuation of the common, it is convenient to take the relations of the trunk in its con- tinuity. (Its course upon the surface has been given on page 447.) Relations—-The artery rests upon the psoas, which separates it from the capsule of the hip-joint ; upon the pectineus, the adductor longus, (perhaps) brevis, and on the magnus. The deep femoral vein is behind it in the triangle, and the superficial femoral vein is behind it in Hunter's canal. Covering it are the skin and fascia;, sartorius,