Inferior Maxilla The palate bone consists of a vertical and a horizontal part. The former helps to close in the antrum and extends up into the floor of the orbit. The horizontal part forms the back of the hard palate and of the floor of the nose. Its under surface shows the ending of the pos- terior palatine canal, and is also marked by a ridge for the attachment of part of the tensor palati. To the posterior border is attached the palatine aponeurosis, and from the posterior nasal spine arises the azygos uvulae. The lachrymal, somewhat of the size and thickness of a finger- nail, rests upon the inner border of the orbital plate of the maxilla, and helps to fill in the anterior ethmoidal cells. Its upper border articu- lates with the frontal, and its anterior with the nasal process of the maxilla. A vertical ridge upon the orbital aspect of the bone marks off a groove, which, with a groove upon the nasal process, lodges the lachrymal sac and the upper part of the nasal duct (p. 76). The tensor tarsi arises from the bone just behind the groove. The lachrymal bone is easily broken through in a clumsy attempt to pass a style by the nasal duct, especially if the probe be held too much in the horizontal position. The inferior maxilla.—The outer surface of the body is marked by an oblique line from which arise the muscles depressing the lower lip and the angle of the mouth ; the platysma is inserted below this line. The mental foramen is about half-way down the outer surface, below the second bicuspid. The buccinator arises below the molar teeth. The outer surface of the ramus is covered by the insertion of the masseter, and near the anterior inferior corner of this muscle the bone is grooved by the facial artery (p. 29). The levator menti arises in the incisive fossa. An oblique ridge upon the inner surface of the body gives inser- tion to the mylo-hyoid, and below it, running from the inferior dental foramen, is the groove for the mylo-hyoid nerve and artery. Below the ridge also are the fossae for the sub-maxillary gland and for the origin of the digastric, the latter being just behind the sym- physis. Separated from the digastric fossa by the anterior part of the mylo-hyoid ridge are the genial tubercles, and to the outer side of the genial tubercles, above the mylo-hyoid ridge, is a slight depression for the sublingual gland. The ptcrygo-maxillary ligament and the superior constrictor are attached to the inner side of the body just below and behind the last molar tooth. To the inner side of the angle the internal pterygoid is inserted, and to the inner aspect of the coronoid process the temporal muscle. The external pterygoid is inserted into the neck of the condyle. The lower jaw is developed in lateral halves, chiefly from the car- tilage (Meckel's) of the first or the mandibular arch. The halves have a fibrous connection at the symphysis at birth, but this is ossified