286 The Wrist Joint lage It is an arthroclial joint, and is enclosed in a capsule consisting of anterior, posterior, and lateral ligaments. The articular surfaces are covered with hyaline cartilage and are lubricated by a synovial membrane which is special to this radio-carpal joint, though it is some- times in communication with the membrane of the inferior ifadio- ulnar joint, as rernarJ^Hl above. The anterior ligament is at- tached above to the anterior margin of the radius and ulna, and below to the front of the scaphoid, semi- lunar, and cuneiform bones. The posterior is a weaker band with attachments very similar to those just mentioned. The external lateral ligament extends from the tip of the styloid process of the radius to the scaphoid, whilst the internal passes from the tip of the styloid process of the ulna to the cuneiform and pisiform bones. Relations.—In front of the joint are the flexor tendons, and behind are the extensor tendons. Over the external lateral ligament the radial artery winds, and close on the radial side of the flexor carpi ulnaris are the ulnar nerve and artery. The median nerve is separated from the anterior ligament by the flexor profundus. Supply.—Branches of artery come from the anterior and posterior carpal arches, the posterior interosseous, and the radial and ulnar. Its nerves are branches of the ulnar and of the anterior and posterior inter- osseous. Dislocations of t/ie wrist are very rare, although the articulation does not seem particularly secure ; injury is far more likely to expend itself in fracturing the radius. In dislocation the first row of the carpal bones may be carried on to the back or front of the radius and ulna, beneath the extensor or flexor tendons. The luxation is easily recog- nised and reduced. The backward dislocation may look at first sight like a Colles's fracture (p. 282), but in the fracture the styloid process of the radius is displaced upwards and backwards with the carpus, whilst in the dislocation it remains in its proper place, and projects beneath the skin. In opening a palmar abscess the scalpel must be used with great caution, especially in the regions of the superficial and deep palmar Membrana sacciformis ; 3 and 4, lateral ligaments ; 8, general synovial cavity 'of intercarpal and carpo-metacarpal joints ; 8', synovial bursa between unci- form and fourth and fifth metacarpal bones—is often separate; 9', synovial cavity of first carpo-metacarpal joint. (Quain.)