Knock-Knee 479 nerve, the superficial part of the anastomotic.^ magna, and the Long saphenous vein. (The origin of the popliteus is within the joint.) Knock-knee.—In the erect posture the tibiae are vertical, with their heads close tog ether ; but the heads of the femora are separated by the width of the pelvis. The wider the pelvis the greater the separa- tion of the femora above, and the greater the inward slant of the bones to the knee. All of us, then, are a little 1 in-kneed,' and women parti- cularly so. So that the lower surfaces of the condyles may be on the same level, the inner condyle must be the longer. Nevertheless, it is not so prominent anteriorly as is the outer (p. 449). In a weakly, rickety subject the internal lateral ligament is apt to stretch, over-growth of the internal condyle consequently taking place, for some of the pressure of the tibia against it is lost. Eventually the deformity becomes per- manent.1 As the rectus femoris follows the axis of the femur, whilst the liga- mentum patellae follows that of the tibia, when the muscle contracts it is apt to drag the knee-cap over the external condyle ; outward dis- location would happen still more often were it not for the presence of that prominent flange limiting the trochlear surface externally. In estimating- the amount of knock-knee the joint must be completely extended, so that the lateral ligaments may be tightened and the tibia firmly locked on the femur, for when these ligaments are at all slack a little lateral and rotatory movement is enough to efface the defect. Operation for knock-knee has to be performed when gentler methods cannot avail. In a young child forcible straightening often succeeds without any cutting. In this operation the knee must be first extended to the utmost so as to prevent rotation of the tibia as the surgeon exerts his strength. It is not known exactly what occurs in this process : perhaps the external lateral ligament yields a little ; perhaps the inner femoral condyle undergoes some condensation ; perhaps the epiphysis is slightly separated from the diaphysis on the outer side. It is, however, a satisfactory procedure. Ogston sliced off the inner condyle of the femur, and then, by bringing the leg straight, shifted the loosened condyle upwards until the lower surfaces of the condyles were on the same level. One great disadvantage of this original operation was that, the knee-joint being- implicated, suppuration or stiffness was apt to ensue. To obviate this risk, macEwen partially divides the shaft of the femur above the internal condyle, and completes the operation by forcible fracture. He draws a transverse line a finger's breadth above the external condyle, and a vertical one half an inch in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus. At the meeting of these lines he makes a small vertical incision on to the femur and introduces his osteotome which he then'turns across the length of the femur, cutting the bone 1 For ' Anatomy of genu valgum ' see Journal ofAnat. and Phys. 1879,