Disease of the Heart 172 the opening after the blood has passed through ; thus, some of it slips back again (regurgitates) when the vis a tergo has ceased to act. There are various ways of expressing this doubly imperfect condition : the valve is ' stenosed' (o-revos, narrow), and is also ' inadequate' ; there is ' obstruction' with ' insufficiency' also, and, therefore, regurgitation. Thus there are systolic and diastolic murmurs. An aortic obstruction- murmur occurs during systole, and a regurgitant murmur during diastole. But aortic obstructive and mitral regurgitant murmurs occur at the same time ; so also is it with pulmonary obstructive and tricuspid regurgitant. When the aortic or pulmonary aperture is both narrow and in- competent there is a double murmur of obstruction during systole and of regurgitation during diastole ; in the case of the aortic valve the murmur of regurgitation accompanies or even takes the place of the second sound, for the valve-segments have ceased to slam tightly together. So also it would be with the pulmonary valve. An auricle and ventricle both being dilated, the fibrous ring to which the bases of the valves are attached is stretched, and, as the valves do not at the same time grow larger, they are necessarily incompetent to prevent regurgitation. Disease of the tricuspid valve is so rare that we need not consider the resulting murmur separately ; indeed, valvular disease of the right side of the heart is quite uncommon ; but tricuspid regurgitation may exist without valvular disease {v. i.). In nineteen cases out of twenty, valvular murmurs belong to the hard-worked left side of the heart—to the mitral or aortic orifice, the inlet and the outlet of the left ventricle. The natural inlet has become an outlet also : or the natural outlet is obstructed. (Watson.) A cardiac murmur, therefore, most likely exists in the left side of the heart, and, as mitral obstruction is rare, it is either due to mitral insufficiency or to aortic derangement. If the former, it occurs during systole, and if it be due to aortic obstruction it will also be systolic, and heard along the aorta (p. 173); if diastolic it will be due to aortic insufficiency and will be heard over a more limited area. A tricuspid regurgitant murmur when associated with aortic or mitral disease is a ' friendly' sound, for it means that the right ventricle is pumping some of its belated contents back into the right auricle, and so is lessening the risk of pulmonary apoplexy. It obviously occurs with ventricular systole—with the radial pulse ; it is best heard near the xiphoid, but it is of rare occurrence. The murmur of tricuspid obstruction is still more rare, and may be left out of consideration. Notwithstanding the ' safety-valve arrangement' at the right auri- culo-ventricular opening, the energetic action of the right ventricle sometimes throws more strain upon the pulmonary capillaries than they could bear. Thus I have known of an athlete who, though apparently in perfect health and strength, was liable to haemoptysis after any