431 Vas Deferens up the globus major of the epididymis («rt, over ; St'Sv^uy, twin). From the lower part of the globus major the body of the epididymis tapers downwards, but it thickens below into the globus minor, from which the vas deferens conveys the semen to the common ejaculatory duct, at the base of the bladder. Encysted hydrocele of the testis results from accumulation of fluid in one of the coiled tubes of the gland or of the epi- didymis. The dilatation may be extreme ; the fluid differs from that of an encysted hydrocele of the cord (p. 430) in that it con- tains seminal filaments. Multiple cystic disease of the testis is similarly pro- duced, but, the proper secreting tissue having been destroyed, the fluid may be destitute of sper- matozoa. The vas deferens lies ^ lobules ; c, vasa recta ; d, rete ; e, vasa efferentia ; f, at the back of the COrd con' vasculosi; g, epididymis ; k, vas deferens ; /, vas . aberrans ; m, «, spermatic artery ; 0, artery of vas, and, picked up between and J>, its anastomosis with spermatic. the finger and thumb, feels like a piece of whipcord. It is nearly two feet long. Having reached the upper opening of the inguinal canal, it bends downwards and inwards around the deep epigastric artery ; and, lying close be- neath the peritoneum, courses over the side of the bladder, lying to the vesical aspect of the ureter and to the median side of the vesicula seminalis, the duct of which it joins at the base of the prostate to enter the prostatic urethra at the sinus pocularis (p. 413). In its course from the internal abdominal ring it lies above the external iliac artery. From the ring it descends alone, the spermatic vessels passing up to the renal region. It consists of a mucous lining, a dense fibrous wall, and a thick and firm intermediate coat of non-striated muscular fibres ; the mucous coat is covered with columnar epithelium. The artery of the vas is derived from one of the vesical branches, and, running towards the testis, it anastomoses with the spermatic artery, as shown in the adjacent figure.