The Cranial Nerves 64 tongue, to the mucous membrane of the neighbouring part of the mouth, and to the sublingual gland. When the fifth nerve is paralysed (as also in the case of facial paralysis, p. 68) the sense of taste on the tip of that side of the tongue may be lost or impaired. Division of the gustatory (or lingual) nerve may be expedient in the case of intractable neuralgia in the anterior part of the tongue, as in lingual cancer. The nerve runs between the internal pterygoid and the ramus of the jaw, and then lies just beneath the mucous membrane of the mouth. Its exact position may readily be made out in one's own mouth by passing the tip of the index-finger downwards and backwards from the last molar tooth, and thrusting it outwards into the hollow beneath the prominent alveolar ridge ; when the nerve is thus pressed against the bone the sensation is unmistak- able. To make sure of dividing the nerve, it is best to take out about half an inch of it, which is easily done when the mouth is held wide open by a gag and the tongue is pressed down ; the mucous mem- brane having been raised from over the hollow below the alveolar process, the nerve may be hooked up by an aneurysm-needle and de- liberately dealt with. The inferior dental nerve descends between the lateral ligament and the ramus of the jaw to the canal in the inferior maxilla. At its origin it contains some motor filaments which it sends off to the mylo- hyoid and the anterior belly of the digastric ; then, in the substance of the maxilla, it supplies twigs to the teeth, and gives off the mental branch, which emerges by the foramen under cover of the depressor anguli oris. This branch is distributed to the mucous membrane and skin of the lower lip, and to the chin. The mental foramen is below the second bicuspid, in the vertical line of the supra- and infra-orbital foramina. Irritation of filaments of the nerve in the pulp of some carious tooth may give rise to disturbance in areas which are in anatomical association : as, for instance, upon the front of the pinna, or in the ex- ternal auditory meatus ; and thus it happens that the extraction of a carious tooth may at once put an end to ' ear-ache' and ' face-ache.' The application of intense cold (produced by the ether-spray) in the region of the external auditory meatus has such a numbing effect upon the trunk of the nerve that under its influence a tooth may be extracted from the lower jaw without the usual pain. Stretching or resection of part of the inferior dental nerve may be needed in certain cases of inveterate neuralgia of the lower teeth. The jaws being widely separated by a gag, a vertical incision is made through the mucous membrane of the mouth, above and in front of the insertion of the internal pterygoid (p. 8). Then, with a raspatory, the mucous membrane is freely raised, and the nerve is found entering the dental foramen. Unless the nerve be separated from the accom-