458 The Thigh and fascia lata. Then the crural sheath is sparingly opened and the artery is seen, to the outside of the vein. The needle is passed from the inner side. The anterior crural nerve is far out of sight (p. 358). Collateral circulation is established by the anastomosis of the external circumflex with the gluteal, ilio-lumbar, and circumflexa ilii, and with the sciatic branches in the cruciform anastomosis ; by the anastomosis of the internal circumflex with the obturator, gluteal, and sciatic ; of the superior perforating with the sciatic ; and of the per- forating and superior muscular branches of the popliteal with the comes nervi ischiatici. Ligation of the superficial femoral in Scarpa's triangle is per- formed at' a hand's breath' (four inches) below Poupart's ligament—at a spot in which the artery is comparatively near the surface, and distant from the origin of any large branch. The line of the artery having been taken (p. 447), or traced by the pulsations, as the limb lies slightly flexed and everted upon a pillow, a three- or four-inch incision is made with its mid-point over the chosen spot. In incising the superficial fascia, the long saphenous vein, which is close on the inner side, must be avoided ; the fascia lata is then divided on a director, when the inner border of the sartorius is looked for, exposed, and drawn outwards. The sheath of the vessels is thus brought into view and is opened for about half an inch, along the aspect most distant from the vein, which is, of course, upon the side of the sartorius—the outer side. Unless this point be attended to the thin-walled vein is in great danger of being wounded. The vein may not be seen, as it is behind the artery, though slightly to the inner side ; the aneurysm- needle is passed from the inner side, close around the artery, threaded, and withdrawn. Ligation in Hunter's canal is invariably performed in the case of a punctured wound in that situation, and sometimes in the case of aneurysm of the popliteal artery. A four-inch incision is made over the line of the artery in the middle of the thigh, care being taken to avoid the saphenous vein. The fascia lata having been divided, the fibres of the sartorius are seen running evenly in the length of the wound. Their direction distinguishes them from the oblique fibres of the vastus internus and of the adductor longus. The muscle is then drawn inwards, and the aponeurotic roof of the canal is exposed— perhaps with the saphenous nerve and the superficial part of the anastomotica magna passing through it. The roof is then divided on a director for an inch or so, when the saphenous nerve is found rest- ing upon the sheath of the vessels. This sheath is cautiously opened for about a quarter of an inch, the artery is isolated, and the needle is passed from the outer side—the side of the vein. In seeking the artery in Hunter's canal the fallacy is apt to be in making the incision too low down, so that the operator finds his wound deepening against the tendons of the gracilis and the adductor magnust