34 Arteries of Head and Neck Its course in the neck corresponds to that given for the external carotid (p. 23), but in that the external carotid is for the supply of the exterior of the head, whilst the internal carotid is for the brain and the orbit, the internal carotid lies deeper in its ascent. The internal carotid takes its strange tortuous course through the petrous bone and through the cavernous sinus in order that the rush of blood from an energetic left ventricle into the delicate cerebral capillaries may be softened down. The same arrangement also obtains in the vertebral arteries in their sub-occipital ascent. As the artery passes through the petrous bone it lies just in front of the middle ear, being separated from it by merely a thin osseous plate. It is accompanied by ascending filaments of the cervical sym- pathetic. In certain morbid conditions its pulsations are unpleasantly experienced by the auditory nerve. As the artery winds along the' inner wall of the cavernous sinus, the sixth nerve rests on its outer side. In the case, therefore, of aneurysm of that part of the artery the external rectus may be weakened or paralysed. Sympathetic filaments surround this part of the artery. Branches.—A small tympa?iic twig comes off from the petrosal part of the artery, and anastomoses with the tympanic branches of the internal maxillary and posterior auricular. The ophthalmic, anterior, and posterior cerebral divisions of the internal carotid are described on pages 81 and 42. The internal jugular vein corresponds to the internal and common carotids. THE JUGULAR VEINS AND THEIR TRIBUTARIES Veins of Head and Neck The veins of the interior of the head and of the neck, like those of the lung, liver, kidney, uterus, and ovary, have no valves. The facial vein begins as the angular at the inner corner of the orbit, where it has an important communication with the ophthalmic vein ; it descends obliquely towards the anterior inferior angle of the masseter, lying behind the facial artery, and taking a straighter course. Below the jaw it is joined by a considerable trunk of the tem- poro-maxillary vein ; it continues beneath the platysma and fascia?, and, passing across the external and internal carotids, ends in the internal jugular. It brings down blood from the large median, frontal, and from the supra-orbital veins, and from many tributaries corre- sponding to the branches of the facial artery ; its communications with the ophthalmic vein are of great importance. The temporal is formed by the confluence of the superficial and