Intercostal Nerves and thus it comes about that in inflammation of the upper part of that membrane pain is sjometimes felt along the inner side of the arm. The lower intercostal nerves, having reached the limit of the space, pass onwards between the internal oblique and transversalis to the sheath of the rectus, and, having pierced it and the rectus, appear as anterior cutaneous nerves near the linea alba. The lower intercostal nerves supply the oblique, the transverse, and the straight muscles of the abdomen. Thus, pain over the upper part of the abdomen may be due to pleurisy, to pressure of thoracic tumours or of pleural collections of fluid, to caries of the lower dorsal vertebra;, or to disease of the cord above the lumbar enlargement. The anterior division of the last dorsal nerve runs below the last rib, in company with the first lumbar artery, in front of the quadratus lumborum, and gains eventually the space between the transversalis and the obliquus internus. Its peripheral branches (anterior cuta- neous) end about half-way between the umbilicus and pubes. The region of the ' pit of the stomach' is supplied by the endings of the sixth and seventh nerves. The nerve-supply of any part of the side or front of the thoracic or thoracico-abdominal region is indicated by continuing forward the lines of the intercostal spaces, and seeing which of them runs into that particular area. When a patient complains of pains over the upper partofthe front of the chest, the surgeon must not satisfy himself with tracing his finger along the upper intercostal spaces and with examining the higher dorsal vertebrae, but must carry his investigations also into the middle of the neck, as the third and fourth cervical nerves (p. 145) furnish cuta- neous branches to that neighbourhood as well as the dorsal nerves. The lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal comes over the iliac crest, through the internal and external obliques, and supplies the skin of the fore part of the buttock, as far as the great trochanter. Neuralgia in an intercostal nerve may be due to inflammation in its fibrous elements, and may then be followed by a crop of vesicles in the area of skin supplied by it. The disease is called herpes zoster ((axTTrip, belt) or shingles (cingulu/n, girdle), names which well describe the arrangement of the eruption. The posterior divisions of the dorsal nerves give off internal and external branches. The internal branches of the upper six nerves supply the erector spinas, and then send cutaneous twigs through the trapezius ; all the external branches also give muscular twigs, but, in addition, the lower six send twigs through to the skin of the infra- scapular region. According to Professor Griffith, the posterior branches descend obliquely for the depth of several vertebrae before ending in the skin, and so it comes about that the line of herpes zoster is transverse and