136 The Thyroid Gland Bronchocele or goitre with dilated superior thyroid artery. (Fergusson.) trusion being caused by dilatation of the blood-vessels in the back of the orbit, and it may be that this dilatation is caused by pressure upon the cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. As a secondary result, ophthalmia and even ulcerative corneitis may ensue. The goitrous tumour may press upon the trachea and flatten it, causing dyspnoea and dysphasia; if only one lateral lobe be enlarged the windpipe and gullet may be pushed to the opposite side. Extending laterally, the tumour thrusts outwards the carotid artery and the in- ternal jugular vein and the vagus, disturbing the cerebral circulation. The voice is altered, either from pressure upon the trachea or upon the recurrent laryngeal nerve. A large mass of the gland across the front of the neck im- pedes flexion. As regards operative interference, cysts may be tapped, but the vascular thyroid enlargement which is associated with exophthalmos had best not be interfered with. In no case should the entire gland be removed, or myxcedema will be likely to supervene, unless perchance an accessory thyroid should be present. Division of the isthmus or removal of one lateral lobe may determine atrophy of the rest of the enlarged gland ; when the chief trouble is the dyspnoea the former operation should be resorted to. When relief of dyspncea is sought by tracheotomy the surgeon should satisfy himself that the tube is long enough to reach below the collapsed part of the trachea, which may be veiy low down in the root of the neck. The operation for removal of half of the gland is effected by a longitudinal incision through the skin, superficial and deep fascia, all bleeding vessels being secured ; then, the less the knife is used the better : the surgeon should enucleate the mass with his finger and a blunt raspatory. The vessels entering are secured by double liga- tures before being cut, and the greatest care must be taken not to pick up or damage the recurrent laryngeal nerve whilst the inferior thyroid branches are being dealt with. Pharynx and GEsophagus The pharynx ((jmpvyg = fauces), closed above by the base of the skull, opens at the level of the cricoid cartilage (fifth cervical vertebra) into the oesophagus ; this is its narrowest part, its widest being near the hyoid bone. There are seven openings into the pharynx : the two posterior nares, two Eustachian tubes, the mouth, larynx, and oesophagus. When a mass of food is impacted in the pharynx it may cause suf-