Breast and Nipple 203 which,processes pass off to blend with the skin, whilst others enter the gland, marking it out into separate lobes. Fat occupies the inter- vals between the lobes, and thus it happens that large fat breasts may be of less physiological value than those of a thin woman. A branch of a milk-duct enters each lobe, sending off ramifications which are connected with the small lobules. The ultimate lobule consists of terminal expansions of the ducts into alveoli lined with cubical epi- thelium, and surrounded with branches of blood-vessels, nerves, and lymph-sinuses. As the duct approaches the surface the epithelium becomes squamous. Chronic inflammation of the nipple and prolifera- tion of its epithelial covering {eczema of the nipple) is often the starting point of cancer of the breast. Squamous epithelioma is the nature of the malignant growth in these cases, and it may eventually implicate the entire gland. The ducts descending from the nipple radiate through the gland, and when an incision is made into the breast the scalpel should be directed straight from the centre towards the periphery, so that it may pass between and not across the ducts. During lactation a milk-duct may be so distended with milk as to form a large tumour, galactocele; the condition is like an encysted hydrocele of the testis. Supply.—The mammary arteries and veins are branches of the long thoracic and other offsets of the axillary trunks, and of the internal mammary. The aortic intercostals also help in the supply. Of the lymphatics, some few, from the inner side, pass between the costal cartilages to enter the mediastinal glands; the others pass along the border of the pectoralis major into the axillary glands. The nerves come from the lateral cutaneous branches of the inter- costals, and from the endings of the intercostal nerves themselves. It has been suggested that the mammae are but modifications of sebaceous glands, and sometimes during pregnancy enlargement of the sebaceous glands in the axilla may be discovered, representing supple- mentary mammae. Occasionally additional mammas and nipples exist, either in the pectoral region or down the front of the abdomen. In scirrhus mamma a heterologous growth of fibres and cells forms a hard mass, generally upon the axillary side of the nipple. The malignant infiltration extends along the fibrous processes which attach the gland to the surrounding tissues, and so the mass becomes connected with the skin, the pectoral muscles, the chest, and even with the pleura. Subsequently the new fibrous tissue atrophies, so that the skin is dimpled and the nipple retracted. Before the nipple is actually retracted it may show a slight but highly suspicious deviation from its normal inclination. Retraction of the nipple may also be due to atrophy of the new fibrous elements left after chronic inflammation, corresponding to the contractions described in cirrhosis of liver. The cut surface of the scirrhous mass becomes concave on account of the further contraction of the fibrous tissue.