371 Deep Epigastric Artery may also anastomose with the lumbar and intercostal arteries. The vas deferens bends round the epigastric artery to reach the base of the bladder. Branches of the deep epigastric.—The pubic descends to the back of the pubes, where it may anastomose with the branch of the opposite side and with the pubic branch of the obturator (p. 306). In every three or four subjects the latter anastomotic loop is of great size, and gives off the obturator artery itself. The branch thus coming from the epigastric B Irregular obturator from deep epigastric, taking, A, safe course, close to vein and on outer side of femoral ring, and, is, taking dangerous course on inner side of femoral ring. (Gray.) is called the irregular obturator artery, which generally dips down close on the inner side of the iliac vein, so that the neck of a femoral hernia would lie between it and Gimbemat's ligament, as shown herewith. But now and then the hernia slips down between the irregular artery and the external iliac vein, so that when the surgeon cuts upwards and inwards to ease the strangulation, haemorrhage is unavoidable. Before making that incision he could rarely inform himself of the pre- sence of the vessel, but on the occurrence of the bleeding he would quickly reduce the hernia, put his finger through the now empty crural ring, and try to seize the vessel with catch-forceps ; or he might care- fully dilate the opening and try to hook down the wounded artery. He could not enlarge the wound by cutting, because of the important surroundings. The cremasteric branch supplies the coverings of the cord and may anastomose with twigs of the spermatic, with the artery of the vas, or with a branch of the common femoral. The deep circumflex iliac arises near the deep epigastric and is similarly placed between peritoneum and transversalis fascia ; running outwards, it lies in the crevice between the iliac and transversalis fascia; as they are attached along the outer part of Poupart's ligament (p. 156). It then passes through the transversalis fascia and muscle to lie near the iliac crest in the connective tissue between the internal oblique and transversalis. It anastomoses with lumbar and lower intercostal arteries ; with the iliac branch of the ilio-lumbar, and, over the iliac crest, with the gluteal ; possibly also with the ascending branches of the external circumflex. u u 2