153 Mediastina of the flaccid thoracic floor, push the viscera upwards, so that there is an actual sinking in of the epigastric region. The abdominal viscera press the diaphragm upwards as one lies in bed : therefore the bronchitic patient often breathes better when propped in the sitting posture. Pleurodynia (nXevpa, side ; o8vvt], pain) is pain in the chest-wall which is not the result of pleurisy ; the chief merit of the term is in its vagueness. Does it mean costal periostitis, muscular rheumatism, intercostal neuralgia, or hepatitis ? Or is it the result of pressure upon the posterior roots of some of the dorsal nerves of one side, or upon nerves leaving the spine or entering the intercostal spaces ? For, after all, pain is but a symptom of a disease, and sometimes a very mislead- ing one. Pains between the shoulders are often conplained of in dys- pepsia, that is whenever the stomach is out of working order. They are probably caused by the association of filaments of the great splanch- nic (arir\ayxva, viscera, p. 224) with the solar plexus below, and with the higher dorsal nerves above, these latter nerves giving dorsal branches to the skin in that region. Similarly the pains about the right shoulder in liver disease were formerly explained, but a better reason for their occurrence is given on p. 147. THE CAVITY OF THE THORAX The upper opening: of the thorax transmits the apex of each lung, which extends for \\ in. into the roof of the neck. In the middle line pass the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, the inferior thyroid veins (p. 155), remains of thymus, the trachea and oesophagus with left recurrent laryngeal nerve, and also, on the left side, the thoracic duct. A little removed from the middle line are the innominate artery, the right vagus, and the left common carotid and subclavian arteries, with the left vagus between them ; the two innominate veins ; the two phrenic nerves ; cardiac filaments from sympathetic and from the vagi ; the internal mammary and superior intercostal arteries descend- ing into thorax ; part of the anterior division of the first dorsal nerve mounting to the brachial plexus ; the longus colli and the cords of the sympathetic. The Mediastina The mediastina are the spaces which ' stand in the middle ' {medio, sto) of the chest, between the sternum and the spine, with the lung and pleura on either side. The connective tissue which they contain is liable to be the seat of suppuration. The anterior mediastinum is the space between the pleura; in