Emphysema ; Asthma 197 As contiguous cells coalesce, the intervening capillaries perforce disappear, and the oxygenating area is diminished—thus, the large- chested man is actually short of breath. The right side of the heart is engorged, its ventricle is hypertrophied (p. 175), tricuspid regurgitation occurs (p. 172), and with it a systolic, venous pulse occurs in the neck. The venae cavae are overloaded, the face being dusky and livid ; piles may occur, and later on dropsy ; the liver becomes nutmeggy, and the urine may be albuminous. But, though the right ventricle is much hypertrophied, the impulse is imperceptible, and its sounds are not increased, for the heart is ' smothered' by the expanded lungs. Though the liver is depressed, it may not be conspicuous below the ribs, for, the chest having been greatly enlarged from before backwards, plenty of room is thus provided for it. Occasionally the enlargement of the lungs is such that their in- flated borders overlap each other behind the sternum. Such lungs when removed from the thorax are sure to retain the prints of the ribs. In extra-vesicular emphysema air may leak from the emphysematous lung into the connective tissue of the chest and so find its way into the subcutaneous tissue of neck and trunk {general emphysema). On rare occasions the parturient woman has, in her violent straining, ruptured cer- tain air-cells, and air having escaped through the interlobular tissue has found its way to the face and eyelids, inability to see from between the lids having suddenly supervened. Both in emphysema and pneumo- thorax there is a deficiency of breath- sounds, and there is also a hyper-reso- nance on percussion ; there is, however, no difficulty in distinguishing the con- ditions, as emphysema affects both sides of the chest, pneumothorax only one—bilateral pneumothorax being incompatible with life. Indeed, when both lungs are crippled by phthisis, and ulceration of the wall of a vomica allows air to escape into one pleura, death may suddenly occur, the remains of the other lung not sufficing for respiration. Contraction of the muscular tissue of the bronchi, from irritation of the Pyo-pneumothorax. Fenwick.) vagi, as in indigestion, causes spas- modic asthma, which may also be produced by direct irritation, as in the uraemia of Bright's disease. The nerve-irritation may also be