57 Cranial Nerves translucent—like a hydrocele. ' In Cardinal's case this is said to have been observed when the sun was shining behind him.'—(Fagge.) Disease of the cerebellum is often associated with pain at the lower and back part of the head, and with head-ache. There is also inco- ordination of movement, so that the patient staggers ; he is often, moreover, attacked with vomiting. THE CRANIAL NERVES No. I.—The olfactory is shown by development to be a diver- ticulum from the cerebral hemisphere ; in fcetal life it is hollow and communicates with the lateral ventricle. The external root of the nerve springs from the fissure of Sylvius, near the anterior perforated space. This area is close to Broca's region (p. 49), and so it comes about that aphasia is often associated with an impaired sense of smell in the left nostril. The olfactory filaments descend through the cribriform plate in groups for the mucous membrane of the upper part of the septum and the roof, and of the superior and middle turbinated bones. Odorous particles best reach this area when the air in which they are suspended is 'sniffed' up. When, in nasal catarrh, swollen mucous membrane blocks the upper part of the passages, and the sense of smell is lost, the patient has to breathe by the floor of the nose or the open mouth. The sense of smell may be entirely lost after a fracture extending across the anterior fossa of the skull, or as the result of malignant disease in the ethmoid region. No. 2.—The filaments of the optic nerve pass out through the commissure into the optic tracts, by which they arise from the optic thalamus and the corpora quadrigemina. The tracts wind over the crura cerebri. The nerve passes out through the optic foramen in a special sheath of dura mater, part of which blends with the orbital periosteum, whilst the rest runs on to the sclerotic. The fibres of the nerve pass through the lamina cribrosa of the sclerotic and spread out into the retina ; those fibres which turn outwards, however, do not spread upon the surface until they have reached the vertical meridian of the eye-ball. In the optic commissure the most anterior fibres are inter-retinal and the most posterior inter-cerebral ; some fibres pass from the thalamus to the retina of the same side ; and, lastly, others pass across from the thalamus of one side to the retina of the other. This decussation is needed because the outer half of one retina works in harmony with the inner half of the other. When we look to the right, for instance, the image falls upon the inner part of the right retina and the outer part of the left. (For the anatomy of the eye see p. 82.)