71 Labio-glossal Paralysis the spinal accessory is the nerve of phonation. As the spinal and the accessory parts of the eleventh nerve pass through the jugular foramen they interchange filaments, and thus it is that the sterno-mastoid and trapezius are in direct association with the muscles of the vocal cords. Peripheral or central irritation of the spinal part of the nerve may cause spasmodic or tonic contraction of the sterno-mastoid and trapezius ; rhythmic contraction and relaxation of those muscles of the two sides cause the nodding movement so often seen in old persons— nodding palsy. Stretc/ring, or partial resection, of the spinal accessory nerve may be needed in certain aggravated cases of spasmodic contraction of the sterno-mastoid. The nerve is sought as it runs beneath the anterior border of the muscle, previous to piercing it, about two inches below the mastoid process. The incision is made through skin, platysma, and fasciae for about three inches along the front of the muscle, down- ward from the mastoid process. The muscle is then relaxed by rais- ing the head, and, its anterior border having been drawn outwards, the nerve is seen entering it. No. 12.—The hypoglossal is the motor nerve of the tongue ; it arises in the floor of the fourth ventricle, and emerges from the groove between the anterior pyi-amid and olive, that is, in the line of the motor roots of the cervical nerves. It leaves the skull through the anterior condylar foramen, and descends with the vagus, between the internal jugular vein and the carotid artery, to the level of the angle of the jaw, when it passes forwards, over the internal and external carotids, and over the hyo-glossus; then, sloping upwards beneath the posterior tendon of the digastric, and under the mylo-hyoid, it ends in the genio-hyo-glossus. It supplies also the stylo- and hyo-glossus, the genio-hyoid, and, by a special branch, the thyro-hyoid. It gives off the descendens hypoglossi (or descendens noni, when the motor linguae is reckoned as the ninth nerve), which, joined by a com- municating loop from the second and third cervical nerves, supplies the depressors of the hyoid bone. This nerve lies upon the sheath of the common carotid. When one of the twelfth pair of nerves is paralysed the genio- hyo-glossus of that side cannot help in the protrusion of the tongue, which it should do by its posterior fibres ; so that, on the patient try- ing to put out his tongue, the tip is carried over to the paralysed side (p. 68). And this paralysed side is weak, flabby, and greatly wasted. Duchcnne s disease, orglosso-labio-laryngeal, or labio-glosso-pha- ryngealparalysis, is the result of disease of that part of the medulla from which the facial, glosso-pharyngeal, vagus, spinal accessory, and hypo- glossal nerves arise. Another name for the disease is bulbar paralysis, because of the degeneration existing in the bulbar part of the cord.