Amputation at Shoitldci 259 Excision of the shoulder-joint, or, rather, resection of the upper end of the humerus, is performed by thrusting the point of a short, strong scalpel through the deltoid in the space between the coracoid and acromion, the ligament between these processes being also traversed by it. The incision is continued three or four inches down the limb. The arm is then rotated outwards, so that the subscapularis may be detached from the lesser tuberosity ; the capsule is opened up in the bicipital groove, and the tendon of the biceps is raised from its bed and hitched inwards over the lesser tuberosity, and well to the inner side of the head. After this the arm is rotated inwards, and the insertions of the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, and teres minor are detached from the greater tuberosity. Some of the capsule has then to be divided before the end of the bone can be thrust through the wound and sawn off. Amputation at the shoulder-joint is best performed by prolong- ing the incision, which was made in the last operation, a little further down the shaft of the bone. And, in those cases in which the surgeon does not know whether the disease will demand resection or amputation, he can begin by adopting the former method (short of sawing across the humerus), and then, if necessaiy, go on to amputate,clearing the humerus of the insertion of the muscles into the bicipital groove. The humerus having been brought out through the wound, an assistant thrusts his thumbs into the hollow whilst with his fingers on the outer side he com- presses the blood-vessels ; the soft parts are then cut. Compression of the subclavian artery in amputation at the joint is by no means satisfac- tory, though it is often advised ; it is far better to grasp the vessel in the shell of the soft parts as just described. (Compare this operation with Furneaux Jordan's amputation at the hip-joint, p. 469.) The tissues divided in the vertical cut are the skin, superficial and deep fasciae ; the deltoid, and part of the coraco-acromial ligament, and the capsule of the joint. Then, insertions of the subscapularis, supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, and teres minor; the anterior circumflex ; the pectoralis major ; latissimus dorsi and teres major. The trans- verse incision sweeps through the skin, superficial fascia, cephalic vein, filaments of the internal and lesser internal cutaneous, intercosto- humeral, musculo-cutaneous, and circumflex nerves ; the deep fascia ; the coraco-brachialis and short head of biceps, the long head of biceps ; the ending of the axillary vessels or the beginning of the brachial artery, venae comites, and basilic vein ; the ulnar, internal cutaneous, median, musculo-cutaneous and musculo-spiral nerves ; also some part of the insertions of the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, and teres major, and the lower end of the deltoid. Branches of the posterior circumflex artery and of the circumflex nerve are cut in disarticulating, but the main trunks of the circumflex nerve and the posterior circumflex artery escape section. s 2