98 The Ear panic abscess the wound in the membrane may obstinately lefuse to close ! Paracentesis should be performed through the lower part of the membrane, so as to avoid the risk of wounding the handle of the hammer and the chorda tympani, which are above the equator. The instrument must be thrust through with great care, as the inner wall is but —-inch beyond the membrane. I once had a man under my care whose child had roughly practised the operation on him with a pair of scissors, and with such violence as to cut through the facial nerve as it ran in the substance of the inner wall. The man had complete facial paralysis (p. 67). Polypi growing from the inner wall of the tympanum may cause great local disturbance, and in due time may make their way through the membrane and up the meatus ; they are usually associated with much suppuration. Having been removed by snare or forceps, their base must be kept down by astringents. When there is a hole in the membrane, and the Eustachian tube is clear, the subject can force air through it by blowing his nose hard. But the existence of an opening by no means implies deafness. In- deed, though the hammer and the anvil have escaped with the puru- lent discharge, hearing may persist, provided that the plate of the stirrup remains to close in the vestibular perilymph. When the membrane has a large opening in it, and the Eustachian tube is clear, the tympanum may be washed out into the phaiynx by sending a full stream of warm water down the auditor}' meatus, and in cases of chronic suppuration this treatment may be advantageously resorted to. Artificial membrana ty»ipa7ii.—When the destruction of the membrane has been so great as to lay the meatus into the tympanic cavity, the hammer and the anvil having probably escaped, hearing may be improved by passing a delicate plug of cotton-wool against the inner wall of the tympanum, so that it presses against the head of the stirrup, "and conveys the sound-waves to the perilymph of the vestibule. Acute inflammation of the middle ear may be an independent disease, or may be secondary to a' sore-throat.' As the muco-purulent fluid collects in the chamber with unyielding walls the effect of pres- sure becomes extremely serious : the first result may be noises in the ear, because the stapes is driven against the vestibular perilymph ; then come intense headache and pains of a bursting character, which, increasing, may cause convulsions, delirium, and may be followed by death. There is tenderness around the meatus and over the mastoid pro- cess. Swallowing causes pain by opening the inflamed Eustachian tube and causing air to enter the tympanum. Movements of the jaw also cause pain by disturbing the engorged tissues between the condyle and the tympanum.