221 Tendon-reflexes Patellar tendon-reflex.—The leg being crossed over the opposite knee, and the ligamentum patellae being sharply struck with the inner border of the hand, an afferent impulse is conveyed by filaments of the anterior crural to the lumbar enlargement, and, being there converted into a motor wave, the quadriceps femoris is set in action and the leg is extended with a ' jerk.' Absence of the jerk is evidence of a flaw either in the sensory fibres of the nerve, in the posterior column of the cord, in the grey crescent, or in the motor filaments of the nerve. Thus, it is lost in locomotor ataxy when the posterior external column is sclerosed, and when in diphtheria or infantile paralysis there has been a serious disturbance in the anterior cornu of the crescent. Some- times it will manifest itself only when the patient occupies his muscles and his attention by tightly linking his hands and trying to pull them asunder (Jendrassi/e's method). The reflex is exaggerated in disease of the antero-lateral columns, and when the control is lost in cerebral disease, as, for instance, in hemiplegia. Ankle-clonus (kXovos, any violent motion).—When, the knee being slightly bent, the foot is flexed to a right angle, and is then kept in the over-flexed position by pressing the hand beneath the metatarsal bones, rhythmic contractions and relaxations of the calf- muscles ensue. Afferent and efferent branches (sural) of the internal popliteal, associated in the lumbar en- largement, constitute the reflex chain, and tension in the muscle irritates the nerve and stimulates immediate con- traction. In the case of irritability of the cord, a series of rhythmical con- tractions are set up when the muscle is merely held in the strained position without any sudden flexion of the foot being required to start them. The tendo Achillis jerk is shown by striking the tendon when the foot is placed in the flexed position, and the peroneal reflex is obtained in a similar way when the foot is inverted. In the upper extremity deep reflexes may be searched in connection with the triceps, biceps, supinator longus, and wrist. Transverse section of the cord. 'I he /interior median column con- sists of those fibres which come straight from the anterior pyramid ; it is therefore called the direct pyramidal tract. It is well to remember that it also bears the name of Tiirck. Columns of the cord. (Gray.)