Bronchia/. Vessels 199 end in fine capillaries between the air-cells. Indeed, the capillaries bulge on each side into the cells, being covered only by their thin epithelial pavement. The bronchial vessels supply the machinery of the lungs, the pulmonary vessels being occupied with aeration of the blood. The bronchial arteries, two or three to each lung, come from the thoracic aorta or the intercostals; the veins empty into the azygos trunks. The lymphatics end in the bronchial glands, in the root of the lung. These glands are often loaded with particles of carbon which have been brought from the air-cells by the lymphatics. Often they are found calcareous post mortem ; this is when they have been inflamed and enlarged, the salts having remained whilst the softer elements were absorbed. The anterior and posterior pulmonary plexus supply pneumogastric and sympathetic filaments. Examination of the Chest Percussion is most conveniently carried out by striking the middle finger of the left hand by tips of the partly flexed fingers of the right. The character of the sound thus obtained reveals the comparative density of the tissue beneath. Thus, over healthy lung the note is clear, over cedematous lung it is comparatively dull, and over solid lung, or over liver (with no lung intervening), it is absolutely dull. With a good ear and a clever touch the exact area of heart, of a hepa- tised patch of lung, of an aneurysm or a vomica, can generally be clearly defined. But in the case of serious disease examination should be dis- creetly carried out, lest the patient suffer from exposure, and lest his chest be so shaken as to set up cough or bring on haemoptysis. Percussion is resonant in the root of the neck, but the note is not so clear as it is below the clavicles, because the apex of the lung is small. Resonance should be good also along the middle of the cla- vicle. On the right side the note begins to get dull from below the fifth rib, because of the decreasing volume of the lung over the liver. Below the liver-dulness the tympanitic resonance of the intestines begins. The note is clear over the manubrium, though there is no lung behind that bone (p. 193) ; the resonance being due to vibration in ad- jacent lung-tissue. But it is clearer along the gladiolus, though from the fourth cartilage downwards, and to the left, comes the comparative dulness of the cardiac area (p. 165). The resonance is greater on in- spiration, as the border of the lung glides further over the heart. Below the base of the left lung the tympanitic note of the stomach begins. For the sake of comparison, the two sides of the chest must be percussed symmetrically from the supra-clavicular regions downwards, due allowance being made for the area of cardiac dulness. For per-