The Bladder 4io base of the bladder is thrust down against the rectum, and, by digital exploration, a semi-elastic and rounded bulging may be detected against its anterior wall ; and, on gently striking the hypogastric region, fluctuation may be detected by the finger in the bowel. When the bladder is distended to the utmost, urine begins to leak out by the urethra ; this overflow may continue for days or even months, the patient believing that the viscus is efficiently emptying itself. Incon- tinence of tirzneirithe adult thus generally means a bladder full and over- flowing ; but in the child it suggests irritation. The more distended the bladder the more thinly are the coats spread out, and the greater the risk of rupture from injury. Over-distension may so stretch the muscular coat as to produce temporary paralysis. Thus, when a catheter is introduced the urine flows without force, and under the influence of the diaphragmatic contraction rather than of the vesical wall. But when stricture has long impeded micturition the muscular coat of the bladder i s found thickened from exercise. In the same way the left ven- tricle of the heart grows thick and strong in the effort to force blood through the arterial sys- tem in Bright's disease. In cystitis the mucous mem- brane swells, and perhaps to such an extent as to block the openings of the ureters and prevent the descent of urine. A malignant growth may have the same effect, and the ureters may in time be dilated to the size of a piece of small intestine. If this change be slowly and quietly brought about, the glan- dular structure may almost en- tirely disappear under pressure, the kidney being represented by a multilocular cyst into which its fibrous framework is expanded. But more commonly the result of obstructed outflow is the se- quence of pathological events associated with the so-called surgical kidney, which are as follows :— The bladder being distended, decomposition of the urine occurs, and the inflammation of the mucous membrane extends along the Dilatation of ureters and disease of kidneys, the result of enlargement of middle lobe of pro- state. (Erichsen.)