499 Amputations at Ankle and at the back of the joint, on either side of the tendo Achillis. Such universal bulging is indicative of ankle-joint disease ; when fulness in the neighbourhood is due to extra-articular causes it is limited to one aspect, or, at the most, to two aspects of the ankle. Excision of the ankle-joint may be performed by lateral incisions which descend along the posterior borders of the malleoli, and by prolonging them a little forwards so as to obtain more room. The tendons are carefully turned back—the peroneus longus and brevis, and the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum. The lateral ligaments are divided ; the lower end of the fibula is sawn off, and the lower end of the tibia is scraped or sawn, as may be expedient, and the astragalus is thoroughly scraped over. In Syme's amputation all the bones of the foot are removed, and a flap is shelled from the back of the os calcis which is flexed over the ends of the tibia and fibula, the' malleoli having been re- moved. The land-marks for the ope- ration are the tip of the external malleolus, and a spot on the inner side on exactly the same level, which is below and behind the tip of the inner malleolus. A large scalpel is used. The heel-flap is first cut by an incision connecting these points, and passing under the os calcis. It is sloped a little backwards, so that the flap is not made needlessly long and cup-shaped. This incision divides every- thing down to the bones : skin, superficial fascia, external saphenous vein and nerve; deep fascia (external and internal annular ligaments); the tendons of peroneus longus and brevis ; the posterior tibial vessels and nerve ; the flexor longus hallucis ; the plantar fascia ; the points of origin of the abductor hallucis, flexor brevis digitorum, and abductor minimi digiti. Then the end of theos calcis is uncovered by carefully peeling back the flap down to the bone, and round the point of the heel, care being taken to make no ' button-hole.' The second incision is carried straight over the front of the ankle- joint, beginning and ending in the horns of the plantar incision. No attempt is made at shaping a dorsal flap ; the knife is carried straight across, down to the bones and into the ankle-joint. This incision divides : skin, superficial fascia, internal saphenous vein and nerve, and the musculo-cutaneous nerve ; the deep fascia (anterior, and part of internal annular ligament) ; the peroneus tertius and the extensor longus digitorum ; the anterior tibial nerve and vessels ; the extensor proprius hallucis, and the tibialis anticus ; and, last or first, according K K 2 'Syme Pirogoff'