The Rectum 3 86 nearly an inch deep, the internal sphincter; its upper border forms a definite ridge beneath the mucous membrane, and just above it an ulcer or the opening of a fistula is often found. The external sphincter (striated) is attached to the coccyx, and, passing around the sides of the anus, its fibres join again to reach the central tendon. It is under control of the will. It is supplied by branches of the inferior hemorrhoidal vessels and nerves, and by twigs from the fourth sacral. It is advisable to forcibly dilate the sphincter after operating for internal piles, as the temporary paralysis which follows ensures perfect rest and freedom from spasm. Fissure of the anus is a linear ulcer or crack which extends from just within the anus to the exterior. On account of its passing across the fibres of the external sphincter the sensory filaments in its depths are disturbed after every act of defalcation by the spasmodic contrac- tion of the sphincter, whilst the anus itself is kept tightly occluded. Hence the pain is intense, and it often lasts for hours after stool. Before the ulcer can heal, temporary paralysis of the sphincter must be obtained, either by forcible dilatation, or by section of the superficial fibres. Spasmodic contraction of the sphincter may be due to the presence of a fissure which is so small as to escape detection. By obtaining the temporary paralysis of the muscle in an obscure case relief may generally be secured. Spasmodic contraction of i/ie sphincter is very characteristic of ulceration at or near the anus. Irritation of sensory filaments of the internal pudic nerve involves a message of unrest to the grey matter of the lumbar enlargement of the cord, which is there converted into a motor stimulus leaving by those fibres of the nerve which supply the muscle guarding the mucous orifice. Sometimes the pain is so severe, and the sensory impulse is so energetic, that the adjacent cells in the posterior part of the grey crescent are thrown into sympathetic vibra- tion, and the patient complains of pains in the regions near those from which the afferent nerves are coming ; thus he may have neuralgia in the back (lumbago ?), down the thigh (sciatica ?), or along the scro- tum. And'sometimes the efferent (motor) impulse is so severe that the testicles may be drawn up, or the bladder spasmodically evacuated ; vaginismus also may be set up, or contraction of the sphincter vesicae, retention of urine being the result. By inspection of the anus information may sometimes be obtained as to the nature of rectal disease ; thus in the case of fissure it is tightly closed, and only with difficulty can a search be made amongst the muco-cutaneous folds and furrows. But when obstruction exists, as in the case of simple or malignant stricture, or of a greatly enlarged prostate, the sphincter becomes atrophied and weak from want of use, and the anus flaccid and patulous. This is very characteristic. Even in the case of annular constriction of the sigmoid flexure I have found the anus flabby and patulous. {See also p. 384.)