Amputation of Tonsil 111 The Tonsil The tonsil is a lymphoid mass placed in the recess between the anterior and posterior pillars of the fauces (p. 107). Its situation cor- responds to the angle of the jaw, and when the gland is enlarged it may cause a fulness in that neighbourhood. It is covered internally by the mucous membrane of the mouth, and upon its free surface are the openings of a dozen or fifteen crypts which extend into the sub- stance of the tonsil. They have an epithelial lining, and upon the deep side of their basement membrane are nodules of lymphoid tissue. Relations.—In front is the fold of membrane enclosing the palato-glossus, and behind is that enclosing the palato-pharyngeus ; above is the soft palate, and below is the hinder part of the tongue. On the outer side is the superior constrictor of the pharynx, and more externally still are the internal carotid artery and the internal jugular vein ; the vagus ; the sympathetic ganglion, and the ascending pharyn- geal artery. As the internal carotid is not only external to the tonsil, but also somewhat posterior to it, the jugular vein is still further away. Supply.—The arteries are derived from the ascending pharyngeal; the ascending palatine and tonsillar of the facial ; the dorsalis linguae, and the descending palatine of the internal maxillary. The veins form a plexus which empties into the pharyngeal veins and so into the internal jugular. The lymphatics pass to the glands below the angle of the jaw, and into those beneath the sterno-mastoid. The nerves are derived from the glosso-pharyngeal, and from descending branches of Meckel's ganglion. Hypertrophy.—When the tonsils are enlarged they project from between pillars of the fauces, and may actually meet across the middle line. There is difficulty in swallowing, and as the masses obstruct the passage of air from the posterior nares the subject sleeps with his mouth open, so that air may enter also by the mouth. His respira- tion is always noisy, and at night he snores. Insufficient supplies of air entering, the chest is badly developed, and the excessive atmo- spheric pressure upon the exterior causes the child to become pigeon- breasted. Because the mouth is constantly open, the face becomes elongated, and because but little air passes through the nares the nose is small and flattened from side to side, and the nostrils are very narrow. Thus, the surgeon can often recognise the hypertrophy by the aspect of the patient. The voice is ' thick.' Being below the soft palate, whilst the opening of the Eustachian tube is above it, the enlarged tonsil cannot actually occlude that open- ing, but deafness is often associated with the enlargement because the lymphoid tissue about the Eustachian orifice is simultaneously hyper- trophied. Amputation of the tonsil is best performed by dragging the mass