The Stomach 322 act, so that an emetic should be administered in plenty of warm water. Vomiting may be caused by irritation of the pneumogastric filaments in the pharynx as well as stomach, or even in the brain itself, as in cerebral disease, or in a sea-voyage. Free expectoration of bronchial mucus is excited by vomiting ; thus in certain chronic pulmonary con- gestions an emetic is useful. In vomiting the tonsils are compressed by the superior constrictor, and in acute quinsy an emetic may thus effect the bursting of a tonsillar abscess, or, after amputation of tonsils, may check troublesome oozing. The close association between the stomach and brain is exemplified by sea-sickness and by the vomiting which occurs on the return of consciousness after cerebral concussion. But irritation of the gastric filaments of the vagi is often misinterpreted by the brain as the re- sult of pulmonary unrest ; and so arises the ' stomach cough.' When vomiting is long-continued the bile-stained contents of the duodenum are voided, and, later, the lower part of the small intestine is emptied ; the ejecta then have a stercoraceous odour; but in so-called ' fascal vomiting' the large intestine is not being emptied : this is prevented by the ileo-caecal valve. Eructation is that form of vomiting which is accomplished by the muscular coat of the stomach alone without the help of the diaphragm or of the abdominal walls. Post-mortem digestion of the stomach affects its hinder wall, and chiefly in those parts which depend on either side of the vertebral column, that is where the gastric juice collects. The dissolution caused by an irritant poison would not affect these pouches only and avoid the rest of the lining of the stomach. In stricture of the pylorus the stomach becomes much dilated, and, as nutrition fails, the patient becomes so thin that the hardened valve may be at last easily felt through the abdominal wall. If the growth happen to lie over the aorta the pulsations are apparent above the umbilicus, but the tumour feels solid and does not expand laterally as an aneurysm would. Sickness comes on much later after food has been taken in pyloric than in cardiac stricture, for in the former case the food may remain in the stomach until, in the ordinary course, it should be passing into the duodenum ; as it tries to force its way through the pylorus pain may be intense. The stomach becomes enormously dilated in pyloric stenosis and may spread through the chief part of the abdominal cavity. The condition of the stomach after death from pyloric stricture is like that of the bladder in the case of enlarged prostate, or of the left cardiac ventricle in aortic obstruction, the distended organ being not only dilated, but considerably thickened. Food accumulating undergoes decomposition, and the patient is troubled with wind. If forcible dilatation of the contracted pylorus be not considered expedient—and in some cases it has answered well—