278 The Ulnar Artery the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, it is seen to cross that of the artery. As the muscles narrow into their tendons the artery is found nearer to the surface, between the flexor carpi ulnaris and the inner- most tendon of the flexor sublimis digitorum, being then covered only by the skin and the superficial and deep fascias, a branch or two of the anterior ulnar vein and of the internal cutaneous nerve. The ulnar artery rests upon, first, the brachialis amicus, and, in the rest of its course, on the flexor profundus digitorum, a muscle which is bulky enough to prevent the artery coming into relationship with either the ulna or the square pronator. The first definite external relationship is the innermost tendon of the flexor sublimis. On the inner side of the artery are the ulnar nerve and the flexor carpi ulnaris, but these structures are not approached until the vessel has completed its inward bend, that is, not until it has reached nearly halfway to the wrist. The artery is accompanied by a small vein on either side. Branches.—The anterior ulnar recurrent ascends deeply in the groove between the pronator teres and the brachialis anticus, to com- municate with the anastomotica magna and the inferior profunda. The posterior ulnar recurrent ascends behind the internal con- dyle, and communicates with the posterior branches of the anasto- motica magna, and with the inferior and superior profundas. It passes between the origins of the flexors sublimis and profundus, and between the heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris, lying against the ulnar nerve. The common interosseous speedily divides into the anterior and posterior interosseous, the former of which descends upon the interosseous membrane in the crevice between the flexor profundus digitorum and the flexor longus pollicis. But, having reached the pronator quadratus, it passes through the membrane to the back of the foi-e-arm, where it anastomoses with the posterior interosseous and the posterior carpal arteries. It gives off muscular twigs, and the nutrient branches to the radius and ulna, the comes nervimediant, and branches to anastomose with the anterior carpal arch. The branches to the radius and ulna run towards the elbow. The posterior interosseous runs backwards between the oblique ligament and the interosseous membrane, and then between the adjacent borders of the supinator brevis and the extensor ossis. It afterwards descends between the superficial and deep layer of muscles, and ends in anastomosis with the anterior interosseous and the pos- terior carpal arch. It gives off the interosseous recurrent branch, which ascends between the external condyle and the olecranon process, and beneath the anconeus, to anastomose with the superior profunda, and perhaps with the posterior ulnar recurrent or the anastomotica magna.