33© Intestinal Obstruction ileo-csecal valve ; ileum, valve, and caecum may all slip into the colon and even hang into the rectum, so that in every case of obstruction the finger should be passed into the anus. In most of these cases bloody discharge occurs from the anus ; the piece of intussuscepted bowel stimulates the ensheathing piece, and painful straining to pass a motion (tenesmus) results. Where there is much fteculent or bloody discharge there is not much inflation of the bowel. The intussuscepted piece, like a ball of snow, grows larger as it travels onwards, and gives rise to a tumour which may be felt through the abdominal wall, in the course of the colon. When obstruction is high in the small intestine the patient is sick each time he takes anything into the stomach ; thus the amount of urine must be greatly reduced ; moreover, he perspires profusely, the skin doing some of the work of the kidneys. The more constant the vomiting, the less must be the amount of gas in the alimentary canal ; in some cases of obstruction high in the jejunum the abdomen is flatter than normal. But as peritonitis sets in tympanites, of course, supervenes. When the small intestine is inflated and the abdominal walls are stretched the position of the transverse rolls may be felt and seen behind the recti. These elevations must not be mistaken for the natural segments in the muscles which occupy fixed and definite situations. When obstruction is low in the large intestine, as in the case of a laden sigmoid flexure becoming twisted, or narrowed by malignant constriction, there may not be much vomiting, but the abdomen is greatly distended by flatus, and there is resonance in the flanks—in the course of the ascending and descending colon. Borborygmi, or ventral rumblings, are caused by the irregular passage of gas along the bowels, and are probably due to disturbance of peristaltic action through the influence of the sympathetic system. It is also by some irregular contraction of the circular fibres that a piece of small or large intestine is slipped into and strangulated by a piece of the bowel lower down {see also p. 329). The introduction of food into stomach or rectum increases peristaltic action, so that nothing but a little ice can be allowed in acute intestinal obstruction. Opium is given to check peristaltic action. Strychnia is used in chronic forms of constipation to excite peristalsis. The arteries of the large intestine are ileo-colic, right colic, and middle colic from the superior mesenteric, and left colic, sigmoidean, and superior haemorrhoidal from the inferior mesenteric. (For the supply of the rectum see p. 388.) ..The veins are tributaries of the vena portse, except those coming from the lower end of the rectum, which open into the internal pudic vein. The Jterves come from the aortic plexus, and the lymphatics enter the lumbar glands. JCittre's operation is making an artificial anus in the sigmoid