The Thigh 452 of its receiving the insertion of the tensor fascial femoris and two- thirds of the gluteus maximus ; it passes as the ilio-tibial band (p. 450 from the iliac crest to the outer tuberosity of the tibia and head of fibula. At the back of the thigh the fascia is thinner, and as it ascends it gives one layer over gluteus maximus and one beneath. Investing the lower part of the thigh, it is attached to the condyles of the femur and sends intermuscular septa to the condylar ridges. Covering in the popliteal space it is continued on as the deep fascia of the back of the leg ; but from the front of the thigh it does not reach below the knee, being gradually blended with the fibres of the quadriceps extensor, and with the periosteal covering of the articular ends of the bones. Guided by the fascia, abscess beneath the gluteus maximus may wander down the thigh and through the popliteal space into the calf. The saphenous opening is about an inch below the inner end of Poupart's ligament, but its site is not usually marked upon the surface of the limb. It has a definite superior border formed by a sickle- shaped (falciform) process, which, coming from the pubic spine, sweeps outwards over the vessels to become continuous with that part of the fascia which covers the pectineus, and which slopes upwards and out- wards beneath the vessels to join the sheath of the psoas. This latter part is the pubic piece of the fascia lata ; it is on a plane posterior to. the outer piece, which, from its having come from the region of the iliac crest, is called the iliac piece. (Note well that the iliac piece of the fascia lata is not the iliac fascia, p. 307.) This arrangement of the fascia lata in two planes which, though continuous below, are sepa- rated by the thickness of the common femoral vessels above, is to permit the saphenous vein to continuously discharge its contents into the common femoral vein, even when the thigh is extended and everted.' As the falciform process arches over the vessels it is connected with the front of the crural sheath (p. 313). When the thigh is extended and the fascia lata in the groin is tight, and is dragging down Poupart's ligament, the falciform process is rendered hard and sharp ; and when the thigh is flexed and rotated inwards the process is slackened. In attempting to reduce a femoral hernia without flexing the thigh, the bowel may be bruised against the sickle-shaped band. Femoral hernia (p. 312) descends in the innermost compartment of the crural sheath, having the iliac part of the fascia lata in front of it, and the pubic part behind. At about an inch below the ligament the crural sheath ends by blending with the sheath of the vessels. As a femoral hernia can descend no farther along the vessels than where these sheaths blend, it bulges forwards through the saphenous opening, taking the anterior layer of the crural sheath and the cribriform fascia in front of it ; it then curls round the falciform process and on to the