177 Effects of Mitral Disease left axillary line : when the right ventricle is enlarged the impulse extends to the right of the sternum. Displacement of the apex-beat downwards and outwards at once suggests hypertrophy of the left ventricle ; but an extensive impulse within the normal site does not necessarily imply enlargement, it may be due to recession of the lung— as in phthisis. The extent of the hypertrophy cannot always be made out by percussion, as the heart, instead of pushing the lung aside, may hide beneath it. Though the hypertrophied left ventricle labours and hurries to force the blood onwards, it never gets complete masteiy over the situa- tion. The result is that when any extra demand is made it becomes embarrassed, and the pulmonary veins, and the vessels of the lungs generally, are over-filled, and aeration is retarded. Thus, shortness of breath is a prominent sign of hypertrophy. When the mitral valve is narrowed, also when it is incompetent, the left ventricle has but a small quantity of blood to force into the aorta ; thus, in mitral disease the left ventricle is the only part of the heart which is not hypertrophied. In valvular disease of t/ie heart the prejudicial effects pass always in the direction opposite to that of the normal blood-stream. The auricles are dilated and their walls thickened when their labour is increased by a narrowing of the gateway into the ventricle, or when, from incompetence of that valve, the ventricle is able to pump some of its blood the wrong way. In mitral regurgitation the left auricle first enlarges, then the right auricle, on account of the obstruction in the lungs, and then the right ventricle. The dilatation of the left auricle may cause so much pressure upon the left bronchus (which is close behind it, p. 194) as to obstruct the flow of air through it. With mitral insufficiency the hypertrophied and'embarrassed heart beats with such vigour against the chest-wall that recognition of the exact murmur may be difficult. A thin layer of lung, however, acts as a cushion and does away with the local excitement, and thus it is that in these cases the murmur is often most distinct towards the axilla. Sibson used to demonstrate this effect of the layer of lung on the heart-sound by placing a piece of blotting-paper between the chest and the stethoscope, and so diminishing the impulse-noise and bringing out the murmur. 'A mitral murmur is a proof of mitral regurgitation, but not of disease of the mitral valve ; it having been noticed in cases in which post mortem examination revealed a healthy mitral valve.' The effects of mitral disease.—Catarrhal bronchitis, and, later on, oedema of the lung, haemoptysis, and pulmonary apoplexy, may be caused by valvular disease of the heart, the pulmonary veins, and the bronchial veins which open into them, being engorged, and the lung ' splenified.' This condition occurs both when the mitral valve is N