Spinal Cord 213 to end in the surrounding spinal veins. The spinal veins empty into the vertebral, intercostal lumbar, and lateral sacral veins. Hemorrhage from these veins, perhaps the result of injury, causes pressure upon the cord and sudden paraplegia. Suspension in the treatment of diseases of the spinal cord may possibly owe its value to the stimulus which is thereby imparted to the circulation in the veins of the cord (p. 214) and of the canal. • For fracture through sacro-coccygeal joint, v. p. 362. THE SPINAL CORD The spinal cord is the continuation of the encephalon towards the trunk and extremities. It begins at the lower border of the medulla oblongata, at the level of the first cervical vertebra, and extends to the first lumbar, where it breaks up into the cauda equina. In early fcetal life it reaches to the very end of the spinal canal, but its subsequent growth does not keep pace with that of the canal. Its average length in the adult is i£ ft. and its weight i£ oz. It has two enlargements, one in the lowest cervical region, the other in the lowest dorsal. From the cervical enlargement the nerves issue for the brachial plexus, and from the lumbar enlargement emerge the nerves for the lumbar and sacral plexuses. The cord is enclosed in the pia mater, arachnoid, and dura mater, but even with these invest- ments it does not nearly fill the canal, being separated from the bony wall by a plexus of veins and by loose connective tissue. Partly to this fact, and partly to its being suspended in cerebro-spinal fluid, does the cord owe its comparative freedom from injury. The dura mater is continuous with that lining the cranium, but it does not act as periosteum, nor does it enclose venous channels. It is firmly attached to the border of the foramen magnum and to the back of the body of the axis. It forms a sheath to the cauda equina as far as the top of the sacrum, and gives an investment to each nerve as it passes out. The arachnoid (npa^vrj, eibos, ' fine as a spider's web') intervenes between the dura and pia mater, being continuous with that of the brain. External to it is the sub-dural space, containing some cerebro- spinal fluid, and between it and the pia mater is the sub-arachnoidean space, the fluid of which is abundant, and which communicates with that in the cerebral ventricles through an opening in the floor of the fourth ventricle. In the case of a large spina bifida (p. 204) a distinct wave of fluctuation may sometimes be obtained by compressing the tumour with one hand whilst the other hand is over the anterior fonta- nels ; if, however, the pressure be made roughly, cerebral irritation results. The fluid of the spinal canal, be it clearly understood, is in the