313 Femoral Hernia fascia in front and of the iliac fascia behind. These two pro- longations join on either side of the vessels, and the funnel-shaped investment thus formed is the crural sheath ; it blends with the connective-tissue sheath of the vessels about an inch below Poupart's ligament. Three compartments are made in the crural sheath by two antero- posterior fibrous septa ; the outermost compartment contains the common femoral artery, the middle the vein, and the innermost a lymphatic gland. The anterior crural nerve, being beneath the iliac fascia, cannot be within the sheath. The innermost compartment is the femoral or crural canal ; it ex- tends less than an inch into the thigh : from the base of Gimbernat's ligament to the margin of the saphenous opening ; its abdominal orifice, which is about large enough to admit the top of the little finger, is overlaid by the peritoneum ; between it and the peritoneum is a (practically) unimportant layer of sub-peritoneal connective tissue, which, on account of its covering the aperture, is called the septum crurale. See illustration on p. 306. Relations of the crural canal.—In front is Poupart's ligament ; behind is the pubic part of fascia lata covering the ramus of pubes and the pectineus ; internally is Gimbernat's ligament ; and externally is the common femoral vein, and, possibly, the irregular obturator artery. Its apex reaches down to the top of the saphenous opening. The spermatic cord, which lies along Poupart's ligament, is just above and in front of the canal, and the deep epigastric artery, in its inward ascent, lies external and superior to it. Femoral hernia descends through the crural ring and down the crural canal to the top of the saphenous opening. The bowel takes as its coverings a sac of peritoneum ; then, probably, the sub-peritoneal fat —under the name of septum crurale ; in the canal it derives an invest- ment from the anterior wall of the crural sheath—that is from the pro- longation of the fascia transversalis. Arrived at the lower limit of the crural canal, the hernia comes forward through the saphenous open- ing, taking the deep layer of the superficial or cribriform fascia, the fatty layer, and the skin. Thus, the coverings from above downwards are skin, two layers of superficial fascia, crural sheath, septum crurale, and peritoneum. The course of a femoral hernia is downwards, into the canal ; then forwards through the saphenous opening ; and, lastly, upwards towards Poupart's ligament or the iliac crest. The hernia is superficial to and above the saphenous vein. Before employing taxis the thigh should be flexed and slightly inverted so as to relax the fascia lata, and especially its falciform border, against which the bowel would otherwise be bruised. The fingers and thumb of the left hand are arranged around the neck of the hernia—to steady it—and the tumour is gently but firmly squeezed