Fracture of Scapula 227 The sternal end of the clavicle has an epiphysis which begins to ossify about the eighteenth year and joins the shaft a few years later. Occasionally this epiphysis becomes detached, when careful measurement ^f^^-^f~~~ ""^fo* shows that the lesion is not a dislo- "*^^g-W^»g^^ Cation. Epiphysis, 2, of clavicle at sternal end. In excision of the bone the peri- osteum should be stripped off by the blunt raspatory, the knife being used only for the skin ; thus there is but little risk of wounding the sub- clavian and supra-scapular vessels and the external jugular vein. The scapula reaches from the second to the seventh rib. Its spine at the base corresponds to the third rib, and marks the posterior limit of the fissure between the upper and lower lobes of the lung (p. 192). The subscapularis and serratus magnus intervene between the scapula and the ribs. The bone is held in position by certain clavi- cular ligaments, and by the trapezius, levator anguli, rhomboids, and serratus magnus. The latissimus dorsi may be left out of the calculation, as its connection with the inferior angle is but slight and inconstant. Xiuxation of scapula is that condition in which the inferior angle projects from the chest-wall. It is due, not to the angle having slipped over the border of the latissimus, but to paralysis of that part of the serratus which should hold the vertebral margin and the inferior angle against the chest. Frictions, and electrical stimulations along the nerve of Bell, usually efface the deformity. The acromion and the coracoid processes have each two centres of ossification ; they may become ' unglued,' especially so the latter, by direct violence or muscular action. The coracoid is ossified on to the rest of the scapula at puberty, the acromion at manhood. After fracture of the coracoid the pectoralis minor, coraco-brachialis, and short head of biceps drag at the loosened process, but are unable to displace it materially, as the conoid and trapezoid ligaments still fix it to the clavicle. The fracture is treated by flexing the elbow (to slacken the biceps), and by drawing it across the chest (to take the strain from the pectoralis minor and coraco-brachialis), and by fixing the arm in that position for two or three weeks. The break may be repaired by a ligamentous union. Probably not a few of the specimens which are described as ' ununited fracture of the coracoid' are instances of imperfect ossification, fracture, especially from violence, being of rare occurrence. The only other fracture of the scapula which is of anatomical importance is that of the neck, when the coracoid process and the glenoid cavity are detached, and descend together with the head of the humerus into the axilla. The injury is excessively rare ; it is distinguished from simple downward dislocation of the humerus by the fact that the contour of the shoulder is easily restored when the arm is raised, though it recurs directly the support is removed. In dislocation of the humerus the bone is firmly locked. • q 2