274 The Muscles of Fore-arm The pronator quadratus arises from the front of the lowest fourth of the ulna and is inserted into the corresponding surface of the radius. Its nerve is the anterior interosseous. Relations.—It is covered by the tendons ot the flexors profundus digitorum, longus pollicis, and carpi radialis, and by the radial artery and its venae comites. The ulnar artery is widely separated from it by the mass of the flexor profundus—tendon and muscle. Of the synovial membranes beneath the anterior annular liga- ment, one surrounds the tendons of the flexors sublimis and profundus together with the median nerve as they pass beneath the ligament. As the tendons he in the fibrous sheaths on the front of the first and second phalanges they are also invested by synovial bursae, but these bursae are distinct from the membrane beneath the annular ligament. In the case of the little finger, however, the synovial membrane from beneath the annular ligament is directly continuous with that which lines the digital sheath, as is shown in the adjoin- ing wood-cut. The synovial sheath does not de- scend on to the ungual phalanx, for at the base of that bone the tendon of the deep flexor is inserted. The outer synovial membrane beneath the annular ligament accompanies the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis down into the fibrous sheath along the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx of the thumb. The two large synovial bursae beneath the annular ligament are separated from one another by the median nerve ; they extend into the fore-arm about an inch above the annular ligament. A reference to the wood-cut shows that a deep inflammation ot the thumb or of the little finger is likely to lead to more serious complications than that of the second, third, or fourth fingers, as, the digital pouch of synovial membrane being implicated, suppuration may extend beneath the annular ligament and up into the fore-arm. Some- times the inner and outer pouches communicate above the wrist by a tubular process across the median nerve, in which case a deep-seated suppuration in the thumb may eventually implicate the sheath of the flexor tendons of the little finger, the sheaths in the intermediate digits being unaffected. In the case of acute suppuration in one or other of these bursae it is expedient to lay it freely open, dividing the annular ligament at the same time. The purulent swelling bulges in the fore-arm and in the hand, and, being constricted beneath the ligament, is somewhat of hour-glass shape. When the sheath of one of the three middle digits only is affected, it is better to incise the thecal abscess over the head of the metacarpal bone than to slit open the sheath down the first and second phalanges, with the risk of producing a stiff* and comparatively useless finger. Usual arrangement synovial sheaths palm. of in