TJic Pleura 188 crevice between the chest-wall and the diaphragm. A sharp instrument may pass through two layers of pleura in the costo-phrenic crevice, and penetrate the diaphragm and liver without wounding lung, and through such a wound a piece of omentum may even protrude. The twelfth rib is covered by pleura, and in seeking the kidney from the loin the surgeon, keeping his incision too near to the rib, may open the pleura. The apex of each pleura mounts i| to 2 inches into the neck i p.. 164); and over the pleural dome the subclavian artery passes, in a slight groove. A ■peripleuritic abscess is one which forms between the chest-wall and pleura; it is of limited extent, and is obviously very different from an empyema (p. 190). Inflammation of the pleura, or pleurisy, causes a 'stitch' in the side, and produces a short cough. As the opposed surfaces become dry, and roughened by fibrinous deposits, they rub against each other during the movements of respiration, and produce a friction-sound or a vibra- tion which may be appreciated even by the touch. The sound is lost as the surfaces again grow moist and smooth, also when they become glued together by plastic lymph, or when they are widely separated by intra-pleural effusion. It is lost also whilst the patient holds his breath, and this distinguishes it from a pericardial friction-sound, which is, of course, uninfluenced by respiration (p. 158). The friction- sound is like that which is often heard with a new saddle. The slower and deeper the inspiration, the more jerky and prolonged the sound, and it may usually be intensified by pressing the parietal pleura nearer to the visceral by thrusting the finger between the ribs. When a class of students are listening for the sound the first comers hear it best, for the deep respiratoiy movements temporarily smooth down the rough surfaces. Movement causes pain, so the affected side of the chest hardly stirs in respiration ; the fellow lung, therefore, does nearly all the re- spiratory work, hurrying to accomplish it. The respiratory movements are, therefore, quick, shallow, and almost unilateral ; they are best noted by placing the hands flat on the ribs ; sometimes one side lags or hardly moves at all. The intercostal nerves supply not only the costal pleura, but also the levatores costarum, the intercostals, and the flat muscles of the abdomen. When, therefore, the parietal pleura is inflamed the nerve- trunks are in distress, the patient is neither willing nor able to draw a deep breath, and the utmost rest and comfort are required. The pleuritic patient should not be allowed to converse, as this entails con- siderable respiratoiy effort. Questions should be arranged so that ' yes ' or ' no ' are the only answers needed. Sometimes the pleuritic patient has pain and tenderness in the epigastric region, on account of the trunks of the lower intercostal