Ligation of Radial Artery 75 The Arteries of the Fore-Arm The radial artery comes from the bifurcation of the brachial opposite the neck of the radius, and, though smaller than the ulnar, is, by its direction, the direct continuation of the parent trunk. Its course in the fore-arm may be marked by a line from the middle of the bend of the elbow to the middle of the hollow between the styloid process of the radius and the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis. From this spot it winds round to the back of the wrist, and so into the palm of the hand, to form the deep palmar arch. Relations in the fore-arm.—It is covered by skin, superficial and deep fasciae, and is overlapped by the anterior border of the supinator longus. It rests upon the tendon of the biceps, the supinator brevis, the pronator teres, the radial origin of the flexor sublimis digitorum, the flexor longus pollicis, the pronator quadratus, and the radius. To its outer side are the supinator longus, and, in the middle third, the radial nerve. Along its inner side is the pronator teres, and, after that, the flexor carpi radialis. On either side runs a companion vein. Branches in the fore-arm.—The radial recurrent ascends on the supinator brevis to the interval between the supinator longus and the brachialis anticus, where it lies against the musculo-spiral nerve, and anastomoses with the superior profunda. This is the only artery at the elbow which does not communicate with the anastomotica magna ; the explanation being that these two branches are separated by the large mass of the brachialis anticus. Muscular branches are given off freely and irregularly. The superficialis volae is given off close above the wrist, and runs over the anterior annular ligament, or through or over the root of the muscles of the ball of the thumb. Sometimes it joins in the formation of the superficial palmar arch, but it often ends in the muscles of the thumb. When this artery is large, the finger applied at the lower part of the front of the wrist detects a ' double pulse.' The anterior carpal runs inwards beneath the flexor tendons to join a corresponding branch of the ulnar arteiy ; it lies in front of the lower border of the pronator quadratus. ligation in the upper part of the fore-arm.—An incision of two and a-half inches is made in the line of the artery through the skin and the superficial and deep fasciae, when the longitudinal muscular fibres of the supinator longus are exposed. The edge of this muscle may, perhaps, be a little to the inner side of the incision, but when the muscle is small the connective tissue over the vessel is at once exposed. The border of the muscle is gently drawn outwards and by working with the director through the bed of connective tissue' the artery, with a companion vein on either side, is found lying T 2