. Ihdoiuiiial Aorta 351 of the umbilicus. Above the umbilicus the aorta may be felt pulsating, and may there be readily compressed in a thin subject Sometimes the bifurcation is a little above, sometimes a little below, the fourth lumbar vertebra. Relatiotis.—It rests upon the four upper lumbar vertebras, the left lumbar veins, and the beginning of the thoracic duct. Anterior to it are the lesser omentum and stomach, pancreas and splenic vein, left renal vein, the third part of the duodenum, and the mesentery, and along its whole course is a dense interlacement of sympathetic nerves. (The left renal vein, crossing to the vena cava in front of the aorta, is the exception to the rule that above the dia- phragm the large veins are in front of the large arteries, whilst below it they pass behind.) To the right side is the vena cava; this is separated from the aorta above by the right cms, the beginning of the thoracic duct, and the large azygos vein. To the left are the left cms and the psoas, the tail of the pancreas, and the kidney. Aortic cmeurysm.—When injecting a subject for dissection through the aortic arch, the abdominal aorta often gives way just where the cceliac arises ; there, also, aneurysm is apt to form during life. It is evidently a weak spot. When an aneurysm comes from the front of the aorta a pulsating tumour is noticed in the epigastric or in the upper part of the umbilical region ; but a tumour of the pyloric end of the stomach, pancreas, or transverse colon may also give rise to this symptom, for the abdominal aorta advances far towards the anterior abdominal wall. The aneurysm is best examined on flexing the trunk, so as to slacken the abdominal wall, and by getting the patient to expire fully so that the lower costal cartilages may sink. The bowels should previously be well opened. Pain in the back is a sign of the aneurysm ; for the sympathetic filaments along the aorta are associated with the lumbar nerves through the ganglia, and pain is reflected from these filaments to the spinal trunks, and along the posterior divisions of those nerves to the skin of the dorsi-lumbar region. A careless practitioner might satisfy himself with calling such pains ' lumbago.' The aneurysm may, by disturbing the sympathetic plexus, pro- duce indigestion and sickness; or, by constant pressure, may cause absorption of the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, and may even bear upon the roots of the lumbar nerves. Pressure may also cause per- sistent neuralgia in the abdominal wall, testicle, groin, and thigh. The tumour may bulge against the diaphragm, oesophagus, and stomach, causing dyspnoea, dysphagia, and vomiting, and possibly a constant pain in the epigastrium. In some cases the pains are less when the patient lies upon his face, for then the tumour falls away from the nerves. The tumour may compress the transverse colon ; it may thrust