The EncepJialon 52 in eating or talking, for instance, confine the movements to one side of the face. When, therefore, these centres are damaged on the one hemisphere there is still some energy passing out to the opposite side of the tongue, so that, as Ferrier remarks, we then find oro-lingtial hemi- paresis (napeais, relaxation) instead of paralysis. When the lesion is in the left hemisphere the paresis of the right side of the tongue is generally associated with aphasia, because, the lesion being in Broca's region (p. 49), the centres for the muscles of speech—tongue, lips, palate, and vocal cords—are also damaged. Sometimes, as already remarked, the oro-facial paresis is associated with brachial paralysis. The association of left hemiplegia with aphasia may happen in the case of a left-handed man, that is to say, in one whose right cerebral hemisphere has acquired the habit of perform- ing the offices usually, by preference, carried out by the left. It will simplify the problem of localisation if the student remembers that the motor areas are inverted on the surface of the hemisphere— like the landscape on the plate of the photographic camera. Thus the centres for the muscles of the lower extremity are grouped about the top of the fissure of Rolando, the arm-centres about the middle, and the centres for the face and mouth, and for the muscles of speech, at the bottom—near to the island of Reil. Thus it comes about in in- complete hemiplegias that the leg and arm may be affected together the face escaping; that in another case the arm and face may be affected without the leg ; and that aphasia is much more likely to occur with paralysis of the right arm than of the right leg only, for the arm- centres intervene between those of the muscles of articulate speech and of the leg. {See illustration on p. 48.) On the mesial surface of the hemisphere is the gyrus fornicatus (or arched convolution), which begins near the anterior perforated spot and arches round the corpus callosum to become continuous with