369 Common Iliac Artery side of the internal abdominal ring to the tip of the last rib, the con- vexity falling in front of the iliac crest. The external oblique (aponeur- otic and fleshy) and the fleshy internal oblique and transversalis are divided to the extent of the skin-wound ; between the last two muscles a branch of the deep circumflex iliac artery, which runs in a little loose connective tissue, may require attention. The transversalis fascia is divided on a director and the peritoneum is gently dragged up by the out-spread fingers, and with it, probably, the ureter and the spermatic vessels. The external iliac arteiy is then made out, pulsating near the pubes, and is followed upwards until the internal trunk is felt descending into the pelvis ; the ligature is applied a little higher up. During the operation the finger would be brought in contact with the brim of the pelvis at the sacro-iliac articulation. For the left arteiy the aneurysm-needle should be passed from within outwards, but on the right side it must be passed from without inwards. The veins are the important relations of the common iliac arteries, and the ligature is passed always from the chief venous (the right) side. As with the innominate artery (p. 185), the venous relations of the right common iliac are of paramount importance. The curved incision affords more room for the surgeon's fingers ; it should not come further inwards than the middle of Poupart's ligament, or the deep epigastric artery might be wounded ; it should not run too close along the ligament and the iliac crest, or the deep circumflex arteiy maybe cut; and it should not be too high above the ligament and crest, or else the bag of the peritoneum is not so easily dragged up. A cleanly operator need not hesitate to tie the arteiy across the peritoneal cavity. Collateral circulation would be established by those branches of the external and internal iliacs—all of them are empty—which ramify in the neighbourhood of well-filled vessels. Thus, of the external iliac, the deep epigastric would bring in blood from its fellow of the opposite side, from the lumbar, lower intercostals, and the internal mammary ; whilst the deep circumflex would help by its anastomosis with the lumbar arteries. The serviceable anastomoses of the internal iliac are, from the anterior division, the middle hemorrhoidal with those of the opposite side and with the inferior mesenteric ; vesical branches with those on the other side of the bladder ; the artery of the vas deferens with the spermatic ; vaginal with their fellows, uterine with their fellows and with branches of the aortic ovarian ; obturator with its fellow through the pubic branch (p.306) ; internal pudic with its fellow through the inferior hemorrhoidal, and perhaps with branches in the perineum and penis. From the posterior division of the internal iliac there will be the lumbar branch of the ilio-lumbar anastomosing with the lumbars of the aorta, and the lateral sacral with their fellows of the opposite side and with the sacra media. B B