StsSiKK!The University Library Leeds J JIavge- -entI fiE jAiJ J LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: Q)M A m 3 0106 011 05 2510Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21527404the ?\ Complete Houfe-keeper, AND PROFESSED COOK. CALCULATED For the greater Eafe and Aiiiftance of Ladies, Houfe-keepers, Cooks, &c. &c. Containing upwards ,of SEVEN HUNDRED pra&ical and approved RECEIPTS, arranged under the following Pleads: I. Rides for Marketing. XV. Potting and Collaring; Afpikes in. II. Boiling, Roafting, and Broiling X Jellies; favoury Cakes, Blamonge, Flelh, Fifh, and Fowls; and forX Ice Creams and other Creams, making Soups and Sauces of all a Whips, Jellies, p’c. Kinds. XVI. Bills of Fare lor every Month in III. Making made Diihes of all Sorts, ft the Year; with a correft Lift of Puddings, Pies, Cakes, Fritters, bk. ft every Thing in Seafon for every IV. Pickling, Preferving, and making{; Month; illuftrated with two elegant Wines in the* heft Manner andy Copper -plates of a Firft and Second Tafte. 9 C| Courfe for a genteel Table. A NEW EDITION, With confiderable Additions and Improvements. By MARY SMITH, Late House-keeper to Sir Walter Blackett, Bart, and formerly in the Service of the Right Hon. Lord Anfon, Sir 'I homas Sebright, Bart, and otner Families of Diftimftion, as Houfe-keeper and Cook. NEWCASTLE: PRINTED for S. HODGSON; And G. G. J. and J. Robinfon, Paternofter Row, London- M.DCC LXXXV1.S \5i2>\INDEX. Page HOW to'chufe beef 9 mutton, veal, houfe-lamb 10 lamb’s head, pork, brawn, hams and bacon I r venifon, poultry, cock orhen» 12 turtle, ducks, plieafants, par- tridges . 13 woodcocks, fnipes,rabbits, &c. 14 falmon, turbot, codling, foals, &c. 15 iobfters, cray-fifh, &c. Obfervations on boiling To boil a round of beef leg of pork To make peafe-pudding To boil greens -* —— a leg of veal * a neck of veal To make a poloe of veal To boil a leg and neck of mutton a leg of houfe-lamb a ham pickled tongue turkey with oyller fauce To make a huffing for ditto To boil rabbits and onion fauce pigeons and fowls Obfervations on roafting ^ i o toafl a haunch and neck of venifon ^5 26 27 28 16 ibid. 17 ib. 18 ib. *9 ib. ib. 20 21 ib. ib. 22 ib. 13 ib. 24 beef mutton - houfe-lamb ham, veal , pork P'£ &c. To make fauce for, and carbonade,' Pig I o roalt fiubble and green gecfe ~ duck, duckling, and turkey 29 3° 31 31 a 33 34 35 Page T o roafl turkey pouts, young chickens 36 fpring fowl, hare rabbits pigeons, capons, wild ducks partridges, woodcocks nioor game, plieafants, larks weet ears, fweetbreads To broil beef (leaks 1 o fry beef (leaks with onions To broil mutton chops veal cutlets—Pork (leaks 37 38 39 40 41 44 ib. 43 ib. , 44 a fowl with mufhroom fauce 4^ To hafh venifon, mutton, or beef ib. turkey, veal, woodcocks, &c. hare 47 lo mince a turkey or a large fowl ib. veal, plieafants, partridges 48 49 51 5* ib, ib. 53 54 ib. 55 5b ib. 57 Obfervations on drefling lifli To drefs a turtle To boil a turbot To bake a turbot To fry fmall turbots To make fillets of turbots To flew foals To fry and marinate foals Afpike of foals in fillets Fillets of foals belh-a-mell T° boil a cod’s head and fhoulders To bake ditto To drefs crimp cod ^ f To flew carp or tench white or brown To roafl a carp To broil a carp To bake a tenth To fry or broil whitings 6c To roafl a guild jg To fry (melts 6] To boil crimp falmon fo i o pickleJulmon the Newcgflle way 6; a 1( iv ) To broil Hires of falmon 62 To broil crimp lalmon 63 To drefs fturgeon ib. To pickle fturgeon 64 To drefs 3 pike ib. — the Dutch way 65 To roaft a lamprey ib. To boil flounders and crimp Ikate 66 To fry crimp fleate 67 To boil and pickle mackerel ib. bake and broil herrings 68 To drefs fait fifli and cod’s founds 69 To make water fokey of perch or flat ib. 70 ib. 71 73 ib. 73 ib. fifh To boil eels y Pitchcock eels To roaft an eel To flew eels Eels with white fauce with brown fauce 'To fcollop oyfters To fry and flew oyfters Attalets of oyfters To pickle oyfters - To boil and ragoo lobfters To butter and roaft lobfters Attalets of lobfters To fcollop and fricaflee lobfters To fricaffce cray-fifh To pickle Ihrimps and cockles To butter crabs To boil prawns To fricaflee prawns To pot chars To boil a jowl of falmon Observations on foups and gravies To make broth, generally called the ftock “5 foup fante 86 foup with artichoke bottoms ib. foup a-la-rain 87 onion foup onion foup, another way 88 lobfter foup lentil foup foup ertfiee 74 75 76 77 78 ib. 79 80 81 82 ib. 83 ib. 84 ib. Vertr.ejelly and rice foup White and green peafe foup Blue peafe loup for winter $oup meagre for Lent \\ bite foup Chicken broth and chicken water Beef tea Mutton broth A- tiii. iul i’oy ib. 89 ib. 9° 91 92 ib. 93 94 ib. 95 Gravy without meat Brown gravy White gravy Culli6 Sauce for a green goofe for roafted venifon or hare ib. Currant jelly fauce for venifon ib. Gravy fauce for venifon and wild fowl , r 99 Apple fauce for a ftubble goefe, &c. ib. Sauce for a hare ib. for roafted rabbits 100 for boiled carp or tench ib. Endive, fauce for a boiled turkey ib. Anchovy fauce 101 I.obfter fauce ib. Oyfter, flirimp, and Italian flfii fauce 102 Egg fauce for fait filh 103 Onion fauce for boiled rabbit or tur- key ib. Bread fauce ib. Cellery and cucumber fauce 104 Roe boat and white cellery fauce 105 Sauce for boiled chickens 106 Chefnut fauce ‘ ib. Sorrel fauce for turbot or fricandoe ib. White fauce for fait fifh 107 Qbfervations on made diflies ib. Fricaflee of ox palates 108 Entry of ox palates 109 of ham and veal ib. of fea duck no Beef collops ib. Mutton collops and faufages in To fry faufages 112 To ragoo pigeons ib. Pigeons with green peafe 113 Entry of pigeons with afparagus ib. of pigeons with oyfters 114 Pigeons in fcollop fliells ib. in cutlets and broiled 115 in a braize and fricaflee 116 in fancy 117 Entryr of pigeons, fun fafltion 118 Pigeons in a furtout ib. Entry of pigeons in form of a moon 119 Pigeons in furprize 120 Compote of pigeons ib. To ftew pigeons 121 partridges ib. Entry of partridges 122 To jug a hare ib. Hare eollep 123 1 Rabbits in furprize ib.( v ) 'jlabbit collops _ 124 To fricaflee rabbits wliite and brown 125 fowls a-la-brafe and a-iarfarce 126 Polard belh-a-mell 12 7 To drefs a cold roaft fowl ib. Deques de polard, al uii iunchhcrbe 128 Illerons de polard ib. Foe graw 129 A porcupine of brealts of fowls ib. A fowl reftorant 130 A peregoe turkey ib. To fricaflee chickens 1 13 j Chickens and peafe 132 and parfley roots ib. —— a la ducheife 133 Ducks a-la-braife ib. Duck pie I34 Chicken pie ib. Ducks and green peafe 135 Beef olives ib. a-la-mode 136 beaks rolled, with morels ib. trom-blanch ♦ 137 Hotch-potch, as made at Arthur’s 138 Scarlet beef Beef {leaks a-la-mode with Hewed cucumbers To roaft a calf’s head Calf’s head a-la-turtle hafh' in furprize To porcupine a breaft; of veal To ragoo a breaft of veal I o {lew a breaft oi veal and peafe 14c Breaft of veal fried Breaft of veal in a furtout boiled rolled • galantine ——3— forced and larded 1 o fricaflee a griftle of veal To Hew a fillet of veal 1 o lard a-leg of veal .To make fricandoes 1 o make a fumel de veau Blanquits of veal Brufolles Veal collops larded Veal cutlets in paper ■ of force meat the citizens’ way A tenderon de veau ■ ;— with parfley V lute veal collops ib. X46 ib. 147 ib. ib. 148 149 ib. JJO ib. IJI ib. 45 4 ib. ib. I?6 ib. 140 141 142 ib. 143 144 ib. Brown veal collops Popiets de veau Veal olives Sweet-breads in Scotch collrps — Huffed with fweet herbs Roafted fweer-hreads Vf l fweet-breads a-la-daube —r marinated a-la-farce To fcoliop fweet-breads To ragoo veal fweet-breads To fricaflee iweet-breads white brown Attalets of fweet-breads L^mb fweet-breads fried A falmy of woodcocks ■ Calf’s ears ftuffed To ragoo hog’s ears Hog’s feet and ears a-la-grandvell An harricot of mutton Shoulder' of mutton in epigram , Neck of mutton larded with parfley ib. 157 ib. ib. 158 159 ib. ib. 160 161 ib. 162 and ib. 163 164 ib, ib. 165 166 ib. 167 Mutton cutlets in paper Shoulder of mutton in furprize •carbonaded ib. 168 ib. 169 ib. 170 To make mutton kebob’d To grill a breaft of mutton To roll a breaft of mutton To drefs fheep’s rumps and kidneys ib. Mutton cutlets larded with parfley 471 Leg of lamb boiled, and loin fried ib. Leg of lamb a-la-farce Entry of lamb lleaks To fricaflee lamb Hones To ragoo 1: mb Shoulder of lamb, a-la-falpicon 1 o flew a breaft of lamb and peafe ib. Un poitrinc de 1’agneau 175 Lamb’s feet with milliard ib. Sheep’s tongues the Spauilh way 176 fliced . jb. larded and roafted the Pruflian way broiled in paper in a ragoo 17a ib. 173 ib. 1/4 177 ib. ib. 178 ib. T, 180 iSr another way x8z To fricaflee Iheep's trotters the Italian way jg- To fncaflec double’ tripe iK Calf’s feet in a white fauce the Italian way rolled Sheep’s trotters in a lurtout forced( vi ) To Fry tripe Ragout with cock’s combs mille 184 ib. 185 186 ib. 187 ib. Colliilowers and cheefc Maccaroni and checfc To make ramquins A ragout of muflirooms To drefs ijrufhrooms the Italian way 188 To force muflirooms ib. 'Muflirooms the Italian way 189 with white fauct ib. Morels with cream ragoo’a the Italian way To force morels Ragout of afparagus heads White ragout of afparagus heads To boil afparagus Afparagus the Italian way • peafe 190 ib. 191 ib. 192 ib. 193 ib. Ragout of fluffed cucumbers 194 To boil truffles ib. Truffles the Italian way 195 ‘Ragout of endive ib. To boil and fry artichokes 196 Artichokes the Italian way 197 To flew peafe ib. To preferve green peafe to keep all the year 198 Another way 199 To preferve kidney beans 200 ——— artichokes throughout the year ib. To dry artichoke bottom* 201 To fcollop potatoes ib. To fricaffee potatoes 202 To fry potatoes ib. Entry of Windfor beans ib. kidney-beans 203 Colljflower with gravy ib. To drefscardoons ib. Spinage and cream 204 -— in fried bread ib. . and poached eggs 203 To drefs eggs and onions ib. eggs and endive ib. Eggs and gravy • 206 To butter eggs ib. Eggs the Pruffian way ib. and cellcry 207 — with lettice ib. and cream ib. To marinate eggs 208 To fricaffce eggs ib. To make niuCircom powder 209 Obfervations on pies and tarts aio To make force meat balls ib. To make puff-pafte 21 r Light pafle ib. Cold pafle for all forts of difhed pies ib. To make crocant pafle 21a Sugar pafle for tarts ib. Hot pafle for a goofe pie 213 for all forts of raifed pies ib. Tartclets ib. An open tart 214 Puis de more ib. Another way 215 Rafpberry puffs 216 A fnail’s houfe ib. Green codling pie 217 Mince pie meat 218 Mince pie meat with apples ib. Chicken pie in July 219 Calf’s head pie 229 Veal pie 221 Sweet veal pie 222 Raifed fweet pie ib. Pie of larded coilops 223 Eel pie ib. Hare, rabbit, and goofe pie 224 Giblet and mutton pig 225 Lobfter and turbot pic v 226 Calf’s feet pie 227 Raifed beef-fteak pie 228 French and pigeon pie ib. Peregoe and turkey pie 229 Venifon party 230 Petty patties befh-a-mell ib. of oyrters 231 of veal and fowl ib. fried 232 houfe lamb 333 of veal ib. of foal or turbot 234 Obfervations on pudding* 233 Black puddings ib. Hunting pudding ’ 236 Quaking pudding 237 Calf’s feet pudding ib. White pudding in Ik ins 238 Sago pudding 239 Yorkfhire pudding ib. Almond pudding 240 Tanfy pudding baked ib. boiled 241 White pot pudding ib- Common rice pudding ib. Ground rice pudding 242 Boiled rice pudding ib.( vii ) Carrot pudding 2,43 Potatoe pudding ib- Plain bread pudding ib. New college pudding 244 Cuftard pudding ib. Marrow pudding boiled ib. - — baked 245 in fkins ib. Orange pudding baked 246 . — boiled ib. Lemon pudding 247 Staffordfhire pudding 248 Bifcuii pudding " ib. Hamlet ib. Apple fritters 249 Clary fritters ib. Apricot and plumb fritters 250 Tanfy pancakes ib. Cream and batter pancakes- 251 Bennets 252 Millet pudding ib. Semolima pudding 253 Obfervations on cakes ib. To make wafers 254 Macaroons ib. Dropped bifcuits 255 Italian bifcuits ib. Spunge bifcuits 256 Bifcuit and ratafia cakes ib Ratafia drops 257 Spanifh cakes ib. Portugal cakes 258 Shrewfbury cakes ib. Tunbridge wafer cakes 259 Rice cake ib. Queen cakes 260 White fruit cake ib. Seed and rich plumb cake 261 Icing for a plumb cake 262 Plumb cake ib. Rich plumb and fruit cake 263 Bath cakes 264 Good wigs ib. Gingerbread cakes or nuts 263 Luns cake ib. French bread $66 Lemon cheefe-cakcs ib. Almond cheefe-cakes 267 Little almond cakes ib. Obfervations on potting and collaring rp ib. To make falmagundy 268 To pot falmon jb. To collar falmon 260 To pot lobltcr jb. 1 To pot Lamprey and eels I Pigeons and moor game | Woodcocks, beef, ham, &c. hare and venifon marble veal To collar a pig calf’s head and eel veal and beef fwine’s face Mock brawn To make brawn T0 fait two large hams — bacon To make afpike jelly A fowl in afpike jelly Veal in afpike jelly Amulets for ornamenting Lobller infavoury jelly Smelts in favoury jelly Crayfifh in favoury jelly Prawns and foals in ditto Chickens in ditto A favoury cake A beehive of a favoury cake A hare cake A ham in jelly Calf’s feet jelly for a marbray To make a marbray Artificial fruit Marbray with artificial fruit A hen’s neft Blamonge Cherry tree in blamonge Filh pond with gold and filver filh Floating ifland Dutch flummery A pyramid Pine apple of Dutch flummery To prepare cochineal A green for colouring To prepare faffron To fpin a gold web a filver web Obfervations on cream, &c, Rafp ice cream Brown bread ice Shadderet cream Italian ice cream Orange ice cream Peach ice cream Ice cream of apricots Tea cream Coffee and chocolate cream Rafpberry and hartfliorn cream I talian and pillacho cream 270 271 27Z 273 274 ib. 275 276 277 ib. 278 ib. 279 ib. 280 281 282 ib. 283 ib. 284 285 ib. 286 ib. 287 288 ib. 289 290 291 ib. 292 3 93 ib. 294 ib. 296 ib. 29.7 298 ib. 299 3co ib. 301 ib. 302 303 304 3^5 306C yiii ) Snow cream Burnt, Rhenilh, and lemon cream ■White lemon and 6range cream Trifles-cuftards Almond euftard-faclc poffet Whipt poffet and fyllabub Lemon fyllabub Cream and bladder cheefe Slipcoat cheefe Portugal cream Td make a hedge-hog Apple pudding Little baked puddings Curd cheefe-cakes Orange fritters Drop bifcuits—Orange jelly To make ozyat Lemonade Grated orange marmalade Calf’s feet jelly Hartihorn jelly Quince marmalade Apricot marmalade Red currant jelly To pickle kidney beans mulhrooms colliflowers, walnuts To make India picalillo To pickle onions—Radifh pod - potatoe apples—rWalnut lylufhroom catchup To make fugar vinegar Goofeberry vinegar To pickle red cabbage beet roots—Barberries girkins—Rock famphire To make mangoes To preferve peaches in brandy green melons quinces whole quinces another way To make apple jelly _ To prepare apricots in jelly another way green apricots green gooleberries goofeberries like hops angelica ., i ■ - green gage plumbs To clarify fugar To preferve green codlins golden pippins To make a compote of pippins To ftew pears To make a compote of apricots 307 To make a compote of cherries 308 To preferve green pine apple 309 green cucumbers 3 to — magnum bonum plumbs 3IX —— another way 312 cherries in jelly 313 wine fours ib. damfons like wine fours 314 damfons for tarts 315 morelle cherries 316 red rafpberries ib. red goofeberries 3x7 red currants in bunches ib. currants for tarts 318 barberries in bunches ib. barberries for tarts 319 ftrawberries whole 320 cherries in brandy ib. I Chipp’d orange marmalade ib. 1 Oranges carved To pickle red currants Onions in mango To pickle green apples lemons Orange cakes To make red currant jelly Black currant jelly Red rafp jam Red ftrawberry jam Red currant jam Black currant jam Red goofeberry jam Bullace cheefe Damfoa cheefe 321 ib. 322 ib. 3*3 ib. 324 325 326 327 328 ib. 329 ib. 330 331 332 333 ib. 334 335 336 ib. .337 338 ib. 339 340 341 342 343 344 345 346 ib. 347 ib. 348 349 350 351 352 353 ib. 354 ib. 355 356 357 ib..« 35 8 ib. 359 ib. 360 361 ib. ib. 36 2 ib. 363 364 ib. 365 ib. 366 ib. ib. 367 Obfervations on drying and candying ib. To boil fugar to a candy height 368 Goofeberry pafle ib. Apricot pafte—Orange chips 369 To dry cherries 370 currants in bunches 371 green gage plumbs White currant clear cakes To candy angelica Orange in flices like laurel leaves To make white caps black caps Obfervations on made wines Raifin wine Cowflip wine Elder wine to imitate port Blackcurrant and ginger wine Orange and red currant wine White currant and goofeberry wine 381 Green goofeberry vinegar 382 o • * ib. 373 374 ib. 370 ib. 377 3/8 ibi 379 380COMPLETE HOUSE-KEEPER, tfc. RULES for MARKETING. f ^ £ f Ultu 111 tne grain, winch you may fee i **>>**<* | at the lean part of the thin end of the furloin ; and the fat of a blolfom co- lour. The fat of cow beef is of a whiter colour, and the lean of a pale red. Bull beef is of a clofer grain, and a deep dufky red ; the fat Ikinny and hard, and has a rammifh or rank fmell. THE How to chufe BEEF. ■f, r u ue ox neer and or a proper age, | it will be of a darkifh red, and mar- B MUTTON.( 1° ) , . . . M„ U T T O N- r • MUTTON is in its perfection at five years old, which you may know by looking at the lean part, where the fore and hind quarters are parted, it will be marbled with fat, and the lean of a darkifh red : if young, the lean will be of a pale red, and not fo mixt in the grain. Obferve that the fat be of a good colour, and no way inclinable to yellow ; if it is yellowifh, it is tainted in the feed- ing, and not good. VEAL. IF the bloody veins in the fhoulder be of a bright red, it is new killed, but if blackifh or green, it is ftale : the loin fird taints under the kidney, and the fleih will be foft and fiimfy; the bread and neck taint firfi: at the upper end; and the fweet- bread on the bread will be flimfy ; if otherwife, it will be frefh and good. Obferve that the fat of your veal be of a fine white colour, and fine in the grain ; if otherwife, it will drefs coarfe. H OUSE LAMB. . * IN a fore quarter of lamb, mind that the neck vein be of a light blue, if fo, it is good ; if it be of a greenifii colour, it is tainted. The hind quar- ter fmeil under the kidney ; if you meet with a faint . . fmeil./ ( II ) imell, it is ft ale killed, and near tainting. Gbferve all'o, that it be line in the grain, and the fat of a clear white. IF the eyes are funk or wrinkled, it is ftale ; if full and plump, it is fweet. YO U muft buy fmall pig pork ; the lean muft be fine in the grain, and the fat firm, and of- a fine white : if the lean is reddifh, and the .fat yel- lowilh, it is tainted, or has not been properly ,fed. Pork for boiling Ihould be fatter, and fine in,the grain, and the fat hard and of a good colour. BR AWN, if it is of a proper age, the rind will be very thick, which is the beft part ; but if thin, it is too young, and not half fo good. •' i HAMS and BACON. UT a fmall knife under the bone that fticks out in the ham, if it comes out clean, and has a good flavour, it is fweet; but if fmcared, and has a bad linell, it is tainted. Bacon—run a fmall fkewer or knife into the fhoulder or the back of the bacon. Lamb’s Head PORK for Roafting. jir.j BRAWN. if( I2 ) - / if it comes out clean and has a good fmell, it will be good ; if fmeared, it will be rufty, and not good. VENISON. TH E feafon for buck venifon begins in May, and continues till Michaelmas. Doe venifon begins at Michaelmas, and ends in December.— "You muft wipe it quite dry with a cloth, and take care no flies get to it, or it will foon fpoil : it is ge- nerally kept eight days before ufed, to make it ten- der and give it a line flavour. If the haunch fmell well at the izle bone, and the lean be of a dark co- lour, it is good, but if the lean be green, it is taint- ed : obferve the neck, at the place where the fhoul- der is taken out, if it is fweet there and not clammy, it is good. POULTRY. A Right capon, if he is young, his fpurs are fhort, and his legs fmooth ; a fat vein on the fide of his breaft ; his comb very pale ; a thick belly and rump. If frefli killed, he will have a clofe, hard vent; if ftale, a loofe, open vent. COCK or HE N. IF a cock be young, his fpurs will be fhort and dubbed ; but if old they will be long and fharp. If a hen is old, her legs and comb are rough ; if young, they will be fmooth. TURKEYS.( *3 ) TURKEYS. 1 IF the cock be young, his legs will be fmooth and his fpurs fhort: look under the wing, and if the fkin is clean and of a good colour, it will drefs white. When you buy them ready killed, if they are frefh, their eyes will be lively and their legs lim- ber ; but if ftale, their eyes will be funk and their feet ft iff.—In the hen, obferve the fame directions. Tame and Wild DUCKS. A Tame duck, when fat, will be hard and thick on the breaft ; if young, their bills will be tender; if hard, they are old. A right wild duck has reddifh legs and feet, the webs are of a dulkifh colour, and fomcthing fmaller than the tame one. PHEASANTS. TH E cock, when young, has dubbed fpurs ; when old, fharp, fmall ones ; if new, a fall vent; if ftale, an open, flabby one. The hen, if young, hath fmooth legs, and the fldh of a fine grain ; if old, the contrary. N . PARTRIDGES. COCK or hen, if old, the bill is white and the legs bluifh ; if young, the bill is black and the legs yellow ; if ftale, the belly and crop will be green, and the feet dry ; if frelh, the contrary. W O O D-( T4 ) WOODCOCKS and 'SNIPES.. THE woodcock’s fat is thick and hard, and has a fat vein under, the wing, and the rump and thighs very fat; if frefh, limber-footed ; if kale, their feet will be dry and hard. A fnipe, if fat, has a thick and fat vent, and a fa.t vein under the fide of the wing: if frefh, it is limber-footed, if Kale, the contrary. RABBITS. A Young rabbit, the flefh will be white and Kiff, if frefh ; but if ftale, it will be limber and flimfy: if old, the claws will be long and rough, the wool motley and mixed with grey hairs, and the flefh will be red, and very fat and hard. F I 4 S H. Pi ke. Trout, Carp, Tench, Eel, Smelt, Whitings, &c. ALL thefe are known to be new or kale by the colour of their gills. If they are frefh, the gills will be of a fine light red, the fifli firm, and the fins hand up hifi'. But if kale, the gills will be of a dufkifh colour, the fifli foft, and the fins fallen. SALMON.( 15 ) SALMON. IF your falmon be frefh, the gills will be of a light red ; and by putting your finger on it, it will rebound : if ftale, the gills will be of a dufldfh colour, and by laying your finger on it, it will fink in, and not rife. TURBOT. TURBOT is chofen by its thicknefs and plump- nefs, and the gills being of a good colour. If it is thin, and the belly of a bluilh white, it will eat very loofe, and walle greatly in boiling. COD and CODLINGS. - \ THE gills muft be of a good red. and thick about the fhouldersthe flefh white, and the tail ftiff; otherwife they are not good. M . ' 7 S O A L S, SO ALS are chofen by thicknefs and (liffnefs ; if their bellies be of a cream colour, they are firm and good. Frejh HERRINGS and MACKAREL. IF the gills are of a lively red, the eyes Hand full, and the flefh ftiff, then they are newj but if dulky and faded, or finking and wrinkled, and the tails limber, they are ftale. LOB-( NS ) LOBSTERS and CRABS. HUSE them by their weight; the heavieft i3 the beft. A cock lobfter is known by the narrownefs of his back ; part of his tail and the two uppermoft fins within his tail are ftiff and hard, but the hen’s are foft, and the back of her tail broader. The hen crabs are not fo good as the cock ones, as the meat in the claws is often wafted, and the infide full of fpawn and water. CRAY-FISH, PRAWNS, and SHRIMPS. * THE cray fifh, if ftale, will be limber in their claws and joints, their red colour turn black- ifti and of a dulky colour, and will have an ill fmell under their throats. The two latter, if ftale, will have a bad fmell, their colour faded, and they are flimy; otherwife they are good. IF the flefti feel firm, and the fcales ftiff and fhin- ing, if it come in flakes and part without crumbling, then it is good ; and not otherwife. ^Observations upon Boiling. LET your pot be very clean, dull in a hand- ful of flour to make the l'cum rife; fkim it well before you put in your meat. All kinds of Pickled SALMON. meat( 17 ) meat is beft to be boiled in a cloth. In cafe the cook fhould neglect to lkim the pot when it boils, thefcum will boil down and fettle upon your meat, and make it black. Salt meat is beft to be put in when the water is cold, and frefli meat when the water is boiling. Let your pot boil gently ; for it is a great fault to let it boil faft. J ' f To boil a ROUND of BEEF. TAKE a round of beef of fourteen pounds weight, and lay it in fait ten days ; take it out and wafli it; ikewer it up tight, tie it round with a piece of pack-thread, duft fome flour on it, and tie it up in a clean cloth ; put it into a clean pot, well tinn’d, and cover it with foft water When it boils, fkim it; let it boil flowly for three hours ; then take it up, and take off the cloth and pack-thread ; lay it in a difli, and ferve it up with carrots, turnips, and greens. If your beef weighs lefs, it is not to boil fo long * if larger, to boil in proportion. To boil a LEG of PORK. TAKE a leg of pork about eight pounds weight, lay it in fait for eight days ; take it out, wafli and flour it, tie it up in a clean cloth, put it into a dean pot with foft water, and let it boil C • flowly( i8 ) To Rowly for two hours and a half; then take it up, and fcrve it up with a peafe-pudding and greens, and melted butter in a fauce-boat. Mate your PEASE-PUDDING as follows. / ... TAKE one quart of blue or yellow fplit peafe, walk and pick them clean, put them into a clean cloth, tie them up loofe that they may have room to fwell, put them into your pot when your water is cold, and boil them till they are tender ; then take them up, and maih them with a wooden fpoon, fprinkle in a little pepper and fait, and add a piece of butter to them ; tie them up tight, and put them into the pot to boil for a quarter of an hour ; then take them up and put them on a difli, pour fome melted butter over them, and ferve it up hot. UT on a fauce-pan with a good deal of hard water and a little fait; wafh and pick your oreens very clean ; when your water boils, put them in, and let them boil twelve minutes, or longer, if they are not tender, then drain them.— You may garnifli your pork with part of them, and ferve up the reft on a plate. To boil GREENS.( J$> ) To boil a LEG of V E A L. fT^AKE a leg of veal of twelve pounds weight, X crack the fhank, rub it over with a bit of but- ter, and duft it with flour; tie it up in a clean cloth; have ready a pot boiling with foft water, fkim it well, put in your veal, and let it boil llowly for three hours and a quarter; then take it careful- ly up, take off the cloth, lay it in your difh, garn- ilh it with boiled broccoli or collillowcr ; then ferve it up hot, with a piece of ham or bacon boiled, and lerved in another difh, with a plate of greens, and plain melted butter in a boat. To boil a NECK of VEAL. TAKE a neck of veal of five pounds weight, cut off the fcrag end, and pare off the chine bone, run fome fmall fkewers acrofs to make it lie flat, rub it over with a bit of butter, and duff it with flour ; tie it up in a cjoth, and boil it near an hour ; take it up, and take out the fkewers, lay it in your difh, and ferve it up hot as above, or with onion fauce, the fame as rabbits. To make a P O L O E of V E A L. r | AKE a knuckle of veal, crack the fhank, and X put it into a ffew-pot that will juft hold it. With two quarts of water, two onions ftuck with cloves.( 20 ) To cloves, and a few pepper-corns; let it boil for half an hour ; ddm it well, add half a pound of rice, let it boil for three quarters of an hour more, pretty- fad, to reduce the liquor to a pint ; dir it often, or it will burn to the bottom of the pot ; take your veal carefully- up, and lay it in your difh; dir in a lump of butter and dour into your rice and liquor, with a little fait; let it jud boil, pour it over your veal, and ferve it up hot. i To boil a LEG of MUTTON. nipAKE a leg of mutton of eight pounds weight, i break the diank off, and pare the deffi neatly round, leaving out one inch of the fhank bone, nick it in the joint, and bend it a little, dour it, tie it in a cloth, and boil it two hours ; take it up, lay it in a difh ; ferve it up with carrots and turnips, and ca- per fauce in a boat. To boil a NECK of MUTTON. TAKE a neck of mutton of dve pounds weight, cut off the fcrag end, and pare off the chine bone, put fome fmall deewers in it to make it lie dat ; dour it, tie it up in a cloth, and boil it near one hour; take it up, take off the cloth, and lay it in your difh ; ferve it up with carrots, turnips, greens, or broccoli, or with caper fauce poured over it,( 21 ) To boll a LEG HOUSE-LAMB. TAKE a leg of houfe-lamb of four pounds weight, break the fhank off’, and pare it neat- ly round, leaving out a little of the fliank bone; nick it in the joint, rub it over with a little butter, and duff it with flour, wrap it in a cloth, and boil it one hour and a quarter; take it out, lay it in a diffi, ferve it up hot with fpinnage and colliflower. To boil a H A M. TAKE a ham of fifteen pounds weight, ffeep it two nights and one day in warm water ; fet on a pot with hard water, tie up your ham in a cloth, put it into the pot when the water is cold, with a little new hay ; boil it gently for three hours and a half, take it up and take off:' the rind, pare it neatly, and do it over with egg, crumbs of bread, and Aired parfley, and brown it before the fire, or with a falamander; put it in your diffi, garniffi it with greens, and ferve it up hot. To boil a Pickled TON G U E. r I 'AKE a tongue that has lain fourteen days in . -ft hilt, foakit four hours in cold water, and put it into a pot with fome hard water; if a large one, boil it three hours,—if a middling one, two hours • and a half; take it out, and pare off' the Ikin ; ferve it( 22 ) To it up hot, and garnifh it with either turnip?, carrots, or greens. If a dry’d tongue, foak it four-and- twenty hours, and boil it as above. To boil a TURKEY, with OYSTER SAUCE. TAKE a turkey that has been killed two or three days, pick it clean, and draw it ; be care- ful to take out the crop whole; cut off the neck pretty llrort, finge your turkey, and walh it clean, cut off the legs at the firft joint, and tuck them into the body ; put a cloth upon the breaft, and flat it down with a rolling-pin, fkewer the thighs down, taking hold of a bit of the pinion, and tie them with a piece of firing. Make a Stuffing for them as follows. Grate fome crumbs of bread, and as much fuet flared fine as bread, add fome parfley and thyme {bred fine, fome beaten mace, pepper, fait, and fome nutmeg grated, two eggs, with a little cream *, mix it well together, put it into the crop, and Ikewer it; rub the breaft of your turkey with a piece of butter, dull it over with flour, and tie it up in a clean cloth :—one hour will boil ala^ge turkey, and three quarters a middling one: take it up and lay it in a difh, pour fome oyfter fauce over it, and fcrve it np hot. Eor a change, you may ferve it up with onion or cellery fauce.( 23 ) To boil RABBITS and ONION SAUCE. GASE your rabbits, tuck in the fore legs, and Ikewer the head {trait up, lkewer the hind legs clofe to the Tides ; rub them over with a bit of butter, dull them with a little flour, and tie them up in a clean cloth ; if they are young, half an hour will boil them ; if they are full grown, they will take three quarters' of an hour : take them up, lay them in a difli, pour your onion fauce over them, and ferve them up hot for a firft courfe. To boil PIGEON S. LE T your pigeons be clean picked, draw and finge them, cut off their feet at the firff joint, and tuck the legs into their bodies ; do them over with a piece of butter, and duff them with a little flour; put them into a pan of cold foft water, let them boil fifteen minutes, then difli them up with fiame plain butter over them, and parfley and but- ter in a boat; alfo a piece of bacon in another difli, with fome greens round it -or to make a change, ferve them up with onion fauce. To boil F O W L S. PiCK your fowls clean, and draw them at the mmp, cut off their heads and neck, flat down th-e breafl bone, fkewer them with the end of their legs( 24 ) legs in their body, ancl tie them round with a firing finge them, and put them into fome milk and water for one hour; take them up and rub the breaft with a piece of butter, and dull them over with flour ; put them into a pan with cold foft water, and boil them flowly for half an hour ; if large, three quarters:—lay them in a difh, and ferve them up with oyfter-fauce, for a firft courfe. Chickens are done and ferved up in the fame man- ner, but not boiled fo long. Observations on Roasting. IT is neceflary firft for the cook to order her fire according to what fhe has to drefs. Ir any thing finall or thin, a little brifk fire, that it may be done quick and nice ; if a haunch of vennon, a piece of beef, or a large joint, be fure to make on a good fire, let it be elear at the bottom, and keep your meat at a difiance, that it may road gradually, and not {torch. When it is almoft enough, if it is not brown, put it nearer the fire, and take care that the ends are enough *, duft it with flour, and bafte it often to keep up a froth. When you roaft a hare or a rabbit, take care that the ends are well done ; when they are half roafied, cut the neck- fkin to let out the blood, or it will nux with the ftuice when they are cut up,, and be very difagree- able.—When you hafn or mince any kind of meat or fowl, do not make the gravy too thick. ^ It fhoulcl be no thicker' than thin cream, or melted butter. cr( 25 ) To roaft a HAUNCH 0/VENISON. PARE off the fhank of your venifon, fpit it, rub it over with the yolk of an egg, butter a fheet of paper and lay over it, roll a thin fheet of com- mon pafte and lay on the paper, then lay another fheet of paper upon the pafte, tie it tight to keep the pafte from falling off; lay it down to roaft, and keep it a good diftance from the fire, and bafte it well. If it is a large one, it will take four hours to roaft it ; if a fmall one, three hours will do. When it is done, take off the pafte and paper, duft on fome flour, and bafte it with butter : when it is of a nice light brown, difh it up with fome brown gravy under it, and currant jelly fauce in a boat. —Serve it up hot to remove fifh, or for the foot of the table. To roaft a NECK of VENISON. rP AKE a neck, cut off the fcrag or coarfe end, ta^e the ikin off neatly, run a lark i'pit through it, and tie it tight on a large fpit; rub it over with the yolk of an egg, butter a fheet of paper, and lay it on double, tie it with a piece of pack-thread, lay it down to roaft, and bafte it well with beef dripping or butter. If it is large, one hour will roaft ic;—if fmall, three quarters of an hour. When done, take off the paper, duft it with( 26 ) To a little flour, and bafte it with butter ; and when it is of a light brown, difh it up with fome brown gravy under it, and currant jelly in a fauce boat. To roajl BEEF. TAKE five ribs of beef, fprinkle on it a little fait, and let it lie all night; then fpit it, but- ter a fheet of paper and lay over it, and tie it on with pack-thread ; lay it down to a good fire, at a diftance, that it may roaft gradually :—if you put it too near, the fire will fcorch it, melt away the fat, and give it a difagreeable tafte. If it is large, three hours and a half will roaft it;—if it is fmall, roaft it in proportion. When it is enough, take off the paper, duft it with flour, and bafte it with butter; difh it up, and garnifh it with horfe radifh fcraped, and ferve it up hot for the foot of a table, or on a fide table. A furloin and rump are done the fame way. i i ■To roajl a BUMP of BEEF bajled with Red Wine. TAKE a rump of beef, and cut the coarfe part off, lay it in a deep difh, pour on it a pine of red wine, and let it lie all night; then fpit it, roaft it for two hours, and bafte it with the wine that it lay in ; when it is within a quarter of an hour of being enough, duft it with a little flour, bafte it with butter, and ferve it up hot.( z7 ) To roajl a SADDLE of MUTTON. CU T off the thin laps, take off the fkin, and pare it neatly, run a lark fpit through it, and tie it on a large fpit, with a fheet of paper on it. If it is a large one, roaft it for one hour and a half; —if it is a fmall one, one hour. Difh it up with fome brown gravy under it, or fome ftewed cu- cumbers, (if you like them} and ferve it up hot for the foot of the table. ' . . \ To roajl a NECK of MUTTON, larded with Parsley. rP A K £ a neck of mutton, cut off the fcrag end and chine bone, and pare it neatly ; take four fprigs of parlley, put it into a larding pin, and draw it in rows all over the mutton, then fpit it* and lay it down to roaft ; bafte it with butter, and roaft it three quarters of an hour ; difh it up with a little brown gravy under it., and ferve it up hot; for a fide difh. Anotiie-r Way. / PARE it neatly as above, and fpit it ; lay it down to roaft, bafte it with butter, and roaft it three quarters of an hour. Ten minutes before Jt is enough, ftrew it with crumbs of bread and parfley(• 28 ) I parfley fhred, and bade it with butter : when done, difli it up with fome brown gravy under it, and ferve it up hot for a firft courfe, or a difh for iupper. You may roaft it and ferve it up without any crumbs of bread, or parfley. To roajl a LEG o/MUTTO N. TAKE a leg of mutton of eight pounds weight, pare it neatly, and fpit it ; put a fheet of pa- per over it, lay it down to roaft for two hours, and bade it with fome good dripping ; when it is done, take off the paper, duft it with flour, bafte it with butter, and fprinkle on a little fait ; then difli it up with a little gravy under it, for a firft courfe. To roafl a Tore QUARTER of HOUSE LAMB. TAKE a quarter of lamb of feven pounds weight, let it be neatly couched, fpit it, and lay it down to roaft ; bafte it well with butter, duft it with flour; fprinkle on a little fait, and let it roaft for one hour; when done, difli it up, and ferve it up hot with lome fpear-mint Aired fine, and put in a boat with fome vinegar and lugar, and a fallad in a difli. This is a proper difli for a firft courfe. -( 29 ) To roajl a LEG of L A M B. TAKE a leg of lamb of four pounds and a half, cut off the fhank, nick it in the joint, and fpit it; lay it down to roaft for one hour, dredge it with a little flour, bafte it with butter, fprinkle a little fait on it, and let it be of a nice light brown ; when done, difli it up, and ferve it up as above, or with colliflower. To roajl RIBS of LAMB. ' | 'AKE a breaft and neck of lamb, run fome A fkewers through it, put the fpit through the fkewers, lay it down to roaft at a brifk fire, bafte it well with butter, fprinkle on it fome crumbs of biead and fhred parfley, and let it roaft for half an hour; when done, put it in a difh, and ferve it up hot for fupper, with green peafe in another difh. i To roajl a HAM. nPAkE a ham of fourteen pounds weight, pare it neatly, lay it in water to foak for two days and nights, then half boil it, take off the fkin, and put a lark fpit through it, ar.d tie it tight on a large fpit ; put a fheet of paper over it, a fheet of common pafte, and another fheet of paper ; tie it tight on, lay it down to the fire, and roaft it for one hour and a half; then take off the pafte and paper, flour( 3° ) flour it and bafte it, ftrew it with crumbs of bread and parfley, let it be of a nice brown colour, and i'erve it up hot for a firft courfe. To roafl a FILLET, of VEAL, TAKE a nice fillet of veal, make a fluffing for it of fome crumbs of bread, fuet, a little par- fley and thyme Aired fine, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and fait •, mix all well together with the yolks of two eggs and a little cream, fluff'it well under the udder or fat part of your veal, and fkewer it neatly round; then fpit it, rub it over with butter, put a piece of paper over it, and lay it down to roafl. If large, it will take two hours and a half ;—if mid- dle-fized, two hours will roafl it. When done, take off" the paper, bafte it with butter, dull on fome , flour, fprinkle on a little fait, and let it be of a nice brown ; difh it up with fome brown gravy, melted butter, and a little juice of lemon or orange, and ferve it up hot for a firft courfe difli. To roafl a LOIN «/ V E A L. TAKE a fine fat loin of veal, fpit it, paper it well to keep in the fat, and lay it down to roafl for two hours j keep it at a proper diftance from the fire, to roafl gradually ;—if you put it too near, it will fcorch before it is warm through. When it is done, take off the paper, dredge it with flour, and bafte it with butter:—if it is not of a niceTo ( 3‘ ) I nice brown, put your fpit nearer to the fire, to make it of a good colour ; then difh it up with fome gravy and butter, or feme ftewed cucumbers, and ferve it up hot for a firft courfe. .... i To roajl a CHINE of PORK. T^AIvE a chine of pork, fprinkle it with a little fait, and hang it up for two days; then fpit it, fcore it juft through the fkin, leaving half an inch between every fcore, and lay it down to roaft for two hours,—or more, if it is a large one. Let the Ikin be of a nice brown, and crifp, taking care you do not fcorch it ; ferve it up hot with fome gravy under it, and apple fauce in a boat. T roajl a LEG of PORK fluffed. TAKE a leg of pork, make a hole at the fhank, fluff it well with fome fage and onion Hired fine, and a little pepper and fait; fpit your pork, core it as above, and lay it down to roaft ; when one, diffi it up with fome gravy under it, and apple fauce in a boat You may leave out the fluffing, and roaft it plain.( 3J ) To To roajl a PIG. STICK your pig juft above the breaft bone, and run the knife to the heart; when it is dead, put it in cold water for a few minutes, take it out, and rub it with fome rofin beat very fine; put your pig into a pail of fcalding water for half a minute, take it out, lay it on a clean table, and pluck off the hair as quick as poflible ; if it does not come clean off, dip it into the water till it does ; when you have got all clean off, wafti it well in water to take away the fmell of the rofin. Take off the four feet at the firft joint, make a flit down the belly, take out the entrails and back-gut, wafli it well, and dry it, and lay it on its belly in a difli. When you roaft it, put into it a little fhred fage and parfley, a few crumbs of bread, pepper, and fait; few up the belly, rub it over with fweet oil, and lay it down to roaft before a good briik fire, with a pig plate in the middle of the fire ; when it is almoft done, take a cloth and wipe it clean, rub it over with cold butter to crifp it, and take care you do not let it blifter. When done, cut off the head, lay the pig in a difli, fplit it through the back before you draw the fpit, and lay it back to back in your difli ; cut off the ears, lay one on each flioulder, and the jaw-bones on each fide, then fcrve it up hot, with your fauce under it.( 33 ) To . • To make SAUCE for a PIG. TAKE the brains of the pig, chop them a little, put them into a fauce-pan with a little gravy, add live ounces of butter, a little flour, pepper, and fait, ftir it over the fire till it boils, then pour it into your difh under your pig, and give your difli. a fliake to mix the fauce with the fage and parfley that were in the pig. To carbonade a PIG. f ft AKE a pig of four weeks old, clean it as for roafting, fplit it down the belly, take out the tongue, and lay it quite flat, wipe it dry with a cloth, and carbonade it; feafon it well with Cayen peppei, fait, fage, parfley, bafil and tarragon, all Hired fine ; lay your pig into a fmall dripping, or a difli that will hold it, with the Ikin fide uppermoft, break fome pieces,of butter and lay over it, pour lander it a bottle of white Port or Madeira, put it into a fharp oven, or before a quick fire, baftino- it o ten with the wine; when it is done enough, and o a nice brown, take it up and lay it in a difli, ake the wine that was under it, with a little gra- vy, add to it fix ounces of butter, and as much flour as will make it as thick as melted butter, let 1 oil, pour it over your pig, and ferve it up hot. E( 34 ) To To roajl a Stubble GOOSE. TAKE a ftubble goofe, let it be clean picked and drawn; flared two onions and a little fage, put them into your goofe with a little pepper and fait, fkewer it, fpit it, and lay it down to the fire to roaft ; finge it, flour it, and bafte it. If a large one, it u’ill require one hour and a quarter before a good fire. When enough, difli it up, and pour in a little gravy ; ferve it up hot, with apple fauce in a boat. 7 • To roajl a Green GOOSE. TAKE a green goofe, fcald it, take the feathers clean off, draw it, fhred a bit of fage and roll it up with a piece of butter, and put it in the belly ; fkewer and fpit it, and lay it dowm to roaft ; dredge it with flour, and bafte it with butter. If a large one, it will take three quarters of an hour to roaft before a brifk fire ;—if a fmall one, half an hour. Let the fkin be crifp, and of a light brown, put it into your difli with fome brown gravy un- der it, and fome green fauce and goofeberries in a fauce-boat.( 35 ) To roajl DUCKS. KILL, pick and draw your ducks, fcald the feet, take off their Ikin, turn their feet back j feafon the infide of them with pepper, fait, fage, and onion fhred fine, fkewer and fpit them, finge them, and lay them down to a quick fire; dud them with flour, and bade them with butter, A middle-fized duck will take twenty minutes,—a large one, half an hour; let them be of a nice light brown, and ferve them up hot, with fame brown gravy under them, for a fecond courfe. To roajl DUCKLINGS. LE T them be fealded, and clean picked and drawn, put a lump of butter, with a little fhred fage, into the infide, fpit them, and lay them down to road for fifteen minutes at a clear brifk fire, bade them with butter, let them be plump, the fkin crifp, and of a light brown \ put them in your difli with fome brown gravy under them, and ferve them up hot with fome green fauce and icalded goofeberries in a boat. To roajl a TURKEY. LE T your turkey be clean picked and drawn, cut off the neck ; you may duff the crop with force meat, or with crumbs of bread and fuet, madeTo ( 3^ ) made the fame as for a boiled turkey ; fkewer it, fpit, and finge it, and lay it down (at a diftance) to a clear, brilk fire. A large turkey will take one hour and a quarter,—a middle-fized one, three quarters, to roaft it. Serve it up hot, with fome brown gravy under it, and fome bread fauce in a boat. To roajl TURKEY POUTS. AKE young turkeys, rather larger than, a half- grown fowl, feald and draw them clean, fkewer them with their heads down to their ftdes, fpit them, and lay them down to a clear fire for twenty minutes ; bake them well with butter, and dull them with flour, let them be plump, and of a nice brown, lay them in a difli, with fome brown gravy under them, and ferve them up hot for a fe- cond courfe, with fome bread fauce in a boat. ^o roajl Young CHICKENS. WHEN you kill your chickens, pick them very carefully, draw them, cut off the claws, trufs them, and put them down to a good fire ; finge them, duff them, and bafte them with blitter, roaft them for fifteen minutes, froth them up, lay them on your difli with fome parfley and butter under them, and fome afparagus in another difli. Thefe are both fecond courfe diflics..( 37 ) To roajl a Spring FOWL. TAKE a large fpring fowl, let it be clean picked and drawn, cut off the claws and fkewer it; half an. hour will roaft it before a good fire ; ferve it up hot, with fome brown gravy under it, and fome egg fauce in a boat, for a fecond courfc difh. a To, roajl a H A Ft E. CASE your hare, leave on the ears, wipe it- clean in the mfide, then make a pudding for it as follows :—Boil the liver ten minutes, fhrtd it fine, add to it fome crumbs of bread, beef fuet, parfley, thyme, and fweet marjoram Hired line, with pepper, fait, mace and nutmeg, mix all well together, with the yolks of two eggs and a little cream ; put it into the belly, and few it up ; double the hind legs and fkewer tkem, lay the fore dole to the fide, and fkewer them ; turn the head to look back, and fkewer it; put a fkewer into each ear to keep them up ; then fpit it, and lay a thin flice of bacon over the back, and a piece of paper on it, and tie it on, or thc'back will be done too much before the legs be warm thorough; lay it down to a brifk fire, and bade it well with butter. If a large one, it will require one hour,—a middle- fized one will take three quarters of an hour to roaft( 38 ) foaft it. When it is done, take off the bacon and paper, duft it with flour, and bafte it with butter to raife a froth ; difli it up with fome thickened gravy in a difli, half an anchovy, and a little juice of lemon ; ferye it up hot with fome currant jelly in a l'aucer, and fome crumbs of bread boiled in i ed wine, in a boat, for a fecond courfe difli. To roajl RABBITS. CASE your rabbits, and wipe them clean in the infide, fkewer the legs the fame as a hare, or tuck the fore legs into the body ; fkewer your rabbits together, put the l'pit between them, let their heads be {freight out, and nick them in the neck, that the blood may run out when roaffing ; lay them down before a brifk fire ; if large, they will require half an hour,—if fin all, twenty minutes will roaff them :—dull them with flour, and bafte them with butter. When done, cut off the heads, and fplit them ; lay your rabbits in a difli, and the heads on each fide : let the liver be boiled and Aired fine, put it into a boat with fome parflcy and butter, or put it in your difli under your rabbits, and ferve them up hot for a fecond courfe difli. To II 39 J To roajl PIGEONS. LE T your pigeons be clean picked and drawn, finge them, cut off their claws, and fkewer them with their legs on their breaft; put their li- vers into their infide, with a piece of butter, and fome fhred parfley ; fpit, dredge, and bafte them j lay them down to a brifk fire for fifteen minutes, and ferve them up hot, with fome parfley and but- ter under them, for a fecond courfe difli. To roajl a CAPON. ET it be clean picked and drawn, cut off the feet, and fkewer the legs freight, fpit it. finge, dull, and bafte it; if it is large, it will take near an hour to roaft. When done, lay it in your difh with fome thickened gravy, and a little juice of lemon under ir ; ferve it up hot for a fe- cond courfe dlfh, with fome egg fauce in a boat. To roajl Wild DUCKS TEAL. ET your wild ducks or teals be clean picked and drawn ; put a little pepper and fait in the infide ; turn their feet back and fkewer them ; fpit them, finge them, and bafte them with butter; twenty minutes will roaft them before a quick fire. Serve them up hot with fome brown gravy under them, and a little fhalot fhred fine, for a fecond courfe. ToTo ( 4° ) To roajl PARTRIDGES or QJDAILS. T ET them be picked, drawn, and fkewered with their legs on ; i'pit, finge, and bafte them twenty minutes will roaft them at a quick fire; duft on a little flour, bafte them with butter, let them be of a nice brown, difli them up with fome brown gravy under them, and fome bread fauce in a boat, for a fecond courfe, or fupper difh. To roajl WOODCOCKS or SNIPES. ET them be clean picked, but do not draw them ; their own bills ferve for a Ikewer, which you muft put through the pinions and thighs, and one leg through the other; fpit them, finge them, and bafte them with butter, and duft on a little flour; toaft a flice of bread, and butter it, lay it on a clean plate, and put it under them, that the trail may drop upon it. They will require fifteen minutes to roaft them. When they are done, lay the toaft in a difli, and the woodcocks upon it; pour under them fome melted butter and gravy, ferve them up hot for a fecond courfe, or fupper.C 41 ) a To roajl MOOR GAME and PHEASANTS. \ * LE T your pheafants or moor game be clean picked and drawn, cut,off their heads and claws, and the pinions at the firft joint; ikewer them, fpit, duff, and bafte them. Half an hour will roaft them at a quick fire.' Difh them up with fome brown grav,y under them, fome bread fauce in a boat, fome gravy warmed, with three fhalots fhred fine, and a little pepper, fait, and vinegar, in another boat. To roajl LARKS the Dunjlable Fajhion. TAKE a dozen of larks, let them be clean pick’d, cut off their heads, turn their feet back, put them on a long ikewer, tie them on a fpit, duff and bafte them ; have ready a good many crumbs of bread in a difh, hold the difh with the crumbs under your larks, and ftrew the larks with them, then bafte them with butter, and continue fo doing till your larks are quite covered with crumbs, and of a nice brown ;—take care when you diili them up that you do not make the crumbs of bread off; if you do, it will fpoil the look of them j the crumbs that remain muft be fried with butter of a nice brown, and put round them. Serve them up hot fora fecond courfe, or for fupper, with plain melted butter in a boat. . F To( 42 ) To roajl WEET EARS. AKE one dozen -of weet ears, let them be clean ,picked and drawn, trufs them as you do larks, lap them in a vine leaf, put them on a lark fpit, and tie them on a large fpit; roaft them for fifteen minutes, bade them well with butter, dredge on them fome crumbs of bread and flour ; when they are done, lay them in your dilh, with fome fried bread crumbs round them, and fome gravy and butter in a boat. Serve them up hot for a fe- .cond courfe. AKE five fweet-breads, put them on a lark fpit, and tie them on a large fpit, do them over with the yolk of an egg, duft them with flour, and bafte them with butter ; if they are large, they will take half an hour to roaft,' if fmall, twenty minutes ; let them be of a nice brown, lay them in your difh with fome melted butter and gravy under them. Serve them up hot for a fecond courfe. To broil BEEF STEAKS. < t • i CUT your fteaks off a rump of beef, half an inch thick, beat them with a rolling pin, and fcafon them with pepper and fait; let your fire be 1o roajl SWEETBREADS. clear,( 43 ) To clear, and your gridiron clean and hot, lay on your fteaks, turn them often with a pair of fteak tongs, to keep in the gravy; let them be of a nice light brown, lay them into a hot difli, with a little gravy under them, and ferve them up hot for a ftde dilh. i , . t * '*./}! -O « i - .' To fry BEEF STEAKS with Onions. CUT your beef fteaks off a rump, rather thinner than above, feafon them with pepper and fait, put a piece of butter into a pan, and fry them over a quick lire, to be of a nice light brown ; lay them into a hot difli, cut two onions in thin flices, fry them with butter, and put them on your fteaks, and ferve them up hot. To broil MUTTON CHOPS. CUT your chops off the bcft end of a neck of mutton, pare them neatly, and flat them with a cleaver; feafon them with pepper and fait, broil them over a clear fire, turning them often j when done, lay them in a hot dilh with fome gravy un- der them, and a fpoonful of mufliroom catchup, and ferve them up hot with pickles in a faucer. You may crumb them with bread, the fame as veal cut- lets. F a'( 44 9 To To broil VEAL CUTLETS. CUT your cutlets off the beft end of a neck of veal, pare them neatly, put a piece of butter into a ftew-pan, with fhred parfley, thyme, pepper, fait, and nutmeg, fet it over the fire to melt, then dip in your ffeaks, and crumb them with bread, broil them over a clear fire to be of a nice light brown, lay them into a hot difh with fome melted butter and fome gravy, with a little juice of lemon under them, and ferve them up hot for a full eourfe. To broil PORK STEAKS. CUT your ffeaks off a fore chine, or a loin, pare away the rind, feafon them with pepper and fait, broil them over a clear fire to be of a fine brown, lay them into a hot difh with fome gravy under them, and ferve them up hot, with fome ap- ple fauce in a boat, V You may crumb them with bread the fame as veal ffeaks, only inftead of thyme you muff add a little fage Aired.( 45 ) To To broil a FOWL with Mujbroom fauce. LE T your fowl be clean picked and drawn, fpfit it down the middle, iinge it, and cut off the legs, flat it with a cleaver, feafon it with a little pepper and fait, do it over with a little clarified but- ter, and crumb it with bread ; fet it over a flow fire to broil ; when done, put it in your difli with fome pickled muflirooms, a little gravy and melted but- ter under it, and ferve it up hot. To bcijh V E N I S O N. CUT your venifon in thin flices, put it into a flew-pan with fome gravy, three lhalots Aired fine, and a litde red wine ; pepper and fait it to your tafte ; fet it over the fire, and when it is hot, thicken it up with butter and flour, let it juft fim- mer, put it into your difh, and ferve it up hot. To hajh MUTTON or BEEF. UT your beef and mutton in thin flices, put it into a ftcw-pan with fome gravy, and the gravy that runs from it, with fome fhalot or onion lhrecl fine, pepper and fait it to your tafte, fet it on the fire to limmer, thicken it with a lump of but- ter rolled in flour, let it juft boil, and ferve it up hot.To ( ) To hajb a TURKEY or any large FOWL. /"^UT off the legs, cut the thighs in two pieces, ^-'4 the pinions and bread in pieces one inch and a half long, takeoff' the Ikin, y>ut it in a ftew-pan with fomc gravy, and a fhalot Aired fine, feafon it with pepper, fait, and pounded inace ; let it on the fire to flew till it is hot thorough, thicken it with butter and flour; let your hafli be favoury, and of a good tafte, put it into a deep difli, and ferve it up hot. To h ajh VEAL. ■ PUT a little gravy into a ffew-pan, with a little lemon peel fhred, afpoonful of catchup, and a piece of butter and flour ; fet it on the fire to boil, cut your veal in thin ilices as big as half-a-crown, and feafon it with pepper and lalt, put it into the ftew-pan to your gravy, let it juft limmer (but not boil) pour it into a difh, with fome fippets of bread round it, and ferve it up hot. .To haft.; WOODCOCKS or Wild DUCKS. OUT your woodcocks up as for eating, put them in a ftew-pan with fome gravy, a fpoon- ful of red wine, two fhalots fhred fine, pepper and fait to your tafte, fet it on the fire to boil, thicken it with fome butter and flour, pour it into a difli, and ferve it up hot.( 47 ) To hajb a Ii ,A R E. CUT it in fmall pieces, put it in a ftew-pan, with a glafs of red wine, and a little broth or gravy, pepper and fait to your tafte, half an ancho- vy chopped, a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour, fet it on a flow fire to fimmer, and juft: when it begins to boil take it off, and ferve it up hot. To mince a TURKEY or a large FOWL. UT the breaft of the turkey in fmall dice, put it into a ftew-pan with a little gravy, a little pepper and fait, a piece of butter and flour, and a little lemon juice ; fet it over the ftove to fimmer, but not boil, as it makes it hard; fcore the legs, feafon them with pepper and fait, and broil them of a nice brown; lay your mince in a difti with •fome fippets of bread round it, and the legs on the top, and fcrve it up hot. Tc( 48 ) % To mince VEAL. CUT your veal into fmall fquare dice, but do not chop it; feafon it with pepper and fait, put it into a ftew-pan with fome gravy and a little lemon peel Hired, a lump of butter and flour, fct it on the fire to limmer, fqueeze in a little juice of lemon, and ferve it up hot, with fome fippets of bread round it. . . v. O ■ ... • To mince PHEASANTS and PARTRIDGES. CUT the breaft of a pheafant or partridge into fmall dice, put it into a ftew-pan with fome good gravy, pepper and fait to your tafte, a lump pf butter and flour, and a little juice of lemon ; fet it on the fire, ftir it till it begins to boil, put it in your difh, with fome fippets of bread round it, and ferve it up hot. Observations on drejfing FISH. WHEN you fry any kind of fifli, let them be waflied clean, and dried with a cloth, do them over with egg, and crumb them with bread, or dip them in fmall beer, and drift them with flour ^ let your hog’s lard or dripping boil before you( 49. ) you put in your filh ; fry them crifp, and of a nice brown, and always lay them on a fieve to drain be- fore you dilh them up. When you boil filh, wafh them clean, rub them with fait, vinegar, or a flice of lemon, before you put them in the water to boil. All filh. fhould be boiled flowly:—if you boil them fall, they will crack and break. When you dilh them up, put a filh-plate under them. When you broil any kind of filh, let your fire be clear, and your gridiron very clean and hot, and rub it with a bit of fuet, to prevent the filh from fticking to it.—If your fifli. is thick, your fire mult be very llow, or otherwife it will burn them before they are warm thorough. All filh muft be thoroughly done. To chefs a TURTLE. CUT off the head clofe by the fhell, hang it up to bleed for twenty-four hours, then cut it open, and leave fome of the meat to the breaft fhell y take out the guts, Hit them with a pen- knife, fcrape and cut them in pieces three inches long, wafh them and the infide meat in feveral wa- ters, cut the meat and brealt fhell in pieces as large as a large walnut, put it all into a llew-pot, with one quart of Madeira wine, two quarts of firong gravy, with Cayen and white pepper, mace and G fait,( So ) To fait, add fome fweet marjoram, bafil, tarragon, and thyme {bred $ cover it clofe, and fet it to flew on a Hove for one hour,—or more, if it is not tender ; then rim the {hell with hot pafte, put in your meat, with fome of the gravy that it was Hewed in, put it into a {harp oven to bake for half an hour, then ftrain the remainder of your gravy into a flew- pan, with two anchovies, thicken it up with butter and flour, let it be very favoury, and of a good tafle ; add to it two dozen of force-meat balls fried, the yolks of twelve hard eggs, and a little juice of lemon j let it boil; when your turtle comes from the oven, pour it in, give it a {hake to mix it, and ferve it up hot for the head of the table. The fins mud be fcalded, to take off the {kin j—ftew them in fome gravy, with a little red wine ; when tender, feafon them with Cayen pepper, fait, and a little juice of lemon to your tafle ; thicken it up with butter and flour, and ferve them up hot for a fide difli. You may make fricandoes with the vealy part of the fhoulder, or Scotch collops, or a white fricaffee. «C 51 ) To To drefs TURTLE another Way. KILL your turtle, wafh it clean, and cut it in pieces as before; feafon it well with Cayen pepper, fait, mace, and nutmeg, put it into a pot that will juft hold it, with one bottle of Madeira wine, two quarts of good gravy, fome fweet herbs Aired fine as before, and two anchovies; fet it on a clear fire to flew flowly till tender, thicken it up with flour, add to it two dozen of force-meat balls, and fome yolks of hard eggs; rim your fliell with hot pafte, and bake it; when done, put in your turtle, and ferve it up hot for the head of the table. The fins muft be ftewed by themfelves, and fea-. foned as before. To boil a TURBOT. GUT and clean your turbot, rub it all over with a piece of lemon and fait, put it into a pan with as much water as will cover it, and a little vi- negar, a few black pepper-corns, two or three Hi- ces of lemon, and a flieet of paper over the top ; fet it on the fire, and when it boils, {kirn it,—let it fimmer for half an hour, then ferve it up hot with lobfter and anchovy fauce. G 2(^5* ) ' To bake a TURBOT. (1 UT and clean your turbot, dry it with a cloth, SP" cut off the head and tail, feafon it with pepper, fait, nutmeg, and home parfley fhred; take a difh that will juft hold it, rub it with butter, lay in your turbot, with fome green chibbol fhred, and half a pint of white wine ; fprinkle your turbot with fome melted butter, and ilrew it over with crumbs of bread, bake it of a nice brown,—when done, ferve it up in the difh in which it was baked, and pour lome anchovy fauce under it. To fry fmall TURBOTS. GUT and wafh them, cut off the head and fins, cut them in four pieces, fprinkle over them fome vinegar, fait, and pepper, a few fliccs of onions, fweet baftl, and thyme ; let them lie one hour, drain them, duft them with flour, fry them of a nice brown, difh them up, and garnifh them with fried parfley, and ferve them up hot with melted butter, or anchovy fauce in a boat. To make FILLETS of TURBOTS. TAKE fome cold boil’d turbot, cut it in fillets two inches long and one inch broad, and make a fauce as follows : Chop a table fpoonful of capers, put them into a ftew-pan with fome parfley . . • ' and( 53 ) To and an anchovy Aired fine, half a pint of gravy, fix ounces of butter, a little flour, catchup, or foy, a little Cayen, and a lemon juice, let it boil, and put in the fillets j- let them fimmer for four minutes, take them carefully out, and lay them in a difh, pour your fauce over them, and ferve them up hot for a fide difh. To ftevj S O A L S. TAKE off the black fkin, fcrape, gut, and clean them, do them over with an egg, or dip them in fmall beer, dull: them with flour, fry them in hog’s lard or dripping, of a nice light brown, lay them on a fieve to drain, and make a fauce for them as follows : Put in a ftew-pan fome good brown gravy, with half an anchovy, and a little red wine, a little Cayen pepper, fome blades of mace, one onion ftuck with cloves, and a flice of lemon ; let it fimmer for ten minutes, add to it a piece of butter and flour, a handful of fhrimps picked clean, and flir it over the fire till it boils, then put in your foals, let them flew five minutes, lay them carefully in a difh with a fkimmer, and pour the fauce over them. Serve them up hot for a fide difh,'or the head of a table.( 54 ) To fry S O A L S. f'S'^AKE the fkin off the brown fide, and clean the fcales well off the other; take out their guts, wipe them dry with a cloth, do them over with an egg, and ftrew them with crumbs of bread; let your hog’s lard boil, put in your foals, fry them of a nice light brown, drain them on a fieve, put them in a dilh, garnifh them with fried parfley, and ferve them up hot with fhrirnp fauce, or plain melt- ed butter. To jnarinate S O A L S. AKE two cold fried foals, lay them in a dilh. and make a fauce for them as follows : Take a tea-cup full of vinegar, one of oil, and three or four flices of lemon, a little muftard and fait, mix it all well together, and pour it over your foals ; let them ft and for two hours to take the fauce, and then ferve them up for a fecond courfe. A SPIKE of SOALS in Fillets. AKE cold boiled or fried foals, cut them in ■fillets one inch and a half long and an inch broad, lay them in the china dilh in which you in- tend to ferve them up, and make a fauce for them as follows: CliOF( 55 ) To Chop four fhalots very fine, put them in a deep plate, with a fpoonful of made muftard, fome black pepper, fait, half a tea-cup full of vinegar, the fame of oil, mix it well together, pour it over your foals, garnilh it with flices of lemon and parfley, and ferve it up for a fecond courfe. Fillets of turbot are done the fame way. FILLETS of SOALS Bsfh-a-mell. AKE two cold boiled foals, cut them in fillets two inches long and one inch broad, lay them into a ftew-pan, and make a fauce for them as follows : Take a pint of cream, put it in a ftew- pan, with a flice of ham, one onion, a bit of parfley, and half a fmall carrot, let it boil till it comes to half a pint, {lining it all the time ; then thicken it up with a little butter and hour, {train it upon your foals, let it upon the fire to boil, add a little pepper and fait, and fome juice of lemon, let it juft fim- mer, but not boil, and ferve it up hot. This is a pretty firft or fecond courfe dilli. Fillets of Turbot are done the fame way. , /To boll a C O D’x Head and Shoulders. AKE a cod’s head and fhoulders, clean it well. rub it over with lemon and fait, and lay it on your filh-plate ; when your water boils, throw in a handful of fait, and a little vinegar, put in your cod’s head, and let it boil flowly for half an hour, —or longer, if it be large ; take it up carefully, and lay it on your difh, lay fome fry’d foals or fmelts round it, and ferve it up with anchovy and fhrimp fauce. To bake a COD’; Head and Shoulders. 'AKE the head and fhoulders, and make it quite clean ; make a duffing of crumbs of bread, fuet, pepper, fait, parfley, and thyme fhred line, add two eggs, mix it well, and Huff the head and fhoulders with it; do your cod over with an egg, and crumb it with bread ; put fome pieces of butter over it, and fome gravy under it, and bake it in a quick oven for one hour ; when it is baked, ftrain the gravy from it into a ftewr-pan, add two anchovies, and fome juice of lemon ; thicken ic up with butter and flour, lay your iilh in a difh, and pour your fauce into it, and garnilh it with flices of lemon.( 57 ) To drefs Crimp COD. TAKE a cod, cut it into Dices one inch thick, put them in hard water and fait for two or three hours, take them out and dry them, and do them over with the yolk of an egg and crumbs ot bread. You may either fry or broil them.—Serve them up with anchovy and fhrimp fauce. To Jlew CARP or TENCH brown. TAKE two carps or tench, fcale them and gut them very clean, put them into a ftew-pan, with a pint of flxong gravy, add one onion ituck with cloves, two anchovies,- two tea-cups full ot red wine, three blades of mace, pepper and flit to your take, and fet it on- the fire to few for twenty minutes; then take out your fifh with a ikimmer, lay them in your difli,—thicken up your fauce, with butter and flour, add a little lemon juice, and fet it to fimmer,—then {train it through a fieve i upon your fifh, garnifli them with flices of lemon and fcraped horfe radifli, and ferve them up hot. To flew CARP white. SCALE, gut, and wafli your carp, put them in a pan with fome water, fome whole pepper, fait, a bunch of fweet herbs, and two onions; flop the pan clofe, and fet it to boil for twenty minutes; then have ready a fauce made as follows : H Put( 58 ) Put a gill of white wine into a fauce-pan, with a gill of white gravy, made of veal, two anchovies chopped fine, a quarter of a gill of the liquor in which the carp was boiled, and two flices of le- mon ; let it boil for five minutes, and add ? quar- ter of a pound of butter rolled in flour; let it juft begin to boil, and add the yolks of two eggs, mixed with a quarter of a pint of cream,—let it juft fimmer, but not boil, or it will curdle,—lay your carp into a difli, and ftrain your fauce over it. Tv roaji a CARP. TAKE a carp with a foft roe, let it be clean fcaled and gutted, and make a fluffing for it as follows :—Take the foft roe, one anchovy, a few muffirooms, one onion, parfley and thyme ffired fine, a little pepper, fait, a little mace pounded, a piece of butter, and fome crumbs of bread, mix it all well together, and fluff your carp with it, few it up, wrap it in a paper well buttered, tie it on a fpit With a tape, let it roaft for half an hour, bafte it well with butter and a little white wine, and make a fauce for it as follows :—Put an ancho- vy in a ftew-pan, with a few pickled muffirooms, half a pint of good gravy, a table fpoonful of red wine, a piece of butter and flour, and ftir it over the fire till it boils;—when your carp is roafted, take off the paper, lay it in a diffi, and pour your fauce over it. ft( 59 ) To broil ci CARP. SCALE and gut your carp, nick it on the back, do it over with melted butter, feafon it with pepper, fait, and a little parfley fhred, broil it of a nice brown, and make a fauce for it as follows Take one anchovy, a few capers, a few pickled mufhrooms fhred fine, put them into a flew-pan, with half a pint of gravy, a piece of butter, and flour, flir it over the fire till it boils, then put your carp in a difh, pour your fauce over it, and ferve it up hot. To bake a TENCH. SCRAPE off the fcales, gut them, and walk them clean ;—put into the bottom of a flew- pan a flice of veal, thep a fheet of paper buttered, to keep them from flicking to the bottom,—rub ypur tench over with fome clarified butter, the yolk of an egg, and fome crumbs of bread, lay them into your flew-pan with fome gravy under them, fet them in an oven to bake for half an hour, and let them be of a nice light brown. When done, take them up carefully and lay them in a d»fh, take the veal out of the flew-pan, leaving the gravy, add to it one glafs of red wine, half an an- chovy, a fpoonful of catchup, a little lemon juice, a( 6o ) To a little Cayen, fome butter and flour, and the meat of two Iobfter claws cut in fmall dice ; let it fim- mer for three minutes, fkim it clean, pour it under your tench, and fervc it up hot. To fry or broil WHITINGS. GUT and fkin them, do them over with the yolk of an egg, and crumb them over with bread :—If they are to fry, have ready your pan with fome fat boiling hot, put in your whitings, and fry them of a nice light brown, garnifh them with fried parfley, and ferve them up with fhrimp fauce:—If to broil, prepare your fifli as above, have ready your gridiron very hot, rub it over with a little butter, lay on your fifh to broil, taking care you do not fmoke or burn them. When done, ferve them up with anchovy fauce. To roafl a G U I L S T. TAKE a guilft, and make it quite clean, make a pudding of crumbs of bread and fweet par- fley, thyme, nutmeg, pepper and fait, mix it up with the yolks of two eggs, put it into the belly of the fifli, rub it all over with the yolk of an egg, and ftrcw it with crumbs of bread, lay it in a drip- ping pan before the fire, or in an oven, and bafte it with butter. When it is enough, lay it on a difli, and ferve it up with gravy and anchovy fauce.J fo fry S M ELT S. DRAW the guts of the fmelts out with the gills, wafli them clean, and wipe them dry ; dc> them over with the yolk of an egg, and ftrew on them fome crumbs of bread ; have yOur frying-pan ready with hog’s lard, quite hot, put in yoUr filh, and fry them of a light brown, lay them in yotir dilh, and garnifh them with fried parlley. To boil Crimp SALMON. SCALE your falmon, wafli it clean, lay it to crimp in hard water and fait for two hours, have ready your pan on boiling, put in your fal- mon with a little fait, let it boil for half an hour, take it up and drain it, lay it in your dilh with fome fried fifli round, garnifh it with fennel, and ferve it up with parlley or fennel fauce.To ( ) To pickle SALMON the Newcaftle Way. TAKE a falmon, and fplit it down the back, cut it acrofs into four lengths, wafh them, cle^n, but do not take off the fcales ; have ready a kettle with boiling water, boil it three quarters of an hour, take it up, and fet it to cool; add three quarts of vinegar to three quarts of the liquor it was boiled in, with a quarter of an ounce of cloves, a quarter of an ounce of mace, half an ounce of black pepper, two ounces of ginger cut in flices, a little bay fait, and two handfuls of com- mon fait, boil them all well together one quarter of an hour, let i} (land till it is cold, put your fal- mon into a kit, and pour your pickle over it. To broil SLICES of SALMON. . / * * 1 CUT your falmon in flices one inch thick, brufh them over with a little clarified butter, fprin- kie on them a little pepper and fait, let your grid- iron be clean, and lay on your falmon, broil them over a clear flow fire,—when done, lay them into the difh, and make a fauce for them as follows : Take a fpconful of capers, three fhalots, and a little parfley, all fhred fine, mix it up with a tea- cup full of vinegar, and a little oil; when your falmon is cold, pour your fauce over it, and ferve it up for a fecond courfe.To C *3 ) To broil Crimp SALMON another Way. CUT your falmon in flices as above, do them over with clarified butter, and then with egg, ftrew them with crumbs of bread and a little fhred parfley, and you may either broil them or fry them. When done, put them round boiled fifli, or put them in a difti by themfelves, and ferve them up with parfley and butter, and anchovy fauce. To drefs STURGEON. TAKE eight pounds of flurgeon, wafli it clean, lay it into fome hard water and fait, let it foak all night, next day take it out, rub it over with vinegar and fait, have ready your fifh-kettle with fome boiling water, put in your fturgeon with a bunch of fweet herbs and two onions, boil it till the fifli leaves the bones, take it up, take off the fkin, flour it well, fet it before the fire, bafte it well with butter, and let it Hand till it is of a fine brown; ferve it up with white fauce, (the lame that is ufed for carp) or with venifon fauce.To ( <54 ) To pickle STURGEON. CUT your fturgeon into fquare pieces, wafli it well, and tie it tight with mats, fet it on to boil with four quarts of water, two quarts of ftrong old beer, a little bay fait, two handfuls of common fait, one ounce of black pepper, one ounce of Ja- maica pepper, and one of ginger, and half an ounce of cloves ; let it boil till the filh leaves the bone, take it out, and let it Hand till next day to cool; put your fturgeon into a calk or mug that will juft hold it; put a quart of alegar to the liquor it was boiled in, pour it on your fturgeon, flop it clofe down, and keep it for ufe. To drefs a P I K E. GUT your pike, and make it very clean, grate fome bread, and Hired fome fuet, a litde thyme and parfley, pepper, fait, a little fpice, and two eggs, mix it well together, and put it into the belly of the filh; do your filh over with the yolk of one egg, and ftrew fome crumbs of bread and pieces of butter all over the top, then lay your filh into the dilh, fet it into the oven, and bake it.— You mull make your fauce of gravy, a little juice of lemqn, one onion ftuck with cloves, two ancho- vies, and thicken it with butter and flour ; when your filh is baked, lay it on a dilh, and pour the fauce under it, garnilh it with flices of lemon, and ferve it up hot.( 65 ) / To drefs a PIKE the Dutch Way. LET your pike be clean fcaled and walked, Ikewer it round, put on a filh kettle with fome fait and water, and a little vinegar,—when it boils, put in your pike, and let it boil for twenty minutes,—or more, if it is a large one; then make a fauce for it as follows : Shred two anchovies, put them into a fiew-pan with half a pound of butter, a tittle pepper, fait, nutmeg, a table fpoonful of vinegar, two tea-cups full of gravy, a piece of horfe-radifh, a flice of le- mon, and as much flour as will thicken it; ffir it over the lire till it boils, take out the lemon and horfe-radifh, dilh up your pike, pour your fauce over it, and ferve it up hot. To roajl a LAMPREY. SKIN your lamprey, cut off the head, and take out the guts, fcrape the blood clean from the bone, then make a force-meat of fome crumbs of bread, a few Ihrimps, a little thyme and parfley, pepper and lalt, and the yolks of two egg3, mix all well together, and put it into the belly of the lamprey, lew it up, and turn it round on your difh, put over it a little flour and butter, apd a little gravy in your dilh, then bake it in a moderate oven, or put it down before the lire; when it is I done.( 66 ) To done, take the gravy from it, (train it through a fieve, add to it a fpoonful of catchup, a little white wine, one anchovy, and a flice of lemon, thicken it with butter and flour, let it boil, difli up your lamprey, and pour the fauce over it. To boil FLOUNDERS or Flat FISH. CU T off the fins, nick the brown fide with a knife, and take out the guts ; wa£h them clean, boil them in fait and water for twelve mi- nutes, lay them in your difli upon a napkin, or a iifli drainer, garnifh them with parfley and horfe- radifh fcraped, ferve them up with anchovy or flirimp fauce. To boil Crimp SKATE. ^ 4 * TAKE your Ikate and (kin it on both fides, cut it one inch broad and as long as the fkate will allow, put it into hard water, with a handful of fait and a little vinegar, let it lie three hours to crimp, have ready a ftew-pan with boiling water, lay your fifli on a fifh-plate, and boil it for fifteen minutes, difli it up, and ferve it up with flirimp fauce. \( 67 ) To 1 2 To fry Crimp SKATE. CRIMP your Ikate as above, dry it in a cloth, rub it over with egg, and crumb it with bread, fry it over a quick hre (^in hog’s lard) of a light brown, put them in a difli, and garnifh them with fried parfley ; ferve it up with anchovy fauce in a boat. To boil MACKEREL. GUT and wafh your mackerel, lay them ftreight on a fifh-plate ; fet your pan on the fire with fome water and a little fait ; when it boils, put in your filh, let them boil for fifteen minutes, take them up and drain them, lay them on a difh, gar- nilh them with parfley and fennel, and ferve them up with fcalded goofeberries in a boat, and melted butter and anchovy fauce. To pickle MACKEREL. WASH and gut your mackerel, make them very clean, boil them in fait and water for twelve minutes, take them carefully up, add to the water they were boiled in one pint of vinegar, two or three blades of mace, a little whole pepper, boil it all together ten minutes; when cold, put it to your mackerel, and keep it for ufe.( 68 ) To boil HERRINGS. SCALE the herrings, and draw out the guts with the gills, wafli them clean, fkewer them with their tails in their mouths ; when your water boils put them in, and boil them twelve minutes, lay them in your dilh, and ferve them up with parfley and butter. * I ' To bake HERRINGS. SCALE, gut and wafh them clean, cut off their heads, and take out the back-bone, lay them flat upon a board, feafon them with cloves, mace, pepper and fait; pretty high, roll them up, lay them in a mug with two or three onions, a bay leaf, and fome vinegar, cover them over with a ftrong brown paper, tie it down, and bake them in a mo- derate oven. You may eat them eithei hot or cold. To broil HER RIN GS. CLEAN your herrings as for boiling, dry them with a cloth, dull fome flour on them, have ready your gridiron very clean, and rub it with fome fat bacon to keep your herrings from flicking, broil them over a clear fire of a nice brown, taking care you do not fmoke or burn them, and lci\c them up with melted butter.( <9 ) To drefs S A L 1 FIS II. I * I \ .v, » STEEP it in water over night, wafh it clean, and cut it into fquare pieces, put your fifli in when the water is cold, boil it half an hour, take it up and drain it, lay it in your difli, garnilh it with llices of eggs, and ferve it up with egg fauce. Or you may ufe boiled parlnips or potatoes to the above, if you like them. / To drefs COD’; SOUNDS. STEEP them in water all night, fet them on the fire in a ftew-pan to boil,—when tender, take them up to drain, put them in a difh, pour your egg fauce boiling hot over them, and ferve them up hot. To make WATER S'OKEY of Perch or Flat-Fish. • . TAKE fix parfley roots, cut them one inch and a half long, and about the thicknefs of a quill, put them into a ftew-pan withTome water to boil, with a pint offmall onions peeled, fome fait, and fome whole pepper ; let them boil till the parfley is almoft tender, then put in your fifli, and let it boil for twenty minutes on a flow fire; throw in a handful of parfley picked in leaves, juft let it boil, lay / • “To ( 7° ) lay your fifh into a foup-difh, and pour the liquor with the ingredients over it; ferve it up with a plate of bread and butter, and fome plain melted butter in a boat. i — » i To boil EELS. SKIN, gut, and clean them well, cut off their heads, turn them round, and run a fkewer through them, and lay them on a fifh-plate; when your water boils, put them in, with a little fait, and let them boil for twelve minutes,—or, if very large, for fifteen minutes ;—take them carefully up with a fifh-xlice, lay them in your difh with a drainer under them, and ferve them up with parfley and melted butter. PITCHCOCK EELS. i > ' ^ TAKE two large eels, fkin, and gut them, flit them down the back, cut them into pieces the length of your finger, feafon them with pepper, fait, and nutmeg, fweet herbs fhred fine, and grated bread, broil them over a clear fire, then ferve them up with anchovy fauce. You may do them whole, and feafon them the fame way.( 71 ) To To pitchcock EELS another Way. AKE a large eel, cut off the head, draw off the fkin, take out the guts, wafh it clean, and dry it with a cloth ; take fome parfley, thyme, and fweet marjoram fined fine, add fome pepper, fait, and mace; rub your eel over with the yolk of an egg, and itrew the fweet herbs and feafonings over it and in it; draw on the Ikin, fkewer it round, and i broil it. When done, lay it in your difh, and ; ferve it up with anchovy fauce and melted butter. TAKE one large eel, fkin, gut, and clean it; make a pudding for it of grated bread, fweet marjoram, pepper, fait, a few oyllers, and break in one egg ; mix it all well together, and put it into the belly of the eel, rub the eel over with the yolk of an egg, and roll it in the feafohing, draw the • (kin over the eel to keep in the pudding, run a ; fkewer through it, tie it to a fpit, and roaft it, bake : it with melted butter,—when done, ferve it up To roajl an EEL. | with anchovy or fhrimp fauce.To < r* ) To flew EELS. TAKE fome middic-fized eels, (kin, gut, and clean them, cut them in pieces three inches long, put them in a ftew-pan with a piece of but- ter and a little hour, give them a tofs for five mi- mutes over the fire, add fome good gravy, with a little pepper and fait, and half an anchovy, two fpoonfuls of white wine, and a dice of lemon ; let it hew till tender, take out the lemon, and dilh it up hot. EELS with white Sauce. LE T your eels be fkinned and gutted, wadi them clean, cut them in pieces three inches long, and duft them with hour; put them in a ftew-pan with a piece of butter, a bunch of fweet herbs, and a few fmall mufhrooms, fry them Over the ftove for five minutes, add to them a little white wine, and a little broth or water; feafon them with pepper, fait, and Ipice, add to them a little lemon juice, fet them on to ftew, and when done, thicken up your ftiuce with the yolks of two eggs, mixed with a little gravy, give them a tofs over the fire, and ferve them up hot.( 73 ) EELS with brown Sauce. ET them be clean (kinned, gut, andwafh them clean, cut them in pieces three inches long, feafon them withfweet herbs, chibbols, and parfley fhred fine, pepper, fait, and fpice ; put a piece of but- ter and a little flour into a flew-pan, let it brown over a ftove, add to it a little gravy, a glafs of white wine, and a little lemon juice, put in your eels, fet them on the ftove to flew till tender, lay them in a difh, put the fauce over them, and ferve them up To fcollop OYSTERS. OPEN your oyfters, and beard them, fet them on a fire in a ftew-pan, let them boil for five minutes, ftrain the liquor from them into a ftew- pan, and walh the oyfters clean from the fand ; put them into their own liquor, with a piece of but- ter, a little parfley and thyme fhred very fine, a lit- tle pepper and nutmeg, and very little fait, let them fimmer over the fire, butter your fcollop (hells, and ftrew fome crumbs of bread in, then put in your oyfters and cover them over with bread crumbs and pieces of butter, put them on a gridiron over a flow fire for a quarter of an hour, take them off, brown the top with a (alamander, and ferve them up hot hot. for a fecond courfe, or for fupper. K( 74 ) To fcollop OYSTERS another Way• OPEN and beard your oyfters, wafh them clean, butter your fcollop fliells, and ftrew them with bread, lay in your oyfters, and ftrew fome crumbs of bread and fome butter over them, then fome more oyfters and crumbs of bread, and fome butter, fet them in a Dutch oven to brown before the fire for twenty minutes, and ferve them up hot. 1 ' ' ' / To fry OYSTERS. TAKE fifteen large oyfters, fimmer them in their liquor, take them out and dry them, dip them in yolks of eggs, and crumb them with bread ; have ready your frying-pan with fome hog’s lard hot, put in your oyfters, and fry them crifp and brown; fry fome crumbs of bread and put in your difh, lay your oyfters on them, and ferve them up hot for a fecond courfe. To few OYSTERS. OPEN them, and plump them in their own li- quor, then drain the liquor into a ftew-pan ; throw the oyfters into fome clean water to wafh them, take off their beards, put the oyfters into the ftew-pan amongft their own liquor, with two or three blades of mace, and a few white pepper-corns, let( 75 ) I let them fimmer for fifteen minutes, add a piece of butter and flour, and the yolks of two eggs, with a fpoonful of cream, let it fimmer, add a little le- mon juice, and ferve them up in a difh, with lip- pets of bread, or put them into oyfter loaves. You may flew muffels or Rockies the fame way. ATTALETS of OYSTERS, OPEN your oyfters, and beard them, put them into a pan, and fet them to boil for five mi- nutes, pour the liquor from them, and wafh them clean from the fand, put them into a ftew-pan with a lump of butter, a little pepper, fait, and nutmeg, fet them on the ftove for fix minutes, ftirring them all the time ; take them off, and let them cool, and flick them on fmall filver or wooden Ikewers,— beat up an egg and do them over with a feather, crumffthem with bread, and fet them in a little difh before the fire to brown, or broil them over a flow fire on a gridiron ; lay them in a difh with fome thickened gravy under them, and ferve them up hot. This is a pretty fecond courfe difli.( 76 ) To To pickle OYSTERS. OPEN the largeft and fineft oyfters you can get, whole and clean from the fhells, wafh them in their own liquor, let it Hand to fettle, drain it into a fauce-pan with fome white wine vinegar, a few blades of maee, a nutmeg diced, a few white pepper-corns, two bay leaves, and a little fait, let it boil four minutes, then put in your oyfters, let them fimmer ten minutes, fkim them well, put them into a jar that will juft hold them -when they are cold, cover them with rinded mutton fuet, tie them down with a bladder, and keep them for ufe. To pickle OYSTERS another Way. TAKE one hundred of the largeft oyfters you can get, open them, but do not cut them, and wafh them clean ; put one quart of fpring- water into a ftew-pan, and ftrain into it their own liquor, add to it a little fait, fet it on to boil, fkim it clean, add to it ten blades of mace, fome nutmeg fliced, half an ounce of whole white pep- per, a quarter of a pint of vinegar, let it boil for fifteen minutes, then put in the oyfters, and let them boil for ten minutes, fkim them clean, put them into a pot or jar that will juft hold them, let them ftand till they are quite cold, and cover them up for ufe.( 77 ) To boll LOBSTERS. PUT a Ikewer in the vent of your lobfter’s tail, to prevent the water getting in, put it into a pan of boiling water, with a little fait and two llices of lemon ; if it is a large one, it will take half an hour’s boiling; when it is boiled, take it out and rub a little butter over it, to make it look bright, and break a bit off each claw, to let out the water. To ragoo LOBSTERS. LE T your lobfter be boiled, take the meat out of the tail and claws, and cut them in fmall pieces; boil a few morells, cut off the ftalks and walh them clean, add a few pickled muftirooms, half an anchovy Hired,—put a piece of butter into a ftew-pan with a little flour, ftir it over the fire till it is brown, add to it half a pint of gravy, a little pepper and nutmeg, and a llice of lemon ; put m your lobfter, with the other ingredients, let it fimmer for ten minutes, put it in your difli, and ferve it up hot. To * \ ' 'I ( 73 ) To butter LOBSTERS. BOIL your lobfters and break the fhell, pick out the meat, put it into a fauce-pan with a little gravy, a piece of butter and flour, let it fimmer, then grate in a little nutmeg, with a little lemon juice, and ferve them up in their own fhells. To roafl a LOBSTER. WASH it clean, and tie it on a fpit, bade it with lemon juice and fweet oil, make a fauce with fome gravy, thicken it with butter and flour, and a little lemon juice, and ferve it up hot for a fecond courfe. ATTALETS of LOBSTERS. PICK the tails and the claws of four boiled lob- fters clean from the fhell, cut them in pieces the fize of a large oyfter; put a piece of butter into a ftew-pan, with fome parfley, thyme, pepper, fait, and nutmeg, make it hot, and put in the lob- fter, fet it over the fire for five minutes, ftir it all the time, but take care you do not break it \ take fix or eight fmall filver or wooden fkewers, ftick on the lobfter as much as the fkewer will hold, do them over with a little egg, and crumb them with bread,( 7 9 ) bread, brown them on a gridiron or before the fire, lay them in a difh, and ferve them up with melted butter and gravy.—This is a pretty fecond courfe AKE two boiled lobfters, pick the meat out of the tail and claws, and cut them in dice ; put a piece of butter into a ftew-pan, with fome parfley and thyme Aired fine, a little beaten mace, pepper, fait, and nutmeg, make it hot over the fire, put in your lobfters, fet them on the fire with two fpoon- fuls of gravy, and let them fimmer for five minutes ; butter your fcollop fliells, crumb them with bread, put in your lobfters, and fome butter on the top, and fome crumbs of bread over them, put your lhells in a Dutch oven, and fet them before a clear fire to brown for fifteen minutes; when done, ferve them up hot for a fecond courfe. To fricajfee LOBSTERS. TAKE three boiled lobfters, pick the meat out of the tails and claws, cut them in pieces one inch and a half long, and make a fauce for them as )follows •" 1 ut half a pint of white gravy into a ftew-pan, with three blades of mace, one bunch dilh. To fcollop LOBSTERS. ofC 8° ) To of fweet herbs, two flices of lemon, a little nutmeg grated, one onion ftuck with cloves, and a few pepper-corns, let it fimmer flowly for fifteen mi- nutes, then ftrain it into a ftew-pan, put in your lobfter, with a piece of butter and flour, and fet it on the fire; when it boils, add to it the yolks of two eggs, mixed with a little cream, let it fimmer, but not boil, and keep the ftew-pan moving all the time ; when done, put it in a difh, and ferve it up hot for a fecond courfe. T<j fricajjee CRAY-FIS H. BOIL your fifh in fait and water for ten mi- nutes, pick off the fhell of the tail and the {mail feet, but let the body fhell and fore-claws re- main on ; put them into a ftew-pan with fome good white gravy, pepper, fait, and fome blades of mace, let it fimmer for about ten minutes, add a tea-cup full of cream, the yolks of two eggs, fome chopt parfley, let it fimmer, add a little lemon juice, and ferve it up hot with fippets of bread.( 81 ) L To To pickle SHRIMPS. BOIL the largeft fhrimps you can get, pick oil their fhells, boil as much white wine vinegar as will cover them, with a little black pepper and mace, let it Hand till cold, then put your fhrimps into fmall wide-mouth’d bottles, that will hold half a pint each, pour the vinegar over them, and flop them clofe down for ufe. To pickle COCKLES. WASH your cockles clean from the fand, put them into a fauce-pan, cover them clofe down, fet them over the fire, and (hake them till they open; flrain the liquor from them through a fxeve, pick the cockles from the fhells, and walk them clean in two or three waters, to take the fand f from them ; pour the liquor clear from the fedi- ( ment, add as much white wine vinegar as there is ? liquor, a blade or two of mace, a little white pepper, n and a little fait, let it boil five minutes, put in your c cockles, and let them fimmer for two or three mi- i nutes, fet them by to cool, and bottle them up for 1 ufe. You may pickle muffels the fame way. »( 82 ) To to butter CRABS. t BOIL three crabs, pick the meat out as whole as you can, put it into a fauce-pan with a quarter of a pound of butter, a little lemon juice, a little pepper, fait, and nutmeg to your talle, and three fpoonfuls of good gravy ; fet it on the Rove to boil, have ready two of the crab fhells clean wafli- ed, and dried with a cloth, put them on a difh, put your buttered crabs into them, and ferve them up hot. i ) To boil PRAWNS. WASH them clean, have ready a fauce-pan with boiling water, put in your prawns with a handful of fait, and two flices of lemon, let them boil fifteen minutes, drain them on a fieve, and fet them to cool; lay a handful of parfley in a China difh, and lay your prawns in rows upon it, one row above another, till your difli is full. Serve them up for a fecond courfe. Cray-fish is boiled and ferved up the fame way.To / ( 83 ) To fricafjee PRAWNS.' TAKE boiled prawns, pick them clean from the {hell, wafih them, and dry them with a cloth, then make a fauce for them as follows ;— Take a tea-cup full of white gravy, a little chopt parfley, fome pepper, fait, and nutmeg, a tea-cup full of thick cream, with a bit of butter and flour ; put in the prawns and let them boil, add the yolks of two eggs, mixt with a glafs of wine, let it fim- mex, but not bofl, put it in your difli with fippets of bread round them, and ferve them up hot. To pot CHARS cr TROUTS. CLEAN your fifh well, and bone them, cut off the tails, fins, and heads, feafon them with pepper, fait, cloves, and mace, put them into a pot with as much butter as will cover them, tie a pa- per over them, and bake them one hour; when baked, pour the butter clear from them, lay the fifh upon a board to cool; when they are cool, lay them on a broad thin pot for that purpofe, cover them over with the butter they were baked in, and keep them in a cool, dry place.( s4 > To boil a JOWL of SALMON. TAKE the gills out of a jowl of falmon, and wafti it clean, boil it in hard water and a little fait for twenty minutes,—or more, if a large one \ when done, difh it up with a napkin or drainer under it, garnilh it with fennel and parfley, and ferve it up hot with lobfter and fennel fauce in boats. Observations on Soups and Gravies. WHEN you make foup with herbs in it, you muft take care that one herb does not tafte more than another ; to prevent which, you may put in a piece of fugar, the bignefs of a fmall nutmeg. When you make foup-la-rain, lay your veal and ham in the bottom of a ftew-pan, with a piece of butter and the roots on the top ; it muft be fet over a flow fire to draw, and when the gravy is fimmered away, add to it your flock, as the receipt directs: if you have no flock, put to it fome boiling wa- ter. Onion foup, or foup fante, muft boil very flow, after your onions or herbs are in, to keep them clear; they fhould have a brown caft, which is eafily done by putting in a little brown gravy. After your peafe-foup is drained, and fet on the fiie to warm, you muft mind to ftir it, otherwifeit will burn, as the peafeare apt to fall to the bottom. In( 85 ) the reft of your foups, you muff follow your re- ceipts. All foups fliould be relifhing, and of a good tafte. When you make brown gravy or cullis, you mud lay your meat in the bottom of a ftew-pan, and your roots on the top, and fet it over a lire to draw. You muft let the bottom of your ftew-pan be quite brown before you put in your water, but not burnt, or it will give it a bad tafte. To make BROTH, generally called the STOCK. TAKE eight pounds of lean beef, an old hen, a knuckle of veal, and a ferag of mutton, put to it three gallons of water, fet it on the fire to boil, Ikim it very clean, add to it fix heads of cel- lery, fix onions, fix carrots, four parfley roots, four leeks, four cloves, a few pepper-corns, and a little fait, let it boil (lowly fix hours, then drain it off, and keep it for life. Of this dock you may make all kinds of foup. T«To ( 85 ) To make SOUP SANTE. TAKE lettice, chervil, forrel, and cellery, of each a little, and the white of one leek, wafh them clean, and cut them very fmall, put them into a fiew-pan, with half a turnip and carrot cut in fmall fillets one inch long, and a dozen fmall onions, then add two quarts of flock, let it flew till your herbs are tender, boil the tops of two penny French rolls in a little of the flock for half an hour, put your bread in a tureen, and pour your foup over it. If your foup wants colour, add a little brown gravy. To make SOUP with Artichoke Bottoms. TAKE two dozen of young artichokes, boil them till tender, take off the leaves and chokes, pare the bottoms neatly, put them in a llew-pan with three pints of flock, and a flice of ham, and fet them on to flew gently ; boil the cruft of a French roll in fome flock in another ftqw-pan,—when done, lay it in your foup-difh, pour the foup and artichokes over it, and lerve it up hot.( 87 ) To make SOUP a la Rain. TAKE two pounds of veal, lay it in a ftew-pan with fome ham, two onions, two turnips, and four heads of cellery, fet it on a flow fire to draw for half an hour, but do not let it brown ; add to it two quarts of ftock, let it boil flowly for two hours, then {train it off, add to it the crumbs of two French rolls, one quart of cream, a quarter of a pound of almonds blanched, and beat fine, the breaft of a roafted fowl beat fine in a mortar ; mix it all well together, fet it on the fire, but do not let it boil, then rub it through a ftrainer, put it into a broth-pot with the cover on it, fet it in a pot of boil- ing water, to make it hot, (if you fet it on a fire, it will curdle) have ready the tops of three French rolls, boiled in a little broth, lay them in your tu- reen, and when your foup is hot, pour it on the top of them, and ferve it up hot. ONION SOUP. PEEL fix large onions, cut them in dice, put them into a ftew-pan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, let them fry till brown, add two quarts of broth, let it fimmer for half an hour, fkim off the fat, put in the upper cruft of two french rolls cut thin, a little fait to your tafte, let it ftew for half an hour, put it in your tureen, and ferve it up hot. OnionC 88 > To ONION SOUP another Way. PEEL four dozen of fmall onions, put them in a ftew-pan with two quarts of broth, and the cruft of a French roll, pared thin, fet it on the lire to fimmer for three quarters of an hour, add pep- per and fait to your tafte, put it into your tureen, and ferve ft up hot. . . / • ‘ 1 LOBSTER SOUP. TAKE three lobfters and pound the fpawn, add to it fome broth made as follows :—Take two fmall codlings, gut, and wafh them clean, fave fome of the flefli of one to make fome force-meat, cut the reft in pieces, put them in a ftew-pot with fome onions, cellery, turnips, carrots, parlhips, a bunch of fweet herbs, two anchovies; add to it three quarts of boiling water, let it flew flowly for two hours, ftrain it into a ftew-pan, and add to it the meat of your lobfters cut in fmall pieces ;—then take the piece of filli, and make a force-meat of it with fome crumbs of bread and fweet herbs, a piece of butter, four yolks of eggs, one anchovy, Hired it all fine, mix it well together, make it into balls, put them into your foup, and the cruft of a French roll, let it all fimmer together for fifteen minutes j ferve it up hot in a tureen or foup-difli.To M ( ) To make LENTIL SOUP UT fix heads of cellery, three onions, two tur- nips, one carrot, and one parfnip, put them into a ftew-pan with a quarter of a pound of butter, one llice of ham, and a pint of lentils, fet it on a. fiove to flew for half an hour ; put to it two quarts of broth, and let it flew {lowly for two hours ; flrain the broth into a deep difh, put the roots and lentils into a mortar, and pound them, work them through a fieve with a little of the broth with a wooden fpoon, put your foup into a flew-pan, with the cruft of a French roll, let it fimmer for a quarter of an hour, and ferve it up hot. ! S O UPGR £ S S E E. TAKE fix large onions, three parfnips, three carrots, three turnips, and a parfleyroot, cut i them in thin flices, put them into a ftew-pan with *| a quarter of a pound of butter, two flices of ham, { and a pint of broth, let. it flew .till the roots are :| quite tender, then pafsit through a fieve or tammy i into a ftew-pan, then add two quarts of broth, i! with a little chervil and lettice cut very fine, and ( the cruft of a French roll;—let it flew for half an : hour, and ferve it up hot.To ( 9° ) To mdke VERMEJELLY SOUP. BOIL fix ounces of vermejelly in water fora quarter of an hour, and ftrain it through a fieve ; put two quarts of broth into a ftew-pan, and a fowl trailed as for boiling, let it fimmer for one hour, then put in the vermejelly, let it fimmer a little, put your fowl into a tureen, pour your foup over it, and ferve it up. RICE SOUP. .' PUT a knuckle of veal into a broth-pot, with half a pound of ham, two quarts of water, and one of broth, let it flew till the veal is tender; have ready half a pound of rice boiled tender, and drain it on a fieve ; put it into your foup, let it fim- mer a little, add fait to your tafie, put your veal in- to a tjureen, pour your foup upon it, and ferve it up iiot./( 91 ) To make White PEASE SOUP. BOIL one quart of white peafe tender in watei , drain them, and pound them in a mortar, work them through a fieve with two quarts of broth; cut four heads of cellery fmall, fry them in a ftew-pan with a piece of butter, and pour the foup to it, then let it fimmer till the cellery is quite tender ; add fome dried mint rubbed fine, fait and pepper to your tafte, and ferve it up with bread cut in dice and fried in butter. u, ' ; Green PEASE SOUP. ‘ / v ! t • BOIL one quart of green peafe in water till they are tender, pound them in a mortar, work them through a fieve with two quarts of broth, in- to a ftew-pan ; have ready one pint of green peafe boiled tender, three lettices, with a fprig of green mint cut very fine, put them into your foup, and let them fimmer a little, green it with Ipinnage juice, and ferve it up with fried bread, Bi.rr,( 92 ) Blue PEASE SOUP for Winter. PUT one quart of blue fplit peafe into a Hew- pan, with two flices of ham, three heads of cellery, one onion, and a quart of water, fet them on a hove, and let them fimmer llowdy till tender, then pafs them through a fieve, with three pints of broth ; have ready three heads of cellery, two let- tices, and a handful of chervil. Hired them very line, fry them in a Hew-pan with fome butter, then put in your foup, and let it fimmer for half an hour ; add dried mint rubbed fine, pepper and fait to your tafte, green it with fpinage juice, and ferve it up with fried bread. SOUP MEAGRE, for Lent. TAKE fix heads of cellery, fix large onions, three carrots, three parfnips, and thrqe turnips, cut them into flices, and put them into a Hew-pan with fix ounces of butter, and a pint of fplit peafe, let them Hew for a quarter of an hour, then put in two quarts of boiling wrater, let them Hew flowly till the peafe are quite tender, then work them through a fieve with a wooden fpoon, into a flev^-pan ; have ready three heads of cellery, three cabbage lettices, fix leaves of fpinage, Hired them all very fine, and fry them in butter, put them into your foup with a little dried mint rubbed fine, let them fimmer for a quarterquarter of an hour, add pepper and fait to your tafte, and lerve it up with fried bread. # • \ y WHITE SOUP. t BOIL a knuckle of veal, an old fowl, and one pound of ham in five quarts of water, with three onions, a bunch of fweet herbs, three heads of cellery, fome whole pepper-corns, and two or three blades of mace, let it all flew together till it is as ftrong as you chufe to have it ; then ftrain it through a fieve into a clean earthen pot, let it hand all night, take off the fkim, put it into a flew- pan with half a pound of Jordan almonds beat very fine, and the loft of a French roll fteeped in cream, ! mix them all well together, add a pint of thick I' cream, fet it to warm, (but do not let it boil, or it will curdle) ftirring it all the time ; have ready the cruft of a French roll, boiled among a little broth, put it into your tureen, ftrain your foup on it, and ferve it up hot.( 94 ) To make CHICKEN BROTH. SKIN a (mall chicken, cut it in four pieces, put it in a itew-pan with one quart of water, two or three blades of mace, a few white pepper- corns, and a fmall cruft of bread, fet it on the fire to boil, ikim it clean, let it boil gently for three quarters of an hour, {train it, and ferve it up in a bafon, with a dry toaft. CHICKEN WATER. SKIN a fmall chicken, break the bones, and cut it very fmall and thin, put it into a {tone jar, pour on it a pint and a half of boiling water, cover it clofe, fet it before the fire for four hours, then {train and ufe it. BEEF TEA. CUT three quarters of a pound of lean beef into thin flices, put it into a large tea-pot, and pour on it one pint and a half of boiling water, fto^ it clofe, fet it before the fire for two hours, and then ufe it.C 95 ) To make MUTTON BROTH. TAKE a piece of a neck of mutton, chop it into fmall pieces, put it into a pan with two quarts of water, and a little pearl barley, fet it on the fire; When it boils, {kirn it clean, put to it a blade or two of mace, a carrot, and turnip, let it flew for three quarters of an hour, {train it, and ferve it up hot. MUTTON BROTH another Way. PUT the beft end of a neck of mutton into a pan with two quarts of water, two heads of cel- lery, one carrot and turnip, and a cruft of bread toafted, fet it on to boil, Ikim it clean. Jet it boil llowly till tender,—take your mutton up, and lay it on a foup difh, {kirn off the fat, and ftrain it into your meat, then put to it fome toafted bread cut in fmall dice, and ferve it up for the head of the table. To make Artificial SOY. BE AT fix ounces of loaf fugar, put it into a fry. mg-pan with one ounce and a half of butter fet it over the fire, and ftir it with a wooden fpoon’ —when it is of a deep brown, add to it one pint of red wine, one pint of catchup, half an ounce of Ta- rn aica pepper, a few cloves, and mace, the rind of oneTo ( 9« ) one lemon, and the juice of two, let it fimmer for twelve minutes, and ftrain it into a clean mug ; when it is cold, take off the Ikim, and bottle it up. It is proper for ragoos, filli fauce, or any difh where foy is made ufe of. To make GRAVY without Meat. UT fome carrots, turnips, onions, fweet herbs. chabbots, fome cloves, black and clove pepper. let your roots be cut in flices, put them in a ftew- pan with a piece of butter, ftir them over the fire with a wooden fpoon for half an hour, let them be brown, put to it two quarts of boiling water, a handful of peafe, and a few mufhrooms,—let it ftew for one hour, {train it off, and ufe it under roafts, or in ragoos, and made diihes. To make Brown GRAVY. /~^UT three pounds of a leg of veal, and two pounds of lean beaf, in thin flices, lay it in a i ftew-pan with one carrot, one turnip, one onion, and a bunch of fweet herbs, fome whole black and clove pepper, fet it on the fire to brown, have ready three quarts of boiling water, and when the bottom of the ftew-pan is quite brown, (but not burnt) putin your water, and let it fimmer (lowly for one hour and a half, then ftrain it, and keep it for uie in a cool place.( 97 > SAUCE N To make White GRAVY. PUT two pounds of a leg of veal into a flew* pan, fet it on the lire to draw for ten minutes, but do not let it brown, add to it two quarts of wa- ter or broth, fome carrots, turnips, one onion, and a bunch of fweet herbs, fome whole pepper, mace, and cloves, fet it on the fire, and let it ftew for two hours, then {train it, and keep it for ufe in a cool [ place. ' ■ To make C U L L I S. TAKE two pounds of a leg of veal, one pound of ham cut in flices, and an old hen, four large onions, two turnips, two carrots, a bunch of fweet herbs, and a little cellery, fome black and ■ clove pepper, and mace, and fet them on the fire to draw;- let your dew-pan be quite brown, but not burnt, add to it three quarts of boiling water, let it : ifew {lowly for two hours, thicken it up with two | fpoonfuls of flour, mixed with water, let it fmi- I mer for five minutes, pals it through a llrainer with j a wooden ipoon, let it by in a mug, and keep it for | ufe in a cool place.( 93 ) I \ • I I•• SAUCE for a Green Goose. POUND a handful of green wheat in a mortar, fqueeze the juice through a fieve into a ftew- pan, add a piece of fugar, and pour it to a quarter of a pint of thick melted butter, make it quite hot, add to it a quarter of a pint of green goofeberries fcalded* andferve it up in a boat.—If you have no wheat, green it with fpinage juice. ' / . / • * SAUCE for roafled Venison or Hare. 1 TAKE a little red wine and water, a flick of cin- namon, a blade of mace, and a little grated white bread, let it flew a little, add a bit of fugar, and ferve it up in a boat. CURRANT JELLY SAUCE for Venison. PUT half a pound of currant jelly in a flew-pan, with two tea-cups full .of red wine, let it boil for five minutes, flirring it all the time, pour it in- to a fauce-boat, and ferve it up hot. GRAVY( 99 ) SAUCE GRAVY SAUCE for Venison and Wild Fowl. PUT half a pint of brown gravy into a ftew-pan, peel five flialots, cut them very fine, and put them into the gravy with two tea-fpoons full of vinegar, to give it a £harp tafte, a little peppei and fait,"put [t int0 a bQat> and ferVG lt UP h0t* APPLE SAUCE for a Stubble- Goose or roaft Pork. -QARE fix apples, cut them into flices, and put r them into a fauce-pan with fome water, fet them on the Rove to flew gently,—when they are tender, bruife them, add a little butter and fugar, ftir them, put them into 3. fauce-boat, and ferve it up hot. SAUCE jor a Hare. '""'P two fpoonfuls of capers very fine, put ma into a ftew-pan with half a pint of brown gravy, a fpoonful of foy or catchup, and a fmall piece of anchovy, let it fimmer, add a little Cayen, and thicken it up with butter and flour; when your hare is roafted, difli it up with the fauce under it. i( I°° ) SAUCE for roafled Rabbits. TAKE their livers, cut off the gall, and boil them with a little parfley for one quarter of an hour, cut the parfley by itfelf, and the liver by itfelf, mix them together with fome good melted butter; when your rabbits are roafled, difh them up with your fauce under them. SAUCE for boiled Carp or Tench. TAKE half a pint of gravy, and two tea-cups full of red wine, two anchovies wafhed and chopped, two onions (luck with cloves, and a bit of horfe-radifh, let it fimmer for a quarter of an hour, thicken it up with fix ounces of butter, and a little flour, put it into a boat, and ferve it up. \ ENDIVE SAUCE for a boiled Turkey. CUT the white of four heads of endive fmall, and wafh them clean, put a piece of butter into a ftew-pan ; when it is hot, put in your endive, fet it on the ftove to fimmer for a quarter of an hour, put to it half a pint of gravy, let it flew till tender, thicken it up with a little butter and flour, put it into a-faucc-boat, and ferve it up.A 101 ) To make ANCHOVY SAUCE. ■ t'~* ■ • r WASH two anchovies clean, flrip them from the bone, chop them very fine, put them into a ftew-pan, with a tea-cup full of brown gra- vy, a quarter of a pound o{ frelh. butter, fome flour, a little lemon juice, a fpoonful of foy, a bit of horfe radifh, fet it on the fire, and ftirit all the time till it boils, take out the horfe radifli, pour it into a boat, and ferve it up. LOBSTER SAUCE. CRACK the fhells of a boiled lobfler, take out the meat, and cut it into dice half an inch fquare, put it into a flew-pan,—if there is any fpawn, pound it in a mortar, and put it to it, add fix ounces of fweet butter, with a little flour, fome gravy, a little juice of lemon, one anchovy, and a tea-cup full of the liquor in which the fifh was boiled, a blade of mace, and a little Cayen, boil them one minute, and ferve them up in a fauce- boat. OYSTERI ( 102 ) OYSTER SAUCE. OPEN fixty oyfters, put them into a ftew-pan, fet them on the fire, and boil them for ten mi- nutes, pour the liquor clear from the fediment into a ftew-pan, beard and wafh your oyfters clean, and put them to it, add fix ounces of butter ; a little flour, and a little lemon juice, fet it on the fire, and ftir it till it boils, pour it into a fauce-boat, and ferve it up, or pour it over boiled turkeys or fowls. SHRIMP SAUCE.. PICK one gill of fhrimps, wafh them clean, put them into a ftevv-pan, witn one anchovy cut very fine, a tea-cup full of gravy, a quarter of a pound of butter, with a little flour, and fome le- mon juice, fet it on the fire, ftir it till it boils, put it in a fauce-boat, and ferve it up. Muflel and cockle fauce are made the fame way. it-. t \ ... * . - J An Italian t IS H SAUCE. r 1'iAKE two tea-cups full of white veal gravy, add 1 one fpoonful of capers chopt fine, two flices of horfe-radifh, one onion, two cloves, and a quarter of an an chow, fet them on the Are, add a quarter of a pound of butter, and a little flour, let it juft boil, put it into a fauce-boat, and ferve it up. E G G( I03 ) EGG SAUCE for Salt Fish. BOIL fix eggs hard, chop them, put them into half a pound of melted butter, let it juft boil, put it into a boat, and ferve it up. ONION SAUCE for boiled Rabbits or Turkey. PEEL eight large onions, and boil them in two waters, with a little milk to keep them white, when they are quite tender, fake them off, and fqueeze the water from them, chop them fine, put them into a ftew-pan with a quarter of a pound of butter melted, and a tea-cup full of thick cream, ■frith a little fait,—when it juft boils, take it off, and pour it over your rabbits, turkey, or boiled veal. BREAD SAUCE. PUT the crumbs of a halfpenny roll into a fauce- pan with fome water and fome pepper-corns, one onion cut in flices, two ounces of butter, let it boil till the bread is foft, beat it up, and add three fpoonfuls of thick cream to make it white, let it juft fimmer, pour it in a boat, and ferve it up. Eh i s is a proper fauce for roaft turkey, pheafant, or partridge. CELLERY( 104 ) CELLERY SAUCE to -put under rcajl Mutton. TAKE the white ends of cellery, cut in lengths one inch and a half, let it fimmer in boiling water for ten minuted, take it out, and put it into a ftew-pan, with half a pint of brown gravy, let it flew till tender, add a little pepper and fait, put it into your difti under road mutton or veal. CUCUMBER SAUCE. TAKE fix large cucumbers, fplit them down the middle, and take out the feeds, cut them in lengths of one inch, and half an inch broad, add two onions cut fmall,—then put a piece of butter into a ftew-pan ; when it is hot, put in your cucum- bers and onions, fry them for ten minutes, duft in a little flour, pepper and fait to your tafte, add half a pint of brown gravy, let them flew till tender, Ikim off the fat, and ferve them up hot in a fauce- boat, or in a difh under roaft mutton or veal. ROE( i°5 ) SAUCE Q ROE BOAT SAUCE. CUT fix large onions in fmall dice, then put three ounces of butter in a large ftew-pan, when it is hot, put in your onions, let them fry till they begin to grow brown, then dull in a little flour, and add half a pint of brown gravy,—let them flew till tender, and fkim off the fat; add a tea-fpoon full of made muftard, and a little pepper and fait to your tafte. This is an excellent fauce to turkey legs, broiled pigs ears, and neats feet. White Cellery SAUCE. ^ | "'AKE the white heads of cellery, cut them in fmall pieces, one inch long, give them a boil in fome water and a little milk, to keep them white, ttrain them from the water, and put them in a ftew-pan, with half a pint of white veal gravy, and let them flew till tender; add half a pint of thick cream, thicken it with a quarter of a pound of but- ter rolled in flour, let it juft boil, take it off, and fqueeze in a little juice of lemon, and add fait to your tafte. This is a good fauce for a boiled turkey or fowl, when you can get no oyfters.( 106 ) S A U C E for boiled Chickens. BOIL one of the livers of your chickens, cut it in pieces as big as a white pepper-corn, put it in- to a ftew-pan, with three thin flices of lemon cut the lame way, add a little white gravy, thicken it up with a quarter of a pound of butter, and a little flour,-—when your chickens are boiled, put them into a difhj and pour your fauce over them. CHESNUT SAUCE. ROAST two dozen chefnuts, peel off the fkin, put them into a little white gravy, let them flew flowly on a ftove for half an hour, then pour in a quarter of a pint of melted butter, add a*little fugar, and ferve it up hot. SORREL SAUCE for Turbot or Fricandce. PICK two handfuls of garden forr'el, wafh it clean, boil it for four minutes in water, {train it off,' and prefs the water from it, chop it fine, and put it in a ftew-pan, with a piece of butter, a little flour, two tea-cups full of gravy, and a little pepper and fait, fet it oil the fire, and let it flew for ten mi- nutes, furring it all the time,—pour it into a boat, 'and ferve it up with boiled turbot.—This fauce is proper to put into a difh under fricandoes. White( 107 ) White SAUCE for Salt Fijh. PUT half a pint of cream into, a ftew-pan, let it boil for ten minutes, throw in a little parfley fhred fine, and a piece of butter and flour to thick- en it, boil it five minutes, fiirringit all the time;— when your fait fifli is boiled, lay it in your difh, with this fauce over it, and fervc it up hot for a firft courfe. Observations on Made Dishes, BE careful to have your ftew-pan well tinned, and quite clean; let every ingredient be put into your white fauce, and properly Hewed, before you put in your eggs and cream ; you mull not put your ftew-pan down upon the Hove, for it will make your fauce curdle, but hold it at a diilance over your Hove, and keep fhaking it one way till it fimmers,—-but do not let any difh boil after the eggs and cream are in, or it will fpoil it. In dilhes made with brown gravy, take care that no fat is on the top, but Ikiixi it clean off, and let it be of a fine brown, and have a good, agreeable, relifhing tafle, but not for one ingredient to predo- iminate over another :—when wine and anchovy are ufed, they mull be put in fome time before your difh is enough, that it may take oft" the rawncfs. When( loB ) An When you ufe fiied force-meat balls, do not boil them in your gravy, for it will give a greafy look and tafte. The belt way is to drain and keep them hot before the fire, and put them amongfl: your meat when you difh it up. You may ufe afparagus heads, artichoke bottoms, morrels, truf- fels, mufhrooms, and lorce-meat balls in all made dilhes. The cook may leave out any of thefe in- gredients, which are not agreeable to the family tafte. A Frlcajfee of OX PALATES. TAKE eight palates, wafli them quite clean, put them into a hafti-pan, with as much wa- ter as will cover them, let them ftew gently for three hours, take them up, and ftrip off the fkin, cut them in fmall pieces, two inches long, feafon them with mace, nutmeg, pepper, fait, and a little ! Cayen,—have ready half a pint of good veal gravy, with a few force-meat balls and pickled mufhrooms, thicken it up with butter and flour, put in your pa- lates, let them ftew five minutes, add the yolks of two eggs, mixed with a tea-cup full of cream, and a little juice of lemon, let them be quite hot, but not boil, or your fauce will curdle, put them in your di£h, and ferve them up hot.An ( '°9 ) An Entry of OX PALATES. AKE ten ox palates, fait them for three days. boil them till they are tender, ftrip off the {kins, lay them flat upon a table, fpread over them fome veal force-meat, roll them up tight, and cut them even at each end, put in a fmall fkewer, to keep them together, do them over with the yolk of an egg, and crumb them with bread, fry them in hog’s lard of a nice light brown, lay them in your difh, and ferve them up hot, with half a pint of thickened gravy under them. An Entry «/HAM and VEAL. CUT ten flices of a fillet of veal, as large as your hand, flat them with a cleaver, feafon them with parfley, fweet herbs, and flialot fhred fine ; cut five flices of ham, not quite fo large as your veal, dip them in beaten eggs, and lay one flice of ham between two flices of veal; lay them in a ftew- pan with fome flices of bacon under and over them ; put to them fome gravy, two glades of white wine, a bunch of fweet herbs, and a little juice of lemon, et them to flew till tender,—when done, take them carefully out, that you may not part the veal from the ham, lay them in a difh, drain the liquor into a clean ftew-pan, fldm off the fat, thicken it up with a little butter and flour, let it boil, pour it into your difh, and fervc it up hot for a fide difh.( HO ) An Entry of ^ E A DUCK. LET your duck be clean picked and drawn^ take the liver and Hired it fine, with a little fat bacon l'craped, pepper, and fait,—mix it well, and put it into the belly of the duck, Ikewer and fpit it, lay it down to roafl, put into the drip- ping-pan half a pint of white wine, a piece of but- ter, fome rochambles and fhalot fhred fine, and a little pepper and fait; duft your duck with flour, and bafle it with the wine and butter till done ;— flice it down the breaft, crulk it, lay it in your difh, and pour your wine and butter that are in the dripping-pan over it,—if not enough, add a little gravy, and ferve it up hot. BEEF COLLOPS. ClUT them off a rump of beef, hack them with. j the back of a knife, feafon them with pepper and fait, and a little fhalot Hired fine, put a piece of butter into a Hew-pan, lay in your collops, fry them over a quick fire,—when done, lay them in your difh, put a little gravy in a Hew-pan, with a little butter and flour, two fpoons full of catchup, and fome girkins cut in flices, fet it over the fire to boil, pour it on your collops, and ferve them up hot. MUTTON< III ) MUTTON COLLOPS. j ; TJICK. the Ikin and finews off the mutton, cut it in thin round pieces, the bignefs of a crown, feafon them with pepper, fait, and fome fmall green onions Aired, put a piece of butter into a ftew-pan, lay in your collops, fet them over a quick fire, and ftir with a fpoon till done ; put them in the difh in which you intend to ferve them up, put a little gravy in your ftew-pan, a little fhalot Hired fine, with fome butter and flour, fet it on the ftove to boil, pour it over your collops, and ferve them up hot for a fide difh. To make SAUSAGES. TAKE two pounds and a half of the fat of pork, and two pounds of the lean, mince it fine, feafon it with pepper, fait, mace, parfley, and fage fhred fine, mix all well together, with fome crumbs of bread, let it be pretty high feafoned, and your guts be very clean, fill them, tie them in links, and keep them in a dry cool place for ufe. To( 112 ) To fry SAUSAGES. \ PUT a piece of butter in a flew-pan, cut the faufages in Angle links, and fry them of a nice light brown. You may make a difh of them for a fecond courfe ; or you may lay them round a roafl turkey, or a fowl, or with poached eggs, and a buttered toaft under them. To ragoo PIGEONS. / TRUSS four pigeons as for boiling, feafon them with pepper, fait, and mace, make a force- meat of the liver, a little fat bacon Hired fine, pep- per, fait, and the yolk of an egg, mix all together, and fluff it into the bellies of your pigeons,—then put them into a flew-pan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, let them fry a little, but not to brown, drudge in a little flour, and add one pint of good gravy,—let them flew till they are tender, then add the yolks of fix hard eggs, fome truffels and morrels, with a little Cayen,—fkim it well, and add one anchovy fhred, a little catchup, fome force- meat balls, two fpoons full of Madeira or red wine, and a little juice of lemon, let it fimmer ten mi- nutes, put them in a difh, and lerve them up hot for a firft courfe. P I-( i<3 > PIGEONS with green Peafe. PICK and finge your pigeons, draw them, feafon them with pepper and hilt, fluff them with home veal force-meat, and fome ham cut in dice, put them in a ftew-pan with a lump of butter, and let them over the lire for five minutes, llirring them all the time $ dull on them a little flour, and put to them fome good gravy, and a pint of young green peafe, let them flew till tender, and ferve •them up hot for a fide or corner dilh. An Entry of PIGEONS with Afparagus, PICK, finge, draw, feafon, and fluff them as a- bove, put them in a ftew-pan, with a lump of butter, and a little flour, fet them over the fire for five minutes, put to them fome veal gravy, fet them on to flew, have ready the green tops of afpara- gus cut as fmall as green peafe, blanch them, and put them to your pigeons, let them flew till tender, take out your pigeons, and lay them in a dilh, thicken up your fauce with the yolks of two egg^ and two tea-cups full of thick cream, let it jull firm mer, but not boil, pour it over your pigeons, and ferve them up hot for a fide or corner dilli. P ' An( ”4 ) An Entry of PIGEONS with Oyfters. TAKE young pigeons, and draw them, take their livers, mince them with fome green onions, mufhrooms, parfley, and fweet herbs very Email, add fome feraped bacon, with a lump of butter, mix it all well together, and put it into the bellies of yOur pigeons, tie the feet flat down upon the bread, with a thin flice of bacon on them, fpit them, roaft them, and ferve them up with ftewed oyfters under them for a corner or fide di£h. PIGEONS in Scallop Shells. TAKE four young pigeons, pick and gut them, cut off the heads, trufs the legs into the body, put them into aftew-pan, with a flice of bacon and lemon, pepper, fait, fweet herbs, a glafs of white wine, a little: gravy, a fweet-bread cut in dice, a few muflirooms and truffels, let them ftew till tender, take out the bacon and herbs, and Ikim off the fat, -^-add to it a little butter and flour, and a fpoon full of Indian foy, let it juft ftmmer, have ready four fcallopt fliells, rimmed with pafte, done over with egg, and baked in the oven ; take them out, and lay a pigeon in each fliell, pour the fauce over them, and ferve them up hot for. a flde or corner difli. - - PI*( ”5 ) PIGEONS in Cutlets. fTp AKE four pigeons, pick, draw, and finge A them, tuck in their legs as for boiling, cut them in halves, flat them with a cleaver, feafon them with pepper and fait,—put a piece of butter into a ftew-pan, with parfley and thyme fhred fine, let your butter be juft melted,'and dip your pigeons in it, crumb them with bread, and broil them on a gridiron over a clear fire, or put them in a baking difli, and fet them in an uven,—let them be of a nice light brown, lay them in a difli with a little melted butter and gravy under them, and ferve them up hot for a fide difli. PIGEONS broiled. "DICK, draw, and finge them, tuck in the legs as A for boiling, cut off the wings, and fplit them down the back, leaving thebreaft whole; do them over with a little melted butter, and feafon them with pepper and fait, broil them over a clear flow fire, and ferve them up hot with parfley and butter. PI-( I*6 ) PIGEONS in a Braize. AKE four pigeons, pick, gut, and finge them* trufs and lard them with bacon, feafon them with pepper, fait, mace, and fweet herbs, put a little force-meat into their bellies, and put them into a ftew-pan, with fome bacon under and over them, a {lice of veal, a little broth, one onion, a bunch of fweet herbs, and a little fine fpice, let them flew till tender, put them upon a fieve to drain the fat from them, then make a fauce for them as follows: Cut a veal fweet-bread in dice, put it into a flew- ,pan, with a few fmall mufhrooms, fet it on the fire for five minutes, and add to it fome truffels and morels blanched, half a pint of good gravy, one fpoonful of Madeira wine, a little Cayen pepper, let it flew for fifteen minutes, thicken it up with butter and flour, put your pigeons in your difh, pour your fauce over them, and ferve them up ho: for a fide or corner difh of a firft courie. PIGEONS fricajfee. r-pAKE four fmall pigeons, gut, fipge and cut 1 them in halves, put them in a ftew-pan with fome cocks-combs and {tones, and one fweet-bread cut in dice, cover them with milk and water, give them a feald, drain them, flour them, feafon them with pepper, fait, mace, and nutmeg, tl*en put them inEntry ( 1 *7 ) in a ftew-pan with a lump of butter, and fet them on the fire for five minutes, ftirring them all the time ; moiften them with a pint of veal gravy, add to it a bunch of fweet herbs, with a fpoontul of white wine, and let them flew till tender ; thicken them up with the yolks of two eggs, mixt with two tea-cups full of chick cream, a little butter and flour, let it juft fimmer, and be of a good tafte, with pepper, fait, and a little lemon juice,—lay your pi- geons in a diflh, pour your fauce and ingredients over them, and ferve them up for a fide difh. PIGEONS in Fancy. PICK young pigeons, gut them at tfieneck, finge and walh them clean, take out the breall bone at the neck, and make a fluffing for them as fol- lows : Take two veal fweet-breads, eight muflirooms, half a pound of ham, cut them in fmall dice, put it in a ftew-pan with fome bacon fcraped, feafon it with parfley, green onions, fweet herbs, and fine fpice,—ftir it over the fire for five minutes, then fluff your pigeons with it, lard them with bacon, two rows on each fide of the breaft, and one row of parfley on the breaft,—fpit and roaft them, and difh them up with fome gravy or cullis under them.Entry ( l>8 ) Entry of P I G E ON S Sun Fajbion. PICK your pigeons very clean, draw them, put fome minced chicken into the bellies of them, put them into a flew-pan with fome bacon under and over them, a few coriander feeds, and fome pepper-corns,—add to them one pint and a half of milk, let them boil for fifteen minutes, take them up and dry them, dip them in a batter made of one egg, fome flour, a little fmall beer, and half a glafs of oil, fry them in hog’s lard, garnifh them with fried parfley, and ferve them up hot. PIGEONS in a Surtout. PICK young pigeons and gut them, fluff them with veal force-meat, fome ham, and one fweet-bread cut in dice, let them be well feafoned with pepper, fait, and fweet herbs, cover the breafl of each pigeon with a flice of veal* larded, tie.it tight on with pack-thread, cover them with a pa- per, and fpit them, roafl them twenty minutes, difh them up with thick gravy under them, or a cullis, ferve them up hot for a fide difh in a firfl courfe, or the head of a table in a fecond couife.( ) Entry of PIGEONS in the Form of a Moon. PICK four fmall pigeons, gut and finge them, fplit them down the back, put a fmall fkewer into them to keep them open, boil them in water five minutes, take them out, and drain them,— feafon them with pepper, fait, mace, and fweet herbs Aired ; put in a china difh fome veal force- meat, make it into four round circles the form of a moon, put a pigeon in each circle, and raife the force-meat neatly up round them; put on them fome butter and a little gravy ; cut a piece of light pafie in the form of a heart, lay it on the breaft of each pigeon, and bake it three quarters of an hour ; —have ready a falpicon fauce made as follows : Take a veal fweet-bread and a flice of ham, cut them into fmall dice, put it into a ftew-pan with a piece of butter, add fome fmall muflirooms, feafon it with pepper, fait, and nutmeg, fet it on the fire for ten minutes, and ftir it all the time, dull in a little flour, add fome good brown gravy, and a lit- tle lemon juice, let it flew for fifteen minutes, Ikim it, and (when your pigeons are baked) put a little of this fauce into each circle, and ferve them up for the middle of the table. P I-( 120 ) To PIGEONS in Surprizet PEEL four large cucumbers, and take out the feed at each end, then take four fmall pigeons* pick and gut them, take out the crop, finge them, blanch them in boiling water, fealon them with pepper and fait, draw each pigebn into the mlide of the cucumber, with the head and feet out at each end, to fhew they are pigeons; lay fome bacon on the bottom of a ftew-pan, lay in your pigeons with fome bacon on the top of them, put to them a ladle full of broth, and let them flew for half an hour; take them out, drain them on a fieve, and ferve them up with fome cullis under them, for a fide or corner dilli of a firfl courfe* A Compote of PIGEONS. ’’AIvE three pigeons, make them clean, tuck in their legs as for boiling, put them into a ftew- pan with a piece of butter, and fome carrots and turnips, cut in little fhapes, and fome fmall onions, feafon them well with pepper, fait, and mace, then fry them for four minutes,—add half a pint of cooly, let them flew till they are tender, and ferve them up hot for a fide dilh in a firfl courl'e.( 121 ) Entry CL To flew PIGEONS. PICK, clean, and trufs four pigeons, as for boil- ing, feafon them with pepper, fait, and mace, put fome veal force-meat into the crops and bellies of them, put them into a ftew-pan with as much gravy as will cover them, fet them on to flew till they are quite tender, thicken your gravy with a piece of butter and flour, add to it two tea-cups full of thick cream, let it juft boil, put your pi- geons into a dilh, and pour your fauce over them. '•1 V To flew PARTRIDGES. PICK, draw, and finge your partridges, wafh them clean, tuck their legs into their bodies, feafon them well (infide and out) with pepper, fait, mace, parftey, and fweet herbs fhred fine, put a piece of butter in their bellies, few orlkewer up the vent, fluff their craws with force-meat, and lard them down each fide of the breaft with bacon ; fry them brown in butter, put them in a ftew-pan with fome good gravy, a bunch of fweet herbs, a little catchup and lemon juice, let them flew gently for half an hour,—or more, if not tender ; take them out, lay them in your dilh, thicken up your fauce, lkim it clean, ftrain ic through a fieve over your par- tridges, and ferve it up hot for a fide or corner difh of a firft courle.( 122 ) Entry of PARTRIDGES. TAKE two partridges, let them be clean picked, dtawn, and Tinged, tuck in their legs as a- bove, fplit them down the break and back, and cut off the pinions ; feafon them with pepper, fait, and mace, lard them over in rows, and put them into an earthen pot that will juft hold them, with live morels fluffed with force-meat; add to them two onions ftuek with cloves, and put as much good veal gravy as will cover them, lay a piece of writing- paper on the top, and tie them down with brown paper, bake them three quarters of an hour in a moderate oven, take them out, and lay them in a difh, with the morels between them, ftrain the li- quor into a clean ftew-pan, fkim off the fat, add a piece of butter and hour, let it fimmer, add the yolks of two eggs mixed with two tea-cups full of cream, give it a tofs over the fire, but do not let it boil, or it will curdle,—fqueeze in a little juice of lemon, pour it over your partridges, and ferve them up hot for a firft courfe dilh. To jug a H A R Ej i CUT your hare in pieces, feafon it with pepper, fait, mace, and nutmeg, lay it in your jug, with half a pound of fat bacon, one onion ftuek with cloves, half a pint of brown gravy, half a pint of reel wine, and a bunch of fweet herbs ; ftop your jug clofc down, that no Ream may get out; fet it in( l23 ) a Jkettle of boiling water, let it flew till tender, ffrain off tl^e liquor, take out the bacon, thicken it with butter and flour, and a little juice of lemon ;—when you ferve it up, lay your hare in a deep difh, pour your fauce over it, and garpifh it with lemon. HARE COLLOPS. CASE your hare, cut the meat clean from the back and legs, and cut it in thin llices as you do veal collops ; flat and hack them with a knife, put a piece of butter into a flew-pan, fet it on the fire> ht your collops be well feafoned with pepper, fait, and nutmeg, put them in your pan, fry them a little, but not too much, put to them fome good gravy, a fmall onion, and an anchovy Hired fine, a bunch of fweet herbs, a tea-cup full of red wine, a little juice of lemon, and fome butter and flour ; let it fimmer for ten minutes, fkim it clean, put it in your difh, and ferve it up hot for a fide difh. RABBITS in Surprize. TAKE two rabbits, fkewer up their legs and feet 3s for boiling, take the meat clean off then backs, and fill up the place with force-meat; do them over with the yolk of an egg, crumb them with bread, and ftrew on them fome parfley fhred very fine; put them in a baking-pan, with a little gravy.( I24 ) To 4 gravy, and bade them with butter,—rfet them in an oven to bake for half an hour, or more, if large; while they are doing, cut the meat you took off their backs in fmall fillets, feafon it with pepper, fait, and nutmeg,—put a piece of butter in a ftew- pan, with an onion fhred fine, make it hot, put in your fillets, and fry them a little; when they are hot thorough, dredge in a little flour, add to them fome gravy, and a little lemon juice, let it fimmer, Ikim it clean, add to it tivo tea-cups full of melted butter, give it a tofs, put it in your difh, lay on your rabbits, garnifh it with flices of lemon, and ferve it up hot. RABBIT COLLOPS. TAKE two good rabbits, cut off the meat, and cut it into collops, feafon them with pepper, fait, mace, and nutmeg, dull on them a little flour, put a piece of butter into a ftew-pan, with one mufli- ' room, one fhalot, and a little parfley Hired fine; when the butter is melted, put in your collops, and fry them quickly ; take them into a dilh, put fome good gravy into the ftew-pan, with a little flour and lemon juice, let it boil, Ikim it clean, put in your collops, let them be quite hot, but not boil, and ferve them up hot for a fide difh.( *25 ) To fricaffee RABBITS white. ;.r ' 4 : . ’if..: ‘' » CASE two fmall rabbits, wafh them clean, cut their legs in two pieces each,:and their backs in four pieces each, dry them in a cloth, and feafon them well with pepper, fait, mace, and nutmeg; put a piece of butter in a flew-pan, make it hot, put in the rabbits, fet them on the fire ten minutes, and ftir them all the time, but do not let them brown,—dull in a little flour, add to them a pint of white veal gravy, let them flew flowly for half an hour, fkim them, and put in a little fhred parfley, and the yolks of two eggs, mixed with two tea- cups full of cream, let it fimmer, but not boil, add a little lemon juice, and ferve it up hot for a corner difh. To fricaffee RABBITS brown. TAKE two rabbits, cut and feafon them as a- bove, fry them brown in butter, put them in a flew-pan with a pint of brown gravy, a bunch of fweet herbs, one onion fluck with cloves, two flices of lemon, and a piece of butter and flour, let them flew flowly till tender, then take out the herbs and lemon, and add the yolks of two eggs mixed with a little catchup, let it fimmer, give it a tofs, put it in your difh, and ferve it up hot for a corner difh. FOWLS(12 6 ) FOWLS a la Bra'ife. KEWER your fowl as for boiling, lay over it fome thin flieets of bacon, put it into a ftew- pan that will juft hold it, with a little white broth or gravy, two or three blades of mace, two fliccs of lemon, a bunch of fweet herbs, let it ftew till tender, take out your fowl, clean the bacon from it, and lay it in your difh ; fkim the fat off the gravy that it was boiled in, add to it thirty oyfters, let them ftmmer, thicken it up with fome butter and flour, and two fpoons full of thick cream, let it ftmmer, pour it over your fowl, and ferve it up hot.—This is a pretty fide or corner difh. FOWLS a la Farce. ry^AKE a large fowl, draw it, cut the {kin down 1 the back, and take it off whole, then take the meat of the breaft, and make it into a force-meat, with a piece of white bread foaked in cream, a little beef fuet fhred very fine, a little parfley and thyme, pepper, fait, and nutmeg, mix it well, and lay the force-meat on the breaft of your fowl, and the {kin over it; few up the back, and fkewer it up as for roafting, lay fome thin flices of bacon over the breaft, and fome paper over it, tie it up tight, fpit it, and roaft it three quarters of an hour. You muft bafte it well with butter when roafting. When done, take off the paper, lay it in a difh with half a pint of coolly under it. ThisI ( *27 ) Th i s will do for a fide difli of a fird courfe, or a head dilh of a fecond courfei. P O L A R D Bejb-a-meli. GUT the bread of a large cold road fowl in long dices, pare them in the form of half a heart* and one dice cut round like a crown piece, put them in a dew-pan, and make a fauce for them as follows: Take a pint of cream, boil it till it comes to half a pint, add to it a little gravy, pepper, fait, and nutmeg, a bit of butter 'and dour, let it dmmer, drain it to your fowl, let it on a dow fire, and make it hot, add a little juice of lemon,—lay them neatly in your didi, with the narrow points in the middle, and the round piece on the top ; pour the fauce over, gar nidi it with lemon, and ferve it up hot for a fide didi in a fird courle. To drefs a cold roaft FOWL another Way. CUT in dices the bread of a cold road fowl, the form of a large diamond, and one dice cut round as above, feafon it with pepper, fait, and mace, put it in a dew-pan with half a pint of cullis, a few pickled mudirooms, and a little India foy; let it fimmer for ten minutes, then didi them up as above, pour the lauce over them, and ferve them up for a fide didi. Deques( 128 ) Deques de Polar d, a l utf fanch Her be. TAKE the legs of three large fowls, take out the bones, Huff them with force-meat, icaion them with pepper, fait, and fweet herbs, put them into a ftew-pan with fome carrots cut in dice, and a little gravy, let them ftew till they are tender, and a few fmall onions boiled tender, and a little lemon juice, let them ftmmer together, and ferve them up with carrots, and turnips cut in birds.—If not ufed, do them over with egg, and crumb them with bread, parfley, and fweet herbs, broil them, and ferve them up another day with gravy and butter under them. ILLERONS de POLARD. TAKE the pinions of fowls, put them in a ftew- pan, with fome bacon under and over, and a little broth,—let them ftew till tender, then make a fauce for them as follows: ' Take a pint of fmall mufhrooms, give them a boil in milk and water, then drain them, and put them in a ftew-pan with half a pint of cullis, and a fweet-bread cut in dice, feafon them with pepper, fait, mace, let them ftew for fifteen minutes, then drain your pinions clean from the bacon, lay them neatly in your difh, pour your fauce o'ver them, and ferve them up for a ftde difli. FOE( I29 ) I FOE G R A W. PUT the livers of fix large fowls into a ftew- pan, with a piece of butter, a little parfley and thyme Aired fine, a little nutmeg, pepper, and fait, fet them on the ftove for ten minutes, make fix cafes of white pepper, (the fame as for Naples bifcuit) butter them, and put into the bottom of themfome veal force-meat, then put in your livers, one in each cafe, fome crumbs of bread on the top, and fome bits of butter, bake them in a flow oven for fifteen minutes, and brown them over with a fala- mander; when they are done, put a fpoonful of gravy into each of them, and ferve them up hot for a fecond courfe. A PORCUPINE of Breajls of Fowls. r | 1AKE the breafts of three large fowls, lard JL them neatly in rows with green pickles and bacon, feafon them with mace, cloves, nutmeg, pepper, and a little fait, put them in a pot that will juft hold them, with fome bars of bacon under and over them, two flices of lemon, two onions, a bunch of fweet herbs, and a pint of good veal gra- vy; fet it ter ftew flowly for half an hour, then take out the breafts and lay them neatly in a difli ; ft rain the liquor into a ftew-pan, fkim oft' the fat, add a piece of butter and flour, with a few final! II leavesC 13° ) leaves of pardey, let it juft boil, pour it over your fowl, and ferve it up for a corner didi of a firft courfe. You are to obferve, that you may make four dif- ferent diflies out of three large fowls :—The firft is made of the legs, the fecond of the pinions, the third of the livers, and the fourth of the breads ; the back-bones may be put among the gravy, fo that no^ thing is loft,—and follow your receipts for them. A FOWL rejlorant. DRAW a large fat fowl, finge it, feafon it with pepper, fait, mace, and nutmeg, ftuff the in- fide and crop with veal force-meat, Ikewer and roaft it three quarters of an hour at a good fire, and bade it well with butter; when done, lay it in your difti, with half a pint of cullis under it, gar- nifh it with dices of lemon, and ferve it up hot for the head of a fecond courfe. A Peregoe TURKEY, TAKE a turkey of eight pounds weight, draw and finge it, feafon with pepper, fait, mace, thyme, and fweet marjoram Ihred fine,—ftuff the crop and belly with veal force-meat, and trufs it up as for roafting ; cut a flit down each fide of the breaft, fill it full of green truffles cut in dices, put it into a deep difli, and pour over it a pint of Ma* deira( I3I ) deira wine, with a little Cayen pepper in it, let it lie all night in it,—the next day fpit it, butter a piece of paper well, and tie it on the bread to keep in the truffles; road it one hour and a half, bade it a little with the wine, then take the wine and put it in a dew-pan with fome good brown gravy, a quar- ter of a pound of butter, a little flour, a little India foy, or catchup, fome lemon juice, and three blades of mace, and let it fimmer a little ; bade your tur- key with butter, and when it is done, lay it in a difh, take the paper off, and pour the fauce over it for a fird courfe. You may do fowls or chickens the fame way. ' „ I $ To fritajfee CHICKENS. / CUT two fmall chickens in pieces, put them in- to a dew-pan with a piece of butter and a lit- tle flour, fet them on the fire for fix minutes, dir- ring them all the time, but do not let them brown; then put in fome good white gravy, with a little pardey and one onion, let it dew till tender, with a blade of mace, pepper and fait to your tade, then mix the yolks of two eggs with a little cream, put it into your chicken, let it fimmer, but not boil, fqueeze in a little lemon juice, put them in a difh, and ferve them up hot for a fide didi in a find courfe. CHICKENSC I32 ) CHICKENS CHICKENS and PEASE. TAKE two fmall chickens, put them into a braife of fat bacon, with a little broth, and a blade of mace, let them flew gently for half an hour, take them out, wipe them clean, and lay them in your difh ; have ready a fauce made with half a pint of good white gravy, a little good cream, and half a pint of green peafe boiled tender,—thicken it with a piece of butter and flour, let it fimmer, pour it over your chickens, and ferve them up hot for a fide diflu \ . , • CHICKENS and PARSLEY ROOTS. i . ■ CUT fix parfley roots into fillets one inch long, and fmall, put them into a ftew-pan with a pint of white gravy, let them flew till tender, add to them two tea-cups full of thick cream, a quarter of a pound of butter, a little flour, with pepper and fait to your tafte; have ready two fmall chickens boiled in milk and water for fifteen minutes, drain them, lay them in a difh, pour the fauce over them, and ferve them up hot fpr a fide or corner difh in a firft courfe.; ( 133 ) I \ ( CHICKENS a la Duchefs. TAKE two chickens, draw and fplit them, bone them all but the pinions, and leave th<. eet on,—Hat them with a cleaver, feafon them with pepper, fait, and mace, a little parfley, two Ihaiots, and two mufhrooms fhred fine; put a piece of but- ter in a ftew pan, and fry them a little ; add to them a pint of gravy, and a little lemon juice, let them ftew for half an hour, put to them a quarter of a pound of butter and a little Horn, let it juft boil, lay your chickens in a difli, pour your fauce over them, and ferve them up for a fide 01 coiner difh. ' DUCKS a la Braife. PICK and finge your duck, lard it with fat ba- con rolled in Hired parfley and thyme, ieafon it with pepper, fait, and mace, lay it in a ftew-pan with fome flices of bacon at the bottom, a piece of veal, and a bit of ham,—add to it one pint of good gravy or broth, one turnip, one canot, and one onion, with a little bacon over the top ; cover ii clofe down and let it ftew till tender, which will be near an hour; chop fome girkins, capers, flialot, and one anchovy, put them into a ftew-pan, and drain the gravy from the duck into them, let it boil, fkim off the fat, lay your duck in a difh, and pour your fauce over it. I F( 134 ) If your duck is fmall, you muft have two ;—if large, one will make a fide difti. DUCK PIE. BOIL half a pound of butter in a little water, put it into two pound of fine flour, make it into a pad, let it cool; then raife your pie bone, two fine ducks, feafon them with pepper, fait, and mace, put the one in the other, and lay them in your pie, with fome butter and gravy, clofe it up, and ornament it neatly, bake it two hours; it is good hot or cold. CHICKEN PIE. MAKE the fame cruft as for the duck pie; when it is raifed, put in four little chickens well feafoned with pepper, fait, and mace, and fome butter and gravy, with eight force-meat balls, the yolks of fix hard eggs ; lid your pie, ornament it neatly, bake it two hours, ferve it up hot. DUCKS' ( *35 ) DUCKS and GREEN PEASE. HALF roaft your ducks, put them into a ftew- pan, with a pint of gravy, a cabbage lettice cut fmall, and a little pepper and fait; boil a pint of green peafe tender, put them to your ducks, let them flew for a quarter of an hour, then thicken, up your gravy, lay your ducks in a difh, pour your fauce over them, and ferve them up hot. This is a pretty fir ft courfe difh. BEEF OLIVES. UT feme flices off a rump of beef fix inches long and three inc!\es broad, flat them with a cleaver, and rub them over with the yolk of an egg, feafon them well with pepper and fait, fpread over them fome veal force-meat, roll them tight up, put a fmall fkewer in them, and cut them even at each end j cut fome fmall pieces of bacon, and lard them in rows, put them in a baking-pan with a tea-cup full of water or broth under them, and while they are baking, make a fauce for them as follows: PutP tj t fome brown gravy in a flew-pan, with a fpoonful of catchup, a little Cayen, a few pickled muflirooms, and a piece of butter and flour; let it fimmer, take out your olives, and lay them in a difh ;—if any liquor be in the baking-pan, pour it to your gravy, fkim it clean, pour it over your olives, and ferve them up hot for a fide-difh. BEEF A-la-mode. TAKE a fmall round of beef, lard it with fat bacon, feafon it with pepper, fait, mace, and fweet herbs, bind it tight withcoarfe tape, put it in a ftew-pan w7ith twrc quarts of broth or gravy, let it flew till tender, lay it in your difh, and pour the li- quor over it.—You may ferve it up hot or cold. \ BEEF STEAKS rolled, with Mortis Jluffed, ✓ CUT fix beef fleaks off the rump, pretty large* flat them with a cleaver, and make a force-, meat for them as, follows : Take a quarter of a pound of pith marrow out of the back-bone of veal or mutton, Aired it fine, add to it fome fweet herbs, half an anchovy, a fmall onion Hired fine, and fome bread crumbs, mix it all well together with the yolks of two eggs, feafon your( 137 ) your fteaks with pepper, fait, and fweet herbs pret- ty high, fpread on your force-meat thin, roll them up tight, wrap them in thin lards of bacon, tie them round with a pack-thread, cut them even at each end, and put them in a. ftew-pan, with a thin flice of bacon under them; put to them fome good gravy, add four morels, icalded and wafhed clean in hot water, and fluffed with foi ce-meat, the lame as you did" your {leaks with ; ftew them till they are tender, take them out, take off the pack-thread and bacon, and lay them in a difh, with the morels be- tween them ; Ikim the fat off the gravy, add to it a piece of butter and flour, two fpoons full of catchup, a little Cayen, and two pickled girkins cut fmall,—let it juft boil, pour it over your fteaks, and ferve them up hot for a fide or corner difh. BEEF Trom-blanck, TAKE eight pounds of a brifket of beef, crack the bones ftiort, wafli it, put it into a pot that will juft hold it, add to it two carrots, two turnips, two parfnips, fix onions, fix heads of cellery, two leeks, a bunch of fweet herbs, one quart of water, a ftice of lemon, and three fpoons full of vinegar j fet it on the fire to ftew gently for fix hours, and make a fauce for it as follows : S Cut( 138 ) Cvjt one turnip and one carrot in dice, two do- zen of fmall onions, and two fpoons full of fmall ca- pers, put them into a ftew-pan with a piece of but- ter, fet it to fry for ten minutes, dull in a little flour, moiften it with a little gravy ; when your beef is done, put it into a foup-difh, and drain the liquor into the fauce,—fkim off the fat, thicken it up with butter and flour, feafon it with pepper and fait to your tafte, let it fimmer, pour it over your beef, and ferve it up hot to removed foup or fifh, or for the middle of the table. H O T C H-P O T C H, as made at Arthur's- TAKE fix pounds of abrifket of beef, cut it into eight l'quare pieces, put it into a pot with fix quarts of water, a piece of ham, and a fcrag of mut- ton, with a fmall knuckle of veal; let it boil, fkim it clean, addl'ome whole pepper, a little mace, four large onions, three carrots, three turnips, and two leeks,—letting it flew till your beef is tender : Cut two carrots and two turnips in fhapes of dice, put them into a fiew-pan with a piece of butter, and two dozen of fmall onions peeled ; let them fry for fix- minutes, then drain in two ladles full of your broth, -let them flew till your roots are tender, drain in the remainder of your broth, fkim it clean, and put in your beef,—let it fimmer, and ferve it up hot in a tureen or foup-difh. If any is left, you may warm it, and ferve it up hot the fecond or third day. ScarletI ( *39 ) Scarlet BEEF. f ' ' , "* I* r» • T V •- ' • X TAKE a piece of brifket beef, rub it well with one ounce of falt-petre, half an ounce of bay fait, and a fmall handfull of common fait, let it lie for a week, turning it every day, and rubbing it with the brine ; lap it in a coarfe cloth, dig a hole in the earth, and lay it in, and cover it for four days and nights, then take it up, take off the cloth, and wafh it, put it into a flew-pot with two quarts of water, fome fweet herbs, two onions, two car- rots, andfome whole pepper,—let it flew till tender., take it up, and put it in a foup-difh, ftrain the li- quor into a ftew-pan, fet it on a ftove to boil, and fkim off the fat;—lay round your beef fome Savoy- greens boiled tender, pour your liquor over it, and ferve it up hot. If there is any left when it comes from the table, fet it by to cool, and ferve it up in dices, (the fame as ham) garnifhed with parfley, for either dinner or lupper. BEEF STEAKS A-1a-mode. !rnF-,AKE three dices of a round of beef, hack JL them with the back of a knife, feafon them with pepper, fait, and one onion Aired fine, lay them into a ftew-pan with fome dices of bacon un- der and over them, and a piece of butter,—fet if: on a dow fire to ftew for a quarter of an hour,— add to them one pint of brown gravy, a few pick- led mudirooms, a cucumber, a few morels, and two fpoons( M° ) To ipoons full of red-wine,—let them flew til! your fteaks are tender ; take out your bacon, fkim off the fat, thicken it up with butter and flour, lay your fteaks neatly in a difli with feme lippets of bread round them, pour your fauce over them, and ferve them up hot for a firft courfe, BEEF STEAKS with Jiewed Cucumbers. PARE four large cucumbers, take out the feed, cut them in flices one inch long, and half an inch broad, put them into a ftew-pan with four onions cut in dice, and a piece of butter, fry them till brown, duft in 'a little flour, add a pint of gravy, let them flew till tender, fkim off the fat, —then cut fix fteaks off a rump of beef, beat them a little, feafon them with pepper and fait, fry them quick in butter,—when done, put them in a difh, pour your fauce over them, and ferve them up for a fide difh. I f you put them in among the cucumbers to flew, it makes them hard.( H1 ) A To roajl a CALF*s II E A D. TAKE a calf's head with the fkin on, fcald it, take off the hair, clean it, fpKt it, and take out ! the brains, tongue, and fnivel-bones ; waffi the head clean, dry it with a cloth, and make a fluffing for it as follows : Boil the tongue, and take the fkin off it, ffired it very fine, add the brains to it, and the crumbs of a French roll foaked in cream, half a pound of iuet, Iwith parfley and thyme Ihred fine, pepper, fait and nutmeg,—mix it ail well together with the yolks of four eggs ; fluff the part where the tongue and I brains were taken out, fkewer and tie ic up tight ' with a piece of paper over it,—lay it down to roaft ' for one- hour, bailing it often with butter ; take off the paper, bafle it, and ltrew on iome crumbs of bread and parfley ; when of a nice brown, take it : up, lay it in your diffi, and make a lauce for it as follows: Take fome oyflers either pickled or unpickled, put them into a ilew-pan, with half a pint of gravy, let them fimmer flowly for fifteen minutes, add to it fix ounces of butter, with a little hour, pour it in- to your diffi with the head, and ferve it up hot for a firfl courfe.( M2 ) A C A L F\r HEAD a la Turtle. TAKE a calf’s bead with the (kin on, clean it as you do calves feet, put it in a pot and boil it till it be tender, then fet it to cool; cut it in pieces about the bignefs of a walnut, put it in a ilew-pan with a quart of brown gravy, one an- chovy, fome Indian foy, Cayen pepper, fait, mace, one onion {tuck with cloves, two beef palates (tewed tender, and cut in fhreds, fome force-meat balls, truffles and morels, and two veal fweet-breads cut in dice,-—-let all (tew together ten minutes, then thicken it with butter and flour, add a quarter of a o-ill of Madeira wine, the juice of half a lemon, with fix yolks of hard eggs, let it boil {lowly for fifteen minutes, then ferve it up for a fidl courfe. To male a CAL F’r HEAD HAS H. WASH and make it very clean, let it boil till tender, cut one half of it in pieces as big as a nutmeg, put it in a ftew-pan with fome good brown gravy, half an anchovy, three blades of mace, a few mufhrooms, a few force-meat balls, fome hard eggs, a little India foy, and Cayen pep- per ftew it a little, thicken it with a little butter and flour, fqueeze in a little lemon juice, let it fim- mer, then put it in your diffl:—The other half of the head mull be crumbed and broiled, laid on the top of the hafh, and ferved up for a firfi: courfe. A\( 143 > To A CALF’; HEAD in Surprize. TAKE a calf’s head with the fkin on, clean off the hair,—take a {harp-pointed knife, begin i at the neck-end, take out the bones from the flefb, keeping the {kin and fleffi quite whole, and leave the tongue in ; wa{h your head clean, and make a force-meat as follows: Take half a pound of fat bacon fcraped, half a pound of fuet ftired fine, one pound of bread crumbs, a little nutmeg, pepper, fait, mace, iome parfley and thyme Aired fine, the yolks of five eggs, and three fpoons full of cream,—mix them well to- gether, put a little into the ears, and fluff the head with the remainder; leave the tongue two inches ' out of the mouth ; put it into a pot that will juft hold it, with three pints of white gravy, a little white-wine, one anchovy, a little mace, a bunch»o£ Ifweet herbs, with a little pepper and fait,—flop it clofe down to keep in the fleam, bake it one hour, t or till tender, then take it out, and lay it in your ! diflr; ftrain your gravy into a ftew-pan, and fkim . off the fat, thicken it with a piece of butter and : i flour, let it juft boil, and add the yolks of four eggs i mixed with a little cream, let it flmmer, add to it ,f fome pickled mufhrooms, and a few force-meat balls > boiled, pour it over the head, and ferve it up hot for the middle of the table.( M4 ) To porcupine a BREAST of V E A E» BONE a breaft of veal, lay it flat on a table, feafon it with mace, nutmeg, pepper, fait, thyme, and par (ley Aired fine, lay over it fome veal force-meat and ham cut in dice, roll it up tight, fkewer it at each end and the middle, then lard it with fat bacon, lean ham, pickled cucumbers, and kidney beans, each cut two inches long, and larded in rows,—put it into an earthen pot with a pint of gravy, cover it clofe, and bake it one hour and a half; take out the veal, lay it into your difh, flrain the gravy into a ftew’-pan, put m a little white^w inl- and catchup, thicken it up with a little butter and floul-5 have ready fried fome force-meat balls, and one fweet-bread cut in dice, put it into your fauce, fet it on the fire, let it fimraer, fkim it, pour it over your porcupine, and ferve it up hot for a firft courfe. To rapoo a BREAST c/* \' E A 1*. o LARD a breaft of veal with bacon, feafon it with fpice and pepper, fet it to the fire, and half roaft it, then put it in your (lew-pan with a pint and a half of gravy, and a few truffles and morels, let it Hew for half an hour, add fome hard eggs, fome force-meat balls, a little Cayen pepper, and.C 145 ) falt to your tafte, a little anchovy, a little lemon juice, and a little butter and flour, let it fimmer, ikim off the fat, and ferve it up for a firfl: courfe. To flew a BREAST cfVEAL and PEASE. UT the veal in pieces as big as your hand, put it into a ftew-pan with fome good gravy, one quart of green peafe, and three cabbage lettices ; let it flew for one hour, and ferve it up.——You may do ducks the fame way. A BREAST of VEAL fried* ■ / PUT your bread of veal in arbraife, let it flew for three quarters of an hour,—take it out, cut it * in' two the long way, marinate it with pepper, fait, onions cut in dices, bay leaves, bafil, flices of le- mon, parfley, and vinegar,—let it lie in that liquor two hours, then take it out, drain it, dry it with a cloth, dip it in beaten eggs, ftrew it with fome crumbs of bread, fry it in hog’s lard, give it a good colour, and ferve it on a napkin, with fried parfley ; thicken up fome brown gravy with butter and flour, fqueeze in a little juice of Seville orange, put it in a boat, and ferve it up with your veal. TA < >4$ ) f* r ‘T ^ # . ' I r k r. ». JT' t i, * *“ t- ■ _ . * ! • . ■ i.1 • - .* - 4-. ^ BREAST o/ VEAL in a Surtout. YOUR breaft of veal beipg done in a braife, fplit it in two the long way-, and lay it in a difli; make an edge for it of veal force-meat round your dilh, pour in a ragoo of fweet-breads, and put feme force-meat over the top • do the force-meat over with egg, crumb it with bread, bake it half an hour, and ferve it up hot for the middle of the table. A BREAST of VEAL boiled. SKEWER a breaft of veal that it may lie flat on a difli; boil it one hour, and ferve it up with a white fauce made as follows : ’ Take half a pint of good veal gravy, put to it half an anchovy, and a few pickled muflirooms,— boil it gently, thicken it up with half a pint of cream, the yolks of two eggs, with a piece of but- ter and flour, fhake it over the lire, let it juft fim- mer, but not boil, lay your veal in a difli, and pour your fauce over it.—Or you may ferve it up with parfley and butter.{ 4? > ' * A BREAST of VEAL rolled. BONE a bread of veal, lay it flat upon a table, lay lb me force-meat over it, made of crumbs of bread and oyders, roll it tight up, and Ikewer it, put it into a baking-pan, do it over with egg, and drew it with chopt parfley, thyme, and crumbs of bread ; butter a fheet of papei and lay over it, and put a little gravy or water into the pan, bake it one hour, lay it in a diih, and ferve it up with ltewed oyders u-nder it for a fide difh. u4 BREAST of VEAL galantine, BONE a bread of veal, feafon it with pardey, thyme, marjoram, winter favory, and mary- golds fhred fine, nutmeg, pepper, fait, and mace,—■ roll it, and tie it up tight in a cloth, put it in a dew- pan, with fome good veal gravy and a little white- wine, let it dew till tender, let it cool in its own li- quor,—take it out, and ferve it up whole or in di- ces, garnifhing it with lemon, pardey, and beet root. i BREAST c/ VEAL forced and larded. RUN a knife between the dedi and bones of a bread of veal, duff it with force-meat, put a fkewer in it, blanch and lard it ; put it in a dew- pan that is proper for it, with thin dices of bacon undep( MS ) To under it, feafon it with fait, pepper, and fine fpice, and put the larded fide of the bread of veal down- wards ; put to it an onion, fweet herbs, a flice of veal and ham, with a pint of veal broth, and let it flew gently till tender ; put fome afparagus heads into a ftew-pan, drain your gravy from the veal to them, and fkim off the fat,—-add to it a little but- ter and flour to thicken the gravy, let it fimmer ten minutes, lay the veal in a difli, pour your fauce over it, and fervc it up for a fide difh in a firft courfe. To fricajfee a GRISTLE of VEAL. , % CUT the gridle end of a bread of veal in flices as large as a crown piece, dud a little flour on them, put a piece of butter in a dew-pan and the gridle to it, with a bunch of fweet herbs, pepper, fait, and a little mace ; fet it over the fire • for five minutes, adding half a pint of veal gravy,—let it flew till tender, add fome afparagus tops boiled, thicken it up with the yolks of two eggs, two tea- cups full of cream, and a little minced parfley, let it iimmer, but not boil, and ferve it up hot. You may put green peafe indead of afparagus, according to the different feafons of the year.C 149 ) To flew a FILLET of VEAL. STUFF a fillet of veal well under the udder, and quite through by the bone, put it into the oven with a pint of water under it, till it becomes a fine brown, then put it into a (lew-pan with a pint of gravy, and the gravy that comes from the veal, and (lew it tender ; put in a few truffles and more s, a fpoon full of catchup, a little Cayen pepper, a few force-meat balls, and a little lemon juice, thicken it up with a little butter and flour, put your veal in a difli, pour your fauce over it, and garnifh it with dices of lemon. This is for a fil'd courfe difli. . ' 1 • * \ To lard L E G of VEAL. T ARE) the top fide of a leg of veal in rows with I j bacon, duff it with force-meat, put it into a dew-pot that will hold it, with a bunch of (weet herbs, one onion duck with cloves, two or three blades of mace, and two quarts of water; fet it 011 the lire, let it dew gently till it be tender, then (kirn the fat off the liquid, and fet it on the fire to boil very fad, to reduce it to a pint, then drain if into a dew-pan, add half an hundred oyffers, a piece of butter and flour, and a little juice of lemon,—fet it on the fire for a quarter of an hour to dew the o\ f- ters, flirring it all the time; mix the yolks of two eggs with two tea-cups full of thick cream, put it to your fauce, let it juft finimer. but not boil, dir-( ) ring it all the time ; lay your veal in a deep difh, and pour your fauce over it, garnifhit with Rices of lemon, and ferve it up. £ . . ■ . . v • *f This will be an excellent difh to remove a difh of fifh, or to be at the head of a table where there is no hfli. To make FRICANDOES. CUT two pounds of a leg of veal the long way ol the grain, then take half a pound of bacon, cut it in fmall pieces about the thicknefs of a fmall ftraw, and about an inch long ; take your larding pin, and lard your veal in rows on one fide, put it in a ftew-pan with fome gravy, and let it Hew for one hour ; then take out the veal, fkim off the fat, let the gravy boil till it is reduced, and quite thick and brown, then dip in your veal to glaze it,-=r have ready fome Revved fpinage or forrel, put it in your difh, put your veal upon it, and ferve it up for a corner difh of a firft courfe, To make a SUMEL de V E A U. CUT one pound of a leg of veal in long flices, flat them with a cleaver, and feafon them with a little parfley, thyme, pepper, and fait ; broil them quick on a gridiron, and bafte them with butter ; when they are done, ferve them with gra- vy and butter, mixed with a little juice of lemon, for a fide difht PLAN,( 15* ) BLANQUITS of VEAL. TAKE a piece of roaft veal, cut off all the fkin and nervy part, cut it in thin flices, the big- nefs of half a crown, put it into a ftew-pan with a little butter and flour, fry it ten minutes, put to it half a pint of white veal gravy, a bunch of fweet herbs, one onion, and a little mace; let it flew a little, take out the herbs and onions, add two tea- cups full of good cream, the yolks of two eggs, and a little parfley chopt fine, let it fimmer, but not boil, fqueeze in a little lemon juice, and ferve it up hot for a fide or corner difli of a firfl courfe. BRUSOLLES. CUT fome flices of a leg of veal the breadth and length of two fingers, cut fome flices of bacon the fame way, and lay fome of it at the bottom of a ftew-pan, and then fome flices of veal,—ftrew over them fome parfley, thyme, and green onions fhred fine, fome pepper, mace, and cloves beat, and then fome bacon, veal, and feafonings ; continuing to make a layer with the flices of bacon, veal, and feafonings alternately, till you have enough for a difli; put fome bars of bacon on the top, let it to flew with fire under and over the ftew-pan for three quarters of an hour, then take it out carefully, and lay it in your difli with fome cullis over it, and a little juice of lemon, and ferve it up hot for a fide difli. YouC >5* ) You may make brufolles of hares and rabbits the fame way. VEAL COLLOPS larded. CUT feven flices of a fillet of veal in the form of fmall veal fweet-breads, lard them neatly in rows with fat bacon, lay them in a ftew-pan with bacon under and over, a bunch of fweet herbs, a flice of lemon, and one onion,—moillen them with a little broth, fet them on a Hove, and let them flew till tender; then take them out, and drain them, put a ragoo of endive in your difli, place your larded collops on it, and ferve it up for a fide difli in a firft courfe. Another Way. “* / CUT and lard your collops as above, put them in a ftew-pan with bacon under and over them, and fome good veal gravy, and fet them on the fire to ftew till tender ; then take out your collops, and ftrain the liquor into a ftew-pan,—Ikim off the fat, fet it on the fire to boil till it grows thick, and turn- ed to carmel, then put in your collops, with the larded fide down, fet it in a flow ftove to glaze for five minutes, then put them in a difli, and put fome cnravy into the ftew-pan in which they were glazed, withC 153 ) U VEAL with a little butter and flour, pepper, fait, and mace to your tafte, and a little juice of lemon, let it boil, pour it over your collops, and ferve it up hot for a fide diih. VEAL COLLOPS another Way. \ CUT and lard your collops as before, do them over with the yolk of an egg, feafon them with pepper, fait, mace, and nutmeg, ftrew them with crumbs of bread, Aired parfley, and thyme,— put them in a baking-pan with a little broth under them, bafte them well with butter, and bake them in a quick oven for fifteen minutes, then difh them up with half a pint of cullis under them, garmili them with flices of lemon, and ferve them up hot for a fide difli in a firft courfe. Another Wat. CUT and lard your collops as before, run a long fkewer through them, and tie them on a fpit, roaft them for fifteen minutes, bafte them with butter, and ftrew them with crumbs of bread and parfley fhred fine *, when done, put them in a difh with fome gravy and butter, and a little juice of lemon, and ferve them up hot for a corner difli in. a firft courfe.( J54 ) VEAL VEAL CUTLETS in Paper. ^^UT fix fteaks off the beft end of a neck of veal, plre them neatly, put them in a flew-pan with a piece of butter* fome parfley and thyme fhred fine, a little pepper, fait, and nutmeg, fet them over the fire for two minutes, put them up in a pa- per with fome veal force-meat under and over them, bake them for fifteen minutes, and ferve them up hot within their paper, with a little gravy undei them', foi a corner difh in a firft courfe. VEAL CUTLETS made of Force-meat. » • - npAKE fix ribs of the beff end of a neck of veal, cut off the meat from the bones, make it in- to a good force-meat, then form it like a cutlet, with the xib flicking out one inch,—-put them into a baking-pan, with a piece of white paper buttered at the bottom, to keep them from flicking,—do the cutlets over with yolks of eggs and crumbs of bread, put them in an oven, and bake them for fif- teen minutes , let them be of a good brown, put them in your difh with fome gravy under them, and ferve them up hot for a corner difh.VEAL CUTLETS, the Citizens' Way. CUT fix flices of veal, lard them with a calf’s udder, feafon them \vith pepper, fait, fpice, parfley, and one mufhroom cut fine j put fome fli- ces of bacon in a flew-pan, and lay your veal upon it, put it over a flow fire to fweat, to give it a co- lour on both fides, put to it half a pint of gravy, and a little flour, let it flew gently till tender, take out the bacon, and fkim off the fat, thicken it with the yolks of three eggs, a little lemon juice to make it favoury, let it fimmer, put it into your difh, and. ferve it up hot for a corner difh, A TENDERON de VEAU. - *! ' * I AKE the grifket part of a bread: of veal, flew it in white gravy, or in a braife of fat bacon, till tender, cut it in thin flices and lay it in your difh ; then take fome white gravy and a little cream, and thicken it with butter and flour, let it fimmer, fqueeze in a little lemon juice, pour it over your veal, and ferve it up hot., To ( >56 ) A TENDERON de VEAU with Parflcy. TAKE a bread of veal, cut the griftly part off, blanch it in boiling water, then cut it in thin dices, feafon it with mace, nutmeg, pepper, and fait; put it in a dew-pan with a piece of butter, fet it over the fire for five minutes, (but do not let it brown) dud in a little flour, add a pint of white veal gravy, let it dew till it is tender, ikim it well, boil fame parfley leaves and throw in, add the yolks of two eggs mixed with two tea-cups of thick cream, let it fimmer,.add a little juice of lemon, and ferve it up for a fide difh. You may put green peafe or afparagus tops in- ftead of parfiey, when you can get them. To make White VEAL COLLOPS. TAKE two pounds of a leg of veal, cut it in pieces about the bignefs of half a crown, hack them with a knife, put fome butter into a dew.* pan, and let it be hot, but not brown,—put in your veal, with a little pepper, fait, andfpice, fet it on the fire for fix minutes, ltirringit all the time, then put in fome white gravy, with a few force-meat balls, let it dew a little, add the yolks of two eggs, mix- ed with a little cream and fome lemon juice, let it firnmer, but not boil, and ferve it up for a fide difh.( *57 ) q'o male Brown VEAL C O L L O P S. /r''<UT the veal as above, pepper and fait It, dredge Kji on a little flour, put a piece of butter in your fryinovpan, let it brown, then put in your collops, fry them brown quickly, put them into a ftew-pan with fome brown gravy, a bit of anchovy, a little butter and flour, a little India foy, or catchup, fome force-meat balls, truffles, morels, and a little Cayen pepper, let it fimmer twelve minutes, and ferve it up for a fide difli in a firft comfe* POPIETS de VEAU. GUT eight flices off a fillet of veal, flat them with a cleaver, feafon them with pepper, fait, and mace, fpread them over with veal force-meat, roll them up tight, put a fkewerin them, lard them in rows with fmall pieces of bacon, butter a baking- pan and lay them in, bake them in a quick oven for twenty minutes, lay them in a difli with fome cullis under them, and ferve them up for a fide difh. VEAL OLIVES, CUT twelve thin flices off a leg of veal, flat them with a cleaver, do them over With the yolk of an egg, lay over each piece a thin flice of bacon, leaibu them with pepper, fait, mace, and nutmeg, ilrev,’-( *58 ) ftrew them over with crumbs of bread, parfley, and thyme fhred fine, roll them up tight, and fkewer them, do them over with eggs and crumbs of bread, fry them in hog’s lard of a nice brown, and make n fauce foi them as follows —Put fome brown gravy in a ftew-pan with a little catchup, a few pickled mufhrooms and force-meat balls, a little In- dian foy and Cayen pepper, let it fimmer for fifteen minutes, thicken it up with butter and flour,—lay your olives in a difh, pour your fauce under them, and ferve them up for a corner difh. S W E E T-B R E A D S in Scotch Col lops. AKE fome large fweet-breads, blanch them in boiling water, and fplit them the broad way, lard them with fmall pieces of bacon, put them in a ftew-pan with fome bits of veal, a flice of ham, and a ladle full of broth,—let them flew till tender, take them up, and ftrain the liquor through a fine fieve, put the liquor into a ftew-pan, and boil it till it jellies; then put in the fweet-breads, and fetthem over a flow fire to glaze,—when ready, difh them up, and moiften thofe that flick to the bottom with a little, broth and cullis, to make them come off; let the cullis be relifhing and of a good tafte, pour it over your fweet-breads, and ferve them up hot. SWEETr( >59 ) SWEET-BREADS fluffed iwith fweet Herbs, BLANCH them, and flit them in three parts round, feafon them with pepper, fait, and mace, fluff them with parfley, thyme, and fweet marjoram Aired fine, and a few crumbs of bread, clofe your fweet-breads together, and wrap each fweet-bread up in fome writing paper buttered ; put them into a baking-pan with fome flices of bacon over and under them, and a little water, bake them for half an hour, take them out of the papers, put them in a cfifli, with fome cullis and a few dices of ham, with a little juice of lemon, and ferve them up hot. Roafled SWEET-BREADS. LARD four large fweet-breads with fmall pieces of bacon, put them on a fkewer and tie them ! on a fpit, roaft them for fifteen minutes, or longer 1 if they are large ; difh them up with a little brown ; gravy, a little orange juice, and ferve them up hot. I They are a pretty firft or fecond courfe. j VEAL SWEET-BREADS A-la-daube. TAKE four large fweet-breads, leap them in a fauce-pan full of boiling water for five mi- : nutes; when they are cold, lard them with fmall pieces of bacon down the middle, and on each fide withVEAL ( i6o ) with lemon and pickled cucumber, put them into a ftew-pan with a little broth, a bunch of fweet herbs, a flice of veal, and an onion ftuck with doves, and fet them to hew for a quarter of an hour ; when they are done, ftrain the liquor into a ftew-pan, and fkim off the fat, put to it a fpoon full of India foy, and a little lemon juice, thicken it up with a little butter and flour, lay your fweet-breads in a difh, pour jour fauce over them, garnifhthem with flices of lemon and fryed oyflers, andferve them up hot for a fide or corner difh. VEAL SWEE T-B READS marinated. BLANCH three fweet-breads in boiling water for five minutes, cut them in long flices, put them into a ftew-pan wdth pepper, fait, fweet balil, one onion cut in flices, a fpoon full of vinegar, a flice of lemon, a bit of butter, and a little broth, put them over the fire for ten minutes to get a relifh, take them out, and dry them with a cloth, dip them in two eggs well beat, flrew them with crumbs of bread, fry them in hog’s lard, difh them up, garnifh your difh with fried parfley, and ferve them up with gravy and butter in a boat, for a fide difh.( Itfl ) VEAL SWEE T-B READS A-la-farce. . ' v TAKE fix veal fweet-breads, blanch them in wa- ter for ten minutes, take them out when they are cold, do them over with egg, fpread over fome veal force-meat, and do that over with egg, then cut fome carrots, turnips, and pickled cucumbers in fprigs and fliapes, and lay them on the top, in the form of flowers; put them into a ftew-pan, with fome bacon under and over them, and a little broth,—fet them on to fte\# for half an hour, then take them up, put them in your difli with cullis under them, and ferve them up hot. To fcollop SWEET-BREADS. TAKE two large fweet-breads, blanch them in boiling water for ten minutes, take them out and drain them, cut them in flices the fize of a fmall oyfter, put a piece of butter in a ftew-pan, with fome parfley and thyme chopt fine, a little pepper, fait, and nutmeg, make it hot, put in your fweet-breads, and give them a tofs or two over the fire, adding to them a tea-cup full of gravy ; then butter your fcollop fhells, and crumb them with bread,—put in your fweet-breads, with crumbs of bread and butter at the top, brown them in a Dutch oven before the fire,—when done, put a fpoon full of gravy in each fhell, and ferve then! up in a fe~ cpnd courfe, or for fupper. X To( 1<S2 ) To ragoo VEAL SWEET-BREADS* V CUT your fweet-breads in pieces as big as a wal- nut, flour them, and fry them in a flew-pan with butter,—when brown, feafon them with pep- per, fait, and mace, put in fome good brown gra- vy, fome mufhrooms, truffles, morels, and the yolks of hard eggs, let them flew for half an hour, add a little juice of lemon, and ferve it up.—If the gra- vy is not thick enough, add a little more butter and flour. To fricajfee SWEET-BREADS White. ■ BOIL four fweet-breads in water for ten minutes, then cut them in thin flices, put them in a flew-pan with a pint of white veal gravy, one fpoon full of white wine, a little mace and nutmeg, let them flew for fifteen minutes, thicken it up with a little butter and flour, add one tea-cup full of thick cream mixed with the yolk of an egg, juft let it limmer, fqueeze in a little juice of lemon, and ferve it up hot for a fide difh. To fricajfee SWEET-BREADS Browu BOIL three fweet-breads in water for ten mi- nutes,—when cold,-cut them in flices the thick- nefs of a crown, dip them in batter and fry them in butter of a nice light brown, and make a lauce for them as follows : Put( “53 ) Put half a pint of brown gravy in a ftew-pan, with two fpoons full of catchup, a little mace, and Cayen pepper, two fpoons full of white-wine, a lit- tle lemon juice, and one onion ftuck with cloves, thicken it up with a little butter and flour, let it boil for ten minutes, put in your lweet-breads, and juft let them be hot thorough, lay them in your dilh, pour your gravy under them, and ferve them up hot for a lide difh. ATTELETS of SWEE T-B READS, TAKE three cold rooft fweet-breads, cut them in flices as big as a large oyfter, put them jn a ftew-pan, with a piece of butter, a little parftey and thyme Aired fine, feafon them with pepper, fait, and nutmeg, fet them over the fire for five mi- nutes, giving them a tofs or two ; then put them on fmall Ikewers, and crumb them with bread, fet them in a Dutch oven before the fire, let them be of a nice brown, then lay them in a difh, with the Ikewers in them, pour fume cullis or thick gravy under them, and ferve them up hot for a fide dilh ;n a fecond courfe, or for fupper. i- • • • _ ' . k' [J « UMB r( >«4 ) LAMB SWEET-BREADS fried. PUT twelve lamb fweet-breads into a ftew-pan, with a little broth and a bunch of fweet herbs, let them flew for a quarter of an hour, take them out, and drain them on a fieve,—when they are cool, do them over with the yolk of an egg, and crumb them with bread, fry them in hog’s lard of a nice light brown, difh them up, and garnifh them with fried parfley, and ferve them up with a little cullis. A SALMY of WOODCOCKS. CUT in pieces two woodcocks that have been roafted, and put them in a ftew-pan, with half a pint of red-wine, one onion ftuck with cioves, one truffle fliced, a few pickled mufhrooms, a bit of an- chovy, a piece of butter and flour, pepper and fait to your tafte, let it on the fire to fimmer for fifteen minutes, but not boil, and ferve it up hot for a firft courfe. CALF’s EARS fluffed. X>LANCH fix calf’s ears, and make them very j£> clean, flew them in a little broth till tender, and make a fluffing for them as follows : Take( 165 ) Take a calf’s udder and blanch it, lay it on a fhredding board, with a piece of bacon, a piece of beef fuet, a piece of foft bread foaked in cream, a little mace, nutmeg, pepper, and fait, fome par ey and fvvect herbs; fhred the whole very fine, mix it up with the yolks of three eggs, fluff the ears with it between the two fkins, do them over with the yolk of an egg, and ?rumb them with bread, fry them in hog’s lard of a nice brown, difhthem, gar- nifh them with fried parfley, and ferve them up hot for a fecond courfe. T? ragoo H O G’s EARS. CUT fome hog’s ears in long, fmall, thin Rices, have ready a ftew-pan with four onions cut in dice, and a piece of butter, fry them for fix mi- nutes, put in your ears, and duff in fome hour, put to them as much brown gravy as will cover them,— let them flew till tender*, fkim off the fat, and add to them a tea-fpoon full of made muflard, with a little pepper ^nd fait to your tafle ; the feet muft be flewed tender, and wiped dry with a cloth, do them over with the yolk of an egg, crumb them with bread, fry them brown, anddifh up your ears with the feet round them-. HOG’sc 166 ) HOG’s FEET and EARS A-la-grandvell. ET your feet and cars be fcalded and made very clean, lay them in a ftew-pan with fome Rices of bacon under them, a flice of veal and beef on them, a bunch of fweet herbs, two onions, one quart of water, a little vinegar, and a glafs of white wine; cover them clofe down, fet them to ftew till they are quite Render, then take them out and drain them ; fplit the feet, do them over with egg and crumbs of bread, fet them before the fire (or in an oven) to brown, and bafte them with butter; cut the ears in fmall thin lhreds, and put a piece of but- ter in a ftew-pan, with fome onions cut fmall, and fry'them,—when brown, duft in a little flour, put in the ears with fome gravy, let them ftew for ten minutes, add a little muftard and vinegar, mve it a tofs, put them in yourdilh, and lay your feet round them, and ferve them up hot for a fide diftu / An HARRICOT of MUTTON. TAKE the heft end of a neck of mutton, cut it into, fteaks, pare them neatly, pepper and fait, and duft fo.me flour on them, fry them in butter, put them in a ftew-pan with a little coaly, foinc carrots and turnips in fliapes, and fome fmall onions, }et it ftew for half an hour, Ikim off the fat, and ferve it up hot for a fide difh.I ( 167 ) / I A SHOULDER c/MUTTON in Epigram. ROAST a {houlder of mutton, take off the (kin as neatly as you can, about the thicknefs of a crown, leave in the {hank bone, do it over with ecrcr, and feafon it with pepper, fait, and fweet herbs, crumb it with bread, and broil it on a gridiron; then cut the meat in fmall pieces, the bignefs of a {hilling, put it in a cullis that is well feafoned, and of a good take, fet it on the fire, make it hot, but do not let it boil, put it into a difh, with the broiled part on the top, garnifh it with fried force-meat, and ferve it up hot for a firft courfe. A NECK of MUTTON larded with Par/ley. TAKE a neck of mutton, take off the chine bones from the fillet, pare it neatly, lard it •with parfley, put it on a fpit, and roaff it, difli it up, and put under it fome gravy, a fhalot {hred fine, pepper and fait to your tafte, fharpen it with a little vinegar, and ferve it up hot. MUTTON CUTLETS in Paper. CUT the bed end of a neck of mutton into {leaks, pare off the fat, cut off the chine bone, and flat them with a cleaver ; put a piece of butter into a ftew-pan, with fome Hired parfley and thyme, pepper( '«8 ) pepper and fait, dip your fteaks into it, and ftrew over them fome crumbs of bread, wrap them in writing paper, broil them on a gridiron over a flow fire*, when they are done, put them in a difli with the papers on, and fome brown gravy under them, and ferve them up for a fide difli. A SHOULDER of MUTTON in Surprize. HALF boil a fhoulder of mutton, cut off the lhank and make it quite round, put it into a ftew-pan with three pints of gravy and four oun- ces of rice, a little beaten mace, and an onion ftuck with cloves ; let it flew foftly till the rice is enough, then take up the mutton, and keep it hot, adding to the rice half a pint of cream and a lump of but- ter and flour, then fet it on the fire, and let it juft boil; lay your mutton on a difh, pour your rice over it, and ferve it up hot for the head or middle of the table. » # # - A SHOULDER of MUTTON carlcnaded. HALF roaft a fhoulder of mutton, take out the fhoulder bone, with a good deal of the meat on it, keeping the outfide whole ; cut off the flap part, and pare it nicely round, then fcore it in dia- monds, fprinkle on it fome pepper and fait, fome parfley and thyme fined fine, rub it over with a lit- tle egg, and ftrew on it fome crumbs of bread; broil it;—hath up the meat that you pared off, withTo ( ^9 ) * with a little brown gravy and the gravy that came out of it, a little walnut catchup, and fome Cayen pepper, thicken it up with butter and floui, then put in fome pickled cucumbers cut in flices, let it juft boil, and put it in your difh, put the broiled part on the top of it, aud ferve it up hot. This is a firft courfe difh. To make MUTTON kebob'd. CUT a fmall loin of mutton into five pieces, and take off the fkin 5 rub them over with the yolk of an egg, ftrew on them fome crumbs of h bread, fome parfley and thyme fhred fine, and a little pepper and fait,—turn them round, and fpit them, roaft them, bafte them all the time, and ftrew on fome more crumbs of bread ; when they are enough, put them into a difh with fome brown gravy under them, and ferve them up hot for a fide difh. To grill a BREAST of MUTTON. HALF boil a breaft of mutton, fcore it in dia- monds, feafon it with pepper, fait, and nut- meg, do it over with egg and crumbs of bread, and parfley and thyme fhred fine, put it into a Dutch Eoven, bafte it with butter, and broil it for twenty minutes j lay it in a difh, and ferve it up with ca- per fauce under it for a fide difh.( 170 ) To roll a BREAST of MU T T 0 N. BONE your mutton, lay it flat, fpread over it one pound of veal force-meat well feafoned, i*oll it well up, put it in a ftew-pan with fome brown gravy, let it flew till it is tender, then ferve it up- with fome coolly, or brown-gravy, and a little juice of lemon. To drefs SHEEP’s RUMPS. \ ' ITRT fix rumps in butter till brown, feafon them with pepper and fait, put them into a ftew-pan with,fome brown gravy, let them ftew till tender, and fkim off the fat; put to th.em two ounces of rice boiled tender, a tea cup full of thick cream, a little catchup), mace, and nutmeg, with a piece of butter and flour, let it iimmer, lay your rumps in a dilb, pour the fauce over them, and ferve them up hot for a fide or corner difh. To drefs SHEEP’s RUMPS and KIDNEYS. BOIL four Iheep’s rumps in water for ten min- nutes, and let them cool ; have ready fome light pafte cut in lengths with a jigin-iron, lap it round the rumps in what form you pleafe, do them over with egg, lay then1! in a baking-pan with a buttered paper under them, put to them five kid- neys larded with bacon, bake them for half an hour, ► . ' - lay( I7'i ) luv them in your difli with the fmall end in the iniddle, a kidney on the top, and one between each rump,—pour under them fome thickened giavy, and ferve them up hot for a fide or corner difli. MUTTON CUTLETS larded with Far/ley. CUT the beft end of a neck of mutton into. chops, (two bones in a chop) feafon them with pepper and fait, then take your larding-pm and draw the parfley through the (leaks on both lides, fpit them on a lark fpit, let them roait for twenty minutes, bade them with butter, and ferve them up with gravy, for a corner or fide dilfi. j LEG of LAMB boiled, and LOIN fried. BOIL your leg of lamb one hour, cut the loin in (leaks, flat them with a cleaver, and try them, of a nice light brown put your leg of lamb in a difli, and your (leaks round it, garniih it with tried parfley and boiled ipinage, put a iittie gravy in the difli with your lamb, and ferve it up with goofe- berry fauce in a boat. JC 172 ) To A LEG of LAMB A-.lafarce. TAKE all the bones out of a leg of lamb, but a little of the thank ; make a force-meat of veal, and fluff it where the bone was taken out, tie it up, put it into a pot to flew with fome brown gravy for one hour and a quarter ;—have ready fome car- rots and turnips cut in dice, and fome green pickles, put them in a flew-pan, and flrain the gravy from the lamb to them,—fet them on the fire to flew a little, fkim it clean, put your lamb into a difh, pour the fauce over it, and ferve it up for a firfl courfe. Entry c/ LAMB STEAKS. CUT a loin of lamb into fleaks, and pare them neatly, flat them with a cleaver, feafon them with pepper and fait, and fry them of a good brown ; put them into a hafli-pan with fome good gravy, flew them a little, cut fome green pickles very fmall, and put amongft them, put your fleaks in a difh, pour your gravy over them, and garnifh them with fried parfley.( *73 ) To fricfljfee LAMB STONES. SKIN eight lamb {tones, and take four fweet- breads and cut them in two, pepper and fait them to your take, dip them in a batter, fry them in hog’s lard of a nice brown, have ready fome good brown gravy, thicken it up with butter and flour, put in a flice of lemon, and a little nutmeg, beat up the yolks of two eggs with a little cream, let it fimmer, but not boil,—drain your larab- ftenes clean from the fat they were fried in, lay them in a difh, and pour your fiuce over them. To rcito LAMB, o UT a break and neck of lamb into four pieces each, feafon them well with beaten cloves, mace, pepper, and fait, put them into a flew-pan with a piece of butter, fry them brown, and dull in fome flour, add a pint and a half of gravy, a bunch of fweet herbs, a few morels and mufhrooms, two fpoons full of red wine, and a little juice of le- mon, let it flew till tender, fkim oft the fat, then add one dozen of fried force-meat balls, let it juft £( fimmer. and ferve it up hot for a lirft courfe. A( *74 ) A SHOULDER of LAMB, A la Salpkon. TAKE the bones out of your lamb on the un- der fide, leaving in a bit of the drank, feafon it with pepper, fait, and mace, fluff it with veal force-meat, put it in a flew-pan with bars of bacon under and over, adding to it a little broth, with a bunch of fweet herbs ; let it flew gently for three quarters of an hour, then take it out, and put it in •a difh, having ready a fauce made as follows: Blanch a veal fweet-bread and cut it in dice, cut a flice of ham the fame way, put them in a flew-pan with a piece of butter, let them fry for five minutes, dufl in a little flour, moiflen it with fome good gravy, and a little juice of lemon, let it flew gently for fifteen minutes, fkim it, put it in the dilb. with your lamb, and ferve it up hot for a fide difh, \ To few a BREAST of LAMB and PEASE. CUT it in pieces about the bignefs of a walnut, put it into a flew-pan with a pint of white gra- vy, let it flew till tender, then fkim off the fat, add a piece of butter and flour, and half a pint of green peafe boiled tender, half a pint of cream, a little pepper, fait, and lpice, let it fimmer a little, and ferve it up. You may do a breafl of veal the fame way. Un( 175 ) SHEE P’s Un POITRINE de /’AGNEAU. TAKE two fitiall breads of ’amb, pare them neatly, put them in a dew-pan with bacon under and over them, a bunch of lvveet herbs, two onions, and a little broth ; let them dew till tender, and make a fauce for them as follows: Take three muflirooms, three Oralots, chop them fine, put them in a dew-pan with fome drong veal gravy, a little pepper, lalt, and mace, let them lim- mer for ten minutes,—lay the two thin parts of your bread of lamb in the middle of your difh, and the brilket parts towards the brim of it, pour your fauce over it, and ferve it up hot for the middle of the table. LAMB's FEET 'ivitb Mustard. TAKE fome lamb’s feet, let them be well clean- ed, blanch them in boiling water for ten mi- nutes, pare them very neat, feafon them with pep- per, fait, and mace, put them in a dew-pan with a piece of butter, fet them over the fire for five mi- nutes, dud in a little dour, add a bunch of fweet herbs, and one onion duck with cloves, a dice of lemon, and fome good white gravy,—let them dew -flowly till tender; take out the herbs and lemon, Ikim them clean, add the yolks of two eggs mixed with a little cream, let it limmer but not boil, then add a little' made mudard to it, and ferve it up for a corner difh.( 176 ) SHEEP’s SHEEP’S TONGUES the fyanljb Way. PEEL two large Spanifh onions, put them into a flew-pan with fomegood veal gravy, then put in fix fheep’s tongues boiled and peeled, let them itew till the onions arc tender; put one of the onions in the middle of your difh; and lay the tongues neatly round it; then cut the other onion in fix flices, and lay a flice between every tongue j make a fauce of the gravy in which they were ffewed, with a little pepper, fait, muftard, and a little juice of lemon, thicken it up with fome butter and flour, let it fimmer, pour it over your tongues, and ferve them up hot for a fide difh. SHEEP’s TONGUES Jheed. njJ^AKE eight fheep’s tongues, boil them tender, I take off the fkin, cut them in thin flices, make a layer in the difh you intend to ferve them up in, take fome fmall green onions, a few fwcet herbs, a little parfley, all fhred very fine, with a little pep- per and fait, flrew fome of it on your tongue,— then another layer of tongue, and fome more fea- fonings, and fo on till your difh is full; moiften it with fome thickened gravy or cullis, bake it fifteen minutes in an oven, let the top be of a nice light brown, and ferve it up hot ; or you may fet it be- fore the fire, and brown it with a falamander.( 177 ) SHEEP’S 7 SHEEP’s TONGUES larded and roajled. BOIL fix fheep’s tongues, take oft the (kin, lard them with lix fmall pieces ot bacon, put them on a lark-fpit, and roaft them, difli them up with iome brown gravy under them, and fervc them up hot. S H E E P’s TONGUES the Pruffian Way. BOIL fix Creep’s tongues, take off the fkin, put them into a ftew-pan with iome caiiots cut in fmall flices, and fome thickened gravy or cullis, a glafs of white wine, fome lemon juice, pepper and flit to your tafte, let them ftew gently for twenty minutes, put the tongues in a difti, pour your fauce over them, and ferve them up hot for an entry. SHEEP’S TONGUES broiled. ' : PUT a lump of butter into a ftew-pan, with fome pariley, green onions, and fweet herbs jhred fine, a little beaten mace, pepper, and fait, fet it over the fire that the butter may melt,—have ready fix tongues boiled tender, and the ikin taken off,—dip them in amongft the butter and herbs, crumb them with bread, broil them, put them in a difti, and ferve them up hot with fome veal gravy, pepper and fait to your tafte.( i?8 ) SHEEP'S TONGUES in Paper. SALT eight fheep’s tongues for three days, boil them tender, fplit them, cut fome paper big enough to wrap them in, fpread fome force-meat on the paper, and fome upon the tongues, wrap it up neatly, butter a baking-pan and lay them in it, bake them in an oven for fifteen minutes, difh them up, and ferve them up hot. SHEEP’S TONGUES in a F,agouf. rrpAKE a veal fweet-bread, a few mufhrooms I and truffles, a bunch of fweet herbs, and a few blades of mace, adding to it half a pint of gra- vy .—take fix fmall fflcep’s tongues, let them be boiled tender, take off the {kin and pare of! the toots, put them into the ftew-pan with the fweet- bread, truffles, and mufhrooms, let them flew fif- teen minutes, add to them a little catchup, Caycn,. a little pepper and fait to your take, and fome force-meat balls fried, thicken it up with a little but- ter and flour, and a little lemon juice,—put your fweet-bread in the middle of your difh, and the Iheep’s tongues all round, pour the lauce o\ei them, and ferve them up hot. CAL EhC 179 ) CALF’S FE-ET in a whits Sauce. TIAKE three calf’s feet, boll them tender, take out the great bones and cut them in lour pie- ces each,—put them in a flew-pan with fome white gravy, a few blades of mace, and let them ftew for ten minutes; put to it two tea-cups full of thick cream, thicken up your fauce with butter and flour, add a little juice of lemon and a tea-fpoon full of vinegar, (if you like it fweet, put in a lump of fugar) and ferve it up hot. CALF’s FEET the Italian Way. OIL three feet tender, take out the large bones,. cut them in halves, and pare them neatly, put them into a ftew-pan with a pint of ftrong white veal gravy, one mufkroom, and a little parfley hired fine, with two or three blades of mace,—fet it on to ftew for ten minutes, add to it one tea- fpoon full of white wine vinegar, to give it a fharp tafte, thicken it up with butter and hour, lay your feet in a difli, pour the fauce over them, and ferve them up hot. SPLIT you calf’s feet in halves, take out the large bones, put them in a fauce-pan with fome flices of bacon over and under them,—put to them a bunch of fweet herbs, fome whole pepper, a little CALF’s FEET another Way.SHEEP's ( >S° ) fait, and one onion (luck with cloves,—moiflen them with a little water or broth, fet them on to flew for three quarters of an hour, or till they are tender, then take them out and drain them ; make a batter with flour and eggs moiftened with a little beer, dip the feet in it, and fry them in fome hog’s lard of a nice light brown, difli them up with fried parfley, and ferve them up hot for a fide difli. CALF’s FEET rolled. /rT^AKE 'the bones out of four calf’s feet, lay them flat upon a drefler, fpread over them fome veal force-meat, roll them up tight, and bind them with pack-thread,—lay fome flices of veal and beef at the bottom of aftew-pan, lay in the feet, feafon them with pepper, fait, mace, and nutmeg,—lay fome thin flices of bacon on the top of them, and put to them three pints of broth or water ; let them flew for one hour, take them out, lay them in a diih, take off the pack-thread, ffrain the liquor into a ffew-pan, (flamming off the fat)—add a little juice of lemon, one fpoonfull of catchup,—thicken it up with butter and flour, pour it over the feet, and ferve them up hot for a fide or corner difh in a firft courfe.C 181 ) SHEEP’S TROTTERS in a Surtout. rap AKE fheep’s trotters ready boiled, cut them in _§_ pieces, put them in a flew-pan with a lump of butter, fome parfley and thyme, one onion cut fmall, fume pepper, fait, nutmeg, and a little juice of lemon, fet them on the fire for five minutes, dud on them.a little flour, then add a little gravy, and let them flew ten minutes; put them into the difli you intend to fervethem in, let them be cold, cover them over with fome veal force-meat, fmooth it on the top, drew over fome crumbs of bread, fet it in an oven for fifteen minutes to brown, take it out, and ferve it up hot. SHEEP’s TROTTERS forced. LET your flieep’s trotters be well fcalded and clean, put them in a ftew-pan with a little gra- vy, one onion fluck with cloves, a little mace, a few pepper-corns, and a bunch of fweet herbs,—let them flew till tender, then take them up, and take out the bones, lay them flat upon a table, fpread them over with fome veal force-meat, roll them up tight one by one, and tie them with fome flrong thread, put them in a flew-pan, and flrain upon them the gravy they were flewcd in ; add to it a little Cayen pepper, two fpoons full of catchup, and gne glafs of white wine, and let it flew for twenty minutes.( i8i ) To —thicken up your gravy with fome butter and flour, then lay your trotters on a difh, take off the thread, pour on your gravy, and ferve them up hot for an entry. SHEEP’s TROTTERS another Way. HEN your flieep’s trotters are boiled tender. take out the bones, ftretch the ikins upon a drefler, fpread them over with veal force-meat, roll them up one by one, butter a baking-dilh and put them in, do them over with eggs, crumb them with bread, and bake them in an oven for fifteen minutes ; difli them up, and pour under them fome thickened gravy, with a little juice of lemon, or fome cullis, and ferve them up hot for an entry. IET your flieep’s trotters be boned and fpread _j with force-meat and rolled as above, do them over with fome beaten eggs, firew them with fome crumbs of bread, run a fkewer through to keep in the force-meat, fry them in hog’s lard of a nice brown, and ferve them up hot with fried parfley, for a fmall entry. Another Way.To ( ‘33 ) To fricajfeo SHEEP’S TROTTERS the Italian W ay. ' i , TAKE (heep’s trotters ready boiled, cut tnem m pieces, put them into a {lew-pan with a lump of butter, one mulhroom, and one onion cut fmalt, fet them over the fire for five minutes, put to them a little flour, pepper, and fait, half a pint of broth, a glafs of white wine, and a clove of garlic,—let it flew for fifteen minutes, thicken it up with the yolks of three eggs, add a little lemon juice, and ferve it up hot. To fricajfee Double TRIPE. CLEAN your tripe well, and boil it tender, take the double part, and cut it in pieces two inches long; put a lump of butter in a flew-pan, with two°flialots cut very fmall, give it a tols on the fire, put in your tripe, duft it with flour, add to it half a pint of broth, and a glafs of white-wine, feafon them with pepper, fait, and a bunch or iveeet. herbs,—let them flew foftly, and let them have a o-oodtafte; thicken up your fauce with the yolks of two eggs well beaten, add a little parfley cut fmall, and a little nutmeg,—mix your eggs with a little broth and juice of lemon, and put it to youi tripe,—let it jull fimmer, difli it up, and ferve it up for a fmall entry.I ( . 184 ) To fry T R I P E. AKE double tripe that has been well cleaned and boiled tender, cut it in fljuare pieces, and make a batter for it as follows : Take three ipoons full of flour, one egg, and a little fmall beer,—beat it well together, dip in your tripe, fry it in hot hog’s lard, crifp, and of a nice brown,— put it on a lieve to drain, cut fome onions in thin Rices, fry them brown, put your tripe in a difh, and your onions round it, and ferve it up hot with plain melted butter in a boat. A RAGOUT with Cocks’ Combs. PUT a piece of butter in a Rew-pan, with a bunch of fweet herbs, and fome mulhrooms cut in bits ; put in half a fpoon full of fine flour, mve it a tofs over the fire, moiflen it with a little tD . . • * broth, feafon it with pepper and fait, put in your cocks’ combs and Rones, let them Rew gently for half an hour, thicken it up with the yolks of two eggs, mixed with two tea-cups full of cream, and a little nutmeg,—be fure to make it of a good taflv, and ferve it up hot for a fccond co.urfe difh. RAGOUT( 1^5 ) RAGOUT with Cocks’ Comes another Way. • v . -I CTJT fome muflirooms into bits, put them into a dew-pan with a piece of butter, a bunch of fweet herbs, and fome truffles cut in dices,—uir it over the lire for five minutes, moiden it with fome gravy, put in fome cock’s combs and Hones, and a little juice of lemon,—feafon it with peppei, lilt, and mace to your fade, let it dew for half an hour, thicken it up with butter and dour, take out the herbs, difli it up, and ferve it up hot for a fecond courfe difli. A RAGOUT MILLE. TAKE fome cock’s combs and dones, feald them in boiling water for ten minutes, put them into a dew-pan with a veal fwcet-bread cut in dice, and a lump of butter,—ftir them over the fire for five minutes, then dud in fome dour, add a few fmall muflirooms, and moiden them with fome white veal gravy ; let them dew gently for half an hour, add fome force-meat balls, and the yolks of fix hard eggs, feafon it with pepper, fait, mace and nutmeg to your tade, thicken it up with the yolks of two eggs, mixed with a little cream, let it juli lim- mer, put in a little juice of lemon, and ferve it up hot. This is a pretty fecond courfe difli. A a COL-I To ( 136 ) COLL IF LOWERS and CHEESE. BOIL a large colliflower for ten minutes, lay it neatly in a difh, then put a little gravy in a ftew-pan, with a little grated cBeefe, a- piece of but- ter, a little pepper and nutmeg, fet it on the fire, and let it juft boil,—then pour it over the colli- flower, and put on it half a pound of grated Parma- zan cheefe; fet it in the oven to brown, or down before the fire,—if not of a good colour, hold a hot fire (hovel or falamander over it, till it is of a nice brown, then ferve it up for a fecond courfe,- MACCARONI and CHEESE. BOIL half a pound of maccaroni in water till quite tender, drain it on a fteve, then put it into a ftew-pan with a piece of butter, a little grated cheefe, and a little gravy, fet it over the fire to flew for ten minutes, add a little pepper, fait, and nut- meg, to your tafte ; put it in a china difh, with half a pound of Parmazan cheefe grated on the top,— fet it in an oven for fifteen minutes, then take it out and brown it with a falamander, and ferve it up in a fceond courft?.( IS/ ) To make R A M CUU INS. GRATE half a pound of Parmazan cheefe, put it in a ftew-pan with a little gravy, a little pepper and fait, fet it on the fire, and let it boil for live minutes ; take it off, and let it Hand one quarter of an hour, add to it the yolks of four eggs, and two fpoo.ns full of hour, mix it well together, have a frying-pan with hot hog’s lard, drop in one i'poon full to each, fry them of a light brown, drain them on a ffeve, put ten in a diffi, and ferve them up for a fecond courfe, A RAGOUT of U USHROOMS. PICK fmall mufhrooms, wafli and dry them, put them in a ffew-pan with a bunch of fweet herbs, feafon them with pepper, fait, and mace, fet them over the fire for four or five minutes, ftirring them all the time,—moiffen them with a little gra- vy, let them ftew gently for half an hour, take out the bunch of herbs, fkim off the fat, thicken them up with a little butter and flour, and put the cruft of a French roll in the middle of the diffi, pour the tnuftirooms round it, and ferve it up hot. This is a pretty fecond courfe diffi. R A*( iS8 ) v v it RAGOUT of Mushrooms another Way. IJ) UB a quart of fmall mufiirooms with a flannel, ^ and wadi them clean, put them in a flew-pan with a paece of butter, a little pepper and fait, and a bunch of fweet herbs,—dull in a little flour, fet them over the fire for ten minutes, moiftening them with fome gravy; let them flew till tender, fkim oli the fat, and ferve them up hot for a fecond courfe difh. -I , - • - fh'o drejs M U S H R O O M S the Italian Way. nPAKE the middling fort of muflirooms, wafh them, and pick off the fkin ; mince fix large mufhrooms, put all into the flew-pan, with a glafs of fweet oil, one clove of garlic, one onion, pepper, fait, and a bunch of fweet herbs ; put them over the fire to flew till they are tender, fkim off the fat, and take out the herbs ; put them into the difh in which you intend to ferve them, crumb them over with bread, fet them before the fire, or in an oven- to brown, and ferve them up hot for a fecond courfe difh. To force MUSHROO M S. fJpAKE out the guils of eight large mufiirooms, -*■ npd peel off the fkins neatly ; make fome force- meat of the breaft of a chicken, fome beef marrow, and fome crumbs of bread boiled in cream, fhred/ ( 189 ) it fine, pound it in a mortar, and fcafon it with pepper, lalt, and mace, adding the yolks of two eggs,—mix it well together, and force your mufh- rooms with it ; butter a baking-pan, and lay in your muflirooms with the forced fide up ; bake them in an oven for fifteen minutes, difli them up with fome thickened gravy, and ferve them up hot. MUSHROOMS the Italian Way. TAKE three pints of fmall muflirooms very white, cut off the ftalks, wafii them well, and put them in a ftew-pan with the juice of two lei mons, a little pepper, half a glais of white-wine, and as much fweet oil, with a bunch of fvveet herbs, —fet them on the fire, let them boil for eight mi- nutes, difh them up,—and when cold, ferve them up. MUSHROOMS with White Sauce. i PICK and walk your muflirooms well, put them in a ftew-pan with a lump of butter, and a bunch of fweet herbs, give them a tofs over the fire, duft in a little flour, and moiften them with broth or gravy, feafon them with pepper, fait, and nutmeg, and let them fimmer for fifteen minutes ; take out the fweet herbs, and thicken them up with the( 19° ) the yolks of two eggs mixed with a little cream,— lay the cruft of a French roll in the bottom of your difh, pour the mufhrooms on it, and ferve them up hot for a fide difh. ' MORELS with Cream. WASH fome morels clean in boiling water, cut them in flices, and put them into a ftew- pan with a lump of butter, duft on a little flour, and moiften them with fome good gravy,—feafon them with pepper, fait, and nutmeg, and let them flew for fifteen minutes ; add a little parfley fhred fine, and thicken them up with the yolks of two eggs and a little cream ; then toaft the top of a French roll, cut it round, and butter it, lay it in the bottom of your difh, pour the morels over it, and ferve them up hot.—.—r-This is a pretty fecond courfe difh. MORELS ragoo*d the Italian Way. UT off the ftalks of fome morels, wafh them clean in water, cut them in quarters, and put them in a flew-pan with a lump of butter, a little flour, and a bunch of f\veet herbs, give them a tofs over the fire, and moiften them with a little good gravy, and a glafs of white-fwine, and let them ftew for fifteen minutes ; feafon them with pepper, fait, and a little juice of lemon, (if it is not thick enough, addI ( 191 ) add a little more butter and flour) lay the cruft of a French roll in the bottom of your difh, pour the morels on it, and ferve it up hot. This is a pretty fecond courfe difh. ‘T'o force MORELS. TAKE nine morels, cut oft the ends of the (talks, wafli the fand off them with boiling water, fcafon them well with pepper, fait, and mace, and fluff them with fome good veal force-meat ; lay | them in a ftew-pan (fleeted with bacon, and put in p a bunch of fweet herbs, an onion ftuck with cloves, I and fome dices of bacon on the top ; put to them a pint of good gravy, fet them into an oven, or over a ftove for three quarters of an hour, then take out , | your morels, lay them carefully in your difh, drain | your gravy into a ftew-pan, fkim off the fat, thicken 1 it up with butter and flour, pour it over your mo- | fels, and ferve them up hot. I 1 This is a genteel fecond courfe difh. RAGOUT of Asparagus Heads. j /’’’MJT fome heads of afparagus in fmall lengths as far as they are tender, blanch them in fome I boiling water, and drain them, put them in a ftew- | pan with fome gravy and a dice of ham, fcafon H them with pepper, fait, and nutmeg, and let them flew( J92 ) flew gently till tender; take nut the ham, and thicken it up with butter and flour, adding a tea- fpoon full of vinegar; put your afparagus into a difh, and garnifli it with fried bread, and ferve it up hot for a fecond courfe difli. A White RAGOUT of Asparagus Heads. CUT and blanch yOtir afparagus as above, put it into a pan with a bit of butter, and fry it a lit- tle ; dull on a little flour, moiften it with a little broth, and let it flew till tender ; feafon it with pep- per, fait, and nutmeg to your tafte,—add the yolks of two eggs mixed with a little broth, juft let it fimmer, and put a buttered toaft in the bottom of your difli, pour the ragout over it, and ferve it up hot for a fecond courfe difli. 7o boil ASPARAGUS. 1CK. off the leaves almoft up to the head, and ferape the white end, walk them quite clean, and tie them up in fmall bunches, twelve in a bunch; have ready a fauce-pan with hard water and a little fait, and when it boils, put in your afparagus, which ten or twelve minutes will boil;—have rea- dy a flice of bread toafted, dip it in the water the afparagus was boiled in, and lay it in a china dtfh, with( 193 ) » t difli, with the afparagus on the top of it, in bunch- es ; cut off the firings, pour fome melted butter over them, and ferve them up hot for a^ fecond courfe difh. ASPARAGUS tbs Italian Way. P, I C K, fcrape, clean, and boil your afparagus as above, lay it into a china difh when cold, and make a fauce of it as follows:—Mix half a tea-cup full of fweet oil, the fame of white'wine vinegar, a little juice of lemon, pepper, and fait, p.our it over your afparagus, and ferve it up cold for a fecond courfe or fupper difh. ASPARAGUS PEASE. PICK off the leaves of fome fmall afparagus, cut them in fmall round flices, (as far as tender) to imitate peafe; put them on to boil in a little hard water, and when tender, drain them,—put them into a ftew-pan with a little cream, a piece of but- ter and flour, the yolk of an egg mixed with cream, a little pepper, fait, and a bit of fugar, (the bignefs of a fmall nutmeg); fet it over tire fire, ftir it all the time with a wooden fpoon till it grows thick, put it into a difh, and ferve it up hot for a fecond courfe difh. £b RAGOUt( 194 ) RAGOUT of fluffed. Cucumbers, TTJ)ARE fix large cucumbers, fcoop out the feeds H at one end, blanch them in a fauce-pan of boiling water, take them out and feafon them with pepper, fait, and mace, and fluff them with fome veal force-meat, and fome flices of ham cut in dice ; lay them into a flew-pan fiieeted with lome fat ba- con,—lay in your cucumbers, with two or three onions cut in flices, with a flice of veal and ham, put to it fome gravy, and fet it to flew gently; when tender, take them out, and put them in your jdifh, flrain your liquor, and fkim off the fat,— thicken it up with a little butter and flour, fqueeze in a little juice of lemon, and ferve it up hot.—It will be a genteel fecond courfe difh. To boll TRUFFLES. LEAN your truffles with a brulh, and wafli them clean with water, put them into a fauce- pan that will juft hold them, fill them up with half water and half white-wine, and a little pepper and frit, let them boil for one hour, then put a folded napkin in a difh, put your truffles in it, and fervu them up hot. TUR F.( 195 ) TRUFFLES the Italian Way. ARE and cut your truffles in dices, with a mufhroom cut, and a bunch of fweet herbs,— feafon them with pepper and fait, put them into a' dew-pan with a piece of butter, give them a tofs over the fire, moiden them with tome gravy, add a glafs of Champaign, let it hand for twenty mi- nutes, fqueeze in a little juice of lemon, and ferve ; them up hot for a fecond courfe. TAKE fome of the beft white endive, wafh it clean and blanch it in boiling water, fqueeze the water from it, and fflred it; put it into a dew-pan with fome gravy and a dice of ham, let it dew for fifteen minutes, feafon it with pepper and fait to your tade, and ferve it up hot for a little diffl, or under road mutton or veal. WA S IT, blanch, and fhred your endive as above, put it into a dew-pan with a lump of butter, and feafon it with a little pepper and fait, and fry it for ten minutes over the fire, din ing . it all the time ; moidcn it with a little broth, juft let it dimmer, and fkim oft the fat, add the yolks of two eggs mixed with a little cream, juft let it fim- mer, and ferve it up hot for a little diffl, or under larded collops or veal cutlets. RAGOUT of Endive. Another Way. B b 2 Ts( *96 ) To boil ARTICHOK E S. TAKE fix middle-fized artichokes, not too old, brc.ak off the ffalks, draw out the firings from the bottoms, cut a bit off the top of the leaves, put them in water, wafii them well, boil them in hard water till the leaves will come off eafily ; take them up carefully, and let them drain upon a fieve, difh them up, and ferve them up hot with fome melted butter in a boat. To fry ARTICHOKES. i UT fix artichokes into eight pieces each, take out the chokes and infide leaves, leaving on two outfide leaves, wafh them clean, lay them on a fieve to drain, and* make a batter for them as follows:—Take a little flour, one egg, a fpoonfull of vinegar, and a little fmall-beer, temper it up to a nice fmooth batter, but not too thin, dip your ar- tichokes in it, and fry them in hot hog’s lard of a nice light brown,—--difh them up with fome gravy and butter, and a fpoonfull of vinegar in a boat, and ferve them up hot for a fccond coigrfe difh. BO I L ten artichokes, take off the leaves and chokes, put them in an earthen difh, fprinkie them with a little vinegar, pepper, fait, and an onion fliced; let them lie for two hours to give Another Way. then).( 197 ) •them a flavour, then take them from the onions, and wipe them dry.;, make a batter for them of one egg, a little flour, a fpoonfull of oil, and a little ^mall-beer,—let your batter be ftiff, dip m your artichokes, and fry them in hot hog’s lard, or butter, let them be crii'p, and of a nice brown, dim them up with fome gravy and butter, and a little juice of lemon under them, or in a boat, and ferve them up hot. ARTICHOKES the Italian Way. TAKE fix artichokes, cut off a little of the top of the leaves, boil them till they are tender, take out the choke, and leave on all the outfide leaves ; take a little parfley, green onions, and fwcet herbs Hired fine, with a little pepper and fait, juft give it a tofs over the fire, and put to it a little good gravy, a fpoonfull of vinegar, and a little juice of a lemon ; put in your artichokes, let them fimmer for a few minutes to give them a good flavour, take them carefully out with a flice, lay them in your difh, pour the fauce over them,, and ferve them up hot for a fecond courfe, To Jlew PEASE. TAlKE a quart of pcafe, put them into a flew* pan with an onion and fome cabbage lettuce fhred, a few pepper-corns, a blade or two of mace, and a bunch of fweet herbs,; fet it on a flow fire( 198 ) I fire to fiew, moificn it with a little boiling water, and let it Rcw till tender; add a little pepper and fait to your taRe, with a little gravy, and a piece of butter and Hour to thicken it, give them a tofs, put them in your difh with fome Rices of bacon fried and put round them, and ferve them up hot for a fide difli. Another Way. PT^AKE a quart of young peafe, waRi them, JL and put them in a Rew-pan with fome but- ter, two cabbage lettuces cut fmall, two onions, with a bunch of fweet herbs; fet them on the fire, and give them a tofs, adding to them one pint of water and a piece of lump fugar; let them Rew till they are tender, add a little gravy, and the yolks ot two eggs mixed with a little cream, with pepper and fait to your taRe,—let it fimmer, but not boil, put them into your difli, and ferve them up hot for a fecond courfe. To preferve Green PEASE to keep all the Tear. TAKE fome green peafe, not too young nor too old, fhell them, put them into a Aew-pan with, fome butter, and a little pepper and fait, give them a tofs now and then for ten minutes, put to them fome hard water, and let them boil for five mi- nutes, adding to them a bit of lump fugar; take them ofi, and put them into wide-mouthed bottles while( W > while they arc warm,—let them fwim in their li- quor, pour over fome clarified butter to keep them down, cork them clofe down, cut off the top of the cork, and rofin them;—when you life them, draw the cork, take off the butter, ftrain them from the liquor, and fet on fome hard water; when it boils, put them in with a fprig of mint, boil - them till .they are tender, put them into a ftew-pan with a piece of blitter, give them a tofs over the fire, and ierve them up hot. To preferve Green PEASE another Way. PLUCK your peafe when the weather is dry, (hell them, and put them into dry wide- mouthed bottles, cork them clofe, and wax them over, tie them clofe down with a bladder, and keep them in a cool dry place. . Another. Way. SHELL a quantity of nice green peafe, give them a boil in a fmall quantity of hard water, pound the peafe fhells in a mortar, and put to it the liquor the peafe were boiled in, ftrain it through a fieve into a ftew-pan, fqueeze what juice you can from the flieils, fet it on the fire to boil, with a handful of fait and a piece of fugar; fill your bottles with peafe, and pour in the liquor; when cold, pour over them fome clarified butter, or l inded fuet; cork them tight down, rofin them over,.( 200 ) over* cover them with a bladder and leather, and keep them in a dry cool place;—when you uie them, boil them in hard water, with a fprig of mint, when boiled, tofs them up with a lump of butter and flour, ferve them up hot. To preferHe KIDNEY-BEANS. IET your kidney-beans be gathered quite dry,* lay in the bottom of a (lone jar fome fait, then a layer of beans, and fait alternately, till your jar is full,—put them on a piece of thin flate to keep them down, cover them with a piece of a bladder and leather, tie them tight down, and keep them in a cool dry place;—when you intend to ufe' them, put them in water for twenty-four hours to take out the fait, cut them (mail, boil them, and ferve them up. To preferve ARTICHOKES throughout the Tear. f |rn A K E four dozen of artichokes, cut off the leaves, boil them till you can take out the chokes, put them into a ftew-pan with fome clean' water as you do them; when you have done them all, fet your ftew-pan upon the fire, with a large handful of fait, a little vinegar, the juice of a le- mon, and fome beef fuet; let it boil for ten mi- nutes, and let your brine be pretty fait,—put them into a jar that will juft hold them, with a piece of J flatsHate to keep them down; put in the liquor, pour over them fome rinded mutton fuet, tie them clofe down with a bladder and fome leather, and keep them in a cool dry place ; when you ufe them, foke them in warm water for twenty hours. To dry ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS. PARE off the leaves of a quantity of artichokes, boil them till you can take out the chokes, then firing them with pack-thread and a needle, hang them in a kitchen to dry, or in a flow oven. When you would ufe them, foke them all night in warm water, then boil them, and ferve them nip I hot with gravy and butter, and a little juice of lc- i mon ; or as directed in the receipts. To fcollop POTATOES. BOIL your potatoes, peel them, beat them fine with fome good cream, and a lump of butter, | pepper and fait to your tafte ; butter your fcollop- j fhells, put in your potatoes, fmooth them with a fpdon, and fcore them in dice,—lay flices of butter ; upon the top, fet them in a tin oven to brown be- fore the fire,— when done, put them in a difh, and ferve them up hot.( 202 ) To fn coffee POTATOES. 13 ARE twelve potatoes very round and neat, JL make a little hole in the middle of each of them, fet them to boil in a little milk and water, but do not let them break; when done, put them in a china difii, and pour over them half a.pint of thick cream fimmered up with a little butter and flour, and the yolks of two eggs, white pepper and fait to your take; ferve them up hot for fupper. PARE as many potatoes as will make a difh, cut them in the fhape of hearts or diamonds not too thick, fry them in mutton dripping of a nice brown, and difii them up neatly. ENTRY of Wi nds o r-B e a n s✓ OIL three pints of Windfor-beans in hard wa- ter till tender, drain them on a lieve and take off the fkins ; put them in a ffew-pan, with a lump- of butter, flrew on them a little flour and a little pepper and fait, ftir them over the fire for five mi- nutes, put to them a little broth, the yolk of an egg mixed with a little cream, and a little parfley Hired fine,—fet them over the fire to fimmer, but not boil, fhaking them all the time; put them in your difii, garnifli them with flices of bacon broiled, and ferve them up hot for a fide difii. To fry POTATOES. E N-( 203 ) ENTRY of K i d n e y-B e a h s. r TAKE off the filings of young kidney-beans, cut them in fmall long flices, boil them in hard water and fait till tender, drain them, put them into a ftew-pan with a piece of butter and flour, and pepper and fait to your tafte; give them a tofs over the fire, and when quite hot, ferve them up for a fecond courfe, COLLIFLOWER with Gravy. WASH your colliflowers clean, boil them till near tender, put them into a ftew-pan with fome good gravy, a little pepper and fait, and a tea-fpoon full of vinegar ; let it iimmer for a few minutes, add a piece of butter and flour, give it a lhake over the ftove,—when it fimmers, put it in your difli, and 'ferve it up hot for a fide difh. You may ferve broccoli tne fame way. * \ 1Tj drefs CARDOONS. C^XJT your cardoons three inches long, fet them /I on to boil in fome hard water, with a piece ot fuet, a little vinegar, and a ftice of lemon ; let them boil till tender, take them out and pick oft the lti ings and fkins, put them into a ftew-pan with fome( 204 ) white gravy, and a (lice of ham and veal; let them ftew half an hour, then take out the veal and ham, adding a lump of butter and flour, with pepper and fait to your tafte, and a tea-cup full of cream; let them juft dimmer, and farve them up hot—You may leave out the cream for a change. SPINAGE and CREAM. T^ICK fome fpinage, and wafh it clean, fet it to Jl boil in fome hard water for ten minutes, drain and fqueeze the water from it, fhred it fine, put it into a ftew-pan with half a pint of thick cream, a little pepper, fait, and nutmeg, and fet it over the fire to ftew ; add to it a piece of butter and flour, give it a tofs over the fire, put it into a difh, gar- nifh it with fried bread, and ferve it up hot for a fecon'd courfe, SPINAGE in fried Bread. CUT eight pieces of bread one inch thick, pare : them in the fhape of a heart, fry them crifp and of a light brown ; make a hole in one fide of the heart, pick out the crumbs, but be careful not to break the outiide ; have your fpinage boiled and fhred, put it in a ftew-pan with a piece of butter, a fpoonfull of gravy, pepper and fait to your tafte, make it hot, and with a tea-fpoon put the fpinage into the hearts,—difh them up neatly, and ferve them up for a fecond courfe. S P I-(> 205 ) SPIN A G E and poached EGGS. PREPARE your fpinage as above,—when boil- ed, hired it a little, put it into a flew-pail with a. little n'ravy, pepper and la.lt, and a piece of but- ter ; ftew it for ten minutes, and order your eggs as follows ;—have a ftew-pan ready with fome boil- ed water, a fpoonfull of vinegar, and a little fait; then bleak in fix eggs, let them boil for one mi- nute, then lay your fpinage in a difh, take your eggs carefully up and lay upon it, and ferve it up hot for a fide difh. To drefs EGGS and ONIONS. Tpr, EEL fix onions, and cut them in dice, put jp them in a ftew-pan with a lump of butter, fry them brown, and duft in fome flour, add half a pint of gravy, pepper and fait to your tafte, and let them firnmer for fifteen minutes ; have ready eight hard eggs, cut them in quarters the long way, lay them neatly in your difh, pour your fauce over them, and ferve them up hot. To drefs EGGS and ENDIVE. JjOIL your endive in water till tender, drain 5 and drels it, put it in a ftew-pan with a little gravy, pepper, fait, and a bunch of fweet herbs j let it flew for twelve minutes over the fire; add to it( 206 ) it a piece of butter and flour, give it a tofs, take out the herbs, put your endive in a difli, fry or poach your eggs in butter of a nice brown, pare them neatly, lay them on your endive, and ferve them up hot. EGGS and GRAVY. V POACH feme new-laid eggs in boiling water, lay them neatly in your difli, put fome gravy in a ftew-pan, with a tea-fpoon full of vinegar, a little pepper, fait, and nutmeg, let it boil, pour it Over your eggs, and ferve them up hot. To butter EGGS. BREAK eight eggs into a ftew-pan, add to them a tea-cup full of cream, the fame of gravy, a little pepper, fait, and nutmeg, and a quarter of a pound of butter ; beat them a little, let them on the fire, and ftir them all' the time till they grow thick ; lay a buttered toaft in your difli, pour the eggs over it, and ferve it up hot. EGGS the P ruffian Way. % • TAKE a {mall deep difli, put into it fix ounces of butter, and make it hot over a ftove, break in eight esgs, and drew over them Come crumbs of bread, and put them into an oven to brown when done, pour fome thickened gravy round them, and ferve them up hot. „ -C 207 ) EGGS and CELLERY, • j TAKE five heads of cellery, the whiteft you can get, boil them in water with a little flour and a bit of fuet, to make them white; when they are tender, take them out and drain them, cut them in ilices, and put them into a ftew-pan with two tea- cups full of gravy, a lump of butter and flour, half a tea-fpoon full of vinegar, and a little pepper and fait; let it fimmer for fifteen minutes, ftirring it all the time,—put it into your difh, with fome poach- ed eggs over it,- and ferve it up hot. EGGS with L E T T I C E; BOIL fix cabbage lettices in water for ten mi- nutes, take them up, and drain them, put them in a ftew-pan with a piece of butter, pepper, fait, and fweet herbs, and let it fimmer flowly for ten minutes ; add to them a little broth or gravy, duft in a little flour, take off the fat, let it fimmer ^ little, and put it in your difh ; have ready the eggs- fried in butter, pare them neatly, and lay them over your lettiee.- EGGS and CREAM. BOIL ten eggs hard, take the yolks, pound them in a mortar with a piece of fugar the bignefs of a large nutmeg, and a little nutmeg grated; add thet (' ) the yolks orthrec eggs to bind them, make them up with fomc flour into fmall balls, the fize of a nut- meg ; then put half apint of cream into a ftew-pan, with a piece of butter and flour,—let it boil for five minutes, ftirring it all the time; put in your eggs, with as much fugar as will Sweeten it to your take, let them fimmer for four minutes, keep tolling them, pour them in your difh, and ferve them up hot for a fecond courfe. To marinate EGGS. POx\CH fome eggs in boiling water, pare them neatly, lay them in the difh in which you in- tend to ferve them, ana make a fauce for them as follows Put a little water in a ftew-pan, with a little gravy, a tea-fpoon full of vinegar, pepper and fait, and the yolks of two eggs,—ftir it over the fire till it begins to thicken, (but let it not boil) and pour it over your eggs; when it is cold, put fome fprigs of cold parfley and rofemary over them, and ferve them up for a fecond courfe. • To fricajfee EGGS. I* OIL your eggs pretty hard, cut them in round flices, lay them in your difh, and make a fauce for them as follows:—Put fome white gravy in a ftew-pan with a (lice of ham, two or three blades of mace, a tea-fpoon full of vinegar, add a little butter( 209 ) 2nd flour, fet it over tlie fire to boil for ten minutes, then add a tea-cup full of cream, mixed with the yolks of two eggs; let it fimmer, pour it over your eggs, and ferve it up hot. i To make MUSHROOM POWDER. "T3 EEL fome of tne thickeft large buttons A you can get, cut off the root end, but do not wafli them; fpread them thin on pewter dtflics, and fet them in a flow oven to dry ; let them continue in the oven till they will powder, then beat them in a marble mortar, and lift them through a fine fieve, with a little mace,-nutmeg and cloves pounded, and a little Cayen pepper,—bottle it, and keep it in a dry place. Another Way. TA K E one pound of mufliroom buttons, fet them in the oven to dry on pewter diflies; take half a pound of morels, and half a pound of truffles, and fet them to dry in the oven alfo; wnen they will powder, beat them in a mortar to- gether, and lift them through a fine fieve, add to it a little Cayen pepper, put it in bottles, and keep it in a dry place for ufe. This powder may be ufed in lift fauce, pies, and and all forts of ragouts. Dd Observations( 210 ) Observations on PIES and TARTS. AL L pies require a quick oven. Raifed pies re- quire to be made the night before they are baked, or they will fall-in the oven;—you muft put very little gravy in them, or it will force out, or crack the Tides of the pie ; but you mull warm your gravy, and pour it in when they come from the oven. PurF-pafte requires a quickifh oven, but not too hot, or it will burn it,—and in a flow oven it will not rife, but become fad. Tarts that are iced require a flow oven, as they are generally made of fugar pafte; if you put them into a quick oven, it will brown them before they be half baked:—But the bed way is to bake thofe tarta fil'd, then ice them, and put them into the oven for fifteen minutes to dry the icing,—then you will get it of a good colour; but if you rse them befoie they are baked, the icing will be too brown. Ti make F 0 R C E M E A T ■ B A L L Sv AKE half a pound of veal off the leg, chop it fine, add half a pound of beef fuet, foine parfley and thyme, a- little fweet majoram, chop them all very fine by themfelves, then mix them tc- o-ether with fome pepper, fait, mace, nutmeg, a few crumbs of bread, and three eggs, leaving out two whites; make them into balls, not big, and fry them in butter of a light brown.( 2M ) S l To make PUFF -PASTE. x * ^ i % TxVKE a pound of flour, make*a hole in the middle, break in one egg, add two ounces of butter, and as much water as will make it into a pafte; roll it out, and lay on it fourteen ounces of butter, and dull on a little flour,—wrap it up, and roll it out gradually,—wrap it up again, and let it lie a little; then roll it out for ufe, as your receipts direct. L I G H T PASTE. MAKE a pound of flour into pafte with cold water, then roll it thin out, and lay on it twelve ounces of butter, dull on it fome flour, w^ap it up, and roll it out gradually that the but- ter may mix, then duft on fome flour, and wrap it Up again, then roll it out for ufe as your receipts direct, for tarts, cheefe-cakes, pudding dilhes, fee. COLD PASTE for all Sorts of dlfhed Pies. TAKE two pounds of flour, make a hole in the middle, put in one pound of butter, and a little water, make it into a pafte, but do not work it much,—then roll it out, dull on fome flour, wrap it up again, and roll it out for ufe. D d 2 AnotherC 212 ) Another Way. UB fix ounces of butter into two pounds of flour, add to it one egg, and as much water as will make it into a pafte; roll it out, lay on it fifteen ounces of butter, with a little- flour, and roll it out twice for ufe.. To make CROCANT PASTE. ^AKE one pound ot flour, and three ounces of loaf-fugar beaten, make a hole in the middle, put in one fpoonfull or rofe-water, and as many yolks of eggs as will make it into a ftiff pafte; put it into a mortar, and beat it for half an hour; tnen roll it out thin, butter your crocant pans, and lay it on,—cut it in diamonds, or flowers, or in what form you pleafe; bake it in a flow oven, and ferve it up over fweet-meats. Tars pafte may be made into feveral ornaments for a fecond courfe; as muflirooms, artichokes, baskets, oval and round, heii and chickens. Sec. To make SUGAR PAS T E for Tarts. RUB fix ounces of butter into one pound of flour, with two ounces of fugar, two yolks of eggs, and a little water or milk; make it into a paitc, roll it pretty thin^ and fliect your tarts with it;( 2I3 ) it; when they ere made, bake them in a flow oven;—when done, ice them over the top as fol- lows :—Beat the white of an egg a little, do it over the top'with a paftry-brufh, dull on a little fine fugar, then fprinkle on a little water, dull on a lit tie more fugar, fet it in the oven for a quarter or an hour to dry, and it will look like ice, HOT PASTE for a Gcofe Pie. npAKE fix teen pounds of fine flour, make a jL hole in the middle,—then put four pounds and a half of butter in a fauce-pan, with two quarts of water and one pound of rinded fuet, fet it on the fire to boil, then put it into your flour, and make it into a fluff pafle; let it cool a little, then ufe it as your receipts direct HOT P AS TE for all Sorts of raifed Pin. TV/TAKE a hoIe in the middle of two pounds of TV A flour,—boil half a pound of butter in a little water, pour it into your flour, make it into a fliff Palte, let it cool a little, and then raife your pies. TARTELETS, iQHEcH fome fmall pitty-patty pans with light io--sP^’CVPlit m a lktIc fweet-meat of different •’ Crofs thcm °Vcr the top in diamonds with fmall( > fmall rolls of pafte, or in pretty fprigs, or flowers; bake them in a good oven to raife the pafte;—- when done, daft on fame fine fugar, and glaze them with a red hot fire fhovel, and ferve them up for a fide or corner diflj in a fecond courfe, or for fupper. An open T A R T. PUT a bottle of crane-berries into a preferving- pan, with half a pound of fine Lifbon fugar, boil them for twenty minutes, and fet them to cool then fheet your baking-pan with light pafte, not'very thick, nor muft it be thin; then put in your crane-berries, and nick it neatly round the 'edge ; then cut out fome bars of pafte with a pair of jiggin-irons, crofs your tart each way in fmall diamonds, and put a bar of pafte round the fide of your tart, to hide the ends of the crofs bars; fpriukle on fome fugar, bake it in a good oven> then take it out of the baking-pan, and put it in a .china difti. f PUTS de MORE. CUT ten pieces of puff-pafte; pare them in the form of half a large heart, and cut one piece round; fcore them round the top with a pen- knike, a little from the edge, wafli them over with ginan egg, and bake them in a quick oven to raife the' pafte; when done, put them in a difti, with the ; narrow points in the middle, and the round piece on the top,—put down the middle of each piece of pafte with your thumb, and lay a little fweet- •meat of different forts on each piece* (it. will look very pretty if neatly made) and ferve it up for a fccond' courfe.- You may cut them in diamonds1 or half moons. Another Way. I/f^UT fome puff-pafte one inch and a half fqirafe,* put a piece of fweet-meat on the top, raife the edge up a little round it, croft it over with one' fmall roll each way, then bake them in a good oven to raife the pafte, and ferve them up for s* hde or corner difh in a feco.nd courfe. Another W a ¥,■ ROLL fome fine puff-pafte pretty thin, cut it round the ftze of a china plate; roll out fome more pafte, and cut another round one inchfmaller than the firft;—'roll out more pafte, and cut three rounds, each round one inch fmaller than the ether; feallop them round the edges, put them on tins, wafti them over with eggs, and-bake them fur fifteen minutes ; when done, lay the largeft in( 2\6 ) the difh, fpread over it fome currant jelly, and then the next fize on the top, and fpread over it fome rafp-jams, and then the next fize, and fpread on it fome apricot marmalet,—and fo on, till the live rounds are on, one above another, and fcrve it up for the middle of a fecond courfe. RASPBERRY PUFFS. ROLL out fome puff-pafte, cut it in pieces three inches fquare, put- on a little rafp-jam, wet it round the edges, and clofe up-the one half over the other, do it over with egg, and bake them of a nice brown; feven are enough for a dilh;^-and ferve them up for a fecond courfe, or for fupper. A SNAILL FI OUSE. ROLL out fome light pafte, one yard and a half in length, and three inches broad, wet the fides of the pafte with a little water, putin it fome currant jelly or rafp-jam, clofe it well together to keep in the fvveet-meat, and let it be long and round like a faufage;—butter a flieet of paper and lay it on a tin, turn the roll of pafte round on it, in the form of a fnail’s houfe,—do it over with beaten eggs, ftrew it over with fine fugar, put a piece of butter- ed paper round it, to keep it in the form you put it in,( 2I7 ) • ' i j ■ ',. • i . y . in, and bake it of a nice brown ; when clone, glaze it with a filamandcr, put it carefully in a diffif with fome currant jelly round it, and ferve it up for the middle of a fecohd courfe, or for fupper. A green CODLING PIE. r | '’AKE twelve green codlings, put them into & Ji_ brafs pan with as much hard-water as will cover them, with vine leaves under and over, and add a bit of allum; cover them clofe down* that no fleam may get out, and fet theni over a flow fire; when they are foft, take them up, and peel off the fkin, <md return them into the fame water with the vine leaves; hang them over a flow fire at twelve inches diflance, till they are greeh * then take them out of the water, and put them into a deep difh with as much loaf-fugar as will fweeTen it; lid it with puffpafle, and bake it.— When it comes from the oven, take off the lid, cut it in pieces like fippets, and flick them round the infide of the pie, with the points upwards, then pour over your codlings a good cuflard made thus i Boil a pint of cream with a flick of cinnamon,’ and let it hand till cold; add the yolks of four eggs well beaten, and as much fugar as will fweet- en it; fet it on the fire, keep flirririg it all the time till it grows thick, (taking care not to let it boil, or it will curdle) then pour it over your pie, and when cold ferve it up for a fecond courfe. E e * MINCE( 213 )\ MI NCE P I E ME A T. BOIL a frefli beef tongue two hours, and fkin it ; when it is cold, mince it very fine ; to one pound of this meat put one pound and a half of beef fuet hired very fine, two pounds of currants \Valhed very clean, one pound of rafins honed and chopt a little, fix apples chopt very fine, and as much fugar as will fweeten it to your tafte; add one pound of citron and orange peel, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, cloves, and mace, mix it all well together with one gill of brandy, and one pint of fweet wine,—put it clofe down in a mug, and cover it over with a paper. When you want to ufe it, fheet your pans with light pafte, fill them up with the above meat, and a fpoonful of red- wine; cover the pies, and bake them twenty mi- nutes. When you want to ufe your meat, put a fpoon down to the bottom, and take an equal quan- tity from the bottom with the top,—for the juice generally fettles to the bottom. k * MINCE PIE MEAT with Apples. PAFtE, core, and chop very fine one pound and a half of apples, one pound and a half of beef fuet, two pounds of currants wafhed clean and dried, and one pound and a half of loaf-fugar lifted ; cut fmall half a pound of orange and citron( 2I9 0 .peel, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, eight cloves, one nutmeg, and a quarter of a pint of French brandy,—mix it all well together, put it clofe down in a pot, and keep it for ufe, A CHICKEN PIE in -July. LEAN and pick three chickens, cut them in pieces as you do for a fricaffee, feafon them with pepper, fait, and mace; have ready a coffin neatly made of hot pafte, put in the chickens with a little broth, ornament it, and fet it in the oven to bake for two hours. While it is baking, get ready half a pint of green pcafe, boil them tender,—boil half a pint of cream for ten minutes, then throw in the peafe with a piece of butter and hour, a little fait, and nutmeg,—let it fimmer five minutes, then raife up the lid of the pie, and pour it in, add a little juice of lemon, and ferve it up. I ' . You may make a rabbit pie in the fame manner as above. CLEAN and pick three chickens, cut them in pieces, feafon them with pepper, fait, and mace; ffieet your difii with light pahe, lay in the chickens with a little force-meat, a little butter and gravy, clofe it up, and bake it an hour and a half. A CHICKEN PIE. E e % Another( 220 ) Another Way. « fTT^AKE two chickens, let them be drawn and made clean, cut them in pieces, feafon them with pepper, fait, and mace; raife a neat coffin for it, lay in the chickens with a pound of ham cut in flices, and fome butter,—-dole it up, and bake it ‘two hours. You may ferve it up either hob or cold. If you ferve it up hot, put in half a pint of gravy:—-if cold, pour in half a pound of clarified butter. CAL FIt HEAD R I E. rr^AKE a calf’s head with the {kin on, feald it, iL take the hair clean off it, fplit and waffi it, ■pad boil it till tender;, cut the meat clean off the bone as big as a walnut, put it into a ftew-pan with one quart of gravy, half an anchovy, two o-laffes of Madeira wine, a little Cayen, beaten mace, and cloves, a dozen force-meat balls, and a little foy or catchup; let it fimmer for half an hour; put to it a piece of butter and flour, fqueeze in a little lemon juice,—have ready a deep diffi fheeted with light pafte, put in as many of the bones of the calf’s head as will fill it, apd a little broth or water, to five your diffi; .lid it with light pafte, and mark it neatly round the edges; bake it in a fharp oven till the pafte is enough; take it out, and cut the lid round within the run of your diffi, \ia <- " * " taiceI 1 Jl take out the bones, and let your liafh be quite hot and well feafoned with pepper and fait; put your hath into the difh, lay the lid on it, and ferve it up hot. This is a genteel difh for a firfi: courfe. VEAL PIE. /^UT fome flices off a fillet of veal, hack them with the back of a knife, wafh them over with the yolk of an egg, let them be all of a fize, feafon them with pepper, fait, nutmegs, thyme, and parfley Hired, crumb them with bread, and roll them up like little collars ; flieet your difh with light pafte, lay in your veal with the yolk of an egg be-' tween every roll; break on the top a quarter of a pound of butter, add to it a little broth or gravy, and duft on a little flour, lid it, and bake it in a fliarp oven for three quarters of an hour, or more if it is a large one; then make a fauce for it as follows: J Boil a few afparagus heads tender, put them in a ftew-pan with a little gravy, a few pickled mufli- rooms and force-meat balls, let it fimmer for fif- teen minutes, raife up the lid of your pie, and pour it in.( 222 ) J V E A E PIE another way. CUT the beft end of a neck of veal in {leaks, feafon them with pepper, ialt, mace, and nut- meg a little parfley, thyme, and three muflirooms; fheet your difti with light pafte, lay in your {leaks with foinc butter on the top, duft on a little flour, and put in a little broth; cl.ofe up your pie, orna- ment it, bake it one hour and a half in a quick oven; when done, raife up the lid, put in fome good gravy, and ferve it up hot for a firft courfe. • • $ I A fiveet VEAL P I it. CUT the beft: end of a neck of veal into {leaks, feafon it with pepper, fait, and mace, fheet your difti with light pafte, lay in your {leaks with half a pound of currants waftied clean, and a few jar rafins ftoned ; lay fix ounces of butter on the top, a little citron and orange peel, cover it over with light pafte, bake and ornament it. When n comes from the oven, put in half a pint of white gravy, and a glafs of white wine.—One hour and a half will bake it. A raifed facet PIE, GUT the beft end of a neck of veal, ftafon it as above, have ready a coffin made hot pafte, lay in your {leaks with a quartei o . jxrnnd of currants waftied clean, a quaiter^o.( 223 ) / pound of jar raifins ftoned, a good dice of butter and half a pint of veal gravy; cover it up, and or- nament it.—bind it round with paper, to keep it from falling, bake it two hours, and ferve it up either hot or cold.' A PIE of larded C O L L O P Sr . .. . . • ^ |"s A K E fome flices of a leg of veal, and lard them neatly in rows ; feafon them with pep- per, fait, and mace,—fheet your dilh with light paite, lay in your collops, with the udder of veal cut in flices and laid round them; put fome butter on the top, and a little gravy in it, clofe it up, ornament it, then bake it for one hour and a . half. When done, raife up the lid, put in fomecul- Jis or gravy, and ferve it up for a corner difli in a llrft courfe eel pie.- CAKIN', gut, and clean your eels well, cut them in! ^ pieces the length of your finger, feafon themf with pepper, fait, and mace,—fheet' your dilli with light pafte, lay in your eels, with fome butter, one anchovy, one glafs of Madeira wine, and a little good gi avy; clofe it up, and one hour will bake A in a quick oven.' HARE'( 224 ) HARE PIE* CUT your hare in little pieces, feafon it with mace, nutmeg, pepper and fait; fhect your dilh with pafte, lay in the hare with half a pound of butter, one glafs of Port wine, and a little gravy; clofe it up, and bake it two hours. . • A RABBIT PIE. I % , CUT two rabbits in pieces, feafon them with pep- per, fait, and mace, roll out a fheet of pafte, put it in your difh,lay in the rabbits, with a little gravy, butter, and a few bars of bacon on the top ; clofe it up, ornament it^ and bake it one hour and a half. Take it out of the baking-pan, and put it on a china difli; cut a hole in the top, and pour in half a pint of cullis, with two handfuls of afpa- fagus peafe boiled tender,—give the pie a fliake to mix the fauce, and ferve it up for the firft courfe. You may make a chicken pie the fame way. A GOOSE PIE. - \ 4 J TAKE a goo'fe, a turkey, a fowl, a duck, and a hare, and bone them, feafon them with pepper, fait, mace, cloves, nutmeg, and a little faltpetre; let them lie for two nights, then make ready fome good hot pafte, raife a,coffin for them neatly, lay in , . a’( 225 ) A F f a cold boiled tongue., with all the above things, one in another, with the goofe over all the reft; put in one pound of butter, clofe up your pie, ornament it neatly, and bake it for four hours in a foaking hot oven. When done, clarify a pound of butter and pour in at the top. Serve it up cold. EILL your goofe, fave the blood in a bafon, ftir in a tea-cup full of oat-meal, and as much grated white bread, a little pepper, fait, and nut- meg, half a pound of beef fuet Hired very fine, with a little dried mint, penny-royal, thyme, and fvveet marjoram, mixed all well together, with the yolks of two eggs, and a tea-cup full of cream ;— then have ready the fkin of the neck of the goofe, made very clean, fill it with the pudding, lay it into a deep difh fhected with light pafte, with your giblets, feafoned with pepper and fait ; lay fome butter on the top of them, add half a pint of gravy, clofe up your pie, and bake it two hours. UT the beff end of a neck or loin of mutton into chops, feafon them with pepper, fait, a little parfley, and thyme ; fheet your difh with light pafte, lay in your chops with a little broth, clofe it up, and bake it one hour and a half;—when done, put in fome gravy, and ferve it up hot for a frit courfe, ji A G I B L E T PIE. A MUTTON PIE.(• 22 6 ) A LOBSTER PIE. rTPAKE two boiled lobfiers, pick out the meat as whole as you can, feafon it with pepper, fait, and mace ; Ilieet a difih with puff-pafte, lay in your lobfters with twenty large oyfters, and a gill of flirimps picked and wafhed clean, a few crumbs of bread, and fix ounces of butter —make a force- meat of ten oyfters, a little fuet, two anchovies Hired, and a few crumbs of bread,—mix it well to- gether with a little pepper and fait, and the yolks of two eggs; make them into a dozen balls, and put them into the pie, with the oyfter liquor, and half a pint of gravy; cover it, ornament it, and bake it three quarters of an hour ; then ferve it up hot for a fide or corner difh in a firft courfe. A T U R B O T PIE. TAKE fome cold boiled turbot, cut it in flices three inches long and two inches broad, fea- fon it with pepper, fait, and nutmeg ; two mufli- roomSj parfley, and thyme Hired fine ; fheet a diflr with light pafte, lay in your fiflr with fix ounces of butter and a little gravy ; cover it up, ornament it, and bake it three quarters of an hour. Make a force-meat of ten oyllers, a few flirimps, and fome crumbs of bread ; feafon it with pepper, fait, and mace, chop it fine, and mix it with the yolks of two{ 227 ) F f a A two eggs ; make it into balls, and fry them brown in butter, put them in a ftew-pan with fome gra- vy, the tail of a lobfter cut in dice, one anchovy, a little catchup and lemon juice, thicken it up with a piece of butter and flour, let it juft boil,—when the pie is baked, take off the lid, pour in the fauce, and ferve it up hot for a firft courfe. CALF; FEET PI E. BOIL three calf’s feet till they are tender, take out the bones, cut them in little pieces as big as half a crown, feafon them with mace and cloves, a little pepper and falc; flieet your difli with light pafte, lay in your meat with a quarter of a pound of jar raifins ftoned, a quarter of a pound of cur- rants walked, a gill of red wine, a little fuet Aired, and fome orange and citron peel; clofe in your difh, and bake it one hour ; when done, pour in a little gravy at the top, and ferve it up hot for a firft courfe. CALF; FEET PIE another Way. "OOIL two calf’s feet till tender, take out the —^ bones and chop them very fine, add half a pound of beef fuet flared line, half a pound of cur- rants, half a pound of raifins ftoned, fome fugar and fpice, a little red-wine, and fome orange peel; mix all well together; flieet your difli with light pafte, put in the meat, clofe it up, ornament it, and bake it one hour in a quick oven.( 228 ) V A Raifed BEEF-STEAK PIE. EAT fix rump-fteaks very well with the rol- ling-pin, feafon them with pepper and fait, and three lhalots chopt fine'; have ready a raifed coffin of pafle that will juft hold them, lay in your fte iks, with a quarter of a pound of butter on the top, and half a pint of gravy; clofe it up, orna- ment it, bake it two hours, and ferve it up for 'the middle of the table in a firft courfe. r|pAKE a breaft or a neck of lamb, cut it in Jf pieces about the bignefs of a crown piece, feafon it with mace, a little pepper and fait; flieet your difh with pafte, lay in the lamb with a few oyfters, fome cock’s (tones and combs, and a piece of butter ; then clofe it up, and bake it one hour and a half. Take it out, cut a hole in the top, put in half a pint of cullis, with force-meat balls and made eggs ftewed in it, and ferve it up for a firft courfe. PICK, draw, and finge fix pigeons, feafon them with pepper and fait, chop the livers with a little fat bacon, thyme and parfiey, put a piece into every pigeon, lay them into a difli fheeted with A FRENCH PIE. A PIGEON PIE. light \( 229 ) light pafte, with half a dozen hard yolks of ego-s fix artichoke bottoms boiled tender, and fix ounces of butter, fprinkle on a little flour, add fome gravy, clofe up the pie, and bake it one hour and a half. ICK four pheafants clean, draw them, tuck in their legs as for boiling, feafon them with cloves, mace, nutmeg, black pepper, and fait ; flew one dozen of truffles for two hours ; while they are cooling, make a coffin of hot pafte, put in your pheafants and truffles, with two pounds of butter, one pound and a half of veal force-meat, and a few thin flices of bacon over the top of your pheafants ; clofe up your pie, ornament it neatly, do it over with egg, and bake it three hours; when it comes from the oven, put in a pound of clarified butter, and ferve it up cold. A TURKEY PIE. RAISE a coffin neatly of hot pafle, bone your turkey, feafon it with favoury fpices, add one pound of ham cut in flices, and a little force-meat, a little gravy, and half a pound of better ; clofe up the pie, ornament it, and fet it in the oven, where two hours will bake it. A PEREGOE PIE. Another( 230 ) I Another Way. RAISE a coffin for it as above, and cut your turkey up as for eating ; feafon it with pep- per, fait, mace, cloves, and nutmeg, lay it in the coffin with fome dices of ham, and a pound of but- ter,—clofe it up, ornament it neatly, bake it two hours and a half, and ferve it up cold. VENISON PASTY. BONE a fide of venifon, cut it intofquare pieces, put it in a ftew-pan with a little gTavy, let it itew for one hour, and fet it to cool; ffieet your pafty-pan with pafte made with half the weight of butter as hour,—feafon your venifon pretty high with pepper and fait, then put it in your pafty-pan, put fome butter on the top, and dull a little flour on it; roll out your pafte, cover it, ornament it, bake it two hours and a half, pour fome gravy into it, and ferve it up hot. ■PETTY PATTIES BeJb-a-melL / HALF roaft a fowl, and when it is cold cut it in fmall dice, or in fillets, then put it in a ftew- pan ; take a pffit of cream, boil it till it grows thick, put in a little butter and flour, with pepper and fait to your tafte; put in your fowl, make it quite hot; add a little juice of lemon,—ffieet your patty pans( 231 ) jxins with puff-pafte, and put a bit of meat in them to make a hole; cover them, do them over with eggs, and bake them; when they are done, take out the meat and put in your fowls, then l'erve them up hot for a corner difli in a firft courfe. PETTY PATTIES of Oysters. PEN thirty large oyfters, put them in a ftew- pan, let them fimmer,—drain your liquor in- to a bafon ; walh your oyfters, and put them to their liquor; feafon them with a little pepper, fait, and nutmeg, a little parfley and thyme chopt fine ; fheet your patty pans with puff-pafte, put in your oyfters with a bit of butter, and a few crumbs of bread on. the top, and a little of the liquor; bake them, and ferve them up hot.—Or you may lid them with light pafte, leaving out the bread. PETT'i PATTIES of Veal and Fowl. T1AISE five very fmall petty patties with hot pafte oval, mark them round the top infideand out, putfome force-meat at the bottom, bake them, have ready a ftew-pan with fome gravy, take a lit- tle of the infide of a cold loin of veal, and the bread of a cold roaft fowl, fhred it fmall, put it in your ftew-pan, let it fimmer, feafon it with white pep- pcr, fait and mace ; raife up the force-meat, and put in your veal and fowl, lay on the force-meat on the.the top, bake foiftc pieces of pafte acrofs a pepper- box to look like handles, flick them acrofs your patties, and they will look like bafkets. PETTY PATTIES fried* CHOP fix ounces of a leg of veal very fine, puu it into a ftew-pan with three ounces of butter, a few crumbs of bread,* and a little of the fat of the leer of veal cut in dice,—a little thyme and parfiey, pepper and fait ; mix it all well together, fet yout- pan over the ftove for twelve minutes, {lining it all the time, and pour it into a dilh to cool; have , ready fome light pafte rolled out, and cut m pieces about the bignefs of a crown, or two inches fquare 5 lay a little of the meat on the top, wet the edge round, and lay on a lid, turning up the edges to keep in the gravy ; fry them in a pan full ot hog s lard of a nice light brown, and ferve them up hot. Another Way. CUT a cold roaft fowl into fmall fillets, put it into a ftew-pan with a little white gravy, thicken it up with a little butter and flour,-have ready fome hot pafte, roll it out the bignefs of your hand, put a fpoonful of your fowl in, and clofe it up exactly the form of a pear, with an eye at one end, and a ftalk at the otlwi , tie t lem round with a piece of thread to keep them from oremng,( ) opening, fry them in hog’s lard of a fine light brown, and ferve them up hot.—Six will make a precty fide dilh for a fir it courfe. PETTY PATTIES of House Lamb. TAKE the bell end of a neck of lamb, cut it in fteaks, trim them neatly, feafon them with pepper, fait, mace, parlley, and thyme Hired fine; make as much hot pafte as will make eight; form your pafte like a ball, put the end of your rolling- pin on the pafte, and work up the pafte in the form of your rolling-pin three inches high and two inches wide, then Ai it off the pin : When the eight are thus formed, put in a lambfteak with a piece of butter, and a fpoonful of gravy; clofe them neatly -up, do them over with egg* and bake them half an hour ; when they come from the oven, put in a fpoonful of gravy, with a mufhroom chopt amongft it; or mix a tea-cup full of white gravy, and a tea- cup full of cream, thicken it up with a little butter and flour, fqueeze in a little juice of lemon, and put in a fpoonful of this to make a change. PETTY PATTIES .V Veal, TAKE half a pound of a leg of veal, half fat and half lean, cut it into fmall pieces the btgnefs of a fhilling, and flat them with a cleaver ;—put them into a ftew-pan with a piece of butter, as big as a walnut, a little parfley, thyme, pepper, fair, G g and( 234 ) and mace; fct it for fome minutes over the fire, {lining it all the time, then fet it on a plate to cool; fhect your petty pans with puff pafte, lay in your veal, one flice of fat and another of lean till they are full, then lid them, wafli them over with egg, and bake them twenty minutes ; take them out, put in a ipoonful of gravy and ferve them up hot. This is a o'enteel firft courfe dilh at a (mail expence. e> You may make mutton patties the fame way. PETTY PATTIES of Soal or Turbot. rX^AKE cold foal or turbot, cut it in fillets half an j|_ inch long and very fmall; make a befh-a-mell fauce, the fame that is for the petty patties of fowl; iheet your petty pans with light pafte, put in a piece of meat to make a hole, bake them, and take out the meat; warm up your fifh in the fauce with a little pepper and fait, and a little juice of lemon ; fill your petty patties with it, and ferve them up hot for a corner dilh. O B S E R( 535 ) Observations on Puddings. W'PIITE pot, bread, and cuftard puddings re- quire a moderate oven ;—lemon, almond, and orange puddings flioulcl have a quicker oven, to raife the paAe. When you boil a pudding, let your cloth be very clean, dip it in boiling water, rub on it a little butter, arid duA on fome Hour ; if you boil it in a bafon, butter it, and tic a cloth over it; keep your pot conftantly boiling, with plenty of water. When your pudding is enough, take it out, dip it in cold water, take off the cloth, put your dilh over it, and turn it carefully out. It boiled in a cloth, put it in a lieve that will juft. hold it, untie the cloth, turn it back, lay a difli on your lieve, and turn your pudding into it, taking the lieve and cloth carefully off. To make BLACK PUDDINGS. F^UT a quarter of a peck of groats into a pot with feme new milk, and let. them llew till tender; when cold, add a little grated bread, and three pounds of beef fuet chopt,—one nutmeg, pepper, fait, and mace, feafon them with thyme, fweet marjoram, or mint, rubbed or chopt Very line ; add two quarts of fwine or beef blood, mix it all well together, then take the guts and fill them; but be fure the guts are well cleaned, tie them in links, and boil them very carefully.—Let them not be too full, or they will burfl in boiling. G g 2 BLACK( U6 ) BLACK PUDDINGS another Way. TAKE feme cut groats, (commonly called chi- _ mins) put them into a clean mug, and pour on them tome boiling milk; let them foak an night, then drain on them tome Iwine’s blood ; add fomc of the leaf of the hog, or fome diet cut in fmall fquare dice ; feafon it with pepper, fait, mace, and nutmeg, fome thyme, mint, and penny-royal, all rubbed or chopt line ; mix it all well together with the yolks of two eggs ; let your guts be very clean, fill them, (but not too full) tie them up in links, and prick them,—put a little draw into the bottom of your pot, and a dilh over it, and when it boils, put in your puddings ; let them boil twenty mi- nutes, pricking them feveral times to keep them from burding; take them up, lay them on fome draw, and keep them in a cool, dry place. When vqu ufe them, boil them in a little -water, broil them crifp on a gridiron, ferve them up hot, and eat them with melted butter and mudard. HUNTING PUDDING. rrrT\KE half a pound of dour and half a pound JL of grated bread, half a pound of fuet fined, half a pound of currants, a quarter of a pound of jar rahins doned, four eggs, and as much milk as ** I 1 /( 237 ) will make it into a fliffbatter; then a little orange and lemon peel, a little nutmeg, fait, and brandy ; mix it all together, then flour your cloth, put it into the pot, boil it four hours, and ferve it up hot for a firft courfe. / ' QUAKING PUDDING. # ** TAKE one pint of cream, the yolks of eight eggs, the whites of three, four fpoonful of fine flour, a little nutmeg, and as much fugar as will fweeten it; put it in a cloth, boil it three quarters of an hour, then ferve it up with melted butter and fweet wine. CAL V’s FEET PUDDING. El OIL two calf’s feet tender, chop them very > fine, add fix ounces of grated bread, boil a pint of milk and pour on it, add half a pound of beef fuet chopt fine, fix eggs, half a pound of cur- rants, a little fine fpice, a few almonds fliced, a litt*c oiange and citron peel, one glafs of fweet wine, and as much fugar as will fweeten it j butter joui dilh, put it in, and bake it an hour. White> ( 238 ) White PUDDINGS in Skins. « “pLANCH one pound of rice in boiling water, jji drain it upon a Gave, put it into one quart of new milk, and boil it till it is foft; add to it one pound of clean walked currants, one pound of beef marrow or hog’s lard cut very fine, five eggs, a little mace and cinnamon pounded, and a little fait; mix them all well together, fill your Ikins lightly, and boil them half an hour very (lowly. When you ufe them, broil them on a gridiron. Another W a y. , TAKE a quart of crumbs of bread, pour on it one quart of new milk and a quaito: c.eam, the yolks of ten eggs, fix ounces of beef fact Hired, three ounces of butter melted, with half a pound of currants walked and dried; fealon it with ialt, cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg; fweeten it to your taftc add a little preferved lemon and orange peel, and mix it all well together; let the guts be very clean, fill them, (but not quite full) tie them up in fmak links,-orick them with a needle to keep them from burking,—let them boil (lowly for a quarter of an hour,-take them out, and lay them on home clean draw to cool. When you ule them, boil them a few minutes, lay them on a gridiron to brown and crifp, and ferve them up hot. % A( 239 ) A SAGO PUDDING. "D OUR one. quart of boiling water on four A ounces of fago, clofe it down for ten minutes and waft it quite clean ; put it into a fauce-pan. with fome milk, boil it till it is foft and thick;, add to it half a pint of cream, a little brandy, eight : €Sb-> (leaving out the whites of three) as much fu- ll gar as will fweeten it, with a little grated nutmeg I to your tafte;—fheet your dilh with light pafte, put in your pudding, with a quarter of a pound of butter fliced and laid on the top ; bake it forty minutes. When baked, grate fome fugar over it, and ferve it up with white-wine fauce. A Torkjlnre PUDDING to bake under or Mutton. Veal TIE AT up fix eggs with three table fpoonful of I fine flour, a little fait, a quart of new milk and a little nutmeg; mix it all together; butter youi diippmg-pan, and put it in; when it is brown, cut it in fquare pieces, and turn it over to brown on the other fide, then ferve it up on a difh, with a flice of butter on a plate. ALMOND( 240 ) ALMOND PUDDING. BLANCH fix ounces of almonds, beat them fine in a mortar, add to them half a pound of but- ter, half a pound of fugar, a little brandy and fweet wine, the rind of one lemon grated, two v tea-cups full of thick cream, a little nutmeg grated, and eight eggs, (leaving out the whites of four), mix it well together, fheet your difh with light pafle, put it in, and bake it three quarters of an hour; then ferve it up for a fecond courfe, garnifh- ed withflices of orange. r TANSY PUDDING baked. TAKE half a pound of grated bread, one quart of cream or new milk, boil it, and pour it upon the bread ; cover it clofe down, add to it eight eggs, (leaving out the whites of four) a few almonds flieed, green it with fpinage juice,—add four ipoonful of tanfy juice, as much fugar as will fweeten it, one glafs of brandy, fix ounces of butter, and a little nutmeg; butter fame writing pkper, lay it in a mould or difh, put in your pud- ding, and bake it three quarters of an hour; when done, turn it into your difh, and garnifh it with flices of orange. TANSY( 241 ) TANSY PUDDING boiled. GRATE fix Naples bifcuits, and three ounces of crumbs of bread, put to them one pint of boiling cream; when it is cold, put in the yolks of five eggs, two fpoonful of tanfy juice, and as much fpinage juice as will green it, adding a little nutmeg and a glafs of brandy; butter a cloth or a bafon, tie it up tight, boil it three quarters of an hour,—take it up, put it into a fieve that will juft hold it, let it itand for ten minutes, turn it into a difh, and ferve it up. White POT PUDDING. \ CUT half a pound of bifcuit cake into thin fliccs, and lay it in a china difh; boil a quart of cream, with a few coriander feeds, a little cinna- mon, and lemon peel,—take it off, and let it cool, add feven eggs, as much fugar as will fweeten it, with a little nutmeg, then ltrain it into the difli. Three quarters of an hour will bake it.—You may garnilh the brim of the difli with light pafte, if you chufe it. , { Common RICE PUDDING. BOIL half a pound of rice in a quart of water for ten minutes, drain the water clean from if, and put to it one quart of new milk, a bit of the rind of a lemon, and a flick of cinnamon ; let it . •. ,v II h boil(,242 ) boil till the vice is quite tender,—take it off, and ilir in a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of loaf-fugar, half a pint of cream, and five eggs; mix it all well together, and grate in a little nutmeg ; butter your dilh, and put it in; three quarters of an hour will bake it. Ground RICE PUDDING. s BOIL one quart of new milk with half a pint of cream; ftir in lix ounces of giound rice, let it boil a little,' birring it all the time; put in a quarter of a pound of loaf-fugar, fix ounces of but- ter, a little nutmeg, and five eggs well beaten * butter your dilh, and put it in;—half an hour will bake it. Boiled RICE P U D D IN G, . BOIL five ounces of rice till it is tender, put it on a fieve to drain, and pound it fine in a mortar with the yolks of five eggs, a quarter of a pound of butter, and a quarter of a pound of fugar, . errate the-rind of half-a lemon, a bit of nutmeg, one fpoonful of flour, and a little fait; mix it all well together, and add half a pound of currants made clean,—butter a cloths put in the pudding, and tie it tight; boil it three quarters of an hour, difh it, and ferve it up with white-wine faucc. CARROTC £43 ) • i CARROT PUDDING. v . -*■ \ RASP feven ounces of raw carrot, put to it half a pound of grated bread, pour on it one pint of boiling cream, a little cinnamon and nutmeg, a little brandy, and the yolks of feven eggs; beat it all well together, with fix ounces of butter, and fweeten it to your take; garnifh the difli with light pafte, put in the pudding, and bake it three quarters of an hour. POTATOE PUDDING. ■ BOIL fix large potatoes,—when* tender, peel and bruife them line, grate in two penny Nap- pies bifcuits, a little mace and nutmeg, fome fugar, lix eggs, fix ounces of butter, and the juice of one orange; mix it all well together, put it into a dilh flieeted with light pafte, bake it, and ferve it up with grated fugar. Plain BREAD PUDD1 N G. RATE half a pound of foft bread, boil a pint T of milk, and pour on it, let it ftand half an hour, add four eggs, a little nutmeg, fugar, and a little, brandy ; beat it well together, put it in a cloth, and boil it one hour. \T JS-ew H h 2C 244 ) New College PUD'DING. i) 'V RATE one pound of bread, and add half a pound of currants wafhed and dried, a quar- ter of a pound of jar raifins floned and diced, a quarter of a pound of almonds blanched and diced, a little mace and nutmeg, half a pound of marrow or fuet chopt line, half a pint of cream, a little iwcet wine or brandy, feven eggs, as much fugar as will fweeten it, and fome candied orange or le- mon peel; mix it all well together ;—butter a dozen petty patty pans, fill them with the pudding, '•and bake them half an hour; turn them out upon a difh, grate fome fugar on them, garnifh the difli with fome dices of orange, and ferve them up hot. CUSTARD PUDDING. nnAKE one pint of cream, and mix it with fix J! e^'S well beaten, two fpoonful of dour, Half a nutmeg grated, a little fait, ana iugar to your tafte ; butter a cloth, and put it in when the wa- cr boil* __let it boil half an hour, and ferve it up with melted butter for fliuce, and fweet wine. i M ARROW PUDDING boiled. POUR one pint of boiling cream on the crumbs of a penny loaf, fhred three quaiteis of a pound of beef marrow very thin, add five eggs well beaten, a glafs of brandy, fugar and nutmeg to vour tafte.( *45 ) tafte, a quarter of a pound of citron and orange peel, half a pound of currants walked clean, and a quarter of a pound of jar rafins honed; put it in a cloth, tie it up tight, and boil it one hour and a half; garnifh it with ilices of orange, and ferve it up with melted butter and white-wine. ' * » * MARROW PUDDING baked. BOIL a quart of cream with a Hick of cinna- mon, one quarter of a nutmeg, and a blade of mace; then mix it with eight eggs well beaten, a little fait, fack, and orange flower water,—flrain it,—put to it fix Naples bifeuits grated, half a pound of currants walked clean, two ounces of jar raiflns honed, and the marrow of two large bones; mix it all well together, put it in a hew-pan, Air it over the fire till it grows thick then put it into a difli garnifhed with light pafte, laying on the top fome pippin pafle knots, (green, red and yellow; with l'ome flices of lemon and citron peel:—three quar- ters of an hour will bake it. Serve it up with fweet wine fauce, MARROW PUDDING in Skins. TDLANCri one quarter of a pound of almonds, pound them in a mortar, put them into a ba- fon with the crumbs of a penny loaf, pour on it one pint of boiling cream, and let it cool; add tiic yolks( H6 ) yolks of four eggs, and the whites of two, with a little fugar and nutmeg to your tafte, and the mar- row of two bones chopt fine ; mix it all well to- gether with half a pound of currants wafhed clean ; make your Ikins very clean, (do not fill them quite full, as they will fwell) and boil them gently for half an hour. ORANGE PUDDING baked. PARE four Seville oranges, boil the parings till they are tender, then pound them in a mortar till fine; add half a pound of butter, half a pound of lump-fugar lifted fine, eight eggs, (leaving out the whites of four) a little brandy, the juice of the four oranges, a little nutmeg, ana three Naples bifeuits grated; fheet your difh with light paftc, put in your pudding, and bake it one houi. O R A N G E ' P U D D 1 N G boiled. TAKE half a pound of grated bread, pom on, it' one pint of boiled cream or milk, let it ftand a little, add to it the rind of three Seville oranges boiled tender, and pounded m a mortar; add the juice of two oranges,, the yolks of fix eggs, a little brandy, nutmeg, and fugar to your tafte ; mix it well together, then butter a cloth to put it in and boil it three quarters of an hour when done, take it out, dip it in cold water, put it xn a fieve, turn it out carefully into a dfth, and( 247 ) fauce as follows:—Put a little thick melted butter into a ftew-pan, add to it the juice of one orange, ; a little fweet wine and fugar, let it juft boil, then pour it over the pudding, and ferve it up hot. I LEMON PUDDING. GRATE the rind of four lemons, put it into a bowl, ftrain to it the juice, add three quarters of a pound of butter, three quarters of a pound of F lump fugar, the yolks of ten eggs, and the whites, of fivej mix it all well together, with a little nutmeg and a tea-cup full of brandy,—fheet a difli with light pafte, put in the pudding, and bake it | three quarters of an hour. * «” Another Way. TAKE eight eggs, (leaving out four whites) two ounces of almonds blanched and pound- ed, half a pound of butter, the juice and rinds of three lemons, a little grated bread, or three penny Naples biikets, a little brandy and fweet wine, and a little fpice; mix it together, with as much fu- gar as will fweeten it 3 fheet your difh with light I pafte, put it in, and bake it three quarters of an hour. A( 2^3 ) . A Stajfordfhlre I3 U D D I N G. BOIL one quart of cream or new milk, with a Hick of cinnamon, a few coriander feeds, and a little lemon peel; fet it to cool,—add the yolks of feven eggs, and the whites of four ; fweeten it with fugar ; have ready your difh fheeted with light pafle round the edge; lay in a layer of biead, a little marrow or fuet, with a few currants, and fo till your difh. is nigh full; then drain the cream and eggs on the top of it, and bake it thi ee quarters of an hour. BISCUIT PUDDING. GRATE half a pound of bifcuit cake, pour on it one pint of boiling cream; when it is cold, add to it the yolks of fix eggs, a little brandy, and half a nutmeg grated; mix it,—then butter a clotu or bafon, put it in, tie it up tight, and boil it three quarters of an hour; when done, difh it up, gai - nifh it with curant jelly and ferve it up with wine fauoe in a boat. A H A M L E T. TAKE eight eggs, beat them, feafon them with pepper, fait, thyme, fhalots, parlley and nut- meg, a little good gravy, a little ham chopt fine, a quarter of a pound of butter broke in pieces; ? pu f %•( 249 ) put a piece of butter in a pan, put in your hamlet, and fry it, but not too much ; when done, put it into a difh, with a little good gravy and butter, and ferve it up for a fecond courfe. / apple fritters. PARE the apples, quarter them, and cut out the cores,-—make a batter of fmall-beer and two eggs, and thicken it with flour; dip in your ap- ples, fry them in hog’s lard of a nice brown colour, lay them nicely in a difh, ftrew fome fugar on them, glaze them with a falamander, and\ferve them up for a fecond courfe. CLARY FRITTERS. BEAT up four eggs with four fpoonful of flour, half a pint of cream, and a little rofe water; take eight clary leaves, dip them in the batter, and fry them in butter of a nice light brown; the remainder of the batter you muft mix with eight clary leaves fhred fine, put it in a frying-pan, and fry it of a nice light brown ; put it in a difh, garnifh it with the eight clary leaves you fried firft, and fome flices of orange, ftrew fome fugar over the top, and ferve it up hot. This is a pretty difh for a fecond courfe or for flipper. I i APRICOT( 25° ) APRICOT FRITTERS. TAKE eight dried apiicots, make a batter for them with three fpoonful, of hour, and a little final! beer,—mix it well, let it be pretty thick, put in your apricots, and mix them with the bat- ter; fry them in hog’s lard of a nice brown, and quite crifp,—drain them on a fieve, put them on a china di(h, and fift home fine fugar over them. They are a pretty fecond courfe difh. ' ■ V PLUMB FRITTERS. RATE the crumbs of a penny loaf, pour on it ^3" a pint of boiling cream, let it hand to cool, add the yolks of fix eggs, four ounces of fugar, * half a pound of currants walhed clean, a little nut- meg grated, and a fpoonful of brandy ; mix it well together, and fry them in hog’s lard ;—one fpoonful is enough for a fritter. When fried, drain them on a fieve, difh them up as above, and ftrew fome fugar over them for a fecond courfe. TANSY PANCAKES. T^jUT a pint of cream into a bowl, add eight Jl fpoonful of hour, fix eggs, two fpoonful of fugar, two fpoonful of tanfy, as much fpinage juice as will green it, with a little grated nutmeg; mix( 2J1 ) mix it well together,—fry them in butter in a ihiall frying-pan, put them in a difh, with fugar over them, and ferve them up for a fecond courlc. CREAM PANCAKES. BOIL a pint of cream for five minutes, with a flick of cinnamon, a few coriander feeds, and two ounces of fugar; let it cool, mix in it feven table fpoonful of fine flour, and fix eggs beaten ; flrain it through a hair fieve, and flir in it two ounces of melted butter, a little nutmeg grated, and a little fait; then put a piece of butter into a fmall frying-pan,—when it is hot, put in a tea-cup full of batter;—fry them of a nice brown without turning, as they are very tender and apt to break ; turn a faucer within a china difh, and put your pancakes on in ; fift on fome fine fugar, garnifh them with flices of orange, and ferve them up for a fecond courfe. BATTER PANCAKES. MI X a quart of milk with lixteen fpoonful of fine flour, and fix eggs beaten, add a little fait, and nutmeg grated; let it be well mixed, then put a little hog’s lard into a frying-pan, make it Lot, put in a little of the batter, and fry it on both fides. Serve them up with fugar over them. lie BENNE T S.( 252 ) . ■ ••• \ < B E N N E T S. > TO half a pint of water add fyme lemon peel, and a piece of cinnamon ; boil them for ten minutes,—then take the bignefs of a walnut of but-, ter, and three fpoonful of flour; boil and Air it well over the fire ; take it off, and let it cool,— put in a little fait, and the yolks of four eggs; beat them well together, put a good deal of fat into k frying-pan, and when it is hot, drop them in with a tea-ipoon, as big as a large nutmeg ; fry them very gradually, that they may have time to rife ; take them out, (when they are brown) drew them over with fine fugar, and glaze them with a • falamander. You may put fweet-meats in them, if youchufe. They are proper for a fecond courfe, or for flipper, MILLET PUDDING. BOIL four ounces of millet in little more than a pint of milk for three quarters of an hour, put it in a bafon, add a quarter of a pound of butter, a little nutmeg and fugar, a glafs of bran- dy, four eggs, (leaving out two whites) ; mix all well together, butter your dilh, and put it in, bake it an hour in a moderate oven. SEMOLI M A( 253 ) SEMOLIMA PUDDING. BOIL a pint of milk, fur into it three ounces of lemolima, let it fimmer fix minutes, hiring it all the time; put it into a bafon, add a piece of butter, a glais of brandy, four eggs, (leavingout two whites), nutmeg and fugar to your take, a little rind of lemon grated; mix it all well together, butter your dilh, and bake it in a moderate oven three quarters of an hour. / Observations on Cakes. WHlN you make any kind of cakes, have all your ingredients ready before you be- gin. Let your eggs be well beaten. The cakes that are to have butter, beat it up to a cream with the fugar, then put in the ingredients as the receipts diiect. Lay in your cake-pan five or fix double of paper, butter it well, put in your cake, and bake it in a hot oven:—when it is a light brown, cover ir over with two flieets of paper, hopping the oven clofe up to i'oak it. Spanifh, Portugal, and queen cakes, and macaroons require but a flow oven.— ^ hen you make icing for a cake, you muft put fome gum-dragon into rofe-watcr the night before you want it, that it may diflblve:—it makes the icing white and thick, and flick better on the cake. To( 254 ) To make WAFERS. TAKE half a pint of cream and three table fpoonful of flour, a little orange hour wa- ter, a little nutmeg grated, a little rind of lemon rafped, and a quarter of a pound of fine fugar ; hir it well together,—make your wafer irons hot over a charcoal hove, put as much batter as will cover your irons, keep them turning round till they are baked, roll them in the form of a funnel, one end {mail, the other wide. They are proper for a defert, but are often ufed to tea. MACAROON S. PUT one pound of blanched Jordan almonds into cold water to cool, then dry them in a cloth ; put them into a mortar, beat therp fine with a little rofe-water, to keep them from oiling; take the rind of one lemon rafped and chopt very fine, and the whites of three eggs beat up to a froth, with one pound of fine fugar; mix them all togetliLi, drop them upon wafer paper, lift a little fine fu- gar on the top, then put them into a flow oven to bake. Dropped( 255 ) Dropped B I S C U I T S. TAKE fix eggs, (leaving out two whites) whilfc them wrell, put in eleven ounces of fine fugar' pounded, eleven ounces of flour, (a little at a time) the rind of a lemon grated and Ihred fine, one ounce of carroway feeds bruifed,—beat them from the beginning one hour, drop them on wafer pa- per, the fize of a crown piece, dull: on a little fu- gar, and bake them in a moderate oven, but not too flow. You may make long bifeuits of them, leaving out the carroway feeds. Italian BISCUITS. TAKE nine. eggs, beat the whites to a froth, then put in the yolks, and beat them,— add a pound and a half of fine fugar beaten and lifted, and a pound and a half of fine flour, putting a little in at a time, till it is all in ; beat it well for one lour, drop it on wafer paper, with a few carroway comfits on the top,—dull on a little fugar, and bake them in a. gbod oven,—for if it is flow, they will run. 3 SPUNGE( *5<* ) SPUNGE BISCUITS. BEAT the yolks of eleven eggs, with a pound and a half of fine fugar, for three quarters of an hour; then whifk up the whites to a fine light froth,—put them together, and whifk them well with thirteen ounces of flour, and the rind of a lemon grated; then put them into long bifcuit pans, flft fome fugar on the top of them, and bake them in a middling hot oven for fifteen minutes. BISCUIT CAKES. WHISK the whites of ten eggs to a light froth, put in the yolks, and beat them a little, then add a pound of double refined fugar beaten and lifted ; beat it well together for twenty minutes, then add three quarters of a pound of flour, the rind of one lemon rafped and chopt, and a little rofe-water; beat it together for a quarter of an hour, and bake it in a quick oven, RATAFIA CAKES. TAKE a quarter of a pound of fweet almonds, and a quarter of a pound of bitter almonds, blanch and beat them fine in a mortar with rofe- water, to keep them from oiling ; add half a pound of fine loaf-fugar beaten and flfted, and the whites of two eggs beaten to a light froth; mix it n\c11 to gether, put it in a preferving pan, fet it over a mo-( 25 7 ) derate fire, ftirring it quick one way till it is fcald- ing hot; take it off, let it cool, then roll it into fmall cakes, the fize of half a crown, lay them on wafer paper, lift fome fine fugar on them, and bake them in a flow oven. RATAFIA DROPS. TAKE one pound of fweet almonds, and fix ounces of bitter almonds, blanch and beat them fine in a mortar, with the white of one egg, and a little rofe-water; add to it one pound and three quarters of fine fugar lifted, and the whites of four eggs beaten to a froth, mix it well together, drop them on wafer paper the fize of a nutmeg, fift a little fugar over them, and bake them in a flow oven. SPANISH CAKES. PUT a pound of fine flour into a bowl, add to it half a pound of loaf-fugar pounded, and half a pound of butter, rub it well together, then add half a pound of currants wafhed and dried, the yolks of five eggs, and whites of three, with fome cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg pounded; mix it lightly with a wooden fpoon, flour a tin, and drop it on in little cakes, then bake them in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. They are very pretty for tea, and will keep a long time in a dry place. K k POR-C =53 ) , PORTUGAL CAKES. T3UT a pound of flour into a bowl, with ten ■*- ounces of butter, and ten ounces of loaf-fugar pounded, rub it till it is like grated bread ; add fome cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg, half a pound of citron peel cut very fmall, two ounces of cara- way comfits, and three quarters of a pound of cur- rants wafhed and dried, with two ounces of al- monds blanched and cut in flices ; mix them well together with the yolks of fix eggs and the whites of three, adding a little brandy; then drop them on buttered tins, the fize of a crown piece,—bake them in a flow oven for fifteen minutes; beat a little white of an egg, do them over with it, and lift on a little fine fugar,—fet them in the oven to dry, and ferve them up with tea or wine. They are very nice, and much better liked than macaroons. SHREWSBURY CAKES. BEAT fix ounces of butter to a cream, put to it fix ounces of loaf-fugar, and ten ounces of flour, with one egg, and half an ounce of caraway feeds; mix all well together, let it ftand a little to grow flifF, then roll it out in thin cakes the fize of a crown piece, put them on tins, and bake them in a flow oven. SHREWS( 259 ) SHREWSBURY CAKES another Way. TAKE a pound of butter, one pound of double refined fugar fifted fine, put to it a little mace, and four eggs, beat them all well together till they are light and look curdy,—mix in it two pounds of fine Hour, let it Rand two hours to grow fliff, roll it out in little cakes, put them on tins, and bake them in a How oven. Tunbridge WAFER CAKES. I) UB a quarter of a pound of butter into a pint V of flour,—add three ounces of moift fugar, and a few caraway feeds; wet it with a little new milk, make them pretty ftiff, roll them out into imall thin cakes, and bake them on tins in a flow oven. RICE CAKE. TAKE fourteen eggs, (leaving out fix whites) beat the whites to a light froth,;—then beat the yolks for half an hour, with ten ounces of loaf- fugar beaten and fifted fine put in half a pound of rice flour fifted through a hair fieve ; add a little brandy, and the rind of one lemon grated ; put in the whites, with a little grated nutmeg,—beat them all well together, put it in a cakepan, and bake it in a quick oven for three quarters of an hour. IC k 2 CHJEEN( 26o ) Q^U EEN CAKES. AKE one pound of butter, three quarters of a pound of fugar beaten and fifted, put it down before the lire to warm, then beat it for half an hour ; put in one pound of fine flour, eight eggs well whifked, a nutmeg, and cinnamon beaten, a few almonds fhred, and one pound of currants y mix it well together,—butter fome fmall pans and put it in, with a bit of lemon and orange peel on the top, and a little fugar dulled on them, then bake them fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. t You may make them without currants, if you chufe. PUT a pound of loaf-fugar beaten and fifted into. a bowl, add to it one pound and a half of but- ter, beat it well, put to it ten eggs, a pound and a half of flour, two pounds of currants walked and picked, half a pound of almonds blanched and fhred, half a pound of orange and lemon peel, a little brandy and fpice ; beat it all well together, butter the cake-pan, put it in, and bake it two hours in a foakiiag oven. White FRUIT CAKE. SEED.( 2^1 ) SEED CAKE. TO one pound of loaf-fugar beaten and lifted, add a pound and a half of butter, beat it half an hour, put to it one pound and a half of flour, and twelve eggs well whilked; beat them together with two ounces of caraway feeds; butter your cake-pan, put it in, and bake it in a foaking oven one hour and a half, or more, if not enough. Rich PLUMB CAKE. T)UT one pound and a quarter of butter into A a bowl, with three quarters of a pound of loaf- fugar beaten and lifted ; beat it for half an hour, then add a pound of line flour, twelve eggs well whilked, (leaving out four whites) ; beat it well to- gether, with a pound and a half of currants, half a pound of jar railins honed and lliced, half a pound of almonds blanched and lliced, one pound of ci- tron lemon, and orange peel, a little fine fpice, and a little brandy, or cinnamon water ; mix it all well together ; butter your cake-pan, put it in, and bake it two hours in a good foaking oven. When done take it out, and ice it. \ ICING( 2(52 ) ICING for a Plumb Cake. BEAT a pound and a half of treble refined fugar, lift it through a fine fieve, and put it into a bowl, with the whites of five eggs well whilked, a bit of gum-dragon (half the fize of a nutmeg) dif- folved in rofe water ; whifk it an hour, till it grows white and thick,—if it is thin, it will run off the cake. When the cake is baked, take it out of the pan, and put it on a tin ; then fpread on half of the icing with a knife, dry it in the oven,—take it out, and fpread on the other half, then dry it as before. I'his will make it look much whiter than laying it on at once. A PLUMB CAKE. AKE three pounds and a half of flour, one pound of butter, and one pound of fugar,— rub them well together ; add half a pint of warm cream, half a pint of thick yeaft, a quarter of a pint of brandy, a little cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg, and four eggs ; mix it all well together ; add two pounds and a half of currants, one pound of railins . Honed, ore pound of lemon and orange peel, and half a pound of almonds fliced ; mix it all well to- gether, then let it down before the fire to rife ; pa- per and butter the hoop, put in the cake, and bake it three hours in a foaking oven. Rich( 2^3 ) Rich PLUMB CAKE. "OUT three pounds of butter into a bowl, beat it to a cream,—put to it one pound and a half of loaf-fugar beaten and lifted; beat it a little, then add to it twenty-four eggs well beaten, three pounds of flour, a little cinnamon, mace and nutmeg, three pounds of currants walhed and dried, one pound and a half of almonds blanched and fliced, and one pound of jar railins ftoned and fliced ; beat them all well together, with a quarter of a pint of brandy, three quarters of a pound of citron peel,—orange and lemon peel, of each one pound ; mix them all well together; tie three fheets of paper round the bottom of the hoop, butter it well, put in the cake, and bake it three hours in a foaking oven. When done, take it out, and ice it. Rich fruitcake. HPAKE thirty ounces of butter, eighteen ounces of loaf-fugar pounded, beat it well together for half an hour ; add fourteen eggs, leaving out four whites, let them be well beaten,—put three fpoon- ful of thick yeaft, one pound and a half of flour, t^o pounds and a quarter of currants., three quar- ters of a pound of jar railins ftoned and fliced, three quarters of a pound of almonds fliced, half a pound of citron, a quarter of lemon peel, the fame of orange, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, mace, and( 264 ) and nutmeg, and a quarter of a pint of brandy ; beat it all well together for a quarter of an hour ; put two doubles of paper in the bottom of the cake- pan, and one round the fides,—butter it well, put in your cake, and bake it two hours in a foaking oven* When done, take it out, and ice it. BATH CAKES. fTT^AKE two pounds and a half of flour, rub into it three quarters of a pound of frelh butter, and half a pound of fugar ; rub it till it is like gra- ted bread ; add three quarters of a pound of cur- rants walked and dried, grate into it half a rice of ginger, half a nutmeg, three eggs beaten, half a pint of thick ale yeaft, and four Ipoonful of fack; then make a hole in the middle of the flour, put in the yeaft and eggs, and as much warm milk as will make it into a light pafte ; make it into eighteen little cakes, put them on tins, fet them in a warm place to rife, walh them over with egg, ftrew them over with caraway comfits, and bake them in a quick oven for half an hour. Good W I G S. RUB ten ounces of butter, and ten ounces of fugar into three pounds and a half of flour, till it is like grated bread,—adding to it a little nutmeg, and a few caraway feeds ; make a hole in the mid- dle, and put in half a pint of thick ale yeaft, three egSs>C 2*5 ) L 1 FRENCH eggs, and as much warm milk as will make it into a light pafte; roll it out, and make it into eighteen wigs; fet them on tins, a little diftance from the lire, (for one hour) to rife, then bake them in a quick oven. GINGERBREAD CAKES or NUTS. I^nAKE three pounds and a half of flour, three JL ounces of rice ginger beaten and fifted, three ounces of caraway feeds bruifed, and three quarters of a pound of fugar; mix them well together, make a hole in the middle,—-melt three quarters of a pound of butter in a fauce-pan, put to it three pounds and a half of treacle j let it be juft warm, put it into your flour, with four eggs,—beat it well for half an hour with a wooden fpoon, then put into it half a pound of lemon andjOrange peel; butter the cake-pan, put it in, and bake it in a foaking oven two hours and a half. You may I let it ftand to cool, then make it into nuts, and bake them on tins. LUNS CAKE. T3 four ounces of butter into one quart of A.V fine flour j add a little yeaft, three eggs, and as much warm milk as will make it into a light pafte ; fet it before the fire to rife for one hour; put it into an earthen pot to bake ; when done, cut it in round flices, butter it, and ferve it up hot for breaftfaft.( 2 66 ) FRENCH BREAD. BEAT two eggs with a little fait, put them into half a pint of thick ale yeaft, which has been in water over night to take off the bitter ; have ready three pounds of fine flour, make a hole in the middle of it,—melt one ounce of butter in a little milk,—put your yeafi into the flour, with as much milk as will make it foft and light; cover it over,’ and let it before the fire to rife for two hours, then make them up into little rolls or bricks as you chufe ; when they are baked, rafp off the outfide. Thefe rolls are generally ufed hot at breakfafl, or to put into foup. RATE the rinds of two lemons into a bowl, and fqueeze in the juice; add fix ounces of butter and fix ounces of fugar, the yolks of fix eggs, a little brandy, fine fpice, and two ounces of almonds beaten fine ; mix it well together, flieet your cake-pans with light pafte, put it in, and bake them for fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. LEMON CHEESE-CAKES. ALMOND( 207 ) ALMOND CHEESE-CAKES. T3LANCH a .quarter of a pound of almonds, and beat them,—add fix eggs, leaving out two whites, fome lemon fkin grated, a little brandy and fpice, feven ounces of butter, and as much lump- fugar as will fweeten it; mix it well, then fheet the pans with light pafte, put it in, and bake them for fifteen minutes. Little ALMOND CAKES. BLANCH one pound of almonds in boiling wa- ter, beat them in a mortar with a little role- water; when they are fine, add to them half a pound of double refined fugar, two eggs, two fpoonful of flour, half the rind of a lemon chopt fine, beat them all well together ; butter little pans, put them in, duft over them fome fine fugar, bake them of a nice brown, and keep them in a dry place. Observations on Potting and Collaring. EVlRY thing for potting muft be well feafon- ed, covered with butter, and tied down with paper ; bake it till tender, take it out of the butter, lay it on a difli to cool. If it is beef, veal, or hare, you muft pick the firings and finews from it before you fhred or pound it, or it will not look well. E 1 2 Lobfter, • • « '( 268 ) Lobfter, trout, char, pigeons, and wild fowls mult be put whole into the pot, and well feafoned, and covered over with clarified butter. When you col- lar any thing, roll it up tight, bind it clofe, and boil it till tender: when it is cold, put it into a pickle made of fait and water (with the cloth on; for three days;—then boil frefii pickle, take off the cloth, and lay it in. To make SALMAGUNDI TAKE a piece of cold roall veal, the bread of a turkey, pheafant and partridge, and cold ham ; fhred each fort by itfelf,—turn a plate down on a china dilh, and lay each fort by itfelf in rows v/ith two onions and two apples Ihred ; wafh fix anchovies, take out the bones, curl them, and put them on the top, and a piece of cellery (luck in the middle; garnifh them with fhalot, pickled cucum- bers, and mulhrooms, and eat it with oil and vine- gar. To pot S A L M O N, M TAKE the ikin off two pounds of falmon, fea- fon it with pepper, fait, mace, and cloves; add a little falt-petre pounded, put it in a pot with a pound of butter over it, and bake it; when it is baked,( 2*9 ) baked, pick the bones out, and Hired it, add a little of the butter it was baked in, put it down in a pot, and cover it over with the butter in which it was baked. To collar SALMON. AKE a piece out of the middle of the falmon. fplit it down the back, take out the bone and guts, lcrape off the fcales, and walh it very clean j put it in a dilh with half an ounce of fiilt-petre, rub it well, or feafon it with pepper, fait, mace, and cloves beat; let it lie all night, then fpread a little fennel, parlley, and thyme, put it on your fal- mon, and roll it tight in a cloth, and tie it at each end and the middle; boil it flowly in half water •and half vinegar for one hour, take it out, and tie it tight at each end, when cold, put it into the pickle it was boiled in, and ferve it up cold. , » To pot LOBSTER. BOIL four lobfters fifteen minutes, take out the meat as whple as you can, feafon it with pep- per, fait, mace, and nutmeg; put it into a pot with a pound of butter over it, and fome of the fpawn pounded, to colour the butter; tie a paper , over the pot, and bake it half an hour, then take out the meat, and put it clofc down in your potting jpotj when it is cold, take the butter in which they wereC 270 ) were baked clean from the gravy, warm it, and pour it over the lobfter :—if this is not enough, cla- rify a little more, for it mull be covered well with ' butter. To pot LAMPREY. SKIN and gut them very clean, feafon them with pepper, fait,-mace, and nutmeg; lay them in a pot with fome butter, and bake them till tender; take them out, put them in a potting pot, pour the butter over them, and, when cold, cover them 'With paper. To pot EELS. SKIN/ and gut fome large eels, wipe them dry with a cloth, feafon them with pepper, fait, mace, and nutmeg; put them in a pot with their backs downwards; cover them with butter, tie them down with paper, and bake them three quar- ters of an hour in a moderate oven ; when done, take them carefully out with a dice, lay them on a plate to cool, put them into the pots with their backs downward, and pour over them the butter they were baked in. When you ferve them lip, dip your pot in hot water, turn them out on a dilh, and garni 111 them with parfley.( 271 ) \ To pot PIGEON S. L, ' * ► PICK, clean, and draw the pigeons, trufs them as for boiling, feafon them with pepper, fait, mace, and cloves; put them in a pot, cover them with butter, tie them down with paper, and bake them till tender; take them out, lay them in a plate to cool, then put them in the potting pots, and pour the butter over them. To pot MOOR GAM E. PICK and draw three moor game, make them very clean, tuck in their legs, feafon them with peppei, fait, mace, cloves, and nutmeg beaten very fine, and mixed well together; make them pretty high with the feafoning, and put them into a mug that will juft hold them, with two pounds of butter over them ; tie a paper over the mug, and fetitinto an oven to bake till they are tender, but not too much done ; then take them out of the butter, let t em cool, and put each into a potting pot that will juft hold them, fill the pots up with the butter in u ncn they were baked,—if it is not enough, cla- rity tome more, and fill them up. fc IC 272 ) To pot WOODCOCKS. WHEN they are clean picked, take out the gizzards, but not the trail, (for that is the' beft;) feafon them with mace, nutmeg, pepper, and fait; lay them in a pot with as much butter as will cover them, bake them three quarters of an hour, then take them out, and put them into pots that will juft hold them,—cover them over with the butter in which they were baked; if this is not enough, clarify fome more, and fill them up. % To pot BEEF. SEASON three pounds of lean beef with cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and fait; lay it in a mug, with as much butter as will cover it; bake it till it is tender; take it out, chop it very fine, and pound it in a mortar with fome of the butter it was baked in; prefs it clofe down in the potting pot, and pour the remainder of the butter over it. To pot HAM and FOWL. CHOP a piece of cold boiled ham fine, beat it in a mortar, with fome pepper, mace, nutmeg, and a little clarified butter; put a little of it into a glafs bowl ; then beat fine the bread of a fowl, feafon it a little as above; then lay fome fowl into i ’ the( 273 ) the glafe, then a layer of ham, and fo on of each alternately till the glafs is filled,—prefs it tight down, and pour clarified butter over it. To pot H ARE. CASE a hare, and cut it up as for eating,—take away the head and fmall bones, feafon the four legs and the back with pepper, fait, mace, and nutmeg ; put them in a pot with a pound cf butter over it; tie it down with paper, and bake it in a moderate oven one hour; when done, pick out the bones, Ihred it fine, pound it in a mortar with fome of the butter it was baked in, put it tight down in a pot, and pour fome clarified but- ter over it. To pet VENISO N. BONE a piece of venifon, feafon it well with pepper, fait, mace, and nutmeg ; put it in a por, with as much butter as will cover it; tie it over with brown paper, and bake it till tender in a moderate oven ; when done, take it out of the gravy, let it cool,—pick out the lkins and finews. Hired it fine, and pound it in a mortar,—then take the butter clean from the gravy it was baked in, and put amongft it :—if it is not high enough feafoned, add more:—put it down in a pot, and cover it with clarified butter. Hare is potted the fame way. Mm To( 574 ) To -pot; Marble VEAL. Cl UT a piece off a fillet of veal, feafon it pretty < high with pepper, fait, mace, and nutmeg } ]3Ut it into a pot with fome butter over it, and bake it till it is tender; take it out of the gravy, lined it, put it in a mortar with fome of the butter it veas baked in, and pound it till it is like a pafle; take it out of the mortar, lay it on a plate,—then take fome boiled tongue or ham, chop it fine, and pound it in a mortar with a little of the butter the veal was baked in :—lay fome of the veal in the bottom of the pot, and fome ham or tongue in lumps over it,—then a layer of each till the pot is ' full; prefs it down, and cover it with clarified but- ter. When you ferve it up, cut it in flices, and garnifh it with parfley. To collar a PIG. / jT/HLL your pig, fcald it, and take the hair clean JlV off; draw it, fplit it down the belly, and bone it; feafon it well with pepper, fait, and beaten mace ; lay fome ham and tongue in row’s, with fome yolks of hard eggs, parfley, and fweet herbs between the row's, the fame w'ay as in veal ; roll it tight up, tie it in a cloth, put it into a pot with fome foft water, a bunch of fweet herbs, and a few bay leaves, and let it boil flowly for one hour and a quarter;( 275 ) quarter; when done, tie it tight up at each end, when it is cold, put it in a pickle, the fame as for brawn, and ferve it up in -flices. To cellar a C ALFh I1E AD. TAKE a calf’s head with the ikin on, feald off the hair, rip it down the face, take out the bones from the meat, fteep it in warm milk and water to make it white, rub it with the white of an egg, and feafon it with white pepper, fait, mace, and nutmeg; flared fome parfley and thyme very fine, lay it all over the head; cut off the ears, lay them on the thin part of the head, roll it up tight, tie it in a cloth, then boil it one hour and a half in loft* water and a little milk, to keep it white; when done, tie it up tight as before:—when it is cold, put it in a pickle, the fame as for brawn, and ferve it up in flices. To collar EEL. QLIN and bone a large eel, wafh it clean, dry it ■u ith a cloth, lay it flat, and feafon it with pep- pei, fait, mace, and nutmeg; lay on it a good deal of parfley and fweet herbs fined fine ; roll it up, tic it tight in a cloth, put it in a fauce-pan with fome water and a little vinegar, a bay leaf, one onion, and the bones of the eel; let it boil flowly for half\ ( 276 ) an hour ; take it out, tie the cloth tight, and keep it in the liquor it was boiled in. When you ufe it, lay it in a difhj with parfley round it: —or you may ferve it up in dices. To collar VEAL. ONE a bread of veal, lay it flat upon a table. and feafon it with pepper, fait, mace, and nut- meg ;—cut fome tongue and ham half an inch thick and four inches long, lay them in rows cn your veal ; fhred fome parfley, thyme, and fweet marjoram, and lay it between one row, with the yolks of fix hard eggs in another row,—and fo on, till you have done the whole; then roll it tight up, and tie it in a clean cloth; put it into,a pan with the bones of the veal over it, a little water or broth, one onion, and a bunch of fweet herbs; flop it clofe down, and let it boil flowly for an hour and a half:—when done, take it out, tie it tight at each end, and fet it on a difh to cool. You may ferve it up whole or in fiiqes, and keep it in pickle, the fame as brawn. f a "TAKE the thin part of a flank of beef, rub it well with fait and falt-petre, let it lie for four days,—walh it, and feafon it well with pepper, mace, cloves and nutmeg ; Aired a great deal of To collar BEEF. thyme,( 277 ) thyme, parfley, fweet marjoram, and favoury very fine, lay it on the beef, roll it up tight, and tie it in a cloth ; put it in a pot with fomc water, three . bay leaves, one onion, and fome black and clove pepper; flop it clofe down, let it ftew for three hours,—or more, if not tender ; when done, take it out, and tie it tight at each end, lay it on a table, put a weight on it to prefs it down, and let it lie all night. When you ufe it, cut it in thin ilices, lay it in a difh, and garnifh it with parfley. To collar a SWINE’; FACE. MAKE it clean, and rub it with fait and a little falt-petre ; let it lie a week, then boil it ten- der, take out the bones while it is warm,—have ready two cow’s heels boned, put them on the cheek, roll them tight up, put it in a cloth, and boil it one hour ; take it out, and tie it tight at each end; lay it on a table, and put a weight on it, to prefs it down. When it is cool, keep it in a pickle the fame as brawn, cut it even at each end, and ferve it up whole or in Ilices. Mock BRAWN. npAKE a piece of the belly-part of pork and a JL check, rub it with fait and falt-petre, let it lie for four days, then boil the cheek and take out the bones; bone two ox feet that have been boiled tender.( '=78 ) tender, cut the head and them into dices, lay them on the pork, and roll it tight up ; tie it in a cloth, and boil it in foft water for three hours ; when it is done, take it out, and tie it tight at each end ; fet it up on one end, with a trencher and a weight on the other to prefs it; when it is cold, take off the weight and cloth, bind it round with a fillet, and keep it in a pickle as above. To make BRAWN. WHEN it is cut up and boned, put it into cold water for one day and night,—take it out, dry it with a cloth, rub it well with fait and a little falt-petre, and let it lie for eleven days and nights ; dip it in warm water, roll it up tight, tie it in a coarfe cloth, and boil it in hard water till tender; when done, bind it very tight with filleting; when it is cold, put it into a pickle made as follows:— Boil home water with a handful of chifel, and two handful of fait for half an. hour, then {train it; when it is quite cold, put in the brawn ; or you may keep out the chifel, and boil fait and water. To fait two large H A M 3. PUT two ounces of falt-petre and two ounces of coarfe fugar among two pounds of fait; dry it well before a fire, then rub your hams well with it;—( 279 ) , it,—the more you rub them, the better they will take the fait; lay them into a tub, or a large tray, ; and put the fait over them that is left after rub- ! bing; let them lie nine days, turn them once in that time, rub on them one pound of fait, and let them lie ten days more ; take them out of the pickle, ferape and dry them with a cloth, fprinkle on them a little more fait, and hang them up to dry. Tongues are cured the fame way. To fait BACON. IV’. “WHEN the pig is cut up, take off the head and * * the hams, cut off the chine bone, but leave I in the fpare ribs, as they will keep the bacon from rufting; fprinkle on it two ounces of falt-petre I pounded fine ; let it lie all night, rub it well with common fait well dried before the fire, lay it on a table that the brine may run from it ; let it lie for twelve days, then turn it, and rub it well with fait; let it lie ten days more, ferape and dry it with a cloth ; fprinkle on it a little fait or chifel, and hang I it up to dry. To make ASP IKE JELLY. SPREAD fome flices of veal and ham in the bot- tom of a fiew-pan, with a carrot and turnip, and three onions ; cover it over, and fet it on a flow( 23o ) How fire to fweat; when it is brown, add to it three quarts of broth, made as for foup, and three ounces of ifinglafs,—let it fimmer for one hour and a half, ftrain it through a fieve into a clean flew-pan, fkim off the fat,—when it is cold,, add to it the whites ol five eggs, a fpoonful of tarragon vinegar, and the juice of two lemons ; fet it on the fire to boil, fur- ring it all the time ; let it boil for three minutes, then run it through a jelly bag till fine, and ufe it as follows. A FOWL in Afpike Jelly. TAKE a bowl that will hold your fowl, pour in a little of the above jelly, and let it ftand tiil cold ; cut fome carrots, turnips, and girkins in pretty fhapes ; lay them on the jelly with fome parfley leaves cut in pretty fmall flowers as you pleafe ; pour two fponful of jelly over the fhapes and flowers to fallen them ; then bone a fowl, and fluff it with fome veal force-meat, roll it up in a piece of paper, and either roafl or bake it; when quite cold, lay it into the bafon with the breafl downwards, pour fome more jelly to it, and let it cool; then fill up the bafon with jelly, and let it ftand all night to cool; dip the bafon in warm wa- ter, and turn it out upon the difh. Serve it up for a fecond courfe. A( 281 ) A FOWL in Afpike Jelly another Way. LET your fowl be boned, feafon it with pepper, fait, and fpice, put a pound of veal force- meat into it, few it up, and fet it to Hew in fome gravy three quarters of an hour ; when done, fet it on a plate to cool; take a bifon or mould that will hold it, put in a little of the jelly,—let it be cold ; then cut fome little fprigs of amulet, and lay them on the jelly,—put in the fowl with the breaft down ; pour on fome more jelly,—when it is cold and quite ft iff, dip your bafon in warm water, and turn it out into the difh; garnilh it with fome co- loured jelly, and ferve it up for a fecond courfe. VEAL in Afpike Jelly. tT^AKE a pound cf a fillet of veal, butter a paper I and roll it up ; put it in a baking-pan with a little water or gravy under it, and bake it twenty minutes ; when done, take off the paper, and fet it to cool, then cut it into diamonds or pretty leaves ; put fome favoury jelly in the bottom of a foup-plate; when it is cold, lay in the veal in a pretty form, and garnifh it round the edge with amulets cut in fmall diamonds, or half ones^; pour on fome jelly, let it ftand till quite ftiff, then turn it out ; put round it a little coloured jelly chopt, • with fome curled padley, and ferve it up cold lor a fecond courfe. N n AMULETS( 282 ) AMULETS for ornamenting. npAKE three deep halfpenny plates, break into -*• one of them three eggs, beat them, and ilrain them through a lieve, adding a little cochineal to make them red; then take fix eggs, break them, put the whites into one plate, and the yolks into another ; beat them, and colour the whites with fpinagejuice to make them green ; let the yolks be of their own colour for yellow; have ready a (lew- pan with fome boiling water,—fix the plate that it may juft touch the water, put a cover over it, and fome fire on the cover,—let the ftew-pan boil flow- ly, keeping the fire on the top of the cover; when the eggs are hard, take out the plate, and put in another, and fo on, till they are all done. You may cut them into fhapes or flowers, See. for orna- menting, and ufe them as the receipts direct. L O B S T E R in Savoury Jelly. BOIL a fet of calf’s feet to a ftrong ftock, {train it into a ftew-pan, fkim off the fat, add to it two ounces of ifinglafs diffolved in a pint of boiling water ; let it ftand till cold,—then add the whites of four eggs, a tea-cupful of tarragon, vinegar, the juice of one lemon, and the rind pared very thin; fet it on the fire to boil for ten minutes, {lining it all( 2*3 > all the time with a whifk, then run it through a jelly-bag, till it is line. Put a little into the pot I that you defign for a lobfter ; let it cool ; take a fmall lobfter that has been boiled, lay it with the back downward upon the jelly, and ornament each fide of therlobfter, with fprigs of amulet, fome curled parlley, and flices of lemon neatly placed ; pour on I a little jelly gently to fallen your ornaments j when cold, fill your pot up with jelly, let it Hand til! cold, and turn it out. SMELTS in Savoury Jelly. I MAKE your fmelts clean, put them in a ftew- pan with fome water, a little fait, and two fpoonful of vinegar; fet them on the fire to fim- mer for fifteen minutes, then take them carefully up and drain them ; put fome of the above jelly in a deep plate; when it is cold, lay in the fmelts, pour fome more jelly over them, and (when cold) turn them out. CRAY-b’ISH in Savoury Jelly. BOIL fix cray-fifh in fait and water; when they are cold, take a bowl with a little favoury jel- ly, fet on three cray-filh with their backs down, a few fprigs of parlley, fome fmall flices of lemon, and pour on a little jelly, the fame as for lobfter; N n ? * let( ) let it (land till cold, then lay in the other three cray-fifti, and pour in fome more jelly ; when cold, turn it out, and garnifli it with parfley. PRAWNS in Savoury Jelly. PUT fome jelly in a deep plate,—when cold, make a liar of amulet, and lay it in the middle of the plate ; take fome cold boiled prawns, pick off the beards, lay them neatly round the amulet with the backs down ; pour on a little jelly, when fet, fill up the plate with more jelly; when cold, turn it out. S O A L S in Savoury Jelly. rlHAKE a large foal, boil it in fiilt and water,— I when cold, cut it out in handfome fillets, lay them neatly into the difh you intend to ferve them in', with fome parfley leaves over them ; mix a little pepper, fait, vinegar, a fhalot fhred, and a tea- fpoonful of oil all together, and pour it over the foal; then take fome jelly that is cold, and with a lpoon place it neatly over the foal, garnifh it with cold parfley, and ferve it up for a fecond courfe. C.I-IICKENS( z85 ) CHICKENS in Savoury jelly. ROAST two fmall chickens; when they are cold, have ready a little of the jelly in a bafon that will juft hold them; when it is fet, lay in the chickens with the breaks down, pour in a little jelly, and let it Hand to cool; then fill up the bafon, let it hand all night to cool, turn it out, garnifh the difh with fome coloured jelly and parfley, and ferve them up for a fecond courfe. Another Wat. TAKE two cold roak chickens, cut them up the fame way as for eating, pick off the £kin, put them in a kew-pan with a little oil and vinegar, pepper, fait, and flialot fhred fine, give them a tofs in the pan to mix them well ; put the two breaks - in the middle of the diki, placing the legs and wings neatly round them ; put over them fome parfley leaves, with a fpoon place fome cold jelly loofely over them, and ferve them up for a leccnd courfe. A Savoury C A K E. '’TMKE three pounds of veal chopt fine, and two -*■ pounds of beef fuet chopt line ; feafon it with pepper, fait, and fpice, pound it well in a mortar, add to it the yolks of eight eggs, and two pounds ofI ( 286 ) i of ham cut in dice, mix it well with a wooden fpoon, put it in a round deep pan that will juft hold it, and bake it one hour and a half in a moderate oven. You may ferve it up hot with fome cullis under it ; or you may let it cool, and make a fnail’s houfe. See. by ornamenting it with butter and amulet. A BEE-HIVE of a Savoury Cake. LET your favoury cake be made as above, put it in a deep ftew-pan, form it a little wider at the bottom than at the top; bake it in a flow oven, .—when done, fet it in a difh to cool; then cut a hole in the fide, the fame as a bee-hive has ; orna- ment it with butter in round rows, bind it round with fhreds of laurel leaves to imitate the briar that binds the ftraw together when they make the hives; colour fome afpike jelly yellow with a little fafffon; when it is cold, lay it round the hive to look like honey, and ferve it up for the middle of a fecond courle. If- it is neatly done, it will look very pretty. A H ARE C A K E. CASE your hare, wa£h it clean and bone it. Hired it very fine, put to it one pound of beef fuet, and one pound of a leg of mutton ; mince it all very fine, add to it fome fweet herbs, pepper, fait,( 287 ) fait, mace, doves, and nutmeg ; pound it in a mor- tar ; add to it the yolks of fix eggs, one pound of ham, and half a pound of fat bacon cut in dice ; mix it up together, put it into a ftew-pan Iheeted with bacon, and fome flices of bacon over it, and fet it in the oven to bake; when done, fet it on a plate to cool,—when cold, raife a rim of butter round it, garnkli it with amulets, green parfley, laurel leaves, red beet, and one carrot, cut in flowers ; take fome favoury jelly made as for lob- fler ; colour fome of it red and fome green, place it neatly over the top, and ferve it up for a fecond courfe. A II A M in Jelly. \ LET your ham be foaked in water, and boiled till tender; pare it neatly, let it hand all night to be thoroughly cold ; put fome favoury jelly in a deep dilh,—when it is fet, place fome fprigs of amulet on it, fome carrots and turnips cut in fhapes, and pour fome more jelly on to fallen, the ornaments ; when it is quite cold, place the ham in the diili that you intend, to ferve it in, and put round it three handful of picked parfley ; then dip the difli with the jelly in warm water, turn it care- fully over the ham that you do not break it, and ferve it up for a fecond courie. To( 238 ) To make CALF's FEET JELLY for a Mar bray, &c. PUT a fet of calf’s feet well cleaned into a pot with four quarts of water,—boil it gradually four hours to reduce the flock to two quarts, then ftrain it into a deep ftew-pan ; let it hand all night, take off the fat, put to it the whites of four eggs whiffled, a bottle of mountain wine, a few coriander feeds, the juice of two lemons, a quarter of a pound of ifinglafs diffolved in a pint of boiling water, and as much fugar as will fweeten it to your tafte ; fet it over a clear fire, let it boil fifteen minutes, run it through a jelly bag till it is quite fine, and ufe it as follows: To make a M A R B R A Y. PUT a quarter of a pint of the above jelly into a fmall china bowl, let it ftand till it is cold,— then cut fome green amulet in lengths and leaves, lay it on the jelly in the form of a tree, and at the ends of the fprigs put fome dried apricots or cherries, then pour on a little more jelly ; when that is cold, lay fome more green amulet in fprigs round the fide of the bowl, and at the end of each fprig lay fome red amulet, cut. in the form of grapes, with fome like rofes, and any other pretty fhapes ; then pour a little more jelly gently on to fallen the fprigs; when( 28p ) when that is cool, fill your bowl up with more jelly, and let it {land all night; dip the bafon in warm water,—put a china>difh on the top of the baion, turn it upfide down, and ferve it up for a fecond courfe difli. Artificial FRUIT. TAKE fome of the above jelly, put it into a flew-pan with the yolks of thiee eggs, the juice of two oranges, and a bit of fugar ; fet it over a fire, and flir it all the time till it is near boiling; take it off, let it Hand till almofl cold ; then dip a feather in a little fweet oil, and do your peach or apricot mould lightly with it; dip your finger in a little carmine, and colour the fides of the moulds with it,—fill the moulds with the jelly, and let them (land till they are cold; open the moulds, take them carefully out, lay them in a china difli, with a fprig of laurel at the end of each fruit; gar- niffi them with fome green leaves, and ferve them up for a fecond courfe, or for {'upper. A M A R R R A Y with Artificial Fruit. PUT fome clear calf’s feet jelly in a bafket mould, let it {land till it is cold, then lay in fome artificial apricots or peaches ;—(they muff be quite ft iff and cold, or elfe they will break and mix O o in( 2(?0 ) in the jelly) : cut a piece of green amulet in the form of a fprig, lay it to one end of the peach or apricot, then pour on a little more clear jelly, juft warm enough to pour, (for if it be any hotter it will melt the fruit, and fpoil the jelly) ; garnifli the Tides of the mould with amulet cut in fprigs and flowers; then pour in a little more jelly,—when that is cold, pour in a little more, and do fo till the mould is full :—letitftandall night, dip the mould in warm water, and turn it carefully into the difh. Serve it up for a fecond courfe. If the jelly is very fine, and the fruit laid neatly in, it will look very handfome. A H E N*j NEST. AKE four fmall pullet eggs, make a hole at each end, blow out the infide, ftop one of the holes with a bit of pafte, and fill it full of blamonge; let them ftand to cool,—then put fome clear calf’s feet jelly in a bowl, fet a fmall bafon in the middle of the jelly, and let it ftand till it is cold ; then put a little warm water in the bafon to loofen it,—take out the bafon, and peel the egg-fhells off the bla- monge, and put them in the hole where the bafon was. Have ready fome lemon fkin cut like ftraw, boiled in fugar and water to take off the bitter,— lay them round the eggs, pour on fome more clear calf’s.feet jelly, let it ftand till it is quite cold andfoil O o 2 ( *9' ) ftiff,—dip it in warm water, put the difh on the top of die bowl, turn it out, and ferve it up for a fecond courfe, or for fupper. B L A M O N .G E. ICK three ounces of ifinglafs, put it in a ftew- pan with a pint of boiling water, let it fimmer on a tlow fire till it is quite diffolved, add to it one quart of cream, a flick of cinnamon, a few corian- der feeds, the rind of one lemon pared very- thin, and two laurel leaves ; let it boil for three minutes, and fweeten it to yourtafte; take it off, and flrain it through a fieve, flirring it till almoff cold :— then do your moulds with a little fweet oil, wipe them with a clean cloth, and put in the blamopge ; let it fland till it is cold and {tiff, then loofen it round the edges of the mould with a pin, take it carefully out, lay it in the difh, and ferve it up for a fecond courfe, or for fupper. TAKE fome clear calf’s feet jelly, colour it red with fome prepared cochineal, and fill the cherry moulds with it; let it fland till it be cold and quite fliff; then cut fome green amulet in fprigs and leaves, put them in the bottom of a ba- A CHERRY TREE in Blamome.( 292 ) fon in the form of a tree,—take the cherries out of the moulds, and put them to .the end of each fprig, and pour on a little blamonge (almoft cold) to fallen them ; when that is fet, pour on them fome more, —and do fo till your bafon is full:—let it hand all night to cool, then dip the bafon in warm water, turn it out upon a dilh, and ferve it up for a fecond courfe. A FISH-POND with Gold and Silver Ti/h. ILL fome fi.lh moulds with blamonge, let them hand till they are cool and {lift; put fome clear calf’s feet jelly in a bowl,—when it is fet, take the fifh out of the moulds, and gild one half of them with gold, and the other half with filver leaf, lay them neatly in the jelly, and pour on a little more to fallen them ; when that is cold, fill up the bowl with clear jelly, and let it Hand all night to ftifien \ then dip the bowl in warm water, turn it out on a dilh, and ferve it up for a middle or corner dilh in a fecond courfe. A l( 2? 3 ) A Floating ISLAND. \ TAKE a prefervcd apple or orange, do it over with gum water, ftrew it over with green fliot comfits; put a little clear calf’s feet jelly in a china difli ; when it is cold, put the apple or orange in the middle of it, with fome green fprigs ftuck in the top of it, to look like flirubs ; break a little clear jelly and put round it juft before you fend it to table,—place fome fwans round it, and ferve it up for a fecond courfe, or for fupper. Dutch FLUMMERY. PUT two ounces of ifinglafs (picked and bruifed) into a pint of boiling water, let it fimmer on a flow fire till it is quite difl'olved, adding to it a flick of cinnamon, a few coriander feeds, the juiee of two lemons, and the rind of one, with a pint of white-wine, and the yolks of feven eggs ; fweeten it to your tafte, ftir it over the fire till it fimmers, (but do not let it boil),—ftrain it through a fine neve, and when almoft cold, put it into your moulds. AC 294 ) A PYRAMID. i TAKE fomc dear calf’s feet jelly, let it be pretty fliff,—wet the pyramid mould, fix it in a pot, to be deady and even, fill the top part of it (to the firh Hep) with dear calf’s feet jelly, with a drop of prepared fafiron amongd it to give it a yellowilh cad ; let it dand till it is did'; take fome almonds that have been blanched and deeped all night in water, cut them the broad way, pare them neatly round in the form of a heart, and place four of them on each corner, with fome fprigs of green amulet to come from them ; then half fill the deps with jelly coloured with cochineal; when that is cold, fill up the mould with Dutch dummery, let it dand till it is cold, turn it out on a difii, and ferve it up for' a fecond courfe. A PINE APPLE of Dutch Flummery. DIP the pine apple mould in water, fill it with Dutch flummery, let it dand till it is cold and did'; then loofen it round the mould with a pin, turn it out upon a difli,—dip a feather in a little greening, and colour the leaves with it; put fome green leaves or coloured jelly round it, and ferve it up for a fccond courfe. You may make melons, peaches, Sec. of Dutch flummery. You mud colour the melon green af- ter( 29S ) ter you turn it out of your mould. If peaches rub the infides of the moulds with a little oil, and colour them with carmine, then fill them ; when cold, turn them out, and flick a green fprig in. the end. To prepare COCHINEAL. POUND four pennyworth of cochineal fine in a mortar, put it in a quarter of a pint of boiling water, add to it a piece of allum the fize of a nut- meg, let it boil for fifteen minutes, flrain it through a piece of muffin, put it into a phial bottle, cork it down, and ufe it as the receipts direct. -d GREEN for colouring. "pUT two pennyworth of gamboge into a quar- , ter of a pint of water,-—and put half an ounce of flone blue into a little water, (as much as will difTolve it) ; when they are both difl'olved, put them into a pan with a little fugar and a bit of allum pounded ; flir it over the fire till it is hot, but do not let it boil ; then flrain it through a piece of roudin, put it into a ffnall fweet-meat pot, cover it own with a bladder, and ufe it as your receipts direct. To/ ( 29^ ) To prepare S A F F R O N. PUT eight pennyworth of faffron into a bafon* .with a bit of allum pounded; pour on it a quarter of a pint of brandy, let it {land to infufe for fourteen days,—add to it a bit of fugar, {train it, put it into a phial bottle, cork it up, and life it as the receipts direct. To Jpin a GOLD W E B. Beat five ounces of double refined fugar in a marble mortar, put half of it into a brafs ladle, and let it over a charcoal ftove that has. burnt clear ; ftir it with a wooden Ikewer till it juft boils, take it off the fire, and have ready a tin mould or china bowl turned down upon a difh; rub it over with a little oil to make it come ofi,—dip the point of a knife into the ladle, and begin to fpin over the mould as long as it will draw ; then heat it again ; the only art being to keep it of a proper heat; for if it is too hot, it will not draw,—and if too cold, it is equally bad ; but if you keep it in a proper heat it will draw to a very fine thread. Tou mult ipin it acrofs and round the mould till it is quite covered. When half of the fugar is ufed, clean out the ladle, put the other half in, and fpin it round the mould till it is all on ; taking care that you do not drop any in lumps, or it will fpoil the beauty of the web. When it is clone, take it oft the mould, lay it over fweet-meats, and ferve it up for a fccond courfe, or * . for\ ' ( 297 ) for fupper. If you do not want it immediately, fet it in a deep difli, put a tin cover and a cloth over it, to prevent the air getting in, and fet it at a diftance from the fire :—it requires to be kept warm, but not hot, for the heat will diffolve it; and if cold, it will fall. A To /pin a SILVER WE B. PUT three ounces of double refined fugar in one lump upon a pewter plate before the fire, fet- ting it a little aflant; when it begins to run like clear water to the edge of the plate, have ready a tinned mould that is oiled over, turn it upon a difh, and fet it clofe to the plate ; take as much on the point of a clean knife as it will hold, and a fine thread will come from it, which you muft draw as fall as pofiible forwards and backwards and round the mould, as long as it will fpin from the knife; then dip the knife into the fyrup again, and take up fome more, and fo keep (pinning on till the web is thick enough, or till the fugar is done. If you have not fugar enough, put fome more down on a clean plate, then take a clean knife, and fpin it till it is thick enough. When done, ferve it up over fweet-meats. If you do not want it immediately, keep it the fame way as the gold web. P p Ob-( ) Observations on Creams, Custards, Cheese-Cakes, &c. WHEN you make any kinds of creams and cuftards, take care that your pan be clean: •—You muft always boil your feafonings in the cream, and let it Hand to cool before you put in the eggs, otherwife they will curdle. When you make lemon or almond cheefe-cakes, do not make them long before you bake them, or they will oil with ftanding, and grow fad. You muft bake them in a moderate oven j for if it is hot, they will be fcorched,—if too flow, they will not rife — Thofe creams that are fet over a ftew-pan of boiling water to congeal, are better done with the infide fkin of a fowl or chicken’s gizzard, than with run- net, as it is not fo apt to break with the Ikins : take care that the fire is not too hot on the top, nor that the water boil too faft, or it will break, and that fpoils the beauty of them. , I V ■ * * • Rasp ICE CREAM. MIX half a pound of rafp jam in a pint or thick cream, add to it half a tea-fpoonful of pre- pared cochineal to give it a fine colour; flrain it through a lieve to take out the feeds, and put it into a tin or lead mould that has a clofe cover and will hold two quarts, which is generally called an ice-( 299 ) ice-well; then put it into a pail of broken ice, with a good deal of ialt in it,—work the mould round for half an hour, and keep the ice clofe to the tides of it 5 take off the cover, and take great care that you do not let any of the fait or ice get into it, or it will fpoil the cream; ftir it from the edges of the l mould, and do fo till all the cream is frozen up ; then put it into a fluted lead mould that will hold a pint, put a piece of paper over it, put the cover > clofe on, fet it in the middle of a pail, with ice and fait under and over it, and let it ftand among the ice for two or three hours, to grow ftiff. When you want it, dip the moulds in cold water, turn it i .out on a plate, andferve it up with the defert after dinner. Brown Bread ICE. AKE half a pound of brown bgead crumbs. put them into a pint and a half of good thick j cream, fweeten it to your take with clarified fugar, put it into an ice-weli with a cover on as before, then fet it into a pail of broken ice and fome fait; !! work it well for half an hour, and as the cream freezes to the edge of the mould, Air it down ; continue this till the cream is quite frozen ; put it into a fluted lead mould, with a paper and a cover on it; put it in a pail with ice and- fait under and over it, and let it fland for two hours. When you want it, dip it in cold water, and turn it out on a I plate. P p 2 Bisket( 3°° ) Biscuit ice is made the fame way; only grated bifcuit is ufed inflead of crumbs of bread. Shadderot CREAM, PARE tyvo lemons very thin, and put the pa- rings into a pint of water, lqueeze to them the juice ; let it hand for one hour, then drain it through a fieye, and fweeten it to your tafte with clarified fugar ; put to it a little effence of fhadde- rot to give it a line flavour, then put it into an ice- well, cover it down, and freeze it as'before ; put it into four or five fhadderot moulds ; lap each of them in a Iheet of brown paper, and put them into a pail of broken ice and fait. When they are want- ed, dip them in cold water, turn them out on a plate, and flick a fmall fprig of laurel in the larger end ; do them over with a brufh dipped in a little prepared faffron, and ferve them up as before. Eour or five will make a pretty plate. Italian ICE CREAM. OIL a pint of cream with a few coriander feeds. a flick of cinnamon, and a piece of lemon (kin, for ten minutes ; put in as much loaf-fugar as will fweeten it ; drain it into a bowl, and let it cool,— then put it into an ice-well, and ice it as before. When it is grown ftifi, you may put it into what ihape-moulds you pleafe: bp them up in brown paper^( 3o1 ) paper, put them into a pail with ice and fait under and over them ; let them lie for two or three hours, and turn them out as before. If you chufe to have them yellow, when you take them out of the moulds, brufli them over with a little prepared faf- fron. Orange ICE CRE A M. ' • I SQUEEZE the iuice of three Seville oranges into a bowl with a pint of water, the rind of one orange, and as much fugar as will fweeten it j let it hand for two hours, ftrain it, put it into an ice- well, and freeze it; then put it into leaden orange moulds, lap them up in paper, put them into a pail with ice and fait under and over them, and let them Hand two hours or more ; dip them in water., turn them out upon a plate, and garnifh them with green leaves. Lemon cream is made the fame way, Peach ICE C R E A M. 'OCT half a pound of peach jam into a pint of w$* ter, add to it the juice of two lemons, mix it, well, and ftrain it through a fieve ; if it is not fweet; enough, add to it a little clarified fugar; put it into an ice-well, arid freeze it pretty ftiffj then put it int<a( 3C2 ) ICE inlo peach moulds-, lap them up in paper,, put (hem into a pail with ice and fait under and over them, and let them lie two hours to ftiflen. When you want to ufe them, dip them in cold water, turn them out on a plate, colour them with a little pre- pared cochineal, and garnifli them with green leaves. ICE CREAM cf Apricots, PARE and ftone fourteen apricots, put them into a preferving-pan with three quarters of a pound of loaf-fugar, and a pint and a half of water ; fetit over the ltove to boil for twenty minutes; when they are boiling, bruife them with a fpoon, take them out, and nab them through a hair fieve into a bowl:—when the apricots are cold, put to them one pint of cream, mix it well together, put it into the ice-well, and freeze it pretty Riff; then put it into apricot moulds, lap them in paper, and put them into a pai! with lbme ice and fait under and Over them ; then let them lie two or three hours to freeze. 'When you want them, dip them in cold water, turn them out on plates, colour them with cochineal to look like apricots, and garnifli them with green leaves.C 3°3 ) ICE CREAM another Way. SQUEEZE the juice of eight fweet oranges into a bowl, add to it half a pint of water, and as much fugar as will fweeten it ; ftrain it through a fieve, put it into an ice-well, and freeze it till it is ftiff; put it into a lead pine-apple mould, lap it well up in paper, put it into a pail of ice, and fait under and over it, and let it hand for three hours. When you want it, dip your pine-apple in cold wa- ter, turn it out on a plate* green the leaves of the pine-apple with fpinage juice, and garnifh it with green leaves. You may put this cream into melon and pear moulds. If a melon, you mult green it with fpinage juice*—if a pear mould, you mull ftreak it with red. Tea CREAM, TDUT three quarters of a pint of milk into a ftety- **“ Pan with a quarter of an ounce of fine green tea, and let it boil for five minutes ; ftrain out the leaves,—put to it half a pint of thick cream, as much fugar as will fweeten it, and two fpoonful of runnet; put it in a difh, let it fet, garnifh it with fweet-meats, and ferve it up for a fecond courfe, or for fupper. Cor-( 3°4 ) Coffee CREAM. \ GRIND one oancc of coffee, put it into three quarters of a pint of boiling milk,—let it boil for ten minutes, then take it off, and let it hand a little to fettle; pour it clear off from the grounds into n clean bowl ; add to it two ounces of fugar, with half a pint of thick cream, and put to it the infide Ikins of two fowls’ gizzards ; let it Hand for one hour, {train the cream two or three times back- wards and forwards ; then put it into a china difh, fet it over a ftew-pan of boiling water, with a cover over it, and fome charcoal on the cover ;—it will foon fet:—when it is done, fet it in a cool place, and ferve it up for a fecond courfe. Chocolate CREAM. SCRAPE fine two ounces of chocolate, put it into a marble mortar, with a little boiled cream to diffolve it; pound it for half in hour } take it out, and put it into a chocolate pot, with one pint and a half of boiling cream ; fet it on the fire to boil, and mill it all the time ; put it into a bowl, and fweeten it to your tafte ; when it is almoft cold, put in two infide {kins of gizzards, wafhed clean ; let it Hand for one hour, ftrain it through a piece of muflin into a china difh, fet it ©vfer( 3°5 ) over a ftew-pan of boiling water, with a cover and fire on it as before ; when it is fet, take it off,—let it cool, and ferve it up as above. Raspberry CREAM. PUT one pint and a half of cream into a china bowl, add to it half a tea-fpoonful of cochi- neal, to give it a colour, whifk it to raife a froth, —and as it rifes, take it off, and lay it on a fieve ; when you have got as much froth as will ferve to cover the cream, put into your bowl half a pound of rafp jam, mix it well together, drain it through a fieve to take the feeds quite out of it ; put it into a glafs bowl or deep china difh, and the froth over it. It is proper for a cor- ner difh for a fecond courfe, or a middle difh. for fupper. Hartshorn CREAM. BOIL a quarter of a pound of hartihorn {havings in two quarts of water, till it comes to half a pint; run it through a jelly bag, put to it one pint of thick cream, a fiick of cinnamon, and two laurel leaves; fet it to boil for five minutes,—take it off, let it (land a little, then pour it into jelly glades, and let it hand all night to cool;—dip your glaffes in warm water, turn them out into a difh, and fiick them over with dices of almond cut longways, Serve it up for a fecond courfe, or middle difh for fupper. Qui Italian( 3°6 ) Italian CREAM. PUT one pint and a half of cream into a fiew- pan with a hick of cinnamon, a few corian- der feeds, and a little rind of lemon ; fweeten it to your tafte; fet it on to boil for five minutes; take it off, let it hand till almoft cold, and put in the inner fkin of two gizzards wafhed clean,—let it hand for one hour and a half, drain it through a heve two or three times, pour it into a china difh clear from the fettlings,. fet it over a ftew-pan of boilings water with a cover and fire on it ; when it is let, take it off, and fet it to cool;—colour a little cream with cochineal, whifkitup to a froth, cfi-ain it on a fieve, lay it on the top of the cream, and ferve it for a corner difh for dinner, or a middle di'fh for fupper. P i s t A c h o CREAM. IT)OIL a quart of cream with a ffick of cinna- JD mon, and as much fugar as will fweeten it to 3 our tafte; take a quarter of a pound of pifta- cho nuts; take off the fkins, pound them in a mortar, mix them with the cream, and green it with a little fpinage juice ; put to it the iufide fkins of two gizzards, let it hand for one hour and a half,—drain it, put it into a difli, and fet it over a flew-pan of boiling water, with a cover and fire on it;( 3°7 ) it ; when it is fet, take it off, and fet it in a cool place; garnifli the edges of your difli with whole piitacho nuts peeled, and fcrve it up as before. Snow CREA M. TAKE the whites of eight eggs, beat them to a ftrong froth, and put to them a fpoonful of treble refined fugar; have ready a ftew-pan with fame milk and water; when it boils, put in the froth, and let it juft boil; take off the pan, and have ready 1'ome cullard in a china difli ; take the froth carefully up with a flice, lay it on the cuftard ; fcrve it up for a corner dilh for dinner, or a middle difli for fupper, A N o T H E R W A Y. BEAT up the whites of eight eggs to a ftrong froth, as before, adding a little fugar; have ready a broad ftew-pan with boiling milk and wa- ter put in the froth, and let it boil two minutes > take up the froth, cut it into fquare pieces, and lay it neatly in a difli;—-cut fonie fweet-meats in pretty fliapes, and lay them on each fquare,—pour l'ome. nice boiled cuftard round it, anti fcrve it up as before. C^q 2 B rJ R N T'> ( 3°8 ) Burnt CREAM. OOIL a pint of cream with a little fugar, and a hit of the rind of a lemon; then beat the yolks of fix eggs and the whites of three; when the cream is cold, put in the eggs, with a fpoon- itil of role-water,—fet it over the fire, and keep Airring it till it is thick; pour it into a difh, and when it is cold, lift fome fugar on the top; then hold a hot falamander over it till it is very brown, and ferve it up for a fecond courfe. Rhenish CREAM. FslTT one pint of Rhenifh wine in a Aew-pan, with a kick of cinnamon, the juice of two Se- ville oranges, ..the yolks of Ax eggs, and half a pound of loaf fugar ; fet it on the fire, Airring it all the time till it grows thick, (but do not let it boil, or' it will curdle) ; when it is as thick as cream, drain it through a fieve into a china difh, or put it into jelly glaffcs. All other wine creams are made the fame way. Lemon C R E A M. BOIL a pint of cream; when it is cold, add to it the yolks of four eggs, three ounces of loaf- fugar, and the rind of a lemon grated ; fet it over a fire, and Air it till it is pretty hot; put it in a bafon( 3°9 ) bafon to cool,—then lay lemon peel cut like ftraws over the top; or you may put it into glaffes, and fet it round a defert frame among jellies. / White Lemon CREAM. TAKE three lemons, pare them very thin,—put the parings and juice together in a bafon with a pint of water for two hours ; add a few corian- der feeds, a ftick of cinnamon, the whites of feven eggs, a little rofe-water, and half a pound of fugar; fet it on the fire to fimmer, but not boil y—(it mull be as thick as cream) then {train it through a fieve, put it into a glafs bowl, and ferve it up cold. I f you would have it yellow, add the yolks of two eggs. , Orange CREAM. TAKE four large Seville oranges, grate off the rind, and put it in a bafon with a pint of water, and the juice of the oranges ; let it hand one hour, add fix eggs, leaving out three yolks; whifk it all well together, (train it into a ftevv-pan,' with as much fugar as will fweeten it; fet it on the fire, ftir it all the time, and when it grows thick, take it off, and ferve it up in jelly glaffes on a falver or defert frame, or in a glafs bowl. TRIFLES.I ( 3"° ) TRIFLES. TAKE three long bifcuits, cut thefn in kices, and lay them in a difh ; pour as much white- wine over them as they will drink j then take a pint of cream, put in a little fugar, and fqueeze in a little of the juice of a lemon, and a bit of the rind ; whifk it up to a froth, and lay it on a fieve ; take a little cream, put it in a kew-pan with a flick of cinnamon, the yolks of three eggs, and fugar to your take,—let it over a gentle fire, kir it one way till it is thick, then take it off, and pour it over the bifcuits into the difh ;—when cold, put on the frothed cream, lay round it different coloured fweet-meats, and ferve it up for a fecond courfe. CUSTARDS. AKE one pint of cream, fet it to boil with a flick of cinnamon, a few coriander feeds, a bit of the rind of a lemon, and two laurel leaves; let it boil ten minutes, take it out, and let it cool, add the yolks of fix eggs well beaten, and fweeten it to your take ; then drain it into a kew-pan, fet it on a kre, let it fimmer, but not boil, kirring it ail the time with a whifk;—when it grows thick, take it off, put it in a bowl, and kir it till it grows cold i add to it a fpoonful of brandy, a fpoonful of rofe-v/ater, and a few almonds blanched and diced ; put them in cukard cups, and ferve them up for a iecond courfe. ALMOKSC 3H ) Almond CUSTARD, TAKE a quart of cream, put it in a flew-pan with a flick of cinnamon, two blades of mace, and three laurel leaves ; boil it, and fet it to cool • blanch two ounces of fweet almonds, beat them fine in a marble mortar with rofe-water, mix it with cream, and fweeten it to your tafle ; fet it on a flow fire, flirring it till it grows thick; do not let it boil, for it will curdle,—ftir it till it is almofl cold, and put it in the cups. SACK POSSET, GRATE a quarter of a pound of bifcuit cake, put it into a flew-pan with a pint of cream, a flick of cinnamon, and a bit of lemon peel; fet it on a clear fire, and let it boil five minutes ; take it off, and take out the rind of the lemon, and the cinnamon ; put to it a quarter of a pint of fack or fweet wine, grate in a little nutmeg, afid as much fugar as will fweeten it,—flir it till it is al- mofl cold, and put it into a china difh or glafs bowl; whifk fome cream with a little fugar and wine, to a light froth, and put over it,—ftrew fome colouicd comfits on the top, and ferve it up for a econd courfc for dinner, or for flipper. A( 3” ) A Wh.pt POSSET. PUT a quart of cream into a deep bowl, add to it two glafles of white-wine, a piece of the rind of a lemon, a, flick of cinnamon, and a piece of fugar; let it (land a little to take the tafle of the lemon and cinnamon ; take a whifk, and whip it to a nice light froth; as the froth rifes, take it off with a fpoon, and lay it on a hair fieve to drain. The cream mull not be too thick, or it will make your froth heavy,—neither muft it be too thin, or it will not rife. Half fill the pofiet glaifes with white or red wine, put a piece of fugar (half the bignefs of a nutmeg) in each glafs ; when the froth is well drained, fill the pofiet glafles with the froth as high as you well can, and ferve them up on a defert frame, or on a ferver, with jellies. A Whip SYLLABUB. PU T a pint of cream in a bowl with a quarter of a pound of loaf-fugar, the rind of one le- mon grated and fhred fine, the juice of two lemons,, two glafles of Madeira wine, and one glafs of^ brandy; let it {land one hour, whifk it well, and as the froth rifes take it oft, and put it into the fyllabub glafles,—fill them as high as you can, and do fo till all your cream is whifked ; let them ft and all night; the next morning they will be clear at the bottom. Serve them up with jellies as before. Lemc^( 3*3 ) Lemon SYLLABUB. PUT a pint of cream into a bowl with three quar- ters of a pound of loaf-fugar, the juice of five lemons, the rinds of two rafped fine, half a pint of fweet wine,—whilk them well for half an hour, and put them into glafles as above. . They are bet- ter for Handing all night. Cream CHEESE. - • TAKE two quarts of thick cream, let it Hand two days, then lay a wet napkin four double in a deep difh, pour in the cream, and let it ftand three days ; turn it into another clean wet napkin, and let it Hand three days more, take it out, lay it on a plate, and fprinkle on it a little fait. It will be fit to eat in ten days. /• v Bladder CHEESE. TAKE a dried calf’s bladder, fill it full of thick cream, tie it with a firing, and hang it on a nail; then, as the whey drops from it, you muft tie it tighter ; let it hang in the bladder ten days, then cut the bladder up the fide, and turn it out on a plate. It will be fit to eat in three days. Ur Cream\ ( 314 ) Cream CHEESE another Way. TAKE fix quarts of milk from the cow; boil two quarts of cream with two ounces of loaf- fugar, put it into the milk, and add the yolks of two eggs ; ftamp a few marygold leaves in a mor- tar, put a little milk to them, and drain it through a lawn fieve into the milk and cream, to give it a colour ; add to it two quarts of boiling water, and far it all together ; when almoft cold, put to it two fpoonful of runnet, and iet it Hand till it comes to ' a curd,—break it with a difli, and have ready a thin cloth ; hold it at each end, put in the curd, and move it backwards and forwards till the whey is run from it ; then lay the cloth in a cheefe-vat, cover the cheefe over with the cloth, and lay on the fmker with a weight of fix pounds, to prefs it; turn it twice in four hours into clean cheefe cloths, let it lie all night with the weight on it,—then take it out, and fait it the next day ; put it into a clean piece of flannel, and lay it among frefh nettles every day. It will be ready to eat in fourteen days. v - . • Slipcoat CHEESE. ^TPAKE feven pints of new milk, and one quart -If of cream warmed,—put it together, with as much runnet as will turn it ; when it is come, do not break it as for other cheefe, but iay a cloth into a cheefe-vat; take up the curd with a fkimmer, as whole‘ ( 3'* 5 ) whole as you can, lay it in the cheefc-vat, and as it drains, put in more, without otherwife touching it, till all is in ; then call over it the other half of the cloth, put on the linker, and lay a pound weight on it, for that is enough ; in two hours turn it into a clean wet cloth,—next morning fait it lightly, and lay it in clean dog-grafs, and as that withers, lay it in frefh. It will be ready to eat in fourteen days. PORTUGAL CREA M. SIMMER three quarters of an ounce of ilinglafs in half a pint of boiling water, till it is quite dif- folved ; add twelve bitter almonds blanched, and beat in a mortar, and the rind of half a lemon pared very thin ; let it limmer a little ; add half a pint of cream, the yolks of three eggs, and as much fugar as will fweeten it to your take y ffir it over the lire a little, but do not let it boil ; ffrain it through a piece of muflin ; when almoff cold, pour it into a difli, and when it is Riff, cut it out with thejiging-, iron ; lay it in a china difli in rings, and garijifli it with flowers or fweet-meats. R r 2 To( 3l5 ) ' \ To make a IIEDG E-H O G, LANCH a pound of almonds, beat them in a mortar very fine, with a little rofe-water; put them in a ftew-pan, with half a pint of cream, the yolks of fix eggs, and the whites of three ; grate in a rind of a lemon, and as much fugar as will fweeten it to your tafle; flir it over a flow fire till it is thick; put it in a difli, and make it in the form of a hedge-hog ; llice fome almonds longways, and flick it all over to look like briftles ; put round it a pint of boiled cuftard. APPLE PUDDING. "IQ) A RE and core fix apples, flew them tender, beat them to a fine pulp; add four ounces of melted butter, a glafs of brandy, the juice of two lemons, and the rind of one ; the yolks of five eSns5 and-the whites of three; a little cinnamon and nutmeg, and as much fugar as will fweeten it to your tafle ; mix it well, fhcet your difli with light pafte, bake it in a moderate oven one hour. Littlf( 317 ) Utile BAKED. PUDDINGS. T)UT half a pint of water, and four ounces of but- jj •*- ter to boil in a ftew-pan ; then add four table fpoonful of fine flour, flir it over the fire fix mi- nutes ; take it ofl, put it in a bafon to cool ; add the yolks of fix eggs, the rind of one lemon gra- ted, and half the juice ; a glafs of brandy, lome nutmeg, and fugar to your taftp, mix it well toge- | ther; butter fix common white tea cups, and put 1 it in; bake it half an hour in a quick oven, turn them out on a difli, and ftrew fugar over them, Curd CHEESE CAKES. I / 1 "DUT a fpoonful of runnet into two quarts of new milk juft warm ; when it is fet, break it with, a fpoon; put it on a fieve to drain the whey from it, work the curd through the fieve, with four ounces of butter; add fix eggs, leave out three whites, a glafs of brandy, nutmeg, and fugar to your tafte ; a few currants; mix it all well toge- ther ; ftieet your cheefe cake pans with puff pafte, put in the meat, and bake them half an hour in a, quick oven ; ftrew fugar over them when you ferve I them up. ORANGE( ) \ ORANGE FRITTERS. BREAK two eggs in a bafon, beat them ; add half a pint of milk, and four fpoonful of flour, a little fait, and nutmeg, mix it well together; pare two Seville oranges, and cut them in round flices not very thin ; put them in your bafon, flir them in; have ready your frying-pans, with lard hot; drop in your fritters, fry them of a light brown, put them in a china difh, and flrew fugar over them, and ferve them up Hot. DROP BISCUITS. BjEAT the whites of four eggs with a knife up- £ on a plate, to a froth, put it in a bafon ; add the yolks of two, beat it a little ; add nine ounces of lump-fugar beat, eight ounces of flour, and the rind and juice of half a lemon ; mix it all well together; drop them on white paper buttered, flrew fugar over them, and bake them in a quick oven. ORANGE JELLY.' BOIL a pound of hartfhorn fhavings in three quarts of water, for four hours, and till it is reduced to one quart; ftrain it through a fieve, let it ftand all night; grate the rinds of four Sevilleoran- ges( 3l9 ) ges very thin, and the juice of fix; add half a pint of water, let it lland all night to infufe, Rrain it in a Rew-pan with your jelly, the rind and juice of one lemon, fet it on the fire to melt; add the whites of three eggs well beat, with fugar to your tafte ; boil it fix minutes, run it through a bag till fine ; when it is near cold, put it in orange moulds, or any other fhapes you pleafe; let them Rand all night to cool, then turn them out on a china difh. ORANGE JELLY another Way. DISSOLVE an ounce of ifinglafs in a pint of wa- ter ; add to it the juice of four Seville oran- ges, and the rind of two, a little brandy, fweeten it to your tafle ; let it fimmer, Rrain it through a piece of muflin ; when near cold, put it into your moulds, and let it Rand to fiifFen. You may do lemon jelly the fame way. To make O Z Y A T. • TDLANCII half a pound of bitter, and half a pound of lweet almonds, beat them fine in a mortar, with fome orange Rower water; add to it two quarts of fpring water, work it through a napkin, put it into a preferving-pan, with two pounds of fine fugar, boil it half an hour; when it is cold, put it I( 32° ) it into bottles; when you want to ufe it, (hake the bottle, and put a tea-cupful into a pint of water; if that fhould be too fweet, add more water to your tide. To make LEMONADE. PUT three quarts of boiling water into a mug, fqueeze to it the juice of twelve lemons, and the rinds of fix, pared very thin, and as much fugar as will fweeten it; let it hand eight hours, ftrain it through a clean napkin, and ferve it up in glafles. Grated ORANGE MARMALADE. I GRATE the outride rinds of twelve Seville oran- ges into a mug, cut them through, fqueeze to it the juice and pulp, but no feeds ; weigh it, and put it into a preferving-pan ; to every pound put a pound and a half of fugar, boil it over a ftove till it looks clear and will jelly, which it will do in half an hour, then put it into your pots. CALF; FEET JELLY. TAKE four calf’s feet, make them very clean, and fet them on the fire in a pot with four quarts of water; let it boil till it is reduced to two quarts, ftraiu it off, and let it Rand till it is cold; fxitn( 321 ) » Ikim off the fat, put it in a dew-pan \\ itli four whites of eggs whifketf—add fome coriander feeds, a flick of cinnamon, and a piece of lemon fkin ; fet it on to boil, and add one bottle of white-wine, one gill of brandy, the juice of four lemons, and as much fugar as will fweeten it; let it boil ten minutes, throw it through a jelly bag till it is fine,— put it in the glades, and leave them up on falvers, or round defert frames. Hartshorn JELLY. SET half a pound of hartfhorn to boil with threo quarts of water ; let it boil till it comes to a jelly, (which you may know by dating a little up in a fpoon to cool) and if it jellies, drain it into a flew pan ; let it cool,—put in five whites of eggs, fome coriander feeds, and fome cinnamon,—fet it on the fire to boil for fifteen minutes ; add the juice of three lemons, and rub the rinds of two lemons on the fugar that is to fweeten the jelly; add a little brandy, and a bottle of white-wine, let it boil ten minutes, drain it through a jelly bag till fine, then put it in your glades, and ferve them up as above. t n c e M A R M A L A D E. PAB.E three pounds of quinces, cut them in quarters, take out the cores, puff them in a fauce-pan well tinned, cover them witji water, put the parings on the top, dop them clofe, let them & f boilboil flo\vly till they are tender and of a pink colour; take them out from the parings and water, drain them on a fieve; when cold, pound them in amor- tar very fine, put three pounds of fugar in a prefer v- ing-pan, with a pint and a half of water, boil it fifteen minutes, put in the quinces with the juice of two lemons, boil it till it is thick and clear. Hiring it all the time, to keep it from burning; put it in pots, and cover them with brandy paper. A ? r i. c ' o t MARMALADE. TpjiA'RE four pounds of apricots, take out the J[ Hones, put them in a preferving-pan with a pint.of water, fet them on a Hove to Hew; when tender, take them out, and beat them to a fine pulp; then put three pounds of fugar in your pan ■with a pint of water, and a pint of apple jelly, let it boil twenty minutes, 11dm it clean, Hir it all the time, to keep it from burning, put it in your pots, and cover it as above. Red Currant JELLY. TpICK twelve quarts of fine red currants, put them JL into a preferving-pan with half a pint of water, fet them on a Hove to boil flowly till all the juice is come out, but do not let them burn to the bottom of the pan ; firain the juice through a fieve, and to every pint of juice put a pound of fugar pounded, ,—boil it till it will jelly.To S f 2 ( 3 23 ) L To fickle KIDNEY-BEANS. PUT fmall kidney-beans into fait and water for five days, boil it up, then fet them to green in a brafs pan, with equal quantities of alegar and hard- water ; when they are quite green, take them out and put them in ajar; boil as much white-wine vinegar as will cover them, with clove and black pepper, rice ginger, and a handful of fait; then flop them clofe down. r All pickles fhould be kept in a cool dry place ; if damp, it will quite fpoil them. When you ufe the pickles, take them out with a fpoon, and do not put in your fingers, for that wall make them mothery. To pickle MUSHROOMS. TAKE the fmall button mufhrooms, put them into milk and water, and rub them well with a flannel,—put on fome water with a large handful of fait, and let it boil; then put in the mufhrooms, let them boil two minutes, take them off, flrain them, and dry them in a cloth ; when they are cold, put them into bottles with a little mace, white pepper, and nutmeg fliced,—fill the bottles with bell double-diftilled vinegar, cork them down tight, and tie a piece of bladder over them. You may put fome fweet-oil on the tops, to prc- fervc them.( 324 ) To To fickle COLL1FLOWERS. HTAKE clofe round and fmall colliflowers,—fet 1 on to boil fome fait and water, fo ftrong as to bear an egg ; when it boils, put in the colli- flower, and let boil for two minutes,—then take it out, and let it drain upon the fieve; when it is quite cold, put it into a fmall glafs jar, fill it up with the bell double-diftilled vinegar, add to it fome white pepper, a fliced nutmeg, mace, and a handful of fait; cover it clofe up. To fickle WALNUTS. GATHER the walnuts before they {hell, prick them in feveral places with a needle, then put them into a,ftrong fait and water ; let them lie twelve days, but change them once in that time;, then put them in a hair fieve, and let them ftand all night to drain ; then put them into ajar, and make a pickle for them as follows :—Put as much white-wine vinegar as will cover them in a fauce- pan, with fome brown muftard-feed bruifed, two or three rices of ginger, a few black pepper-corns,, and a few cloves ; let it boil for ten minutes, and pour it upon the walnuts ; when they are cold, flick three or four cloves of garlic on a fkewer, and put amongft them to give them a flavour,—then cover them down clofe with bladder and leather.( 325 ) To To make India PICCALILLO. PUT a hard white cabbage, cut into lengths, but not fmall, into an earthen mug, ftrew two hand- ful of fait on it, and let it lie all night; then take three collifiowers, pick them in bunches, lay them in an earthen dilh, drew a handful of fait over them, and let them lie all night; next day put them on a lieve to drain, ftrew a handful of fait over them, and dry them in the fun, or before the fire. Dry the cabbage on a fieve, the fame way as the collifiowers, with fome fait thrown on it,—or you may hang them on lines, near the fire. Then peel two quarts of fmall onions, give them a boil in ftrong fait and water for two minutes,—and throw , them on a fieve to drain ; then take fome large cu- cumbers, cut them in what form you pleafe, take out the feeds, fait them, and let them lie all night; give them a fimmer over a fire in a little vinegar, drain them on a fieve, and make a pickle for them as follows :—Put a gallon of vinegar into a fauce- pan, with an ounce of turmeric, a little mace, cloves, black pepper-corns, and a rice of ginger, and let it boil ten minutes ; put the above ingredients into a jar with four mangoes, and a few cloves of garlic; when the pickle is cold, pour it into the jar, cover it clofe down, and keep it in a cool dry place.To ( ) Jo pickle ONIONS. PEEL fome fmall -white onions, and boil them among fait and water and a little milk for ar minute,—drain them on a fieve, rub them in a cloth till they are quite dry, and when they are cold, put them into wide-mouthed bottles,—fill them up with the beft double-diltilled vinegar, a fliced nutmeg, mace, white pepper, and a little fait,—cork them down, and cover them over with a bladder. To pickle RADISH PODS. TAKE the pods off the radifiies when quite green and young, flit them at the fmall end with a needle, put them into fait and water for five days, fliifting them into frefh water every other day, then green them in alegar and hard-water ; when green, put them into ajar,—boil as much of the bell white-wine vinegar as will cover them, with fome black and clove pepper, rice ginger, and a little fait,—pour it on them boiling hot, and flop them clofe down.< 3-7 ) / To pickle P O T A T O E APPLES, GA P H E R them when they are young, put them in cold fait and water for fix davs, , green them with alegar and hard-water, then take as much vinegar as will cover them, boil it with mace, cloves, black pepper, rice ginger, and a little fait,—pour it on them boiling hot, and flop them | clofe down. Walnut CATCHUP. T)hJT fome walnuts in a flrong flone jar, cover tliem with flrong beer vinegar, tie them clofe down with a bladder or leather, and let them Hand nine months. Then flrain the vinegar into a flew- | pan to three quarts of this liquor, put in fix ounces of anchovies, one quart of red-wine, half an ounce of mace, half an ounce of cloves, one ounce of black | peppci, and an ounce of rice ginger ; fet it over a quick fire for three quarters of an hour to reduce it? when cold, bottle it up, and keep it for ufe. Boil fome white-wine vinegar with a little fea- foning, when cold, pour it over the walnuts, and cover them down for ufe. Mushroom( 3=8 ) Mushroom CATCHUP. BRUISE &me full-grown mufiirooms with your hands, throw on them a handful of fait, and let them hand all night; then put them into a quick oven to bake for one hour ; take them out and llrain it through a fieve; to two quarts of this liquor, add black and clove pepper, mace, and cloves, in all half an ounce, and a little common fait; boil it for half an hour pretty quick, then put into a mug,—when it is cold, bottle it up, .and keep it for ufc. Another Way. PUT three quarts of old flrong beer into a ftew- pan with one quart of red-wine, one pound' of anchovies, a quarter of a pound of fhallots peel- ed, with mace, nutmeg, and cloves, each half an ounce, and one ounce of ginger cut in flices ; boil it till one-third is reduced ; when it is cold, bottle it, and keep it for ufe. It will keep a long time very good. 0 eTo make Sugar VINEGAR. PUT ten pounds of brown fugar to feveri gallons of water, boil it for a quarter of an hour, then put it into a tub,—and when almoil cold, put to it /( 329 ) it a little yeaft, and let it work for four days; then turn it into an iron-hooped barrel, flop it clofe down, and fet it in the fun. You may make it in February or March and it will be fit to ufe in Sep- temper. Gooseberry VINEGAR. TAKE the yellow and ripeft goofeberries you can get, bruife them with your hands in a tub; to three pecks of goofeberries put feven gal- lons of water, mix them wTell together, and let them hand for three weeks, ftirring them twice a day ;—ftrain the liquor through a fieve, and prefs the goofeberries; put to it fix pounds of brown fugar, feven pounds of treacle, and a little yeaft,— let it work for three days, ftirring it twice a-day, then turn it into an iron-bound calk that will juft hold it; when it is done fermenting, ftop it tight down, keep it one year, and then it will be fit to ufe. To pickle Red CABBAGE. TAKE the fineft red cabbage you can get, cut it in thin flireds, put it in a mug, drew on it a handful of fait, and let it lie all night; the next day put it on a fieve to drain, dry it in a eoarfe cloth, and put it into a fauce-pan with a little vi- negar ; ftir it over the fire till it is quite hot,—put it into a jar, pour the liquor from the cabbage into T t aI ( 33° ) \ a pan, and add as much vinegar to it as will cover the cabbage, with a little rice ginger, fome' black arid clove pepper, a little falt-petre, and a bit of al- lum ; let it boil ten minutes, then pour it over the - cabbage, and when it is cold cover it over with bladder and leather. To fickle BEET ROOTS. BOIL the reddeft beet roots you can get in hard- water half an hour; cut them in flices, in flowers, or in what lhapes you pleafe, and put them into a jar; boil as much vinegar as will cover them, with a rice of ginger, a little mace, fome black pepper-corns, a little fait, and a little pre- pared cochineal to give it a colour; let it boil ten minutes, pour it over the roots, and cover them up as before. To fickle BARBERRIES. GATHER the barberries when they are ripe and of a fine colour, pick off the leaves and bad berries, and tie the others up in little bunches ; make a bag of old white cloth, into which put the berries, and put it into a jar; then pound two handful of barberries in a mortar, put them into three pints of hard-water, then ftrain it through a fieve, add to it three handful of fait to make it a ftrong( 331 ) flrong brine, with a fpoonful of prepared cochi- neal ; pour it on the barberries, put a thin flate on them to keep them down, and cover them with leather and a bladder as above. To pickle GIRKINS.' ^T^AKE girkins free from fpots, put them into a jar, and pour fome boiling fait and water on them ; let them hand four days, changing the wa- ter once in that time,—then put them into a brafs pan with a cabbage leaf under and over them; cover them with one-half alegar, and the other half hard-water; fet them on the fire till they are quite hot, then hang them a little higher, and keep them hot till they are quite green, but do not let them boil; when they are green, take them out, drain them on a fieve, and put them into ajar;— then put iome of the bell; white-wine vinegar into a fauce-pan with fome black and clove pepper, rice ginger, and a handful of fait; fet it on the fire, when it boils, pour it on the girkins, and cover it dole down. To pickle ROCK SAMP H IRE. LE f the rock fiujiphire be frelh-picked and not bruifed,—walh it clean, cut off the roots, tie it up in fmall bunches, put it into a bral's pan with a cabbage leaf tinder and over it, fill it up with onc- T t 2 half( 332 ) To half alegar and the other half hard-water, and fet it on the lire till it is quite hot; hang it a little higher, and keep it hot till it is quite green ; then take it out, drain it, and put it into ajar;—put home white-wine vinegar into a fauce-pan with home black and clove pepper, and home rice ginger; fet it on the fire, let it boil five minutes, pour it on the famphire, and cover it clofe down. To make MANGOES. TAKE large green cucumbers, cut a piece out of the fide one inch fquare, and take out the feeds ; pour on them home boiling fait and water, let them lie for three days,—then change the water, and let them lie three days more ; fet them on to green in a brafs pan, with an equal quantity of ale- gar and hard-water to cover them ; when green, take them out, and fill them with muftard feed, a clove of garlic, a bit of horfe-radilh, black and clove pepper, mace, cloves, nutmeg, and a little rice ginger fliced,—then put in the pieces, tie it clofe, and put it into ajar ; pour fome white-wine vinegar into a pan, with a handful of fait, (as much as will cover them); when it boils, pour it on them, and flop them clofe down.( 333 ) To preferve PEACHES in Brandy, TAKE twelve of the largeft peaches before they are too ripe ; wipe off the lint with a cloth, cut them down the feam with a pen-knife, Ikin deep,—put them into ajar, and cover them with the beft French brandy for four days ; clarify two pounds of double-refined fugar, and let it ftand till the fyrup is quite cold ; pour it into the jar to the peaches, give it a good thake every day for a week, or the fyrup will fink to the bottom,—put a thin blue flate on the top of the peaches to keep them under the fyrup, or they will lofe their colour, and cover them down with a damp bladder, that no air may get in. To preferve green MELONS. npAKE a green melon, put it into fait and wa . ter ™r a week> changing it twice; cut ; p.ece out of one fide about an inch fquare, anc take out the feeds,—fet it on the fire to green witl hard.water and a little alegar,-cover it over wit! Vine or cabbage leaf, and when it is green, take i, out, and put it in water for one night; then mak< a t un fyrup, of half a pound of fugar, put the ntelon into it, et it boil for five minutes, and kt i. hy for eight days ; then warm up the fyrup and rour it on the melon,—doing this three L"; thenup as much double-refined fugar to a fyrup as will cover the melon, with a Hick of cinnamon, fix cloves, the juice of one lemon, and the rinds cut like ftraws ; put in the melon, and let it boil four minutes ; put the lemon, cinnamon, and cloves into the melon,—fallen in the piece with a fmall wood pin, put it into the jar, pour the fyrup over it, and cover it with a paper and bladder. To preferve QJLT I N C E S whole. ARE the quinces very thin and round, put them into a fauce-pan that is well tinned, with two pewter fpoons in the middle to make them red ; fill up the fauce-pan with hard-water, lay the pa- rings over the quinces and keep them down,— cover them clofe that no Hearn may get out, and fee them over a flow fire to Hew till they are ten- der, and of a fine red colour : take them carefully out, and when they are cold, weigh them,—ana to two pounds of quinces put two pounds and a half of double-refined fugar ; put it in a preferving-pan with one quart of water, fet it over a clear char- coal fire to boil, Ikim it clean, and when it looks clear, put in the quinces ; boil them twelve minutes, then take them off, and fet them by for four hours to cool; fet them on again, and let them boil three minutes; take them off, and let them Hand two days ; then boil them again for ten minutes*( 335 ) with the juice of twci lemons ; fet them by till they are cold, put them into the pots or jars, and pour the fyrup over them; cover them with paper dip- ped in brandy, tie them clofe down with a piece of leather or bladder, and fet them in a cool dry place. To preferve QJJ I N C E S another Way t TAKE one pound and a half of quinces, pare them, cut them in quarters, and take out the cores; put them into a preferving-pan with one pound and a half of fugar, and a pint of water,— fet them on the fire to flew till they are tender, and break them with a fpoon till they are fine ; then di- vide it into four parts, and tie it up into four pieces of muflin ; put the end of the quinces you cut off in parings into four fmall fweetmeat pots, with the outfide uppermoft,—fet the muflin iqi them, and it will make a dent, and look like whole ones; let them ftand in the pots three days in a dry place, that they may grow ftiff, then ipakp a fyrup for them as follows : Put one pound and a half of fugar into a pre- ferving-pan with a pint of water j fet it to boil, -fkim it clean, and when it looks clear, put to it half a pint of ftrong apple jelly ; let it boil for eight minutes pretty faft,—turn the quinces out of the mulliu( 33* ) muflin into the fweet-meat pots, pour the fyrup over them, and when cold, cover them as before- mentioned. To make APPLE JELLY. TAKE twelve large apples, cut them into thin flices, put them in a preferving-pan with three pints of water to them ; boil it till it comes to a quart, ftrain it through a lawn fieve into a clean pot, and ufe it as the receipts dire<R. Codlins are the bell apples to make it of. • i To Qreferve APRICOTS in Jelly. AKE two pounds of apricots, and pare them neatly ; put one pound* of fugar into a pre- ferving-pan with one pint of water, and let it boil till it looks clear; then fcald the apricots in boiling water, taking care your do not break them,—put them into the fyrup, let them fimmer flowly for five minutes, (turning them gently) and fet them off for half an hour ; fet them on again,—and as foon as they boil, take them off; fet them by for three days, warming them up once every day, then put them on a fieve to drain, and make a fyrup for them as follows : PutU u To « Put one pound and a quarter of double refined fugar into the preferving-pan, with three quarters^ of a pint of water ; fet it on the fire for fifteen mi- nutes,—fkim it clean, and add to it half a pint of ftrong apple jelly, and let it boil ten minutes ; wipe the apricots with a clean cloth, and put them into the fyrup ; let them juft fimmer, to make them look clear, then take them out carefully with a fpoon, and put them into pots; pour the fyrup over them, keeping a little in a faucer to cover them when they are cold,—cover them with paper dipped in brandy, and bladder or leather tied over it. ■ To preferve APRICOTS another Way. ARE the apricots, thruft out the ftones with a fkewer ; to every pound of apricots put one pound of double-refined fugar, pound it in a mor- tar, and ftrew it over them,—fprinkle on them a little water, and let them lie all night; crack the ftones, take out the kernels, peel them, and put them in the inlide of the apricots ; put them over a flow fire, and give them a gentle boil,—take them oft to cool, and do fo three different times ; then fet them by till next day. Take them care- fully out of the fyrup, and put them into pots ; doiI up the fyrup, fkim it clean, pour it over the apricots, and when cold, cover them as above.( 338 ) To preferve Green APRICOTS, AT HER the apricots before the Rones are n.xid, put tnem into a coarfe cloth with a handful of fait, and rub them; put them into a pan of haud-water with vine leaves under and over them, and fet them on a flow fire till they are of a fine light green. If there are any broken, or of a bad colour, pick them out. Weigh the heft, and to one pound of apricots put one pound of double-refined fugar ; make it into a fyrup with a pint of water, fkim it clean, and put in the apri- cots ; give them a boil,—and fet them by for three days, giving them a gentle boil each day ; add to them the juice of a lemon, boil them for five mi- nutes, put them into pots, and cover them as above. Of the bad ones you may make a tart for pre- fen t ufe. To preferve Green COOSEBERRIES. ^T^AKE the largeft and fineft yon can get while they are green, and take out the feeds; put them in a brafs pan with fome vine leaves under and over them, and cover them with hard-water, adding a bit of allum ; cover them clofe down that no( 339 ) no fteam may get out, hang them up high in the chimney to go very flow all night; take them off next morning, and hang them on at night, and do fo till they are green ; taking care that they do not boil, or they will not green. When they are green, drain them on a fieve, weigh them, and for every pound of goofebcrries, put a pound of double-re- fined fugar into a preferving-pan, with a pint of water, and boil it till it is clear ; let it hand till it is cool; put in the goofebcrries, fet them on a flow fire, keep them ftirring, and let them fimmer; fet them by till the next day, then add to them the juice of a lemon, and boil them on a flow fire till they are clear; put them in pots, and when cold, cover them with a brandy paper and bladder,—tic them down. You may leave the feeds in if you will. To preferve Green GOOSEBERRIES like Hors. t '"PAKE large green goofeberries, cut them in four quarters at the flalk end, leaving the other end whole, and take out the feeds ; put them into a brafs-pan with vine leaves under and over them ; cover them with hard-water, put to them a l'poonful of powder-fugar, a bit of almond, and a tea-cupful of alegar; fet them over a flow fire to warm ; fet them by for ten days,—warming them up once each dav ; and if thcv arc not uween in V u 2 . that( 34° ) that time, hang them over a flow fire till they are fo, then drain them on a fieve. Take a needle with a flrong thread, make a knot at the end, run the needle through fix or eight goofeberries, placing them one within another ; cut off the thread, and make a knot at each end, to keep them together, and do fo till you have done them all. Weign them,—and to one pound of goofeberries put one pound of double-refined fugar, and make it into a i'yrup; .put in the goofeberries, let them boil, and let them by three days, warming them up once each day; add to them the juice of a lemon ; let them boil till they are clear, put them into fmall pots, cover them with paper dipped in brandy and a bladder, tie them down, and keep them for ufe. To preferve AN G E L I C A. f ]pAKE the tender ftalks, put them into a pre- ferving-pan, with wine or currant leaves un- der and over them ; cover them with hard-water, and add to them a bit of allum; hang it over a flow fire to green, and when it is greened, boil it in the fame water till it is tender ; drain it, pick off the firings with a pen-knife, and tie it in knots, or in what form you pleafe. flake their weight of double-refined fugar, and pound it; put the ange- lica into a prfeferving-pan, firew the fugar over it, and let it lie three days and nights, fl’o every pound of( 34i ) of fugar and angelica put three quarters of a pint of water, boil and lkim it till it is quite clear, put it in pots,—and when it is cold, put on it feme paper dipped in brandy, cover it, and tie it down. If you chufe to candy it, you may take it out of the fyrup, wipe it dry with a cloth, and lay it on glafs plates ; daft on fome fine fugar, put it into a hove to dry, and keep it in paper boxes in a dry place. To prefervc green Gage PLUMBS. TAKE the fineft plumbs you can get, juft be- fore they are ripe, weigh them, and put them in a brafs pan with fome vine leaves in the bottom and top, put in a bit of roch allum, and cover them with hard-water ; fet them over a flow fire ; when they are hot, and the fkins begin to rife, take them out, and take the fkins carefully off; put them in a difh as you do them, lay them in the fame water, with leaves over them,—cover them dole down to keep in the fteam, then hang them a gic.at diftance from the fire till they are green, which will be in fix or eight hours. Take half then weight of fugar, clarify it, put in the plumbs, give them a gentle boil, and do fo for four days, .lake ihe other half of the fugar, clarify it, add to it half a pint of ftrong apple jelly, and put in the gieen gages j let them have a iimraer,—put them carefully( 342 ) carefully in the pots, and pour the fyrup over them, (but always mind to fave a little to put over them when they are cold); lay on papers dipped hi brandy, and cover them clofe down. To preferve Green GAGES another Way. TAKE green gages which are ripe, weigh them, nick them lightly down the feam with a pen- knife,—clarify half their weight of fugar, and let them be fcaided in hard-water ; when the fkin be- gins to rife, take it carefully off, lay them into the fyrup, let them fimmer, and fet them off the fire for one hour ; put them on again, and do fo for three times ; then fet them by for eight days, giv- ing them a warm each day. Clarify the other half weight of fugar, add to it half a pint of flrong ap- ple jelly, put in the green gages, and let them fim- mer ; take them carefully out, and put them in the pots,—let the fyrup fimmer for five minutes, pour it on the green gages, (keeping a little out to put on them when they are cold) and cover them as above. To clarify SUGAR. fTpO every pound of double-refined fugar put one pint of water, fet it over a charcoal fire to boil, and fkim it clean ; when it looks clear, dip in afpoon,—if it is enough done, it will drop thick. Ufe it as the receipts direct.( 343 ) To To preferve Green C O D L I N S. GATHER them when they are half grown, lay them in a brafs pan with fome vine leaves un- der and over them, put to them fome water, cover them clofe down, and fet them on a flow fire ; when the fkin begins to rife, take them out, and peel them ; put them into the pan again, with fome hard-water, and the leaves underand over them; add to them half a pint of vinegar, and a piece of roch allum ; cover them clofe down, to prevent the fleam from getting out; then hang them over a flow fire, till they are quite green, taking care they do not crack. Take them out, ' and with a fmall pen-knife make a hole in them to the heart, and take out the feeds ;—weigh them, and to every pound of codlins put one pound and a quarter of double-refined fugar ; clarify half of it, put in the codlins, and fet them to fimmer, ftirring them all the time. Pound the other part of the fu- gar, and fprinkle on fome; let them fimmer, take •them off, and let them fland a little; put them on again, and do fo for three times, adding the fugar till it is all in ; fet them by for fix days, turning them every day; then fet them on the fire,—let them boil for five minutes, keep ftirring them, that they may do aJllides alike ; put them in the jars,— whdn they are cold, lay on them a brandy paper, and cover them with bladder.( 344 ) To preferve Green C O D LI N S another Way. E T the codlins be greened as before, then weigh them, and to every pound of codiins put one pound and a half of fugar. Have ready the rinds of two lemons cut like draws, and boiled tender; clarify the fugar, put in the codlins, le- mon peel, and a dick of cinnamon, let them fimmer fiowly till they are quite clear, moving them all the time ;—take them off, and let them dand till they are almod cold ; fet them on again to fimmer, and do fo for three times, that they may be boiled to the heart,—otherwife they will Ihrivel, which fpoils the beauty of them; fet them by for three days, turning them every day ; then add the juice of the two lemons, fet them on to boil for five minutes, and fkim them clear ; then put them into a jar, and cover them clofe down as before. When you life them, put fome of the lemon peel over them. To preferve Golden PIPPINS, y ET the pippins be quite ripe, free from fpots, JL/ and not bruifed ; pare them neatly, make a fmall hole with a pen-knife, and takeout the cores; weigh them, and to every pound of pippins put one pound and a half of double-refined fugar; clarify it,—add to it the rinds of two lemons cut dike draws, and boiled tender. Let the pippins oe boiled in foft-water, and when tney begin to crack, take thpro( 345 ) I them out, and put them into the fyrup; fet them on to fimmer till they look clear, moving them all the time 5 let them by for two hours,—put them on again, and let them fimmer,—and do fo for three times; let them by for fix days, turning them every day to take the lugar. Then put the juice of the two lemons, a pint of codlin jelly, and three quarters of a pound of fine fugar pounded ; fet it on to boil for eight minutes,—take out the pippins, put them into jars ; let the fyrup boil for ten minutes longer, pour it on the pippins, and when cold, cover them as before. To make a COMPOTE of Pippins. npAKE golden pippins that are ripe and free JL from fpots, pare them neatly, and take out the cores j weigh them, and boil them in fofc wa- ter for ten minutes,—if they are like to crack, take them out;—clarify half their weight of fugar, puit them in, with the rind of a lemon cut like fixaws, and boiled tender5 let them fimmer llowly ten minutes \ put the pippins into a difli, and boil tne fyrup till it looks clear, and will drop in two or three places of the fpoon, then pour it over the pippins, and when cold, ferve them up for a fe- cond courfe. You muft not keep them above eight days, 01 they will fpot with mould, being only made for prefent ufe. If you do not ufe them in that time, you may make tarts of them T9 X x( 31.6 ) To Jlew PEARS. npAKE twelve large baking pears, pare them J, neatly, leaving on the ftalks ; (tick in them a few cloves, put them into ajar with- a bottle of red- wine, two pounds and a half of fugar, two penny- worth of cochineal-pounded, and two new pewter lpoons ; tie. brown paper over them, bake them in a flow oven till tender. If the fyrup is not clear, put it into a preferving-pan,. boil it for a quarter of an hour; pour it into the pears, cover them with a bladder and leather, fet them in a dry place, and keep them for ufe. To make a COMPOTE Apricots.. PARE one pound of ripe apricots neatly, and pu(h out the Rones with a wood fkewer ; cla- rify three quarters of a pound of fugar ; put in the apricots, let them fimmer {lowly for five minutes, keeping them moving all the time; fet them off for half an hour, then fet them on again to fimmer, but not boil, and do this for three times ;—take the apricots carefully out that you do not break them; lay them in tlie dlfh; and boil the fyrup till it is thick as above ; pour it over the apricots, and when cold, ferve it up for a fecond courfe. If not ufed, you may ferve it up another day with a crow- cant over it ; or you may make a tart or tartelcts of them. Ti* { 347 ) 'To make <z COMPOTE cf Cherries. TAKE large morclle cherries when they are quite ripe; weigh them, and to every pound of cherries, put three quarters of a pound of fugar, and clarify it. Out off half of the ftalks of the cherries leaving the other half on ; nick them in the learn with a pen-knife, put them in the fyrup, and let them ftmmer for five minutes; fet them off' one hour ; fet them on again for three minutes,— and do fo three times ; take them carefully out with a fpoon, and lay them in a difli; boil the fyrup till it is thick, pour it over the cherries, and ferve theen up as before. ‘To preferve a Greek P 1 N E - A PPL E. LAY a green pine-apple into hard-water, with a little fait; let it lie in it for fix days, chang- ing it every day ; then fet it on in a brafs pan with hard-water and a little felt, half a gill of vinegar, a piece of roch-allum, and Lome vine leaves un- , 0 der and over it ; cover it clofe down, and let the fire be very flow under it. When it is quite green, put it into a mug of liard-water, letting it Hand all night to take off' the tafte of the vinegar ; make •a thin fyrup of a pound of fugar, and a pint of wa- ter,—put the apple into a jar that will juft hold it, —and when the fyrup is almoft cold, pour it on, tie it down, and let it ftand eight days ; then boil lip the fyrup again, and when near cold, pour it over the'( 348 ) the apple, doing fo for three times. If the pine- apple is large, take three pounds of double-refined fugar, make it into a fyrup with a pint and a half ot xvater’ and ^t it boil a quarter of an hour ; Ikim it well, add the juice of two lemons, and let it boil a little longer ; pour it into a jar, put the pine-ap- ple into it, and cover it down. To prefer vs Green CUCUMBERS. * 1 ^'orne hnall and fome large green cucurn- JL bias, fiee from fpots, and the greeneft you can get; put them into a jar, and pour on them lome boiling fait and water ; let them hand for a week, changing the water three times ; put them m a brafs pan, with a cabbage leaf under and over them ; cover them with hard-water, a little fait, and half a pint of alegar, hang them over a flow hre till they are quite green. Take them out, and cut a piece ofl the end, or out of the fide of the large ones, and fcoop out the feeds ; you may let Jum iemain in that form, or cut them in quarters, oi in fioweis, fprigs, halt moons, or in what form you pleafe,-s-the fmall ones to remain whole. Run a huge needle tlnough them, that the fugar may penetrate into them, and put them into hard-wa- ter for two days and nights ; take them out, weigh them, and to every pound of cucumbers put a pound aiio a half of double-refined fugar; make a thin Cyiup of one third of it, and when it is cold, put in the epeumbers, and let them Rand for a fort-( 349 ) fortnight, boiling np the fyrup twice a-week for that time. Clarify the remainder of the fu gar, and put to it a few cloves, a hick of cinnamon, two nutmegs, the juice of two lemons, with the rinds cut like draws, and a little ginger cut in dices; let them fimmer for ten minutes, then put in the cu- cumbers, and let them limmer for three minutes ; take them off, put them into the jars, and pour the fyrup over them; when they are cold, cover them with a brandy paper and a bladder, and keep them in a dry cool place. To preferve Magnum Bonum P L U M B S. • - I LET the plumbs be quite ripe, and clear from gum and bruifes ; nick them in the feam with a pen-knife, weigh them, and put them in a pre- ferving-pan with fome foft-water ; fet them over a dove, keep them moving all the time, that they may be done all alike ; when the fkins begin to rife, take them out, peel them, and to every pound of plumbs put one pound and a quarter of double-re- * fined fugar. Clarify half of it, and put in the plumbs,—let them fimmer very llowly for ten mi- nutes, then take them od the lire for two hours, turning them often ; fet them on again, and let them limmer for three minutes,— take them od", and fet them by till next day ; lay them on a flieet of white paper,—take them odthe paper and warm them up,—lay on the paper again, and repeat this for three days. I ake them out. and lay them on a lieve( 35° ) fieve to drain. Clarify the remainder of the fugar, and put to it one pint of codlin jelly ; let it fimmer for twelve minutes, put in the plumbs, and let them juft boil,—take them carefully out with a fpoon, put them in the pots, pour the fyrup over them, (keeping out a little to put over them when they are cold) and cover them with brandy paper and a bladder. * To preferye Magnum Bourn PLUMBS another Way. / r | TAKE the plumbs when they are half ripe, JL weigh them, put them into a preferving-pan, with fome vine leaves under and over them ; put to them fome hard-water, a piece of roch allum, and half a pound of foft fugar ; fet them upon the ftove till the water is milk-warm, then fet them by for twelve days,—doing the fame once a-day. Set them over a flow fire to green ; when they are green, take them out, and put them into a fieve to drain. Take their weight of double-refined fugar, and clarify it ; wipe the plumbs dry with a cloth, and put them in one at a time ; fet them on the ftove, and let them fimmer for three minutes, then fet them by three days, warming them up each day ; then take them out, lay them into a dilli to drain, and put them into pots. If any fyrup re- mains in the difh, put it into the preferving-pan,— adding to it fome codlin jelly. If there are three pounds of plumbs, put to them one pint of codlin jelly*( 35i ) the I; jelly,—let the fyrup fimmer for ten minutes, pour it to the plumbs, (keeping a little out to put over |j them when they are cold) and cover them with [j brandy paper as before. \ To preferve CHERRIES in Jelly. IL / x ITT^UT three pounds of double-refined fugar into JL a preferving-pan, pounded ; add to it one pint |j and a half of codlin jeilyr fet it over a flow fire, let | it boil for fifteen minutes, and lkim it well; put in | two pounds of Kentifh cherries fioned, let them boil a little, but not too fall; fet them off the fire for ( fome time,—fet them on again; when they are | tender, let them boil very faff till they will jelly, which you may fee by its dropping thick oft' the [ fpoon. Put them into pots or glaffes, and cover them as before. Another Way, I \\TUGK t^reePounds of cherries, ftone them, VV and make a fyrup for them of half their 1 weight of fugar,—put in the cherries, and let them- I fimmer for eight minutes; fet them by for three I days, warming them up each day, then put them. l| on a fieve to drain. Put the other half weight of | fugar into a prelerving-pan, with one pint of codlin 1 jelly, and half a pint of water ; fet it on the ftove i to boil very faff for one quarter of an hour; put in( 35* ) the cherries, and boil them for one minute, then put them into your pots, (having a little of the fyrup to put over them when they are cold) and cover them as before. To prefers WINE SOURS. i f * \ f | AAKE the fined: wine fours you can get, pick A oft the ftalks, nick them down the feam with a pen-knife, (fkin deep) and weigh them. Take half their weight of loaf fugar, pound it, and lay the wine fours in a jar, with the fugar between them ; iprinkle on them halfa pint of water to melt the fugar ; tie over them a brown paper, and fet them into a flow oven when the bread comes out. When the fkins begin to crack, take them out, and fet them by till next day ; pour the fyrup from them, and boil it,—pour it on them, and do fo for three days. Then take the other half of the fugar, clarify it, and drain into it the fyrup in which the plumbs were baked ; let it fimmer, and put in the wine fours \ let them fimmer for eight minutes, ikim them well, put them into jars, pour the fyrup over them when cold, cover them with a piece of white paper, and fome rinded mutton fuet half an inch thick, then tie, them over with paper and leather. T»C 353 ) To prtferve DAMSONS like Wine Sours. WEIGH fome of the largeft damfons you can get, and flit them down the feam with a pen-knite; put them into ajar, clarify their weight of fligar, and pour it on them ; tie them down ^ith a piece of paper, put them into a flow oven, and let them bake till the Ikins begin to crack ; take them out, and fet them by for three days, warming up the fyrup each day ; the laft day boil the plumbs and fyrup together for eight minutes, then take out the plumbs, and boil the fyrup a little longer ; put the plumbs and the fyrup together, and let them fland till quite cold,—put them into jars, and cover them with paper and rinded fuct as be- fore. To prefsrve DAMSONS for Tarts Take the fmall long damfons, pick off the ffalks, flit them down the fe,am with a pen- knife, weigh them, and put them in a jar; to eveiy pound ot damfons take three quarters of a pound of common loaf-fugar, clarify it, and pour it on them ; tie them down with a piece of paper, bake them in a moderate oven, take them out, and let them fland till next day,—then put them in a prefervlng-pan, and let them boil five minutes; take out the damfons and put them in a jar ; boil » Y y the( 354 ) the fyrup a little more, pour it on them, and let it hand till it is quite cold,—put them into fmall jars or wide-mouthed bottles, cover them with a paper and rinded fuet as before. To preferve Morelle CHERRIES. / GET the cherries when they are quite ripe, weigh them, cut off half the ftalks, and take out the ftones ; to every pound of cherries put one pound of loaf-fugar pounded; put the cherries in a preferving-pan, and drew the fugar over them j put to them one pint of the juice of red currants, and let them ftand all night; fet them over a flow fire to flmmer for fix minutes, then take them off, and fet them by another night; give them another boP5—take the cherries carefully out, put them in the pots, boil the fyrup till it is thick, and pour it on them. To preferve Red RASPBERRIES. i GATHER the rafpberries when they are quite ripe, pick out the largeft and beft of them, weigh them, lay them in a deep difli, and ftrew o- ver them their weight of double-refined fugar. Put the fmall and broken rafpberries into a preferving- pan with a quart of red currants, and half a pint of water; let them boil flowly twelve minutes, flrain the( 355 ) To Y y 2 the juice from them, and put it into the preferving- pan with the whole rafpberries, and let them fun- nier a little ; fprinkle in half a pound more of fu- gar, and take them off for two hours; fet them on again and make them hot, doing fo three times, and let them fimmer a little the laft time, to make them clear ; put them in pots,—when cold, cover them with papers dipped in brandy, and tie them down with a bladder. White rafpberries are done the fame way, only take white currants inftead of red. To preferve Red GOOSEBERRIES. GATHER the largeft and reddeft goofeberries you can get, pick and weigh them ; to every pound of goofeberries put one pound of loaf-fugar, —put it into a preferving-pan, with half a pint of water to a pound of fugar ; boil it pretty thick, and put in the goofeberries,—let them boil a little, and fet them off for one hour ; put them on again, give them a fimmer, and repeat this for three times. Let them {land two nights, then fet them on to boil, till they look clear and the fyrup is thick} put them in the pots, and cover them as before.( 35^ ) To preferve Red GOOSEBERRIES for Tarts. TAKE four pounds of red goofeberries, —clarify two pounds of fugar, put in the goofeberries, and let them fimmer ten minutes; take them off for one hour,—fet them on again, and let them boil pretty fall: till they grow thick, and begin to fall to the bottom,—keep them birring, otherwife they will burn at the bottom. When the fyrup drops thick off the fpoon, they are enough. Put them into jars, and cover them as before. When you make tarts or tartelets of them, put a fpoon- ful of water in each. ♦ ■ To preferve Red CURRANTS in Bunches. / . V -* 0 GATHER the fineft and large ft red currants you can get, ftone them, and tie them up in bunches to a finall Ikewer two inches long; to *a pound of currants put one pound and a half of double-refined fugar into a preferving-pan, with a pint of water,—boil it fifteen minutes, and let it band to cool; put in the bunches, put the paper dole to them, and fet them by till next day,—then make them fcalding hot. Set them by again for three days, then fet them on to boil for three mi- nutes ; take them off, and put them into the pot; boil the fyrup a little, thicker,—when it is cold, pour it on the currants, and cover them with brandy paper.To ( 35 7 ) To preferve CURRAN T S for Tarts. AKE three pounds of the fined red currants you can get, and drip them clean \ put one pound and a half of loaf-fugar into a preferving- pan, with half a pint of water; let it fimmer for twelve minutes, and put in the currants,—let them boil pretty fad till they look clear and will jelly, then put them into pots, and cover them as before. To prefer-ce BARBERRIES in Bunches. TAKE the riped barberries you can get, pick out the larged bunches, and take out the feeds with a quill j tie fix bunches to a fmall piece of dick, doing fo till they are all tied, then weigh them ; take the loofe ones, and put them in a pre- ferving-pan with a pint of water ; let them boil tiil they are foft,—drain the liquor, and put it in a preferving-pan with one pound and a half of dou- ble-refined fugar,—let it boil fifteen minutes, then put in the barberries, jud let them have a boil, and let them by for eight days, warming them up every Other day. Set them on to boil ten minutes ; take out the bunches, and put them in the pots,—boil the fyrup a little more, pour it on them, and cover it as before.To To preferve BARBERRIES for Tarts. PICK the female barberries from their (talks, and pound their weight of loaf-fugar; put the ’barberries into ajar, and the fugar over them ; put the jar in a kettle of boiling water, till the fugar is melted, and the barberries are foft,—let them ftand in the jar two days, then put them in a preferving- pan, let them boil twenty minutes, put them into fmall jars, and cover them in a dry cool place. To preferve STRAWBERRIES whole. AKE one pound of fcarlet ftrawberries with the ftalks on, and put them in a deep difh j pound two pounds of double-refined fugar, and jlrew over them. Take a few ripe ftrawberries, bruife them, put them into a jar with half a pint of water and a little fugar,—fet them into a flow oven till the fugar is diffolved, and the fyrup comes out of them ; ftrain the fyrup through a fine fieve or a muflin rag, into a preferving-pan, and put to it the whole ftrawberries and the fugar ; let them be juft warm, then take them off, and let them ftand till they be quite cold,—fet them on again to warm, and do fo for fix times. Take the ftrawberries out, put them in pots or glafles, and boil the fyrup for ten minutes,—when it is cold, put it over the ftraw- berries ; put brandy paper and a bladder over them, and tie them clofe down.( 359 ) To prcferve CHERRIES in Brandy* TAKE two pounds of the largeft morelle clier. ries you can get, when they are quite ripe and free from bruifes ; cut the ftalks half off, and flit them down the feam, Ikin deep, with a pen- knife ; then boil one pound and a half of loaf-fugar to a candy height,—when it is cold, mix it with a pint of brandy, put it into a jar, and put in the cherries. If the fyrup does not cover them, fill them up with brandy, and put a fmall weight on them to keep them under the fyrup; tie them down with bladder and leather, and keep them in a cool dry place. As the fyrup waftes, fill them up with brandy. Chipp'd ORANGE MARMALADE. CUT fix pounds of Seville oranges, and fqueeze out the juice into a bafon ; fet on the Ikins to boil till tender, then cut them in very thin flices half an inch long. Put feven pounds and a half of fugar into a preferving-pan, add feven pints of wa- ter, fet it over the ftove, and let it boil one hour ; then put in the juice and flices of the oranges, let it boil till it is quite clear, and will jelly,—put it in pots, and when it is cold, cover it with a paper and bladder. lTo preferve ORANGES carved. TAKE the largeft thick-rinded Seville oranges y6u can get, let them be clear from fpots, and cut the rinds with a pen-knife in what forms you pleafe; draw out the part of the peel as you cut them,—-cut a round hole at the ftalk end, the bignefs of fixpence, and take out the feeds with the lhank of a tea-lpoon; put them into water for two days and nights, changing them once a-day to take off the bitter; take them out, and weigh them,— put them on to boil in a pan full of water, taking care they do not break. To every pound of oran- ges put one pound and a half of double-refined fu- gar, clarify it,—put in the oranges, and let them boil for twelve minutes, then fet them by for twelve days, warming them up twice in that time. Add to them the juice of two lemons, with the rind cut in flraws and boiled tender; fet them on to boil till the oranges and fyrup look clear ; put them in- to fmall pots that will juft hold them, and pour the fyrup over them ; let the hole of the orange be down till you cover them, and then you mult turn it up, and put in the piece; lay fome brandy paper on them, and cover them with bladder and paper as before. m You may preferve whole oranges without carv- ing, the fame way.( 361 ) To pickle Red CURRANTS for garnijhing. BOIL two quarts of white-wine vinegar, with two handfuls of fait, and four ounces of brown fugar for ten minutes; add fome cochineal pre- pared, put it in a jar, let it (land all night; then gather fome of the finefi: bunches of red currants, and put them in your jar ; let them be well covered with the pickle, or they will fpoil. i ONIONS in M A N G O. PEEL four large onions, put them into fome boiling fait and water, let them fimmer four minutes; take them out, when cold, take a little of the inlide out; fill them with muftard feed, and fcraped horfe radilh, with black and clove pepper, and rice ginger cut in flices; tie upon the hole a piece of the onion you take out of the middle, put them in a jar; boil two quarts of vinegar, with two pennyworth of cochineal to make them red, put in the pickle boiling hot. » To pickle Green APPLES. TAKE fome green apples, put them in a brafs pan with vine leaves under and over them, with hard-water, fet them on the fire, ftop them •clofe to keep in the fleam \ when the £kin rifes, Z z take( 362 ) take them out, peel them, put the apples into a pan to the fame water; fet them on the fire again, let them fimmer, but not boil; when green, take them out to drain ; when cold, put them in a jar; boil as much vinegar as will cover them, with a lit- tle black and clove pepper, mace, and a little fait. / / To pickle LEMONS. » • / , TAKE fix lemons, grate the outfiderind of them, cut them acrofs the end half an inch down each way, put them in a difli, and cover them with fait ; let them lie ten days, rubbing them every day with the fame fait; boil two quarts of white-wine vinegar, fome mace, white pepper, and ginger; put in your lemons, and let them have a fimmer, but not boil, then put them in a jar, and keep them for ufe. ORANGE CAKES, l , TAKE a pound of Seville oranges, cut them in quarters, pick out the feeds, boil them in water till tender, and dry them with a cloth ; ihred them very fine, then put a pound and a quarter of fine fugar in a preferving-pan with half a pint of wa- ter,—boil it till it comes to fugar, then put in the oranges, and ftir it a little ; fet it on to boil flowly till it looks clear, Ikon it well, then put it into flat g-lalles.3^3 ) glaffes or moulds, and dry them in a ftovc; when they are candied on the upper fide, turn them out of the moulds upon a dilh, and dry the other fide, then keep them in paper boxes in a dry place. To make Red CURRANT JELLY. GATHER the red currants when they are ripe, (trip them off the ftalks, wafli them clean, put them into a jar, tie a paper over them, and let them ftand in a flow oven to infufe till all the juice comes out; then ffrain it through a cloth or a lawn fleve,—meafure it, and to every pint of juice you muft have one pound of fine fugar; clarify it, and Ikim it clean ; put in the juice, boil it till it will jelly, fkim it well, and put it into pots or glafles ; when cold, cover it with brandy paper, tie it down with paper and bladder, and keep it in a cool dry place. Red CURRANT JELLY another Way. r| ''ARE two quarts of red currants and two quarts of white, pick and wafh them clean, and put them into a preferving-pan with half a pint ot water ; fet it over a flow fire to fimmer till all the juice comes out,—(train it through a lawn lievc, and for every pint of juice take one pound of fine Z z 2 fugar y( 3*>4 ) fugar; put it in a preferring-pan, and to every pound of fugar put half a pint of water ; boil it till it is candy height, and put in the juice 5 boil it till it jellies, which you may know by putting a lit- tle in a fpoon to cool; if it jellies, it is enough. Put it in the pots, and cover it as before. Black CURRANT JELLY. GATHER the currants when they are ripe, pick and wafli them clean, and put them into a jar that will hold them. To fix quarts of cur- rants put one quart of water, tie them down with brown paper, and put them in a flow oven for two hours. Take them out, and (train them through a thin cloth or fieve ; for one quart of juice you mull have two pounds of fugar; clarify the fugar to a candy height, put in the juice, and boil it till it jellies,—put it in pots, and cover it as before. / \ Red RASP JAM. r l^AKE four pounds of rafpberries when they are =*_!_ ripe and dry, and pick out the (talks ; put them into a preferving-pan, and bruife them with a filvcr fpoon,—put to them four pounds of fine l'ugar pounded, and add one pint of currant juice ; fet them over a (love, boil them pretty quick for half an hour, (kim them clean, put them into pots, and cover them as before. Another( 365 ) Another Way. TAKE three pounds of rafps, let them be clean picked,—bruife them, and {train them thro* a coarfe fieve to take out the feeds ; put to it three pounds of fine fugar, and one pint of curiant juice; boil it pretty quick for twenty minutes, put it into the pots, and cover it as before. Red STRAWBERRY JAM. TAKE two pounds of fcarlet ftrawberries when they are ripe,—pick and bruife them fine, put them in a preferving-pan, with two pounds and a half of fine fugar, and one pint of red currant juice—fet them over a clear fire, boil them quick for twenty-four minntes, put them into pots 01 glades, cover them as before, and keep them in a dry place. Red CURRANT JAM. TAKE two pounds of red currants when they are quite ripe, put them in a preferving-pan, and boil them for ten minutes ; put them through a hair fieve to take out the feeds,—put it into a preferving-pan with one pound and a quartei of fine fugar, fitted, fet it over a fire, and boil it futee'n minutes, {lining it all the time ; Ikim. it clean, put it in pots, and cover it as before. Black( 3«« ) Black CURRANT JAM. PICK two pounds of ripe black currants, bruife them fine with a wooden fpoon, put them in a preferving-pan with one pound and a half of loaf- fugar beaten fine ; boil it twenty minutes, fkim and ftir it all the time, put it into pots, and cover it as before. I \ Red GOOSEBERRY JAM. PICK three pounds of red goofeberries clean, put them into a preferving-pan with two pounds of fugar pounded,—bruife them very fine, fet them on the fire, and let them boil for half an hour pretty faft; fkim them clean, put them into pots, and cover them as before. BULLA C E CHEESE. TAKE four pounds of bullace when they are quite ripe, put them into a jar with a pound of fu- o-ar pounded, and tie them down with paper; bake them in a flow oven till they are foft, then rub them through a hair fieve; to every pound of pulp put three quarters of a pound of fine fugar, fet it over a. flow fire, and boil it three quarters of an hour,—or more, if it is not enough ; keep flirring it all the time, put it into flat pots, cover it as be- fore, and keep it in a dry place. DAMSON( 357 ) DAMSON CHEESE. * , » « PUT three pounds of ripe damfons into a jar with half a pound of loaf-fugar pounded, tie them down with a coarfe paper, and bake them in a flow oven till they are foft; rub them through a hair lieve, and to every pound of pulp put one pound of fugar pounded; put the pulp and fugar in a preferving-pan, fet it over a fire, boil it till it grows clear and thick, ftirring it all the time, put it in flat pots, and cover it as before. Observations m Drying and Candying. ALL fruits muff be preferved before they are candied ; they are better for lying in the fy- rup a month or more, for in that time the fugar will penetrate into them. Take them out, wipe them dry with a cloth, and lay them on a fieve; then boil fome fugar to a candy height, and put the fruit into it ; when they are candied over, take them out, lay them in diflies, and put them in a drying (love to dry gradually \ when they are done, put them in paper boxes, with white paper between them, and keep them in a dry place for Ufe, 5T*I ( ) To boll SU'GAR to a Candy Height. PUT a pound and a half of double-refined fugar into a preferving-pan, and put to it three quarters of a pint of water; fet it over a clear fire, when it boils, Ikim it clean as it rifes,—when it be- gins to look clear and candies about the edges of the pan, it will then be high enough for any kind of fruit. GOOSEBERRY PASTE. SPLIT one pound of red-ripe goofeberries, and take out the feeds; put them into a preferv- ing-pan with one pint of red currant juice, boil them till they are tender, and rub them through a hair fieve; put a pound and a half of double-refined fugar pounded, and half a pint of water, fet it over a flow fire, and boil it to fugar again ; then put in the pulp of the goofeberries, ftir it over a flow fire /for half an hour, (but do n.ot let it boil) pour it into glafles or what fhape-moulds you pleafe, but not too thick,—dry it in a ftove, tufn it out of the moulds, and keep them in paper boxes in a dry place. APRICOT( 3^9 ) APRICOT PASTE. PARE and (lone one pound and a half of apri- cots, and boil them in water till they are ten- der ; put a pound and a half of double-refined fugar pounded into a preferving^pan with as much water as to wet it, and boil it till it comes to fugar again ; rub the apricots through a fieve with a wooden fpoon, put it into the preferving-pan to the fugar, ftir it well till the fugar is melted, an'd fet it over a fiove to fimmer (but not boil) for twenty minutes, fiirring it all the time ; when done, pour it into what moulds you pleafe, dry them in a fiove, and when they are ftiff, turn them out; put them on glafs plates, and fet them in a fiove, turning them every day till dry,—put them into paper boxes, and keep them in a dry place. ORANGE CHIPS. PARE fix Seville oranges, (keep the parings whole if you can) put them into fait and water for two days, then take them out, and weigh them ; boil them in fpring water till they are ten- der ; make a thin fyrup of half their weight of fu- gar, put in the parings, and boil them till they look clear ; fet them by for eight days, to take the fu- gar, warming them up twice in that time, and lay A a a them( 37o ) them on a fieve to drain. Take the other half weight Ot fugar, dip it in water, and put it in a preferving- Pan>—boil it till it will candy, put in the chips, ftir them over a flow fire till the fugar looks white, and hangs upon them j then take them up, lay them upon fieves, put them into a ftove to dry, and keep them in paper boxes in a dry place. t To dry CHERRIES. OICK and flone two pounds of morelle cherries, -a- put them into a pan with two pounds and a quarter of fine fugar beaten, and lifted over them ; add half a pint of water, let them Hand all night, and the next day take the cherries out of the fu- gar ; boil up the fyrup, Ikim it clean, put in the cherries, and let them fimmer flowly for ten mi- nutes ; fet them by till the next day,—warm them up again, and do fo for three times ; put them on a fieve to drain, and fet them in a ftove to dry on fieves or glafs plates, turning them every day,— keep them in paper boxes in a dry place for ufe. « To dry CHERRIES another Way. STONE one pound of cherries, put them in a preferving-pan with one pint of water, fet them on the fire, and let them boil foT one minute; drain them on a fieve, put them in a preferving- pan,( 37i ) pan, and flrew on them three quarters of a pound of fine fugar pounded; let them lie all night, fet them on the fire to limmer for five minutes, then take them off, and let them Hand till cold ; do this three times, drain them on a fieve, and dry them in a ftove. \ You may make treble cherries of them by faring the flalks, and wrapping five or fix cherries one upon another. Put them in paper boxes, and keep them in a dry place. To dry CURRANTS in Bunches. OTONE one pound and a half of currants, tie O them up in bunches, put two pounds of fine fugar into a preferving-pan with one pint of water, let it boil for five minutes,—then take it off; when it is near cold, put in the currants, with a plate on them to keep them under the fyrup. Set them by till the next day, then warm them, and turn them in the fyrup, doing fo for four days; give them a boil, let them lie all night in the fyrup, and turn them often in that time ; lay them on a fieve to drain,—dry them in a fiove, and fife fo.rne fugar over them, put them in a paper box, and keep them in a dry place. A a a 2 Tb %( 372 ) To dry Green Gage PLUMBS. OLJ T half a pound of fugar into a preferving- Pan with a pint of water, boil it., and fkim it clean ; then flit one pound of plumbs down the fleam, and put them into the fyrup,—fet them on the fire, and let them fimrner flowly till they are quite tender, turning them carefully that all fides may be done alike. Set them by all night with a paper over them to keep them under the fyrup, otherwife they will lofe their colour; then put three quarters of a pound of fine fugar into a pre- ferving-pan with a quarter of a pint of water,— boil and fkim it clean ; let the fyrup be cold, drain the plumbs from the firfh fyrup, and put them into the other, and fet them on the fire to fimrner till they look clear ; fet them by in a mug for ten days, then drain them, dry them in a flove, and keep them as before. White Currant Clear CAKES. fome white currants, wafh them clean, and put them into a jar, cover them over with a piece of paper, and bake them in a flow oven till the juice comes out; drain it through a clean fieve, and then through apiece of muflin. Put one pound an4( 373 ) and a half of treble-refined fugar pounded into a preferring-pan, with half a pint of water, and let it boil till it will candy, then ftir in. a pint of currant juice, let it limmer a little over a flow fire,—take it ofi, pour it into plates or glaffes, and fet them in a hove to dry; when they are about half dry, cut them into rounds, half rounds, and quarters,—lay them on glafs plates, and turn them till they are quite dry; put them in paper boxes, and keep them in a dry place. You may do red currants and rafpberries the fame way. To candy ANGELICA. rjHAKE angelica that has been preferred, and lain A in the fyrup for a month,—wipe it dry, and lay it on a fieve; put one pound of treble-refined fugai into a preferving-pan with half a pint of wa- ter, boil it till it comes to fugar again, rub it with the back of a fpoon to the fide of the pan, drew it ovcr ^1C angehca, lay it upon plates, dry it in a Love, and keep it as above. ORANGE( 374 ) Black ORANGE in Slices cut like Laurel Leaves. CUT fix thick-rinded Seville oranges in quar- ters, take out the pulp, cut each quarter into three thin llices, like laurel leaves; boil them till tender, weigh them, and to every pound of flices put a pound and a half of fine fugar ; clarify your fugar with a pint of water to a pound of fugar ; fkim it clean, put in your flices, and let them boil twelve minutes ; fet them by for two days, then boil them till they look clear; take out your flices, and put them in jars ; add to the fyrup the juice of two lemons, give it a boil, fkim it, pour it on your ftices ; let them be well covered with the fyrup, or they will fpot with mould; they will make a very pretty fupper difh, and are very ufefuh To make White CAPS. PUT three quarters of a pound of flour in a bowl, make it into a pafte with a quarter of a pound of butter boiled in a little water,—divide the pafte into four pieces, and roll it out thin. Take four large ftewed pears, put one into each fheet of pafte, clofe them up neatly, put them into a baking-pan, and bake them in a moderate oven. When done, take them out, and ice them the fame way as you do a fruit-cake; dry them in an oven, and ferve them up for a fecond courfe or for fupper.( 375 ) Black CAPS. rPAKE eight large apples, cut a bit off the blof- fom end, wet them with a little wine, and grate on them feme fugar; put them into a tin baking-pan, fet them in a quick oven, and bake them for half an hour. If they are not black in that time, take them out, and hold a falamander over them till they are black ; then put them into a deep china difh,—boil a little currant jelly and red wine to pour over them. Or you may ferve them up with a boiled cuftard round them. To bottle GOOSEBERRIES. “piCK fome green walnut goofeberries, put them int0 bottles, fill them up with clear hard-water, pour a little rinded fuet over the top of them, cork and rofin them down, tie a piece of bladder and leather over them, and keep them in a dry cool place. To bottle GOOSEBERRIES another Way. GAlEIER the goofeberries when they are quite dry, pick oft their eyes and ftalks, and put them in bottles ; cork them down tight, and bake them in a flow oven (only juft warm; for fix hours; beat the corks down tight, rofin them over, cover them( Zl6 ) them with leather and bladder, and keep them in a cool dry place. You may keep bullace and damfons the fame way. Observations on Made W i n e s . BEFORE you begin to make any wines, be fure to have all your utenfils quite clean and fweet. When you make wines, make more than will fill the calk, for it will wafte in working ; and will re- quire fome to fill it up. Made wines fhould be kept twelve months in the calk. If it is not fine in that time, draw a pint of it Out of the calk, and put half an ounce ofifinglafs into it; let it Hand four days to dilfolve, ftiriing it twice a-day ; put it into the calk, flir it well about with a flick, and bung it clofe down ; but you mull raife the fpile, to give it vent, as you mufl do to every kind of wine when you bung it down, or it will burff the calk. When it is quite fine, you may bottle it, and put a piece of fugar into each ,bottle. As to the reft, you muft follow the receipts. RAISIN WIN E. PICK thirty pounds of Malaga raifins clean from the flalks, chop them a little, put them in a tub, and pour on them five gallons of water ; Ft them Hand to ferment for ten days, ftrain them through a fievc, and prefs the raifins dry. Put it into( 377 ) into a cafk with a quart of brandy,—when it is done fermenting, flop it clofe down, but do not put the peg too tight in. OIL nine gallons of water, let it Hand till al« mod: cold, then pour it on twenty pounds of I'aifins chopt a little, and let it Rand eight days, ftir- ring it twice a-day ; then drain it through a'hair iieve, and fqueeze the raifins dry ; add the rind and juice of eight lemens, twenty-four pounds of lump-fugar, and three fpoonful of thick yeaft; dir it well together, and work it for three days, dir- ring it three times a-day; then take out the rindof the lemon, and tun it into an iron-bound cafe that will jud hold it. Let it ferment for eight days, and add to it two quarts of brandy,—hop it clofe down, keep it twelve months, and then bottle it. COWSLIP WIN E. Ip^OlL twenty quarts of water with eighteen pounds or fugar, put it into a tub, and when it is near cold, add to it five pounds of cow flip flowers bruifed a little in a mortar, with the rind and juice of eight lemons ; let it dand for one day ; add to it two fpoonful of yead, and let it dand for three days. Strain it through a fieve, put it in 3 Another Way. llbb cafk( 378 ) Black « calk that will juft hold it, let it ferment for eight days, and put to it three pints of brandy ftop it clofe down, keep it in the cade for twelve months, and then bottle it. ELDER WINE. QTRIP a quantity of elder berries, bake them in ^ an oven, and run the juice through a fieve. To one gallon of juice add four gallons of water, and eighteen pounds of lump fugar ; boil it all to- gether, Ikim it well, and when it is near cold, add to it a little yeaft,—work it for two days, then tun it, and add three pints of brandy; let it ferment for eight days, ftop it clofe down, keep it twelve months in a calk, then bottle it. ELDER WINE to imitate Port. E) AIvE the elder berries, ftrain the juice through a fieve, and to a gallon of juice put four gal- lons of cyder and ten pounds of lump fugar, with a little yeaft; let it ferment together three days, ftirring it twice a-day, and tun it into a calk that will juft hold it ; add to it one quart of brandy.— WThen it has done fermenting, ftop it clofe down for twelve months, and bottle it. If the cyder be right good, it will drink very little interior to Port wine.( 379 ) Black CURRANT WINE. BOIL fix gallons of water, put it into a tub, and when it is near cold, add to it thirty-fix pounds of black currants bruifed; let them Hand for two days, and ftrain the juice through a fieve; add to it twenty pounds of loaf-fugar, and a little yeaft,—let it hand for three days, ftirring it three times each day ; tun it into a barrel, with two quarts of brandy; when it has done fermenting. Hop it clofe down, keep it for twelve months, and then bottle it. GINGER WINE. "OOIL four gallons of water with fifteen pounds of Lifbon lugar, and three ounces of ginger, for fifteen minutes; put it into a tub, and when it is neai cold, add to it the rinds of fix lemons pared very thin, the juice of eight, and two fpoonful of yeafi ; let it ferment together for two days, ftrain it, and tun it into a cafk that will juft hold it, with one quai t of brandy; when it has done fermenting, flop it clofe down, and keep it as above. R b b 2 Red( 3So ) Grange wine. i TO five gallons of water put eighteen pounds of lump lugar, boil it for fifteen minutes, and put it into a clean tub; when it is near cold, add to it the juice of fifty oranges, the rinds of ten pa- red very thin, and a little yeaft ; let it ferment for two days, furring it three times a day ; then ftrain out the rind, and tun it with the juice of fix le- mons made into a fyrup, with one pound of fugar ; add two quarts of brandy,—when it has done working, flop itclofe down, keep it twelve months, and bottle it. I j Red CURRANT WINE. TlO four gallons of water add fifteen pounds of fugar, and boil it for ten minutes; pour it into a clean tub, and when it is near cold, add to it twenty pounds of red currants bruifed, fix pounds of red rafps, and a little yeaft; let it ferment for three days, ftirring it three times a day ; then ftrain it through a fieve, and prefs the currants dry ; tun it into a clean calk that will juft hold it, with one quart of brandy,—when it has done fermenting, ft op it dole down, keep it twelve months, then bottle it. You may make white currant wine the fame way, only ufe white rafps inftead of red. White( 38' ) White CURRANT WINE, or Englijh Champaign. OIL three gallons of water with twelve pounds of loaf-fugar, put it into a tub, and when it is near cold, add to it four quarts of white currants picked and bruifed, the juice of eight lemons, the rind of one pared very thin, and two fpoonfui of yeaft ; let it ferment for three days, then ftrain it through a fieve, and tun it into a calk that will juft hold it, with a pint and a half of brandy. When it has done working, ftop it clofe down, keep it for fix months, then bottle it. GOOSEBERRY WINE. r~|~'0 eight gallons of water add thirty pounds of JL iugar, boil it for ten minutes,—when it is neai cold, add to it lixty pounds of ripe troofeber- ries bruifed, with three fpoonfui of yeaft; let it ferment for three days, ftrain it through a lieve, prels the goofeberries dry, tun it into a cade, and add to it two quarts of brandy. When it has done fermenting, ftop it clofe down for twelve months, then bottle it. Green( 382 ) / Green GOOSEBERRY VINEGAR. BOIL ten gallons of water with fix pounds of brown fugar, put it in a tub; when near cold, #dd two pecks of green goofeberries bruifed, and two fpoonful of yeaft; let it hand to ferment 'fourteen days, ftir it every day; then {train it, put it in your calk, and keep it in a warm place till it is four. ✓ LEMON WINE. \ * PARE two dozen of lemons very thin, put the parings in four bottles of brandy, let it ftand twelve days to infufe; put the juice of the lemons into a preferving-pan, with five pounds of loaf- fugar, and two quarts of water, boil it ten mi- nutes ; boil ten gallons of water with thirty pounds of lamp fugar, put it into a pot; when cold, add two fpoonful of yeaft, let it work two days; then add the brandy, parings and juice, ftir it well toge- ther ; tun it in a clean calk that will juft hold it, put your bung in flight!y for twelve days, and ftop it clofe; keep it twelve months, and then bottle it. BALM( 3^3 ) balm wine. BOIL four gallons of water with fourteen pounds of fugar for three quarters of an hour, and put it into a tub ; add to it four pounds of the tops of balm when they are in flower ; bruife them a little; put to it a little yeaft, let it hand two days, then {train and tun it. When it has done working, put to it a pint and a half of bran- dy, flop it clofe down, keep it fix months, then bottle it. BILLS>' - . # Vit • • • I( 3S5 ) BILLS of FARE. For JANUARY. FIRST COURSE, / Soup Sante removed with crimp falmon Petty patties Plain butter Stewed cellery Turkey boiled with oyfter fauce Sallad Brown veal collops Fennel fauce Fricaflee of chickens Baked bread pudding Fore quarter of lamb roafted xxxxxxxxxxx STCOND COURSE. Pheafant roafted China oranges Buttered lobfter Preferved quinces Flummery Jellies Gold pippins Hare C c c Tartalets Preferved barberries in bunches Afparagus peafe( 3«* ) For . t F I R Fowl broiled with Hiulhroom fauce Pickles Fricaflee of fheep trot ters the Italian way S , E C I White pot pudding Preferved pine apple Collared pig FEBRUARY. ST COURSE. Soup le rain removed with turbot Lobfter fauee Veal pie Pigeon cutlets Cellery Anchovy fauce Mutt0„ col]ops Roaft beef xxxxxxxxxxx 2ND COURSE. Three partridges roafted * Preferved oranges in quarteis Prawns Whipt pollet Preferved ginger Preferved rafps Preferved currant tart Four fweetbreads roaftcd( 38? T For MARCH. \ FIRST COURSE. Onion foup removed with ftewed foals Pigeon pie Greens Harricot of mutton / Melted butter Calf’s head a-la-turtle Wine fauce Veal cutlets Peafe pudding Tanfy pudding Leg of pork boiled xxxxxxxxxxx SECOND COURS E. Two fmall chickens roafted - 1* 7 » i > Apricot fritters Lemon cream Preferred cherries Stewed pears Afparagus boiled Compote of gold pippins Blamonge Peaches in brandy Almond cheefe cakes Scolloped oyfters > '( 3^ ) For A P R I I FIRST COUR Vermicelli foup removed with fife wed carp Broccoli Petty patties of lamb Plain butter A neck of veal boiled Ham boiled Spinage Saddle of mutton roafted * xxxxxxxxxxx SECOND COU Yo.ing ducklings roafted with green fauce Prefer , ed apricots Buttered crabs Apples - Jellies Preferved orange Cream pancakes S E. Three fmall chick- ens boiled Parfley fauce New college pud- dings baked R S E. Cuftards Piftacho nuts Fried fmelts Pig' ons roafted with parfley fauceA leveret roafted ( 38? .) F I Beef collops Wine fauce Plumb pudding Plain butter Tongue boiled SEC Cu (lards Rafps in jelly Green peafe Cherries Fried fmelts For MAY. RST COURSE. Rice foup removed with Hewed carp and white fauce Two fmail chick- - ens boiled Turnips Parfley and butter Sheep’s rumps & rice Pig roafted Currants for the pig Collifiower Figeon in the form of a moon Loin of veal roafted XXXXXXXXX^<X OND COURSE. Green goofe Potted veal Defert frame Marinade eggs Fricafiee of lobftere Strawberries Artichokes I Preferved green gages Green goofeberrg tart( 39° ) Far J U N E. FIRS T COURSE. Green peafe foup removed with mackarel Fricafiee of chickens Neck of mutton boiled with caper lauce Fifh fauce Hare collops Calf’s head pie Pigeons in furprize Currant jelly Tongue boiled Papiets de veau , Haunch of venifon roafted . xxxxxxxxxxx I SECOND COURSE. Two turkey pouts roafted Cheefe cakes . Ragoo of mufhrooms Preferred codlins Potted beef Crowcant Collared pig Compote of apricots Artichokes ' Blamongc Weet-cars voaftei( 39i ) A leveret roarted For J U L Y. FIRST course. - > r M t ' » j Soup with artichoke bottoms removed with crimp cod A breaft of veal ragoo’d Young potatoes Beef fteafes a-Ia-mode Anchovy fauce Parfley faUce Swine’s cheek boil’d Venifon party Plain butter Sallad Windfor beans Shrimp fauce Lambs’ feet with muftard L)e quez de polard a-la-fanch herb ' Leg of mutton roarted with ftewed cucumbers XXXkXXXXXXX Trifle SE COND COURSE. Two ducklings roarted Dutch flummery Cray-fiih Green gages ArtICfo0rkcedb°tt0niS Apricot tart. Peaches Potted char Cuftards Apricots Ragout millc Melon Italian cream( 392 ) For AUGUST. r i r ST C O It R S E. Soup fante removed with haddocks Tenderon of veal •with parfley French beans Rabbit collops Filh fauce Pickled mangoes Chicken pie Ducks and green peafe Mutton cutlets in papers Rock famphire Plain butter Sallad Lamb fweetbreads crumbed & fried r. " t ) i/vt Roaft beef Fricando of veal »c-:xxxxxxxx SECOND CO U R S E. Leveret roafted Lemon pudding Fricaffee of muftiroom* i * * * ‘ Collared eel Grapes -• . , Pine apple Three pigeons roafted Salver with jellies Fried fmeltf Plumbs Cherries ; Potted lobftcr Foe^graw Currant tart Two moor game roafted( 393 ) For SEPTEMBE R. FIRST COURSE. Fried tripe Soap crefifee removed with crimp cod The fifh removed with a roaft goofe Melted butter Papiets de veau Ilam boiled Sheep’s tongues, Spanilh vyay Fifh fauce Rabbit pie Boiled colliflower Calf’s head roafted Kidney beans 3 chickens boiled Parfley fauce Ox palates Shoulder of mutton in epigram Ragoo of pigeons Petty patties of oyfters Currant jelly _ Apple fauce Venifon fauce Turkey and oy- lter fauce . Soup la rain removed with ftewed tench Pork fteaks Filh removed with a haunch of venifon xxxxxxxxxkx SECOND COURSE. Pheafant roafted Crowcant Artichokes the Ita- lian way Peaches Potted char Plumbs Eggs the Prufiian way Cheefe cakes Pine apple Rafp cream I Cray-fifh Defert frame Crabs dreft in their fhells A trifle Melon Tartclcts Ragout mills Pears Collared ee! Grapes Mufnrooms fricaftee A green cod- lin tart Four partridges roafted D d d( 394 ) Hare roafted For OCTOBER F I R Rabbits boiled with onion fauce Greens Sheep’s trotters forced Sweet wine and fugar in a boat A chine of pork roafted ST C O U Soup fante removed with a roaft pig Stewed cellery Marrow pudding A bread of veal in a furtout R S E. Pigeons in fcollop (hells Potatoes Beef collops Melted butter A peregoe turkey Apple fauce Gravy fauce Ducks-a-la-braize Petty patties fried Chickens fricafise pickles Salad Turnips & carrots Calf’s head a-la-turtle A tongue boiled Lobfter foup removed with a faddle of mutton XXXXX&XXXXX SECOND course. Mawbray Colliflower and Parmazan cheefe Filberts Six dottrels roafted Apples Attelets of fweetbreads e moor game roafted Peaches Collared pig Plumb tart Potted lobfter Grapes Cuftards Hamlet Pears Two teals roafted Walnuts Morelles forced Blamongc Italian cream' .* ( 3?5 ) For N O V E M B E It. > FIR ST C O U R S E. Lentil foup removed with turbot Pig roafted A hare jugged Apple fauce Mutton rumps and Pork (teaks Sweetbreads kidneys a-la-daube Currants in a faucer Colliflow'er Lobfter fauce A railed beef ftCak pie A leg of veal larded Lemon pudding Sorrel fauce Greens Melted butter Fricaflee of double Rabbits in Mutton cutlets tripe furprize Venifon fauce in paper Pigeons in fancy *• Fowl a-la-farce Onion foup removed with a haungh of venifon xxxxxxxx>o o< M SEC O N D C O U R S E. 0 A pheafant roafted Apricot fritters Grapes Carmel cream Brawn Smelts in jelly Maccaroni Walnuts Preferred orange Trudies the Italian Salver Spinage and fried way with jellies bi ead Preferred cherries Chefnuts Made eggs with Potted Sturgeon cream moor game Pears Chccfe cakes Four woodcocks roafted Apple tartHare roafled ( 39$ ) \ For DECEMBE R. r i r s T C O 1 U R S E. l’eafe foup removed with Pigeons in fun falhion jowl of i'alrnon Calf’3 head in fuprize Salad Fore quarter of Petty patties Fricnffee of ox lamb roafted palates Fvlint fauce Fennel fauce Sheep’s tongues llieed Beef trombianc Mutton kebob’ Parfley fauce Melted butter Harricot of Turkey pie Breaft of veal venitbn Broccoli porcupined Two chickens ITog’s feet and boiled Ham roafted ears ragoo’.d xxxxxxxxxxx SEC O N D C O U R S E. Two wild ducks roafled Mince pies ‘ Pears Peu dc mere Afparagus Potted venifon Ragoo of cock’s combs Medlars Cfcefnuts arks roafted Defert frame with dry'd fweetmeats and jellies Snipes roafted Walnuts Grapes Stewed lobfter Brawn Spillage dr cream Tart Jets Apples Cream pancakes( 397 ) NX^<XX>CoKMX>C:|<>0'C'<‘C.;'<>i;'> CORRECT LIST O F THINGS in SEASON, For every MONTH in the TEAR. F i S H» JANUARY. iALMON k ) Cod Turbot Soles Carp Tench Eels Lampreys Flounders Plaice - Whitings Thornback Skate ■ Smelts Sturgeon Cray-hfh - Haddock Crabs -Lobfters -Prawns -Oyfters '&£060t(& M EAT.' Beef Veal Pork Houfe lamb Mutton Poultry. Turkeys Capons Chickens Fowls Tame pigeons Pheafants Partridges Hares Rabbits ^ Woodcocks Snipes Larks Vegetables. Purple and white broccoli Cabbage Sprouts Spinage Savoys Cardoons Cellery( 39S ) Chervil Hyfiop F r u i a Beets Rochamble ' Sorrel Carrots Pine apples Salfifie Turnips Pears Endive Leeks Grapes Lett ice Parfnips Medlars CreiTes Potatoes Apples Muftard Shalots Chefnuts Young onions Sage China oranges Turnip radiihes Pariley Scorzonera You may have Tarrogan muihrooms and af- i Tbyme paragus raifed in a Savory l^ot-bed - FEBRUARY. Fish. Turbot Cod - Salmon Soles -Whitings Haddocks — Sturgeon Skate Plaice Flounders • Smelts Tench Carp Lamprey Eels Crabs - Lobfters -Ov iters - Prawns Cray-fifh Meat. Beef V eal Mutton Houfe lamb Pork Poultry. Turkeys Capons Fowls Larks Chickens Pigeons Pheafants Woodcocks Snipes Partridges Vegetables. Purple and white broccoli Spinage Savoys Curled greens Cabbage Sprouts Beets Parilev Endive Chervile Cellerv Scorzonera Sorrel Lettioe Salfifie Young onions Muftard CreiTes MintC 399 ) Carrots Turnips Parfnips Leeks Afparagus Thyme -Sage Savoy Fruit. Nonpareils *“ Pears Chefnuts China oranges — I Gold Pippins march. Fish. Poultry, - Salmon Ling Skate - Soles -Whitings — -Turbot Flounders Carp Tench - Lobfter Crabs Cray fifh -Prawns - Oyfters — Meat, Beef Mutton Veal Houfe lamb Roafting pigs Spring fowls Small chickens Ducklings Pigeons &&X30SOK&OK Vegetables. Carrots Turnips Parfnips Colewort Onions Leeks Shallot T anfy Fennel Curled greens Spinage Broccoli Beets Celery Endive Lettice CrelTes Chives Mu hard Mint Burnet Thyme Winter Savqry Tarragon Afparagus Cucumbers Kidney beans Colewort Fruit. Gold pippins China oranges f1 orced ftrawberries Cherries( 400 ) APRIL. Fish. - Salmon Ling Carp \ Tench -Turbot -Trouts « / Skate -Smelts -rPrawns -Lobfters Crabs y>i Meat. Beef Mutton Veal Lamb Poultry. Pallet Small chickens Ducklings Leverets Rabbits Pigeons Green geefe Vegetables. All Sorts of fmall fa lads Lertice Cellery Endive Sorrel Burnet CoW-ort Tarragon Raddiih Young onions Chervil Parfley Tanfy Broccoli Spinage Curled greens Sprouts Afparagus Cucumbers Kidney beans Thyme Mint t » ..t1., yr., ,/*\ ,'r.. ys'-. yr., yr*. y%\ Fruit. Apples. Oranges Forced cherries, and ftrawberries Green apricots,"and gooleberries for tarts F I S H. - Salmon — -Trout -Soles Carp Tench M A Y. Eels -Herrings v /?/<£- 'Smelts -Turbot -Lobfter Cray-fifh Crabs -Prawns #C.*K Meat. BeefI Mutton ( 4°I ) Vegetables. Young onions Veal Mint Lamb Early potatoes Purflain Carrots Thyme •cmweosc Turnips Savory Raddifhes Bafil Poultry. Early cabbage Cole wort ? * / Colliflower Chickens Artichokes *O^#0BpO0fl0* Green geefe Peafe Turkey poults Beans Fruit. Ducklings Kidney beans Leverets Afparagus Strawberries — Rabbits Cucumbers Cherries Spinage Green apricots Lettice Goofeberries, and Crefies currants, for tarts Muftard I - \ JUNE. Fish. Gilts -Trout — Pike Eels ■ Soles Turbot Carp Tench Mackarel & fic i’Herrings 'Smelts — iLobfters Cray-filh Shrimps u Lampreys -Prawns - m Meat. Beef Mutton Buck venifon Veal Lapnb-—- E e e Poultry. Green geefe <■— Ducklings Turkey poults Chickens Grey plover Wheat-ears Leverets Rabbits >fiOBOCC3aC«O0OoO8C Vegetables. Potatoes( 4°2 ) Carrots Turnips Cabbage ■ Colliflower Beans Peafe - Kidney beans Artichokes Cucumbers Young onions Lettice Spinage Parfley Purflain, and {mall falading Allfortsofpot herbs v*' vs? v<,' vs' Vs' Vi vs1 Vi tv* M ,vr. Fruit. Cherries Strawberries Goofeberries . _ Pine-apples Melons Grapes Peaches — Fish. “T urbot - Gilts •Cod - Mackarel “Herrings -Soles - Skate Flounders Plaice Pike Carp Tench Eel - Lobfter -Prawns Cray-fifh - Shrimps — JULY. Meat. Beef Mutton Veal Lamb Buck venifon $6. .4? W: yA. yA Poultry. Green geefe Ducklings Chickens Turkey poults Pigeons Ducks Plovers Quales Leverets Rabbits Vegetables. Potatoes Col! mowers Cabbage Carrots Turnips Onions Muthrooms Artichokes Celery Chervil Sorrel Purflain Lettice All forts of fmal. falad herbs Mint Thyme Bafil Tarrogan Peafe Beans Kidney beansFruit. / terries laches —" |;£tarines ambs __ Fish. like 'od Jlounders I laice kate fhornback jdackarels — lerrings — larp pels Pray-flfh Vawns — Pyfters 7% iObfters Meat. Beef Mutton Veal Buck venifon Pears Apples Apricots Melons Pine apples Grapes Strawberries Rafpberries Goofeberries Currantberries Green codlins, for tarts AUGUST. Poultry. Pigeons Chickens Green geefe Ducklings Wild ducks Turkey poults Leverets Rabbits Pheafants Wheat-ears Plovers Vegetables. Mufhrooms Colliflovvers Cabbage Artichokes Carrots Turnips Onions Scorzonera Salfifie Potatoes Celery Chervil Sorrel Purflain Lettice Small falad herbs Parfley Peale Beans Kidney beans All forts of fweet herbs Fruit. Pine apples Melons Grapes Apricots Peaches Nectarines Plumbs Pears Apples Cherries Filberds Figs — Strawberries Goofeberries Currants Mulberries( 4^4 ) SEPTEMBER, F I S H. Cod - -Soles fy Skate Flounders Plaice "SmeltS 7^r Pike Carp Tench • Lobfters - "Oyfters Meat. Beef Veal Mutton Pork Buck venifon Poultry.1 Pheafants Moor game Partridges Rabbits Hares Pigeons Teals Ducks Chickens Fowls Turkeys Geefe Willf ducks 3cocoeOQOeOBpa06€ Vegetables. Beans Peafe Kidney beans Mu fli room s Artichokes Colliflower Cabbage Celery Leeks Turnip-rooted ra- difhes Onions Shalot Carrots Turnips Potatoes Lettice Chervil Sorrel Thyme Parfley Small falad herbs Scorzonera Salfifie F R U I T. Apples Pears Plumbs Pine-apples Melons Peaches Nedhrines Grapes Apricots — Cherries Filberds Quinces — Goofeberries Currants — Mulberries Figs F i s H, Pike Carp Tench -4) melts QCTOBE John Dorees •Soles Perch Brills Codlins -Oyfters R. Meat. Beef Mutton Veal Pork Doe venifon J* ( 4°5 ) Poultry. Geefe Ducks Chickens Wild ducks Teals Widgeons Woodcocks Snipes Larks Dottrels Hares Rabbits Pheafants Moor-game Partridges Vegetables. Cabbage Colliflower Artichokes Carrots Parfnips Turnips Potatoes Leeks Shalots Rocambole Celery Turnip-rooted ra- difih Endive Chervil Red and whitebeets Cardoons Lettice All forts of fmall falading Thyme Savory Sweet marjoram Scorzonera Saliifie l Fruit. Grapes Figs Quinces — Damfons — Bullace Peaches — Plumbs Walnuts Filberds Hazel nuts Pine-apples Melons Pears Apples Peaches N Fish. Dorees -Smelts Barbets Gurnets Carp Pike Tench Whitings -Haddocks Codlings - Oyfters Cockles Shrimps - Soles -Turbot ^ - Lobfters ,/l/V O V E M B E Meat. Beef Mutton Veal Houfe lamb Pork Doe venifon SC Poultry. Pheafants Partridges Moor-game Larks Woodcocks Snipes Widgeons R. Teals Wild ducks Pigeons Chickens Fowls Geefe Turkeys Ducks Hares Rabbits Vegetables. Colliflower Cabbage Savoys Sprouts( 4 06 ) Splnage Curled greens Red and white beets Potatoes Parfnips Turnips Carrots Onions Leeks Shalot Turnip-rooted ra- difhes Rocambole Parfley Lettice Endive Chervil Sorrel Muftard Crefles Sweet herbs of all . forts Young onions Scorzonera Salftfie Fruit. Pine-apple Pears Apples Chefnuts Hazel-nuts Walnuts Grapes Medlers DECEMBER. Fis'h. Poultry. Potatoes -T urbot Turkeys Pari’nip Sturgeon Pigeons Turnips -Salmon Dorees ' Capons Leeks Chickens Onions - Smelts ’ Fowls Shalots - Cod>£ Woodcocks •’ ocambole Codlings Snipes x<.ed and white beets -Haddocks Larks Endive -Soles Dottrels Cellery Carp Partridges Spinage Tench Pheafants Parfley ^Ovfters Wild ducks Lettice Crabs Peals Scorzonera -Lobfters Wigeons Crefles -Prawns A Hares Muftard Cray-fifh Rabbits rhyme Vi’ ’Vi Vi’ Vi* Vi Vi* Vi’ Salfifie, Meat. Vegetables. Vi’ Vi’ Vi’ Vi’ Vi’ VjT Vi* it,’ Beef Purple and white Fruit." Mutton broccoli Chefnuts Pork Forced Afparagus Walnuts Veal Cabbage Hazel-nuts Houfe-lamb Savoys Pears and apples Dee venifon Carrots China oranges N S. I