( 4 ) to recognize them, giving a general idea of their ingredients and of their appearance when sent to table. If the full recipes are desired for the cook’s use, they will be found in the well-known cookery books, so many of which are now published. EXTRACT FROM PREFACE TO REVISED EDITION. In this edition a considerable number of dishes have been added, and such alterations made as are demanded by the changes of fashion. Dishes of a very elaborate character have, for the most part, been rejected. They are often merely (what a botanist would term) “ sports ” from well-established originals, differing from them, perhaps, only in some details of fantastic decoration, the fashions of which are very short-lived, and are quickly succeeded by some newer fancy. From the number of dishes described, it is hoped that it will be found easy to select such as shall be suited to the occasion for which they are required, whether for homely dinners, or for more elaborate entertainments. Complete menus of the former class will be found in the author’s “ Daily Dinners,” which, with the assistance here given, may be enlarged or varied without difficulty. The author has adhered to her original intention of giving descriptions rather than recipes. They will probably be sufficient, in most cases, to enable the mistress to give directions which a fairly competent cook may carry out without the aid of a detailed recipe. CONTENTS. Hors (Tauvres ; Soups—Clear and thick; Fish—Different modes of dressing Fish ; Shell-fish and Fish Entrees; Entries—of Beef—Veal— Mutton — Lamb—Pork—Poultry—Game; Removes—of Beef, Veal, Mutton, Lamb, Pork, Poultry, Game; Roasts; Vegetables zxA Salads ; Eggs Omelettes; Entremets—Cakes and Pastry, Puddings, Fritters, Compotes of Fruit> Creams, Jellies; Savoury Entremets; Ices and Sorbets; Sauces zxA Garnishes. These Works can be obtained of all Booksellers in the United Kingdom, OR DIRECT FROM THE PUBLISHERS, FREDERICK WARNE AND CO. BEDFORD ST., STRAND, LONDON; & NEW YORK.