Frederick Warne and Co.'s Publications. COOKERY BOOKS, &c. Price 6s. THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY. By Professor J. L. W. Thudichum. A popular treatise on the science, practice, and the ethical and medi- cal import of the culinary art. With a dictionary of culinary terms. In crown 8vo, cloth gilt. " The volume is not only instructive, but is very pleasant reading, and it explodes a good many antiquated theories as to the uses and abuses of food.’’—Daily Telegraph. “ We are grateful for Dr. Thudichum’s instructive and entertaining treatise, and sincerely trust that cooks and teachers of cookery wiU profit by its valuable example."—Saturday Review. Price 5s. each. DINNERS UP TO DATE; or What to Oedbb AND How TO Cook It. By Louisa E. Smith. Giving a complete menu in French and English for 168 days (a fort- night in each month in the year). With full directions how to cook each item. In crown 8vo, cloth gilt, attractive binding, illustrated. A special feature of this volume is tlio inclusion of a few ruled blank spaces at the end of each day’s recipes for the addition of special recipes or memoranda on the day’s menu. DURET’S HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. By E. Dueet, ex-Manager of St. James’s Hall Eestaurant. Containing over 800 Original Eecipes, In crown 8vo, cloth gilt. “ This most valuable culinary work will occupy a place entirely distinct and superior to the ordinarily bulky collection of recipes usually placed in the hands of the public. The writer is a caterer of vast experience; and the advantages and spectal features of the new work will be at once manifest to all who use it and try to approach perfection in this necessary art."—Lady’s Pictorial. Price 5s. Price 8s. 6d. In half mmveen, marbled edges. In cloth gilt, strongly bound. WARNE’S MODEL COOKERY. Containing Complete Instructions in Household Management, and 3,000 recipes for Breakfast Dishes— Bread, Biscuits, &c.—Fish and Soups — Sauces and Gravies—Beef —Mutton—Lamb—Venison—Veal—Pork—Poultry and Game— Made Dishes and Entrees—Meat and Fish Pies, &c.—Vegetables Potting and Collaring—Pastry and Puddings—Creams and Jellies —Custards, Ices and Cakes—Preserves and Pickles—Souf0.es and Omelets—Wines, Drinks and Ale—Desserts—Butter and Cheese— Relishes—Cookery for the Sick—Bills of Fare—Duties of Servants, &c., &c. 66th Edition, in largo crown 8vo, 750 pages. Compiled Eud Edited by Maby Jewey. With numerous Woodcuts and Original Illustrations, embodying nearly Two Hundred distinct Subjects. “ No household should be without a copy of tuis book ; ii will be found invaluable to the mistress and the kitchen. Care has been taken in every case to make the thoroughly intelligible, and the great popularity of the former editions of this work will be ably maintained in this new and revised one.”