35 PATHOLOGICAL RE POET method of Nissl. This method is so important for a study of degenerative changes in nerve cells, that no one can say that such changes are absent until he has used the method. Nissl25 teaches that the employment of the older methods of technique, especially the hardening of the tissue in the chromic salts, and the staining with carmine, are not only unsuitable, but likely to he most misleading. I am unable, therefore, from a study of these seven cases, and from an examination of the literature, to state whether the lesions of the ganglia are primary or secondary, and if secondary, whether of the nature of ascending neuritis or not. The possibility of the secondary nature of the process within the ganglia in some cases, it seems to me, should not be overlooked. I base the opinion of a possible peri- pheral involvement, in certain cases, chiefly on the clinical evidence afforded by the permanent relief of pain in some patients by nerve resection, though, unfortunately, such cases are in the minority; and on the examination of Case VIII of this paper, in which the lesions are very slight in comparison with those in the other cases, though the pain had existed for eighteen years. It is true that only a part of the ganglion was obtained in this case, and it is possible that this portion was the least diseased, but it is remarkable that, in all the other cases, intense alteration was found, and in some of these the parts of the ganglia obtained were not larger than in Case VIII. Case VIII is the only one of the seven in which a primary resection of the peripheral branches was not done. The pain involved all three branches of the fifth nerve, and Professor Keen, therefore, attacked the ganglion at once. The possibility of an ascending neuritis in this case, due to nerve resection, is excluded, inasmuch as no operation on the peripheral branches had been performed. The clinical evidence is of importance, for an absence of pain for two or three years seems to indicate that during