W. W. KEEX 12 operation; b) its efficiency as a means of permanent cure, and c) whether its disadvantages, especially the possibility of the loss of the eye on the operated side, can be avoided. a) The mortality of the operation may be taken as that shown by Tiffany’s table, in which of 108 cases, 24 died, a mortality of 22,2 °/o. For an operation done by modern an- tiseptic or aseptic methods, a mortality of over one-fifth is very large. I have no doubt it will be diminished in the future, as we learn by experience to deal with its vicissi- tudes and emergencies. In fact, surgically speaking, we must master and overcome so large a mortality. No one who has ever resected a Gasserian ganglion will speak lightly of the operation. Even now after having operated on eleven, I always approach the operation with a certain amount of hesitation. The mortality alone would cause me to answer the third question positively in favor of the resection being reserved for the last of the series of operations, instead of the first. b) What has been the history of the cases as to cure? So far as I know, there have been only four cases in which the pain has returned; one reported by Rose, one by Dana and two by myself. But, I especially desire to call atten- tion to the fact that my own two cases of recurrance of pain were my first two operations; that in Case I no mi- croscopical examination of the fragments removed was made, and in Case II the examination revealed no ganglionic cells nor nerve fibres. Case I, as I now look at it, was imperfectly done, and Case II still more so. Therefore, the recurrence of pain in these two cases cannot be used as an argument against the removal of the ganglion. The facts as to recurrence of pain in these two cases have been given earlier in this paper. In addition to this, Krause has re- ported one case in which the sensory root was found di- seased, and the pain returned on the other side of the face. We can conclude, therefore, in general, as a result