5 ON RESECTION OF THE GASSERIAN GANGLION all of the branches being involved, I removed the ganglion at once. All of the operations were done by the Hartley- Krause method. Of the eleven, three died, one from direct and avoidable infection (Case III), the other two of shock. In six cases (VI-XI) an attempt was made to remove the entire ganglion, and the photographs show that I was perfectly successful in Cases VI and XI in removing the en- tire ganglion with its roots, and successful in removing at least the ganglion itself in all the others. In Case VI, in which the entire ganglion, including its second and third divisions and its sensory and motor roots were removed, Prof. Spiller was able to obtain sections which showed the microscopical condition of the ganglion as well as its phy- sical relations with its sensory root and peripheral branches all in a single slide. As the motor root joins the third branch on the distal side of the ganglion, it could not, of course, be cut in the same plane as the other portion of the gan- glion. In Case VIII, we were fortunate also to have a gan- glion from a case in which no peripheral operation whatever had been done. One disadvantage Prof. Spiller has labored under is that I was not aware at the time of my operations of the technical value of Nissl’s method, or I should not have preserved the specimens in Muller’s fluid, which prevents their exa- mination by that method. The cellular changes, therefore, could not be studied in all their details, but the advantages . of the selected method of hardening for an examination of the alterations in the intraganglionic nerve fibres are very great. RESUME OE CASES V TO XI. Case V. — Breaking up of Gasserian ganglion after two prior operations; rupture of middle meningeal at foramen spinosum; postoperative corneal ulcer; recovery ; cure for two years. Mrs. F., aet. 54. First consulted me July 15th, 1891. Neuralgia for twelve years in the inferior dental. In april 1878 Dr. Agnew removed a half inch of the inferior dental; relief for eighteen months. When seen in 1891,