ON RESECTION OE THE GASSERIAN GANGLION 15 that in the sclerosis which follows the destruction of the sen- sory fibres of the third branch, the motor fibres would be at least partly affected even if they had not been cut. The only possible absolute necessity for conserving the nerve would be the need for preserving it in case of a bilateral re- section of the Gasserian ganglion. This has never yet been necessary, and will surely be extremely rare. If after destruc- tion of the gaglion the muscles of mastication on the sound side are sufficient for the purposes of mastication, I see no reason to trouble ourselves to preserve the motor root, and thus dangerously to prolong the operation. Secondly. A much more important question as to the extent of the removal of the ganglion is whether a) the entire ganglion shall be avulsed, such for example, as is seen in figure 2 from Case VI of my own series, and in several of Krause’s photographs (Neuralgie des Trigeminus), or b) whether we should follow the recommendation of Tiffany that only the outer two-thirds of the ganglion, together with the second and third divisions, should be re- moved, and the inner third left. The only object in leaving the inner third is the conservation of vision. But, as shown below, I believe that our methods of dealing with the eye are so improved, that we can positively now remove the ganglion, and yet conserve the eye. In addition to this, we must remember that the gan- glion is not divided into thirds physically or jfiiysiologi- cally. It is not true that the inner third of the ganglion is connected exclusively with the first division, and supplies the eye, the middle third with the second division, and the outer third with the third division; but, more or less, the cells of the ganglion in every part are connected, so far as we know, with any or all of the three divisions. An arbitrary line, therefore, removing the outer two- thirds and leaving the inner third, will leave undoubtedly diseased ganglionic cells, if the ganglion is affected. If these