ON RESECTION OF THE GASSERIAN GANGLION 9 Operation, April 21st, 189G. In making the osteoblastic flap, a wound of the cerebral vessels was accidentally made. When the osteo-plastic flap was turned down, a sub-dural clot amounting to one ounce of blood was removed and the dura closed. Anterior branch of middle meningeal ran in a canal, and was torn and ligated. Ganglion was then uncovered and avulsed, fol- lowed by such a copious hemorrhage that I believed I had torn the ca- vernous sinus. Iodoform gauze (267 square inches) packing checked the hemorrhage: reacted well, but did not become conscious. Hemiplegia was recognized. He remained unconscious and hemiplegic till his death toward the end of the third day. The gauze was removed after forty-eight hours wi- thout hemorrhage; necropsy refused. Case X. — Removal of Gasserian ganglion; death in ten hours from shock. Mrs. M. S.,aet. 63; pain for over thirty years. Second and third divisions removed some years ago; pain now exists in all three branches. A Fig. 0. — Case X. a, Gasserian ganglion; b, II division; c, III division. Operation, October 31st, 1896. Anterior branch of middle meningeal in deep grooves and lacerated, but ligated. Avulsion of third and second divisions, bringing with them a considerable portion of the ganglion. Removal of gan- glion; reacted well an hour after the operation, but then began to fail, and died in ten hours; necropsy refused. Case XI. — Removal of Gasserian ganglion after six prior operations; cure for eight months; eye-sight lost from secondary corneal ulcer. Mr. F. W. P., aet. 56. Pain began in 1896 in l’iglit lower jaw; six peripheral operations had been done on the inferior dental as far back as the foramen ovale. An attempt had been made to remove the Gasserian ganglion without benefit to his pain. Operation January 22nd, 1897. Ganglion laid bare and avulsed. Second division tore loose from the ganglion. Eye-lids stitched together at the close of the operation. Stitches removed on third day, and Buller shield applied: highest temperature 100° F. Went home thirteen days after the operation in excellent condition as to eye and pain. Protecting the eye with 2