6 W. W. KEEN had neuralgia in both second and third divisions. On July 17th, 1891 I re- moved the inferior dental and the infra-orbital nerves in the orbit. Operation, October 6th, 1895. Posterior branch of middle meningeal di- vided in chiselling the bone. Anterior branch torn in its canal on turning down the flap. Both branches secured with considerable difficulty. In lifting the temporo-sphenoidal lobe the middle meningeal ruptured at the foramen spinosum; controlled by Allis’ dissector and packing with gauze. The second and third divisions were then divided at their foramina and grasped with for- ceps, but on endeavoring to remove the ganglion by traction on the two ner- ves, the two branches tore off from the ganglion. The ganglion itself was then removed with a curette. The cavernous sinus was visible and avoided. The gauze was removed in three days and wound healed in a week. A corneal ulcer developed, but after a great deal of trouble, the eye was saved with good vision. Sept. 25th, 1897. Is still free from joain. Vision good. Weight has risen from 9G1,)S to 1321,JS. Fig. 1. — Specimen Case V: a, Gasserian ganglion; 6, II division; c, III division. Natural size. Case VI. — Removal of the entire ganglion intact with its second and third divisions and its sensory and motor roots hack to the pons in a piece 4 cm. long after four prior operations; recovery ; cure for two years; post-ope- rative corneal ulcer. C. W. E., aet. 33. Neuralgia for five years. In March 1895 the right upper teeth and the alveolar process removed. Since then three other opera- tions, including removal of the infraorbital nerve and antrum drilled. Operation, November 22nd, 1895. Preliminary stitching of eye-lids; an- terior branch of middle meningeal torn at a point where a large branch penetrated the bone. On lifting the temporo sphenoidal lobe a furious hemor- rhage from the middle meningeal, ruptured one-quarter of an inch above the foramen spinosum, took place, though the lifting had been done with the greatest gentleness. Vessel ligatured; ganglion seized with a pair of he- mostatic forceps before division of the second and third branches. Branches then divided and the ganglion twisted with the forceps, removing the ganglion with its second and third divisions and both roots entire. Pro- fuse hemorrhage followed the twisting out of the ganglion; temporary packing did not arrest it, and I, therefore, packed with a strip of gauze