7 ON RESECTION OP THE GASSERIAN GANGLION ten inches by one and a half (fifteen square inches), and closed the wound. The next day he complained of severe frontal headache, temperature 104° E. Though I was very loath to remove the packing, I felt forced to do so on account of the headache and the temperature. It was removed very slowly and gently, and was not followed by any hemorrhage. Within an hour the temperature had fallen to 99° F., and the headache was gone. Uneventful recovery. The stitches in the eye-lids were removed after four days; the eye-ball was normal. Within twenty-four hours corneal ulcers began, and after a great deal of trouble Dr. de Schweinitz, who had the care of his eye, was able to save it with only partial eyesight. Oct. 5th, 1897. Muscles of mastication on right side entirely wasted and absolutely useless. Can chew meats well by using those on the left side. Right eye is still injected and cornea rather hazy. Can count fingers, but cannot read with right eye. Absolutely free from all pain ever since ojie- ration, face, including foi-ehead, tongue, nostril, and cheek, anesthetic. b c Fig 2. — Gasserian ganglion with the II and III division and the sensory and motor roots removed from Case VI. The nerve fibres are well shown. The motor root is elon- gated by the accidental reversal of one of its boundles. a, Sensory root; b, Gasserian ganglion; c, Stump of I division; d, II division; e, III division; f, motor root. Case VII. — Removal of Gasseriati ganglion with portion of its roots after two prior operations; cure for a year and nine months. James McM., aet. 76. In excellent health for his age. Neuralgia for twenty years in second division of right fifth nerve; no apparent cause. In 1886 Dr. Agnew resected the infra-orbital, and, in 1892, Dr. Thomas G. Morton again resected the same nerve. The pain returned soon after the second opera- tion, and has extended to all branches of the fifth; the paroxysms being only a minute or two apart; the tongue is involved; anterior wall of antrum is gone. Operation, December 31st, 1895. Eye-lids stitched together. Anterior branch of middle meningeal torn in turning down flap, then ligated. Dura partly ossified; ganglion seized and twisted out, the roots being imperfectly removed.