13 ON RESECTION OF THE GASSERIAN GANGLION of experience in over 100 cases of intracranial operation on the fifth nerve, that, practically, the pain will not re- turn in over 1 or 2 °/o in any such severity as to liken it to the original disease, and that it will not return at all in more than 4 or 5 per cent. Perhaps, if we consider the uncertainty of total excision of the ganglion in the in- ported cases in which pain did not return, this percentage is too high. As Prof. Spiller has shown, there are only two cases known to him in which the sensory root has been examined (although it may be that Krause examined the sensory root in some of his other cases); one of these was by Krause (loc. cit., p. 113.), and one by himself. In Krause’s case the root was diseased, and the pain returned upon the opposite side. In my own case (Case VI), though the lesions of the ganglion were very intense, and the disease had existed for five years, Prof. Spiller found the sensory root entirely free from any pathological changes in longitudinal as well as transverse sections. We must expect, as an infe- rence from both the clinical history and the pathological examination of Krause’s case, that the disease may not only reach, but may pass beyond the ganglion to the sensory root, and that, therefore, even the removal of the ganglion will not always absolutely prevent a return. c) Apart from the mortality, the chief danger is the loss of vision if not of the eye-ball. This, I think, I now know how to master. I shall consider it under the question of technique. All other disadvantages, such as the possible necrosis of a piece of the bone, the sinking in of the flap, or the possible uselessnes, in a certain number of cases, of the muscles of deglutition are very slight as compared with the immense relief from the horrible pain. My conclusion, therefore, is that the removal of the Gasserian ganglion should still be done, but that we should especially strive to lessen the mortality of the operation.