W. G. SPILLER - PATHOLOGICAL REPORT 38 EXPLICATION OE THE PLATES. Plate I. Eigure a — Portion of the sensory root from Case VI. The nerve fibres are normal. Figure b —- Portion of the second branch of the trigeminal nerve, near the Gasserian ganglion, from Case VI. The axis cylinders have entirely disappeared, and the medullary sheaths are enormously swollen. In many places the medullary substance of two or more nerve fibres has united into irregularly-shaped masses. Figure c -—- One of the nerve bundles within the Gasserian ganglion, from Case VI. Numerous swollen and irregularly-formed axis cylinders may ba seen. In most portions of the field these appear as drops of a red, hyaline-like substance, but in one portion an axis cylinder of conside- rable length may still lie seen. Figure d — Portion of the Gasserian ganglion at the entrance of the third branch of the trifacial nerve, from Case VI. The medullary sheaths are most irregularly swollen, and at the right of the field empty nerve sheaths are observed (Method of Azoulay). Figure e — Swollen medullary sheaths, and empty nerve sheaths, from the Gasserian ganglion, in Case VII. Plate II. Figure f— Part of the Gasserian ganglion, from Case IX. Only two gan- glion cells are seen in the drawing: the others have degenerated, and their places are occupied by connective tissue. This portion of the ganglion presents a high degree of sclerosis. Figure g -— Portion of a normal Gasserian ganglion. A sharp contrast is offered to the preceding section. Figure h ■— Blood vessels from the Gasserian ganglion, in Case IX. The walls are greatly thickened, and the lumen of the large vessel has been almost entirely obliterated. In one place the innermost layers of the vessel have contracted from the outer duriug the process of hardening. Smaller vessels, in the upper part of the field, are entirely closed. Figure i — A nerve bundle of the trigeminus close to the Gasserian gan- glion, from Case X. Only a few nerve fibres are present, and every- where an abundance of connective tissue is seen. Three much swollen medullary sheaths are in the field.