8 W. W. KEEX Third division tore loose and removed; no shock caused by avulsion. Went home in ten days; highest temperature 100° F. September 25th, 1897. General health excellent; has gained twenty five pounds in weight; no return of the tic, but an obscure « creepy » feeling in his right face. Vision good. Fig. 3. — Case VII. The larger fragment is the ganglion with part of the sensory root to the right. The thin filament to the right and below is the motor root. To the left and below is the II di- vision. The smaller fragment is the III division broken off. Case VIII.-—Removal o f Gasserian ganglion as a'primary operation; possible tear of cavernous sinus ; controlled by packing ; uneventf ul recovery ; cure for three iceeks. Mrs. A. W. S., aet. G9. Present trouble began in 1878; all teeth removed. Pain in all three divisions. Operation, January 24th, 189G. Eye lids stitidied together. Anterior branch of middle meningeal in a complete canal; posterior in excessively deep groove, both torn, therefore, in turning down the flap. Both vessels ligated. Ganglion twisted out. Second division tore loose from ganglion and, in the rush of blood following the avulsion, was lost. Hemorrhage so severe that I believed the cavernous sinus was torn; readily controlled by packing with gauze. Highest tempe- rature third day 100°,6 F. Gauze removed on third day, and on the same day the sutures in the eyelids removed, and the Buller shield applied. She had no trouble with the eye. Three weeks after the operation she was free from pain. Later letters have licited no answer. Fig. 4. — Case VIII. Fig. 5. — Case IX. Gasserian ganglion. Gasserian ganglion. Case IX. -— Removal of Gasserian ganglion after one prior operation; wound of cerebral vessels while making osteo-plastic flap; rupture of cavernous sinus ; packing with gauze ; coma and hemorrhage ; death in three days. GeorgeK., aet. 49. Pain began in 1879 in right upper canine, teeth extracted. In 1889 infra-orbital resected, giving relief for two and a half years on the cheek, but the pain in the forehead still remained. When seen, the first and second divisions were involved, but the lower jaw was not..