DR 109 DR ■work must be carried on in the shade, and where there is a strong current of air, there the harness tubs ought to be placed, this being a ver-y material point in the curing of meat in a hot climate. In tliis manner meat may be salted with the greatest safety, when the thermometer in the shade is at 110° the extreme heat assisting tlie curing. A good sized bullock of six or seven hundred weight may be killed within the hour. The per- son ■who attends W'ith the spice near the first salter, has the greatest ti-ust imposed upon him ; besides the spice, he should be well satisfied that the piece is sufficiently salted, before he permits the first salter to hand the piece over to the second salter. All the salt should be very fine, and the packer, besides sprinkling the bottom of his harness tub, should be careful to put plenty of salt be- tween each tier of meat, which is very soon turned into the finish pickle. The pickle will nearly cover the meat as fast as the packer can stow it away. It is always a good sign that the meat is very safe, when the packer begins to complain that his hands are aching with cold. By the method here detailed, there is no doubt that the meat is cured in three hours from the time of killing the bullock; the saltpetre in a very little time strikes through the meat; however, it is always better to let it remain in the haniess tubs till the following morning, when, on open- ing them, it will have an exceedingly pleasant smell. 11 is then to be taken out, and packed in tight baiTels, with its own brine. Beef and pork, in a less degree, properly salted with salt alone, ac- quire a green colour, but if an ounce of saltpetre be allowed to each five pounds of salt, the muscular fibre takes on a fine red colour; this ap- parent improvement, however, is more than compensated by its be- coming harder and harsher to the taste, to correct which a proportion of sugar or molasses is added; but the red colour if desired may be given without hardening the meat, by the addition of a little cochineal. Salted meat is either preserved, immersed in pickle in close vessels, or dried, ■when it gets the name of bacon, ham, or hung-beef; by being kept immersed in pickle, meat rather gains than loses weight. The dry- ing of salt meat is effected either by hanging it in a dry and well warmed place, or by exposing it at the same time to wood smoke; which gives it a peculiar flavour, much admired in Westphalia hams, and Hamburgh beef, and which also tends to pre- serve it by the antiseptic action of the pyrolignic acid. When meat is to be hung, it need not be so highly salted.—See Beef, Hams, SfC. Admiral Knoiules's recipe to salts meat:— As soon as the ox is killed, let it be skinned and cut up into pieces fit for use, as quick as possible, and salted whilst the meat is hot; for which purpose have a sufficient quan- tity of bay-salt and saltpetre pounded together and made hot in an oven, of each equal parts; with this sprinkle the meat at the rate of about two ounces to the pound; then lay the pieces on shelving boards to drain for twenty four hours. Then turn them, and repeat the operation, and let them lie for twenty-four hours longer: by this time the salt will be all melted, and have pene- trated the meat, and the pieces be drained off. Each piece must then be wiped dry with clean coarse cloths, and a sufficient quantity of common salt, made hot likwise in an oven, and mixed when taken out, with about one-third of brown sugar; the casks being ready, rub each ])iece well with the mixture, .and pack them well down, allowing about half-a- pound of the salt and sugar to each pound of meat, and it will keep good for several years and eat welt. L