GO CA CA cient quantity ; for instance, a table spoonful at a time, early in the morning, and one hour before a meal : or still better, if the seeds are plen- tifully used in bread, and among cooked victuals. Those, however, of a hot and bilious constitution, likewise individuals liable to obstruc- tions and habitual costiveness, ought to use some caution against using these seeds indiscriminately, and not without taking professional advice. Carraway seeds, finely pounded, with a small proportion of ginger and salt, spread upon bread and hutter, and eaten every day, especially early in the morning, and at night before bed- time, are successfully used in Ger- many, as a domestic remedy against hysterics, and will doubtless effec- tually cure the disease, provided it does not arise from improper diet, obstructions of the intestines and other vessels, iliac, passion, bile, acrid humours, and the like; in all which cases the carraway and ginger will certainly do more harm than good; as each of them must be re- moved by opposite means. If, how- ever, carraway be kept in a pounded state, for the purpose of overcoming the disposition to flatulency and in- digestion, it soon turns rancid, and may prove hurtful on account of the strong oil it contains. The plant of carraway is one of the early spring- herbs, and makes an excellent addi- tion to salads. The seeds, when distilled with ardent spirits, yield a very heating and pernicious oil, which renders such spirits still more detrimental to health, than when they are in a pure state. 0ns.—The seeds of carraway (cariim cann) have also been used in brewing, but not so frequently as the coriander, which some be- lieve to add strength ns well as fla- vour. Carraway is found wild in England, and along with the cori- ander ; it is cultivated in some coun- ties for the use of confectioners and apothocavies.—See Coriamler. CARROTS. — Carrots are ex- tremely flatulent, and therefore an improper food for the weak, and those inclined to acidity ; by such individuals they can scarcely be digested, unless taken with the ad- dition of spice, and a proper quan- tity of salt; by which means their fermentation and corruption in the stomach will be in a great measure prevented. In other respects, they contain a good and copious alimen- tary fluid, at the same time power- fully affect the kidneys, and are like- wise anthelmintic, or destructive of worms. From the quantity of sac- charine matter it contains, the carrot is very nutritive and slightly laxa- tive; it also possesses a large pro- portion of fibrous matter, which in some stomachs prevents the digestion of the root, and it passes through the bowels with but little change ; to obviate this effect, it ought to be thoroughly boiled, and it should be eaten when young. The carrot ap- pears to have been introduced into England by the Flemings, in the reign of Elizabeth. The seeds of the wild carrot are diuretic and aromatic : in strong in- fusions in calculous complaints, they have, however, 3uelded to more effi- cacious remedies. The root of the garden carrot forms an excellent poultice to ill-conditioned and foetid ulcers. C.\RVING. T.vblf. Dissection'. —carver is one who performs the honours of the table, and distributes the diflerent viands, with address and expedition. The art of carving formerly constituted the integral of a good education, and in the old school there were carving masters as common as dancing masters. In this respect the Germans are vcr\- superior knife-men. With them, it is the butler who carves. lie I'e- moves each piece as soon as it ap- pears, and returns it dissected in the most masterl}' manner. It then goes round the table, and each serves