AN 16 AN is the better: hence as much as will soon be used ought only to be made. Those that are anchovies are of an opening nature, fortify the stomach, and provoke the appetite. Used in excess they heat much, and render the humours acerb and pungent. They contain much oil and volatile salt. They agree best in winter with old, phlegmatic, and melancholy people; and with those whose diges- tive organs are deranged or im- paired. Young people of a hot and bilious constitution ought not to use them; and if they do, it should be vety^ moderately. Those are to be be taken that ai-e tender, fi-esh, and white without, small, plump, firm, and well tasted. Accum, in his work on adultera- tion (p. 328) says, “ Several sam- ples which we examined of this fish- sauce, have been found contaminated ■with lead.” Essence of anchovy is sometimes coloured with bole arme- niach, Venice red, &c.; but all these additions deteriorate the flavour of the sauce, and the palate and sto- mach suffer for the gratification of the eye, which, in culinary matters, will never be indulged in by the sa- gacious Gourmand at the expense of either the one or the other. “ If you are not contented with the na- tural colour break some lobsters’ eggs into it, and you will not only heighten the complexion of your sauce, but improve its flavour. This is the only rouge we can recom- mend.”—Cook’s Oracle, p. 343. ANIMAL.—An organised body endowed with life and voluntary mo- tion, composed of certain elements, solid, liquid, gaseous, acid, and un- confineable, and of which all animal bodies are composed. Of the solid elements, are phosphorus, sulphur, carbon, iron, manganese, potassium, lime, soda, magnesia, silica, and alumina. Of the liquid, are muriatic acid; water, which here may be considered an element, enters into the organisation, and constitutes three-fourths of the bodies of ani- mals. Of the gaseous, are oxygen, hydrogen, and azote. I'he uncore- finable are caloric, light, electric, and magnetic fluids. These various elements, united with each other, three and three, four and four, &c., according to laws still unexplained, form what are called the proximate principles of animals. The proximate materials or prin- ciples are divided into azotised, and such as are not azotised. 'Tlie azo- tised are albumen, fibrine, gelatine, mucus, cheese-curd principle, urea, mic acid, osmazome, colouring mat- ter of the blood. The latter are, the acetic, benzoin, lactic, formic, oxa- lic, rosacic acids; sugar of milk, sugar of diabetic urine, picromel, yellow colouring matter of bile and of other liquids or solids which turn yellow accidentally, the blistering principle of cantharides, spermaceti, biliary calculus, the odoriferous prin- ciple of ambergris, musk, castor, civet, &c., which are scarcely known, e.xcept from the property they pos- sess of acting on the organs of smell. The materials or principles above- mentioned combine amongst them- selves, and from their combination arise the organic elements, which are solid or liquid. The laws or forces that govern these combinations are entirely unknown. ANIMAL FATS. SeeO/7i,&c.— Animal fats are not immediate proxi- mate principles. It is proved that human fat, and that of the pig, of the sheep, and other animals, are princi])ally formed by two fatty bo- dies, Stearine and Elaine (which sec), which present very difl’erent chai-ac- ters, that may be easily sejiarated. Neither is the butter of the cow a simple body; it contains acetic acid, a yellow colouring principle, an odorous principle, which is very ma- nifest in fermented eheese. Nor must adipocire be reckoned among these substances. (Sec AdipoeWe). Nor must this substance be con-