ZE ZY 403 as the rye flour goes into fermenta- tion. 'J'he clay after, when it is working, put in the Indian meal, stirring it well as it goes in. Before the Indian meal be all in, the mess will be very stiff, and it will, in fact, be dough, very much of the consist- ence of the dough that bread is made of. Take this dough, knead it well, as you would a pie-crust; roll it out with a rolling-pin, as you roll out pie-crust, to the thickness of about a third of an inch. When you have it (or a part of it at a time) rolled out, cut it up in cakes with a tumbler glass turned upside down, or with something else that will serve the same purpose. Take a clean board (a tin may be better), and put the cakes to dry In the sun. Turn them every day, let them receive no wet, and they will become as bard as ship-biscuit. Put them in a bag, or box, and keep them in a place per- fectly free from damp. When you z ZERO.—The point from which the scale of a thermometer is gra- duated : e. g. the thermometers of Celsius and Reaumur have their zero at the freezing point; that is, at the point at which water freezes, while the thermometer of Fahrenheit has its zero at that point at which it stands, when immersed in a mixture of snow and common salt. ZESTS.—A term of art used by bake, take two cakes of the thickness above mentioned, and about three inches in diameter, put them in hot water over night, having cracked them first; let the vessel containing them stand near the fire-place all night. They will dissolve by the morning, and then you use them in setting your sponge (as it is called), precisely as you would use the yeast of beer. YORKSHIRE PUDDING.— Mi.x two spoonsful of flour with a pint of milk and three eggs, well beaten, add a spoonful of salt, and a little ginger grated ; butter the pan, and put in the mixture. When browned b}' baking under the meat, turn the other side upward, that that may be browned also. It should be made in a square pan, and served up, cut in pieces, neatly arranged upon a dish. The richness of the pudding is increased according to the number of eggs put into it. confectioners. The peel of oranges, lemons, or citrons, cut from top to bottom, in small slips, or zests, as thin as possible. ZYMOME.—\ tough, hard sub- stance, though it does not possess the viscidity of gluten. It is insoluhle in water and alcohol, but is dissolved in vinegar and mineral acids, by the aid of heat, and forms a soap with pure potass. Lond III : primed by Mamiing & Smiliisoii, Londun House Yaid.