FL 131 FL when they are castrated at eight days. The editor of Daubenton (4th edition, M.Hiizard) goes still fartlier, and recommends this operation to be performed in a da}' or two from the birth, or as soon as the testes de- scend into the scrotum. The female lambs are also occasionally spayed in France, to render tbeir flesh more delicate, and improve the wool; but this operation cannot be perfonned until the ovaries have acquired a sufficient size to be brought out with the finger, when they are about three weeks old. In this country the sow pigs which are not kept for breeding, are all spayed when about four weeks old; the boar pigs are castrated a week sooner. On the other hand, the males of those races in which the testes are active only at certain sea- sons, as the deer tribe, have the coarse rank flesh of entire males only when rutting; and at all other times they resemble much more the castrated individuals of those animals, such as the bull, which are always capable of procreating their species. Even with the ram, there is a short period when the flesh is less rank; and during the rutting season, it is intolerable. Buck venison is highly esteemed— the boar is preferred for making brawn. III.—The quality of the food and the manner in which the animal has been fed, have also considerable in- jluence over the flesh. For the most jiart, the lean of fat animals is better than that of those that are poorly fed; and perhaps an animal in a state of nature can never be too fat. Artificial fattening may, however, be carried too far, and the practice of feeding oxen on oil-cake for the market is now laid aside, in conse- quence of its giving a rancid and unpleasant flavour to the beef. Also, morbid or unwholesome fatness, such as that which takes place in the first stage of the rot, and which, it is said upon very good authority, some butchers induce artificially is certainly not desirable. “ Several graziers and butchers having observed, that sheep are much disposed to feed during the first stage, or four weeks after being tainted, omit no oppoi'ttuniy of pro- ducing it, to increase their profits.”— See Inquiry into the Rot in Sheep and other Animals, by E. Harrison, M.D. F.R.A.S. 8vo. Lond. 1804. But it is only in regard to fatness that the flesh of animals is aflTected by the nature of their food, for its flavour is materially changed by it; and an epicure will readily distinguish by the taste, whether mutton of the same race has been fed upon turnips, or upon the natural grasses of a high- land fai'm. In pork, the fat of the food is more apparent than in any other kind of butchers’ meat. The fat of pigs fed on skimmed milk though sour, is firmer and vastly supeilor to that of hogs fed upon pease or meal; and Mr. Jackson says we have no pork in England or Ireland equal to that in Sai'dinia, where the hogs are al- most wild, and fattened upon chest- nuts. IV. The influence of the season on^ the quality of butchers’ meat, depends upon the more or less plentiful sup- ply of food, upon the periodical change which takes place in the body of the animal, and upon temperature. In and out of season, are words often vaguely applied, meaning most com- monly and correctly, the season of the year in which the substance is naturally in a better or worse state; also occasionally expressing the good or bad condition of ibe individual animal, without any regard to the state of the species in general; and, lastly, and most improperly, meaning that it is at that time desired or re- jected by the higher orders of society, as being i-are or common. The flesh of most full grown quad- rupeds is in highest season during the first months of winter, after having enjoyed the advantage of the