BI BI 37 Order Passeres. Of this order the following species are employed as food:— Blackbird. Brambling, or Bramblefinch. Bunting. Chaffinch. Common Pigeon. Epicurean Warbler. Esculent Swallow. Field-fare. Greenfinch. Grosbeak, or Hawkfinch. Hedge Sparrow. House Sparrow. Lark, all the species. Misletoe Thrush. Redstart. Redtail. Ringdove. Sheld Apple, or Cropbill. Stone Bunting. Stonechat. Tree Sparrow. Wheatear. Whinchat. Y ellow-hammer. BITTERS.—Herbs, or their ex- tracts, containing a hitter principle— as Hops, Quassia, Valerian, &c.— Which See. The use of bitters followed the ad- vice of the physician, who, anciently, being an herbalist, recommended the plants that grew in his garden. Each plant had its particular disease which it was able to combat; and hence the whole science of medical botany. According to the ancient, and many still of the modern, physicians, the bitter principle was peculiarly effica- cious ; it is a pure tonic, increases the appetite, promotes digestion, gives vigour to the system, &c. Bitters, however, are either different in the essence, or they are never pure. A few, such as gentian and quassia, are comparatively inactive. Some, like aloes and marsh trefoil, are purga- tive. Hops are astringent and nar- cotic; broom, and some others, are diuretic; while many, as opium, ignatia amara, tobacco, and nux- vomica, are highly deleterious; yet we find that each of those mentioned, and others not named, have been boiled among the worts of beer, with- out regard to the effect on particular constitutions, or to the general safety of the individuals for whom the liquor is brewed. As substitutes for the hop, broom, wormwood, and several other bitters, have greatly fallen into disuse ; for, since the flavour of the hop has been so generally recognised, no bitter which is inconsistent with that fla- vour would be relished. Bitters that are perfectly, or at least nearly, fla- vourless, may, indeed, be added to hops when the bitter principle only is required; and this is the case with porter, in which flavour is little studied; for the hops usually em- ployed in brewing that beverage are either coarse or old, and would not be admissible in fine ales. The coc- culus indicus, so frequently intro- duced into the latter, has a taste by no means agreeable; but its intoxi- cating quality is all that is wanted by the brewer, and, could that be procured (as has been attempted in a separate condition), its flavour would be willingly dispensed with. The bitter contained in porter is very great, and if taken wholly from hops must require an average quantity of ten or twelve pounds to the quarter of malt, or about three pounds per barrel. The fluctuation in the price of this article is so extreme, that the wonder ceases why substitutes, under such circumstances, should have been so eagerly sought after. If the sub- stitutes were not more noxious than the principle (and some of them were less so), the conscience of the brewer was easily satisfied; especially when he sees that he could procure as much bitter for sixpence, as would otherwise have cost him twenty shillings. The following ingredients are ac- counted excellent stomachic bitters, strengthening the digestive organs, E