SP 304 so separated from the meat, leaving the solid parts less soluble, becoming itself empyreumatic, rancid, and of difficult assimilation in the stomach. Fried meats, for the preceding rea- sons, as well as baked meats, from the adhesiveness of the paste, are preparations which lessen the solubi- lity of the food. From this it appears that the preparation of food, by fat- tening and keeping it for some time previous to killing, although it may promote a disposition to gormandize, will nevertheless increase its dispo- sition to solution. SORB APPLE. {Sorha, from sor- bere, to swallow, because this fruit, says Lemery, when ripe, is soft and easy to swallow).—The service tree, sorbus domestica. Fruit rough, very astringent, even when softened. Sorb apples do not ripen upon the trees, as other fruits do; they are gathered in autumn and spread upon straw, where, after they have lain for some time, their consistence is very much altered, so that from being hard, bitter, and unpleasant, they become soft, sweet, and delicious. Those that are large, full ripe, well tasted, and of an agreeable smell, ought to be selected. The extracted juice of the soih apple ferments, and becomes vinous, like peny. They agree in the winter with young bilious people, and those who have weak stomachs, provided they be used in moderation. The berries of the wild service tree (sorbus aucu- paria) are astringent, and it is said they have been found serviceable in allaying the pain of calculous affec- tions of the kidneys. SORBIC ACID.—Obtained from the berries of the mountain ash (Fraximis Sijlves/ris). The acid of apples, called malic, may be ob- tained most conveniently, and in greatest purity, from this source. This was supposed by Donovan and Vauquelin, who wrote good disserta- tions ui)on it, to be a new and pecu- liar acid; though it now appears that the sorbic and jmre malic acids are the same. Bruise the ripe berries in a mortar, and then squeeze them in a linen bag. They yield nearly half their weight of juice, of the specific gravity of 1.077. This viscid juice, by remaining about a fortnight in a warm temperature, experiences the vinous fermentation, and would yield a portion of alcohol. By tliis change it becomes bright, clear, and passes easily through the filter, while the sorbic acid itself is not altered. SORREL. (Rimex acetosa). — Sorrel possesses an acrid acidity, which deprives the teeth of their enamel, and ought to be avoided by those who are already troubled with an acid taste in the mouth. Boiling renders it bland, and deprives it of its sour acrid taste. SOY.—The seeds of the Dolichos soya: peas or kidney beans are fre- quently substituted for them. A highly flavoured and agreeable sauce, used with fish, and in the composi- tion of other sauces, (see Sauces). It is made as follows:— Seeds of dolichos soya (peas or kidney beans may be used for them) one gallon; boil till soft; then add bruised wheat, one gallon; set them by in a warm place for twenty-four hours, and afterwards add common salt, one gallon; water, two gallons. Put the whole in a stone jar, and bung it up for two or three months, shaking it very frequently; press out the liquor; the residuum may be treated afresh with water and salt, for soy of an inferior qualit}'. 2. Strong purl boiled down to one half; add red herring, anchovies, Spanish liquorice, and garlick: when shaken it should leave a yellow brown colour on the sides of the vessel* SPANISH WINES.—The prin- cipal Spanish wines are SheiT}', Pa- caretta. Mountain, .and Tent. Sherry is a sort of sec, or dry wine, prepared about Xeres, in the diocese of Se- ville; and hence called, according to