178 IN IN prescribe either medicine, diet, or exercise. “The dyspeptic patient,” says Paris, “ should rise from his bed as soon as he wakes in the morning; for as Mr. Abernethy justly states, ‘ many persons upon first waking feel alert and disposed to rise; when, upon taking a second sleep, they be- come lethargic, can scarcely be awakened, and feel oppressed and indisposed to exertion for some time after they have risen.’ He should tlien walk, or rather saunter, for some time in the open air, previously to taking his breakfast. He is now in a condition to follow his usual avocations; but it is a circumstance of no slight importance to procure an evacuation at this period, which is easily effected by habit; a person who accustoms himself to act at a certain hour of the day, wiU gene- rally feel an inclination at the ap- pointed season. The invalid should not allow his occupations, if seden- tary, to engage him for more than tlrree hours, after which, exercise on horseback, or by walking, should uniformly be taken. I have already observed, that the state of the wea- tlier ought not to be urged as an objection to the prosecution of mea- sures so essential to health.—(See Training). Where the season of the year, and the situation of the pa- tient, will allow the exercise, I strongly urge the advantages to be derived from digging. The stimulus thus given to the abdominal regions is highly salutary in dyspeptic affec- tions. The hour of dinner should not be later than three o’clock, and the patient should rest for an hour before he sits down to a meal. It should consist but of few articles, should be carefully masticated, and the invalid should rise from the table at the moment that he perceives that tlie relish given by the appetite ceases. The manner in which he should re- regulate his potations, at and subse- quent to tins meal, bas been already considered. With respect to the allowance of wine, every practitioner must use his discretion, and be guided by tbe fonner habits and recent con- dition of his patient. It is essential that the invalid should enjoy rest for at least two hours after dinner, that is to say, that he should not enter upon any occupation or diversion that may occasion the slightest fatigue; to a gentle walk, or a saunter in the garden, there can be no rational objection, especially at that season of the year when such a pastime is most inviting. At six or seven o’clock he may take some diluting liquid, as tea; after which, exercise will be highly useful, to assist the sangui- fication of his previous meal: in the summer season there will be no dif- ficulty in accomplishing this object; and if the strength of the patient will allow the exertion, some active game, as bowls, will be attended with ad- vantage. At ten o’clock he may take some toasted bread, or a lightly boiled egg, with a glass of wine and water, should his previous habits render such indulgence necessary, and at eleven he may' retire to rest. The bed-room should be well ventilated, and its temperature should, as nearly as possible, be that of the apartment from which the patient retires. A well-stuffed mattrass is to be pre- ferred to a bed of down, and the curtains should not be so drawn as to exclude the free circulation of air. The invalid should be careful not to retire to rest with cold feet; nothing contributes more readily to disturb sleep, and cause uneasy dr-eains, than the unequal circulation which takes place on'such occasions.” Such are the general rules laid down (not altogether speculative) for the pro- tection of invalids who are subject to attacks of indigestion, which, though by no means new, are certainly' ra- tional, and, in most cases, attainable. There are jiarticular features in the history of different cases, which may be consulted under their respective heads.—Sec Bile and Stomach,