FI 125 FI fish, to abstain from fruit. Cullen, by way of experiment, took apples after fish; but he always experi- enced a disturbance afterwards in his digestive organs. Milk may also be considered as another aliment in- compatible with fish; since serious affections of the bowels have been known to be the result of such an admixture. It is usual to add va- rious condiments to fish, many of which are thus, doubtless, rendered more easy of digestion by affording a necessary stimulus to the stomach ; but rich sauces are ever to be avoided by the valetudinarian. Vinegar and salt are the most simple and natural additions. Shell-Fish have been greatly ex- tolled by some physicians, as nu- tritive and easily digestible articles of food. Some of them, however, it would seem, enjoy a reputation which they do not deserve ; oysters, for instance, when eaten cold, are frequently distressing to weak sto- machs, and require the aid of pepper as a stimulant; and since they are usually swallowed without chewing, the stomach is subjected to an addi- tional labour in order to reduce them into chyme. When cooked, they are still less digestible, owing to the change produced in their albuminous principles. Still they are nourishing, and contain a considerable quantity of nutritive matter in a small com- pass—a circumstance, strange as it may appear, affords another objec- tion, but one that is easily remedied, to their use—since quantity is often more essential than quality—that is, bulk is necessary in the stomach, for tlie want of which, its powers are not uniformly exerted.—See Oysters. Lobsters are nutritive, but they are exposed to the same objection, on the ground of indigestibility; and such have been their effect upon cer- tain stomachs, as to have raised a suspicion, that they contained some- thing of a poisonous nature. Lob- sters have occasioned pain in the throat, as well as eruptions on the skin, and even extended their morbid influence to the pi'oduction of pain in the stomach, and affection of the joints. In the London market they are exposed for sale in an under- boiled state, in order that they may keep the better; and in that they are highly indigestible. The same re- marks apply to the crab.—See Lob- ster.—Crab. Shrimps are a species of sea-crab, which vai-y in their colour and size, and are considered earsier of diges- tion than the preceding article.—See Mussel. The cutaneous efflorescence, before observed, which is produced by the imperfect digestion of shell-fish, has been remarked to occur more fre- quently where the fish consumed has been stale and tainted; although it happens equally where no such die- tetical error can be traced. Upon the whole, fish afford but a weak nourishment: they are more or less difficult to digest, according to the different kinds of water in which they live. Being of all animals the most putrescible, they are much in- ferior in quality to birds and quad- rupeds, on which account they ought not to be eaten by feverish patients or convalescents. Their fat is still more Insoluble and indigestible than that of any other animals, and reatlily turns rancid. On account of their indifferent qualities, no satiety is more nauseous than that of fish. Acid sauces and pickles, calculated to re- sist putrefaction, render fish some- what better and more wholesome fur the stomach, while l)uttcr has a ten- dency to prevent digestion. On the contrary, sjiice and salt used in mo- derate quantities, stimulate the fibres of the stomach to exert their action, and facilitate the digestive process. Fish dried in the open air, and after- wards boiled soft, are easily digested ■—but call salted, as well as smoked fish, are injurious to the stomach, and aflbrd l)ut little nutrition. The M 3