FO 135 FO of the liare or rabbit, especially the Virginian opossum. f. The Kangaroo forms a chief part of the animal food used by the na- tives of New Holland, but the flesh is very coarse. Order Glires. 1. The Porcupine—The common porcupine is eaten in Sicily and Malta; also, by the Barbary Moors; and it is frequently introduced to the politest tables at the Cape of Good Hope. 2. Cavia.—Several species of cavia are used as food in Great Britain, Brazil, and other parts of South America, especially the guinea-pig— the spotted cavy, the long-nosed cavy, and the rock-cavy. 3. 2'he Beauer.—The flesh of the beaver is used as food in South America, and is said to be e.xcellent eating. It is preserved by drying it in smoke. 4. I'he Marmot.—The marmot of the Alps affords nourishment to the poorer inhabitants of the Tyrol, Savoy, and other parts of the Alps; and, besides this, three other species are eaten—namel}', the Maryland marmot, bobath, and the cassin or earless marmot. 5. llie Squirrel.—Several of the squirrel species may be eaten, espe- cially the common squirrel, which is much used in Sweden and Nt)rway; and its flesh is said to resemble that of a barn-door fowl. 6. The Jerboa. — Tlie common jerboa is eaten by the Arabs, who esteem its flesh among their greatest dainties. 7. Hare and Rahit.—Most of the species to which these two well- known animals belong, are used as common food—especially the com- mon hare and rabbit. Of the two, the flesh of the rabbit is more deli- cate than that of the bare ; but it is not so nourishing as the latter. Wild rabbits are not only more digestible, but more palatable than such as are domesticated.—See Hare. Order Pecora. It is from this older that the prin- cipal part of animal food, in civilized countries, is derived. Almost all the animals contained in this order, as sheep, oxen, &c., form excellent food. Some species of the camel tribe are eaten, especially the Arabian camel—the Glama, whose flesh is said to resemble mutton. Of the genus Cervus, or stag tribe, the following species are the most used: The Elk is eaten in Norway, Lap- land, and Sweden, where its flesh is much esteemed. It is very nourish- ing, but remains long in the stomach. The Stag. 'The Common Stag.— The flesh of this animal, when full- grown, is well known under the name of venison, and is very diges- tible, wholesome, and nourishing. Rein Deer.—The flesh of this spe- cies forms the principal nourishment of the Lajrlanders; the tongues are excellent when salted, and the milk is sweet and nourishing. Roebuck.—The flesh of the roe- buck is considered inferior to that of the following. Falloiv Deer.—The flesh of this species is a variety of venison, and nearly resembles that of the stag. The buck is preferred. Of the Genus ylntelope, almost all the species aflbrd excellent food; but the chamois is most generally em- ployed. The flesh of the young ibe.x is also excellent. Goat.—Of the common goat, only the young are employed as food; and a roasted kid is a very common dish ill America and the West Indies. —See Mutton, —Lamb,—Ox-beef,— BulLbeef,—Cow-beef,—Veal,— Veni- son, <^c. L^c. Order Bellu/E. Horse.—The flesh of the horse may be eaten, but is very coarse. Marcs’ milk is often used medici- nally, but is considered inferior to that of the ass.—See Asses' Milk.