11 AL AL Genus 2. Of a hard and tough sub- stance, viz. all the animals before- mentioned when old, as well as the bustard, the starling, the wood- pecker, the sparrow, the goose, the duck, the lapwing ; muscles, snails, crabs, hard-boiled eggs. Order iii. Fat or butjTO-oleagi- nous substances. Genus 1. Of the sweet hind, viz. cacao, sweet almonds, walnuts, hazel- nuts, water-caltrops, chestnuts, beech nuts, cashew-nuts, pistachio-nuts, wild pine apples, milk, and fresh cheese. Genus 2. Of the bitterish and tart hind, viz. bitter almonds, acorns, all the seeds of fruits, and olives. Cl.\ss II. Slightly nutrimental sub- stances. Order i. Those of a viscous and watery consistence, or those the ve- getable mucilage of wliich is diluted with much water. Genus 1. Of a sweet taste, viz. me- lons, and several species of pears and apples, sweet citrons, lemons, oranges, figs, mulberries, raspberries, sweet grapes, cherries, plums, jujube berries, dates, &c. Genus 2. Of a stceetish taste, viz. green peas and beans, white cabbage, cauliflower spinach, orachs, blite, the strawberry, spinach, cucumbers, and gourds. Genus 3. Of a compound sweet and bitter taste, viz. the succory, the ram- pion, the borage, the saw-root, tlie young shoots of hops, the sowthistle, the hedge mustard, artichokes,capers, the brooklime, endive, and lettuce. Genus 4. Of a mildly sweetish and spicy taste, viz. celery, angelica, shep- herd’s needle, fennel, and the com- mon balm. Genus 5. Of an acrid taste, viz. radishes, turnip radishes, horse ra- dishes, tarragon, scurvy-grass, and me. Genus G. Of an acid taste, viz. sor- rel, purslanes, sour citrons, lemons, limes, cherries, plums, &c. Genus 7. Of a vinous quality, viz. all sweet apples, particularly ren- nets, apples of Boston, and some few varieties from America, the pine apple, the honey or paradise apple, shadocks, or sena apples, bramble berries, strawberries, whortleberries, gooseberries, currants, grapes, apri- cots, peaches, and nectarines. Genus 8. Of a tart and astringent taste, viz. all the wild-growing ap- ples and pears, quinces, cranberries, whortleberries, barberries, the green summer and winter pears,sour apples, the fruit of the dog-rose or hip tree, medlars, the fruit of the service trees, sloes, or the fruit of the blackthorn, and the green Brasilian plums. Order ii. Those of a gelatinous, watery consistence. To this order belong all the various species of fish. Division Second. Alimentary substances, containing unwholesome fluids. Order i.—Those of an acid nature. 1. Coarsely viscous and saline sub- stances, viz.' all salted and smoked animal food, both of quadrupeds and fish. 2. Putrescent, or easily putrescible substances, riz. the ram, the he-goat, the bull, the otter, waterfowl, the blood of animals, roasted eggs, tainted eggs, and lastly, all the flesh of wild and tame animals kept too long, to make it more tender and savoury. 3. Substances of a furry and lea- thery appearance, or such as dis- cover a suspicious acrimony, viz. truffles, morels, and all kinds of mushrooms. Order i.— Those of gross fluids, or a coarse earthy consistejice, viz. the various leguminous seeds, such as dried jieas, beans, lentils, and the like. II. Drink.—(a.) Watery Liquors. I. Simple, or uncompounded, viz. all kinds of common water. ii. Mucous-zcalery.—Spirituous. 1. All fermentedWipwvs, known by the name of beer and ale. 2. Sqncy-balsamic liquids; such as the vernal sap of the birch and ma-