HE 163 HE derable quantity. This fluid has sometimes an acid taste, but is very often absolutel}' insipid. The eruc- tation is for some time frequently repeated; and it does not imme- diately give relief to the pain which preceded it, but does so at length, and puts an end to the fit.”—First Lines of Medicine, vol. iv. p. 13. Causes.—Under whatever variety this disease shews itself, it is chiefly regulated by the habit of the indivi- dual ; the remote causes are indigest- ible food, or other ingesta; the ha- bitual and copious use of very cold or very hot beverages, but especially the latter; indulgence in spirituous drinks; worms, and insects or their larv£E; drastic purges; obstructed per- spiration; repelled cutaneous erup- tions ; and \-itiated or excessive bile. Of the indigestible foods, the most common are animal fat, oil, butter, or cheese, eaten in excess— which last has produced a cardialgy that continued for three years.* The stones or kernels of fruits have often laid the foundation for the com- plaint, especially where they have remained, as they have been oc- casionally found to do, and par- ticularly cherry-stones, for two, el- even three years, with little or no material change.f All these causes have a direct tendency to produce weakness of the stomach, especially a diminution of tone, or weaker action in its muscular fibres; and a morbid condition of the fluids se- creted by, or poured into it. Acidity, it would appear, is com- mon to all the varieties of tliis complaint, to such a degree that, as Dr. Darwin observes, “ the con- tents of the stomach, when regur- gitated on a marble hearth, have * Paulini, de Nuce Moschata, sect, iii. p. 3. Eph. Nat. Cur. Dec. 11. Ann. V. app. 71. t llresl. Samml. 1725, 1. p. 77. Gronen. Commeri. Liter. Nov. 1733. p.,189. been often seen to produce an ef- fervescence on it.” This acid, ac- cording to the experiments of M. Pei-peres, a French chemist, is chiefly the acetous ; and he has found that not less than two ounces and six drachms of it, have been produced by eight ounces of roasted chestnuts, an aliment that ferments in the sto- mach for an hour and a half, and is even then digested with difficulty. In some cases, the formation of acetous acid seems to be favoured by the nature of the gastric fluid itself, which appeal's to be secreted in too dilute or weakly a condition for the purposes of digestion ; on which ac- count the food, instead of being converted into chyme, runs readily into a state of fermentation, so that some persons cannot take either honey or sugar without producing this effect; while in others, the gas- tric juice itself, when first secreted, may possibly contain too large a portion of the muriatic acid, which, according to the late valuable re- searches of Dr. Front, is found in the stomach during digestion. Treatment.—The means of curing this complaint are twofold—namely, to palliate the present distress, and to prevent a return of the paroxysm. The first may be promoted by small doses of opium, and sometimes by other antispasmodics, as the ethers, and volatile alkali; and, where acid- ity is unquestionable, by calcareous and saponaceous earths.—See Ant- acids. Oleaginous preparations have been tried, and in some constitutions with apparent benefit. The complaint may also be palliated by mucila- ginous substances, such as Sjianish liquorice, or gum arabic: and in many cases, the eating of six or eight almonds has afforded speedy and eflbctual relief. In taking off the acidity of the stomach, M. Per- pcrcs {Auct. Cital. vol. ii.), unites the calcareous earths with a warm bitter ; and recommends as the medicine he