275 SA SA cover your basin with it, and let it stand by the fire two or three bours. 3. Sack Posset. (Lady Mal- let’s).— Take eighteen new laid eggs, white and all; but remove what is called the tread; heat them well altogether; then take a quart of cold and a pint of boiled sack, which, being skimmed, add three q\iarters of a pound of sugar, and a little nutmeg; boil the whole for a short time; then remove them from the fire, stirring them all the while; add the fluid to the eggs gradually, then mix them all together; keep stirring it on the fire till it becomes sufficiently thick to serve. 4. Sack Posset. (Master Rud- stone’s).—Take sack one part (or brandy the same quantity), a quar- ter of a pint of ale, and three quar- ters of a pound of fine sugar, and boil the whole well together; take two yolks of eggs, and the whites of sixteen eggs, let these be well beaten together, add these, and mix them well with the boiling liquor; then take three pints of milk or cream, and boil down to a quart; let it now stand and cool, till the eggs thicken, then add the milk, stir the whole well together, cover it with a plate, and serve it. SAGE. {Salvia qf/icinalis. L.)— The sage is an evergreen under- shruh, a native of the south of Eu- rope, and mentioned by Gerard, in 1597, as an inhabitant of our gar- dens. It rises idjout two feet high, with wrinkled green cinereous leaves, white, or tinged with white or dusky puqrle. The flowers are terminal in long spikes, of a blue colour, and appear in June or July. It has a fragrant strong smell, and a warm bitterish aromatic taste, like other plants containing an essential oil. The leaves are used in stuffings and sauces for many kinds of lus- cious and strong meats, as well as to improve the flavour of various articles of cookery. 'J'he decoction, called sage tea, is usually made from one variety (the small-leaved green, or sage of virtue), but any of the others are equally fit for this purpose. The varieties of sage are—1. The common, or red: 2. the green: 3. the small-leaved green, or sage of virtue: 4. the broad-leaved, or bal- samic. The red, however, is the principal sort in culinary use, having the most agreeable and fullest fla- vour. The green is next in estima- tion with the cook; but the small- leaved is generally preferred to those to eat as a raw herb, and for decoc- tions ; while the broad-leaved bal- samic .species is the most efficacious in a medical way, and is also a tea herh. Any of the sorts of sage may, however, be used occasionally for these alternate purposes. In gathering sage for use, we are directed to cut or slip off the young side and top shoots neatl}^; and to be careful not to stub too close, espe- cially towards winter, and during that season. In July and the rest of summer, it is usual to gather some of the young top gi'owth to dry for winter. The plants are to be kept in regular bushy heads by cutting away disorderly growths and the decayed flower-stalks in autumn. The virtues of sage have been so extrav'agantly extolled, that, like many other remedies, the plant has nearly fallen into disuse, from the degree of loathing which the pane- gyrics upon it have excited. In the form of infusion, however, it certainly possesses some power in allaying the irritability of tlie stomach, and on many occasions it will fur- nish a wholesome drink. The same observations will also apply to infu- sions of balm and rosemary. A drink e.xtrcmely agreeable to the stomach of convalescents may like- wise be made, by infusing lemon peel in boiling water, and adding a small quantity of sugar to it.—Sec 'Tea. SAGO.—'I'lie medullary part, or marrow, collected from a species of palm tree growing in the Molucca