TR TR 350 be lialf-chavrecl by a brisk heat, and this will form as strong a barrier as the French melted suet, in prevent- ing the escape of the juice. Care must be taken that none of the out- side, half-charred pieces be eaten, as these would most certainly injure the stomach : only the under-done parts in the interior are to be used, the more raw they are the better, pro- vided they be quite hot, and that the person can relish them ; this last cir- cumstance is indispensable, as food that is not relished is never easily digested ; for the stomach being put out of humour with it at first, takes some time to recover its tone.—See Roasting. BroUing, however, is by far the best mode of dressing meat for training, as it is a much more perfect way of preventing the escape of the juices than even the process of roast- ing, performed as we have just di- rected, by first semi-charring the outside. The great staple articles, therefore, of training are beef steaks and mutton chops, broiled and under-done, with the fat all carefully cut ofl’ before they are brought to table.—See Broiling. The seasoning is also of great im- portance; for, by improper and high seasoning, all the other parts of the process, however carefully attended to, may be ruined. Mustard, pepper, and all hot spices, arc prohibited, as producing a high stimulus, and con- sequently reducing the volume of the muscles by absorption. We ought not, however, object to a very little plain mustard, if th.e under-done meat could not otherwise be relished. Salt is more objectionable, from its tendency to produce thirst, though few can do well without it. Ur. Darwin was a declared enemy to salt altogether, and for a singular reason, namely, because it is the only ntincral substance used at table. 'Ihe fact is, that all animals, and pariieularly man, are the better for f'alt, if it bo not taken in too great quantity. Salt provisions, however, it is to be carefully noted, are always inferior in nutriment and digesti- bility to fresh, and ought, as we have already said, never to be used in training.—See Salt. Vinegar is the favourite condiment with modern trainers, though Few- terel denounced all acid juices; but it is, we imagine, a much more questionable seasoning than either mustard or pepper. It certainly prevents thirst. In Yorkshire, the trainers have the meat steeped in vinegar. Time and Quantity of Eating.— There is not a more important part of the regimen to be observed by a person under training, than the time of taking his meals, and the quantity of food he ought to use. In ordi- nary life, and more particidarly in fashionable life, this is very erro- neously managed; for nothing is more detrimental to health than ir- regular hours, long fasting between meals, and tliis followed by every kind of repletion. The trainers allow only two full and substantial meals in the day, namely, breakfast at eight, and dinner at two, according to Mr. Jackson; and at five, according to Mr. Hall, of Yorkshire. When the ])crson cannot do without supper, a biscuit and a little cold meat is allowed at eight in the evening; but it is supposed that suppers of all kinds have an injurious effect on the lungs, or as they e.xprcss it, on a man’s wind. With deference, how- ever, to these authorities, an early, light, and nutritive siqiper, would grcatl}' benefit the trainee, and pre- vent the bad consequences to the wind, of going to bed with a full stomach. The breakfast is a la fourr/ietle, that is, a meat breakfast. Those accustomed to tea or coft'ee to br-eakfast, will find this one of the hardest rules to comjily with. In- deed it is a standing rule of dietetics to interfere as little as possible with a customary breakfast, for the sto-