PE 236 PE consistence it is vaporous or aqueous, and its specific gravity in the latter state is greater than that of water. For the most part it is yellowish, from the passage of cutaneous oil and sebaceous matter of the sub- cutaneous glands. Whatever form the perspiration takes, according to Thenard, it is composed of a great deal of water, a small quantity of acetic acid, of muriate of soda and potass, a small quantity of earthy phosphate, an atom of oxide of iron, and a trace of animal matter. Ber- zelius, a Swedish chemist, considers the acid of sweat not the same as acetic acid, but like the lactic acid of Scheele. The skin exhales, besides, an oily matter, and some carbonic acid. Berthollet, who also has ob- served the perspiration acid, con- cludes that the acid which is present is the phosphoric: but this he has not proved. Many experiments have been made to determine the quantity of transpiration formed in a given time, and the variations that this quantity undergoes. The first at- tempts are due to Sanctorius, who, for upwards of thirty years, weighed every day, with the greatest nicety and patience, his food and his drink, his solid and liquid excretions, and even himself; but in spite of his zeal and perseverance, his results were neither exact nor conclusive. Since the time of Sanctorius several philosophers and jdiysicians have been occupied with the same subject, with better success; but the most remarkable labours in this way are those of Lavoisier and Seguin. The following are the results of their experiments:— 1. The greatest quantity of the in- sensible perspiration (the pulmonary included) is 25.6 grains troy per minute; consequently, 3oz. 1 drachm 36 grains per hour, and 6 lbs. 4 oz. 6 drs. 24grs. in twenty-four hours. 2. The least considerable loss is 8.8 grains per minute; consequcntlj', 2 lb. 2 oz. 3 drs. in 24 hours. 3. It is during the digestion that the loss of weight, occasioned by insensible perspiration, is at its mi- nimum. 4. The transpiration is at its max- imum immediately after dinner. 5. The mean of insensible transpi- ration is 14.4grains per minute; in the mean 14.4 grains, 8.8 depend on cutaneous transpiration, and 5.6 on the pulmonary. 6. The cutaneous perspiration alone varies during and after repasts. 7. Whatever quantity of food is taken, or whatever may be the varia- tions of the atmosphere, the same in- dividual, after having augmented in weight by all the food that he has taken, returns, in twent}’'-four hours, to the same weight nearly that he was the day before, provided he is not growing, or has not eaten to ex- cess. The sweat is more or less co- pious in different individuals, and its quantity is perceptible in the inverse ratio of that of the urine. All other circumstances being similar, much more is produced during digestion than during repose. The sweat in a healthy state very sensibly reddens litmus paper or infusion ; and though colourless it stains linen. Its smell is peculiar and unsupportable when it is concentrated, which is the case in particular during distillation. It varies in respect to— 1. The temperature of the atmo- sphere. For instance, men have a more copious, viscid, and higher co- loured sweat in summer than in winter, and in warm countries than in colder climates. 2. Sex. The sweat of the male smells more acrid than that of the opposite sex. 3. yige. Young people are more liable to perspire than the aged. 4. Ingesta. A sweat having the smell of garlick is perceived after eating that root; a leguminous, from peas; an acid, from acids; a foetid, from animal food only; and a rancid sweat from fat foods, as is remarked