12 AL AL pie, as well as the artificial prepara- tions of tea, coffee, and cliocolate. 3. Siueetly acidulated,\iz. lemonade, orgeat, mead, must, cider, perry, &c. (b.) Spirituous Liquors.' I. Distilled.—Namely, all kinds of ardent spirits, from whatever grain or vegetable substance they may be extracted. II. Fermented.—All kin ds of wine. 1. Sweet wines, those of Hungary, Spain, Italy, Greece, and the Cape; as likewise all wines made of cur- rants, raisins, &c. 2. Slightly acidulated wines, among which Champagne, Rhenish wine, or old Hock, and that of the Moselle, are the princijial. 3. Acid and tart wines; to which chiefly belong the wines of Franconia and Saxony. 4. 7'he acidulated sweet wines; such as most of the French wines, and particularly Claret, and, lastly, 5. I'he sharp and astringent wines ; the chief of which are the wines of Oporto and Burgundy. III. Spices. 1. Of the sweet kind, such as sugar, honey, manna, and the inspis- sated sap of the majile and beech- tree. 2. Of the acid kind, namely the juice of citrons, lemons,unripe grapes, &c. 3. Of the saline kinds, namely, common salt, whether obtained in a solid form, or rock-salt, or from the evaporation of the sea, and salt springs—lastly, 4. Of the pungent and balsamic kind, such as garlic, shalot, onions, chives, nutmegs, mace, pepper, pi- mento, cubebs, vanilla, cardamoms, bay berries, juniper berries, ginger, calamus, cloves, cinnamon, saflron, carraway, coriander, fennel, parsley, dill, sage, marjorum, thyme, penny- royal, mug worts, hyssop, pepper- mint, and rue. Amongst the alimentary substances intended for the use of man, few are employed in the same condition as they are presented by nature. They are for the most part prepared and disposed in such a manner as to be suitable for the action of the diges- tive organs. The preparations to which they are subjected are infi-, nitely various, according to the sort of aliment, people, climate, customs, civilization—and fashion is not even without her presiding influence in the preparation of human food. In the hands of a skilful artist, alimentary substances almost entirely change their nature, form, consistence, smell, taste, colour, composition, &c.; in fine, every thing is diversified, that it is frequently impossible for the most delicate tastes to recognise the original materials of certain dishes, from the complete culinary meta- morphosis they have undergone, from the magic tact of the master-kitch- ener.—See Coohdry. ALLSPICE. — Jamaica pepper, the produce of the Myrtus pimenia. This spice, which was first brought over for dietetic uses; has been long employed in the shops as a succeda- neuin' to the more costly oriental aromatic : it is moderately warm, of an agreeable flavour, somewhat re- sembling that of a mixture of cloves, cinnamon, and nutpieg. — See Pi- mento, &c. Sir Hans Sloane, in the Philoso- phical Transactions, (Abr. vol. xi. p. GC7), says, "Pimento, the spice of Ja- maica, or Allsi'ice, so called from having a flavour composed, as it were, of cloves, cinnamon, nutmegs, and pepper, may deservedly be counted the best and most temperate, mild, and innocent of common spices, al- most all of which it far surpasses, by promoting the digestion of meat, anil moderately heating and strengthen- ing the stomach, and doing those friendly ofliccs to the bowels we generally expect from spices.” ALLSPICE, ESSENCE OF.— Oil of Pimento, one drachm, apo- thecaries’ measure ; strong spirit of