INTRODUCTION. xxili It is ximiecessar}’ to detail the diversified shapes in which these and other maladies present themselves. It is sufficient to observe, that however inti- mately the mind appears to be connected with these phenomena, we can nevertheless account for them only from physical causes. Indolence is a clog to health. The poor man has no excuse for it; and rich people have it always in their power to exercise themselves, by various means, as may suit their circumstances and inclinations. Gymnastic exercises are various, and may always be accommodated to the constitution of the individual. Tem- perance is a virtue, and those who practise it receive its reward—and by the united benefits of temperance and exercise, the body is defended from disease, and health is the consequence. In fine, so much does the health of people in general depend upon temperance and simplicity of diet, that were more attention paid to these, particularly the latter, fewer of those diseases which are the scourge of the human race, would be met with. Unfortunately, however, for mankind, many of the most salutary intentions of the food destined for the human race, are too frequently neglected. The sophistications introduced by modern cookeiy are frequently carried to the most extravagant pitch, that it seems almost to be forgotten, that it is by wholesome and plainly cooked aliments that our growth attains its proper period of perfection; that our limbs are strengthened; that those organs destined to the perfection of the senses are reanimated; and, that it is from the juices contained in our food, that the texture of the mortal fabric is sup- ported, and enabled to supply the waste to which it is subjected from the various actions and occurrences of life. As regards the pleasures of the table nothing can be more recommended in their indulgence than moderation for health’s sake; and in the choice and quality of the materials with which it is to be decked, the taste of the country one resides in, or has been accus- tomed to, may be judged good and rational. Nature lays us under an obligation to eat and drink for the support of health and vigour; she has also endowed us with faculties and powers to choose and prepare that diet I which is most salutary and agreeable : the greatest danger we are exposed I to is that of consulting quantity rather than quality; and hence of being I tempted to exceed the due measure requisite for subsistence;—and who docs j not know, tliat the oftener a fabric is shaken, the sooner it will fall; the I more violence used to a delicate machine, the sooner it will be destroyed ?— And no machine is so exquisitely delicate as the human body. .\s nature is equally the subject of physic and of poetry, we find that the sons of Homer and jTlsculapius agree, in giving salutary instructions to mankind; but as the former convey their admonitions in the most tuneful manner, we shall conclude these introductory observations with a quotation from one of them, not inappropriate to the subject.