AL AL 13 wine, two ounces, to be mixed b}' de- grees : used for mulling wine. A few drops will give the flavour of allspice to a pint of gravy, or mulled wine, or to make a bishop.—Kitchener. ALLSPICE, TlNC rURE OF.— O f allspice, bmised, three ounces, apo- thecaries’ weight; brandy, a quart; let it steep for a fortnight, occasion- all\- shaking it up ; then pour off the clear liquor. It is a most grateful addition in all cases where allspice is used. ALMONDS. — The common, or sweet almond, is the Ami/dalus Com- munis, Linn.; and the bitter almond is the Amygdal. Amura, L. Both grow to the height of twenty feet, with spreading branches. The leaves resemble those of the peach, but the lower serratures are glandular. This tree forms an important ai'ticle in the general culture of many parts of France, Italy, and Spain. In a forward spring the blossoms often appear in February, but when this occurs, they are generally destroyed by the frost, and they bear little or no fruit; whereas, when the trees do not flower till March, they seldom fail to produce fruit in abundance. The kernel of the stone is the only part used, which is tender and of a fine flavour. The sweet almond, and other varieties, arc brought to the dessert in a green or imperfectly ripe, and also in a ripe or dried, state. They are much used in cookery, con- fectionary, perfumery, and medicine. —Professor Martyn observes, that “ sweet almonds used in food are difficult of digestion, and afford very little nourishment, unless extremely well comminuted. As medicine they blunt acrimonious humour, and some times give instant relief in the heart- burn.” Almonds, walnuts, hazel nuts, and nuts in general, are extremely diffi- cult of digestion, on accoimt of the oil they contain, which readily turns acrid and rancid on the stomach, and occasions the lieart-burn. Bi- lious individuals should by no means eat them; and there is nothing so absurd as to administer almond milk, as a common diet drink to febrile patients. This milk consists alto- gether of oily and almost insoluble parts, which heat and vitiate the sto- mach, stimulate the bile, and are easily decomposed from the water with which they are mixed. It quickly spoils; frequently, indeed, before it is introduced into the sto- mach : it is not in the least degree cooling, and its nourishing property is very improperly employed in fe- vers, and all those diseases which are attended with debility of the ali- mentary canal. Almonds and nuts ought only to be eaten while fresh, and when the skin, which is extremely astringent and unwholesome, can be removed. They should be well chewed and eaten with salt; for every piece swal- lowed entire is indigestible, and the salt renders them miscible wdth our fluids as a saponaceous mass. If eaten in large quantities, they re- main in the stomacii, cannot be ex- pelled by any medicine, and produce alarming, and sometimes fatal dis- orders. In general, they occasion dif- ficult breathing, vomiting, and com- plaints in the bowels, which have been observed to be very common in those autumns that were produc- tive of great quantities of nuts. ALMONDS, OIL OF.—Used for forming emulsions in coughs, and other pulmonary complaints, by the intermedium of mucilage of gum arable, or the yolk of an egg. The analysis of sweet almonds, according to Boullay, is as follows ;— Oil .... 54 Albumen . . .24 Sugar (fluid) . . G Fibre .... 4 Gum ... 3 Pellicles ... 5 Water . . . 3..5 Acetic and dross . . .5 c 100