4 AL AL equal parts of water, it forms proof the subcarbonate of potass heated to spirits. British spirit is a mixture of the same degree. Lastlj', with the it with essential oils &c., and the com- aid of a warm bath, let the alcohol mon people prefer it to good spirit: distil once : keep it in a well stopped hence distillers find, that spirit dis- bottle. The specific gravity of al- tilled from sugar has not so quick a cohol is to the specific gravity of sale as that from malt. distilled water, as 815 to 1000. To As regards the bad effects from obtain pure alcohol, Rouelle recom- the abuse of spirits, they are very mends to draw off half the spirit in numerous, and we consequently see a water bath; to rectify this twice their consequences. The person first more, drawing off two-thirds each loses his appetite ; to remove the con- time; to add water to this alcohol, sequent langour the dose is increased, which will turn it milky, by separat- and at length all appetite is lost; the ing the essential oil remaining in it ; liver becomes sympathetically dis- to distil the spirit from this water ; eased; no bile is secreted; the me- and, finally, to rectify it by one more senteric glands swell,, and general distillation. induced debility ensues. The lungs ALKALIES.—The word a/A'ale is lose their strength, asthma, and short- of Arabian origin, and signifies the ness of breath, follow, with sometimes dregs of bitterness. The alkalies have palsy; at last there is a confirmed an acrid and urinous ‘ taste; they asthma or dropsy, on the gin-cough, change the blue juices of vegetables which constitutes true pulmoriarycon- to a green colour, and the yellow to sumption, in which the tubercles sup- a brown,* and have the property of purate very rapidly. These effects rendering oils mixible with water, are often witnessed in porters, coach- They are incombustible, but may be men, soldiers, &c. At Petersburgh, rendered volatile by great heat; they a physician calculated tliat 635 die are soluble in water, form various in ten months from this cause only, salts in combination with acids, f and Externally applied, alcohol causes act as powerful caustics when ajrplied all the vessels to contract: if it be to the flesh of animals. There are confined to the skin it causes a glow ; three alkalies ; two of which, potass but if not confined, and allowed to and soda, are called they?.reJ, because evaporate, the evaporation produces they will endure a great heat and still cold. Given internally, if the dose remain unchanged; the third, the vo- be too large, it kills like lightning, latile alkali. The alkalies are com* by exhausting the irritability, so that pound bodies. Potass is chiefly pro- the blood does not coagulate, and the cured by lixiviation from the ashes muscles remain flaccid. In cases of of burnt wood, and other vegetable great langoiu-, nervous weakness and substances; but as it exists in mi- spasms, where aether is proper, one to nerals and earths, there is reason to two drachms of alcohol will have a good efl’ect. • Although the effect of alkalies on Pile alcohol of the ‘ London Phar- the blue juices of vegetables is almost macopooia,’ is directed to be made universal, we know of one exception— as follows:—Take of I'cctified spirit, uamely, tincture of litmus and litmus one gallon ; subcarbonate of potass| 'tre always rendered more three pounds ; add a pound of the the addition of alka- f Potass becomes comparatively mild by its union with carbonic acid; and the most caustic soda, if united to cor- rosive muriatic acid, forms the mild