213 MU MU The medicinal treatment of per- sons affected from eating poisonous fungi, consists, in the first place, in giving an emetic of tartarized anti- mony; followed by frequent small doses of Epsom salts, and stimulating clysters. After the poisonous sub- stance is removed, ether, with small quantities of brandy and water, may be administered; but if inflammatory symptoms manifest themselves, such stimuli should be omitted, and other appropriate means resorted to, as circumstances may indicate. — See Culinary Poisons. None of the following species are known to be dangerous; they are sold for food in the markets of Tuscany, and other foreign places: viz. The musk champignon (Agariciis ara- neosus; cortinellus: albellus); the mugnaco (eburneus); thejozzolo; virginens; the petite oreillette; au- ricula, the escoubarbe; eryngii, the ciccioli, which grows on the sea- holly ; ilicinus; tortilis, the mous- seron de Dieppe ; trestis, the fungus appossionato ; nivalis, thefungodor- miente; socialis, pivonlade d’Ecosse; palomet, the palombette ; virens, the verdone ; translucens, the pivoulade de saule ; deliciostts ; S2ibdulcis; pi- peratus; procerus ; cylindraceus ; at- tenuatus; asper; solUarius incarna- tus ; vayinatus, Tmdi aroideus. The bug agaric ( Agaricus musca- rius*) so called from its known vir- tues in destroying bugs, is not much known in this country. Haller re- lates that si.\ persons were poisoned with it at one time in Lithuania, and that in others it caused delirium. The following account, from Orfila, of the effects of this species in the animal economy, is interesting. Se- veral French soldiers ate, at two leagues from Polosck in Rus.sia, mushrooms of the above kind. Four of them of a robust constitution, who * The agaricus - stipitatiis, lamellis (lemidiatis snlitarius, stipite uolvalo, apice dclatato, basi ovato, of Linnasus. imagined themselves proof against the consequences under which their feeble companions were beginning to suffer, obstinately refused to take an emetic. In the evening the follow- ing symptoms appeared :—anxiety, sense of suffocation, ai'dent thirst, in- tense griping pains, a small and ir- regular pulse, unusual cold sweats, changed expression of countenance, violet tint of the nose and lips, gene- ral trembling, foetid stools. These symptoms becoming worse they were carried to the hospital. Coldness and livid colour of the limbs, a dreadful delirium, and acute pains, accompanied them to the last mo- ment. One of them sunk a few hours after his admission into the hospital; the three others met the same fate in the course of the night. On opening their bodies after death, the stomach and intestines displayed lar'ge spots of inflammation and gan- grene; and putrefaction seemed ad- vancing very rapidly. The bug agaric is employed exter- ternally to strumoust, phagedenicj, and fistulous ulcers, as an escharotic ; that is, a substance which possesses the power of destroying the texture of the various solid parts of the animal body to which it is directly applied. The consumption of mushrooms invariably does more harm than good, and whenever they are used it ought to be in moderation; and a little brandy or wine should always succeed their use. Many lives have been lost by eating mushrooms, which gave Pliny occasion to ex- claim against the luxury of man- kind, who, to gratify their ap]ietites, very often run the ri.sk of their lives, by eating such equivocal substances. Nero, the Roman tyrant, called mushrooms the food of the gods, be- cause the emperor Claudius, whom + Ulcers, partaking of the nature of scrophula or ring-worm. I An ulceration which spreads very rapidly.