167 HE HE Defraud us of the glittering finny swarms, That heave our friths, and crowd upon our shores. Our countrj'men have long been reproached, and apparently with a good deal of justice, for their re- missness in this lucrative branch of commerce. The advantageous situ- ation of our coasts might be of immense benefit to us, did we not permit the Dutch, Hamburghers, and others, to come yearl}'’, in vast numbers, and not only to take the fish from our own coasts, but sell them to us for our money,wdien they have done. The Dutch were the first w'ho be- gan the herring fishery, and observed the several seasons of their passing about the year 1164; but the pre- sent method of pickling them was not discovered till 1416, though others date it from the year 1397. Willoughby, in his history of fishes, observes, that William Buekelsz, or Bachalen, a native of Bier Uliet, rendered his name immortal by the discovery of the secret of curing and pickling of hei'rings, which he might probably have learned from the peo- ple of Yarmouth, where herrings were not only salted and dried for red-herrings, but salted and bar- relled up w'et, at different times, from the year 1306 to 1360. He adds, that the emperor Charles Vth, coming into the Low Countries, made a journey to the isle Bier Uliet (which is situated a few miles east of Sluys, in the late Dutch Flanders), with the Queen of Hun- gary, on purpose to view the tomb of the first barreller of herrings, who died in 1447. Scotland, it is generally allowed, suffers incredibly on the above score: no country in Europe can pretend to rival it in the abundance of the finest fish, wherewith its numerous har- bours, lakes, and rivers are stoi-ed. The Scottish isles, especially those on the western side, do certainly lie most commodiously for carrying on the fishing trade. Had, says Mr. Belsham,* a tenth part of the im- mense sums dissipated and sejuan- dered in Italian and German subsi- dies, been employed in erecting towns, forming canals, building vessels, and procuring implements, in order to carry on the fisheries to advantage on the spot, the High- lands of Scotland might at this day have exhibited a smiling scene of industry and plenty, instead of pre- senting to our view the cheerless aspect of poverty and wretchedness, or rather the hideous picture of soli- tude and de.solation. That the natives of some parts of these districts are not, however, wholly inattentive to the piscatory occupation, is amjjly confirmed by two resjiectable tourists. Loch Fyne, says the Rev. Mr. Gilpin, is a salt lake communicating with the sea. It has a crowded navigation, being one of the favourite haunts of the herring, and at certain seasons of the year is frequented by numerous shoals, in- asmuch that the lake is said to con- tain one part water, and two parts fish. In a single bay of this lake, about 600 boats are sometimes em- ployed in taking them; each of these vessels clears on an average annually forty to fifty pounds, according to Dr. Garnett, who adds, that 20,000 barrels, each on a medium contain- ing 700 herrings, have been cured in one season in Loch Fyne.f HERRINGS, AND OTHER Dried Fish, to C^ok. Red Herrings.—Soak them in water until they become pretty fresh, they arc then hung up in the sun and wind, on a stick through their eyes, and then boiled or broiled as wantccL In this way they eat almost as well • Memoirs, Vol. II. p. 186. First edition. f For a particular history of herrings, see “ Solus Dodd’s Natural History of Herrings,” in 178 pages, 8vo. 1752.