280 s.\ SA the Sahno genus. It is found in the river Wye, and up tlie Severn. Salmo Tiiymallus. The grayling salmon, which somewhat resembles our trout. It inhabits the rivers of Derbyshire, and some of those of the North, and near Christchurch, in Hampshire. It is much esteemed for the delicacy of its flesh, w'hich is white, firm, and of a fine flavour, and is considered as in the highest state of perfection in the depth of winter.—See Trout. Salmo Trutta. The bill trout. SALMON (Sahno Salar).—Ti\& salmon is a nortbern fish, being un- known in the Mediterranean sea, and other warm climates; and, ac- cording to some, breeds in the sea; but the opinion of others seems better warranted, that it propagates in the clear sandy parts of rivers, remote from their mouths; hence Walton, the celebrated angler, styles the sal- mon the king of fresh-water fish. This fish is considered as one of the greatest delicacies. It is rich, and of difficult digestion to -weak stomachs; and with some, whose stomachs are not particularly feeble, it uniformly disagrees. The pickled, salted, and smoked, though much eaten, are only fitted for the very strong and active. The chief salmon fisheries in Eu- rope are along the coasts of England, Scotland, and Ireland. The fishing usually begins about the first of J an- uary, and ends by the last of Sep- tember. There are stationary fish- eries in Ireland, Norway, and the Baltic; but those at Cranna, on the river Ban, near Coleraine, in Ire- land, at Berwick upon the Tweed, and those on the Don and Dee, and other Scotch rivers, are the most considerable. The capture of salmon in the river 'J’weed, about the month of July, is prodigious; it not being uncommon to take from fifty to one hundred fish at one haul of the net. Great numbers of these are sent to London in ice, which has been found to preserve them for a considerable time. In consequence of this disco- vei'y several ice-houses have been built at Berwick; and the quantity of ice put into them yearly is aston- ishing. Dr. Fuller, in his history of this tow'n, says that in the winter of 1798, the two companies laid in 7000 cart loads, at the expense of 4.50Z. The earliest salmon that comes in season to the London market is brought from the Severn, and begins to come into season the beginning of November, but very few so early, perhaps not above one in fifty, as many of tbem w'ill not shoot their spawn tilt Januar}’, or after, and then continue in season till October, when they begin to get very thin and poor. The principal supply of sal- mon is from different parts of Scot- land, packed in ice, as already ob- served, and brought by water; many of which are spoiled unless the pas- sage be quick. Salmon gwilts, or salmon peel, are the small salmon, which run from about five or six pounds to ten pounds, are verj' good fish, and make handsome dishes of fish, sent to table crooked in the form of an S. Berwick trout are distinct fish from gwilts, and are caught in the r-iver Tweed, and dressed in the same manner as the gwilt. Calvered salmon is that caught in the 'fhames, and cut into slices alive; and some few salmon are brought from Oxford to London alive, and cut A few slices make a handsome genteel dish, but it is generally very expensive. Salmon requires almost as much boiling as meat, about a quarter of an hour to a pound of fish. A quar- ter of a salmon will take .almost as long boiling as half a one; and you must consider the thickness, not the ■weight. Ten pounds of fine full- grown salmon will be done in an hour and a qu.artcr. The thinnest part of the fish is the fattest. If j'our fish be split, put it on to boil in warm water; if not split, in cold water. If underdone, salmon is very