107 DR DR ness, they are also more easily dis- means of a certain pungent or irri- tributed into all the parts that want tating sensation, which causes thirst, recruiting. The school of Salernum or a desire to drink. — See Drink. takes the word drink in the same -—Thirst. sense as Hippocrates, in the following D R Y- S L TIN G,— The act of line :— preserving Animal Substances from Ut vUesprenam, depolibus incipe ccenani. By this verse we are given to un- derstand, that we ought always to begin our meals with liquid foods, as being those which are easiest of digestion, and stay the shortest time in the stomach, but give a free pass- age to more solid aliments that come after; and from hence, perhaps, arose the custom of beginning meals with soup. Notwithstanding these obser- vations, we do not, in this place, take the word drink in the sense now mentioned; we merely consider it as a liquid substance, which used to quench thirst, assist digestion, and the distribution of the solid foods; and last, though not least, to repair the loss we are continually sustain- ing, of the moist and watery parts of our humours. DRINK.\BLES. — Substances in a fluid state; as water, wine, beer, and the like. The blood and other fluids being in continual agitation in our bodies, the watery parts of which are conti- nually dissipated, either by transpi- ration or urine, it is necessary that this loss should be repaired; for without which the most volatile and exalted principle of the humours being no longer e.xtendcd, and sepa- rated from one another by watery particles, and having, consequently, acquired too much force and acti- vity, they would cause an excess of rarefaction in the humours, and im- part an insupportable heat to the solid parts. Now in order to pre- vent these inconveniences, which in a short time would destroy both the solid and fluid parts of our body, wise and provident nature gives us timely notice of the indispensable necessity we have of drinking, by Putrefaction.— In the preservation of animal stibstances from putrefac- tion, which is of the utmost import- ance to the world in general, and to the remote grazing districts, as well as to certain Individuals in particu- lar ; it enables the grazier to dispose of his live stock, on which naviga- tion and foreign commerce depend, and private individuals to preserve their superfluity. All kind of ani- mal substances may be preserved by salt; though beef and pork are the only staple commodities of this kind. The pieces of the animal, in general, best suited for salting, are those which contain fewest of the large blood-vessels, and are most solid. By some, the glands are recommended to be cut away : it is also said, that without this precaution, meat cannot be preserved; but this is a mistake, as the salted udder and glands of the tongue can testify. Salting is performed in different ways, either by dry-rubbing, or by immersing the meat in pickle, previously prepared. The meat will keep longer by dry- salting, but it is more altered in its valuable properties; in the latter way it is more delicate and nutri- tious. To make a Pickle strong enough to preserve any Meat:— Take Six pounds of salt. One pound of sugai’. Five ounces of salt-pelre. Boil them in four gallons of water, and let them stand to cool. ^ To use this, which is essential, cither a heavy board or a flat stone must be laid upon the meat. The same pickle may be used repeatedly, provided it be occasionally boiled up with additional salt, to restore its strength, diminished by the combi-