320 SU su Candied Orange and Lemon Peel. —The peels are to be soaked in cold water, frequently changed, till they lose their bitterness, and are then put into syrup till they become soft and transparent, when they are to be taken out drained. Preserves in Honey.—Seeds and fruits may be presei'ved by being put into honey, and on being taken out, washed, and planted, they will vegetate. Honey has also been used to preserve the corpses of per- sons who have died at a distance from home, that they might be con- veyed thither. The Spartans who fell in battle were usually buried on the spot; but the bodies of their kings were preserved in honey and carried home. Preserves in Brandy, and other Spirits.—Plums, apricots, cherries, and other juicy fruits, ought to be gathered before they are ripe, and soaked for some hours in very hard water, or in alum water, to make them firm. As the moisture of the fruit weakens the spirit, it ought to be strong, and to each quart of it two ounces of sugar ought to be added.—See Fish, preservation of. SUMACH {Rhus Coriaria).—A small tree, a native of the south of Europe. It is singular that this is the only species of the genus rhus which is perfectly innocent; the others being active poisons. The berries, which are red, and of a roundish compressed figure, contain a pulpy matter, in which is lodged a brown, hard, oval seed, manifesting a con- siderable degree of astringency. The pulp, even when dry, is grateful, and has been discovered to contain an essential oil, similar to that of wood sorrel. An infusion of the dried fruit is not rendered black by a solu- tion of iron : hence it appears to be destitute of astringency. But its acidity is e.xtrcmcly grateful; con- .scquently, like many other fruits, these berries may be advantageously taken to allay febrile heat, and to c jrrect bilious putresccncy. SUPPER.—The objections against suppers are by no means general; consequently, do not apply to every account and condition. A late sup- per of heavy materials, is decidedly an enemy to sleep ; and, on the other hand, going to bed without anj' sup- per often prevents sleep. Mankind, says Dr. Franklin, since the improve- ment in cookery, eat about twice as much as nature requires. Suppers are not bad if we have not dined; but restless nights naturally follow hearty suppers after full dinners. Indeed as there is a difference in constitutions, some rest well after these meals; it costs them only a frightful dream, as an apoplexy, after which they sleep till doomsday. No- thing, continues the same authorit}', is more common in the newspapers, than instances of people, who, after eating a hearty supper, are found dead in bed in the morning. “ I avoid,” said Mr. Pennant, “ the meal of excess, a supper; and my soul rises with vigour to its employs, and I trust, (he adds) does not disappoint the end of its Creator.” The sleep of the labouring man is sweet, whe- ther he eat little or much : for “ Couch’d on his straw, and fancy free, He sleeps like careless infancy ;” Scott. but the abundance of the rich will not sutler him to sleep.—See Sleep. As regards the times of eating, observed by our ancestors, some in- formation may' be collected by the following extract from the “ Haven of Health,” bj^ Thomas Cogan, M..\. and M.B. “ When four hours (says hel be past after breakfast, a man may safely taste his dinner; and the most convenient time for dinner is about eleven of the clock before noon. Yet, Diogenes the philoso- pher, when he was asked the ques- tion, what time was best for a man to dine? be answered, for a rich man when he will, but for a poor man when he may. But the usual time in the Universities is eleven, and