GO GO 152 exceeded, either in eating or drink- ing, the bounds of temperance. GNATSNAPPER. — A tender and plump bird, which is remarkably fond of figs; hence the name, Fice- dula, given to it by the Romans. It has also been called Avis Cypricc (the bird of Cypria), because, in all pro- bability, that island abounded with them; or that many were formerly pickled out of this island, and shipped for Europe. It usually frequents places where figs and gi-apes abound. Its feathers change their colour in autumn. It has a curious and de- licious taste, and is served up to the best tables. Pisanellns says this bird never overburdens a man’s stomach; but that, on the contrary, it fortifies, whatever quantity may be eaten of them. The same author also adds, that he had known some who having eaten a great many of them, spent the whole day very merrily; from whence it is concluded that this food supplied them with spirits enough, with pure humours, and but little duU and gross substances. Indeed, as the gnatsnapper is A'ery tender and delicious, has exercise enough for the enjoying of a free transpira- tion, feeds upon good food, and con- tains many exalted principles, it w'ill be no difficult matter for us to com- prehend how this bird can produce the good effects that have been at- tributed to it. GOA T.—The flesh of goats is hard, indigestible, and unwholesome; hence the meat of kids only is escu- lent, being more easily digested, and yielding a good nourishment. The goat, which is the female, is not much used for food, at least un- less very young; for otherwise (he flesh becomes hard, and not easy of digestion; and on this account Hip- pocrates did not approve of its use. Aristotle and Plutarch assure us that goats are almost always sick; and that they are subject to a kind of epilepsy, which they impart to those that eat their flesh. Others say that they have observed them never to be free from fever; there are some au- thors, nevertheless, who maintain that goat’s flesh digests easily in the stomach, is very nourishing, and won- derftdly recovers decayed strength. It is said that a certain wrestler of Thebes anciently accustomed himself to live upon goat’s flesh, and that he excelled all others of his time in strength. A goat usually lives eight years; some a few years longer. It is said that the olive tree becomes ban'en if they lick it ever so little, and that this was the reason rvhy the Pagans would never sacrifice a goat to Mi- nerva. It is also said, but with what degree of truth we cannot speak of our own knowledge, that goats run mad if they eat sweet basil; and that it kills them to drink of the water in which the leaves of rose-laurel have been steeped for some time. The latter assertion may more rea- dily be credited than the first, from the well known fact of the laurel in all probability giving out prassic acid in infusion. Goats live willingly among sheep; and Plutarch says the tiger has so great an affection for goats, that if one be brought to him in the greatest extremity of hunger, he will not touch it. The fat and man-ow of the he-goat are of an emollient and dissolvent nature, and reputed good for strengthening the nerves. A mixture of the gall of a goat, with bread, the whites of eggs, and oil of laurel, made into a cataplasm, and applied to the navel, was formerly considered ns a specific in quotidian ague. GOAT’S-BEARD {Tragapogony —An esculent herb. The root is excellent, even in salad, and it ds nutritive, and medicinally pectoral. G O D IV E A U.—In cookery, a common ve.al forcemeat. GOLD, MURIATE OF.—Used ns a test for the proto-salts of iron. A solution of the muriate of gold has