FI FI 116 attempted by Gay Lussac, and others, in order to explain the processes of M. Appert Gay Lussac found that nei ther fresh vegetable juices, nor animal matter fermented so long as oxygen gas was perfectly excluded; and that the fer- mentation in both cases commenced as soon as any portion of oxygen was admitted. When oxygen gas is con- fined in contact with a fermentable substance, it is changed into an equal bulk of carbonic acid gas, and all further action ceases. Methods of preserving fermentable substances, illustrative of this principle, have long been imperfectly practised by house-wives. FIBRINE.—Fibrine, like albumen is another of those animal substances, which is neither acid nor oleaginous. It enters largely into the composi- tion of the blood, and is the basis of the muscles; it may consequently be regarded as one of the most abundant of the animal principles. It may easily be procured by stirring recently drawn blood with a stick during its coagulation, and then wash- ing the adhering fibres with water until they are perfectly white. It may also be obtained by removing the soluble parts from lean beef, cut into small slices, by digestion or maceration in several successive por- tions of water. Fibrine is solid, white, and without smell. It is somewhat elastic when moist, but, on drying, it becomes hard, brittle, and semi-transparent. In a moist warm situation it readily putrefies. It is insoluble in water at common temperatures, and is dis- solved in a very minute quantity by the connected action of boiling water. Alcohol, of density 0.81, converts it into a fatty adipocirous substance, which is soluble in alcohol and ether, but is precipitated with water. The action of acids on fibrine, has been particularly described by Ber- zelius.— See Med. Chirurg. Trans. Vol. iii. p. 201. et scq. FIGS.—A luscious fruit, the pro- duce of the fig-tree. They are nou- rishing, grateful to the stomach, and easier of digestion than any of the other fruits; and accordingly are used in medicine, as ingredients in pectoral decoctions, and in lenitive electuaries. They are also applied externally, to soften, digest and pro- mote maturation. They abound with saccharine matter, are uncommonly nutritive, though at the same time of a flatulent nature, unless eaten with bread or other mealy substances. Of similar effects are nudberries and raspberries; the former having a more mucilaginous and nourishing juice, while that of the latter is of a vinous nature, and one of the best cordials for allaying tbirst and afiPord- ing refreshment. In our climate the fig comes into season about August. The best figs are the produce of Turkey, Italy, Spain, and the south- ern parts of France. The islands of the Archipelago yield figs in great abundance, but of an inferior qua- lity. The ancients made use of the juice or sap of a fig for rennet, to cause their milk to coagidate:— The figs’ prest juice, infus’d in cream, To curds coagulate the liquid stream. Pope's Homer. FILBERTS.—A well known nut, varying in size, growing upon a com- mon shrub, in hedges and woods, and sometimes in gardens. Filberts, as well as nuts, contain a great quantity of oil, which is easily abstracted from tliem. The former have a more agreeable taste. They are said to be pectoral and nourish- ing, because of their oily parts; and of a binding nature, in consequence of the earthy principle they contain. They are flatulent, and difficult of digestion when used too freely. The husks and covers of the filberts are subacid and astringent, and provoke urine. We are directed to choose such ns are large, full grown, each having a kemel, nearly round, red-