187 LO LE of Lent. There are two sorts of them; the first are small and orbi- cular, thin towards the edges, raised in the middle, round, hard, and flat- tened, white, yellowish, or blackish; and two or three of them together in small pods; the other sort are two or three times larger; and in choos- ing them both, the plumpest are the best, and easiest boiled. LETTUCE (Lactuca).—In conse- quence of the soporiferous and other properties of the lettuce, it ever was, and still continues to be the principal foundation of the universal tribe of salads, which are to cool and refresh. The lettuce, moreover, is so harmless that it may be safely eaten raw even in pieces. Indeed among all the salad materials none are so proper to mingle with any of them, or so wholesome to be eaten alone, as lettuce; and for- merly it rarely happened that any other^salads were served up at tlie best tables, with blanched endive, succory and purslain, at which period sugar and vinegar were the constant con- diments. Lettuce contains many nitrous particles, is very cooling, and useful in the evening to those who cannot sleep, from the too great heat and circidation of the blood. But the copious addition of oil and yolks of eggs renders it less digestible than when eaten in its simple state; and if those must be used, it is better to add some sugar, which decomposes these substances. The most suitable ingredients of salads, besides the lettuce, are the various cresses, cher- vil, and the scurvy grass, which, together with other cooling herbs, reduce the effects of cleansing the umours, or, as some say, of purify- ing the blood, and are at the same time diuretic, especially if eaten in spring, and upon an empty stomach. —See Sulad.s. LEVERET S.—The young of hares, than which they are easier of digestion, and are far more prefer- able.—See Hare. LEVURE.—The yeast and lees of beer, put into canvas bags to drain, and some water added, to assist in carrying off the bitter flavour of the hops. Sent from I'landers to Paris for the use of the bakers. LIAISON.—A finish with j'olks of eggs and cream, for ragouts and sauces. LIVER.—The livers, especially of animals full grown, are hard of digestion, engender gross humours, and are apt to breed obstructions, although they afford nourishment. The livers of younger beasts, espe- cially during the time they are suck- ing, are better and moistcr; and yet they are not exempt from offending weak and delicate stomachs. LOBSTER. — The lobster is an animal of so extraordinary a form that those who first see it are apt to mistake the head for the tail; but it is soon discovered that the animal moves with his claws foremost, and that the part which plays within itself by joints, like a coat of armour, is the tail. The two great claws are the lobster’s instruments of provision and defence ; these, by opening like a pair of nippers, have great strength, and take a firm hold by being notched like a saw. Besides these powerful instruments, the lobster has eight legs, four on each side, and these, with the tail, serve to give the animal its progressive motion. Between the two claws is the animal’s head, very small, and furnished with eyes that seem like two black horny specks; and these it has a power of advancing out of the sockets, and drawing in at plea.sure. The mouth, like that of insects, opens the long way of the body, not cross ways, as with the higher race of animals: it is furnished with two teeth, for the comnuinition of its food; but as these arc not suffi- cient, it has three more in the sto- mach, one on each side, and the other below. Between the two teeth there is a fleshy substance in the shape of a tongue. The intestines consist of one long bowel which