FO 132 FO fresh summer food. Its flavour then begins to be injured by the turnips given as winter food; and in spring, from a deficiency in food, it grows lean. Beef and mutton, also veal, al- though they are never absolutely out of season, that is, not fit for the sea- son, are in the greatest perfection in the months of November, December and January. Pork, during the summer months is absolutely bad, or out of season, and is only good in winter. Tlie males of the deer tribe are in highest perfection from the middle of June to the beginning of September, when they begin to rut; after which they become thin and exhausted. Females generally are out of condition when they are suck- ling, or have lately given suck. Does which have no kid, or were soon de- prived of it, follow the general rule of castrated animals, and are in sea- son from the middle of November to the middle of February. Their con- dition is not much afi’ected during the first months of pregnancy.—See Beef, Mutton, Veal. 'J'he season of the year when the young of quadrupeds have acquired the proper age for being used as food, is the period when they are in the greatest degree of perfection. This is naturally in the summer months, when lamb, veal, and fawns are most abundant. But breeders continue to furnish the tables of the wealthy with the first two of these articles at al- most every season of the year, by selecting certain breeds, such as the Dorsetshire sheep, which lamb very early, or by treating them in such a way as to cause the female to come in heat at an unnatural time. In this way lamb is procured as an ar- ticle of luxury, as early as November and December; and, on the con- trary, by keeping the ewe in cold poor hilly pasture, the lambing season is retarded. V. The manner in which animals are slaughtered, or deprived of life. has also considerable influence over the flavour of the flesh. The greater number of those slaughtered for food are either bled to death, or are blooded profusely immediately after being deprived of life in some other way. The method most commonly adapted in this country, of killing cattle, is by striking them on the forehead with a pole axe, and then cutting their throats to let the blood escape—a method, cruel and not free from danger; inasmuch as the ani- mal is not always brought down -ndth the first blow, and the difficulty and uncertainty of being able to repeat it, as well as the risk of accidents, should the animal not be well se- cured. On this account. Lord Som- merville endeavoured to introduce the method of pithing or laying cattle, by dividing the spinal marrow above the origin of the Phrenic nerves, as is commonly practised in Barbary, Spain, Portugal, Jamaica, and now in some parts of England; (See Ge- neral Survey of the Agriculture of Shropshire, hy Joseph Plymhy, M. A. Svo. Lond. 1803, p. 243); and it is observed by Mr. Jackson, that “the best method of killing a bullock is by thrusting a sharp-pointed knife into the spinal marrow, when the bullock will immediately fall without any struggle, then cut the arteries about the heart.” See Reflections on the Commerce on the Mediterranean. By John Jackson, Esq. F. S. A. Svo. Lond. 1804. Although the operation of pithing is not so difficult, but it may, with some practice, be performed with tolerable certainty; and although Lord Sommcrville took a man with him to Portugal to be instructed in the method, and has made it a con- dition that the prize cattle shall bo pithed instead of being knocked down, the practice nevertheless is not be- come general among us, owing, doubtless, iu a great measure to pre- judice. We are told that the flesh ol' the cuttle killed in this manner in