PO PO 255 of respiration, may also be taken into account; the first by diminisb- ing the waste of the system, and both by retarding the circulation in the vena portarum ; * by which the blood ought to become hydrogenated, in proportion as its carbon unites itself to the oxygen, which that liquid absorbs; this favours the formation of the oily juice, which, after having filled the cellular system of the body, enters into the biliary system and substance of the liver, and gives it that fatness and size which is so delightful to the palates of every veritable gourmand. The liver only thus becomes consecutively enlarged, and the difficulty of respiration does not appear till the end, when its size prevents the return of the diaphragm. The leanness of geese subjected to this treatment, is often mentioned, but it can only occur in those whose eyes are extinguished and feet nailed down to a board, as the consequence of this barbarous treatment. Among a hundred fatteners,there are scarcely two who adopt this practice, and even these do not put out their eyes till a day or two before they are killed. And therefore the geese of Alsace, which are free from these cruel operations, acquire a prodigious fatness, the effect of a general atony of the absorbents, caused by want of exercise, combined with succulent food, crammed down their throats, in an under oxygenated atmosphere. POULTRY, AND GAME, for each Month in the Year. Capons, Chickens, Fowls, Hares, Partridges, Pheasants, January. Pigeons, tame, Pullets, Rabbits, Snipes, Turkeys, Woodcocks. • The great vein situated at the en- trance of the liver, wliich receives the food from the abdominal viscera, and carries it into the substance of the liver. February. Capons, Pigeons, Chickens, Pullets, Fowls, Rabbits, tame. Hares, Partridges, Snipes, Turkeys, Pheasants, Woodcocks. March. Capons, Chickens, Pigeons, Pullets, Ducklings, Rabbits, Fowls, Turkeys. April. Chickens, Pigeons, Ducklings, Pullets, Fow Is, Leverets, Rabbits. May. Chickens, Leverets, Ducklings, Pullets, Fowls, Rabbits, Green Geese, Turkey Poults. June. Chickens, Plovers, Ducklings, Pullets, Fowls, Rabbits, Geese, Green, Turkey Poults, Leverets, Wheatears. July. Chickens, Pheasants, Ducks, Pigeons, Ducklings, Poults (turkey) Fowls, Plovers, , Pullets, Geese, Green, Leverets, Rabbits, Partridges (young) Wheatears. August. Chickens, Pigeons, Ducklings, Plovers, Pullets, Fowls, Green geese. Rabbits, Grouse, Turkey Poults, Leverets, Wheatears, Pheasants, Wild Ducks. September. Chickens, Pheasants, Ducks, Fowls, Pigeons, Pullets, Geese, Rabbits, Hares, 'J’eal, Larks, Partridges, Turkeys.