INTRODUCTION. xviii tion to stick to nature, and to look toiler alone for his guide. He was truly a great man; and placed in the order of time, between the revival of letters and that of the first progress of the physical sciences, he seems to have made his appearance to put an end at once to that barren admiration in which the ancients were held, and to cause the study of nature to succeed that of books; and to add to the riches reconquered by the patient com- mentator of antiquity, the still more fertile products of an active observation, and an indefatigable experience. At this period, the circidation of the blood was not discovered; they had not learned to weigh the air, nor was any thing concerning the phenomena of the barometer known. The thermometer was not invented; and the means of experiment, imperfect and incorrect, only left for curious men, to study nature and appreciate its phenomena, the chance of stumbling over them, without any semblance of the power to submit them to observation and calculation. Sanctorius made his appearance, and already he had con- ceived the first idea of a thermometei'—that of a fixed point, from whence its gradation might commence, and from the application of this instrument to the examination of febrile heat. But that which rendered the name of Sanctorius immortal, was the fine series of experiments which he made upon the insensible perspiration which he conceived to exist, with as much genius as he employed patience in the execution of it. He was the first who thought of comparing with the food taken in, the quantity of excre- mentitious matter evacuated, and to make a comparative estimate of them in weight, by weighing his own body under different circumstances relative to evacuations ; by which means he cori'ectly ascertained the quantity which escaped through the medium of insensible perspiration. Sanctorius does not give the detail of his experiments; He only presents their results, which do not at all appear exact, as have since been demonstrated by some of a more recent date. As regards the progress of public health in the theory of diet, there neces- sarily results from the improved knowledge of man, and from that of the things whose influence he may have experienced, knowledge worthy of further cultivation. Arbuthnot and other writers have produced very extensive works on ali- ment, in which, if we except the first mentioned, there is more display of learning than real physical knowledge :—of this latter kind are the treatises of Pisanelli, Nonnius, Melchior Sebiz—they are all nevertheless valuable, as uniting in one point of view the labours of the ancients, and in making their doctrines well known. Others, such as that of Arbuthnot, just mentioned, with learning less pi'oli.x, present explanations often too wide of the truth, of the chemical knowledge of their time, and particularly analyses by fire; there is nevertheless in them a philosophical order, with some well regulated j)ractical observations, which evince a wise .and judicious mind. The science