53 BU BU may be ascertained by its yielding readily to the pressure of the finger, and by opposing little resistance to an attempt to bind the joint. Al- though it be strongly recommended to hang up animal food in the air, till its fibres have lost some degree of their toughness—yet, let us be clearly understood also to warn you, that if kept till it loses its natural sweetness, it is as detrimental to health, as it is disagreeable to the smell and taste. The time meat should hang to be tender, depends on the heat and humidity of the atmosphere: if it be not kept long enough, it is hard and tough; if too long, it loses its flavour: it should be hung where it will have a thorough air and draft, and be dried with a cloth night and morning, to keep it from damp and mustiness. Before it be dressed, let it be well washed; if it be a roasting piece, pare off’ the outside. If you fear meat will not keep till it be wanted, jjnr-roast or /ja?--boil it; it will then keep a couple of days longer, when it may be dressed in the usual manner, w'ith the excep- tion, that it will be done in less time. “ In Germany, the method of keep- ing flesh in summer, is to steep it in Rhenish wine, with a little sea-salt; by which means it may be preserved a whole season.’—Boerhaace s Aca- dem. Lect. translated hy J. Nather, 8VO. 1763, p. 241. The butcher and the cook often lose their credit by meat being dress- ed too fresh, as the fishmonger does by fish that has been kept too long. During the sultry summer months, it is almost impossible to preserve meat that is not either tough or tainted; the former is <is improper as the latter, for the unbraced sto- machs of relaxed valetudinarians, for whom, at this season, poultry, stews, &c., and vegetable soups, are the most suitable food, when the diges- tive organs are debilitated by the extreme heat, and profuse perspira- tion requires an increase of liquid to restore equilibrium in the cons.itu- tion.—See Meat to Carve. BUTCHER’S MEA'r, DIVI- SION OF.— 'fhe butchers have a methodical way of cutting up an ox, a sheep, a lamb, and a calf; which are designated by certain terms, and which constitute their distinguishing marks: e. y. a. Fore-quarter of an Ox.—This consists of the haunch, which in- cludes the clod, marow-bone, shin, and the sticking-piece, which is the neck end. The next is the leg-of- mutton piece, which includes part of the breast-bone; then the chuck; the brisket; the fore-rib; and the middle- rib, which is called the chvtck-rib. b. The hind-qiiarter contains the sirloin and rump, the thin and thick flank, the veiny ifiece, and the isc.h * * In tlie various works, ancient and modern, that have been elaborat- ed upon the materials of the kitchen, their authors appear to have been totally ignorant of the derivation of this word, which has been tortured into so many erroneous shapes and forms. Isch-bone of beef is unquestionably the proper name—the word isch being derived from Ischium, the name of a bone of the pelvis, composing a part of the Os innoniinatum (nameless bone, because it appears that anatomists have been puzzled to find out any shape corresponding to it in the material world) of the adult, so called, because it is near the loin. It is rather a little singular, that this etymology did not strike the palate of the culinary censor- general, tlie late Ur. Kitchener, who vulgarily ycleps it, in common with ISIotherGlass, an II. bone; and the Dr. does not forget to tell us, without, how- ever, deciding the question wlio is in the riglit, or vice-versa, that in “Mrs. Mason’s Ladies’Assistant,” this joint is called llaunch-bone; in “ Ilentlerson’s Cookery,” Edge-bone; in “ Domestic Management,” Aitch-bone; in “ Rey- nold’s Cookery,” Ische-bone (the proper term); in Mrs. Lydia Fisher’s “ Prudent I lousewife,” y/c/i-Aonc; in Mrs. M ‘I ver's Cookery,” Hook-bone; " 1 have also,”