239 PI PI If the pie be put into a hot oven the crust becomes liard, and many a cook is blamed for making bad pies, when the fault really lies with the baker. A light and flaky pie-cmst can only be produced by the judici- ous application in the manner stated, of the butter or fatty matter. By this means the butter is distributed, in distinct layers, through the mass of the pie-crust. The flour dusted over each layer prevents the paste forming one mass, or, as it is called, becoming heavy. The more fre- quently, therefore, the paste is rolled out with butter, lard, or other fat, interposed between each layer, pro- vided the layers are dusted over with flour, the more flaky will be the pie; and hence, also, by increasing the quantity of butter, to a certain limit, the flakeness of the pie-cnist be- comes increased. Pastry - cooks usually allow from ten to twelve ounces of butter to one pound of flour, for making a light puff paste, such as they use for tarts and patties. PIGEONS.—There are a variety of the pigeon tribe, which, for our purpose however, we shall simply divide into the tame and wild. The former is well known, and is much used for food. When young the flesh is tender, juicy, and easy of digestion. It is very nourishing, and produces solid and durable food. It is most proper for those whose digestive organs are strong, and are in the habit of taking much exercise even to fatigue. Aristotle observes that a tame pigeon usually lives eight years, though other authors assert that it has lived twenty-two. The wild pigeon is said to live thirty years, and, according to some, forty years. Thus it appears, that domestication shortens the duration of life. Pigeons arc said to be generally of a dry nature, and to differ little from one another inasmuch .as they are more or less so. Their flesh is nou- rishing, because it contains many oily and balsamic parts, yielding good solid nourishment, in conse- quence of the compactness of its fibres. As a pigeon grows old, so in proportion does the flesh become drier, more solid, harder of diges- tion, and fitter to produce gross and melancholy humours; and, on this account, many authors liave con- demned the use of them, considering them by no means as wholesome aliment. They agree, however, at all times, with every age and consti- tution, though those of a hypochon- driacal temperament should use them more sparingly than others. PIKE, (Esox Lucius).—^A well- known fresh-water fish, met with in almost all countries, in rivers, lakes, and ponds. It is seldom found in the sea unless driven there by the rapi- dity of currents. The river pike is reputed a delicious food, and is easy of digestion. The pike may be called a fish of prey, for it not only devours fishes, but animals of other species, as rats, mice, frogs. Some authors assert that it is difficult of digestion, and that it lies heavy in the stomach; that it produces bad juices from living in ponds, where it feeds on mnd, slime, &c.: such bad effects, however, have not been e.x- perienced from it; but Jovius ranks the pike in the number of those foods that have an ordinary taste; and Ausonius does not esteem it so much, and that because it does not taste so well in Italy as in France; for it is pretty well known that the taste of pike, in common with other animals, must vary according to the situation and soil on which it is bred. Care ought to be taken not to eat the rocs of pike, as they are known to produce violent vomiting and purging. It must, indeed, be al- lowed, that all sorts of pike arc not alike wholesome, and that those which inhabit ponds and marshy places, living upon slimy and muddy food, consccptently not so well fla- voured, nor so easy of digestion, and