HI 1G8 HE as if newly canght.* Scotch had- docks should he soaked all night; you may boil or broil them; if you broil, split them in two. All the dif- ferent sorts of dried fish, except stock fish, are salted, dried in the sun in prepared kilns, or by the smoke of wood fires, and require to he softened or freshened in proportion to their bulk, nature, or dryness. The very dry sort, as cod, whiting, &c., should be steeped in lukewarm water, kept as near as possible to an equal degree of heat. The large fish should be steeped twelve hours, the smaller two, after which they should be taken out and hung up by the tails until they are dried. The reason for hanging them up is, that they soften equally as in the stee2)ing, without extracting too much of the relish, which would render them insipid. When thus jirepared, the small fish, as whiting, turks, &c., should be floured and laid on the gridiron; and when a little hardened on the one side, must he turned and basted with sweet oil upon a feather, and when hasted on one side and well heated through, taken up. A clear charcoal fire is the best for cooking them, and the fish should be kept at a good distance to broil gradually. When they are done enough they will swell a little in the basting, and you must not let them fall again ; if boiled, as the large fish generally are, they should be kept just simmer- ing over an equal fire, in which way half an hour will do the largest fish, and five minutes the smallest. Dried aalmon, though a large fish, does not require more steeping than a whiting, and when laid on the gridiron should be immediately j)eppered. To her- ring and other kinds of salt fish, sw'eet oil is the best basting.—(See Mac- donald's London Family Cook, 8vo. 1808, page 139). “A red herring,” • See tlie lion. Sir John Cochran’s Seaman’s Guide.” 8vo. 1797, p. 34. says Dr. Harte,* “doth nourish little, and is hard of concoction, hut very good to make a cup of good drink relish well, and may be well called the drunkard’s delight.” HERRINGS, TO Cure. —The preference which the Dutch give to the herrings caught upon their own coast, when cured by themselves, is a source of great advantage to them. The only salt used by them is the Spanish or the Portuguese; they preserve no fish that they are not able to cure between sun-rise and sun-setting, when the nets are drawm, and sun-set, when they are again shot; and they pay particular atten- tion in getting, sorting, and packing each kind by itself. They fill up the barrel with the same kind of fish and night’s catching, and are exceed- ingly careful of the pickle, as they use no other in filling their barrels. Herrings, as well as salmon, are also often cured by drying them in a w'ood smoke, after being slightly salted, after which they are called red or Yarmouth herrings. Herrings are pretty nourishing, easy of digestion, and jrroduce good juice. The jiickled are, as observed, hard of digestion, and but indifferent food; they heat, cause fetid cnicta- tions, thirst, and sharp pungent hu- mours. When fresh they agree, in cold w^eather, with any age and con- stitution. In the jiickled state, they are not good for young people of a hot, bilious constitution. HIBISCUS.—.V stone annual, a native of the West Indies, (Hibiscus Esculentus, L.), and introduced in 1G92. A soft herbaceous stalk rises from three to five feet high, with crenate leaves and axillary, j)ale sul- phur-coloured flowers, succeeded by capsules. These, in the West Indies and south of France, are put into green soiqis, or eaten with butter. In the south of France it is culti- vated in the open air for this pur- * Essay on Diet. 1633. Fol. p. 91.