137 FR FR (Worms.)—The sepia sepiola, and the eschiniis esculentus, are the only edible genera of this order of worms, and even these are coarse, and by no means a nourishing food. Among the testaceous order may be set down, the common cockle, the common oyster, the eatable mussel, the com- mon snail,—of these, the oyster and snail, are the most wholesome and most digestible. The limpet, perri- winkle, and whilk, are eaten boiled by the common people of this coun- try ; and the Helix Pomatia, is reared and fattened with great care in some countries of Switzerland. _F R A N G E P A N E. — Skimmed milk, evaporated to dryness, by a gentle heat, used to fom artificial milk. FRENCH WINES.—The wines of France are peculiarly excellent; and though they differ very sensibly from their taste and properties, there are few constitutions, be they ever so valetudinary, to which some one or other of them is not adapted. The author of the Seasons has thus cha- racterised some of them: The Claret smooth and red, The mellow tasted Burgundy, and quick As is the wit it gives, the gay Cham- pagne. Thomson. At Clairvaux, a small town in the department of the Aube, in France, there are several enormous casks, which will contain from one to four hundred tons of Champagne; and the famous tun of St. Bernard, will hold 1,612,800 pints of wine. In these capacious vessels, wine is sometimes kept for the space of ten years.—See Chavipagne, &c. FRUIT. — Under this head arc the young bees in it, while they still resemble gentles ; but Mr. Jones says, that to his palate, they seemed insipid, and sometimes gave him the heartburn. comprehended the productions of different trees and shrubs, and may be arranged under the following heads:— Apple species. Farinaceous fruits. Small berries. Small seeded fruits. Stone fruit.—(Which see). The stone-fruits have been de- nounced as the least digestible spe- cies, by popular acclamation, and we feel disposed to acquiesce in the truth of the assertions as a general ]>ropositlon; but much of the mis- chief that has been attributed to their use, has arisen from the unripe state in which they were eaten. Thev are, however, less digestible than any other species, and more liable to undergo fermentation in the sto- mach. The hard pulp of certain plums remains also in the alimentary canal for a long time, and is fre- quently passed without having been materially changed. The ripe peach is the most delicious, as well as one of the most digestible of the stone- fmits; the apricot is equally whole- some, but the nectarine is liable to disagree with some stomachs. Cher- ries* are far less digestible; their pulpy texture and skins are not easily' disposed of by the stomach ; and as the sweetest species contain a considerable excess of acid, they may be objectionable in some cases, and desirable in others. The apple spe- cies is not so delicate and watery as * The Romans introduced the cherry into England, about 130 years after Lucullus had brought it out of Pontus to Rome : but the Kentish cherry, or tlie old English variety, witli a sliort stalk, was brought from Flanders by Richard Harry, fruiterer to Henry VI11., and first planted at Teynham. The cherry formerly grew spontaneously, in the woods near Cerusus, a city of I’on- tus. Hence, according to Servius, the cherry-tree is called ccrasus; hence, also, the natives denominate its fruit, cerasa, and the French, cerise. See Cherries. N 3