s^ 284 SA Take 24 anchovies and chop them fine, bones and all; and 10 shalots cut small; of scraped horse-radish as much as you can hold between the twofore-fingers and thumb ; a quarter of an ounce of mace ; a quart of ■white wine; a pint of water; one lemon cut into slices; half-a-pint of anchovy liquor ; a pint of red wine ; 12 cloves; 12 pepper corns. Boil all together, till reduced to a quart. Strain off; cover close, and keep it in a cool dry place. Two spoonsful will be sufficient for a pound of butter. SAUR KRAUT. — Large white cabbages are cut into thin horizontal slices, and placed in a barrel, with a layer of salt at top and bottom, and between each layer of cabbages a board with some weights on it is then put on the top, and it is kept in a cool place for some weeks; a kind of fermentation takes place and vine- gar is formed. Some add juniper ben'ies, coriander seeds, tops of anise, or carui seeds, to the salt, as a kind of spice; it may be dried in an oven without any loss of its flavour. Saur kraut is easily digestible on account of the salt mixed with it, and the acetous fermentation it has under- gone before it is used, and by which process the greatest part of its fixed air is repelled. It operates power- fully on the first passages, being a most excellent antiseptic; it has proved of singular service at sea in resisting the ravages of scurvj', and curing it in the most alarming stages. We are indebted to Captain Cook for introducing this salutary diet among the sailors, in spite of all prejudices, and thus preserving the health of many brave mariners. Lastly, saur kraut has been found the best pre- ventive of e])idemic distempers, par- ticularly of the dyscntciT, and the putrid '>nd pectorial fevers, which it has even frequently cured. S.\US.\(iLS.—Whether fried or boiled, sausages are a substantial kind of nourishment; they conse- quently require a strong stomach and healthy bile to dissolve them. They are not of an acrid nature, provided they have not too much pepper in their composition, and be closely filled, so as to contain no air. Blood sausages, usually called black pud- dings, made of bacon, and coagulated blood, which is totally indigestible, are a bad and ill-contrived article of food, and still more so if they have been strongl3' smoked, bj’ which pro- cess the blood becomes indurated, and the bacon more rancid: thus prepared, nothing can be more per- nicious and destructive to the best fortified stomach. The spices usually added to sausages correct, in some degree, their hurtful properties, but are insufficient to counteract the bad and highly disagreeable effects of rancid substances. I. To make Pork Sausages.—Take six pounds of young pork, free from skin, gristle, and fat. Cut it very small, and beat it in a mortar till it be very fine, then shred six pounds of beef suet, very fine, and free from all skin. Take a large quantity of sage, wash itveiy clean, pick ofl'the leaves and chop it very small. Spread j'our meat on a clean dresser or table, and then shake the sage till over it, to the quantity of three large spoonsful; shred the thin rind of a middling sized lemon very fine, and throw it also over the meat, with as many sweet herbs as, when shreded will fill a large table spoon. Grate over the whole two nutmegs, and add to it two tea sjioonsful of pepper, and a large spoonful of salt; then throw over the suet, and mix the whole well up together. Press the mass down close in a pot, and when you use it, roll it up with as much of the yolk of an egg as will make it roll smooth; make them of the size of a saus.age, and fry them in butter, or good dripping. Be sure that the butter in the pan be hot before you put them in, and keep rolling them about. When they are thoroughly hot, and are of a fine light brown