270 RO RO skewer the caul on the hack side of the breast. Pork should be well done, otherwise it will be apt to sur- feit ; when you roast a loin cut the skin across with a sharp knife, that the crackling may eat all the better ; when you roast a leg of pork score it in the same manner as the loin; stuff the knuckle part with sage and onion, and skewer it up. Put a little drawn gi'avy in the dish, and send it up, with apple sauce in a boat. The spring or hand of pork, if very young, and roasted like a pig, eats very well, but otherwise it is much better boiled. The spare rib should be basted well with a little butter, a very little dust of flour, and some small shreded sage and onion. Apple sauce is the one only used for this joint. Wild fowls require a clear brisk fire, and sbould be roasted till they are of a light brown, but not too much, for it is a great fault to roast them till all the gravy runs out, as they thereby lose their fine flavour. Tame fowls require more roasting as they are a long time before they get thoroughly heated; they should be often basted, in order to keep up a strong froth, as it gives them a finer colour and causes them to look better. A large fowl will take three quarters of an hour, a middling one half an hour, and a small one or a chicken twenty minutes. Pigs and geese should be roasted before a good fire, and turned quick; the former will take according to size from an hour to an hour and a half to roast. Hares and rabbits require time and care to see the ends are roasted enough. In order to prevent them from appearing bloody at the neck when they are cut up, cut the neck skin when they arc half roasted and let out the blood. Hares will take an hour; woodcocks twenty minutes ; partridges from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Slow roasting is equally advantageous and im- portant as quick I'oasting. The same rule as to time, will be found on calculation to be as near the mark as possible, viz., a quarter of an hour or a few minutes over to the pound. Half an hour before your meat is done make some gi'avy, and just before you take it up put it near the fire to brown, “ Meats in general,” says a French author,* “ ought not to be attacked by too fierce a fire, if they be of a certain size, because the exterior would be grizzled and burnt up, befoi'e the interior could be baked; on the other hand a piece of roast must not be too long exposed to a moderate heat, because that heat which is suflicient to carry off every liquid principle and coagulate the albumen, would condense and dessi- cate the muscular fibres: it ought moreover to be remarked, that the sapidity of viands, roasted or boiled, depends either on the flavour pecu- liar to the meat, or on a partial de- composition of the skin, muscles, and fat. Sapid substances are formed by the sole action of the fire, which did not ju'eviously exist in the un- cooked meat. These substances ai'e the prussic and toonic acids, a little empyreumatic oil, also a little sea salt. All these bodies are stimulant, slightly acrid, they irritate the nerves of the palate, promote the secretion of saliva, and provoke the appetite.” AVe have also the following obser- vations on roasting, from another French writer.f “ The art of roasting victuals to the exact degree is one of the most difficult things in the world to ac- complish, and it is easier to meet with half-a-dozen good cooks than one roaster who is master of this branch of his art. All savaii/s gour- mands are aware that these two important functions camiot be per- formed by one artist, it is quite im- * See Cours Gastiononiiques. Paris, 1819. p. 292. f See Almanac des Gourmands. Vol. i, p. 37.