DI 99 DI habits, or the constraint under which tliey labour, in consequence of blindly complying with the caprice of cus- tom or fashion, without perhaps ap- prehending any ill consequences from such pernicious practices. Many ingenious writers have lately endeavoured to point out the disad- vantages originating in causes ap- parently trivial: for instance, the fashion of using paint, hair-powder, and pomatum; of wearing ill-shaped shoe.s, tight-laced stays, ligatures of every description round particular parts of the body, &c.; all these have deservedly incurred severe ri- dicule and pointed censure. The custom of applying lead to earthen vessels (see Lead), has not escaped their attention; the danger, how- ever, resulting from the use of that substance, appears, not like copper (see Copper), to have been some- what exaggerated. Hence it is, that writers (many of whom write with- out reflection, and pin their faith too implicitly on the sleeves of their predecessors), with the best inten- tions have sometimes, from an ex- cess of zeal, descanted on the worst side of the question only, by attri- buting to certain things many dan- gerous qualities, which, in fact, are owing to a great diversity of circum- stances. This partial method of in- quiring into the sources of the evil is, generally speaking, a serious error; as it not only leads to false conclusions, but also warps the at- tention from other pressing injuries, to which, in a more tranquil and un- prejudiced state of mind, our care might he directed. To prevent, however, any misap- plication of those rules, which are established by the accumulated ob- servations of ages; it may not be improper, under this head, to intro- duce some general remarks, rela- tive to the individual use and ad- vantage to be derived from a con- nected view of dietetics. It is, in fine, not so much the healthy, as the valetudinary and infirm, who stand in need of minute precepts for their conduct,—and even the latter ought not to engage too earnestly in com- pliance with them; since it is only a very limited number that require such nice attention. A vigorous and persevering mode of inuring ourselves to the unavoidable difficulties and diversified accidents of life, is of greater importance to the preserva- tion of health, than any dietetical precepts whatever. Man is capable of undergoing all the vicissitudes and inconveniences of air, weather, and climate; he can digest any kind of food, if his stomach has not been wan- tonly debilitated; and he can sus- tain the severest bodily exercise and labour, without paying too minute at- tention to time or regularity, when his employment or duty renders ex- ertion necessary. But he, who, from his infancy, has been treated w’ith extreme tenderness, or who, after having been previously accustomed to a hardy mode of life, is seized with the whim of bestowing too much care on his health, will suffer from the most trivial inconveniences, and catch cold at every change of the air; every heavy or high seasoned dish will be oppressive, and the smallest devia- tion from the rules of temperance will indispose him. Yet, by the same rules, every healthy person will learn, that the grand secret of pre- serving himself in that state, consists principally in the art of moderating his desires and enjoyments. Thus may we arrive at the knowledge of such things as are generally condu- cive to the welfare of the body— more than which ought not to he expected. “ Refined and wire-drawn systems of feeding,” says an elegant author, “are as unnatural as the fear of death, which often proves mortal, and which sets people on methods to save their lives which infallibly destroy them.” This is a reflection made by some historians upon ob- serving, that more are killed in a flight than in a battle, and may he