BR BR 50 boiled, is liable to turn sour sooner than the pieces of meat alone. When any fat remains on soup, a little flour and water, uniformly mixed and boiled in it, will remove it. Should it be required to give a greater de- gi'ee of richness or consistency, a piece of butter mixed with flour, and boiled in the soup, will command either of these qualities. In the preparation of alimentary broths and soups the following direc- tions are to be attended to. 1. Procure wholesome meat pro- perly killed. 2. Earthen vessels are preferable to those of metal, because the first are less conductors of heat, and when once heated, a few hot cinders will keep them in as gentle a degree of boiling as may be required. 3. Use double the quantity of wa- ter to the weight of meat. 4. A sufficient quantity of com- mon salt to facilitate the separation of the albumen as well as its coagu- lation in the form of broth. 5. Sustain a temperature capable of carrying on the boiling of the mix- ture the whole of the time the froth is collecting on the surface of the liquid, which you will take good care to remove. 6. A temperature lower than re- quired by the preceding operation, and always of an uniform heat, that the liquid may only gently simmer, to afford time for the nutritive parti- cles and colouring, and extractive substances contained in the meat, to unite and combine with the water in the order of their respective solubi- lity.* Again, it is not the quantity of meat alone that makes good soup, but the manner in which the pot is managed on the fire. What is soup ? A decoction of meat containing animal extractive matter, as osma- zomo, which colours it, salt, and especially gelatine. In order that * Parmentier Code Pharmaceulique, 1811. p. 444, the meat may yield these principles to the water, the water must gradu- ally penetrate the meat, dilate the muscular fibres, and dissolve the gelatine which is interposed be- tween them; but in these same muscles there is likewise albumen. This albumen coagulates and be- comes hard at a temperature of 80®. Reaumere (212° Fahrenheit). If then you cause your pot to boil ra- pidly, before it be sufficiently diluted and penetrated by the water, what is the consequence? The albumen coagulates in the meat itself, and prevents the gelatine from escaping, you have both a weak and a hard soup ; but, on the contrary, if you have managed the fire in such a manner that the meat has had time to be penetrated, the albumen will gather up in a froth, the gelatine dissolves, the soup is savoury and nourishing, and the boiled meat tender. This constitutes the whole theory of pot boiling.*—See Boiling. BROWNING.—The culinarypro- cess of colouring soups, gravies, &c. BROWNING, FOR Soups, Gra- vies, &c.—To give colour to soups and grardes, fry some onions with flour to a good brown colour, but do not bum them, and add to the soup ; or a piece of bread toasted as hard and brown as possible, but not black- ened ; or melt some lump sugar in an iron ladle till it becomes brown, pour it upon boiling water, and stir it; give it a boil and keep it for use in a bottle. Truffles and snorells thicken soups and sauces, and give them a fine flavour; and the clear jelly of cowheels is also an useful ingredient in a house, as being an excellent improvement to soups and gravies; marrow-bones, shankbones of mutton, the gravy in which meat has been boiled, all contribute, by the addition of vegetables, in making excellent soups. To make Browning for Soups or * Cours Gastroaouiique, 1809.p. 291.