VI VI 379 the air, in an apartment warm but not too diy, so as to pass to a state of fermentation, when a quantity of vinegar is formed. The copper-plates are placed in jars in strata, with the husks thus prepared, which are covered. At the end of twelve, fifteen, or twenty days, these are opened : the plates have an efflo- rescence on their surfaces of a green colour and silky lustre; they are repeatedly moistened with water; till at length a crust of verdigris is formed, which is scraped oft' with a knife, put into bags, and dried by expo.sure of them to the air and sun. It is of a green colour, with a slight tint of blue. It is used in medicine as well as the arts. For the dele- terious properties of verdigris, which results among the foremost of the culinary poisons, and for cases and symptoms, antidotes, and proofs of its existence, &c., see Copper. VINEG.VR.—Good vinegar has ever been accounted salubrious when discretionally used, especially in bilious constitutions; and in epi- demic diseases, it is an experienced preservative. The learned Boer- liaave extols its efficacy in ])utrid fevers, small-po.x, and the bites of venomous insects. It is an excel- lent preserver of animal substances from putrefaction, especially in warm temperatures. It j)roinotes digestion, and is, perhaps, never communi- cated to the blood in its acid state, hence it is an erroneous notion that vinegar is detrimental to the se- cretion and ([iiality of the milk in wet nurses. In some individuals, however, it is apt to produce a sudo- rific effect, and even laxity of the bowels, on account of its astringent property ; but used with moderation as an article of seasoning rather than drink, especially with animal food in warm weather, it is both savoury and wholesome. But nothing short of good vinegar ought to be obtained ; since various kinds of it, which are made of sloes, the husks of nuts, and other strong astringents, certainly arc pernicious. The best vinegar, for common use, made about London, is excessively bad, when compared with that which is made from good white wines, raisins and sugar. That made from sour wine or ale, cider or beer, is, notwithstanding its austere taste, not to be accounted perfect vinegar. When any of these does not turn out sufficiently acrid, oil of vitriol is frequently made the com- pensative substitute. Individuals subject to habitual costiveness, or those who labour under spasmodic complaints of the bowels, colic, and other concomitant S3'mptoms of flatulencj^ ought to abstain from the use of vinegar and all vegetable acids. When vinegar is employed to fumigate the cham- bers of the sick, it should be boiled in glazed e.arthen pipkins and passed about the bed. Acetic acid, or distilled vinegar, possesses the same virtues as com- mon vinegar, though in a stronger degree; and is principally used for pharmaceutical purposes. The strong acetic acid of the Edinburgh phar- macopoeia, is employed as an ana- lej)tic remedy, and is snuffed up the nostrils in faintings, as|)hj'xy, hysterics, headachs, &c. VINEGAR, BicKi.Es in.—Many of these are kept in the shops : the vegetables soaked in salt and water for some boiirs, then drained, and boiling vinegar jioured upon them ; in a few days the vinegar is poured off, boiled a little, and tben jioured on again; if the vinegar is good, and the substances are not too moist, it is sufficient to pour it cold iqion them, and keep the vessel closely covered, 'file white vinegar, or iiyroligneous acid, much diluted, maybe used still more advantagcousl}'’. The ancients had several kinds of vinegar, which they used to drink. The Roman soldiers wore accustomed to take it in their marches. The Bible represents Boaz, a rich citizen of