SL 295 SL SKIRRET, (Sium sisarum, the siser, or skirret).—The root of this plant is eatable, but now out of use, though cultivated in the time of Gerard and Parkinson. Its flavour is said to be aromatic, with a sweet- ness not acceptable to every palate, and of a flatulent and indigestible nature. Both the skirret root and the scorzenera of Spain possess more spicy and stimulating than nutritive qualities. Like celery, parsneps, and turnips, they are diuretic, and con- sequently in a slight degree stimu- lating. The skin-et is so tender that it can scarcely bear to be boiled; hence it is mostly eaten in a crude state, like fniit; or it may be used as an excellent ingredient in soups and broths. The scorzenera, on the conti-ary, ought to be deprived of its black skin, and only eaten when boiled. By soaking the raw root for half an hour in cold water, it not only loses its bitter taste, but like- wise is rendered less flatulent.—See Slum, &e. SLEEP.—That condition of the body in which the internal and ex- ternal senses are temporarily sus- pended, the object and design of which is, not only to i-enovate, during the silence and darkness of the night, the vital energies that have been exhausted during the day, but also to assist nutrition.—See Nutrition. During sleep, the circulation and respiration are retarded, as well as the different secretions, consequently digestion is carried on with less rapi- dity. It is not well explained on what basis some authors have as- serted that absorjition alone acquires more activity during sleep. Since the functions of nutrition continue during sleep, it is apparent that the brain has ceased to act only with regard to muscular contraction, and as an organ of intelligence, and that it continues to influence the muscles of respiration, the heart, the arteries, the secretions and nutrition. Tlie ordinary duration of sleep varies, in different individuals, either from habit or serenity, from six to ten hours. It is prolonged by fatigue of the muscidar system, strong mental exertion, lively and multiplied sen- sations, habits of indolence, the im- moderate use of wine, and of too strong food. Infancy and youth, whose life of relation is very active, have need of longer repose. Maturer age, more economical of time, and harassed with cares, devotes to it but a small portion of time. Very aged individuals present two very opposite modifications ; either they are almost always slumbering, or their sleep is very light; but the reason of the latter condition is not to be traced to the foresight they ha\’e of their ap- proaching end. By uninterrupted and tranquil sleep, properly limited, the corporeal and mental powers are renovated ; but if it be accompanied with disagreeable dreams and un- pleasant sensations, or even unduly prolonged, far from recruiting, it exhausts the strength, fatigues the organs, and notunfrequently lays the foundation of diseases, as idiotcy or mania. A question that has been often agitated is, whether it be ad- visable to sleep after dinner? This, however, can only be decided by a variety of concurrent circumstances, such as custom, bodily constitution, age, climate, and the like. Digestion is evidently promoted by preserving the body quiet after a meal; this we are taught by animals, particularly those of the ruminating class, which lie down after eating. Exercise ought to be taken before dinner. “ Natursi,” says the learned Haller, “ omnia animalia a pastu quiescerc docuit: ” but with many the dinner hoar inter- feres with such a custom. 'I'hemost easy position for effecting digestion is sitting in an easy chair, and in this posture any one, without risk or in- convenience, may freely indulge in a short sleep, after a hearty meal, should the drowsy god at such a time invite to repose, and rouse up from