326 TE TE trouble to make due inquiry into its virtues, and properties, but have rather taken them upon trust, than examined the truth of what they affirm or deny, by a sufficient num- ber of experiments and observations, whicli alone might have afforded some satisfaction as regards this popular herb, by enabling them to account rationally for its various surprising effects. 'I'here are two species of the tea tree, viz., 1st. The bohea or black tea; and 2d. The viridis or green tea : both of rvhich are natives of China or Japan, where they attain the height of five or six feet. Great pains are taken in collecting the leaves singly, at three different times, viz., about the middle of February, in the beginning of March, and in April. Although some writers assert that they are first exposed to the steam of boiling water, and then dried on copper plates; yet it is now understood, that such leaves are sim- ply dried on iron plates, suspended over a fire, till they become dry and shrivelled; when cool they are packed in leaden boxes to exclude the air, and in that state exported to Europe. In Britain teas are divided into three kinds of green and five of I)ohea. The former class includes 1. Jmj)erial or bloo7>i tea, having a large leaf, a faint smell, and of a light green colour. 2. Hyson, which has small curled leaves of a green shade inclining to blue. 3. Singlo tea, thus termed from the place where it is cultivated.— The boheas comprehend, 1. Souchony, whicli on infusion imparts a yellowish green colour. 2. Camho, a fine tea emitting a fragrant violet smell, and yielding a pale shade; it receives its name from the province where it is reared. 3. Pekoe tea, is known by the small white flowers that are mixed with it. -1. Congo, has a larger leaf than the preceding variety, and yields a deeper tint to w'ater. 5. Common bohea, the leaves of which are of an uniform green colour. There are besides other kinds of tea sold under the names of gunpowder tea, &c., which differ from the pre- ceding only in the minuteness of their leaves, and being dried with addi- tional care. Tea, in its natural state, is cer- tainly an aromatic, slightly astrin- gent, and somew'hat narcotic, plant; on which account the Chinese refrain from its use, till it has been divested of this property by keeping it at least tvveh'e months. If, how'ever, good tea be drank in moderate quantities, wnth sufficient milk and sugar, it invigorates the system, and produces a temporary exhilaration; but when taken too copiously it is apt to occa- sion weakness, tremor, palsies, and various other symptoms arising from narcotic jilants, while it continues to aggravate hysterical and hypochon- driacal complaints. Tea has also been supposed to possess consider- able diuretic and sudorific virtues, which, however, depend more on the quantity of warm water employed as a vehicle, than the quality of the tea itself. Lastly, as infusions of these leaves are the safest refreshment after undergoing great bodilj^ and mental exertion, they aflbrd an agreeable beverage to tliose who are exposed to cold weather; at the same time tending to support and promote per- spiration, which is otherwise liable to be impeded. A certain writer, who we think proceeds somewhat too far in his in- vectives against this article of con- sumption, observes that “ it had been well for the inhabitants of Great Britain if the tea leaf had never found its way into this country; they would not then have been tor- mented as thousands of them now iire, with an incurable train of ner- vous symptoms, with stomachic and bowel complaints, and with hcadach.