CO 80 CO ment, medicine, and as preserving substances from putrefaction. It is injurious to the teeth, because on them it combines with oxygen, and forms oxalic acid, which has a great affinity for the teeth.* It is nutri- tious, antiseptic, and laxative, and is considered as promoting the solution of fat in the stomach ; but as it is very fermentable, and is apt, in many constitutions, to produce flatulence, heat, and thirst, its unlimited use seems to he one cause of the increased and increasing frequency of bilious and hypochondriacal disorders. Chlo- rotic girls, rickety children, and hys- terical women, and all who are trou- bled with acidity iu the stomach and bowels, should abstain from it; and those who are anxious to preserve their teeth white and sound, should not he too free with it. 2. Vinous Liquors.—By drinking these we can digest a larger quan- tity of food, the stomach being sti- mulated, and therefore having a more powerful action. It has been said, that they harden the food, and co- agulate it; but if this he true, it is a question, whether food coagulated is not more easy of digestion. They sti- mulate the sanguiferous and chylife- rous systems, and if not taken very moderately, prove hurtful by ex- hausting the irritability, producing the same effect as a whip on an ani- mal—it makes him go w'hen tired, whether he will or not. Wine has been called, “ the milk cxf old ageso “ milk is the wine of youth.” Dr. Johnson observed, that it is much easier to he abstinent than to be temperate, and no man should * Notwithstanding these observations, tliere are some eonstitutions which fur- nish exceptions; .for instance, we are told that one of the Dukes of Beaufoit took, for tlic space of forty years, nearly a pound of sugar every day, yet it neither disordered any of the viscera, nor in- jured the teeth, and he lived to attain the age of seventy. habitually take wine as food till he is past thirty years of age, at least.* That wine is best for elderly people which is strong and diuretic, to carry off any superfluous serosities, which, by remaining in the body, might be- come injurious to their health. 3. Alcohol.—This differs in flavour, according to the substances from which it is prepared, or the artificial additions it receives. It appears in different fonns, as brandy, rum, gin, usquebaugh, eau de vie, &c. It is more deleterious than wine, and pro- duces all its ill effects more quickly. When well diluted, and not too fre- quently used, it may prove useful. 4. Mustard.—The use of mustard is extremely ancient. It is mentioned by Hippocrates, in his Treatise on Diet; and Aretaeus recommends it to be taken liberally with food, in cases where other stimulants are forbidden. He is very' lavish iu his praises of it for its good effects in expelling flatu- lence and promoting digestion. In France, xvhere they pay such parti- cular attention to every thing con- nected ■with the table, mustard is celebrated as by far the best of all stimulants, as agreeing with every sjjecies of food, promoting digestion, augmenting the elasticity of the fibres, increasing the dissolvingjuices of the stomach, and doubling their force ; and particularly calculated for the aged, or those whose stomachs and bowels are weak. 5. Salad Oil, is the chief of the ole- aginous condiments, and in the coun- tries where it is procured in perfec- tion, the consumption is very great, answering the piuqjoses of butter. It is of a mild and bland nature, with little odour or taste. When used in salads, or as a seasoning for raw' ve- getables, it checks their fermentation • No man in health can need wine till he arrives at forty; he may then begin with two glasses in the day; at fifty he may add two more.—See Trotter, on Drunkenness.— .Also, the .Art. ll'inc, passim.