AL AL 8 the effects which substances of dif- ferent degrees of digestibility pro- duce on the stomach. The chyle, when prepared of substances not easily digestible, is solid and con- centrated, and consequently affords a substantial muscular fibre; but such substances as the stomach can- not digest, ought never to be used as food. The stomach is enabled to prepare the best chyle from simple substances, and will thence produce themosthealthy fluids; consequently, it is an important nile of diet to eat, if possible, of one kind of meat only, or at all events, to eat of that dish first which is the most palatable. At a table dietetically arranged, those foods ought to be commenced with which are most difficult to be di- gested, and the meal comjfleted with that which is most easy; because the former require stronger digestive powers, and more bile and saliva, all of which become more defective to- wards the end of a meal. The power of digestion is unquestionably most vigorous and active when that organ is not too much distended; and the coarser kinds of substances also re- quire a longer time for being duly assimilated. Much controversy has arisen at various times among physiologists and philosophers, whether the Crea- tor intended man to derive his cor- poreal support from the animal or vegetable kingdom, or from both. Dr. Lambe, among others, supports the vegetable system; for he has “ ascertained that those who confine tliemselves to this aliment do not require any e.vtraordinary stimulus; and they have not accustomed them- selves to the use of wine or spiritu- ous liquors.” The late Baron Haller, on the other hand, maintained that tlie stomach of man is formed between that of carnivorous and herbivorous animals, namely, that it partakes of both ; but he informs us, at the same time, that it approaches more to the graminivorous; and the late John Hunter asserted, that the human stomach is the link between animals that live on vegetables, and those which are entirely carnivorous. Mr. Abernethy inclines to this opinion, and does not believe that any differ- ence exists in chyle formed from animal or vegetable food. The great variety of substances which man is not only capable of digesting, but from which his organs can extract wholesome nourishment, contributes very essentially to his wide extension over the face of the habitable globe. In almost all ages there have been disputes concerning the food best suited to the nature of man; that is, whether a mixed ali- ment, or one purely animal or ve- getable, be most favourable to the development of the bodily and mental power. Now, with regard to the efiects of these aliments on man, it must be observed, that there are no persons wdio live entirely on vegetables. The Pythagoreans themselves ate milk ; and those who do so, mostly, as the Pythagoreans, are weakly, sickly, and meagre; la- bouring under a constant looseness, and several other diseases. The hardy and robust never live on these, but chiefly such as gain a livelihood by the exertion of their mental faculties, as in the Indies, factors and broker's; and this me- thod of life is now confined to hot climates, where vegetable diet, with- out incumbrance, may bo carried to great excess. And, although it be granted that man is intended to live promiscuously on these different foods, j'et the vegetable should be in a very great proportion. The inhabitants of Lapland are said to live exclusively on animal food; though it is contradicted by Liunmus, who says, that besides milk, which they take in a sour state to obviate the bad efl'ects of animal food, they use also ca/ame- nyanthes, and many other plants, copiously. Hence, there is no in-