172 HU HU arguments is characterized by a pe- culiar sensation in the region of the stomach called hunger, and by a general feebleness, more or less marked. This feeling is generally renewed after the stomach has been for some time empty: it is variable in its intensely acid nature in differ- ent individuals, and even in the same individual. In some, its vio- lence is excessive; in others, it is scarcely felt: some never feel it, and eat only because the time of re- past is come. Many pessons per- ceive a drawing, a pressure more or less painfid in the epigastric region, accompanied by yawnings, and a particular noise, produced by the gases contained in the stomach, which becomes contracted. When this want is not satisfied, it increases, and may become a severe pain ; the same takes place with the sensation of weakness and general fatigue which is felt, and which may in- crease so as to render the motions difficult, or even impossible. Hunger, appetite itself, which is only its first degree, ought to be-dis- tinguished from that feeling which induces us to prefer one sort of food to another; from that which causes us, during a repast, to choose one dish rather than another. These feelings are very different from real hunger, which expresses the true wants of the economy; they, in a great measure, depend on civiliza- tion, on habits, and certain ideas relative to the properties of aliments. Some of them are in unison with the season and climate, and then they are equally legitimate as hun- ger itself—such as that which in- clines us to a vegetable regimen in hot climates or during the heat of summer. There arc, morever, certain circumstances which render hunger more intense, and cause it to return at nearer intervals; such as, a cold and dry air, winter, spring, cold-baths, dry frictions upon the skin, exercise on horseback, walk- ing, bodily fatigue, and generally all the causes which set the action of the organs in play, and accelerate the nutritive process with which hunger is essentially connected. Some substances being introduced into the stomach excite a feeling like hunger, but which ought not to be confounded with it. There are causes, also, which diminish the cer- tainty of hunger, and which prolong the periods at which it habitually manifests itself; among which may be enumerated residence in warm climates, and inhabiting damp places, inactivity of bod}' and mind, de- pressing passions, and, in fact, all the cu'cumstances that interrupt the organs, that diminish the activity of nutrition. (See Nutrition). Also opium and hot drink, by being car- ried into the digestive canals, prevent hunger, or cause it to cease. Like all other internal sensations, hunger arises from the action of the nervous system; it has no other seat than this system itself, and no other causes than the general laws of or- ganization. The cause of hunger has alternately been attributed to the providence of the vital pi-inciple, and the frictions of the sides of the stomach against each other; to the dragging of the liver upon the dia- phragm; to the action of bile upon the stomach; to the acrimony and acid- ity of the gastric juice; to fatigue of the contracted fibres of the stomach; to compression of the nerves of the latter viscus, &c. The appetite for food may be im- paired, excessive, or depraved. The sensation of hunger is seated in the stomach; and like that of thirst, is a natural or instinctive desire. It may, however, become diseased, and lose its natural character; and this in vari- ous ways, and accompanied with vari- ous sets of symptoms, each of which lays a foundation for a distinct spe- cies of the disease, though hitherto omitted in most nosologies, or loosely scattered over diflerent parts of the