BR BR 41 casks on racking the wine from one vessel to another, for the sake of fining it; and a still worse sort from the cake and refuse of the winepress, fermented for the purpose, with the addition of water;* when first dis- tilled, brandy is white like water, but by keeping in oak casks it accpiires a deep colour; and improves by- keeping. Extract of oak is frequently dissolved in it, to give it a false ap- pearance of age. The art of distilling brandy- and other spirits was first brought into Europe by the Moors of Spain, about the year 1150. They- learned it of the African Moors, who had it from the Egyptians; and these are said to have practised it in the reign of the Emperor Dioclesian, though it was unknown to the ancient Greeks and Romans. The intemperate use of brandy and other spirituous liquors is a de- testable practice, which includes in its consequences almost every- evil, physical and moral; it attenuates the body, impairs the strength, stupi- fies the brain, and, in most instances, shortens the duration of human ex- istence. See Ardent Spirits. The utility of brandy is every ^vhere considerable; but from its pleasant taste and exhilarating j>ro- perty, it is too often taken to excess. When, however, it is used mode- rately, it gives energy- to the animal functions, it is powerfully tonic, cor- dial, and antispasmodic; and its uti- lity in gangrenous affections is very- great. In the spasmodic cholera, which so alarmingly prevailed of late • Mr. Consett, in his .Sweedisli '('cur, says they make the low-piieed brandy in that country from rye and a species of ants—a large black insect very plenti- ful there; and which the natives think highly palatable and pleasant to eat. In Virginia and Maryland, peaches and apples afford brandy. That made from the former, iMr. Cooper deems as fine a lirpior as ever he tasted. throughout the British dominions, its judicious exhibition in conjunc- tion with the tincture of opium, has frequently- been attended with the most beneficial results; and in giving a new character, after the adminis- tration of the usual remedies, to choleric attacks of the bowels, brandy has superseded, in the most efficient manner, all the tonics of the phar- macopceia, when given with proper caution, and the spirit has been genuine. There was formerly a certain pro- batory experiment, by means of which it was supposed that French In-andy could be distinguished from malt spirit; and likewise genuine from adulterated brandy—indeed, this or some such-like test remains, we be- lieve, still a desideratum—although a connoisseur in brandy will draw a tolerably correct inference as to qua- lity, from the smell, taste, as well as colour of this spirit. The test liquor used for this ex])eriment is of a dusky yellow tincture—indeed, the muriatic tincture of iron appears to answer the same purpose. The following is the method of using it:— Fill a glass with the brandy that is suspected, and into this glass put one, two, or three drops of the above tinc- ture, more or less, according to the quantity you arc testing; and if the brandy be good and genuine, there immediately appears at the bottom of the glass a very beautiful blue colour, which, if stirred, and well mixed with the rest of the brandy, tinges it entirely of an azure; but if the spirits be the produce of malt, no such tincture will be seen in the glass, this kind retaining its original tincture, though tvventy times the quantity of the test li(]uor be added. And, therefore, this method of prov- ing does, according to the opinion of the merchants generally, serve to dis- tinguish ])urc malt spirits from pure French brandy. Neumann, the celebrated chemist, was at first very much pleased . ith L