IN IN 179 Dr. Parry considers indigestion to consist of such a state of the villous coat of the stomach or intestines, or both, as subjects them to be morbidly susceptible of irritation from certain kinds of food, or certain changes of the food, which are not perceived, or produce no uneasiness in healthy stomachs; and this afiection of the villous coat, throughout all its de- grees, up to inflammation itself, is apt to be followed by sympathetic or symptomatic afiections of the se- cretory arteries or glands seated in it, and often of the muscular coat of the ahmentary canal itself. Dr. Paris, in his book on Diet, though we con- fess, rather gratuitously, beheves that such an afiection is the general con- sequence, although not the cause of dyspepsia. In the treatment, there- fore, of this complaint, sedatives may, on such conclusion, be inter- posed with advantage. Protracted indigestion not unfrequently depends upon a morbid condition of the ali- mentarj' surfaces; the mucous mem- brane becomes affected, and the dis- order is not removed until measures have been practised to restore the healthy secretions of this bowel. “ A fretful state of the intestinal dis- charges is generally associated with such a disturbance, and I have found the administration of a lenient purge, every morning, with small doses of the vinum colchii (wine of meadow saffron) repeated twice a day, emi- nently successful in such cases,”— taking care to interpose occasional la.xativcs. Purgatives that act with violence are always followed with an aggravation of the .symptoms. Brous- sais, a French physician, with whose doctrines practitioners are well ac- quainted, maintains that every disease arises from an inflammatory condi- tion of the digestive canal; and, as observed by Dr. Paris, “ although the absurdity of such a proposition must be admitted, we shall act wisely in suspecting the existence of such a state of disease in protracted d3'spep- sia; permanent tenderness upon pres- sure, and the appearance of the dis- charges from the bowels, will gene- rally announce such a condition; and lenient purges, the application of leeches, and a low diet, will furnish the best method of treatment. “What- ever,” as Dr. Philip remarks, “tends to restore a healthy nervous power to the stomach, tends to form the food into that substance which is best fitted to excite muscular fibres of this organ ; and whatever excites the natural action of these fibres, tends to relieve the nerves from their load, and, in the most favourable way, to bring into contact with their extre- mities the food on which, through the intervention of the gastric fluid, their powers are to be exerted.” The general treatment of indi- gestion will, as may be seen by the preceding collection of observations, depend much upon the complexion of the case: — 1st. discovering the origin and seat of the disease; and, secondly, by attacking the symptoms in the order of their suc- cession. If it arise from a lax or weakened state of the stomach, in which either the secretions are scanty or vitiated, or the muscular powers of that bowel have lost their vigour, we have first to remove, as far as in our power, the remote causes wliich may have produced the disorder. The first passages must be cleared of all foul accumulations, and their return pre- vented, hj' means of strict adherence to a diet most likely to ensure its digestion, and by the careful use of aperient medicine, which may carry off all superfluous materials. The functions of the skin are next to be restored, and a general energy com- municated to the body, by means of such remedies as are known to strengthen and invigorate the nerv- ous system ; in conjunction with air, exercise, bathing, change of scene.