24 AS AR or pulp of tlie seeds of the Rixa, or Roucou, a tree common in the warm parts of South America. The wax, or pulp, in which the seeds are en- closed, is a cool, agreeable, rich cor- dial, and has been long in use among the Indians and Spaniards in Ame- rica, who still mix it with their cho- colate, both to heighten the flavour and raise the colour. AROMA.—The odorous princi- ple of plants and other substances. It was formerly called spiritus rector. Water charged with aroma, is called the distilled water of the snbstance made use of; for instance, lavender and peppermint waters, are water impregnated with the aroma of the lavender and peppermint. AROMATIC. — Applied to any gratefnl scent, and of an agreeable pungent taste, as cinnamon,' bark, cardamoms, &c. ARRACK.—See Araclc. x‘\RROW-ROOT. — The powder of the arrow-root is imported from the East-Indies. It appears to af- ford a larger proportion of nutritive mucilage than any vegetable hitherto discovered. It constitutes an excel- lent article of diet for weakly chil- dren, invalids, and convalescents. ARTICHOKES.—These afford a light and tender food, perhaps still more nutritive, but less diuretic than asparagus; and for this reason they are preferable for culinary purposes. They are of a hot and dry nature. The heads slit in quarters and eaten raw, with oil, a little vinegar, salt and pepper, after dinner, are a grate- ful qualification to a glass of wine. When tender and small, they eat well fried crisp in fresh butter with pars- ley. In Italy they are sometimes boiled, and as the scaly leaves open, basted with fresh butter or sweet oil. The stalk is blanched in autumn, and the pith eaten raw or broiled. They are preserved fresh all winter, by separating the leaves after parboil- ing, allowing to every bottom a small earthen glazed pot, and smothering it as they do wild fowl, &c., with melted butter; or, if more than one, in a larger vessel, they may be laid layer upon layer, and treated in the same manner. They are also pre- served by stringing them on pack- thread, and inteiqjosing a clean piece of paper between every bottom, to prevent them from touching one an- other, and hanging them in a drj' place. They are likewise pickled.— “ It is not many years,” says Mr. Evelyn, “ since this noble thistle came first to us from Italy, improved to its present magnitude by culture, and so rare in England, that they are commonly sold for five shillings a-piece.” It may be further ob- served, that the stalks of the Spanish Cardoon, a wild and smaller species of the artichoke, with shai-p pointed leaves and lesser head, is very tender, and being blanched, are served up without any condiments.—See Aspa- ragus—Skirreis, &c. ASPARxA.GIN.—A peculiar vege- table principle which spontaneously forms in the juice of the asparagus, that has been evaporated to the con- sistence of synip. ASPx\RAGUS.—An excellent ar- ticle of nutriment, though somewhat flatulent and diuretic in its effects. The young shoots of this plant are not only the most palatable, but at the same time the most salutary. As a good substitute for it, the young buds of hops are recommended, which are more easily procured, scarcely inferior to the former in taste, and, on account of their aro- matic quality, are very grateful and wholesome.—See Vegetables, Intro- duction of—Artichoke—Skirret. ASSES MILK.— Nutritive and emollient in consumption, &c. x-VSSES MILK, ARTIFICIAL. —x\sses milk, not inferior in its pro- perties to the natiu-al, may be made by the following process:—'fake of eryngo root or sea holljq and pearl barley, each half an ounce; liquorice root, three ounces; water, two pounds.