353 TR Til IS positive that if a person accustomed to wine would relinquisli it for malt liquor, a few weeks would convince him of the superiority of the home- brewed over the foreign stuff’. No spi- rits are ever permitted, not even with water, under any pretence or consider- ation whatever. We may also men- tion, that no milk is allowed, as it is, particular!}' when strong and creamy, of a fattening and weakening quality. No drink is permitted before meals, unless there be distressing thirst. The articles of food and drink, tliough of primary 2iecessity, are far from being sufficient to complete the art of training. You may, indeed, most rigidly avoid slops and boiled mutton, beef and greens, beans and bacon, pea soup, strong brandy, and all such weakening stuff's, and you may regulate your meals and the quantity of malt liquors to the near- est point of these directions, and still be as far wide of proper training, 'file human system is so constituted, that it requires many concurring circumstances, all acting towards a genei'alend, to accomplish the wished for object of giving to it the highest measure of strength, and hence the supreme folly of those who go to their apothecaries aiid their physi- cians, and say, “Do, doctor, give me something to strengthen me.” There is, you may bo assured, no such thing in e.'cistence as a strengthening me- dicine, or it would have, long ere this, been discovered, if not by the doctors, at least by the training getiius of Jackson, Barclay, or John Smith. Indirectly, indeed, there may be such a thing: a lancet, for ex- ample, is a capital strengthener when it serves to remove an op[)ressive and weakening quantity of blood; or a blue pill, when it drives a mass of stagnant bile from the liver into the bowels, and so puts the machinery of digestion into order. But the only genuine art of strengthening must not be limited to one or two things alone, but should comprehend proper food and drink, good air, the due regulation of sleep, the due propor- tion of healthy exercise and intervals of rest, and the proper quantity and kind of clothing. The intention of exercise in train- ing, is to brace the sinews and the muscles, and give them ease and agility, while at the same time the perspiration produced carries off' the fat—well known to be the clog of activity and the sui'e test of weak- ness, usually arising from gross living and indolence. The more frequently and vigorously any member of the body is exercised, the more blood will flow to that member. The practical rule which this philosophy teaches us then, is, that whatever member you wish to make strong— exercise it vigorously and constantly, for a long period, which will to a certainty drive thither a superabund- ant flow of nourishing blood and ren- der it vigorous. The second inten- tion of exercise is to promote ease and agility; and the science of this is founded on the law of our system, that the oftener we do any thing it becomes the easier, and the more glibly do the sinews and muscles slide upon one another. Behold a dancer or a player on the piano-forte, and you will see with what ease and ra- pidity they perform the most com- plicated movements; and all from repeated exercise. This is not, however, of so much moment as the reduction of fat by perspiration, which, in training, is eff'ected by hard cxci'cisc. But exercise is no less effectual in j)rcvcnting the col- lection of fat, than removing it when collected. The indolent and idle, who load their stomachs with fat pork, or thick muddy porter, or any other improper diet, and never move a muscle of their body when they can avoid it, must become fat in the following way; fat is the su- ])crfluou3 nourishment which the blood, in its sluggish course, can find no place in want of, and it accord- 2 n 3