166 HE HE two ounces: by roasting, the shoulder, thirty-one pounds one ounce; the neck, thirty-two pounds four ounces; the loin, tliirty-five pounds nine ounces. Hence, generally speaking, mutton, by boiling, loses one-fifth of its original weight, and beef about one-fourth; again, mutton and beef lose, by roasting, about one-third of their original weight. Vegetable substances are most commonly boiled or baked, or if apparently fried or roasted, there is always much water present, which revents the greater action of the re from penetrating below the sur- face. The universal effect of cook- ing upon vegetables is to dissolve some of their constituents in the water, such as the mucilage and starch; and to render those that are not properly soluble, as the gluten and the fibre, softer and more pulpy, consequently easier of digestion.— See Temperature, reduction of. HEATH. —(Erica Vulgaris, L.) —The young tops of the heath are said to have formerly been used alone to brew a kind of ale; and even now the inhabitants of Isla and Jura continue to brew a very potable liquor, by mixing two-thirds of the tops of the heath with one of malt.—See Lightfoot’s Flora Scot- tica. HEDGE-HOGS. — Hedge-hogs are eaten in many parts of the world; and in Germany the country peojffe use them as we do other kinds of animal food: they are said to be pleasant to the taste, to strengthen the stomach, to loosen the bowels, and provoke urine, though rather hard of digestion. They were once considered as a great delicacy. HERRINGS.—Tlie great colony of heiTings, we are told, sets out from the icy sea about the middle of winter, composed of such numbers as exceed all imagination. The main body begins in a certain latitude, into two grand divisions, one of which moves westward, and pours down the coast of America; the other takes a more easterly direction, and falls in with the great island of Ice- land, about the beginning of March. The Shetland isles oblige them again to divide into two shoals, which shape their course along the eastern and western coasts of the British isles; and the last are observed to be much fatter, as well as considerably more abundant than those on the east side. The immediate cause of these mi- grations is supposed to be their strong desire to remove to warmer seas for the sake of depositing their sjiawn, where it will vivify w'ith more certainty than under the frigid zone. It cannot be from defect of food that they leave the polar regions, whatever that food may be, for they come to us fidl of fat, and on their return are generally observed to be very lean.* The inestimable benefit which this jffentiful supply of food would prove to the wretched peasantry of the western coasts of Scotland, is how- ever, says Dr. Garnett, in a great measure prevented by the impolicy of the salt laws, which, though now removed, cannot fail to remind many of our readers of Thomson’s jjathe- tic lines on the same subject. Oh ! is there not some patriot in whose power, That best, that god-like luxury, is placed Of blessing thousands, thousands yet unborn. Thro’ late posterity! to give A double lianest to the pining swain. And teach the labouring hand the sweets of toil 1 With venturous oar, How to dash wide the billow; not look on Shamefully pas.sive, while Batavian fleets. • From a series of facts and observa- tions on tlic migration of the herring : see Dr. Anderson’s Sixth Volume of Recreations, where the commonly re- ceived opinion of the annual passage of this genus of polar fish is erroneous.