SU su 319 Sugar.—Having suffered your sugar to boil longer than in the last degree, dip a stick into the sugar, and im- mediately put it into a pan of cold water, which you must have in readiness for that purpose ; draw off the sugar that hangs to the stick into the water, and if it becomes hard, and snaps in the water, it has ac- quired the proper degree; but if otherwise, you must boil it till it answers that trial. You must take particular care that the water you use for this purpose be very cold, otherwise it will lead to mistakes. .5. Fifth degree, called Carmel Sugar.—To obtain this degree your sugar must boil longer than in either of the former operations. Y^ou must prove it by dipping in a stick, first into the sugar and then into cold water; and you must obsei've that as soon as it comes to the carmel height it will snap like glass the moment it touches the water, which is the highest and last degree of boiled sugar. Take care that your fire be not very fierce when you submit the sugar to this opei'ation, lest, flaming up the side of the pan, it should cause the sugar to burn, which would discolour and spoil it. If refined sugar be used either in the various processes of confectionery or w'et preserves in syrup, it need only be melted over the fire in a quarter, or, at most, one-third of water, and as the water evaporates the syrup must be taken up with a large .spoon, and let fall again into the pan. If during this manipula- tion it forms a broad sheet as it falls, it is said to be boiled to a candy height, and will exhibit, when taken from the fire, but still warm, 30“ of Beaume’s hydrometer ; if it has not been boiled (luitc so far, the sheet is formed but imperfectly, and it exhi- bits a smaller number of degrees; it is then said to be boiled to a weak candy height. In shaking the ladle of syrup when in this state, it runs over in the form of the feathers of a quill. or drops in the manner of pearls, which, being received in a glass of water, ought to fall to the bottom in solid and brittle globules. If the boiling be continued a little longer these effects are produced in a more perfect manner, and the syrup exhi- bits 37“ by the hydrometer; it is then said to be boiled to a full candy height: if it now be stiiTed until it becomes cold, it forms a dry pow- dery mass. As all the wmter is now evaporated, if the sugar is continued on the fire, it begins to turn red, and acquires a burnt taste. To preserve fruits then, which are the substances usually preserved in syrup, the latter is boiled to a w’eak candy height, and poured hot upon the fruit so as to cover it: the juice of the fruit of course weakens the syrup, which must, therefore, be poured off the next day and reboiled to the former height, and then pour- ed on the fruit again, and this must be repeated even a third or fourth time, if the fruit be very juicy, until you are sensible the syrup is no longer weakened by the juice of the fruit. Drg Preserves in Sugar. — First soak j'our fruit, if it be juicy, in hard water or in w’eak alum water, to harden it, and then drain it. Upon the fruit, either prepared or not, syrup boiled to a certain height, and half cold, is to be poui'cd on it. After some hours, the syrup, weak- ened by the juice of the fruit, is poured off, reboiled, and poured on again, and this to bo repeated a third time if necessary. When the syrup is judged to he no longer weakened, the fruit is taken out of it and drained. Candied Angelica.—The stalks arc to be boiled for a quarter of an hour in water, to take away their bitter- ness, and some of their strong scent; they are tlicn to be ])ut into a syrup boiled to a full candy height; kept on the fire till they appear quite dry, and then taken out and strained.