128 FO PL duces, on grinding, dOflbs. meal, which, by dressing, is resolved into 48lbs. second flour, 4Jibs, fine pol- lard, 4 lbs. coarse pollard, and 2|lbs. bran; 2 lbs. being lost in the process. A sack of second flour, or five bushels, weighing by law 250lbs., requires generally 3 or 4 ounces alum, some- times from 2 to 8, with 4 lbs. com- mon salt, half a gallon yeast, and about 3 gallons of water, producing about 80 quartern loaves, sometimes 82 or 83. A sack of flour, 3 ounces alum, Gibs, common salt, one bushel potatoes, 3 lbs. yeast, with water q. s., produces a white, light, and highly valuable bread. A sack of indifferent flour, 1 lb. magnesia, with salt, yeast, and water as usual, makes excellent bread,—See Bread. It is generally supposed that an imperfect kind of fermentation, ana- logous to that in the preparation of wine or beer, takes place in making bread, but others deny this, because this dough does not yield any ardent spirit on distillation, although the same dough diluted with water, and left to ferment for sixteen hours, yielded a portion of spirit; the dough also falls so rapidly, that it cannot be supposed the fermentation is finished. The bakers, in summer time, when the yeast is turned acid, are in the habit of adding a little sub-carbonate of potash or of ammonia, which raises the dough in a few minutes ; mineral waters containing much carbonic acid raise the dough without the addition of yeast; and other substances which contain much enveloped air, also ren- der the dough spongy, as eggs heaten to a froth, or snow water.—Seeleffih FLOUR, Barley.—When made into bread with yeast, it requires the dough to be baked very soon after it is made, as it grows sour almost im- mediately. A paste of barley meal and water is also used to take the hair off skins, previous to their being tanned. FLOUR, Rye. — Used to make either a sweet bread, raising the dough hy yeast, or an acid bread, by using leaven for that purpose; this last is cooling, not so nourishing as the former, but more suited to an animal diet. FOOD.—In the most extensive signification of the word, food im- plies whatever substances are taken into the body, solid or fluid; but, in ordinary language, it is generally used to represent only the more solid part of our aliment.—See Aliment. In the early ages of the world, men we are told, subsisted chiefly upon such plants and fruits as the earth spontaneously produced: from these they proceeded to eat the flesh of wild animals taken in hunting; hut the numbers of the latter decreasing, and mankind multiplying, their wants taught them the necessity of tilling the ground, that its fmits might be more abundantly increased. In pro- cess of time, to aid their mutual wants, and to protect the weak against the oppression of the strong, men, by general consent, began to assign to each other portions of land, to pro- duce them the supply of vegetables; reason, soon after, suggested the ex- pedient of domesticating certain ani- mals equally to assist them in their labours, and to siqqfly them with food. Hogs, we are told, were the first domesticated animals that ap- peared on their tables, as then they held it to be ungrateful to devour tbe beasts that assisted them in their labours. ^\'hen thej' began to make a free use of domestic animals, they only roasted them : boiling was a refinement in cookery to which for some ages they were strangers; and fish, living in an element which men were unaccustomed to, were not eaten till they became somewhat more civilized.—See J'egetables, See. FOOD, ANIMALS DESTINED FOR.—.\nimal substances are for the most part considered as safe ar- ticles of food. As regards the higher classes (the mammalia and birds), this observation is universally tine