DA 92 DA dissolved by the acid, is gradually introduced into the body, which pro- duces painful and dangerous colics, and frequently gives rise to the most desperate and incurable constipa- tions, among those habituated to the free use of these liquors. The varieties of apples which are grown and cultivated in the different fruit districts of the kingdom, for the purpose of making cyder, are ex- tremely numerous. The following is a list of the most approved:— Styre. Coccagee. Golden Harvey. Red Streak. Golden Pippin. Queening. Cowanne Red. There have been several varieties of apples introduced from Normandy, and are thence called Red Normand, Yellow Norman, &c. Mr. Knight’s new kind are also highly esteemed for cyder. The Dowton Pippin. The Grange Apple. The Foxley, and The Brengewood Pippin. The merit of cyder will depend much on the proper separation of the fruits. Each kind should be collected separately, and kept till it becomes perfectly mellow. Although no cri- terion appears to be known when the proper point of maturity in the fruit may be ascertained with accu- racy ; there is good reason to believe that it improves as long as it conti- nues to acquire a deeper shade of yellow.—See Apples. D. DANDELION (Dens leonis).— The medicinal properties of the dan- delion, are diuretic and cathartic. Macerated in several waters, though somewhat aperient, it is very whole- some eaten as salad, and little in- ferior to succory or endive. The roots are burnt, and used, when ground, as coffee, to which they bear a closer resemblance, both in taste and smell, than any other vegetable. D A R N E L.—A rampant w'eed, that grows much among some barley, from indolence in the farmer, and most where it is sown with the seed barley. It does the least harm amongst malt, because it adds a strength to it, and quickly intoxi- cates, if there is much in it; but where there is but little, the malt- ster pays no attention to it for the sake of its inebriating quality.— There are other weeds or seed which are noxious to barley; but which are all subjected to the screen sieve, throiigh which they escape. DATES.—These are the finit of the palm-tree. They are generally used by us medicinally; being de- tersive, astringent, and good against diseases of the throat. Our dates are brought to us from Egypt, Syria, Africa, and the Indies. The best come from Tunis and Persia. Among the Egyptians and Africans they constitute a principal article of food, but are deemed an unwholesome diet; and persons who eat great quantities of them are said to be- come scorbutic, and lose their teeth betimes. Some assert, howcvei-, that they are a great restorative to dry and exhausted bodies. One particxdar species, called Palma JEgxj'ptica, has been much commended for its virtues against drought; and, as expressed bjf the poet, “ Fruits of the palm-tree, pleasantest to thirst And hunger both.” Milton. Those that are new, large, sweet, full of juice, yellow, ripe, of a firm pulp, that is easily separated from its stone or kernel, and has not been attacked by the worms. The best come from Tunis. They are not much in use with us; but they are