GU GU 156 waters are the best. It is easily digested. Though of a good taste, the sea gudgeon is little used, although it has been recommended to convales- cents. The river one is not much valued; it is about the length and thickness of one’s thumb, and full of small scales, and lives chiefly at the bottom, among the mud—hence, by some Latin authors, called fundulus: it feeds upon weeds, moss, and small leeches that are in the lakes. It is also said not to be sparing of men’s bodies that have been drowned. GUAVA, (The white guava is \he Psidium pyriferum, L.)—A West Indian tree, growing to the height of seven, eight, or twelve feet, with nu- merous branches, and blunt, entire, smooth leaves, two or three inches long; the flowers are in solitary peduncles and sweet smelling; fruit bigger than a hen’s egg, roundish or oblong, smooth, yellow; pulp firm, full of bony seeds, flesh-coloured, sweet, aromatic, and pleasant. It is eaten with avidity, both by West Indians and Europeans, raw in the dessert, and preserved with sugar. It has grown here as a stone plant since 1566 ; it is propagated by seeds from ripe fruits brought over. The red guava {P. Porniferian, L.) has a beautiful fruit crowned like a pome- granate; but it is not so agreeable to eat as the other. Cattley's guava (P. Cattleianum) is a uew sjtecies, introduced from China by Messrs. Barr and Brooks, nurserymen, and fruited by W. Cattley, E. II. S., in 1820. The plant resembles the other species in general habit and appear- ance, but the fruit is larger, nearly spherical, of a fine deep claret colour, growing in the axilla of the leaves. The skin has much the consistence of that of a ripe fig, but is thinner. The interior is a soft fleshy pulp, purplish-red next the skin, but be- coming paler towards the middle, and at the centre it is quite white. It is juicy, and in consistence is much like a strawberry, to which it bears some resemblance in flavour.—Hort. Tram. iv. pi. xi. .317. GURNET.—The flesh of the red and grey gurnets is firm and solid; and yields a tolerably good nourish- ment, and not so watery as many other kinds of fish. GUM.—The best known example of gum, is gum arable, which exudes • spontaneously from several shrubs in warm climates. Pure gum is with- out colour, but it is most usually found tinged with other vegetable juices. The distinction between this and mucilage is, in a dietetic point of view, of very little moment. The experiments of M. Magendie, would lead us to believe that gum is not nutritive ; but we have facts no less decisive that it is. Bruce {Travels, vol. iii.), tells us, that the caravans from Abyssinia to Cairo, when their provisions are exhausted, frequently live for days together on gum arable. The Moors also of Lybia and Senegal use it for food. Linnaeus gives one instance, of more than a hundred men who lived wholly upon it during a siege of two months. But, not- withstanding these facts in favour of gum, it must be allowed only a slightly nutritive property. — AIu- cilage is much a kiu to gum, and is more abundant in the ordinarj' vege- tables brought to our tables—such as carrots, parsnips, beet, turnips, as- par.agus, spinage, lettuce, artichokes, cucumbers, and green peas, which sec.