23 AR AR mitations be useful, as they increase the elasticity ami compactness of the vessels. But to those whose fibres are already rigid, spirits are obvi- ously pernicious, and have a ten- dency to bring on premature old age. They arrest the growth, and are otherwise improper for young per- sons. That they incrassate and co- agulate the fluids, we may easily discover in those addicted to the use of them: they have a thick blood, are troubled with constant obstruc- tions of the intestines, and their un- avoidahle consequences; such as a gradual depravation of the nervous system, loss of memory, mental de- hility, hypochondriasis, jaundice, dropsy, and at length consumption of the lungs. The throat and sto- mach of habitual tipplers are ren- dered callous, and at length almost closed, the glands are indurated, and consequently digestion is in the high- est degree impaired. Punch, a well known beverage, the composition of which requires no de- scription, as it may be made of every kind of spiritous liquor, diluted with water, acid, and sugar. If a proper quantity of acid he used, it is an ex- cellent antiseptic, and well calculated to supply the place of wine, in resist- ing putrefaction, especially if drunk cold,with plenty of sugar; it also pro- motes perspiration; but if drunk hot, and immoderately, it creates acidity in the stomach, weakens the nerves, and gives rise to complaints of the breast. After a heavy meal it is im- proper, as it may retard digestion, and injure the stomach; those troubled, therefore, with disorders of the chest, or piles, should use it sparingly, if at all.—See Port Wine. Dr. Cheyne, in his “ Essay on Long Life,” published 172G, has the following passage in it, in whicli he gives his opinion of puncli, which ought not to be omitted here. “ Next to drams,” says he, “no liquor de- serves more to be stigmatized, and banished the repasts of the tender valetudinary, and students, than 'punch. ’T is a composition of such parts as not one of them is salutary or kindly to such constitutions, e.x- cept the pure element in it.” “ I could never see any temptation, or any one in their senses, to indulge in this heathenish liquor, hut that it makes its votaries the soonest drunk, holds them longest in the fit, and deprives them the most entirely of the use of their intellectual faculties and bodily organs, of any liquor w'hatsoever. It is likest opium in its nature, and in the manner of its operation, and nearest arsenic in its deleterious and poisonous qualities: so I leave it to them.” There is little question that this opinion was the result of the Doctor’s personal experience; and, when carried to excess, there are not many punch drinkers who might not, on reflection, allow the censure to be just.—See Brandy, Rum, t^'c. ARECA.—The areca nut is the produce of a tree nearly resembling the cocoa in height and shape, except that its trunk is smaller, and its leaves shorter. From below these last there proceeds a long mass, which forms a bunch or parcel of fruit, like nuts or apricots; the flower is likewise mixed among the fruit. Two months after it has fallen off, the husks which en- velope the fruit of the areca, begin to open and drop off. Then an oblong fruit appears, of the bulk of a prune, of a whitish and shining colour ; its shell becomes firm, compact and red- dish ; the pulp which it contains is of a brown cast, bordering on red, soft and astringent to the taste; its nut i-esembles a nutmeg, and con- tains a white kernel. I'he Indians prepare the pulp or kernel of this fruit with the leaves of the betel, dividing a nut into eight or ten parts.—(See Betel). Charcoal of the areca nut is extensively used as a dentifrice. ARNOTTA. — Principally em- ployed in dyeing an elegant red co- lour; is prepared from the pellicles