GI GI 147 BLACK.—They are both the same root; but the white is decorticated, rasped and blanched in the sun. It is the root of a perennial plant grow- ing in the East and West Indies. It has a very biting, pungent taste; but when swallowed it does not produce that glow of heat in the stomach which pepper or cinnamon does; it does not affect the nerves of the stomach in an equal degree, therefore becomes a salutary and useful cordial, as not producing that stimulus which is apt to produce indirect debility. It is carminative, and in flatulencies of the nervous kind nothing is better. For this purpose a cold infusion is best; in the proportion of half an ounce of the fresh powdered root to a pint of water, a wine-glass full for a dose, with the addition of from ten to twenty drops of the tincture of opium, if the complaint be attended with pain. Ginger is one of the most agree- able and wholesome spices, especially boiled whole in beer, and drank by people moving in the open air, and in cold weather. But this spice as employed by bakers for gingerbread, does a great deal of mischief, espe- cially to the stomachs of children, though it may occasionally be ser- viceable to travellers, early in the morning, and on an empty stomach. Ginger makes a very fine and rich cordial syrup. The tincture of gin- ger is a highly useful and cheap tincture, and in hospitals and other places, ought to he substituted for those of cinnamon, lavender, &c. It is useful in dropsy, and in greeii sickness, combined with steel. It is extensively used in the kitchen. Ginger expels wind, provokes urine, disperses and attenuates gross humours, increases seed, helps di- gestion, and creates an appetite. Its too frequent use inflames the humours and makes them very sharp. It agrees in cold weather with aged people, the phlegmatic, and those whose humours are gross and but little in motion, those who digest their victuals with difficulty, and such as are subject to wind. It is injurious to young peojde of a hot and bilious constitution. When gin- ger is young and tender, it is cut into slices, and eaten in the East Indies as a salad, prepared with oil and vinegar. In this manner we are prevented from using it, as it does not reach us until after it lias been well dried. GINGER BEER. —A cooling, carminative beverage; and may be made as follows:— Take Lump sugar . . 3lb. Bruised ginger . 2oz. Cream of tartar . loz. Lemon sliced . No. 4. Boiling water . 4gall. Yeast .... 8oz. Work for four days, and bottle. Ginger Beer in Poivders. Take Lump sugar, 1 drachm, 2 scruples. Ginger, in powder, 5 grains. Prepared natur, 26 grains, in each hhie paper; and in each while paper, tartaric acid, 30 grains. GINGER, pRESEKVED.—Ginger is pi’cserved as soon as it is dug out of the earth, with sugar. It is first steeped in water to diminish its pun- gency. In this condition it is of gr-eat service at sea, in scurvy and other cases. Preserved ginger ought to be thick, softish, of a good colour, and pleasant taste. Its syrup ought to be white and well boiled. A little bit, about the bigness of a hazel nut, is eaten at a time. GIZZARD. —The stomach of poultry. 'I’liose from white flesh have long been considered, in France, as medicinal. Tliey have been re- commended in obstructions of the urinary passage.s, complaints of the bladder, and nejihritic pains; but particularly as a febrifuge. Bouillon iyagrange, a French chemist, con- siders its principal substance as