VE 364 VE commonly imagined. It is matter of just complaint, that the same in- jurious methods are practised in the rearing and management of calves, as have been already noticed with regard to lambs. By such treat- ment the quality of the meat is much depraved. Although veal affords less nourishment than the flesh of the same animal in a state of ma- turity, it contains many nutritious and earthy particles, and produces little or no disposition to flatulency; it ought not, however, to he exposed in the market, till the calf is at least six weeks old, and have been fed, if possible, on the mother's milk. Veal is not of a heating nature, and may therefore be allowed to febrile pa- tients in a very weak state, especially with the addition of some acid : it is also the most proper food for persons who have a disposition to hemor- rhage. On account of the great proportion of viscidity it contains, persons disposed to phlegm and com- plaints of the abdomen, ought to abstain from its use. For these reasons, veal-broth is recommended, especially in pectoral and inflam- matoi-y diseases. The lungs, the liver, and tongue of calves, are less viscous than the flesh; and being soft, mild, and easily digested, they are very proper for sick persons and convalescents. No animal fat is lighter than this : it shews the least disposition to putres- cency ; and it may therefore be used, in preference to any other, by per- sons of a scorbutic taint. The fat of veal shoidd not be boiled, as that operation softens its fibres too much, dissolves the jelly, and renders it unfit for digestion. But, by roasting, it becomes drier, and somewhat more solid; both the serous and thick parts of the blood arc incrassated in the external vessels, the fibres are dried uj), and a crust is formed, be- neath which the fluids are moved, and clianged into a vapour, by the continued application of heat. In this operation all the fibres lie, as it were in a vapour bath, and are per- fectly softened without losing any of the jelly. Roasting, therefore, may be considered as the best mode of preparing this meat for the table. Baking also forms a crust over it like roasting, hut the fat incrassated by heat may occasion inconvenience, as it possesses an oily acrimony, and is with difiiculty digested. — See Training. For the above reason, it is impro- per to eat the burnt crust of any meat, of which some persons are particularly fond, though it contains an empyreumatic oil, highly perni- cious, and altogether indigestible. For roasting, the mellow and juicy kidney piece, or the breast of veal, deserves the preference : the leg is too dry and fibrous ; it requires good teeth to be well chewed, renders their use more necessary than any other dish, and is frequently trouble- some to the stomach. In short, veal does not agree well with weak and indolent stomachs, which require to be exercised with a firmer species of meat. When boiled it is but slightlj' nourishing; and when we make a meal upon veal alone, we soon feel a renewal of the cravings of the appe- tite. For removing the acid from the stomach, veal is the most impro- per article of diet. But to patients just recovering from sickness, first may be given veal-broth, then roasted veal, and lastly, beef. — See Feal, under Butcher's Meat to choose. VEGETABLES. — A substance endowed with life, partlj' or wholly fixed within the earth, and which derives its nutriment from vessels in the outer surface of the roots. Ve- getables form one of the three great divisions of nature. The most strik- ing difl'erence between animals and vegetables is, that the former are in general ca])able of conveying them- selves from jdace to place ; whereas, the latter, being fixed in the same place, absorb, by means of their roots