RO 26!) RO otlier strong spices, that Europeans, on their first arrival, cannot partake of this high-seasoned dish. From a custom so beneficial in its physical effects, it may be inferred, that the Indians, though directed more by instinct than scientific induction, are altogether unacquainted with the rules of diet. One of the best pre- parations of rice is the mucilage, or jelly, which is obtained by boiling two ounces of it ground to fine powder, and a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, in one pint of water, until it becomes a transpai-ent thick hroth ; this when expressed through a cloth, and allowed to cool, is a palatable and wholesome jelly. ROASTING. — The process of dressing meat on a spit which turns before the fire. In roasting, as in boiling, it is presumed that the cook would no more think of using a dirty pot in the one, than a dirty spit in the other; and that before either roasting or boiling be attempted, the necessary culinary utensils are in an equal state of readiness. In roasting all kinds of meat, it will be a useful method to add a little salt and water to the dripping pan, and to baste the meat a little with it. Dry the meat before putting it on the spit, and dredge it well with flour, and baste it with fresh butter, because it will give a better colour to the meat. The fire should be regulated according to the subject you intend to dress. If it should be any thing very little or thin, then you should have a pretty brisk fire, that it may be done quick and nice ; if it be a large joint, then see that a large fire is laid on to cook. Roasting should be done by the radiant heat of a clear glowing fire, otherwise it is in fact baked. The fire should always be clear at the bottom, and when the meat is half done, move the dripping pan and spit a little from the fire, and stir it up to make it burn clear and brisk, for a good fire is a most important material in every branch of cooking. If the substance you are roasting is beef take care to paper the top, and baste it well whilst it is at the fire, not forgetting to throw a sprinkling of salt over it. When the smoke draws towards the fire, it is a sign it is nearly done enough, then take off the paper, baste it well, and dredge it with flour, to make it frothy; but never salt your meat intended for roasting before you lay it to the fire, as that will draw out part of the gravy. If you intend to keep your meat a few days before you dress it, dry it well with a clean cloth, and dredge it all over with flour, hanging it where the air can get to it, but take care that you leave no damp place about it unwiped. In roasting mutton or lamb, the loin, the chine, and the saddle, must have the skin raised and skewered on, and baste and flour it to froth it up. All other sorts of mutton and lamb must be roasted with a quick clear fire, without the skin being raised. You must be careful to roast veal of a fine red colour; and if it be a fillet or loin, be sure to paper the fat, that you may lose as little of it as possible; at first keep it at some distance from the fire, but when it is soaked put it nearer. Never put meat of any description down to a burnt up fire, if you can possibly avoid it; but should the fire become fierce, place the spit at a consider- able distance, and allow a little more time. When you lay down veal, baste it well with butter, and before you lay it down give the fire a good stir, and examine it from time to time while the spit is going round; keep it clear at the bottom, and see tliat there arc no smoky coals at the front of the grate, which will not only spoil the look and taste of the meat, but hinder it from roasting uniformly. When the meat is nearly done, baste it again, and dredge it with a little flour. A breast of veal must be roasted with the caul on, till the meat be done enough, and 2 A 3