DI 95 DI diet. But then I am more alive than ever I was, as soon as I awake, and get up. I rise commonly at six, and go to bed at ten.” In the year 1726 Dr. Cheyne pub- lished “The English Malady:” or a treatise on nervous diseases of all kinds. In the preface to this work he has made some important obser- vations on the milk and vegetable diet, and low regimen; for that it might not be supposed that this diet and low regimen, wliich he recommended to valetudinarians, and those who la- boured under nervous diseases, was thought proper by him for persons in full health and vigour, he asserted that he thought “ thin, poor, cool, low diet, as improper and unnatural to a robust, active, strong, healthy man, as a gross, full, high diet, is for a poor, thin, low, valetudinary crea- ture.” He also says, “ I here so- lemnly declare it, as my judgment and opinion (if it be worth the know- ing) founded on the experience and observation of many years— “ 1st.—That the diet and manner of living of the middling rank, who are but moderate and temperate in foods of the common and natural product of the country, to wit, in animal foods plainly dressed, and liquors purified by fennentation only, without the tortures of the fire, or without being turned into spirits, is that intended by the Author of nature for this cli- mate and country, and consequently the most wholesome, and fittest in general for prolonging life, and pre- venting distempers, that tlie ends of Providence, and the conditions of mortality, will admit. “2dly.—That no wise man, who is but moderate and temperate in this manner, ought on any account to alter the kind and quality of his diet, till he has duly and sufficiently tried what proper medicines can do, by the advice of the most experienced and skilful physicians. “ 3dly.—That the changes that are advised to be made, ought to be duly and maturely considered, and en- tered upon by degrees, whether from a higher to a lower, or from a lower to a higher diet. “dthly.—That strong, high, ani- mal foods, and genuine defecated spirituous liquors, as begetting warm, full, and enlivened juices, urging on the circulation with force, and the secretions with vigour, in young, ro- bust, healthy constitutions, are fittest and most effectual for mechanical and animal force, action, and labour: and so absolutely necessary for han- dicrafts, great fatigue, and military prowess.” It has been conceived that the diet of children and young people ought to consist principally of diluents, in order to facilitate the development of youth. Hence broths, and a large proportion of vegetables and milk, are the chief articles of their diet, and the only and best drink. Seasonings of all kinds should be avoided, and nothing taken of a stimulating na- ture, to induce too early maturity, before the constitution be ripened by years. With complete adolescence, the quantity of food necessary for the period of growth should be abridged; but from the active scenes of life in which the body is then engaged, the food should be of a more stimulating nature, with a proper portion of ani- mal food, regulated according to cir- cumstances: for instance, those who pursue a sedentary and studious mode of life should be more sparing in the use of animal food and stimulating drink; for by excess of nourishment to the body, the intellects are found to be proportionally weakened. Those of a firm and vigorous habit have the greatest disposition to inflammatory disorders. Excesses of all kinds, particularly in the use of fermented liquors, should be carefully avoided. The sanguine or plethoric constitu- tions should restrict their diet chiefly to vegetable food, and their drink to water. The phlegmatic admits a greater latitude in the use of sti-