PI 12(J PI Same remark, though in an inferior degree, applies to fish preserved in vinegar and spice. In general tlie heads and tails, which contain the least fat, are the lightest parts for digestion; and, on the contrary, the belly is the heaviest. Such as have tender flesh are sooner digested than those of a hard and tough consist- ence. Soft and mucilaginous fish, like the eel, are partly composed of an oily slime, partly of tough fibres, and therefore not easily digested. Those living in ponds, ditches, and other standing waters, are certainly less wholesome than i-iver fish, whose exercise is greater, and whose natural element is purer. For standing water easily corrupts, and the fish lodging in the mire of such reservoirs, conti- nually feed upon the putrid parts. But the same kind of river-fish are also of different qualities, according to their different nourishment. Hence, those caught in rivers contiguous to great towns, are less wholesome than others; because they necessarily im- bibe great quantities of the impurities thrown into such receptacles. FISH SAUCE.—Take port wine, 1 gallon ; mountain, 2 pints; walnut ketchup, 4 pints ; anchovies and liquor, 2 lbs. ; lemons. No. 8 ; sha- lots, 3 dozen ; cayenne pepper, q. s. ; scraped horse-radish root, 2 lbs.; mace, 1 ounce; flour of mustard, 8 ounces ; boil up gently, strain and bottle. 2. Anchovies, No. 24 ; shalots. No. lO; horse-raddish root scraped, 3 spoonfuls; mace, cloves, lemons sliced, No. 2 ; anchovy liquor, 8 ounces; Hock or Rhenish wine, 21bs.; water, 1 lb.; boil to 2 lbs., strain ; add walnut ketchup G ounces, and bottle. FI SI I, Preservation of.—Fish may be preserved in the same way as beef or pork, eitbor by dry-salting or ])ickling. The former inetbod is em- ployed to a great e.xtcnt on the banks of Newfoundland, and in Shetland. Dr. Ilibbert thinks that the cod-fish prepared in Shetland will always maintain its pre-eminence over that of all other places. The fish in Newfoundland are said to be ex- posed, after being salted, in standing flakes made by a slight wattle, and supported by poles often twenty feet from the ground. But the humidity is not nearly so well extracted from the fish as when, according to the Shetland method, they are carefully laid out upon dry beaches, the stones of which have been exposed diu-ing the winter to the abrading action of the ocean, and are thus cleansed from animal and vegetable matter.* It has been ascertained that the antiseptic quality'of sugar is suflScient to preserve fish in the most excellent condition. This substance is so ac- tive, that fish may be preserved in a dry state and perfectly fresh, by means of sugar alone, and even with a very small quantity of it. Salmon, whitings, and cod, have been kept for an indefinite length of time; and, by this simple means, fresh fish may be kept in that state some da)'s, so as to be as good when boiled as when just caught. It is added, that if dried and kept free from mouldiness, there seems no limit to their pre- servation ; and they are much better in this way than when salted. The sugar gives no disagreeable taste. This process is particularly valuable in making what is called kippered salmon ; and the fish preserwed in this manner are far superior in flavour and quality to those which ai'e salted or smoked. If desired, as much salt may be used as to give the taste that m.ay be required; but the substance does not conduce to their preserva- tion. In the preparation it is barely necessary to open the fish, and to apply the sngar to the muscular part, placing it in a horizontal position for two or three days, that this substance may penetrate. After this it may • Edinburgh Philosophical Trans* actions. No. 3, p. 144,