WH 394 WI ityields thepeculiar substance termed sugar of ynilk" which may be ob- tained by clarification with the whites of eggs, in the form of crystals. The presence of this saccharine matter neld in solution in whey enables that fluid to undergo the vinous fermen- tation ; and is accordingly employed by the Tartars for making a sort of wine called Koumiss. For this pur- pose the milk of mares is chosen, as it contains a larger proportion of sac- charine matter than that of the cow. Whey also contains several saline bodies, viz., muriate of potass, phos- phates of lime and of iron, and sul- phate of potass; also a peculiar animal matter, which gives a pre- cipitate with infusion of galls, and affords carbonate of ammonia by distillation. From these investigations the con- stituents of skimmed milk from the cow appear to be, according to Ma- jendie—• Water. Curd, with a little cream, 926.75 Sugar of milk, .... 28 Muriate of potass, . . 35 Phosphate of potass, . . 1.70 Lactic acid, acetate of pot-") ass, with a trace of lactate I 0.25 of iron, J 6 Earthy phosphates . . . 0.30 10 0 To make Whey.—Cows’ milk, one pint and a half; cream of tartar, half an ounce; boil the milk, add the salt, and strain. _ 2. Alum Whey.—Cows’ milk, one pint and a half; alum, two drachms and a half; then boil together and strain. 3. Mustard Whey.—Cows’ milk, two pints; bruised mustard seed, two ounces ; boil together and strain. 4. U'ine Whey.—Cows' milk, two pints; spring water, one pint; boil, and add white wine, half a pint. 5. Llarijicd Whey.—Cows’ milk, SIX pints; rennet, q. s. Let it stand in a warm place for some hours. strain, add the whites of three eggs, and cream of tartar, half a drachm ; boil and filter through paper. Whey is highly nutritive, diluent, aperient, and diuretic. It is given in consumptions, dysenteries, jaundice, and other diseases; either alone or mixed with mineral waters, and sometimes impregnated with the juice of medicinal herbs. WHISKEY—(From usquebaugh, the Irish nomenclature for it). A diluted alcohol obtained from distil- ling malt.— See Usquebaugh and Ardent Spirits. WHITE B.\n .—Tliis fish, long supposed to be the fry of some large species, and generally thought to be that of the barbel, is now considered as that of a distinct species. It is reckoned an epicurean dish, hut in the estimation of some gourmands there are other small fry at least equal to it. WHITING. —A sea fish that often comes near the shore. It is very common in our markets, and is valued for the goodness of its taste. It is nutritive, produces good juice, sits light on the stomach, and is easily digested. WILD BOAR.—The wild hoar is very nourishing, and is food that does not waste; but yet easier of digestion than common pork. It produces gross humours, and is not adapted to idle or sedentary habits. The flesh of the wild hoar is good, chiefly in winter, for young people of a hot and bilious constitution, for those who have strong stomachs and work hard. That is best which is fat, and has been well hunted. The wild boar is not of so moist a nature as the common hog, owing to the exercise and different food it lives upon: its flesh consequently is not so viscous, is more agreeable to the taste, and easier of digestion. The flesh is very nourishing, hut, as ob- served, proper only on strong sto- machs and those who use a deal of exercise.