221 OD OD ODOURS.—Scents, whether good or bad, but most properly applied to a sweet one. Fragrance ; pei'fume. There are many things which emit a very rank and disagreeable smell, which, notwithstanding, are noways hurtful to the body, but remedy certain ailments, and discuss and dissipate any turbid or infected air. Of this sort are castoreum, galbanum, sagapenum, assafoetida, the herb an- agyris, or beautrefoil, sulphur, gun- powder, and the stench arising from burnt feathers, leather, and horn. Wo- men are relieved by such smells, and more particularly virgins, in all suffo- cations, strangulations, and hysteric affections; and wherever offensive exhalations proceed from carcasses, marshy grounds and stagnant waters, which beget putrid fevers, dysen- teries, pestilential and contagious diseases, any of the foetid matters just enumer^ited are reputed to meliorate or purge away the nox- ious effluvia. Those who travel into Germany, and many other countries on the Continent, ma}' observe how diligent the inhabitants are, under the apprehension of a plague, or any epidemical disorder, to preseiwe their habitations from infection. The common people are seldom remarkable for delicacy, but must decline it on such occasions, usually burn scraps of leather, horn and bones; and the fumigation is found always powerful enough to expel any malignant quality of the air. Hence the proverb among them, “horns are burnt there,” to denote that places, infected with the plague or contagious diseases, are to be avoided. A similar remedy we find to have been often adopted in populous towns and cities in any grievous epidemy, by the firing off, towards the evening, of great guns. This notion seems to have been borrowed from Hippocrates advising the kindling of great fires in streets, for dissipating clouds and clearing away infection. But if certain fetid smells recommend themselves by their utility, being endued witli qualities truly salubrious, the same cannot be said of those odours that are sweet and agreeable. Nothing is so pernicious to females, and those of delicate constitutions, as the com- bined smell of flowers, especially in any close place from whence the external air is for any time excluded. Fainting fits, and sometimes death, are the consequences of abiding or sleeping amidst the effluvia which emanate from flowers. How many instances have there been of persons becoming delirious, and struck with madness, by breathing the agreeable odour of beans in bloom! There are, indeed, some smells that dis- sipate fumes, and disperse whatever may be unfriendly to the bi'ain, by recruiting animal life, and raising the languid spirits—some of this class are vinegar, rose-water in which cloves have been macerated, and new bread dipt in odoriferous wine ; but there are others which e.xcite pain, and superinduce a torpor, heaviness, and sort of stupefaction, as garlic, onions, leeks, elder, worm- wood, rue, southernwood, and many aromatics which exhale a smoky and heavy odour, affecting the head and twitching the nostrils. In short, whatever is intensely odorous is hurtful to the head, by suddenly attracting heat and moisture to the upper parts; and on some habits of body it acts as^ smoke confined in a room, intercepting and stopping respiration, unless doors or windows are opened to the admission of the air. Physicians, in visiting the sick, and before ever they have seen them, form frequently certain prognostic.-* on the event of the sickness, from tlie cadaverous smell that affects them; but in this respect dogs are more sagacious than men, being at- tracted by the smell of death, and often seeming, before the patient has expired, to demand their prey, or rather to prognosticate the event, by