FR FR 139 Hazelnuts, Plums, Lazeroles, Quinces, Medlars, Pine Apples, Morillo-Cherries, Walnuts. October. Apples, Medlars, Bullaces, black Peaches, and white, Pears, Figs, Quinces, Filberts, Services, Grapes, Hazelnuts, Walnuts. November. Apples, Medlars, Bullaces, Pears, Chestnuts, Services, Grapes, Hazelnuts, Walnuts. December. Apples, Chestnuts, Medlars, Pears, Grapes, Services, Hazelnuts, Walnuts. Fruits are generally regarded as articles rather of luxury than of food, and were we to form an estimate of their value from their abuse, we should certainly be rather disposed to class them under the head of poisons, than under that of aliments. Nothing can have a more mischie- vous tendency towards the invalid than large quantities of apples, pears, and plums, in the shape of a des- sert, after the stomach has already been loaded, and its good nature taxed to the uttermost by its Epi- curean master. But when taken under other circumstances, they con- tribute to health, and appear to be providentially sent, at a season when the body requires that cooling and antiseptic aliment, which fruits in general are so well calculated to afford. Fruit in general possesses strongly resolvent powers, and it is the more beneficial as it comes to maturity at a time when the body is relaxed by the heat of summer, and when the blood has a strong tendency to in- flammation. It is besides of great service in attenuating the thick bilious impurities collected during the summer, and of evacuating them by its laxative virtues. The acid contained in most kinds of fruits is as useful to qiiench thirst, as to re- sist putrefaction. In weak stomachs, however, or such as are filled with impurities and slime, it is apt to ferment, and occasion some incon- venience ; but this may be avoided by temperate use, and especially by eating the fruit boiled. The more sap or juice we meet with in fruit, it will prove the more flatulent; and as the juicy, cooling, and watery species of fruit require strong digestive organs to prevent them from producing fermentation, flatulency, and diarrhoea, a glass of old wine is very proper to promote their digestion. A gentle diarrhoea, brought on by eating ripe fruit in summer, has frequently a salutary effect. Acrid and astringent fruit, being rather a medicine than food, is less hurtful to the healthy and to children than is commonly imagined. Instead of being noxious, as some suppose, in inflammatory disorders, it is of the greatest service. Per- sons of a thick and languid blood cannot eat anything more conducive to health than fruit, as it possesses the property of attenuating and putting such blood in motion; but those of a watery and phlegmatic constitution ought carefully to avoid it. Fruit preserved with sugar is anti- septic and nourishing, but at the same lime flatulent; and if preserved with sugar and spices, it is heating and drying. It is most wholesome when eaten on an empty stomach, which can exert all its powers to expel the air disengaged from it, and to remove it before it begins to fer- ment. Boiling as well as drying corrects tlie flatulent tendency of fresh fruit, so that thus prepared it well agrees with everybody. By either of these methods it is deprived of its superfluous humidity, as well