IN 175 IN diversified. They may be divided into such as are referable to the stomach itself, or to its sympathies with other parts of the body.— (See Digestion, Organs of). Among the first may be enumerated, loss of appetite—nausea, pain in the epigas- trium or hypochondria, heartburn— a sense of fulness, distension or weight in the stomach—a feeling as if a ball was lodged in the gullet—acid or foetid eructations—pyrosis or water- brash,or the vomiting of a clear liquor, often in vast quantity—and lastly, a sensation of sinldng or fluttering at the pit of the stomach. To the second head of Dyspeptic symptoms may be referred, among many others, costiveness, or an irre- gular state of the bowels, with a morbid state of the evacuations; pain of the back, and turbid urine ; a dis- agreeable taste in the mouth, espe- cially on first waking from sleep in the morning; toothach; palpita- tion of the heart, pulsation in the epigasti'ium; irregularity of the pulse; a short dry cough, and occasional difficulty of breathing; giddiness and headach, sometimes referred to the fore, but more commonly to the back part of the head; langour, lassitude, and great depression of spirits, with fear of death, or some other impend- ing evil. The tongue is very generally re- ferred to as affording evidence of the state of the stomach; but it will often be found that the tongue is perfectly clean, when the stomach is most in- contestably disordered. It would seem, indeed, as if the morbid ap- pearances of the tongue, its fur, dryness, preternatural redness and smoothness, and its chopped aspect, are referable to tbe state of the con- stitution, rather than to any parti- cular derangement in the stomach. When, however, we observe the tongue furred and moist, (its true character in common Dyspepsia), that is to say, when the secretions of the mouth are depraved, it may reasonably be presumed, that there exists a similarly disordered state of the stomach.—Gregory. The following is Di’. Gregory’s classification ; to which are added, remarks on each variety, which our limits prevent from giving at the same time:— Tabular vieiv of the varieties of Primary Dyspepsia. 1. Dyspepsia from occasional over- loading of the stomach. 2. From habitual over-feeding. 3. From habitual indidgence in spirituous liquors. 4. From want of air and exercise. 5. From excessive or long con- tinued evacuations. 6. From anxiety of mind. Tabidar view of Secondary Dyspepsia. 1. Dyspepsia, symptomatic ofgeneral feverishness. 2. Of habitual constipation. 3. Of chronic disease of the liver. 4. Of chronic disease of the spleen. 5. Of functional_disturbance of the uterus. G. Of obscure disease of the kidney. 7. Of chronic affections of the bronchia. 8. Of chronic cutaneous diseases. “ It is unnecessary to say,” ob- serves Dr. Gregory, “ that there is not one drug which will fulfil the great object of treatment, that of giving tone to the weakened stomach of a dyspeptic patient. This can be obtained only by measures calculated to avert the cause which may have excited the disease. I'he tone of the stomach never fails without some as- signable reason, which strict inquiry will detect, and the knowledge of which will point out the proper means of relief. Nor is it often that these will fail of success, provided the patibnt have sufficient firmness to submit to them, and afterwards re- main sensible that his health is in his own hands. The assistance of the physician, however, is very often