CO CO 78 A second general method of pre- venting fermentation, &c., or what is tlie same, the removal of that degree of moisture which is an essential condition to this kind of chemical ac- tion, is Desiccation, which takes place in consequence of the air absorbing the moisture of bodies exposed to its action. It is therefore promoted by tlie size of the surface exposed; by the dry state of the atmosphere; increased temperature; and by the constant change of the air in con- tact with the body to be dried; or, in other words, by exjjosing it to a free current of air. This mode of checking fermentation, is assisted by dividing or cutting the bodies to be dried, especially across the grain, which acts not only by increasing the surface, but, perhaps still more, by dividing the vessels containing the moisture or fluids, and thus allow- ing them to be freely acted upon by the air, to which the skin or epide- )nis, when entire, frequently ojjposes a very great obstacle. In pharmacy, where desiccation is often necessary, this is well under- stood, and expressed in the coUegiate directions for diying squills and other succulent roots. In domestic economy, it is also practised in drying artichoke bot- toms; and guarded against when vegetables are required to be kept succulent, which are or ought to be ti'immed or wounded as little as pos- sible, until they are wanted for use. Animal substances also dry much more slowly as long as the smrface is entire; and hence, some butchers skin veal joint by joint only as it is required. The influence of extent of surface is a matter of constant observation. A little water, which would have required days to have evaporated out of a wine glass, dis- appears in a few minutes when sj>read over a china j)late. Solid substances in like manner dry more quickly in proportion to the smallness of their size, as the surface exposed is pro- portionally greater. But none of the agents in accelerating exsicca- tion, has so great an influence as the dry state of the air by which it is effected. In his “Journey to the Northern Ocean,” Mr. Hearne gives an ac- count of the manner in which the Indians of North America preserve by means of exsiccation, the flesh of musk oxen, deer, or of any other kind of animals. To prepare meat in this manner, the only operation required is, to cut the lean part of the animal into thin slices, drj’ing it in the sun, or exposing it to the heat of a fire; after which it is reduced to powder, by beating it between two stones. Meat prepared m this man- ner is very portable, and always ready for use, and is very substantial; for Mr. Hearne found that he could always travel longer without victuals after making a meal of it, than after any other kind of food. The Northern Indians drj' their meat by the heat of a very slow fire, or by fastening it to the tops of the women’s bundles, and allowing it to dry by the sun and wind as they walk along. But the Southern In- dians expose it to the heat of a very large fire, which, in Mr. Hearue’s opinion, exhausts its juices, renders it as hard as horn, and gives it a bitter taste; whereas, the other is soft and mellow in the mouth, and entirely free from smoke. Fish is also dried by them in the sun, and pounded for the sake of carriage. COMFIEGNE.—A French sweet yeast cake, with fruit, and other in- gredients. COMPOTE.—A fine mixed raiyout to garnish white poultry, &c.; also, a method of stewing fruit with syrup for desserts. COMPOTIEll.—A dish amongst the dessert services appi'opriated to the compote. CONDIMENTS.—In the higher circles of society, and at the tables of the modern Apicii, a number of