MA 200 MA abundance, they are liighly useful to farmers, to country people, and in all houses in which there are many servants. The roots, when dressed, tliey may eat themselves in the win- ter; and they may be dressed many ways. The root of scarcity is a very good root, of an agreeable taste, much superior to the red heet, and at least equal to the turnip. Besides these advantages, the root of scarcity also possesses many others; particularly, the certainty of an abundant crop, however intem- perate may he the seasons. If this root be cultivated, it will not be necessary that cattle should pasture in the meadows, and eat the produce of them during the summer; but all the grass which the meadows produce, may then be converted into hay. How much, indeed, may they not sell of it, since, even during the winter, they may at least save two- thirds of it? And, in short, as the root of scarcity will I'ender it easy to feed beasts in the stable during the whole year, this circumstance will also greatly increase the quantity of dung, which is so necessary in agri- ciUture. In consequence of these advan- tages, forage may always be kept at a moderate price; for this root yields a much greater produce than other kinds of forage, and surpasses them even in those years in which they are tlie most favourable. When this I'oot is become sufficiently known, culti- vators will undoubtedly prefer it to all the other kinds of forage. “ The numerous experiments,” concludes the Abb6, “ that I have made, especially in the year 1785, relative to the culture, the produce, and the use of the root of scarcity, have convinced me, that it deserves to obtain a decided preference over all other roots, and even over tur- nips. Whether I am partial, or en- thusiastic in my attachment to it, may be determined by considering the reasons which I am now about to enumerate.” Recapitulation. 1. This kind of root may be eaten by men during the whole year: it is agreeable and wholesome, and does not cause flatulencies, as turnips do. 2. As the root of scarcity is not attacked by the catei-pillar, or by any other insect, its success is certain every where: it suffers nothing from the vicissitude of the seasons. Nei- ther our own turnips, nor those of England, possess these advantages. 3. The leaves of the root of scar- city afford an excellent food for all kinds of cattle, during four months in the year ; whilst turnips produce leaves only once a year, and even then are tough, and injured by insects. 4. The root of scarcity may be well preserved during eight months in the year, and is not subject to become rotten, as is the case with turnips; which, from the end of March, become stringy, tough, and pongy. 5. There is no kind of turnips which ever succeeds perfectly; they often fail entirely, especially in hard lands; they require a light, good, and sandy soil; but the root of scar- city will succeed every where; the cultivators of different kinds of lands may be equally assured of success ; and farmers and labourers may be greatly benefited by tins resource. 6. The milk produced by cows who have hecn nourished for some days together with turnips, contracts a taste like tallow, or strong, sour, and disagreeable ; but those who are fed with the root of scarcity, produce both milk and butter of an excellent quality. This excellent forage will afford subsistence to all kinds of cattle, and especially at that time when grass, so useful and necessary to cattle, is yet scarce ; and it will be seen, by their vigour and their sleekness, how much it has contributed to their health. “The root of scarcity is never disliked by cattle; they eat it always