DI DI 98 a bad chance from opiates, whicli oc- casion costiveness, the cause of nu- merous complaints. He must be his own physician, unless an accident happens.—Celsus. Eggs are too heavy for old people; thin broths are better, and will best answer an old man’s purpose, when he cannot digest meat. Asthmas come upon hearty feeders^ and are cured by emetics and abstinence.—Ibid. DIETETICS.—Belonging or re- lating to food. The medium of health and life. The knowledge of those objects which relate to the preservation of the human body in its natural state, may be called the Doctrine of Health. Life and health, therefore, are the proper objects of this doc- trine; as the second department of Medicine solely relates to the pretei- natural states of man, viz. Disease and Death, and forms a branch of professional study called Pathology. The compass of the former science, or an investigation of the objects in- cluded in the doctrine of health, must be very extensive. It furnishes us with rules and cautions with respect to every thing that ought to be done, or to be avoided, in order to remain in, and enjoy a state of health. This useful science is properly designated Dietetics, or a systematic view of all objects relative to health in general, and to food and drink in particular. It includes the whole of what the an- cient physicians understood by the singular appellation of the six non- naturals, namely— Air, aliment, exercise, and rest. The passions and affections of the mind. Wakefulness and sleep. Repletion and evacuation. These general heads, although they do not comprise, strictly speaking, every thing that relates to the difl'er- ont functions of the human body; they, nevertlieless, contain all such conditions of life as are absolutely necessary, and the greatest part of those circumstances which are connected with the health and well- being of the individual; adopting the best and most rational means of ensuring this blessing, and of avoid- ing whatever may have a contrary tendency. Our mode of life is no longer that natural and simple one, which prevailed in the primitive ages of the world; as in the present state of society such habits are scarcely conceivable. Man in a state of na- ture had little occasion to attend to his health; he wanted no rules for its preservation ; for as the seeds of diseases are rarely scattered in such a state, instinct would be to him in most cases a sufficient guide. Innu- merable are the causes which have conspired to render the trtie know- ledge of the means conducive to health, difficult in the acquisition, among the chief of which are pro- bably the following, which include most of the subordinate particulars:— 1. The present very artificial man- ner of living: 2. The infinite variety of human employments. 3. The different modes of dwelling and dressing. 4. The endless variety of sub- stances used as food and drink. 5. The great diversity of national customs and manners. G. The difference of climates and situation. All these circumstances, and many more, have a greater or less influ- ence, conjointly or separatel)’, not only on the passions, inclinations, and instinctive desires of individuals, but also on the general state of the health and physical welfare of a people. By the present mode of living we are exposed to diseases wholly unknown in the first ages of the world, when “ The friendly limpid draught, the temperate meal. Ne’er asked the aid of bolus or of pill.” People suffer from a variety of com- plaints originating cither in artificial