YA YA 401 trating parts of the water by steam, and causes a more equal distribution of them througbout the body of the masli, by a due confinement of tbe heat; and being swelled and satu- rated to its utmost distension, returns the overplus liquor charged with the sweet, balsamic, nutritive part of its flour; and so continues to give out the same in i-egular tincture, by the several lodgings over, or washings, that leisurely follow, and are con- stantly discharged by the cock with- out stopping, till the proper quantity is got off in a fine transparent stream. It would appear that neither cold nor boiling water will produce a good solution of saccharine matter from malt; cold water takes up little or none of the sugary principle of malt, and forms a spiritless and ascescent drink ; boiling water forms a mucilaginous fluid, wbich, what- ever it may contain, cannot be drawn off from the grains, consequently it is lost. But water at a medium temperature .acquires a full sweet- ness, and readily parts with the undissolved m.atter : though water of a high temperature (much under the boiling point) will dissolve or form a greater quantity of saccharine matter from the malt, it is, never- theless, uneconomical; for the malt in such cases is usually a little set; and there is a loss of the liquor, because it is held involved in the pastry grains; the second mashing m.ay lessen the loss, but will not compensate the deficiency. It is plain, therefore, that the first mash- ing should be m.ade with wiirm water; the second with hot water and the third with still hotter; for in each succeeding mash, there is less risk of the malt setting, as the starchy matter has been removed. “In se- lecting a proper temperature for the water-, the regulation of our choice will depend upon two qualities of it; namelj-, its sufficiency to extract the saccharine matter, and its insuffi- ciency to set the goods. Both these points require attention for the at- tainment of the greatest quantity, as W'ell as the best qiuality of the produce.—150® can never hurt malt of any kind, or under any circum- stances of fineness of the yeast, or temperature of the air, or slackness of drying: for pale malt that has been dried, (provided the atmos- phere does not exceed 50°), the heat of the first mash maybe 170°; of the second 180°; and for the third, the heat may be, and never ought to exceed, 185°.”—Town and Conn/ri/ Brewery Book, 1831. The medicinal properties of wort are .aperient, and antiscorbutic. From one to four pints daily have gene- rally been directed. The proportion recommended in preparing it, is one measure of ground malt, to three etpi.al measures of boiling water. Tlie mixture must be well stirred, and left to stand covered tbree or four bours. It sbould be m.ade fresh every day. The goodness of malt may be j>roved by the wort, in the following manner:—When a person uses more than one sort of m.alt, he m.ay prove tbe goodness of it by the wort, by weighing a quart of the latter of each brewing, and that which is he.aviest is best. Y. Y.\MS.—(Dioscorea Alai a*).—A root of a farinaceous and wholesome nature, much cultivated by the inha- * 'I'lie name of the plant which affords this esculent root, which, however, is obtained from their species—the alata. bitants of the West India islands, and is of great use to them in vic- bulbifera, and saliva. 'I'hcy grow spon- taneously in both Indies, and their roots are promiscuously eaten, as the potatoe is with us.