FE 115 FE a. A heat, from 70° to 85°, F. b. A certain degree of liquidity. c. The presence of atmospheric air. d. A moderate quantity of fermen- able matter. The acetous fermentation consists in the conversion of alcohol, &c. into acetic acid ; e. g.—When any fluid has undergone the vinous fermen- tation, or even pure alcohol diluted with water, is mixed with yeast, and •exposed in a warm place to the open air, an intestine movement speedily commences, heat is disengaged, the fluid becomes turbid from the de- position of a peculiar filamentous matter, oxygen is absorbed from the atmosphere, and carbonic acid is dis- engaged. After a certain time, these changes cease spontaneously; the li- quor becomes clear, and, instead of alcohol, it is now found to contain acetic acid, or vinegar. Not a ves- tige of spirit remains, it being en- tirely decomposed; but the greater the quantity of spirit in the liquor, previous to the fermentation, the greater will be the quantity of true vinegar obtained. Putrefactive fermentation is that process by which a substance is de- composed and dissipated in the form of putrid gas. Every living body, when deprived of life, performs a retrograde process, and becomes de- composed. In vegetables, this is called fermentation, and in animals, putrefaction. The same causes, the same agents, and the same circum- stances, detei-mine and favour the decomposition in animal and vege- table substances, and the difference of the products which are obtained, arise from the difference of the con- stituent parts of each. The requi- sites for this process are, 1. A certain degree of humidity. 2. The access of atmospheric air. 3. A certain degree of heat. The air cannot be reg.arded as abso- lutely necessary to this process, since putrefaction is found to be produced by the concurrence of the two other conditions only; though doubtless the process is materially promoted by free exposure to the influence of the atmosphere. All proximate principles are not equally liable to this kind of dissolu- tion : substances in which charcoal and hydrogen prevail, such as the oils, resins, and alcohol, do not un- dergo the putrefactive fermentation; nor do acids, which contain a con- siderable excess of oxygen, mani- fest any tendency to submit to this change. Those substances are most disposed to putrefy, the oxygen and hydrogen of which are in proportion to form water', and such in particular as contain nitrogen; among which, however, a singular difference pre- vails ; e. g.—Caffein evinces no ten- dency to spontaneous decomposition, while gluten, which certainly must contain a less proportional quantity, putrefies with great facility. These substances, the texture of which being most loose and soft, being, ccBteris paribus, the most liable to spontaneous decomposition. FERMENTATION, General Method of Preventing. — This general method of preventing fer- mentation of animal and vegetable substances, consists in the total ex- clusion of atmospheric air, or rather of oxygen. The truth of this, how- ever, is not so obvious to common observation, as that of the preceding; for, on the contrary, we every day see substances, preserved by being apparently excluded from the air, but, in reality, by being shut up in confined air; and we are taught to consider free ventilation as a power- ful means of preservation. The manner in which the latter acts, we have shown to be by removing moisture, especially when contami- nated by the cxh.alation of the perish- able substance. The raUonale of the former is more obscure, but has been ingeniously