WI WI 399 wines of respective countries, &c., see those of the following, marked thus\, under their respective heads: Burgundy wine Lebanon, f Champagne, Lesbian, Chios, f Claret, t Madeira, t Malaga, Constantia, t Malmsey, Corsican, Muscadine, f Domestic, Opimian, t English, Palm, Falernian, t Port, Florence, t Rhenish, t French, t Sack, t German, t Schiras, f Greek or Turkey t Sherry, Helbon, t Spanish, f Hock, t Tokay. f Italian, It would appear that the ancients were aware that lead both amelio- rated harsh wine and preserved it from acidity, and that the acid of the wine had the power of dissolving it; for, when the Greek and Roman wine-merchants wanted to know whether their wine was spoiled, they immersed in it a plate of lead, which could only be to observe whether the colour of the lead was changed by erosion. 'I’hey were also aequainted with a mode of improving and cla- rifying wine, by boiling it with lime or gypsum; a method supposed to be still practised in some parts of Spain, and in the island of Zante : but it is considered no farther pre- judicial than as it tends, if used in too large a quantity, to deprive the liquor of its spirituous parts. That the custom is of very ancient date in the former country, is proved by a decree of the states of Arragon, in 1348. The presence of metals in wine may be detected by the ap- plication of the arsenical liver of sulphur ; but its use is not decisive of the particular kind cmjdoyed, as it precipitates all metals black with- out distinction. Among the innocent articles with which wine has been mi.xed, we find mustard and mug wort mentioned in the year 1484; and in the follow- ing century, milk was included in an imperial ordinance against adul- teration. The effects of the latter, however, are only to clarify the liquor, and to render the tint more pale, and are otherwise wholly im- perceptible : it was known to the ancient Greeks ; and is still used in small quantity, and for white wine alone. The Greeks and Romans used also to boil much of their wine until only a certain portion of it remained ; and when by this opera- tion it was deprived of some of its watery particles, it was mi.xcd with honey and spices. This method, with the exception of the mixture of spice and honey, is still applied to some kinds of new wine in Italy ; where it is now, however, used for salad and sauces, under the name of musco catto. It is said to be also employed in the preparation of the Spanish and Hungarian sweet wines; but the fact is, it is obscured in considerable doubt. There is also another mode of preparing wine, which cannot properly be called adulteration, but which was formerly considered so unwholesome, as to have been prohibited in Germany in 1472. It is effected by stopping the fermentation at a certain period, by whieh the original sweetness of the grape is in a great part retained, and on being exposed to the air, tlie fermentation recommences. I’he prejudice against this method no longer exists, and it is frequently employed in Germany and France. 'I'he common appellation of wine thus treated, is slam tuine; but the French, who prepare considerable quantities in this manner, at Ror- deaux, designate it vin en rage. Brazil wood, or the husks of elder- berries, and l)ilbcrries, are employed to impart a deej) rieh purple tint to red port of a j)ale red colour ; gyp- sum is used to render cloudy wine transparent: an additional astrin- gency is imparted to immature red wines by means of oak-wood saw-