LO LO 189 Every animal of the deep is then a powerful enemy, which they can nei- ther escape nor oppose ; and this in fact, is the time when the dog-fish, the cod, and the ray, devour them by hundreds. But this imbecility continues only a short time, for the animal in less than two days is seen to have the skin that covered its body grown almost as hard as before; its appetite increases; and strange to be- hold ! the first object that tempts its gluttony is its own stomach, which it so lately was disengaged from, this it devours with great eagerness; and some time after eats even its fonner shell. In about forty-eight hours, in proportion to the animal’s health and strength, the new shell is perfectly formed, and as hard as that which was but just thrown aside. When the lobster is completely equipped in its new shell, it then appears how much it has grown in the space of a very few days; the dimensions of the old shell, being compared with those of the new, it will be found that the creature is increased above a third in size. The creature thus furnished, not only with a new covering, but also a greater share of strength and courage, ventures more boldly among the ani- mals at the bottom, and in its com- bats often suffers mutilation. A joint, or even a small claw, is sometimes snapped offin these encounters. To come off with the loss of a leg, or even a claw, is no great calamity; the victor carries off'the spoil to feast upon at his leisure, while the other retires from the defeat to wait for a thorough repair. This repair is not long in procuring: from the place where the joint of the claw was cut away, is seen in a most surprising manner the renovation of a new claw. This at first is small and tender, but grows in the space of three weeks to be almost as large and as powerful as the old one, but never arrives to the full size; and this is the reason we generally find the claws of the lobsters of unequal magnitude. Of this extraordinary, yet well- known animal, there are many va- rieties, with some differences in the claws, but little in conformation. Some are found above three feet long; and if we may admit the shrimp, and the prawn into the class, though un- furnished with claws, it is seen not above an inch. These all live in the w'ater, and can bear its absence for but a few hours. The shell is black when taken out of the w'ater, but turns I’ed by boiling. The most com- mon way of taking the lobster is in a basket or pot, as the fishermen call it, made of wicker-wood, in which they put some kind of garbage for a bait, and then throw it to the bottom of the sea, in six or ten fathom water. The lobsters creep into this for the sake of the bait, but are not able to get out again. The river crawfish differs little from the lobster, but in size, and that it lives in fresh water, and the other only in the sea. LOBSTERS, To Choose.—If a lobster be fresh the tail will be stiff, and pull up with a spring, but if it be stale the tail will be flabby, and have no spring ; this, however, only concerns lobsters that have been boiled, and it is much better to bu}' them alive and boil them yourself, taking care they are not exhausted by too long keeping. If lobsters have not been long taken the claws will have a quick and strong motion upon squeezing the eye, and the heaviest are esteemed the best. The cock-lobster is known by the narrow back part of his tail; the two upper- most fins within his tail are stiff and hard; but those of tbe hen arc soft and the tail broader. The male, though generally smaller than the female, has the highest flavour, the flesh firmer, and the body of a rixl- der colour when boiled. Those of a middle size are best. Never take them when the shell is encrusted, it is a sign they arc old.