cn CII 66 The essential constituents of ani- mal compounds are— Carbon, Nitrogen, Hydrogen, Oxygen. Some of them also contain phos- phorus, iron, sulphur, and earthy and saline matters, in small quan- tity. AU the proximate animal principles contain a large quantity of carbon, and their hydrogen is in such proportion as to convert all their oxygen into water, and their nitrogen into ammonia.—See Albu- men, Fibrin, Gelatine, Sugar of Dia- betes, Sugar of Milk, &c. CHERRIES. — This well-known fruit formerly grew spontaneously in the woods near Cerasus, a city of Pontus, on the southern coast of the Black Sea. Miller enumerates only five species of cherries; and from these, modern botanists assure us, the great varieties cultivated in the English gardens are derived. Cherries are divided into the aque- ous sweet, the aqueous acid, and the dry pulpous kinds. The Spanish cherries are the most difficult to digest, but are also the most nou- rishing. The aqueous sweet kind, as our early common cherries, are unwholesome, because their juice easily ferments, and occasions colics and diarrhoea. The watery acid sort are the best of any; their juice strengthens the stomach, purifies the blood, and is the least flatulent. Dried cherries are, in many dis- eases, an excellent article of diet, on account of their cooling and an- tiseptic properties. To swallow cherry stones, however, is highly pernicious, as they have sometimes been found to accumulate in the in- testines, to form lumps cemented together by viscid phlegm, and thus to produce the most violent and fatal symptoms. They are excellent in scurvy, putrid fevers, and dysentry; they correct the blood, wbcn inclined to putrescency, and by their sapona- ceous ormelliferousjuice, thejf power- fully resolve obstructions in the in- testines. Those who use them with this intention, may eat them at any time of the day, though they ope- rate most effectually in the morning, on an empty stomach. But even the sweet species contain a stimulating acid, which, in proportion to their juicy consistence, disagrees more or less with the weak and debilitated; for this sap or juice easily foments in the stomach, and produces flatu- lency, diarrhoea, and acidity. On account of these peculiar effects, per- sons whose stomachs are bilious and vitiated, who are troubled with pu- trid eructation, and an offensive breath, ought to eat them freely, to counteract the disposition to pu- tridity. CHERRY LAUREL. — The ce- rassus lauracerasus of Lois, is ori- ginally a native of Trebizond, but is cultivated very commonly in tins country, reaches to a very consider- able size, and produces ripe fruit, which is eaten greedily by the birds. Its leaves are evergreen. When recent and entire they have no smell; but on being burned they have a strong kernel smell, and a slightly styptic and intensely bit- ter taste. When dried they lose their colour, and become almost in- sipid. In their recent state they have been long known to possess deleterious properties;, and Bergius obtained a volatile oil from them. Schreder, in 1802, shewed that they contained hydrocyanic acid. The oil is very analogous to that of bitter almonds, and is sold under its name for the use of perfumers and recti- fiers, who imitate with it the liquor called Noyeau. The recent leaves are also boiled in cream, to give it the flavour of Ratafia : but on some persons the smallest quantity acts unpleasantly, producing an eruption of the skin called urticaria, or nettle- rash. A water is distilled from the recent leaves, which is used medi- cinally as a substisute for liydrocyanic or prussic acid, and seems in many respects j)referable, as being not only