sc 287 SC long healed, break out afresh; old fractures, disunite ; wandering pains are felt particulaidy by night; the skin is dry ; the urine small in quan- tity, turning green vegetable infu- sions to a blue colour. The last stage of scurvy exhibits a most wretched and truly pitiable condition. The joints become swelled and stiff; the tendons of the legs are rigid and con- tracted ; general emaciation ensues; blood discharges from the nose, ears, anus, and other parts of the body; foetid evacuations are voided by stool; diarrhma and dysenteiy arise, which soon close the wretched scene. The most frequent Causes OF THE Scurvy, at Home and Abroad.—It is observed by Boer- haave, that the scurvy infects the northern regions of the earth more than any other; and yet it seems cer- tain that this is not so much occa- sioned by sharp cold as by other causes. The scurvy, as is well known, attacks, by its worst symp- toms, those who navigate to the East Indies, even under the torrid zone; and it has been observed in France, during the greatest heats of summer, that it has made consider- able havoc, and that many who were beginning to recover, relapsed, and became much worse. Whilst that able physician, Backstrom, was at- tentive to these particulars, he was, in a great degree, confirmed in opinion, “that the true and primary cause of the scurvy was no other than too long an abstinence from every kind of fresh vegetables.” It is certain that he confirmed this opi- nion by many and strong arguments. At the siege of Thorn, besides the inhabitants of the city, some thou- sands of the soldiers were carried off by the disease, whilst nothing of the like happened to the Swedes, the besiegers. It is known that the be- siegers had ])leuty of greens and vegetables, which the besieged were destitute of. W'hilst the imperial army was in winter quarters about Temesw'ar, many thousands of the soldiers died of the scurvy; and, w’hat was remarkable, its rage was entirely confined to the common soldiers, whilst the officers, of all rank, were free from it. But Back- strom observes, that the winter was longer than usual, that the greens and salading in the neighbourhood were destroyed by the late siege, and that, on account of the lakes and marshes near the city, the kitchen gardens were at too great a distance, whence the common soldiers could be supplied with few or no vegetables, though their officers might, by the liberty granted them. But as soon as the earth in the spring yielded new favours, the disease disappeared. 1. Want of Vegetable Food, c^-c. — Putrid Smells, cj-c.—Itis evident that those who go on long voyages, as to the East Indies, are often seized with the scurvy, whilst, for several months together, they are obliged to abstain from vegetables. But as soon as they put in at the Cape of Good Hope, they send their sick to the hospital, and recruit them with broths of fresh meat, in which all kinds of greens are boiled, and with delicious fruits ; and the event is so favourable, that, in the course of about fourteen days, they, for the most part, all return to tlieir duty. These observations are confirmed by others, of the famous Cacchi, who before Blackstrom had published his ingenious treatise on the scurvy, thought much the same of the na- ture and disposition of that disease ; whilst he saw it always follow a long abstinence from vegetables; and, on the contrary, that it was soon overcome by a vegetable diet, so that the bowels were not yet corroded and destroyed by an acrimoii}' of t(K) long standing. But as the winter is severe and long, in regard to the people of the northern clime; as for several months the earth, buried under snow, prodtices no vegetables; and as then they live chiefly on fish.