HE HE 161 of steel, indeed, may be an excellent medicine ; but taken thus daily into the stomach, it is not difficult to con- ceive by what means it may produce very acute and dangerous diseases. It may, however, be observed, that when porter is well brewed fi'om good malt, and a proper proportion of hops, there -will he no occasion to head, fine, or otherwise modify or disguise it.—See Malt Liquors. HEALl'H. — An assemblage of all the secretions of the human body in a state of activity, and existing in harmony and equilibrium. — See Secretion. To maintain that desirable state of life, (which is defined as an assem- blage of all the functions), called health, a proper preparation of the fluids is requisite; the solids duly formed of these fluids; the invigor- ating influence of the vital powers ; and last, though not least, mens sana in corpore sano, — that is, a sound mind in a healthy body. See Diet- etics. The cause of the diversity of tem- peraments, on which conditions of health are much affected, are very nu- merous ; among such may be reckon- ed, hereditary disposition, habit of body, climate, diet; not unfrequently religion, mode of life, and luxury. Besides the variety of constitutions to which men are subject from these incidents, circumstances peculiar to everj' individual influence the num- ber as well as the energy and vigour of the functions. As regards age, the health of a new born infant is different from that of an adult: in regard to sex, it differs in a mar- riageable virgin and an old woman past child bearing, during menstrua- tion and suckling; and in regard to mode of life, it is as different as tbe barbarous tribes of North Ame- rica. The more functions flourish simultaneously, in the body, the more considerable is its life, and vice versa. Hence life is greatest when the functions have attained their highest state of perfection in adult age ; and least, when tbe functions, although very perfect, are fewer and more sluggish, namely, in the newly conceived embryo: life is also less vigorous during the opposite state. —Blumenhach's Physiol. To secure health by the golden mean is the true medium, so beau- tifully described by Milton, in his Paradise Lost, that we cannot resist quoting it here: — when he intro- duces the angel Michael giving di- rections to our first parents by what means they might preserve health, he says, “ If you well observe The rule of not too much, by temperance taught, In what thou eat’st and drink’st, seeking from thence Due nourishment, not gluttonous de- light, Till many years over thy head return : So may’st thou live, till, like ripe fruit, thou drop Into thy mother’s lap, or be with ease Gather'd, not harshly pluck’d, in death mature.” The whole art, in fact, of preserv- ing health, may be properly enough said to consist in filling up what is deficient, and carrying off what is redundairt or superfluous, in order that the body may be habitually kept in its natural state; and hence it fol- lows, that all the supplies from eat- ing and drinking, and all the dis- charges by perspiration, and by the other channels aird distributions of nature, should be regulated in such a manner, that the body shall not be oppressed with repletion, nor ex- hausted by evacuation. Of these two, one is the cure or antidote of tbe other,—every error in repletion being coirectcd by a seasonable and congruous evacuation; and every ex- cess in evacuation, should it not have proceeded too far, being cured by a gradual and suitable repletion. This is the art of enjoying a life of health, r 3