9 AL AL stance on record of any nation liv- ing exclusively either on vegetable or animal food, though there are some who take a greater proportion of the one than the other. For ex- ample, in cold countries, the inha- bitants live chiefly on animal food, on account of the severity of the seasons, the smaller perspiration, and their less tendency to putrefaction. For the same reason, more animal food is recommended in winter than in summer. Many sects, and whole nations, still, at the present day, (the Brah- mins, for instance), abstain equally from animal food. The ancient Germans, also, who were much re- nowned for their bodily strength, lived upon acorns, wood-apples (the produce of the crab-tree, &c.), sour mil^, and other productions of their then uncultivated soil. In the pre- sent mode of life, here, as well as on the Continent, a great proportion of the poorer class of country people subsist on vegetables; but although they duly digest their vegetable ali- ment, and become vigorous, yet it is certain that animal food would an- swer these purposes much better. Hence, in countries where the la- bouring class of people live princi- pally upon animal food, they far surpass in bodily strength and dura- tion of life those who subsist chiefly on vegetables. As our stomachs could never en- dure the raw flesh of animals, it is boiled, roasted, baked, or fried, in order to promote its easier diges- tion : it is also seasoned in various way.s, which improves and consider- ably alters the taste of it. Boiled victuals being moister than that otherwise dressed, agrees best with those that are of a dry and bilious constitution, who are inclined to con- stipation. Fried and roasted meats, on the contrary, are more suitable to those of a phlegmatic tempera- ment, to such as abound with super- fluous moisture, to those subject to defluxions, and similar distempers. The following question, however, is of much more importance,—“ In what jiroportioiis should animal food he mixed ivith vegetables ? ” Sancto- rius has an aphorism, which says, “ Pondiis addit robur," (Weight gives strength), which may be explained from the impletion of the blood ves- sels, and giving a proper degree of tension for the performance of strong oscillations. Animal food, therefore, which gives most strength to the system, not only goes a greater way in supplying fluid, but also commu- nicates to that fluid more density* and elasticity. Men, it is said, were at first fed upon figs, proof of which we have from their nutritious quality. In this respect, however, they were soon found inferior to animal food; and thus we daily see that men, in some measure, will work in proportion to the quality of their food. Where- ever people are exposed to hard la- bour, animal food should be taken in the greatest proportion. It has been said that the chief in- convcniency of vegetable aliment is the difficulty with which it is assi- milated, that is, its conversion into nutrition ; which, nevertheless, with those of vigorous and robust health, and who accustom themselves to much exercise, is not liable to occur. The assimilation of vegetable ali- ment is more easily effected in warm than in cold climales, so that in the former it may be more i)leutilully used ; and when joined to exercise, it imparts a tolerable degree of strength and vigour; and, although the general rule bo in favour of ani- mal diet, in giving strength, still there are many instances of it being j)roduced, in a remarkable degree, from vegetables; which have the advantage of whetting the appetite, as being less liable to affect us from a full meal of it. And, inde])cndent of the disorders it is liable to pro- duce in the stomach and intestines.