149 GL GL stance, which may be drawn out to a great length. The nutritive proper- ties of gluten do not rank so high as those of starch, but as it is usually present along with starch, it probably renders the latter more light and easy of digestion. The greatest quantity of it, as already observed, is con- tained in wheat, which it renders in consequence the best substance from which bread can be made. It is also found in rice, chestnuts, apples, and quinces. Proust {Journal de Phy- sique, p. 56) could find no gluten in the potatoe; and hence it is, per- haps, that bread cannot be made from potatoes without the addition of wheat flour, or a large portion of yeast, which Dr. Thompson found to contain gluten. — See 2'hompson's Chemistry, vol. iv. G L U T E N, A NI M A L.—This substance constitutes the basis of the fibres of all the solid parts. GLUTEN, VEGETABLE. —If wheat flour be made into a paste, and washed in a large quantity of water, it is separated into three dis- tinct substances. 1. A mticilayinous saccharine matter, which is readily dissolved in the liquor, and may be separated from it by evaporation. 2, Starch, which is suspended in the fluid, and subsides to the bottom by repose. 3. Gluten, which remains in the hand, and is tenacious, very ductile, somewhat elastic, and of a brown grey colour. The first of these substances does not essentially differ from other sac- charine mucilages. The second, namel)’', the starch, forms a gluey fluid by boiling in water, though it is scarcely, if at all, acted upon by that fluid when cold. Its habitudes and products with the fire, or with nitric acid, are nearly the same as those of gum acid of sugar. It ap- pears to be as much more remote from the saline state than gum, as gum is more remote from that state than sugar.—The gluten, though it existed before the washing, in the pulverulent form, and has acquired its tenacity and adhesive qualities from the water it has imbibed, is nevertheless totally insoluble in this fluid. It has scarcely any taste. When dry it is semi-transparent, and resembles glue in its colour and appearance. If it be drawn out then, when first obtained, it may be dried by exposure to the air; but if it be exposed to warmth and moisture while wet, it putrefies like an animal substance. The dried gluten, applied to the flame of a candle, crackles, swells, and burns precisely like a piece of horn or a feather; and affords the same products by destructive dis- tillation as animal matters do. It is not soluble in alcohol, oils, or aethers, and is acted upon by acids and alkalies when heated. Aecording to Ilouelle, a French chemist, it is the same with the caseous substance of milk.—See GUadine, Zymome. From the flour of barley, rye, or oats, no gluten can be exti-acted, or from that of wheat, probably because they contain too small a quantity. GLUTTONY. — Excess in eating is reckoned more injurious to the health and eonstitution, than excess in drinking. By eating to a surfeit the stomach is loaded and oppressed to its utmost extent; and by filling it with food of an opposite kind, the most distressing consequences are apt to ensue. All the fine vessels and tubes of which the human frame is composed, ai'c choaked as it were, and over-loaded; all the exquisite and delicately fine canals, which the hand of Nature has formed and disposed in our most astonishing fabric, are overburthened and retarded; and the circulation of the blood becomes more turbid and slow, the consequence of this violence done to nature. That Nature resents every outrage com- mitted on her treasures, and seldom fails to punish the transgi-essors with lingering disease, or early dissolu- tion, is an observation that may be applied to the moral and physical, as o 3