TE TE 334 their grinding surface has commonly five grinding points or protuberances, two of which are on the inner and three on the outer part of the teeth : the last grinder is shorter and smaller than the rest, and from its coming through the gums later than the rest, and sometimes not appearing till late in life, is called dens sapien- tia, or tooth of wisdom ; on which the variation in the number of teeth usually depend. The teeth are subject to a variety of accidents and diseases. The gums necessarily become so affected as to cause them to fall out, and the teeth themselves are frequently rendered carious by causes which hitherto have notbeen satisfactorily e.xplained. The disease usually begins in the side of the tooth that is not e.xposed to pressure, and gradually advances till an opening is made in the cavity, when the tooth is liable to consider- able pain from the exposure of the nerve to the influence of the air. Independent of these accidental means by which the teeth are occa- sionally affected, old age seldom fails to bring with it certain and natural causes for their removal. The sock- ets fill up, and the teeth consequently fall out; the gums then no longer meet in the forepart of the mouth, the chin projects forwards, and the face being rendered much shorter, the entire jrhysiognomy appears consider- ably altered. The formation and structure of the human teeth sufliciently indicate their use. It is from these circumstances that men may be considered as par- taking of the dift'erent classes of ani- mals; and as approaching more to the nature of the carnivorous than the herbivorous tribe, though upon the whole formed for a mixed aliment, and fitted equally to live upon flesh and vegetables. Those therefore who would confine a man entirely to vegetable aliment do not ajipear to have studied nature. As the grinders arc the last teeth that are formed, so are they usually the first that fall out —indicating, as it would appear, that the same kind of food is required in old age as in infancy. The teeth serve also another and secondary purpose besides their use in mastica- tion ; that is, they essentially assist in the articulation of the voice. Va- rious dentrifices are used in order to preserve the teeth, purify the breath, cleanse the interior of the mouth, and to resist the destruction of the enamel,—many of which are besides excellent correctors of a scorbutic tendency in the gums. An elegant preparation of this kind is, Smith’s Antiseptic Dentrifice, prepared at Mr. Chalk’s, No. 47, Minories. Its properties have been highly extolled, and it is in high repute as an accom- paniment to the toilette. Charcoal, myrrh, cream of tartar, Peruvian bark, have likewise considerable claims as antiseptic tooth powders, and with which people in general are bv no means unacquainted. 'fE M PE IIA MENT.—The pecu- liar constitution of the humours. Temperaments have been vaidously distinguished ; the division most ge- nerally received is that of Hippo- crates ; namely, into the sanguineous, phlegmatic, choleric, and melancholic; founded on the supposition that the human body contains four humours very dilferent with respect to heat, cold, moisture, and dryness, that is, blood, phlegm, yellow bile, black bile; which several humours are frequently brought up in vomiting and discharg- ed per (intnn ;iilso that health consists in a due mixture of these four hu- mours, and di.scase is the consequence of a superfluity of any of them. But Galen, always partial to subtleties and divisions, has reckoned up nine kinds of constitutions, namely, four simple, the hot, the cold, the moist, and the dry; the cold and moist, the cold and dry ; four confirmed—the hot and moist, the hot and dry, the cold and moist, the cold and dry ; and one moderate healthy temperament, con-