TII 340 TH a sense of dryness in the fauces ; and yet dryness of this organ does not appear to be the cause of tliirst; the intensity, at least, of the feeling, does not appear to depend on the inten- sity of the dryness : for there is some- times hut little thirst, where the tongue to its very roots is covered with a thick and dry crust, as in the height of continued fevers ; while it is often intense under the influence of violent passions, and intolerable on a surcharged stomach, while the tongue and fauces are not afiected whatever. Other physiologists have attributed the cause of thirst to a diminution of the aqueous part of the blood. Bi- chat inclined to this theory, and con- jectured that the introduction of water into the veins would, by its mi-ving with the venous blood, have the eflect of quenching thirst in the same manner as drink taken in the ordinary way. This conjecture is now ascertained to be a fact. Baron Dupuytren, by injecting water, milk, whey, and other fluids into the veins, frequently appeased the thirst of animals subjected to experiment, and long exposed to a burning sun. By varying these experiments with liquids known to be agreeable or un- pleasant to dogs, he found tliat the animals derived from tliese liquids so employed, the same sensation of taste as if they had been given by the mouth. In fine, wlicn milk was thrown into the jugular veins of dogs, they made a lapping motion witli their tongues, just as if they were taking the milk uj) with them. Some analogous experiments were made by Ortila, who had fre(iuent occasion to tic the gullet of dogs, in order to pre- vent the expulsion of the poisons wliich they had been made to swallow. In order to aj)))ease the thirst, excited by the fever resulting from the ex- tensive wound in their necks, ho injected waterinto their jugular veins. By Ibis method of (pienching thirst, the only one practicable while the gullet was tied, which was practised in a great munber of instances, he always succeeded in affording imme- diate relief. The blood of animals which had long been in a thirsting state, was also submitted to distilla- tion, and it was found that the dimi- nution of its watery part was always in proportion to the length of their abstinence from drink. — See Diet, dcs Sciences Med. tom. ii, p. 4G9. The ordinary modes of quenching the agonizing sensations of thirst and hunger are well known to be eating and drinking, yet when these cannot be used, other means are substituted. For instance, violent pressure against the coats of the stomach, whether e.xternally or internallv, is well known to take oft’ the gnawing sensation of hunger ; and stimulating tlie fauces, to take oft’ the burning faintness of thirst. It is on this last principle, that chewing a mouthful of hay alone, or simply moistened with water, proves so refreshing to a tired horse, and is found so serviceable, when we dare not allow him, during a long day’s journey, to quench his thirst in the natural way. Savages and wild beasts are equally sensible of the benefit to be derived from pressure during hunger, and adopt it on all convenient occasions where no oppor- tunity is aftorded them of assuaging it in the usual way. The maris or pangolin, an animal that swallows its fo'ad whole, will swallow coals, stones, or any other substances, if it cannot obtain nutriment; not that its instinct deceives it, but for the pmqjose of ac(iuiring such a |)rcssure as may blunt the sense of hunger which it finds intolerable, .\lmost alt car- nivorous animals pursue the same plan; and a miscellaneous mass of pieces of coal, stone, slate, and earth, or other hard materials, is often met with in the stomach of ostriches, cassowaries, and even toads. 'I’ho inhabitant of Kamschatka secures the same object by swallowing saw- dust ; and some of the northern