344 TR TR to diffevent constitutions, situations, and ages, in which the Greeks, from whom gymnastic exercises are de- rived, attained an extraordinary de- gree of perfection. The great ad- vantage of a course of bodily exercise cannot be disputed, when it is con- sidered how many individuals meet with a premature grave from tvant of activity, motion, and nervous energy, though their organisation may in no respect be deficient. Besides, a body inured to frequent and laborious ex- ercise, will not be easily affected by external causes of disease, being se- cured, as it were, by a coat of mail, against the attacks of many acute disorders. The Greeks attempted to cure diseases in their first stages, or at least to arrest their progress, by the systematic institution of gym- nastic exercises. They caused the patient to move in various postures, applied gentle friction to the whole surface of the body, and used a variety of methods to overcome the languor of the muscles, by rousing the muscular energy. In relaxed and emaciated individuals, whose organisation is deficient in the proper of e.xercises for the preservation of health. This is said to have been invented by one Ilerodicus, born at Salymbra, a city of Thrace, or, as some say, at Leu- tini, in Sicily, lie was first master of an academy, where young gentlemen came to learn warlike and manly e.ver- cises, and observing them to be very liealthful on that account, he made ex- ercise become an art, in reference to the recovering of men out of diseases, as well as preserving tliem from them, and called it gymnastics, which he made a great part of his practice. But Hippo- crates, who was Ids scholar, blames Idm sometimes for his evee.sses with this view ; and I’lato exclaims against him with some warmth, for enjoining his patients to walk from Athens to Megara, which is about twenty-five ndles, and to come home on foot as they went, as soon as ever they hud but touched tlie walls of tire city.—Hooper's ^fcdical Dic- tionary. degree of tone or elasticity, this method must be allowed to possess great advantages, though it will not admit of being applied indiscrimi- nately to all diseases. All who wish for health, vigour, and a long and happy life, will study the art of gymnastic training, by suitable exercises, and a diet best adapted to constitution; and as Cap- tain Barclay’s work on Training is not only e.xpensive, but out of print, and as there is no book on this im- portant science to be had at a mode- rate charge, we shall avail ourselves of the present opportunity to throw together some improved observations on the subject, and their application to the strengthening of nervous and debilitated constitutions, as well as for the purposes of gymnastic enter- prises. Training, according to the method now established, consists in a series of e.xercises and regimen, particularly' adapted for the purpose of gaining additional strength, in order to undertake any' Herculean feat, as running, walking, boxing and the like. It was known to the an- cients, who paid considerable atten- tion to the means of augmenting corporeal vigour and activity', and accordingly, among the Greeks and Romans, certain rules of regimen were prescribed to the candidates for gymnastic celebrity. We are not, however, in possession of any' de- tailed account of the particular kind of diet in use among the Greeks previously' to the solemn contest at the public games, although we are assured that the strictest temperance, sobriety, and regularity' in living were indispensably' requisite. The candidates, at the same time, were subjected to daily exercise in the Gymiiasitim for ten months, which, with the prescribed regimen, consti- tuted the preparatory course of train- ing adopted by the .Athletae of ancient Greece. Among the Romans, the exercises of the Palevstra degenerated from the rank of a liberal art, and