SU su 317 Sugar crystallised by the saturated syrup, being left in a warm place, from 90 to 100 degrees Fahrenheit, and the shooting promoted by plac- ing sticks or a net of threads at small distances from each other in the liquor; it is also deposited from compound syrups, and does not seem to retain any of the foreign sub- stances with which they were loaded. It may, however, be coloured red by means of cochineal. Being longer dissolving than sugar, it is used in coughs to keep the throat moist, and is also blown into the eye as a very mild escharotic in films or dimness of that organ. SUG.\R^ BEET.—Made from red or white beet root, or from the man- gel worsel, by decoction in water, expression, and evaporation, or by simple expression of the juice : it yields 1-lOOth of sugar.—See Beet. SUG.VR, BIRCH.—Is made by wounding the trees in the spring of the year, by boring a hole under a large arm of the tree, quite through the wood as far as the back on the opposite side, collecting the sap that flows from the wound, and evaporat- ing it to a proper consistence. These are the native sugars of cold coun- tries, and might be made in England for all the purposes of home con- sumption. Sugar from the maple and walnut trees is made in the same manner. The sap of the sugar maple yields about 1 lOth. Sugar from apples and jiears is obtained by expressing the juice, adding chalk to remove the super- abundant of acid, and evaporating it to a due consistence; it does not crystallise, and is a kind of white treacle. One cwt. of apples yields about Sllbs. of juice, wbicb will produce nearly 121bs. of tins sub- stance. Palm sugar is manufactured on a large scale from various species of palms, particularly the Palmyra, or borassus flabclliformis, which by cutting off the tip of the spadix, fur- nishes daily and for five successive months about six pints of toddy, and this again affords by evaporation a pound of sugar'. The wild date,or elata sylvestris, bleeds for three months successively, and the cultivation is so managed that toddy may be pro- cured all the year round ; fifty trees yield daily about seventeen gallons of toddy, furnishing by evaporation about 46lbs. of jagoi'y. Sugar may also be made from various other plants and fruits. SUGAR, AS AN Antiseptic, in PRESERVING VEGETABLE AND AnIMAL Substances. — Although sugar has the property of preserving vegetable substances from decay, it is in con- sequence of the price only used for fine fruits, and aromatic substances. The preservation of the latter, by means of sugar, constitutes a princi- pal part of the art of the confectioner, where considerable attention to many minutiae is necessary for the success of each preparation. Vegetable sub- stances may either be candied or preserved in syrup, or their juices may be employed in making syrups, jellies, or fruit cakes. The art of con- fectionery is very difficult, and suc- cessfully to attain requires attention to many particulars which, at first, may aiipcar frivolous, and even im- proper, but which by experience have ultimately been found to be no less essential. 'I’he classification and boiling of sugar to its proper degree is of primary importance, and has not, ])erhaps, been sufficiently ex- amined by scientific men. A weak syru]) has a tendency to ferment, and (juickly becomes sour if kept in a temperate degree of heat, consequently it is not calculated to prevent the natural fermentation of vegetable juices, which always in- crease its disposition to corrupt. It has been ascertained by pharmaceu- tists, that a solution prc])arcd by dissolving two parts of double refined sugar in one of water, or any watery fluid, and boiling the solution a little, 2 e 3