271 RO RO possible to superintend at the same time the operations of the spit and the stew-pan. No certain rules can be laid down for roasting, its perfec- tion depending on so many circum- stances, which are perpetually vary- ing—the age and size (particularly the density) of the pieces, the cpiality of the coals, the temperature of the atmosphere, the currents of air in the kitchen, the more or less attention of the roaster, and lastly the time of serv- ingup. Suppose, for instance, the din- ner is ordered to be on the table at a certain time, if the fish and soup which precede it are much liked, and detained longer than the cook has calculated, or on the contrary they are dispatched sooner than expected, the roasts in the one case will he burnt, and in the other not done enough; two misfortunes, equally deplorable, occur when they may. The first, however, is without a re- medy ; five minutes on the spit, more or less, decides the excellence of this process of cookery ; it is almost next to impossible to hit the exact lime when the meat ought to he eaten, which gourmands or epicures in roasted materials express, bj' saying, ‘ It’s done to a turn,’ so that there is no exaggeration in saying the j)ci-fcct roaster is even more rare than the professed cook. “ In small establishments, where the cook and roaster are one and the same person, it is next to impossible the roasts can he well done ; the spit claims the exclusive attention, and is an imperious mistress who demands the entire devotion of her slave. Rut how can this otherwise he, when the attention of the cook at the same time is equally called to watch her fish and soup kettles, her stew jams, and all their accomjjanimcnts.' It is mo- rally and j)hysically impossible; if she devotes that delicate and constant attention to the roasts which is indis- pensably rc(|uisite, the other parts of dinner will run a great chance to he spoiled, and most cooks would rather sacrifice their charactei’s as roasters than neglect the made dishes and entremets, i^r., where they think they can display their culinary knowledge to more perfection, than sacrifice these to the roasts, the excellence of which will only hear testimony to their unremitting patience and steady vigilance.” The only general rules then that can he presented as regards the pro- cess of roasting, are a diligent atten- tion to time; a judicious and chemi- cal management of the fire, con- formed with frequent bastings, a par- ticular in which our ancestors, as well as in dredging, were very attentive. The ingredients used as dredgers are— ]. Grated bread mixed with flour. 2. Dried & powdered sweet herbs. 3. Lemon peel dried and pounded, or orange peel mixed with flour. 4. Sugar finely powdered, and mixed with pounded cinnamon. 5. Cinnamon, coriander, and sugar finely beaten and mixed with grated bread or flour. G. Sugar, bread, and salt mixed. 7. For young pigs, grated bread or flour mixed with pounded nutmeg, ginger, pepper, and yolk of eggs. The bastings for roast meat con- sist of fresh butter, clarified suet, minced sweet herbs, butter, and claret, especially for mutton and lamb ; cream and melted butter, es- pecially for a flayed j)ig, yolks of eggs, grated biscuit, orange juice, &c. ROB.—An old Galenical term for an inspissated juice: juice made thick; the rob of elder berries, for instance, evaporated by a gentle heat. Its pro])ertics are reputed di- uretic and sudorific. The rob of black currants, or the j>rcceding, diluted with water, is \ised as a de- tergent or cleansing gargle. The pulps or juices of other sweet fruits may he prepared in a similar manner. —See Tamarind Pulp. ROBORANT. —That which is strengthening.—See Tonic.