SA SA 283 salts, the qualities of one ingredient predominate; as tartar or supertar- trate of potass, has an excess ot acid ; borax, or subborate of soda, an excess of base. The former are termed acidulous, the latter sub- alkaline salts. SALTPETRE, (Nitre).—A neu- tral salt formed by the union of the nitric acid with the vegetable alkali. It exists in large quantities in the earth, and is continually found in uninhabited places. It is found ready formed in the East Indies, in Spain, in the kingdom of Naples, and elsewhere in considerable quan- tities. The uses of nitre are various. It is of great use in the arts. It is added to common salt for preserving meat, to which it gives a red hue; it is an ingredient in some frigorific mixtures; and it is prescribed in medicine as cooling, febrifuge, and diuretic; and some have recom- mended it mixed with vinegar, as a powerful remedy for the sea-scurvy. It is from this salt that one of the most powerful acids, (nitric acid) is obtained.—See Hams. S.\MPniIlE. (Crithnum Mariti- mum), sea-fennel.—A low perennial plant, growing about the sea-coast in several parts of the island. It has a spicy aromatic flavour, which induces tlie common people to use it a.s a pot-herb. Pickled with vinegar and spice, it makes a wholesome and elegant condiment, which is in much cstCGin. S A N G UIFIC A'f K) N.—A n atural function of the body by which the chyle is turned into blood. Its uses are the generation of blood, which serves to replenish the blood vessels, to iiTitatc and stimulate the heart and arteries, to generate or cause heat, to secrete the humours, and to excite the vital actions.—See Chyle. Nu- trition. Secretion. SAUCES. — Sauces are intended to heighten the flavour and to give a higher degree of zest to any dish, whether it be butchers’ meat, fish. fowl, or vegetables. In those kinds of relishes there is but little variety in England; and it was rather sati- rically thought, with no less truth, that “ the English had a great variety of forms of religion and no variety in their sauces; whereas, they had uniformity in the former, and an in- finite variety in the latter.” Melted butter forms the basis of most Eng- lish sauces. Melted butter and oys- ters ; melted butter and parsley; melted butter and anchovies ; melted butter and eggs ; melted butter and shrimps; the same and lobsters, and capers, are nearly all the sauces used in England. In addition to these the following flavoury substances are in common use :—viz. mushrooms, onions, spices, sw'eet herbs, wine, soy, and the usual condiments; but melted buttei-, gravy, or some ferina- ceous mucilage, form the basis or menstruum of all sauces. These sub- stances combined in different pro- portions are quite sufficient to make an endless variety of piqnante sauces, as pleasant to the palate as those of the most confirmed foreign nature. —See Anchovy, Soy, c^-e. Lemon Pickle ; also the following;— SAUCE, Tomatace.—Love apples q. s., stew them in a little water and pulp them through a sieve, then add common salt, ginger, cayenne pep- per, and vinegar; boil, strain, and bottle. , Quin’s. — Soy 81b.; walnut ketchup, mushroom ketchup, of each, 2 gallons; anchovies 8lb. cayenne pepjier 8oz. garlic lib. 2. Distilled vinegar 1 gallon, soy lib. allspice 8oz. 3. Walnut ])ickle half-a-pint; ket- chup half-a-])int, anchovies No. 6, garlic, G cloves, cayenne pepper one drachm. , CouATCii,—-Vrushroom ketchup Gib., walnut ketchup llh., Indian soy. Chili vinegar, of each doz., essence of anchovies loz.—See Soy, Ketchup. Fish-sauce for the whole year.—