202 MA MA an agi-eeable and nourishing diet for lying-in women and other patients for whom animal food is improper, and whose situation requires the oc- casional stimulus of wine. MARINADE. —A prepared pickle for meat, &c. MARJORAM, {Origanum, L.)— There are four different species of marjoram cultivated, all of which grow in gardens: namely, the pot, sweet, winter, and common; all of which, hut especially the first three, are aromatics of sweet flavour, much used as relishing herhs in soujis, hroths, stuffings, &c. The young, tender tops and leaves, together, are used in summer in a green state; and they are dried for winter. Marjoram is cephalic, fortifies the nerves, and comforts the hraiu. Tlie powdered herh is used as snuff in affections of the head; and the leaves as fomentations. It is also used in certain cases to give animal suh- stances a higher flavour. It increases the animal spirits, though when used to excess, it produces heat and raises the pulse. It agrees in cold wea- ther with melancholy and phlegmatic constitutions, and such as have a difficult or laborious digestion. The tops of all sorts of marjoram are to he gathered, for summer use, when they are in full bloom, in July or August, for preservation through the winter. MARROW.—The marrow of ani- mals, used in moderation, is nutri- tious and strengthening. If used too freely by weak and impaired sto- machs, it blunts the appetite and deranges the stomach. Marrow pud- dings arc esteemed a great luxury; and when properly made, are cer- tainly an exquisite dish for strong digestive organs, though it is by uo means adapted for the sick or con- valescent. MARSII-TREEOIL, Buckhean, or Bogbean, {Menyanthes trifoUala). —A plant with large oval leaves, pointed at each end like those of the garden bean, set three together as long pedicles, which embrace the stalk at some height, and, there parting, they leave it naked to near the top, where issues forth a short spike of pretty large reddish-white monapetalous flowei-s, each of which is cut into five segments, hairy on the inside, and followed by an oval- seeded vessel. It is perennial; is exceedingly common in most places, and flowers in May. The leaves have a bitter taste, which they im- part to water and spirit. It is said to cure the rot in sheep. Of all the mild and excellent tonics and stomachics, it is one of the best: the infusion creates an appetite, strengthens the digestive organs, and gives a sensation of strength to the whole system. In want of appetite from mere want of tone, nervous headach, intermittents, &c., it is very useful, and particu- larly in scurvy. Boerhaave relieved himself of the gout by the fresh juice mixed with houey. And a drachm of the powder two or three times a day has expelled worms; hut every tonic that gives vigour and strength to the intestines will do the same, namely, act as an anthelmintic. It has been employed in the place of hops, openly, on the Continent, and privately (at one time) as has been said, in this country. The leaves were collected when mature, and dried in the shade to preserve their colour. They were then boiled and skimmed, to free them from their e.xcess of roughness; and the re- maining extract was preserved and put into the fermenting tun in such proportions as the brewer judged proper, or as his druggist chose to direct. These leaves have very nearly the flavour of the hop; and an ounce of the former is said to he equivalent to half a pound of the latter. It should he observed, how- ever, for the guidance of any one who shall dare to use them, that, although they stand recommended