CU 90 C0 on the lire: add salt till it becomes blackish, some sliced ginger, whole pepper, and mace; then set it over the fire again, and when it boils put in your cucumbers. When the cu- cumbers are hot through, pour them into the pot, and cover it close. When they are cold, put them in bottles with open mouths, and strain the liquor over them. Pick out the spice, and add it to them; and cover tliem well with bladder or oil-skin. The cucumber, though moist and cold, is the most approved salad alone, or in composition, of all the venai- grets, if rightly prepared, by correct- ing the vulgar mistake of extracting the juice, in which it should be ra- ther soaked ; neither ought too much oil be added to it; it should be thinly pared and cut in thin slices, with a few slices of onions to con-ect the crudity; it should be often turned, and moderately drained. Some eat them as soon as cut, and retain the liquor, which, in the opinion of Evelyn, in his Acetaria, is the most approved method. The pulp is great- ly refreshing in both, and may be mingled in most salads without the least injury. The smaller sort, known by the name of gherkins, salted with the seeds of dill (No. 2), and mango pickle, are for winter use.— See Man(]o. CULINARY POISONS.—In the cookery of vegetables, which, more frequently than any other species of aliment, are submitted to the boiling process, the greatest care and atten- tion ought to be observed towards all culinary utensils, by seeing that they are properly tinned, if con- structed of copper, (see Copper); and that, in every other respect, they are fit for the several purposes intended. The principal mineral culinary poi- sons, arc copper and lead. See Lead. For the vegetable culinary accidental poisons. See Hemlock, Small. Hemlock Uropwort. Herb Christopher. Laurel, Common, Leaves of. Mushrooms, Poisonous. Thorn Apple. Wolfsbane. From the resemblance of many of the above vegetable tribe of poison- ous herbs to those which are known to be edible, and used either as salads or pot-herbs, serious accidents have occurred. They may not only be mistaken for the genuine articles, but, if gathered in a wild state, a commixture of the poisonous and healthy may be collected together, from the want of a knowledge of their true botanical characters. Ac- cidents of this nature are best coun- teracted by emetics ; producing full vomiting, by copious draughts of lukewarm water until the contents of the stomach be entirely ejected; after which cordials, such as negus and brandy and water, should be given, if the symptoms gradually subside, followed by a full dose of castor oil.^—See Poisons, (.fc. CUMMIN.—This plant resem- bles fennel, but is much smaller. It is an annual, and a native of Egypt and Ethiopia. The seeds are bitter and warm to the taste, and have an aromatic disagreeable flavour. They are carminative and stomachic, though seldom used internally; but mostly as an ingredient in plasters. There is an opinion that cummin will make those who drink it, or wash themselves with the infusion of it, or who smoke it, of a pale visage. This belief is mentioned by Diosco- ridcs ; and we are informed by Pliny, that the disciples of Portius Latro, a famous master of the art of speak- ing, were reported to have used cum- min, in order to imitate that fulness which their master had contracted by his studies. Horace also makes an allusion to that subject:— Proh si Pallerem casu, biberent ex sangue cuminum. Kpist. 19, lib. i. line 18. It is in much request with pigeon-