361 TU TU mon stalks and fibres; as the potatoe, and Jerusalem artichoke. TUBULOUS,—TaiMto-. A leaf is so called which is hollow within, as that of the common onion. TUNNY.—A large and thick sea fish, abounding on tbe coasts of the Mediterranean, where it is cauglit and pickled. It is firm, crisp, and of an excellent taste. The most de- licious part of the fish is the lower bellj'. They are sometimes, how- ever, too fat, are difficult of digestion, and relax and weaken the fibres of the stomach ; consequently those parts that are not so loaded with fat are to be preferred for their wholesomeness though they are not so well tasted as the other. It is usually eaten in win- ter and autumn, and agrees with young, bilious, and sanguine people, who have a strong stomach, and are in the habit of taking much exercise. TURBOT f Pleuronectes Maximus, order T/ioracici).—This delicious fish is in season the greatest part of the summer. When good, it is at once firm and tender, and abounds with rich gelatinous nutriment. M. Ude says that he has ascertained by many years’ observation, that a turbot kept too or three days is much better eating than a fresh one. It inhabits the fluropean and Mediterranean seas. It is a finely flavoured fish wlien in season. The flesh is firm, and easy of digestion. It sometimes grows to the weight of thirty pounds. Ron- delct says be has seen turbots five fathoms long, four in breadth, and a foot thick.* * Juvenal, in his fourth Satire, gives us some idea of the value the ancients set upon a turbot (called in Latin U/iomhus, from its being large, flat, and resembling a lozenge), by the fol- lowing humorous interlude of Domitian the emperor, who one day convoked the senate to know in what fish-kettle they should cook a monstrous turbot which had been presented lo him. The senators gravely weighed the matter ; but as there was no utensil of this kind big enough, it was proposed to cut it iit The finest turhots brought to the London market are caught off the Dutch coast, or German Ocean, and are brought hither in well-boats alive. The commencement of the season is generally about March and April, and continues all the summer. Like other fish, turbots do not spawn all at the same time; there is, therefore, alwaj's good and bad all the year round. For these some years past, there has been an immense quantity brought to London, from all parts, and of all qualities. A great «iany from a new fishery off Hartlepool, which are very handsome looking fish, but by no means equal to those caught on the Dutch coast. Many excellent turbots are caught offDover and Duugeness; and a large quan- tity brought from Scotland, packed in ice, which are of a very inferior quality ; and are generally to be pur - chased for about one-fourth of the sum given for good turbots. Being drawn and washed clean, if it be quite fresh, and kept in a cool place, it may, in moderate weather, be ])reserved for a couple of days. An hour or two before dressing it, soak in spring water with some salt in it,—then score the skin across the thickest part of the back, to prevent breaking on the breast, which will hapjien from the fish swelling and cracking the skin, if this prevention be omitted. The thickest part of the turbot is the favourite; and the carver of this fish must remember to ask his friends if they axe fin-fanciers. It will save a troublesome job to the pieces : tliis advice was rejecled. After imicli argument and deliberation, it was resolved that a proper utensil should be made for the jiurpose ; and it was more- over decided that, whenever the empe- ror went to war, a great number of jiot- ters should accompany him. The most jrleasing part of the story is, that a blind senator appeared to be in ecstasy at the sight of the turbot, by continually praising it, at the same time looking in the very opposite direction !