cu 91 CtJ fanciers, either for the pinijose of domiciling their own stock, or at- tracting strays. The predilection of pigeons for this seed, the smell of which attracts them, is, it is said, to be almost insuperable. CURDS.—Another of the compo- nent proximate ingredients of milk. When milk, either deprived or not of its cream, is mixed with certain substances, or allowed to stand till it becomes sour, it undergoes a change, called coagulation, dividing itself into a solid substance, called curd, and a fluid, called whey, 'i'his change in milk may be effected by several agents, such as alcohol, gelatine, and all astringent vegetables; by acids, and many neutral salts, as cream of tartar; by gum, sugar, and more particularly by the gastric juice, or a piece of rennet. This change is at- tributed to the affinity of the coagu- lating substance for water, the cui'd being principally albumen, having very little affinity for the same—a the- ory, however, which falls short of ex- plaining the operation of the gastric juice : the infusion of a piece of ren- net, or calf’s stomach, not bigger than half a crown, will coagulate a quantity of milk sufficient for mak- ing a cheese of sixty pounds weight, although the quantity of coagulating matter cannot in this case exceed a few grains. CURRANT S.—In commerce, currants are a small dried grape, properly, says Dr. Johnson, written corinths, from Corinth in Greece, where they were first propagated; but this place now produces no more, the plantations having been long neglected. They do not grow on bushes but on vines, like other grapes. —See Ramn.i. Currants arc at present brought chiefly from the island of Zante, in the Ionian sea. “There are,” says Mr. Watkins, “few ships bound to the Adriatic, that do not touch here; some of them take in cargoes of cur- rants. This rich and wholesome ar- ticle of consumption is the dried fruit of grapes, which are peculiar to a few of these islands, and to part of the Morea, which carries on a consi- derable trade in this article. They are as inferior in size as superior in flavour to all others—I think them the most delicious I ever tasted. There are two sorts, the black and the purple. They are ripe in July, but are not gathered till August, when they are exposed to the sun till dried ; after which put into hogs- heads, and trodden down by naked feet, to compress, and to preserve them the better.”—SeelVathhis’ Tra- vels, vol. ii. pp. 162, 328. CUTTL E-FIS H.—H ard of diges- tion, engendering gross humours, and fit only for strong stomachs. CYDER. — An excellent drink made of the juice of apples, espe- cially of the more common table kinds. Herefordshire and Devon- shire, are famous for cyder; but much of that made in the latter county is of a harsh, sour, and watery nature, to which qualities is commonly imputed a kind of severe colic prevalent among the lower order of people. The Herefordshire cyder is so exquisite, that when the Earl of Manchester was ambassador in France, he is said frequently to have passed this beverage on their nohility for a delicious wine. There is a spirituous liquor drawn from cyder by distillation, called cyder spirit, to which the dealers in spirits can give the flavour of some other kinds, and sell it under assumed names, or mix it in a large proportion with foreign Iwandy, rum, or arrack, in the sale, without any danger of the fraud being discovered. The best cyder is said to be made from the red-streak apple, grafted \q)on the Jennet-moyle stock. Other cyders have various degrees of potency, and a great variety of flavour. Cyder and Ferry are, it is said, generally fermented and kept in leaden vessels, or at least the apples and ]>ears are passed through leaden tubes; and the lead being readily