AR AR 22 not our object to condemn every thing indiscriminately that is costly, rare, and good. There are certainly many liquors, particularly such as are distilled from the kernels of cer- tain fruits, which, if taken in e.Kcess, might he attended with injurious, nay, dangerous consequences; but, on the contrary, there are others again devoid of narcotic substances, which, taken in moderation, are both agreeable and beneficial. A little weak brandy and water, as a diluent at meal-time, to those who prefer such a beverage, has nothing inju- rious in it; and certainly it is pre- ferable to copious potations of malt liquors. And, from experience, after a hearty meal, a glass of soda-water combined, during the act of efferves - cence, wdth a table-spoonful or two of good cogniac, will not only pro- mote the process of digestion, but cause the injesta to sit easy and com- fortable, by relieving the distension occasioned by flatulence and debility of the organ. In these cases, then, where both wine and beer disagree with the stomach, producing acidity and other distressing symptoms, toast and water, or weak spirit, may he taken with advantage ; or any other liquid substitute, modified to the ex- isting state of feeling, would answer just as well, where there is no parti- cular antipathy to any one in parti- cular. It is with drinking as with eating; it is impossible to lay down niles for individual tastes and con- stitutions. Ardent spirits comprise all those liquors obtained by fermenting ve- getable, and particularly farinaceous substances, to a certain degree, and afterwards subjecting them to distil- lation. All distilled liquors consist of a great proportion of alcohol or pure spirit, a greater or less quantity of water, and generally of a very small proportion of empyreumatic oil, especially if distilled only once, or if this process be carried on too quickly. Pure spirits are perfectly free from this oil, which, from its burnt and acrid nature, is altogether indigestible. Proof spirits ought to consist of Alcohol . . 55° Distilled water . . 45° But rectified spirits of wine ought to have five parts of water in the hun- dred : the specific gravity of the former being as 930, and that of the latter as 835, to 1000. If spirits be distilled over pepper- mint, balm, aniseed, or carraway, their strength is not much increased; but if over cinnamon, cloves, mace, or other hot spices, they are rendered still more heating and pei'nicious to health. ITilrsnk in hot weather, or after violent perspirations, they check this function, by contracting the ves- sels of the skin, and closing the pores. On account of this contract- ing power they are sometimes of ser- vice to a person whose stomach is overloaded with beer or water, to assist tbeir passage through the pro- per emunctories. After violent ex- ercise and heat, a dram of spirits is more proper than cold water or beer, though a cup of tea, or other diluent drink, is preferable. After fat or strong food, spirits are exceedingly improper: for, instead of promoting the solution and digestion of food in the stomach, they rather tend to re- tard it. Of this we ma)' be conrunced, by attending to the eflects they pro- duce on inanimate substances: for these are preserved from putrefac- tion more eftectually in spirits, than in any other liquid. Thus we may infer, that spirits will impede diges- tion, and render strong food taken into the stomach still more indigest- ible. Many persons are accustomed to take a dram as a remedy to flatu- lency : if the stomach be clean and undepraved they certainly will be relieved by it; but in the contrary case, their expectations will be dis- appointed. To persons of relaxed fibi'es, dis- tilled liquors may, under certain li-