PO PO 250 but, on account of the volatile and heating oil in the orange peel, negus, if taken in great quantities, is more stimulant and drying than pure wine. Persons troubled with the piles, and diseases of the breast, should not indulge themselves in this, nor punch.—See Arient Spirits. P O T A G E. — Another culinary term for soup. POTASS, PRUSSIATE OF.— A test for the sulphate of iron. The prussiate of potass is a very delicate test, and will detect mineral sub- stances, such as iron or copper, in any fluids, in minute quantities, with some little chemical preliminaries to adjust it for accurate results; such as depriving the suspected fluid of its colouring matter, that the action of the test may be less equivocal; this is done by mixing in the suspected fluid, as in beer, some animal char- coal (ivory black) and afterwards filtering it through blotting paper. The above test becomes then more apparent. If iron be present, it turns the iron of a bluish colour. Prussiate of potass is besides a test of copper — corrosive sublimate— muriate of tin—nitrate of bismuth, silver and zinc; although it has no effect on muriate of gold, which latter is also a test for iron.—(See Gold, Muriate of). The triple prussiate of potass and iron in solution, if copper be present, gives a brown precipitate. When very diluted, it will only pro- duce a red colour in the mixture, without any turbidness; but at the end of about twenty minutes, tbe brown precipitate will fall. This is one of the most minute tests of the presence of copper. The ferrocyanate of potass has long been used as a test for copper and iron in solution, and it is hardly possible to imagine any tiling more sensible than its indications. M. Brandenburgh, however, recom- mends as superior to it, the ferrocy- anate of ammonia (prussiate of ammonia and iron). It is easily prepared by pouring ammonia on to Prussian blue in a phial, which must be closely stopped. About six of the former to one of the latter may be used at first; and if, in the course of three or four days, the whole of the sediment has become brown, more of the Prussian blue is to be added, until it cease to change colour. The solution is then filtered, that which remains adhering to the resi- duum being passed through by wash- ing, and is then preserved for use. It should be of a fine yellow colour. —Journal of Science, POTATOES.—The potatoe is a perennial plant, well known for the tubers produced by its roots. The stem rises generally from two to three feet in height, with long and weak branches, furnished with leaves interruptedly pinnate. The flowers are white, or tinged with purple. The fruit is a berry of the size of a plum, green at first, but black when ripe, and containing many small, flat, roundish, white seeds. It is sup- posed to be a native of South Ame- rica, but Humboldt is very doubtful if that can be proved: he admits, however, that it is naturalized there in some situations.* * Sir Joseph Banks (Horl. Tracts, i, 8), considers that the potatoe was first brought into Europe from the mountain- ous parts of South America, in the neigh- bourhood of Quito, where they were called papas, to Spain, in the early part of the sixteenth century. From Spain, where they were called battatas, tliey appear to have found their way first to Italy, where they were received with the same name with the truffle, tara- toujii. The potatoe was received by Clusius, in Vienna, in 1598, from the governor of Mons, in liainault, who had procured it the year before from one of the attendants of the Pope’s legate, under the name of taratoufi, and learned from him that it was then in use in Italy. In Germany it received the name of kartoffel, and spread rapidly even in Clusius’ time. To England the potatoe found its way by a different route, being