BA 25 BA one quart; boil it down over a gentle milk. It is used as a diet in con- fire to one pint, then strain it, and sumption, and other pectoral com- add an equd quantity of new cow’s plaints. B. BACON. — Indurated fat of the hog, accumulated in the cellular tex- ture under the skin, and is of all meat the most unwholesome ; it ea- sily turns rancid in the stomach, or it is so already by long hanging; and is particularly pernicious to those who are subject to the heart-burn. Though coarse and heavy, bacon is nevertheless a nutritive food; and only fit to be consumed in great quantities by robust labouring people. '\Vhere it constitutes a principal part of the daily diet, it brings on disor- ders similar to those which arise from the immoderate use of pork. In con- sequence of the fat oiTard with which it abounds, the flesh of the swine tribe is more or less laxative. The flesh of the sow is strong, and makes bad bacon. It is the flesh of the castrated animal that is in common use, and that is known by the name of pork. On account of the fat or lard, with which it abounds, it is not very easily digested. It is a very savoury food, and affords a strong nourishment, suited to persons who lead an active and laborious life. Tiie too frequent and long conti- nued use of this meat favours corpu- lency, produces fulness of the sto- mach and bowels, and occasions dis- orders of the skin. BACON, TO PREPARE.—Cut off the hams and head of the hog; and if the animal be large, take out the chine, but leave in the spare ribs, as tbey will retain tbe gravy, and pre- vent the bacon from getting musty. Salt it with common salt, and a little saltpetre, and let it lie ten days on a table, to suffer all the brine to escape from it. Salt it again ten or twelve days, turning it every day after the second salting : then scrape it very clean; rub a little salt over it, and hang it up. 'I'ake care to scrape the white scum off it very clean, and rub on a little dry suet, which will keep the bacon from lust- ing. The dry salt will candy and shine it. Another method is as fol- lows :—Take off all the inside fat of a side of pork, and lay it on a long board or di'esser, that the blood may run from it. Rub it well on both sides with good salt, and let it lie a day. Then take a pint of very good salt, a quarter of a pound of salt petre, and beat them both very fine ; two pounds of coarse sugar and a quarter of a peck of common salt. Lay your pork in something that will hold the pickle, and rub it well with the above ingredients. Lay the skinny side downwards, and baste it daily with the pickle for a fortnight. Then hang it on a wood smoke, and afterwards in a dry place, but not in a hot one. All bacon and hams should hang dlear of each other, and of every thing around them; they should not even touch the wall. Take care to wipe off the old salt before you put it into pickle, and never keep bacon or hams in a hot kitchen ; or in a room exposed to the rays of the sun ; as all these circum- stances contribute not a little to make them rusty. Westphalid Dacon.i—Having chosen for the purpose a fine side of pork, make tbe following pickle. Take— Pump-water . . 1 gallon. Bay salt . . J peck. White salt . . ^ peck. Saltpetre . . 1 pound. Coarse sugar . . 1 pound. Soebo, tied up in a bag, 1 ounce. Boil all these well together, and let