BE BE 29 They deep incision make, and talk the wliile Of England’s glory, ne’er to be defaced While hence they borrow vigour. Thomson. BEEF, DUTCH.—To make Dutch beef, take a raw buttock, cut off the fat, rub the lean all over witli brown sugar, aud let it lie two or three hours in a pan or tray, turning it two or tliree times. Then salt it with saltpetre and common salt, and let it lie a fortnight, turning it every day. Then roll it very straight in a coarse cloth, put it in a cheese-press a day and a night, and hang it to dry in a chimney. When you boil it put it in a cloth, and when it is cold it will cut like Dutch beef. BEEF HAMS.—See Hams. BEEF, FIUNG. — To cure beef in this manner, make a strong brine with bay salt, saltpetre, and pump- water, and put into it a rib of beef for nine days. Then hang it up in a chimney where wood or sawdust is burnt. When it becomes a little dry wash the outside with blood, two or three times, to make it look black, and when it is dried enough boil it for use. Otliers cure their hung beef in the following manner: viz. Take the navel piece, and hang it up in your cellar as long as it will keep good, and until it begins to be a little sappy. Then take it down and w'ash it in sugar and water, one piece after another, for it must be cut into three pieces. Then take a pound of saltpetre, and two pounds of baysalt dried and pounded small. Mix them with two or three spoons- ful of brown sugar, and rub your beef with it in every place. Then strew a sufficient cjuantity of com- mon salt all over it, and let the beef be close till the salt be dissolved, which will be in si.x or seven days. Then turn it every other day for a fortnight, and afterwards hang it up in a warm, but not a hot place. It may hang a fortnight in the kitchen, and when it is wanted for use, boil it in baysalt and pump-water till it be tender. It will kee)), when boiled, two or three months, rubbing it with a greasy cloth, or putting it for two or three minutes into boiling water, to take off the mouldiness. BEEF, JERKED.—In the West Indies, beef can scarcely be cured with pickles, but they easily preserve it by cutting it into thin slices, and dipping- them in sea-water, and then drying them quickly in the sun; to which they give the name of Jerked Beef. BEEF-'i'EA.—AVhat is usually termed beef-tea is prepared by put- ting a pound of the lean part of beef, cut into very thin slices, into a quart of water, and boiling it over a quick fire for about five minutes, taking ofi' the scum. The liquor is afterwards poured off clear for use. This makes a light and pleasant article of diet for weak and delicate people. On some occasions spice may be advan- tageously added to it. Gravy soup is very nourishing and heating. It is used as a clyster, as well as taken into the stomach, when it is rejected by the latter. BEER.—Like ale, beer is a liquor which ought to consist purely of water, malt, and hops. It is, how'- ever, distinguished from ale, either by being older, stronger, or smaller; and, in proportion to the quantity, quality, and manner of compounding the ingredients of which it is com- posed, it has received different names, and is possessed of various degrees of salubrity. Old, or strong beer, is sometimes called by the cant word stinyo. It is also designated by the term October; because that month is held to be peculiarly propitious to the brewing of this grateful beverage. The more water there is used in brewing beer, the better it is calcu- lated to quench thirst: but less so, if it contains a great proportion of the mucilaginous and saccharine prin- ciples of the grain. Strong beer, there- fore, is very nourishing, and may