IXTRODUCTION. XI than such of the community as have good drink and animal food in abundance. Nor is a wild bull, that eats grass, less furious than a lion, that feeds on flesh, and do we not daily see some birds that live on grain, fight and tear each other with most astonishing ferocity. It is further urged, that as we have no genuine account of the primeval state of man, from any historian but Moses, who is supposed to be the first writer on diet, ami since he informs us (Gen. i. 29, iii. 18), that vegetable food was expressly appointed for man before the Flood, in two different periods, and animal food imme- diately after it (Gen. ix. 3) ; we have no authority to assert the contrary, unless we can shew that we are better acquainted with the transactions of tliose times than the Jewish historian : and why should a direct c.xplicit per- mission to eat animal food, after the Deluge, as he had done the “green herb” before it, be given to Noah, if the same permission had been given to Adam? Besides, the most eminent historians,* physicians,! and philoso- phers* of antiquity agree, that the first generations of men did not eat flesh. Lastly, in reference to the first who ventured to destroy animals for food, it is affirmed, that the attempt to tear and devour creatures so like himself, was the most savage and unnatural thought that ever entered the heart of man; and that nothing less than the express permission from the Deity could either induce or justify the first who made the cruel experiment, to take such a bold step, let his appetite be never so keen, or the odour of burnt offerings never so fragrant. Another great improvement of man’s food, was the invention of wine, which well deserves the encomium bestowed upon it by Plutarch (Prrccept. de Sanitat. tuend.), of being the most noble of all liquors; the most palatable of medicines, and of all delicacies the most grateful to the stomach. Aretaeus also, a physician of the first rank among the ancients, commends wine no less for the cures it performs. Noah, 1| says Plutarch, began to be a husbandman, and he planted a vineyard, and he drank the wine, and was drunken. (Gen. i.\. 20, 21. Year B. C. 2348). The good man being a stranger to the qualities of his new liquor, reason and humanity required * Moses, Sanchoniatho, Diodorus Siculus. t Hippocrates and Galen. t Phythagoras, Kmpedocles, Plato, (lib.vi.de Ilcp.)Porphyr. idem. See Porpliyr. de republica, do usu animalium ; also Diogen. Laert. Nat. Hist. lib. 21. c. 13. II \V bat the name was of that which we now call wine, in the primitive ages of the world, we have no means of ascertaining, though it is probable it was much the same word as is used to express it by Moses, in Genesis (cha]). and ver. above annexed), from the Hebrew words, implying to press out fro7u. The word uinc IS nearly similar in all languages, and it seems probable that all nations derived their name of that beverage from the world before the Flood, through Noah.