ME ME 203 in the modern Pharmacopoeias, the quantity of a drachm taken in pow- der “ purges and vomits” MASK. — In the culinary art, mask implies to cover completely. MASTICATION.—The act of chewing the food. The aliment be- ing taken into the mouth is retained there, and brought under the action of the teeth by the lips, buccenator muscles, and tongue. By the lateral motions of the lower jaw, the inferior molar teeth grind the alimentary substance against the upper ones. During this lime, the food becomes mixed with the saliva and mucus of the mouth, which convert it into an easily swallowed bolus, and also fits it for future digestion and assi- mulation. MEAD.—A wholesome, agreeable liquor, prepared with honey and water. Mead is a liquor of very ancient use in Britain, and some per- sons consider the best sort scarcely inferior to foreign wine. It is thought probable, that before the introduction of agriculture into our island, mead was the only strong liquor known to the inhabitants and their poste- rity, long after they had become acquainted with other liquors.—See Metheglin. ME.-VT.—Directions for Carv- ing DIFFERENT .loiNTS, &C. OF Meat. 1. The Itch or II Bone. (See p. .'5.3). —The outside of this joint is very much influenced in its flavour from the water in which it is boiled; a thick slice must, therefore, he cut off the whole length of the joint, cutting it all the way even, and through the whole surface; the soft fat, which resembles marrow, lies on the back, and the firm fat must be cut in thin horizon- tal slices; hut as some people are fond of the soft, others of the hard, it would he proper to ask them which they prefer. The upper part, as it is generally placed in the dish, is the handsomest, fullest of gravy, most tender, and is enriched with fat; yet there are some people who prefer a slice on the under side, though it is quite lean. 2. Sirloin of Beef.—With respect to the carving of this joint, it is im- material whether the whole or only a part of it he brought to table. The meat on the upper side of the ribs is firmer, and of a closer texture, than the fleshy part underneath, which is by far the most tender, and of course preferred by many people. To carve this joint, the different tastes of people must be consulted, and each person helped to that part which is most agreeable to them. Some begin to carve it at the end, first cutting off the outside; while others begin in the middle of the most fleshy part. The slices must be cut neither too thick nor too thin. 3. Brisket of Beef—This part is always boiled, and is to he cut the long way quite down to the bone, after having cut off the outside, or first cut, to which you must never help any one, unless they desire it, which is seldom the case. The fat cut with this slice is of a firm, gristly kind, though one of a softer nature may be found underneath. 4. Buttock of Beef—'fills part is always boiled, and requires few di- rections as to the manner in which it ought to he c.arved. A thick slice should be taken oft’ all round it. When you come to the juicy and prime parts of it, you must be care- ful to cut it even, that it may have a graceful figure, should it be brought up again the next day to table. 5. Ojc Tomjae.—This must not ho cut long ways but .across, and in the thickest jiart, and taken from thence in slices; the most tender and juicy ])art is about the middle, and near the root, for tow.ards the tip the meat is both closer and drier. A tongue is generally eaten with white meat, veal, chicken, or turkey; and when- ever you help any person to the one, you must also help them to the other.