XV INTRODUCTION. health, but for those only who are under the necessity of keeping a strict watch over themselves: and Sanctorius has uttered nothing which Celsus himself has not said in the subsequent chapter, when he made the following I reflection, (Sect, iii, Aphor. 42), ‘ Celsi sententia non omnibus tutta est that is, this sentence of Celsus is not safe for everybody. The precepts of Celsus are principally directed to regimen, and the choice of foods and drinks ; the use of baths; the proportions and mutual relations of meals and labour; on dieting, emetics, and gymnastic exercises. To other writers on diet, from Hippocrates to Galen, Xenocrates may be added. He lived in the reign of Tiberius; and was the .author of a treatise on fish, included in the treatise of Photius; but which contains fetv things of any note. Uioscorides, who lived in the reign of the sanguinary Nero, inserted in his work, among the medicaments of which the principal part consists, different articles relative to food and condiments, and their proper- ties. It is more particularly in the second and fifth hooks where these articles are to be met with ; the general merit of which, at best, is rather of a slender texture. It is not among the wndters on health that Ccelius Apicius must he ranked, although he has left behind him a collection of culinary receipts of his time. He lived in the reign of Trajan: hut Pliny, the natur.alist, who lived under Vespa.sian and Titus, left behind him a natural history of alimen- tary substances; with the properties attributed to, .and the customs of tlie Romans at that period, which leaves curiosity little more to desire on tfrese subjects. The charms of his style, the philosophical and profound reflections it developes, .and with which his w'ork abounds, sufficiently compensate for the errors of credulity, he is justly, though too frequently reproached with. Galen, the most illustrious man after Hippocr.ates, has left behind him three hooks on the properties of aliments :—one on those which form good or had juices; one on attenuating regimen ; another on the exercise called the “ little b.all,” a sort of game somewh.at similar to tennis. In order to proportion the rides of lie.alth suit.ahly to the different circum- stances in which individuals may he placed, Galen divides people into three classes. 1st. Into those who are naturally health}', vigorous, and masters, in con- sequence of their circumstances, of the time and c.are necessary to he devoted to their health. 2d. Those of a feeble .and delicate constitution ; and fid. Those whose indispens.ahle business, public or private, does not permit them to eat, drink, or exercise themselves, at stated or rcgul.ar hours. The works of Cornaro, so often quoted, on the advantage of sohrictv; Mercurialis on the gymnastics of the ancients ; .and Chancellor Bacon’s treatise, entitled Ilistorin Vita; el Mortis, stand among the most distin- guished productions of the latter period, on the subject of the preservation of health, through the medium of a well-regulated diet. Cornaro claims