Til TR 357 prohibits the use of soap in these wasliings; wliy, he does not inform us. We can see no harm, but the contrary, in the moderate use of soap; tliougli it does act injuriously, as we have seen, on the delicate skins of fine ladies. Soap, however, may be abused; for it may strip the skin of too much of its natural oil, and, by thus rendering it too dry, it may obstruct the pores, and stop perspiration. The cold bath is re- commended by Jackson, three times a week; and he very properly prefers sea bathing to fresh water bathing. But if it is inconvenient to go to the sea side, a quantity of salt thrown into the cold bath will render it better. The use of the salt is to smart and stiimdate tlie skin, and consequently to open its pores.—■ Jackson says, that the shorter time a person remains in the water the better; and we believe this agrees with e.xperience, though we are not quite clear about the philosophy of the thing. Fewterell recommends the arms and loins to be w'ashed with cold water. We should object to the loins, as likely to cause colic and other evils, except when the whole body is washed at the same time, which diminishes the hazard of this occurrence. Jackson again informs us, that it is of great advan- tage to prevent colds, to have the feet bathed in cold water every morn- ing. This wc should, for the same reason, disapprove of, except in the case of a general bath; or if it is done, wc should say that the feet ought to be suddenly plunged into the cold water, ami as suddenly withdrawn, and instantly rubbed dry. Friction in Training.—This is a point in which we think the ancient Athletic excelled the modern trainers. Ill training race horses, indeed, it is much better understood and more employed than in the more iiiqiortant training of men. On the [irinciiiles just laid down, we say, that if you rub the skin till it glow, you will stimulate the pores into healthy ac- tion, and also draw to the part rub- bed a great quantity of blood, as you will see by the increased redness of the part. Now all the perspiration must come from the blood; and con- sequently, if you both open the pores of the skin and bring thither a greater flow of blood, you will, to a cer- tainty, increase the perspiration— and, of course, reduce your fat, and improve your wind. The only friction mentioned by Jackson is performed after hard ex- ercise, and particularly after the morning run, when he recommends the skin to be rubbed dry, and im- mediately clothed, one limb after another. We should advise the daily use of the flesh-brush, for not less than a quarter of an hour, morning and evening. Nothing acts more powerfully on the wind, and on the process of digestion. Abstinence andCvntinence in Train- ing.—We have already adverted to the necessity for strict abstinence from all excess and Indulgence of the appetite, in food and liquor. It is even more important that, if the jierson under training is married, he should sleep out of his own house; and if unmarried, must submit to a similar precaution. This is the judicious jireccpt of John Hall, of Beverly; and we believe it is fol- lowed by Jackson and Capt. Barclay. 'I'he ancients were also well aware of its importance; hence the verse of the Roman poet, respecting the man who wished to excel in the race— “ abslinnit J'enere et Iktccho ”—ho quite renounced both love and wine. Although, as observed, the prin- cipal thing to be attended to in train- ing depends upon sweating, e.xercise, Mu\ feeding, yet the object to be ob- tained would be defeated if these were not adjusted, each to the other, and to the constitution of the individual, with which the trainer should make himself jierfectly ac([uaintcd. If n man retains his health and spirits