2G0 PU PR PRUNUS CERASUS.—The sys- tematic name of the red cherry tree. The fruit of this tree possesses a pleasant acidulated sweet flavour, and is proper in fevers, scurvy, and bilious obstructions. Red cherries are mostly eaten as a luxury, and are very wholesome, except to those whose bowels are remarkably irri- table.—See Cherries. PRUNES UOMESTICA.—The systematic name of the plum or dam- son tree.—See Plums. PRUNUS—LAURO-CERASUS. —The systematic name of the Poison Laurel: called also common Cherry Laurel, Bay Laurel, and the Alex- andrian Laurel. The leaves of the lauro-cerasus have a bitter, styptic taste, accompanied with a flavour re- sembling that of bitter almonds, or other kernels of the drupaceous fruits; the flowers also manifest a similar flavour. The powdered leaves ap- plied to the nostrils, excite sneezing, though not so strongly as tobacco. The kernel-like flavour which these leaves impart being generally es- teemed grateful, has sometimes caused them to be employed for culi- nary purposes, and especially in custards, puddings, blanc mange, &c. and as the proportion of this sapia matter of the leaf to the quantity of the milk is commonly inconsiderable, bad effects have seldom ensued. But as the poisonous quality of this laurel is now indubitably jiroved, and known to be the Prussic acid, which can be obtained in a separate form, the public are cautioned against its internal use.—See Cherni Laurel. PRUNUS PADUS. — The sys- tematic name of the wild-chistcr, or bird cherry tree. The bark and berries of this shrub are used medicinally. 'I'he former when taken from the tree has a fragrant and bitter sub- astringent taste, somewhat similar to that of bitter almonds. Made into a decoction it cures intermittents, &c. PRUNUS SPINOSA.—The sys- tematic name of the sloe tree. {Prii- nus Sijlucstris). The juice of the sloe is sometimes used in gargles to tumifactions of the tonsils and uvula, and, from its astringent taste, was formerly much used in hemorrhage, but is now principally emplo3'ed in the manufacture of home-made port wine. PUDDINGS.—Puddings are of two kinds: the first consists of a fari- naceous dough, containing a portion of butter or other fat, inclosing any kind of meat or fruit, and rendered eat- able by boiling; this may be termed a boiled pie. The paste for a meat pudding is usually made with beef suet or marrow, one part of which is chopped as fine as possible, and ultimately mixed with four parts by weight of floim, is made into a paste, ■with water or milk. With this paste a pudding mould or basin, previously rubbed with butter within, is lined, and the meat is added, to fill up the vacancj'. A lid of paste is now put over the meat, and made to adhere to the margin of the dish. The wiiole is then laid over with a wetted cloth, dusted with flour to prevent the dough sticking to it, and then boiled in water till the pudding be sufficiently cooked. The other kind of pudding is a batter, composed of eggs, butter, and flour, or any other farinaceous sub- stance, occasionally' enriched with the admixture of fruit, sugar, and spices, and rendered eatable either by boiling in the manner stated, or by baking in an oven. PULiSES. — All vegetables of the pulse kind are liable to strong objec- tions asarticles of food. Thej' arevery' indigestible, heating, flatulent, and moreover, they contain little noiunsh- ment. Both pease and beans, whether green or dried, are apt to oppress the stomach if eaten too plentifully; and are consequently fitter for the strong and laborious, and those who take much exercise. Pea-soup, although most grateful in cold weather, is in- digestible to weak stomachs. French beans arc, however, an excellent ve- getable production ; that is, the young