94 DI DI portant as true, that by attending merely to a proper diet, a phlegmatic or emaciated habit may frequently be changed into one of a sanguine and robust condition; and the hypo- chondriac may so far be altered, as to become achecrful,contented, and use- ful member of the community. People in the lower ranks of society enjoy the common advantages of existence more intensely than those in the higher walks of life. Wholesome food is acquired by moderate laboui', which improves the appetite and di- gestion : hence sound sleep uninter- rupted by corroding cares, refreshes the w'earied limbs; a healthy pro- geny fills the cottage; and the sons perform the father’s labour, making his hoary locks sit comfortably on his head. How vastly inferior to these blessings are the delicacies of the affluent, which are every where ac- companied with real evils. Their appetites, in order to relish their food, must be stimulated by pungent sauces, which heat and vitiate the blood, and render the body liable to diseases. These e.xcesses disturb their repose; and as a punishment for their vices, their sons, who ought to be the ornament and support of their families, contract diseases from their mother’s womb, and are afflict- ed with infirmities through the course of a languid life, which seldom reaches to old age. But the worst inconvenience re- sulting from epicureark modes of living is, that by supplying the body with superabundant nourishment, the faculties of the soul become stupified, and the passions inflamed ; wdiile the sparing and homely diet of the la- borious poor neither oppresses the bodily functions, nor foster a pro- pensity to vice. Hence, unless pru- dence be a constant attendant on opulence, it is, in these respects, better and more conducive to the preservation of health and prolonga- tion of life, to live on a small for- tune. Nor is nature to be deemed an unjust step-mother, hut a most provident and beneficent parent. In short, to use the words of Lucan {Book ii. p. 381), it behoves a wise man, in every stage of his life, “To hold the golden mean, To keep the end in view, and follow nature.” The opinion of a physician of some celebrity in his time, is worthy of being recorded here on the subject of diet,—we allude to the late Dr. Cheyne, who died at Bath in the year 1742, in the seventy-second year of his age. He had been greatly afflicted in his time, having been a free liver; he succeeded, however, by means of a milk and vegetable diet, and the use of the Bath waters, to remove an accumulation of “mor- bid sensibility,” bulk, and lethargy, which had nearly cost him his life. By strict adherence for upwards of two years to his milk and vegetables, his health was at length thoroughly established; and he confined himself almost entirely to this regimen dur- ing the remainder of his life. Of this regimen, and its effects, he him- self thus speaks:— “ My regimen, at present, is milk, with tea, cofl'ee, bread, and butter, mild cheese, salading, fruits, and seeds of all kinds, with tender roots (as potatoes, turnips, carrots), and in short, every thing that has not life (dressed or not, as I like it), in which there is as much or greater variety than in animal food : so that the stomach need never be cloyed. I drink no wine nor any fermented liquors, and am rarely dry, most of my food being liquid, moist, or juicy; only, after dinner, I drink either coffee or green tea, but seldom both in the same day, and sometimes a glass of soft small cider. The thin- ner my diet is, the easier, more cheerful and lightsome, I find my- self. My sleep is also the sounder, though pei-haps somewhat shorter than formerly under my full animal