MA MA 194 stone, as well as the heart-burn; of this, however, there is no truth, though it may not be so healthy to those who are predisposed to, or la- bouring under, any of these com- plaints. Pale and amber malts, dried with coke or culm, obtain a more clear, bright, piile colour than if dried with any other fuel, from the absence of smoke produced with these fuels. Brown malts are dried with straw, wood, and fern. The straw-dried is ))referable to that dried with wood, the smoke of which communicates to it an almost insupportable flavour which few can relish; though it is apt to part with it in time, in con- junction with the strength and the great quantity of the hops that are used in its preservation. The fern- dried malt labours under the same inconvenience of the smoke from this vegetable, wdth which many quarters of malt are dried, on ac- count of its cheapness and plenty. MALT-LIQUORS.—Having ad- verted to the different products of malt-liquors, namely. Ale, Beer, Porter, to which we refer, we now ])Vo))ose to offer some obseiwations, founded on general experience, touching the nutritive as well as me- dicinal properties of these liquors. Fermented liquors drank at proper times, and in moderate quantity, are allowed to bo both proper and neces- sary for those who perform laborious w'orks; but the salutary proportion of these drinks is too apt to be ex- ceeded, when opportunities occur, by people whose gratifications are few in number, and of rare occur- rence. As it is impracticable to prevent such excesses altogether, we would suggest that, if they must take place, malt-liquor is found by experience, when good and unadul- terated, to be much less injuidous to the health and constitution, than di.stilled or ardent spirits. It was the practice once (whether it be so now or not, to the same extent, we cannot positively say) of farmers, from a principle of economy, to treat their servants, and those with whom they are associated, with spirits and water, instead of malt liquor. Should, however, such a practice now exist, it ought by all means to be discou- raged, as spirits are much more in- flammatory than malt drinks, and produce more readily obstructions and inflammatory disorders, espe- cially of the liver and mysentery. The temporary delirium of intoxica- tion that they produce, is said to be much more violent and dangerous than that which follows from taking too hu-ge a quantity of malt liquor. A volume, in fine, of useful pre- cepts, might be written on the sub- ject of malt liquor, as it regards the health of those who use it. We shall, however, confine ourselves to a few general observations, inter- mixed with the results of some sci- entific experiments, by which the reader who values his health may derive both benefit and information. Now, the effects of alcohol or spi- rit, under whatever form it may be taken into the stomach—whether in the form of Wine, Spirits, or Malt- liquors, is, to act upon the nerves, and through the medium of the nerves on the brain, first producing a gene- rous tide of cheerfulness, and gaiety, and hilarity; and secondly, a lan- guid, listless, and not always un- pleasant state of weariness, or kind of half-stupefaction. If the potations have been more copious than mode- rate, the brain and nerves are jiut upon the stretch, from which they seldom recover, without producing severe head-aches, and uncomfort- able sensations about the regions of the stomach and liver. If these po- tations be often repeated, they come, of course, to produce diseased affec- tions of the nerves, brain, stomach, and liver, which will resist curative means in the e.xact ratio of the length of time they have existed in the con- stitution. I3ut if genuine malt liquor