LE 186 LE tnote suppuration. The juice of the leek allays the pains and drummings of the ear. LEMON.—A fruit brought from Spain and Portugal in great plenty. It is cooling and grateftil to the sto- mach, is useful in fevers, and quenches thirst. The yellow rind is a grateful aromatic, and commonly used in sto- machic tinctures and infusions, thus rendering other medicines acceptable both to the palate and stomach. The citron is distinguished from the lemon, in that it is bigger, and its pulp firmer. Distillers, confection- ers, perfumers, &c., apply citrons to various purposes, and obtain from them essences, oils, confections, and waters. Genoa is the greatest nur- sery, which supplies the several parts of Europe with this, as well as with the orange and lemon trees. The lime is by some considered a species of lemon, by others not. It is a much smaller fruit, and in the West Indies is greatly preferred to the lemon, the juice being reckoned wholesomer, and the acid more agreeable to the palate. It is not often brought to England, nor is this fruit much cultivated in Europe. The best season for lemons is from November to March. LEMON JUICE, ARTIFICIAL. —Pyroligneous acid, one pint, white sugar, three quarters of an ounce; dissolve, and add quintessence of lemon peel. LEMONADE.—A pleasant, cool- ing, acid beverage, made by pouring boiling water on sliced lemons, and sweetening to the taste. Lemonade may be made instantly, in the fol- lowing manner: Pound a quarter of an ounce (avoirdupois) of citric acid, i. e. crystallized lemon acid, with a few drops of the quintessence of lemon peel, and mix it by degrees with a pint of clarified syrup, or ca- l)illaire. Sj'rup of lemons may be made as follows: put a pint of fresh lemon juice to a pound and three quarters of lump sugar; dissolve it by a gentle heat, skim it till the sur- face is qidte clear; add an ounce of thin cut lemon peel; let them simmer (very gently) together for a few mi- nutes, and run it through a flannel. When cold, bottle and cork itclosel}', and keep it in a cool place. 1. Lemonade FOR Icing; Orange- ade for Icing.—Rub off the yellow peel of three or four lemons with hard loaf sugar, one ounce; add sugar, four ounces; water, two pints.' Cut the fruits (lemons) in half, and squeeze the juice into the syrup. 2. Lemonade; Lemon Sherbet.— White sugar, five ounces, flavoured by rubbing otf the yellow peel of a lemon; dissolve in two pints of spring water, add the juice of three lemons. In hot countries this drink is apt to produce that much-dreaded scourge, cholera. For Orange Sherbet, use oranges instead of lemons; it is a more wholesome beverage. 3. Lemonade, Portable.—Acid of tartar, one ounce; sugar, six ounces; essence of lemon, ten drops; rub these together, and dinde into twenty-four papers, for a tumbler of water each. Or, take concrete acid of lemons, one ounce; white sugar, four pounds; essence of lemon, two drachms. 4. Lemonade Shrub.—Juice of eight lemons; juice of barberries, three ounces; white sugar, half an ounce; white wine, half a pint; di- luted at pleasure, to make lemonade or sherbet. In hot countries use orange juice, as lemon or lime juice is apt to produce cholera. LENTILS.—Lentils aftbrd indif- ferent nourishment; they cool the blood, and are detei'sive and binding Avhen eaten whole; but laxative when the plain decoction of them is only used. Lemcry says, they produce gross humours, cause obstructions in the bowels, and affect the sight, when used immoderately. They agree best with constitutions of a hot and cho- leric nature. They are mostlj' used in Catholic countries during the time