343 TO TR parently dead from drowning or other sudden causes; though it is now disused in these cases, as, from its narcotic power, being prejudicial. Tobacco is sometimes employed ex- ternally in unguents and lotions, for clearing foul ulcers in cattle, destroy- ing cutaneous insects, &c.; it appears to be destructive to almost all kinds of insects, to those produced on vegetables as well as on animals. A strong decoction of the stalks, with shai’p-pointed dock and alum, is said to be of good service used externally in cutaneous distempers; especially the itch: some boil them for that purpose in urine. The same decoc- tion is said to be infallible in curing the mange in dogs. Tobacco beat into a mash with vinegar or brandy, and laid on the stomach, has some- times good effects in removing hard tumours of the hypochondria. We have the history of two cures made by such applications in the Edinh. Med. Essays, vol. ii. p. 41. The juice of this plant is said to be good against ulcers and mortifications. Some caution, however, is requisite even in the external uses of tobacco, particularly in solutions of contin- uity ; as there are instances of its being thus transmitted to the blood so as to produce violent effects. A drop or two of the expressed oil, put on the tongue of a cat produces vio- lent convulsions and even death itself in the space of a minute; yet the same oil used on lint, and applied to the teeth has relieved the toothach : though it must be to those that have been used to tobacco, otherwise great sickness, retching, vomiting, &c. happen, when it is thus applied ; and even in no case is the internal use of it warranted in ordinary practice. TORTOISE {Tesludo—from testa, a shell, because it is covered with a shell. The name of a genus of animals, of the class amphihia, and order of reptiles).—The land tortoise is found in mountains, forests, woods, fields, and gardens. It lives upon fruits and herbs, worms, snails, and other insects. It may also be fed in houses with bran and flour. They hide themselves in winter time in caves and crevices, like the serpent tribe. The flesh of the tortoise is very good, and resembles veal. It seems rather strange, that Galen, and others who have treated of foods, should say nothing of this animal. Their flesh is nourishing and solid food; but, as it is hard and viscous, it ought to be well boiled before it be brought to the table; and well seasoned with such things as may assist digestion. There are several kinds of tortoises in reference to the places where they live : those found on land, are called land tortoises—others are sea-tor- toises ; a third fresh-water ones, and a fourth kind live in muddy places. Most of them are amphibious; and all possess nearly the same flavour and nutriment. It agrees at all times with young persons of a hot and bilious constitution, with those that are used to much exercise, and that have a good stomach.* TOUMER, or TUM. — In the culinary art to stir a sauce ; also to pare and cut roots, vegetables, and fruits neatly. 'I’OURTE.—A puff paste pie. TR AININ G, G Y M N A STIC.t— Athletic exercises, judiciously adapted * Pliny says, there are sea-tortoises in tlie Indies so large, that the shells of each of them are hig enough to cover small houses, and to make liarks of, with which the people of lliese countries sail into the islands of the red sea. Galen, and other ancient authors, who have treated ol foods, make no mention of this animal. t The word gymnastic is derived from the Greek ’'/vpi'ov, which means 7udced, performed by men nakcil, in the public games. The term is applied to a method of curing diseases by exercise, in that part of physic which treats of the rules that are to be observed in all sorts