VE 374 VE bunches, and served up as aspa- ragus. Turnip-tops are very whole- some, they have a most pleasant hitter taste, and are an excellent and acceptable substitute for greens in a frosty spring,—and are by many pre- ferred, with roast veal. The tops of young green nettles may be used as above, and they are considered to be ])articularly salutary in the spring, during which season they are eagerly embraced by many, both for medi- cinal and dietetical purposes. In consequence of a great propor- tion of vegetables being used in a recent state, the sooner they are gathered the better. Vegetables in general, should be kept apart, for if laid in eontact, in a very short time they give off their peculiar flavours to each other. Leeks or celery will quickly spoil a whole basket of cau- liflowers, or the finer vegetables. Another rule is, that they should not be kept in water till they are about to be used, as the flower thereby is greatly injured; but if, by having been cut or gathered some- time, they have become flaccid, it is then absolutely necessary to restore their crispness before cooking them, otherwise they will be tough and unpleasant. This is to be done when the size of the vegetable admits of it, as cauliflower, salad, celery, &c. by cutting ofl' a jiiece of the stock, and setting the fresh surface, thus exposed, in water, which will be ab- sorbed. In other cases the whole vegetable must be immersed in the water. As most vegetables are more or less succulent, their hill proportion of fluids is necessary for their re- taining that state of crispness or ])lum])ucss, which they have when growing in the natural state, ^\'hen they are cut or gathered, the exha- lation from tlieir surface, wh.ilc from the open vessels of the cut surface there is trequently considerable exu- dation or eva])oration, by which moans their natural moisture is di- minished—the tender leaves become flaccid, and the thicker masses or roots lose their plumpness. These circumstances are not only less plea- sant to the eye, but are a real injury to the nutritious parts of the vege- tables : for in this flaccid and shri- velled state, their fibres are less easily divided in chewing, and the water which exists in their substan- ces, in the form of their respective natural juices, is directly nutritious. The first care, thei-efore, in the pre- servation of succulent vegetables, is to prevent them from losing their natural moisture. As regards the tender succulent vegetables, owing to a constant e.x- halation taking place from the sur- face, it is not altogether possible to prevent them from losing their nu- tritious moisture while its supply is cut off. The principle then of pre- sei'ving them is to retard and diminish the exhalations: and this is most effectually done by protecting them from the rays of the sun, from air and heat. Even growing vegetables become flaccid in a hot sun, in con- sequence of the exhalation at that time being greater than the supply: and exposure to the sun is absolutely ruinous to all the more delicate ve- getables. The operation of heated air being slower on the one than on the other, but similar in its eflects. "With the view, therefore, of pre- serving succulent vegetables, they should be kept in a cool, shady and damp place. They should also be kept in a heap, and not spread out, which greatly influences their shri- velling. But when accumulated in too large heaps, for any length of time, they are injured in another way, by their heating as it is termed, which is the commencement in them of a chemical change, or fermenta- tion, which altogether alters their nature. In many cases the chief object is to prevent evaporation. \'egctables intended to be stored U]), such as potatoes, turnips, ciirrols, and similar roots, should never be