121 FI FI fish, is absorbed from the alimentaiy canal, and carried into the blood, as is erddent from the peculiar flavour of the flesh of certain birds who live upon fish. From the abundance of pilchards in Cornwall, and the ready access which the hogs have to them, the pork of that county generally pos- sesses a fishy savour; and people who live long on fish, are known to secrete a perspiration of a rancid smell: hence the probability that cei'- tain diseases of the skin may either be produced or aggravated by such diet; and in warm climates, such effects may be less equivocal. It may therefore be presumed, that the eat- ing of fish was prohibited upon ra- tional principles by the Egyptian priests, in order to avert the leprosy; and Moses, no doubt, was influenced by some such belief, when he drew up his celebrated injunction against the use of unclean meats. — See Levit. xi. 0, 12. Of the pokono/is nature of various species offish.—Numerous cases are on record, and particularly as having occurred in the West Indies. The poisonous matter of fish is not pecu- liar to any genus, species, or distinct variety; but occurs in individuals only, and those of several genera of very different classes. With the ex- ception of the Bogmarus Icelandicus, which by the Icelanders is reputed poisonous, because the crows refuse to eat it; poisonous fish are only found in tropical seas, and there only at certain seasons, or in the Carib- bean Sea, in May, June, and July, after having spawned. Of these Dr. Burrows* has given us a catalogue which, for general purposes, it may be useful here to quote : The Old Wife. Smooth Bottle Fish. Tunney. Blower or Blazer. Conger Eel. Dolphin. ’ Load. Med. Repos. Vol. iii. p. 445. Porgee. Grey Snapper. Hyne. Puca, Major of. Rock Fish. Grooper. King Fish. Bonnetta. Horse-eye (CavaUoe). Spanish Mackarel. Blue Parrot Fish. Yellow-billed Sprat. Sea Lobster. I-and Crab. Muscle. Of all these, the yellow billed sprat is the most active and dangerous; and the usual course of symptoms from eating it is the following: Itch- ing over the whole body—violent colic pains—a contraction and pungent heat of the gullet—nausea—heat of the skin, and great acceleration of the pulse—giddiness—loss of sight— cold sweats—insensibility and death. Sometimes the disease is uncom- monly rapid ; convulsions ensue im- mediately on swallowing the fish, and death is a speedy consequence.f The grey snapper produces Cho- lera Morbus and exci'uciating pain, with efflorescence, and is apt to leave a weakness of the lower extremities, dimness of sight, and dulness of hearing. These are also the ordinary ro- sults, with, however, some variety, that are experienced from the use of the various kinds enumerated in the preceding catalogue. The contrac- tion and heat of the gullet do not always occur; but instead of it there is an excessive heat of the mouth and tongue. A miliary entption, (vesicles resembling millet seeds) or an efflorence over the whole body, is very common. The cause of this poison has been the subject of much ingenious re- search, some inclined to the idea that it was owing to the fish feeding t Dr. Chisholm, p. 395. u