TE 333 TE of white scum on the surface, take it from the fire; when the leaves sink it is ready ” “ The night before you wish to have tea ready for drinking, pour out as much cold water as yon wish to make tea; next morning pour off the clear liquor, and when yon wish to drink it make it warm.” See L’art du le- monadier,'' de Dubidson. Paris. The usual way, however, by infu- sion in boiling water, or water that has just ceased to boil, appears to be the most preferable mode. The “ Chinese put a drachm of tea to a pint of water, and frequently take the yolk of two new laid eggs, and beat them up with as much fine sugar as is sufficient for the tea, and stir all well together.’’—Sir Kenelm Dighjj’s Cookerij. London, 1669. TEAL.—This fowl is placed among the number of wild ducks.—See Duck. TEETH.—Small bones, the well known organs of mastication, fixed in the alveoli or sockets of the upper and lower jaw. In early infancy nature designs us for the softest aliment, so that the o^ums alone are then sufficient for the O . puqiose of mauducation ; but as we advance in life and require a different food, she wisely provides us with teeth, which are the hardest and whitest of our bones ; and at full maturity they usually amount to thirty-two in both jaws—namely, sixteen above and as many below. Their number, however, varies in different subjects, though seen to ex- ceed the above number, and rarely known to be fewer than twenty-eight. Every tooth is composed of its enamel and its internal bony substance; and each may be divided into two parts, viz., its body, or that part which appears above the gums ; and its fangs or root, which is fixed info the socket. 'I'lie teeth of each jaw arc commonly divided into three classes— the incisors or cutting teeth, the ca- nine, and the molarcs or grinders. 1. The incisors are the four teetli in the forepart of each jaw : they derive their name from the office they are made to perfoi'm in dividing ami cutting the food in the manner of a wedge. 2. The canine are the longest of all the teeth, and derive their name from a resemblance to a dog’s tusk. There is one of these teeth on one side of the incisors, so that there are two in each jaw. They are not calculated, like the incisoi's, for cutting or divid- ing, or for grinding the food, but ap- pear rather intended for laying hold of substances. Mi-. Hunter remarks of these teeth, that we may trace them in similarity of shape, situation, and use, from the most imperfect carnivorous animal, which is believed to be the human species, to the lion, which is the most perfectly carnivo- rous. 3. The molares or grinders, of which there are ten in each jaw, are so called, because, from their size and figure, they are calculated for grinding the food. The canine and incisors have only one fang; but the three last grinders in the under jaw have constantly two fangs, and the same teeth in the upper jaw three fangs. These fangs are sometimes divided into two points near their base, and each of these points has, probably, been occasion- ally considered as a distinct fang. The grinders likewise differ from each other in appearance. The two first on each side, which have very pro- perly been named biscuspid, or two pointed, from having a double point, seem to be of a middle nature be- tween tbe incisors find grinders ; they luive in general only one root, and the body of the tooth terminates in two points, of which the anterior one is highest, so Unit the tooth has in some measure the appearance of one of the canine. The two grinders ou each side beyond these are much larger. 'I'licir body forms almost a square with rounded angles; and