GU GR 155 of veal, will produce one pint of strong gravy. GRUEL.—A common article of diet for the infirm or sick, made from oatmeal or groats, in which state, as well as in the former, they yield to water, by coction, the fecula they contain, and form a nutritious gruel, which has also the propei'ty of being slightly aperient. It should never be kept longer than forty-eight hours, as it becomes ascescent after that period. Gruel may be made of dif- ferent degrees of consistence, accord- ing to the intention of its use. If it be used as a demulcent drink, it ought to be thin; and may be made by mixing well and gradually toge- ther, in a basin, a table spoonful of oatmeal with three of cold water, and then adding carefully a pint of boiling water, which is to be boiled for five minutes, stirring it all the time, to prevent the oatmeal from burning at the bottom of the pan; it is, when sufficiently boiled, to be strained through a hair sieve, to se- parate the undissolved parts of the meal from the gruel. If a more sub- stantial repast is required, double the above quantity of oatmeal must be treated in a similar way. To in- crease the nutritive quality of this aliment, broth or milk may be sub- stituted for water. Some are in the habit of introducing a bit of butter into gruel; though the propriety of the addition is questionable, where the stomach is disposed to generate acidity. Dr. Kitchener’s receipt to make gruel is as^follows: “ Ask those who are to eat it if they like it thick or thin; if the latter, mix well together by degrees, in a pint basin, one table spoonful of oatmeal with three of cold water; if the former, use two spoonsful. Have ready a stew pan, a pint of boiling water or milk, put this by degrees to the oatmeal you have mixed, return it into the stew pan, set it on the fire, and let it boil for five minutes, stirring it all the time to prevent the oatmeal from burning at the bottom of the stew pan; skim and strain it through a hair sieve. To convert this into caudle, add a little ale, wine, or brandy, with sugar; and if the bow- els are disordered, a little nutmeg or ginger grated. GREEK WINES. —The Greek or Turkey wines, so denominated, come from Candia, Chios, Lesbos, Tenedos, and other islands of the Archipelago, which anciently be- longed to the Greeks, and which are now chiefly again in their possession. Chio, now Scio, is one of the most beautiful and pleasant islands in the Archipelago: it is situated south of Mytilene, the ancient Lesbos. Its vineyards still form the principal riches of the island, and the wines maintain their reputation; andhaving been immortalized by the “Mantuan Bard,’’ yet “ taste sweet in song.” “ Two goblets will I crown with spark- ling wine, The generous vintage of the Chian vine ; These will I pour to thee, and make the nectar thine.” Duyden. GROATS.—Oats deprived of the husk, and rough ground, or broken. GROUT.—An ancient dish, of which our ancestors were very fond ; imported, in all probability, by the Danes, or Saxons; and composed of meat or pollard—a proof of the simplicity of their fare. “A king, Ilardicanute, ’midst Danes and Saxons stout, Carous’d on rich brown ale, and din’d on grout.” GUDGEON.—There are two sorts of gudgeons—namely, the sea and the fresh-water gudgeon ; the first is divided into two other, of which the one is white and the other black: they have both a good taste, though the preference is given to the white. Both the sea and river gudgeon ought to be well fed; and those that have been bred in clear and running