BR BR 42 this method of proving spirits, and at first view took it to be altogether certain and infallible; though upon reflection, and more accurate exami- nation, he found reason to change that opinion, by deciding that the appearance produced was entirely owing to oak wood casks, in which the sjjirit had previously been con- tained for some length of time. This test liquor, or solution, should be made of pure iron vitriol, and not t)f copper. The causes and origin of the blue tincture which it occasions in the brewery, remain to be ex- plained ; but because Mr. Neumann took the origin to be the same with new or diluted ink, whose chief in- gredients that produce the tincture are the same, namely, vitriol or iron, and an astringent vegetable. In fine, Neumann observed that no other difference should be sought for be- tween brandy and malt spirits, namely, such as are pure and care- fully distilled, than thepeculiarflavour of French brandy; though the same flavour may be several ways commu- nicated to malt spirits, and then thus adulterated into French brandy; so that the most expert connoisseurs might be imposed upon by it for genuine brandy, or at least not for malt spirits; hence the above tests on spirits are of no use, or at least insufficient, as we apprehend those which are in contemplation at the present time will turn out to be. A few drops of liquid ammonia will give to new brandy all the qualities of that of the oldest date. The best test for the actual strength of gin, will he that which precipitates the sugar it contains. BRAWN.—In the culinary art, brawn signifies the flesh or muscu- lar parts of a hog, boned, rolled up, or collared, boiled, and, lastly, pickled for winter use. Brawn was an old word I'or flesh; and though now appropriated to the rolls made from the boar, was once common to all kinds of meat. Among the old re- cipes of cookery, we have brawn of capons, brawn of swine, &c. Can- terbury and Shrewsbury have been long noticed for the superior quality of their brawn, and of late brawn has been made at Oxford.—See Bourn's Gaz. art. Colard. To malce Mock Braum.—Take the head and piece of the belly-part of a young porker, and rub it well with saltpetre. Let it lie three days and wash it clean. Split the head and boil it; take out the bones and cut it in pieces. And then take four ox- feet boiled tender, cut them in thin pieces, and lay them in the belly- piece, with the head cut small. Then roll it up light with sheet tin, and boil it four or five hours. When it comes out set it up on one end, put a trencher on it within the tin, press it down with a large weight, and let it stand all night. The next morn- ing take it out of the tin, and bind it with a fillet. Put it into cold salt and water, and it will be fit for use. It will keep a long time, if you put salt and water to it every four days. BRAINS.—The brains of quad- rupeds are of a clamm}' and glutin- ous nature, not altogether cold; and according to Aristotle engender the like nourishment, are difficult of di- gestion, clog the appetite, especially if eaten too abundantly. The moister the animal is, the moister are the brains. And yet calves’ and pigs’ brains are in great esteem with some; as well as those of rabbits, which are not so moist as the former. They should be eaten with condiments; such as pepper and vinegar, sage and other dry herbs. Such food, and other glutinous, cold and clammy nourishment, are best adapted to young and hot constitutions. BREAD—.\ baked massofdough made from the flour of wheat or other grain : it forms a constant part of human aliment. Bread may be made of an}’ fa- rinaceous matter whatever, but it is of very different qualities. That