FI 117 FI dish, full of juice, of an excellent taste, and not worm-eaten. FINANCIERE.—An expensive, highly flavoured, mixed ragout. FISH.— In some parts of the world, fish constitutes the sole or principal article of food of the people, (hence denominated Ichthyophagi), and it is almost every where in request. In Siberia, dried fish is used instead of bread. The Lap- landers make a bread of fish bones ; and the Negroes of the West Coast of Africa dry a species of fat, and beat it in wooden mortars to a paste, which keeps all the year, and is eaten with rice or com. With some tribes, putrid fish is the favourite and ordinary food. Fish, however, is not so universally a safe aliment as flesh and fowl, for although no species is generally unwholesome, yet, in some situations, individuals of many dif- ferent .species by any other certain external characters, at the same place, and in the same season, are innocent and nutritious — circum- stances which render the eating of fish in such countries, not exempt from danger. The ancients entertained a number of prejudices relative to the whole- someness and unwholesomeness of certain fishes. The priests in Egypt were prohibited from eating fish of any knd, under the impression that it increased the sensual appetites, or that it caused the leprosy. For the latter reason, the people were for- bidden to use any fish not covered with scales. Moses, the great legis- lator of the Jews, adopted the same principle.—“ Whatever hath fin or scales in the water, in the seas, and in the water, them shall ye eat.”— “ Whatever hath no fins and scales in the waters, that shall be an abo- mination nnto you.”—Levit. chap, xiv, V. 9, 12. Numa Pompilius made a law for the Romans to the same effect; but it did not continue in force, as we find the lampreys and sturgeons ranked among the luxuries of their emperors, and similar fish constituted the principal support among the peo- ple in some districts, and that too without being attended with any bad effect. With regard to fishes, there is an infinite variety, as respects their fit- ness as articles of food, in the colour and texture of their muscles, and in being more or less gelatinous, fibrous, or oily. The musles of many fish, with the exception of the heart, are quite white; and, in general, when the fish is good, they become opaque when cooked. When they remain semi-transparent and blush after boil- ing, they are not in season. At certain seasons of the year, the flesh of some fishes is of a pale red, and the lighter the colour of these kinds the more they are esteemed. The muscles of most fishes are dis- posed in flakes and layer’s ; and when in perfection, there is, when cooked, a layer of white curdy matter between them resembling coagulated albumen. Some otlier fishes, prin- cipally those of the flat kind, or eel- shaped, or without scales, have a fibrous flesh not divisible into flakes. The liver of the fish tribe abounds with oil, and of many species the flesh is covered with oil or fat, as the eel, salmon, &c.; but in a variety of others the flesh seems to be totally free from it, as in all the varieties of the cod, haddock, whiting, and the flat fish. There are few, if any parts of a fish that are not nutritious. The great bulk of them consists of the muscles of voluntary motion, covering the spine and its appendages. But of some fishes, as turbot, ling, &c. the pulpy, gelatinous skin is esteemed. Codsounds ai’e the swimming blad- ders of the large cod, and they are separately preserved and sent to the metropolis for the gratification of gourmands. In the fresh fish, the tongue, palate, and lips, although too soft for most people, are still preferred by many.