INTRODUCTION. IX and palatable, but also to help digestion, and prevent putrefaction. Of these seasonings, salt was probably the first discovered; though some are inclined to think, that savoury roots and herbs were first in use; spices, however, as ginger, cinnamon, pepper, cloves, and nutmegs, hy degrees came into use, and the whole art of cookery gradually improved till it reached its present climax of perfection. Eating of animal food was evidently adopted as necessary to guard against famine, the consequence of the scarcity and bad condition of vegetable productions. We find, therefore, that in process of time, and to aid their mutual wants, as well as to protect the weak against the strong, the industrious from the indolent—men, hy general consent, began to portion out to each other a certain measure of land, to produce them their supply of vegetables. Reason soon after suggested the expedient of domesticating certain animals, equally to assist them in their labours and to supply them with food. Hogs, it is said, were the first animals of the domestic kind that appeared on their tables, as then they held it to be ungrateful to devour the beasts that assisted them in their labours. When men began to make free with domestic animals, they only roasted them. Boiling was a refinement in cookery to which, for some ages, they were strangers; and fish, living in an element to which men were unac- customed, were not eaten, till they became somewhat more civilised. When permission was given man to eat animal food, God said; “ Every living thing that moveth shall be meat for you; even as the green herb, have I given you all things.” (Gen. i, 28). This opinion, however, has been strenuously controverted. Some learned men assert, that Adam was pennitted to eat the flesh of animals, or, at least, that his posterity did eat it, with or without permission, long before the Flood. Othei's, on tlie contrary, maintain that Noah was the first who had permission to eat, or did eat, any animal food. The former, in support of their opinion, assert that the dominion (Gen. i. 28) given to Adam over the brute creation, implies a permission to kill animals for food, and that the skins (Gen. iii. 21) of which God made coats for the first couple, shew that a proper use was taken of such permission : that no good reason can be assigned why the Almighty should give a more unlimited authority over the brutes after the Deluge than before it; and since animal food affords a more strengthening nourishment than the vegetable products, we ought to conclude, that it was allowed from the beginning: that the clean beasts, being taken in hy sevens, and tlie unclean only by couples, the male and his female, it may be presumed that the surplus of the clean was intended for provision to Noah’s family, during their abode in the ark: that tlic appetites of the Antediluvians must have been pampered with flesh meats, and tlicir passions inflamed with strong liquors, to incite them to commit such great wickedness, as provoked the Creator to destroy the whole species, except one family, since bread, milk, and water could never stimulate them to that excess of violence. And this b 3