CO CO 7G rainate use of it, cannot authorise us to attribute to it any particular cir- cumstance unfriendly to the human frame; if the unerring test of expe- rience has confirmed its utility, in many countries, not exclusively productive of those inconveniences, habits, and diseases, for which its peculiar properties seem most appli- cable: let those properties be duly considered, and let us reflect on the state of our atmosphere, the food, and modes of life of the inhabitants, so injurious to youth and beauty, filling the large towns and cities with chronical infirmities: and I think it will be evident what advantages will result from the general use of coffee in England, as an article of diet, from the comforts of which the poor ai'e not excluded; and to which pur- pose it may be often employed, as a safe and powerful medicine.” Coffee is often imitated by roasting rye with a few almonds. Roasted grain, when properly prepared, is neither innutritions nor unwholesome. Coffee, as used on the Continent, serves the double purpose of an agreeable tonic and an exhilarating beverage, without the unpleasant effects of wine. As drank in Eng- land, it debilitates the stomach, and produces nausea. In France and Italy it is made strong, from the best coffee, and is poured out hot and transparent. With us it is usually made from bad coffee, served out tepid and muddy, and drowned in a deluge of water, and sometimes de- serves the title given to it in the “Petition against Coffee,” 4to. 1G74, p. 4, “a base, black, thick, nasty, bitter, stinking puddle-water.” “ To make coffee fit for use, you must employ the German filter, pay at least four shillings per pound for it, and take at least one ounce for two breakfast cups.”—Kitchener's Cook’s Oracle, p. 417. “No coffee will hear drinking with what is called milk in London.” —IbUL “ London people should either take their coffee pure, or put a couple of tea-spoonsful of cream for each cup.” —Ibid. As before observed, coffee, when used as a breakfast, on some parts of the Continent, particularly in the north of France, is usually made in the form of what is called caffe au lait, that is, strongly diluted with milk, and afterwards boilei When used after dinner as an aid to digestion, or to revive or exhilarate the spirits, the above pi-oportion would answer very well to such as might prefer it of that strength. It is such high pressures as this which not only render cofiee but other aliments, both solid and fluid, highly objectionable in particular constitu- tions, or under certain conditions of body. COLD, Preservative Effects OF.—The preservative effects of cold to the inhabitants of the Northern nations are of the utmost importance, by enabling them to store up a suf- ficient stock of all manner of pro- visions for their winter consumption, and to receive supplies from a great distance. It is thus that veal frozen at Archangel is brought to Peters- burgh; and the markets of Moscow present immense stocks of hogs, sheep, and fish. In Canada the same advantage is taken of the cold, as well as in aU other countries where the frost is sufficiently steady. Substances, probably as long as they continue in a hard frozen state, undergo no chemical change, the most striking proof of which was af- forded by the body of an animal, perhaps antediluvian, being found imbedded in a mass of ice at the mouth of the Lena; but in the act of freezing, or of the subsequent thawing, some alteration is produced, which affects the nature of the sub- stance. Tliis, indeed, may be merely mechanical, from the particles of ice, during their formation, tearing asun- der and separating the fibres; or by