CO 81 CO in the stomach, and thereby prevents them from becoming too flatulent. When thus employed, in small quan- tities, it assists digestion ; but when taken in large quantities it cloys the appetite, and lays the foundation for bilious complaints, more especially with weak stomachs. 6. Melted Butter.—This is another oleaginous condiment. It makes a proper and not an unwholesome ad- dition to boiled vegetables, and to va- rious sorts of fish; but it frequently disagrees with weak stomachs, par- ticularly when the quality of the butter is indifferent, or when it is improperly melted, which is fre- quently the case. It should be done as follows:—Mixing the proportion of a tea-spoonful of flour to four ounces of the best butter on a trencher, put it into a small sauce- pan, and two or three tablespoonful of hot water, boil quick a minute, shaking one way all the time; milk used instead of water requires rather less butter, and looks whiter. It would appear from Dr. C. O.’s experiments, that excess in the use of oleaginous substances, is more hurtfid to the body than excess in any other articles of food; and that we ought to be particularly careful in regulating the quantity and at- tending to the quality of the oil we employ in diet. Seasonings and sauces ought not to be much in- dulged in by young stomachs, and strong healthy bodies, who require no spur to their appetite nor help to digestion; but these auxiliaries I should be reserved for age, deficiency I of appetite, and other infirmities— I otherwise that benefit and assistance ■| wrill not be received from them, which II might have been experienced had I the use of them been forborne when I they were not necessary. 1 7. Olives, are considered as a condi- 1i( ment with us, but they are a food in their native soil; they are best in their pickled state, as they then lose I much of their bitterness and acri- mony; from their oily nature they are improper for delicate stomachs. 8. Cheese, of a rich quality, becomes highly putrid or alkaliscent when it gets old, and therefore it is a good condiment after insipid meats. Under the head of condiment, per- haps the use of ice may be included, as it gives a cooling relish to our liquid food, and as a kind of season- ing to fruit. On this subject it may be observed, that though in some countries, and for some constitutions, the prudent and the moderate use of ice may occasionally be proper; yet in general, it produces more inju- rious than beneficial effects. On the whole, the subject of spices and sea- soning coming under the designation of condiments, is both common and important; and it may be observed of them, that when taken in small quantities, merely to give taslefulness or sapidity to the food, they cer- tainly have a tendency to increase the appetite; to favour a proper quan- tity of aliment being taken, and to promote digestion; but, when condi- ments are used immoderately, they tend to weaken the stomach, to oc- casion acrimony in the fluids, and to produce a general irritation of the system.— See Respective heads of each kind of Condiment. CONGER.—The conger, or as usually called from its resemblance, the conger eel, is very highly prized by some ; other's again hold it in no estimation ; and in our opinion, with no less reason; for it is difficult of digestion, and requires a strong sto- mach to encounter it, as well as a body free from infirmity. CONSERVES.—A variety of fruits, such as apricots, plums, dam- sons, green-gages, peaches, necta- rines, &c., in their natural state, may be conserved in a fluid transparent synip, of such a consistence as will prevent them from spoiling. This method of preserving fruits requires some care; for if they are too little impregnated with sugar, they do not