10 AL AL and its falling short to give strength, it does not appear that any bad con- sequences can arise to the blood from a continuance in its use; for there is no instance of its peculiar acrimony having ever been carried tliere, and it is certainly less liable to putrefaction than animal food; nor without the utmost indolence, and a keen appetite, does it produce plethora, or any of its consequences; so that it may here be justly con- cluded that a large proportion of vegetable aliment is beneficial, con- sequently useful to the generality of mankind. What are the effects of the variety of aliment ?—This is another question that has elicited much controversy. It is asked, whether variety of ali- ment be necessary and allowable, or whether it is universally injurious ? If variety of aliment be at all neces- sary, it is from the mutual advan- tages which animal and vegetable food have in correcting each other— a variety, therefore, of this kind seems necessary. Another very pro- per variety is that of liquid and solid food, which sho\ild be so ma- naged as to temper each other. Ali- ment, especially, of the liquid kind, is too apt to pass off by stool before it be properly assimilated; while solid food makes a longer stay in the digestive organs. But whether va- riety of one kind be fit or necessary, as in animal food, such as beef, fish, fowl, does not belong to the question. It does not appear that any inconve- nience arises from this mixture, or difficulty of assimilation, provided a moderate quantity be taken at a time. When any inconvenience does arise on this score, it ])robably proceeds from the circumstance that one of the particular substances in tbe mix- ture, if taken alone, would produce the same effects; and, in fact, it would appear that this eflect is not promoted but obviated by the mix- ture itself. With respect to variety, however, the least that can be said against it is, that it is not without its disadvantages, as producing gluttony; aided by the cook it induces people to consume at one time more than they can conveniently digest; and hence, very justly, physicians have almost universally preferred simpli- city of diet; for, in spite of rules, man’s eating will only be measured by his appetite; and satiety is sooner produced by one than many sub- stances. But this is so far from being an argument against variety, that it is, on the contrary, one for it, as the only way of avoiding a full meal of animal food, and its bad effects, is by presenting a quantity of vegetables. ALIMENTS, CLASSIFICA- TION OF, including Drinks and Spices, according to their particular salubrity. I. Food.—Division First. Class I. Articles affording strong nutriment. Order i. Vegeto-farinaceous sub- stances. Genus 1. With soft juicy fibres. 1. Such as contain a saccharine matter: as the skirret or sugar root, the common carrot, beet, and poly- pody root. 2. Sweetish substances, affording a tender farina or meal: as the parsnip, the turnip-rooted cabbage, the cole- wort, viper’s grass, the goat’s beard or salsify, Solomon’s seal, parsley root, asparagus, turnips, and potatoes. Genus 2. Substances affording flour, or those of a viscous, earthy consist- ency, viz. every species of grain, as wheat, rj-e, barley, oats, buck-wheat, millet, maize, or Indian corn, the chickling vetch, and the like. Order ii. Gelatinous animal sub- stances. Genus \. Of a soft and juicy mus- cular substance, viz. veal, lamb, young beef, mutton, pork, venison, turtle, hare, rabbits, badgers, domestic fowls, pheasants, partridges, the greater number of land fowl, oysters, small lobsters, and fresh eggs.