BR BR 44 of this salt that can he employed for this purpose is from three to four ounces, to two hundred and forty pounds of flour. 'I'he introduction of a portion of alum into the human stomach, however small, it is well known, may prove prejudicial to the exercise of its functions, and parti- cularly to those already labouring under indigestion, &c. And, accord- ing to Accum, the smallest quantity of alum that can be employed with eflect, to produce a white, light, and porous bread from an inferior kind of flour, is from three to four ounces to a sack of flour weighing two hun- dred and forty pounds. The follow- ing account of making a sack of five bushels of flour into bread, is taken from Di-. P. Markham’s “ Considera- tions on the Ingredients used in the Adulteration of Flour and Bread.” Flour 5 bushels. Alum 8 ounces. Salt 4 pounds. Yeast J gallon, mixed with Water 3 gallons. Subcarbonate of ammonia is another substance used by fraudulent bakers, with which they realise the import- ant consideration of producing light and jiorous bread from spoiled, or what is technically called sour Jlonr. This salt, which becomes wholly con- verted into a gaseous substance dur- ing the operation of baking, causes the dough to swell up into air bub- bles, w'liich carry before them the stifl' dough, and thus the latter is rendered porous; the salt itselfis, at the same time, totally volatilized during the operation of baking.—See Alum. Good flour yields bread sufficiently white, without any artificial admix- ture ; but brown bread, simply made, merits the preference, as it is easier of digestion, and aftbrds better nou- rishment. The flour of wheat con- tains three distinct substances :—1. A mucilaginous saccharine matter. 2. Starch. .‘5. Ciluten, a peculiar sub- stance, possessing many of the pro- perties of animal matter. It is to the quantity of the latter ingredient that wheat flour possesses so decided a superiority over that of barley, rye, or oats, since from the latter grains less gluten can be extracted; and it furnishes the best ingredient for making bread, although it may be also made of all the various sorts of gi-ain, as well as of chestnuts, of several roots, and of the potatoe. Bread newly baked has a peculiar odour as well as taste, both of which are lost by keeping; showing that some peculiar substance must have been formed during the operation, the nature of which is not under- derstood. Bread differs completely from the flour of which it is made, since none of the ingredients of the latter can be detected in it; it is much more miscible with water than dough; and on this circumstance its good qualities, in all probability, depend. The different kinds of bread used in this country may be considered under three head.s—namely, trhife, wheaten, aw\ household. In the first, the bran is sepai'ated; in the second, only the coarser; in the last, none at all—so that fine bread is made only of flour; wheaten bread of flour an'd a mixture of the finer particles of the bran ; and that called household of the whole substance of the grain, without separating cither the coarse bran or fine flour. It is necessary that these distinctions sliould be un- derstood; for an iinporlant dietetic fact is connected with tliem. The action of starch upon the bowels is astringent; bread, consequently, made of the whitest flour is apt to induce costiveness; which, however, is counteracted by the presence of bran, the scales of which, it would appear, exert a mechanical action uj).,n the intestines. Our neighbours, the French, have several sorts of bread, in which egffs, milk, and butter, are combined. They