SI 293 SH table acids,* and that of oranges and shaddocks, though milder, is not less salutary. All these acids are of a saponaceous consistence; they thin or attenuate the fluids, remove ob- structions, promote digestion, ])ro- voke the appetite, allay thirst, refri- gerate the blood, and counteract pu- trefaction; are an excellent remedy in pectoral, bilious, and inflamma- tory diseases, and affections of the kidneys. They are also antiscorbutic. SHALOT.—The Allium Asca- lonicumoi Linnaeus. An useful escu- lent root, possessing all the virtues of garlick, with less pungency, and like onions, garlick, and chives, are stimulant; they assist digestion, re- lieve the bowels, dispel flatulency, dissolve slime or mucus, and, con- sequently, are beneficial in diseases proceeding from, or accompanied with, too much viscidity; they also provoke the appetite, and ought to be used principally as spices or me- dicines. These roots are all power- ful expectorants, but should be avoided by hot, irritable, and cho- leric constitutions. And although they are eaten in large quantities by whole nations, yet, from their pene- trating and volatile smell, which they communicate to the breath, it is certain they agree best with indivi- duals of a cold and phlegmatic habit, and where such stimuli may be re- quired. SHERBET.— A delicious beve- rage, composed of cream, mixed with various articles, such as almonds, tea, pistachios, coffee, chocolate, &c., and sugar, and then iced. It may also be made with the juice of va- rious fruits, sweetened to the taste. It is a compound liquor, and usually prepared for punch, before the spirit is added. SHERRY.—A Spanish wine. It may be imitated as follows: loaf su- gar, thirty two pounds; sugar candy, ten pounds; water, sixteen gallons; boil, add pale wort (as for Madeira), yeast, one pound, on the third day, and raisins, stoned, eight pounds, and in two or three days more a gallon of brandy. Bung it down for four months; draw it off into another cask, add another gallon of brandy, and in three months bottle it. In- ferior to our own fruit wines.—See Spanish Wines. S II R U B.—A spirituous liquor, composed of the juice of oranges, mixed with brandy and rum. e. g. Put a quart of Seville orange juice to a gallon of rum, with three pounds of lump sugar, and a handful of the peel, pared extremely thin; let it stand in the cask for .3 months, then filter it through a cloth, and bottle it. SIESTA.—The afternoon’s nap, in which the Spaniards and Italians freely indulge; and, although itagrees with most foreigners in Spain and Italy, it is liable, nevertheless, to bring on apoplexies in cold climates, where meat, and soporiferous malt liquors are used in great quantity. Travellers in warm climates, who may be invited to an afternoon's sleep, ought to observe that the du- ration of it should be proportioned to the quick or difficult digestion of the individual: a quarter of an hour, or half an hour, is sufficient; and people should always be roused be- fore the expiration of an hour. To sleep in an horizontal position would be prejudicial; the fittest place for this kind of rest is in an arm-chair, or a canopy. The head ought to be well raised, and the body inclined backwards, with a little inclination to the left side. Every thing that has the smallest tendency to impede the circulation of the blood, should be removed, or slackened, otherwise violent headachs will be experienced, and disturbed sleep.—See Sleep. SINAPIS.—The name of a genus of plants in the Liniiman system. Class, Tetradynamia; order, SiU- quusa. Mustard, which see. SIRLOIN.—The most popular joint of beef is universally allowed to he the loin, which, on account of its 2 c 3