BA BA 26 tlie liquor stand till it be cold. Then put in the pork, and let it remain in this pickle for a fortnight; then take it out and dry it over a saw-dust fire.—See Hams. This pickle will answer very well for tongues; but in that case you must first let the tongues he six or eight hours in pump-water to de- prive them of their sliminess; and when they have lain a joroper time in the pickle, dry them in the same manner as you do your pork.—See Dnjsalting, Hams. BACON HAMS.—See Hams. BALM.—^The tender leaves are used in composition with other herbs, in salads; and the sprigs, fresh ga- thered, and put into wine or other drinks, during the heat of summer, gives them a considerable degree of quickness. The dried herb, used as tea, is an excellent diluent in febrile diseases. BARBEL.—A sea-fish of an ob- long fonn, and middle sized, beset with large and tender scales. It rarely weighs above two pounds; it feeds on weeds, oysters, small fishes, &c. : it breeds three times. It is a little hard of digestion, in conse- quence of the gross juices it contains; at the same time these very juices make it extremely nourishing, and good durable food. It has a good taste, and was much esteemed by the Romans, which made them place it among those that brought an exces- sive price. The liver of the barbel is the most esteemed part, for the exquisiteness of its taste, and the head next. The small barbels are to be pre- ferred to the large, as they are easier of digestion. They shordd also be taken in pure running waters. There are two sorts of barbel, the one hairy the other not. It agrees at all times with young bilious people, those who have a good stomach, and use much e.xcrcise. BARLEY. — An annual plant, cultivated in almost every part of Europe.* The principal use of this well-known species of grain among us is for the making of beer; in order to which it is first malted. In Scotland, barley is a common ingre- dient in broths; and the consump- tion of it for that purpose is very- considerable; barley-broth being as frequent a dish with the Scots, as soup with the French. Pearl harley is barley' freed from the husk by means of a mill. Malt is the entire seed, which has been fermented by watering it, and then killed by drying on a kiln. Barley’- water is a decoction of the preceding, and is reputed soft and lubricating, of frequent use as a beverage in many disorders, and is recommended, with the addition of nitre, in slow fevers. The following are the direc- tions laid down in the last edition of the ‘ London Pharmacopoeia’ for making the barley decoction, or, as it is usually called, barley wafer :— Take—Pearl Barley 2 ounces. Water . . 4A pints. First wash away' with cold water any foreign matter adhering to the bar- ley; then, having poured upon it half a pint of the water, boil for a few minutes. Having thrown away' this water, pour the rest, first made hot, upon the barley’; then boil down to two pints and strain. For tbe com- pound decoction, Take— Of the decoction of barley 2 pints. Figs, sliced . . 2 ounces. Liquor-ice root, sliced > , ‘ j 1 • j r 1 ounce, and bruised . ) Raisins, stoned . . 2 ounces. Water ... 1 pint. Boil down to two pints and strain. Taken freely for common drink, it is an useful diluent in many disorders. Its utility' may' be further promoted by- the addition of gum-arabic, cream • The native country of barley is un- certain. It has been said to be Tartary-, Central Russia, Georgia, Northern In- dia, and Sicily.