229 OY OY fourteen to thirty or forty tons bur- then ; and the fitting out of one of twenty tons will require 160^. Of these small ci'aft above 200 are now employed, worked by upwards of 300 men and boys. The quantity of oysters taken in a season is computed to exceed 20,000 bushels, which are chiefly dis- posed of in London; but they are likewise sent to Hamburgh, Bremen, Holland, France, and Flanders. So important, indeed, are the oyster- fisheries of Great Britain, that they have long been an object of attention to the legislatui-e; and they are re- gulated by a court of admiralty. In the month of May the fishermen are allowed to take the oysters, in order to separate the spawn from the cultch, the latter of which is thrown back, to preseiwe the bed for the future. All this month it is felony to carry away the cidtch, and punish- able to take any oyster, unless, when closed, a shilling will rattle between its valves. The spawn is then de- posited in beds or layers formed for the purpose, and furnished with sluices, through which, at the spring tides, the water is suffered to flow. This water, being stagnant, soon be- comes green in warm weather; and in a short time the oysters acquire the same tinge, which renders them of greater value in the market. Three years, at least, are necessary to bring them to a marketable con- dition ; and the longer they remain, the more fat and delicate they be- come. Those artificial beds men- tioned by Pliny, were invented by one Sergius A rata, and first esta- blished on the Lucrine Lake, A.U. 630; and from some circumstances mentioned by the naturalist, it may be inferred that Sergius was no loser by the speculation. In Scotland there arc none of them, but oysters are eaten just as l)rougbt from their native rocks; and though cer- tainly inferior to the genuine “ Pyc- fleet,” yet they arc no despicable dainties. The oyster is a bivalve shell, and there are many others of this kind which are edible. Indeed, none of them, as far as we know, are positively hurtful; though some of the spondyli are hard and disa- greeable, others occasionally act as poison at particular seasons, or to peculiar constitutions, and many are so small or so rare as never to have been used. The pecten maximus, for example, is a much-esteemed species; and the clam (pecten oper- cularis) is very commonly eaten in Scotland. The anomia undulata, at Bourdeaux, is considered as a deli- cacy; while on some parts of the shores of the Mediterranean, the rocks are broken with large ham- mers in order to procure the pholas dactylus, which abounds there, and is admii'cd even at the tables of the luxurious. The razor-fish (solen sele- qua) common on our sandy shores, is an article of food in many places; and when they go to its capture, the Irish are said to have a song appro- propriate to the occasion, whence we may infer that it is a favourite with them. The natives of Orkney and Shetland sup luxuriously on a dish made of the animal of the Myatrun- cata, and named smurslen; and on many parts of the coast of England great numbers of cockles (cardium edule) are gathered, particularly in spring, and in autumn an equal num- ber of muscles (mytelus cdulis), which are eaten roasted,. boiled, or pickled, or by entering into the com- position of sauces, add to the flavour of more substantial viands. Oysters arc eaten both raw and dressed : in the former state, they are in every respect preferable; for by cooking, they are deprived of the salt water, which promotes their di- gestion in ibe human stomach, as well as of a great proportion of their nutritive jelly. Raw oysters are easily digested, and may be eaten with great advantage, by the robust, as well as by the weak and consuinp- X