PA PA 230 tive, as this shell-fish possesses more nutritive animal jelly than almost any other. Moreover, they are gene- rally attended with a laxative effect, if eaten in any quantity: hence they afford an excellent supper to those subject to constipated bowels. Oys- ters when eaten in the raw state, are by no means distressing to weak stomachs; and they are so easily acted upon in the stomach as to re- quire little or no aid from the diges- tive power. In a cooked state, they are certainly harder, in consequence of the change produced upon the albumen they contain. They con- tain a considerable quantity of nu- tritive matter within a small compass; and it is only with coarse palates that condiments with them, such as pep- per and vinegar, are allowed to be an improvement. Instances of oysters having ever produced a fit of indi- gestion are very rare indeed. In fine, those whose digestive organs are most deranged, resort to oysters as a sort of pabulum best adapted to that condition of the stomach. They P P A N A D A.—Bread soaked in milk, used principally for quenelles and fine farces. PANCREAS.—A glandular body, vulgarly called the sweet-bread, of a long figure, compared to a dog’s tongue, and situated in the epigastric region, under the stomach. The ])ancreatic duct perforates the duo- denum with the common choledoch duct, which sends the bile there, and conveys its secretion, a fluid similar to the saliva, into the same channel. Although the granulous structure of the pancreas has in- duced anatomists to regard it as a salivary gland, M. Majendie, ne- vertheless, observes, that it differs in the smallness of the arteries which supply it, as well as in not appearing to receive any cerebral nerve. As cast their spawn, which by the dredgers is called spat, in the month of May, after which they are sickly and unfit for food; but in the months of June and July, they begui to recover; and in August, at the com- mencement of which month they are brought to the London market, they are in excellent perfection.— The Colchester, Pyfleet, and Milford oysters, are esteemed the best; though the native Melton are reck- oned very good, being the fattest and whitest. They are known to be alive and vigorous when they close fast upon the knife, and let go as soon as they are wounded in the body. Montanus, a famous Roman epi- cure, is commemorated by Juvenal for so exquisite a taste, that he knew the oysters of Rutubian bay at the first taste. This bay was in the vicinity of Sandwich in Kent, and is at present, in consequence of the receding of the sea, a fertile meadow affording the most luxuriant pasture for cattle. we descend in the scale of ani- mals, the pancreas disappears: it is found in the shark and skate, but in other fishes its place is supplied by ccecal appendages, which afford a co- pious secretion, analogous to the pancreatic juice; a peculiar fluid necessary to digestion, though we are still ignorant of the particular duty assigned to it. The excretion of the pancreatic juice is augmented by the same causes which affect the saliva— namely, by pressure and stimidi. By the former it is cmulged, whenever the stomach, in a state of repletion, is incumbent upon the pancreas. Its use is to assist in the formation of the chyle, or that fluid into which the nutritive particles of our aliment is converted. It is of a limped co-