393 wn wn There are several varieties of Tur- key wheat, differing in the colour of the grain, and which are frequently mixed in our gardens by way of curiosity, and by which the plant is well known. It constitutes the chief bread corn in some of the southern parts of .\merica; hut, since the in- troduction of rice into Carolina, it is but little used in the northern colo- nies. It makes a principal part, too, of the food of the poor people in Italy and Germany.* * This is the sort of wheat mentioned in the book of Ruth, where it is said that Boaz treated them with parched ears of corn dipped in vinegar. This method of eating the roasted ears of Turkey wheat is still practised in the East : they gather in the ears when about half ripe, and having scorched them to their minds, eat them with as much satisfaction as we do the best dour bread. In several parts of .South Ame- rica, the lipe corn is parched, and never made into bread, but ground between two stones, mixed with water in a cala- bash, and thus eaten. The Indians make a sort of drink from 'I'urkey wheat, which is called bid—a !i(|uor of a very windy and inebriating nature, with nearly the same taste as sour small beer. But it is not used in common, the na- tives being too indolent to make it often ; it is therefore kept for the most part to celebrate their feasts and wed- dings, at w hich time they get intolerably intoxicated with it. The manner of making their drink is as follows: a par- cel of corn is steeped in a vessel of water till it becomes sour; after which the old women, being provided with cala- bashes for the purpose, chew some grains of the corn in their mouths, and, spitting it into the calabashes, empty them, spittle and all, into the sour li- t|uor, having previously skimmed off the latter into another vessel. The chewed grain soon excites a fermentation ; and when this subsiiles, the lirpior is drawn off from the dregs, and set aside till wanted. In some of the South Sea islands, where each indivirlual is his own lawgiver, it is no unusual thing for a near relation to exonerate a murderer for a good debauch of bid, the name of this liipior. WHEAT, TO TEST AND ANALYSE. —A grain of wheat is naturally composed of an outer rind or husk, called the skin or bran, a layer of soft, sweetish substance, constituting about half the grain, which is not easily ground to fine powder, and forms the coarsest of the Hour; and the kernel or heart, which is hard and mealy, is easily ground, and forms the finest ]>art of the flour. The chemical elements of wheat, are starch, gluten, and sweet mucilage, the proportions of which vary considerably, according to the season, or to the season of the year. The method of analysing wheat is to form the flour into a stiff paste, and knead it under water till it becomes grey, and somewhat semi-transpa- rent ; then let a stream of water play upon it, while it is being thoroughly kneaded. The paste will now be the gluten of the wheat; the starch will fall to the bottom of the water ; and the mucilage will be procured in the form of a syrup, by evaporating the liquor in a warm place. By this method, the proportions of each of these substances in any specimen may be easily and pretty accurately ascertained. WHET.—The act of giving an edge or sharpening. Any thing that ju'omotcs appetite or hunger. A jtrovocative. A devil; or high-sea- soned article. WHEY.—The liquid which re- mains after the scjttiration of the curd ; a thin and almost trtinsparent fluid, of a yellowish green colour, and a jtleasant sweetish taste. It usually conttiins a portion both of curd and butter ; the formerof which may be septirtited by a boiling heat, in the form of coagulum. The but- tery matter also separates by heat, especiidly if the whey he previously allowed to become sour. In its re- cent stiite whey conttiius some acetic acid. When whey htis heen de- jirivcd of the butter and curd as much as it can, and is slowly evaporated,