no EE EE It is best to proportion the casks or barrels to the quantity consumed at a time, as the seldomer it is ex- posed to the air the better. The same process does for pork, only a smaller quantity of sugar and more salt will answer ; but the preserva- tion of both depends equally on the meat being hot when first salted.— See Fish, Preservation of Pork, ^c. DUCK.—There are two sorts of ducks, the tame and the wild; the flesh of the last is brown and reddish, and is more valued for its goodness and flavour than the tame duck, which is also more difficult of diges- tion than the former; although both are nourishing enough, and are, as a food, both solid and durable. It has been said that feeding upon the meat of ducks, gives a florid complexion, as well as improves the voice; but of these rare qualities we cannot say anything of our own knowledge. Both the wild and tame duck agree in cold weather with young hale people, who are used to most exercise, and have a good stomach.—See Poultry. The goose and duck resemble each other with respect to the sub- stance of their flesh, which produces neai'ly the same effect. The wing of a duck, as well as that of a goose, is excellent food ; and Martial, by the following lines, shews what were the parts of a duck most in esteem for the quality of their flavour: " Iota mihi ponatur anas, sed pectore tantum, Ex cervice sapis ; cajtera ledde coquo.” The teal is classed among the number of wild ducks, of which it is a particular species; and of these there are two sorts, the one small, and the other large; the small, which is most in use for food, resem- bles in every thing the common duck, with the c.Kception that its not so large, but is of a more agreeable taste, and easier of digestion. EELS.—The eel is a well known fresh wafer fish: sometimes it is found in the sea, not that it is pro- duced there, but because it goes often out of rivers into the sea, and thence back again. It delights in pure run- ning waters, though they are found in great plenty in ditches, and other stagnant places, where they arrive at considerable perfection. Eels are said to five out of the water for five or six days, provided the north wind be blowing at tliat time. The eel is a fight, nourishing ali- ment, and much in use. They are eaten fried or boiled; in the former state they are reckoned the most wholesome; they require to be well seasoned, and a glass of generous wine is recommended after them, m order to assist digestion. They agree at all times with young people of a bilious and hot constitution, who abound with thin and sharp hu- mours, provided they have a healthy stomach, and are used in modera- tion. Eels are sometimes salted, for the better keeping of them, by which process they are rendered still more wholesome. The fat of an eel is a good un- guent to apply to pustules of the small pox, also in hemorrhoids, and to make the hair grow. The oil of eels is likewise dropped into the ear to remedy atonic deafness, or to soften the indurated cerumen. There are two sorts of eels, the large and small; of both these, those that are tender, fat, well fed, and taken from a fine clear river, are to be preferred. — See Conger, and Lamprey. EEL-POWT.—This is a fish that usually fives in rivers, and sometimes in lakes. It feeds on weeds, insects, and fishes, and even on its own spe- cies. It cannot bear the cold, and therefore is not so fat or pleasing to the taste in winter as in summer. Those caught in clear running waters are the best. The roe is not eaten, and is said to cause pains in the stomach, and to work violently both