PO 2o7 PO is still tender, and invariably on the contrary if it is old. 7. Pheasants, to choose. —These birds are of a very fine flavour, and are of the English cock and hen kind. The cock has spurs, the hen none: but she is most valued when with egg. The spurs of a young cock pheasant are short and blunt, or round ; but if he be old they are long and shai-p. If the vent of the hen be open and green, she is stale; and when rubbed with the finger the skin will peel; if she be with egg, the vent will be soft. 8. Pigeons, to choose.—These birds are full and flat at the vent, and limber footed when new ; but if the toes are harsh, the vent loose and open, and green, they are stale; if they be old their legs will be large and red. The tame pigeon is pre- ferable to the wild, and should be large in the body, fat, and tender; but the wild pigeon is not so fat. Wood pigeons are larger than wild pigeons, but in other re.spects like them. The same rules will hold good in the choice of the plover, fieldfare, thrush, lark, blackbird, &c. 9. Rabbits, to choose—The claws of an old rabbit are very rough and long, and grey hairs are intermin- gled with the wool, but the wool and claws are smooth when young. If it be stale it will be limber, and the flesh will look bluish, with a kind of slime upon it; but it will be stiff, and the flesh white and dry, if fresh.— See Rabbit. 10. Turkeys, to choose. If a cock turkey be young it will have a smooth black leg, with a short spur, the eyes will be full and bright, and the feet limber and moist; but you must carefully observe, that the spurs are not cut or scraped to deceive you. When a turkey is stale the feet are dry, and the eyes shrunk. The same rules will determine whe- ther a hen turkey be fresh or stale, young or old, with this difference, that if she be old her legs will be rough and red; if with egg the vent will be soft and open, but if she have no eggs the vent will be hard. To judge of a turkey, that is, when it ought to be cooked, we are recom- mended to leave a few feathers un- plucked to assist in determining their condition. No man who under- stands good living will say, on such a day will I eat that turkey, but let him hang it up by four of the large tail feathers, and when, on paying his morning visit to the larder, he finds it lying on a cloth prepared to receive it when it falls, that day let it be cooked. 11. Woodcocks, to choose.—A wood- cock is a bird of passage, and is found with us only in the winter. They are best about a fortnight or three weeks after their appearance, when they have I'estcd, after their long passage over the ocean. If they be fat they will be firm and thick, which is a proof of their good condition. Their vent will be also thick and hai'd, and a vein of fat will run by the side of the breast; but a lean one will feel thin in the vent. If it be newly killed its feet will be limber, and the head and throat clean ; the contrary if stale. POULTRY, TO Carve. —See also Carving. 1. 7b cut up a Turkey.—To cut up a turkey, secundum artem, raise the leg and open the joint, but be sure not to take off the leg. Lace down both sides of the breast, and open the pinion of the breast, but do not take it off. Raise the “ merry- thought,” between the breast bone and the top, raise the brawn and turn itinwai'ds on both sides,but be care- ful not to cut it off’ nor break it. Divide the wing pinions from the joint next the body, and stick each pinion where the brawn was turned out; cut olf the sharp end of the pinion, and the middle piece will exactly fit the place. In the same manner you may souse a c.apon, cut up a bustard, and allay a pheasant. z3