247 PO PO distinction is remarkable: under this denomination may be classed the bites of sei’pents, such as the viper, and various species of snakes, the virus of hydrophobia, the stings of insects, &c. The aerial poisons (see Odours) operate still more quickly than any of the other classes, and their action on i-espiration is so pe- culiar, that it can seldom be mis- taken.—See Culinary Poisons. PORK.—The ancient physicians considered pork as the best and most nutritious meat, if assisted by proper digestive powers. But they were certainly mistaken in this suppo- sition ; for, although its quality is such as requires a smaller quantity to satisfy the cravings of the stomach, yet veal and beef, taken in increased proportions, afford equal, if not more nourishment, and doubtless a more wholesome supply of animal jelly, than pork, under similar circum- stances of the individual, would pro- duce. By allowing these animals clean food and the enjoyment of pure air and exercise, their flesh might be improved in salubrity; but the farmer is not solicitous about the quality of the meat, if he can produce it in great quantities, in which he is certain to succeed, from the present unnatural mode of feeding swine. Pork yields a copious and perma- nent nourishment, which does not disagree with the robust and labori- ous, but which, from its {ibundance of acrid fat, is not wholesome to per- sons of a weak stomach or sedentary life; as these animals live, and are fed in styes without exercise, and in an impure air. From the want of fresh water, their flesh acquires a tough and strong consistence, and is indi- gestible but by a healtliy bile. Per- sons who have impure fluids, and a tendency to eruptions, as well as those who have wounds or ulcers, should refrain from the use of pork; for this food will dispose them to inflammation and gangrene ; it is equally improper in a catarrhal state of the chest, in weak stomachs, coughs, and consumptions. — Lec- tures on Diet and Regimen, by A. F. M. Willich, M.D. People of delicate habits may some- times eat pork sparingly; but it is an erroneous notion that a dram is necsssaiy to assist its digestion ; for spirituous liquors may indeed pre- vent, hut cannot promote its solution in the stomach. It would be more advisable not to drink for a short time after eating pork, as it is usually very fat, and this fat is more subtle and soluble than any other, and has nothing in it of the nature of tallow. When eaten in moderation, pork is easily digested. With those whose digestive organs are weak, no other s])ecies of meat agrees in general so well, as a small quantity of this. Hence the objections made against it relate more to the quantity than the quality or substance; for if too much of it he eaten, it is apt to cor- rupt the fluids, and to produce acri- mony. It ought therefore to be eaten sparingly and seldom, and the inclination -which many have for this food should be kept within the hounds of moderation. The most proper additions to pork, are the acidulated vegetables, such as gooseberry or apple sauce ; which not only gratify the ])alate, but correct its proj)crties, neutralize, in a manner, its great l>roportion of fat, and thus operate beneficially on the alimentary canal. Upon the whole, it may be said of pork, that the occasional and sparing use of it is sufliciently salutary; but that it cannot be made a principal part of the daily diet, without pro- ducing disorders in many constitu- tions, and jiarticularly in those who arc of a melancholy temperament, and lead a sedentary life. The flesh of the difl'erent genus of this species is edible.— (See Bacon, Butchers' Meat, (ji'c). The flesh of wild hogs, as they have more exercise than the tame, and do not live upon substances so impure and corrupted, is more