WA 386 WA and juices in a thin moveable state, water must be therefore necessarily appropriated to the producing of that effect. Every one will readily grant that a proper fluidity of the blood is highly necessary to procure a free and equable circulation, by means whereof the vessels are kept always open, obstructions prevented, excre- tions secured, stagnations and impu- rities of the juices prevented, and the causes of diseases cut off. And whether there be in nature a more proper remedy for procuring this fluidity to the blood, we leave to the judgment of sober and experienced physicians. To us it appears that pure and subtile water exquisitely divides the solid and viscid parts of the blood and juices, so as to prevent their coagulating orrunning together, at the same time that it dissolves the excrementitious matters of various kinds, whether earthy, saline, or oily, and discharges them by the pro- per outlets. And hence -we conceive is the reason why the drinkers of water, provided it be pure and excel- lent, are more healthy and longer lived, than such as drink wine or malt liquors, and why it generally gives them a better appetite, and renders them plump and flesh}-, for certainly water is a very proper men- struum for dissolving the aliment, extracting its chyle or nourishing part, and carrying it through all the innermost and finest canals of the body. Besides, it readily washes off and dissolves that tough and viscous slime which lines the glandular coats of the stomach and duodenum, or first division of the intestines; whereby the dissolving juices of the bowels, which arc the immediate in- slruments of digestion, may more plentifully mix with the food and |)crform their office. Those who drink water are observed to have much sounder and whiter teeth than others, for putrefaction and corrup- tion of the teeth are caused by the scurvy, a disease prevented by the drinking of pure water, which actu- ally cleanses and washes the blood, and discharges its impurities. Add to this, that drinkers of water are brisker and more alert, in all the actions both of mind and body, than such as use malt liquors; most of which produce clammy, viscid and sluggish juices, hardly capable of passing through the exquisitely fine vessels of the brain and nerves, whence proceed indolence and weak- ness of the limbs both to sense and motion. Having thus considered the sin- gular efficacy of water, by way of prevention, we come next to examine what it will perform in the cure of diseases. Physicians divide all dis- tempers into acute and chronical. Of the acute kind, the principal are fevers; and experience shews that if water be not the only thing, there is no better remedy yet found, than a free and copious use of it. Whence Hippocrates and others highly re- commend an aqueous ptisan, or me- dicinal drink for this pui-pose. And accordingly by this alone, with the assistance of rest and temperate warmth, the most violent fevers have been frequently cured, without any other medicine. The caution re- quired in the use of water for this distemper is not to give it too cold, especially near the crisis and when there is reason to fear an inflamma- tion, nor when the body is stiff and rigid, and the external parts parched and bound up; but to wait for the time when there appears a disposi- tion to sweat, for then it is always proper to give water in large quan- tities. Those called chronical diseases, gener.-illy arise from an obstruction of the viscera and glandular parts, or an overcharge and foulness of the juices, with the stagnation thereof in the larger vessels. All which, ac- cording to the rules of reason and ex- j)criencc, are to be removed in order to complete the cure ; but to produce