182 LA LA L, LADIES’-SMOCK {Cardamine Pratensis, L.)—The leaves of this plant afford an agreeable acrid salad, greatly resembling the American cress. LAMB.—Lamb is a light, whole- some food, not so nutritious as mut- ton, but exh-emely useful to delicate stomachs; this, however, applies only to the flesh of lambs that have not been robbed of their blood by repeat- ed bleedings, or reared by the hand with milk adulterated with chalk, in order to make the meat appear white. Such practices, to render the food pleasing to the eye, at the expense of its alimentary properties, cannot be too much reprobated. The vegetables most proper to be eaten with lamb, are those of an acidulated nature, as gooseberries, sorel, and the like. It is customary to eat this meat when very young; hut a lamb that has been allowed to suck six months, is fatter and more muscular, and in every respect better, than one which has been killed when two months old, and before it has had time to attain its proper consistence. House lamb is a dish esteemed, merely because it is unseasonable. Idke all animals reared in an unna- tural manner, its flesh is insipid, and detrimental to health. LAMB,to Choose.—See Butcher’s Meat, SfC. LAMPREY.—Tliere are twokinds of lamprey, the sea and river; both of which are used for food, in con- sequence of the goodness of their taste. The lamprey is the same shape as tlic large eel. It has a fat and deli- cious taste, is easily digested. It agrees, especially in the spring, with young people of a hot and bilious constitution ; with those who have a good stomach, and whose humours are thin ; but the old and phlegmatic should use it abstemiously. It has been said that it is pernicious to nerv'ous people, and those disposed to gout or gravel. Those taken in flne, clear, running water, well fed and fat, are the best. The sea lamprey is of the number of those fishes which leave the sea for a time, and return thither again. They usually leave the sea about the beginning of spring, and return to the rivers to spawn; after which they return with their young, to their former place, at a certain fixed pe- riod. The river lamprey remains in its native place, that is, in fresh water, and is frequently to be met with in brooks and springs, where the sea-water does not reach. As regards shape and taste, it corre- sponds with the sea lamprey, although it differs in size. Lampreys in the spring, are tender, delicious, and good eating; but at all other times, they are hard, tough, and have but little taste. The lamprey is more easily digested than the eel. Lampreys are dressed several ways; they are boiled, roasted, or fried; baked in pies; they are salted and dried to preserve them longer for use, and to admit of them being more readily transported from one place to another. Some of the an- cient authors have recommended them to be drowned in wine. Wine and spice are proper seasoning for this fish, not on account of its pre- tended malignit)', which is supposed to be imaginary, but because the)' render the lamprey easier of diges- tion, by attenuating its thick and viscous juices. LAPWING AND PLOVER.— Wc have placed these two birds to- gether from the similarity of their habits, frequenting the same places and feeding upon the same food; their flesh being also alike in taste, and producing the same effects.