234 PE PE advance in growth, become more oppressive to the stomach, and con- sequently less salutary in their effects; and yet, persons with whom this kind of pulse agrees well, are apt to experience a degi'ee of flatulence and toi-por after eating them, in con- sequence of the fixed air, which, in common with other vegetables, they contain. Those who are fond of pea-soup, would better consult their health, by boiling the peas whole, than split and deprived of their husks; for these promote the grind- ing of the peas, and prevent them from turning acid in the stomach, which split peas readily do. They are also apt to occasion oppression in the bowels, and a very troublesome heartburn, in some constitutions. The pod of the sugar pea, first ap- pearing with the husks and tendrils, affords a fine acid, enters into the composition of salads, as do those of the hop and vine. Leguminous jn-oductions, as beans, peas, lentils, and the like, all contain a solid mu- cilage or gluten, and afford a rich and strong niitriment, which best agrees with a vigorous stomach. They have also a considerable por- tion of crude particles, which cannot be assimilated to our fluids, and must therefore remain undigested in the bowels, to the great detriment of the alimentary canal. The meal of the leguminous class is digested with more difficulty than that of grain; besides, it contains much fixed air, from which it is extremely flatulent, is apt to occasion costiveness, and to communicate various kinds of acri- mony to the blood. Tliese eficcts, however, it produces only when used frequently and copiously. Hence, broad made of peas or beans, either alone or mixed, and ground together with wheat, is improper for daily use. It must not, however, be imagined, that even the most whole- some articles of food are altogether free from air: this clement is a necessary and useful ingredient to promote the digestion of alimentary substances. The proportion of fixed air varies extremely in different ve- getables : all the leguminous plants particularly abound with it: and even persons with whom they agree well, must have experienced flatu- lency and torpor, after a copious use of peas and beans.—See Vege- tables. PEARS.—Some pears are ex- tremely hard, astringent, and diffi- cult of digestion; but the more juicy pears have a sapinaceous, mellow, nourishing, and digestible fluid : in their effects, they resemble the sweet kind of apples, except that they are less relaxing to the bowels. Peai's are of a more flatulent tendency than plums, peaches, or api'icots, (which see)—especially the hard winter pears, which are eaten at a time when the stomach requires stimulating rather than cooling food. Pears contain but little acid, while they have generally more sugar, and above all, more woody fibre, w'hich is of course indigestible. Those which are not so hard and solid, contain, along with their sugar, a considerable proportion of muci- lage ; wliich, though it is nourishing, is apt to go into fermentation in the stomach and produce flatulence. The very hard sort of pears ought to be prohibited to weakly persons, as their great quantity of woody fibre will onlj' load and fatigue the sto- mach. The astringent sorts produce costiveness—the sweet and mellow are laxative,and to some constitutions prove salutary. They sit all heavy on weak and flatulent stomachs. P.VTE.—.\ raised crust pie. PEPPER.—Pepper is the product of a shrub growing in several parts of the East Indies. Black pepper is an aromatic fruit of a hot dry qua- lity, chiefly used in the seasoning of meats. White pepper is the fruit of the same pc])per with the black, and prepared from it b}^ taking ofl’ the outer bark. Pepper, which is