MU 215 MU late that they appear to have gained anything like professional confidence. Their administration requires cau- tion; if any inflammatory irritation exists, they must prove injurious: where, however, there is a sluggish or deficient secretion of the aliment- ary juices, their utility is unquestion- able. In administering them, how- ever, as a remedy, caution must be observed, lest they accumulate in the bowels; as it is not improbable that, from the offensive nature of the evacutions of some who have taken them, that they disengage a portion of sulphuretted hydrogen in their passage. MUTTON. — This is the com- mon name of the flesh of a sheep after the animal has been killed, and has been frequently prefer- red to the flesh of all other quad- rupeds, even by persons of the highest rank, who had access to the choicest viands. Besides its intrinsic excellence as a species of food, mut- ton has the advantage of being more generally suited to different climates : whereas, beef requires a very nice intermediate state, which it seems chiefly to enjoy in England; for, although Scotland supplies what are esteemed excellent cattle, it is in the rich English pastures that they are brought to perfection. Now the sheep can he brought almost to the same perfection in Scotland as in the southern countries. Bacon, in his Natural History, observes, that the flesh of mutton is better tasted where the sheep are fed upon thyme and wholesome herbs. Hence, the mutton fed on the delightful downs of Banstead, in Surrey, which .are covered with thyme, is generally .allowed to be some of the sweetest and best flavoured in the kingdom. The mutton of sheep fed on dry pastures, is a better and more nou- rishing food than that of others reared in moist places. Those also fed near the sea-shore are excellent meat; the saline particles which they imbibe, giving at once consistence and purity to their flesh. The meat of rams is tough and unpleasant; but that of ewes, and still more that of wethers, is of a rich and viscous nature. Young mutton is juicy and easily digested, but is rather tough, and h.as not that balsamic alimentary juice peculiar to sheep above a cer- tain age. Tup-mutton, from its strong and disagreeable smell, besides being extremely tough and difficult of di- gestion, is never eaten but by those who cannot afford to purchase mut- ton of a better qu.ality; and ewe- mutton, if it be more than between two and three years old, is likewise tough and coarse. Wedder-mutton, or the flesh of the castrated animal, is most esteemed, and is by far the sweetest and most digestable.—See Lamb, Sheep. A ro.asting piece of mutton ought to be exposed to the open air for several days, according to the w'ea- ther and season; it then affords a p.alatable dish, which is easily di- gested, and agrees wdth every con- stitution. But the fat of mutton is almost indigestible ; for it easily coa- gulates in the stomach, and oppresses that organ; hence, the lean part of mutton is more nourishing, as well as more conducive to health. The feet of sheep are nourishing, on account of their jelly, and are of great service for injections, in those diseases which originate from acri- mony in the intestines. MUTTON, TO Choose.—Sec Butcher’s Meat, i^'c.