TH 338 TH Thirst and hunger are the two incentives which, when combined, promote the common purpose of rendering the animal attentive to its own preservation. When their call is obeyed, they afford a source of pleasure ; as much as when they are neglected or resisted, they are a cause of great and even fatal suffer- ing : but in the production of these two very opposite results, pleasure and pain, thirst is far more energetic and intense than hunger. Tlie quick- ness with which the taking of drink appeases the first of these sensations, contrasted with the slowness with which solid food is taken into the stomach, may, perhaps, in some measure tend to explain the really greater enjoyment generally felt in quenching thirst than in satisfying hunger.—{Dr. Mason Goode, vo\. 1, p. 132). Himger onAthir.st axe mere .sensations, sensations of the stomach, and they seem really to be incompa- tible with one another; for a thirsty animal is not hungry. Hunger does not produce thirst; and an animal does not drink till it has digested its food. People will say otherwise; they will say, I have seen a cow drink the moment she began to eat. Well, so they may, for that is just the time when she should drink; the stomach is then empty, and the water that she then drinks does not remain above what the cow may have just at that instant ate, but it jiasses down into the stomach, and fills the paunch, enters into and fills uj) the cooking cavities, as I may call them. People feel hungry when their stomach is full; this you will frequently find to be the case. A healtby young man, after eating a pound of beef steaks, and after having washed them down with a good (juantity of strong drink, will bo as hungry as if he had never seen the beef steaks, and ready to swallow a barrel ol oysters. There are ])ooplc who oat continually, and are never satislied but when they are eating. Abernethg's Lectures, p. 352. This desire of always eating is a morbid sensation; which may be allayed by putting the feet in cold water; as was the case of a woman in Bartholomew Hospital, who was eternally eating. {Vide Op. Citat.) E.xtreme thirst is a morbid sensation; and this morbid sensation must be first cured before you have any con- trol over the immoderate thirst.—See Thirst, excessive. The principal intention for which thirst and hunger are instituted being the nourishment of the body, the importance of the latter sensation is sometimes represented as more in- tense and more evident than that of the first. Solid food gives out the essential parts of the blood, and the utility of drinks, in relation to this fiuid, is not always so manifest. Hunger and thirst differ strikingly from one another in the time and situation of their development, as well as in their local and general phenomena. Contrasted with hunger, thirst comes on suddenly, and if it be not quenched, it creates a state of suffering—real pain. It is not at all like what, in relation to hunger, is called an appetite, which enters into the class of agreeable sensations. In tbirst, the mouth, and especially the throat, are affected; in hunger, the stomach is the seat of uneasiness. Thirst, even when not very ardent, is accompanied with a true local and general excitement, while hunger, if at all protracted, occasions chilliness, ])alcness, and a disposition to faint- ness. The differences between hunger and thirst, when long continued, and assuming the character of diseases, or rather between the effects of a total abstinence from drink, and those of a complete abstinence from solid food, are still more strongly marked. Death, which is the end of unappeased hunger .and thirst, takes ))lacc much sooner from thirst, and the more so, because no remission en.sucs in the cruel and progressive c.ause of its symptoms. Death, from want of solid aliment, always ap-