WA 389 WA matter already corrupted being left in them, acts as a real ferment, and very quickly disposes the fresh water, with which these vessels are tilled, to become putrid in the same manner. For this reason, it is advised* that the casks or other vessels be well washed with hot water and sand, or with any other substance capable of removing the mucilaginous particles, and afterwards that a certain quan- tity of powder of charcoal be em- ployed, which will entirely deprive such casks, or other vessels, of the musty or putrid smell they may have contracted. When water is preserved by having certain substances mixed with it, these substances act either by their anti-putrescent powers, or by mechanically absorbing the pu- trified particles. Vitriolic acid pos- sesses the first of these properties, and powdered charcoal fulfils the second intention in a very striking manner, and the effect of the latter is rendered much more speedy by using it along with the former. Proportions of Charcoal and Vi- triolic Acid, ^-c.—From experiments made to ascertain in what propor- tions these two substances might be advantageously used together, it was found that one ounce and a half of poivdered charcoal, and twenty-four drops of the concentrated vitriolic acid (sulphuric acid), are sufficient to purify three pints and a half of cor- rupted water, and do not communi- cate to it any sensible acidity. This small quantity of vitriolic acid renders it unnecessary to use more than one tliird part, at most, of the charcoal powder which would be wanted if the acid were not used ; and the less of that powder employed, the less the quantity of water lost by the opera- tion, which in sea voyages is an object worthy of consideration. In proportion to the quantity of acid • See Mr. Lowitz’s Memoir, read at the Kconomical Society at St. Peters- burgh. used, the quantity of charcoal may be diminished or augmented, and it should be observed, that all acids produce nearly the same effects. Neutral salts also, particularly nitre and sea salt, may be used for the puqrose in question, but vitriolic acid is certainly preferable to any of these. Water purified by means of this acid and charcoal, will keep a longer time than that which is purified by char- coal alone. The cleanness of the casks in which w'ater is kept during sea voyages, is an object which should never be neg- lected, and it would not be amiss if the operation were repeated every time they are about to be filled with fresh water. Six or eight pounds of charcoal are advised to be used for each cask, it being better to use too much than too little, and as much of the vitriolic acid as is sufficient to communicate to the w'ater a scarcely perceptible degree of acidit}'. To prevent the charcoal from settling at the bottom of the cask in the form of a paste, it will be proper to stir the whole together with a stick, at least twice every week, by which means the charcoal will be better dispersed through the whole mass of water, and, consequently, will perform its office more completely. Properties of Charcoal and Vitriolic Acid.—Powder of charcoal and vi- triolic acid are two anti-putrescent substances. The first prevents the water from acquiring that yellow colour, which it usually contracts by time, and the acid particularly con- tributes to clarify the water, which the powder of charcoal, when em- j)loyed alone, generally renders tur- bid. If we wish to make use of the water so preserved, it sliould first be tried, by passing a small quantity of it through a strainer, in the form of a jelly bag filled with powder of char- coal: such a strainer, or bag, should always be in readiness, to be made use of for this purpose. Directions for purifying any given 2 L 2