BE 31 BE (er beer salutary. As evei'y new sort of beer is not equally grateful to the stomach, it would be well to desist from the use of that kind to which we cannot habituate ourselves in the course of two or three weeks. On account of the great variety of this liquor we meet with in ti-avel- ling, it is much better to drink no beer at all in journe3's, and to use lemonade instead of it in hot wea- ther; and wine or spirits mixed with water, when travelling during a cold and moist season. Beer, in general, is nourishing, and has a tendency to fatten such individuals as are of dry and rigid fibres, and whose bile is good. Hence the inhabitants of coun- tries in which beer is the principal beverage, are commonly more phleg- matic and indolent than the same class of people in wine countries. Many kinds of beer, how'ever, in which a greater than usual propor- tion of grain is used, contain much spirit, and are of a heating and ine- briating nature: such, for instance, is our Burton ale, the Edinburgh ales, and several others, and all the strong kinds cf foreign beer. Light and well fermented beer is a whole- some, and, at the same time, a diluent species of nourishment. Per- sons already of a plethoric habit, or disposed to become corpulent, should use the lightest beer, as it generally agrees best with them. I'hick aud nourishing beer is of ser- vice to wet-nurses, and weakly con- stitutions. Sweet beers are only nourishing; but the better kinds are strengthening also. The latter are beneficial in a weak state of diges- tion, and to people troubled with acid in the stomach ; yet sweet beer is more wholesome for daily use, and at the same time less exposed to dangerous adulterations. In fine, beer is not a fit drink for people of a thick, black, bilious blood, and with a disposition to melancholy: it is the most useful species of drink to the weak, the lean, and the laborious, provided they are not very subject to flatulence, nor troubled with dis- eases of the chest. In both of these cases it has been found to disagree, and to be much inferior in salubrity to wholesome water. See Malt Liquors—Ale—Porter. BENNET, THE PIerb.—The com- mon A veils {Geum urhanum) or herb bennet, is liighly extolled all over the continent, for its medicinal, as well as other valuable properties. Hence it was, perhaps, that it ac- quired the surname of Bennet, or benet, contracted from benedictm, although the origin is now ascribed to a saint of that name. The roots of this plant, particularly when it grows on a dry, sandy soil, have a pleasant odour (similar to that of cloves), which it readily imparts to any spirituous menstruum. On this account it is highly valued by the brewers, and is said to be a perma- nent ingredient in the Augsburg beer, which is so famous throughout Ger- many. The dried roots are sliced, and enclosed in a thin linen bag, which is suspended in the store vat, or cask; and, with what truth we know not, it is asserted, that the beer so managed never becomes acid. BETEL.—plant which creeps along the ground like pease or hops, whose stalk is very weak, so that it must be supported by a prop, or planted near the areca tree, to which it attaches itself like ivy. Its leaf resembles that of the citron tree, though a little longer; its stalks or fibres are also stronger, and it be- comes reddish when dried. It thrives best in watery places, such as the banks of the sea or rivers. There it bears a fruit shaped like a rat’s tail, but produces none in climates too hot or too cold. An Indiaii is scarce- ly ever seen without betel in his mouth. As soon as any one goes into a house on business, or to make a visit, it is brought and presented to the company by way of compli-