SP SP 306 Jerusalem, a woman entered with an alabaster pot of this ointment, which having broken, she poured the con- tents on his head. SPINAGE. — Spinage is a favourite dish with many, affords but little nutriment, passes quickly through the stomach and bowels, al- most indigested ; and bemg usually dressed with butter, it weakens the alimentary canal, produces looseness, and consequently is not proper food for weakly constitutions. In languid stomachs spinage is apt to produce acidity and the heart-burn. Spin- age was formerly not eaten in salads ; and the oftener now in a crude state it is left out, the better; and the wild succory with the nar- row dark leaf, seasoned a little with sugar and vinegar, is eaten by some in summer, though it is more grateful to the stomach than the palate. Those that are tender, soft, juicy, well cultivated, and that grow in a fat soil are to be selected. It agrees at all times with young people of a hot and bilious constitution. SPIRIT, (Spiritus).—A name formerly given to all volatile sub- stances collected by distillation.— Three principal kinds were distin- guished: inflammable or ardent spi- rits, and alkaline spirits. The word spirit is now almost confined to al- cohol.—See Alcohol. SPIRIT OF WINE.—All spirit one to twenty overproof is thus deemed in the English laws: the London College and that of Edin- bm'gh, order it for medicinal use to have the specific gravity of 835, but the Dublin only 849. 2. Molasses spirit, thirty gallons kali puri. Gibs.; draw twenty-five gallons, add faints of spirit of wine, five gallons kali puri. Gib., draw twenty gallons rectified spirit, and five gallons faints. SPIRIT, PROOF.—Differs from the raw spirits above described, al- though of the same strength, by being always formed of spirit of wine diluted with water. The Lon- don College mentions no proportion, but requires the spec. grav. of 930; the Dublin advises the mixture of four measures of rectified spirit ■with three of water; and the Edinburgh orders equal measures of their al- cohol and water, the spec. grav. of which mixture they quote as 935. The chemists in London are in the habit of making their proof spirit by taking half spirit pint of wine and half water, whenever it is required, as they seldom or never keep it in that state. SPIRIT, FROM FAINTS.—In rectifying spirits, and in distiOing compound spirits after the first strong portion has been drawn off, the weaker, and in some cases disco- loured spirit that arises, is saved, as long as it will take fire when thrown on the still-head, by a candle or lighted paper, under the name of faints, and when a sufficient quantity has been collected, it is rectified: the spirit thus obtained is principally used to make anise-seed cordial, as the strong flavour of the anise seed will overpower any other flavour the spirit may have acquired. The various degrees of strength of spirituous' liquors, were technically denominated by numbers, referring to an arbitrarj' strength, called in the English law, proof spirit, a gallon of which weighs 7 lbs. 11 ounces, 3 drachms, avoirdupois. When spirit is said to be one to three overproof, it is meant that one gallon of water added to three gallons of the spirit, will reduce it to proof; on the con- trary, one in three under proof, sig- nifies that in three gallons of that spirit there is contained one g.allou of water, and the remaining two gallons are pr-oof spirit. As a gallon of water weighs by law 8 lbs. 7 ounces, 5 drachms, avoirdupois, the specific gravity of proof spirit is to that of water, as 910 to 1000. Of late by a new regulation of the excise laws, the use of a hydrometer is in-