45 BIl BR are also in the habit of adding am- monia to the dough, which causes it, during its evaporation in the oven, to rise, and thus adds to the spongi- ness of its texture. Bread made from barley flour has a sweetish but not unpleasant taste ; but it is rather tough, and is less nu- tritive, as well as less digestible, than wheaten bread. It is usual to mix pea-meal with the barley, which un- questionably improves the product. Rye-bread is of a dark brown co- lour, and is apt to lie heavy on the stomach, and is liable to create acid, and affects the bowels—though it is deemed highly nutritive. In places where bread is made from oatmeal, there is a mode of preparing the meal by making it sour; the bread, in- stead of being hard, is thus rendered of a soft texture, and from its mode- rate degree of acidity it is wholesome to persons of robust habits, though to invalids and convalescents it is by no means so desirable. In the form of bread, however, oatmeal is com- monly in an unfermented state, or it is made into thin, flat cakes, which are baked on a girdle, or roasted be- fore the fire. Porridge made of oat- meal, the common food of children and the lower and even the middling classes of adults in Scotland, is not so heavy as that made of wheat flour; though both of them require vigor- ous organs of digestion, robust con- stitutions, and strong exercise, in or- der to produce a proper nutriment. A good househoid bread is directed to be made as follows. Put a quartern of flour into a large tub, with two or three spoonsful of salt, make a hole in the middle, then put in a basin four table-spoonsful of good yeast; stir in a pint of milk, lukewarm ; put it in the hole of the flour; stir it just to make it ot thin batter; then strew a little flour over the top, set it on one side of the fire, and cover it over; let it stand till the next morning— then make it into dough ; add half a pint more of warm milk; knead for ten minutes, and then set it in a warm place by the fire for an hour and a half; then knead it again, and it is ready either for loaves or bricks : bake them from one hour and a half to two hours, according to the size. A variety of processes are used by cooks, confectioners, and others, to make cakes, puddings, and other kinds of bread, in which different qualities are required. Some cakes are rendered better, or, as it is called, short, by an admixture of sugar or of starch. Another kind of brittleness is given by the addition of butter or of fat. White of egg, gum-water, isinglass, and other adhesive sub- stances are used where it is intended that the effect of fermentation shall expand the dough into an exceed- ingly porous mass. Dr. Percival has recommended the addition of salep, or the nutritive powder of the orchis root. He says that an ounce of salep dissolved in a quart of water and mixed with two pounds of flour, two ounces of yeast, and eighty grains of salt, produced a remarkably good loaf, weighing three pounds two ounces; while a loaf made of an equal quan- tity of the other ingredients, without the salep, weighed but two pounds twelve ounces. If, however, the sa- lep be in too large a quantity, its peculiar taste will be distinguishable in the bread. Bread itself, if eaten too freely, or to serve as a meal, produces viscidity or slime, obstructs the intestines, and lays the foundation of habitual cos- tiveness. All dishes pre])ared of flour, are not only nourishing, but emol- lient, attenuating, and correctors of .acidity. Le.avened bread, or such as has ac(|uired an acidulated taste by a slow fermentation of the dough, is cooling and antiseptic—a fact well established hy experience. By the fermentative jirocess, .all the tough parts of the dough are intimately mixed with the drier parts of the flour, and the fixed air is expelled in baking.