SW 322 su honour in llie court of Elizabeth, breakfasted upon beef, and drank ale after it; whilst the sportsman, and even the day-labourer, now break- fast upon tea! The same lady who had so solid a breakfast, had for dinner—■ A piece of boiled beef, A slice of roasted meat, and A gallon of ale. IN THE AFTERNOON. A manchette, Half a gallon of ale. FOR SUPPER. A mess of porridge, A piece of mutton, A cheat (a finer loaf). And a gallon of ale. To be sociable after supper, there was left on the table— A manchette loaf, A gallon of ale, Half a gallon of ale. Tliis lady had therefore four heavy meals; instead of which it would be better to recommend the modern plan of late dinners; but, because long fasting is injurious, and when very hungry, one may be incensed to eat more at this principal meal than can be digested, cold meats or soups may intervene by way of collation. For dinner, it w’ould be advisable with ail who entertain a proper sense of the importance of health, to keep as much as possible to one dish. To prefer mutton* to lamb, lamb to chicken or veal, and beef, if tender, to either of the three last; and as fish is soon digested, to unite some butchers’ meat to it, and to add to these vegetables; and for convales- cent and weak persons, we would * When Saactorius ate mutton, which was a food peculiarly grateful to his stomach, his feelings were pleasant, and his perspiration was copious ; when he ate pork, goose, duck, musiirooms or melons, he felt heavy and oppressed ; and found by the balance that his per- spiration diminished one-half. This proves that the perspiratory discharge is nujch under the influence of the stomach. estreat those heterogeneous combina- tions called puddings; and, with the exception of the fruit, the ciaist of all pies should be condemned. The readers will here recollect, that al- though eggs and milk are both rec- koned wholesome separate, when combined they form a compound suited only for strong stomachs. A late dinner gives a long morning, and precludes the necessity of a hearty supper, and tea may become its sub- stitute. Large meals are ever hurt- ful to a tender constitution. Pastry, and high-seasoned viands, or dainties, are bad on two accounts—first, be- cause they tempt people to eat more than enough, and secondly, because they are hard of digestion. SURFEIT.—The consequence of excess of eating and drinking; or of something unwholesome or improper existing in the food. Its symptoms are a heavy load or oppression at the stomach; acccompanied with nausea, sickness, obstructed perspiration, and eruptions in the skin.—SeeGluttony. SWINE BREAD. —A sort of root or pul2)3' shapeless lump, of dif- ferent sizes, uneven, and growing in the earth, without shooting out any plant, which is supposed to be a rea- son for its delicious taste. It is much used in food ; and is served up after being roasted in ashes, or pre- pared with wine. Some pulverise it and add it to sauces. The ancients were divided in their opinion with respect to this production; some jiretending it to be good food, others that it was bad; hence it may be concluded that it produces both good and bad efiects. It is of a restora- tive nature and fortifies the stomach ; but when used immoderately it at- tenuates and divides the humours. It grows plentifully after autumnal rains and thunder storms. The an- cients fancied it had no seeds, and that it was formed of the coagulated juice of the earth or the earth itself, whose parts stagnantly unite toge- ther; which gave occasion for the