RA RE 2C5 raisins, so called, because they are imported in jars, are all dried by the heat of the sun; and these are the sorts used in medicine. All kinds of raisins have much the same vir- tues ; they are nutritive and balsamic; but they are subject to fermentation with juices of every kind, and hence, when eaten immoderately, they often bring on colics. They are not at present much valued in medicine, though they are directed in some compositions, particularly in pectoral decoctions, and other medicines of that intention. Their principal use is in making that favourite Old Eng- lish dish called a plum pudding. R.VM.—The flesh of the ram is seldom eaten because of its unplea- sant smell and rank taste, resembling that of the he-goat. The flesh of the ewe is a little more used, yet not much in esteem, being insipid, vis- cous, and apt to produce gross hu- mours, and bad juices.—See Mutton. R.-\MFIONS {Itapunculus Escu- lent us).—A long and small root, about the thickness of one’s little finger, white and well tasted; it is sown in gardens, and gathered in its tender state to add to salading. It fortifies the stomach and assists digestion, is far more delicate than turnips or radishes ; juice used to allay tooth- ach, an infusion of the seeds used as an eye-wash. RAPE (BrassicaRapa).—The root of this plant is so like that of a turnip, that they can scarcely be distin- guished the one from the other but by the shape. They are sown in moist ground, and much used for food. They are nutritive, pectoral, and lenitive. It is, however, hard of digestion, and creates wind. — See 'I'urnip. RAPESEED. — A seed of the cabbage kind; out of which an oil is extracted which is used by hatters; and serves also to burn. RATAFLV.—A litpior prepared by imparting to ardent spirits the flavour of various kinds oflruit. 1. Ratafia of angelica.—Angelica seeds, one drachm; stalks of ange- lica, bitter almonds blanched, of each four ounces; proof spirit, twelve pints; white sugar, two pounds. Digest, strain, and filter. Cordial and carminative. 2. Ratafia of anise seed. — Anise seed, two ounces; proof spirit, two pints; simple syrup, four pounds. Tincture of vanilla may be added. 3. Ratafia of cherries.—Morello cherries with their kernels bruised, eight pounds; proof spirit, eight pints ; digest for a month, strain with expression, and add sugar, one pound and a half. 4. Ratafia of Grenoble. — Small wild black cherries with their kernels bruised, six pounds; proof spirit, three gallons; digest for a month, strain, add sugar, si.x pounds, and a little lemon peel. 5. Raspberry ratafia. — Raspber- ries, eight pounds ; proof spirit, four pints; sugar, twelve ounces. G. Ratafia of cloves.—Clove pinks, the white heels pulled off', four pounds; cinnamon and cloves, of each fifteen grains; proof spirit, one gallon ; sugar, one pound. 7. Ratafia of orange peel.—Fresh peel of Seville oranges, four ounces; proof spirit, one gallon; sugar, one pound. Digest in six hours. R.VY {Raia).—'I'here are many species of the ray, all inhabitants of the sea. Raia is the name of a genus of lishes of the order Chondropterg- gia. The following are sometimes eaten as food : the .skate ; the thorn- back ; the shark-nosed ray; the torpedo or electric ray, which see. RECrii'TC/VnON.—By rectifi- cation, chemically speaking, is un- derstood a second distillation, in which substances are purified by their more volatile parts being raised by means of heat: thus, spirit of wine, a'ther, &c. are rectified by their separation from the less volatile and foreign matter, which altered or debased their properties. 2 A