310 ST ST lants and indigestible compounds, many of them much more calculated to derange the functions of the sto- mach than to afford nourishment. STOMACH. — The human stomach, the viscus or bowel in which digestion is performed, re- sembles, as much as any thing we know, the paunch, if it may be so termed, of a pair of bag-pipes. It is situated on the left side of the dia- phragm or midriff. The mouth com- municates directly with the stomach, by means of the long and narrow membranes and a muscular canal, called the oesophagus or gullet, which in many animals is so capable of being dilated as to enable them to swallow animals much larger than themselves. The stomach of an adult is capable of containing upwards of three quarts of water, and has two openings; the superior or upper one, connected with the gullet, is called the pylorus or pyloric opening; the inferior is termed the cardia or car- diac opening, which descends some- what into the cavity of the duodenum, or first small intestine.—See Ali- mentary Canal. The situation of the stomach varies in respect to its state of fullness or emptiness. It is amply furnished with nerves from each nervous sys- tem, a circumstance to which its great sensibility is traced, and also from which it is so readily affected by all kind of stimuli, whether external as cold, or internal, as food and its own fluids; or mental; whence also the great and surprising sym])athy between it and most of the other natural functions, to which may be referred the influence of all the pas- sions of the mind, as well as the re- action of the healthy condition of the stomach upon the tranquillity, which follows, of the mind. The abundance and utility of the blood vessels of the stomach arc no less re- markable. Its arteries ramifying infi- nitely upon the celhdar membrane, secreting the gastric juice, which appears to be continually stream- ing from this organ.— (See Gastric Juice). In carnivorous animals, which swallow voraciously ; for instance, the wolf, the stomach is very large; but in many of tbe herbivorous kind it is of considerable size; and particu- larly in such as ruminate, its muscu- lar fibres are proportionably stronger, and capable of voluntary motion. The process of rumination implies a power of voluntary motion in the oesophagus; and indeed the influence of the wilt throughout the whole operation is incontestable. Rumina- tion is not confined to any particular time; since the animal can delay it, according to circumstances, till the paunch is quite full. In the oc- casional examples of the power of rumination in man, the operation is also found to be quite voluntary. The opening of the gullet into the stomach is marked by some differ- ences, both with regard to its size and mode of termination—circum- stances which explain why some animals, as the dog, vomit very easily; while others, as the horse, are scarcely susceptible of this ope- ration : which, in the latter, is also partly hindered from taking place through the mouth, by the complete manner in which this cavity admits of being separated from the gullet, by the thin membrane {velum palati) of tbe palate.—Blumenbacli s Comp. Anat. p. 82—87. Second edition. In its substance, the stomach con- sists of three principal coats or layers, the external and internal of which are membranous, and the middle muscular. The internal coat, more- over, is lined with a villous or downy apparatus, and is extremely convo- luted or wrinkled ; the wrinkles in- creasing in size as the diameter of the stomach contracts. “ There was a time when persons thought the wrinkles in the internal coat of the stomach, rubbing against each other, produced hunger; hence the \mlgar phrase, ‘ Come, take the tvrinkles out