AN AN 17 founded with spermaceti, and the biliary calculus, which are some- times very different from each other. It does not contain a single principle analogous to them. See Spermaceti. ANIM.\L FOOD.—See Aliments, Szc. ANIMAL HEAT.—This pheno- menon is thus explained. A body that is inert, and which does not change its position, being placed among other bodies very soon assumes the same temperature, on account of the tendency of caloric to equilibrium. The body of man is very different; surrounded by bodies hotter than itself it presen-es its inferior tem- perature as long as life continues; being surrounded with bodies of a lower temperature it maintains its temperature more elevated. In the animal economy, then, there are two different and distinct properties, the one of producing heat, and the other of producing cold. Heat is produced by caloric, which appears to be its principle, at least its most evident source. Amongst other means instinc- tively employed to prevent or remedy coldness are, motion, as walking, nm- ning, and leaping, whieh accelerate the circulation; pressure, shocks upon the skin, whicli draw a great quan- tity of blood into the tissue of this membrane. Another equally effec- tive means consists in diminishing the surface in contact with the bo- dies that deprive us of caloric. Thus we bend the different parts of the limbs upon each other, and we apply them forcibly to the trunk when the exterior temperature is low. Child- ren and infirm persons frequently adopt this position when in bed. In tins respect it would be very proper that young children should not bo confined too mucb in tbeir swathing clothes, to prevent them from re- sorting to this method. Our clothes preserve the heat of our bodies; for the substances of which they are formed being bad conductors of ca- loric, they prevent that of the body from passing off. Hence it appears that the combination of the oxygen of the air with the carbon of the blood is sufficient for the explanation of most of the phenomena presented by the production of animal heat; but there are several which, if I'eal, could not be explained by this means. It has been remarked by authors worthy of credit, that in certain local diseases the temperature of the diseased place rises several degrees above that of the blood taken at the left auriele. If this be so, the con- tinual renewal of the arterial blood is not enough to account for this in- crease of heat. The second source of heat must belong to the nutritive phenomena which take place in the diseased part. By means of these two sources of heat life can be maintained though the external temperature is very low, as that of winter in the countries near the Pole, which descends sometimes to —^10° F. For the most part such an excessive cold is not supported with- out great difficulty; and it often happens that the parts most easily cooled are mortified; many of the military suffered from such accidents in the Russian campaigns. We, nevertheless, resist as easily a tem- perature much lower than our own ; hence it is evident that we are pos- sessed of the faculty of producing heat to a great degree. The faculty of producing cold, or, in other words, of resisting foreign heat, which has a tendency to enter our organs, is more confined. In the torrid zone it has happened that men have died suddenly when the temperature has approached 122“F. According to a variety of facts and experiments, it appears that au- thors who have represented animal heat as fixed, have been very far from the trutli. We have, indeed, few observations relative to the de- gree of temperature proper to the body of man; the latest are due to Edwards and Gentil. These authors c 3