TE 331 TE form, must be detrimental to the body. A moderate use of tea may sometimes be of service to persons in a perfect state of bealtb, yet, for daily use, it cannot be recommended. It, doubtless, occasions a gentle sti- mulus, and rouses the mind for a short time ; bence it is, perhaps, the best and safest refreshment, after violent heat and fatigue of the body. Hence, as tlie means of increasing perspiration, tea is an useful beverage to travellers in cold weather, when insensible perspiration is liable to be checked. Hypochondriac and hys- tei'ic people, however, are much de- ceived in the efficacy of tea as a diluent drink; for all the evils arising from relaxation, a weak stomach, and flatulency, under which such persons usually labour, ai'e, by the habit of diinking tea, increased to the most alarming degree. The cold stomach which they propose to warm by it is a mere phantom of the brain, for tbis sensation of cold is nothing but relaxation,which, instead of being removed by hot litpiors, is increased by every repetition of tbem. Des Guignes gives the following characters of the dilierent kinds of tea, as he observed them in China, using the common English ortho- graphy, with their usual price at Canton. 'J’he following are called generally black teas: — Bohea tea, from Bo-he, the name of a place, is of a black cast, and yields a deep yellow infusion ; sells in China for twelve to fifteen taels, 6.9. 8(1. each, per ]>ic, about 130lbs., 01’, from Did. to t)^d. per pound. ConyoH tea, from coat) fou, great care. Tbe infusion is lighter than that of bohea, rather gi'een, and seldom of an agreeable smell; sells for 25 to 27 taels, or from \b\d. to 16W. per pound. Souchonij tea, from se ow chomj, a very little sort. The infusion is a fine green, smells agreeably; tbe leaves ought to have no spots on them : sells for 40 to 50 taels, or from 2.S'. to 2s. Q'^d. Pekoe tea, from pe kow, white leaf bud. The infusion is light and rather green, has a violet scent, and a very fine perfume in the mouth; sells for 31 to GO taels, or, from Is. 9d. to 3s. \d. Imperial tea—mao fcha, of the Chinese, has a green cast; the infu- sion is also green, the leaves large, and of a fine green ; has a slight smelt of soap. To these may be added:—> Campoi tea, which is intermediate, between congou and souchong. Padre, or chomj tea, a vciy fine souchong, imported in papers for presents. Caper lea, made into balls with gum, and scented, imported only in small bo.xes. ’V\\c green teas of Des Guignes are, Songlo lea, from the place where it is grown ; has a leaden cast, the infusion is green; the leaves are longer and more pointed than the black teas; sells for 21 to 2G taels, or from Is. Zd. to 1.9. dd. The infe- rior sorts have yellow leaves, and a smell of sprats. ligson tea, from he tchune, first crop, is of a leaden cast; the infu- sion is a fine green, the leaves are handsome, without spots, and open quite flat; it has a strong taste, and a slight smell of roasted chestnuts; sells for 50 to GO taels, or, from 2.9. Gd. to 3.9. \d. Tchu Icha, of which be gives no cbaracters, but it sells for G5 to 70 taels, or 3«. Ad. to 3.v. Id. per lb. Besides, there arc inq)orted into England these green teas :— ligson skin or bloom tea, being the large loose leaves ofthe hyson ; afaint dclii'ate smell; infusion a pale green. Superior hgson skin, intermediate between byson and hyson skin. Clnnpowder tea, a superior hyson, in small round grains, of a blooming greenish hue.