159 HA HA in wood smoke, where there is but little fire and a constant smoke, for a month. Then take it down and hang it in a dry but not hot place, and keep it for use. You may either cut a piece off as you have occasion, and boil it, or cut it into rashers and broil it, with poached eggs; or boil a piece; it eats very well cold, and will shive like Dutch beef. 6. New England Hams, to Cure. —For two hams, take two ounces of sal prunella; beat it fine, rub it in well, and let them be twenty-four hours. Then take half a pound of bay salt, a quarter of a pound of brown or rock salt, a quarter of a pound of common salt, and one ounce of saltpetre, all beaten fine with half a pound of the coarsest sugar. Rub these ingredients well in, and let them lie two or three days. Then take white common salt, and make a pretty strong brine with about two gallons of water, and half a pound of brown sugar. Boil it well and skim it when cold. Then put in the hams and turn them every two or three days in the pickle for three weeks. Then hang them up in a chimney and smoke them well a day or two with horse litter. Let them afterwards hang about a week on the side of the kitchen chimney, and then take them down. Keep them dry in a box, with bran covered over them. They may be eaten in a month, or will keep very well for one year. 7. Westphalia Ham.—Rub the piece intended for a ham with half a pound of the coarsest sugar, and let it be till night. Then rub it with an ounce of saltpetre finely beaten, and a pound of common salt. Let it lie three weeks, turning it every day. Dry it in a wood smoke, or where turf is burnt. When you boil it, put into the pot or copper a pint of oak saw-dust.—See Drysalting. 8. Mutton IIa.ms. — Cut a hind quarter of mutton like a ham, and rub it well with an ounce of saltpetre, a pound of coarse sugar, and a pound of common salt well mixed together. Lay it in a hollow tray with the skin downward, and baste it every day for a fortnight. Then roll it in some sawdust, and hang it in ivood smoke for a fortnight. Then boil it, and hang it in a dry place. Cut it out in slices and broil them as wanted, and they will eat very fine. 9. Veal Hams.—Cut off a leg of veal in the shape of a ham. Take a pint of bay salt, two ounces of salt- petre, and a pound of common salt. Mix them all together, with an ounce of beaten juniper berries, and rub the ham well with them. Lay it in a hollow tray w'ith the skinny side downwards, and baste it daily with the pickle for a fortnight, and then hang it in a wood smoke for a fort- night longer.—See Drysalthig; also. Bacon, to prepare. Bacon, Westphalia. Beef, hung. Beef, Dutch. Herring and Salmon, to cure. Pork, to pickle. Sausages, Bologna, &c. Tongues, to cure. H.YRES.—The flesh of hares was in such great esteem with the an- cients, that they gave it the pre-emi- nence over all other kinds of animal food. Martial says. Inter quadrupedes gloria prima lepus. The poet knew but little of diet; for the flesh of the hare is hard, and is neither good nor wholesome nourishment. The youngest and fattest are the best. They differ much in colour; some are blueish, others brown, and some again of a yellow blue colour. And in the northern parts of Europe, and on the mountains of the Alps, there are some hares white. They differ also in respect to the places where they live, as on mountains or plains, and others again in moist and marshy places; and in these different places some are fatter and larger than