248 PO PO palatable, easier of digestion, less tough, not so fat; and, on account of their residence in the open air, is, like all game, purer, but more liable to putrefaction. The flesh of the wild hoar is dense, but it is tender, and very nourishing, and more sa- voury than that of the domestic hog. It is in season in the month of Octo- ber. The head is esteemed the finest part. The flesh of the young animal is reckoned a great delicacy. The flesh of the sucking pig is also considered a great delicacy, is very nourishing; but in consequence of the thick and strong juice with which it abounds, it is not very readily dis- solved in the stomach, and therefore is by no means a proper food for weak and sickly persons—See Ba- con, Hams, Smoked Meats. PORK, TO PICKLE.—Bone your pork and cut it in pieces of a suit- able size to lie in the pan into which you intend to place them. Rub them well with saltpetre. Then take two pints of common salt, and two of bay salt, and therewith rub the pieces well. Put a layer of common salt, lay them one upon another as close as you can, and fill up the hollow places with salt. As the salt melts on the top, strew on more; lay a coarse cloth over the vessel, a board over that, and a weight again over that, to keep it down. Thus managed and close covered, it will keep the whole year.—See Dnjsaliing. PORRIDGE {vuhjo, BURGOO). —Oatmeal and water reduced to a certain consistence, and eaten either with milk, butter, small ale, or ti’eacle. This humble dish of our northern brethren, forms no contemptible arti- cle of food. It possesses the grand qualities of salubrity, pleasantness, and cheapness. It, in fact, is a sort of oatmeal hasty pudding without milk, much used by those patterns of combined industry, frugality, and temperance, the Scottish peasantry ; and this, among other examples of the economical Scotch, is well worthy of being occasionally adopted by all who have large families and smaU incomes. It is made in the follow- ing manner:—to a quart of oatmeal add gradually two quarts of water so that the whole may smoothly mix : then stirring it continually over the fire, boil it together; after which take it up and stir a little salt and butter— with or without salt. This quantity will serve five or six persons for a moderate meal.—Oddy’s Family Re- ceipt Book, p. 204. Burgoo is, we apprehend, the sea term, though porridge is the most common acceptation on shore—the latter known, if there be any ditfer- ance in the composition, is made just the reverse, by adding tbe oatmeal gradually when boiling, keeping it up to tbe boiling point until it reach a proper consistence. PORTER. — A kind of malt liquor that differs from ale and pale beer in its being made with high dried malt. According to Dr. Ash, in his Dictionary, it obtained the ap- pellation of porter, from being much drank by porters in the city of Lon- don. 'I'liis happened about the year 1730, from the following circum- stance. The malt liquors in general use prior to that period were all beer and twopennj'; and is was customary to call for a pint or tankard of half and half—that is, half of ale and half of beer, as is the case at tbe present day—half of ale and half of two- penny ; or half of beer and half of twopenny. In the course of time it also became tbe practice to ask for a pint or tankard of three-threads, meaning a third of ale, beer, and twoj)enny — and thus the publican was obliged to go to three casks for a single pint of liquor. To avoid this trouble and waste, a brewer of the name of Harwood, conceived the idea of making a liquor which should partake of the united flavour of ale, beer, and twopeuu)’. He did so, and succeeded, calling it entire or entire- butt beer, meaning that it was drawn