302 SO so gaseous state. It will therefore cool as well as distend that organ. SOLES.—Soles are generally to be procured good from some part of the coast, as some are going out of sea- son, and some are coming in, both at the same time. Great numbers are brought in well-boats, alive, that are caught off Dover and Folkstone, and some are brought from the same places by land carriage. The finest soles are caught off Plymouth, near the Eddystone, and all the way up the Channel, to Torbay, and frequently w'eigh eight or ten pounds per pair. They are usually brought hy water to Portsmouth, and thence by land; but the greatest quantity are caught off yarmouth and the Knole, and off the Forelands. They should be quite fresh, or the best cook will never make them look well. SOLUTION.—The act of sepa- rating or dissolving. Solution takes jdace in the stomach, where the food is changed into a pulp, is dissolved, according to its greater or less solu- bility, and its nourishing particles are absolved. Assimilation only begins when the solution has already taken place in the stomach; when the nu- tritive substance, or the alimentary juice, is inhaled by the absorbent ves- sels, and conducted to the blood by means of the lacteals. Assimilation, therefore, is that function, by which the aliment is, as it were, assimilized : hence it has been conjectured that animal food is sooner digested than vegetable, as being move easily con- verted into animal fluids, and more an'alagous to our nature. The subject relative to the solu- bility of animal food, requires less our consideration than has hitherto been imagined, notwithstanding the dif- ferences between animal food so called, the first of which regards their solubility, as dejiending on a lax or firm texture of their different kinds, for which there are instances of per- sons of a weak and delicate stomach being incapable of breaking down the texture of vegetables, or even of dis- solving a light pudding, to whom hung beef or a piece of ham are not only very grateful, but easy of diges- tion. None of the theories given for the solution of animal food in the human stomach seem to have suffi- ciently explained this process.—(See Diffestion). There is a difference of solubility with respect to the man- ducation of animal food, for which bread is extremely necessary, in order to keep the more slippery parts in the mouth till they be properly commi- nuted.—See Manducation, ^-c. Our rejection of the firmer parts of animal food, such as bull beef and carnivorous animals generally, ma}^ be adduced as another proof of our regard to solubility, the effects of which seem also to be the base of our choice between fat and lean, young and old meat. In the lean, although perhaps a single fibre might be suffi- ciently tender, )’et these when col- lected in fascietdi, or bands, are very firm and compact, and of difficult solution ; whereas in the fat there is a greater number of vessels—a greater quantity of juice, and more interpo- sition of eellular substance, conse- quently, more solubilit)’. Again, in young animals, there is, probably, the same number of fibres as in the older, but in the latter the}' are more con- nected ; whereas, in the older, the growth of the fibre depending on the separation, and the increase of vessels and cellular substance, the texture is less firm and more soluble, qualities which, with regard to the stomach, are at that time too much inci'cased hy the alkalescency of the animal. To these causes may also be attributed our preference for castrated animals, namely, from their disposition to fatten after the operation. (See Alka- lescenci/). We choose between meats recently killed, and those that have been kept for some time after, merely with a view to the facility with which the latter, sooner than the former, is dissolved in the stomach. The pu-