BI BI 35 coming thereby larger, fatter, and more tender, as may be witnessed in the capon and poulard. In all ages epicures have been ex- ceedingly capricious in the selection of certain parts of birds, and the ancients much more so than the mo- dems; for, although we prize the combs of the common fowls, the trail of the woodcock, and even col- lect the dung with care that falls from it in roasting, the guts of the buzzard, the gizzard and liver of the goose, and the feet of the duck ; we find that the Roman gourmands de- lighted in the brains of ostriches and parrots, the tongue of the flamingo, and the enlarged liver of the goose : the last mentioned still continues to be in great request among our con- tinental neighbours, and the pro\dd- ing of them is another considerable branch of rural economy in some provinces. This, it is said, is ef- fected at Strasburg, by actually sew- ing up the anus of the tortured animal after a certain preparation ; but we have not hitherto met with the details of this species of barbarity recorded in print,* and in all pro- bability it may not be tine; otherwise so striking an exemplification of Sir Everard Home’s doctrine, that the fatpess of animals depended upon the length of their intestinal canal, and the length of time the faeces were retained in it, would not have escaped his consideration. BIRDS, WHEN IN Season.—Each • In an old work, called “ The Com- plete Cook,” published in 1668, we meet with the following directions :— ‘‘ To make chickens fat in four or five days ! " Take a pint of French wheat, and a pint of wheat flour, half a pound of sugar, make it up into a stiff paste, and roll it into little rolls, wet them in warm milk, and so cram them that they may be fat in four or five days; if you please you may sew them up behind, one or two of the last days.” This is pretty near the mark. kind of bird used at the table is con- sidered to be in season at certain months of the year, determined by the time of breeding, the abundance of food, or their migration. Some birds do not remain with us all the year, and therefore are more valu- able when they can be procured. The birds which migrate, go further south in winter, and further north in summer. They are with us conse- quently in winter, or summer, ac- cording to their habits in regard to temperature, and the supply of food. The birds which remain with us during summer, breed, and their young may be obtained before they fly, and while they are still delicate, as the gannet or soland goose; others, as the woodcock, rarely breed in this country, and are only to be procured in an adult state. As regards the mode of killing birds for the use of the table, there is indeed very little diversity. Game is for the most part, killed with the gun, now that hawking is out of fashion, although birds formerly killed in this way were moi’e esteemed, in con- sequence of their flesh becoming sooner tender. Larks are caught in winter in traps, and then killed; they are also shot when the snow is on the ground. 'The heads are twisted off young pigeons, but do- mestic fowls are generally killed in a very barbarous manner. The common fowl has its neck drawn, by which the spine is torn asunder at an uncertain place, and if the spinal cord be not divided, or be divided too low, the animal dies slowly, and sometimes is alive after its feathers have been plucked off. The large blood vessels are also sometimes torn across; this, however, is an advantage, from its shortening the sufferings of the animal, and ren- dering its flesh whiter, in consequence of the blood lost. By dividing the vessels under the tongue, turkeys are blooded to death; the only objection to this method is, that it is tedious, as in all probabi-