Cl I CH 69 process of ch}'mification is as fol- lows ;—The food having undergone a sufficient degree of mastication and maceration, or otlier mechanical pro- cess, by which it is reduced to a state of sufficiently minute division, it is acted upon by the gastric juice and the peristaltic contractions of the sto- mach, and the result is a complete change in its properties—its conver- sion into chyme; an alteration in every respect analogous to a chemi- cal change. During the process of chymification, heat is occasionally ex- tracted, and not unfrequently gas is evolved. Dr. Bostock, however, re- gards these not as necessary steps in the process, but rather as the conse- quence of a morhid state of the func- tion. Antecedent to Dr. Front’s ex- periments, the generation of acid in the stomach used to be considered in the same point of view; but these lead us now to believe it to be essen- tial to the formation of chyme.— Elem. Syst. of Physiology, vol. ii. p. 491. Chyme is not always of an uni- form quality; as its properties are very much dependent upon the na- ture of the food. According to re- cent experiments made on dogs and horses, it appears that liquid albu- men forms, under the natural process of digestion, a homogeneous fluid, in which the albumen remains quite unaltered; and this sort of chyme passes the pylorus much more ra- pidly than any other. Coagulated albumen is also much more slowly dissolved, and the fluid produced fassesses the properties of coagu- ated albiimen dissolved in acetic acid. Fibrin and vegetable gluten undergo a similar change. Gelatine is converted into a clear brownish fluid, in which neither gelatine nor albumen can be discovered. VVliite cheese forms an opaque dirty-white fluid, containing much animal mat- ter, which, however, is neither the case with gelatine nor albumen. Starch is gradually dissolved, and loses its re-action witli iodine, being converted into sugar and amodine. The results obtained with compound articles of food, such as milk, beef, bread, and oats, in various states of mixture, were such as the foregoing facts would lead one to anticipate. The result of bones, was a liquid containing not only animal matter, but also a large quantity of lime. The conclusive result is, that all the animal principles, except liquid al- bumen, undergo a material change during chymification, which change generally consists in their being made to approximate closer in their nature to albumen.—See Edinburgh Medical and SurgicalJ ournal, No. 93, p. 358, on the writings of MM. Leuret and Lassaigne, and of Tiede- mann and Gnielin. — See also the word Chyle, Gastric Juice, &c. Chyme, whatever may be the ali- mentary substance introduced, pre- sents the invariable property of red- dening paper coloured with tournsal, and it has always a sharp odour and taste. CHYMIFICATION. —Turning into chyme.—See Chyme. The period necessary for chymifi- cation to take place, must vary ac- cording to the nature and volume of the food, the degree of mastication and insalivation it may previously have undergone, and the degree of vital energy possessed by the sto- mach. Fat, tendon, cartilage, coa- gulated albumen, mucilaginous, and saccharine vegetable matter, resist the action of the stomach longer than fibrinous and glutinous substances. {Magendie). In the formation of chyme, the following considerations must be borne in mind:—1st. The circumstances under which the ali- ment contained in the stomach is found ; and, 2d. The chemical nature of these substances. — See Magen- die's Physiology ; Forsyth’s 'I’ransla- tion. CINNAMON.—The hark, (hut not the external one, for there is a