SC 28G sc SAUTER.—A culinary term : to fry lightly. SCHlilAS.—The wine of Schiras is not only the best in Persia, but, as some think, in the whole world. It is so extremely potent as to admit two-thirds of water without spoiling the flavour. S C O M B E R.—The name of a genus of fishes of the order Thoracici. Scomber Scomber. — The sys- tematic name of the common mack- erel, a beautiful fish, of easy diges- tion. It frequents our shores in vast shoals, between the months of .April and July (see J\lackerel). Mackerel in London is rarely fresh enough to ajjpear at table in perfection; and either is boiled too much or the roe too little. The best way is to open a slip opposite the middle of the roe, you can then clean it properly—this will allow access to the water, and the roe will be done as soon as the fish, which is seldom otherwise the case. When it is intended to boil mackerel, they are put into cold water with a handful of salt; they are suffered rather to simmer than boil. A small mackerel will be done enough in about a quarter of au hour. When the eye starts and the tail splits they are done, after which do not let them stand in water a moment longer, as they are so deli- cate that the heat of the water will break them. The current notion that mackerel are in the best con- dition when they are full of roe, is not correct, as at that time it is only valuable for its roe, the meat has scarcely any flavour. Mackerel ge- nerally make their appearance ofl’ the Land’s-cnd about the beginning of April, and as the weather gets wann, they gradually come round the coast, and generally arrive off Brighton about May, and continue some months, until they begin to shoot their spawn ; after they have let go their roes, as it is termed, they are called shotten mackerel, and are not worth catching, the roe. which was all that was good of them being gone. It is in the early sea- son, when they have the least roe, that the flesh of this fish is in the highest perfection. There is also an after season, when a few fine large mackerel are caught, namely the herring season, about October, to which some gourmands are ex- tremely partial. These fish having had time to fatten, and recover their health, are full of high flavour, and their flesh is firm and juicy. They are commonly called silver mackerel, from their beautiful appearance, their colour being almost as bright when boiled as it was the moment they were taken out of the sea. Scomber Thynnus. — The sys- tematic name of the tunny fish, which frequents the shores of the Mediterranean. Though a coarse fish it was much esteemed by the Greeks and Romans; and by some is still considered a delicacy.—See Tunny. SCURVY.—The scurvy is a dis- ease of a putrid nature, chiefly affect- ing sailors, and such as are shut up in besieged places, in consequence, as is generally supposed, of being deprived of fresh provisions, &c. It is characterised by bleeding of the gums, spots of different colours, for the most part livid, particularly at the roots of the hairs, occurring chiefly in cold countries, after living on putrescent salted animal food, with a deficiency of aperient vegetsihle matter. The scurvy sets in gradually with heaviness, weakness, and un- willingness to move about, together with great dejection of spirits, anxiety and oppression about the region of the stomach, considerable loss of strength, and debility. .As the disease adwances the countenance becomes sullen and bloated; resjnration is luuTied bj' the leiist motion; the teeth be- come loose; the gums become spongj', swelled, and bleed upon the slightest touch; the breath is very oflensive; livid spots appear on different parts of the body; old wounds that have