cii 68 CH ciilarly Avlien boiled with eggs and milk. It is frequently recommended as a restorative, in cases of emacia- tion and consumption. It is more nourishing and less heating than coffee. It is commonly made too thick; hut when of a proper degree of strength, it is a very palatable and wholesome beverage, though, on account of its oily quality, it proves oppressive and clogging to some stomachs. When boiled with milk and eggs, chocolate is e.xtremely nourishing: but the spices with which it is mixed, such as cinnamon, cloves, musk, va- nilla, and the like, make it more heating and less wholesome. Vanilla, which is always found in Spanish cho- colate, is an extremely volatile and pungent aromatic; even its flavour is insupportable to hysterical and hypochondriacal persons; it occa- sions violent head-ache, trembling, giddiness, and other symptoms, oc- curring in these complaints. The common chocolate prepared with eggs, sugar, milk, and w'ater, is the most nutritive and wholesome; hut a too frequent and immoderate use of it is always hurtful, particularly to the individuals before alluded to, as the cacao is too fat and indigestible to them, and creates a false or forced appetite. Cacao, of itself, is less heating and lighter than if made into chocolate, hut it is not so nourishing. The immoderate use of this oily be- verage, is <apt to induce afebrile state in young people, and to supply the sedentary with superfluous nourish- ment; while, like coffee, it frequentl)' brings on a state of irritability and uneasiness. To the corpulent and weak, cho- colate is improper; and if they he immoderate eaters, it induces inflam- matory diseases and apoplexies. It also disagrees with j)ersons much employed in mental pursuits; and those who imagine that it will supply their losses, sustained by nocturnal debaucheries of whatever kind, will find themselves disappointed in their hopes. By continually drinking cho- colate, and using other nutritive sub- stances, they will, indeed, he stimu- lated to new iiTegularities, but even- tually at the expense of their palsied nerves, and their broken frame. In children threatened with a wasting, or spinal consumption, as likewise in some of the complaints of the lungs in the adult state; chocolate, with a sufficient quantity of milk, may have a beneficial effect; but, even in these cases, a strong decoc- tion of roasted oatmeal in milk, with a small addition of chocolate, is much better calculated to promote a return of health.—See Cacao. CHYLE.—In the animal eco- nomy, the word chyle, derived from the Greek, implies a milky fluid, extracted from dissolved aliments of every kind, and conveyed to the blood, through the medium of the l^unphaties and thoracic duct. The aliment having been reduced to chyme iu the stomach, is propelled into the duodenum (see Intestine.^) where it is converted partly into chyle, which is absorbed into the sys- tem from the small intestines, and partly into a residual matter, that assumes the nature of faeces in the large intestines, and is idtimately re- jected from the system. As it is into the duodenum that the biliary and pancreatic ducts discharge their re- spective fluids, chylification is gene- rally presumed to be essentially con- nected with the action of the bile and the pancreatic liquor. (Sec C/n/nie). So far as the organ of the stomach is concerned in the digestive function, we have some insight into the pro- cess. But beyond this, namely, of the nature of chylification, we have little or no knowledge that can he depended upon.—See /hie, Digestion, Gastric Juice, Stomach, &c. CHYLIFICATION.—The act of turning into chyle.—See Chyle. CHYME.—The residual alimen- tary matter ejected per anum. The