3G7 VE VE veying a nourishment insufficient for our present civilised state, it may not be irrelevant here to make some remarks on the inconvenience con- sequent upon its being used in excess. The first inconvenience of the ali- ment under consideration is, its con- stant tendency to ascescency; but this is hurtful only when it takes place to a morbid degree. If a na- tural tendency to ascescency prevails in the stomach, as a step towards assimilation, it cannot fail to be noxiously increased by the sole use of vegetables; and the counteracting of this state, or checking the ten- dency to fermentation, must be the great secret in the regulation of vegetable diet. This secret, no doubt, depends upon the preventing, by our choice of vegetables, excess in the proportion of the fermentable or sac- charine matter, and in exciting the action of the stomach, so that the vegetable food may not be too long retained upon it. The next inconvenience alleged against vegetable diet is, its difficulty of assimilation. That vegetable ali- ment is more difficult in being re- duced to nourishment seemsgenerally admitted, and in the end produces a greater quantity of faeces. When received into the stomach, it is like- wise superficially lighter than the gastric fluids; hence it floats near the top of the stomach, and causes eructations. This uiMjasiness is not felt for some time after its reception, hut it soon begins to operate in the upper oi'ifice of the stomach. This difficulty of assimilation in vegetable food may, however, be got the better of, by a proper selection of it, and it will also bo chiefly felt in weak sto- machs, but will by no means affect the vigorous and robust. A third inconvenience attending a vegetable regimen is, its extrication of a considerable quantity of air, by which the stomach becomes distended often to an enormous degree, and much uneasiness is produced in the adjacent organs. The extrication of air is common to all vegetables; it varies, nevertheless, extremely, in different kinds of them, and it is from this circumstance that the flatu- lency' and torpor is experienced which succeeds a full meal of them. Hence all vegetables that contain much of it should undergo a previous preparation before being used as food. These are the principal in- conveniences attending a vegetable regimen; while, on the contrary, to counterbalance them, this species of diet is always found to promote or sharpen the appetite, and to keep the stomach in an active state. Neither are any constitutional disorders the consequence of it, as happens from animal food; for whatever morbid symptoms arise under its nse, they are confined almost exclusively to the stomach and bowels, and seldom carry any hurtful effects into the system at large ; neither do any evils arise from occasional excesses in its use, and the mischiefs of repletion, or even fulness, are avoided by it, unless in eases of extreme indolence, or where a continued course of in- temperance is pursued, as i-egards the quantity taken: by its moderate stimulus, it counteracts the dispo- sition to an inflammatory state, and, in many cases, proves highl}' ser- viceable in checking the violence, and arresting the progress of several constitutional diseases. Independ- ently of its nature, it is of great im- portance to the stomach, by giving that proper distension which this organ retpiires, in order to its healtliy action. The wisdom of nature lias pro- vided that the extent of vegetable food should be much greater than of animal food, as the former is the foundation of nourishment for all the animated creation. Hence we find that there is scarcely any vegetable that does not all'ord nourishment to some animal, and there are many which, though naturally of a dele-