127 FL FI be dried; and it is only further ne- cessary to wipe and ventilate it occa- sionally, to prevent mouldiness. A table-spoonful of brown sugar is sufficient in this manner for a salmon of five or six pounds weight; and if salt is desired, a tea-spoonful or more may be added. Saltpetre may be used instead, in the same proportion, if it is desired to make the kipper hard. FISH, TO CARVE.—There is little difficulty in cutting up and serving fish; few rules, therefore, or obser- vations will be requisite. Salmon.—The belly part is the fat- test ; it is therefore customary to give those who like both back and belly some of each; most people who are fond of salmon generally like the skin, so that the slices must be cut out thin, skin and all. Turbot.— Enter the fish slice in the middle, over the backbone, and take off a piece of the fish as much as will lie on the slice on one side, close to the hones; the thickest part of the fish is always the most es- teemed. Soles.—These maybe either boiled or fried ; you must cut them right down the middle, bone and all; and give a piece of the fish, in proportion to the size of it, to each person. Cod's Head.—When in season, a cod’s head and shoulders, properly boiled, is a very genteel and excel- lent dish. The parts about the back- bone on the shoulders are the best and firmest. With each slice offish give a piece of the sound, which lies underneath, and lines the back-bone; the meat of which is thin, and a little darker coloured than the body of the fish; about the head are many epi- curean bits, and a great deal of the jelly curd, which lies principally about the jaw bones and firm parts of the head. Some esteem the palates; others are fond of the tongue, which may be got at by putting a spoon in the mouth. Mackerel.—Slit this fish along the back with a knife, and take off one whole side, not too near the head, because the meat about the gills is generally black and ill-flavoured. Eels.—Cut these into pieces quite through the bone. The thickest parts are most esteemed. Besides these, there are other little ai'ticles brought to the table ; but as they are merely simple in their na- ture, a little observation and practice "will make complete proficients in the art of table dissection. In helping your guests to fish, be careful not to break the flakes, which in cod and very fresh salmon are large, and contribute much to the beauty of the fish. A fish-knife, not very sharp, is the best instrument to divide fish with. Help always a part of the roe, melt, or liver, to each person. The heads of carp, parts of those of cod or salmon, cod sounds, tm-bot’s fins, are likewise esteemed as dainty bits, and require attention accordingly. FISH, IN Season.—See p.)23. FLAN.—A French custard. F L A S H.—Extract of capsicum with sugar (but sold as burnt sugar) and isinglass ; used to colour brandy and rum, and make them appear stronger. FLOUNDER.—The flounder is much of the same nature and nou- rishment, though somewhat firmer, as the plaice. FLOUR, WiiEATEN.—The most nourishing of the flours, as contain- ing a substance of an animal nature, called the gluten of flour, and which also causes it to make the best bread, when ])roperly fermented; the mix- ture of tlie flour and water being raised by a portion of old dougb, leaven, or tbe froth of fermented wort, yeast, or barm. Six sorts of wheat flour are sold in London ; fine flour, second flour, middlings, fine middlings, coarse middlings, twenty penny flour; all depending upon the fineness of the sieves. A bushel, or Gllbs. of wheat, pro-