DICTIONARY OF DIET, &c. .A. ACIDS.—Most of the acids are sub- stances which produce that sensation of the tongue called sour; but others are classed with them which have not this characteristic, though they possess some of the properties of acids, which differ from each other, not only in appearance, but in their properties also, as much as any class of bodies we are acquainted with; it is, therefore, not a little diffi- cult to give a definition of an acid. In genera] they are liquids, but some of them take a solid, and others a gaseous form; some are mild, others are corrosive; some are pungent and volatile ; others fi.xcd and in- odorous. lltey owe their origin to the combination of certain substances with oxygen, which has been called the acidifying principle. They have the properties of changing the blue, green,and purple juices of vegetables, to red ; and of combining with al- kalies, earths, or metallic oxides, so as to form those compounds called salts. Acids were formerly divided into three classes—namely, the animal, the mineral, and the vegetable acid; though modern chemists have adopt- ed a more useful and scientific me- thod by arranging them under—the undecomposable, and those which are formed of two principles, while the acids which are formed with more than two princqiles compose the second class. ACl D, ACL lie.—An acid of the second class. 11 exists already formed in the sap of many plants, either free, or combined with lime or potass ; it is generated during tlie destructive distillation of vegetable matter, and is an abundant product of the ace- tous fermentation. Common vine- gar, the acidifying principle of which is the acetic, and is commonly pre- pared in this country by fermentation from an infusion of malt; and in France, from the same process taking place in weak wine. The vinegar thus obtained is a very impure acetic acid, containing saccharine, mucila- ginous, and other matters, existing in the fluid from which it is prepared. It is separated from these impuri- ties by distillation; and is rendered stronger by exposure to cold. Con- centrated acetic acid is best obtained by the decomposing the acetates either by sulphuric acid, or in some instances by heat.—See Vinegar. ACIDS, ANIMAL.—Several acids are met with in animal bodies; such as the sulphuric, muriatic, phosphoric, acetic, &c., which belong equally to the mineral or vegetable kingdom.— (See Acid, Vegetable). Under this head are included only such acids as are supposed to be peculiar to ani- mal bodies : e. g. the lactic, fennic, ammonatic, &c. ACID, PYROLIGNEOUS.— Vinegar distilled from wood, em- ployed for chemical and antiseptic jnirposcs.—Sec Piiroligneous, &c. ACIDS, VEGi’.TARLE.—Those compounds are regarded as vegetable acids which possess tlie properties of an acid, and are derived from the vegetable kingdom.—See Acid, Acetic. ACIDULOUS.—Subacid. Some-