IN IN 177 further means.—See Wilson Philip, M.D., on Indigestion, Sfc. Investigating the treatment of dis- orders of digestive organs, it is ne- cessary to ascertain not only the medicines that are beneficial, but also what change they produce in the circumstances of the disoi'der. The administration of a medicine may in one case be succeeded by a discharge of bile, and a striking relief from long continued and dis- tressful feelings; yet the same medi- cine may be given in many other instances, without producing the same effects. How then are such changes to be accounted for? From peculiarity of constitution, and dis- similarity of cause. “ I have already explained to the patient,” says Mr. Abernethy, “the objects I had in view, in correcting the disorders of the digestive organs, by saying, that there are three things which I consider as right and neces- sary to the cure of disorders. First: That the stomach should thoroughly digest all the food that is put into it. The patient perceiving the necessity of this end, becomes attentive to his diet, and observes the effect which the quantity and quality of his food and medicine have upon his feelings, and the apparent powers of his sto- mach. Secondly: That the residue of the food should be daily dis- charged from the bowels; here, too, the patient apprised of the design, notes what kind and dose of purgative medicine best effect tbe intention, and whether it answers better if taken at once or at intervals. Thirdly: That the secretion of bile should be right, both with respect to quantity and quality. In cases where the secretion of bile has been for a long time deficient or faulty, I recom- mend, as I have said, irritating and undebilitating doses of mercury, to be taken every second or third night, till the stools become of the wet rhubarb colour; that is, of a deep brown, formed by the intensity of the yellow colour.” This mode of exhibiting the blue pill has at least the advantage of being innocent, and if months elapse before the object be accomplished, we cannot wonder at the tardiness of the cure, when we consider the probable duration of the disorder prior to any attempt being made to correct it. The patient is relieved in proportion as the end is accomplished, which feel- ing induces him to persevere in such innocent measures. The following is the plan, or rather the rules, as regards regimen and exercise, which Mr. Abernethy has laid down for dyspeptic patients. “They should rise early, when their powers have been i-efreshed by sleep, and actively exercise themselves till they feel a slight degree of fatigue. They should rest one hour, then breakfast, and rest three hours, in order that the energies of the consti- tution should be concentrated in the work of digestion—active exercise again for two hours, rest one; then taking their dinner, they should rest for three hour's, exercise two, rest one, and take their third slight meal.” As it is impossible to frame any general rule applicable to every case, the best criterion to regulate the exercise and diet of the patient by, will be a knowledge of the progress of the complaint, age, constitution, previous habits of life, origin and seat of the disorder', and degree of capa- bility, functional as well as corporeal, which he eirjoys at the tirrre he applies for advice. This is the irrost rational mode of dictating the noir-rraturals— that is, to individual cases, and not by laying down rules for general application, which rrrrrst ever prove fallacious, rrncertain at best, and frequently dairgerorts, if not fatal. Dr. Paris bas eirdeavoured to iirr- prove the Abernetheair system, but our observatioirs on the latter eqrrally apply here, and they nray be briefly condensed into the following sentence —Let me see the patient hejore I