sc 289 SC money enough to live at their ease towards the decline of their years; but these were always advised to ex- ercise their body by walking some miles every day, which, if they neg- lected, they would soon be disordered by the scurvy. Whenever, in distant navigations, a stormy sea keeps the mariners in perpetual action, they are generally pretty w'cll in health ; hut when the sea has continued calm for any time, symptoms of the scurvy begin to appear; and, for this reason, expert navigators w'ill compel their crew to some labour, even when it might be unnecessary, whilst the calm lasts. 3. Living in Cellars, Damp Places, upon Salt Provisions, Putrid IVater, <^c.—Living in cellars undergoiind, and in moist places, is another cause of the scurvy, and tlie condition of such is made worse by the use of salt provisions. Seamen are obliged to make use of this food in long na- vigations, because flesh meat cannot he long preserved in a fresh state. Slieep, poultry, hogs, &c., are some- times fed and kept in ships, that the mariner may at times have a supply of fresh meat and broth; but this never happens in so great a plenty as to be sufficient for all; and sucli pi'ovisions are generally appropriated to the use of the officers of the ship, and the sick; whence, it is evident, that thick, unctuous, and terrestrial humours must he created, with which the muriatic acrimony mixes. As long as by a strong motion of the body the coalescing of these thick humotirs is hindered, they are in tolerable health, and more particu- larly if the hunumrs are dilated with copious draughts, and the superabun- dant salt is washed out of the blood. But whilst the heats under the equa- tor begin to be felt, the water des- tined for their drink begins commonly to j)titrify and stink in a very loath- some manner, which makes them nattseatc it, or take none of it, or very sparingly. It is true that this putrid water, after some time, begins to deposit a sediment, to become limpid, and again potable, remain- ing good afterwards; but in the mean time, whilst for several days, nay, even weeks, it casts forth a horrid frouziness, and the seamen abstain from drink, a very bad de- position of the humours arises, whilst neither the sizy state of their blood is sufficiently diluted, nor a sufficient vehicle is afforded to pro- mote sweat and urine, that acrimony, by these ways, may be cleared out of the blood. And those, on the other hand, in whom excessive thirst conquers the loathing of stinking water, swallow down with their drink this putrid infection of the water, which will likewise hurt them, and the same sometimes happens in a scarcity of water when the naviga- tion is protracted to a longer time than common by bad weather. 4. Unfermented Farinaceous Diet, ^•c.—Again, as all crude and unfer- mented farinaceous diet (such are the diflereiit sorts of puddings usually made iuEngland by the lower classes), favours the production of a sponta- neous gluten ; and, as in the scurvy, at least that which is incipient, there is such a sizincss of the humours, it a])pcars w hy such food, taken in any abundance, disposes to the scurvy, cs]iecially if hard exercise of the body is used after them. Boer- haave observes, that there is no wholesome pudding made in Eng- land but one, which is the bread ])udding; and that this, to be good, shotdd be of bread well fermented and well baked, light, and ])roperlv seasoned wdth spice. All ])uddings of crude flour, and such as are re- plete with fat and suet, are very pernicious to the hciilth. Strong stomachs of ])loughmen may bear them, and such food, but they are very prejudicial to delicate constitu- tions, and those that lead sedentary lives. I’eas, beans, and such like pulse, are of a similar nature, and 2 c