SA SA 276 and other islands in the East Indies. This substance, although not strictly the fruit of a tree, well deserves the first place here; for it is used as bread by the natives of India, who macerate it in water and form it into cakes. The grains of sago sold in the shops are obtained by a more artificial process; they produce a nourishing and agreeable jelly with water, milk, or broth ; but require to be previously cleaned of the dust, mould, or sea-water. To make a comjdete solution of sago, the first decoction ought to be strained, and afterwards boiled a second time for about half an hour. Prepared in this manner it is a proper dish for the consumptive and convalescent, as well as for those whose digestion is weak or impaired. In ancient times sago was cele- brated as a remedy of great efficacy, as would a])pear from the following lines, from the school of Saler- num:— “ Cur moriatur homo, cui salvia crescit in horto 1 Contra vim mortis, non est medicamen in hortesl Salvia salvatrix, naturre conciliatrix Salvia cum ruta, faciunt tibi pocula tuta.” At present, however, it is not con- sidered as an article of much import- ance. It has the remarkable pro- perty in resisting the putrefaction of animal substances, and is in fre- quent use among the Chinese as a tonic, in the form of tea, in debility of the stomach and nervous system. —See Tea, svbulilutes for. SALADING. —These generally •consist of certain esculent plants and herbs improved by culture, industry, and art of the garden; or according to others, a composition of edible plants and roots of various kinds, to be eaten raw or green, blanched or candied, simple and by themselves, or intermingled according to the sea- son with others; in fine, by salad is understood a particular composition of certain crude and fresh herbs, such as usually are, or safely may be, eaten, with some acetous juice, oil, salt, or other condiments, to give them a grateful gust or flavour. The materials of salads, consisting of roots, stalks, leaves, buds, flowers, &c., are treated under their respec- tive heads, as regards their other propei’ties as well as salads. Under the latter denomination they are here enumerated as follows: — Alexander, Hyssop, Artichoke, Jack by the Asparagus, Hedge, Basil, Balm, Beet-root, Blite, or English mercury, Borrage, Buglass, Buds, Cellery, Corn Salad, Calicis, Capuchin, Capers, Cucumbers, Dandelion, Earth-root, Elder-flower, Endive, Fennel, Flowers, Garlic, Goats’bcard, Hops, The most eminent principles of the salad tribe of vegetables incline, for the most part, rather to acidity, than any other quality, especially sweet, saline, or succident; some judg- ment, therefoi-e, is requisite in mix- ing and adopting the ingredients which are intended to compose salads, so that they may agree with particu- lar constitutions, by adjusting them so that one may not predominate over the other, at the same time that none of their pro])erties be lost. As it is well known that all edible Leeks, Lettuce, Mallows, Melon, Mint, Mushroom, Mustard, Nettles, Onions, Orange, sub-acid, Parsnep, Peas, Pepper, Parsley, Purslain, Rampion, Sage, Red Samphire, Scurvy Grass, Skirett, Trick Madam, Turnips, Viper Grass. plants are not alike in taste and vir-