MU 210 MI relaxed or inactive stomachs. Tlie common millet is grown on the Continent as a garden plant for its seeds to be used as a substitute for rice; the Polish millet, (Digitaria SanguinaUs) is grown for this puii>ose in the cottage garden of Poland; as is the carnation poppy (papaver semniferiumj, for its seeds, which form a seasoning to buck wheat porridge. MINT. {Mentha), — There are three species of mint cultivated in gardens. The principal are, 1. The peppermint, {M. Piperita, L.) which may be easily distinguished by its subcamphorated odour, and blackish purple flowers, which appear in Au- gust and September. It is found in watery places. It is almost entirely reserved for distillation, for which purpose it is extensively cultivated in low, rich, soft, marshy lands, espe- cially such as can be irrigated and flooded. 2. The Spearmint {M. Viridis).— This sort rises from two to three feet high, with sessile, lanceolate, naked leaves; the whole plant has a red- dish green hue, is occasionally found in marshy situations, and flowers in August. There is a narrow and a broad-leaved variety. The young leaves and tops are used in spring salads, and form a flavouring ingre- dient in soups. They are also em- ployed to give flavour to certain dishes, as peas, &c., being boiled for a time and then withdrawn, in the manner of garlick. Tliis species is somewhat weaker than peppermint. .‘5. The Penny-royal Mint (M. Pnlegium).—This is a trailing plant, with small, smooth, ovate leaves. It is indigenous in watery pastures and places subject to inundations. It flowers in September. It is used in difierent branches of cookery, and also for distilling pennyroyal water. It is warm and grateful to the stomaeh, quicklj' expelling wind, and taking off sickness and disposition to spasm. The infusion may be drunk ad libitum. MOORHENS.—The moorhen is a water-fowl, with a slender body, small head, feathers of various co- lours, long black bill, a little crooked, the tail short, and legs rather long, which enable it to explore the water with ease in quest of food. The moorhen does not swim so easily as other water-fowls. They live upon small fish, little worms, insects, plants, and other things, both out and in the water. When young and fat, moorhens are served up to the first tables, though they are not all good alike. There are some of them that taste of the mud and fish on which they feed—others again have an exqui- site flavour. From these birds feed- ing on the grossest substances, their flesh is also full of gross juices, still nutritous enough as a solid food, and fit for those who have strong sto- machs and good digestion. MULBERRIES.—There are two sorts of mulberries, the white and the black, the fimt of which is not used in foods. They are good to qualify the sharp humours, to quench thirst, to allay evacuations upwards and downwards; they create an ap- petite, and provoke the salivary dis- charge; before they are ripe, they are detersive and astringent; and are not unfrequcntly used as gargles for diseases of the throat. They pro- duce flatulency, and do not agree with people predisposed to colic. The large, plump, and full ripe ones, gathered before the sun rises, are the best; and in such condition will be found to have a sweet and agree- able taste, and not injured by in- sects. They agree, in hot weather, with young, bilious, and sanguine people. The poets gave the mulberry-tree the epithet of prudent, because it does not begin to bud till the sharj)- ness of winter is quite gone. In short, it docs not bud till the month of May, and bears no fruit till Au- gust and September. Horace makes