EG 112 EN cook should be very particular in the use of them; a single bad one will spoil a very large dish. They should, therefore, to avoid this, be broken and smelt one after the other; and when the yolk is removed from the white, a small basin should be at hand, to break them in separately. Hard-boiled and fried eggs, pan- cakes, and all artificial preparations of eggs, lie heavy on the stomach. The eggs of ducks and geese ought to be eaten only by persons of the most active and powerful stomachs. All eggs require a sufficient quantity of salt, to promote their solution in the stomach; yet butter renders them still more difficult of digestion; hence it is equally pernicious to use much butter with a view to soften them when they are boiled to a degree of hardness. Hippocrates says (lib. iii.) that the whites of eggs, well beaten in spring water, make a very moist- ening, cooling drink, for people in fevers, and for opening the body. Galen says, the best and wholesomest eggs are those of the hen and phea- sant; but he prohibits those of the goose and ostrich, which are highly extolled by other writers. EGG-SHELLS.—Antacid. Some- times used, and even the whole egg, to counteract the acidity of beer, upon which they act the same as the carbonates of lime. The shells are, in fact, almost wholly the same sub- stance. The following recipe, first published in the 27th No. of the Philosophical Transactions, shews that the use of eggs for the preven- tion of acidity is of no modern date. The writer (Ur. Stubbs) says, that he learned it from an ale-seller at Deal, and that he tried it successfully dur- ing a voyage to J amaica. “ To every runlet of five gallons, after it is placed in the ship not to be stirred any more, put in two new-laid eggs whole, and let tliem lie in it; in a fortnight, or a little more, the whole egg-shells will be dissolved, and the eggs become like wind-eggs, inclosed only in a thin skin; after this the white is preyed on, but the yolks are not touched or corrupted; by which means the ale was so well preserved, that it was found better at Jamaica than at Deal.” It may be observed that, although this was new to Dr. Stubbs, he was not the original dis- coverer. It was probably known in the trade for centuries. Like crabs’ claws and all other cretaceous substances, egg-shells are of an alkaline nature, more so when the crude part of them is taken away. To cure these, and make them fit to be put into a cask of drink, they should be baked a little ; after which they may be either mix- ed with other ingredients, or used alone for the pm-pose of presendng beer or ale against staleness. EGGS, Whites of. — Whites of eggs will certainly clear, feed, and preserve drink, if mixed with wheat- flour ; but then it shoidd be remem- bered, that in time they corrupt and injure the drink, and do injurj' where the drink is not very strong and able to preserve itself sound; and if they be used too copiously, they may bring the beer into a ropy condition, or give it too raw a taste. In con- sequence, therefore, of this too great a liability from the use of whites of eggs, some, when they use them, boil them up in water and sugar to a fine syrup; and in this way they preserve and clear the drink, when mixed with other ingredients. ELDER FLOWERS.—The oint- ment made from elder flowers is cooling and emollient. Infused in vinegar, they are both grateful to the stomach and taste; but the leaves, having rather a rank smell, are not recommended in salads. The flowers and fruit of the common black elder are emollient and pectoral. The in- ternal bark is a drastic hydrogogue purge, and is recommended both by Bocrhaave and Sydenham. The in- fusion of the flowers is an excellent drink in catarrhal aftcctions and