HA HA 158 Mix these ingredients well toge- ther, and with them let the pork be well rubbed, turning and basting it every day. Then hang it in a wood smoke in a dry place, so that no heat can get at it. If you intend to keep your hams long, hang them a month or two in a damp place, taking care that they do not become moiddy, and it will make them cut fine and sliort. Hams thus prepared must not be laid in water till they are about to be boiled for use, which ought to be done in a copper, or in the largest pot you have. Put them in when the water is cold, and do not let the water boil till they have been in four or five hours. Skim the copper or pot well and frequently till the water boils. If it be a very large ham, it will take three hours’ boiling; but a small one will be done in two hours, provided the water be not suffered to boil too soon. Take it up half an hour before dinner; pull off the skin, and throw raspings finely sifted all over it. Hold a red-hot fire shovel over, and when dinner is ready, take a few raspings in a sieve, and sift them all over the dish. Be sure your ham is boiled in as much water as possible, and to keep skimming it till it boils. It must be at least four hours, if your ham is of any size, be- fore you suffer it to boil. 3. To Cure Hams the York- shire WAY.—Yorkshire is famous for hams, and the reason is, that their salt is much finer than the London, it being a large clear salt, and gives the meat a fine flavour. A deep hollow wooden tray is better than a pan, because the pickle swells about it. When you broil any of these or the following hams in slices, let the slices lie a minute or two in boiling water, and then put them on the gridiron. By this method you will take out the salt, and make them eat with a fine flavour. In curing hams in Yorkshii'C, they first well beat them; then mix to- gether Salt, half a peck. Saltpetre, three ounces, Sal-pruneUa, half an ounce. Common salt, five pounds. With this composition the hams are well rubbed, and what remains is laid on the top of them. They are now suffered to lie in this manner for three days, and then hung up. As much water is then added to the pickle as will cover the hams, and salt added till it will bear the weight of an egg, and then it is boiled and strained. The next morning the hams are put into this pickle, and pressed down in it, that they may be covered. Let them be a fortnight in the pickle; then take them out, rub them well with bran, and dry them. The above ingredients are enough for three middling-sized hams. 4. To Cure Two Hams the Westmoreland way. — Rub the hams the preceding evening with ten ounces of saltpetre; and the follow- ing morning take three pounds of common salt, three pounds of the coarsest sugar, and one pound of bay salt. Boil these in three quarts of strong beer, and when it has boiled a short time, pour it over the hams. Let them lie a month in this pickle, nibbing and turning them everyday, but do not take them out of the pan. The same pickle is good for tongues and sauces. Before the hams be smoked, rub a handfid of bran over them, to suck up the moisture, and let them hang three weeks or a month. 5. To MAKE Beef Ha.ms.—Take the leg of a fat Scotch or Welch ox, and cut it like a ham. Take an ounce of bay salt, a pound of common salt, and a pound of coarse sugar, which will be a sufficient quantity for a ham weighing about fourteen or fifteen pounds; and if there be a greater or less quantity of meat, let the ingre- dients be mixed in proportion, with which rub the meat and turn it every day and baste it well with the pickle daily for a month. Then hang it up