183 LA LA Some authors have so far confounded these birds, that they have given them the name of va?ielhis in com- mon. They are botli nearly of the size of a pigeon. They usually live near rivers and lakes; feed upon worms and flies ; they fly with great force, and make a great noise in their flight. They are of an exquisite and delicious taste ; but the plover is still daintier than the other. Their flesh is light, easy of digestion, and well tasted. There are two kinds of plo- vers, which differ chiefly in colour— the one is yellow, and the other ash- coloured. The plov^er has a kind of cap upon its head, of an oblong and black form; the neck is green, and the rest of the body party-co- loured. In short, some plovers may be seen of a green, black, blue, and white. LARD, TO Lard.—A term in cookery, which means to stick ba- con, or other specified articles, into poultry, meat, and the like, by means of what is called a larding-pin, one end of which is pointed, the other square and hollow, into which the lardon is put, the point is then in- serted into the meat, and on being drawn out, leaves the lardon stand- ing up in its proper place. L.\RDONS.—The morsels into which bacon and other things are cut, for the purpose of larding meat or poultry. LARDING-PIN. — A culinary utensil, by means of which meat and poultry are larded. LARKS.—The lark is a delicious bird, and much esteemed in the qua- lity of its taste. It is a savoury and easily digestible food; they lose, however, in these properties with age, and their flesh becomes hard, dry, and proportionately difficult of digestion. It agrees witli all ages and constitutions, especially in autumn, at which season this bird is fatter, and in higher perfection than at any other time of the year. LAUREL (Laurus).—The name of a genus of plants in the Linnsean system. The water distilled from the leaves of the common laurel, has been frequently mixed with brandy, and other spirituous liquors, to give them the flavour of ratifia; and the leaves are often used in cookery to communicate the same kind of taste to cream, custards, puddings, and some kinds of sweetmeats. In the year 1728, an account of two women dying suddenly in Dub- lin, after drinking some common distilled laurel watei', gave rise to several experiments, made upon dogs, with the distilled water, and with the infusion of the leaves of the common laurel, communicated hy Dr. Madden of Dublin, to the Royal Society in London ; and afterwards repeated in the year 1731, and con- firmed by Dr. Mortimer; by which it appeared, that both the distilled water, and the infusion of the leaves, brought on con\mlsions, palsy, and death. The laurel of the ancients, or the bay, is, on the contrary, of a sa- lutary nature, and of use in several dis- orders ; but the common laurel is a plant of a very destructive kind, and taken in a lai’ge quantity, is a most formidable poison. If, however, it be administered with proper caution, and in a small propoi'tion, the leaves of the plant are generally thought to be innocent; and therefore, for the kitchen purposes, as for the flavour- ing of custards and such like, the use in guarded and common moderation, may he continued in perfect safety. The hitter parts of the plant in which all the noxious properties are sup- posed to reside, are determined to be the same in quality, and not sensibly different in degree, from the bitter almond, or from the kernels of any of the stone fruit. — Sec Almonds. Linnaeus says, that in Holland, an infusion of this kind of laurel, is used in the practice of the healing art. Miller also says, that laurel berries