PR 259 PO part of a chicken is good and juicy. As the thigh bones of a chicken are very tender, and easily broken with the teeth, the gidstle and marrow render them very delicate, 11. To unlace a Rabbit.—Turn the back downwards, and dmde the apron from the belly, this done slip your knife between the kidneys, de- taching the flesh on each side, then turn the belly, cut the back cross- ways between the w'ngs, and draw your knife down both sides of the back bone, dividing the side and legs from the back. Observe not to pull the leg too violently from the bone when you open the side, but with great exactness lay open the sides from scut to shoulder, and then put the legs together. 12. To cut up a Hare.—There are too ways of cutting up a hare, but the best and readiest is to put the point of tho carving knife in under the shoulder, and cut through all the way down to the rump, on one side of the back bone; this done, cut in the same manner on the other side, at an equal distance from the back bone; by this means the body will be nearly divided into three. You may now cut the back, through the spine or back bone, into several small pieces, more or less, as occasion shall require. The back is much the teuderest part, fullest of gravy, and esteemed the most delicate. When you help to a part of the back, you must also give a .spoonful of pudding with it, which' you may now easily come at. Separate the legs from the back bone, they are easily cut from the belly. The flesh of the legs is the next in estimation; the shoulders must be then taken off, which are generally bloody, on which account some people prefer them to the legs. The whole leg of a large hare would be too much to give to one person, it will be therefore proper to divide it, and the best part of the leg is that which comes off near- est from the body. Some people are fond of the head, brains, and bloody part of the neck; but before you begin to dissect the head, cut off the ears at the roots, as man}'^ are fond of them when they are roasted crisp. The head must then be divided in this manner: put it on a clean pewter plate, so as to have it under your hand, and turning the nose towards you, steady it with your fork, so that it may not slip from under your knife, you must introduce the point of tl'.e knife into the skull between the ears, and by forcing it down as soon as it has found its way, tlie head may easily he divided into two by forcing the knife with some degree of strength quite down through the nose. Observation.— This method, how- ever, is to be done only when the hare is a young one, for if it be old, the best method is to put the knife pretty close to the back bone, and cut off the leg; but eis the hip hone will he in your way, turn the back of the hare towards you, and you must endeavour to hit the joint be- tween the hip and the thigli bone; when you have separated one, cut off the other, then cut a long narrow slice or two on each side of the back bone, then divide the back bone into two, three, or more parts, passing youi' knife between the several joints of the back. PRUNUS.—The name of a genus of plants in the Linnsean system. Class, Jsocandria; order, Monor/y- nia. The name of the tree which bears the plum or prune. Of these are—See Phan. P RU N U S ARMENIACA. — Apricots, which arc the finit of this plant, are, when ripe, easily digested, and arc considered as a pleasant and nutritious delicacy. PRUNES AVIUxM.—The syste- matic name of the black cherry tree. 'I'he flavour of the ripe fruit is es- teemed by many; and if not taken in too large quantities is extremely salutary. A gum exudes from this tree, the projierties of which are similar to the Gum .'\rabic.