335 TE TE sisting in a mediocrity, inclining to no extreme. The division of Hippo- crates being the most simple, is that which is generally preferred and best understood. It is not easy, however, in every instance, to distinguish these various constitutions; but any person capable of reflection, &c. may, by ob- servation and experience, discover the temperament of which he himself principally, partakes; consequently, by proper precautions guard against the inconvenience it may be exposed to. As regards these temperaments it follows that there can he no such thing invented by man as an universal remedy to prevent or cure all kinds of diseases; because that which would agree with the hot must disagree with the cold. Again, we cannot with certainty vouch for any particular kind of food or medicine that will agree with this or that individual until we are acquainted with his particular temperament; and consequently that it is absurd to prescribe a method of diet or physic for any man without such knowledge. TEMPER.^TURE. — A definite degree of sensible heat as measured by the thermometer. The power of producing cold is very limited still, compared with that of e.xciting heat. Hitherto no one has been able to sink the temperature of any substance below 90° or 120° below the freezing point of water; but an air furnace was constructed by Mr. Wedgwood, in winch he raised a heat equal to 185 degrees of his pyrometer, or 2512° of Fahrenheit; and by means of oxygen gas more intense heats than even this have been produced. The temperature at which vapours rise with sufficient force for causing the phenomena of ebullition, is called the boiling point. The heat recpiisite for this effect varies with the nature of the fluid. Sulphuric a3thcr boils at ----- 90° F. Alcohol - - - - 173° Pure water - - 212° White oil of turpentine must be raised to 310 and Mercury - - - - 000 before either exhibits marks of boiling. The boiling point of the same liquid is constant, so long as the necessary conditions are preserved, although liable to be affected by several cir- cumstances. The nature of the ves- sel has some influence upon it; Sir Gay-Lussac observed that pure water boils precisely at 212° F. in a metal- lic vessel; and at 214 in one of glass. The circumstance, however, which has the greatest influence over the boiling point of fluids, is the vacation of pressure. All bodies upon the earth are constantly exposed to con- siderable pressure. Liquids are ex- posed to this pressure as well as solids, and their tendency to take the form of vapour is very much coun- teracted by it. And as the atmo- spheric pressure is variable, it follows that the boiling point of liquids must vary also. The influence of the atmosphere over the boiling point, is best shewn by removing its pressure altogether. The late Professor Robinson, found that fluids boil in vacuo, at a tem- perature 140° lower than in the oi)en air.—(H'o/laslon, P/iil. Truns. 1817). Thus, water boils at 70°F.; alcohol 30° F.; and ellier 44° F. This ]irovcs that a liquid is not ne- cessarily hot because it boils. The heat of the hand is sufficient to make water boil in vacuo, as exem- plified by the common pulse glass; and ether, under the same circum- stances, will enter into ebullition, though its temperature be low enough for freezing mercury.—See Boilinrj. Tltermomeler. T E M P E R A'l’U RE, RFi DUC'f I ON OF.—Ry a moderate reduction of temperature, vital and chemical ac- tion arc retarded, by reducing to a state capable of freezing the juices and fluids of organised bodies, by destroying vitality, and coverting the water present into ice, and thus