262 QU QU hence the abstraction of the air and water, or humidity, by drying, or its fixation by cold, by salt, sugar, spices, &c., (see Drysalling), will counteract the process of putrefac- tion, and favour the preservation of food, on which principle some patents have been obtained.—See Fermenta- lion, &c. PYRO - ACETIC ACID. — An acid obtained by the destructive dis- tillation of the acetates, from which a modified vinegar escapes. PYRO-CITRIC ACID.—A pe- culiar citric acid, obtained by the as- sistance of fire, namely, by distilling citric acid. PYROLA ROTUNDIFOLIA. See Winter Green. PYROLIGNEOUS.—Of or be- longing to a peculiar acid, thus called from its being distilled from wood by means of fuel. PYROLIGNEOUS ACID.—An acid distilled from wood. In the destructive distillation of any kind of wood, an acid is obtained, which was formerly called acid spirit of wood, but now pyroligneous acid. Fourcroy and Vauquelin, French chemists, shewed that this acid was merely the acetic, contaminated with empyreumatic oil and bitumen. The purified wood vinegar, which is used for pickles and culinary purposes, has commonly a specific gravity of 1.009, when it is equivalent in acid strength to good wine or malt vine- gar of 1.014. It contains about one twentieth of its weight of absolute acetic acid, and nineteen twentieths of water. Moderately rectified pyro- ligneous acid has been recommended for the preservation of animal food; but the empyreumatic taint it com- municates to bodies immersed in it, is not quite removed by the subse- quent ebullition in water. PYRUS.—The name of a genus of plants in the Linnsean system. Class, Tsocandria; orAer, Pentagynia. PYRUS COMMUNIS.— The common pear. This fruit is analo- gous to that of the apple, but more delicately flavoured. Its juice, when fermented, forms peny. Pears when ripe are easy of digestion, when not consumed in excess. PYRUS CYDONIA.—The sys- tematic name of the quince-tree.— See Quince. PYRUS MALUS.—The system- atic name of the apple tree. The common crab tree is the parent of all the vast variety of apples at pre- sent cultivated. Apples, in general, when ripe, afford a pleasant and easily digestible fruit for the table; but when the stomach is weak, they are very apt to remain unaltered for some days, and to produce dj’spep- sia. Sour fruits arc to be considered as unwholesome, except when boiled or baked, and rendered soft and mellow with the addition of sugar.— See Apples. QUAIL.—Quails are considered by some authors to be very bad food, but on wluU grounds they have not shewn. They arc rather difficult of digestion, espcciall}' when old. Tlie quail is not much l)iggcr than the thrush, finely feathered, and has a pleasant note. Averroes says that it has good juices, and that it is good for persons recovering from sickness, as well ns for those who enjoy per- fect health. G.alen, Pliny, and Avi- Q. cen, assert, on the contraiy, that the quail is very dangerous food; and Galen says that he had seen several j)ersons in Phocis, Roeotia, and Do- ris, that fell into convulsions and epilepsies, that had eaten of them, which he imagines was produced in consequence of the quails of the country feeding upon helleboi-e; though this plant seems to be more likely to cure than to cause epilepsy. The quail does not rise high above