VA VE 363 V. VALERIAN.—The root of this plant is antispasmodic and tonic; and is sometimes highly beneficial in those diseases which appear to he connected with a morbid suscepti- bility of the nervous system, as in hysterics, pain of one side of the head, and in some species of epi- lepsy; it is of service also in some cases of hypochondriasis, or lowness of spirits, and may often be advan- tageously combined with Peruvian bark. Its great disadvantage is its smell and taste : the aroma arising from it pervades the whole body, and seems to be carried off by per- spiration ; this is an insuperable ob- jection to it in the higher ranks of life, and less than a drachm to a dose does no good. In one kind of epilepsy it more particularly does good, that is, where it is symptom- atic of an affection of the stomach, which is common to young people from excess in eating and drinking; when thus the stomach loses its tone, it is relieved by a large dose of Va- lerian, conjoined with ipecacuanha: e.(j. Take Valerian in powder, 1 dr. Ipecacuanha - - 1 gr. Make a powder, to he taken three or four times a day, out of any conve- nient vehicle, as wine, water, &c. It is very nauseous, but when thus taken largely, it is highly beneficial in palsy, especially when it arises from mere nervous weakness. A strong infusion of the root, joined with the tincture, answers as well as the powder. Thus— Take Valerian root - 6 drs. Horse-radish - 3 drs. Water - - - 1 pint. Boil down to ten ounces, and strain ; then take The strained liquor - l^oz. Carbonate of ammonia 6 grs. Valerian in powder - 20 grs. Syrup of saffron - - i dr. Make a draught, to be taken every fourth or sixth hour. The ammoniated tincture of vale- rian is an elegant and efficacious cordial and antispasmodic, of great benefit to the nervous and low spirited. The dose is from one to two or three tea-spoonsful, twice a day in water. Sir John Pringle found an infusion of valerian keep meat better than sea salt, or an infusion of bark ; hence he regarded it as more anti- septic ; but this is not to be admitted, as the action of medicines on living matter is different from chemical action.—See Stomachics. VANILLA The pod of the Epidendron, (L.) : growing in Cay- enne, and some parts of Spanish America. The largest pods are sometimes six inches long, and almost triangular, soft, oleaginous, externally of the appearance of leather, and internally filled with a dark brown pulp, in which we find a great number of small black or brownish red and shining seeds. I’liese have a pungent aromatic and oily taste, and a strong balsamic odour, much resembling that of the Peruvian balsam. A small propor- tion of these seeds—for instance, a grain to an ounce—is sufficient to impart to chocolate the very agree- able flavour which we generally meet with in that imported from Spain. Vanilla is warming, resol- vent, strengthening to the stomach, and a remedy for flatulency. In chocolate it assists the digestion of the oily substance of the cacao. VANN Ell.—Incookciy. To turn up sauce, or other liquid, in a spoon, and turn it q\iickly over. VEAL. The flesh of calves.— Veal, in a dictetical point of con- sideration, is tender and nourishing; but not so easily digested, nor so well suited to weak stomachs as is