RI RH 2G7 tarts and pies, in the manner of apples and gooseberries. The hy- brid affords the most abundant and succulent sujiply for this purpose. The medicinal properties of the pow- dered root of i-lnibarb ai'e cathartic, and in diminished doses stomachic and astringent. It is in high esteem as a family medicine. Rhubarb appears originally to have been a native of China and Thibet, but has been transplanted into other countries, and grows well in Europe. It is brought from the East Indies, Turkey, and Russia, and is cultivated in small quantities in England. It possesses considerable stomachic, tonic, and astringent, as well as lax- ative powers, though, after taking it, there is generally costiveness for a day or two. It is employed in indi- gestion as a laxative, and in weak bowels, where the intention is merely to free them from their contents with- out irritating or debilitating them. It is often combined with tonics, whose power, in costive habits, it increases. From fifteen grains to half a drachm is a mild cathartic : it operates slowly three or four hours after it has been taken, without griping, and is more employed than any other astringent purgative, for the following reasons; namely, it does not require a large dose, is very certain in its operation, and does not weaken as many others do. It is used also in hypochondriasis, hys- terics, when these affections are attended with costiveness, and in nervous head-ach: Take— Turkey rhubarb, nutmeg, of each, in powder . J drachm Extract of chamcmile . I scruple Oil of peppermint . . 6 drops Mix, and make thirty pills, three of which may be taken twice a day, or as occasion may require. Also take— Turkey rhubarb. . . J drachm Jalap in powder . . 20 grains Extract of chamomile . 6 drops Oil of cloves ... 6 drops Make thirty pills, to be taken as before. In small doses rhubarb acts as an astringent, and is highly ser- viceable in the bowel complaints of children ; and where there are green and slimy motions, it is the principal remedy: e. g. Take— Rhubarb in powder . 20 grains Chalk mixture . . . Bounces Spirit of nutmegs . . 2 drachms Simple syrup . . . ^ ounce A dessert spoonful every four or six hours, to a child twelve months old. Combined with tincture of opium, it frequently cures diarrhoea. In small doses, it also frequently acts as a stomachic, and increases the powers of digestion : e. g. Take— Rhubarb .... I drachm Castile soap ... 1 scruple Oil of cloves ... 6 drops Make twenty pills, and take one twice a day. Rhubarb imparts its virtues to water and spirits. The compound tincture of rhubarb is a good prepa- ration, and taken, from six drachms to an ounce, it frequently gives re- lief in colicky pains of the bowels. Also, combined with magnesia, it corrects flatulence arising from aci- dity in the stomach, and acts as a tonic purgative. It is one of the best and most approved family medi- cines of the kind. RHUBARBIN.—The name em- ployed to designate the principle in which the purgative property of the rhubarb resides. The active princi- ple of this plant is regarded by M. Naniel, of Milan, as a vegetable alkali; but he has not hitherto pro- duced any proof of its alkaline na- ture.—Journ. Science, v. xvii. p. 172. RHUS CORIARIA. -- See Su- mach. RIBES. — (An Arabian name, properly belonging to an acid-leaved species of rheum; but which bota- nists, for about two hundred years past, have, by mistake, applied to the currant and gooseberry family, and