CO CO 72 soft and watery. The skull and tail of a cod is a favourite and excellent Scotch dish, stewed and served up with anchovy or oyster sauce, with the liquor it is boiled, in a tureen.— See The Cook’s Cookery. Ling is brought to the London market in the same manner as cod, but it is very inferior to it, either fresh or salt.—Ibid. Cod-fish is by some esteemed hard of digestion, and of a clammy and glutinous substance; by others again it is considered quite the contrary, easy of digestion and highly nutritive. The substance indeed of this fish is of a moderate firmness, and not too hard. Salted and dried, it is less nutritious and more difficult of digestion. Of these kinds, the haber- dene and ling are accounted the best and most dainty; stockfish the worst, concerning which, it has not been wrong said, ‘ perfectononmagisnulrit quam lapis,’ i. e. It yields no more nourishment than a stone. It is, therefore, reserved with biscuit bread for the strong stomachs of sailors, when not furnished with better food. COFFEE.—Coffee is a decoction of the well-known bean, or berry, of that name, produced by the coffee- tree, which is cultivated in Arabia, Persia, the East Indies, the Isle of Bourbon, and several parts of Ame- rica. It is also raised in botanic gardens in several parts of Europe. Prince Eugene’s garden, at Vienna, produced more coffee than was suffi- cient for his own consumption. The tree, being an evergreen, makes a fine ajjpearance at all seasons of the year, but especially when in flower; and when the berries arc red, which is gcnei'ally in the winter, so that they continue a long time in that state. Good Turkey coffee is by fur the most salutary of all liquors drunk at meal time. It possesses nervine and astringent qualities, and may be taken with advantage at all times, except when there is bile on the sto- mach. 11 is a good antidote against an overdose of opium, and relieves obstinate spasmodic asthmas. For the latter purpose, the coffee ought to be of the best Mocha, newly burnt, and made very strong after grinding it. Sir John Pringle com- monly ordered one ounce for a dose, which is to be repeated fresh, after an interval of from a quarter to half an hour, which he directed to be taken with sugar or milk. Sir John P'loyer, who had been afflicted with asthma from the seventeenth year of his age until he was upwards of four- score, found no remedy for his com- plaint in all his elaborate researches, until the latter part of his life, when he obtained it from coffee. The Arabian coffee is found gi’eatly to excel that raised in the West India plantations, and elsewhere, which is the reason of the tree not being so much cultivated in the British Colo- nies. Coffee-berries are very apt to imbibe the moisture of the flavour of any thing placed near them. They have been rendered very disagree- able, or utterly spoiled, by being placed in a closet near rum, spirits of wine, or pepper. The beverage prepared from coffee berries has been familiar in Europe for more tlian a century, and among the Turks for upwards of 200 year’s. Its origin is not well known: some ascribe it to the prior of a nronastery, who, being informed by a goat-herd, that his cattle sometimes browzing on the tree, would wake and caper all night, became ciu’ious to prove its virtues. Accordingly, he first tried it on his monks, to prevent their sleeping at matins. Others refer the invention of coffee to the Per- siairs. It seems, however, to have been first brought into vogue at Aden, a city near the month of the Red Sea. Hence it passed to Mecca; from Arabia Felix it was conveyed to Grand Cairo; from Egypt it passed to Syria and Constantinople. Theve- not, the traveller, was the first who brought it into France; and a Greek