RO RO 272 ROCKAMBOLE. —The Allium Scorodoprasum of LiniiEeus. The root is used for jiickles and high- seasoned dishes. ROCK-SALT. — There are two kinds of rock-salt: theand the fibrous. The princii)al deposit of this salt in Great Britain is in Clie- shire. According to Henry in 1000 parts are contained 983 of muriate of soda, Gj sulphate of lime, a little muriate of lime and muriate of mag- nesia, and ten parts insoluble matter. ROCK-SAMPHIRE. — (Crilh- num).—See Samphire- ROCKET. — Brasscia Eruca. — Brassica Erucastrum Sijlvestris.— Garden Rocket. Roman Rocket. Rocket Gentle. The systematic name of the plant which affords the semen eruacce. Brassica—-foliis lyar- tis, caide hirsuto seliqids glahris of Linnceus. The seeds of this plant and of the wild rocket have an acid taste, and are eaten hy the Italians in their pickles, &c. They are said to be good aperients and antiscorbutics but are esteemed by the Italians for their supposed aphrodisiac qualities. ROOTS.—Roots may be divided into two kinds: namely, such as are used as food, and those which answer the purpose of condiment or season- ing. The following roots are, or formerly were, used as bread:— Adams Needle, Common Arrowhead, Common Potatoes, Eastern Birchwheat, Eatable Arum, Edders, Egyptian A nun, Egyptian Lotus, Indian Bread, • Indian Yams. Spanish Potatoes, Water Dragons. ROOTS.—Occasionally eaten as condiments, or for other family pur- poses. * Tliose marked witli a star will be found under their respective heads. * Caraway, * Carrot, Ceylon Guirlandilla, * Common Ginger, * Onion, Tulip, * Turnip, Earth Nut, or Pig’s Nut, Heath Peas, * Jerusalem Artichoke, * Long Rooted Turnip, Male Orchis, Montague Lilly, * Parsnip, Purple Goatsbeard, Rooted Turnip, » Radish, * Rampion Horse Radish, * Redbeet, * Rocambole, Rush Nut, Sea Holly, or Eryngo Root, * Shalots, * Skirrets, Spotted Ixia, Viper’s Grass, * Goats Yellowbeard. Roots are neither so nourishing, nor so easily digested as animal food. Yet we may consider it as a certain rule, that any kind of aliment, for which we feel a natural and perma- nent appetite, is conformable to our natin-e. — (See Polatoe). Esculent roots are either of the mild or of the astringent and acrid kind. The former are much more nourishing and less flatulent than the latter, which, however, possess more medi- cinal properties, such as the chief species of radishes, onions, garlic, and the like. ROOT OF SCARCITY. —(See Mangel Wurxel). Root red outside, white inside, very nutritive; yields sugar; leaves eaten as spinage. ROSEMARY {Rosmarinus offici- nalis, L.)—The rosemary is a hardy under-shrub, a native of the south of Europe, introduced in or before 1548. The plant is evergreen, rishig some-