191 MA MA a subject of surprise that the lovers of such dainties are continually trou- bled with indigestion and other com- plaints of the stomach, it would be against the order of things if they were otherwise. MACE.—The unctuous membrane enveloping the shell of the fniit whose kernel is the nutmeg. It is of an extremely fragrant, aromatic, and agreeable smell, and of a plea- sant, but acrid, and oleaginous taste. Mace is of an astringent and drying nature, and is used as a corrector in cardiac and cathartic compositions. Its general qualities are nearly simi- lar to those of the nutmeg, with the exception of its sitting easier on the stomach.—See Nutmeg. MACK.VREL.—The mackarel is a summer fish of passage, that %dsits our coasts m immense shoals, from the Mediterranean. Being very ten- der and unfit for keeping, and the periods of its arrival rather uncer- tain, the legislature on these accounts allow it to be sold publicly on Sun- days. Law ordered that Sunday should have rest, And that no nymph her noisy food should sell. Except it were new milk or mackarel. The form of the mackarel is very elegant, and when alive nothing can surpass the brilliancy or beauty of its colours, which death greatly im- pairs, but does not obliterate. It loses its life as soon as it leaves the water; and the fresher it is the bet- ter. The roe of the male is soft like the brains of a calf; that of the female is full of small eggs, and called hard roe. To make Mackarel-roc Boil the roes of mackarel (the soft roes are best), bruise them with a spoon with the yolk of an egg, beat up with a very little pepper and salt, and some fen- nel and parsley boiled and chopped very fine, mixed with about half a pint of thin melted butter; mush- room ketchup, walnut pickle, or soy, may be added. Fennel and Butter for Mackarel, —Wash some fennel very clean, and pick it carefully sprig by sprig; put a tea-spoonful of salt into half a pint of boiling water, boil the fennel about ten minutes, drain it in a sieve, mince it quite fine, and then bruise it to a pulp. For mackarel sauce or boiled soles, some cooks take equal parts of fennel and parsley; others add a sprig of mint, or a couple of young onions choj)ped very fine. MADE DISHES.—As this is a very important subject, connected with culinary operations, it may not be irrelevant to lay down some gene- ral hints. Under this consideration, it is an important point to take care that all the copper vessels be well tinned, and kept perfectly clear from any foulness or grittiness. Before you put eggs or cream into your white sauce, see that all the ingre- dients are well boiled, and the whole of a proper thickness, for neither eggs nor cream will contribute much to thicken it. After these are put in, do not stir them with a spoon, nor set your pan on the fire, lest it should gather at the bottom and be limpy, but hold your pan at a proper height from the fire, and keep shak- ing it round one way, which will keep the sauce from curdling, and be particularly cautious that you do not suffer it to boil; remember to take out your collops, or whatever you are dressing, with a fish-slice, and strain your sauce upon it, which will prevent small bits of meat mix- ing with the sauce, and thereby leave it clear and fine. — See Culinary Poisons. In browning dishes, be particular that no fat floats on the top of your gravy, which will be the case if you do not properly skim it. It should be of a fine brown, without any one predominant taste, which must de- pend upon the judicious proportion in the mixture of your various ingre-