285 SA SA colour, take them out, and serve them up. Veal eats very well done in this manner, or veal mi.xed with pork. It' you choose, you may clean some guts, and fill them with the following substances. 2. Bologna Sausages.— Take Beef suet .... 1 pound Pork 1 pound Bacon, fat and lean . 1 pound Veal 1 pound Cut these up small, and mince them tine. Take a small handful of sage, pick off the leaves, and chop it tine with a few sweet herbs, season pretty' high with pepper and salt: take a large gut, well cleaned, and fill it, set on a saucepan of water-, and when it boils, put it in, having first pricked the gut, to prevent its burst- ing ; boil it gently half an hour, and then lay it on clean straw to dry. 3. Hogs Puddings with Almonds.— Chop fine a pound of beef marrow, half a pound of sweet almonds blanched, and heat them fine with a little orange or rose water, half a pound of white bread grated fine, half a pound of currants, clean washed and picked, a quarter of a pound of tine sugar, a quarter of an ounce of mace, nutmeg, and cinna- mon together, of each an equal quan- tity, and half a pint of sack. Mix these all well together with half a pint of good cream, and the yolks of four eggs ; fill the guts half full, tic them up, and boil them a quarter of an hour. You may leave out the currants for a change, though in this case, a quarter of a pound more sugar must he added. 4. Blood Sausages, or Black Pud- dings.—Take a peck of guts, hoil them half an hour in water, drain them, and put them into a cle.an tub or large pan. Then kill your hog, and save two quarts of the blood, and keep stirring it till the blood be quite cold. Then mix it with the guts, and stir them well together, season the mixture with a tahle- spoonful of salt, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, mace and nutmegs (or half an ounce of allspice) of each an equal quantity. Dry it, boat it well, and mix it. Take a little winter savory, sweet marjoram, and thyme; some pennyroyal stripped of the stalks, and chopped very fine. Of these take just a sufficient quantity to season and give them a flavour, but no more. The next day' take the leaf of the hog and cut it into due or little square pieces; scrape and w-ash the guts clean, then tie one end and begin to fill them. Let the fat be mi.xed in as they are filled, in considerable quantity. Fill the skins three parts full, tie the other end, and make your puddings whatever length you please. Prick them with a pin, and put them into a kettle of boiling water. Boil them very softly for an hour; then take them out, and lay them on clean straw. In some parts of Scotland they make their black puddings with the blood of a goose—the head of which is chopped off and the blood saved, which is well stirred till cold, and afterwards mi.xed with guts or oat- meal, spice, salt, and sweet herbs, according to fancy', and some beef suet chopped. They then strip the skin off the neck, pull out the wind- pipe and fat, fill the skin, tie it at both ends—make a pie of the giblets, and lay the pudding in the middle. •»* M. T. Kerner, a German physi- cian, some years back, discovered a new kind of poison, that arises in smoked meats. It appears from experiments which he has made, that they become subject to some sort of decomposition that renders them venomous. Liver sausages are the most susceptible of it, and the decomposition generally takes place about the middle of April. From his inquiries, the doctor found that of seventy-two persons in Wirtem- hurg, that had eaten smoked sausages, thirty-seven died shortly, and the re- mainder were ill for some time after.