300 SN SN its able advocates. Dr. Johnson once remarked, that since the disuse of smoking among the better sort of people, suicide has been more fre- quent in this country than it was before. Its praises have been sung by Philips, in all his poetical pro- ductions, except “Blenheim;” and his “ Splendid Shilling,” says one of his biographers, owes part of its lustre to the happy introduction of a tobacco pipe. In his “Cider,” may be read the following eulogiuni on this “sovereign herb,” as he else- where styles it;— “ To sage experience we owe Tlie Indian weed unknown to ancient times; Nature’s choice gift, whose acrimonious fume Extracts superfluous juices, and refines The blood distemper’d from its noxious salts; Friend to the spirits, which, with vapours bland, It gently mitigates ; companion fit For pleasantry and wine; nor to the bards Unfriendly, when they to the vocal shell, M arble melodious their well-labour’d songs.” SNUFF.—Tobacco in a state of minute pulverization. The effects of tobacco, in whatever form it may be used, have been variously stated; and it is our opinion that the pecu- liar effects of using it in the form of snuff are the most objectionable. As the nerves of the nostrils are more exposed, or thinly covered, than in any other part of the body, they are extremely sensitive, and when snuff is ajrplied to them, all the nervous system becomes affected by sympathy; hence snuH-taking, like tobacco-smoking, has a narcotic effect on the brain, and, through the brain on the mind itself, which par- ticularly' tends to weaken the me- mory. Ifsnull'bc used medicinally, that is, as a sternutatory, to promote sneezing, and on occasions requiring such a stimulant, it may be j)roduc- tive of some advantage, particularly where tliore is a congestion of pitui- tous humours, consequently may afford relief both to the head and eyes. If, however, the stimulus of the snuff be too violent, it may bring on so profuse a discharge from the nostrils as may relax and corrode them, and produce an incurable po- lypus, or a concretion of clotted blood, so as to block up the nostrils altogether. In a variety of affec- tions of the head, eyes, and eai-s, the taking of snuff may occasionally supply the place of an artificial drain ; though an extravagant use of it will assuredly produce a con- trary effect, such as accumulations of matter in the head, bleeding of the nose, and other complaints. To those w'ho are consumptive, who are subject to spitting of blood, or have symptoms of internal ulcers, nothing can be more prejudicial than snufl- taking. The practice infallibly viti- ates the smell, consequently must impair the taste, and also blunts the hearing; for as the internal or eusta- chian tube of the ear opens directly behind the back part of the nostril, particles of the snuff often lodge and accumulate thei'e to a very injurious degree. By' stimulating the nerves of the eyes, also, it often brings on serious diseases of the sight; so that it appears to be hurtful to all the senses e.xccpt that of touch. If taken too freely, snuft' may fall into the stomach, and ]>roduce disorders of digestion; it may also occasion continual and troublesome flatu- lence; for when the nose is ob- structed, the pei'son must breathe chiefly by the mouth, and in this xvay must swallow large quantifies of air, which mav extend the sto- mach, doing much injury to the he.alth. An elderly gentleman, some years ago, nsed to frequent a coffee- house near the Exchange, who could not breathe but with his mouth open; and from whose right nostril there hung the end of a polypus, or fleshy tumour, the remainder of which filled the cavity on that side. This prevented his breathing through