AP 19 AP j varieties, though not so much re- f lished, are also highly nutritive. Pippins, and all the hard varieties, contain too much woody fibre, and mucilage of difficult solubility, to be easily digested. The watery sorts are generally crude, cold, and ill- adapted to weak stomachs, in the raw state. An apple undergoes consider- able changes when subjected to the action of heat. Its digestible and nutritive qualities, indeed, are so much altered, that very coarse, acid, sour fruit is thus fitted for invalids. Nothing is more light than apple-pie, always excepting the crust, and the hurtfld addition, so usually made, of stimulating spices, by way of season- ing what seems to require none. To- wards Easter, when apples begin to drj', they should be put in tepid water for eight or ten hours, to swell. Ripe and sweet mealy apples will produce a laxative effect on the bowels, while those which are sour and astringent shoidd be avoided by those of sedentary habits, as they are apt to induce costiveness, griping, and flatulency. This, says the Al- manack des Gourmands, will be in a great measure prevented by drink- ing water and abstaining from wine. See Cyder-Pears. A very wholesome and delicious confection is made of ap2)les, called apple jelly ; which is much used for its moistening, cooling, and pectoral properties. Apples are used for pies, tarts, sauces, and the dessert. Duduit, (see New Monthly Muyazine, June, 1821), has found that one-third of boiled apple pulp, baked with two- thirds of flour, and projierly fer- mented with yeast for twelve hours, makes a very excellent bread, full of eyes, and extremely palatable and light. The fermented juice forms cider, a substitute both for wines and malt liquor. In confectionary they are used for comfits, compotes, mar- malades, jellies, pastes, tarts, &c. In medicine, veijuice, or the juice of crabs, is used for sprains, and as an astringent and repellant: and, with a proper addition of sugar. Wither- ing thinks a very grateful liquor might be made of it, little inferior to Rhenish wine. It is affirmed by Lightfoot that the crab mixed witli cultivated apples, or even alone, if thoroughly ripe, will make a sound, masculine wine. When ripe, the apjfle is laxative; the juice is excel- ent in dysentery. Boiled or roasted apjdes fortify a weak stomach. Sco- poli recovered of a weakness of the stomach and indigestion from using them ; and they are equally efficacious in putrid and malignant fevers, with the juice of lemons or currants. In 2)erfumery, the pulp of apples, beat up with lard, forms po- matum ; and Bose (Nouveau Cours d'Agriculture, ^-c.) says that the pro- longed stratification of apples with elder flowers communicates to the former an odour of musk, extremely agreeable. In dying, the bark pro- duces a yellow colour; and, in ge- neral economy, the wood of the tree is used for turning, and various jnu"- poses w'here hardness, compactness, and variegation of colour, are desir- able objects. 'Po select a good Apjile. For the table, those characterised by a firm juicy pulp, elevated poignant flavour, regular form, a beautil'ul colouring, are the best. Those for kitchen use are known by the property of falling, as it is termed, or forming in a gene- ral inilpy mass of equal consistency, when baked or boiled, and are of a large size. Some sorts of apples have the pro- perty of falling when green, as the Keswick, Carlisle, llawthornden, and other codlins; and some only after ripe, as the russet tribes. Such as have this property wheir green, are particularly valuable for afford- ing sarrees to geese early in the sea- son, and for succeeding the goose- berry in tarts. For cider, an ap^rle must possess a considerable degree