CR CR 87 cover a part of the belly, and when lifted, discovers the spawn situated there in great abundance. It re- sembles the lobster in the number of its great claws, which are two, and its legs, which are eight. As the crab is found upon land as well as in the water, the peculiarity of its situation produces a difference in its way of life, which it is proper to de- scribe. The land crab is found in some of the warmer regions of Eu- rope, and in great abundance in all the tropical climates in Africa and America. They are of various kinds, and endued with various pro- perties ; some being healthful, deli- cious, and nourishing food; others poisonous or malignant in the last degree; some are not above half an inch broad, others are found a foot over; some are of a dirty brown, and others beautifully mottled. That ani- mal called the violet crab of the Cari- bee Islands, is the most noted both for its shape, the delicacy of its flesh, and the singularity of its manners. The violet crab somewhat resem- bles two hands cut through the mid- dle and joined together; for each side looks like four fingers, and the two nippers, or claws, resemble the thumbs. The body is covered with a shell, bunched in the middle, on the forepart of which there are two long eyes of the size of a grain of barley, as transparent as crystal, and as hard as horn. A little below these is the mouth, covered with a sort of barb, under which there are two broad sharp teeth as white as snow; with these teeth they can easily cut leaves, fruits, and rotten wood, which is their usual food. But their principal instrument for cutting and seizing their food is their nip- pers, which catch such an hold, that the animal loses its limb sooner than its grasp, and is often seen scamper- ing off, having left its claws still holding fast upon the enemy. In fact, it loses no great matter by leaving a leg or an arm, for they soon grow again, and the animal is found as perfect as before. This, however, is the least sin- prising part of the creature’s his- tory, and what remains, were it not as well known, and as confidently confirmed, as any other circum- stance in natural history, might well stagger our belief. These ani- mals live not only in a kind of orderly society in their retreats in the mountains, but regularly, once a year, march down to the sea side in a body of some millions at a time. They choose the months of April or May to begin their expedition; and then sally out by thousands, from the stumps of hollow trees, from the clefts of rocks, and from the holes which they dig for themselves under the surface of the earth. At this time the whole ground is covered with this band of^dventurers. The sea is the place to which they direct their march, with right-lined pre- cision ; they neither turn to the right or left, and even if they meet with a house, they will attempt to scale the walls, to keep the unbroken tenour of their way. But though this be the general order of their route, they are, upon some occasions, compelled to conform to the face of the country, and if it be intersected by rivers, they are then seen to wind along the course of the stream; they are commonly divided into three batta- lions, of which the first consists of the strongest and boldest males, who, like pioneers, march forward to clear the route, and face the greatest dan- gers. These are often obliged to halt for want of rain, and go into the most convenient encampment till the weather changes. The main body of the army is composed of females, which do not leave the moun- tains till the rain has set in for some time, and then descend in regular battalions, being formed into columns of fifty paces broad and three miles deep, and so close that they almost cover the ground. Three or four