308 ST ST of the Jatroplia manihot (casada), are chemically the same substance. They both exist in the plants from which they are extracted, in the form of starch, but as heat is employed in their preparation, the starch is more or less completely converted into amidine. Salop, when obtained from the Orchis mascula, consists almost entirely of the substance called has- sorin, with a small quantity of gum and starch. STARCH, COMMON.—Starch mixed with powder blue, to give a bluish tinge to the linen, which is stiffened with its solution in boiling water; this colour being given to it, in opposition to the yellow starch, tinged with saffron or turmeric, for- merly employed, but which went out of fashion on the e.xecution of the famous midwife, Mrs. Turner, who was hanged in a ruff of that colour: used as a cement, but unfit for internal use. STARCH, POTATOE—Maybe made from frozen potatoes, in as large a quantity, and as good, as from those which have not been spoiled by the frost, very white, crimp to the fingers, and colours them, friable, heavy, sinking in water; when held tow'ards the light it has shining particles in it; dis- solves in boiling water as easily as true arrow-root. One hundred pounds of potatoes yield ten pounds of starch. S T A R C II, WH E A T.—From wheat flour, by washing it in sacks in a current of water, which carries ofl' the starch and saccharine sub- stance, and leaves the gluten in the sacks. The water being received in troughs, is left to ferment, which decomposiitg the saccharine sub- stance, renders the starch that is deposited on standing, very pure and white; this starch is friable, easily pulverised, crimps between the fin- gers, without smell or taste. Wheat in France yielded almost three- fourths its weight, but in Sweden not quite half its weight; does this depend upon climate? Demulcent, perhaps astringent; used for glysters in diarrhoea, dysentery, &c. S T A R L 1 N G.—A well known bird, about the size of a blackbird. Its flesh is nourishing, and yields good and solid food. The leaner a starling is, the older the bird grows, the harder and tougher the flesh; the taste degenerates, and it is not so easily digested. This bird is na- turally of a hot and dry tempera- ment, and when not young and fat it ought not to be eaten. During the vintage season, the starling is observed to be fatter, more delicious, and better tasted, than at any other time. Galen (Sanilat. lucend. lib. vi.) places the starling in the list of atte- nuating foods, and that has a good juice; which can only be applied to that which is young, fed with good food, and lives on the mountains. STEARINE.—The chief ingre- dient of suet, butter, and lard, and is the cause of their solidity; whereas oils contain a greater proportional quantity of elaine, and are conse- quently fluid. These principles may be separated from each other by ex- posing fixed oil to a low temperature, and pressing it when congealed be- tween two folds of bibulous paper. The stearine is thus obtained in a separate form; and by pressing the bibulous paper under water an oily matter is procured, which is elaine in a state of purity. This principle is peculiarly fitted for greasing the wheels of watches or other delicate machinery, as it does not thicken or become rancid by exposure to the air, and reipiires a cold of about 20° h'. from congelation. — See Oils, Animal. S T E W I N G.—The process of stewing differs from roasting and broiling, by the heat being applied to the substance through a small portion of a liquid medium; and from boiling and frying, in its being con- ducted by means of a watery, instead