CO CO 82 keep; and if tlie syrup is too con- centrative, the sugar crystallizes, and thus spoils the conserved fruit.—See Suffar. COOKERY.—The processes of cookery, notwithstanding the great number of recipes, are but few. In some, the chief object is to extract the fluid or soluble parts of the sub- stances cooked; in others, to alter the nature of the substances itself, and often to combine both purposes. The processes of the culinary art, are therefore reduced to 1. Baking. 2. Boiling. 3. Roasting. 4. Broiling. 5. Frying, &c.—which see All alimentary substances, for the pui'pose of food, are used in their raw or crude state, or after having un- dergone some kind of preparation. Fruits and salads, though they admit of various forms of cookeiy, are for the most part eaten in as fresh and natural state as possible. Cooking is either necessary to dishing some deleterious property, or to render food more palatable ancl nutritious: of the former effect, the most remarkable instance is furnished by various spe- cies of asum, or dragons’ wort; which, in their crude state, are acrid or even poisonous, but by being cooked, be- come mild and wholesome. The acrimony recedes in a very volatile principle, which is easily dissipated by heat. A more familiar example is in this country furnished by the onion tribe; the acrimony and flavour of which are entirely destroyed, by being long subjected to the action of heat. Fire is a principal agent in almost all the processes of cookery, and the most economical mode of applying it has engaged the attention of many philosophers and artists. Conve- nience and economy are the objects proposed by all alleged improve- ments. The nature of the fuel is of no little importance, and is diflerent in different countries. Pit-coal has the advantage of forming a lasting fire, and producing an intense degree of beat, whicb renders it almost in- dispensable for roasting, but its smoke is very detrimental—both by the un- pleasant flavour it imparts, and by the inconvenience arising from the flame, and from the soot deposited upon vessels and in the chimney. Wood and turf make less smoke than pit-coal,* but their flavour is more penetrating; they give less heat and are less desirable. The clearest and most generally useful fuel is charcoal of wood, or coke, neither of which gives out any smoke, or imparts any flavour. Charcoal is more easily kindled, but coke lasts longer, and gives out more heat. Well-burnt cinders are an excellent substitute for coke, and which in every family ought to be carefully preserved for the purposes of cookeiy. COPPER.—The weight of testi- mony is decidedly in favour of cop- per, in its metallic state, not being poisonous. Orfila, an eminent tox- icologist, cites several cases where masses of it were swallowed, and after some time voided by the na- tural passages, without injuiy. And a case is related where six penny pieces were swallowed, with a view to self-destruction, and no inconve- * Coal, a well-known common fos- sil fuel. hlr. Brand, in his History of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, observes, that though some writers have not scrupled to afKrm, that coal was unknown to the Ancient Britons; yet, others have con- tended for the contrary, by almost irre- sistible arguments. And the facts and testimonies adduced by iMr. Brand, afford much reason to conclude, that coal, though at first unnoticed in Britain by the Romans, was afterwards in actual use among them. The first public ac- count of coal we meet with is in the year 1239, wlren Henry III. confirmed the charter granted by John his father, to tire inhabitants of Newcastle, to dig coals in the common soil without tire walls of the town.