HO HU 171 In the second edition of Lewis’s Dispensatory, speaking of hops, he says, “ these are one of the most agreeable of the strong bitters, though rarely employed for any medicinal purposes. Their principal composi- tion is in malt liquors, which they preserve from undergoing the acetous and putrefactive fermentations, ren- der less glutinous, and dispose to pass off more freel)' by urine. The odour of hops hung in a bed is said to have induced sleep when opium has failed. The same author, in his Materia Medica, observes, “ hops have a very bitter taste, less un- grateful than most of the other strong bitters, accompanied with some de- gree of warmth and aromatic flavour. They give out their virtue by mace- ration without heat, both to rectified and proof spirits, and by warm infu- sion to water; to cold water they impart little, though macerated in it many hours. The extracts obtained by w'atery and spirituous menstrua, particularly by the lattei-, are very elegant balsamic bitters, and promise to be applicable to valuable purposes in medicines, though the hop is at present scarcely regarded as a medi- cinal article, and scarcely otherwise used than for preserving malt liquors, which, by the super-addition of this balsamic, aperient, diuretic bitter, becomes less mucilaginous, more dis- posed to pass off by urine, and in general more salubrious.” Dr. Mo- therby says, “ the scaly heads of hops, have a bitter, warm, aromatic taste; they give out their virtue to spirit, both proof and rectified, by maceration without heat, and to water by warm infusion. Tlie extract ob- tained from the spirituous tincture is an elegant bitter.” Dr. Cullen in his lectures on the Materia Medica, observes that “ the hop is a pretty strong bitter with a slight aroma.” Herophilus Labbius, attributes to the hop a lithontriptic property, and says, that by a duration of it, he has softened the hardest urinary calculi; and Darelius assures us that half a pint, or a whole pint of the decoc- tion of hops, drunk in the morning, possesses much virtue as an anthel- mintic or worm expeller. From these testimonies, as well as from our own observation, we are persuaded that the hop is eminently beneficial as an alterative and tonic ; that it is a good diuretic, that it acts gently as an aperient, and that it possesses con- siderable powers as a sedative, having in many cases procured rest, and affoi-ded relief from pain, wdien opium and other medicine had failed. The infusion or decoction, is in our opinion, the best means of using it. These may be used with consider- able advantage in scorbutic habits, stomach and bowel complaints, ner- vous languor and debility, cutaneous eruptions, and also in gout, both regu- lar and atonic. To elderly people a weak infusion of the common hop is the best drink they can use, it strengthens the stomach and bowels, prevents the accumulation of wind, and beneficially assists digestion. With such recommendations as these, who would not give it trial ? the pow- der and extract of the common hop maybe made into pills with thescame a dv'antages. Take— Extract of hop . . 1 drachm. Powder of ditto . . i drachm, Rhubarb ditto . . drachm. Ginger, powdered . J drachm. Syrup, a sufficient quantity. Make thirty-six pills, and take two morning and evening; these are tonic, gently aperient, and corro- borant. Young and tender hops are used for food, and are dressed in the same way as asparagus. They are, when the stalks become bard and full of wind, rather flatuleiit, and difficult of digestion. In the tender state, they agree with all ages and con- stitutions. HORS D’ (EUVRK.—A small dish served during the first course. HUNGER.—The want of solid