PO PO 251 Potatoes are the most common esculent root now in use among us; though little more than a century ago they were confined to the gardens of the curious, and presented as a rarity. They form the principal food of the common people in some parts of Ireland, and are much used by the poorer classes of Scotland, and other countries. There are two va- rieties of the potatoe in general use; one wth a white, and the other with a red root. And besides these, there is a new kind, first brought from America, which that “ Patriot of ever}' clime,” the late Mr. Howard, cultivated in 1765, at Cardington, near Bedford. Many of these po- tatoes weigh four or five pounds each; and hogs and cattle are found to prefer them to the common sort. They are, moreover, deemed more nutritive than others; containing more farina or flour. As an esculent plant, they appear also worthy of cultivation; being, it is said, when well boiled, equal, and when roasted preferable, to the common sort. That species known by the name of waxy potatoe, should be shunned by the dyspeptic, for it is so indigestible as to pass through the intestines in an unaltered state. The same objection applies to the young or new potatoe. The mealy kind more readily yields to the power of the stomach, and affords a healthy nutriment; in some respects it supplies the place brouglit from Virginia by the colonists sent out by Sir Walter Raleigh in 1584, and who returned in July, 1586, ancl “probably,” according to Sir Joseph Banks, “ brought with them the po- tatoe.” Thomas Ilerriott, in a report on the country, published in Dr. Dry’s Collection of Voyages (vol. i, p. 17), describes a plant called openawk, with “roots as large as a walnut, and others much larger; they grow in damp soil, many hanging together, as if fixed on ropes; they are good fooil,.either boiled or roasted.”—Loudon's Cyclopccdia of Gardening, p. 623. of bread, and should be eaten with freedom whenever our food is con- centrated. To the dyspeptic this vegetable has been found to be inju- rious; and, if ever allowed to such patients, it is worthy of remark, that in the roasted state they are more wholesome than in any other form of cookery. The process of mashiny certainly does not contribute to their digestibility; since by such a pro- cess they escape being so intimately blended with the saliva; and when they are impregnated with the fat of roast beef, they ought to be scrupu- lously avoided by weak stomachs. If boiled, care should be taken that they be not over-done, as in this case they are deprived of their nutritious properties. The proportion of starch contained in the potatoe varies ac- cording to the species, but it is fre- quently as high as eighteen per cent. Analysis also discovers a consider- able portion of sugar, water, and a peculiar vegetable juice, even in the driest sorts. The waxy kind, which are those, we believe, only relished in London, seem to contain less fa- rinaceous matter than the Irish or Scots potatoes. It is not to be con- cealed however, that the potatoe, as it belongs to the family of the night- shades, must have some of the qua- lities of a narcotic poison; and we accordingly find that Dr. Latham has tried an extract, prepared from the leaves and flowers by Mr. Hume of Long Acre, which, in the small quantity of two or three grains, acts as an anodyne, and a double dose produces torpor and giddiness.— Medical Transnclions, vi. 62. Like cassava, however, the ])otatoe, if it possess a narcotic juice in a raw state, most certainly loses it by the process of cooking, and becomes one of the most easily digested and nou- rishing articles of vegetable aliment, which, like other vegetables, is not apt to produce viscidity and flatu- lence, though, when used for the whole diet, as it often is among the