299 SM SM hams may be simply placed, as we see done in various parts at home, in the vicinity of an open fire-place, where wood or turf is burnt, so as to be continually exposed to the smoke arising therefrom.—See Dry Salting, Hams, Pyroligneous Acid. SMOKING.—Smoking, which may be considered as a refine- ment in the use of tobacco, has nearly, if not more votaries than either snuff- taking or chewing. Smoking pi'oduces a sort of tempo- rary stupefaction, or rather delirium of an agreeable kind, in which the body and mind are involved, and brings on a languor and sleepiness, which habit renders as agreeable as rest to the weary. Smoking allays irritability for a time, and soothes the anguish of mental inquietude, which is rendered so agreeable by habit, that when once acquired is seldom relinquished for the remain- der of life. The first smoking of tobacco always produces distressing- symptoms— many people have de- stroyed themselves by it: moderate smoking is useful, it has cured the toothach, arising from inflammation of the membrane, but it is not used when the gums are much inflamed. Tissot and Jhichan. Frequent smoking, unless care be taken, turns the teeth first yellow, and afterwards black; white short ebay pipes are apt to corrode them to such a degree as to infect the breath, and often to produce foul ulcers in the gums. In delicate persons, smoking, it is said, dries up the body, by producing a waste of the fluids, and vitiating tlie digestion and assimilation of food, as well as impairs the mental faculties, and particularly the memory — indeed, this is by no means improbable, though it happens that not ten in the hundred of delicate constitutions ever habituate themselves to smok- ing, and even with these, in a mo- derate degree, it must prove more beneficial than otherwise. It has been observed, in commendation of tobacco, that it reduces corpulence, and will render the fattest people lean. This, in some degree, we admit; but it is on the principle of spoiling digestion, that it acts thus. A gentleman, of good constitution, and fond of e.xercise, but who, not- withstanding all his toils, became exceedingly corpulent, was advised to chew tobacco, according to the directions of a person in rvhom he confided; and certainly he grew thin, and in time got rid of an almost lethargic drowsiness, with an un- wieldy corporation, which had stuck to him for a considerable time : but the effect did not stop where he desired—his digestion was quite de- stroyed, his flesh continued to waste, he became subject to terrible bilious vomitings, and died in spite of all assistance, after having been reduced to a skeleton. King .James, independent of his “ Counterblaste,” as Mr. Grainger observes, professed still further his dislike to tobacco, that he was heard to say, “ were he to invite the devil to a dinner, he should have three dishes: first, a pig ; second, a poll of ling and mustard; and third, a pipe of tobacco for digestive.”—{Biog. Hist. Eng. vol. ii, p. 1). One of our best modern poets, has also expressed a jjointed dislike to the use of tobacco, but for a rea- son much more cogent tlian any of those assigned by the pedantic “ British Solomon — Pernicious weed ! whose scent the fair annoys, Unfriendly to society’s chief joys, 'I'hy worst effect is banishing for hours Tlie sex whose presence civilizes ours ; I'hou art, indeed, llie drug a gard’ner wants. To poison vermin that infest his plants; Hut are we so to wit and beauty blind. As to despise the glory of our kind. And shew the softest minds and fairest forms. As little mercy as the grubs and worms! Cowi'iu. Tobacco, however, is not witluaU