CO CO 84 fat and the copper, to prevent their contact, the durability of the sheath- ings was secured. It must, however, be remarked, that the vegetable acids, generally, dissolve copper with difficulty, even though assisted by heat. And hence the boiling of sugar or syrups in vessels of this metal, does not of it- self produce any noxious compound, unless it be left to cool in them. In the latter case, the boiled substance acquires a bad taste and a green colour, and the copper forms an oxide on its surface. These facts are sufficient to j)rove the necessity in all cases of tinning vessels in- tended for the preparation of articles of food. Numberless causes (says Proust), unite to accelerate the dis- solution of copper, since the juices of all barrels are fat, and acid na- turally saline. It is, therefore evi- dent, that tinning is indispensable for kitchen utensils. Cleanliness, however, may ward off many for- midable injuries. “ In the oiqrhan house at Halle, in Switzerland, from 600 to 900 persons daily eat food dressed in lai'ge copper kettles; and yet I never heard there of any bad effects from them. Here, however, I must observe, that the cleanliness was quite exemplary; that in the afternoon, we observed with pleasure and admiration, the kitchen per- fectly clean; and the copper vessels bright.”—(Michaelis’s Commentaries, vol. iii. p. 388).—Proust has shewn another advantage from the precau- tion of tinning copper utensils. The usual alloy applied in tinning vessels, consists of equal parts of tin and lead; and the tin being more oxidizable than the lead, is exclusively dissolved by any vegetable acid that may be contained in the viands. These com- pounds of tin arc known to be harm- less. Copper and bell-metal mortars are evidently hazardous, for similar reasons, in the shop of the apothecary. Not only will moisture affect them, but also many articles of the Materia Medica, and thus a dangerous com- pound may be the result. Verdigrease in a natural state, (carbonate of copper) forms sponta- neously on the surface of copper, or brass vessels, pieces of coin, &c. The oxide of copper is of a blackish brown colour. Both of them are highly poisonous, and colic and vomiting are their usual symptoms. From the remarks previously made on this subject, it will be readily understood why copper utensils, when not pro- perly cleaned, contaminate acid sub- stances boiled in them. Vinegar dissolves the oxide with ease, as also does ammonire. Eller has proved that wine dissolves copper, doubtless in consequence of the acetic acid contained in it, and the oxidation of this metal by the air. And we can explain in the same way, the pro- duction of the acetate in the cocks of vessels from which wine, beer, or cider, is drawn. Drouard was af- fected three days with colic and dian-hcea, in consequence of eating a ragout, which had been seasoned with wine drawn out of a cask, the cock of which contained acetate of copper, which this liquor had in fact dissolved. Moseley relates, that in 1592, at a meeting of the great Senate of Bern, the wine was put into cop- per vessels, and suspended in a well, in order to cool it. In a few days, the legates and others who had drank of it, were seized with violent pain in the abdomen, fever, and disscutery, and many died.—{^Moseley on Tro~ ])icalDiseases). Fat bodies, such as fixed and essential oils, dissolve the oxide acid carbonate of copper with readiness; and hence, Proust very justly condemns the use of copper measures for oil.—{Orjila, vol. i. pp. 206 to 203). In several cities in Europe, distillers, apothecaries, and others, are forbidden to use copper vessels, unless they are tinned.—See Ehrman in Schicgel, vol. iii. p. 230. The tests of these compounds are similar to those of verdigrease. The