337 TH Til caloric to keep them in a state of fluidity, such portion is not indicated by the thermometer. The property called temperature of bodies, does not shew the measui-e of their caloric, but merely the degree of dilatation which the caloric they contain in a disengaged state, is capable of pro- ducing in the substance of which the thermometers are formed. Every substance requires its own quantity of caloric to raise it to a given tempei-ature ; but when raised to that temperature, every further degree of caloric is precisely shewn by the thermometer. The caloric of fluidity is that portion of heat which is a necessary part of fluids; though different fluids require dif- ferent portions of it to preserve them in a fluid state. All fluids operate upon the thermometer in the same manner as solids; for whatever sen- sible caloric may be contained in any liquid, that portion is accurately shewn by the thermometer. Nature is uniform in all her results; for, if a thennometer be ever so often plunged into boiling water, it will always stand at the same point, pro- vided the pressure of the atmosphere be the same. Melting snow will always shew the same degree upon the thennometer, in whatever state the atmosphere may be. As regards the range and regula- tion of themselves, that of Fahrenheit between the freezing and boiling points of water is divided into 180°; and as the greatest possible degree of cold, was supposed to be that produced by mixing snow and mu- riate of soda, that was made the zero—thus the freezing point became 32°, and the boiling j)oint 212°. The centigrade thermometer of modern temperature, ])laces the zero at the freezing point, and divides the range between it and the boiling jioint into 100°. This has long been used in Sweden, under the name of Celsus’s thermometer. Reaumur’s thermo- meter, formerly used in France, divides the space between the freez- ing and boiling of water into 80° ; and, like the centigrade thermo- meter, places the zero at the freezing point. De Lisle’s thermometer is used in Russia. The graduation commences at the boiling point, and increases towards the freezing point 1.50°. In Wedgewood’s pyrometer, the zero corresponds with 1077° of Fahrenheit’s, each degree of which is equal to 130° Fahrenheit. There- fore 180° F. = 100° C.=80°R. = 150 De L, = 13-18ths W.—See Tempera- ture. THIRST.—The sense of hunger is well known to be seated in the stomach (see Hunger); that of thirst in the mouth and fauces. It is a feeling of a still more imperious kind than hunger; particularly in hot climates, or when any of the watery secretions are increased. It is one of the most distressing symptoms of fevers and inflammatory complaints, especially in inflammation of the stomach. Hot spices, saline sub- stances, and, more particularly, com- mon salt, increase it, as do all causes augmenting the different secretions. The end of drinking, therefore, would appear to be to repair the losses sus- tained in the fluids. If thirst be not appeased, a general irritation comes on; the sensation of dryness in the mouth and fauces augments, accom- panied with a burning feel and an accelerated pulse. Although thirst appears at first very oppressive, drink is by no means so necessary to the continuance of the life of every ani- mal, as solid food. Several species of warm-blooded animals, as parrots, quails, mice, and others, can subsist without drinking; and individuals of the human race have been known, by dint of perseverance, to conquer the sensation of thirst: and Sir George Raker has recorded a case in the 'I'ransactions of the College of Physicians, of a man who lived in a state of perfect health for many years, without drinking. 2 G