170 HO HO disorders of the chest, derives its virtue, in a manner entirely from honey. Honey was also the principal ingredient of the Aristaean confec- tion—namely, the Silphian confec- tion, invented by Aristseus, a king of Sardinia; who used it as a proper dissolvent and corrector of that excellent but ill-scented medicine, assafoetida. He found honey ca- pable of dissolving that gum, and mixing it with ingredients which woidd abate its ill-scent and assist its efficacy; and on this principle he invented the confection, for which he has been celebrated more than Mithridates. It was given in that flatulent colic to which hypochon- driac people are peculiarly subject, though it was not limited to this alone. There was a time when honey was more used than it is at present, because the demand arose from ne- cessity. Before the knowledge of sugar-, this healthful sweet supplied its place.—See Sugar. Hops (Humulus Lwpulus, Ti.J— The virtues of many medicines are only to be ascertained by experiment and careful observation, and it is much to be lamented that a con- siderable number of articles among medical materials, have either been wholly over-looked, or but superfici- ally examined. Among these may be reckoned the common hop, which until very lately has been scarcely at all used as a medicine, though it is now well known that under pro- per management it is capable of affording considerable relief m many important diseases. Previous to our recommendation of the hop, not only as a medicine, but as an agreeable and aromatic bitter, we shall premise these and other observations with the following brief historical sketch of this valuable plant. “ 1'he humulus lupulus” (the hop) says Chambers, “ appears to have been brought into this country from the Netherlands, in the year 1524.” It is mentioned in the English Sta- tute Book, 1552 — namely, in the fifth and sixth of Edward VI. chap. 5. And by an act of parliament in the first year of King James I., anno 1603, chap. 18, it appears that hops were then produced in abundance in England. It is also obser\-ed that “ in the spring time, while the bud is yet tender, the tops of the plant be- ing cut off, and boiled, are eat like asparagus, and found very whole- some, and effectual to loosen the body; the heads and tendrils are good to purify the blood in the scurvy and most cutaneous diseases. De- coctions of the flowers and syrup thereof are of use against pestilentiffi fevers. Juleps and apozems are also prepared v-ith hops, for hypochondri- acal and hysterical aflections, and to promote the menses; a pillow stuffed with hops, and laid under the head, is said to procure sleep in fevers attended with delirium.” Coles in his History' of Plants, pub- hshed in 1657, relating the Hrtues of hops, says, “they are good to cleanse the kidneys of gravel, and to provoke urine, they likewise open obstructions of the liver and spleen, cleanse the blood, and loosen the belly; and, as they cleanse the blood, so consequently they help to cure eruptions of the skin.” He also say's, “ half a drachm of the seeds pow- dered and taken in drink, will kill worms,” and adds, that “the ex- pressed juice will cure the jaundice.” Brookes’s Dispensatory', published in 1753, speaks thus of hops: “Lu- pulus, hops; the heads. They help digestion, open obstructions of the viscera, cspeci.ally the spleen; pro- mote urine, and loosen the belly; they are good in hypochondriac pas- sion, the scurvy', and diseases of the skin, if given as an alterative, in whey or broths. The inspissated jiuce may be given from two to four ounces; the decoction of the tops from one to two handfuls; and half a drachm of the seeds may be given against worms.”