PI PI 238 and after remaining covered with the pickle five or six days, they will be completely impregnated with salt so as to he perfectly fit to be re- packed in barrels, with large grained solid salt, for the hottest climates and longest voyages.— See Mack- erel, Salmon, Sfc. The antiseptic property of vinegar is employed with advantage in do- mestic economy, for preserving from decay a variety of roots, fruits, and leaves, and other parts of vegetables, which, by a species of refinement and luxury, are often considered as condiments to improve the relish of several kinds of food. The whole art of preparing vinegar pickles consists in impregnating the vege- table substances with the strongest vinegar, to which are usually added a portion of common salt and the most heating spices. To effect this object, the suhstance to be pickled is usually suffered to macerate, or slightly boiled with the acid, and afterwai’ds kept infused in it, toge- ther with spices and salt.—See Cah- hage, Mushrooms, Walnuts, Sfc. The following notice may serve to assist the recollection of the house- wife of the time when the various making pickles are in articles for season :—■ Artichokes - - Cauliflowers Capsicum pods Cucumbers - - Frencli beans - Mushrooms - - Nasturtium pods Onions - - - July and August. July and August. End of July and bc- ginningof August. Latter end of July and August. In July. September. Middle of July. Middle and end of July. Radish pods - July. Red cabbage - August. Sampliire - - August. Tomatos, orlove- End of July and apples August. All pickles should be preserved in unglazcd earthenware jars, carefully corked, and tied over with a bladder to exclude air. The vinegar used for prepaiing them should always he heated in an unglazed earthenware pan, it ought never to boU, but pour- ed over the substance to be pickled just when it begins to simmer. The spices may be simmered with the vinegar. PIES.—Are those dishes which consist either of meat, or of fruit, covered with a farinaceous emst, en- riched with butter or other fat, and rendered fit for eating by' baking. The crust of the pie is usually made of two parts by weight of wheaten flour, and one part of butter, lard, or other fat. The flour is made into a stiff paste with cold water, and rolled out on a board with a paste pin to the thickness of about one quarter of an inch, the board being previously sprinkled over with flour to prevent the dough from sticking to it. About one-sixth part of the butter, in pieces of the size of a nut- meg, is put over the extended paste, and the whole again dusted with flour, the paste is then doubled up, and rolled out as before. A like portion of butter is again distributed over the paste, which, after being doubled up, is rolled out, and the same operation is repeated till the whole quantity of butter is thus incorporated with the flour. Part of the paste is then laid, one quarter or half an inch in thick- ness, over the inside of a deep dish in which the pic is to be baked, and the meat, cut in chops or slices, is put into the dish, together with the sea- sonings, and a portion of water or grav_v, about a teacup-full to one pound of meat. The contents of the basin are then covered with a lid, made of the remainder of the paste, rolled out rather thicker than the inside lining of the dish, and the lid is made to adhere to the inside sheeting, which should extend over the rim of the dish, by pressing the top paste close upon the margin. A few small holes are then made in the top crust, and the pie is put in the oven. The baking should be slow.