SU su 31G juice.—Among these ave sea-salt, spices, mustard, scurvy grass, horse radish, capers, wine, spirits in small quantities, cheese, particularly when old, sugar, various hitters, &c. V.—Substances which retard the gastric poiver.—Water, particularly hot, taken in large quantities, occa- sions the food to pass into the intes- tines without being pi'operly dis- solved. All acids and astringents: Peruvian bark taken half an hour after dinner stops digestion. Also all unctuous substances; kermes, corrosive sublimate. Gosse also ob- served that employment after a meal suspended or retarded digestion ; as well as leaning the breast against a table; and that repose of mind, ver- tical position, and gentle exercise promoted it. — See Gastric Juice. Digestion. SUCCORY.—There are two kinds of succory, the garden and the wild. The latter is but little used for culi- nary purposes, owing to its bitter taste, though it has been employed medicinally. It is divided into several species, and grows in kitchen gardens; that which is tender, young, and well-tasted is the best. It is of a moistening and cooling na- ture, provokes urine, allays thirst, and creates an appetite. It agrees in hot weather with young, bilious, and sanguine complexions, and those who have a hot stomach. SUGAR.—Sugar is a very sweet agreeable saliue juice, expressed from a kind of canes or reeds, growing in great plenty in the East and West Indies. It is supposed that sugar was not known amongst the ancient Greeks and Romans, who used only honey for sweetening, but this ques- tion is not yet entirely decided among the learned, who are moreover di- vided concerning the country to which it was indigenous. Some say that it came originally from China, by way of the East Indies and Ara- bia into Europe, others assert that the sugar cane is ns natural to Ame- rica as India, while others maintain that it was not known in .America till the Europeans transplanted it thither. According to the now prevalent opinion, sugar had its origin in the eastern part of Asia. From that continent it was trans- planted to Cyprus, thence to Sicily, thence to Madeira and the Canary Isles; and from these last to Brasil. Where, indeed, some suppose that sugar was originally and spontane- ously produced. About the year 1506, sugar canes w'ere brought from Brasil and the Canaides, and planted in Hisj)aniola; and in 1641, they were transplanted from Brasil to Barbadoes, and thence to our West India Islands. Our ancestors made use of sugar rough as it came from the cane; the boiling, baking, and refining of it being, comparatively, a modern invention. SUGAR, WHITE.—The essen- tial salt of the sugar cane, prepared by clarifying the juice with eggs or blood, getting rid of the superfluous acid by the addition of lime water, and evaporating it till the sugar crys- tallises on cooling. The uncrystalliz- able portion (treacle) is then drained from the granular mass, and that which remains in the first instance got rid of by passing small portions of water, or, according to a late im- provement, of saturated sjmip through the mass : 1121bs. of raw sugar ^fields on refining 56 of refined lump, 22 of bastards, 29 of molasses, and 6 of dregs. The different proportions of treacle left in the sugar occasioning a corresponding variation of colour through all the shades, from dark- redish brown to a ])ure brilliant white; the brown, cheaper kinds, being used in clysters, in making wines, and in those syrups which are of a dark colour. The white refined sugar for medicines and light coloured syrups. Sugar is nutritive, and lax- ative, but griping; externally applied to tdcers it is escharotic. SUGAR-CANDY, WHITE. —