TR TR 347 ening principle, produces less excite- ment of the animal spirits, though it is not on that account the more easily digested, but the contrary. Pork, a white fibred flesh, is the hardest to digest of any, and contains much less nourishment; and as mutton is paler than beef, we would say, that it not only contains less nourishment, but that it is of harder digestion, and is more apt to ferment in the stomach and cause flatulence, colic, and griping; in the same way as mutton broth, when set aside, will ferment much sooner than leg-of- beef soup. Veal and lamb, which are also pale meats, are never allowed; and here may also be remarked, that soup made from either of these can- not be preserved sweet and free from fermenting for many hours in sum- mer. As a change of diet, fowl or rabbit is permitted once a week or so, but never unless with vinegar.— This, we conceive, erroneous. As the fibres of both fowl and rabbit are very pale, they can contain but a very small portion of nourishment, and must readily run into fermen- tation in the stomach, which the vinegar, far from counteracting, will promote. That the tendency to fat, may be in some measure prevented by the vinegar and the diminution of the nourishment, or that the change may produce more relish for the beef on the following day, are the chief circumstances on which it can he defended. No food indeed is likely to be easily digested, or to afford great nourishment, if it be not eaten with relish ; but it must be carefully noted, it does not follow, that all food which is relished is easily di- gested or very nutritive.—See Mut- ton, Veal, ^-c. The sinewy legs of fowls are by some trainers highly approved of, on the principle, probably of their being strong and tough in the fibres, and of their being, therefore, capable of imparting strength to those who eat them. This is the old foolish doc- trine of signatures, which recom- mended saffron, celandine, and bar- bery bark in jaundice, because they were yellow like a jaundiced skin; poppies for diseases of the head, because the seed vessel is like the head; and pile-wort for piles, be- cause the root of the herb resembles that disease.* We are quite certain that the sinewy legs of fowls have very little more nourishing power than the white of an egg; and it is well known that is but little, as the nutritive part of an egg is the yolk. The raw yolk of an egg is sometimes, therefore, given by trainers in the morning, and is said to prevent bilious complaints. This must be a mere fancy, and about as well found- ed as that of the physicians, who forbid bilious patients of eating the eggs at all. 'J'hcre are no circum- stances known to us which could establish the fact of eggs having any effect whatever on the bile or the liver. Fish is prohibited: the trainers say it is watery, and contains but little nutriment. On what the stimu- lant quality of fish depends is not yet understood, as from its white fibres, and chemical composition, it might be suj)poscd to be rather inert and mild. Salmon, char, and stur- geon, are probably more nutritive than rabbit or fowl, in the case of a change of diet being desirable, for one day in a week or a fortnight. Neither butter nor cheese is al- lowed, on the siqiposition that they arc both innutritive, and of difficult digestion. Rutter, besi<tes, like cream, is apt to produce fat, and to make the muscles lax and flabby, the very reverse of that for which tl’.e process is intended. Cream-chccsc is, of course, still worse than the common sorts. Every s])ecic.s of fat meat, • FiV/c Crollius, Ifasilica riiymica el de Signaluris, and Dr. A. Paris, Pliar- niacologia, vol. i. p. 43. 5tli edit.