292 SH SE tion connected with the animal eco- nomy :—as from whatever cause the function of secretion may be arrested, constitutional derangement more or less, is the consequence ; and thus it continues, is aggravated or di- minished, in proportion, as the secre- tions are restored to their healthy actions, and the reverse.—See Di- gestion, Nutrition. SEEDS, GRAINS, and PODS of HERBACEOUS PLANTS EATABLE. American Ground Nut, Angular-stalked Pea, Arabian Coffee, Bastard Locust Ton, Carob, or St. James’ Bread, Cashew Nut, Chicken Pea, Chocolate Nut, Cocoa Nut, Common Garden Pea, Bean, Kidney Bean. Common Walnut, Chestnut, East India Kidney Bean, Eastern Macardiuni, or Malacca Bean, French Physla Nut, Hazel Nut, Incurved podded birds-foot trefoil, Indian Physia Nut, Je.suit’s Nut, Lentil, Pistachia Nut, Pigeon Pea, Sea Pea, Squai'e-podded crimson Pea, Stone, or Manured Pine, SweetCassia, orPudding-pipe Tree Sweet-scented Vfinilla, Sweet and Bitter Almonds, Tamarind, Trifoliate-leaved Tinq)entine Tree, White-Howering Lupin. SEIDLITZ POWDER.—A very useful and fashionable compound, composed of dried carbonate of soda and dried tartaric acid, which arc mostly in separate parcels. When mi.ved with a quarter of a pint or more of pure water, it effervesces and forms a pleasant aperient, in imitation of Seidlitz water. Seidlitz powders may be imitated as follows :— Take Two spoonfuls of Rochelle salts. Forty grains of carbonate of soda. Mix, and put into a glass with half a pint of cold water. Then take Thirty-five grains of tartaric acid; or the same quantity of citric acid, which put into another tumbler with half a pint of cold water; then pour the one into the other, and drink them quickly. This makes an ex- cellent cooling draught, similar to soda water. SHAD.*—The shad is a sea fish, though met with in rivers, to which it usually resorts in the beginning of the spring. When it first leaves the sea, it is lean, dry, and iU-tasted; but after it has been in fresh water for some time, it grows fat, plump, and savoury. Shad is pickled to keep, though in this condition it loses much of its fine flavour. It is very nourishing; but when not fresh it has a certain pungency in it which rather incommodes tender gums, and causes thirst. When taken in the sea it is also a little hard, and not so easy of digestion as that taken in fresh water. It is best in spring, at which season it agrees with all ages and constitutions, if eaten in mode- ration. SHADDOCK.—The fruit of the Citrus Decnmana, a species of orange. In lemons, oranges, and other fruits of that kind, three different sub- stances are met with; namely, the external rind contains an essential oil, stronglj' astringent and heating; the second or white rind is tasteless; the third part is a salubrious, cooling and acid pulp, highly efficacious in counteracting the ])utrid tendency and dissolution of the blood. The juice of lemons and limes (see Le- mon) is one of the strongest vege- • In Latin the shad is called alosa, ab alciido, to nourish, because it is very nourishing.—Lcmery.