246 PO PO mistaken fov the effects of poison; and they, probably, are peculiarity of constitution (Idiosyncrasy), indi- gestion, and sudden illness. Idio- syncrasy is an inexplicable circum- stance in the animal economy; but, however extraordinary it may ap- pear at first sight, yet it is no less true that individuals will have an antipathy to some particular article of diet; and, in some instances, the bare seeing of it, and in others the eating of it, produces the most alarming consequences. Cheese, and various other articles, have pro- duced such effects. But the most striking cases of resemblance to the effects of poison probably occur in those who, after being long accus- tomed to a particular species of food, for the first time use another kind. The town of Martigues, in France, is almost exclusively inhabited by fish- ermen, who have lived on fish from their infancy. Foder6, during the first year of his residence there, often prescribed meat soups to his sick, but, in every instance, their admi- nistration -was followed by violent nausea and vomiting. They con- fessed that it was the first time they had used any aliment prepared from meat. As regards indigestion, ex- traordinary instances will often occur, in which symptoms the most violent and uncommon suddenly exhibit themselves. This is particularly the case with those who live in a luxurious manner, cat mushrooms and trufiles (see Mushrooms), or shell-fish, at peculiar seasons of the year. A vio- lent pain comes on, the stomach is attacked with spasmodic constriction, green matter is vomited, and we sliould certainly be led to believe that a poison had been maliciously administered, did we not know how vitiated the bile may become, and what powerful efforts are necessary in a weak stomach to throw off indi- gestible food. It is jrroper to recol- lect, that sucb symptoms may occur even in the midst of a repast, and caution is hence required, so as not to confound the cause with the effects of poison. On the srrbject of sudden illness, the following circumstances are recommended, as worthy of at- tention :— 1. The season of the year and the prevailing epidemic. Thus cholera morbus rages in the summer and airtumn, and as colick and vomiting may then be said to be epidemic, we would not, of course, be so much surprised at their sirdden appear- ance, as if they came on in winter. 2. The former habits of the pa- tient; his mode of life and state of health should be ascertained; and we should learn, if possible, whether he has no concealed disease. Sudden death is sooner to be expected in a valetudinarian than in one who has previously errjoyed perfect health. 3. It should be noticed whether fever be present or not. It is an uncommon circumstance, that in- ternal disease of a fatal kind, and of the nature we are now noticing, is present wdthout more or less fever. Poisons, however, during their first operation, are not accompanied with it. Fodere, vol. iv. p. 297. We shall conclude these remarks, referring the reader to those writers on the subject who have treated it in all its bearings, by adding, that there are four generally understood kinds of poison: 1. Mineral. 3. Aerial. 2. Vegetable. 4. Animal. hlineral poisons are to be distin- guished from vegetable ones by their action. The former corrode, stimu- late, and inflame, acting principally through the medium of the circula- tion ; the latter generally stupify, by acting through the brain and nerves, leavinsr no marks of inflammation. None of the mineral poisons termi- nate life till after a most excruciating operation of at least two or three hours; whereas some of the vege- table ones destroy life in a few mi- nutes. From the animal poisons the