HO 1G9 HO pose, and at Paias it is ti'eated as we do the capsicum and love-apple. A similar treatment would no doubt succeed in this country. HOCK.—See German Wines. HONEY. — A sweet vegetable juice, collected from the flowers of various plants, by “ Nature’s con- fectioner,” the “ skilful Bee.” Of the economy of these insects, alike remarkable for industry and art, won- ders are related by naturalists. The moral virtues have been all, at one time or the other, attributed to them; and they have been particularly cele- brated for their prudence, industry, mutual affection, unity, loyalty, pub- lic spirit, sobriety, and cleanliness. Certain it is, that the industry and activity of bees in their domestic labours, afford a very instructive and amusing spectacle; all are busily engaged in their several depart- ments : whilst some are employed in gathering honey or wax, others repair decayed combs ; some carry out the dead, and cleanse the hives; others again, keep guard upon the floor:— And sad-ey’d Justice with his surly hum. Delivers o’er to executors pale The lazy yawning drone. so work the honey bees ; Creatures, that by a rule in Nature teach The art of order to a peopled kingdom. SlIAKSPEARE. Tliese active and useful insects, are eulogised by other of our poets, and particularly by Thomson in his Seasons. The honey of Ilyhla, on the east coast of Sicily, and of Hymellus, a mountain of Greece, near Athens, was reckoned by tbc ancients the best in tbe world. 'J’hat of Minorca, an island in the Mediterranean, and Narhonne, in France, is deemed ex- cellent; and that of Hampshire, is considered the best in England.— Virgin honey, is that deposited in clean new cells, which, when first formed, is of a pure white colour. Honey collected from some plants is intoxicating and poisonous to man ; from others, it is hurtful to the bees that collect it; and from some flowers it is so injurious or disagreeable, that they do not collect it.—See Dartvin’s Temple of Nature, p. 63. Honey is an excellent food. It is supposed to consist of sugar, mu- cilage, and an acid. Considei'ed as a ’medicine, honey is a very useful detergent and aperient, powerfully dissolving viscid juices, promoting expectoration; and, in some in- stances, has been remarkably effica- cious in asthmatic cases. In the asthma of elderly people, honey is peculiarly serviceable, in resolving the tough viscid phlegm—a spoonful night and morning, or oftener. Where honey gripes or disorders the bowels, a portion of cinnamon or ginger powder may be added, which will prevent this inconvenience. In humid asthma, and chronic winter cough, the fol- lowing is an excellent prescription— Take- Flour of sulphur . . 1 ounce. Nutmeg in powder . drachm. Senna in powder . Ginger the sames of each 2 drachms. The best honey . . 2 ounces, of which let an electuary be made, and the bulk of a common nutmeg taken twice in the day. This pre- scription, we are told, was sent over from Holland, by the celebrated Boerhaave, to Lord Ferrars, and from which he experienced the great- est relief."’ The syrup of capillairc, so cele- brated at one time for coughs and * Honey is particularly recommended to the asthmatic, and those subject to gravelly complaints, for its detergent nature. Founded upon the popular opinion of honey, as a pectoral remedy, Dr. Hill’s balsam of honey, a cpiack medicine, was once in demand ; but this, besides honey, contained balsam of Tolu, or gum benzoin in solution.