BI BI 33 there. It is of the greatest importance in the preservation of health, and for remedying most of the inconveni- ences to which the human constitu- tioin is liable. By its saponaceous qualities, it sheaths or neutralizes the acidity of the chyle, contributes to the \vork of digestion, and the mixture of the internal fluids; and being found in most, if not in all animals, we may safely conclude, that the wise Archi- tect of the universe has created it both for necessary and noble uses. The experiments of Tredman and Gmelin, whose recent experiments are much more elaborate and precise than those of MM. Leuret and Las- saigne, ascribe to the bile the follow- ing uses: 1st, By its stimulant pro- perties it excites the flow of the inter- nal fluids, as is proved by the unusual dryness of the feces in jaundiced persons, and in animals whose com- mon bile duct has been tied. 2nd, It probably stimulates the intestinal muscular fibres to action. 3rd, As it contains an abundance of azotized principles, it may contribute to ani- malize those articles of food w’hicli contain no azote in their composi- tion. 4th, It tends to prevent the putrefaction of the food during its course through the intestines: be- cause when it is prevented from flow- ing into them, their contents are much farther advanced in decay than in the healthy state. 5th, It proba- bly tends to liquefy and render solu- ble the fatty part of the food. Lastly, it is to be regarded as an important secretion. The only use of the bile, in chylification, is restricted by these two celebrated physiologists, to that of accomplishing the solution of fatty substances. The direct and obvious use of the liver is the secretion of bile, which, in most animals, is suffered to accumu- late in a pear-shaped reservoir, called the gall-bladder; yet in many ani- mals, even of different classes, no such reservoir is perceived, as in the elephant, rhinoceros, stag, camel, goat, horse, trichecus, porpoise, rat, ostrich, and paiTot: while we do not know of a reptile that is w'ithout it. It may, however, be observed, that a gall-bladder is common to all carni- vorous animals possessing a liver, and that it seems to be only wanting in those that feed on vegetables alone. Yet, while we witness this distinction, we are ignorant of the cause, and incapable of applying it. In the human subject the gall blad- der has sometimes also been wanting, f Olivier, note sur I’atrophie tie la vessicule hiliare, in Archiv. ! Gen. de Med. tom. v. p. 196) of which Dr. Cholmley gives an example {Med. Trans, vol. vi. art. iv.;) but such a deficiency has most occurred in infants who have perished soon after birth; before which period, as there is no transit of feces through the intestinal canal, and perhaps no peristaltic action, it does not appear to be necessary. And, indeed, it is probable, that previous to birth no bile is secreted. According to Meckel, (Manuel d'Anat. tom. iii. ji. 468), the want of a gall-bladder does not always dangerously impair health; and a case in which a person thus born having reached the adult state is recorded. {Mem. de Med. Militaire, tom. XX. p. 406). There are two kinds of bile, distinguished into the hepatic and cystic. The former, or that secreted in the hepatic duct, is mild and sweet; the cystic, or that formed in the gall bladder, is pun- gent and bitter; whence it might be inferred that it is the gall-bladder that secretes the bitter principle. Yet, in children, the bile contained in the gall-bladder is as sweet as that in the hepatic duct; and in va- rious insects, as the larvm of the cynips tjuerci, or gall-fly, and the citrcnlio minis, or nut-weevil, a bile, powerfully hitter, is secreted without either gall-hladder or liver. Upon what ])i'inciple are such discrepan- cies to be accounted for? Yet, what-