PO 244 PO with food. Now, if this decision re- ceive a general application, we may undoubtedly adduce examples of wonderful escapes from the effects of almost all noxious substances, and thus destroy the idea of poison alto- gether. FocUre, vol. iii. p. 470. There is another curious fact con- nected with this subject, which it is proper to mention. It is the dif- ferent effects which some substances produce on man and other animals— being noxious to the one, and in- noxious to the other, and vice veisa. Thus sweet almonds kill dogs, foxes, and fowls—aloes are destructive to dogs and foxes, pepper to hogs, and parsley to the parrot. On the con- trary, theleopard’s bane {arnica mon- tana) is fatal to man, while it is food for wild goats and swallows. Hogs feed on henbane (hyosciamus), pheasants on stramonium, and sheep on hemlock and manchineel apple with impunity. Even arsenic is said to prove harmless to the wolf. Beck- man (vol. i. p. 52), in his History of Poisons, says that four drachms of sugar given to a pigeon killed it in four hours; and five drachms, a duck in seven hours. The danger of poison, as well as the rapidity of its action, varies considerably. Animal poi- sons are probably the most speedily and the most certainly fatal, though they would seem to be equalled in both respects by some of the vege- table poisons, when introduced by puncture into the system. We refer particularly to the poisoned weapons of savage nations. Next, the mineral, and, lastly, the vegetable poisons. The latter, though generally slower in their operations, are often no less destructive. Poisons may be intro- duced into the system in various ways:—through the nose, in the form of odours; through the lung.s, by inspiration ; by the mouth and gul- let, in the form of food; by the anus, in the form of injection ; and through the skin by absorption. {Foderc-, vol. iii. j),-181). There are many curious accounts on record of the mode in which poisoning was sup- posed to have been perpetrated. Thus Zacchias says, that Pope Cle- ment VIII. was poisoned by the smoke of a candle, and it has been supposed that dresses and jewels might be impregnated w'ith venom- ous matter. Queen Elizabeth w'as to have been poisoned by spreading some on the pommel of the saddle. “The queen, in mounting, would transfer the ointment to her hand; with her hand she was likely to touch her mouth or nostrils, and such was the virulence of the poison, that certain death must follow.”—(Aiken's Mem. of Q. Eliz.). There is a minute of Council extant, in the hand writing of Cecil, which contains among other things, the following caution : “ That no manner of perfume, either in ap- parel, or sleeves, gloves, or such like, or otherwise, that shall be appointed for yourMajesty’s savor, be presented by any stranger, or other person, but that the same be corrected by some other fume.”—Ibid. vol. i. p. 299. In noticing individual poisons, two modes of arrangement have been pursued by various writers; the one founded on the basis of natural history, and the other upon the action of these substances on the living sys- tem. The latter has of late 3'ears been most generally adopted by au- thors on toxicology, with however great varietj' as to their classification. Nearly all the corrosive poisons, for example, of Fodt>r6 and Orfila,belong to the mineral kingdom, and the septic to the animal, while the acrid, narcotic, and the narcotico - acrid, divide the vegetable kingdom. The division of poisons, proposed by Fo- d6r6, and adopted and modified after him by Orlila, may be introduced in this place. It conndns six classes :— 'J'he Corrosive, or Escharotic Astringent Acrid Narcotico-acrid Sc])tic, and putrefying.* A person is supposed to be poi- soned, if, being in perfect health, he