102 DI DI were digested equally, as if they were at liberty in the cavity of the stomach. They proved that the sto- mach contains a particular fluid, which they called gastric juice, and that this fluid is the principal agent in digestion ; the properties of which, nevertheless, they considerably exag- gerated, and they were no less led into error when they imagined they had explained the digestive process as a dissolution ; for, in not explain- ing this, they explained still less the alteration of the aliments in the sto- mach. We shall not occupy the at- tention of our readers by the easy exposition and refutation of these different hypotheses, which may be seen in every work that has hitherto treated the subject in a rational manner,—our object being to sim- plify practical knowledge, not to pro- mote controversial disputation. DIGESTION, Organs of.—An important distinction exists between animals and vegetables, according to the manner in which they receive their nourishment. Vegetables are continually absorbing matter from the soil, which immediately passes into the sap-vessels, where it is soon changed by respiration and secretion. Animals, on the contrary, with very few excejrtions, take in food at in- tervals, and retain it in their stomach for a considerable time, where it un- dergoes a chemical change, whicli constitutes the function of digestion, the first step in the general process by which animal matter is formed.— There is, indeed, no function in the animal economy that presents us with such elaborate machinery as that of the function of digestion; its complexity and extent, however, have been found to vary in proportion to the nature of the alimentary sub- stance upon which it is intended to act. Should it differ considerably in com])osition from the materials of which the animal is constituted, the changes it has to undergo before it can he adoj)tcd for the support and reparation of the body which is to receive it, must consequently be more considerable, hence the organs are more extensive and elaborate in ani- mals that feed on herbage, than such as subsist on animal food; while man, who draws his supplies of nourish- ment both from the animal and vegetable kingdom, possesses an in- termediate organisation. His organs of digestion, therefore, may be said to consist of 1. —A long canal, which extends from the mouth to the anus, and varies in the diameter of its different parts, according to the distinct duties which each is destined to perform— capable also of contracting or ex- panding according to the circum- stances under whicli they have to contend.—See Intestines. 2. —Various glands, or secreting organs, for the preparation of the liquids, which are required for acting on the alimentary substances.—See Saliva. — Gastric Juice.— Bile. — Pancreas. 3. —Vessels for carrying into the circulating medium the nutritive pro- duct of the process of digestion.— See Lymphatics. 4. —The lungs, which complete its assimilation with the blood. — See Respiration. 5. —The kidneys and skin, which cany away the remaining portion of the alimentary substance as excre- mentitious.—See Kidneys. These diffei’ent organs of diges- tion are not only intimately related to each other, but they exhibit an extraordinary, and frequently an as- tonishing degree of sympathy with the circulating medium and the brain. For instance, there is no organ of the body that is not directly or indi- rectly affected by the ojicrations of the stomach ; it need not, therefore, be matter of surprise, that an im- pression made upon this viscus by a medicinal agent, or by any alimen- tary matter, should afford the means of exciting an action in the most