WA WA 390 qtianlily of corrupted Water.—When it is intended to purify any given quantity of corrupted water, we sliould begin, by adding to it as much powder of cliarcoal as is ne- cessary to deprive it entirely of its bad smell; and in order to ascertain whether the quantity added be suffi- cient to clarify the said Avater, a small quantity of it may be passed through a linen bag, two or three inches long: if the water thus fil- tered has still a turbid appearance, a fresh quantity of jiowdered charcoal must be added, until it becomes per- fectly clear. The whole of the water may thus be passed through a filtering bag, the size of w'hich should be pro- portioned to the quantity of water. If vitriolic, or any other acid can be procured, a small quantity of it should be added to the rvater before the charcoal powder is used, the quantity of acid being regulated in proportion to tbe state of putridity in which the water is actually found, and which should be added in quan- tity sufficient to communicate to the water a degree of acidity just percept- ible to the taste. If the water be merely intended for dressing meat and vegetables for the ship’s company, instead of acid, such a quantity of sea salt as Avould have been j)roper for seasoning the above articles may be employed. Saline substances, like acids, hasten the effects of the charcoal jiowdor. By making use of acids (as has already been observed) a much less quantity of ])owdered charcoal is ne- cessary ; and so easy is the ])rocess to any one accustomed to operations of this kind, that four or five minutes only are rcHpiircd to render several gallons of ])utrid water fit to drink. In like manner, to improve the taste of those spring waters which natu- rally have an hcjialic flavour, and arc therefore unpleasant to use, no- thing more is necessary than to filter them throtigh a bag, half filled with powdered charcoal. If such Avaters are not very much loaded Avith mucilaginous particles, the ad- dition of an acid is not necessary. Method of i^rcserving Charcoal on Board of Ships.—Powdered charcoal is a very light substance, a quality Avhich, perhaps, may appear embar- rassing, on account of the room it Avill take up in a ship, supposing the quantity of it to be in proportion to the quantity of Avater taken on board. The folloAving is the re.sidt of Mr. LoAvitz’s experiments, relative to the space required for storing charcoal. First: fotir ounces and a half of poAvdered charcoal, a quantity Avhich is sufficient to purify three pints and a half of water, Avhen no acid is made use of, take up as much space as sixteen ounces of water; but if this jiOAvder be strongly compressed, it Avill take up only the space of nine ounces of Avater; consequently, it Avould require tAvo casks of poAvdered charcoal to purify eleven casks of Avater. Secondly, an ounce and a half of powdered charcoal is suffi- cient to purify three pints and a half of Avater, provided a small quantity of vitriolic acid, or sea salt, is at the same time made use of. One cask of poAvdered charcoal, therefore, if tightly packed, is sufficient for seven- teen casks of Avater. In another experiment made on this subject, it Avas found that six drachms of poAvdered charcoal Avere sufficient to deprive three pints of Avatcr of its bad smell, and to render it ))erfectly clear, provided, at the same time, tAventy-ibur drops of vi- triolic acid Avere added. In this Avay, therefore, one cask ofpoAvdered char- coal Avould be sufficient for thirty- four casks of corrupted Avater. These cxi)eriments, however, must be con- sidered as liable to some variation, for, in order to obtain clfects equal to those related, the charcoiil poAvder must be ])rcparcd Avilh the greatest care. It must also be observed, that though the above small quantity Avas found sutiicient to deprive the Avater