266 RE RH REFRIGERANT.—That which allays the heat of the body or of the blood. REGIMEN.—A term employed ill medicine to express the plan or regulation of the diet.—See Aliment, Diet. RESPIRATION. —The act of breathing. In respiration, the air is received into the lungs by the en- largement of the cavity of the chest. The power which effects this enlarge- ment, in common, by inspiration, is the diaphragm ; but when it is more difficult, the intercostal muscles and the small pectoral muscle assist. The blood of the pulmonary artery being exposed to the influence of the air in the lungs, is converted from a dark colour into a florid red; it is considered to be decarbonised, that is, carbon is emitted, which, combin- ing with the oxygen of the inspired air, forms carbonic acid; a watery vapour is likewise evolved. Others think that oxygen is absorbed, and that carbonic acid, already formed in the blood, is evolved. When the blood has been properly acted upon, the inspiratory muscles relax, while the abdominal muscles, pressing the viscera upwards against the dia- ])hragm, diminish the cavity of the chest, and then expel the aix'. Respiration may be obstructed from various causes, seated either in the lungs themselves or the sur- rounding parts. But from whatever cause this obstruction may ax-isc, it xxndoxxbtedly pi'odxxces all tliose dis- eases which pi'ocecd froixx an intex- rupted cix'culation. The lungs them- selves also being at length com- pressed, and not suffered sxiflxcicntly to dilate, cannot thx'oxv off the vajxour which ai'ises fi'om them ; hence, they arc frequently oppressed with xnois- lure. At the same time they are irritated, so that a greater quantity of mucus, and tliat of a thicker kind than usual, is scci’cted; by which iixcans the passages through xvliich the air enters them, ai-e stopped up. till a violent cough at length throws off the load. There are other dis- orders also of the respiration, sxxch as cough and sneezing, which, though at first sight they xnay seem very dangerous, are ixot destitute of use, and xnay even be reckoned among the most salutary attempts of nature to relieve the patieixt. Often, however, they are attended xvith dan- ger, orverygreatuneasiness; namely, they are either too violent or attended with pain. It is necessary, never- theless, for a physician to know the natm-e, causes, and effects of these, that he ixiay be enabled to px-omote them xvheix necessary, and to stop them wlxeix they may be hurtfxxl or usgIcss. RHUBARB.—L.). Of rhxxbax'b there ax'e three species in cxxltivation ; the rliaponficiim, hyhri- dum, and 2^olmatiim, aU perennials. The first is a native of Asia, and xvas introdxxced in 1573. The leaves are blxxnt axxd sxnooth, veins redish, some- what hairy xxnderxxeath ; petioles gi-ooved above, and I'oxxnded at the edge. This species (the rheum pal- matum) has been longest in cultiva- tion. The second (7?. hi/bridtan L.) is also a xxative of Asia, introdxxced in 1778. The leaves ax-e large, sonxe- what cordate, smooth, and of a light green. When xxnder good cxxltivation, they ofteix ixxcasure four or five feet in length, the foot-stalk included. 'I'his sort was first introdxxced as a culinary rhubarb by Uickson, V. P. H. S. about twenty’ years xxgo, and is esteemed ixxore succulent tbaix the rhnpoxitic. The palmatum (7f. pal- matum. L.) is a native of Tartarv, distinguished fronx all the others by its elegant palmate leaves. It has becix known in this country since 1758, and is geixerally’ considered as the true Txxi’keyor Rxxssiaix rhubarb. 'J'he two tirst species of rhxxbarb are cxiltivated cntii'ely', and the thii'd in gardeixs priixcipally, for the pe- tioles of the x-oot leaves, which are peeled, cut down, and foxnxxcd into