RY 273 RU times, though rarely, six or eight feet high. The leaves are sessile, linear, dark green above, and grey- ish or whitish underneath ; the blos- soms are of a pale colour. The whole plant is highly aromatic. The flowers and calyces of rosemary, form a principal ingredient in the distilla- tion of Hungary water. Infusion of the leaves are made in some drinks. Sprigs of rosemary are used as a garnish; and were given in Shak- speare’s time as tokens of remem- brance. “ There’s rosemary, that’s for remembrance,” says the dis- tracted Ophelia. In some parts of the west of England and Wales, the sprigs of rosemary are distributed to the company at funerals, and often throw n into the grave upon the coffin of the deceased. ROUX.—Butter and flour blended together over the fire to a proper con- sistence, either white or brown. RU.M, [Molasses Spirit).—Rum is obtained from molasses, by mixing two or three gallons of water with one gallon of molasses; and to every two hundred gallons of this mixture, adding a gallon of yeast; once or twice a day the head as it rises is stirred in, and in three or four days, two gallons more of water are added to each gallon of molasses originally used, and the same quantity of yeast as at first. Four, five, or six days after this, there is added a third por- tion of yeast, as before, and about one ounce of jalap root powdered, (or in winter oz.), on which the fermentation proceeds with great violence, and in three or four days, the wash is fit for the still; one hundred gallons of this wash is com- puted to yield twenty-two gallons of spirit, one to ten over proof.—See Treacle. RUM, .JAMAICA.—Rum is a species of vinous spirit, drawn by distillation from sugar-canes, or ra- ther from molasses, which are the dregs of sugar, and the skimming of the sugar pans, of lees or returns, and water. The word rum is the name it bears among the native Americans. To one hundred gallons of lees, or returns as they are called, ten gal- lons of molasses are added. This affords from ten to seventeen gallons of proof rum, and twice as much low wines. Double distilled rum is rectified to a strength approaching to spirit of wine. RYE.—In some parts of the Con- tinent, rye is much used; but in England, the consumption of it in ordinary seasons is very trifling. In Germany and Sweden, rye, indeed, forms the chief ingredient of their bread. It has one quality which renders it advantageous to the seden- tary and those advanced in years, that is, it obviates costiveness. Rye, by itself, indeed, without mixtui'e of wheat, will actually produce flux in some people ; it is, therefore, neces- sary that the bread be made with two parts wheat to one of rye; and those who even find this too laxative should use brown wheaten bread. The analysis of rye by Sir H. Davy, gave 5 per cent, of gluten. In 3.840 parts of rye flour, M. Ernhof found 2,3.54 parts of starch.— Crell's Annalcs de Chiviie. The ergot or spun-ed rye, either alone, or contaminating rye, has long been deemed a poison. It is stated to have given rise to epidemic dis- eases at various times, in France, Silesia, Prussia, Bohemia, Saxony, and Sweden. Perrault mentions, that in travelling through Bologne, in France, he was informed by some physicians and surgeons of that country, that the rye there was sometimes so corrupted, that those who ate bread made of it were seized with a gangrene, some in one part and some in another—some losing a finger, others the hand or the nose; and that this gangrene was not pre- ceded byiiny fever, inflammation, or considerable pain, but that the parts fell off of themselves. The early symptoms were numbness, cold, and