TE TE 332 Chilian or cowslip hyson, a scented Iryson, mixed with small berries that give it a cowslip flavour. The Ankay teas obtained from An Khe have the same appearance as the Canton teas, but are inferior in flavour and generally sell from 4(^. to Is. a Ih. lower. They are supposed to be picked from wild tea plants. The leaves of tea having little or no smell, they are rendered fragrant by mixing with them the leaves of olia fragrans and camellia sesanqua. TEA, SUBSTITUTES FOR.— It would undoubtedly he more con- ducive to health if we could alto- gether dispense with the use of warm liquors, at least when in a healthful state. But if this practice must he indulged in, we ought to choose the herbs growing in our own meadows and gardens, instead of making our- selves tributary to distant nations. With this intention the late Ur. So- lander introduced his sanative tea, not with a view of making it a secret or quack medicine, under which cha- racter it is now sold in this country, hut of recommending the use of it to those individuals who require diluent liquors, and to the heavy, sluggish, and phlegmatic. Dr. Tissot had previously recommended the stalks of cherries and the leaves of peach and almond trees, to the poor jjeople of Switzerland, as substitutes for tea, but we possess a vardety of plants in- finitely superior to these, of which I have myself occasionally made trial. I shall divide them into 3 classes, viz. 1st. 'J'he strong, spicy, and bal- samic plants, such as balm, pepper- mint, sage, and the like. 2d. The strongly aromatic flowers among which those of the rosa pim- pinellafolia (or the rose whose leaves rescmljlc those of the Burnet saxi- frage), and the woodroof or the aspenda odernta, L., deserve the first place, and far excel in flavour all the teas imported from China; and lastly, •'5d. The mild aromatic leaves and blossoms of trees and shrubs ; for in- stance, the blossoms of the lime tree and the black thorn, the leaves of the peach and almond trees, and particu- larly the first tender leaves of the ivhortle berries or the vaccinium myr~ tillus, L., which cannot be distin- guished from real tea when properly gathered and dried in the shade. After having pointed out the best substitutes for Indian tea, we cannot suppress our earnest w'ish that even these indigenous vegetables may not be abused by decocting them in too much water, which, when swallowed hot, must be detrimental to the sto- mach, the lungs, the nerves, and the whole human frame. This import- ant article cannot be better concluded than by quoting the prophetic words of an experienced physician. “ Tea,” says he, “ will induce a total change of constitution in the people of this country. Indeed it has gone a great way towards effecting that evil al- ready. A debility, and consequent irritabilit}' of fibre, are become so common that not only women but even men are affected with them. That class of diseases which, for want of a better name, we call nervous, has made almost a complete conquest of the one sex and is making hasty strides towards vanquishing the other.” And Dr. Buclnan emphati- cally observes, “ did women know the train of diseases induced by debi- lity, and how disagreeable these dis- eases render them to the other sex, they would shun tea as the most deadly poison ; no man can love a woman eaten up with vapours, or worn down with diseases arising from relaxation.” J'arioiis ways of making tea.—“ The Japanese reduce their tea to a fine ])owder by pounding it; they put certain portions of this into a tea cup, pour boiling water upon it, stir it up, and drink it as soon .as cool enough.” Duhiiison's method.—“ Put the tea into a kettle with cold water; cover it close, set it on the fire, and make it all but boil. When you see a sort