233 PE PE the time to prevent the mass from burning to the bottom of the pan. The substance tlius obtained is called tliickening, or thickening-paste ; for it is the basis employed by cooks for thickening soups, gravies, stews, sauces, and other dishes. The mass readily combines with water. A large tablespoonful is sufficient to thicken a quart of meat broth. Be- side this thickening paste, other farinaceous substances are employed for the same purposes, such as bread raspings, crumbs of stale bread, biscuit powder, potatoe mucilage, oatmeal, sago powder, rice powder, &c. A cow-heel, on account of the vast quantity of gelatine witli which it abounds, is excellently well calcu- lated for giving body to soups : the cowheel, after been cracked, is boiled with the broth or soup. —See Soups, Gravies, Broth, Sfc. PASTRY.—Various compositions prepared by the pastry cook and confectioner. These dainties would be less objectionable if any method could be devised to prepare them witliout the pernicious ingredients of yeast and fat substances, which load the stomach with a glutinous slime and rancid matter, obstruct the glands of the abdomen, parti- cularly those of the mesenteiy, and have a strong tendency to produce cutaneous diseases. PEACH, {ylmygdalusPersica, L.) —A delicious fruit abounding with juice, and though not very nourish- ing, they do not cause diarrlitea. This salutary fruit was formerly decried as unwholesome; but it is rather serviceable in obstnictions and bilious disorders. Sugar, wine, and the like, diminish the good quali- ties of peaches; and even when preserved in brandy, they are not so wliolesome as when fresh ; since they become hard by artificial prepa- rations. The kerticls likewise of peaches arc a wholesome bitter, and are cleansing, on account of their astringent properties. The kernels. leaves, and flowers, contain prussic acid, which they yield by distillation; the former, consequently, ought to be used sparingly.—See Prussic ylcid. It is a dessert fruit, of the first order, and makes a delicious pre- serve. In Maryland and Virginia, a brandy is made from this fruit.— “ The manufacture of this liquor, and the feeding of pigs, being,” as Braddick observes, {Hort. Trans. ii. 205), “the principal uses to which the peach is applied in those countries.” The leaves, steeped in gin or whiskey, communicate a flavour resembling that of noyeau. As there are several kinds of peaches of an inferior quality, it will be useful to point out the distinguish- ing marks of that fruit in a mature state. The best sort of peaches have a delicate thin skin, which is easily separated from the pulpous part. Those which are naturally smooth, ought to be covered with only a small quantity of down; for too much down or wool on the surface, is a sign of their inferior quality. They are likewise not to be depended upon as wholesome, if they are of a size either too small or unusually large. Their pulp ought to be de- licate, yet solid, somewhat fibrous, and full of juice ; it should not ad- here to the stone or kernel, and ought readily to melt in the mouth. “A good poach,” observes Miller, “ possesses those qualities,—tlie flesh is firm; the skin is thin, of a deep or bright red colour next the sun, and of a yellowish green ne.xt the wall; the pulp is of a 3'ellowish colour, full of high flavoured juice ; the fleshy part thick, and the stone small.” PEAS.—Green peas as well as French beans, boiled in their fresh state, are equally agreeable and wholesome; for they are less flatu- lent and more easy of digestion, than in their ripe state. It deserves to be remarked, in general, that all vege- tables of the pulse kind, as they