89 cu CU some hours, and may be skimmed off, and in this manner separated from it. Cream appears to possess many of the properties of oil; it is smooth and oily to the touch, and stains cloth in the same manner as other unctuous substances. After stand- ing some days it gradually becomes thicker, and at length forms a soft solid, in which the flavour of cream is no longer perceived, and that of cheese is substituted in its place. According to Berzelius, cream is a compound body, consisting of Butter . . . 4.5 Cheese . . . 3.5 Whey ... 92 parts. But since the whey holds certain salts in solution, the whole of the solid matter contained in the cream may be considered as amounting to 12.5 per cent. When cream is agi- tated, as is done by the common pro- cess of churning, it is separated into two parts,—a thick animal oil, well known by the name of butter,—and a fluid, which possesses exactly the same properties as milk that has been deprived of its cream. This change has been supposed to arise from the combination of the cream with the oxygen of the atmosphere; but it takes place, though perhaps not equally well, in vessels from which the air has been excluded.— See Butter, Curd, Milk. CREAM of TARTAR.—Sec Tartar, &c. CROUSTADE.—Bread baked in a mould, and scooped out to con- tain minces. CROUTONS.—Bread cut in va- rious shapes, and fried lightly in butter or oil. CUBEBS. — Cubebs, cardamoms, vanilla, and cloves, (which see), are hot and pungent, consequently impro- per for daily use. Cubebs are much inferior to pepper in pungency, con- sequently it fell into disuse as a condiment. It formerly held a place in the Materia Medica, and has lately been introduced again into practice. The Turkey yellow-berries, namely, the dried fruit of the buck- thorn, are often substituted for the cubebs, and the similarity between them is so great, that the casual ob- server may be easily deceived. CUCUMBERS.—A wholesome, gently opening, and cooling fruit, which may be of considerable ser- vice to the consumptive, as it has the property of sweetening acrid hu- mours. (Willich). They shew a ten- dency to ferment, and produce diar- rhoea, which may, however, be pre- vented by the addition of vinegar and pepper, which also counteract their natural coldness. Prepared with oil, vinegar, and salt, they are in- supportable to some weak stomachs, and occasion frequent eructations, and flatulency. But properly pickled, they are an excellent antiseptic, though unfit for children and wet- nurses.—See Alelons. CUCUMBERS, To Pickle.—1. The cucumbers are to be sliced pretty thick; to a dozen of which slice in two or three good onions, and stew them in a large handful of salt, and let them lie in their liquor twenty- four hours; then drain them be- tween two coarse cloths. For the pickle, boil best white-wine vinegar, with some cloves, mace, and Jamaica pepper in it, and pour it scalding hot over them, as much as will cover them all over. When they are cold cover them up with leather, and keep them for use. 2. Wipe your cucumbers very clean with a cloth, then take as many quarts of vinegar as you have hun- dreds of cucumbers; take dill and fennel, cut them small, put them to the vinegar, and set it over the fire in a copper kettle, and let it boil; then put in your cucumbers till they are warm through ; pour all out into a deej) earthen pot, and cover it up very close till the next day; then do the same again; but the third day season the liquor before you set it I 3