VE 376 VE portion of cnule particles, which can- not he assimilated to our fluids, and must, therefore, remain undigested in the bowels, to the great detriment of the alimentary canal. The meal, or farina, of the leguminous class is digested with more difficulty than that of grain; besides, it contains much fixed air; on which account it is extremely flatulent, is apt to occa- sion costiveness, and to communicate various kinds of acrimony to the blood. These effects, however, it produces only when it is eaten too frequently and copiously. Hence bread made of peas or beans, either alone or mixed, and ground together with wheat, is improper for daily use. We must not, however, imagine that even the most wholesome arti- cles of food, are altogether free from air. This aliment is a necessary and useful ingredient to promote the digestion of other alimentary substances. The proportion of fixed air varies extremely in different ve- getables ; all the leguminous plants particularly abound with it; and even persons with whom they agree well, must have experienced flatu- lency and torpor, after a copious use of ])cas or beans. Those who are fond of pea soup would better con- sult their health by boiling the peas whole, than split and deprived of tlieir husks; for these promote the grinding of the peas, and prevent them from turning acid in the sto- mach, which s])lit peas readily do; they are also ajit to occasion oppres- sion in the bowels, and a very trouble- some heart-burn. 'file third order of vegetables com- jirises the various kinds of salads and herhsused in cooking; such as greens, cabbage, spinacb, and the like. These contain a great jiroportiou of water, and little nourislnnent ; they serve to fill the stomach, resist jnitrefactiou, and may, tbevcforc, be eaten more trecly in summer than in winter; being besides of a softening, laxative, saponaceous, and consequently sol- vent nature. They are well calcu- lated to relieve the bowels, on account of their water}' consistence; they are of peculiar service to lean people, to those who lose much moisture by perspiration, or who are troubled with flushings and undulations of the blood ; (in which case animal food is improper)—and as these vegetables contribute to promote insensible perspiration, they are cooling, and assist all the emunctions of the bod)'. Their nourishment is in proportion to the mucilage they contain ; but as this is in a very diluted state, the aliment they afford is inconsiderable, 'fhey are further distinguished by thin, earthy, acrid, and aerial parti- cles, both with respect to their nutri- ment, and their effect iqion the first passages. 'riicy become soft by boiling, many of the aerial particles are e.xpelled, and are thus rendered more digestible ; but the practice of boiling them in large quantities of water, which is afterwards jioured off, is extremely absurd and injudi- cious, for, with the water, their best and most nutritious parts are conse- quently thrown away, hence these vegetables ought to be thoroughly washed, and cabbage exccjited, stewed in a small quantity of water, which will be so far reduced by slow boiling, that it may be brought to the tabic with the substance dressed, 'fo improve their relish as well as to render these vegetables less flatulent, sjiices are generally added with a view to assist digestion; and for the same reason they are eaten in a raw state, with vinegar, salt, ])cpper, and the like. Berries. — Indigenous, or native berries. Bearberr)’, Blackworts or bilberry. Chili strawberry, Chinese strawberry. Cloved berry. Common barberry, bramble, English juniper,