319 TR TR removed from both. The broth is diet, by the previous process of salt- for this purpose set aside to cool, and ing. This process is found not only the cake of fat on the top taken off to harden the fibres of the meat, and before it is given ; then it is warmed make it more indigestible, but also to up, and again carefully skimmed, deteriorate the animal juices, while it When beef-tea is given instead of broth, which sometimes happens, the fat is got rid of in the same way. So very different are the notions which trainers have learned from experience respecting the effects of fat, and those usually maintained by the vulgar, of its highly nourishing properties. In speaking of liquid food, it may be mentioned that no preparation of viilk is permitted, as if it is strong and new, it is heavy, and apt to de- range the stomach ; and if sour, as in the state of butter-milk, though it is not so apt to disagree, it is weak and watery, and productive of little nourishment. All the cream, and the buttery parts of milk also, have the quality of producing fat, rather than firm muscularity, 'fhe nutritive properties of milk, indeed, are very ill understood by those who have taken up fanciful and romantic notions of pastoral diet, and the hcaltluTiess ofnistics who use it liberally. It is not the milk diet, we are bold to say, that makes shepherds healthy and vigorous, so much as their constant exercise in the open air, which will render almost any diet so far whole- some and 7iutritive. The adoption of the milk diet of the peasant, with- out his exercise, would not answer the end. Fewterel, however, ])ie- scribed rennet milk for drink, and milk j)ottage for supper ; but his sy.s- tem was a bad one. Iloilim/, as we have seen on that article, deprives the meat of many of its best juices, and other nourish- ing pro])ertics, which arc washed out of the fibres by the constant entrance and recess of the water during the process. Roiled beef, indeed, when not too much done, contains a large enough portion of nourishment for common cvery-day life; but it is rendered totally unfit for a training is apt to produce thirst, a circum- stance above all others to be avoided in training, for thirst always indicates the presence of some unwholesome stimulus, or excitement, and during its continuance wnastes down the sub- stance of the muscles, by the absorb- ents making an extra demand on their juices.—See BoU'mg. Stewing has a like effect to boiling, in wasting the nutritive parts of the meat; and it appear-s also that stewed meat is still less easy of digestion than that which is boiled. Frying is, of all the modes of cookery, the worst for training, as it cannot be performed without fat or oil; two things which, as we have seen, are in all stages of training most strictly prohibited See Stewing. The first allow'ahle mode of dress- ing meat, so as to retain and improve its nourishment, is roasting. By this jirocess, however, there is still a con- siderable loss of substance, amount- ing to from thirty to thirty-five per cent, in beef and mutton, or nearly a third of their original weight. I t is not, we conceive, much known in this country, that tlic French have a way of roasting meat without much waste, or loss of its juices. The joint to he roasted, say.s tlie Almanack dcs Gourmands, is to be immersed for a few minutes in melted suet, which will form a coating around it, by penetrating the surface for a little way, which will ])rovc a barrier of resistance to the exit of all tlio juices of the interior. We cannot, however, answer for the ])i ocess, as ])roducing either a wholesome or a savoury joint. If meat is to be roasted for a person in training, it ought to be i>ut down to a brisk fire, and not done in the usual way of allowing the heat gra- dually to ])enctrate to the centre. The outside, indeed, ought at first to 2 II