MA MA 198 ment prefixed to this pamphlet, observes that in the Midsummer of 1786, a few seeds were given him, said to he those of a dietetic vegetable known in France under the name of the racine de disette. As he was then ignorant of its cultivation and qualities,, he planted the seeds in light earth, which was then placed in his hot-house. They vegetated in about a week, and in the space of two months had acquired stalks of the thickness of a goose-quill, w’hen they were tran'Sjjlanted into the open air. Although this w'as in Septem- ber, they continued to increase ra- pidly, and preserved their verdure throughout the winter. In this sea- son he plucked off some of the leaves, and had them boiled for the table; they were of a fine green colour, lighter than spinach, and something like it in taste, with a flavour some- what resembling that of asparagus. At this period. Dr. Lettsom took up three roots, each about four ounces in weight, which, after boiling, eat very much like parsnips, and had the same shape of the roots. So much had Dr. Lettsom expe- rienced of the cultivation and use of this vegetable, when the Abbe de Commerell’s account of it fell into his hands ; a translation of which he immediately procured, and publislied, in order to difiUse the knowledge of so beneficial an article of diet. “Though this country,” says the Doctor, “ does not spontaneously pro- duce any great variety of vegetables ]iroj)er for the table, yet by the intro- duction of foreign products, and the arts of culture, it nourishes in its bo- som, at this time, the greatest and most useful varieties of fruits, and other dietetic vegetables, in the world. 1 conceive, however, every additional article of nourishment, especially like this almost incredibly abundant, and at the same time salutary both to the human and brute species, must, like the potatoc which Raleigh brought from America, prove an interesting acquisition to the public. I calcu- late, from the product of my garden, that a square yard of ground, planted with mangel wurzel, w'ill yield fifty pounds in weight of salutary food; an abundance equalled by few, if any other plant hitherto cultivated in Europe. “ The last winter was unusually mild; during the w'hole of which, this vegetable retained its verdure, as has been already observed: and as it has never experienced any other winter here, I cannot determine what efiect a severe season might produce. I remarked, that the new shoots aug- mented by plucking "the leaves of a preceding growth; and that even the stalks that shot into flow'er in June 1787, and were accidentally broken off, were replaced by fresh stalks and flowers in the succeeding month; less strong, indeed, but more numerous.” The Abb6 de Commerell says, that this root is not known in France, or at least very little. It has no proper name in French, and he has not been able to find a description of it in any botanical work. In Germany, where the greatest advantages have been derived from it, it is called Dick Ruben (the Great Turnip); Dick Wurzel (the Great Root); and Man- gel Wurzel (the Root of Scarcity). He uses the last denomination, the Root of Scarcilg, because it is a literal translation of the name often given to it by the Germans, and be- cause it is expressive of the proper- ties of the plant which it denotes. It might, indeed, be called the Root of Abujidunce, which would be no great deviation from the German name, and which would be expressive of one of the princijuil propei'ties of this plant; which is, constantly to thrive, and to produce a very great crop, even when other kinds of roots and vegetables fail, and when there is a general senreit}' of forage. This root ought not to be put into the class of turnips, nor into that of carrots; and although by its exter-