KI 181 KI The large intestines exceed the others in diameter, but are less con- siderable in length. The ccecitm constitutes the first division of this portion ; the second the colon, which is the principal tract of the large intestines, and it exceeds them all in diameter. The colon has been divided into the ascending portion, which extends from the ccecum to the right hypochondrium, into the transverse portion, or what is termed its great arch; and into the descend- ing portion, including what has been called its sigmoid flexure. The rec- tum is the last portion of the intes- tinal canal; it begins where the colon ends. It is called the straight gut, from its not being contracted; its coats are more thick and fleshy than those of any other of the in- testines ; its figure varies as it is full or empty; when empty, it is regu- larly cylindrical, and contracts in transverse folds: it is capable of very great distension ; even to the size of a blown out bladder: and the quantity of faeces that sometimes accumulates in it is prodigious, and cannot be re- moved except by mechanical means. K. KETCHUP.—Salt flavoured by mushrooms, or the juice of walnuts, e.g. 7a/cc—Mushrooms, four pounds ; common salt, two pounds; sprinkle the salt over them; when the juice is drawn out, add pimento, eight ounces; cloves, one ounce; boil them for a short time, and press out the liquor.—See Soy. 2. Mushroom juice, eight gallons; pimento, eight ounces ; pepper, four ounces; cloves, four ounces; shalots, 12 ounces; long pepper, two ounces; salt, four pounds ; boil for an hour. 3. Juice of young walnuts by the press, to a gallon add anchovies, two pounds; shalots, one pound; clove, mace, black pepper, of each one ounce; and a clove of garlick; boil a little, and bottle. 4. Juice of walnut shells, fifteen gallons ; salt, half a bushel; ginger, shalots, garlick, horse-radish, of each three pounds; essence of an- chovies, six quarts. 5. Walnut juice, six gallons ; vine- gar, twelve pints; anchovies, twenty- four pounds; j)imento, one pound ; ginger, two ounces; long pcp])er, three ounces; cloves, six ounces; shalots, twelve ounces; boil a little, and bottle.—Vide Gray's Supple- ment to the Pharmacopaia, p. 333. KID.—The young male of a goat. The younger the more nourishing. When it has attained a certain age it becomes a he-goat; its flesh then is of a rank, unpleasant smell and taste, especially during the rutting season; it is, consequently, not used as food; it is however, that when it has been castrasted very young it fat- tens and yields good juice.—SeeGoat. A kid for the table, ought to be selected under the age of six months and still sucking, and has not fed upon herbs. The dam should also be examined, to ascertain if she was healthy, well fed, and furnished good and wholesome milk. In proportion as the kid becomes older, so does its flesh become hard, of an unpleasant smell, bad taste, and hard digestion. The flesh of young kids is recom- mended to persons recovering from long sickness, in which they have been much reduced. It is nourishing and easy of digestion. KIDNEYS.—The kidneys of ani- mals are very hard to digest, even harder than the liver itself, and do not give out any eflective nourish- ment. Tlie kidneys of the younger animals are to be preferred, and especially those of the calf. The older the animal, the less nutritious and more diliicult of digestion are the kidneys.