CA CA 58 the large nuts. This tree, it has been remarked, supplies the Indians with almost whatever they stand in need of. The bark of the nut is made into cordage, sails, and cloths; and the shell into drinking-bowls, cups, and other articles; the kernel affords a wholesome food; and the milk con- tained within the kernel a cooling liquor. The leaves are used for thatch- ing houses, and wrought into baskets ; and the body of the tree is converted into masts for ships, and employed for various other purposes. Indeed, from Lobo’s Voyage, and other authors, (see Ray’sWisdom of God in the Crea- tion, p. 207), we learn that a ship may be built, fitted out with masts, sails, and cordage, and victualled with bread, water, wine, sugar, vine- gar, and oil, from the cacoa-tree. CALICES, Capuchins, Capers, and flowers of Cresses, mix well with the colder salads; the buds, when candied, are also used as jiot- herbs in winter. CALUMB.\.—The root of a plant growing in Southern Africa, supposed to be the Cocculus Palmatus. It has a disagreeable, somewhat pungent taste, and a light aromatic smell. It is a very pure bitter, is tonic and stomachic. It is extremely useful in cholera when the vomiting has stop- ped, and in the bilious vomiting of warm climates; also in bilious fever, diarrhoea, and habitual vomiting.— With gentle laxatives, it is employed in habitual costiveness; and has also been given with success in hypo- chondriasis, hysterics, heart-burn, vertigo, sudden blindness from ner- vous causes, colic, and indigestion:— Take—■ Powder of Columba, 2 drachms. Boiling Water . 1 pint. Macerate for six hours, and take a \vine-glassful three or four times a day.—The tincture of Columba is a good preparation, and is given in doses from one to two drachms; the jiowder, from a scruple to half an ounce. CALX In its primary sense, lime, or a sort of stone burnt in a kiln, in order to make mortar. In chemistry, a kind of ashes, or fine friable powdei-, which remains after a body has undergone the violence of fire for some time. CAPERS.—Capers are the pro- duce of a low shrub, which generally grows among rubbish, and out of the joints of old walls, and the fissures of rocks. Dr. Smollett observes, that this plant requires no culture. They are pickled, and brought to England annually from Italy and the Mediter- ranean ; particularly from about Tou- lon in the south of France; from whence it is said, the gi-eatest part of the capers throughout Europe are derived. In the island of Majorca, they grow wild, and form a lucrative subject of exportation to individuals. They are chiefly used in sauces, and sometimes in medicine, as being very aperient, and employed in certain compositions for diseases of the spleen. In England, broom-buds are frequently substituted for capers. Capers are said to provoke women’s terms, and are good in asthma, hypo- chondriasis, and visceral obstructions. They create an appetite, fortify the stomach, kill worms, and increase the seminal discharge. If used im- immoderately, they heat and rarify the fluids too much. They agree in cold weather with old people, of a cold, phlegmatic, and melancholy constitution. Preserved capers are more used in sauces than for food. Their chief virtue consists in an essential oil which they contain. The green flowers of Spanish broom pickled as capers are often substituted for them. Such as are green, tender, and well pickled, ought to be selected. C.'VPON.—.A cock castrated, to make him fatter, and his flesh more delicious and tender. The cock being a lascivious animal, but as the great heat of his body is destructive to his flavour, and causes his flesh to