40 BO BR A liam, weighing twenty pounds, will take four hours and a half boiling; others in proportion. They should be put into boiling water, if not over dry, and suffered to simmer the whole time. On boiling. Count Romford observes (vide 10th Essay, pp. 3—6), “ the process by which food is most commonly prepared for the table.— Boiling is so familiar to every one, and its effects so uniform, and appa- rently so simple, that few, 1 believe, have taken the trouble to incjuire hoiv or in what manner these effects are produced, and whether any, and what improvements in that branch of cookery are possible : so little has this matter been an object of in- quiry, that few, very few indeed, I believe, among the millions of persons who for so many ages have been daily employed in this process, have even given themselves the trouble to be- stow one serious thought on the sub- ject.” Boiling cannot be carried on without a very great expense of fuel; but any boiling-hot liquid (by using proper means for containing the heat) may be kept boiling-hot, for any length of time, almost without any expense of fuel at fill.* The waste of fuel in culinary processes, which arises from making liquids boil un- necessarily, or when nothing more would be necessary than to keep them boiling hot, is enormous. I have not a doubt, but that much more than half the fuel used in all the kitchens, public and private, in the whole world, is wasted precisely in this manner. But the evil does not stop here,—this unscientific and slovenly manner of cooking, renders the process much more laborious and troublesome than otherwise it would be ; and (what by many will be con- * llrUcr rc?nains at the same pitch of temperature hou'cver Jicrccly it boils; the only difference is, tliat with a strong fire it sooner conics to boil, and most (juickly boils away, and is converted into steam. —See Huchanan on the Economy of Fuel. ISIO. sidered of more importance than either the waste of fuel, or the in- crease of labour to the cook) the food is rendered less savoury, and very probably less nourishing and less wholesome. It is natural to suppose that many of the finer and more valuable parts of food (those which are best calcu- lated to act upon the organs of taste) must be carried off with the steam when the boiling is violent. Though boiling does not require so much nicety and attention as roasting, it is evident much is to be gained, by due attention, both as regards economy and good taste. BORRAGE. — An herb which, like Buglos, is much used in cooling broths, and for other culinary pur- poses. The flowers are used in medi- cinal cordials, and the herb again for cool tankards in summer. It is called one of the four cordial flowei's—it comforts the head, cheers drooping spirits.—{Salmon’s Household Com- panion, p. 45, London, 1710), and Evelyn, in his Acetaria, says, “ The sprigs in wine are of known virtue to revive the hypochondriac, and cheer the hai-d student.” Combined with the ingredients in the above receipt, we have frequently observed it pro- duce all the cardiac and exhilarating effects ascribed to it. Both borrage and buglos are hard of digestion. BRANDY.—Aqua I'Hat, L. Eau de vie, F. Brandy is a spirituous and inflammable liquor, extracted from wine and other liquors by' distillation. The best is obtained from the wines of the middle provinces of France, and is esteemed the best in Europe. The chief French brandies are those of Bordeaux, Roclielle, cogniac, the Isle of Rhe, Orleans, Nantz, and Poitiers. The wines of Languedoc and Sp.ain yield about one quarter of brandy; Burgundy, less than an eighth; Borde.aux, about a fifth. An inferior sort of brandy is ob- tained from wines which have turned sour, and from the lees left in the