MA MA 192 dientsi If you make use of wine or anchovy, take off its rawness by put- ting it in some time before your dish is ready; for nothing injures the re- putation of a made-dish so much as raw w'ine or fresh anchovy. Be sure to put your fried force-meat balls to drain on a sieve, that the fat may run from them ; and never let them boil in your sauce, as that will soften them, and give them a greasy ap- pearance : to put them in after the meat is dished up is indisputably the best method. In almost every made- dish you may use force-meat balls, molds, truffles, artichokes, bollines, and pickled mushrooms; and in several made-dishes a roll of force- meat may supply the place of balls, and when it can be used with pro- priety it is to be preferred. Broivning, to colour and flavour Made Dishes.—Powder four ounces of double refined sugar, put it into an iron frying pan with an ounce of fresh butter, mix these well over a clear fire, and when it begins to froth, hold it up higher; when it comes of a fine dark brown, pour in a small quantity of a pint of port wine, and afterwards the remainder, slowly and judiciously stirring it all the time. Add one ounce of Ja- maica, and the same quantity of black pepper, six cloves of shalots peeled, three blocks of mace bruised, three spoonfuls of mushroom, and the same of walnut, ketchup, some acid, and the finely paired rind of a lemon; boil the whole slowly for the space of fifteen minutes and a half, pour it out into a basin till cold, skim it, and bottle it up for use. It is not an uncommon thing at many tables, where every thing else is done well, to find very indifi’erent stuffing; no one flavour should pre- dominate too much: a common fault is, tluit the taste of lemon peel and thyme overcomes all others, they should, consequently, be used in small quantities, and be consistent enough to cut witli a knife, but not dry and heavy; herbs are a very essential ingredient, and it is not the copious but judicious use of them that gives to the French cookery its superior eminence in point of flavour. The ■principal ingredients in Force- meats, are—Cold fowl, veal, mutton, scraped ham, or gammon. Fat bacon, or the fat of ham, beef-suet, veal- suet, butter, marrow, crumb of bread, parsley, white pepper, salt, nutmeg. Cold sole, oysters, anchovy, lob- ster, tarragon, savoury, penny-royal, knotted-niaijoram, thyme, lemon thyme, basil, sage, lemon-peel, yolk of hard eggs, yolk and white of eggs well beaten, to bind the mixture. Mace, cloves, cayenne, garlick, pepper, shalots, onions, drives, chervil, Jamaica pepper finely pow- dered, or some cloves. MADEIRA.—The wine thus called is the produce of Madeira, a beautiful and fertile island, situated in the Atlantic Ocean. The wines of Madeira are greatly improved bj' the heat of the sun, and therefore acquire a considerable augmentation of price, by being conveyed across the Equator previousl}' to their ar- rival in England. — See Spanish Wines. MADELEINES.—Cakes, made of the same composition as pound cakes. MAIGRE, (.\o). An Maigre.— Soups, &c., dressed without meat. MALAG.-V.— See Spanish Hines. MALLOW.—This plant is suffi- cientl}^ known to need no descrip- tion. The entire plant, that is, leaves, flower, and root, contains much mu- cilage, and are demulcent in stran- gury, catarrh, inflammation of the lungs, and dysentary. The decoc- tion may be taken ad libitum. MALMSEY.—This wine was for- merly the produce of Candia, the islands in the Archipelago, and the Morea, in Greece; but is now chiefly brought from Madeira, and some from Spain. It is a sweet winej M