sc SC 288 or flesh dried by smoke or in the air, or seasoned witli salt, it appears why they are more liable to the scurvy than other inhabitants of the globe. The want of vegetable food, which disposes to putrefaction, is there- fore deservedly reckoned among the causes of the scurvy; and, indeed, in the last stage of the scurvy the putridity is so great, that the wretches emit the smell of dead bodies; and hence also, but in another point of view, it plainly appears why those who are obliged to live in an air con- taminated by putrid effluvia, are sub- ject to this disease; those, we mean, who live near the sea, and especially such as live in places that are, from time to time, overflowed by the waters of the sea. Those who have endea- voured to make sea-water wholesome and potable, have met with this par- ticular difficulty, that they were not able to take away the disagreeable and sub-putrid taste; though they could easily separate the sea-salt that was in the water. Whence it is ob- served, that when, at the recess of the tide, the shore, yet moist, is ex- posed to the heat of the sun, a nasty stench is diffused through all the adjacent parts; and this stench is more and more noisome, while fishes of many kinds, as well shell-fish as others, are thrown up on the shore, and soon rot under the waves. If a whale be thrown upon the shore, and there dead, can send forth an intolerable smell for the space of sojue miles, how must it be when a prodigious number of those beasts lie rotting in the sea? There are but few species of fish used for human food ; and the great carcasses of whales,when the fat is cutaway, and the flexible cartilages of the fins, arc left by the fishermen in the sea. If to these be added the softer marine plants, so many in number, and rot- ting likewise in the sea, the drowned bodies of so many men and others, we shall easily be able to account why that immense collection of wa- ters is infested with a putrid and very disagreeable smell. Bad smells are, indeed, in a less degree percep- tible where the sea is deep, because the bodies, sunk in the bottom of the sea, are covered by a vast column of water, and whatever exhales from them is blown off by the winds. But about shores, where the sea is of no depth, and where places are covered sometimes by the flow of the tide, and sometimes not, this troublesome smell is more perceived; and daily observations shew, that people living in such parts are affected with dis- ease, and frequently with the scurvy\ For the same reason, those also are attacked by this disease who live in the neighbourhood of standing waters and marshy grounds, which, in the heats of summei', usually send forth very offensive smells; and more especially if strong and frequent winds do not blow off those noxious exhalations; and they are worse off who live in low, flat, boggy grounds, which are less exposed to the winds. 2. Scurvy, frequent and invete- rate among the Dutch.—Sijmptom.<!, Causes, Sfc.—There are many such pi aces as those above described among the Dutch, and most of the inha- bitants languish with the scuny. The disease is manifest by their cari- ous teeth and bloody gums, and most commonly they become toothless in the prime of life; yet they linger on for a great while on account of their spirit of industry and peq)etual round of labour. This shews, too, that an idle and sedentary life is a disposing cause to this disease; for when animal motion is lessened our humours pass into a glutinous state, and together with acrimony there is generally a siziness of blood; and it has been observed, in those places where the scurvy is frequent, that weavers, tailors, shoemakers, and others, who exercise sedentary arts, are often aflected by this disease. We have seen many who, by a labo- rious and frugal life, had acquired