57 C. CABBAGE, RED.—This is one of the most indigestible substances, particularly as eaten by the French and Germans, with ham and chest- nuts ; it is thus rendered heating, fla- tulent, and laxative, and contains no nourishment. More digestible, cool- ing, and less hurtful to the bowels, are the young sprigs of cauliflowers ; but the most indigestible of all is the colewort. What has been said with respect to cabbage, is applicable also to the orach, or atriplex, and the let- tuce, when boiled or stewed. CABBAGE, WHITE. — White cabbage is possessed of excellent pro- perties; it is less flatulent than the common g^reens, and being full of water, it is diuretic, and somewhat laxative. It is remarkable, that all herbs and plants, in general, are more or less flatulent, according to their digestibility, and are disposed to pu- Irescency in proportion to the time they remain in the alimentary canal. —See Sauer Kraut. The redeabbage is principally used for pickling; those which are close- leaved are tlie best. It is directed to be cut in quarters, and when the li- quor boils to put in the cabbage, and give it a dozen warms; then make the pickle of white-wine vinegar and claret. Beet-root may be added to it, first boiled, and turnips half boiled, and these may be used to garnish dishes or salads. Cabbages are in- different nourishment; though they are detersive, and heal wounds in the form of the cold raw leaf. Their first liquor, after boiling, is laxative; and the last, astringent. The red cabbage is more pectoral than the others. 'I'hey are difficult of digestion, and produce flatulency in weak stomachs; they are, therefore, usually well l)oiled, and eaten with pepper, to facilitate their solution in the stomach, and ob- viate the inconvenience attributed to them. In a tender state, they agree with young people of a bilious and sanguine constitution ; as soon, how- ever, as it ceases to be tender, that is, when it becomes hard, they ought not to be eaten by persons of any age or constitution. Hippocrates caused cabbages to be boiled twice, and then prescribed them to be eaten by those who W'ere troubled with gripes, bloody flux, or spitting of blood: by this process, cabbages were divested of their purging quality, and only the grosser parts left behind, which are mm-e astringent,—according to the following line:— " Jus caulis solvit, cujus substantia stringit.” C.‘\CAO.—This, in fact, is only a weak chocolate, which, being less pure than the former, weak chocolate might be properly substituted for it. —See Chocolate. The cacao, or chocolate-nut tree, is a native of America, but is cul- tivated in many of the West India Islands. It resembles a cherry-tree. The fruit is enclosed in a kind of pod, of the size and figure of a cucumber. Of this fruit, which consists of seeds, usually about thirty in number, with the addition of vanilla, and some other ingredients, the Spaniards, and, after their e.xample, the rest of Europe, make a kind of conserve, or cake; which, diluted in hot water, makes that delicious, wholesome drink, call- ed chocolate. It is likewise made into a sweetmeat; and there is an oil ex- tracted from it, which has been re- puted an extraordinary remedy in the cure of burns and scalds. The cacao- nuts are esteemed by the Mexicans as anodyne; and used, eaten raw, to assuage pains of the bowels. This statement refers to the cacao, or tree bearing ihe small jmls ; what follows, relates to the cacao-tree which bears