FO FO 134 of vinegar aromatized with herbs. This culinary occurrence we have merely noticed because the action of vinegar, given to animals, a few hours before death, in rendering the fibres mellow, deserves to he ex- amined. In this country it is no uncommon thing to give poultry a spoonful or two of vinegar before they are killed, after which they are to be imme- diately dressed for the table. Popular practices are seldom without some foundation, and with this is con- nected the popidar fact, that acetic acid or vinegar has a peculiar che- mical action upon fibrine. The Moors in West Barbaiy, before they kill a hedge-hog, which with them is esteemed a princely dish, rub his back against the ground, by holding his feet betwixt two, as men do a saw, when they are sawing stones, till it has done squeaking, and then cut its throat. Vide Jones, in Phi- losoph. Trans. No. 254. FOOD, Animal varieties of.— From the order of wild animals {Pe- rce ) mankind have long derived the principal part of their nutriment, especially in the earlier periods of society. The flesh of the common seal a few centuries ago was served up at the tables of the great in this cotin- try; and it still forms the principal subsistence of the Greenlanders, Icelanders, and Kamschatkadales. 'I’hcre are few of the first order (Pri- mates) of the class Mammalia (see Mammalia) eaten. In some coun- tries, however, several species of the ape tribe are eaten—of these are the Barbary ape, the preacher monkey, and the four-lingered monkey. Some sjiecies of the bat tribe are occasion- ally eaten by the natives of warm cli- mates, especially the vampyre bat. Of the second order (Bruta) several genera afford nourishment to unci- vilized tribes. The great ant cater is frcqucntl}' eaten by the American Indians; but its (lesli has a strong and disagreeable smell. Most spe- cies of armadillo fonn an article of diet among the Indians. Tlie flesh of the two horned rhinoceros is eaten in Myssina, but its flesh is verv sinewy. The flesh of the elephant is often eaten in the same country, as well as by the Hottentots: also several species of the walrus. It may also here be noticed, while we are thus detailing the many cu- rious dishes of olden time, the sin- gular diet of two or three of anti- quity, mentioned by Herodotus (lib. iv.) “The Androphagi, the canni- bals of the ancient world, greedily devoured the carcasses of their fellow- creatures ; while the inoffensive Ca- bri, a Scythian ti-ibe, found both food and drink in the agreeable nut of the Pontic tree. The Lotophagi lived entirely on the fruit of the lotus tree. The savage Troglodyte esteemed a living serpent, the most delicious of all morsels, while the capricious pa- late of the Zyguntini preferred the ape to every thing.” Warner’s Aniig. Culin. p. 135. a. The Bear.—The brown or black fear is eaten by the common people in Norway, Russia, and Poland. It is difficult of digestion, and is gene- rally salted and dried before it is used. h. The Dog.—Of the dog tribe, few species have been employed as food; though the common dog is voraciously eaten by the inhabitants of the South Sea islands; and is used sometimes for food in more civilized societies. c. The Otter.—The common otter is eaten in some Roman Catholic countries, and considered as nearly allied to fish. The young of the sea- otter, are said to be delicate eating. d. The Lion.—Of the cat tribe, the flesh of the lion is considered an excellent article of food bjr several natives of Africa. e. Ihe Oposswn.—Several species of the opossum are considered by the natives of South America, as equally good for food with the flesh