Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21471733THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE; WITH PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS. A NEW TREATISE ON FRENCH AND ENGLISH COOKERY, COMBINING ECONOMY WITH ELEGANCE. BY I. ROBEETS, COOK TO HIS LATE ROYAL HIGHNESS THE DUKE OF GLOUCESTER, THE LATE RIGHT HON. EARL OF CLARENDON, THE RIGHT HON. LORD DYNEVOR, AND NOW TO THE PRESENT RIGHT HON. EARL OF CLARENDON. TO WHICH IS ADDED AN APPENDIX, CONTAINING M. APPERT'S METHOD OF PRESERVING FRUIT WITHOUT SUGAR. THE RUDIMENTS OF ICES, AND MANY USEFUL PERFORMANCES IN THE ART OF CONFECTIONERY. Hotttton: PUBLISHED BY LAKING, STATIONER TO HER ROYAL HIGHNESS THE DUCHESS OF GLOUCESTER. CURZON STREET, MAY FAIR. 1836.PRINTED BY GEO. NICHOLS, EARL'S COURT, CRANBOURN STREET, SOHO.Mrs. John Dorrien Magens 1 LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS. Coplei Her Royal Highness The Duchess of Gloucester . . 4 Her Royal Highness The Princess Sophia Matilda . . 4 His Grace The Duke of Buccleuch 4 The Right Hon. Earl of Clarendon 4 The Right Hon. Countess of Clarendon . . . . 2 The Right Hon. Lady Maryborough .... 2 The Right Hon. Lord Dynevor ..... 2 The Right Hon. Lady Dynevor ..... 2 The Right Hon. Lady Mostyn 3 The Right Hon. Lady H. Mostyn 3 The Hon. I. P. Lloyd 2 Miss Lloyd, of Berth 1 The Hon, Mrs. Harbord 2 Mrs. Beaden 2 The Right Hon. Earl Talbot 2 The Hon. Rev. A. C. Talbot 2 The Hon. Rev. G. G. Talbot 2 Sir Horatio Townshend 111 ' LIST Sir Edmund Curry . Sir S. Gordon Higgeus H. F. Forster, Esq. The Rev. Thomas Lewis The Hon. Mrs. Capel David Lewis, Esq. (M. P. Mrs. Hearn Mrs. Hay ton D'IfFanger, Esq. Mrs. Clavering Mrs. Parke Harmond Mrs. Prinsip Edward Smyth, Esq. I. H. Davies, Esq. . Mrs. Pollard . Mrs. Holland . Mrs. Bozanquet Mr. Gardner . Mr. Liddle Mrs. Malony . Mrs. Ames . . . Mrs. Marsh Mrs. Maggs . Mr. Lantford . Mrs. M. A. C. Richmond Mr. Nidery Mr. Parton Mrs. Roberson OF SUBSCRIBEHB. Copies ... 2 1 2 2 1 G 3 2 2 2 2 1 . . . .2 2 1 ...... 2 . . . 1 3 2 1 2 1 1 1 : . 2 . . . . . 6 6 1111 LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS Mr. Gosling . Mrs. G. Wilson Mrs. J. Wilson Mrs. Watson . Mrs. G. Walker Mrs. Brownrigg Mr. Blacklock Mr. Ellis Mrs. Offley . Mrs. Simmonds Mrs. Calton Mrs. Macfarlane Mrs. M. Roberts Mrs. Sinclair . Mr. Williams . Mrs. Moss Mrs. Goter Mrs. Fordham Mr. Florance . Mr. Williamson Mrs. Mitchel . Mrs. Ruller . Mrs, Pritchard Mrs. Hepburn Mrs. Johnson . Mr. Burn Mrs. Forster Mr. SparrowLIST OP SUBSCRIBERS. Copies Mrs. Jeffries i Mrs. Lane '4 Mr. Oaten . . . 1 Mrs. Jones i Mrs. Masterman 1 Mrs. C. Walker 1 Mr. Walker 1 Mr. Davie 2 Mr. Wittingham 1 Mr. Maddox 2 Mrs. Curvin ......... 1 Mrs. Stewart 1 Mrs. Taylor . . . : 1INDEX. SOUPS. Nos. Soups, a I'aurore 165 — Beef tea 1 — Beef broth 4 — Brunoise — Bonne femme, &, la . . . 169 — Beauveau 172 — Consomme S — Cressi 34 — Crayfish, tureen of . . • 98 — Consomme, with Italian paste 116 — Ditto, -with macaroni . . 133 — Clermont, a la .... 164 — Carmelite, la . . . . 166 — Cheese, of 175 — Faubonne, ^ la . . . . 167 — Fish, stock 219 — Gardeners 52 — German 73 — Giblet 161 — Game, puree 162 — Game, au supreme . . . 177 — Hare, puree 163 — Hochepot of mutton . . 176 — Julienne 36 — Jerusalem artichokes, pu- r6e of 173 Soups Nos — Mutton tea 3 — Matelotte of fish (tureen) . 135 — Mock turtle 160 — Mullagatawny .... 178 — Maigre 179 . — Nouilles 171 — Pea, puree of 168 — Queen's 61 — Quails, tureen of ... 134 — Rice, clear 170 — Spring 10 — Sante 76 — Scotch barley broth . . 180 — Turtle 157 — Turnips, puree of ... 174 — Veal tea 2 — Vermicelli 20 — Ditto, queen's way ... 85 White soup, with quenelles of chicken 117 SAUCES. Sauce — Asparagus en ragout . . 182 — A I'aurore 20011 INDEX. Nos. Sauce, Attelets for 201 — Aspic 216 — Bechamel 7 — Beans, puree of ... . 190 — Chesnuts, puree of . . . 192 — Cardinal 193 — Celery puree, white . . . 202 — Cucumber 209 — Caper for fish 213 — Chevreuil 379 — Dutch, for fish .... 211 — Ditto, for meat, &c. . . 212 — Endive 218 — FinanciSre Ragout . . . 181 — Glaze 8 — German 185 — Genoise 36 — Haricot brown .... 197 — Ditto white 198 — Italian brown .... 183 — Ditto white 184 — Jerusalem artichokes, pu- ree of 205 — Mushrooms, puree of . . 191 — Macedoine 203 — Montpelier butter . . . 214 — Oyster, k la creme . . . 323 — Poele 9 — Parsley, green extract of . 19fi — Remoulade 104 — Robert Nos. Sauce llavigotte 206 — Ravigotte, white . . . 207 — Spanisli 33 — Soubise 39 — Sorrel, puree of ... 189 — Spinach, green extract of . 195 — Supr6me 208 — Steward's 210 — Salad 215 — Salad, another way . . . 217 — Savory butter 186 — Tournee 6 — Tarragon 187 — Tarragon, green . . . 188 — Truffle, white .... 204 — Truffle, brown .... 204 — Tomata, puree .... 431 FISH. Codfish 225 — Salt a la maitre d'hotel 226 — Cream sauce 227 John Dory 246 Mullets 244 — With fine herbs .... 136 — Sauce Genoise .... 245 Mackerel, of 239 — Steward's way .... 87 — Fillets a la royale . . . 119 — Fillets a la niar6chale . . 137 Pipers, of 219 Salmon, of 220 — Crimped, sauce Genoise . 36 — Broiled 221 — In cases 222 — Pickled 223 — Trouts 224 Sturgeon, baked 119 — Braised, sauce matelotte . 240 — Larded 241 — Blanquette of .... 242 — A la Gloucester . . . 243INDEX. Soles. J^los- — Paupiettesof 234 — Fillets of, a la orlie . . 285 — Fillets of, h la Reine . . 236 — Fillets of, a la Bella-vue . 237 — Turban of fillets of . . . 238 Skate, of 247 — AVith black butter ... 248 Turbot 11 Whitings, of 228 — Quenelles of 23 — Fish puddings Queen's way 121 — Broiled 229 — Fillets of, a la orlie . . . 230 — Broiled -with sweet herbs . 231 — Fillets, a la maitre d'hotel 232 — Paupiettes of 233 FRESH WATER FISH. Carp au bleu 250 — Prince's way 251 — Matelotte 53 Eels Matelotte of .... 269 — Broiled 270 — Fricassee 271 — In aspic • 272 Lampreys, of 266 — Matelotte of 267 — Stewed in red wine . . . 268 Perch, of 258 — Plain boiled or water 8ucl;et 259 — A la maitre d'hotel . . . 260 — Plain boiled, with Dutch sauce 261 — Fried 262 Pike, of 252 — Polish way 253 — Baked 254 — Fillets ofil la maitre d'hotel 255 — Matelotte of 256 — Fried, sauce ravigotte . . 257 Tench, of 263 — A la royale 99 — Fried 264 — Mutelotle 265 iii SHELL FISH. Nos. Craw Fish, of 273 — A la poulet 275 Lobster, of 276 — Quenelles of, au supreme . 105 — Pudding of 277 Oysters, of 278 — Scolloped 279 — Ragout of 280 — Attelets of 281 — In batter 282 — Sauce of 283 BEEF. Beef, Rump of, stewed ... 21 — Ditto, with cabbage . . 55 — Palates of, au gratin . . 75 — Brisket of, Flemish way . 89 — Croquets of palates of . . 90 — Rump of, the German way 120 — Palates of, in chartreuse . 126 — Fillet of, larded and ma- rinaded 284 — Hochepot of tails of . . 285 — Round of spiced and stewed 286 — Rump ofthe Cardinal's way 287 — Short ribs of, au gratin . 288 — Palates of, fricassee . . 289 — Ditto, blanquette and cu- cumbers 290 — Palates of, blanquette and asparagus 291 — Palates attelets of, Italian sauce 292 — Saute of fillets of ... 293 — Tongue, aux gratin . . . 294 — Tongue of en ragout . . 295 VEAL. I j Veal, Loin of, with bechamel sauce 22iv INDEX. Veal Nos. — Tendons of, with cucumbers 24 — Fricandeau 40 — Scollops of sweetbread in casserole of rice ... 43 — Loin of, with gravy ... 54 — Richelieu pudding ... 59 — Grenadines pique ... 60 — Ris de veau, a la dauphine 61 — Calf's brains, steward's way 77 — Fillet, with puree of haricot beans 88 — Sweetbreads, pique with truffles 95 — Tendons with green peas 145 — Force meat for turtle . . 158 — Egg balls ....... 159 — Neck of, larded and marin- aded 296 — Calf's head, a la flnanciere 297 — Ditto, pane et grille . . 298 _ Galantine 299 — Neck of, braised . . . 300 — Cutlets of, bread-crumbed and broiled 301 — Cutlets in paper .... 302 — Cutlets of, Venetian way . 303 — Farce of 304 — Godiveau 361 MUTTON. Mutton, Leg of, roasted ... 13 Cutlets of, with macedoin of roots 93 Tongues, with stewed en- dive — Leg of, stuffed .... 305 — Cutlets of, bread-crumbed and broiled 306 _ Haricot of 307 — Neck of, braised, and tur- nips 308 __ Neck of, with button onions 309 _ Neck of, and cucumbers . 310 LAMB. Nos. Lamb, Cutlets of, with asparagus peas 15 — Saute of, and green peas . 78 — Lambs' feet and ears gratin 92 — Quarter of, and cucumbers 101 — Sweetbreads and asparagus peas 147 — Shoulder of with farce . .311 — Ditto and cucumbers . . 312 — Necks of a la belle-vue . 313 — Head of, and green sauce . 314 PORK. Pork, of 315 — Westphalia ham .... 38 — Cutlets of and tomata sauce 62 — Sucking pig 316 — Leg of, to eat like wild boar 317 — Boar's head 318 — To cure hams 319 — Sausages farce for . . . 320 FOWLS ENTREES. Fowl with bechamel sauce ... 12 — Croquets of 25 — Poularde roasted ... 28 — Poulards a la financi^re . 37 — Poulards aux nouilles . . 56 — Poulards the duke's way . 100 — Saute of au supreme . . 122 — The Turkish way .... 139 — Scollops of fillets of and truffles 146 — Coarse salt 321 — With oysters, & la due . . 322 — Boiled and oyster sauce plain 323 — A la monglass .... 324 — En surprise 325 _ A la p6rigord 326V INDEX. Fowl N09. 327 328 334 335 336 — Legs of, ducklings like — Cardinal's way . . • — Scollops with cucumbers — A la Montmorence . . — With rice au gratin . . — A la cuisinier 337 — Quenelles of 838 — Pate chaud of aux truffles 383 CHICKEN ENTREES. Chicken, fillets of, and truffles . 58 — Spring macedoin of young roots 74 — Fricassee of 94 — Epigram of cutlets of . . 106 — Quenelles of, a la Reine . 148 — Fillets of, k la royale . . 329 — Wings of, a la dauphine . 330 — Fricassee, &. la St. Floren- tine 331 — Fritures of 332 — Souffle of 333 TURKEY. Turkey k la perigord 339 — Roasted with chesnuts . . 340 — Boiled with oysters . . . 341 — With celery 342 — Polts of 343 PIGEON ENTREES. Pigeon, fillets of, au supreme . 41 — Gratin of, a la perigord . 123 — Cutlets with Italian sauce 344 — Marinaded and broiled . 346 — Pate chaud of .... 382 QUAILS. Quails, compote of 103 — Roasted 346 — Au gratin 347 PARTRIDGES. N09. Partridges saut6 of 348 — Cutlets of, en epigram . . 349 — Croquets of 350 — Souffle of 851 Ragout of a la financiSre . 324 — With cabbage stewed . . 353 — Pkte chaud of 380 PHEASANT. Pheasants 354 — Farce for potting game . 350 — Pat6 chaud of 381 Grouse potted, k la perigord HARES. Hare stewed 355 — Fillets of, like roe buck . 356 — Puddings of 357 — Potted 358 RABBITS. Rabbit fricassee of 15 — Fillets of, au naturel . . 24 — Turban of fillets of . . . 102 — Paupetons of 142 WOODCOCKS OR SNIPES. Woodcocks and Snipes . . — Salmi of .... — Puree of, in croustade — Pdte chaud of . . — P4t6 chaud of snipes PLOVERS. 362 363 364 385 366 Plovers 365 RufFs and reeves 366INDEX. vi WILD DUCKS, TEAL AND WIDGEON. Nos. Fillets of 63 Salmi of 367 DUCKS, DUCKLINGS, GEESE, AND GOSLINGS. Ducklings roasted 27 — Fillets of, and stewed peas 124 — With Seville orange sauce 368 Goose, green roasted .... 3G9 — a. la daube 370 — pate chaud of a la perigord 384 LARKS. Larks 371 — Gratin of 372 — Ragout of 373 — In cases 374 VENISON. Venison 375 — Haunch of 138 — Haricot of 376 — Neck of 377 — Deer's fry 378 — Fawn au chevreuil . . . 679 PATTIES, TIMBALES, &c. Casserole of rice 43 Vol-au-vent, with blanquette of fish 44 Small timbales with salpicon . . 67 Timbale of macaroni, with blan- quette of sweetbread . . 125 Chartreuse the Paris way . . . 143 Vol-au-veiiljwithfricasseoflambs' tails 144 Croustade of bread . . . . . 387 Nos. Timbale of game 388 Small Russian timbales . . . 389 Savory ragout powder .... 390 Patties de godiveau 391 — of chicken 392 Timbales of vermicelli .... 393 Small mutton pies 394 Rissoles 395 Consomm6 to fill cold pies, tim- bales, &c 396 Patties, forcemeat 91 Dariole patties k la reine . . . 104 Croquettes the duke's way . . 107 Small timbales with roes of fish . 140 Casserolets of rice 141 VEGETABLE ENTREMETS. Blanc for cooking vegetable . . 397 Salsify with white sauce ... 18 Asparagus 19 Sea kale 49 Spinach 50 Potatoes a la maitre d'hotel . . 66 Endive stewed 84 Artichokes a I'Espagnole ... 96 Stewed peas Ill French beans a la creme . . . 114 Artichokes, Italian way . . . 156 Cardoons in difi'erent manners . 398 Cucumbers stuffed 399 Broiled mushrooms 400 Mushrooms stuffed 401 Endive h, la Francaise .... 403 Cauliflower and bechamel sauce . 404 Cauliflower with parmasan cheese 405 Scorzonera sauce piquant . . . 40G Salsify fried 407 Artichokes fried 408 — A la Lyonnaise .... 409 — Bottoms preserved . . . 401 Batter for frying vegetable . .411 White beaus & la Lyonnaise . . 412 — Ala maitre d'hotel . . . 413vii INDEX. Nos. Carrots h. I'Orleans 414 Jerusalem artichokes, Spanish 415 — Fried. . 416 Potatoes the steward's way . .417 — A la Parisienne .... 418 — A la sauce blanche . . . 419 — Fried ........ 4-20 — A la duchesse 421 Truffles 422 — The Duke of Gloucester's way 423 French beans a la Provencale . 424 White kidney beans a la poulet . 425 Turnips glazed 426 — With Spanish sauce . . 427 Cabbage stuffed .428 Red cabbage 429 Celery stewed 430 To preserve tomata 431 Sour kraut 432 EGGS. Eggs brouilles, with truffles . . 67 — A la tripe 154 — Omelettes 440 — Omelette with veal kidney 442 — With cheese 443 — To poach 444 — Poached with cheese . . 445 — With fine herbs .... 446 — Brouilles 448 — Croquettes of 449 — Aumirior 450 — En timbale 451 HOT SAVORY ENTREMETS. Gratin of lobster 32 Anchovy toasts 80 Macaroni, Italian way .... 68 Fondeau of cheese 45 Ramequins a la royale .... 66 Cheese brioche 130 COLD SAVORY ENTREMETS. Nos. Aspic of chicken 112 Salads of fillets of sole .... 113 Aspic with plovers' eggs . . . 129 Mayonnaise of chicken .... 153 Galantine of veal 155 German salad 433 Raw salpicon 434 Fowl sandwiches 435 Sandwiches of pheasant, part- ridge, &c 436 Sandwiches offish, a laravigotte 437 Anchovy sandwiches .... 438 Salad sandwiches 439 Egg sandwiches 447 PASTRY ENTREMETS. Charlotte of apples 16 Maringues d la creme .... 17 Apples Portuguese way ... 30 Duchess bread ....... 31 Pastry garnished 46 Tartlets with custards .... 47 Croques en bouche 82 Duchess cake 83 Vol-au-vent of apricots with cara- mel 109 Cake with cream 128 Caramel 452 Royal iceing 463 Coloured sugars ...... 454 Coloured almonds 455 Rock sugar 456 Nougat 457 Dry maringues 458 Puff paste 459 Paste for tourta and tarts . . . 460 Pate brisee 461 Hot water paste 462 Mince meat 453 Gimblettes paste 464 Royal paste 455viii INDEX. Nos. Genevoise paste 466 Almond paste , 467 Brioche 468 Baba 469 Nouilles 470 Polish cakes 471 Gateau a la d'atois 472 German puffs 473 Pomme k la frangipane .... 474 Cherry pudding a la royal . . . 475 Orange pudding 478 Apple friture 480 Peach ditto 481 Orange ditto 482 Pancakes k la creme .... 483 Turban of rice and apples . . . 484 Cream pastry 485 Custard 486 Suedoise de pomme 487 Chartreuse a la macedoin . . . 488 Miroton of apples 489 Chantilles basket 611 — Of spining sugar . . . 612 — Pate d'office 613 JELLIES. Preparing cochineal .... 490 To clarify isinglass 491 To clarify sugar 492 Jelly, orange 71 — Madeira wine 72 — Lemon 81 — Mosaic 97 ■— Clear with strawberries . 115 — Macedoin 127 — Noyeau red 194 — Clear pine apple .... 152 Jelly Nos. — Calfsfoot 492 — Venus 494 — Currant 495 — Cherry 496 — Strawberry 497 — Pineapple 498 — Barberry 499 — Arrack or rum .... 600 — Liqueur .... . . 601 — Grape 502 — Tea 503 — Whisked 604 CREAMS. Cream Italienne 48 — Vanille 69 — Apricot cheese .... 70 — Pineapple •127 — Plombiere of apricots . . 150 — Bavarian cheese of straw- berries 151 — Blanc mange 605 — Chocolate 606 — Moyeau 507 — Maraschino . . . . • 508 — White coffee 609 — Whipped 610 SOUFFLES. Souffle of vanille 29 — Biscuit in cases .... 64 — Of rice ....... 79 — Of apple. ...... 110. — Gaufres 131 — Tapioca 476 — Omelette 477 — Friture 479INDEX TO APPENDIX. FRUITS PRESERVED WITHOUT SUGAR. Nos. Bottled currants, green or ripe . 513 Pulp of apricot 514 Currant juice 516 Juice of raspberries and various fruits 616 Composition for covering the corks of bottles 517 ICES. Chocolate ice cream .... 619 White coffee ditto 520 Tea ditto 521 Vanille ditto 622 Brown bread ditto 523 ' Strawberry water ice .... 624 Apricot ditto 626 Barberry ditto 626 Lemon ditto 627 Ginger ditto *627 Orange ditto 628 Pineapple ice 529 Champagne water ice ... . 630 Marischino ditto 63] Bomba ice 532 COOLING DRINKS FOR BALLS, ROUTS, &c. Lemonade gg^ Orangeade 535 Nos. Orgeat water 636 Currant water 537 Milk punch 538 CAKES. Savoy cake 539 Ditto biscuits 640 Biscuits in cases 541 Almond hearts 642 Orange hearts 643 Ratafle cakes 644 Geneva biscuits 545 Caraway biscuits 646 Wafers 547 Almond wafers 548 Italian ditto 549 Chocolate biscuits 560 Pistachio ditto 661 Gimblettes ditto 552 Almond paste for making fancy biscuits 553 Queen cakes or drops 554 OF MARMALADE. Green apricot marmalade . . . 666 Marmalade of ripe apricots . . 557 Orange marmalade 553 Fruit paste 559 Apple ditto 5gQ Quince ditto 5gj Green apricot ditto 552 Black currant ditto, for drops . 663INDEX TO APPENDIX. OF COMPOTES. Nos. Compote of apples 5(35 Stuffed apples . . . 566 ~ Pears 567 — Pears, with wine . . 668 — Quinces 569 — Cherries 570 — Raspberries .... 571 — Apricots .... 572 — Green apricots . . . 573 OF JELLIES. Currant jelly 574 Black currant jelly 575 Apple jelly 576 Raspberry ditto 577 FRUITS IN BRANDY. Nos. Apricots in brandy 573 Peaches ditto 579 Greengages ditto 530 Cherries ditto 531 FRUITS IN SYRUP. Greengages in syrup 532 Ripe apricots 533 Oranges preserved whole . . . 684 Mogul plums 585 Dried cherries 536PRODUCTIONS OF THE SEASONS- THE SPRING Months are by no means deficient in their supplies for the table; the principal monthly productions are as follows : MARCH produces salmon, turbot, cod-fish, soles, haddocks, whitings, mackerel by chance, John dory, and sturgeon at times; oysters, lobsters, crawfish, and at the beginning of the month, carp, tench, pike, and eels. APRIL continues much the same; about the middle of the month trout and crimped salmon more plentiful; cod-fish going out of season. MAY, the same, with red mullets, lampreys, sturgeon, smelts, crawfish, and prawns. Poultrij.—ThQ beginning of the season produces ducklings, green geese, spring chickens, turkey polts, and pigeons ; poulards] capons, guinea fowls, cocks' combs, fat livers, eggs, &c.; leverets and young rabbits. Forced Articles in the Garden. Asparagus, French beans, sea-kale, young potatoes, young carrots, rhubarb, cucumbers, young radishes, and small salad : green sweet herbs.PUODUCTIONS OF THE SEASONS, 11 THE SUMMER Months present an abundant supply, and give us the greatest variety for large entertainments. JUNE produces salmon, trout, and mackerel plentifully; tur- bots, white bait, soles, whitings, haddocks, sturgeon, and red mullets at times; john dory and brills, crabs, lobsters, and crawfish. JULY continues much the same. AUGUST.—Trout are going out of season : the latter end of this month carp, tench, pike, and eels. Poultry.—During the season the markets supply geese, ducks, fowls, chickens, pigeons, wheat ears, quails, rabbits, and leverets. The produce of the garden for dessert are cherries, straw- berries, pines, melons, grapes, peaches, apricots, and nectarines. JULY.—The same, though more plentiful; also ripe currants, gooseberries, peaches, nectarines, apricots, and hautboys. AUGUST.—The kitchen is abundantly supplied with the .same ; peas, cauliflowers, artichokes, beans, French beans, cucumbers, and all kinds of vegetables. THE AUTUMN. SEPTEMBER gives us, in fish,turbot, soles, haddock, salmon, brill, smelts, whitings, and herrings ; eels, carp, pike, and tench. OCTOBER, much the same, with codfish, smelts, carp, tench, perch, and pike, in high season. NOVEMBER.—The same, with skate, gurnet, pipers, salmon, flounders, and plaice.—^Li Poultry : turkeys, ducks, geese, large and small fowls, partridges, wild ducks, widgeon and teal, hares, &c.PRODUCTIONS OF THE SEASONS. iii OCTOBER.—The same, with pheasants, land. NOVEMBER continues the same, with woodcocks and snipes, plovers, &c. Fruit for dessert at the beginnir.g of the autumn season: cherries, peaches, nectarines, figs, plenty, grapes, red and white currants, greengage, and a variety of other plums, chesnuts, walnuts, and filberts; pears, and various apples for table and tarts. The kitchen is still well supplied with common vegetables, roots, celery, cardoons, brocoli, endive, lettuce, spi- nach, and Scotch kale. WINTER QUARTER. The productions of fish in December are turljot, Severn salmon, crimped cod, skate, haddock, whitings, smelts, soles, and brill; carp, tench, perch, pike, and eels. JANUARY.—The same. FEBRUARY continues much the same, except that carp, pike, and tench are going out of season. Po?//;?-?/.-Turkeys, capons, guinea fowls, partridges, and pheasants. ■ Hares, rabbits, quails, grouse. The garden furnishes us with roots, such as salsify, scorzonera, cardoons, celery, parsnips, beet-root, brocoli, white cabbage wmter spmach: the latter end of the season, forced asparagus] sea-kale, French beans, cucumbers, radishes, and salad.PEEFACE TO THE YOUNG COOK'S GUIDE. When I first adopted the custom of committing to paper that which was my uniform practice in the kitchen, it was with a view to benefit those, whom I should have under my instruction, especially oil their first going out as cooks, and acting on their own re- sponsibility. Having from this motive contracted a habit of so doing, I became at length strongly impressed with an idea that a work, well adapted to be a guide to those whose occupation is in the kitchen, might, if published, become of general utility; and having shown the system I was pursuing to some of my pro- fessional friends, I am emboldened, by their approval, to hazard the publication of a Guide to the Junior Cook, calculated to lead him progressively through the whole practice of the kitchen—a practice, to which I have devoted my especial attention; and upwards of twenty Bii PIIEFACK. years' practical experience and observation, I trust will enable me to succeed in the desired object of my contemplation and ambition. It is not a vast number of pages that will recommend a Work; I have studiously endeavoured, as much as possible, to simplify the culinary art, avoiding every thing superfluous, and inserting all that can be useful, constantly bearing in mind and aiming to enforce that due attention should be strictly paid to the most minute performance. In turning over a few pages of this volume, my object plainly discovers itself, and no doubt will be an induce- ment to my young friends frequently to place my sug- gestions and advice before them. There are voluminous works on the Art of Cookery, and some of them written in a masterly style, so that the ground has been ably trodden before. In ap- pearing, therefore, as a guide to the junior class, it remains for me only to do that which my predecessors have omitted, and endeavour to finish what others may have left imperfect. Hence, I shall not hesitate to step out of the general track of authors on the culinary art. I have already observed, that it is not an innumerable mass of receipts which this Work has to boast; but it isPREFACE. iii presumed that it will be found to furnish every requisite direction for serving- dinners and suppers in a first-rate style, and contain such information as may frequently be required in every kitchen. Should my ability, experience, and exertion, prove a source vv^hence any of my young friends (for whom the Work is chiefly de- signed) may be led into a practical method of cultivating their art, so as eventually to entitle themselves to the appellation of good cooks,—enjoying the greatest repu- tation and confidence in their business,—I shall have have attained my proudest object and reward.INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. ADDRESSED TO THE HEAD OF THE KITCHEN. There is scarcely an individual who is not desirous of being well recommended, and very short reflection will suffice to con^ •vince us that we have something to do on our parts to merit the approbation we desire : therefore, in whatever station, of life we are engaged, it behoves us, as a duty we owe ourselves, to fill that station faithfully. My observations are, however, wholly confined to the kitchen, and the suggestions which I desire to offisr are the result of my own immediate experience, which leads me to advise, that the business of that department should be com- menced early in the morning, and continued throughout the day with strict order and regularity, which will considerably facilitate that which is to be done, and without such regularity we shall often err: for it is an obvious fact, that those only who are diligently sanguine, and devote themselves wholly to their business, can liave any just pretensions to success. Neglected larders, a con- -fosed and disordered kitchen, bespeak every kind of waste and extravagance, and but sorry performances can be expected to proceed from such a kitchen; but how Widely diff-erent the im- pression must be on going through larders which are all neatness— the meat, the poultry, the game, &c., in perfect order, and posingINTRODUCTION. thence to the kitchen, where nothing but cleanliness presents itself—and not disorder, by being strewed from end to end with the refuse of that which we are employed in dressing: the preva- lence of order and regularity is the test by which the cook's Avorth may be estimated. Those whom we have to teach become either good or bad cooks, according to the nature of the example and instruction afforded them. Punctuality in all cases should be strictly at- tended to. In cleanliness, the slightest neglect must not be suffered; any disposition to waste or extravagance should be absolutely checked, whether proceeding from haste or from cul- pable indifference ; steady perseverance and order will accomplish much—indeed, it is the source we must depend upon for the establishment of those principles we desire to impart. Those who are brought up without due care in such matters, however clever they may be in their cooking, will be lamentably bad managers, and incompetent to promote the comforts of a family. All duties are reciprocal, and if you find those about you are anxious to perform well that which is allotted to them, en- deavour by kindness to make them know that you are sensible of their obliging attention, and they will grow convinced of your endeavours to contribute your utmost to their comfort, improvement, and future good. I am advising that which has been invariably my object through life, to derive all the advan- tage I could from those superior to myself in knowledge, expe- rience, and of conduct worthy to be imitated. It is with the warmest gratitude that I declare myself immensely indebted for many valuable professional suggestions, which I have had anvii INTEODUCTIOK. opportunity of treasuring in niy memory, from my intimacy with Mr. Florance, who has been upwards of forty years attached to the Buccleuch family. That friend's ability I hold in the highest estimation : for the purity of his cooking, and exemplary profes- sional conduct, none has ever surpassed, and to which but few have attained. By purity of cooking I mean the giving to every dish its proper flaA'Our, the art of combining the flavour of spice, herbs, and roots, so as not to destroy the principle of the entree. In an entree of game that flavour should alone be predominant; in an entree of chicken, that delicacy of taste should be preserved : every thing that is cooked should retain its mitriment, and be rendered excessively tender, by means of judicious management. In recommending the young cook to pursue the system he has laid down, he will esteem himself happy if it proves the means of facilitating its acquirement. This volume commences with directions for preparing, in a peculiar manner, such broths as are generally required in cases of sickness; and it may be proper to observe, that they should be made under the especial care of the chief cook: no sensible one will turn away with contempt at the mention of beef-tea, mutton-broth, &c.; we are seldom called upon for these things, except in cases of illness: then how anxiously is the attention called forth, and every desire to anticipate that which would be most delicate and inviting: and I would ask, to what does our ability amount, if we are wanting in attention in cases of sickness. I trust that in offering my observations, either here or in anyV"! INTnODUCTlON. part of this Work, I shall not he accused of the vanity, that I dfesire to be thought more careful, more diligent, or more san- guine than others : notwithstanding my exposure to such an im- putation, I do affirm, that I have ever experienced more heartfelt gratification in having contributed to the comfort of a sick-bed patient, than from the most flattering commendations for pro- viding a sumptuous table.\—J3eef Tea, Prepared as follows, will be found to be more delicate than when made in the common way, by boiling the meat. Take two pounds of fresh lean beef, let it be free from all sinews, fat, and skin; put the beef, cut in pieces, into a stewpan, cover the meat with cold water, have another stewpan, in which you place the one containing the beef, pour water round to come nearly to the top of the inner stewpan, set it over the fire, and let the water boil briskly for two hours; then take out the stewpan, and let it stand for ten minutes, that the tea may settle; place a napkin over a clean" bason, and carefully pass the tea through it; you will have it perfectly clear and well-tasted. 2—Veal Tea or Broth, Made as follows, has been found to remain on a delicate sto- mach, when other broths have been rejected. Take two pounds of the fleshy part of a leg of veal, free from fat, cut it into small pieces, put it into a stewpan, with as much water as will cover the meat, and proceed, as in beef tea, by putting one stewpan in another; but it will require an hour longer in the bath, as the juice of young meat is not so readily extracted. This broth may be made more nourishing by the addition of a calf's foot, taking out the long bone. Chicken tea is also to be prepared precisely in the same way as the veal, but observe to skin the chicken before it is used. To any of the broths thus made, you may add vermicelli, macaroni,2 rice, sago, Sec, being- first boiled in water, then put into the broth, and to be made tender by setting the stewpan in a hot- water bath. I have constructed a stewpan purposely for making these broths, and where the expense is not an object, I would advise the inner vessel to be made of silver. 3—Mutton Tea. Take two pounds of the lean part of a leg or loin of mutton, without fat or skin; put this into a stewpan and cover it with water, and proceed in the same way as directed for beef tea. Those persons who have not the convenience of stewpans, may put the meat into an earthen pot, cover it close, and set it into a saucepan, with water boiling round it. A:—Beef Broth. Put into a broth pot from ten to twenty pounds or more of lean beef, according to the quantity of broth required, pour in cold water sufficient to cover the meat, set the pot over a quick fire, carefully attend to the scum rising, that you may take it all off before it can boil into the broth; after the first scum is removed, immediately throw in some cold water, which will cause more scum to rise; this is also to be entirely removed, and then place the broth pot by the side of the stove to boil gradually; put in some carrots, celery, and a few onions; the broth should boil four hours, then pass it through a lawn sieve or napkin. This broth- should be perfectly clear and well tasted, not too predo- minant of roots ; again cover the meat, but with boiling water;3 put in whatever trimmings you may have, let it boil, and it will make an useful broth for many purposes. The cook should be furnished with napkins or cloths, kept for straining broths, and should never be used for any other purpose. 5—Consomme, or Veal Broth. The leg is the most useful part of veal for this purpose, though, in large dinners, there are other pieces which can also be used with it. The inside part of the leg is a fleshy fillet without sinews ; this should be taken out when you wish to serve a Fricandeau, the remainder of the leg of veal cut in pieces, and about two pounds of lean ham; if you have a fowl that is too old for any other purpose, it will add to the excellency of the consomme ; put the whole into a stewpan, with a quart of the second beef broth ; set the stewpan over a charcoal fire to soak the juice out of the meat, which operation should take about an hour's time, and, of course, is to be regulated by the fire kept under it; especial attention must be paid that it does not burn; frequently shake the stewpan, that the contents may not stick to any part of it; when the juice is reduced to a consistence of glaze, of a nice rich colour, then fill up the stewpan with the clear beef broth which you at first prepared, and let it boil slowly by the side of the fire for three hours, remove all the fat, and pass it through a na,pkin or fine cloth into one or two basons ; if the weather is warm, it is better to divide the broths, for by keeping too great a quantity in one vessel, it is apt to grow sour before it is cold. This is to be considered a very important preparation in cookery, and no care or attention should be spared if it is to be had in perfection. No good dinner can be served when these broths are carelessly prepared. B When you select a stewpan for making consomme, it should be one of the thickest in the kitchen, well tinned, and4 perfectly clean. Stevvpans that are worn thin are very improper for this, and, indeed, every other purpose, for it is scarcely pos- sible to avoid burning whatever is dressed in them, which is detrimental to the cook's reputation, and a sad waste. 6—Sauce Tournee, a general Sauce. Take a stewpan that will hold three quarts, put in half a pound of fresh butter, and melt it over the fire, to which add about half a pound of flour; keep stirring this over the fire till it becomes rather of a brown colour, not burnt; remove the stewpan fi"om the fire, and mix with the flour and butter about two quarts of consomme (Veal Broth, No. 5); put the stewpan again over the fire, and keep moving the sauce with a wooden spoon till it boils; draw the stewpan to the corner of the stove to throw ofi" the grease, but if the sauce is too thick, the.grease will not rise; put into it, while boiling, some trimmings of mushrooms, a small bunch of parsley and green onions, hut no spice; let the sauce boil for an hour, and when you have thoroughly removed all the grease, pass the sauce through a tammy into a bason, stir it occasionally to keep it smooth. 7—Bechamel, a general White Sauce. Take one pint of good cream, reduce it to half a pint by stirring it over a brisk fire, then add one pint of the sauce tourn^e, which is already prepared, give it a boil, and pass the sauce through a tammy ; it should be kept stirred until nearly cold. With these two sauces a dinner of many dishes may be served, by introducing the flavour of the various dishes into a portion of the sauces; but as we proceed it will be necessary6 to give directions for other sauces, which are made distinctly, according to the different dishes they are intended for. 8—Glaze Is an indispensable article in the kitchen, and by an economical arrangement of the stock pots, you may always be well provided. I have, in the article beef broth observed, that the second filling up of the broth pot is useful. When you have passed off your consomme, put this second beef broth to the veal, and any trimmings of poultry or game you have, let it boil for two hours, then pass it through a lawn sieve; it must be allowed to settle ; take off the grease perfectly clear: put this broth into a large clean stewpan,, and boil it to reduce to a glaze as quickly as pos- sible ; for if glaze is a long time boiling, it becomes too dark, and has likewise a disagreeable taste. d—Poeie. It is generally used to boil chickens, tendons, lambs' feet and tails, or any thing that is required to be dressed particularly white. Take one pound of beef suet, the udder or white fat of veal, and fresh butter, a bunch of green onions and parsley, and two or three leaves of mace, and the rest water; let it boil half an hour. It is not to be used except fresh made, otherwise it would turn whatever is cooked in it red, instead of preserving its whiteness.6 Bill of Fare for March. First Course. Spring soup. Turbot. Two Removes. Fowl, with bechamel sauce. Leg of mutton roasted. Two Entrees (Side Dishes). Fricassee of rabbits and mushrooms. Lamb cutlets, with asparagus peas. Second Course. Two Roasts. Guinea fowl. Pigeons. Four Entremets (Side Dishes). Charlotte of apples. Marigues, with cream. Asparagus or sea kale. Salsifis, with white sauce.7 It is the usual custom to cover the table with only the same number of dishes in the second course which you have in the first, but this is not always to be a rule, especially in small dinners, as it will unavoidably occur that you are sometimes obliged to dress as large a joint for six persons as you would require for ten ; consequently, where two entrees would be sufl&cient for the first coiirse, only two entremets for the second course would cover the table very scantily; and it is to be observed also, that second course dishes are smaller than those used for the first course. From these considerations I have commenced giving my first bill of fare, for two entrees in the first, and four entremets in the second course. ' For the sake of regularity, I shall here observe—having made your bill of fare, and it being approved of, I would advise that a marketing list should be prepared of what is required to dress for dinner, supposing yourself to be in London, without the resources usually met with in the country, Avhere you may have a well-stocked garden, farm, and poultry yard. In Nos. 4, 5, 6, 7, are given directions for preparing broth, consomme, and two general sauces. I shall now proceed to give directions for dressing each dish set forth in the preceding bill of fare; ray great object in so doing is to fix the mind to one day's occupation, and after the performances of the day are over, I would recommend a careful perusal of all that has been done during the day; and if in any thing you have not succeeded to your wishes, trace the cause, and by so doing you will derive the benefit and improvement required, and you will find that the next and succeeding dinners, though increased, become more easy than the first. If you desire to change any dish, take from the next or any of the following bills of fare a dish corresponding with the one you wish to alter, and by that means you will be enabled to make a variety of bills of fare without confusion; only observe that you select such things as are in season. nl'l ' M T-f """^^'^^^ -months,. namely, March, April, and May.SOUPE PRINTANIER. 10—Spring Soup. Having prepared consomme, as directed in No. 5, put two quarts of the broth, perfectly free from grease, into a soup pot, boil some spring carrots sufficiently to enable you to wipe off the skin, trim them of a neat shape; also peel some young turnips quite round, and of an equal size, boil them and put them into a sieve with the carrots, then boil some young heads of celery, some spring onions for a few minutes, to take away the strong taste; put all the roots into the broth, and set the soup pot by the side of the stove to boil slowly, until the vegetable is tender, and the soup impregnated with their flavour; have ready boiled some heads of asparagus, also French beans boiled green and tender; throw them into the soup just before it is served to table; add a small lump of sugar and salt if required. U—Turhot. A turbot kept two or three days is much better eating than a very fresh one. After the turbot is well cleansed, use a kettle to boil it that is sufficiently wide to contain it flat; put a large hand- ful of salt into the kettle, with plenty of cold spring water, lay the fish on a strainer, put it in, and when it is near boiling, skim it well; then set the kettle by the side of the stove to boil slowly for about fifteen or twenty minutes, supposing it to be a fish about eight or ten pounds weight. A middling size turbot is far preferable to a very large one. , , ^ /• ' It is really of the utmost consequence to the cook s reputation that the fish should be well cooked, and served invitingly to table ;9 the least inattention in this particular would spoil the Lest fish, and prejudice the company against the rest of the dinner. It sometimes unavoidahly occurs that the dinner is not served at the time it is ordered, and therefore it behoves the cook to use the utmost skill to save the fish from being totally spoiled. If you find that the company do not arrive at the appointed time, and the fish is cooked, place it over the steam of the water it is boiled in, and cover it with a damp napkin, which will be the means of keeping the fish hot. When the dinner is called, dip the fish again into the water, which should be boiling hot. I do not know any thing that is so much spoiled by being dressed before it is served as fish; it loses its juice and flavour, and becomes insipid. POULARDE A LA BECHAMEL. 12—Fowl, with JBechamel Sauce. Choose a fine fat fowl, the flesh and skin perfectly white, boil it in Po'ele (No. 9). If the fowl is a large one, it will require an hour and a quarter boiling ; drain it, and wipe off all the fat before you dish it, and then cover the fowl with bechamel sauce (No. 7). GIGOT DE MOUTON ROTI. 13—Leg of Mutton Roasted. Choose a small leg, either of Welch or South-down, four years' old mutton, which has been hung as long as it can be kept with safety; before it is put on the spit, divide the sinews at the joint, c10 near tlie shank ; let the mutton be thoroughly well roasted; it should not be placed so near the fire as to scorch the meat before it is half done : it is attentive observation alone that will instruct the cook how to roast to perfection. Many gentlemen have remarked to me, that they generally find roast meat, poultry and game, better dressed at an inn than usually served from a private kitchen. But why is this the case 1 the probability is that, as plain roast and boiled chiefly constitute the dinners served at an inn, the attention is wholly devoted to this particular; it is lite- rally the cook's fort; but, for my own part, I see no reason why they should not be served in the same state of perfection in every kitchen where due attention is paid : experience has taught me that what is termed the plain roasts are decidedly an important part of the dinner ; every thing selected, either meat, poultry, or game, should be of the best quality, properly kept, and cooked with all possible care; and I am persuaded the cooks, who are determined to accomplish this object, will secure for themselves that credit Avhich, if neglected, they cannot expect to obtain. FRICASSEE DE LAPEREAU. 14—Fricasee of Rabbit. Observe that you choose young warren rabbits; two will be sufficient for an entree. Cut the rabbits in neat joints, have a stewpan ready with boiling water, and drop in each joint sepa- rately, that they may be made firm; let them boil for ten minutes, then throw them into a bason of cold water, trim each piece very neatly, and place them in a stewpan, with a small piece of butter at the bottom; then put the trimming of the rabbit into the water you have just blanched them in, with a bunch of parsley and green onions, and let it stew for an hour; put a spoonful of flour into the stewpan with the rabbits, shake it over a stove till the butter is melted, and moisten it with the broth11 from the rabbits ; add half a pottle of mushrooms, neatly peeled; let the whole boil for about three quarters of an hour, or until the rabbit feels perfectly tender; skim off the butter, then pick out the rabbit into another stewpan, reduce the sauce, and pass it through a tammy over the rabbit; pick out the mushrooms to serve in the sauce ; it is to be kept hot by placing one stewpan in another, with hot water round. Just before the fricassee is to be served, thicken it with four yolks of eggs, and a spoonful of good cream. The only seasoning necessary is a little salt. COTELETTES D'AGNEAU AUX POIS D'ASPERGES. 15—Lamh Cutlets and Asparagus Peas. Take a neck of lamb, cut the chops one by one, flatten and trim them extremely neat, lay them on the dresser, shake over each side a little pepper and salt, have ready some butter clarified by melting, and pour it off from the whey; mix it with two yolks of eggs, and dip each cutlet in it, then cover them with bread crumbs, and lay the cutlets on the table till all are thus done; pour some clarified butter over a saute pan, and with your knife shape each cutlet by pressing the bread crumbs round the sides and top of the cutlet; lay them on the saute pan, and at dinner time fry them of a nice colour, and dish them neatly; serve them with asparagus peas (No. 182) or other sauce. CHARLOTTE DE POMME. 16—Charlotte of Apples. To make a charlotte, take a dozen of large apples, cut them12 into quarters, peel them, put them into a stewpan, with about two ounces of butter, the peel of a lemon, a little cinnamon, and half a pound of pounded sugar; stew them at first over a slow stove, then with a wooden spoon keep stirring them over a quick fire, till reduced to a firm consistence ; it will improve the char- lotte to add half a pound pot of apricot marmalade to the apple: you then prepare a plain mould with bread dipped in clarified butter; for the bottom cut the crumb with a plain round cutler, dip each piece into the butter, and lay them one over the other, all round the bottom of the mould: cut thin slices of bread, the height of the mould, dip them also into the butter, and place them round the side of the mould, one over the other, so that the apple may not pass through; put in the marmalade of apples, and bake it in an oven that is pretty hot; give it a good colour, turn it on the dish, and serve the charlotte quite hot and crisp. 17—Marivgnes, d la Creme. The maringues' shells (No. 458) ; should at all times be kept in readiness, to fill them, prepare a cream thus :—^Take half a pint of double cream, put it into a bason, and whip it till it becomes quite light and thick, adding at the same time half a glass of sherry, and a spoonful of brandy, with the zest of lemon, by rubbing the rind on a lump of sugar, and scraped into the cream ; or the cream may be flavoured with noyeau or marashino. The maringues should not be filled till the moment they are to be served; either may be dished on a napkin, neatly folded, or in a basket of sugar.13 SALSIFIS A LA BECHAMEL. IS—Salsify, with White Sauce. This root is to be boiled until quite tender; take off the ski cut them of an equal length, and serve a bechamel sauce ov them (No 7). ASPERGES. ] 9—Asparagus. Asparagus are eaten in many different ways ; the largest are esteemed best; boil them in salt and water about a quarter of an hour, and serve them with a toast. When the dinner is returned to the kitchen, it is highly neces- sary to put into the larder such of the dishes as may answer for a second dinner; the remainder I particularly advise should be nicely re-dished, and served comfortably to the domestics. Bill of Faee foe March. First Course. Vermicelli soup. Fish. Two Removes. Rump of beef stewed. Loin of veal, a la bechamel.14 Fmr Entrtes. Quenells of whitings. Tendons of veal, and cucumber sauce. Mutton cutlets, with macedoine of roots. Small croquets of poultry. i Second Course. Two Roasts, Ducklings. Paulard. One Remove. Souffle of vanilla. Four Entremets. Apples, Portuguese way. Duchess paste. Asparagus. Gratin of lobster. Where there is a succession of dinners, it is necessary to have consomm^ ready prepared. The bill of fare we now to prepare for, we will suppose to be for eight or ten persons, consisting of four entr6es in the first course, and four entremets in the second course.16 SOUPE AU VERMICELLE. 20—Vermicelli Soup. Take two quarts of good rich consomme, (No. 5), into which put four ounces of vermicelli, Avhich is to be boiled first in water for a quarter of an hour; let the soup boil half an hour, skim it and keep it perfectly clear : it adds a pleasant flavour to the soup to boil a few sprigs of tarragon in it, which should be taken out before the soup is served. CULOTTE DE BOEUF A LA BRAISE. 21—Rump of Beef Stewed. Trim a rump of beef, by removing the bone, and bind it round with strong string; place it in a large braising kettle, with any trimmings of meat you may have, half a dozen onions, celery, leeks, carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little mace, cloves, and half an ounce of whole pepper ; add broth sufficient, close the braising kettle, and when it boils, remove it to a small slow fire, and also put lighted charcoal on the top; try the beef in about four hours time; it should braise very slowly, and must be perfectly tender: when done, take it out, carefully trim it and cut away the string, glaze it, and put it in the screen to dry, and before the beef is dished, glaze it again, and serve with it a rich Espagnole sauce (No. 33). The things most commonly belonging to the class of braises are:—beef rumps, brisket of beef, rump of beef, fricondeau, galantine, sweetbreads, mutton cutlets, pheasants and partridges, with cabbage, &c. To dress a dish d la braise, you must haveIG a braising pan, with the lid fitting close, and bordered so as to hold hot ashes or charcoal on it, that the contents may stew without the least evaporation. This mode of cookery excellently preserves the flavour of the viands used. It is necessary to observe, that every thing which is braised must be done thoroughly, and is likewise to be seasoned with vegetable, sweet herbs, and spice. To braise in perfection requires the greatest nicety, and so much care and constant attention, that no cook can possibly succeed who is not earnest in these matters. A rump of beef braised till it is stringy and ragged, and yet not tender, can only disappoint the company, and, consequently, is perfect waste : the same applies to a fri- condeau, and, indeed, every entree that is not well dressed. LONGE DE VEAU A LA BECHAMEL. 22—Loin of Veal, with Bechamel Sauce. Let the loin of veal you choose be fat and Avhite; it should be carefully put on the spit, so as not to injure the fillet. I consider the cradle spit decidedly the best for this joint; it is to be covered with paper, which should be rubbed over with butter; a loin of veal will take from two hours to two hours and a half, roasting according to the size; just before you serv^e this joint, take out a square piece from the thick end, by turning back the skin ; let this be cut as thin as possible ; have ready on the stove a little bechamel (No. 7) nicely seasoned, and throw the collops in; give it a turn or two over the stove quickly, and then put it into the place it was taken from; turn over the skin again, and serve bechamel sauce round the veal: do not omit putting a toast under the kidney. We shall now proceed with the four entrees, which makes up the first course.17 QUENELLES DE MERLANS. 23—Quenelles of Whiting. Soak in milk the crumb of two rolls, for half an hour, then press all the milk from them as dry as you can ; put the crumb into a stewpan, with a spoonful of bechamel sauce, and about an ounce of butter, a shalot, half a dozen cloves, and a blade of mace ; set the stewpan over a gentle fire, and keep stirring the panade for ten minutes, that it may become firm; take out the spice and shalot, and put the panade on a plate to cool: then take the fillets of two whitings, scrape off" the meat from it in a lump, and take the same quantity of panade, and a similar quantity of butter; pound the whole in a mortar for a long time, till it is smooth and well mixed ;—the more quenelles are pounded the more delicate they are;—then break in three eggs, mix one at a time, and season with a little pepper and salt: when the whole is mixed together, try a small piece rolled up with a little flour, and boil it; if it should not be firm enough, put another egg; then rub the farce through a wire sieve, butter eight dariole moulds, and fill them with the farce; steam them for twenty minutes, turn them out on the dish, and serve with Italian sauce (No. 184). TENDONS DE VEAU AUX CONCOMBRE. 24—Veal Tendrons, with Cucumber Sauce. The tendrons are cut from a breast of veal, which is the gristle ; first cut away the dry bone, then divide the gristle from the long bones ; then, holding the knife in a sloping position, cut the gristle into about eight pieces: throw them into a stewpan18 of cold water, put it on a quick stove to boil, and then put them into a bason of cold water; line another stewpan with slices of fat bacon, trim the tendrons neatly, lay them in the stewpan with two carrots, an onion, a blade of mace, and a small bunch of sweet herbs; cover all with more bacon, strain the water they were blanched in, and lay over the whole a piece of white paper, cut to the size of the stewpan ; they will take about four hours, slowly stewing : when they are done, take them up and put them into a small saute pan, with thin glaze, in which they are to be warmed; lay them tastefully round the dish, and serve with cucumber (No. 209) or any other sauce. PETIT CROQUETTES DE VOLAILLE. 25—Small Croquettes of Poultry. If you have any poultry left from a previous dinner, it will be equally good for this dish as a fresh fowl; pick out all the white meat, and mince it very finely with a knife; it should not be chopped, it makes the meat ragged; reduce a little bechamel sauce (No, 7), season it, and throw in the fowl you have minced ; then spread it on a dish, and when quite firm and cold, make them up in round balls, or small long puddings; roll them separately in bread crumbs, make them of a neat shape, beat up one or two eggs (yolk and white) on a plate with your knife, and with a paste brush cover the croquette all over with the egg, and again roll them in bread crumbs ; put them on a dish in the larder until dinner time, fry them of a nice colour, not too brown ^ind serve them on a napkin with fried parsley.19 COTELETTES DE MOUTON A LA MACEDOINE DE RACINES. 26—Mutton Cutlets, with Macedoine of Roots. Take a neck of mutton, with a thick fillet, and one that has been some time killed; cut it into chops, and trim oflF the chine bone; cover the bottom of a stewpan with slices of fat bacon, upon which lay the cutlets, and then the trimmings, two onions, carrots, and turnips ; pour in boiling water sufl&cient to cover the meat, and cover the whole with white paper; set the stewpan over the fire, and let the cutlets stew until they are quite tender; then lay them on a dish, and press them, by placing another dish over them with a weight upon it: when the cutlets are quite cold, trim them as neatly as possible, and lay them in a saute pan, with some light glaze, in which they are to be warmed ; at dinner time dish them, and serve in the middle a macedoine of roots (No. 203). The second course of the bill of fare (page 22) is arranged for tAvo roasts and one remove; it is not absolutely necessary to remove both roasts, except it is desired. CANETON ROTI. 27—Ducklings. Choose two fat ducklings ; they will take about half an hour roasting; they should be served immediately they are done, and just before you take them from the fire throw over them a little flour and salt, mixed, and baste them with butter; take care the gravy is rich and good, but not black.20 28—Poularde Rod. A large fowl will take about three quarters of an hour roast- ing- ; serve bread sauce in a boat. 29—Souffle of Vanilla. Take a pint of milk, quarter of a pound of sugar, and two sticks of vanilla, cut in small pieces ; let the milk boil up, and then keep it covered by the side of the fire for half an hour. Take four ounces of flour, mix it with half a pint of cream in a stewpan, then pass the milk which you have already boiled into it; add two ounces of butter, and stir it over the fire till it becomes a thick paste ; remove the stewpan, and immediately mix in ten yolks of eggs, one at a time ; the whites are to be put into a clean bason, and kept in the larder, until it is time to piit the souffle in the oven; then whip them strong, and mix lightly with the souffle : it will take from twenty minutes to half an hour to bake. It is not to be taken out of the oven until the very moment it is to be served. IN. B. Observe, that all souffles are prepared in the same way, and they vary only in the flavour given to them. It is of the utmost consequence to the excellency of the souffle that it is served at the moment it is ready. Souffles may be either steamed or baked. POMME A LA PORTUGUESE. ^Q—Apples, Portiujuese loay. The golden pippins are decidedly the best apples for stewing21 whole, as they will bear the fire better than any other apple I know of; at the same time there are many other small apples which, with care, will answer the same purpose. Take a dozen and a half of small apples, push out the core with a vegetable cutter, and then peel them as round as possible, and all of the same size; as they are peeled, throw them into a bason of cold water, with the juice of a lemon, then put the apples into a preserving pan, with a thin syrup, and let them boil; keep turning them, and watch them closely, that they do not burst: when you find the apples are tender, lay them on a hair sieve to drain, reduce the syrup to a jelly, and again put the apples in; give them a boil up, and put them away in the jelly. Make a marmalade with some more apples, keep it white and clear, and sufiiciently thick to bear the apples you have stewed; dish some of the marmalade, which you level with your knife ; lay the apples round, and then fill up the middle with marmalade, and another layer of apples upon that. In the cavity of each apple, put a little red apple jelly, and garnish the whole accord- ing to your own taste. PAIN A LA DUCHESSE. 31—Duchess Bread. Make the royal paste (No. 465), which you drop on a paste- board in round balls of an equal size, and then roll them lightly about the length of a finger. Next lay them on a baking sheet, and with a paste-brush dipped in milk wash them lightly over, and bake them slowly; when done, open them at the bottom, and fill them with sweetmeats, either apricot, harbary, or raspberry.22 32—Gratin of Lobster. Cut a lobster, that has heen boiled, in two, without breaking the shell, clean and trim the shell, and mince the flesh; then take a little rich bechamel (No. 7), season it pretty tasty with salt and cayenne pepper, reduce the sauce to a good thickness, then throw in the mince; lay it hot into the shells, and strew some fried bread crumbs over them; put the lobster in the oven for a few minutes, dish on a napkin, and serve as hot as possible. When the dinners exceed four entrees, it will be found neces- sary to prepare a sauce a I'Espagnole, which is a general sauce often referred to. SAUCE A L'ESPAGNOLE 33—Spanish Sauce. Put into a stewpan slices of veal, ham, and a ladleful of consomme or good broth; set it on a slow stove to soak out the juice of the meat, and let it remain on the fire till it is reduced to a glaze of a rich and rather brown colour; then pour in a ladleful of consomme (No. 5) to detach the glaze, and then double that quantity of sauce tournee (No. 6) with trimmings of mushrooms, a bunch of green onions, and parsley: let the sauce boil half an hour, remove all the grease, and pass the sauce through a tammy into a bason, occasionally stirring it with a spoon, to prevent its becoming lumpy.2:} Bill of Fare fob March. First Course. Two Soups. Cressi. Julienne. Two Fish. Turbot. Salmon sauce, Genoise. T-^i^-'Removes. Two poulards, a la financiere. Westphalia ham. Six Entrees. Casserole of rice, with scollops of sweetbread. Vol-au-vent, with blanquette of fish. Four Corner Entrees. Mutton cutlets, soubise sauce. Fricondeau, sorrel sauce. Fillets of pigeons, au supreme. Fillets of rabbit, au naturel.24 Second Course. Two Roasts. Turkey polts. Green goose. Two Removes. Fondean. Soufflee of tapioca. Six Entremets. Sea kale. Spinach, garnished. Calf's-foot jelly. Italian cream. Tartlets, with custard. Pastry, garnished. SOUPE A LA CRESSI. 34—Cressi Soup. Take a dozen good carrots, peel off the red part, two turnips, peeled, the inside of four leeks, four heads of celery, and two onions; wash them well, mince them all together, put two ounces of fresh hutter, and half a pound of lean ham at the bottom of a stewpan, the roots over that, cover the stewpan close, and set it over a slow stove ; let them soak for two hours, occasion-ally moving them with a wooden spoon, then add about two quarts of consomme (No. 5), and let it boil slowly for an hour; skim off all the fat, and rub the whole through a tammy; put the soup into a clean stewpan, and set it by the side of the stove to boil, in order to skim off all the grease that may remain; then cut some crumb of bread in small squares, fry it in butter till of a good colour, and put into the soup when you serve it to table. ThispureOi is as often served with rice, boiled in broth, till tender. SOUPE A LA JULIENNE. 35—Julienne Soup. Put into a soup pot four pints of good rich consomme (No. 5), take some carrots and turnips, and turn them in ribands about an inch wide, lay them one upon another, and cut them very fine; shred also some leeks and celery; let each kind be boiled separately, and placed on a sieve to drain; about an hour before dinner put on the consomme, with the roots, and let it boil very slowly on the corner of the stove; tie up a few sprigs of chervil and tarragon and boil in the soup, and if the consomme is well made, the soup will be refreshing and palatable; add a little sugar and salt before you dish the soup. Turbot (see No. 11). When the turbot is returned to the kitchen, and there should be sufficient of the fillets left, take them out immediately, free from skin. Next day, when cold, you may cut the fillets into2& thin collops, and put them into a cream sauce, and serve either m a vol au vant, or otherwise; it is also excellent with maitre d'hotel sauce. CRIMPED SALMON. 36—Genoese Sauce. Take some carrot, onions, bay leaf, sprig of thyme, one blade of mace, a few cloves; put all together into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter; set these over a very slow fire to soak for half an hour, then pour in half a pint of Madeira or other white wine; let it boil slowly for some time, then pass the liquor through a sieve, reduce it, and add some good rich sauce tournee; just before you serve it, stir in a piece of cold butter, the juice of half a lemon, and a little cayenne pepper. Boil the salmon in water just enough to cover it, with a blade of mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two onions stuck with cloves; when you take up the salmon to dish, drain it well, and pour the sauce over it. If this dish is to be served to a Catholic family, instead of using sauce tournee, use some of the liquor the fish was boiled in, and thicken it with butter and flour. 37—Poulards d la Financiere. Take a fine large poulard, and fill it with farce made of veal (No. 304); bind it all over with slices of fat bacon, put it into a stewpan that will just hold the fowl, with a bay leaf, two onions, and a blade of mace, and any white fat you may have at hand ; fill up the stewpan with boiling water, and give it about an hour to cook. When you dish the foWl, wipe off all the grease from it, and serve with a financiere sauce under it (No. 181).-27 JAMBON DE WESTPHALIE A LA BRAISE. 38—Westphalia Ham, Braised. Take a small "Westphalia ham, trim it and boil it for an hour, then take it up, remove the rind, cut it in a neat shape, put the ham into a braising -pot, with any trimmings you may have, a bunch of sweet herbs and spice, some carrot, onions, and celery, and nearly cover the ham with good second stock; let it boil up, and then set the pot on a very small stove, with just enough fire to keep it slowly stewing; it will take three hours to make it mellow and tender; take up the ham half an hour before dinner, wipe it dry, and set it in a slow oven or hot closet; it will then take the glaze, and look well; you may serve under the ham any puree of vegetables, or with white haricot beans prepared thus :— Take a pint of M^hite haricot beans, throw them into boiling water, until the skin will peal off easily; then put them into a stewpan, with some thin stock, and two ounces of butter, and boil them slowly, till quite tender; add two or three spoonsful of sauce, skim them well, and serve under the ham. MUTTON CUTLETS—SAUCE SOUBISE. Prepare the cutlets as directed (No. 26). 39—Soubise Sauce. Take eight or ten large white onions, peel and wash them, cut them in slices, and boil them in plenty of water as fast as pos- sible for a quarter of an hour; then throw them on a hair sieve and shake the water from them, put into a stewpan about28 two ounces of butter, and then the onions; set them over a slow fire, until quite tender, and no kind of moisture is left; add three spoonsful of good bechamel sauce (No. 7), rub the pur6e through a tammy; when you make it hot, add a little sugar and salt if necessary. FRICANDEAU DE VEAU AUX L'OSEILLE. 40—Fricandeau and Sorrel Sauce. Ericandeau is seldom dressed in perfection; it requires some skill, and the utmost attention to render it quite recherche. The inner part of the leg of veal, where the udder is attached, is a fleshy fillet, without sinews, which is to be taken out and flat- tened with a cutlet beater; then prepare it for larding, trim off" the skin with a sharp knife, and it is of great consequence the fri- candeau shoud be well larded. Take an oval stewpan, sufiiciently large to hold it, and cover the bottom and sides with slices of fat bacon, shred two onions and a carrot, use bay leaf, a few cloves, and a leaf of mace; all of which put into the stewpan, with half a pint of broth; next take some slices of veal and lay over the roots, and over the veal some more bacon; on this bed the fricandeau is to be laid ; then put the stewpan over a brisk fire to boil, after which remove it to a small stove to stew as slow as possible. It is to be observed, that the liquor is not to come up to the fricandeau, but when it has been on the fire an hour, then take off the cover, and by holding the stewpan on one side, you will be able to get at the juice, and with a spoon pour it over the fricandeau several times; which operation should be frequently repeated during the remainder of the time it is cooking : should the juice become too dry, put in two or three spoonsful of good consomme. A fricandeau will take at least four hours. When you find it is perfectly tender,29 which should be so contrived as to be done as near the dinner hour as possible, then remove it from the fire; repeat the basting, and put some live charcoal on the cover, and place the stewpan underneath the stove, so that the ashes which fall round it may keep it hot, and, at the same time, it will glaze it. The last moment before you serve it, pour a little delicate glaze all over the larding, and serve it either with a puree of sorrel (No. 205), or any other puree. FILETS DE PIGEONS AU SUPREME. 41—Fillets of Pigeons au Suprime. For this entree you must procure young pigeons; eight are sufficient for a dish. Take out the fillet from each side, which are to be flattened with a small cutlet beater, dip it in water to prevent its sticking to the fillet, preserve the pinion bone, which is to be scraped clean and stuck in the pointed end of the fillet; have some clarified butter ready, dip each fillet in it, and placi them round a saute pan; then put them into the larder till you want to serve them; put the carcases into a stewpan with a shalot, a blade of mace, and a ladleful of good broth ; let it boil slowly for half an hour, and then pass it through a silk sieve into a stewpan, and reduce it with half a glass of Madeira to glaze; to which add a little sauce tourn^e (No. 6), take off the scum, saute the fillets, and as you dish them, dip each fillet into glaze, and pour the sauce in the middle. ••7;30 FILETS DE LAPEREAU AU NATUREL. '^2—Fillets of Babbits, au Naturel. Take out the fillets of four young rabbits, cut each fillet into two, and flatten them with the handle of your knife dipped in. water to prevent it sticking or tearing the fillets; trim them neatly, dip each fillet into clarified butter, and lay them on a saute pan; cover them with buttered paper, and set them by till dinner time; put the remains of the rabbits into a stewpan, with a pint of consomme (No. 5); set the stewpan over a brisk stove, to extract the flavour from the rabbits, then pass it through a lawn sieve, and remove the fat; take a clean stew- pan, with a little flour and butter, stir it over a fire with a wooden spoon for a few minutes, and moisten it with broth you have strained from the rabbits ; let the sauce boil slowly by the side of the stove to throw ofi" the butter, and when dinner is called, fry the fillets lightly; lay them on a cloth to dry away the grease, dip each fillet into the sauce, dish them neatly, and pour the remainder of the sauce into the dish. This entree should have no other flavour than that of rabbit, and if they are^ tender, it is excellent eating. ' CASSEROLE OF RICE, 43—With Scollops of Sweetbreads. The quantity of rice will depend on the size you intend to make your casserole; usually, for a flank dish, a pound and a, half is requisite : spread the rice on the dresser, and pick it over, two or three times, that you may take away all the bad particles;.;I 31 then wash the rice in several waters, and, lastly, in boiling water; put the rice into a stewpan large enough to hold four quarts, with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, an onion with a few cloves stuck in it, a leaf of mace, and about three pints of milk; set the whole over a brisk stove, and keep stirring it with a wooden spoon till it boils; the stewpan should then be covered close, to confine the steam, and placed over a slow stove, to allow the rice to swell; if you find the rice will absorb more milk, add it; but when you perceive the grains are perfectly tender, then remove it from the stove, and take the onion and spice out, and immediately work the rice into the shape you wish, or press it close into a mould, which should previously be rubbed with sweet oil. If you intend to serve your casserole white, the rice should be ready only about an hour before dinner -time; but if brown, it will be better to make it in the middle of the day, that it may be quite cold : when it is turned out of the mould, then with a paste-brush rub it over with yolk of egg, bake it in a quick oven, take care it is a nice colour; then take out as much of the inside as you can, leaving sufficient to keep the wall secure from bursting, and fill the casserole with scollops of sweetbread. Blanch one or two sweetbreads ; after they have remained some time in cold water to draw out the blood, put them into a stewpan lined with fat bacon, and over them more bacon, a little spice, an onion, a bunch of parsley, and two or three spoonsful of broth; cover the stewpan close, and set it over the fire for half an hour; try if they are tender, for they should not be too much done, or they would break in the sauce; put them away in the braise, and when cold trim and cut them in neat collops; have ready some bechamel sauce (No. 7), reduced with a little cream, throw the collops into it, and give them a boil up; season with a little salt, and then put them into the casserole. N.B. It is the practice to use the skimming of the broth-pot to soak the rice, but I prefer milk and butter, as being more delicate.32 44—Vol-ati-Vent, with Blanquette of Fish. The vol-au-vent is cut out of pufF paste (No. 459), either round, oval, or square, according to the form of the dish it is to he served on, but it is to have one turn more rolling, for this reason, that it may rise more equal; dilute the yolk of an egg with a little water, and rub it over the top; mark it round with a knife, within half an inch of the edge, bake the vol-au-vent in a mode- rately heated oven, and when it is sufficiently baked, remove the top, and take out all the soft inside paste; it is to be filled with collops of game, fish, or quenells. If you have any turbot left from a previous dinner, cut it into thin collops; but if you do not happen to have such saute, some fillets of sole or haddock; trim the fish into neat collops, and put them into hot bechamel sauce (No. 7); season it with a little cayenne pepper and salt, and fill it hot into the paste. 45—Fondeau of Cheese, Take three ounces of flour, moisten with half a pint of cream, and half a pint of milk, and a quarter of a pound of butter; stir all these ingredients over a brisk fire, until it becomes paste; remove it from the fire, and mix in eight yolks of eggs, a quarter of a pound of grated parmasan cheese, and a quarter of a pound of fine gruyere cheese, cut in dices. When the dinner is called, whip the whites, mix them also, and bake the fondeau in a tolerably quick oven. This same mixture ^.nswers for small fondeaus in paper cases.33 For Souffle of Tapioca. (See No. 176). 46—Dish of Pastry, Garnished. Take puff paste (No. 459), cut it into different shapes with your paste cutters, bake it with great attention (on that depends the excellency of your pastry), dish them on a napkin, intermixed and garnished with apple jelly, jams, or marmalade, &c. 47—Tartlets, with Custard. With the trimmings of puff paste, line about eighteen small tartlet pans; put in the bottom of each a little apricot or other marmalade, then cover them with cr6me patissi^re (No. 485), bake them, and just before you serve them, glaze with fine sugar, and use a salamander. CALF'S-FOOT JELLY.—(No. 492.) 48—Italienne Cream. Melt an ounce of isinglass, with as little water as you can; take one pint of double cream, whip the cream very lightly, adding, by degrees, one glass of madeira, two table spoonsful of brandy, and the rind of one lemon rubbed on sugar; add sufficient sugar to sweeten the cream.34 it i!?tlM" 'f7'T? ""mediately p„„,. ™ "Z ' P-™-'y ■■"''bed over' ^ith sweet 0.1. The mould does not require to be dipped in warm water to turn it out, for if earefulty oiled, it will dZer without and hare a much smoother appearance. 49~Sea Kale. Great care is to be observed in dressing sea kale; it must be taken out of the water immediately that it is done, or it turns black, and by no means inviting when sent to table: it is to be served with toast under it, the same as asparagus. 6Q—Spinach, garnished with Bread or Paste. This vegetable requires the greatest care before it is dressed m washing and picking it thoroughly; should any weeds or stalks be left m, it would not be eatable : when it is well washed m several waters, then boil some water in a large kettle, throw in a good handful of salt, and boil the spinach as fast as possible, occasionally pressing it under the water to keep it green, and that it may be boiled alike tender; spinach requires but a short time boiling : when you find it is done, immediately throw It into a great quantity of cold water, then make it up into handfuls, and squeeze it well.; spread it on the table, and chop it as fine as possible; put into a stewpan a piece of butter, and on it the spinach, and stir it over the fire to dry; then add two spoonsful of good bechamel (No. 7), a little pepper, grated nut- meg, and salt: dish it very neatly, with fried bread round it.35 Bill of Fare for April. First Course. Two Soups. Queen's soup. Clear macaroni. Two Fishes, Turbot. Matelotte of carp. Four Removes. Loin of veal. Rump of beef, aux choux, Two Poulards, aux nouilles. Ham, braised. Eight Entrees. Small timbales, with salpicon. Croquettes of poultry. Pudding, a la Richelieu. Fillets of fowl and truffles. Grenadins pique. . Sweetbreads, a la Dauphine. Pork cutlets and tomata. Fillets of wild duck, sauce ravigotte. This bill of fare is arranged for sixteen or eighteen persona.36 Second Course. Two Roasts. Quails. Teal. Two Removes. Ramerquins. Cream biscuits. Eight Entremets. Clear wine jelly, Orange jelly. Vanilla cream. Apricot cheese. In the Flanks. Two Ornamental Pastries. Salsifis and white sauce. Potatoes, a la maitre d'hotel. Macaroni, Italian way. Eggs brouillie. SOUPE A LA REINE. 51—Queen's Soup, Take three fat chickens or pullets, skin and wash them clean,37 and put them into a stewpan, with a small bunch of parsley; pour in two quarts of nice light fresh broth, let it stew for an hour, then take out the chickens, soak the crumb of two French rolls in the broth, pick all the flesh from off the chickens, and pound it with the yolks of six eggs, boiled hard ; mix this with broth of the chicken, and with the crumb of the rolls; boil one pint of cream, stirring it occasionally, till it boils; pour it into the soup, and pass the whole through a tammy ; put it into the larder till dinner time, and then make it hot by putting one stewpan into another, with boiling water between. This soup should have no other flavour than that of fowl. SOUPE A LA JARDINIERE. 52—Gardeners Soup. This soup is prepared as directed for spring soup (No. 10), with the addition of a small cabbage-lettuce boiled tender and green'; also a cauliflower boiled, broken into small knobs, and put into the tureen when you serve the soup; a few leaves of sorrel thrown into the soup while it is boiling imparts to it a pleasant flavour. TURBOT.—(See No. 11.) 53—Matelotte of Carp. When you have well cleaned the carp, cut it in slices the crossway of the fish, about the thickness of an inch; lay the largest handsome slices in a marinade, that is—three-fourths of water, one of white wine, and one of vinegar; an onion, a carrot,38 a bay leaf, a few cloves, and a blade of mace; scrape the flesh from the tail ends, and make it into farce (see Whiting, No. 23); then drop the farce, made into small puddings, in boiling water, let them boil a few minutes, take them up with a slice, and lay them on a sieve; blanch one pint of oysters, take the beard and hard part from them, and put the oysters into a stewpan; also the quenelles and some mushrooms which have been prepared, and button onions boiled tender ; stew the slices of carp in 'the marinade, then strain the marinade, and reduce it with two glasses of wine and a little of the oyster liquor ; put it to some sauce tournee (No. 6), add a little cayenne pepper, and the juice of half a lemon ; give the sauce a boil, skim it and put it to the oysters, quenelles, and mushrooms warm altogether; lay the slices of carp on the dish, and pour the matelote over them. LONGE DE VEAU AU JUS. 54—Loin of Veal, with Gravy. Choose a loin of veal that is white and fat, roast it carefully, and serve it with consomme. CULOTTE DE BOEUF AUX CHOUX. 65—Rump of Beef, with young Cabhage. Dress the rump of beef as directed (No. 21), and serve it -with young cabbage, which are delicious at this season; first blanch the cabbage, drain all the water from them, bind them round with string, and stew them till tender in a light braise, well seasoned; when they are done, dish them round the beef, and pour over them an Espagnole sauce (No. 33).39 56—Two Poulards, aux Nouilli. Take two fine poulards, trussed for boiling, cover the breasts with slices of fat bacon, put them into a stewpan large enough, and cook them in poele (No. 9). If they are of a large size, they will take an hour and a quarter boiling ; if they are of a common size, one hour will do; take them up, wipe them free from grease, and serve a bechamel sauce, with nouilli paste (No. 470)-. 57—Small Timhales, with Salpicon. Butter ten or twelve dariole moulds, spread some trimmings of puff paste on the dresser, cut it with a round cutter large enough to fill the mould; then take a piece of paste, make it the same size as the dariole shape, put the round piece of paste over it, and by that means you can press it into the mould, so that it is of an equal thickness all round ; cut off the paste that is above the rim, fill the mould with trimmings of paste, and put on a Mse cover; and when baked empty all the inside, cut some puff paste with a round cutter, the size of the top of the timballe, put them on a baking sheet, brush them over with yolk of egg, and bake them. These timbales are to be filled either with a salpicon, or collops offish, poultry, or game. N. B, Salpicon is composed of several sorts of meat, cut into dice, such as sweetbreads, livers, ham, tongue, truflfles, mush- rooms, &c. put into a rich tournee or bechamel. Many more things may be added to this ragout.40 Small Croquetts of Poultry.—(See No. 25). FILET DE POULET AU TRUFFES. 58—Fillets of Chicken and Truffles, This dish should not he served, except for a large dinner, or when you have a dinner to follow, because the legs are to be used for another dish, and bodies serve to enrich the soups and sauces. Take four fat pullets, turn back the skin from the breast, take out the fillets, which will produce twelve, that is, the eight large ones, and by putting the two raignon fillets together, so as to form one, make up the number; take ofi" the skin from each fillet, and also pull out the long sinews; then flatten them with the handle of your knife, trim them all of an equal size; have some warm clarified butter, pour a little in a saute pan, and dip each fillet into the butter, and lay them in the pan; cut a piece of white paper, the size of the pan, and cover the fillets; at dinner time, fry them as lightly as possible; pour the butter from the fillets, have a little rich bechamel, (No. 7) warmed in a stewpan, dip each fillet into the sauce, and dish them neatly round the dish ; have ready in another stewpan a sauce prepared with trufiles (No. 204), which you serve in the centre of the saute. 69—Pudding, a la Richelieu. As soon as you have rubbed the quenelle farce (No. 304) through a sieve, have some small button onions, cut in rings, put them into a stewpan, with a small piece of butter, and a pinch of sugar; set them over a slow stove to soak for ten minutes, drain the butter from them, and mix them with the farce before41 it gets firm; butter a shape and fill it with the farce, and let it be steamed three quarters of an hour; turn it on a dish, wipe away the butter that runs from it, and serve with a clear Spanish sauce (No. 33). 60—Grenadines Pique. For this entree I prefer the fillet of the neck of veal—cut cross ways it is more tender—hut you may cut grenadines from other parts of veal, such as the thick part of the leg; out of the neck you can cut eight grenadines, which are sufiicient for an entree, trim them neatly, and pique them with bacon ; proceed as with fricandeau, by making a bed of veal, slices of bacon, and ve- getable (No. 40), on which the grenadines are to be braised; but of course they do not require so much time to cook—an hour and a half will generally be found sufficient: they are to be served with any kind of puree. RIS DE VEAU, A LA DAUPHINE. 61—Sweetbreads, a. la Dauphine. Select three sweetbreads of a large size aild perfectly white, pare away the sinews and fat, throw the sweetbreads into warm water to draw out the blood ; it is better to change the water two or three times, that they may be quite white ; then blanch them by giving them a boil for a few minutes only, which will make them firm, and enable you to lard them; then put into a flat stewpan some sliced onions and carrots, also put in a small bunch of sweet herbs, a few cloves, and a leaf of mace; over which lay slices of fat bacon, and upon that the sweetbreads; pour in a42 little fresh broth, set the stewpan over the fire, and lighted char- coal on the top, and occasionally baste them with the liquor at the bottom of the stewpan : they will take about three quarters of an hour. If they are too soft, they are not good eating. When properly done, glaze them with light transparent glaze, and serve them with a puree of endive (No. 218). 62—Pork Cutlets and Tomata Sauce. Take a neck of pork—it should be young meat, with small bones—cut twelve bones, flatten the cutlets and trim them ex- tremely neat, lay them on the table, and season them on both sides with pepper and salt; clarify some fresh butter, and mix a little of it with two yolks of eggs; dip the cutlets in, one at a time, and then into bread crumbs, until they are all done; then pour the remainder of the clarified butter into a cutlet pan, and shape the cutlets with your knife; wipe the bone free from crumbs and lay them on the saute pan, the curve of each bone the same way: at dinner time fry them over a brisk fire, and serve with tomata sauce (No. 432). 63—Fillets of Wild Buck. Where you have a good supply of wild ducks, you may dress this dish handsomely with four ducks; twenty minutes before dinner put them to the fire to roast—they should be quite under done—turn back the skin and take out the fillets, and lay them between two dishes to keep hot; but if the dinner is ready, dish them immediately; have ready a little thin glaze, to which you add the juice of half a lemon, a little cayenne pepper, and the« 43 juice, if any should run, from the fillets, which will be the case if they are dressed long before they are served ; pour this sauce over them, and serve as hot as possible. Another Sauce for Fillets of Wild Duck. Take two spoonsful of currant jelly, a glass of port wine, with the rind and juice of a Seville orange, cayenne pepper, and a teaspoonful of good mustard; give it a boil, stirring all the time, take out the peel of the orange, and pour the sauce hot over the fillets. SOUFFLE OF ORANGE FLOWERS.—(No. 29.) 64—Biscicits in Cases. Take a quarter of a pound of fine potatoe-flour, half a pound of pounded sugar, and seven eggs ; have two basons, and break the yolks into one and the whites into another; put the sugar to the yolks, and work them well with two spoons; rub a lemon on some sugar, and scrape it into the yolks and sugar; next whip the whites very firm, mix one half only with the yolks, sift the potatoe-flour through a hair sieve over the eggs, and mix it lightly; have ready some paper cases, fill them three parts full, and bake them the last moment: these biscuits are very delicate if served as a remove.44 65—Ramequins d la Royal. After you have given your puff paste two rolls, cut off a piece for these ramaquins, spread it out and sprinkle it all over with fresh grated parmasan cheese, and continue to do so till your paste has had the sufficient numher of rollings; then cut ten or twelve ramaquins with a plain round cutter, put them on a baking sheet, rub over the tops with yolk of egg, hake them in a quick oven, and serve quite hot on a napkin. SALSIFIS AND WHITE SAUCE.—(No. 18.) 66—Potatoes a la maUre d'hotel. Pick out a dozen and a half of new potatoes of an equal size, boil them and serve with a maitre d'hotel sauce (No. 210); when the potatoes are too large, they are to be boiled and cut in slices, and thrown separately into hot sauce. 67—Eggs brouillesy with Truffles. Break six eggs into a stewpan that will hold about two quarts, a spoonful of bechamel sauce, two ounces of butter, a little salt, and three or four truffles chopped fine; the truffles should be fresh out of the bottle—two teaspoonsful of the essence should be also added ; beat them well together, till the yolks and whites are well blended, then put the stewpan on a fire not too fierce, and keep stirring them with a wooden spoon till they are done thoroughly : dish and serve them immediately.45 The eggs brouilles may be served in various ways—with mush- rooms, with the bottoms of artichokes, with asparagus, peas, &c. 68—Macaroni, Italian way. Boil a pint of water, into which put two ounces of butter, half a pound of macaroni, an onion stuck with cloves, and a little salt; boil the macaroni for three quarters of an hour, try it, and if it feels soft and flexible, drain it on a sieve, and put it into a clean stewpan, without the onion, but with two ounces of butter and four ounces of grated parmasan cheese, a little cayenne pepper, and grated nutmeg; the last moment give the whole a turn over the stove, gradually mixing in three tablespoonsful of cream, and serve as hot as possible. 69—Vanilla Cream. Boil half a pint of milk, in which put two sticks of vanilla broken in pieces, one ounce of isinglass, and a little sugar, for half an hour; then add six yolks of eggs, and stir it over the fire till the yolks are set; pass it through a tammy with wooden spoons, and when nearly cold whip one pint of double cream very light, and mix with the vanilla custard; put it into a mould, and sur- round it with ice until dinner time. 70—Apricot Cheese. At this season of the year, when fresh apricots are not to be had, take a pot of apricot marmalade, and rub it through a hair4G sieve; mix one ounce of melted isinglass; then take a pint of thick cream, whip it well upon ice, mix in gently the fruit and isinglass; when well mixed, put it into the mould, and surround the mould with ice. 71—Orange Jelly. One dozen of oi-anges, if they are fine and juicy, will be suffi- cient for a mould of jelly. Peel six of them as thin as possible, put the peel into a small stewpan, pour a teacupful of boiling water on it, and cover the pan close, so as to confine the steam; squeeze and pass the juice through a silk sieve, dissolve about one pound of sugar in half a pint of cold water, with the white of an egg beat in it; set it over a stove, and when it boils take off the scum, and let the sugar boil until it becomes thick, and when nearly cold, pour in as much as will sufficiently sweeten the jelly; also the zest of the peels; dissolve two ounces of isinglass (see No. 491), and mix all together: observe that the syrup, the essence from the peel, and the isinglass, should be mixed with the orange juice as cold as possible, otherwise you destroy the colour and the fine flavour which the jelly should retain. 72—Madeira Wine Jelly. Boil four calves' feet, and proceed as for calf's-foot jelly (No. 492), leaving out the lemon-peel and cinnamon, and adding a bottle of Madeira wine.47 Bill of Fare for April. Fii'st Course. Soup a Mlemand. Crimp salmon and fillets of sole fried. Two Removes. Saddle of mutton. Two spring chickens, macedoine of young roots. Four Entrtes. Beef palates, au gr^tin. Richelieu pudding, Spanish sauce. Calf s brains, steward's sauce. Saute of lamb glazed, and green peas. Second Course. Ducklings. Turkey polt. Two Removes. Souffle of rice. Anchovy toast. Six Entremets. Asparagus. Stewed endive and bechamel sauce.48 Vol-au-vent of fruit. Croques en bouche. Lemon jelly. Duchess cake. SQUP ALLEMAND. 73—German Soup, Take some veal farce (No. 304), and make it into small pud- dings ; boil them in water, and drain them on a sieve; then cut the hearts of two cabbages fine, and blanch them in salt and water for ten minutes, squeeze all the water from them, and put them into a stewpan, with a good piece of butter, a little salt or sugar, and soak the cabbages for an hour over a slow fire ; then put as much consomme (No. 5), as may be required to make this puree of a good consistence, let it boil up, skim off the fat, and rub it through a tammy; then boil up the soup, and put in the que- nelles. This soup may be highly seasoned. 74—Spring Chickens, with Mactdoine of young Roots. Prepare for boiling two fat chickens of an equal size, and rub the breasts over with butter; slice a lemon without the rind, and lay a few pieces on the breast of the chicken, and completely cover them with slices of fat bacon, tied closely round; place them in a stewpan, fill up with poele (No. 9), let them boil for half an hour: when you dish them, shake the water out and wipe off the fat. They should be served with a delicate mace- doine, as follows:—boil some very young carrots, cut them of a neat shape; also some turnips, cut the same, a few French beans,49 cut, and some asparagus points boiled quite green; have ready a very clear rich Espagnole sauce (No. 33), and a few^ minutes before you serve the chickens throw these roots into the boiling sauce; let them boil up, skim the sauce, add a little sugar and salt. This sauce must be extremely delicate, to preserve the flavour of the roots, and to accord with the fine flavour of the chicken. PALAIS DE BOUEF AU GRATIN. 75—Beef Palates au Gratin. Take six beef palates, rub them over with a little salt, and if they can remain thus for twelve or twenty-four hours, the better ; then boil them in water, with some white fat, slices of lemon without the rind, and a little mace, onions, &c.; stew them till they are sufiiciently done that you can take off the skin : when they are thoroughly cleansed from the skin, cut them in two, trim each of the same length and breadth, then spread some veal farce (No. 304), and roll them so that the farce appears at each end; then put some of the farce on the middle of the dish, and place the palates on the farce all round the dish; cover the whole with layers of fat bacon, put them into the oven to do sufficiently, but not to get too brown; drain oflF all the fat, take away the layer of bacon, clean the dish, and serve over the whole a clear Espagnole sauce (see No. 33). IQ—Richelieu Puddings.~(No. 59.)50 CERVELLES DE VEAU A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 77—Calf's Brains, the Steward's way. Four or six halves will be sufficient for a dish; throw the brains into cold water, to soak out the blood, then strip them of the skin, and blanch them in boiling water with a little salt and vinegar for ten minutes; take them upon a sieve to drain, pre- pare a stewpan with vegetable spice, and a bunch of sweet .herbs, over which lay slices of fat bacon, and also round the stewpan, upon which lay the brains; pour in a spoonful of broth, cover the whole with paper, cut to fit the stewpan, set them over the fire for an hour, then fry nicely as many pieces of bread, cut in the shape of a cock's comb, as you have brains : place one between each half of the brains, and serve with a maitre d'hotel sauce (No. 210), over the brains. SAUTE D'AGNEAU DE POIS VERTE. 78—Saute of Lamb and green Peas. It will require two necks of house lamb to make a handsome dish. Cut the cutle(,s separately, the bones of an equal length, flatten them with the cutlet beater, and trim each cutlet neatly; dip them in clarified butter, put them on a saute pan, and fry them lightly; then place the cutlets on a napkin to dry away the grease, and dip each cutlet into very light glaze as you dish them; have some green peas boiled, put them immediately into a stewpan, with a small piece of butter and a little powdered sugar; toss them up, and serve the peas in the centre of the cutlets: they should have no other sauce.51 79—Soufflt of Rice. Take a quarter of a pound of rice, wash it well first in warm water, and afterwards in several waters; then throw it on a large hair sieve to drain, and pick out all the faulty grains ; boil one pint of milk and half a pint of cream, with the peel of a lemon, a lump of sugar, and one third of a teaspoonful of salt; take out the lemon peel which you have infused in the milk, and put in the rice, with two ounces of good fresh butter; set the stewpan on a slow fire, till the rice swells and becomes perfectly tender ; break eight eggs, and mix in the yolks with the rice; next beat the whites, and stir them in gently: put all into the souiSle case, and bake it for three quarters of an hour. ROTIES D' ANCHOIS. 80—Anchovy Toast. Take two dozen anchovies, an ounce of fresh butter, and a little cayenne pepper; first wash the anchovies, and pick out the bones; pound the fish with the butter, and rub it through a hair sieve; cut twenty-four pieces of bread, either round or square, and as thin as possible; fry them very lightly, spread one side of the toast and cover it with another, and so on till all are ready, which will make twelve toasts; beat up an egg yolk and white together with a paste-brush, cover the toast, and dip them lightly into bread crumbs, but not to make them thick and clumsy : they are to be fried in hot lard, just before you dish them, that they may be served as hot as possible.52 —Lemon Jelly. The process in making lemon jelly is precisely the same as orange (No. 71); but where you would use eighteen oranges, twelve lemons would he sufficient for the same quantity of jelly ; be careful that you do not use a musty one, which would spoil the jelly. 82—Croques en Bouche. Take some puff paste, roll it out as thin and even as possible, cover a square baking sheet with the paste, and brush it over with white of eggs, and sprinkle it with coarse lump sugar; cut it either long or round, and bake it quickly : it will eat very crisp and delicate. Dish the pastry on a napkin. VOL-AU-VENT OF FRUIT (See No. 109.) 83—Duchess Cake, Gateau a la Duchess. Prepare a sponge cake mixture (No. 128), and bake it in a plain mould—the cake would be the better for being made two or three days before—then trim the cake round the sides, and cut it into slices about half an inch thick; take a piece out of the centre, leaving the rim an inch thick, spread the pieces over with a mar- malade of apple mixed with apricot, then place one upon the other, and smooth it round the sides and top; garnish it tastefully, and fill the centre with a thick custard (No. 486).63 CHICOREE ETUVEE. 84—Stewed Endive. Take of all the green part of the leaves, and wash the heart in several waters ; blanch them in plenty of water, then throw them into cold water; afterwards squeeze the water out of them as much as possible, then chop them very fine, stew the endive in good broth, sufficient to cover it, add a little salt and sugar, and when you find it is perfectly tender, then add two spoonsful of sauce tournee (No. 6); reduce the sauce over the fire, stirring it with a wooden spoon, put to it a spoonful of reduced cream, and serve it as spinach, either with fried bread round, or in a custard of bread (No. 387). Bill of Faee for April. First Course. Tioo Soups. Vermicelli, queen's way. Soup sante. Two Fish. Mackerel, a la maitre d'hotel. Turbot. Two Removes. Fillet of veal, with a pur6e of haricot beans. Brisket of beef, Flemish way.54 Six .Entrees. Patties of force meat. Croquettes of palates of beef. Mireton of tongue, with roots. Fricassee of chicken. Sweetbreads pique with truffles. Lambs' feet and ears au gratin. Second Course. Two Roasts. Quails. Chickens. Tico Removes. Gauffres. Brioche. Six Entremets. Green peas. Artichokes, a la Espagnole. Mosaic jelly. Noyeau cream. Maringues. Genevois pastry-65 SOUPE AU VERMICELLI A LA REINE. 85—Vermicelli, Queens way. Make a rich consomme of veal, fowl, and good flavoured ham, soak the meat for an hour with some light broth, and when the juice is reduced to a pale glaze, cover the meat with some very delicate beef broth, put in a bunch of sweet herbs, that is—a sprig of basil, sweet marjorum, half a dozen spring onions, a little parsley, half a dozen cloves, and a leaf of mace; let the con- somme boil an hour, take off the grease, then pass it through a napkin, boil some vermicelli in water, and afterwards throw it into cold water; then drain all the water from it, and put it into the consomme ; let it boil by the side of the stove till tender : when you serve the soup, mix a table spoonful of arrow root with half a pint of cream that has been boiled; just when you dish the soup, pour this in, and let it boil up: add a little salt if necessary. 86—Soup Sante. Take two quarts or more of good consomme, perfectly free from grease, let it boil, add the least quantity of sugar, and also a little salt if required; cut the crust of some French rolls and pare them of the thickness of a sixpenny piece, put them in the tureen, and serve the soup boiling upon the bread.56' MAQUEREAU A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 87—Mackarel, the Steward's way. Split the mackerel along both sides of the backbone, season it on each side with pepper and salt, chop some shalots, parsley, and a small sprig of fennel; put the herbs into a stewpan, with a piece of butter, and a little grated nutmeg ; set them over a stove for a few minutes, then stuff the back of the mackarel, rub the skin over with a little butter, and broil them; put a spoonful of consomme to the remainder of the herbs, give it a boil, and a little sauce tournee (No. 6), and a few drops of anchovy essence : when the mackarel are done, lay them on a dish, and pour the sauce over them, or serve the sauce in a sauce tureen. 88—Fillet of Veal, with a puree of haricot Beans. Choose a fillet of veal that is particularly white, and has a good udder; put a stuffing in where the bone is taken out; all veal should be thoroughly roasted : serve the fillet with white haricot beans (No. 190). POITRINE DE BOEUF A LA FLAMANDE. QQSrishet of Beef, Flemish way. Take that end of the breast which contains the gristle, take the long bones, and cook it the same as directed for rump of 1 (No. 21); glaze and dish the beef, which is to be served with57 rots, turnips, large onions, and stuffed cucumbers; over which you serve a rich Sjianish sauce (No. 33), well seasoned. CROQUETTES DE PALAIS DE BOEUF. 90—Croquettes of Beef Palates. The trimmings of palates which you may have used for other dishes, serve for croquets; mince them fine, and then reduce some bechamel (No. 7) to a pretty thick consistence; throw in the mince, give it a boil, and add a little more seasoning; spread it on a dish, and when cold make them up in round balls, or shape them long; dip them into eggs, and then roll them in bread crumbs : they are to be egged and crumbed twice over, in conse- quence of their being very apt to burst in frying. PETIT PATES AU NATUREL. 91—Patties of Force Meat. These patties are excellent eating when well made; they must not be baked till the time of dinner. Take some puff paste, roll It, and cut out twelve round pieces with a plain cutter; have some veal farce (No. 304) ready, rather highly seasoned, which you roll up ,n small balls; place one in the centre of each piece of paste, then cut another of the same size, and lay lightly over the farce, but do not press down the sides; rub the tops over with yolk of eggs m.xed with a little water, bake them of a nice colour, and serve them as hot as possible.58 PIEDS ET OREILLES D'AGNEAU AU GRATIN. 92—Lambs Feet and Ears Gratin. Six feet and six ears are sufficient for a dish ; when they are scalded, take the bone out of the leg without breaking the skin; also trim the inside of the ears, throw them into cold water for several hours, then dry them on a clean cloth, and fill the feet, where the bones were taken out, with farce gode veau(No. 360), likewise the ears; next prepare a stewpan with carrot, onions, sweet herbs, and a little spice; over which put slices of fat bacon, and round the sides of the stewpan, the ears are to be placed ■upright, and the feet between; add a spoonful of light broth, cover the stewpan, and set it over the fire a few minutes to set the farce ; then pour in some poele (No. 9), and cover the whole with white paper : let them stew till quite tender, then take them up, and dry them on a napkin ; spread some of the same farce on the dish they are to be served on, and place the feet and ears neatly round; set them in the oven to gratin, then glaze them with extremely light glaze, and serve with a clear sauce, with mush- rooms or truffles. LANGUE DE MOUTON AUX PURE DE CHICOREE. 93—Tongues, with stewed Endive. Take twelve sheep's tongues that have been pickled, boil them till tender, and remove the skin ; for the centre of the dish yom are to serve them in cut a piece of bread, which is to be fried of a nice colour; then make it firm on the dish by a httle paste of flour and white of eggs, mixed, of which you T)Mt a littleSi between tbe bread and tbe dish, and set it over the stove to fix the bread; have ready fried some bread, cut in the shape of cocks' combs, and secure them also in the same way round the dish, leaving- room between each for a tongue, which you now dish, resting Ihe point of each tongue upon the bread in the centre of the dish; glaze them, and serve a puree of endive (No. 218) round them. FRICASSEE DE POULET AU NATUREL. 94—Fricassee of Chicken. No small share of skill in the art of cookery is required to make this entree well: to preserve the pure taste of chicken, and give the fricassee a neat and delicate aijpearance, is a strong test of the cook's ability. Take two delicate white chickens : first cut ofi" the wings, with a part of the breast attached, next the legs, divide the breast from the back, cut the breast in two pieces, and the back into two pieces; pull out the lungs which are attached to the back bone, chap off the leg bone, and push the flesh back from off the stump ; throw all the members into cold water; put on a stewpan of water, and when it boils, drop in each joint separately, and let it boil till they are firm, then throw them into a bason of cold pump water ; when cold, trim each piece neatly, and put them into a stewpanj with a piece of butter. Now put the trimmings of the chicken into the water they were blanched in, with a small bunch of parsley ; let it stew for one hour, then pass the broth through a silk sieve into a bason; next put the stewpan which contains the chicken oyer the fire, shake in flour sufficient to thicken the sauce, moisten with the broth which you have strained, and let it boil slowly by the side of ihe stove, frequently trying the chicken, to feel if it is tender; when you find it so, take the pieces out of the sauce, and60 put them into a clean stewpan, and pass the sauce through a tammy over the chicken ; at dinner time make the fricassee hot in a (bain marie), a hot water bath ; when you serve the fricassee, thicken the sauce with the yolks of four eggs, beat up with a spoonful of good cream; the fricassee must not boil after the eggs are put into it: the only seasoning admissible is a little salt. RIS DE VEAU PIQUE AUX TRUFFES. 95—Sweethreads pique with Trnrffles. Three or four heart sweetbreads will be required, according to the size of your dish ; throw them into cold water for some length of time to draw out the blood and whiten them, blanch the sweetbreads until they are pretty firm, cut some truffles in small knobs, pointed at one end, which end is to be forced into the sweetbreads till they are covered all over, or you may pique two, and leave the others plain; then place them in a stewpan, sur- rounded with fat bacon, and put in the trimmings of truffle, which will impregnate the sweetbreads with more flavour: when they are done, glaze and serve with truffle sauce (No. 204) under them. 96—Les ArHelmuts d tepagnole. Boil six or eight artichokes, according to the size of your in salt and water; they are not to be boiled too much, only ciently to enable you to take out the choke ; after that is61 trim the leaves, and then Ihie the bottom of a stewpan with slices of fat bacon, on which you place the artichokes, with an onion, a little spice, and two spoonsful of broth, and the juice of a lemon ; cover the stewpan close, and stew them for half an hour; then try them, to feel if they are all tender; if they are done enough, drain the grease from them and dish them, and pour a little Spanish sauce in the centre of each. 97—Mosaic Jelly. Boil a pint of cream, in which you infuse the flavour of orange, lemon, or noyeau, and add sugar sufficient to sweeten it; break tlie yolks of six eggs into a bason, and pass the cream through a sieve; beat the eggs and cream together, and stir it over the fire till it thickens; then remove it, and mix in as much melted isinglass as you think sufficient to make it firm; then pass it through a tammy, divide the cream into two plain moulds, and add a little cochineal, sufficient to colour one part; set these in the ice—if you have flavoured your cream with orange or lemon, you must prepare a jelly of the same; if with noyeau, which is preferable to either, take some clear calf's foot, and flavour it with white noyeau ; take a mould that you intend to shape your jelly in, and then cut the creams and jelly you have prepared into square lumps; intermix a row at the bottom of your mould, placing some square and some corner ways; put the mould in ice, and pour in a little jelly; it should not be the least warm ; when it is set, proceed in the same way, until the mould is filled up; surround it in ice, and when you wish to serve the jelly, dip the mould in warm water, and turn it on the dish; wipe' the mould with a cloth, and then remove it carefully.62 Bill of Fare for May. Two Soups. Tureen of cray fish. Spring soup. Two Fish. Tench a la Royale. Turbot. Two Removes. Two poulards, the duke's way. Quarter of lamb, stewed cucumber3. Eight Entrees. Turban of fillets of rabbit. Compote of qxiails. Sweetbreads, larded and tomata. Quenelles of lobster au supreme. Small dariole patties, puree a la reine. Epigram of chicken cutlets. Lamb cutlets and cucumbers. Small croquettes a la Royale. Second Course. Two Roasts. Green goose. Leveret.63 Two Removes. Souffle of apples. Pancakes, with apricot marmalade. Eight Entremets. Stewed peas. Aspic, with chicken. Salad of fillets of sole. French beans a la creme. Clear jelly, with strawberries. Vol-au-vent of apricots, with caramel. Nougat. Ci*eam of marasquino. SOUPE A LA BISQUE D'ECREVISSES. 98—Tureen of Cray Fish. It will require from two to three hundred cray fish to make this soup for a large party. Take a large stewpan of water, in which, you boil two or three onions, and a good bunch of sweet herbs throw in a handful of salt, and while the water is boiling put in^ the cray fish ; boil them ten minutes only, and then throw them into a cullender to drain; pick out the finest tails, at least one hundred, and lay them on one side to be served whole in the soup; the meat from the remainder is also to be picked out and pounded in a mortar, with the breasts of two roasted fowls, also the yolks of six eggs, boiled hard ; soak the crumb of two rolls in good consomme, and add to the above; next break the claws only, and put them into a stewpan, with a little spice, green onions andparsley, and three pints of rich consomme : boil all together for twenty minute.s then strain it to the fish, chicken, &c. which you have prepared; have also ready pounded, with a small piece of butter, the spawn of lobster: mix all together, and stir it over the stove till quite hot, and then pass it through a tammy, and turn it into a soup pot; make it hot by putting the soup pot in boiling water; a few minutes before the soup is served, lay in the Cray fish : add a little salt if required. 99—Tench d la Royale. Thoroughly cleanse a brace of tench, and put them into a stew, pan just large enough to contain them, as you are to dress the fish in wine only ; then pour over the tench as much red wine as will just cover them, put in a bunch of green onions, a little parsley, and spice; set the stewpan over a brisk stove to boil up quickly, then take the pan off the fire, and set it by the side to boil slowly for half an hour: take a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, melt it in a stewpan, add as much flour as it will take to dry it up, stir it over the fire for a short time, then pour the wine the fish has been stewing in, with a ladleful of consomme, to the flour and butter, stir it till the sauce boils, and then let it boil slowly, to throw off" the grease; add some parings of mushrooms, and a little spice; skim the sauce thoroughly, and pass it through a tammy into a clean stewpan; prepare some small mushrooms fried in butter, some button onions also fried, and a few quenelles of fish, and cray fish tails; these are to be thrown into the sauce, and served over the fish ; add a little cayenne and lemon juice to the sauce the last thing. Turhot (see No. 11).65 DEUX POULARDS A LA DUG. 100—Two Poulards, the Dukes way. Take out the breast bones of two large fowls, dip the breast of one of them into boiling water, in order that you may lard it; then make a ragout of sweetbreads, mushrooms, and truffles, and a Spanish sauce reduced to a thick consistence ; put the ragout to get cold, then divide it into two parts, and put it into the breast of each fowl; truss them of a good shape, to have all the appearance of a whole fowl: be careful to secure the opening at each end with fine thread, that the ragout may not get out; take a stewpan that is large enough, but not to give them too much room ; put at the bottom a quarter of a pound of butter, sliced carrots, onions, a bay leaf, mace, and cloves; cover over this sheets of fat bacon, and round the sides the same ; then place in your fowls, and cover the one that is not larded with fat bacon, and over all a sheet of white paper, cut to fit the stewpan; set the stewpan over the stove, not too strong a fire, and put some lighted charcoal at the top ; by this means you will fix the shape of the fowls; you must then pour in some poel6 (No. 9), or light broth, and continue to braise the fowls till they are sufficiently tender; they will take about two hours: take them up very carefully, remove all the threads, dry and glaze them, and serve them with a rich Spanish sauce (No. 33). 101—Quarter of Lamb and Cucumbers. Take the leg, and loin attached, carefully trim off the skin from e thigh, at the back part, lard it very closely with fat bacon, put(i6 a lark «pit tlirough it, and fasten it securely on another spit to roast; cover the lamb all over with paper : it will take about an hour and a quarter roasting; then dish it and glaze the larded part; serve with it a cucumber sauce (see No. 209). TURBAN DE LAPEREAU. 102— Turhan of Fillets of Rabbit. Take four young rabbits, detach the fillets, also the inside fillets, the eight large ones should be neatly larded with bacon, and the eight smaller garnished with trufiles, according to your own fancy, or thus—lay them on the table and with a very sharp knife make slanting incisions from one end to the other ; you then take a round cutter, the width of the fillet, and scoop some pieces out of large trufiles, and with a sharp knife slice them as thin as pos- sible ; place into each incision a round piece of truffle and press the flesh close, by this means they will remain. Make a farce of the flesh of the legs of the rabbit, the same as veal (No. 304), then cut a piece of bread for the centre of the dish you are to serve the turban on, cover the bread with slices of fat bacon—it will be the more easily removed when the turban is done if the head is divided into four pieces ; raise the farce equally round the bread on the dish it is to be served on, form it the shape of a turban, then place tha eight large fillets in a slanting form all round the turban equally divided, and between each a small fillet with the trufiles ; press them lightly to make them secure, cover the whole with layers of bacon, and then white paper, and'tie string round the paper; it is then to be baked in an oven not too hot: when you think the farce is sufficiently set remove the bread which is inside (before you take ofi'the bacon) by taking out one quarter at a time, and then remove the outside covering : glaze the fillets, and serve a ragout of cocks' combs, truffles, and mushrooms in the centre.67 COMPOTE DE CAILLES. 103—Compote of Quails. It will require six quails for this entree : truss them as you would chickens for boiling; place them into a stewpan suffi- ciently large to hold them, put in a piece of butter, a small bunch of green onions, a little parsley, a sprig of marjorum, a few cloves, and a leaf of mace ; set the stewpan over the stove for ten minutes, throw in a tablespoonful of flour, and shake it about in the stewpan until mixed ; then take as much good broth as will goyer the birds, and keep moving the stewpan over the stove till the sauce boils; then remove it to the corner, and throtv in some parings of mushrooms and a glass of madeira wine : try the birds occasionally, and when you find them tender put them, into a clean stewpan, and should the sauce not be thick enough reduce it a little more ; skim off all the grease, and pass it through a tammy to the quails : have ready some button mushrooms, some small quenelles and truffles, throw them in and give the whole a boil up : dish the quails and serve the sauce over them ; you may put- between each quail a piece of bread cut and fried for garnish, or a small pudding of farce in the shape of quails garnished with truffles. 104—JDariole Patties, puree a la Heine. Take eight or ten dariole moulds and line them with paste, fill them with trimmings of paste, cut tops of the same paste, rub them over with the yolk of eggs, bake them, and then take out the inside ; take all the white meat from two roasted fowls, pound it in a mortar until you can pass it through a fine hair sieve ;.OS then reduce some good bechamel, which should be well flavoured with mushrooms, mix the chicken with the sauce, season it before you fill the patties : do not suffer this puree to boil, which would totally spoil it. QUENELLES D'HOMARD AU SUPREME. i 105—Quenelles of Lobster au Supreme. Take the flesh from two small or one large lobster, some spawn of lobster, and the fillets of one whiting, which should be well pounded together for a considerable time, and then passed through a sieve; put into a stewpan the bones of the whiting and whatever soft part you can pick out of the lobster, a few green onions, a little marjorum, mace and cloves, and a ladle- ful of light broth ; set them on the fire for half an hour, then pass the broth into a basin, soak some crumbs of French roll in cold milk, and afterwards squeeze them in a cloth as dry as possible, put them into a stewpan with a little of the fish broth you have strained, and rub them over the stove till it becomes dry and firm; turn it out on a plate, and when cold make up a ball the same size as your fish, and proceed pounding them together; add some fresh butter, about one-fourth of the bulk of that which you are pounding, mix in six yolks of eggs, a little cayenne pepper and salt, and rub the whole through a sieve; beat the whites of four eggs very firm and mix with it; butter eight dariole moulds, at the bottom of which put a piece of paper, fill the mould and let them steam for twenty minutes ; reduce the broth which is left from the bones with two spoonsful of sauce tournee (No. 6) and a teaspoonful of elder vinegar ; season it, and just before you serve stir into the sauce a piece of good fresh butter.106—Epigram of Chicken Cutlets. Take the fillets out of five chickens, flatten and pare them neatly, take the small bone out of the pinion, scrape it clean and force it into the pointed end of the fillet; lay them on the dresser and shake a little pepper and salt over both sides, brush them over with the yolk of eggs, dip them into bread crumbs, and then into clarified butter, and again lightly into bread crumbs ; these are to be broiled in a double gridiron, but not till the last moment; cut the inside fillets into scollops, put them on a saute pan, fry as lightly as possible, and put them into a bechamel sauce, (No. 7), and also some mushrooms which have been passed : dish the cutlets and serve the collops in the centre. PETIT CROQUETTES A LA DUG. 107—Small Croquettes, the Dukes way. Cut a good quantity of small asparagus into peas ; take espe- cial care that you do not cut them too far down ; boil them quickly in salt and water till tender, then put them on a sieve to drain ; carefully pick them over to discover whether there are any hard pieces, for it would be extremely disagreeable to feel such in the mouth, and, indeed, would condemn your entree : now take the breasts of two fresh roasted fowls, mince it with your knife—I mean it should not be chopped, that would make the fowl ragged— take as much bechemel as you judge will be sufficient, which is to be reduced over a quick stove, stirring it the whole time, then throw in the asparagus peas with a little pounded sugar and salt; just give it aboil up, turning the peas over with a spoon as Hgbtly as possible, then throw in the minced fowl, and turn all70 out on a dish to cool: when it is cold and firm make them up into small balls, just a mouthful, dip them in eggs beaten up, be particular that they are covered all over with egg; immediately roll them in bread crumbs, and again shape the croquette ; have ready at dinner time some clean lard, made hot, and fry them half-a-dozen at a time ; if you put more into the lard at one time they would probably burst, as they are to be made very delicate. N.B. I am sorry to observe, that, from the slovenly and care- less way in which croquettes are made in some kitchens there exists a prejudice against the entree, and consequently they are often rejected when really good eating. If a croquet is dry, greasy, the outside thick and tough, they are certainly not eatable : if, on the contrary, they are well made, they are delicious : they should retain the flavour of whatever the croquette is composed of, the outsides should be thin and crisp, of a nice colour, free from grease, and when broken full of sauce. 108—Clear Strawberry Jelly. (See No. 497.) VOL-AU-VENT D'APRICOTS AU CARAMEL. 109—Vol-au-Vent of Apricots with Caramel. Cut a vol-au-vent out of puff paste (No. 459), it is then to bo baked and glazed with sugar, and fill it with a cold compote of | apricots; then make a carimel cover (No. 452) as delicately as possible, and just before you send the tart to table place the caraml over it.71 SOUFFLE DE POMME. 110—Apple Souffle. Take a dozen of apples, peel and core them, put them into a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter at the bottom, the peel of a lemon, and a little nutmeg grated, set the stewpan over the fire till the apples are done, occasionally stirring them to prevent their burning; take out the lemon peel, and mix with the apples, while they are hot, a quarter of a pound of fresh bread crumbs, and as much sugar as will sweeten them ; then stir in seven yolks of eggs, and a quarter of a pint of cream that has been boiled, and half a glass of brandy ; when you intend to put it into the mould have the whites beat very strong, and while that is doing set the stewpan over the fire, and keep stirring the mixture till it is quite hot; immediately mix in the whites and turn the soufHe into a buttered mould either to bake or steam : about twenty minutes will be sufficient for either way ; or you may line some dariole moulds with paste, and fill and bake them. It is to be observed, by being mixed hot they require less time to bake or steam. POIS ETUVEE. 111—Stewed Peas. Three pints or two quarts of peas are sufficient for a second course dish ; peas for stewing must be quite young : throw them into a large pan of cold water, with two cabbage lettuces cut up, and two ounces of fresh butter ; work the peas and butter together With your hands, and take them out in the same way into a clean stewpan, tie up a bunch of green onions with a little parsley and mint, and put it with the peas; cover the stewpan close, and about an hour before dinner set them over a stove, frequently72 give the stewpan a toss lest any should stick to the bottom ; when you find the peas are tender, and the juice nearly reduced, take out the bunch of onions, toss up the peas with a little more butter, a little sugar and salt, and at last pour in a dessert spoonful of cold water and dish them immediately: flour in stewed peas, though many cooks use it, is not admissible, nor is it requisite if proper care and attention be paid at the moment they are served. 112—Aspic of Chicken. Choose a very small spring chicken, which is to be boiled as white as possible, then put it away to get cold ; melt some aspic jelly (No. 216), pour a little into a mould that will just hold the chicken, cut some garniture with whites of hard boiled eggs and truffles, decorate the bottom, set the mould on ice, and add by degrees a little aspic to set the decoration; when it is perfectly secure lay in the chicken the breast downwards, and pour a little more aspic, which should not be warm, only just in a liquid state ; continue pouring in the aspic at times till it comes up level with the back of the chicken; keep the mould surrounded with ice till it is to be dished, then dip it in hot water and turn it out on the dish. SALADE DE FILITS DE SOLES. 113—Salad of Fillets of Soles. If you have sent up to table a dish of fillets of sole, and they are returned untouched, you may make a salad with them ; pare them very neatly and put them into the larder; but if it is requisite to dress them on purpose, let them be fried; it is the73 best way, and which I have found to answer admirably ; take out the fillets and trim them neatly ; then procure some green salad well washed, swing it in a napkin as dry as possible, put the salad in the middle of the dish, and dress the fillets neatly round ; garnish with beet root and boiled eggs, green gherkins, and the red spawn of lobster, finely chopped : indeed, great taste may be displayed in the decoration of salads, but it should be done expeditiously ; do not sauce the salad till the last moment, and be careful not to pour the sauce over the garnish. (For salad sauce,-see Nos. 216 and 217.) HARICOTS VERT A LA CREME. 114—French Beans a la Creme. Cut the French beans length ways, boil them particularly green, throw them into a cullender, shake out all the water, turn them in the centre of the dish, reduce a little bechamel (No. 7) with cream, and pour it round the beans. GELEE AU FRAISES CLAIR. 115~ Clear Jelly with Strawberries. Use a clear calf's foot jelly (No. 492), put the shape you intend into a pail of ice, pour in a little melted jelly, then a layer of fresh scarlet strawberries, as fancifully as you can; let the jelly set, and then pour in some more jelly, and then some more strawbernes, which is to be repeated till the mould is filled to the brim ; turn it out on the dish by dipping it in hot water. G74 Bill of Fare for Mat. First Course. Two Soups. White soup with quenelles of chicken. Clear consomme with Italian paste. Two Fish. Crimped salmon. Turbot. Two Removes, Rump of beef ^ I'allemande. Loin of veal k la creme. Flanks. Fillets of mackerel a la Gloucester. Sturgeon. Flank Fishes Removed by Two chickens with spring vegetables. Tongues au tomata. Eight Entrees. Fish puddings, queen's way. Saute of fowl and truffles supreme. Saute of lamb and green peas. Cutlets of mutton with Jtalian sauce.^6 Gratin of pigeons h la perigord. Chartreuse of young roots and beef palates. Fillets of ducklings and stewed peas. Timbale of macaroni, blanquette of sweetbreads. Second Course. Tzoo Roasts. Turkey polts. Ducklings. Tkoo Removes. Gauffres. Cheese ,Breoche. g.'^^^^^- \ Flanks. Figeons. y Flank Roasts Removed hy Two piece montes (ornamental pastries.) Eight Entremets. Macedoin jelly. Orange jelly. Cake with cream. Pineapple cream. Aspic of fish with Montpelier butter. French beans a la provencale. Peas. Aspic of plovers' eggs. When it occurs that patties are not sa-ved on the table there76 should be a plate handed round to the company immediately after the fish. 116—Clear Consomme with Italian Paste. Boil a quarter of a pound of Italian paste in plenty of water till it begins to swell, then strain it off and throw it into cold water ; boil two quarts of consomme (No. 5), take up the Italian paste on a large hair sieve, shake all the water from it, and then put it into the boiling consomme ; let it boil by the side of the stove for three quarters of an hour, skim it clean, and should there" be any particle of grease, take it oflF with paper; add a little salt if necessary. SOUPE BLANC AUX QUENELLES DE POULET. 117—White Soup with Quenelles of Chicken. Prepare a consomme with a knuckle of veal, a large fowl, the lean part of good flavoured ham, a little spice, and a bunch of green onions, and sweet herbs boiled in it: be particular that it is clear, extremely light coloured, and free from every particle of grease : at dinner time it is to be thickened with the yolks of eight eggs, mixed with a little cream : prepare also quenelles as follows : Take chicken forcemeat (No. 338), which form into small que- nelles with two teaspoons : take a spoonful of farce, which you make smooth on the top with a knife ; when you have shaped it thus, then with another spoon, dipped in hot water and passed imder the quenelle, you turn it out on a well-buttered stewpan cover, blanch them in boiling water, take them out with a cul-77 lender spoon, and drain them on a napkin; put them into a tu- reen and serve the soup upon them. 118—Sturgeon, baked. Prepare a marinade thus :—take equal portions of white wine and vinegar, some salad oil, pepper, salt, and spice, a bay leaf, and two or three shalots, sliced; lay the sturgeon in this pickle for at least twenty-four hours, and turn it occasionally : the next day, when you intend it to be dressed, prepare a deep saute pan, with carrots and onions sliced, a bay leaf, spice, and sweet herbs ; over this place some layers of fat bacon, and on that the sturgeon; cover it with buttered paper; then make a common flour-and- water paste pretty firm, and cover the whole so as to confine the steam; pour a little of the marinade under it, and let the stur- geon be cooked in an oven for an hour and a half, or two hours, according to the thickness; boil half a pint of Madeira, to which add some sauce tournee (No. 6), and strainsomeof the juice from under the sturgeon into the sauce ; reduce it to a proper thick- ness, pass it through a tammy the last moment, stir in a good piece of cold butter, season with cayenne pepper and a little lemon juice, dish the sturgeon, and pour the sauce over it. 119—Fillets of Mackerel d la Roy ale. For a remove or flank dish it will be necessary to have six mackerel; take the fillets from the bone, and by holding your knife slantmg you may cut three pieces out of each fillet; pare them neatly, clarify some fresh butter, into which you put a little grated nutmeg, cayenne pepper and salt, some chopped parsley78 and shalot; dip each fillet into the butter and herbs, and lay them on a saute pan till dinner time. For sauce, boil a glass or two of Madeira wine, to which you add a few spoonsful of sauce tournee, four anchovies, a little mace, and shalot chopped, boil it a quarter of an hour, then pass the sauce into another stewpan ; mix two ounces of butter with some parsley, chopped fine, and stir it with the sauce the last minute; the fillets are to be fried both sides, dished neatly, and the sauce poured over them. CULOTTI DE BOEUF A L'ALLEMAND. 120—Rump of Beef, the German way. Prepare and braize a rump of beef, as directed in No. 21 ; drain and trim it, cut the crumb of a half quartern loaf into thick s,lices, and bake them dry of a light colour; pound and sift them through a dry hair sieve into a basin ; moisten this with sherry to form stiff paste ; add a little pounded cinnamon and half a pound of moist sugar; cover your beef all over, a quar- ter of an inch thick with this paste; put it into the oven to dry : prepare a sauce for the beef thus :— Take one pound of prunes, half a pound of currant jelly, a stick of cinnamon, the peel of two Seville oranges, put them into a stewpan, with a pint of port wine; stew the prunes till they are sufficiently tender to pass through a hair sieve, then put them into another clean stewpan, to make them hot, and the last thing squeeze in the juice of two Seville oranges : this sauce is to be served hot, with the beef.79 LONGE DE VEAU A LA CREME. Loin of Veal, (see No. 54), and serve with bechamel sauce, reduced loith cream. BOUDINS DE POISSON A LA REINE. 121—Fish Puddings, Queens way. Take quenelle farce, made of whiting (No. 23) ; pound with a small quantity of butter the red spawn of lobster, rub it through a fine sieve, and mix it with the farce ; then mould it into three pud- dings, the length of your dish, and boil them; when done, take them out with a slice, and drain them on a kitchen cloth ; dish them, and serve over the puddings a white Italian sauce (No. 184). SAUTE DE POULARD AU SUPREME. 122—Saute of Fowl, au Supreme. Take the fillets from four fowls, and prepare the saute as iri No. 58—the legs serve for another entree ; put the carcases into a stewpan, with a small piece of ham, a few green onions, the trimmings of mushrooms, and a ladleful of good light broth ; set them over a brisk fire, and let it boil for half an hour; then strain it through a silk sieve ; next pass a little butter and flour over the fire, and moisten it with the broth from the chicken bones ; let it boil by the side of the stove to throw ofi' the grease; pass the sauce into a clean stewpan, and thicken it with80 the yolks of five eggs and a little cream ; saute the fillets, dry the butter from them with a napkin, and dip each fillet into the sauce as you dish them; the sauce should be suflaciently thick to hang on the fillets; pour the remainder of the sauce round them. 123—Gratin of Pigeons, a la Perigord. Bone nine small pigeons; cut a piece of bread about two inches high, surround it with a thin slice of fat bacon, then cover it with farce, sloping off to the edge of the dish, season the pigeons with pepper and salt, fill them with the farce, so as to give them their original shape; place these with the breasts upwards on the farce, put a little more farce on the birds, so as to leave the breasts only bare; cover these with a thin slice of fat bacon, and bake them in a moderately heated oven about three quarters of an hour; when done, take out the bread, and with a napkin soak up all the fat; fill the cavity with whole truffles, mushrooms, and sauce a la I'Espagnole (No. 33). FILETS DE CANETONS AUX PETITS POIS ETUVEE. 124—Fillets of Ducklings and Stewed Peas. Take three ducklings, which are to be roasted, but not too much; take up the fillets, which you place into a saute pan, pour some very thin glaze over them; at dinner time warm the fillets in this glaze, but do not suffer it to boil—the hot closet is the best place to warm them—cut six fillets of bread, the same form as the81 lucklings, fry lightly, and glaze tliem; dish the fillets and the oread alternately round the dish, and serve in the centre stewed peas (No. 111). 125—Timbale of Macaroni, with hlanquette of Sweetbreads. Boil half a pound of macaroni in water, till you find it tender; then throw it into a bason with cold water, butter a plain mould with clarified butter, cut a paper to fit the bottom and sides, which you also butter on both sides ; take a little of the macaroni out of the water on a napkin, to soak out the water, cut some in small rings, to garnish the bottom and sides of the mould; then take some veal farce, spread it very carefully (so as not to disturb the garnish) over the bottom and sides; take the remainder of the macaroni, and shake out the water as dry as possible; beat up in another basin eight eggs, leaving out four whites, mix with them a quarter of a pound of grated parmasan cheese, a little pepper and salt, and put to it as much macaroni as you find suffi- cient to fill the mould ; mix it thoroughly with the eggs, fill the mould, and steam it for an hour with lighted charcoal on the cover: when it is done, cut out the middle, and fill the place with a hlanquette of sweetbread, or rabbits, or fowl; turn the timballe over on the dish, and remove the mould carefully. When you garnish the mould, you may introduce trufiles, which gives it a good appearance, and also put some trufl[les in the sauce. 126—Chartreuse, with Beef Palates. Take a jjlain copper mould, butter it, and line it with paper well buttered; then prepare a suflScient quantity of carrots and82 turnips, by boiling them separately till tender in salt and water, with a little white veal fat or butter, or slices of bacon; take a round vegetable scoop, cut as many pieces as you can, then with your knife cut them in round fillets; lay a row of carrots one over the other round the mould, then a row of turnips cut the same way, again carrots, and so on, till you arrive three parts up the mould; cut some beef palates that have been dressed, as in No. 9, with round pieces; soak them in glaze, and put them at the bottom of the mould, one over the other; take some spinach that has been boiled very green, chop it fine, put the spinach into a stewpan with a piece of butter, and stir it over the fire until it is quite hot; season it well, mix in four yolks of eggs, fill up the mould, and press it close down; set the mould in boiling for half an hour, then turn it over on the dish, remove the mould and paper, and with a paste-brush drop some thin glaze over the vegetable : when the roots are young, this is by far the best way to make a chartreuse: when dished, pour round an Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 127—Macedoine Jelly. Strawberries, raspberries, grapes, currants, and cherries, are the only fruit that can be used raAv for a macedoine ; but it is to be observed, they should be perfectly ripe; peaches, apricots, apples, and pines, require to be boiled in syrup before they are put into the jelly: in the first place, have a good clear jelly prepared, rather sweet for a macedoine, because raw fruit takes off the sweetness ; put a little jelly into a mould, which you set on the ice, then array the fruit variously, according as your fancy suggests ; then pour in some more jelly; when that is firm, lay more fruit and jelly, and continue to do so till you have filled the mould to the top ; keep the jelly in the. ice till dinner timej83 then dip the mould into hot water, turning it into the dish you intend to serve : in winter, you may make a handsome macedoine with preserved fruit, such as greengages, peaches, pineapples, plums, and cherries. 127*—Pineapple Cream. Boil in syrup a good-flavoured pineapple, peeled and cut into slices to obtain the flavour, then proceed to whip the cream, add- ing by degrees the syrup until it is sufiiciently sweetened; add melted isinglass, to stifien the cream, and pour it into the mould, and place it in a pail of ice. GATEAU A LA CREME. 128—Cake with Cream. Make and bake in a plain mould a sponge cake; it is better- to be made two or three days before it is to be used ; cut the cake in the form of a basket, and hollow out the inside; put it for a short time in the oven, that it may become more dry, beat up two whites of eggs very strong, to which you add about four spoonsful of fine sifted sugar; make a pipe, by rolling a square piece of strong white paper, with a small opening at one end,, not larger than to admit of a small pea to pass, the other end wide open; fasten it on the side with paste; put into the paper the eggs and sugar, and fold over the top, that none may escape; and by pressing the paper you may garnish the sides of ^ your cake very tastefully in basket work, or any other fancy you84 may have; line the inside round with sweetmeats, such as cur- rant jelly, strawberry, or raspberry jam, and when dinner is called fill up the cake with whipped cream, as directed for ma- rmgues (No. 17). 129—Plovers Eggs in Aspic. When the eggs are boiled take off the shells, and cut off a small slice at the broad end of the eggs, that they may stand upright; have some aspic jelly (No. 216) that is very firm, turn it out on a marble slab, and cut it in half diamond shape or rings, and place them round the dish you intend to serve the eggs on; put chopped aspic in the centre, and the eggs on the top; they have a neat appearance, and are more inviting than when otherwise garnished; they may be served in a mould of aspic jelly, gar- nished with truffles and white of eggs. 130—Cheese Breoche. Make one poujid of breoche paste (see No. 468); immediately before it is put into the mould mix with the paste a quarter of a pound of grated parmasan, and the same quantity of gruyere cheese, cut in dices : serve this remove quite hot to table. 131—Gauffres. Put into a warm basin half a pound of butter, and beat it with a wooden spoon till it becomes like thick cream; mix six85 yolks of eggs, one by one, beating them well, and then add three spoonsful of flour, and a little sugar rubbed on a lemon; take half a pint of double cream, well beat up, also whip the six whites of eggs very strong, and mix all together lightly. Make your gauffre irons hot on both sides, pour in a little clarified butter for the first baking, bake the gauffres quickly, serve them as hot as possible: the last moment throw over them a little pounded cinnamon, mixed with fine sugar. Bill of Fare for May. First Course. Four Soups. Brunoise, clear. Consomme, with macaroni. Two Flanks. Tureen of quails. Tureen, with matelotte of fish. Four Fishes. Turbot. Crimped salmon. Two Flanks. Red mullets, fine herbs. Fillets of mackerel, a la Marchelle. Four Removes. Rump of beef. Haunch of venison. Poulard, Turkish way. Ham.86 Twelve Entrtes. Small timbales, with soft roes of mackerel. Croquettes of fowl, with bechamel sauce. Paupetons of rabbit and Italian sauce. Casserolletts of rice, with a puree of chicken and mushroom. Lamb cutlets, with cucumber sauce. Fricandeau, with tomata sauce. Chartreuse, the Parisian way. Vol-au-vent filled with lambs' tails. Tendons of veal, with green peas. Scollops of fillets of fowl, with truffies. Lamb sweetbreads, with asparagus peas. Quenelles de poulet, queen's way. Second Course. Four Roasts. Capon. Ducklings. Flanks. Pigeons. Ruffs de Rees. Four Removes. Fondeau, with Parmasan sauce. Soufflee.87 Flanhs. Two piece montes. Twelve Entremets. Red noyeau jelly. Plombiere cream. Bavarian cheese of strawberry. Clear pineapple jelly. Lobster salad. Mayonnaise of chicken. Plovers' eggs en aspic. Galantine in jelly. French beans a la creme. Artichokes, Italienne way. Peas. Eggs, a la tripe. 132—Soup Brunoise, At this season of the year, when vegetables are young, a bru- noise soup can be well served : cut some carrots and turnips into small square dice, fry them separately in a little butter and a small lump of sugar, and then moisten with a little good broth; put two quarts of consomme (No. 5), rather high coloured, into a soup pot to boil; throw in the carrots and turnips, cut some cab- bage lettuce and sorrel, fry them in butter and put them also into the soup : let it boil by the corner of the stove for an hour, skim off the grease; a short time before you serve the soup add aspara- gus peas, French beans cut, and green peas, all of which should be boiled tender and green ; cut the crust of a French roll in small88 square pieces, which you put into the tureen, and pour the soup upon it; add a little salt and more sugar if necessary. 133—Consomme with Macaroni. Boil a quarter of a pound of Naples macaroni till tender, throw it into cold water, then dry it on a napkin and put it into two quarts of consomme (No. 5); let the soup boil slowly for an hour; serve grated parmasan on a plate for those who choose it. 134—Tureen of Quails. This is to be served as a soup: when you have a large com- pany you must have at least ten or twelve quails, which are boned, and be filled with veal farce; cover the bottom and sides of a stewpan with fat bacon ; form the quails so as to appear whole, place them close together, then cover them with more fat bacon; put in some green onions, parsley, and sweet herbs, tied up, and a blade of mace ; pour in some light broth, and set the stevrpan oyer the fire to stew till you find the quails are tender ; then remove them : take a knuckle of veal, some lean of good flavoured ham, a few onions, and a little sweet marjoram, basil, parsley, mace, and cloves ; pour over this a pint of Madeira, and set the whole over a slow stove to soak : when you find it of a nice colour cover the meat with some good clear broth, and let it boil three hours ; then pass this broth and skim off" all the grease : • put into a stewpan as much flour and butter as will thicken the soup ; stir it over a stove till it becomes a little brown, then pour in the broth you have strained, and put in some trimmings of mushrooms : let this sauce boil for an hour to throw off the fat.89 then pass it into a stewpan; next pick out the quails which you have dressed, put them into the soup, and strain the liquor they were done in ; remove the fat, and pour that into the soup : have ready some quenelles made into small puddings, and blanched, which you also put into the soup, and let it boil up; add two glasses of boiled Madeira, a little lemon juice, cayenne pepper, and salt, if necessary; when you dish it put the quails carefully into the tureen with the spoon, and pour the soup over them. I have often served this soup at his Royal Highness the Duke of Gloucester's table, where it was highly esteemed. 135—Tureen of Fish, Matelotte. Make a farce of whiting (see No. 23), colour one half with the red spawn of lobster, pounded with a little butter, and leave the other plain : these are to be made into puddings, blanched, and laid on a sieve; have about a pound and a half of salmon cut into collops, and lay them on a buttered saute pan; fillet two soles, trim them also into neat collops, and put them on another saute pan; pick the tails of half a hundred of cray fish, and put them with the quenelles, take the bones of the whitings and soles, a dozen of anchovies, which are to be washed, pound the claws of the Cray fish; put all together into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, a bunch of green onions and parsley, a few corns of whole pepper: set the stewpan on a stove for a quarter of an hour, then pour in as much light broth as you require for the soup; let it boil for a quarter of an hour, then strain it through a lawn sieve, remove every particle of grease, thicken the liquor with a little butter and flour passed over the fire, let the sauce boil to throw off the grease ; then take the yolks of twelve eggs, boiled hard, break them with a spoonful of water, mix with the soup, pass them through a tammy by rubbing with two wooden spoons; put the soup into a clean stewpan: when H90 dinner is to be served, make the soup hot in a water bath, fry the salmon and soles, dry the grease from them, and lay them neatly at the bottom of the tureen; put the quenelles and the cray-fish tails into the soup to warm, and serve it hot on the other fish; season with a little cayenne pepper and salt: both these straps are excellent, and may be served in the flanks of a large dinner, where there are other soups. ROUGET AUX FINES HERBES. 136—Mullets, with Fine Herhs. Put the mullets into an oval stewpan, with a glass of Madeira wine, a few spoonsful of sauce tournee (No. 6), a little chopped mushroom, and pounded spice; cover the stewpan close, and let them stew on a slow stove for half an hour; take out the fish, pass the sauce through a small cullender into a clean stewpan, let it boil up, add a little lemon juice, ca,yenne pepper, and salt is necessary ; pour the sauce over the fish. 137—Fillets of Mackerel a la Maretihale. Take out the fillets of four mackerel, cut each fillet into three by holding your knife slanting, trim them neatly, season them on both sides with pepper and salt, beat up the yolks of four eggs, and with a paste-brush cover the fillets, and then dip them into bread crumbs, next into clarified butter, and again into the crumbs; place the fillets on a double gridiron, and broil them before the fire of a nice brown colour; lay them round 'the dish, «nd serve with a sharp Italian sauce (page 183).91 138—Haunch of Venison. A haunch of buck venison will take from four hours and a half to five hours roasting; I mean to say that it should be roasted for that length of time, as it will make it more tender, and the flavour will be improved : of course the fire and covering of the venison are to be regulated accordingly. I have had great oppor- tunities of judging, and much experience in roasting venison. It should be kept as long as possibly it can with safety, not to be the least tainted. Its keeping may be prolonged by careful attention, but never resort to the ice-house, unless necessity absolutely compels you to do so, for it is quite evident the fine flavour of the venison is considerably destroyed by the cold damp atmosphere of an ice-house. The haunch is to be prepared for roasting by first taking off the skin, but be careful in so doing not to deprive it of any of the fat; put the spit through the haunch carefully, so as not to injure the prime part, then rub the fat all over with butter, and wrap it in paper ; make a firm paste of coarse flour—it will re- quire about six pounds—and cover the fat equally all over with the paste; then more paper, and secure it with strong pack- thread ; you must not be sparing of paper or string, for if the covering should get loose your venison will be spoiled ; put the haunch at a good distance from the fire at first, and increase the heat till it roasts gradually, frequently basting it: just before it is to be dished, take it up, remove the covering, which is to be done with the utmost care, that the fat may not be broken, then throw over it some flour and salt mixed, put a good piece of butter, into the basting ladle, and when it is melted pour it all over the fat; dish and send it to table immediately, with good gravy, and some currant jelly and port wine made hot and served in a boat.92 POULARDE A LA TURQUE. 139—Fowl, the Turkish way. Having boiled some rice in broth till it is sufficiently tender, introduce some into the body of a fowl, which should be trussed with the legs turned in; cover the fowl all over with fat bacon and paper, tie it firmly round, and roast it an hour and a quarter; serve the fowl with the remainder of the rice, season it with a little salt, and pour some bechamel sauce over the fowl. 140—Small Timhales of Roes of Mackerel. Take out the soft roes from four mackerel, pour clarified butter into a saute pan, and lay the roes in it; cut a piece of paper to fit the pan, cover it with butter, put them in the oven for a quar- ter of an hour, soak the butter from them with a napkin, then cut them into small squares, as neat as possible; put these into dariole cases (No. 104), and keep them warm in the screen. Then take as much bechamel (No. 7) as you think sufficient, add a little pepper and salt, and reduce the sauce with a little more cream: when dinner is called, fill the patties in which the roes are, and serve them as hot as possible. 141—Casserolettes of Rice. Prepare the rice as directed (No. 43), but it is to be put into small moulds, either plain dariole or small fluted moulds. The casserollettes must be quite cold before you turn them out of the93 moulds. The method of filling the mould with rice is,—to take a carrot, and cut of the proper size to form a vacancy in the rice, and to press the rice into the form of the mould ; fill the vacancy up with a puree made of chicken and mushroom, which should be cold, then make a flat piece of rice to cover it in, and close it, without sufi-ering the pur6e to mix with the rice, but the rice must be perfectly united, or they would hurst in frying ; half an hour before dinner, turn them out of the mould, and fry them in hot lard ; let them have a nice colour, and dish them on a napkin. Another way. Having filled the moulds as above, make a vacancy in the centre of the casserollettes with a round piece of carrot, set them to cool, leaving the top part open; then turn them out, rub them all over with yolk of eggs, and bake of a nice colour; you may fill them with the puree, and put a larded lamb's sweetbread on the top; or they may be filled with any kind of mince, or a sal- picon of palates and truffles. 142—Paupetons of Rdbhit, with Italian Sauce. Koast lightly three or four young rabbits, and pick off all the white meat; mince it very finely with a sharp knife, that it may not be ragged, reduce four spoonsful of bechamel with a spoonful of cream, season it with a little cayenne pepper and salt, throw in the rabbit while the sauce is hot, set it to cool, then beat up six yolks of eggs, with a teaspoonful of cream ; pass the eggs through a cullender to the rabbit, and mix it thoroughly; butter eight or ten dariole moulds, and put a piece of white paper at the bottom of each; fill the mould with mince, and half an hour before din-94 ner set them in a stewpan ; pour boiling water round them, about half the height of the mould, cover the stewpan close, set it over a stove, and put some lighted charcoal on the cover: when done, turn the paupetons on the dish, and put over them a clear brown Italian sauce (No. 193). Croquettes of Foiol, a la Bechamel (No. 25). CHARTREUSE A LA PARISIENNE. 143—Chartreuse, Paris way. Pick out half a dozen large truffles, and cut them with a round cutter into collops, very thin; take out of the shells the tails of a quarter of a hundred cray-fish that have been boiled, prepare with clarified butter a plain mould, and cut paper for the bottom and sides ; form a ring at the bottom of the mould with truffles, laid one over the other, in the centre place the cray-fish tails; take the fillets from a large fowl, and cut five long fillets from each, and the inside fillets into two ; flatten, trim, and saute these fillets, let them cool, and then place them up the sides of the mould, by pressing them to the butter; leave a vacancy for a row of cut truffles between each fillet, which are to be made to stick, by pressing them in the same way into the butter; then introduce some veal farce at the bottom and round the sides, so as to cover completely the garniture ; prepare a ragout of sweetbreads, truffles, mushrooms, artichoke bottoms, and collops of fowl, with a bechamel sauce pretty much reduced; put this ragout when cold into the chartreuse, to come within half an inch of the top, then butter a piece of paper, cut to the size of the top of the95 mould; spread over it some of the farce, sufficient to cover the. top of the mould, turu the paper over the mould, and hy holdmg a hot salamander over the paper, it may easily he removed ; then close the farce perfectly all round the edges, put the chartreuse into a stewpan, and pour boiling water about one-third up the. mould; lav paper over it, and coyer the stewpan close, and set it over the stove; put fire also on the top, and let it steam an hour; dish the chartreuse, take off the mould and paper carefully, that you may not disturb the garniture: pour round a little clear Espagnole sauce (No. 33). 144,—Yol-au-Vent, with Fricassee of Lambs' Tails. Cut out of puff paste (No. 459) a vol-au-vent to corres- pond with chartreuse, bake it of a nice colour, and take out the inside soft part; have ready scalded half a dozen lambs' tails, cut them about an inch in length, put them into a stewpan, with a buiich of green onions, parsley, and a blade of mace; a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, or white fat of veal; cover them with boiling water, and let them stew till quite tender; then take them upon a napkin, wipe all the grease from them, have a little clear bechamel, into which put the tails, give them a boil up, and just before you serve put into the sauce two yolks of eggs ; beat up with a spoonful of cream, put the vol-au-vent on the dish, lay the tails in, and pour the sauce over them ; have some sprigs of parsley boiled particularly green, and put into the sauce the last moment. 145—Tendons of Veal and Green Peas. Dress your tendons as directed in No. 24, dish them neatly, and let them be nicely glazed; have the peas boiled as near the96 ime of dinner as possible, put them into a clean stewpan, with a piece of butter, and a little powdered sugar; toss them a few times over the fire, and with a ragout spoon put them neatly in the centre of the tendons, and pour a little clear Espagnole sauce round the dish. lAG—Scollops of Fillets of Fowl, with Truffles. Take the fillets from three large fowls, divide each fillet into two collops cut crossways, by holding the knife slanting, flatten and trim them neatly, laying them on a saute pan, with clarified but- ter ; then take the inside small fillets, draw out the sinews, make incisions in each fillet with a sharp knife, into which you place a round piece of truffle; turn the fillet half round, and place them on a buttered saute pan; at dinner time fry the collops, and at the same time put the small fillets into the oven, to set them ; dish the collops neatly round the dish, and upon every other one place a small fillet M-hich you have garnished with truffles; serve in the centre truffles, which are to be prepared in a sauce supreme (No. 208). RIS D'AGNEAU AUX POIS D'ASPERGES. 147—Lambs' Sweetbreads larded, and Asparagus Peas. Trim away the pipe that is attached to the sweetbreads, and braise them in a stewpan surrounded with slices of fat bacon ; take some veal farce, and spread it on buttered paper to the size of the dish you serve to table; have a large stewpan of water boiling, take the paper by each end, and turn the farce into the97 boiling water—it will readily detach itself from the paper, which you may then take away : when the farce is sufficiently done, take it out with a large slice, let the water drain from it, and then put t on a dish; take the sweetbreads out of the braise, dry and rlaze them, dish them neatly on the farce, and serve in the middle asparagus peas (No. 182). QUENELLES DE POULET A LA REINE. 148—Quenelles of Chicken, Queen's way. Prepare a farce of chicken (No. 338), make up a dozen or fifteen balls on a paste-board, flatten them in the form of a fillet of fowl, butter a deep saute pan, and lay the quenelles regularly round it; at dinner time have ready a stewpan of boiling water, pour it boiling into the saute pan, and let the quenelles boil on a slow stove for twenty minutes : take them up with a small slice on a napkin, dish them neatly, and serve over them sauce au supreme (No. 208). 149—Red Noyeau Jelly. Clarify two ounces of isinglass (No. 491), put into a pint of water a little white of egg, which you beat well, add twelve ounces of sugar, let it boil, and remove all the scum ; when it is clarified, pass it through a napkin into a basin, and mix with it three glasses of noyeau, and a little prepared cochineal; mix in the isinglass lukewarm only, pour it into the mould, and sur- round it with ice.I 98 150—PlomUtre Cream of Apricots. Make a marmalade of twelve apricots and six ounces of clari- fied sugar, pass it through a tammy, break the yolks of six eggs into a stewpan, and mix them with half a pint of cream, a little sugar, and the kernels of the apricots bruised ; set the stewpan on a moderate fire, and stir it constantly till it begins to thicken; then pass it through a tammy, mix it with the marmalade and a little melted isinglass, whip half a pint of good cream quite firm, mix it lightly with the rest, and pour the whole into a mould, which is to be immediately surrounded with ice till dinner time. You make plombieres cream with quinces, apples, plums, and peaches, in the same way. N. B. Tammies that are used for sweets should not be used for first course. 151—Bavarian Cheese of Strawberries. Take a pottle of strawberries, fresh gathered, and make them into a puree, by passing them through a tammy with two sj^oons ; afterwards put a sufficient quantity of pounded sugar to sweeten it; mix melted isinglass with this puree, beat a pint of cream well, and mix it with the strawberries; put it into a pewter ice-pot, surrounded with ice, and keep stirring it till it begins to get firm ; immediately put it into the shape, and set it in ice till it is -to be served. 162—Clear Pineapple Jelly. Clarify some sugar (No. 493), peel one or two pineapples,99 that is, according to their size, cut the pnme part into round pieces, and throw them into boiling syrup ; squeeze m the juice of three lemons, let it boil until the pineapple is tender then pick out the round pieces, and pass the syrup through a jelly bag and when it has cooled, put in sufficient clarified isinglass to set the jelly ; pour into the mould a little of the jelly, and set it on ice ; when firm, lay the slices of pineapple over it; then pour in a little more jelly, and when it is firm, fill up the mould half way, and as that becomes set, lay in the remainder of the pmeapple, and fill the mould up : this jelly should have a fine yellow colour, and be perfectly bright, which it will be if well made. 153—Mayonnaise of Chicken. A mayonnaise may be made of chicken, fillets of game, soles, lobster, &c., and are very refreshing, and pretty second course dishes, or for suppers. Take three or four spoonsful of sauce tournee, as much of aspic, made only lukewarm, a little chopped tarragon, chervil, burnet, and parsley; season with cayenne pepper and salt, set the whole on the ice, and mix it well: when you find it begins to get firm put in the members of a cold boiled fowl, neatly cut up; then dish up the meat and the sauce with it, and earnish the dish with whatever you think proper, as coloured omelette, beet root, or aspic jelly. 154—Eggs, a la Tripe. Boil eight or ten eggs for twelve minutes, throw them into cold water, cut four of them in halves, take out the yolks, which100 you rub through a hair sieve on a plate, slice the whites as fine as possible, and cut up the remainder of the eggs in thin slices • have ready some bechamel pretty well seasoned, and when the dish IS to be served, throw the eggs into the hot sauce, give them a toss over the fire, and then turn them on the dish; shake the yolk which has been rubbed through a sieve all over the top, and hold a hot salamander over them. l55~Galantine of Veal in Jelly. For galantine (see No. 299), cut the veal into thin slices, and trim it to suit the mould; put a little aspic (No. 216) at the . bottom of a plain mould, set it on ice, and when it is firm, lay the galantine fancifully on it; pour in a little more jelly to set the whole, then put in more veal, and in this way continue to fill the mould : it is to he turned out by putting the mould into hot water. 1-56—Artichokes, Italian way. Take tender artichokes, and cut them into quarters; pare them neatly, and rub them over with some lemon juice, to preserve their white colour; boil them in water, with a little salt and but- ter ; when tender, drain them well, and lay them all round the dish, with the leaves outward : take some Italian sauce (No. 183), with which mix a small piece of butter, and a little lemon uice; pour the sauce over the part which is to be eaten, but not )ver the leaves.101 Bill of Fabk for Jukk. i Turtle. Trout stewed in Chajiipagne. Two Removes. Capon, with sauce financiere. Neck of venison. Two Entrees. Saute of lamb, and stewed peas. Sweetbreads, with macedoine of roots. Second Course. Turkey polts. Ducklings. One Remove. Fondeau, with parmasan cheese. Two Entremets. Clear strawberry jelly. Vol-au-vent, with compote of apricots. Side Table. Small leg of Welsh mutton. Force meat patties. Peas.\ 102 Bill of Farb fou June. Green pea soup. Crimped salmon. Two Removes. Fowl, a la bechamel. Ham, braised M'ith puree of spinach. Four Entrees. Scollops of sweetbreads, with cucumbers. Vol-au-vent, with quenelles a la reine. Pigeon cutlets, with Italian sauce. Saute of lamb, and asparagus peas. Second Course. Two Roasts. Ducklings. Quails. Two Removes. Souffle of lemon. Ramequins.103 Four Entremets. Cherry jelly. Small cakes, with cream. Peas, stewed. Truffles. Bill op Fare for June. Two Soups. Aurora. Soupe a la reine. Two Fishes. Turbot. Crimped salmon, caTdinal sauce. Two Removes. Two poulards, a la perigord. Boeuf bouilli. Six Entrees. Fillets of young rabbit and endive. Lamb cutlets, pane tomata sauce.104 Tinibale, with compote of quails. P^te chaud of pheasant (potted). Fricassee of chicken, a la chevaliere. Calf's brains, marinade sauce poivrade. Side Table. Saddle of mutton. Second Course. Two Roasts. Turkey polts. Green goose. Two Removes. Baba. Cheese souffle. Six Entremets. Raspberry jelly. Plombiere cream. Potatoes, a la maitre d'hotel. French beans, a la creme. Cherry tartlets. : Almond cheese cakes.Bill of Fare for June. Soupe a la reine. John Dory. Two Removes. Capon, with macaroni. Saddle of mutton. Four Entrees. Fricandeau, with tomata. Lamb cutlets, with cucumbers. Chartreuse, with palates of beef. Lobster pudding, with Italian sauce. Second Course. Two Roasts. Ducklings. Fowl. Two Removes. Gauffres. Ramaquins. Four Entremets. Turban of rice and apples. Vol-au-vent, with compote of cherries. French beans, a la poulet. Artichokes, a I'ltalienne. IlUG Bill ov Fare for July. First Course. Two Soups. Clear consomme with macaroni. Green pea soup. Two Fishes. Crimped salmon and smelts. Broiled mackerel, a lamaitre d'hotel. Remove the Souj}. Poularde, with a ragout of cockscombs. Westphalia ham and puree of beans. Remove the Fish. Rump of beef braised, with Spanish sauce. Loin of veal with bechamel. Fight Entrees. Fillets of duckling and stewed peas. Fillets of fowl with mushrooms. Lamb cutlets and tomata sauce. Fricassee of fowl, a la St. Fiorentineu Patties of sweetbread. Vol-au-vent with quenelles of whitinga.107 Rabbit pudding garnished with truffles. Croquettes of Salpicon. Second Course. Four Roasts. Pigeons. Turkey polts. Ducklings. Leveret, Four Removes. Souffle of lemon. Petit choux. Ramerquins with Parmasan cheeae. Biscuit a la creme. Eight Entremets. French beans a la maitre d'hotel. Cauliflowers a la creme. Peas stewed. Plovers' eggs. Italian cream garnished. Macedoine jelly. Small pastry with marmalade. Madeleine cake with vanilla cream. It is to be observed, in this dinner the soups are served in the flanks of the table, and the fish top and bottom.108 Bill of Fare for July. First Course. Four Soups. Two-tureens of turtle. Puree of asparagus. Soup julienne. Four Fish. Turbot and smelts. Slices of crimped salmon. Matelotte of tench. Sturgeon, cardinal sauce. Four Removes. Loin of veal a la creme. Haunch of venison. Ham with .puree of Windsor beans. Fillet of beef pique. Twelve Entrees. Timbales of Vermicelli Avith puree of chicken. Patties a la russ.e,with soft roes of mackerel. Cases of sweetbreads, Venetian way. Croquettes, queen's way. Saute of fillets of fowl and truffies. Small puddings of rabbit garnished. Sweetbreads, with fillets of truffles. Saute of fillets of sole and sauce ravigotte. •U)9- Fricandeau, with sorrel. Legs of fowl, a la perigord. Chartreuse with beef palates. Lobster pudding. Second Course. Four Roasts, Leverets. Pigeons. Green goose. Turkey polts. Four Removes. Baba. Two dishes of fondeaus. Souffle of potato flour flavoured with vanilla. Twelve Entremets. Red marisquino jelly. Apricot cheese. Cherry jelly. Coffee cream. Cauliflowers, with cream sauce. Stewed peas. Lobster salad. Mayonnaise of salmon. Sultane, with vol-au-vent of peaches. Maringues, a la chantilly. Polish cakes. Tartlets, with custai-d.110 Bill of Fare for August. First Course. Two Soups. Turtle. Soup sante. Two Fishes. Turbot. Mullets, sauce Genevoise. Two Removes. Haunch of venison. Rump of beef braised. Six Entrees. Chickens, a la financiere. Ducklings, a la Macedoine. Tendons of veal, a la Belle-veu. Gratin of quails, vfith truffles. Lambs' sweetbreads, with peas. Quenelles of fowl, with white Italian sauce. Second Course. Two Ttoasts. Leveret. Green goose*Ill Two Removes. Ramequins, a la Royale. Omelette Souffle. Six Entremets. Peas stewed. French beans, a la Provencale. Cherry jelly. Apricot cream. Tourt, with compote of raspberry. Polish cakes. The plan of the preceding bills of fare and the observations offered will, it is hoped, be found sufficient to establish that prac- tical method, which is the object of this work ; and familiarize the young cook in a recherche style of serving dinners. The fol- lowing pages will contain detailed receipts for soups, sauces, fish, entrees, and entremets, which have not already been given in the preceding pages; also, bills of fare for the autumn and winter months, seasons which are by most opulent families passed at their country residences. The business of the kitchen in the country differs in its arrangements from that which is adopted in London; inasmuch as that in the former case you have generally your supplies from the farm, poultry yard, and garden : it is, therefore, necessary that the cook, on going into the country, should first become acquainted with the probable supplies from these resources, that measures may be formed according to the consumption of the family; and it is of consequence that the cook should at all times have early notice of company expected, as it would enable him to make the requisite provision with more economy; and where there is-a daily succession of dinners, the112 larders must be so stocked as to afford the opportunity of fur- nishmg the table with as much variety as possible. In the shoot- ing and huntmg seasons, there is in some families such a constant demand on the kitchen, that it is necessary to be prepared with coJd dressed meat; such as spiced beef, ham, tongue, boars head, brawn, cold savory pies, pheasants, partridges, &c., and generally whatever is left from the dinner fit to be introduced on the side- table. I must not omit to mention, that, it is advisable to make It an mvariable rule to take account of every thing received into the kitchen ; both the weight and price of meat (whether from the farm or the butcher), poultry, eggs, butter, and also of the game sent to the larder, and how disposed of; and to keep a statement likewise of the number of persons daily provided for throughout the establishment: this will at least be a satisfactory reference in the behalf of those who are accountable for the con- sumption. SOUPS. LA TORTUE. 157~Turtle. The evening previously to dressing the turtle it is to be killed by cutting off the head : the best method of so doing is, to attach cords to the hind fins, and suspend the turtle from a beam or strong holdfast; fix another cord round the neck, and by placing your foot firmly on the cord you will keep the neck stretched out; then with a sharp knife immediately divide the head from the body : let the turtle hang by the fins during the night that all the blood may discharge itself; iu the morning open the turtle:113 that is to be done by placing the animal on its back while you cut with a sharp strong knife the shell all round the belly; then with one hand raise the shell, and divide it with your knife from the fleshy part; turn the back shell upright, and have a pail or tub to receive the intestines, which you must detach very care- fully ; then cut away the fins with the flesh attached to them, and divide the fins from the fleshy part at the joint: have ready a stock-pot, with boiling water, into which you dip the fins and head to enable you to remove the scales, which must be thoroughly cleansed off", then with a saw divide the back and belly shell into convenient pieces ; dip them into the water, and by running your knife under the shell it will readily be removed : then put the back of the turtle first into the water, and on it the belly shell; let them boil slowly until it is tender enough to draw out the bones: you must try it frequently that it may not get too soft; you will find that the belly shell will be much sooner done than the back, therefore take that out first, draw out the bones and lay the soft part on dishes; do the same by the back, and put them on separate dishes in the larder : the flesh of the interior of the turtle nmst be well cleansed by washing it in warm water. Cut up a leg of veal and some slices of good flavoured ham, lay the veal and ham at the bottom of a large stewpan, with half-a-dozen onions, a bunch of turtle herbs, such as basil, marjoram, lemon thyme, parsley, mace, and cloves ; some carrot, and two or three leeks; on these lay the fleshy part of the turtle, the fins, and head : put in a ladleful of the broth which the shell was boiled in, cover the stewpan close, and set it over a stove fire to soak for an hour; then pour in the remainder of the broth the shell was boiled in, let it boil, try the fins occasion- ally, and when they are tender take them up and put them on dishes in the larder—they make an excellent entree, which I shall herciifter explain,—let the broth continue to boil until you think the goodness is out of the meat: if you wish to use any of the white meat for entrees, or to put in the soup, take it out be- fore it is too much done; pass the broth through a lawn sieveinto separate basins; you may boil the meat again with some common broth in case you should require it to thin your soup. You are now to take a clean stewpan, large enough to hold the quantity of soup, put into it a lump of fresh butter and as much flour as it will absorb ; set it over the fire, stir it continually until it begins to turn brown ; by no means suffer it to get a burnt taste, that would totally destroy your soup ; moisten this by de- grees with the broth of the turtle, and stir it till it boils ; then draw it to the side of the stove : put into the sauce the parings of mushrooms, which should be first passed with butter and lemon juice over the fire to keep them white ; put in a bunch of fresh herbs, with green onions and parsley, and spice; take care that it is not too predominant of either of these things, it is easy to add more of their flavour when you finish your soup if it is re- quired : let this sauce boil for an hour, skim it thoroughly, and pass it through a tammy into a clean soup pot; by this time the turtle will be sufficiently cold, cut it in convenient square pieces, put them into the sauce, and let all boil together. As it is the practice to put force meat balls and egg balls into the turtle, I shall give directions for making each separately. When the turtle has boiled up with the meat in it, carefully remove all the scum that rises and put it away in basins : it is to be observed, the turtle is better to be made a day before it is served, the flavour of the different ingredients are more united : when you serve the turtle soup, for every four quarts of turtle add a pint of Madeira wine, which should be first boiled ; and if the turtle should re- <juire more seasoning of spice or herbs, boil either that may be required in a little consomme, and strain it to the soup ; the last thing, before you put the soup in the tureen, squeeze in some lemon juice, and add cayenne pepper and salt if required. Ob- serve, do not put the wine and lemon juice to the turtle if you wish to keep it any time; only introduce it as you serve the turtle. The fins of turtle make an excellent entree served either with matelotte or cardinal sauce.115 158—Forcemeat for Turtle. Scrape two pounds of lean veal, half a pound of ham, and half a~pound of beef suet finely chopped; soak in cold water, for an hour, half a pound of crumb of bread, then press out all the water from the bread as dry as possible, put it into a stewpan with a small lump of butter and two or three shalots, finely chopped, set it over the fire and work it about the stewpan with a wooden spoon until it becomes a firm paste; let it cool, and then pound these things all together in a marble mortar ; it must be pounded thoroughly smooth, as this farce cannot be passed through a sieve : chop very finely some parsley, sweet basil, and lemon thyme ; put these herbs and some mixed spices, cayenne pepper, and salt, with the force meat, and mix it with three eggs; then roll up a small ball with a little flour and boil it; if you find it is not firm enough add one more egg. Observe, this farce is not to be too light, it should eat firm in the mouth : the farce being properly made, roll it into balls, boil them first in water to introduce in your soup. VJQ—Egg Balls. Take the yolks of twelve hard boiled eggs, which are to be pounded with the yolks of two raw eggs, and about an ounce of butter and a little salt; make them into small balls, rolling them with very little flour ; boil them ten minutes, and drain them on a sieve ready to put into the soup. \QQ—Mock Turtle. Endeavour to procure a calf's head Avith as white a skin as pos-116 sible, and which is to be scalded with great attention that none of the hair remains ; saw the head in two parts from the pole to the nose, take out the brains without breaking them (they serve for an entree), wash the head in several waters, then put it into a soup pot, with cold water, over a brisk fire, pay particular attention to the scum rising that you may remove it thoroughly, otherwise if it boils into the broth it would stick to the head and not be easily cleaned off; throw into the broth some carrot, onions, and a bunch of turtle herbs, such as basil, thyme, marjoram, and parsley, and a few cloves and mace; boil the head till it feels tender, but not to be done too much, for it has to be boiled again in the soup; draw out the bones, skin the tongue and palate, and throw the head into a large pan of cold water; when it is cold cut it up in pieces about an inch square, place them on dishes, and put them in the larder until you have made ready the sauce. Put into a broth pot a large knuckle of voal, two pounds of lean ham of good flavour, some onions, carrots, mace and cloves, and a bunch of turtle herbs ; to which put a quart ladleful of the broth the head was cooked in, set it over the fire to soak, fre- quently moving the meat that it may not stick ; when this is re- duced to a glaze, then cover the meat with the remainder of the broth, and let it boil on the corner of the stove for two hours ; it is then to be passed through a sieve or napkin. Now take a stewpan that will hold as much soup as you intend to make, put into it a lump of fresh butter, melt it, and add as much flour as it will absorb ; stir it constantly over the fire till it begins to turn brown, then moisten it gradually with the broth you have passed ; when it boils draw it one side the stove and let it boil slowly; put in some mushroom parings, also more herbs and spice, if requisite • the sauce must be sufficiently thin to throw up the grease, which is to be carefully removed, and then pass the sauce into a clean soup pot through a tammy; put in the head which you have prepared, some farce meat and egg balls, made as di- rected in Nos. 158 and 159 : let the soup boil for half an hour,1 17 skim it, season it with cayenne pepper and salt; boil some Ma- deira wine and a little lemon juice, to be added just before the soup is served. SOUPE AUX ABATTIS D'OIE. 161— Giblet Soup. Scald and pick very clean two or three sets of goose giblets, cut the necks into pieces about an inch in length, and divide the gizzards each into six pieces, and the legs and pinion bones into two; put them into a stewpan, and fill it up with cold water; set them over a quick stove, and when they boil take ofi" all the scum, and throw the giblets into cold water ; wash them perfectly clean, and then put them again into a stewpan, with as much good broth as will cover them, with a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions, and a little spice, and let the giblets stew till they are quite tender; take them out of the broth into a clean soup-pot, then take half a pound of butter, and about the same quantity of flour; pass it in a stewpan over the fire for ten minutes, moisten it with the broth the giblets were done in, and stir it over the fire till it boils ; throw in some mushroom parings, and half a pound of lean ham cut very fine ; let the sauce boil by the side of the fire until you have removed all the grease, and strain it to the giblets ; boil half a pint of Madeira wine, and add a little lemon juice, and let the soup boil for half an hour; skim it, and add a little cayenne pepper and salt if required. SOUPE A LA PUREE DE GIBIER. 162— Puree of Game. Roast either partridges or pheasants, or both may be used to- gether ; they should not be too much roasted, and while they are118 warm, take off" the meat from the bones, and pound it immediately in a marble mortar; put the bones into a stewpan, and cover them with consomme (No. 5), put in two onions, a carrot, a tur- nip ; boil all together for half an hour, then strain it through a silk sieve, skim off" the fat, mix it by degrees with the pounded meat, and rub it through a tammy; it is then to be put into a clean soup-pot, and warm the soup in a bain-marie, which is to prevent the soup boiling. Observe, no spice should be used, but preserve as much as possible the flavour of the game. SOUP A LA PUREE DE LIEVRE. 163—Puree of Hare. Truss one or two hares, roast them under done, pick all the meat from the bones, and pound it while it is hot; break up the bones, and put them into a soup-pot, with as much consomm^ (No. 5) as will cover them, add a bunch of sweet herbs, a little spice, some onions, carrots, and turnips; let it soak over a slow fire for an hour, then pass the broth, skim off the fat, and soak the crusts of two French rolls in the broth; mix some of the broth with the pounded meat of the hare, and rub the whole through a tammy, and warm it in a hot-water bath : season with a little cayenne pepper and salt. 164—Potage a la Clermont. Put into a soup-pot some good consomme (No. 5), it should "be rather brown-coloured; peel a dozen or eighteen small with119 onions, cut then, into rings, and fry them in clarified butter, with a teaspoonful of fine sugar; when they are of a good brown colour, drain them on a sieve, and throw them into the con- somme ; let it boil on the corner of a stove for half an hour, carefully take off the grease, that the soup may be perfectly clear, cut the crust of French rolls into round rings, put them into the tureen, and pour the soup boiling on them ; add a little salt, and more sugar if requisite. 165—Soupe a VAurore. This soup can only be made in perfection when the carrots are young and juicy. Take carrots, the reddest that can be found, scrape them and wash them, then remove the outside, as far as it is red, and put it into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, and half a pound of the lean of good-flavoured ham cut in pieces; set the stewpan over a very slow fire to soak; when the caji'rots are tender enough, add two quarts of light consomme (JJo. 5), and let the whole boil for an hour; then rub it through a tammyj boil the soup again, and if it is too thick, add more consomme: skim it carefully, for this soup should be red and clear; fry some squares of bread in clarified butter, and put them into the soup just before you serve it; season with a little cayenne p,epij»er, saJit, and sugar. 166—Soupe a la Carmelite. This is literally a puree of lentils with good consomme, and should be served rather thin, with fried bread in the tureen.120 167—Soupe a la Fauhonne. Cut in quarters the hearts of half a dozen cabbage-lettuce and a handful of sorrel, wash them perfectly clean, then put them into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, a little salt and sugar, and set the stewpan on a slow stove for a quarter of an hour; put the vegetable thus prepared into a puree of peas or carrots, let the soup boil, and skim off all the fat as it rises : you may put into the soup, as it boils, a small bunch of chervil, which gives it a pleasant taste, but take it out before you serve the soup. PUREE DE POIS VERTE. 168—Puree of Green Peas, Boil three pints of light-coloured consomme (No. 5), with green onions, parsley, and mint, tied up in a bunch, to flavour the broth; take three pints of large green peas, fresh gathered, boil them in plenty of water with a little salt in it; as soon as they are tender immediately pound them well, and rub them through a tammy with the broth you have seasoned : at dinner time set the soup over the fire, constantly stirring it till it comes to boil, skim it well, and then remove the soup, and keep it hot without boil- ing ; add a little sugar and salt, if requisite: send up on a plate square slices of bread nicely fried. 169—Soupe a la bonne femme. Take a handful of sorrel, draw out the stalk, and place each.121 leaf one upon another, and mince them in long slips; take the insides of four cabbage lettuces, which mince in the same way; wash them well in plenty of water, then put two ounces of butter into a soup pot, set them over a slow stove for about fifteen mi- nutes, then pour in three pints of good consomme (No. 5), and a small lump of sugar; let it boil, and skim ofi"the butter as it rises : when you serve the soup thicken it with the yolks of eight eggs mixed with a little cream. POT AGE AU RIZ CLAIR. 170—Clear Rice Soup, Pick very clean three ounces of good rice, wash it in several waters, then throw it into a large stewpan of boiling water; let it boil a quarter of an hour and throw it into a cullender to drain : take some rich consomme (No. 5), let it boil up, and put in the rice, and continue to boil it till the rice is perfectly tender, not to break in the soup, which would give it a very unsightly ap- pearance. POTAGE AUX NOUILLES. 171—Soup with Nouilles. Prepare and boil some nouilles as directed No. 470, and put them into some boiling consomme (No. 5), and let it stew till it is mellow : add a little salt if necessary. 172—Soup d la Beauveau. Put into a soup pot to boil three pints of good consomme (No,. K122 5), cut about four dozen balls of turnip the size of a marble, fry them in clarified butter with a little pounded sugar till they are of a nice brown colour, then put them into the consomme : do hot leave it till it boils that you may remove the scum and grease before it boils into the soup, which would make it cloudy : the ttirnips being thus prepared give the soup a pleasant flavour, which you could not obtain if they were boiled and thrown into the soup. PUREE AUX TOPINAMBOURS. 173—Puree of Jerusalem Artichokes. Pare and wash a dozen or eighteen Jerusalem artichokes, slice them, and put into a stevrpan two ounces of butter, over which lay the artichokes, with half a pound of lean ham; set them over a slow stove to soak for an hour, frequently shaking the stewpan ; add to this about three pints of good light consomme (No. 5), and let the whole boil for half an hour; skim off all the fat: soak the crumb of two French rolls in milk, and when thoroughly soaked squeeze out all the milk and boil the crumb in the soup ; then pass it through a tammy, put it into a clean soup pot, stir it over the fire till it boils, skim the soup, and it is fit to serve. SOUPE A LA PUREE DE NAVETTES. 174—Puree of Turnips Should be prepared precisely the same way as the last; fried bread should be served with these soups, or macaroni, boiled ten- der in a little good broth, may be introduced occasionally.ITS 175—Cheese Soup, d la Biberon. Peel and slice six onions, cut half a pound of lean ham in slices, and two ounces of butter; put them into a stewpan over the fire, and rub it with a spoon till the onions become a little brown; then add half a pound of bread crumbs, and three pints of good broth, a little cayenne pepper, and a blade of mace; let this boil for half an hour, then add a quarter of a pound of grated parmasan cheese, and pass the soup through a tammy; put it into a clean soup-pot, make the soup hot without boiling, and thicken it with the yolks of six eggs, mixed with a little broth ; cut crumb of bread in dice, fry them in clarified butter, and serve in the soup; first soak the bread in the broth, and put it in the soup the last moment. This is a good winter soup. 176—Hochepot of Mutton. Trim a neck of mutton into tolerably thick cutlets, braise them tender between slices of fat bacon, with carrots, onions, turnips, a bunch of parsley, and two sj)rigs of thyme; when the cutlets are done, take them out and press them between two dishes, and trim them when cold; put some good broth to the braise they were done in, let it boil, skim off the fat, and pass the broth through a napkin into a clean soup-pot; cut into dice some car- rots, turnips, and celery; blanch them and throw them into the soup, let them boil in the broth till quite tender, skim it well, and season it with salt and sugar, and just before you serve it put in the cutlets some boiled peas, then put them into the tureen ; also small lumps of cauliflower, well boiled, and pour the hoche- pot upon it. You may serve in this soup tendons of veal instead of mutton, or members of poultry cooked very tender.124 SOUPE DE GIBIER AU SUPREME. 177—Game Soup, au Supreme. Make a broth of all sorts of game, pheasants, partridges, moor fowl, hares, rabbits, &c ; lay at the bottom of a stewpan some slices of beef, veal, and ham, with a ladleful of broth, some leeks, carrots, turnips, celery, onions, wild thyme, sweet marjoram, and spice; upon which lay the game, the birds whole, and the hares and rabbits cut up in joints; cover the stewpan, and set it over a stove fire to soak for two hours^ or until it becomes reduced to light glaze; then cover the meat with good broth, and let it all boil till the game feels tender, which is then to be taken up on a dish ; pick the fillets from the breast of the birds, put them into a soup-pot, also the joints of the hare and rabbit; take out the car- rots, leeks, and celery, cut them into dice, and put them with the rest; strain the broth, and pour it into the soup-pot with the game; let it boil on the corner of the stove, skim off the grease, (it is impossible to be too particular in skimming soups or sauces), and season it with cayenne pepper and salt; when you dish the soup, first put the game carefully into the tureen, then pour the broth over it; have ready some fried bread, which is to be put with the soup the last thing. 178—Mullagatawny Soup. Cut up neatly one or two fowls, the same as for a fricassee; stew them in their own broth, with a bunch of green onions, a little mace, and cloves ; when they are tender remove them into another stewpan, slice four or five onions, and put them into a125 stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter; set them ove: a slow stove to fry fur half an hour, then put in a large spoonful ol flour, with two tablespoonsful of curry-powder; rub it over the stove for some minutes, then moisten it with the broth the fowl was done in, and add consomm6 (No. 5), to make it of a proper consistence; let it boil on the corner of the stove till you have removed every particle of grease, and pass it through a tammy to the fowl; boil up the soup, skim it, and add more seasonmg if it is required : or, instead of fowl, you may use young rabbits- prepare precisely the same. A plate of hot boiled rice is always to be sent to the side table when this soup is served. 179—Soup Maigre. Take two carrots, two turnips, half a dozen onions, two pints of peas, a little mint and parsley, and half a dozen cucumbers ; peel and put them all together into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, a little salt and sugar; cover the stewpan close, and set it over a slow stove to soak for an hour : boil twelve cab- bage-lettuces in salt and water, then squeeze all the water from them, and mix with the other vegetables ; soak the crust of two rolls, and rub it all through a tammy; thin the soup with boiling water, and season it with a little salt if required. 180—Scotch Barley Broth. Select a neck of mutton that has a thick fillet, cut off the scrag end and the chine bone, and shorten the long bones to about three inches; put the neck and three or four pounds of the shank126 end of a leg of mutton into a broth-pot, cover the meat with water, set it on a brisk fire, and as the scum rises take it off, throw in a little cold water, and skim it again; then draw it to the corner of the stove, let it boil slowly, put in some turnips, celery, leeks, onions, and a bunch of parsley, with a sprig of thyme ; try the neck of mutton, and when quite tender, take it out, and put it to cool, skim all the fat off the broth, and pass it through a napkin ; take two ounces of Scotch barley, wash it several times in water, and boil it about a quarter of an hour; strain it on a sieve, and throw it into a pan of cold water, then drain it in a cullender, shake out the water, and put the barley into a soup-pot, with three pints of the broth; cut up two leeks into rings, and two heads of celery, blanch them and put them into the broth, and let it all boil slowly until the barley is per- fectly tender; then take the carrots and turnips which were boiled in the broth, and cut them into neat dice, and throw them into the broth; the neck of mutton which you have put to get cold must be cut into chops, with one bone each; trim them very neatly, and put them in; also add more broth if you find it too thick : season with a small lump of sugar and a little salt, and the last thing throw in some sprigs of parsley boiled green. SAUCES. 181—Ragout a la Financitre. Procure from the poulterer's, cocks' combs, kidneys, fat livers, and small eggs ; put the combs into a stev^qjan of water, with t\YO or three slices of lemon, and a :good piece of butter; set the stew- pan on the corner of the stove, and do not let the combs boil for127 the first hour, that they may become more white-if they boll at Z^^^ shrin. L not loo. so delicate ^ey ^^^^^^^^^ into a stewpan; take the combs out of the blanch, d y th m on a cloth, trim and put them with the kidneys and eggs , b d th^ fat livers in the blanch the combs were done m, and put them tith tL other ragout; have ready, passed m ^utte. —^^^^ turned mushrooms, and also small poached; mix all together in the stewpan w.th oil^^^^o^^^^ to which add some Spanish sauce (No. 33); move it gently over the fire till it boils, take off the scum, and keep the ragout h in a (bain-marie) hot-water bath. If you desire y.our financiere to be white, use b6chamel (No. 7) instead of Spanish sauce. N B Bain-marie is a flat vessel, constructed to hold stewpans with boiling water to keep soups and sauces hot, with this advan- tage, that no change is effected in their flavour. ASPERGES EN RAGOUT. IQ^Bagout of Asparagus Points. Pick some small asparagus, cut off the tops about an inch long, boil them tender in salt and water, drain them on the back of a hair sieve at the time you wish to serve them, boil a few spoons- ful of b6chamel (No. 7); it should be reduced: as the asparagus relaxes the sauce, add a little sugar. If you cut the points smaller, four or five out of each head, they are then called aspa- ragus pe;?.3.128 SAUCE A L'lTALIENNE BRUN. 183—Brown Italian Sauce. Peel and chop half a dozen mushrooms very fine, half a shalot, and a little parsley ; put a small knob of butter into a stewpan' and upon it the herbs, with a few drops of lemon juice; fry them lightly, then add three spoonsful of sauce tourn^e (No. 6), and a spoonful of consomme; let the sauce boil by the side of the stove to throw off the grease, skim it perfectly clear—it is not to be too thick—season with a little cayenne pepper and salt, and then remove the sauce into a clean stewpan. SAUCE A L'lTALIENNE BLANCHE 184—White Italian Sauce. Chop only the white part of the mushroom, and leave out the shalot; put the mushrooms, with a little butter and lemon juice, into a stewpan, fry it, and use bechamel (No. 7) instead of sauce tournee; it should just boil up, and then remove the sauce into another stewpan. SAUCE A L'ALLEMANDE. 186—German Sauce. Boil some sauce tournee, and thicken it with the yolks of eggs ; beat up with a little broth, and add a little more seasoning.129 BON BEURRE. 186—Savory Butter. Take two or three spoonsful of the German sauce (No. 185), into which work an ounce of hutter, the juice of half a lemon, a little cayenne pepper, and salt. SAUCE A L'ESTRAGON. 187—Tarragon Sauce. Take a few spoonsful of hechamel (No. 7), blanch some tarra- gon, in whole leaves, or cut in squares, and put it into the sauce with a few drops of lemon juice. SAUCE A L'ESTRAGON VERTE. 188—Tarragon Sauce, Green. Give the sauce the flavour of tarragon, and make it green with extract of parsley (No. 196). PUREE A L'OSEILLE. 189—Puree of Sorrel. After you have washed the sorrel in several waters put it into a stewpan with about two ounces of butter; cover it, set it over130 the fire to soak for half an hour, occasionally stir it with a spoon to prevent it sticking; then lay it on a sieve, and when it is drained rub the sorrel through; add to it two or three spoonsful of sauce tournee (No. 6), a little glaze, and a small lump of sugar; stir it over the fire until it boils. PUREE DE FEVES BLANCHE. 190—Puree of White Beans, Put into boiling water some white beans, so that you may take off the skins; take a stewpan and put into it about two ounces of fresh butter and an onion sliced and fried; add a spoonful of flour and some light broth; stir it over the fire till it boils, then throw in the beans; keep them over the fire until you find the beans sufficiently tender that you may rub them through a tammy; put the puree into a clean stewpan, and before you serve it stir in a small piece of cold butter; add salt if required.. PUREE AU CHAMPIONON. 191—Puree of Mushrooms. Peel a handful of mushrooms and throw them into some water and lemon juice to keep them white; then chop them and put them into a stewpan,-with a small piece of butter and a teaspoon- ful of lemon juice ; stir them over the fire a few minutes, add to them two or three spoonsful of bechamel (No. 7), give it a boil, and rub it through a tammy.131 PUREE AU MARRONS. 192—Puree of Chesnuts. Take some fine chesnuts, slit them, and put them into the oven for a quarter of an hour, that the shell may come easily off; then boil them in a little consomme, and a small lump of sugar ; when done g,dd some sauce tournee (No. 6), and rub it through a tam- my : this sauce will get thick, therefore you should when you serve it have a little consomme ready, that you may make it of a proper consistence. RED SAUCE. 193—Cardinal Sauce. Pound some spawn of lobster, with butter, and stir it into some sauce tournee (No. 6), and work it well over the stove until it be comes smooth ; season it with cayenne pepper and salt, and th< juice of lemon, and rub it through a tammy. 194—Rtmoulade Sauce. Boil four eggs for twelve minutes, take out the yolks, pound them in a mortar, add three spoonsful of good sweet oil, one of mustard, one of vinegar, a little pepper and salt, and mix it with the yolk of one raw egg and a spoonful of sauce tournee ; rub it througih a hair sieve into a basin, amd stir it until it becomes smooth132 like butter; the same sauce is to be made gi'een, and much im- proved in flavour by adding chervil, burnet, tarragon, and parsley, pounded, and rubbed through a tammy: if the herbs cannot be obtained in a green state use green extract of j^arsley, and give it the flavour by using prepared vinegar of the various flavours. VERD D'EPINARDS. 195—Green Extract of Spinach. Wash very clean two or three handsful of spinach and pound it in a mortar to extract the juice, which is to be squeezed through a tammy ; pour the juice into a stewpan and put it into a hot water bath ; as soon as it becomes curdled pour it gently on a silk sieve to drain ; when all the water is drained out use the green, which is to colour whatever may be required. VERD DE PERSIL. 196—Green Extract of Parsley. This is prepared precisely in the same way as the last receipt; parsley retains a flavour required in many sauces, whereas extract of spinach is without savour. HARICOT BRUN. 197—Brown Haricot Sauce. Cut turnips and carrots with a vegetable scoop, put133 separate stewpans, with a small piece of butter in each; cover them close, and put them over slow ashes until the vegetable is quite tender; peel and blanch a dozen button onions and cook them in the same way ; then put the vegetables into another stewpan, with some sauce tourn^e (No. 6), let it boil and skim it clear; season the same with a little sugar and salt, and add a small lump of glaze. HARICOT BLANCHE. 198—White Haricot Sauce. Cut the vegetables in the same way and boil them in light broth, drain them in a small cullender, and have ready some be- chamel (No. 7) made hot; throw in the roots, give them a boil up, and season the sauce with a little sugar and salt. 199—-Sawce Robert. Slice half a dozen onions, put them into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter and a little sugar ; cover the stewpan, and set them on a slow stove to soak for an hour; then take off" the cover and let the onions dry of a nice brown colour; put to them two or three spoonsful of sauce tournee and one of consomme, and let it boil by the side of the stove to throw up the grease, which being removed rub the sauce through a tammy; let it boil again, and the last thing mix in a little mustard with a little cayenne pepper and salt. When this sauce is well made it has many admirers.134 200—Sauce a Vaurore. Reduce some sauce tournee and mix with it the red spawn of lobster, jjounded with butter ; season highly with cayenne pep- per, salt, and a little lemon juice. 201—Sauce for Attelets. Chop some mushrooms, parsley, and shalots, put them into a stewpan with a little butter and fry them lightly; then add a des- sert spoonful of flour and moisten with consomme: this sauce should be thick, therefore it must be reduced over a strong fire with a wooden spoon : season it with pepper,' spice, and a little salt; throw in the yolks of two or three eggs, and stir the sauce till it begins to cool. PUREE DE CELERI BLANCHE. 202—Puree of Celery, white. Take about a dozen heads of celery, cut the whitest part, which blanch in water ; drain the water off, put it into a stewpan, with a little white broth and a small lump of sugar; stew it on a slow stove till it is perfectly tender, and the juice reduced nearly to glaze ; then add four spoonsful of bechamel, and pass it through a tammy: this puree is to be made hot, but not to boil. 203—Sauce Macedoiene. The spring of the year is the only time to have this sauce in136 perfection; it is composed of every kind of vegetable, such as asparagus tops, green peas, French beans, artichoke bottoms, the white part of celery, young carrots, and turnips ; let them all be well cooked, by first blanching and then reducing them separately in consomme; but the peas and French beans are to be boiled only quite green, and drained on clean cloths, otherwise when mixed with the sauce they will make it too thin : have ready some sauce tournee (No. 6), and put the different vegetables you have prepared into it, toss them over the fire so as to mix them, with- out destroying their shape; add a little sugar and salt when you serve the sauce. If you desire to have this sauce white, use be- chamel (No. 7) instead of tournee. SAUCE AUX TRUFFES. 204—Truffle Sauce, white and brown. If you have green truffles, clean them thoroughly from the grit, pick out the small ones, and peel them as much of the same size as you can, then put them into a stewpan, with a spoonful of good consomme, and stew them on a slow fire for twenty minutes; then pour in three spoonsful of sauce tournee (No. 6), let the sauce boil until it is clear; add a small lump of glaze and a little salt. If for a white sauce, reduce the truffles to glaze, and add becha- mel (No. 7) instead of sauce tournee. PUREE AUX TOPINAMBOUR. 205—Puree of Jerusalem Artichokes. Peel and slice a dozen of Jerusalem artichokes, put them into a136 stewpan, with a piece of butter and a spoonful of broth; set them on a slow stove to soak until they feel tender; then rub them through a tammy, and add two spoonsful of bechamel .(No. 7); give the sauce a boil, and season it with a little salt. 206—Sauce Ravigotte. Put into a stewpan some burnet, chervil, tarragon, parsley, and a little shalot, with two spoonsful of good consomme, and set it on a stove to reduce it to glaze ; then add some sauce tournee, and pass the sauce through a tammy : add cayenne, salt, and a tea spoonful of lemon juice. 201—White Ravigotte. The same as last—except that you use bechamel instead of the brown sauce, and at the last moment work in a small piece of but- ter, a little cayenne pepper, and salt. 208'—Sauce Supreme. Cut a fowl into pieces, a quarter of a pound of the lean part of a fine-flavoured ham, a shalot, and a small faggot of parsley and green onions: set it over a stove with a little good broth to soak till it becomes a glaze at the bottom of the stewpan; then add about a pint of sauce tournee, boil it for half an hour, skim off the fat, and then pass it through a tammy. If for white sauce then reduce it with some good cream.137 SAUCE AUX CONCOMBRE. 209—Cucumber Sauce. After peeling the cucumbers, without leaving any particle of green on them, cut each in about four lengths, and each piece into quarters; take out all the seeds, and pare them round; put them into cold water with a little salt in it, and let them remain for about two hours ; take the cucumbers out, aiid with a cloth squeeze out all the water from them ; put them into a stewpan with as much consomme as will cover them, and reduce it to glaze; then add a few spoonsful of sauce tournee (No. 6), give it a boil,—add a little sugar and salt if necessary. If it is intended to be white sauce, prepare the cucumber as above, and use bechamel (No. 7) instead of tournee. 210—Maitre d'hotel Sauce. Take as much bechamel (No. 7) ag you require, sauce and warm it over a stove; mix a small lump of fresh butter with some parsley finely chopped, and stir this into the sauce : add a teaspoonful of lemon juice. SAUCE A LA HOLLANDAISE. 211—Dutch Sauce for Fish. Put into a stewpan a little scraped horse-radish, two anchovies, a little elder vinegar, and a spoonful of good broth; give it a ho^l, h138 strain it, and return it again into the stewpan : make a liaison of five yolks of eggs and a spoonful of broth, put with the sauce a spoonful of bechamel over the fire, stirring it till it is quite thick; pass it through a tammy, and then work a little fresh butter into it. This sauce should be thick, smooth, and soft. 212—Dutch Sauce, for Meat, Poultry, ^c. Take four spoonsful of sauce tournee (No. 6), and one of elder vinegar, a little good butter, and three yolks of eggs, put it on the fire, and keep stirring it till it acquires thickness : if it is not smooth pass it through a tammy. 213—Caper Sauce, for Fish. Boil a few spoonsful of sauce tournee (No. 6), stir in a little cold butter, and then put in some capers bruised, but not chopped; the sauce should not boil after the capers are put in, or it would give the sauce a strong disagreeable taste. 214—Montpelier Butter. Take a handful of chervil tarragon, burnet, and green onions; wash them very clean, and blanch them in boiling water with a spoonful of salt to keep them as green as possi- ble; when they have boiled six minutes, take them out and put them into cold water; you must have ready eight eggs boiled hard, drain and squeeze all the water from the herbs, put them into the mortar,, and pound them very fine;, add the yolks of139 eggs, ten or twelve anchovies washed and boned, two spoonsful of fine capers, a very little shalot, some salt, a little cayenne, and a little nutmeg; pound all this till very fine, then add half a pound of fresh butter, a spoonful of sweet oil, and a spoonful of elder or tarragon vinegar; taste if the seasoning is very palata- ble, rub it all through a sieve, and make it a greener colour by adding some green extract of spinach; put this butter into ice, and you may use it for borders of salads of fish, &c. When you want to make this butter red, infuse the herbs in a little boiling vinegar to obtain the flavour, and use lobster spawn to colour with, instead of the green extract of spinach. 215—Salad Sauce. Take the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, put them into the mortar, with a spoonful of mustard; pound this very fine, add to it salt and pepper, two spoonsful of vinegar, and three of sweet oil; you may put also a spoonful of tarragon, or elder vinegar. If you have in your larder a good meat jelly, you may occasionally put some to it, but do not put any cream, for it is very unwhole- some : you may put some chopped herbs, as chervil, tarragon^ burnet, &c. into this sauce. 216—Aspic Jelly. Put a knuckle of veal into a small stock-pot, a knuckle of ham, two calves' feet, and the trimmings of poultry; season this with onions, carrots, and a bunch of herbs; pour into it half a bottle of white wine, and a ladleful of good broth; set it over the stove till it is reduced, to a light glaze, then cover the meat140 with good broth, throw'in two ounces of isinglass, and let it boil for three hours ; then strain and <;lear the jelly with white of eggs. ^^1—Another Salad Sauce. Boil four eggs for ten minutes, and throw them into cold water; when tliey are cold take out the yolks whole, rub them :through a hah- sieve, with a spoonful of cold water, then add three table spoonsful of fine sweet oil; when these are well mixed add two teaspoonsful of made mustard, then by degrees add three table spoonsful of vinegar, and one of tarragon; rub all these ingredients together till thoroughly incorporated; then a little salt and sugar are to be added. 6::^ i : .J*UREE DE CHICOREE. 218—-T^uree of Endive. • ;''Wash and cleanse thoroughly three or four heads of endive, and boil them in salt and water a quarter of an hour; then drain off all the water, and chop the endive quite fine; put it into a clean stewpan, with two spoonsful of consomme (No. 5), and stew it till perfectly tender. If the puree is intended to be white add some bechamel (No. 7), if brown use sauce tournee (No. 6); reduce the puree to a proper consistence, by stirring it with a spoon over the fire; add a little salt and sugar. FISH. 2\9—Fish Stock. l^. large dinners where you use a great quantity of fish for141 entries, the trimmings should be used to make broth for fish soups or sauces; put into a stewpan a good piece of fresh butter, a bunch of green onions, bay-leaf, carrot, a little spice, and salt ;= over this lay the trimmings of fish, set it over a slow stove to soak for half an hour, then pour in some boiling water if for meagre dishes, if not, use light broth; let the stock boil another half hour, and then pass it through a kitchen napkin. 220—Salmon, plain. Invariably use spring water to boil fish, if it is to be had ; let the water boil, throw in a handful of salt, and skim it before you put in the salmon ; you must be guided as to the time it will take cooking according to the size of the fish—a salmon of ten or twelve pounds will take about three quarters of an hour. Salmon is served indiscriminately, plain, or as an entree. Slices of crimped salmon should be boiled quickly in salt and water, and will take from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to the thick- ness of the slices. Mr. Florance had a very peculiar and a very excellent method of dressing salmon in Scotland, where it was brought to the kitchen alive. It is immediately cut into slices, not more than an inch and a half thick, wash it, take out the inside, boil some strong salt and water, skim it, and lay in the slices of fish, and when they float in the water take them out immediately, and send them to table: thus you eat salmon in perfection. Whenever you have an opportunity of obtaining salmon alive, it is infinitely better dressed immediately. I was so situated at Dynevour Castle, on the banks of the Towy, as to be able to experience this. We there had the salmon brought up alive from the river, and it was immediately cut ihto slices, about an inch and a half thick. Put the salmon into a tub, and pump upon142 It for ten or fifteen minutes; in the meantime prepare some boil- ing salt and water, skim it well, then take the largest slices of salmon between your thumb and finger, and dip it into the boiling water several times, till it sets; then drop it in, and do the same with each of the other slices : boil the whole sufiiciently, but not too much ; remove the scum from the top of the water, and take out the slices ; put them away till they are wanted to be sent to table, then warm the slices of salmon in the liquor they were boiled in. SAUMON GRILLE. 221—Slices of Salmon, broiled. Marinade slices of salmon, in a little olive oil, pepper, and salt; an hour before you want to broil them put the slices into a double gridiron, and broil them slowly before the fire; drain them on a clean cloth, dish them, and serve a caper sauce (No. 213) in a tureen. SAUMON EN CAISSES. 222—Salmon in Cases. Take two or three slices of salmon, rub them over with sweet oil, chopped mushrooms, and mixed spice, pepper, and salt; then make paper boxes the size of the salmon, lay in the slices, with their seasoning, and bake them in the oven, and serve them in the cases, with a sauce a I'Espagnole (No. 33) in a tureen.143 223—Pickled Salmon. Cut up the salmon into convenient pieces, wipe it from the blood, season it with pepper and salt, and let it remain for twelve hours; take three pints of vinegar and four pints of pump water, one ounce of black pepper, aquarter of an ounce of cloves, and two bay leaves; boil up the pickle, and put in the salmon ; after boil- ing twenty-five minutes, take it out, and when both are cold put- the salmon in the hquor. 224—Trout Is to be dressed precisely as you dress salmon. 225—Cod Fish Is in high season from October to March, during which time it is greatly esteemed. I prefer generally putting fish into boil- ing water, it eats firmer, especially crimped fish; slices of crimped cod will take from twenty to twenty-five minutes; use pump water, throw in some salt, and when it boils skim it; place the slices of fish on the lining, drop it into the water, attend it till it boils up, remove the scum, and let it boil quickly; try the fish with your knife between the bones—if it leaves the bone freely it is done; drain and serve it immediately with oyster sauce in a boat. 226~Salt Cod, a la Maitre d'Hotel. Put the fish in cold water on the fire in a large vessel, that it144 may have plenty of water; the moment it begins to boil take it off the fire, skun .t, and cover it close; it should merely simmer. Make a maitre d'hotel sauce with a quarter of a pound of butter a spoonfu of flour, and moisten with broth; stir the sauce ove^ the fire till it begins to thicken, work it very much with the spoon have some parsley chopped finely, and mix it with the sauce and the juice of half a lemon; then take away the skin and bones Irom the fish, put it into the sauce, shaking it gently over the fire, and send it to table either in a border of potatoes, or in a deep dish, with fried bread or paste round. 22'7—Morue ci la Cr'tme.—{Cod Fish, with Cream Sauce.) Salt slices of crimped cod about six hours, then boil them for twenty minutes, and while it is hot break it into flakes; put a few spoonsful of bechamel sauce (No. 7) into a stewpan, with some good cream, stir the sauce over the fire until it becomes thick, put the fish into the sauce, and keep it hot without boiling; this may also be served in a vol-au-vent, or on a deep dish, with gar- niture of bread round it. Crimped cod that has been served the day before will warm very well in the above sauce. 21'^—Whitings, When they are quite fresh, are extremely delicate eating, but stale whitings are most nauseous: whitings will not take more than twelve minutes boiling.145 MERLANS GRILLE. 229—Broiled Whitings. When you have washed and wiped them clean, slit the back on both sides, beat together the yolks of two eggs, a little pepper and salt, and clarified butter; rub both sides of the back bone with it, also the outside, and roll the whiting in bread crumbs; broil them of a nice colour, and serve up with anchovy sauce in a boat. FILETS DE MERLANS A LA ORLIE. 230—Fillets of Whitings, a la Orlie. Take the fillets from four whitings, without removing the skin, cut each fillet into two pieces, and trim them of an equal size; put them into a pan, with some parsley and shalots chopped, some salt, pepper, and the juice of a lemon; let them remain for about three hours, then drain the fillets on a clean kitchen cloth, next beat the whites of two eggs, flour the fillets a little, then dip them in the eggs, and then into bread crumbs ; fry them, and serve with sauce ravigotte (No. 206) in a tureen. MERLANS GRILLE AUX FINES HERBES. 231—Whitings broiled with sweet Herbs. Cut off' the head and tail of the whitings, butter a sheet of146 paper, and sprinkle it with Bweet herbs, also a little pepper and salt; roll each whiting up in paper, and broil them ; send them to table m the paper, and a good ravigotte sauce (No. 206) in a sauce tureen. FILETS DE MERLANS A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 232—Fillets of Whitings, d la Maitre d'Hotel. Take out the fillets of four whitings, cut each fillet into two, and trim them; pepper and salt each piece on both sides, then dip them in yolk of egg, and then into bread crumbs, and place them in a double gridiron ; sprinkle both sides of the fish with clarified butter; Avhen dinner is called broil them; they require but a short time : if broiled long before they are eaten, they are good for nothing : dish them, and serve with a clear maitre d'hotel sauce (No. 210). 233—Paupiettes of Whiting. Take the fillets from four whitings, trim them of an equal size, •season them, spread some quenelle farce (No. 23) over the white flide, then roll the fillets, put some of the same farce on the dish you send to table, and raise the whitings upon it; put more farce, sufficient to support the second row, make a small pudding, which may be garnished with truffle for the top, cover the dish with buttered paper, and bake the paupiettes in a moderately heated oven ; they will take half an hour; then wipe the dish clean, stir into an Italian sauce (No. 183) about two ounces of butter, add a few-<lrops of lemon juice, and cover the fillets over with the sauce.147 234—Paupiettes of Sole. This dish is prepared precisely as the last: it is to be under- stood the farce must be of whiting. 235—Filletsyf Soles, a la Orlie. The same preparation and the sauce as for fillets of whitings under that title. 236—Fillets of Sole, a la Reine. Fillet a pair of fine soles, cut each fillet into three, and trim them on both sides ; pour some clarified butter into a saute pan, and lay the fillets in ; sprinkle them with a little salt and parsley, finely chopped : when they are to be served fry them lightly, and dish them neatly ; reduce some bechamel sauce (No. 7), and pour over the fillets, and serve them as hot as possible. 237—Fillets of Soles,' a la Belle-Vue. Saute some fillets of sole, place them between two dishes till they are cold, then trim them neatly, butter the inside of a plain mould, cut a piece of paper to fit the bottom, and lay the fillets of sole round the bottom of the mould; have ready prepared148 some quenelles of whiting (No. 23), and fill the mould about half-way up with it; then lay in the remainder of the fillets; lastly fili the mould with the quenelle, put it into a stewpan, with a little boilmg water; cover the stewpan close, and set it over a stove for three quarters of an hour; it should steam slowly, and be careful the water does not boil into the mould ; turn it out on the dish, take off" the paper, and pour round it a white Italian sauce (No. 184). 2'i^~Turban of Fillets of Sole. Fillet a pair of soles, trim them of an equal length, take some whiting farce (No. 23), colour a part with the red spawn of lob- ster pounded fine, with butter, and another part with extract of parsley (No. 196); spread one fillet with the red farce, another with green farce alternately; then roll the fillets, and take a pudding cloth, which you make damp, spread it on the dresser, and place the fillets in one length; roll them in the cloth, and tie it at each end; put the roll into a long fish-kettle in boiling water, and let it boil half an hour; then take it up, and tie up; the ends of the cloth shorter, to tighten and press the fillets; leave a loop at one end to hang it up by, and at the other end tie a weight, which will press the fillets, and keep them of a round shape : when quite cold they are to be taken out of the cloth; line a plain mould with buttered paper, cut the fillets in slices, laying them alternately round the bottom of the mould, one red and one green, and the same round the sides, filling the mould as you proceed with the quenelles of whiting; put the mould into a stewpan with boiling water ; about one-third up the mould lay white paper over it, and cover the stewj3an close; set it over the fire, and let it boil three quarters of an hour.;, thea^tijrn: thfe^mould over on a stewpan cover, to allow the liquid to run off ; slide the mould from the cover on the dish yon intend to serve, remove it, and also the paper, and serve round it a white ravi- •gotte sauce (No. 207). 239—Mackerel Enter the English Channel generally in March, May, and June; they are abundantly plentiful, and are generally esteemed. MAQUEREAN A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL (No. 87). FILET DE MAQUEREAN A LA ROYALE (No. 119). FILETS DE MAQUEREAN A LA MARECHALE (No. 137). ESTURGEON. 240—Sturgeon, braised, sauce Matelotte. Prepare a braise as for all other things under this head, take off the skim of a piece of sturgeon, lay it into the pan, cover it150 with fat bacon, and pour in a pint of red wine; cover the braising pan close, put some hot ashes on the top, and let the fish stew till It IS tender; then pass the liquor through a silk sieve, skim off the grease, and reduce it to half glaze; add this essence to a matelotte sauce (No. 53), dish the piece of sturgeon, and cover it well with the sauce. 241—Sturgeon, larded. Take a piece of sturgeon, cut away the skin, lard it thickly, and braise it as in the last receipt: when it is done, reduce the braise, and add a few spoonsful of sauce tournee (No. 6), the juice of half a lemon, and a little cayenne ; glaze the sturgeon, and pour the sauce round it. 242—Blanquette of Sturgeon. Sturgeon that is returned to the kitchen may, when it is cold, be cut into thin collops, warmed in a bechamel sauce (No. 7), with a few drops of lemon juice, and served either in a vol-au- vent, casserole, or timballe. 243—Sturgeon, a la Gloucester, 4: t'ay.fl' piece of sturgeon in ja marinade for. twenty-four hours.151 then prepare a braising pan with carrots, onions, sweet herbs, and spices; over which lay slices of fat bacon, and place the sturgeon upon it; pour in a bottle of light white wine, cover the braising pan close, and set it over a slow stove, with lighted charcoal on the top ; in an hour and a half's time try it, and if it is not tender, give it more time; baste it frequently with the essence which is under it, till it is completely glazed ; in this state it is to be served with the following sauce: mince half a dozen shalots, two or three onions, and half a pottle of mushrooms; put a piece of but- ter at the bottom of a stewpan, lay these upon it, and set tne stewpan over a slow fire to soak for fifteen minutes; then pour in a pint of Champagne, wash half a dozen anchovies, and put them in, and also about a pint of sauce tourn^e (No. 6); let the sauce boil by the side of the fire, skim off the grease, pass the sauce through a tammy, and return it back into the stewpan, and with a wooden spoon reduce it over a brisk fire, stirring it the whole time; the last moment stir in a quarter of a pound of fresh but- ter, add a little cayenne pepper, and pour the sauce in the dish^ and place the sturgeon in the middle. ROUGET. 2A4—Red Mullets. The red mullet is the only one esteemed, the grey being a coarse indifferent-tastedj fish. Butter sheets of white paper, sprinkle them with^a little salt, wipe the mullet dry, and roll each in separate paper; broil and send them to table in the paper, with some good melted butter, in a sauce tureen.152 ROUGET SAUCE A LA GENOESE. 2Ab~Mullets. Mullets are so rich in themselves, that they are more generally preferred simply dressed ; however, for the sake of variety, they may be stewed and served as other fish, with various sauces; they are very excellent dressed thus:—butter a saute pan, lay them on it, and sprinkle them with pepper and salt; cover them with buttered paper, and bake them; make a Genoese sauce (No. 36), pour the liquor which runs from the mullets into the sauce, dish them, and pour the sauce over them. ST. PIERRE. 246—John Dory. Boil it as you would turbot, serve with lobster or Dutch sauce (No. 11) in a sauce tureen. RAIE. 247—Skate. Skate should not be dressed quite fresh, but kept at least two days, and is to be served either boiled, or dipped in egg and bread crumbs and fried.153 24S—Skate au Beurre Noir. (With Black Butter.) Boil the skate in salt and water, let it drain, and dish it; fry some parsley in butter, put the parsley in the middle of the dish, and pour the butter round the fish. 2^^—Of Pipers. Though this fish does not class high in estimation, yet it is by no means to be neglected, and if well dressed is superior to many. When the fish is thoroughly cleansed put in them a well- seasoned veal stufl&ng; butter a saute pan, lay the fish on it, sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and cover them with well- buttered paper; put the fish thus prepared in the oven, and bake them half an hour: serve them either with a brown Italian sauce (No. 183), or a Dutch sauce (No. 211). The piper is good eating dressed in fillets as you would soles. Of Carp, It is to be observed, that almost all fresh water fish that are stewed are dressed in a braise or marinade, composed of wine, broth roots, herbs, and spices ; the precise quantity of each must de- pend on the size and quality of the fish. The cook's skill will develope itself when the sauce is presented; each ingredient being so harmonized as to taste of every thing, yet no one predo- minant. M154 250—Carpe an bleu. When the carp is gutted and well cleansed lay it on a dish and pour a few spoonsful of boiling vinegar upon, it which will turn it blue ; then put it into a braising pan, with a good piece of butter, some light red wine, according to the size of the carp, with one third part water, an onion and carrot sliced, two or three shalots, some sweet herbs, and spice : when the fish is done pour off the liquor, strain it, and reduce it two thirds; then add a few spoonsful of sauce tournee (No. 6), let it boil, skim it, and season with a little cayenne and salt ; dish the fish and pour the sauce - over it. 251—Carp, Princes loay. After having cleansed the carp thoroughly take out the rib bones, and in their places put a farce of whiting (No. 23) well seasoned ; take a stewpan that will just hold the fish, line the bottom with slices of fat bacon, shalot, mushrooms, mace, and whole pepper ; lay the carp upon this and pour in as much light wine as will cover the fish ; let it stew for three quarters of an hour slowly, take up the fish, strain the liquor, and skim off the grease; reduce it with a few spoonsful of sauce tournee (No. 6) to a pretty thick consistence ; the last moment mix in two ounces of cold butter, a little lemon juice, cayenne pepper and salt, and pour the sauce over the fish.155 BROCHET. 252—Pike Caught in rivers and clear water are preferable to those taken in muddy ponds, they are sweeter and firmer: a pike about twelve pounds is most esteemed ; however, the larger ones will be tender by keeping some time after they are dead : they spawn in March, when they are flabby and tasteless. 253—Pike d la Polonaise, Polish loay. Scale and wash the pike, cut it up as if for a matelotte ; put a quarter of a pound of butter at the bottom of a stewpan that will hold the slices, with two carrots, some parsley roots, green parsley, and onions; add a little mace, cloves, and bay-leaf; set the stew- pan on a slow fire to fry the slices, then pour in a ladleful of light broth, and let the fish boil about twenty minutes; strain the marinade in which the slices have been cooked, put a little butter and flour into a stewpan over a slow stove, and moisten with the marinade, first skimming ofi'the grease ; when the sauce boils pour in half a pint of cream that has already been boiled and a few mushroom parings ; reduce the sauce to a good consis- tence, that it may hang about the fish, and pass it through a tammy; cut some turnips into dice, stew them in a little broth and sugar; drain them and throw them into the sauce : dish the slices of pike, and cover them with the sauce and turnips ; add a little sugar and salt if required.254—PiJie Baked. When the pike is properly cleaned stuff it with fish farce ; take a dish that will hold it, make a marinade with slices of onions, shalots, carrots, parsley, and bay-leaf; over which put slices of fat bacon ; pour into the dish one glass of vinegar, two of wine, and a little broth ; lay the pike in the dish, bake it in an oven not too hot, frequently basting the fish with the marinade : when it is done lay it on a dish, strain the marinade, skim it, and add some brown ravigotte sauce (No. 206), reduce the sauce over the fire, and serve it over the pike. 255—Fillets of Pike, a la Maitre d'Hotel. Fillet a pike and cut in collops, place them on a saute pan, with clarified butter, a little pepper, and salt; fry them and serve with steward's sauce (No. 210). MATELOTTE OF PIKE. 25Q—See Matelotte of Carp (No. 53). PIKE FRIED, SAUCE RAVIGOTTE. 257—See Tench (No, 264).157 258—Perc/i. Perch out of rivers or clean running waters are best ; those of marshy pools or muddy ponds are apt to have a disagreeable taste ; when pretty large and fat they are held in high estima- tion ; the flesh is white and delicate, it is easily digested, and par- ticularly recommended to those invalids who have weak and debilitated stomachs. 259—Perch plain Boiled, or Water Sachet. Scale, empty, and wash the perch ; put them into a stewpan, with a bunch of parsley, a few grains of whole pepper, a little salt, and as much water as you find will be necessary to cover the fish ; let it boil fifteen minutes, take out the parsley and pepper corns, put the perch into the water, and let them boil briskly, as the fish will be more firm ; cut some parsley roots into long slips very fine, also blanch some sprigs of parsley, both of which you boil with the perch; serve the perch in a deep dish with the liquor and roots with it: send up slices of bread and butter on a plate to eat with the suchet. 260—Perch a la Maitre d"Hotel. The perch are to be cooked as above ; after you have drained the fish dish them, and pour over them maitre d'hotel sauce (No. 210).158 26\~Perch, plain Boiled, with Dutch Sauce, After having scalded and cleaned the fish hoil them in salt and water for a quarter of an hour, serve them on a napkin with green parsley round, and send up a Dutch sauce (No. 211) in a boat. 262 Perch may also he bread crumbed, and fried. 263—Tench, Is to be dressed in the various ways which you dress carp r matelotte, au bleu, a la marechale; indeed, in every respect as carp. 264—Fried Tench. After having emptied and scaled the tench split the back of the fish, taking out the bone ; lay them in a marinade of vinegar, salt, pepper, parsley, and onions, for some hours ; then drain them on a cloth, beat up two eggs, dip the fish into the egg, and then cover them all over with bread crumbs ; fry them a nice colour, and serve the fish on a napkin with a ravigotte sauce (No. 206) in a boat.159 2Q6—MateloUe of Tench. See Matelotte of carp (No. 53). 266 Of Lampreys and Eels. It is allowed that bo fat is more unwholesome than that of fish, especially when it is not fresn : lampreys and ee s, for in- stance, contain a great deal of oily fat, which is very mdigestxble; and, therefore, the most particular attention should he paid to cleanse such fish from the oily matter they possess. LAMPREYS. 267—Lamproie en Matelotte. Although few people are partial to this fish, some however like it as a matelotte; they are seldom to he had fresh in London, and in hut few parts of England; nevertheless they may he had in London markets in the months of March and April, and may he dressed in every respect as eels; hut it is to he ohserved, they require much longer stewing to make them tender. 268—Lampreys stewed in Red Wine. Cut the head oft; take out the gut, and cleanse them in several160 In 7; ''''' '''''' -^out an inch and a half m length ; put them into a stewpan with a pint of red wme, a bunch of o.,en onions, parsley, and sweet herL; a little ma e cloves, and whole pepper: let the fish stew in this till you find them tender; then pick out the pieces and put them into a clean stewpan; skim all the oily fat from that which they were stewed m, add to it a few spoonsful of sauce tourn6e (No. 6) a little lemon juice, and salt; reduce the sauce, skim it, and ao-ain pass It through a tammy to the fish, and give them a boil up • serve them m a deep dish. ANGUILLES EN MATELOTTE. 269—MateIotte of Eels. After you have skinned and well washed the eels cut them in pieces, about two inches long, and prepare the matelotte as you do carp (No. 53). Matelottes either of carp, tench, pike, and eels, are all dressed in the same way. 27C—Eels Broiled. Skin the eel and take out the back bone; cut them in pieces about four inches long, and stew them in a marinade of onions, shalot, and carrot sliced ; half a pint of red wine, a bunch of green onions, basil, marjoram, bay-leaf, and a little spice- when they are done take them out of the marinade, and let them cool; brush them over with yolk of egg, and dip them into crumbs of bread, put them in a double gridiron, spi-inkle tliem witli a paste161 brush dipped in clarified hulter, broil them of a nice colour then lay them on a cloth to soak out the butter; dish them neatly re- duce the liquor the eels were stewed in, add a few spoonsful of sauce tourn6e (No. 6), and serve the sauce with the fish. 271—Eels a la Poulet, like a Fricassee of Chichen. Cut up the eels in convenient pieces and stew them in a little light stock; then make a sauce, a la poulet, by reducing the broth the fish was stewed in, adding some sauce tournee (No. 6); skim off-the fat, then lay the eels on a cloth, wipe the fat from them, and put them into the sauce : a few minutes before you send up the dinner thicken the sauce with the yolks of three eggs, mixed with a spoonful of cream. 272—Eels in Aspic. Take an eel and cut it open, take out the bones, cut off" the head and tail, and lay the eel flat; sprinkle it with mixed spice, pepper, and salt; roll it up tight in a cloth, tie it at each end, then place it in a stewpan with some broth, pepper, and salt, three blades of mace, a bay-leaf, and a little vinegar ; boil it till it is tender, put it in the liquor till cold, then take the eel out of the clolh, warm the broth, strain it, and take off the grease ; add a ladlefnl of consommt:, and clarify it with the white of eggs: when the eels are dished put some of the jelly round them.162 OF SHELL FISH. 273—Crawfish. To boil crawfish, loiake a court bouillon with water, salt, whole pepper, vinegar, parsley, green onions, bay-leaf, and mace ; when the water boils throw in the crawfish, let them boil not more than fifteen minutes: they may be served plain in the second course, dished on a napkin. 275—Ecrevisse a la Poulet. Pick out the tails of crawfish that have been boiled as above, trim the thick end of the ragged part, then take two or three spoonsful of bechamel (No. 7), stir it over the fire till it boils, mix in a little chopped parsley, a few drops of lemon juice, throw in the crawfish, thicken the sauce with the yolks of two eggs, and a spoonful of cream. The crawfish may be served in a vol- ■au-vent, or a casserole. 276—Lobsters, Boil lobsters in a court bouillon, as crawfish, or in plain salt and vrater; they will take about twenty-five minutes. 277—Lobster Pudding. Put into a steWpan two ounces of butter, a little chopped sha-163 lot, and mushrooms, pepper, and salt; set .t over the stove lo a L; minutes, soak the crumb of two French rolls m m.lk, then put them into a coarse cloth, and squeeze them as dry as possible , n crumb into the stewpan, with the butter and the herbs, and rub it over the stove till it becomes a firm paste; set it away to cool, then take the meat of two fresh-boiled lobsters, cut he tail into neat pieces, the remainder cut quite fine, and scrape the flesh from two whitings; pound the whole together wxth the crumb of rolls which you have prepared, and half a pound^ oi fresh butter ; it should be pounded for a long time : use also the red spawn of the lobster, mix in five eggs, one at a time, season with cayenne pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg ; then pass the whole through a wire sieve, blanch a small piece to know it it is well-tasted and firm ; prepare a plain mould with clarified butter, and paper cut to fit the bottom and sides ; place the pieces of lobster neatly at the bottom and round the sides, and press m some of the farce; continue to add lobster and farce till the mould is full, put the mould into a stewpan with boiling water round it, and let it steam for three quarters of an hour: when you dish it turn the mould over on the cover of a stewpan, hold it on one side to admit of the butter running off, then slide on the dish, remove the mould and paper carefully, and serve round the pudding a clear Italian sauce (No. 183). 278—0/ Oysters. The goodness of oysters consists in their being healthy and properly relished there are several kinds, the Pyfleet, Colches- ter, and Milford are much esteemed. The native Milton are reckoned particularly fine, being the whitest and the fattest. 279—Scolloped Oysters. Boil the oysters in their own liquor for five minutes, take them1C4 out, and throw them into a basin of cokl water, strain the liquor put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, with some bread crumbs' and a spoonful of bechamel; beard and take off the hard part of the oysters, put the prime of the oyster into the sauce, give them a boil up, and then mix in two yolks of eggs; season with cayenne pepper and salt, put them into the scollop-shells, set them m the oven for ten minutes, have ready some bread crumbs fried m butter, and strew them over the oysters, and serve them to table as hot as possible. 280—Ragout de Hintres. ^ Simmer the oysters in their own liquor, then drain them on a sieve, take out the hard part, then reduce some sauce tourn^e (No. 6) with the liquor of the oysters ; the sauce should be rather thick : before the oysters are put in, season them with cayenne pepper; the last moment stir in a little cold butter, and a few drops of lemon juice ; they may be served on a dish, with fried bread round, or in small croustades. 281—Attelets of Oysters. Stew the oysters in their own liquor, then make the sauce attelets (No. 201) with the liquor of the oysters, throw the tender part of the oysters into the sauce, and let it all cool together; then take out the oysters, with as much of the sauce adhering to them as possible, and roll them separately into the bread crumbs ; then take the attelet skewers, put about a dozen oysters on each, and with the point of the knife cover them Avith more of the sauce, then more bread crumbs; tlieii dip them in egg well-165 beaten up, and shake over them more bread crumbs: at dinner time fry them in hot lard of nice colour, and serve them on a napkin. 282—Oysters in Batter. Make a batter with the yolk of one egg (or more, according to the quantity of oysters you intend to fry), a little nutmeg, some beaten mace, a little flour, and salt; dip in the oysters, and fry them in hog's lard of a nice light brown; a little parsley chopped very fine may be put into the batter. 283—Oyster Sauce. Save the liquor in opening the oysters, and boil them up in it; strain the liquor, and throw the oysters into cold water, put some butter and flour into a stewpan, stir them together over the fire, and moisten with liquor of the oysters; take off" the beard and hard part of the oyster, using the prime only in the sauce; give them a boil up in the sauce, add more salt if requisite ; make the sauce rich with butter. BEEF. 284—Fillet of Beef larded and marinaded. Take the inside fillet of a sirloin of beef, pare off" the sinews, and lard it Avith fat bacon; prepare a pickle with shalots, onions,166 carrots cut in slices, a little parsley, pepper, salt, vinegar, and sweet oil; let the beef remain in this marinade for twenty-four hours, occasionally basting it; then the fillet is to be braised the way you do a rump of beef (No. 21); but it is to be observed that the braise is not to cover the larded part: when it is quite done serve with a ravigotte sauce (No. 206). 2^b—Hochepot of Ox's Tail. The beef tails are to be cut in joints, and put them over the fire, in cold water; when they boil take off the scum, and wash the tails in cold water; put them into a stewpan, surrounded with slices of fat bacon, some carrots, onions, and a few pepper corns; fill up the stewpan with light broth, and set them over the fire : when done drain them, and serve them in a deep dish, and pour over them a haricot sauce (No. 197): observe, the tails must be perfectly tender, that the meat may leave the bone freely. 286—Stewed Hound of Beef spiced. For a round of beef of forty pounds weight; take half a pound of saltpetre, five ounces of coarse brown sugar, two ounces of black pepper, two ounces of aspic, one ounce of cloves, two ounces of nutmegs, and four handsful of common salt: all the above articles are to be pounded together, and mixed in a pan; after which the beef is to be well rubbed all over with a small quantity of the mixture every day for three weeks before the fire, then truss it very tight with skewers, and bind it Avith a linen cloth; it is then to be baked in a large pan or kettle, with broth nearly sufficient to cover it, and any trimmings of fat of meat167 which you nv.y have by you, with onions, carrots, and a good handful of sweet herbs ; bake it five hours (a baker s oven .s the best), and let it remain in the pan it is baked m till quite cold : it will keep for a month, or longer. CULOTTE DE BOEUF A LA CARDINAL. 287—Rump of Beef, the CardinaTs way. Take out the bone of a fat rump of beef, and lard it through and through, on that side the bone was taken out, with fat bacon ; then take an ounce of saltpetre and half a pound of coarse salt, rub the beef with this, put it into a pan, and the next day pour over it half a pint of vinegar, an ounce of black pepper, a few cloves and mace, pounded together, a bay leaf, and some sweet herbs; rub the beef well, and let it remain four days ; then wash it in warm water, bind it tight with broad tape, and braise it as directed (No. 21), adding a pint of Port wine to the braise; and when it is perfectly tender, take it up and glaze it, reduce a little of the braise to half glaze, and then add a few spoonsful of sauce tournee (No. 6); boil and skim the sauce well, and serve it round the beef. This is also an excellent cold dish. CHARBONNEE DE BOEUF AUX GRATIN. 28%—Short Ribs of Beef au Gratin. Take the short ribs of beef, about three or four, trim off the chine bone, and braise it as directed (No. 21) ; when the beef is perfectly tender, strain the braise, skim off all the fat, reduce it]68 to halt glaze, make a sauce as for attelets (No. 201) with a por tion of this glaze, and cover the beef all over with the sauce, and then with bread crumbs : set the beef in the oven to gratin, and add to the remainder of the glaze two or three spoonsful of sauce tournee (No. 6), and two glasses of white wine; boil and skim the sauce : if the beef does not get sufficiently brown in the oven use the salamander, and when dished pour the sauce round : the sauce should be highly seasoned. 289—Fricassee of Beef Palates. Braise six or eight beef palates, as directed No. 75, cut them the size of half-a-crown piece, throw them into a bechamel sauce (No. 7); they may be served in a casserole of rice, a timbale, or vol-au-vent: the palates must be perfectly tender before they'are put into the sauce, and the sauce rather thick; add a little parsley boiled : they are excellent when well dressed. 290~Blanquette of Beef Palates and Cucumbers. This dish is made in the same manner as the last receipt, with a blanquette of cucumbers (No. 209), leaving out the parsley. 291—Blanquette of Beef Palates with Asparagus, Is precisely the same as the last receipt, leaving out the cucum- bers, and adding instead asparagus peas (No. 182).169 29^—Attelets of Palates of Beef. Italian Sauce. Take beef palates that have been dressed as directed in No. 75, and cut them into square pieces ; prepare some attelet sauce (No. 201), and put the pieces into it; after which, roll them lightly in bread crumbs, and make each piece smooth, and let it be well covered with crumbs; beat up two eggs, with a little salt, and then dip them into it, and again into bread crumbs; run a silver skewer attelet through them in rows, about eight skewers are sufficient; at dinner time fry them of a nice colour, and serve under the atteletes a brown Italian sauce (No, 183). 293—Saute de Filetes de Boeuf. When you dress a rump of beef, take out the fillets under the bone, which answers for this dish; cut it into scollops about the size of a cutlet, trim them neatly, and put them into a saute pan, with clarified butter, a little pepper, and salt; at dinner time fry them quickly, and when done on both sides drain away the but- ter, and pour to them a little glaze; add a small piece of fresh butter, a little more seasoning, and a spoonful of sauce tournee (No. 6); dish the fillets a la miroton, and pour the sauce over them. 294—Beef Tongue aux Gratin. Take a beef tongue that has been only a short time in pickle, boil it tender, and skin it; let it cool on a flat board that it may be of a good shape, and when cold trim it neatly; have ready170 chopped some shalot, parsley, and sweet herbs; pepper and salt, and mix them with the yolks of two eggs ; rub the tongue all over with it, roll it in bread crumbs, and then sprinkle it over with clarified butter : take a baking sheet and place the tongue thereon ; bake it three quarters of an hour, and serve round it an Italian sauce (No. 183). 295—Langue de Boeuf en Ragout. Take a plain boiled tongue and peel it; have ready some veal farce (No. 304), place the tongue on the dish you intend to serve to table, and cover it entirely with the farce, to have the form and appearance of a tongue ; garnish it with trufiles and cray fish tails, cover the whole with very thin slices of fat bacon, and over that buttered paper ; put it into a slow oven, or hot closet, till the tongue gets hot through, and the farce is quite set; then re- move the paper and bacon, carefully glaze the garnish, and serve round it a good ragout of trufiles and cocks' combs. VEAL. GARRE DE VEAU PIQUE AU MARINE. 296—Neck of Veal Larded, and Marinade. Take the part of the neck which you would use for cutlets, turn the meat back from the ribs, and cut the bones short; trim the fillet, which is to be larded thickly, and then lay it in a ma- rinade, with oil, parsley, shalot, bay-leaf, pepper, salt, and a spoonful of vinegar; it should remain thus for three or four hours : put the marinade into a long braising pan, cover it with171 fat bacon ; lay the veal upon It, and pour in as much broth as >yill come up to the larding-; cover the whole with buttered paper, set it over a stove, and put lighted charcoal on the cover: when done, glaze it lightly, and serve under it an Italian sauce (No. 183), or any puree of vegetable. TETE DE VEAU A LA FINANCIER. 297—CaZ/'s Head. Procure a calf's head scalded with the skin on, bone it tho- roughly without cutting the skin, and prepare a farce as directed No. 359, with which line the inside of the head, leaving room in the centre to put in two pounds of truffles, which are to be mixed with a little of the farce : form the head of a good shape, bind it all over with slices of fat bacon, and braise it in an oval stewpan, with some light broth, a pint of white wine, some fresh herbs, and spice: when it is tender take it out of the braise, glaze it with very light glaze, and serve round the head a ragout, a la financiere (No. 181). This is also an excellent dish when cold for the side table. 298—Teie de Veau Pane et Grille. Divide in two a calf's head that has been skinned, boil it until it is sufficiently tender that you may draw out the bones; skin the tongue and palate, and press each half as compact and neatly as you can; put it in the larder to cool, chop some parsley, shalot, and mushrooms, and mix them with the yolks of three eggs, a little pepper, and then rub the head over with this omelette and strew bread crumbs all over; place it on a buttered baking sheet,172 and with a paste brush sprhikle it over with clarified butter; bake the head for three quarters of an hour, and serve it with a brown Italian sauce (No. 183), 299—Galantine. First take the tendons from off a breast of veal, and then take out the bones ; beat it well with a cutlet beater, sprinkle the in- side with a little pounded spice, pepper and salt, some chopped shalots, mushrooms, and parsley, mixed together; cut some fat and lean of ham into thick long pieces, lay them on the veal alter- nately, fat and lean ; have ready some yolks and whites of eggs steamed separately in plain moulds until they are set, then cut them into the same form as the ham, and intermix the eggs with the ham, and also some pickled gherkins ; then roll the veal as tight as possible, bind it with broad tape, and then with a cloth secure it at each end with string; boil it about five hours : when done tighten it at both ends of the cloth, hang it up by one end and fasten a heavy weight at the other, or you may press it be- tween two dishes : let it remain until quite cold, so that it will keep in its proper shape; then take ofi" the cloth and binding, cut it in thin slices as you want to use it: it serves for salads, aspic, or with sauce mayonaise. It is particularly useful for small second course dishes, for sup- per dishes, or for sandwiches. CARRE DE VEAU A LA BRAISE. 300—Neck of Veal Braised. Cut the chine bones off a neck of veal, and cut the rib bones173 short; blanch it for ten minutes, throw it into cold water, trim it, and then braise it in a light braise for two hours or more ; when it is done take it up and glaze it with some very light glaze, and serve it with tomata, or any other puree of vegetable. COTELETTES DE VEAU PANE ET GRILLE. 301—Veal Cutlets bread crumbed and broiled. Take a small neck of veal, cut it into cutlets, with one bone to each; flatten them with the cutlet beater, pare and trim them neatly, season them on both sides with a little pepper and salt, clarify two ounces of butter, and mix with it two yolks of eggs ; dip the cutlets first into it, and afterwards into bread crumbs, and give them a good shape by pressing the crumbs smooth with your knife, then lay them on a double gridiron ; at dinner time broil them before the fire of a nice brown colour, and serve them to table with a brown Italian sauce (No. 183). COTELETTES DE VEAU EN PAPILLOTE. 302—Veal Cutlets in paper. Cut the cutlets, and trim them as the last; cut in squares pieces of writing paper, butter them, mix pepper, salt, also chopped parsley, green onions, and mushrooms ; sprinkle the paper all over, then twist the paper all round the cutlets, letting the end of the bone remain uncovered ; rub the outside of the paper with sweet oil or clarified butter, broil them, and when done serve them in the papers.174 COTELETTES DE VEAU A LA VENITIENNE. 303—Veal Cutlets, the Venetian way. Cut the cutlets from the best part of the neck, let them be thicker than the last; take some mushrooms, shalots, and pars- ley, chopped fine, scrape some fat bacon; put the whole into a stew pan, with a small piece of butter, and pass them over the fire for a few minutes; then lay the cutlets in, with a little broth, cover the stewpan close, and stew them over a slow fire till they are tender ; then skim ofi" the fat, put in two spoonsful of sauce tournee (No. 6), and thicken the sauce with two or three yolks of eggs; season with pepper, salt, and the juice of lemon : dish the cutlets with as much of the sauce about them as you can, and pour the remainder in the middle. SOA—Veal Farce. Soak the crumb of two French rolls in cold milk for an hour, then take them out and squeeze them as dry as possible; put it into a stewpan, with two spoonsful of bechamel, or cream, a sha- lot chopped, a little mace and grated nutmeg, cayenne pepper and salt; stir the whole over the fire till the bread becomes a firm dry paste ; add the yolks of two eggs, and put the panade to cool. Take some lean veal, cut it into slips, and scrape all the meat from the sinews ; take a calf's udder, boil it either in the stock pot or in water ; let it get cold, trim off all the skin, cut it into pieces, pound it in the mortar, and pass it through a sieve : make the veal into a ball, the udder and the panade the same; you must have each ball of an equal size : pound tlie wliole in a mortar till175 it is thoroughly well mixed, then break in four eggs, yolk and white together: observe, the eggs are to be mixed in one at a time ; season it with salt and white pepper, and when the whole is well mixed together, try a small piece by boiling it m water : if it is not firm enough, mix in another egg, and try it again ; and if you find it wants more seasoning add it, and pass the whole through a sieve. MUTTON AND LAMB. GIGOT DE MOUTON EN FILETS FARCE. 305—Leg of Mutton stuffed. Choose a leg of mutton that has been kept a long time, take out the bone and meat attached as far as the shank, make a raw farce of the meat, chop it very fine, with some beef suet, shalot, mushrooms, and parsley; season it with pepper and salt, and put the farce back in the place where the bone was taken out; give the mutton the appearance of a whole leg, braise it covered with layers of fat bacon, and when it is done glaze it lightly, and serve under it a ravigotte sauce (No. 206). This is an excellent dish cold for the side table. COTELETTE DE MOUTON PANE ET GRILLE. SOQ—See Cotelette de Veau (No. 301).176 307—Haricot de Mouton. Cut into chops the best part of two necks of mutton, trim and put them into a stewpan with butter, fry them on both sides, then put over them the trimmings of the mutton, some carrots, turnips, and onions; cover the whole with boiling water, and put them over the fire to braise till quite tender; scoop or cut carrots and turnips, and peel some button onions—boil them separately: they should be ready by the time the cutlets are done, which are to be removed into a clean stewpan; strain the broth they were done in, skim oflP the fat, then thicken the broth with butter and flour passed over the fire; when the sauce boils, then pass it through a tammy to the cutlets, throw in the roots, set them over a slow stove till the roots are done, skim the sauce, dish the cut- lets, and serve the roots in the centre. CARRE DE MOUTON AUX NAVETTES. 308—Neck of Mutton braised, and Turnips. Take off the chine bone, and cut the rib bones short; dress it in a light braise, then cut turnips round, or in any shape you please, give them a blanch, and put them into a stewpan, with a piece of butter, a little sugar, salt, and two spoonsful of water; cover them close, put the stewpan on a slow stove, and when the turnips are sufficiently done, put some bechamel sauce (No. 7) to them; take up the neck of mutton, glaze it, put it in the dish, and pour the turnips and sauce round.177 CARRE DE MOUTON AUX OIGNONS. Zm—Neck of Mutton, with Button Onions. Prepare the neck of mutton as the last, then blanch one pint of button onions, take off the skins, and put the onions into a stewpan, with a bit of butter, and two or three spoonsful of con- somme (No. 5); set them on a slow stove, and when the onions are done sufficiently, put some bechamel sauce (No. 7) to them, and a little salt and sugar; give it a boil, lay the neck of mutton on the dish, glaze it, and pour the onions and sauce round it. CARRE DE MOUTON A LA BRAISE AUX CONCOMBRE. 310 Nech of Mutton braised, and stewed Cucumbers. Braise a neck of mutton, glaze it, and lay it on a dish, and serve round it stewed cucumbers (No. 209). LAMB. EPEAUL D'AGNEAU FARCE. 311—Shoulder of Lamb, with Farce. Bone a shoulder of house lamb, and fill the vacancy made by taking out the bone with veal farce (No. 304), and a few whole178 truffles; then sew it up so as to form its proper shape, trim with fat bacon the bottom of a stewpan, lay in the shoulder of lamb some onions, carrot, and a bay leaf, and a little second stock; cover the stewpan close, and set it on a slow stove; it will take about an hour and a half braising; then dry the fat from it, glaze it, and serve it with a truffle or mushroom sauce. EPEAUL D'AGNEAU AUX CONCOMBRE. 312—Shoulder of Lamb and Cucumbers. Bone and braise a shoulder of lamb, with or without farce, and serve it with stewed cucumbers (No. 209). 313—Carre d'Agneau d la Belle-vue. Trim two necks of lamb handsomely, make incisions with the point of a sharp knife in the fillets, introduce alternately slices of truffles and tongue, then line the bottom of a stewpan with slices of veal and fat bacon, an onion and carrot sliced, and a little spice ; lay the necks of lamb on it, and slices of fat bacon over, pour in a little white broth, and braise the lamb till it is tender ; then glaze and dish them, pressing the ribs close to each other, and serve them, either with a brown truffle (No. 204), or a brown Italian sauce (No. 183). TETE D'AGNEAU A LA PLUCHE VERTE. 314—Lamb's Head, with Green Sauce. Take one or two lambs' heads, saw them in two, take out the179 brains, and cut off the chops close to the eye sockets ; wash them in several waters, then boil them for twenty minutes ; cover the bottom of a stewpan with fat bacon, moisten with one glass of white wine and half a pint of light broth, cover the pan close, and boil them till they are tender; then strain the broth from them, skim off the grease, add a few spoonsful of sauce tournee (No. 6), and reduce it together quickly; thicken the sauce with the yolks of three eggs, and a little cream; lastly, mix in some green extract of parsley (No. 196), drain the chops, and with a napkin wipe off all the grease; dish and pour the sauce over them. 315—Pork. The season for pork is from Michaelmas to March, and it is to be observed, that pork, of all meat, is the most unwholesome if underdone; indeed, it is absolutely uneatable. It should be hung for some time before it is cooked, though it will not admit of being kept so long as other meat. COCHON DE LAIT. 316—Sucking Pig. A sucking pig is in best order when about three weeks old, and it is better it should be killed only a few hours before it is dressed : to dress it in perfection requires the greatest attention in roasting; it being the thickest across the shoulders, put that end of the spit nearer the fire, and continually keep wiping the pig with a dry cloth, until the moment it is taken off the spit.180 To make he stuffing for a roasting pig, take the crumb of two French rolls, cut them in slices, and butter them; sprinkle a little salt, a very small quantity of chopped sage, and a little cream between each slice; let them soak for an hour, then put this stuffing mside the pig, and sew it up; it will take about an hour and a quarter roasting; take two or three spoonsful of bechamel sauce (No. 7), in which you mix a little cream, chopped sage, pepper, and salt; stir the whole over the fire till It boils, and serve the sauce in a boat. There should not be any gravy or sauce in the dish with the pig. 317—Leg of Pork, to eat like Wild Boar. Cut the leg out of a bacon hog that has been singed, let it be cut as long as it can be made, take out the bone, and rub it with saltpetre, common salt, and spice, and force some into the part where the bone is taken out; rub it every day, and let it lay in this state for three days; after that time put the leg of pork into a pan of cold water for two hours, take it out of the water, lay it in a cloth, and wipe it inside and out thoroughly dry; pound mace, cloves, pepper, and nutmeg, chop six slialots, and a clove of garlick, mix with the spice ; rub some of this mixture into the inside of the pork, where the bone was taken out, and let it re- main for twenty-four hours; then prepare a braising pan with a bed of sweet herbs, onions, carrots, and a few bay leaves and spice, such as coriander seeds, mace, cloves, and alspice; lay the pork on this, and pour over it a bottle of red wine; the braising pan should not be larger than is requisite to hold it, cover the braising pan close, and place it over a fire that will keep it stew- ing only very slowly ; put hot ashes on the top; it requires about four hours to dress it tender; it should be kept in braise till cold ; but if it is to be served hot, take it up, strain the braise,181 skim off the grease, and add a few spoonsful of sauce tourncie (No. 6); let the sauce boil and reduce, squeeze in some lemon juice, add a little cayenne pepper and salt if requisite, glaze the pork, and serve the sauce round it. 318—Boars Head. The head for this purpose should be taken from a large bacon hog ; cut off the head, and take all the bone out; then rub it with saltpetre, common salt, and pepper; let it lay in this state, rub- bing it every day for four days, then throw it into cold water for two hours; afterwards it is to be thoroughly dried with cloths; make half a dozen pounds of farce, as directed for sausages (No. 320), pound some spice, cloves, nutmeg, and mace, black pepper, and cayenne; rub the inside of the head all over with this spice, then stuff it with the farce, and two or three pounds of truffles mixed with it would be a great improvement; make the head into its proper shape, and bind it all over with broad tape ; place the head in a braising pan of its own size, put in onions, sweet herbs, bay-leaves, shalots, two or three cloves of garlic, and spices, such as mace, alspice, cloves, ginger, and a few coriander seeds; pour over this two bottles of wine, and the rest broth; cover the braising kettle close, and set it over a slow fire, that it may stew gradually for five hours, and put hot ashes on the top : when the head is done take it out, place it in a pan as near its own size as you can, then strain the braise over it, and let it re- main till quite cold; next day take the head out of the cloth, and when you serve it put some of the jelly round, and send, in a tureen, the sauce directed in the following receipt. All such dishes are found to be exceedingly convenient in the country for luncheons and the side table.182 Sauce for Boars Head. Boll half a pint of port wine, into which infuse the rind of two Seville oranges, mixing with it at the same time half a pound of red currant jelly; when cold moisten a spoonful of mustard with a little cold water, and stir it into the sauce; squeeze the juice of the two Seville oranges, and a little cayenne, pass the sauce through a cullender, and serve it cold in a tureen. 319—To cure Hams. As soon as the hams are cut rub them with common salt, and leave them for twenty-four hours; weigh them, and for every twelve pounds of meat allow half a pound of bay salt, one ounce of saltpetre, and two ounces of black pepper, all finely pounded; rub the hams well with this every day for four days, then mix one pound of coarse moist sugar with one pint of vinegar, and pom- it over the hams; let them lay in this pickle for a month, fre- quently turning them during that time ; when you take them out dry them well, and roll them in bran or coarse flour; hang them up to dry, and if you can have them smoked with a wood fire it will considerably improve them. 320—Farce for Sausages. Take the tender part of pig-meat, cut it in small dices, then cut about an equal quantity of the fat in the same way; season183 this witli pepper, salt, alspice, and a little minced sage; chop all together perfectly fine : this is a good stuffing for turkeys, or you may put the farce in skins. POULARD AU GOS SEL. 321—Fowl with coarse Salt. Choose a fowl that is white and fat, and it is to be trussed for boiling; cook the fowl in light broth that is fresh made, let the broth boil when the fowl is put in, and if a large one it will take an hour and a quarter; when it is done enough drain it and wipe off all the fat: serve it with a little of the liquor in which it was -boiled; first strain and reduce it about one third: the fowl is to be glazed with a very light glaze, and a little chrystallized salt, which has not been pounded, thrown on the breast. 322—Poularde, with Oysters a la Due. Truss a fine poularde for boiling, first taking out the breast bone, beard and take away the hard part of four dozen oysters, put them into a basin, with half a pound of bread crumbs, two ounces of butter, and four yolks of eggs; mix all together, and fill the body of the fowl, and bind it in fat bacon ; take a stew- pan that is just large enough, put the fowl in, breast downwards, pour boiling water over it, and set it on the fire to boil for an hour and a half; then serve with it the following sauce :—boil the liquor and trimmings of the oysters, strain it through a silk sieve, reduce it with some bechamel (No. 7) to a good consistence.184 season with a little cayenne pepper and salt if requisite, and pass it through a tammy; wipe the fowl perfectly dry, and pour the sauce over it. 323—Fowl, with oyster sauce, plain. Boil a fine fowl in poele (No. 9), and when done send it up with oyster sauce as follows:—^Take three dozen of oysters, let them boil up in their own liquor, drain them in a small cullender, let the liquor settle, put two ounces of fresh butter into a stew- pan, with a spoonful of flour, pass it over the fire for a few minutes, then pour in the liquor of the oysters, and half a pint of cream; stir it till the sauce boils, add two or three spoonsful of bechamel (No. 7), and reduce the sauce, as the oysters are sure to relax it; pass the sauce through a tammy; then take out the hard part of the oysters, wipe them in a cloth, and put them into the sauce; give the sauce a boil, and pour it over the fowl. 324—Fowl, d la Monglas. A fowl that has been previously served (provided it is a boiled one), and returned untouched, will make this dish : run your knife under the skin along the centre of the breast, turn the skin quite back on the legs, and remove the whole of the breast, at the same time take out the bone; mince the breast of the fowl with some sweet bread, and ham, or tongue, and put it into bechamel (No. 7), which should be reduced to a good consistence; when it is quite cold put it into the fowl, and bring the skin over it, to give it the appearance of a whole fowl; beat the yolks of two eggs, and cover the breast of the fowl with the egg, and then185 bread crumbs; sprinkle it with clarified butter, bake the fowl for half an hour, and if it is not coloured enough, use the sala- mander; dish the fowl, and serve Espagnole sauce (No. 33) under it. 325—Fowl en Surprise. This is the same as the last, with this only difference, that you use only the breast of the fowl or chicken, and the sauce whitened by the addition of more cream, and serve bechamel sauce (No. 7) round it. 326—Poularde, d la Perigord. See turkey under the same title (No. 339). CUISSES DE POULARDE EN CANETON. 327—Legs of Fowl, Duckling-like. The fowls from which you have taken the fillets furnish legs for this dish ; pull the bones entirely out from the leg, but do not destroy the knee joint, which must serve to make the head of the duckling; when you have boned the thighs, stuff them with farce of veal or fowl, sew them up with coarse thread, giving them at the same time a good shape; put them into a stewpan wrapped in fat bacon, slice some carrot, onion, bay-leaf, and o18G mace; put the knee-joint to braise with them, set the stewpan over the fire, add a ladleful of broth, and when they have stewed quietly for an hour, and they feel tender, drain them; take out the thread, and stick the knuckle in the broad part of the leg, and it will have the form of a duckling; glaze them, and serve under them tomata sauce (No. 431), or any puree you please. POULARDE A LA CARDINAL. 328—77?.e Cardinal's Fowl. Take out the bones of a fine fat fowl, without cutting the skin, prepare some quenelle of fowl (see veal farce. No. 304), into which introduce some red lobster spawn that has been pounded with butter, force your knife between the skin and the flesh of the breast, and introduce some of the coloured farce, and the re- mainder in the inside of the body; secure both ends with thread, and form the fowl of a good appearance; put it into a stewj)an (an oval one) well trimmed with slices of fat bacon, and cover the fowl also with bacon; pour over it some poele (No. 9), set it on the fire, and let it boil slowly for an hour and a half; then drain and wipe off 'all the grease, gla^e it very lightly, and serve with it sauce a I'allemande (No. 185), German sauce. 329—Fillets of Chicken, d la Royale. You will require five chickens for this dish, which will furnish jovL With ten fillets : first draw out the sinews, then with a very sharp knife remove the skin, and flatten the fillets with the handle of the knife dipped in cold water, to prevent its breaking187 the fillets; trim them very neatly, have ready some clarified but- ter into which dip the fillets, and then lay them on a saute pan ; cover them with buttered paper; at dinner time saute them very lip-htly, drain the butter from them, and put two spoonsful of bechamel in the pan; cover each fillet with the sauce, and lay them neatly round the dish, and a ragout k la royale m the cen- tre; this ragout must be particularly white, composed of cocks combs, kidneys, mushrooms, small quenelles, and truffles. 230—Wings of Chicken, d la Dauphine. This dish should only be attempted when you have a very large dinner, as all the fillets must be cut from the same side of the chicken, with the pinion attached, consequently you will require eight; but where the dinner consists of many entries, you can introduce the remaining fillets in another shape ; lard the fillets with fine bacon, and put them into the oven on a well-buttered saute pan, in order to give them a good shape; when they have acquired a firmness, prepare a stewpan with a bed of vegetables (see fricandeau, No. 40) slices of fat bacon, and a little light broth; lay the fillets on this, cover the stewpan close, set it over a fire, with lighted charcoal on the top, glaze the fillets, lightly dish them on a puree of endive, asparagus peas, or any sauce that may best correspond with your other dishes. 331—Fricassee de Poulet, d la St. Florentine. Prepare a fricassee as directed (No. 94), add to the sauce small quenelles, truffles, and eggs, which is the only diflierence.188 332—Friture of Chicken. Take two young chickens, cut them up as if for a fricassee, put them into a basin, with a shalot sliced, a bay-leaf, parsley, and a little spice, pepper, and salt, and a lemon squeezed over them; let the chicken remain thus for three or four hours, then drain them, beat the whites of two eggs, dip the pieces first into it, next into flour, then fry them in hot lard of a nice colour, not too brown, drain them on a clean cloth, serve under them re- moulade sauce (No. 194). 333—Souffle of CIdcke?}, d la Creme. Take the remnants of fowl that have been left from a previous dinner, take off the white flesh, and mince it very fine ; pound it in a mortar, with two or three spoonsful of bechamel, about two ounces of fresh butter, a little salt, and mix with this the yolks of four eggs; rub the whole through a tammy or a hair sieve, then beat the four whites of eggs quite light, and mix them M'ith the chicken ; put it into a raised croustade made of hot paste, and bake the souffle about twenty minutes. 334—Scollops of Fowl, with Cucumbers. You will require for this dish the fillets of three fowls, cut the scollops the size of a crown piece, dip them in clarified butter, and lay them in a saute pan; at dinner time fry them lightly,189 and throw them into a white cucumber sauce (No. 20!)); they may be'served in a vol-au-vent, or on the dish, garnished with paste. 335—Fowl, a la Montmorevci. The fowl being trussed, as for boiling, dip the breast only in boiling water, in order to give it a firmness; lard the breast in the same manner as a fricandeau, and put it in an oval stewpan lined with fat bacon; use poele (No. 9) to braise the fowl, and put fire on the top of the stewpan; when the fowl is perfectly tender, glaze the larded part, and serve a sauce a I'allemande (No. 185). CllAPON AUX RIZ GRATIN. 336—Capon, with Rice au Gratin. Take a double handful of rice, wash it well in several waters, till the flour is quite washed from it, then take a well-tinned stewpan and rub the bottom of it with about two ounces of fresh butter, then put the rice on it, and put on the rice a good slice of lean raw ham, and the following spices:—a little mace, cloves, two bay-leaves, and five or six shalots; then completely cover the rice with some very good consomme, put it on a gentle stove to boil, till the rice is tender, then take out the spice and ham, set it again on the fire, until the rice has absorbed all the broth, and the rice at the bottom has taken a nice brown colour ; pour all the fat from it, cover up the stewpan, and put it under the190 store to keep hot till you want to serve it. The fowl must be nicely boiled, and when dished up cover it with the rice, and then scrape the brown rice from the bottom of the stewpan, and put it on the top. 337—Poularde, d la CuisinQr. Prepare a fowl for roasting, make a farce with its own liver, some scraped bacon, and some tarragon leaves, chervil, parsley, and green onions, pepper, and salt; mix the whole together, with two yolks of eggs, and a few bread crumbs ; stuff the fowl with this farce, cover it with fat bacon and paper, roast it for three quarters of an hour, pass some of the above herbs in a little butter over the fire, then add to the herbs one spoonful of con- somme (No. 5), and two of sauce tournee No. (6); let the sauce boil to throw off the butter, season with cayenne pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice, and serve the sauce round the fowl. QUENELLES DE VOLAILLE. 338—Quenelles of Fowl. See veal farce (No. 304). The only difference is that you use the breast of fowl instead of veal. 339—Dindon, d la Perigord, with Truffles. As soon as the turkey is killed it is to be drawn, throw in191 some salt to draw out the blood, and wipe out the mside with two or three cloths; take two or three pounds of green truffles (be very cautious that you do not use a bad one), chop the small ones, add scraped bacon, and mix them together, with the same quantity of fresh butter, a little cayenne pepper, and salt: mix this farce with the whole truffles, and stuff the turkey with them; secure both ends, so as not to admit of the air, then hang the turkey for a week or ten days, or longer, if the weather will permit: when you dress the turkey, truss it for roasting, and secure it firmly on a spit; cover the breast with slices of fat bacon, and over that tie sheets of paper, and then roast it: the time it will require must depend on the size of the bird, but if a large one it will take two hours roasting; serve under the turkey a clear Espagnole sauce (No. 33). TURKEY ROASTED, AND CHESNUTS. 340—Dindon aux Marrons. Truss the turkey in the usual way for roasting, and put a veal stuffing in the crop: when it is roasted, serve under it stewed chesnuts, with sauce tournee (No. 6). DINDON BOUILLI AUX HUITRES. 341—Turkey boiled and Oyster Sauce. Choose a nice white hen turkey, and truss it with the legs drawn in; rub a little lemon juice and butter over the breast, and192 wrap it up in fat bacon : boil the turkey in poele (No. 9) an hour and a half, drain and wipe all the fat from it, and serve with oyster sauce a la creme (No. 323). DINDON AUX PUREE DE CELERI. 342r—Turkey with Puree of Celery. Boiled as in the last receipt, and served with a puree of celery (No. 202). ^ DINDONNEAU. MZ—Turkey Poults. Turkey poults should be served in the second course roasted ; cover them with broad slices of fat bacon, cut very thin, and con- fined with white paper and string; roast them about three quar- ters of an hour ; when they are nearly done, take off the lard and paper that the bii'ds may brown : when you have a large party and roast two birds, let one be larded and the other plain. PIGEONS. 344—Cotelette de Pigeons, a Vltalienne. Take out the fillets from six pigeons, flatten them, clean the pinion bone, and force it in the small end of the fillet; season193 them on both sides with pepper and salt, clarify some butter, and mix it with yolks of eggs ; dip each cutlet in it, and then cover them with bread crumbs; make them into a good shape, pour .ome clarified butter into a saute pan, and lay the cutlets m ; fry them quickly, then lay them on a napkin to absorb the grease, and serve them with a brown Italian sauce (No. 183.) PIGEONS MARINES ET GRILLE. 345—Pigeons marinaded and broiled. Split the pigeons in two and flatten them; lay them for twen- ty-four hours in a marinade of oil, chopped shalot, green onions, parsley, and a little pounded spice; then take them out, dip them in eggs, shake some bread crumbs over them, and broil them quicky: serve them as hot as possible with a ravigotte sauce (No. 206). CAILLES ROTI. 346—Quails roasted. Roast the quails covered with vine leaf and slices of fat bacon : twenty minutes are sufficient to roast quails : serve them with a good gravy. 347-—Cuilles aux Gratin. See gratin of pigeon (No. 123).194 SAUTE DE PEDRIX AU SUPREME. 348—Saute of Partridges. You require six partridges for this entree ; they must be young birds, and kept for some time, that they may have their full fla- vour, and be more tender ; turn back the skin from off the breast, take out the fillets, and detach the small fillet from the large one; cut out the sinew of the small fillet, flatten the large ones with a small beater, dipped in water; the small ones may be garnished with truffles, trim them neatly, put them into a saute pan, with clarified butter, and lay the small fillets upon them; sprinkle them with a little salt, and cover them with buttered paper, and send them to the larder till dinner time: put the remnants of the birds into a stewpan, with some slices of veal, ham, and a few spoonsful of consomme (No. 5); cover the stewpan, and set it on a slow fire for half an hour, then add more consomme, some trimmings of mushrooms, and a bunch of green onions ; boil it half an hour longer, then strain it through a lawn sieve, skim off the grease, pour the broth into another stewpan, and reduce it to glaze: when you saute the fillets, drain the butter from them; then take a little bechamel (No. 7) and some of the glaze, stir it over the fire until it is quite hot, season it with a little cayenne pepper and salt; if the fillets are not garnished with truffles, dip each one as you dish it in the sauce, and pour the remainder in the dish; if you have used truffles for garnish, put some whole ones in the sauce, and serve them in the centre of the fillets. 349—Cutlets of Partridge en Epigram. Take off the fillets of five young partridges, then the small in-195 side fillets, cut off tlxe second skin from the large fillets, c ean he small bone of the pinion, and stick it into the narrow end of the first fillets ; then season them on both sides with a little pepper and salt, and with a paste brush rub the fillets over ^^th the yolk of an eo-g • dip them into crumbs of bread, and then mto clarified butter,°aT;d again into bread crumbs ; make them into a good form and at dinner time broil them of a nice colour, fry the small fillets lightly, and cut them into small collops ; throw them into a bechamel sauce (No. 7), with some good mushrooms and some of the game glaze mentioned in the last receipt: dish the broiled fillets round, and put the blanquette in the middle. PETIT CROQUETTES DE PERDRIX. 350—Croquettes of Partridges. Precisely the same process as in No. 25, croquettes of poultry, and introduce the game glaze. SOUFFLE DE PERDRIX. 351—Souffle of Partridge. Roast four or six partridges, pick out the meat, and pound it immediately while it is hot; add two or three spoonsful of becha- mel (No. 7) by degrees, a small lump of butter, and season it well; mix with this puree the yolks of five eggs, and rub it through a sieve, then beat the whites, and mix them lightly ; bake the souffle in a timbale, it will take about half an hour in a moderate oven.196 PERDRIX A LA FINANCIERE. 352—Partridges icith a Ragout Financier. Empty four young partridges, and truss them with the legs drawn in : dip the breasts into boiling water to make them firm, and lard them with fat bacon very neatly; next prepare a stew- pan, with slices of fat bacon at the bottom and sides, lay in the partridges, and as much light broth as will come up to the lard- ing ; cover the stewpan, set it on the fire, and put lighted char- coal on the cover ; they will be done in about half an hour; then dish and glaze them nicely, and serve round them a brown finan- ciere sauce (No. 181). PERDRIX AUX CHOUX. 353^—Partridges with Cabbage. Pick, draw, and truss, two partridges, boil them for ten mi- nutes ; blanch two or three cabbages for a quarter of an hour; take them uj) into cold water, when they are cold cut them in quarters and take out the stalk, and squeeze them as dry as pos- sible in a cloth : boil a pound of bacon for half an hour, trim it, and take off the skin; put the bacon into a stewpan, and lay the partridges on each side, then the cabbages, two or three onions, a little pepper, and about a pint of broth; cover the whole with fat bacon, and upon that a sheet of paper; set the stewpan over a stove to stew slowly for three hours : now take out the layers of bacon and onions, place a large sieve over a dish, and turn the contents of the stewpan over on the sieve to drain : take a clean cloth and mould the cal)bage into a large roller, squeeze all the197 fat out; then line a plain mould with thin slices of bacon, place the bird's breast downwards, and fill the mould with the cabbage, pressing it very firm ; keep the mould in the hot closet, and at dinner time turn it over on the dish, take it carefully off, and serve an espagnole sauce (No. 33) round the partridges ; or you may dish the partridges plain, with the bacon in the centre, and the cabbage round. FAISAN. 354—Pheasant. Every entree that can be made of partridge may be made also with pheasant; therefore, it is unnecessary to swell the volume with needless repetitions. LIEVRE EN DAUBE. 355—Stewed Hare. When the hare is skinned, cut off the two legs, and the back into three pieces ; have ready some fat bacon cut into fillets for larding, season it with chopped shalot, parsley, and mixed spice, and with this lard each piece of hare thickly, put at the bottom with thin slices of bacon; lay upon it all the pieces of hare, with a bunch of sweet herbs, such as marjoram, basil, thyme, and par- sley ; two or three onions, a carrot, a few cloves, and mace ; two spoonsful of broth, and half a pint of red wine : cover the whole with more fat bacon, then cover the stewpan close, to prevent the steam from escaping : put this into another Rtpw^^mi that is large198 enough to ndmit of water round it, put them over the fire, and keep the water constantly boiling for four hours; then take out the hare, dish it neatly, strain the liquor, skim off the fat, and reduce it quickly with two spoonsful of sauce tournee (No. 6); season with cayenne pepper and salt, and pour it hot over the hare. FILETS DE LIEVRE EN CHEVREUIL. 356—Fillets of Hare like Roebuck. You will require the fillets of three hares for this entree, lard them closely with fat bacon, then put them into a deep dish, with two onions cut in slices, parsley, bay-leaf, and thyme; one glass of vinegar, and one of water, and a spoonful of sweet oil, a little whole pepper, and salt; let the fillets remain in this two days, then drain them, lay them on a saute pan, with clarified butter, and over them white paper well buttered; bake them rather under-done, glaze them with light glaze, and serve with a chev- reuil sauce (No. 379). BOUDINS DE LEVRAUT A L'lTALIENNE. 357—Puddings of Leveret, the Italian way. Make a farce of leverets in precisely the same way you do quenelles of veal (No. 304); the farce may either be put into a buttered mould, or made into long puddings, by dividing the farce into three or four equal pieces; roll them with a little flour either round or long, and place them on buttered paper; at dinner time turn them into boiling water • when they are done enough199 take them out on a napkin, to soak the water from them, and serve the puddings with a brown Italian sauce (No. 183) over them. 358—Potted Hare. Either roasted or stewed hare answers for potting; pick all the flesh from the bones, and pound it very fine in a marble mor- tar ; season it with cayenne pepper, salt, and fine spice, and at the same time add one-fourth the quantity of clarified butter; let it be thoroughly well mixed, then press it tight into pots, within a quarter of an inch of the top, pour clarified butter over, to preserve it from the air. FARCE FOR POTTING GAME. 359—Partridges, Pheasants, Woodcocks, Sfc. Take an equal quantity of lean veal and fat bacon, chop them together, and season with the mixture (No. 390) ; put this into a large stewpan over a brisk fire, and stir it with a wooden spoon until quite hot, then immediately pound it in a marble mortar; when you have selected the game you intend to preserve, bone them thoroughly, and put a little of the farce in each bird, and form them of their proper shape; then prepare the pots you intend to keep them in, line the bottom and sides with fat bacon, and shake a little more seasoning mixtui'e, as above, round them; place in the birds, either pheasants or partridges, breast down- wards, put some of the farce round and over the birds, press it closely, and then cover them with more fat bacon; tie strong- cartridge paper over the pots, and bake them in a moderately- heated oven; a pot containing three birds will take two hours200 baking; if larger, of course they require more time : when quite cold, fill the pots up with melted lard, and tie them down with bladders. If you are where game is plentiful, instead of veal use the flesh of game for the farce, which is infinitely better than veal, and of course you preserve a better flavour of the game. With the bones and trimmings of the game you make an excel- lent glaze; put them into a stewpan with slices of veal and ham, with a ladleful of good broth (use no vegetable or spice), set the stewpan over a stove to soak for an hour, then fill up the stewpan with good broth, boil it for two hours, then strain the broth, skim off the fat, and reduce it to glaze: this glaze will be found to be exceedingly convenient to use in all game entrees. 360—Potted Grouse, a la Perigord. When you are so situated as to be well supplied, make the farce which you would use for potting of the flesh of the birds : in the first place, bone as many grouse as you intend to keep whole, and take all the flesh from the remaining birds, which you use instead of veal, and proceed as directed (No. 359). 361—Farce de Godiveau. Take one pound of lean veal, half a pound of beef suet, and half a pound of fat bacon, and chop them together perfectly fine; chop some parsley, shalots, and mushrooms, pass them in a little butter over the fire for ten minutes, then mix it with the meat and a little of the prepared seasoning (No. 390), and pound all together with two eggs; then bake a small piece, to try if it is sufiiciently seasoned : this farce is used for patties a la godiveau, or for pies which are for immediate use.201 BECASSES ET BECASSINES. 362—Woodcocks and Snipes. Roast woodcocks or snipes, with slices of fat bacon on the breast, leave the entrails in, put toasted bread under to receive what falls whilst cooking, and serve the birds on the toast: if any are returned to the kitchen, they may be dressed en salmi. 363—Salmi of Woodcocks. Cut off the legs, wings, and the breasts of cold woodcocks ; then with the remainder of the birds, and half a pint of white wine, shalot, parsley, and cayenne pepper, black whole pepper, and a little broth, make a consomme, and when the flavour of the woodcocks is extracted, strain it through a silk sieve, skim off the grease, add two spoonsful of sauce tournee (No. 6), give the sauce a boil, squeeze in half a lemon, pour the sauce over the woodcocks, and let them soak in it: observe, they must not boil, which would make the meat hard; serve the salmi quite hot and relishing. 364—Croustade of Puree of Woodcock. The puree is made of roasted woodcocks : if you have any left from the dinner, they answer the same purpose as fresh roasted birds; pick all the meat from them, mince it, and then pound it in a mortar; moisten it with a little warm Spanish sauce (No. 33), p202 until It IS of a proper consistence, season it with cayenne pepper and salt, pass it through a tammy, keep the pur6e hot in a bain- marie, cut eight or ten pieces of bread, either round or in hearts about an inch thick, make a deep incision all round the upper part, and fry them in hot lard; while they are hot take out the middle, so as to leave as little crumb as possible, and keep them hot in the screen or closet: when the dinner is called, fill the croustades with the pur^e quite hot; at another time'you may serve the same puree with poached eggs, or in one large croustade. 365—Plovers. The golden plovers visit us about the beginning of Novem- ber, and are very delicate eating; they should be roasted, the breasts covered with a vine-leaf, and slices of bacon. 366—Ruffs and Reeves Arrive in the fens of Lincolnshire, the Isle of Ely, and East Riding of Yorkshire, in the spring: they are dressed with their intestines in them, roasted with bacon over them, and when fat are delicious eating. ^Qn—Salmi of Wild Ducks. It is far better to roast wild ducks, on purpose to make this dish ; however, ducks that have been previously served, and not203 cut, may be made into a salmi: if you roast ducks on purpose, let them be under-done, cut them into neat joints, put them into a stewpan, and keep them warm ; the remnants of the ducks put into another stewpan, with two glasses of white wine, and two or three spoonsful of consomme (No. 5), and some shalots and whole pepper; boil it together quickly, then strain this essence, add two or three spoonsful of sauce tournee (No. 6), boil it, and skim off the grease; season the sauce with cayenne pepper, the juice of half a lemon, and salt; pour the sauce to the ducks, make them quite hot, without boiling, and serve the salmi as hot as possible. Salmi of teal or widgeon are precisely dressed in the same way, and are excellent when judiciously managed. CANETONS A LA BIGARADE. 368—Ducklings, with Seville Orange Sauce. Truss two plump fleshy ducklings, with the legs drawn in; roast them rather under-done, then make incisions in the breast, have ready boiling a little Spanish sauce (No. 33), into which you pour the gravy which issues from the ducks, and squeeze in the juice of a Seville orange; season it with cayenne pepper and salt, dish the ducklings, and pour the sauce over them. If you desire to serve fillets only, roast three ducklings, cut out the fillets, put them into the sauce and gravy which run out of them, and serve them to table quickly. This dish is excellent eating, and requires to be highly seasoned. OISON ROTIE. 369—Green Goose, roasted. Choose a green goose that is fleshy and fat, or they are not204 eatable ; roast them quite plain, without stuffing of any kind; Berve them with good gravy in the second course. OIE LA DAUBE. 370—Dobed Goose. Lard a goose all over with large lardons of fat bacon, rolled in sweet herbs and shalot, finely chopped, and well seasoned with spice, cayenne pepper, and salt; put it into a braising pan, of its own size, with vegetable and slices of fat bacon under and on the top, pour in a pint of white wine, and a little broth; cover the braising pan close, and let it stew slowly; try it, and when the flesh gives under the pressure of the finger, it is done; take it up, strain the braise, skim off the grease, add sauce tournee (No. 6), season Avith a little cayenne pepper, salt, and lemon juice; glaze and dish the goose, and serve the sauce round: it is most excellent eating when cold. ALOUETTES ROTI. 371—Larks. Take out the gizzards and roast the larks with the trail remain- ing in them; serve them with bread crumbs, fried in clarified butter. ALOUETTES AU GRATIN. 372—See Pigeons au Gratin (No. 123),205 ALOUETTES EN RAGOUT. 373—Ragout of Larks. Take a dozen of larks, bone them, and put in each a little veal farce (No. 304); form them of a good shape, butter the bottom of a stewpan, place in the larks, and fry them to fix their shape; then cover them with consomme, close the stewpan, and place them over a slow stove; when they are done remove them into a clean stewpan, put a few spoonsful of sauce tournee (No. 6) to the consomme they were done in, let it boil on the corner of the stove to throw off the fat, and reduce the sauce to a good con- sistence ; strain it through a tammy into the stewpan with the larks, have ready some truffles and mushrooms, put them into the sauce, also a braised sweetbread, cut in square pieces ; let all boil up together, skim the sauce, and dish them neatly: or they may be served in a croustade of bread (No. 387). ALOUETTES EN CAISSES. 374—LarTis in Cases. If the preceding entree is returned to the kitchen untouched, the larks may be served another time in cases; warm the larks in the sauce, have paper cases ready, place one lark in each case, and strew them over with fried crumbs; serve them as hot as possible. 375—Venison. It is usual to commence killing stall-fed venison on the first of May.206 Grass-fed buck venison commences about the 15th July, and ends the 25th September. Doe venison is killed about the 20th November, and ends 25th January. 376—Haricot of Venison. The breast of venison is usually taken to make a haricot: trim off the brisket bones and skin of two breasts of venison, or use one breast and part of the neck, which is better; cut the breast into six or seven cutlets, and as many from the neck; cut all the flesh you can from the scrag end and with it line the bottom of a stewpan, upon which you lay the cutlets; season them well with pepper and salt, lay the bones and trimmings upon the top, put in a carrot and two onions, and a ladleful of broth; cover the stewpan close, and set it over a quick fire, and boil it till it is reduced to a glaze; then fill up the stewpan with more broth, and let it stew slowly ; when the venison is quite tender pick out the pieces and put them in a clean stewpan, sift the broth, skim off the fat, and pour it again over the meat; add more seasoning, and dish the venison in its own juice : in this way the real lovers of venison would eat it, but as it is the practice to serve this dish with roots and a thickened sauce, I have only to observe, that the sauce is to be thickened by passing a little butter, flour, and roots, and added the same as directed for haricot of mutton. For a venison pasty prepare the venison as here directed; but it must be 'more highly seasoned when it is to be eaten cold : raise the crust of hot paste (No. 462), then lay in the venison, alter- nately fat and lean, till the pie is as full as you require it, cover it in with more of the paste, and bake the pie for an hour; reduce the sauce, and when you take the pasty out of the oven by degrees fill in the whole of the venison gravy; let it stand till it is cold, then take off" the top, and if any fat remain on the top, it may be easily removed.207 CARRE DE VENAISON. 377—Nech of Venison. The neck of venison may be made to look very handsome when the keeper does not take off the shoulder : cut the neck, with the blade bone part of the shoulder remaining on it, which is easily done by sawing it through at the socket joint; you may then take out the piece of blade, so as to leave the meat entire, then saw off the breast, turn the flesh back from the rib bones of the neck about halfway down, cut out the bones, then take oflPthe skin ; put a lark spit through it and fasten it securely to another spit; cover it with buttered paper and paste, and upon the paste more paper, and bind it all over with strong string : by taking this precaution you may roast a neck of venison for three hours, it will be plump and handsome, the fat mellow and tender: serve it as hot as possible, with a good gravy made from part of the scrags and the trimmings. Deer's Fry. The fry of buck or doe venison is excellent eating; whoever has eaten it well dressed would desire the gratification to be repeated : in the early part of the season the fry is in the best state, then the velvet of the new shoots is a delicious morsel : take two frying pans, butter them, and in the one put the liver and the heart, cut in convenient pieces; in the other pan the kidney cut in slices, the velvet, sweetbreads, and other parts of the fry ; have two stoves ready, as this fry requires the greatest attention, or it is not worth eating, and will never be asked for a208 second time; the fry in both pans is to be cooked at the same time, fry them quickly; just when it is done season it with pepper and salt, dish it as hot as possible ; serve in a boat an Lspagnole sauce (No. 33), mixed with a spoonful of mustard : this dish should never be on the table, but handed speedily from the kitchen to the company immediately after the fish. 379—Fawn au Chevreuil. Prepare a marinade with one pint of vinegar, half a pint of water, some onions, chervil, burnet, tarragon, and parsley, a bay- leaf, cloves, salt, and mace, two spoonsful of sweet oil, and whole black pepper ; mix these all together : divide the two hind quarters of the fawn, pare off the skin from the fillets, and also a round piece from the thighs, lard as close as possible, put the quarters into the cold marinade for forty-eight hours, and baste it with the pickle occasionally; then put it on the spit, with buttered paper round it, and roast it gradually : when it is done glaze the larded part, and serve with a sauce au chevreuil, made thus: Sauce au Chevreuil. Take one shalot, a little burnet, tarragon, chervil, parsley, and some mushrooms, chop them all finely, put them into a stewpan with a small lump of butter, pass the herbs over the fire for a few minutes, then add two spoonsful of sauce tournee (No. 6), and one of consomme ; boil a glass of white wine, and add to the sauce; let it boil, skim it, and serve round the fawn: a little cayenne pepper and salt and lemon juice is to be added. You may dress the two haunches together if you have a large company : the saddle of fawn makes a very handsome dish.209 380—Pate Chaud de Perdrix. Bone a brace and a half or two brace of partridges, put a little farce (No. 359) in each bird; butter the bottom of a stewpan, and place in the birds, put them over the fire to set them, then take out the birds to get cold, during which time raise the paste (No. 462) according to the size of the dish the pie is intended to be served on, egg the side over, and decorate it to your fancy; put some farce at the bottom, place in the birds, and fill up the cavities with farce, cover the pie with paste, and bake it an hour and a half: when it is done, remove the top by cutting it round with the point of the knife, skim off the fat and fill it up with espaguole sauce (No. 33) flavoured with glaze made from the bones of the game: truffles may also be added to these pies. 381—Pate Chaud de Faisan. Bone a brace of pheasants, and proceed to make them into a pie, precisely the same way as the last. 382—Pate Chaud de Pigeons. This pie is to be made the same as partridge (No. 380). 383—Pate Chaud de Poulard aux Truffes. Bone a large fowl, fill it with farce (No. 359) and truffles, and proceed in the same way as directed for pheasant pie.210 384—Pd^e Chaud d'Oie d la Perigord. The goose should be thoroughly boned, without cutting the skin, and proceed to make the pie the same as the last receipt. PATE CHAUD DE BECASSES. 385—Raised Pie of Woodcocks. Cut each woodcock in two, put them into a saute pan, with a little butter, season with pepper and salt, put them into the oven to make them firm, let them cool, pound the trail with some godiveau farce (No. 360), and make the pie in the same way as directed for partridge. PATE CHAUD DE BECASSINES. 386—Raised Pie of Snipes. Raised pie of snipes is made in the same way as woodcock pie. 387—Croustade of Bread. Croustades are convenient to serve in the first course for col- lops, blanquettes, or sautes; in the second course they are used for purees of vegetable, &c. Cut the crumb of a large loaf in the211 form of a vase or cup, as your fancy may direct, and according to the dish it is intended for; make an incision round the top with the point of the knife, fry it in a stewpan with clean lard, on a moderate fire, drain it, take off the cover, which is already formed with the knife, clear out the inside of the croustade, and thinly line it with farce (No. 304); place it at the oven or hot closet until the farce is firm, which will prevent the sauce from running through the bread. Small croustades are made in the same way. 388—Cold Timbale of Game or Poultry, These timbales are most convenient for luncheons, and are ex- cellent eating. Take a stewpan that is as wide at the top as it is at the bottom, line it equally all over with pate brisee (No. 461), then trim' the paste with slices of fat bacon cut thin, and put in whatever you mean to compose the pie of; whether poultry or game, they must be first boned, and in the place of the bones introduce farce (No. 359); put them breast downwards in the paste, and press some farce in the cavities ; season with more of the ragout seasoning (No. 390), add more farce, and over that some slices of veal and ham, and more slices of fat bacon; it is not to be filled quite to the top : then close the whole in with the same paste, rub the edge round with egg, and pinch it round to close the paste securely; make a small incision at the top with the point of a knife, then bake the timbale in a sound heated oven for three or four hours, according to the size; when it is done fill the timbales with consomme (No. 396), made for the purpose ; the next day turn it out, dish it on a napkin, and with a sharp knife make an opening at that which was the bottom, so that you have the advantage of the best part of its contents, which in pies is generally left; and another great advantage of212 the timbales is, that they never break, which sometimes occurs to pies during the time they are baking. PETIT TIMBALES A LA RUSSE. 389—Small Russian Timbales. Work out the whey of two lumps of butter, make a square of it about three inches thick ; take a small patty cutter dipped in water, and cut out as many pieces as you may require; roll these in fine bread crumbs carefully that they may be of a good shape, beat up three eggs, and with a paste brush egg them all over, and roll them again in crumbs, and place them upright on a dish strewed with bread crumbs : with a smaller cutter, dipped in hot water, make at the upper end an opening, then keep them in a cool place till they are wanted ; then fry them in lard, rather hot, at the same time have at hand a large hair sieve, with a basin under it, and as you fry the timbales take off the top piece, and turn them over on the sieve that all the butter may drain out : fry two or three at a time, and when they are all done, fill them with an emince, or puree of game, or poultry, or oysters; dish them on a napkin, and garnish with fried parsley. 390—Savory Ragout Poioder. A Preparation of Herbs and Spices. Two ounces of marjoram Two ounces of parsley. One ounce of basil. One ounce of thyme.213 One ounce of lemon thyme. One ounce of bay leaf. One ounce of winter savoy. Dry these herbs in a warm closet, then pound them in a mor- tar, and pass them through a fine hair sieve. Four ounces of nutmeg. Four ounces of cloves. Two ounces of mace. Two ounces of white pepper. Two ounces of cayenne pepper. Pound and sift these spices, and mix them well together with the above herbs, put them into dry bottles, and keep them closely corked, and they will retain their fragrance any length of time : one ounce and a half of this mixture added to one pound of dry salt is an exact proportion for seasoning. 391—Patties de Godiveau. Take puff paste (No. 459), roll it out on a paste board quite even in every part, about two thirds of an inch thick, then with a paste cutter cut a dozen or fourteen pieces, lay them at an equal distance on a baking plate, rub them over with yolk of egg mixed with a few drops of water, roll up some small balls of godiveau farce (No. 360), which place in the centre of each piece of paste, and over which place a second round piece of paste, lightly egg them over, and bake them the last moment: it is a sort of patty that should be eaten the moment it is baked. 392—Pe?i7 Pate de Poulet. Cut the patties a little more than half an inch thick out of214 paste (No. 459), dip tlie cutter each time you cut a patty into boiling water, then with a smaller cutter, dipped also in hot water, make an incision exactly in the centre of the paste; rub them lightly over with egg, and bake them directly ; let the paste be thoroughly done before you take out the inside, lay on one side the piece you take from the top to coyer the patty when it is filled ; cut the breast of roast chicken into a mince, and reduce a little bechamel (No. 7) into a good consistence, throw in the chicken, but do not let the sauce boil again, which hardens the meat, and causes the sauce to become thin: observe, patties should never be filled with thin sauce, for the paste would immediately absorb the sauce, become soft, and leave the meat dry, and perfectly tasteless : in this way many patties are made, the only difference being that with which they are filled. 393—Petit Timbales de Vermicelli. Take half a pound of vermicelli, put it into a stewpan, with a pint and a half of light broth, stir it over the fire until it becomes thick and soft; then fill eight or ten dariole moulds, which are to be previously rubbed over with sweet oil; when they are quite cold take out as much of the inside as you can, leaving a suffi- cient thickness to contain whatever they are to be filled with: they may be filled with an emince of chicken, sweetbread, or salpicon: at another time egg and bread the timbales, and fry them. 394—Mutton Patties. The patties are to be raised; take some pite brisaee (No. 461), make up about ten or twelve balls, about the size of an egg,•215 mould them quite round; then take a ball of the paste, force your thumb into the centre, and with your fingers work up the sides, till you get it vip about two inches high; the paste must not be thick and clumsy, but should be worked up delicately thin ; then take the fillet out of a neck of mutton, that has been sufficiently long killed to be tender, pare off" all the skin and sinews, and cut it into slices as thin as possible, season it with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley; fill the pies with the meat, then cut some round pieces of the same paste to cover them, and close them round, and with a pair of paste nippers pinch them all round the top ; cut a small leaf out of the paste, and put that on the top, run the point of the knife round the cover, so as to enable you to take it off": when they are baked enough fill them with some good gravy, and dish them on a napkin. 395—Risolles. Mince finely either rabbit, fowl, or game, and put it into some reduced bechamel sauce (No. 7), season it well, and spread it on a dish to cool; roll out some puff" paste, and lay at equal distances balls of the farce; then with a paste brush rub eggs round the farce, and fold the paste, which you press all round in order to make the borders stick close together ; then cut the risolles with a paste cutter; make about two dozen, fry them, and send them up with fried parsley in the middle. ^^Q—Consomme to fill Cold Pies, timbdles, Sfc. Take all the bones and trimmirigs of the bMs used for the pies, add to them a knuckle of veal and two calf s feet,'and ptit the whole into a stewpan, with some ham, a bunch of parsley.216 green onions, and sweet lierbs, put with this a ladleful of broth; cover the stewpan and set it on a slow fire; when the juice is reduced to a thick glaze fill up the stewpan with more broth, and let it boil for two hours; season with salt and pepper; strain it through a silk sieve, and then reduce it to half glaze to fill up the pies when you take them out of the oven. 397—Blanc for cooking Vegetables. Mince half a pound of beef or veal suet and the same quantity of fat bacon, a quarter of a pound of butter, two slices of lemon, a little salt, and three pints of spring water, and let this stew for half an hour, then pass it through a hair sieve : it is to be used to cook cardoons, celery, artichokes, and such roots as are required to be dressed white; besides which, it gives a mel- lowness, and improves their flavour. GARDES DE PLUSSIEURS FACONS. 398—Cardoons in different manners. Cut them in lengths of about three inches, and pick the stringy part from the heart and the prickles from the leaves; blanch them in boiling water for fifteen minutes, then throw them into cold water ; when they are cold wipe them very clean in a cloth, and put them into a stewpan with as much of the blanc (No. 379) as will cover them ; set the stewpan over a slow fire: when they are tender send them to table with a sauce a I'espagnole (No. 33), or bechamel (No. 7).217 CONCOMBRES FARCE. 399—Stuffed Cucumbers. Scrape out the seeds of large cucumbers, peel and throw them into salt and water for an hour, then dry them in a cloth ; after- wards boil them for ten minutes, then dry them again, and fill them with well-seasoned veal farce ; line the bottom of a stewpan with slices of fat bacon, and lay in the cucumbers; cover them with more fat bacon, and set the stewpan over a slow stove till they are done: dish them, and pour over them a little reduced Espagnole sauce (No. 33). CHAMPIGNONS GRILLER. 400—Broiled Mushrooms. Choose some large mushrooms, skin them, and take oflF the stalks ; place them on a gridiron, with the hollow part upwards, into which pour a little clarified butter, mixed with pepper and salt: serve them to table as hot as possible. CHAMPIGNONS FARCE. 401—Mushrooms stuffed. Take a dozen and a half of large mushrooms, tear off the skin, take out the stems and some of the inside; chop it very fine, Q218 with a little slialot; mix these with some cold butter, pepper, and salt; put a small lump in the hollow part of each mushroom, butter a saute pan, place the mushrooms on it, and when the first course is served, put them into the oven for a quarter of an hour; do them vv^ell, then dish them on fried bread, and pour the juice which runs from the mushrooms over them. CHICOREE. 403—Endive a la Francaise. Well wash and blanch some heads of endive, then throw them into cold water, and when they are cold squeeze the water from them as much as possible, and chop them very fine ; it is then to be stewed in consomme (No. 5), and when it is tender reduce by stirring it with a wooden spoon over a quick fire; it should be made dry, and then put in a small piece of fresh butter, a little pepper, salt, and sugar; mix it well together, and send it as hot as possible, garnished with paste or fried bread. 404—Chau-fleury with Bechamel. Take off the green leaves, and examine the flower well, that no insects remain; throw them into cold water, with a handful of salt in it, for an ;hour; then boil them in salt and water, and drain them, without breaking: dish and pour over them a bechamel sauce (No. 7). 405— Cauliflowers, with Parmasan. Prepare cauliflowers as the last receipt, and cover them with a219 thick bechamel sauce, and shake some grated parmasan cheese over them ; sprinkle them with clarified butter, and brown the cheese with a salamander. 406—Scorzonero, loith Sauce Piquant. Let the scorzonero be well washed, then boil them sufficiently to enable you to wipe off the skin, cut them of an equal length, and stew them tender in a little broth, with lemon juice; when they are done add two spoonsful of sauce tournee (No. 6); give them a boil, then dish the scorzonero, skim the sauce, and pour it over them. 407—Salsijis, or Scorzonero, fried- Boil the salsifis or scorzonero until it is quite tender, wipe off the skins, and put them into a marinade of oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, in which they are to remain for a few hours ; then drain them on a cloth, dip them in batter (No. 411), fry them in clean lard, and serve them on a napkin. ARTICHAUTS FRITS. 408—Artichokes, fried. Take some young artichokes, cut them into quarters, and boil them in salt and water till they are tender; but they should not be so much done as to fall to pieces ; when they are done squeeze over them a little lemon juice, a little pepper, and salt: when220 you fry them dip them in batter (No. 411), and fry in hot lard: send them on a napkin. ARTICHAUTS A LA LYONNAISE. 409—Artichokes, a la Lyonnaise. If the artichokes are large, cut them in six, pare the bottoms, take out the choke, and trim the leaves short; as you trim them throw them into cold water, with lemon juice and salt; next butter the bottom of a stewpan, lay the artichokes in, and sprinkle them with a little pepper and salt, and a spoonful of consomme; half an hour before serving the dinner put them over the fire, and put fire over the cover; be careful not to let them burn: when done dish them, and serve them with a little bechamel «auce (No. 7). 410—Artichoke Bottoms preserved. Boil the artichokes in salt and water until you can pull away the leaves and choke, throw them into cold water, with lemon juice, then well drain them, and put them on the back of wicker sieves in a cool oven or hot closet; turn them over two or three times, when suflSciently dried put them in paper bags, hang them up, and they will keep for any length of time : when you use them soak them in warm water. 411 —Batter for frying Vegetable. Take three spoonsful of flour, and one egg, a little salt andoil, mix it with water to be thick enough to hang about the ve- g-etable which is to be fried. FEVES A LA LYONNAISE. 412—White Beans, d la Lyonnaise. Boil the beans and peel off the skin, and put them into some sauce tournee (No. 6), with a bunch of green onions and parsley, and a small lump of sugar; boil them for a quarter of an hour in the sauce, then take out the herbs, and thicken the sauce with two yolks of eggs beat up with cream. FEVES A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. White Beans, d la Maitre d'Hotel. Boil and peel the beans as above, take some bechamel sauce, reduce it over the fire, then mix in it some chopped parsley and lemon juice; throw the beans into the hot sauce, give them a turn over the fire, and dish them immediately. AU—Carrot d I'Orleahs. Take young carrots, boil them till you can wipe ofi' the skins, rim them of an equal size, and cut them in slices about the ighth of an inch thick ; put them into a stewpan, with a spoon- ul of consomm^, a small lump of sugar, and a little butter; set222 them over a slow fire ; when reduced to a glaze then add a small piebe more butter, give them a few turns over the fire, dish them, and put fried bread round. TOPINAMBOURS. 415—Jerusalem Artichokes, a VEspagnole. Peel and boil this vegetable in salt and water; when they are done dry them in a napkin, dish them, and pour over them a Spanish sauce (No. 33), with a few drops of lemon juice, and a little salt if necessary. TOPINAMBOURS FRITES. 416—Jerusalem Artichokes, fried. Boil the artichokes as above, put them into batter (No. 411), and fry them of a nice colour; sprinkle them with salt, and dish them on a napkin. POMME DE TERRE A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. 417—Potatoes, the Steward's way. Having boiled the potatoes, peel them of an equal size, and cut them into very thin slices; put them into a stewpan, with223 some butter, salt, and parsley, finely chopped ; toss them over the fire without breaking them, and then add two spoonsful of bechamel sauce (No. 7); serve them as hot as possible. POMME DE TERRE A LA PARISIENNE. 418—Potatoes, a la Parisienne. Peel some potatoes, and boil them as dry as possible; rub them through a wire sieve, then put them into a stewpan, with a piece of butter, and work it well over the fire, till they are quite dry ; then remove them from the fire, and break in three or four yolks of eggs or more, to form it into a firm paste; make it into balls, and when cold dip them into egg and bread crumbs; fry them nicely, and serve on a napkin. POMME DE TERRE, A LA SAUCE BLANCHE. 419—Potatoes, a la sauce Blanche. Boil young potatoes in salt and water, dry them in a napkin, and throw them into a bechamel sauce (No. 7), to which you add a little reduced cream and salt. POMME DE TERRE FRITES. 420—Potatoes, fried . Peel some large raw potatoes, cut them quite round, and about224 half an inch thick; then with a very sharp knife cut them into shavings as thin as possible, dry them well in cloths, and fry them in hot lard as crisp as possible; take them up on a sieve, sprinkle a little salt over them, and serve on a napkin: they should not be fried till the last moment, that they may go to table hot and crisp. POMMES DE TERRE A LA DUCHESSE. 421—Potatoes^ a la Duchesse. Boil some potatoes in salt and water, with a bunch of sweet herbs; when they are done turn them round, and cut them in slices; put them into a stewpan, with a little thick bechamel (No. 7), and the yolks of three eggs mixed with a spoonful of cream and a little salt. TRUFFES. 422—Truffles. First wash them and rub them with a brush in luke warm water; then put them into a stewpan, and cover them with one half white wine and one half consomme, a few pepper-corns, and boil them in this for half an hour; if for second course serve them hot in a napkin : or they are to be kept in this liquor, to be used as may be required for entrees.225 TRUFFES A LA ROYALE. 423—Truffles, the Duke of Gloucester s way. Pick the largest truffles, well wash and rub them with a brush, then wipe them dry, rub them over with butter, season them with pepper and salt, roll them in separately-buttered paper ; put them into a stewpan, and pour a little sweet oil at the bottom; cover them close, and place the stewpan on hot ashes for an hour, without any liquor; then take them out of the paper, and serve them on a napkin. HARICOTS VERTS A LA PROVENCALE. 424—French Beans. Having washed and cut the French beans, put them on the fire with boiling water, and some salt; when they feel soft to the touch take them up and drain all the water from them, put them into a stewpan, with a little chopped shalot, parsley, pepper, and salt, and two spoonsful of fresh salad oil; give them a few turns over the fire, then add a little lemon juice, and dish them immediately. HARICOT BLANC A LA POULET. 425—White Kidney Beans, sauce a la Poulet. Put the kidney beans into boiling water, then add a little salt, let them boil over a quick fire, till they are quite done, strain226 them in a cullender, reduce in another stewpan a little bechamel (No. 7), and two spoonsful of cream; add a little butter and salt, throw the beans into the sauce, and iminediately serve them : garnish with paste or fried bread. NAVETTES GLACE. 426—Turnips glazed. Peel and cut a dozen small turnips perfectly i-ound, and all of the same size; butter the bottom of a stewpan, lay in the turnips, with a spoonful of light broth, a little sugar and salt, and cover them with buttered paper; cover the stewpan close, set them over a slow stove for half an hour, try them, and if tender, dish them, and directly reduce the juice of the turnips, adding a piece of light glaze; pour the glaze all over the turnips, and serve them quite hot. NAVETTES SAUCE A L'ESPAGNOLE. 427—Turnips, with Spanish Sauce. Dress the turnips precisely as the last receipt, and when they are done pour into the stewpan a little Spanish sauce (No, 33); let them stew in the sauce, and then dish them neatly. CHOU FARCE. 4:28—Stuffed Cabbage. Ta:ke a savoy cabbage, trim off the outside leaves, boil them in227 water about ten minutes, and throw them into cold water ; then squeeze the water out as dry as possible, take up the leaves one by one, and introduce some veal farce (No. 304) between each; form the cabbage so as to appear whole, tie it round with string, and braise it in light braise ; when it is tender drain it in a cloth : dish it, and pour a Spanish sauce (No. 33) over it. CHOU ROUGE. 429—Red Cabbage. Cut them in quarters, and blanch them for half an hour; throw them into cold water, and then squeeze all the water out; line a stewpan with fat bacon, and lay the cabbage round ; season them with a little pepper and salt, add a quarter of a pound of butter, pour over a glass of white wine, and the same quantity of vine- gar ; cover the whole with fat bacon, stew them till perfectly tender, and place them round the dish, and pour an Espagnole sauce over them : it is not frequent that this is introduced as a second course dish, but sometimes it is approved of; however, it is in a better place when served with stewed beef, ham, &c. CELERI ETUVEE. 430—Stewed Celery. Cut a dozen heads of celery, according to the length of your dish, line a stewpan with slices of fat bacon, on which you lay the celery, with a piece of fresh butter; cover them also with buttered paper, and moisten with a little light broth; let them228 stew gently, and .vhen they are tender lay then, on a napkhi to drain oft all the fat; dish them, and pour over a bechamel sauce (No. 7). 431—To preserve Tomata. Gather the tomatas when perfectly ripe, wipe them free from all grit or dirt, but do not wash them; put them into a well- tinned stewpan over a gentle fire, until the tomatas are dissolved, then stir them with a wooden spoon, till they are reduced one- third, and pass the pulp through a hair sieve; again, put the pulp over the fire, and reduce it in the same way about one-third more; let it cool, and then put it into wide-mouthed bottles, and • cork them perfectly tight; fasten the corks either with wire or string, put some hay at the bottom of a large stewpan, place the bottles upon it, with a little hay between each, to prevent them from touching, and fill the pan up to the necks of the bottles with cold water; set them over the fire until the water boils, then remove the stewpan, and cover it with cloths; and when the water is cold take out the bottles, dip the corks in cement (No. 517), and keep them in a cool place : it is far better to use pint bottles, as they do not keep well after they are opened, and a pint of the puree of tomata is generally sufiicient for a sauce. CHOUCROUTE. 432—Sour Kraut. Cut some large white heart cabbage into thin slices, put them into a tub, and leave them to foment for twelve hours ;229 then press out the water from them; have ready a cask suffi- ciently large to contain the quantity of cabbage you intend to prepare ; put in a layer of salt at the bottom, on which you lay some of the sliced cabbage, on this moi-e salt, and another layer of cabbage; you may throw in some whole pepper and a few juniper berries; continue to put a layer of cabbage and a little salt until the cask is full; have a piece of wood cut just large enough to go into the top of the cask, put it on the cabbage with a heavy weight, at least a hundred weight: in a short time the water extracted will form a sort of crust on the top ; this should be poured off; by this time the kraut is fit for use : be careful when you take out any of the kraut to cover it again, and place the weight on : when you use the sour kraut let it steep some hours in cold water to take out the salt; then squeeze out all the water; put it into a stewpan, with a good piece of butter, and a ladleful of broth; stew it until tender, and serve it with bacon, salt pork, or sausages. SALADE A L'ALLEMANDE. 433—German Salad. Boil some potatoes in salt and water; and when they are cold cut them in thin round slices, about the size of a crown piece : then cut into slices any cold fish you may have left, either codfish, turbot, or soles ; put the potatoes and fish into a basin; then mix two spoonsful of vinegar with one of sweet oil, a little salt, and cayenne pepper, tarragon, chervil, and burnet, very fine, and mix with the sauce ; pour it over the fish and potatoes, let the whole remain two or three hours : dish them alternately, fish and potatoe, and pour the sauce over them.230 SALPICON CRU. 434—Raw Salpicon. Cut the breast of a fowl into small square dices : wash half a dozen of anchovies and one or two Dutch herrings; cut them the same as the fowl, peel a raw apple and some cooked beet- root ; cut them also in the same way, put all together into a basin, season with pepper, salt, and cayenne; mix one glass of sweet oil with the same quantity of vinegar, and pour over the whole : put the salpicon in the middle of the dish, and garnish it with sliced gherkins or French olives. 435—Fowl Sandwiches au supreme. Fillet as many fowls as you think you will require for the party; dip each fillet in clarified butter, arrange them in a saute pan, and about an hour before you want to make your sand- wiches fry the fillets, take them out of the butter, and let them get cold: sandwiches should not be cut long before they are to be eaten. Take some bechamel, made of the remnants of the fowls, reduce the sauce well; season it with salt and a little cayenne, and set the sauce to cool: when you wish to make the sand- wiches, cut the fillets into thin slices, lay them one upon another between two plates ; then cut thin slices of bread, lay them side by side, and spread over them a little of the bechamel sauce; over this lay the slices of fowl, cut the same number of slices of bread, and spread them also with the bechamel sauce; sprinkle a little salt between, and turn over the last slices of bread, press them lightly together : you may either cut the sandwich round.231 square, or in diamonds, according to fancy : dish them tastefully either on silver plates or small dishes- 436—Sandwiches of Pheasants, Partridges, or Grouse. Prepare the fillets of game the same as in the preceding receipt and with the remnants of the game make a consomme, which is afterwards to be reduced to a light glaze, which is the essence of the game ; then reduce a few spoonsful of bechamel (No. 7), and introduce as much of the essence as will give the sauce the flavour of game ; season it tolerably with cayenne pep- per and salt, and proceed to make the sandwiches as already directed. 437—Sandwiches of Fish, d la Ravigotte. Use either the fillets of sole or turbot: observe, that the fish is particularly fresh, saute the fillets in clarified butter, cayenne pepper, and salt; let the fillets cool and then cut them into con- venient thicknesses; put them between two plates or dishes till they are wanted, according to the quantity of sandwiches you desire to make : prepare a sauce of hard boiled eggs, put the yolks into a mortar with a few drops of water to break them, add a spoonful of dry mustard, pound them together, pour in a little tarragon and a few drops of chili vinegar, white pepper, and salt, to your taste : when this sauce is well mixed pass it through the back of a hair sieve into a basin, and work it well with a wooden spoon, at the same time introducing a little salad oil, continue stirring the sauce till it becomes quite thick ; now add two or three spoonsful of bechamel, and let the sauce be well seasoned ; thenproceed to make the sandwiches, spreading the bread with a littk of the sauce, and over it thin slices offish. 438—Sandwiches of A nchovie. Spread a little of the salad sauce, as directed in the last receipt, over some thin slices of bread ; wash some anchovies, take out the bones, dry the fillets; then lay them on one slice of bread, and cover them with another; do not crowd the fillets of anchovy on the bread; cut the sandwiches as others. 439—Salad Sandwiches. Wash thoroughly some mustard, cress, and water cresses; shake the salad in a cloth to make it as dry as possible ; chop some leaves of tarragon, burnet, and chervil, mix them with the salad ; spread some of the sauce already mentioned on some bread, not too thickly; then arrange the salad equally all over, and cover it with another slice of bread ; press them lightly together, and cut the sandwiches into convenient pieces. The sandwiches here enumerated are exceedingly convenient and agreeable for ball suppers; they may be varied as much in shape as in their taste; and should be dished extremely neat, taking care not to overload the dishes or plates. 440— Omelettes. Beat up any quantity of eggs you think necessary with salt,233 pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and parsley finely chopped ; add a little cream and a small quantity of butter broken in knobs; put a little butter into a frying pan, let it melt, and then pour in the eggs ; fry the omelet till it is of a good colour underneath, and then turn it into a dish for table. OMELETTE AU JAMBON. 441—Omelet, with Ham. Prepare the eggs as directed No. 440, then mince very fine some cooked ham, and fry the omelet as the last. OMELETTE AU ROGNON DE VEAU. 442—Omelet with Veal Kidney. Take the kidney out of a roast loin of veal, with a portion of the fat, mince it very fine, and then mix it with eggs, pi'epared as the last, and fry it. To make any particular omelet, either with the heads of aspa- ragus, truffles, morels, mushrooms, sweetbread, chicken, &c.,the ragout must be first made, seasoned as you wish, and when cold minced that it may mix well with the eggs; beat the whole well together, and then make the omelets in a frying pan the same as others : regulate the seasoning of the omelet according to that of the ragout, taking care that it be not too highly seasoned. From what is here observed, as regards preparing omelets, it will be unnecessary to give any other receipts. R234 OEUFS AU FROMAGE. 443—Eggs with Cheese. Mix six eggs with two ounces of butter, a little pepper and salt, nutmeg and chopped parsley, and a spoonful of cream; put the whole into a stewpan and stir it over the fire until the eggs are cooked, then mix with them a quarter of a pound of grated parmasan cheese; dish them and shake a little cheese on the top, and brown them with a salamander. 444—To 'poach Eggs. To poach eggs well endeavour to procure those which have been laid two or three days, very fresh ones are too milky: boil spring water in a stewpan with a little vinegar and salt; then make an opening in the thick end of the egg shell, sufficiently large to admit the yolk to pass through whole; drop the eggs from the shell that the yolk may be covered equally with the white; when you have dropped into the water as many eggs as you wish to poach, put the stewpan over the fire, and merely let them boil up, by which time they are svifficiently done ; take them out with a slice, and trim each egg neatly, and serve them either on plain toasted bread, or in any way you desire: they may be dished on puree of spinach, endive, &c. 445—Poached Eggs with Cheese. Poach the eggs as directed in the last receipt; dish them235 neatly, and powder them all over with grated parmasan cheese ; sprinkle them with clarified butter, and brown the cheese with a salamander. 446—Eggs with Fine Herbs. Put into a stewpan an ounce of butter, with a little shalot, mushrooms, parsley, all finely chopped ; set it over the fire for a few minutes, then add two spoonsful of bechamel sauce (No. 7), give it a boil, and pour the sauce over some eggs lightly poached. 447—Egg Sandwiches. Boil six or eight eggs for twelve minutes, throw them into cold water, then take ofi" the shells; lay on one side half the white part of the eggs, chop the remainder and the yolks together quite fine; mince some cooked ham or tongue, and mix it with the eggs; reduce some well-seasoned bechamel (No. 7), and when it is cold spread it lightly over slices of bread; strew the eggs equally over them, and cover it with another slice of bread, press them lightly together, and cut the sandwiches square or round. 448—Eggs Brouilles. You may dress various kinds of eggs brouilles by introducing with them chopped mushrooms or truflles, or artichoke bottoms, cut fine, asparagus heads, &c. Break six or eight eggs into a236 stewpan, Avitli about two ounces of butter, a little cayenne pepper and salt, and a spoonful of bechamel; mix the yolks and whites well together, then introduce either of the above-mentioned ingredients, put the stewpan over the fire, and keep constantly stirring it with a wooden spoon : observe, the eggs brouilles must not be clotted, turn them on a dish, and garnish with fried bread or paste. 449—Croquettes of Eggs. Boil a dozen of eggs twelve minutes, mince the whites very small, and rub the yolks through a hair sieve; take as much bechamel sauce (No. 7) as will moisten the eggs, reduce it, and season the sauce tastily; throw in the whites and yolks gently, mix them, spread it round on a dish to cool, then make the croquet in the shape of small eggs, beat up two eggs, yolks and whites together, rub the croquets all over with it, and then roll them in bread crumbs; keep them of a good shape, fry in hot lard, and serve them on a napkin. 450—Eggs an Mir tor. Butter the bottom of a deep silver dish, break carefully in it eight fresh eggs, sprinkle a little salt over them, and thin slices of butter; place the dish over a slow stove, and use the sala- mander over them, till they are done: they should be a clear white, and not too much done.237 OEUFS EN TIMBALES. 451—Eggs en Timbales. Butter eight dariole moulds, oval or round, then beat up six eggs, with three spoonsful of bechamel sauce (No. 7); season them with pepper and salt, fill the darioles with the eggs, and set them into a stewpan with boiling water, over a slow fire, and let the water boil gently, till the eggs are set; then loosen them, and turn them out on the dish, and serve with a rich gravy. 452—Caramel. Take any quantity of sugar, according to what you have to do of caramel; put as much cold water to the sugar as will dissolve it, then set it over a quick stove ; attend to remove the scum before it boils, which is clarifying the sugar; then boil the sugar as expeditiously as possible: it requires a strong fire, but this must be applied to the bottom of the sugar only, as by too fierce a fire round the sides of the pan it would burn, which would en- tirely spoil the caramel; the sides of the pan should be occasion- ally wiped with a damp cloth or sponge; you must by attention judge of the proper degree of caramel: add a few drops of lemon juice, have ready a basin of cold water, take a little of the sugar in a spoon, and drop it into the water; if it is boiled sufficiently strong the sugar will crack like glass : immediately remove the pan from the fire, and hold it in cold water, to prevent its be- coming too high coloured.238 GLACE ROYAL. 453—Royal Iceing. Take one or two pounds of double refined sugar, pound and sift it through a silk sieve; put it into a basin, wet it with the juice of a lemon, a little orange-flower water, and white of egg; beat it with a spaddle, and when of a thick consistence, and per- fectly white, it is fit to use in building pieces, motees, icing of cakes, or any other purpose you please. 454—Coloured Sugars. The colours used for the purpose of colouring sugars are per- fectly harmless ; such only will be noticed. Cochineal, prepared (see No. 490). Safiron must be infused, by jDOuring boiling water over it; cover it close till it is cold. Spinach, Green. Take any quantity of spinach, pound it and squeeze the juice through a tammy, put it into a stewpan over a strong stove fire, stir it, and as soon as it begins to curdle take it off the fire, and239 pour it on the hack of a silk sieve ; that which remains on the back of the sieve will he the colour you use. Prussian blue is dissolved in cold water for use. To prepare sugar for colouring break loaf sugar in a marble mortar, sift it through a wire sieve, take that which has passed through, and sift it in a silk sieve, to take out the fine dust; that which remains in the sieve is to be used for coloured sands : di- vide it into as many parts as you intend to make colours, then moisten the sands with the colours, rubbing them between your hands to incorporate the colour equally; put them on paper in the stove to dry: keep these sands in paper or tin boxes in a dry place. 455—Coloured Almonds. Blanch one or two pounds of almonds, and while they are soft they are to be cut small, to the required size ; some also may be cut length-ways; colour them in the same way as the sugar sands; they are useful to ornament pastry and different kinds of cakes. 456—Rock Sugar. Take some clarified sugar (No. 493), according to the quantity of rock sugar you wish to make ; then put into a very clean pan the white of one fresh egg (observe to leave no particle of yolk, which would destroy your work); add some fine sugar, and beat it into an iceing; mix with it whatever colour you wish to make your sugar, either carmine, saff'ron, green, or Persian blue, and beat the iceing again for a long time; then put the clarified sugar on240 the fire, to boil to the degree called crack, which is nearly a ca- ramel, and may be known by dipping a skewer into the sugar, and immediately plunging it into cold water, and it will break with a slight noise; then put in a piece of the iceing, about the size of a walnut; mix it with the boiling sugar expeditiously, the sugar will rise directly, then let it fall, and when it rises a second time pour it into a sieve or tin mould made for the purpose, and cover the sieve or mould for a short time with the hot pan. ^51—Nougat. Blanch and cut three quarters of a pound of sweet almonds ; when they are equally cut, dry them in the oven, but do not suffer them to become discoloured; take a quarter of a pound of fine pounded sugar, put it over a slow fire in a clean stewpan; when the sugar is melted, without using any water, throw the almonds in; they should be perfectly dry; rub a mould slightly over with oil, and lay some almonds in beds as thinly as possible; take lemon, rub it over with sweet oil, to press the almonds with, but it must be done expeditiously, otherwise the almonds will get cool, and then you cannot work them so thin: to make the nougat in perfection it must be very lightly made; you may make the nougat in a mould of the form of a vase, or in small dariole moulds, according to your fancy; they are generally used to hold pastry. 458—Dry 3Ierijigues. The eggs that are used for meringues should be perfectly fresh : have some pounded sugar that is quite dry, break the whites of the eggs into a clean deep pan; beat them with a whisk till they241 are very strong, tlien take as many spoonsful of sugar as you have whites, and mix the sugar lightly with the eggs : you must be very expeditious in making the meringues, to prevent the sugar from melting in the eggs ; have some boards thick enough to prevent the bottom of the meringues from getting baked, as they must receive no heat but from the top ; cut slips of paper about two inches in width, and the length of your boards, on which place the meringues with a spoon; give them the shape of an egg, and let them all be of an equal size ; sift some sugar over them through a lawn sieve, and then blow off the surplus sugar; next lay your slips of paper on a board, and bake them in an oven moderately hot; as soon as they begin to colour take them from the paper, and with a small spoon take out the middle; spread some clean paper on a board, place the meringues on the paper, and put them back in the oven or hot closet, that they may become perfectly dry; then put them into paper boxes, and keep them in a dry place: the inside is to be filled with cream or jelly, at pleasure, to be put in the moment you serve them. 459—Puff Paste. Weigh an eqvial quantity of butter and fine flour, rub into the flour one-third of the butter, make a hole in the middle, break in for every pound of paste two yolks of eggs, and a small pinch of salt; take water enough to make the paste of the same con- sistence as the butter: observe, the paste must always be made of the same consistence as the butter ; consequently, in the winter, when the butter is firm, the paste must be firm also ; in the sum- mer the paste is to be made softer, on account of the butter being so, otherwise the butter would break through the paste in rolling : be careful to work all the whey out of the butter before it is used for paste; the paste which you have mixed should be worked with the palm of your hand at least a .quarter of an hour ; then242 let it remain covered over witli a cloth for a quarter of an hour, roll the paste round, and put the whole of the hutter in the cen- tre, and fold the paste over the butter; now dust the paste with a little flour, and roll it into a square sheet, and be careful that the hutter does not break through ; then fold it up equally, and the paste should be suffered to remain for twenty minutes; then it is to be rolled and folded again, and so on, until it has been rolled four times, allowing it to remain a short time between each roll, that the toughness of the paste may subside ; it is then fit for any purpose you may require, either vol-au-vent, patties, or small pastry, &c. 460—Paste for Tourts and Tarts. Take a pound and a quarter of flour, and a pound of butter; break the butter in small lumps into the flour, make a hole in the middle, put in four yolks of eggs, a pinch of salt, and about a wine glass of cold water; mix this paste as light as possible, without handling it much; roll it four times, folding it up each time; use this paste either for tourts, or pies of meat. PATE BRISEE. 461—Paste for Savory Pies. Take two pounds of dry sifted flour, three quarters of a pound of butter, and a tea spoonful of salt; work the butter into the flour till it becomes equally mixed, and like bread crumbs ; make a hole in the centre, in which you put six yolks of eggs, and as much water as will make it a firm paste; work it quite smooth243 with your hands, then put it in a cloth, and keep it in a cool place until you are ready to make use of it for pies or other pur- poses ; with this paste you can make pies either to be served hot or cold, and for lining moulds for large or small timbales, &c. 462—Hot-water Paste. Take three pounds or more of flour, according to the size you intend your pie to be; put into a stewpan some butter or lard, about a quarter of a pound to a pint of water ; set this over the fire till the water boils, make a hole in the centre of the flour, and pour in the water and butter boiling hot; mix the paste with a spoon, and then with your hands ; let the paste be quite firm, then put it into a clean stewpan, cover it, and set it before the fire, or in the hot closet for half an hour; then turn it out on the dresser, and work it to form a smooth paste : if this paste is not very firm you will certainly not be able to use it; it may be used for either cold or hot pies. 463—Mince Meat. Six pounds of beef suet picked and chopped fine, eight pounds of apple pared, cored, and minced, three pounds of raisins stoned and chopped fine, nine pounds of currants washed and picked, one pound and a half of citron cut into thin slices, two pounds of candied lemon and orange peel cut in thin slices, six pounds of beef free from skin and gristle and chopped fine, a quarter of, a pound of grated nutmegs, a quarter of a pound of ground ginger, two ounces of cloves, the juice of twelve lemons and their rinds, grated, one bottle of brandy, and two of white wine; mix the244 suet, apple, currants, meat, raisins, and sweetmeats well together in a large pan, and strew in the spice by degrees ; mix the sugar, lemon juice, wine, and brandy, and pour it to the other ingre- dients, and stir it well together; put it by into a large pan, and keep it in a cool place : when wanted stir it up from the bottom, and add half a glass of brandy to the quantity you require to use : the lean side of a buttock, thoroughly stewed, is best for mince meat. 464—Gimhlettes Paste. ■ For eight yolks take two ounces of butter, one ounce of sugar, half a pound of flour, a pinch of salt, and a table spoonful of milk; work up the paste quite firm, add to it a little rasped lemon peel, cut the paste into small pieces, which roll up the size of your little finger, or you may twist them to vary the shape, and make rings with them; rub a small quantity of butter over a baking sheet, and lay the gimhlettes on ; mind they are all of an equal size, brush them over with the yolk of eggs, and bake them in a moderately hot oven : this paste undergoes no change in the oven, and does not become by any means lighter: let it get quite dry, for gimhlettes require to be made crisp. 465—Royal Paste. Pour half a pint of water into a stewpan that is large enough to contain two quarts; add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, one ounce of sugar, a little salt, and the peel of a lemon; let the whole boil till the butter is entirely melted, then take out the lemon peel, and stir in as much fine dry flour as the water will245 absorb; stir it with a wooden spoon over the fire, till the paste can easily be detached from the stewpan, and then take it off the fire; next break an egg into this paste, and mix it well; then break a second, which also mix; it will require about five, but you must be careful not to make this preparation too liquid. 466—Gentvoise Paste. Take the same weight of flour, sugar, butter, and eggs; the butter to be worked in a warm pan with a wooden spoon, until it becomes smooth like cream, then the sugar, and lastly the eggs ; beat it well together for half an hour, add a few sweet almonds, and the rind of lemon rubbed on sugar and scraped into the mixture, also half a glass of brandy; spread the paste on a baking sheet, which has sides to it, and level it equally with a knife ; then put it into the oven ; when done use a cutter of what size you please, or cut them into squares with a knife ; lay them on paper over a baking plate, and dry them in the oven : this paste will make a variety of dishes according to fancy. 467—Almond Paste. Take a pound of sweet almonds, blanch by throwing them into boiling water for a few minutes, take off the peel, and let them soak in cold water for two or three hours, then pound them well in a mortar ; add a little rose water and a tea spoonful of lemon juice, to prevent them from turning to oil; after they are very finely pounded pass them through a fine sieve, put in three-quarters of a pound of fine sifted sugar, and mix all together in the mortar; when your paste is quite fine take it out of the mortar, put it246 into a stewpan over a slow fire, and stir it with a wooden spad- dle till it becomes white and dry ; then put it again into the mortar, and mix it with half an ounce of gum tragacanth, dis- solved in a glass of water, and then strained through a coarse cloth; take care to keep the paste covered to prevent it from drying; give what scent you please, lemon, vanilla, rose, orange, &c.; you may use almond paste to make vases, or bas- kets, &c., keeping it always free from dust; spread it on a mar- ble slab as thin as possible, and if you put it into a mould, butter the mould lightly, give the paste the form of it: and bake it in a very moderate oven. 468—Brioche. The first point to be observed in making brioche is to prepare the yeast: take half a pint of yeast and put it into a large basin with three quarts of cold water, mix it thoroughly and imme- diately pass it through a hair sieve into another basin, let it stand a few hours and the yeast will settle at the bottom; pour oif the water and the yeast will then be fit for any use you may require : take two pounds of flour, one pound of fresh butter, and eight eggs ; sift the flour on a table, divide it into four parts ; take one part to make the leaven, make a hole in the middle, and take about a table spoonful of thick yeast, dilute it with some warm milk, a little salt, and a tea spoonful of fine sugar; put the leaven into a stewpan, cover it, and keep it in a warm place till it has risen up and fallen again ; make a hole in the remaining three- fourths of the flour, then take one pound of butter, which break into small pieces, and put in the middle of the flour; next break in eight eggs, mix the whole well together by working it with your hands backwards and forwards on the table; then pour the yeast paste upon it, and again work it for at least a quarter of an hour; flour a pan and put the paste into it, cover it with a cloth, and247 when it has risen take the paste out of the pan, and make it up in three or six pieces ; take a brioche mould, rub it all over with sweet oil, and put the paste into the mould as you have made it up ; let it rise very light, and bake it in a moderate oven ; when you perceive it is done turn it out of the mould, and let it be kept hot till it is served : it is better to prepare the brioche over night, and put it into the mould the next day. This paste may be made into many different forms, according as your fancy directs. Am—Baha. This paste is made in the same way in every respect as the brioche (No. 468): make about a wine glassful of saffron infu- sion, pour this over the paste, and two glasses of Madeira wine, some currants and raisins, stoned, butter a copper mould, put the paste into it, but not to be more than three parts full; let the cake rise well before you put it into the oven, which should not be too hot; when it is baked enough turn it out of the mould, and serve as it hot on a napkin. AIQ—Nouilles. Take the yolks of five eggs, and about six ounces of flour, two ounces of butter, and a pinch of salt; make a paste, which you moisten with water, but the paste is to be firm and dry ; spread it on a paste-board with a rolling pin, then cut it into slips about two inches wide, place them one upon another, and throw flour between each, that the paste may not stick; cut the whole into fine threads, have ready a large stewpan of boiling water, with a little salt in it, and throw in the nouilles; then let them boil for half248 an hour, drain them on a sieve, and throw them into a large basin of cold pump water: when you wish to use them, take them out of the water with your hands, that the water may run off, dry them in a cloth, and then toss them up in a good bechamel sauce. 47\—Polish Caltes. Roll out a piece of puff paste (No. 459), and cut it into squares; then with some yolk of egg and a paste brush touch each corner of the squares, and the middle, and press them down with your finger; brush them lightly over with the yolk of egg, which should be diluted with a few drops of water—about eighteen will be sufficient for a dish ; bake them in rather a quick oven; when they are done sift sugar over them, and glaze them with a sala- mander ; while the paste is hot make a little hole in the centre, which is to be filled with marmalade, or with good puff paste: there is an immense variety of pastry to be made, which the ingenuity of the cook will invent. 472—Gateau d la d'Artois. These are made with royal paste (No. 465); drop the paste at a good distance from each other on a baking sheet, rub them over with yolk of egg, moistened with a little water, dip your finger into the egg, and then into the middle of the chaux, and by turn- ing your finger round you will spread out the cake; put them into a moderately heated oven ; when they are baked enough take some very fine pounded sugar, sift it equally over them; leave them in the oven a short time longer, then with a sahiman-249 tier glaze them of a fine colour, inti-oduce marmalade in the centre, and dish them. When you have accomplished the art of making this paste well, an infinite variety of dishes may be made : observe, this pastry must not be baked in a very hot oven, and it should be thoroughly weW dried before it is taken out of the oven, or it vt^ill not be eatable. 4:73—Germail Puffs. Beat up four table spoonsful of flour, vpith four eggs, to a smooth batter; put two ounces oY clarified butter, with a little pounded loaf sugar, into a pint of cream ; mix this and the batter well together, and butter some dariole moulds; fill them with the mixture, and bake them in a quick oven, and serve them quite hot, with or without wine sauce. 474—Pomme a la Fravgipane. Frangipane is a kind of cream prepared thus: take one pint of milk, and half a pint of cream, in which you boil cinnamon, lemon peel, and some sugar; thicken it with a table spoonful of arrow- root, remove it from the fire, and stir into the cream immediately four yolks of eggs ; let this cool, take a silver souflfle dish, butter it with good fresh butter, slice some apples at the bottom, and over them some orange or apricot marmalade, and upon that some thin slices of butter, cover this with the cream; again slices of apple, marmalade, butter, and cream, which repeat till the dish is full; it is then to be put into the oven, moderately heated, and will require an hour to bake. s250 BOUDIN AUX CERISES A LA ROYALE. 475—Cherry Puddings a la Royal. Take half a pound of butter, and half a pound of powder sugar; mix them in a basin for half an hour, then add the yolks of eight eggs, with a small tea-spoonful of cinnamon, and four or five cloves poiinded; soak three quarters of a pound of bread in milk about a quarter of an hour, pass it through a tammy, and mix it with the above for a quarter of an hour with the white of eight eggs well whipped; mix the above with a pound of cherries, stoned, and let it be steamed in a mould for one hour and a half. Sauce for the above. Pass some stewed cherries through a sieve, with some sugar, and a glass of port wine, and boil them together. 476—Souffle, or Cake of Tapioca. Tapioca requires a long time to be done thoroughly; if you boil it before it is well soaked, it will become tough ; boil a pint of cream, and a pint of milk, with a little sugar, and the peel of a lemon; but if the taste of orange flowers, roses, or vanilla, &c. should be more agreeable, either may be used in preference ; put a quarter of a pound of tapioca into the cream, and let it soak over a slow fire ; when it is done throw in a piece of butter, and break in the yolks of eight eggs, which beat well with it; half251 an hour before the souffl6 is to be served beat the whites of the egg-s, mix them gently with the rest, and bake it in a moderately heated oven. If you wish to make a cake, sprinkle a mould twice over with clarified butter and crumbs of bread ; mix with the preparation some dried cherries and currants, and bake it as you would do a souffle ; when done turn the mould upside down on the dish, and send it up hot: this souffle may also be steamed. 4:11—Omelet Souffle. Break six eggs, put the whites into one pan, and the yolks into another; rasp a little lemon peel or orange flowers, beat the yolks well, add a little sugar and salt, and next beat the whites well, and mix them with the yolks lightly ; then put a lump of butter into an omelet pan on the fire, and when the butter is melted pour the omelet into the pan; and when it is firm enough on one side to hold the liquid part, turn it over on the dish you send to table, and finish it in an oven, or use a portable oven with fire on the top; glaze it, and serve it immediately : it should be carried to the dinner room in the portable oven. 478—Orange Puddings. Peel five oranges very thin, put the peel into boiling water, and let it boil till quite tender; then pound it in a mortar, mix with it a quarter of a pound of clarified butter, a table-spoonful of brandy, a few crumbs of sponge biscuits or bread crumbs, the juice of one orange, five yolks of eggs, and one white; line the baking tin with puff paste, and garnish it with candied orange peel.252 A79—Friture Souffics. Put a piece of butter, about two ounces, into a stewpan, a little grated lemon peel, an ounce of sugar, a pinch of salt, and half a pint of water, and let all boil up together; then take a large spoonful of flour, sufficient to form a thick paste, stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon till the paste is quite firm, remove the stewpan from the fire, and stir in while it is hot five eggs, one at a time, and work it till it becomes quite smooth and nearly cold : when you wish to fry them, make some clean lard moderately hot in a large stewpan, and with a tea-spoon take up the paste, about the size of a walnut, dropping it into the lard, and continue to do so till the paste is all used; fry over a slow fire, and con- stantly keep moving the stewpan; when the fritures are well raised, and a good colour, serve hot on a napkin, with fine sugar over them : if well made, they will be light and delicate eating. 480—Apple Fritures. Take out the cores of half a dozen of large apples, peel them, and cut them into rings about a quarter of an inch thick; put them on a dish, with some grated lemon peel, and a little brandy over them ; then dip them in batter made with half a pound of flour, a spoonful of sweet oil, a little salt and water, sufficient to make it of a consistence to hang to the apples ; whip the whites of two eggs and stir into it, dip each piece of apple into the bat- ter, and immediately into the hot lard ; fry them of a nice colour, and sift some powdered sugar over both sides of the friture, and before you send to table hold a hot salamander over them ; dish them on a napkin.253 481—Peach Fritiires Are made in the same way as apple, and are excellent eating: all fi-itures should he served as removes, that they may be sent to table as hot as possible. 482—Orange Fritures Are also very excellent. Take six oranges, peel them, and cut them into quarters; give them a boil in some thick syrnp, and leave them in till the syrup gets cold; pick out the pieces, drain them on a sieve, and then dip them into the batter as for apple fritures, and proceed precisely in the same way. 483—Pancakes, a la Crtme. Mix a pound of flour with six eggs, half a pint of good cream, half a glass of brandy, and a little grated lemon peel; beat the whole to a very smooth batter, have a bright fire, and pour a little clarified butter into an omelet pan ; set it on the fire, and pour in a spoonful of the batter; let it run all over the pan, that it may be as thin as possible, fry both sides of a. nice colour, sugar and roll them up, or you may spread them over with marmalade, made hot, and then roll them; serve them as hot as possible.254 484—Turban of Rice and Apples. Boil a pint of milk, in which infuse a little lemon peel and cinnamon, and a small quantity of sugar and salt; wash and pick six ounces of rice, and put it to the milk, with two ounces of butter; take out the cinnamon and lemon peel, cover the stewpan close, and set it over a slow fire to soak : while this is going on, take some rennets or golden pippins, cut them into equal quarters, and stew them in some thin syrup, take care they do not break; when the rice is quite done, take an empty jelly pot, which put in the centre of the dish; lay the rice all round, till you reach the top of the jelly pot; next take the pieces of apple, which should be drained on a sieve, thrust them into the rice, sloping towards the right, on the first row, and to- wards the left in the second, and so on, till you reach the top of the turban (or place them in any way your fancy may direct), which is then to be put into the oven, to give the apples a good colour: when you ai-e ready to serve up, remove the jelly pot, wipe ofi" all the butter, and decorate the apples with some cur- rant jelly, greengages, cherries, &c. and pour into the middle a cream patissiere (No. 485). CREME PATISSIERE. 485—Cream Pastry. Boil half a pint of milk, and the same quantity of cream toge- ther, with a little lemon peel, cinnamon, and sugar; then put into a stewpan the yolks of six eggs, two spoonsful of flour, mix them with a wooden spoon, and dilute them with the above ; put in a little salt, and stir this over the fire till it boils; work it well for255 ten minutes over the fire, clarify in another stewpan a quarter of a pound of fresh hutter, and mix this with the paste; put the whole in a basin, and stir it till cold ; if the cream is too thick, add a little more milk; it may be flavoured with vanilla, orange, noyeau, or add to it an ounce of bitter macaroons. This cream is used for many sorts of pastry, baked in tartlet pans, with putt paste, or to cover fruit tartlets. 4,S6—Custards. Take a pint of good fresh cream, and mix it slowly in a small copper pan, with eight yolks of eggs, which must be quite fresh; cut a very thin slice of lemon peel, just the surface of the rind of a lemon, and put it in the cream ; put your pan on a slow fire, and stir the cream constantly with a whisk; take care that it does not boil, or it will turn to curds ; you will know when it is done enough, by the cream becoming of a thicker consistence; then immediately take it from the fire, add to it six ounces of pounded sugar, more or less, according to taste; strain it through a sieve over a basin, and give it what flavour you choose, or you may use half milk and half cream, by adding the yolks of two more eggs; but it is better with new cream, and fewer eggs. 487—Sutdoise de Pomme. Cut apples in the shape of corks, and colour them by boiling them separately in difi'erent coloured syrups ; add a little cochi- neal to one pan of syrup, a little saffron to another, and in another the apples are to be stewed white in a syrup, with lemon juice : let the apples cool in the syrup, that the colour may be spread256 equally over them; then with the trimmings, and some more apples, make a firm marmalade: when you dish the suedoise, first spread some marmalade over the middle of the dish, and then arrange the apple corks, one white, one red, one yellow, &c. and so on; as the rows ascend, make the next always narrower, and decorate the top with preserved cherries; have some apple jelly to decorate the suedoise ; when it is decorated to your fancy, use some jelly for garnishing, and place it gently over and round the suedoise : the jelly must be of a sufficient substance not to run down the fruit. 488—Chartreuse a la Mactdoin. Prepare some apples, cut as for suedoise; cut them with a vegetable scoop, then oil a plain mould, according to the size of the dish, and arrange the apples all round the sides, alternately yellow, pink, and white, and continue to decorate the mould within half an inch of the top ; next use some thick marmalade of apples, to make the whole firm; take some white apple jelly, and mix with it some preserved pears, angelica, cherries, pre- served orange, and citron; cut in slices, so as to represent a macedoin ; fill this in the centre of the chartreuse, not too full, close the top with more marmalade, then turn over the char- treuse on the dish, and just before it is sent to table, pour a little thick syrup all over, which will give it an additional brightness. 489—Miroton of Apples. Take a dozen and a half of small apples (golden pippins are generally the best), take out the core with a round scoop, peel'257 them, and cut them into slices; take a deep dish, put a little marmalade at the bottom of it, in order to stick down the apples, one over another, all round the dish; fill up the mid- dle of the dish with more marmalade; next lay a second bed of apples and some marmalade, and continue to repeat the same till it is as high as you require; you must close the centre with pieces of sliced apple ; next bake this in a moderately- heated oven, until the apples are done enough: lastly, sprinkle over the apples a little pounded sugar, and glaze with the sala- mander. Remember that you must give the apples a fine co- louring. 490—Of preparing Cochineal. Make a lye, by boiling some wood ashes in water, run it through a flannel bag, take a pint of this lye, let it boil up, and put in one ounce of pounded cochineal, a quarter of an ounce of alum, and the same quantity of cream of tartar; bruise them to- gether, boil all together for a quarter of an hour, then pass it through a filtering bag, dissolve one pound of pulverized sugar in the liquor, and put it into bottles; cork them close, and it will keep perfectly well. 491—To clarify Isinglass. To clarify half a pound of isinglass, take one pint and a half of water, into which throw a little of the white of an egg ; beat the egg and water well together, throw the isinglass into the water, and set it on the stove over a slow fire ; keep stirring it till it boils, that it may not burn, for then it can never be made clear; and, besides, it would have an unpleasant taste : you may258 squeeze the juice of a lemon into it, if it is intended to be used for jellies, but for cream it should not be introduced. 492—Calf's Foot Jelhj. Bone six calves' feet first, boil them in clear water, and skim till the water is quite limpid; then put it by the side of a stove, and let it boil gently till the calves' feet are quite done; drain the liquor through a silk sieve, skim off all the fat with the ut- most care, then throw in sugar sufficient to sweeten the liquor; add likewise to the jelly a pint of white wine, the peel of four lemons, and the juice of six; with this a stick of cinnamon, and break the whites of eight eggs into the mixture: be on your guard not to use a bad one, for if one of them should not be fresh and sweet, it would spoil the jelly; whip the jelly, and pour it into a clean stewpan, set it on the fire, and keep beating it till it begins to boil; then remove the stewpan from the fire, cover it, and lay some fire on the cover ; when the jelly has simmered for a quarter of an hour on a very slow fire, strain it through a bag; it must be strained several times over to make it quite bright; then put it into the mould, and lay it on ice till it is set; it must be very clear and transparent. 493—To clarify Sugar. Break any quantity of sugar you may want to clarify into a copper pan which will hold two-thirds more than the required quantity; put half a pint of water to a pound of sugar, and beat up some whites of eggs with it-one is sufficient for six pounds of sugar ; put it on the fire, and when it rises in boiling, throw259 in a little cold water, which must always be kept at hand ii basin, in case the sugar shoixld boil over; let it boil up th times, throwing in a little cold water, without skimming, ei time ; the fourth time skim it well, till the white scum leaves rising; then strain it through a sieve or jelly bag. 494—Venus's Clear Jelly. Take an ounce of clarified isinglass (No. 491), add half a pound of syrup, coloured with a little cochineal (No. 490) of a fine rose colour, add a few drops of essence of roses, and half a glass of good brandy, stir it well together with a spoon, strain it through a napkin ; take a copper jelly mould, according to the dish you mean to serve it on, place the mould in a tub of pounded ice, surround it to the edge of the mould, pour your jelly into it; when you wish to serve it, take a basin of warm water, plunge the mould quickly into it, and instantly turn it out on the dish. 495—Currant Jelly. Take a quart of currants, and mash them with one pint of cold syrup, strain them through a flannel hag, and that your jelly may be quite clear, add one ounce of clarified isinglass, a little pre- pared cochineal, and more syrup if requisite. 496—Cherry Jelly. Express the juice of two pounds of cherries thoroughly ripe,260 and one plat of red currants, add half a pint of syrup, and strain it through a flannel bag, and add an ounce of clarified isinglass. 497—Strawberry Jelly. Mash two pottles of strawberries and one pint of ripe currants, strain the juice through a jelly bag, with a pint of syrup; add an ounce and a half of clarified isinglass, the juice of two lemons, and a little prepared cochineal; strain the whole through a silk sieve or napkin, pour into your mould, and ice it. 498— Pine Apple Jelly. To prepare it well, you should have a good-flavoured pine, pound it and strain the pulp through a cloth; add to the fruit half a pint of syrup, and boil it up once ; when nearly cold add the juice of two lemons, strained through a silk sieve, and mix an ounce of prepared isinglass, and a little dark caramel, to give it a finer colour, and finish it as above. 499—Barberry Jelly. Take four ounces of very ripe barberries, bruise them in amor- tar, and boil them in a pint of thin syrup; let them stand some time, then strain them through a napkin; add one ounce and a half of clarified isinglass.261 600—Arrack or Rum Jelly. Rub on a large lump of sugar the peel of two lemons, and scrape off the zest into half a pint of thin syrup ; squeeze the juice of five lemons, add a glass of good old rum to it, and pour in an ounce of prepared isinglass, and ice it as usual. 501—Liqueur Jelly. Jellies may be made with all sorts of liqueurs or white wines, and are prepared in the same way as any of the preceding jellies. 502—Grape Jelly. Press out the juice of two pounds of grapes, strain it through a jelly bag, add the juice of two lemons, half a pint of thick syrup, and an ounce of prepared isinglass, and ice the jelly. 503—Tea Jelly. Infuse a quarter of an ounce of tea, and when you put it to your syrup add a glass of brandy, or any other spirits, a light shade of prepared cochineal, and your isinglass; take care to strain all infusions through a flannel bag.262 504—Whisked Jelly. When you have sufficient jelly left from the dinner you have served, the next day it may be whisked by being melted and beat vfith a birch rod over ice till it begins to set, and immediately turn it into the mould : the jelly thus whisked is not required to be so much iced as other jellies. 505—Blanc Mange. Take a pound of sweet almonds, pound them with a little orange flower water and a pint of cold spring water ; they should produce a pint and a half of milk, to which add an ounce and half of clarified isinglass (No. 491) and half a pint of syrup cold ; it is likewise made of different colours and may be flavoured variously; to do this you must separate your milk into as many parts as you mean to make colours—stain one rose colour, another blue, another yellow, and then pour it into your mould in layers about an inch deep, arranging and varying the colours according to fancy, only take care to let each layer set before the next is poured in: you may also use chocolate in this way, dissolving four ounces of it in a glass of water; or pistachios, preparing them in the same way as the almonds. 506—Chocolate Cream. Take a pint and a half of double cream, put it into a basin, dis-263 solve four ounces of chocolate in a cup of boiling milk ; when it is cold whip the cream with a birch whisk, and by degrees introduce the chocolate, and powdered sugar to sweeten it to your taste; as the cream becomes thick and light pour in a little melted isin- glass sufficient to set the cream; surround the mould in ice and pour the cream into it: when you want to serve it dip it for an instant into hot water, and turn it over on the dish. 507—Noyeau Cream. This cream is to be whipped light in the same way as the last; pour in two glasses of noyeau, powdered sugar, and isin- glass ; if you wish it red use prepared cochineal (No. 490); place a mould in ice, and fill it as above. 608—Maraschino Cream Is precisely the same process as the last, leaving out the noyeau and using Maraschino, m—White Coffee Cream. Uoast two ounces of Mocha coflPee, throw it quite hot into a tea« cup fvdl of boiling milk, cover it close ; when it is cold proceed to whip your cream, and by degrees pour in the infusion of coffee, sweeten it with pounded sugar, and add as much melted isinglass us will make it firm ; ice the cream till dinner time.2G4 610—Whipped Cream. Take one quart of cream, put it into a large basin, with some powdered sugar, and flavour it according to what it is intended for; have ready a large hair sieve, place a dish under it, then proceed to whip the cream with a whisk, and as the froth rises take it off with a skimmer, and put it on the back of the sieve; continue this to the end, putting back that which runs through the sieve : this light cream is used for chantilly baskets, cakes, compotes, &c. 511—Chantilly Basket. Choose the smallest ratifie cakes you can get, or York drops are better; take a basket mould and very slightly oil the inside, have ready some caramel sugar (No. 452), warm the sugar, and begin your basket by dipping the cakes in the sugar, and placing them together round the bottom of the mould; then another row, each time running a little sugar over the top of the rows; continue this till your mould is completely covered; finish the top with small liqueur drops, or fruit dipped in caramel, spun-sugar— indeed, according to your own taste, and make handles of sugar. This art can only be accomplished by practice, and those who are not expert at it would do well to employ some leisure hours in the practice of it. These baskets are generally lined with sponge cake, and filled with light whipped cream. 512—Of Spinning Sugar. See directions for boiling sugar to caramel (No. 452); w265 ever shajie you please must be lightly buttered, so that the sugar may deliver from the mould. I would recommend those who are not expert in the art to begin with i^pinning the caramel inside the mouhl, as they mny better strengthen any defective part: the sugar being ready warmed have a spoon and dip it into the sugar, raising your arm ; and if it runs in fine threads take the mould in the othei- hand, and by moving the right hand backwards and forwards spinning the sugar inside the mould in threads as fine as possibhi, taking care to let none of it fall in drops ; when the mould is liompletely covered in every part, let it cool, and very carefully remove it from the shape; if there are any defective parts warm the sugar again, put the basket back into the shape, and amend the fault by spinning more sugar over it; then place the mould in a stewpan that you can cover close to exclude the air, and leave it till dinner time; then take it out of the mould, jDlace it on the dish, and fill the basket with extremely light pastry. It is impossible to describe what maybe done by way of ornament with sugar, but which nothing but practice and good taste can accomplisli. 475—Pate d'Office. Weigh a pound and a half of fine sifted flour, one pound of sugar finely pulverized, and rub them together on a marble slab; then mix lliis into paste with six or eight whites of eggs, or it may require more; the paste must be firm and worked with the hands till it becomes perfectly smooth: the paste is chiefly used for pieces monlees ; it is to be cut out according to your fancy, and baked on plates slightly buttered.2m Bill op Fabe von August. First Course. Two Soups. Turtle. Soup saute. Tv)0 Fishes. Turbot Crimped salmon, a la Genoise. Two Removes. Haunch of venison. Rump of beef. Flanks. Tureen with fish matelotte. Hochepot of macaroni and fowl. Removed by Ham braised. Two poulards.767 Eight Entrees. Saute of fillets of fowl and truffles. Sweetbreads a la Dauphine. Petit timbales de vei-micelli. Lamb cutlets with peas. Fricandeau, with tomata. Turban of fillets of soles. Chartreuse, with beef palates. Compote of pigeons. Second Course. Two Roasts. Ducklings. Leverets. Two Removes. Vanille souffle. Fondeau. Ten Entremets. Clear jelly, with strawberries. Pineapple jelly. Noyeau cream. Almond blanc manger.268 Flanks. Tourt with caramel. Patissereis montee. Stewed peas. Spinach en croustade. Aspic of plovers' eggs. Lobster salad. Bill of Fare for September. First Course. Two Soups. Cressi. Hochepot of beef tails. Two Fishes. Salmon, with fillets of soles fried. Pike en matelotte. Two Removes. Poulards a la perigord. Haunch of venison.269 Eight Entrees. Sweetbreads with puree of endive. Mutton cutlets glazed and turnips. Quenelles of veal with truffles. Palates of heef withblanquette of cucumbers. Croustade with salmis of partridge. Timbale of macaroni and scollops of rabbit. Pates de godiveau. Rissoles a la bechamel. Side Table. Leg of mutton roast. Second Course. Two Roasts. Partridges. Leveret. Two Removes. Cheese brioche. Gauffres. Eight Entremets. Charlotte of apples. Tourt of cherries. Lemon jelly. Apricot cream.270 Mayonnaise. Ragout of oysters. Spinach garnished. Peas stewed. Bill of Fare for October. First Course. Tioo Soups. Soup brunoise. Puree of hare. Two Fish. Turbot, with fillets of sole fried. Matelotte of tench. Two Removes. Turkey with oysters. Saddle of mutton. Six Entrees. Cutlets of fillets of partridge. , Attelets of sweetbread. Casserole of rice with fricassee of rabbit. Chartreuse with a salpicon. Fillets of sole, sauce ravigotte. Scollops of fillets of foAvl.271 Second Course. Two Roasts. Partridges. Pheasants. Two Removes. Fondeau. Baba. Six Entremets. Whole truffles stewed in champagne. Lobster salad. Spinach garnished. Cardoons, with sauce a 1' Espagnole. Croques en bouche, Avith marmalade. Tourt with preserved gooseberries. Bill of Fare for November. Two Soups. Cheese soup -a. la biberon. Soup Julienne. Two Fish. Cod fish. Soles fried.272 Two Removes. Haunch of venison. Loin of veal a la bechamel. Two Flanks. Perdrix aux chou. Beef palates. Six Entrees. Fowl and rice gratin. Tongue and puree of spinach. Fricassee of chicken a la financi^re. Tendons of veal and tomata. Second Course. Two Roasts. Hare larded. Pheasant. Two Removes. Anchovy toast. Souffle of tapioca. Six Entremets. Lemon jelly. Ginger cream. Artichokes a I'ltalienne. Stewed endive. Vol-au-vent of fruit. Apples, Portuguese way.273 Bill of Fare for December. First Course. Giblet. Vermicelli. Two Fishes. Turbot. Tench au bleu. Removes for Soup. Two poulards, a la bechamel. Ham, with puree of beans. JRemoves for Fish. Haunch of doe venison. Rump of beef, with tomata. Fight Entrees. Salmi of wild duck. Fricandeau, with endive. Mutton cutlets and Italian sauce. Patties, a la bechamel. Vol-au-vent, with quenelles of whitings. Rabbit pudding, garnished with truffles. Croquets, a la salpicon.274 The soups in this dinner are to be served in the flanks, and removed at the same time the fish is removed. Second Course. Four Roasts. Leveret. Pheasant. Grouse. Partridges. Four Removes. Two ornamental pastries in the flanks. Fondeau. Souffle of vanille. Eight Entremets. Salsifis, bechamel sauce. Celery, sauce Espagnole. Eggs brouilles, with truffles. Macaroni, a I'ltalienne. Mosaic jelly. Almond, blanc manger. Gateau, a la creme. Nougat.275 Bill of Fare for January. Dinner for Twenty-four Persons. First Course. Four Soups. Soup saute. Puree of Jerusalem artichokes. Clear rice soup. Soup a la reine. Four Fishes. Turbot and lobster sauce. Pike, with Dutch sauce. Matelotte of eels. Skate, au beurre-noir. Four Removes. Rump of beef, Flemish way. Leg of pork like wild boar. Turkey, a la perigord. Haunch of mutton. Twelve Entrtes. Casserolettes, with minced pheasant. Timbales, with salpicon.276 Petit pate de godiveau. Croquets of woodcock. Saute of fillets of fowl and truffles. Small puddings of rabbits garnished, with fillets of truffles. Saute of fillets of sole, and sauce ravigotte. Fillets of partridge, au supreme. Fricandeau, with sorrel. Legs of fowl, a la perigord. Chartreuse, with beef palates. Lobster pudding. Second Course. Four Roasts. Pheasants. Guinea fowls. Woodcocks. Partridges. Four Removes. Two dishes of fondeaus. Baba. Brioche. Twelve Entremets. Spinach, with cream. Cardoons, a I'Espagnole. Mayonnaise of chicken. Galantine of veal.277 Vol-au-vent of fruit. Pain a la duchesse. Charlotte of apples. Cabinet pudding. Wine jelly. Lemon jelly. Raspberry cream. Noyeau cream. There is a peculiar art become necessary to acquire by the habits of many families, who cannot be exact as to time of serving their dinner. That art is, when the hour at which the dinner may be wanted is uncertain, so to prepare it as not to occasion any unpleasant waiting, if punctually called for, and not to let any thing be spoiled by over-cooking when the dinner is very long delayed. Bill of Fake for a Cold Supper. Sandwiches. Sandwiches. Fruit. Fruit. Sandwiches. Sandwiches. Cakes. Cakes. Sandwiches. Sandwiches. Fruit. Fruit. Savoy cake. Savoy cake. Fruit. Fruit. Sandwiches. Sandwiches. Cakes. Cakes. Sandwiches. Sandwiches. Fruit. Fruit. Sandwiches. Sandwiches.278 A table tlms arranged, and by introducing a plateau and other ornaments down the middle of the table, also at the top and bottom of the table large cakes, such as brioche and baba, pre- sents an agreeable cold supper, and infinitely less expensive than a table crowded with jellies, pastries, creams, salads, &c. things which few people ever partake of: however, as such suppers may be desired, I have prepared a Bill of Fare for those persons whose choice may lead that way. Bill or Fare for a Ball Supper. Jelly. Pastry. Cold tongue. Noyeau cream. Aspic of lobster. Cake. Cold chicken bechamel. White vermicelli soup. Cold roast chicken. Cake. Aspic of fowl. Strawberry cream. Cold ham. Pastry. Jelly. Jelly. Pastry. Cold ham. Apricot cream. Aspic of fowl. Cake. Cold roast chicken. Soupe a la reine. Cold chicken bechamel. Cake. Aspic of fish. Venille cream. Cold tongue. Pastry. Jelly. A table laid out in this style presents an elegant supper, and by replenishing the soups will serve from fifty to one hundred persons. When soups are served for suppers, there should also be hot vegetables interspersed at diff-erent parts of the table, and replenished as often as the dishes are emptied. The usual orna- ments to be introduced down the centre of the table, with cold pies, ornamental pastries, and baskets of fruit should fill up the vacancies.279 APPENDIX. Fruit preserved without Sugar. We are wholly indebted to Monsieur Appert for the art of preserving fruit without sugar : it is decidedly the most perfect way of preserving the natural flavour of fruit, for when well executed the fruit is as fine in flavour as when taken from the trees. To preserve fruit on a large scale it will be necessary to be provided with an apparatus for the purpose; but it is to be done in small quantities equally well: observe to have the bottles tho- roughly cleaned, without smell, and perfectly dry; the fruit ga- thered the morning it is to be used: select the best corks, tie them down with wire or string, and steam them as soon as they are corked. 613—Bottled Currants, green or ripe. Choose a dry day to gather the fruit, and bottle them the same day : pick the currants from the stalks, bottle and cork them immediately; put some hay at the bottom of a large stewpan, place the bottles closely, and a little hay between each; then pour in cold water up to the necks of the bottles, set them over the fire, and when the water boils remove them from the fire, and cover them over with cloths, to confine the steam ; when it is all cold, take out tho liottles and cement the corks (to make280 the cement see No, 517); keep the fruit in a dry but not a warm place: every kind of fruit, whether with or without kernels, gathered and bottled immediately, keep perfectly well; it some- times occurs, though not perhaps from mismanagement, a bad cork will spoil the fruit; the fruit which is changing shows at first a small white spot, and soon would become musty, conse- quently, the bottles should be looked over occasionally, and if any of the fruit should be changing use that first. 514—Pulp of Apricot. The pulp of apricot is extremely useful at a season of the year when you cannot obtain them from the trees, for ices, creams, &c. Put the apricots into a stewpan, cover it close, and set that stewpan in one that is larger; pour water between, and keep it boiling till the apricots are soft enough to pass through a sieve; let it cool, and then fill some bottles with the pulp; cork them down, secure them with wire or string, and proceed to steam them as in No. 513. 515—Currant Juice. This is likewise useful for ices, syrups, and currant w^ater: mash the currants, and strain the juice through a flannel bag; put it into bottles, and proceed as in No. 513. ^ilQ—Juice of Raspberries and various Fruits. The juice of raspberries, black currants, cherries, and mulber-'281 ries, may all be preserved In the same way, and will retain their flavour quite perfect. 517—-Composition for covering the Corks of Bottles. Melt in an iron pot one pound of resin, a quarter of a pound of bees' wax, and a quarter of a pound of common red ochre; mix them well over the fire in an iron pot, dip the cork and part of the neck of the bottle in it, turning the bottle round in your hands, that it may completely cover the cork. 518_ICES. In proposing to give the rudiments for making ices, the Author is aware that he is trespassing a little on the confectionery de- partment; but having had the opportunity and advantage of some practical knowledge in the art, and as it is his desire that this work should be made useful to all classes of readers, he considered it essential to add an Appendix, which may be ser- viceable to those persons who desire to qualify themselves as housekeepers. The freezing pot is to be of pewter, and should be so large as to contain three times the quantity you intend to freeze; you must also have a tub large enough to admit of about four inches of ice between the sides of the tub and the pewter vessel, which is to be placed in the centre, the ice to be well pounded, and mixed with salt; then put into the pot the articles you intend to V282 freeze : whatever the composition is, it should be made very rich, but be on your guard not to over sweeten it, which circum- stance would prevent its freezing at all; the mixture would become what the confectioners term greasy: put the cover on the ice-pot, and keep turning it quickly round about the ice, and you must frequently open the pot, and with a pewter spaddle, made for that purpose, scrape down the sides, and work the ice, so that in freezing it may not be in harder flakes in one place than another, for on this in a great measure depends the excel- lence of the ice : it is a great defect in ices v/hen they appear full of lumps ; and another great point to be observed is their colour, that tliey may appear clear and transparent: if a fruit ice has a dirty-red colour, it is disagreeably unsightly, and would prejudice any one against its taste : all these points depend so much on the attentiveness of the persons who perform, that it is unnecessary to make any other observations. If the ices are to be moulded, put them in only a short time before they are to be served, and should you have any difiiculty to get them out of the moulds, dip them instantaneously into warm water, and turn them over on the dish. 519—Chocolate Ice Cream. Prepare a custard with one pint of cream and eight yolks of eggs well mixed, pass it through a hair sieve into a stewpan, and put it over a slow fire; stir the cream constantly with a whisk, taking care not to let it boil, as it w^ould turn to curds ; you will know when it is done enough, by its becoming a thick consist- ence ; then immediately take it from the fire, and add to it about six ounces of powdered loaf sugar ; pass the custard through a sieve into a basin: this cream may be flavoured with whatever yon please; for instance, for chocolate cream dissolve in a littlewarm water four ounces of chocolate, stir it over a slow fire till it becomes smooth, rub it through a sieve, and mix it with the custard; when cold put it into the freezing pot, and work it as directed in Appendix, No. 518. 520—White Coffee Ice Cream. Prepare a pint of cream as directed in the preceding receipt, roast four ounces of coffee berries, and while they are hot throw them into the cream ; cover it close, to prevent evaporation, leave it for an hour, and then strain out the berries; the cream will be white and deliciously flavoured : freeze it as directed in Appendix, No. 518 ; you may also make coffee cream by an infu- sion of coffee, but then it will be white. 521—Tea Ice Cream Is made by a strong infusion of the finest green tea mixed wifK the custard, prepared as directed in Appendix, No. 518. 522'—Vanille Ice Cream. Break fine in a small mortar one ounce of vanille, boil it in a quarter of a pint of milk, then strain and mix it with the custard, and freeze it as directed in Appendix, No. 518.284 523—Brown Bread Ice Cream. Take a pint of good double cream, whip it strong, and sweeten it to your taste; proceed to freeze it as directed in No. 518 ; when frozen, work in some brown bread previously dried in the oven, and pounded into crumbs. You can make many different creams, by introducing various flavours, such as orgeat, mars- chino, noyeau, orange flower, &c. Strawberry, raspberry, cur- rant, and various other fruit ice creams are made by expressing the juice from the fruit, and mix it with cream. Water ices are excellent, and particularly refreshing, especially in the season when you can prociire fresh fruit. 524—Strawberry Water Ice. Express the juice of strawberries through a fine sieve, and add to the juice sufficient clarified sugar to sweeten it; squeeze in a little lemon juice to revive the flatness of the fruit, and ice it; if it does not freeze enough, it is a proof the ice is over rich, therefore add a little water ; if it freezes too much, it is necessary to add more syrup. Raspberry, currant, cherry, and mulberry water ices are made as above. 525—Apricot Water Ice. Take ripe apricots, pass the pulp through a hair sieve, and pound the kernels with a pint of water ; strain it through a sieve to the apricot, add some lemon juice and syrup sufficient to sweeten it, and put it into the freezing pot and work it as directed in No. 518.285 526—Barbari/ Water Ice. Put the barberries In a pan over the fire, with water sufficient to boil them ; when they begin to break, rub them through a fine sieve, and add as much syrup as will sweeten the ice ; when cold put it into the freezing pot to ice. 527—Lemon Water Ice. Rasp the peel of three lemons on a lump of sugar, scrape it into a basin, and squeeze the juice from eight lemons; add a quarter of a pint of water, and the remainder syrup sufiicient to sweeten it; mix all well together in the basin with the rasped peel, strain it through a sieve into a freezing pot, and ice it. 527*—Ginger Water Ice. Pound three ounces of preserved ginger with a little dried gin- ger, make a lemon ice, mix them together, and ice it. 528—Orange Water Ice. See lemon water ice (No. 627); but where you would use eight lemons take twelve oranges for the same quantity of ice.286 529—Pineapple Ice. Peel and pound the pineapple with the juice of three or more lemons and a little water, pass it through a sieve, and sweeten it to your taste with clarified sugar, and ice it as directed, No. 518. 630—Champagne Water Ice. Infuse the peel of four lemons in a little boiling water, squeeze the juice into a basin, and pour in a bottle of champagne; sweeten it with clarified sugar, mix in the infusion of peel when cold, pour it into a freezing pot, and work it as usual. 531—Maraschino Water Ice. Make a lemon ice (No. 527), leaving out the flavour of the peel, and flavour it well with maraschino. 532—Bomha Ice. Break ten or twelve yolks of eggs into a basin, with a pint of cold water, with maraschino or noyeau to flavour it, and as much clarified sugar as will sweeten it sufficiently ; strain it into a stew- pan, and whisk it over the fire until it nearly boils ; then remove it, and continue whipping it till it becomes a light froth and cold; line a freezing pot with white paper, and pour in the mix- ture ; surround the pot in ice, and let it remain for three or four287 hours without stirring it: when you serve the ice, turn it out of the pot, and take oiF the paper; you niay take out the nuddle of the L, and introduce in it any other ice cream of any colour you please. In winter you must supply the place of fresh frmts with preserved fruits. M. Appert's method (see the first chapter of the Appendix) of preserving juices of fruit is most excellent for ices in the winter season. 533—0/ Cooling Drinks for Balls, Routs, Sfc. 534—Lemonade. Twelve lemons will make four quarts of lemonade : cut off as fine as possible the outside rind of twelve lemons, put them into a jug that will hold five quarts, pour on the peel three quarts of boiling water, cover it over, and let it stand till it is cold ; squeeze the juice of the lemons, add it to the water, and as much clarified sugar as will sweeten it; mix the ingredients well, and pass the liquor through a jelly bag into a jug placed in a tub of ice. 635—Orangeade Is made in the same way, except where you would use one dozen of lemons take eighteen oranges for the same quantity. 536—Orgeat Water. Blanch a pound of sweet and an ounce of bitter almonds, pound288 them, at the same time, by degrees, introduce three pints of water, with clarified sugar, and a little orange-flower water; ex- press the whole through a napkin, pour it into a bottle, and sur- round it with ice. 537—Currant Water. Mash two quarts of currants with a little cold water, pass the juice through a flannel bag, then add about two quarts more water, and syrup sufficient to sweeten; pour it into a jug, and ice it. Cherry, strawberry, and raspberry waters are all made in the same way. 53S-~Milk Punch. Peel twelve lemons and twelve oranges as thinly as possible; put the peel into a mug, and pour over it one quart of boiling water; squeeze the juice of the fruit on about four pounds of lump sugar, and dissolve it with two quarts of boiling water; then pour two bottles of rum, or one of rum and one of brandy, which is better; mix in the zest of the peels, and while warm add one quart of milk without boiling: let it stand for three hours, and then filter it through a jelly bag till it becomes per- fectly transparent: bottle and cork the punch immediately. CAKES. 539—Savoy Cake. It is a great point to prepare the moulds for these cakes, which•289 should be done before you commence the mixture : clarify some good fresh butter by melting it over the fire ; take off the scum that rises, and pour the butter from the whey into a basin; then with a brush, such as painters use, work the butter till it becomes like cream ; cover the inside of the mould you intend to bake in all over with the butter, working it with the brush in every part; mix some dry flour and sugar, two parts sugar and one of flour ; shake this well all over the mould, and then turn the mould over, and proceed to do the same with whatever mould you intend to bake in. Take fourteen eggs, put them on one side of a pair of scales, their weight of pounded sugar on the other, take out the sugar, and also six of the eggs ; balance the remaining eight with fine flour, set aside the flour in a warm place to dry, break the eggs into a deep copper-pan, beat them with a whisk over a warm stove for ten minutes, put in the sugar, whisking both together over the stove, and when they become quite warm, remove them, and beat them till they are cold and- thick, like paste; take out the whisk, and sift the flour over the eggs and sugar, and with a wooden spaddle mix them lightly together; pour the mixture into the moulds, about three partsfull, tie paper round the moulds, and bake the cakes in a moderately- heated oven; when done, turn them out immediately on sieves. 540—Savoy Biscuits. Take fourteen eggs, put the yolks into one basin, and the whites into another: observe that they are perfectly free from grease ; add one pound of sugar to the yolks, and a little grated lemon peel; beat them with a wooden spaddle for half an hour, whip the whites with a birch whisk quite strong, and mix them by degrees with the yolks and sugar ; weigh eight ounces of flour, and sift it over them, and mix all together lightly; then290 with a spoon lay the biscuits on paper about three inches long, sift powdered sugar over them, and bake them of a nice colour. This mixture may be made into many different sorts of cakes; drop them round, and strew carraway seeds over them, or bake them in small moulds, which should be buttered with clarified butter. It will be found a far more ready way to drop all these sorts of cakes, by taking a sheet of strong white paper, rolled like a funnel, leaving an opening at the small end, according to the biscuit you intend making. 541—Biscuits in Cases. Make one or two dozen of small paper cases, fill them with the above mixture, throw coarse broken sugar over them and bake them immediately. 642—Almond Hearts. Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds, and pound them with one or two whole eggs till the almonds are perfectly smooth; add three quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, and mix it well in the mortar, with the raspings of two lemons ; then take out the paste, put it into a large basin, take twelve eggs, break in two or three yolks at a time, beating it well each time; when you have mixed in all the yolks of eggs, and have beat the paste at least half an hour, then whip the twelve whites very strong; take three quarters of a pound of flour, sift it into the paste, and mix it smooth; then stir in the whites as lightly as possible, butter your heart tins, and bake them in a moderately hot oven ; if baked in too hot an oven they will not keep their shape.29 T 543—Orange Hearts. Take half a pound of sugar, two ounces of s-weet almonds, two caps of preserved orange peel, pound them together, with twelve yolks of eggs, the raspings of two lemons, and a little orange flower water; mix all well together in a pan with a wooden spad- dle, beating it for half an hour: when the paste is very light whisk the whites of six eggs to a strong froth, and stir it into the paste, turning it over gently till they are well mixed; then sift in six ounces of flour, and stir it as lightly as possible; butter your heart tins, fill them with the mixture, sift fine sugar over them, and bake them with paper under the tins. 544—Ratafie Cakes. Blanch half a pound of sweet and half a pound of bitter al- monds, dry them for some hours in the hot closet; take two pounds of loaf sugar in a lump, pound the almonds and sugar together, till it may be all sifted through a fine wire sieve; when it is all sifted return it back again into the mortar, and with a strong wooden spaddle mix in as much white of egg, one or two at a time, as will make the almonds into paste; work it well with the spaddle till the paste becomes perfectly smooth : you should have a bladder with a tin pipe fastened to one end; put some of the paste into the bladder, and force it through the pipe in drops on sheets of paper ; bake them, and when cold take them off the paper, and keep the cakes in dry boxes. Several kinds of al- mond cakes may be made in this way, using sweet almonds onlv, and in some cases introduce a little orange flower water. Observe, never to use any thing that is in the least greasy in mixing these kinds of almond cakes, for it would cause them to run.292 545—Geneva Biscuits. Blanch one pound of sweet and four ounces of bitter almonds, and pound them perfectly smooth with white of egg ; then put them into a howl, add to them one pound of fine flour, and the whites of six eggs ; work the paste well with a spaddle in another basin, put six more whites of eggs, and the twelve yolks, mix with the paste; melt one pound of butter, pour it lukewarm into the paste, and continue to work it till it is very smooth; heat up the remaining six whites very strong, and mix them with the rest of the paste ; pour some of the mixture into small shapes, the remainder may be baked in long moulds, about an inch thick, and when cold cut it into any form you choose, and ice some of them. 546—Caraway Biscuits. Take ten eggs and half a pound of sifted sugar, beat them together with a whisk over the stove fire till they are quite warm, then remove the pan, and continue to whip till the mixture is cold and thick; take half a pound of flour and sift it over, stir all lightly together, and throw in one ounce of caraway seeds; bake the mixture in paper cases : when the cake is cold cut it into thin long slices, and dry them in the oven. Take half a pound of sugar, half a pound of fine flour,'293 Yolks of four eggs, and a glass of brandy ; mix these together in a basin, dissolve two ounces of butter in a glass of warm milk, and when the whole is mixed, if not be sufficiently thin to run freely from the spoon, add more milk; you may flavour the wafers with vanille, essence of lemon, cinnamon, or any other essence you please ; put the wafer irons on a clear charcoal fire, and when equally hot on both sides rub them slightly over with butter tied up in a cloth, or a piece of fat bacon; pour in a spoonful of the batter, taking care that it runs equally, close the irons gently, and put it over a stove fire; when the wafer is done on one side turn it and bake it on the other; take it from the fire, pare it carefully round, take out the wafer, and turn it im- mediately on a piece of round wood: practice will enable you to bake Avafers quickly, and you may twist them into any shape you please while they are hot. 548—Almond Wafe7-s. Blanch, and cut as thin as possible, half a pound of almonds ; mix with two eggs, add four ounces of powdered sugar, and one ounce of flour, mix the whole well; you may flavour these wafers with any kind of essence; butter very lightly some copper baking sheets, and spread the mixture equally over them as thinly as possible ; bake them of a brown colour and cut them with a knife into long squares, roll them on a round piece of wood, or in the shape of horas; they must be rolled instantaneously, or the wafer would cool and could not be formed into any shape: these wafers answer excellently for folding strawberries and cream. 549—Italian Wafers. Cut some wafer papers of an oval shape, and spread thein with294 ratifie paste (No. 544) very thin ; have some almonds, chopped or cut fine, and cover the wafer all over with them ; bake them on arched tins, and take them off before they are quite cold; they must be afterwards kept in dry places in boxes or glasses. 550—Chocolate Biscuits. Bake some Savoy biscuit mixture (No. 541) in tin shapes, hearts, lozenges, or any other shape you like ; when done make an iceing with white of eggs and some fine sifted sugar beat together till it becomes of a thick consistence, which confec- tioners call royal iceing ; scrape a small quantity of chocolate, melt it before the fire, or in an oven, and mix it with the sugar and eggs, the mixture must be perfectly smooth and sufiiciently liquid; cover the biscuits with it, spreading it on with a knife, dry them in a hot closet: you may likewise make the iceing of various colours, and flavour by introducing any essence you desire. 551—Pistachio Biscuits. Make the same biscuits as the preceding, and the iceing the same, leaving out the chocolate and substituting pistachio ker- nels chopped very fine. 552—Gimblettes Biscuits. Break four eggs into a basin, add six ounces of powdered295 sugar, some rasped lemon peel, and beat theui together; then work it into fine paste with dry flour, roll and form it into rings, or twist it of any shape you please; have some water boiling, put your paste into it, take them out as they rise in the water, place them on a napkin or sieve to dry; rub a little butter lightly over your baking plates, and arrange your biscuits ; bake them in an oven not vei-y hot, let them be well dried, and keep them in dry cases. 553—Almond Paste for making Fancy Biscuits. Blanch one pound of sweet almonds and pound them perfectly fine, sprinkling them occasionally with orange flower water ; then put the almonds into a small preserving pan, with one pound of fine sugar; put the pan over a slow fire, and dry the paste till it does not stick to your fingers; then take it off" the fire, and when cold make the cakes in any form or shape you please; make a royal iceing with white of eggs and fine sugar, divide it, and colour it differently; with this garnish your bis- " cuits and dry them on wires in the hot closet: they may be varied by strewing over them coloured almonds or sugars. 554—Queen Cakes or Drops. Warm one pound of fresh butter, and work it in a basin till it becomes like cream; add one pound of fine sugar and work it again till it is light and smooth ; mix in twelve eggs and a glass of brandy, and continue to beat it for some time longer; have ready one pound and a quarter of fine sifted flour, and one pound of currants, mix the flour first and then the cur-296 rants; bake the cakes in tins of round and diamond shapes: these cakes may also be dropped on paper, which makes a variety. 555—Of Marmalade. It is a great fault in marmalades that they are generally made with too much sugar: fourteen ounces of sugar to one pound of pulp of any fruit will be sufficient to preserve it, and will be in- finitely better than if more sugar was used. By giving directions for one kind of marmalade, it will be sufficient guide to all others, as they are nearly all made in the same way. 556—Green Apricot Marmalade. This marmalade is particularly useful for garnishing pastry: take your apricots, wash them in some strong salt and water, by rubbing them in your hands ; then throw them into clear spring water, wash them in that water, and dry them on a cloth; then weigh them, and for every pound of apricots allow twelve ounces of loaf sugar, and for every twelve ounces of sugar half a pint of water ; dissolve the sugar in water, with a little white of eggs to clarify it; boil the sugar in a preserving pan, and when it has been well skimmed; throw in the apricots; cover them with a piece of white paper, and let them merely simmer on a slow fire for two or three hours, and when they become green and tender, then pass them through a sieve, and let the syrup reduce quickly ; then put in the apricot pulp, and reduce them together, stirring them all the time, until the marmalade is a proper consistence ; then put it into pots, and when cold lay297 over the marmalade paper dipped in brandy, and tie the bladders over the pots. 657—Marmalade of Ripe Apricots. Cut out the spots, and take away the stones of some ripe apri- cots ; pass the apricots through a cane sieve, and for every pound of apricots allow fourteen ounces of sugar ; put all together into a preserving pan, set them over the fire, keep stirring it till it boils, skim it well, and boil the marmalade for half an hour, or till you find it of a good consistence, then put it into pots ; the next day tie them down with paper dipped in brandy on the top : all marmalades, such as plum, greengage, quince, or pear, are made in the same way. 658—Orange Marmalade. Take twenty-four Seville oranges, squeeze the juice and pulp from them, boil the peels till quite soft, drain all the water from them, then pound the peels of twelve with the juice ; pass them through a fine sieve, the remaining peel cut into very fine slices, as thin as possible; mix it with the pulp and juice, then weigh it, and for every pound of pulp clarify fourteen ounces of sugar ; boil the sugai- to a feather, and then mix all together, and boiling the whole fifteen minutes, it will be sufficiently done and quite transparent • do not boil it too long, as your marmalade will be much more transparent, and of a richer colour: observe, it should not be put into the pots too hot. 559—Fruit Pastes re exceedingly useful, especially for garnishing; rcduc« X298 whatever fruit you choose to a pulp, which, when mixed with sugar, becomes of a consistence susceptible of taking any shape you desire. 560—Apple Paste. Take three or four dozen or more of apples, according to the quantity of paste you desire to make ; peel and take out the core, put them into a stewpan, with a small quantity of water, just enough to break them ; put them over the fire, and Mdaen they are soft pass them through a hair sieve; weigh the pulp, and put it into a flat preserving pan, and for every pound of pulp take one pound of sugar; then put it over the fire, and stir it con- stantly with a spaddle; when you perceive it is of a proper con- sistence, pour it on tin plates, spread it all over of an equal thick- ness, and you may pour some into small moulds slightly oiled ; put the plates into a stove or warm closet, and let them remain twenty-four hours; it can then be cut into rings, or any form you please; you may colour one part of the paste with prepared cochineal, and another part with spinach green. 561—Quince Paste. Quince paste is made in the same manner as the preceding —give it a pink colour with prepared cochineal. 562—Green Apricot Paste Is made in the fame way.299 563—Black Currant Paste, for Drops. Take any quantity of currants, according to the quantity of paste you wish to make ; press them through a sieve, to take out the seeds, put the pulp into a preserving pan, and keep stirring it over the fire till you find it forms a paste ; then weigh it, and to every pound of reduced pulp add one pound of loaf sugar; boil it up, and when it is cold drop it through a bladder with a tin pipe, or you may spread it on tin plates slightly oiled; and when it is cold cut it into small squares or diamonds : keep them in dry paper boxes. 564—Of Compotes. Some compotes are admissible as second course dishes, as well as for dessert; all sorts of fruits are prepared as compotes ; those only which are to be used for second course in a dinner ai'e apples, peaches, apricots, pears, cherries, raspberries, currants, and strawberries. 665—Compote of Apples. Take twelve apples, cut out the core, and then peel them as round as possible, and as you do them throw them into cold water; put them into a thin syrup, and boil them till they are soft, and then remove them into a basin ; reduce the syrup, and strain it through a silk sieve over the apples : if for dessert put them into a compotier.?,00 566—Compote of Stuffed Apples. Take a dozen pippins, and prick them with the point of a knife; make a hole through them, take out the cores, and fill them with apricot marmalade; bake them, first stopping up the ends with pieces of apple : serve them hot for a second course. 667—Comj)ote of Pears. Cut the pears in halves, take out the core, peel them, and scrape the stalks; throw them into cold water, then put them into syrup, with the juice of a lemon, and boil them till perfectly- tender ; if the syrup be not sufficiently strong, take out the pears and reduce the syrup, and when cold dish them, and garnish with apple jelly, which makes a very pretty dish. 568—Compote of Pears, with Wine. Cut the pears in halves, take out the core, and peel them ; put them into a preserving pan, with some pounded sugar, half a pint of wine, and a little cinnamon; let them boil slowly till they are tender, put them in a compotier, and strain the syrup over them. 569—Compote of Quinces. Cut quinces in quarters, and peel them; take out the cores,301 and boil them till tender, then take them up and put them into some clarified sugar; boil them a short time, and they are fit to dish. 570—Compote of Cherries. Take out the stones of some fine cherries ; if for dessert leave on the stalks, cutting them short; throw the cherries into boil- ing syrup, boil them briskly five or six times, then take them up on a sieve and reduce the syrup, and throw the cherries in again ; give them a boil up ; they are then fit to fill tartlets, or a vol-au- vent, or for dessert. 671—Compote of Raspberries. Pick some very fine raspberries, and throw them into boiling syrup, and instantly remove the pan from the fire, and let them cool in the syrup; then take them out on a sieve to drain, and reduce the syrup quickly; again throw in the raspberries, and let them remain till cold, and they are finished, either for tourts or the compotiers. 572—Compote of Apricots. Divide some ripe apricots in halves, take out the stones, and peel them ; blanch them carefully till they are tender, then drain all the water from them, put them into some clarified syrup, let them boil up, skim them, and when cold take them out of the30-2 syrup; reduce it, and put the apricots again into the syrup till they are cold; dish them either for dessert, or they may be served in a tourt for a second course dish. 673—Compote of Green Apricots. Wash some green apricots in salt and water, rubbing them between your hands, and throw them into another basin with spring water; take some clarified syrup, and put the apricots in it; place them over hot ashes in a copper preserving pan, cover them with white paper, and let them remain for three or four hours, that is, until they are tender and green; then take them out, reduce the syrup, and pour it over the apricots. Of Jellies. It is not every kind of fruit that will make jelly ; such only as are mucilaginous—namely, currants, white, red, and black, ap- 'ples, cherries, gooseberries, apricots, and raspberries. 574—Currant Jelly. Take any quantity of currants you please, two-thirds of red, and one of white; press them through a cane sieve, and put them into a copper pan over the fire, stirring them till they begin to boil, then pour them into a flannel bag to clear the juice, mea- sure the juice, and for every pint of juice allow one pound of303 loaf sugar, broken small; put it again over the fire, and when it boils skim it, and let it boil for a quarter of an hour, skimming it the whole time; pour it into jelly pots, and when cold cut pieces of paper the size of the pots; dip them in brandy, and lay it over the jelly, and more paper over the pots. 675—Black Currant Jelly Is made in the same way as the preceding jelly. 576—Apple Jelly. Pare and cut the apples, put them into cold water sufficient to cover them, boil them till they are quite a pulp, then throw them into a jelly bag; to every pint of juice add twelve ounces of fine sugar, boil it till you find it begins to jelly ; the length of time depends upon the sort of apples used; try it, by occasionally dropping a little of the jelly on a cold plate or marble slab : this jelly is extremely useful in the kitchen for garnishing pastry or compotes. 577—Raspberry Jelly Is a currant jelly flavoured with raspberries, one part rasp- berries to three of currants.304 FRUITS IN BRANDY. •578—Apricots in Brandy. Choose apricots not quite ripe, rub ofF the down, and prick them to the stone; take some thin clarified syrup, add the rate of half a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit; then put in the apricots and just allow them to boil up, and leave them in the syrup till next day; then take them out, drain them, and place them in your glasses or pots ; put the syrup on the fire, boil and skim it well, and mix it with double the quantity of brandy; run it through a jelly bag, fill up your glasses, and tie them over with bladders. 579—Peaches in Brandy. Prepare the peaches the same manner as apricots; they require great care in handling: observe, that all brandy fruits must swim in the liquor. 580—Greengages in Brandy. The greengages are to be gathered before they are quite ripe; prick them and put them into a preserving pan of water, sufiicient to allow the fruit to swim; place the pan over a slow fire, and when the water becomes so hot that you cannot bear your hand in it, take it off; put in a handful of salt, and cover the fruit305 with spinach or vine leaves ; the next day put the fruit over hot ashes for two or three hours, and by this means they will become perfectly green, then take them out and put them into cold water for an hour; next dry them on cloths and place them m your jars; reduce some clarified syrup, and mix two parts brandy to one of syrup, and pour it over the fruit. 581—Cherries in Brandy. Morello cherries only should be used ; cut off half the stalk, and throw them into cold water; when well washed, drain them as dry as possible, place them in your glass jars, fill them, with brandy, and tie them down with bladders, and leave them in this state for a month; then pour the brandy from the cherries, measure it, and to every pint of brandy add four ounces of pounded sugar ; when the sugar is thoroughly dissolved, pass the liquor through a flannel bag, and pour it again upon the cherries. FRUITS IN SYRUP. 682—Greengages in Syrup. Choose the fruit before it becomes thoroughly ripe; prick them all over to the core, put them into a copper preserving pan with plenty of water, set the pan over the stove, and when the water nearly boils take it off and let the fruit remain in it till next day ; then put them again over the fire, throw in some salt, and cover the fruit with vine leaves ; do not suffer them to boil, but the water to continue in a scalding state for three hours, or until the fruit becomes quite green; then take them out, throw them into cold water, change the water several times, and then306 .take out the fruit and drain them on sieves ; boil some clarifiea syrup, skim it thoroughly, and put in the fruit; let it boil up and skim It agam; let the gages remain in the syrup for three or four days, drain the syrup every day from them, give it a boil, skim It, and again pour it over the fruit; lastly, take out the ga-es boil the syrup till you find it sufficiently strong, put the gages°in, and let them have a boil up; skim it and remove the fruit into dry jars, with as much syrup as will cover them. 583—Ripe Apricots. The apricots for this purpose must not be quite ripe; cut a small opening near the stem with a penknife and take out the stone ; blanch them in boiling water, taking care they do not break, take out the apricots as they rise in the Water, put them immediately into cold water, when they are cold drain them on a sieve ; take some syrup, boil it and skim it, and put in carefully the apricots, leaving them room to swim, boil them up three or four times, then put them into earthen pans; the next day drain them from the syrup, which is to be boiled and reduced; then put your apricots back into the syrup, let them boil up two or three times, and skim them well; repeat this for three days, the last time reduce the syrup still more, though it should not be too thick ; boil up the apricots, then place them in jars, and cover them with syrup. 584—Oranges preserved Whole. Fancifully cut the rinds of the finest clear Seville oranges, but take care not to cut deeper than the pith, throw them into cold water as you do them ; then put them into a preserving pan307 of boiling water, boil them till tender, then throw them into cold water ; boil some clarified sugar, drain the oranges and put them in, and let them boil up five or six times, then set them by in pans till the next day ; again drain the fruit, boil the syrup, skim it well, and pour it on the oranges ; repeat the same for three or four days; the last time boil up the oranges in the syrup, then place them in jars, pour the syrup on them, and when cold tie them down. 585—Mogul Plums. Gather them just before they are ripe, prick them all over to the core, and put them into cold water; then put them on the fire in a preserving pan with sufficient water to let them swim ; add a handful of salt, and simmer them until they are tender, but not to fly to pieces ; then put them into cold water, and when cold drain and preserve them as greengages (No. 582). 686—Dried Cherries. Stone and pick the cherries, weigh them, and for every pound of fruit take eight ounces of sugar; put a layer of cherries at the bottom of an earthen pan, then a layer of sugar, and so on ; let them remain in this state for three days, then put all together in a preserving pan, boil it up four or five times, let the syrup and cherries cool together; then take out the fruit, drain them and spread them on sieves, and put them into the hot closet, fre- quently removing them on dry sieves. THE END.Geo. Nichols, Printer, Earl's Court, Cranbourn Street, Soho.II