3 skill and prescriptions of ignorant persons and old women are not unfrequently preferred to theirs, but seldom consulted about the mode of performing a difficult surgical operation. I would therefore conclude, that not only is Surgery more important than what is commonly called Physic, but Clinical Lectures upon Surgery much more important than those upon Physic, where so very much is left to conjecture, not only with respect to the causes of disease, but with respect to the relation be- tween them and their symptoms; and hence the frequency of morbid dissections, to ascertain facts, to remove doubts, and es- tablish the truth. I am. With much respect and esteem. My Dear Sir, Your's always, JOHN BARCLAY. LETTER—Dr John Thomson, late Professor of Military Sur- gery in the University, to Professor Russell. 5 George Street, Edi?ih?irgk, My Dear Sir, lOth November 1824. In answer to your letter of last evening, requesting my opinion respecting " the best plan of education for young men breeding for the profession of Medicine," I beg leave to state, that I have been accustomed to consider this education in two points of view,—that which is preparatory, and that which is strictly professional. With regard to the preparatory educa- tion, all, I believe, who are acquainted with the science of Medicine agree in thinking, that it ought to consist in the ac- quisition of a competent knowledge of the Latin and Greek languages,—of the elementary parts of liathematics and Natu- ral Philosophy,—and of that branch of Philosophy which treats of the Faculties of the Human Mind, and of their proper em- ployment in the investigation and communication of truth. But on these points I need not dilate; for, in the circle of my acquaintances, I know no one better qualified than yourself to appreciate the advantages which young men, in beginning the study of Medicine, would derive from the possession of a competent knowledge of these branches. With regard to the professional education of Medical Men, I believe that all who have considered this subject attentively, and without prejudice, will allow that it should commence in the study of Anatomy and Chemistry, branches the practical