8 in regard to the various branches of medical science, it is difl' ficult to say which of them can with propriety be dispensed with. In particular, I have no hesitation in saying, that, in the present state of medical practice, it is necessary for a physician to be correctly acquainted with Surgery in all its departments, except the mere practice of operation; and farther, it does ap- pear worthy of serious consideration, whether all the branches of medical and surgical science, which are bona fide taught in the University, ought not to be included in the Curriculum, or, at least, to be strongly and decidedly recommended to the atten- tion of the Student. The utmost extent of knowledge that he can acquire from all of them, he will find to be scanty enough, when he comes to the extensive exercise of a profession, in which the responsibility is so tremendous, while, at the same time, new difficulties will meet him at every step; and the result of his most zealous researches will only lead him more aifd more to la- ment the imperfection of the art itself, and the deficiencies of his personal knowledge. I aitti. My Dear Sir, Most sincerely your's, JOHN ABERCROMBIE. To Professor Russell, LETTER—Dr. Kellie to Professor Russell. My Dear Sir, Leith, lUk Nov. 1824. The points on which you have done me the honour to solicit my opinion have not overtaken me unprepared. For many years past my attention has necessarily been much directed to the subject of medical education, having, in common with most of the practitioners in this part of the kingdom, had constantly to superintend the studies of Pupils destined for the different de- partments of our profession. My professional principles, if I may so speak, are perhaps somewhat more aristocratic than those of many of my friends. I am convinced that where the numbers and the wealth of any given population admit of the necessary division of labour. Me- dicine and Surgery should be kept as distinct and separate as possible; I shall found no argument, therefore, on the more frequent necessity of the union of both professions in the same in-< dividual, nor on the debateable and common or neutral grounds