2 LETTER—Dr. John Barclay to Professor Russell. Friday Morning. The following letter^ from unavoidable necessity, was written in a hurry.—J. B. My Dear Sir^ In answer to your questions. Whether I consider a competent knowledge of Surgery requisite to form the character of an ac- complished Physician ? and, secondly. How far T regard Clini- cal Lectures to be an advantageous method of conveying prac- tical instruction ? With respect to the first question, there are some phrases which to me seem rather indefinite. There are dif- ferent degrees of surgical knowledge, but I know not which of these is meant by a competent degree, unless a diploma from a College of Surgeons constitutes them competent; nor do I know what is meant by an accomplished Physician, unless the title of an M. D., legally conferred by a University, render him accom- plished, and entitle him to take as large a fee as any other M. D. whatever be his education, learning, or merit. With respect to the general question. Whether or not a know- ledge of Surgery be necessary for a medical practitioner? I most decidedly answer. Yes; and may add, that I never yet found a satisfactory reason why the practice of Surgery and the practice of Medicine were separated, and not even the shadow of a reason, excepting this, that Surgeons or Chirurgeons, implying in the Greek language those persons who live by the labour of their hand, were considered as of an inferior cast to those who were not reduced to the necessity of manual labour. From these foolish and absurd ideas, the corporate bodies of Surgeons in many countries, and particularly in this, are still, at least in the eye of law, ranked as tradesmen, and the Physicians as gentle- men. Another absurd distinction is, it is not education, learn- ing, or liberality of sentiment, that are now thought to constitute gentlemen, but money or wealth, however acquired. In this sense, many Surgeons are not only as good, but even better gen- tlemen than the generality of Physicians. In point of education and opportunities of acquiring knowledge, both in this country are upon a par; while the studies of the Surgeon are equally important, much better defined, and better understood than those of the Physician. Hence learned Physicians, being left to conjecture about the nature of internal diseases, and about the remedies to be prescribed, have given rise to the common observation that Doctors will differ, and to the fact, that the