Physician, for the sake of his patients, and for his own satis^ faction, should have such a knowledge of Clinical Surgery as to enable him to regulate the treatment of affections, either original or intercurrent (glandular swellings, inflammation of abgorbents, extensive abscesses, &c.), not strictly medical:— That he may know, at the proper time, when medicine re- quires the assistance of Surgery (in cynanche, laryngitis, effu- sions into the chest, abdomen, &c.); cases in which the hesi- tation of ignorance is often fatal to the patient. Many addi- tional arguments might be advanced in support of the opinion which I now venture to give you, but so convinced am I of its self-apparent correctness, that I do not wish to trouble you by entering farther into particulars. In giving my advice to a me- dical Student yesterday, I impressed him strongly with the necessity of devoting part of his time to the study of Surgery; and recommended an attendance of, at least six months, in the Surgical Wards of the Royal Infirmary, and on the Clinical Lecturers, who explain the nature and treatment of the case§ which occur in that department of the hospital, I remain. My Dear Sir, V Your's very truly, J. H. DAVIDSON. 28, York Place, \ >}ov. 9, 1824. J LETTER—Dr. Kennedy to Professor Russell. My Dear Sir, Edinburgh, 10th Nov. 1824. I now sit down to reply to the query, which you did me the honour, verbally, to refer to my judgment two nights ago, viz. Whether instruction in the department of Surgery was, in my opinion, necessary to the education of a Physician ? To put this query generally, would only be to ask, whether every man ought not, as far as possible, to be instructed, and even versant in every branch of the profession to which he be- longs ? To state it in such terms, removes all doubt as to the nature of the answer. In fact, emergencies must often arise, wherein a Physician, ignorant of this branch of the healing art, could be of no use whatever. I am even disposed, and I think upon very solid grounds, to go one step farther, and to say, that those medical men who |>ave most distinguished themselves as general practitioners, and