5 hi degrade the profession in the eyes of the public. According- ly, I regard the study of Medical Police, or Legal Medicine, as it has been termed, as forming an essential part of medical edu- cation. In short, I cannot consider any Course of Medical Educa- tion as complete, or as deserving the approbation of the Public, which does not comprehend all the branches of preparatory and professional education which I have enumerated in this letter. You do me but justice in believing, that I take a warm in- terest in whatever relates to the proper education of medical men; and it gives me a most sincere pleasure to find^ that, at your advanced period of life, and after having so long enjoyed all the honours and emoluments of the profession, you are en- gaged in endeavouring to extend and improve the education of those who are to succeed us. Whatever degree of success may attend your present efforts, it must always be to you a source of much satisfaction to reflect, that, by your steady and con- tinued labours. Clinical Surgery has been added to the studies required in the education of those who obtain diplomas from the Colleges of Surgery in these kingdoms; and that you have been the means of founding, in the University of Edinburgh, a Professorship for teaching a branch of medical education, which must sooner or later be recognised by the Patrons and Profes- sors of that Institution, as it is universally regarded by the Medical Public, as indispensible to those who are to practise Physic. I remain, My Dear Sir, With much regard and estefem, Your*s very truly, JOHN THOMSON, M. D. James IRussell, Esq, Professor of Clinical Surgery in the University of Edinburgh. LETTER—Dr. Davidson to Professoi- Russell. My Dear Sir, As I have no doubt upon the subject, I return an almost immediate answer to your question, " Whether or not a com- " petent knowledge of Medical Surgery should be possessed by " every practising Physician ?" Judging from my own experience, and more particularly from my own deficiencies, I cannot help concluding, that 'a