r particularly in the province of Surgery, are of all others most likely to make expert Physicians. Discernment, promptitude, and facility of prescription, are the rewards of a practice, not limited exclusively to any one branch of the profession. It may perhaps add some weight to the opinion which T have above given, to say, that it is founded upon the experience of an active and diversified medical life, of not less than forty years' standing. I have the honour to remain, Your's very sincerely, ALEXr. KENNEDY, M. D, To James Russell, Esq. LETTER—Dr. Abercromby to Professor Russell. My Dear Sir, York Place, mk Nov. 3 824. I regret that 1 have been so long prevented from replying to the queries which you have done me the honour of proposing to me,-—and that I now must do it very briefly. Allow me to add, that I never should have presumed to obtrude my opinion on the important subject at present under consideration in the University, had it not been expressly requested by yourself, and by several other members of the rSenatus Academicus. In making a complete revisal of the Curriculum of medical study, it appears to me that the improvement which is chiefly wanted, and by which the Senatus may contribute in a most essential manner to raise the character of the medical profession, is, some provision for securing a liberal and extensive previous education in literature and science:—such an education as shall enable the Student to commence his medical Studies with a mind well stored with scientific knowledge,—and, in particular, with a mind well trained to habits of correct reasoning, and philoso- phical inquiry. The branches most likely to contribute to this purpose, appear to be the Greek and Latin languages. Mathe- matics, Moral Philosophy, and Logic, Natural Philosophy, and Natural History. I am well aware of the difficulties that would attend such an alteration in the statuta as this would require; but I think there are various ways by which the difficulties might be overcome, and there can be little doubt that the result would be, both to elevate the character of the medical profession* and to raise the value of the Edinburgh degree, which is already so highly, and so deservedly esteemed.