43 EICHMOND, VA. Extracts from monthly rejwrt of sick and wounded of the One Hundred and Sixteenth United States Colored Troojis, White's Rancli, Texas, August, 1866. Theodore Wild, Assistant Surgeon Thirty- sixth United States Colored Infantry, i?i charge of the One Hundred and Sixteenth United States Colored Troops. List of sick officers of the one hundred and sixteenth United States colored infantry.—Benjamin Hobbs, surgeon, patient iu post hospital, Brazos Santiago, Texas, left the hospital on the 10th instant, when the cholera broke out in the regiment, to tender his services, although his attending physician and friends most urgently warned him against it. Exposing himself day and night, he contracted gastro-enteritis, of which he died August 28, 1866, a sacrifice to his attachment to the regiment. Companies D and K, stationed separate from the regiment, escaped so far cholera. There occurred in all ninety-eight cases of cholera iu the regiment, which were treated in the regimental hospital, which was immediately established when the disease broke out. The treatment adopted consisted in the application of powerful counter-irritants, as sinapisms over abdomen and region of the heart, heated iron to the feet, bottles filled with hot water along body and thighs, thorough friction with flannel moistened with a liniment of alcohol, oil of turpentine, and aqua ammonia. Injections of hot water, oil of turpentine, and ether succeeded, iu three or four cases, in bringing on reaction, which, how- ever, was only temporary. Inwardly, stimulants were administered, as hot whiskey punch in small but frequent doses, com- pound spirits of ether, aromatic spirits of ammonia, and extract of valerian. In Captain A. Johnson's case, in which the vouiiting was very violent, champagne was used with apparent relief and success. After four or five wine glasses full, which he drank at the interval of a quarter of an hour, the icy perspiration gave way, and reaction led to life. Ice, which we were anxious to try, could not be obtained. Opium and its preparations were used only in exceptional cases, for fear of increasing the stupor which set iu in many cases. This stupor, amounting in some cases even to coma, was either due to the cholera poison or to ursemia, the secretion of urine having been interfered with in every single ease. In many cases of convalescence a diarrhoea set in of frequent light-j'ellowish discharges, which was very readily controlled by the use of aromatic sulpuric acid. There remain at present fifteen patients iu the hospital, who are, with the exception of one or two, out of danger. They are included under the head of " remaining." VI. RICHMOND, VA. [Extract.] Camp Grant, Virginia, February 2\, 1867. Sir : I have the honor to make the following report relative to the epidemic cholera, which visited the troops of this com- mand last summer: The first undoubted case of the disease occurred on the 12th of August. The man, iu company with a number of others, had spent the previous night in the city of Eichmond in debauchery. On the following day, (13th,) four of the same com- pany to which the first victim belonged, some, if not all, of whom were his companions on the night of the 11th, were attacked. On the 13th, 14th, and 15th ten cases occurred, of whom all but two belonged to the company above alluded to. Ab these cases were nearly all confined to the barrack occupied by this company, I suspected some defect in the cooking or in the police of the premises, and therefore inspected minutely the cooking, cooking utensils, and building. Everything was found in good order, but the company was notoriously in the worst state of discipline of any in the command, and I learned a number of the men had been surreptitiously obtaining green corn from a neighboring field, of which they had partaken freely. The first cases having occurred among men who had been in the city a night or two ])recediug the commencement of the epidemic, it was deemed reasonable to suppose they were exposed to the poison while there. With a view to ascertain the correctness of this supposition, I made inquiries of the Board of Health, and learned that the disease did not assume an epidemic form until some time after the first cases had occurred in camp. They were cognizant of but one case that had occurred previously, and this man had been attacked early in July. I have heard of one or two tolerably well authenticated cases, which did not come to the knowledge of the board, that occurred in the latter part of the same month. During July and August detachments of recruits were received from New York harbor and Newport barracks. By the sanitary superintendent of the Metropolitan Board of Health I have been informed that cholera prevailed in the former at that time. These are the circumstances connected with the outbreak of the epidemic, and from them reasons for supposing it originated in Richmond, in camp, or that it was imported from New York or Newport barracks, are deducible. The barracks occupied by the troops at this camp are buildings which were used by the confederates as hospitals. They are well ventilated, and were not over-crowded. The site of the camp is elevated, the ground well drained, and during the summer months was most efiieiently policed. Since occupied by our troops no epidemic of any kind had prevailed previous to this one, nor has any since. No discoverable conditions favorable to the generation of the disea.se existed. The only place in it where these conditions might have existed in the slightest degree was the guard-house, yet the disease had spread over a great portion of the camp before any of its inmates were attacked. These may be considered good reasons for supposing it did not originate in camp ; and though the sanitary police of Richmond was not excellent, from the fact that the disease first assumed an epidemic character at this camp, a mile distant from the city, I think it the most probable supposition that th*>