NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA, 119 last beyond the 72d hour. The appearance of the eye was very characteristic, being wild, ferretty, and somewhat injected, and, later in the attack, deeply tinged with yellow. There was also a peculiar odor about the patient, hard to be described. But little yellowness of the skin was to be noticed, except in fatal cases. Black vomit was comparatively a rare symptom, and almost uniformly fatal, although not necessarily so. It occurred the most fre(juently in the strongest and most vigorous patients, the weaker or anaemic cases showing rather a tendency to pass into a typhoid condition and die of asthenia. The urine was gene- rally albuminous after the third day, and more so in proportion to the gravity of the case, the albumen disappearing rapidly when convalescence was speedy. Suppression of urine was very common, and in many cases followed by ursemic poisoning and death by coma. In cases evincing a tendency to black vomit, there was a general disposition to hsemorrhages from the gums, nostrils, &c., or any abrasion of the skin. This bsemorriiagic disposition was always to be looked upon as a grave symptom, as indicating such a disorder of the blood as would readily terminate in black vomit. When black vomit did occur, it was generally a few hours after cessation of the fever, during the stage of calm. Delirium was not by any means a constant symptom. In all the milder cases it was entirely absent, but invariably hap- pened whenever there was suppression. In some of the typhoid cases it persisted for weeks, and in these cases was intermittent in its character, the patient being rational in the daytime and delirious at night. In some cases there was hebetude of mind trom the beginning; these were severe cases, and recovery, if it took place at all, was tedious. Among the most annoying complications of disease were the crops of boils which appeared after convalescence was estab- lished. They were most frequent about the back and lower extremity, and were very numerous, sometimes as many as a hun- dred breaking out on one person, of course causing great irritation and retarding convalescence. Relapses were very frequent, especially among the soldiers, who indulged freely in eating and drinking before their stomachs had recovered their natural tone. They were very often due to very slight causes. On the 22d of September a heavy thunder storm passed over the city. There were several very severe claps of thunder, and a great deal of electricity in the atmosphere. Nearly all those who were sick did badly in consequence, and the mortuary report was largely increased during the next two days. A physician in high standing in the city had a relapse, fifteen days after he was pronounced well, from overexertion in attending to his patients. One of my patients relapsed, twelve days after he had been returned to duty, from imprudence in eating pie. Many other similar cases could be cited. Good nursing was the great secret of success in the treatment. Beyond a dose of oil at the outset, and mustard baths repeated sufficiently often to produce free diaphoresis, no medication was advisable. Many recommended quinine during the febrile stage, but they did not have as good success as those who adopted the view that nothing whatever should go into the stomach before the fourth day. If it was necessary to stimulate or nourish before that, it was best done by enemata, or sponging with hot whiskey. Enemata of beef tea could be given at any time, and were invaluable. When the immediate danger of black vomit was passed, bland and unirritating nutriment could be administered by the mouth in very small quantities, and stimulation commenced. It was generally thought well to consult the tastes of the patient as regards the kind of stimulant used, altliough I found malt liquor of the stronger kinds preferable to anything. When black vomit occurred, a blister was immediately placed over the epigastrium, and willow char- coal, suspended in champagne, administered in small doses frequently repeated. If this was rejected, or the black vomit recurred, our last resort was then to injections of brandy and beef essence, conjoined with absolute rest and the avoidance of either food or drink by the mouth. Raspail's eau sedatif was very generally found a most grateful external application. As used by the New Orleans physicians the prescription was as follows: Saturated solution of chlorinated soda, 13 fluid ounces; strong aqua ammonia, 1 fluid ounce; tincture of camphor, 2 fluid ounces—mix. When suppression of urine was threatened, I found immediate relief in the use of large poultices of flaxseed, completely enveloping the person, in the region of the kidneys, and frequently changed until mictu- rition took place. The practice of frequent catheterization was to be condemned. In closing tliis report, I beg leave to state that the medical officers subject to my command discharged their duty faithfully and zealously. Acting Assistant Surgeons Heber Smith and Henry Smith, U. S. A., both had severe attacks of the fever, the result of their devotion to their duty. On the 28th of October I was taken sick myself, and relieved in my duties as attending Surgeon by Brevet Major Morris J. Asch, U. S. A., whose duties I had been performing during his absence from the city on detached service. I have the honor to be, General, very respectfully, your obedient servant, HARVEY E. BROWN, Assistant Sarycon, and Brevet Major, U. S. A. Brevet Brigadier General T. A. McParlin, Medical Director Fifth Military District, New Orleans, La. New Orleans, La., April 20,1868. Sir : The epidemic of yellow fever this year has manifested some interesting peculiarities in its origin, its progress, its form, and its fiitality. First, in regard to its origin: there were none of those coincidences, thermometric, hygrometric, or meteorologic, which are sai<l to foreshadow its outbreak or accompany its acme. It was not by any means a hot summer, for the moi'tuary statistics of the whole city show but six cases of sunstroke for the year—two in June, three in August, and one in September. There were an unusual number of showers during the summer, which have always been regarded as benefidal to the general health of the city, both by cooling the atmosphere and cleansing the streets, and, according to the Picayune, almost certainly preventive of an epidemic of yellow fever. Neither was there an unusual prevalence of the northeast wind, which, in old times, was regarded as coming from the region of death. On the contrai-y, the winds from the south and west, if my recol- lection does not deceive me, were of most frequent occui'rence. The river was very full, submerging districts in the lowei- portion of its valley, and reached its low-water point late in the season. The sanitaiy condition was better this year than the last, the if