GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. 35 till September 15th, 1863, when he died from exhaustion. The large foliaceous masses of callus uniting' the fragments were extremely delicate and brittle. In the next case, the patient likewise survived ten weeks after a comminuted gunshot fracture of the middle third. Corporal H. Burns, Co. H, 31st New York Vols., was struck by a conoidal ball, at the battle of Chancellorsville, May 3d, 1863. The missile fractured the shaft of the left femur, with the usual longitudinal splintering. On May Bth, the patient was admitted to Douglas Hospital, at Washington, and it was decided to attempt to save the limb. This was first suspended by Smith's anterior splint. Afterwards Hodgen's apparatus was ap- plied, and apparently answered a better purpose; but large abscesses having formed in the thigh, and free incisions becoming requisite, a long fracture-box, filled with bran, was substituted. On June IGth, 18G3, the ball and several fragments of detached bone were removed. The patient died on July 11th, 1863, from exhaustive suppuration. Several days before his death gangrenous patches appeared on the left leg. (Figure 41.) In the next case, the patient survived more than four months. Sergeant Sewell T. Douglas, Co. G, 1st Regiment Maine Heavy Artillery, aged twenty-eight years, was wounded at the battle of Spott- sylvania, and was admitted to Emory Hospital, at Washington, May 22d, 1864. A musket-ball entering posteriorly, had fractured the lower third of the left femur, and lodged in the medullary cavity. The injured limb was placed on a double inclined plane, and moderate extension was used. Internally, stimulants and tonics were employed. In August, 1864, the patient suffered from severe diarrhoea. There was a copious ill-conditioned discharge from the wound. The patient died September 26th, 1864, from exhaustion, and, at the autopsy, a deposition of callus was found at the seat of injury, enclosing several necrosed splinters and a battered musket-ball. Fig. 41.—Pdrtially coiisoli- datod gunshot fracture of tlie middle third of the left femur. Spec. 1C43, A. M. M. In the following case the process of repair had gone on for nine months, and union was nearly com- plete, when the patient was carried off by an intercurrent disease. Fig. 42.—Partially con- solidated gunshot frac- ture of tlio left femur. Spec. 3267, A. M. M. Private Christian Holzworth, Co. B, 20th Indiana Vols., was wounded at the second battle of Manassas, August 29th, 1862, by a conoidal musket-ball, which entered on the anterior aspect of the upper third of the left thigh, and lodged against the femur, which was fractured with extensive longitudinal splitting. He was conveyed to Armory Square Hospital, at Washington. No particulars of the treatment employed can be ascertained, but it is reported that in March, 1863, he was able to go about on crutches, and that he was "doing well" until the latter part of May, when an attack of cerebro-spinal meningitis supervened, and terminated fatally on May 25th, 1863. Upon examination of the in- jured limb, the fractured extremities of the femur were found to be united, with great angular deformity, by irregular arches of callus. A fragment of the ball was enclosed between the arches. The specimen was contributed by Assistant Surgeon Byrne, U. S. A. (Figure 43.) The next figure represents a specimen in which consolida- tion is quite firm. The patient succumbed to phthisis seven months after the injury. Private Luman M. Millius, Co. K, 6th Pennsylvania Reserves, was wounded at Antietam, September 17th, 1862, by a conoidal musket-ball, which entered a little below the great trochanter of the right thigh, shattered the upper third of the femur, and lodged beneath the skin on the inner part of the right thigh, whence it was extracted through an incision. The patient was treated in a field hospital until the middle of October, when he was transferred to the General Hospital, at Smoketown. Although a slender man, with a narrow chest and feeble organization, his condition on admission was not unpromising. During the autumn of 1862, the suppuration was copious, and fragments of necrosed bone were occasionally discharged. Under a nourishing diet, the patient's strength was supported remarkably. On January 21st, 1863, the fracture was firmly consolidated. The Fio.43.—Vartially consolidated gun- shot fj'.acture of the left femur. Spec. 1101, A. M. M.