MORTALITY RATES. 93 reports as present in the field, in garrison, and in the hospitals. The sick reports fur- nishing the data employed do not give the deaths among those absent as prisoners of war, on furlough, or deserters; hence the mean strength of those thus absent is not considered in determining the ratios. These absentees may have had a very different mortality rate from that above given. In fact, in the case of those of our men who were absent as prisoners of war, the rate of mortality was terribly greater. An attempt will hereafter be made to estimate this rate on data other than that of the monthly sick reports. Such an attempt, however, would be premature at present. The figures given are therefore to be understood simply as the rate of deaths from disease among that portion of the troops which is represented in the sick reports received at the Surgeon General's Office. How far they may be regarded as applicable to the whole of the army of the United States (excepting always prisoners and absentees), may be inferred from the following considerations: The reports for the first year are incomplete, still they represent a large part of the troops in every army and in hospitals throughout the country. The reports from troops in the field and in garrison for the first year represent an average strength con- stantly present during the year of 281,177 men. The reports from the hospitals repre- sent an average strength constantly present of 9759 men. The total strength represented therefore is 290,936 men, among whom there were 14,183 deaths from disease. The average mean strength above given is much smaller than the real average for the year. The number of deaths therefore is less than the real number of deaths; but it is believed that the figures are quite large enough to make it in the highest degree probable that the rate obtained is true, or very nearly true, for the whole army of the United States, excluding always prisoners of war and other absentees. The reports for the second year were less incomplete than those of the first. They represent an average mean strength in the field and in garrison of 598,821, and an average strength in hospital of 45,687 men. The total strength represented therefore is 644,508, among whom there were 42,010 deaths from disease. These figures are so large that it is to the last degree improbable that the reports of the comparatively small number of troops not represented would have made any perceptible change in the ratio, had it been possible to collect them. The mortality rates thus obtained, and believed to represent accurately the facts of the case, are much smaller than is usual with armies in time of war. Thus, for ex- ample, according to the figures compiled by Assistant Surgeon (now Medical Inspector) R. H. Coolidge, the annual mortality of our troops in the Mexican war from disease alone was 103-8 per 1000. For the British army, during the Crimean war, ac- cording to the Parliamentary report, the annual mortality from disease was 232 per 1000. The losses of the French army from disease during the Crimean war were, it is probable, proportionately greater than those of the English army. It is difficult, however, to fix them precisely. In the long-expected volume of Chenu,* now just pub- lished, no computed ratios are presented. It is true, monthly statistical tables are given, * Kapport au Oonseil de Sante des Armees sur les Resultats du Service Medico-OHrurgical aux Ambulances de Crimee et aux H&pitaux Militaircs FrauQais eu Turquie, pcndaat la Campagiie d'Orient en 1854, '55, '56. Par J. C. Chenu. Paris, 1865.