(152) HOSPITAL ORGANIZATION AND CONSTRUCTION. The material bearing on hospital construction, organization, and administration is extremely rich and complete. It consists of numerous reports in connection with the subject, and of plans and descriptions of all the principal hospitals which have been organized during the war, furnished by the surgeons-in-charge to the Surgeon General, or by the medical inspectors to the Medical Inspector General. In addition, the records of the general hospitals in existence during the war have been turned in to the Surgeon General's Office. From this lavish material, it will be possible to prepare a complete and faithful history of the hospital system and of its transformations, both as to construction and administration. Such a history will be of inestimable value in future wars, and is full of most important applications to the hospitals of civil life. Never before, in the history of the world, was so vast a system of hospitals brought into existence in so short a time. Never before were such establishments, in time of war, so little crowded or so liberally supplied. They differed, too, from the hospitals of other nations, in being under the command of medical officers. Instead of placing at the head of establish- ments, intended for the treatment of disease and wounds, officers of the line, who, whatever their other accomplishments, could not be expected to understand the require- ments of medical science, and who, with the best intentions in the world, might seriously embarrass the action of the surgeon, as was sadly the case in the Crimean war, and has been since in the English hospitals, our Government, with a wiser discre- tion, made the surgeon the commandant of the hospital, and thus, while holding him responsible for the results of its management, put it into his power to do much to make those results favorable. The medical staff can point with pride to the conse- quences of this liberal course. Never before, in the history of the world, has the mor- tality in military hospitals been so small, and never have such establishments so com- pletely escaped from diseases generated within their walls. The hospital buildings used in the beginning, and on occasions of emergency throughout the war, had been erected for other purposes; public buildings, school- houses, churches, hotels, warehouses, factories, and private dwellings being fitted up, as circumstances required. But gradually wooden pavilions, erected for the purpose, came into extensive use, and ultimately the majority of the general hospitals belonged to this class. The introduction of these pavilion hospitals was not the work of any one man. Originally suggested by European experience, they were erected in all parts of the country, under the direction of various medical officers, some by order of the Sur- geon General, others by the authority of local commanders. The necessities of the service and increasing experience suggested numerous alterations from time to time, and it was not until the summer of 1864 that a circular order was issued directing uni- formity in certain essential points. To trace out this gradual evolution of hospital con- struction is, of course, out of the question here; but as the Circular of July 20th, 1864, gives in a few words an idea of the system as fuUv developed, it is here reproduced: