REPORT ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA AND YELLOW FEVER. XIII On the llth of June two companies of the 6th U. S. Infantry left South Carolina for Indian Territory, and going by wtvy of Memphis and Fort Smith, set out to march from the latter post to Fort Arhuckle. On the 8th of July a messenger from Fort Arbuckle passed their camp, who reported the existence of cholera at Forts Gibson and Arbuckle ; they prevented his intercourse with the detachment, but, unfortunately, followed the road just passed over by Company "D," of the lOtli U. S. Cavalry, and did not avoid their camps. July 14th, cholera appeared among them in their camp on Sandy creek, and before the close of the month forty cases and sixteen deaths occurred out of a command of 129 officers and men. At Fort Columbus, New York harbor, there were thirty-five cases of cholera and eighteen deaths during August and September. The first case occurred on the 21st of August. The patient was a recruit who had arrived the evening previous with a detachment of recruits from St. Louis, Missouri, where cholera was prevailing. One man had died on the road with symptoms similar to cholera, and the man attacked on arriving at Fort Columbus had been in attendance upon him. Another recruit, who had also been in attendance on the first patient, was sent to Fort Wood, Bedloe's island, and was attacked by cholera shortly after his arrival there. No additional cases occurred at Fort Columbus until the 31st of August, an interval of ten days, when ten new cases were admitted to hospital, four of these cases occurring among a fresh detachment of recruits who had arrived on the 28th of August, three days previous. At Fort Wood, Bedloe's island. New York harbor, there were ten cases of cholera and four deaths during August and September. The first case occurred August 25th, the last September 24th. Of these cases, six were recruits, two belonged to the permanent party of the post, and two to the band. The first case was the recruit from St. Louis, already mentioned. One fatal case is reported at the Plattsburgh Barracks, New York, The patient had just returned from Governor's island, where he had been sent for trial by court martial. He was attacked the night of his return, August 31st, and died September 2d" On the 23d of November, a detachment of several hundred recruits left New York harbor, by steamer, for Texas. On the 30th another large detachment sailed. The first detachment went on the steamer Raleigh, and reached New Orleans Decem- ber 2d without sickness. Here 110 men were disembarked, but the detachment for Texas was kept on board, and learning that cholera was prevailing among the citizens of New Orleans, an attempt was made to keep them isolated. December 3d, this detachment was transferred to the steamer W. G. Hewes, and sailed for Galveston. During the 4th a number of cases of diarrhoea with rice-water discharges were observed, and in one case there were cramps and collapse, but none died. December 6th, the vessel arrived at Gal- veston, the men were disembarked and placed in tents, but after three days, on account of bad weather, were transferred to the barracks of the 17th Infantry at that post. December llth, the second detachment of recruits which had left New York Novem- ber 30th arrived at Galveston, and, after remaining a day, sailed for Indianola. This detachment had also stopped a day at New Orleans, and after leaving that place cholera appeared among them. One death had already occurred. This detachment left at Galves- "tolr a number sick with choleraic diarrhoea or actual cholera; altogether, twenty-two cases