59 LA VIRGIN, NICARAGUA. time of the departure of the company from that point. This explains satisfactorily to my mind the "origin" of the first three cases described. The case last described I regard as purely sporadic, and as having no connection with the disease at Fort Smith. The most strenuous measures were at once adopted to prevent the spread of the disease, which, aided by the lateness of the season, I am glad to state were entirely successful. I have conversed with Dr. Hitchcock, who is engaged in civil practice at this place, who informs nie that he has seen no genuine cholera, though he has had occasion to treat several cases of a disease very closely simulating cholera. All which is respectfully submitted. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, V. B. HUBBARD, Brevet Major and Assistant Surgeon U. S. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel Jos. R. Smith, Surgeon U. S. A., Medical Director Department Arkansas. XX. I.A VIRGIN, NICARAGUA. Headquarters Detachment Eighth United States Cavalry, La Virgin, Nicaragtm, December 87, 1866. General: I have the honor to report myself on duty with the above detachment, en route for San Francisco, California. The command sailed from New York November 20, and after a long and unpleasant voyage (occasioned by the steamer be- coming disabled) reached San Juan del Norte December 8, but on account of the rough sea did not disembark until the 15th. On the morning of the 16th the troops were placed on a steamer and proceeded up the San Juan river. The command up to this date was in perfect health. No communication was allowed with the shore, and fruits of all kinds were prohibited. Canteens were filled with coffee, and the men were not permitted to drink the water of the river. At 9 a. m. of the IGth I was called to see Private McDonald, and recognized a well-marked case of cholera. The fact was immediately reported to the commanding ofticer, and every step taken to check the disease. The efforts were fruitless. McDonald died at 2 p. m. the same day; and at daylight of the 17th we buried five men. On the 17th there were four addi- tional deaths, on the 18th three, and on the I9th two—all of cholera. On the morning of the 20th we reached La Virgin, a point on Lake Nicaragua, twelve miles from the Pacific. Here the command hatted, a hospital was established, and the troops quartered. The steamer on the Pacific had, on account of our long delay, sailed for San Francisco some days previous, and we were compelled to await the sailing of the next steamer. I found much difficulty in fitting up a hospital suitable for cholera cases. Nothing in the way of furniture could be procured from the natives, but with the aid of men ia the command the more necessary articles were extemporized, and in a few hours the hospital was supplied with everything actually needed. The supply of medicines was nearly exhausted ; a messenger was sent to Granada, and a supply purchased. Up to this date (27th) I have had among the troops forty-two (42) cases and twenty-six (26) deaths, including one officer, Major J. H. Gamble, eighth cavalry, with seven cases of cholera in hospital. Simultaneously with the appearance of the disease among the troops the passengers and native boatmen on another steam- boat were attacked. There had been no communication between the two boats, and the native boatmen on the passenger steamer (who were the first seized) liad never been within two miles of the troops. There was no sickness at San Juan del Norte. As to the cause of this epidemic I do not feel at liberty at present to express a decided opinion. I am investigating a circumstanee connected with certain baggage landed from the steamship, and feel confident, from the best of evidence, of being able to trace the infection to it. Should the department desire it, a complete report will be forwarded. The passengers and native boatmen have suffered very much, the natives in particular—every case, without an exception, proving fatal. I have rendered them all the assistance in my power. Considering it my duty to attend the troops first, but little time was left me to devote to them. I cannot ascertain the exact number, but think there have been among the passengers and natives employed by the transit company about fifty fatal cases. At the commencement the epidemic was the most malignant I have ever seen. No treatment seemed to have any effect, many cases proving fatal within twelve hours. At present the disease has assumed a milder form, and a patient is received with much hope of recovery. Not anticipating such a delay on the passage, I have not the blanks for a proper report. Careful notes have been taken of every case occurring in the command, and I hope to be able to furnish the department with any data they may require. Should the health of the command permit, we expect to sail for San Francisco about Januaiy 10. I am, general, very respectfully, your obedient servant, THOS. McMILLIN, Brevet Major and Assistant Surgeon U. S, A- Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General.