EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. 64 Tlie theory of tlie mode of propagation of cliolera which is the most widely received and has in its favor the greatest amount of evidence, is that the vims is not eliminated as such from the bodies of cholera patients, but that it is formed in their discharges by some specific process of decomposition, a process which is supposed to go on only in alkaline fluids. The sani- tary indication, therefore, is to retard putrefaction in the discharges, and to keep them if possible in an acid condition. This indication could be fulfilled by the use of many of the metallic salts of acid reaction, but from its cheapness and abundance the sulphate of iron has been preferred both in this country and in Europe. It should be added, either in powder or in saturated solution, to vessels in which the discharges of cholera are received and to privy vaults, boxes, &c. Tlie board of health in New York used about twenty pounds to disinfect an oidinary-sized privy vault. It should not be used in combination with the hypochlorites of lime or soda, unless an excess of some mineral acid be also added, the object being to prevent the development of an alkaline reaction. It may be here remarked that when an acid or an acid salt is added to matter well advanced in putre- faction offensive volatile acids are often set free, making the odor for the time being worse than before. The use of the sulphate of iron, or of some other metallic salt, such as chloride of zinc, in the way above indicated, may be regarded as the most important of the disinfectant measures to be adopted during the prevalence of cholera, regarding the cholera discharges as the medium through which the disease is propagated. The occasional use of sulplmr fuaiigatious in localities particularly exposed to ini'ection may be strongly recommended as an additional precaution. The use of the destructive disinfectants, or disinfectants proper, as contradistinguished from the conservative disinfectants, or antiseptics, remains now to be spoken of. They act in the main as oxidizing agents, either directly, as when permanganate of potash parts with oxygen to organic matter, or indirectly, as when chlorine, decomposing water, sets free oxygen in a state of chemical activity. They oxidize and consume whatever organic matter they come in contact with, attacking the more advanced products of putrefaction first. Where they can be used in sufficiently large relative quantity, they are the most efl'ectual and satisfactory of all disinfectants, as they thoroughly destroy and dispose of the dangerous material submitted to their action. In dealing with large amounts of decomposing matter their action is often not as satisfactory as it appears to be. If in too small quantities, they will remove otfeusive odors, producing a seeming disinfection, but undergoing destruction them- selves before they attack the more dangerous organic virus. Even if in larger quantities, they will remove all danger and offence for the time being, but what organic matter they do not destroy will afterwards go on in its decomposition. If a piece of putre- fying meat be exposed to chlorine gas, all offensive odor will be removed, but after the chlorine has been exhausted putrefaction will go on as before. If, on the other hand, it is acted on by creosote or carbolic alcohol, no disinfection will be evident at first but the odor of putrefaction will pass away in time, and the meat will then be found indisposed to further decomposition—will be, in fact, in the condition of smoked meat. The proper use, therefore, of oxidizing disinfectants is to decompose effluvia and to destroy small quantities of organic matter, rather than to deal with great masses of it. Chlorine gas, and the equivalent gases which are liberated from bleaching powder and from chlorinated soda by the action of acids, are, of course, those of this class of disinfectants which will first sug- gest themselves. The diffusion of these gases in the air of the sick-room or wards is perhaps of less importance in cholera than in other infectious diseases, but still is not to be altogether omitted, and the solutions of chlorinated lime or soda have been advantageously used for washing floors and for disinfecting bedclothes and linen. A very convenient non-volatile disinfectant, which has come into use of late years, is the permanganate of potash. In the recent epidemic of cholera'in New York this salt was largely used in the cleansing of bedclothes and under-garments. By the rules of the Board of Health all bed linen, &c., soiled by the discharges of the patient was boiled in a solution of perman- ganate of potash of the strength of about 100 grains to the gallon. This was found to be effectual as a disinfectant measure. Linen may be very efficiently treated by steepmg it in water containing small quantities of chlorinated lime and of hydro- chloric acid, but in that case the clothes should afterwards be wrung out from successive waters in order to get rid of the chloride of calcium, which has the property of keeping the linen damp. One important use to which permanganate of potash is particularly applicable is that of purifying drinking water. Water, as the great final receptacle of all soluble substances, is almost always contaminated with organic matter, especially in the neighborhood of the habitations of man; and the investigations made by Fettcnkofer and others point to the upper water-bear- ing strata of the eaitli as a great habitat and reservoir of cholera poison. A method which will destroy organic matter in water, without adding to it anything unpleasant or injurious, is an evident desideratum at all times, and especially during the preva- lence of cholera, and there is perhaps no method more efl'ectual and convenient than that by treatment with permanganate. The quantity used can be regulated in a simple and practical way by using so much of a solution of the salt that the water shall be decidedly pink upun the first addition, and just perceptibly pink when seen in large quantities after several hours' standing. The permanganate is decomposed by the organic matter, and leaves in the w'ater a small quantity of carbon- ate of potash, not enough to affect its potable qualities. The list of disinfectants particularly available against cholera may be closed by the mention of two, which have the im- portant quality of cheapness—lime and charcoal. These act partly as destructive disinfectants, and partly, especially in the case of charcoal, as mechanical absorbents of effluvia. Besides the very important use of lime in whitewashing, by which, when freshly done, a large disinfecting surface is exposed to the air, it may be advantageously employed wherever there are modi-rate quantities of oiganic matter in a moist condition, as in half-dry gutters, in the neighborhood of privies, and in all damp and filthy localities. The application of lime in these places should be freely made and frequently repeated so long as decomposing matter is present, the complete destructi(m of such matter being the point aimed at. Where great masses of matter, such as the con- tents of privies, are to be dealt with, antiseptic substances, as above remarked, are preferably indicated. A iiarticular application of lime in its unslaked condition is that of absorbing moisture in uuventilated rooms. A damp and close cellar may be kept dry by the presence in it of a qutintity of quicklime in lumps. Tlie action of charcoal is mainly that of an absorbent, eflluvia of all kinds being entangled in its pores; but while tlius ent.nnglcd the charcnal promoti's tlicir destvuctin)i ))y the oxygen of the air.