downer's station, KANSAS. nl DOWIVER'S STATIOIV, KAIVSAS. Extract from Monthly Report of Sick and Wounded, Downer's Station, Kansas, Awjust, 1867. Leonard Y. Loring, Assistant Surcjeon, TJ. S. A. I would respectfully state that, notwithstanding the prevalence of cholera at Forts Harker and Hays during the past month, this post, and the stations connected with it, have been remarkably free from tliis terrible disease. Trains, accompanied t)y escorts and detachments of troops, have been continually passing and repassing between the above-named posts, encamping near this post, but seem to have had but little effect in spreading the contagion or peculiar poison which produces this disease. There have been cases, to which I have been called, occurring in these trains, which, in some respects, simulated cholera, but which could not be said to be cholera. They were characterized by somewhat profuse diarrhoea, and in a few instances by vomiting, which symptoms readily yielded to mild treatment. On August 7th, a large supply train for Fort Wallace, accompanied by an escort of about forty men of Company " B," 38th U. S. Infantry, from Fort Harker, where the cholera was then prevalent, encamped here. During the night a case of diarrhoea occurred among them, which speedily recovered, by means of the usual remedies. On the evening of the 9th instant they arrived at Grinnell Springs, a station guarded by troops from this post. Soon after their arrival at Grinnell Springs one of the men there was attacked by a profuse diarrhoea and vomiting, which continued, at intervals, during the next day, when another similar case occurred. They were both sent to this post in the coach on the evening of the 10th, and arrived here about 10 o'clock. The one which was attacked the evening before was now in a collapsed state; the purging had nearly ceased; the vomiting would only ensue when medicine was administered; the skin was cold, and covered by a profuse, clammy sweat; the pulse was barely perceptible; the countenance bore an expression of anxiety and suffering; the lips were drawn and compressed over the teeth; the nose was pinched, and the eyes were sunken and expressionless; presenting, altogether, a most cadaverous expression, with death undeniably stamped on every feature. The treatment consisted at first in the administration of equal parts of tincture of camphor, tincture of opium, tincture of capsicum, and brandy, which it was impossible to retain on the stomach ; when resort was had to doses, each containing calomel, 3 grains, subcai'bonate of bismuth, 4 grains, and powdered opium, 1 grain, every half hour. These were retained, and seemed to act beneficially. At the same time, friction, l)y means of coarse towels, was applied to the extremities, and mustard, by means of sinapisms, to the abdomen. The patient complained of great thirst, and there was great restlessness and jactation. Death ensued at 5 o'clock on the morning of August 11th, seven hours after arriving here. The other case was characterized by diarrhoea and vomiting, such as generally mark a case of cholera in its first stage. The vomiting was checked with bismuth, the diarrhoea yielded to the usual treatment, and the case recovered. There is no doubt, in my mind, that the arrival of the supply train, with the escort above referred to, was in some way connected with the appearance of these two cases. Extract from Special Report of Cholera Patients at Downer's Station, Kansas, Auyust, 1867. Leonard Y. Loring, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. I would respectfully state that, during the month of July, 18B7, there were no cases of cholera at this place, notwithstanding the intense heat and the prevalence of cholera at Forts Harker and Hays, from which places trains were continually passing, attended by large escorts of troops. During the month of August, notwithstanding the continued passing .and repassing of large trains between Forts Harker and Hays and Fort Wallace, at which places the disease was prevailing to a fearful extent, this place enjoj'ed a remarkable immunity from the disease, no cases having made their appearance. On the 9th of August, a large supply train, going from Fort Harker to Fort Wallace, escorted by a detachment of Company " B," 33th U. S. Infantry, encamped at Grinnell Spring, a small stage station about twenty miles distant and guarded by troops from this place. Some of the men of the station mingled with those of the 38th U. S. Infantry forming the escort. On the same evening a man guarding the station was taken sick with all the symptoms of cholera. On the following day, August 10th, he was sent to this place, in company with another who had been taken sick that afternoon at the same station, for medical treatment. They arrived here on the evening of August 11th, when the man who had been taken sick the day before was found to be in a state of collapse. Active and energetic treatment was at once pursued in his case, but all of no avail; he died early on the morning of the 12th, a few hours after arriving here. The second case, when it arrived here, was in its incipient stage; the patient was having free discharges from his bowels at short intervals, and occasional vomiting. Powders, containing calomel, opium, and subnitrate of bisniutii, were administered every half hour; in addition to this, a mi.xture containing tincture of opium, spirits of camphor, and fluid extract of ginger, was also administered ; the vomiting now ceased, and the patient began to recover. The treatment was continued during the following day, and the patient gradually improved. During this month the sanitary condition of the post was good, and every effort was made to keep the post in a thoroughly clean condition. Passing trains were not allowed to encamp within a certain distance. The water for drinking was obtained from a spring near the post, and was comparatively pure, containing but a small amount of inorganic impurities. The men of this place did not mingle with those of passing trains, in which it would be reported at times that there were cases of cholera. At Grinnell Spring, where these two cases occurred, these precautions could not be enforced, as there was but a small detachment at that place, under the charge of a non-commissioned oflicer. From the facts and history of these two cases, there is no doubt, in my mind, that they were caused by infection derived from this detachment of troops from Fort Harkei-, where cholera was then prevailing. During subsequent months no cases of cholera arrived at this post, or at any of the stations attached to it.