DIARRHCEA AND DYSENTERY. 124 of medical writers. The examination by the microscope of properly prepared sections shows it to be composed of innumerable round cells (lymph cells, pus cells), held to- gether by an adhesive granular matrix more or less resembling coagulated fibrin. With such sections, there is no difficulty in tracing the origin of this membrane to a rapid multiplication of the epithelial cells and superficial connective tissue corpuscles of the diseased mucous membrane. The condition thus described is not always fatal, tubular casts of false membrane having been found in the stools of patients, with the above- described symptoms, who have subsequently recovered. Another grave complication is diphtheria, with the formation of a similar false membrane in the fauces and respiratory passages. The membrane does not differ from that formed in ordinary dijjhtheria in civil life. The Museum contains several fine specimens. I have made a careful examination of the false membrane in a number of cases of this sort. It is anatomically similar to the false membrane of the intestine, and its origin is as readily traced to the epithelium of the mucous membrane, the con- nective tissue of which is, however, less frequently involved in the cell multiplication. The early stage of the diphtheritic affection, in these cases, is often associated with oedema of the glottis, which sometimes suddenly proves fatal before the formation of the false membrane. It may be mentioned in this place, that oedema of the glottis, with or without the formation of a diphtheritic false membrane, has been a not unfre- quent mode of death in cases of protracted suffering from gunshot wounds. Other fatal complications of common occurrence in chronic diarrhoea are pneumonia, congestion of the lungs, serous apoplexy, Bright's disease of the kidneys, etc. etc. An interesting complication which has several times been brought to my notice in autopsies is the formation of metastatic foci, generally in the liver, but sometimes also in the lungs and spleen. These foci precisely resemble those which occur in pyasmia after gunshot wounds. I have met them in the bodies of men dead of diarrhoea, who had received no wound or injury, but who had extensive ulceration of the colon. These are the only cases in which, with propriety, embolism" can be spoken of as a complication of chronic diarrhoea. The heart clots (death polypi), observed in the autopsies of this disease, differ in no respect from those so frequently occurring in patients dead of the most diverse affections, and even, under certain cir- cumstances, in animals killed by violence; and all the evidence which careful investi- gation has hitherto accumulated on the subject is in favor of the opinion that they are formed during the death agony—consequences and not causes of the fatal issue. Ordinary abscesses of the liver, sometimes of great size, were not very rare, and a number of illustrative specimens have been received at the Museum. Considerable interest attaches to the examination of the foeces in chronic diar- rhoea, and especially to their examination with the microscope. The naked eye at once recognizes as a prominent fact the presence in the stools of undigested portions of the food, the characters of which are often but little altered. This, however, is also fre- quent in ordinary acute diarrhoea, and is simply an expression of diminished digestive power. In the case of soldiers in the field using hard bread as a part of the ration, lumps of this article but little altered by their passage through the alimentary canal are very commonly present. The most various substances derived from the food are frequently observed; the microscopic appearances of some of them being well calcu-