25 NEW YORK HARBOR. New York, July 31, 1866. Colonel : I have the honor to make the following report of my tour of duty at Hart's island : On receipt of your order of the U)th instant, I proceeded to Hart's island, reaching there at 6^ p. m. July 19. I found Dr. Calhoun dead; Dr. Rowe convalescing, but in bed ; Dr. Webster worn out. In the hospital were eight patients sick with cholera, well marked, and of a malignant type, six deaths having occurred within the previous thirty-six hours. The hospital was in shocking police and in utter confusion; the personnel broken down and demoralized, the stewards sick, and the ward- master dead. My first care was to police the wards and to regulate the hospital. Assistant Surgeon J. R. Gibson reported at 8^ p. m., and immediately went on duty in the hospital. Brevet Major J. Theodore Calhoun, assistant surgeon United States Army, died July 19, at 1 p. m., of cholera, after an illness of ten hours. He was faithfully attended to by Brevet Major Warren Webster. Owing to the rapid decomposition, I was compelled to recommend the burial of the remains at 10 o'clock that night. The funeral cortege consisted of officers only, six of whom bore the coffin to the grave on the island. Thus ended the career of a kind-hearted, energetic, conscientious, and intelligent medical officer, whose services in the field and at the post had endeared him to all with whom he had served. He was stricken down while in the zealous discharge of his duties, and his memory will long be cherished by his old associates and by his former patients. On looking at the condition of the command, I found diarrhoea very prevalent and the morale of the men much affected. The malignancy of the disease induced me to think that some endemic cause must exist; a rigid police had been enforced, fumigations and disinfectants most liberally used everywhere, still the disease was on the increase. On investigation it was found that the barracks had been occupied for over four years by troops in transitu, and were infested with vermin, that swarmed out of the wood during fumigation. The fibres of the wood are charged with crowd poison. The southern end of the island, at present not used, was occupied for years as a conscript camp and a rebel pen, where thousands of prisoners have been confined ; a luxuriant growth of rank weeds over the ground indicates a fertility not natural to the island, and shows that a large quantity of accumulated filth lies hidden from view, ready to give forth noxious vapors under a July sun. In consideration of the above facts, and after a free consultation with Doctors Webster and Gibson, I made, early on the morning of the 20th, the following recommendation: "H.^RT's Island, New York Haruor, July 20, 1866. "Brevet Brigadier General A. D. Doubledav, Commanding Hart's Island: " Sir : With a view of preventing the further spreading of cholera in this command, I have the honor to recommend that the well men and officers be transferred to David's island as early as practicable. Previous to leaving, the bed-sacks iu use, with the straw, should be burned, the blankets and clothing thoroughly fumigated, and every precaution taken to prevent the transfer to the new quarters of any article of clothing, bedding, or baggage that has not been thoroughly disinfected by active chemical agents. I deem the above measures imperative to prevent the extension of the disease." The fumigations were superintended by the officer of the day and the medical officer. Sulphurous acid, nitrous acid, and chlorine were all used in disinfecting. On the evening of the 20th, six companies of the seventeenth United States infantry (520 officers and men) were trans- ferred to David's island, leaving on Hart's island the sick, a de'ail of attendants, and the sixth company first battalion Veteran Reserve Corps, to guard property, in all about eighty-five officers and men. On the evening of the 20th Dr. Carey, contract sur- geon, and Hospital Steward Brumer reported for duty. During the night Brevet Major Warren Webster reached Hart's island with seven cholera (?) patients, taken sick shortly after landing on David's island. The commanding officer of Hart's island, Captain Bayne, Veteran Reserve Corps, refused to receive them, and they were sent back to David's island. Fearing that the cholera would now continue among the troops at David's island, I sent Dr. Carey and Steward Brumer to assist Dr. Webster. Notwithstanding the diminished garrison at Hart's island the disease .still kept on, attacking the nurses about the sick and showing itself in the Veteran Reserve Corps company, which up to this time had enjoyed an immunity. Several teamsters fell ill with cholera, one after another; they had carried oti" the dead; but I think the cause of their illness was attributable to their living in the stables. The two stewards became ill, and were confined to bed. Their disease not being cholera, I sent them to David's island to recover. On the night of the 21st Dr. Browne, contract surgeon, and eight contract nurses reported for duty. On the 22d I recalled Steward Brumer from David's island. This enabled me to relieve and send to David s island a number of soldier attendants, who had been very faithful and required rest. Being satisfied that, owing to irremediable local causes, the disease would still continue, I, on the 23d, recommended that every well person not needed on the island should be sent off. I reduced the hospital attendants to the utmost limit consistent with the care of the sick ; but the officer temporarily in command sent off nearly the whole company of the Veteran Reserve Corps, thus leaving the island without proper guard or police party; consequently, on the 25th, I was obliged to call for a de- tail from David's island, and on the 26th the Veteran Reserve Corps returned, and I had them encamped on the parade grounds, their morale and condition having been much improved by their short absence from the post. The following is a tabular statement of the cases of cholera at Hart's island, New York harbor, from July 20, 1866, to July 26, 1866: In hospital July 19, 6J p. m., cases 8 New cases received up to July 26 11 Total 19 Deaths 13 Remaining in hospital July 26 6 Of whom five are convalescing; three of these five were In the ward when I took charge. In addition to the above should be counted two citizens, both of whom died.