\ 4 INTRODUCTION. geons Neill, Bontecou, and Bently, of the Volunteers, give a multitude of observations that throw light on some of the most important subjects in military surgery. On May 21st, 1862, it was enjoined upon medical officers, by a circular order from the Surgeon General's Office, to enter upon the monthly reports details in regard to the surgical cases that came under their care, and to forward pathological specimens to the Surgeon General's Office, with the view to the establishment of an Army Medical Museum. In June, 1862, a "tabular statement of gunshot wounds" was appended to the monthly report of sick and wounded. A consolidation of these tables for the months of September, October, November, and December, 1862, was published. The tabular statements of the first two quarters of 1863 have been consolidated also, but it has not been deemed expedient to publish them, because materials are on hand in which fewer sources of error exist. On March 25th, 1863, Circular No. 4, of the Surgeon General's Office, established the "classified return of killed and wounded in battle." On November 4th, 1863, by General Order 355, War Department, medical direc- tors of armies in the field were directed to forward to this office duplicates of their reports of killed and wounded; and, in promulgating this order, you instructed medical directors to detail suitable officers to collate and prepare all obtainable statistics and data in connection with past or future operations in the field that might be useful in the accurate compilation of the Medical and Surgical History of the War, and you directed the attention of all medical officers to this subject, and urged their co-operation in the work. Circular 26, of November 26th, 1863, S. G. 0., called the attention of medical officers in charge of general hospitals to the importance of preserving representations of the results of surgical operations for the Army Medical Museum. It was found that the details in regard to wounds, accidents, and injuries, inserted in the montlily and quarterly reports of sick and wounded, were insufficient, and that, although the defects in the reports were supplied by those officers who diligently recorded their cases in the registers and case books, yet such fidelity was not univer- sal, and the histories of many cases were meagre or imperfect, or omitted altogether. It was considered that the register in use was too bulky for field service, and too small for the requirements of general hospitals. A board of medical officers was accordingly directed to recommend a new form of register. The recommendations of the board were approved, and small portable registers were issued to medical officers in the field, while to each general hospital two large folio volumes were distributed, one as a register of sick and wounded, the other as a register of surgical operations. These registers contained minute directions as to the form in which cases should be entered under appropriate headings. The form of the register of sick and wounded is illustrated in the portion of this report that refers to injuries of the head, and the form of the register of surgical operations is given in connection with the subject of excisions of the head of the femur. To assist in the compilation of these registers, a new form of bed-card was adopted. Blank forms of quarterly reports of w^ounded and of surgical operations corresponding with the registers were prepared, and, on December 26tli, 1863, by a special circular from this office, the officers in charge of general hospitals were