FORT LEAVENWOEXn LITTLE ROCK. 51 Saint Louis, Missouri. He evidcutly contracted tlie disease oa his way from the States. The characteristic symptoms were promiaent and very violent. Extract from montJihj report of sick and wounded, of detachments of the Second, Third, and, Seventh United States Cavalry, at Fort Riley, Kansas, September, 1866. Brevet Major W. H. Forwood, Assistant Surgeon United Stales Army. The cholera was brought to this post by three detachments of recruits who came direct from Carlisle, Pennsylvania, for the seventh United States cavalry, and the disease was confined exclusively to these recruits. There were two companies of the third United States infantry and one company of the second United States cavalry, and four hundred and ninety quarter- master's employes, many of them with families, at the post, but not a case of cholera, uov any symptoms of it, occurred among them. A part of the recruits were camped near the post, and a part of them were in tiie barracks, and all the sick were treated in the post hospital. The following table shows the date of the arrival of each detachment of recruits, with the number of cases and deaths, and the date of the first and last case : Detachments. Date of ar- rival. No. of cases. No. of deaths. Date of first case. Date of last case. First detachment Aug. 25. Sept. 8. Sept. 12. 26 12 8 11 4 4 Sept. 5. Sept. 8. Sept. 12. Sept. 15. Sept. 19. Sept. 19. Third detachment 46 19 XVII. FORT LEAYEIVWOBTH, KANSAS. [Extracts. ] Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, December 31, 1886. General: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 3d instant, and, in reply, to state that of the four cases of epidemic cholera reported in the report of sick and wounded at this post for the month of October, 1866, none originated in the hospital. These cases occurred among troops recently arrived from other stations. » * * With this last case the disease disappeared. A few days before its appearance at this post, some twenty-odd cases of epidemic cholera were reported at Leavenworth City, two miles south of the garrison. Intercourse between the people of the post and city was unrestricted. As soon as the disease appeared here extra hygienic measures were promptly and regularly enforced. Sulphate of iron and unslaked lime were unsparingly used in all water- closets, latrines, and other foul places. Those attacked with the malady were treated separately in tents pitclied at a convenient and safe distance from the hospital building. All excreta, soiled clothing, utensils, &c., used by those suffering from the disease, were constantly subjected to the influence of disinfectants. None of those in attendance on the sick contracted the disease. In addition to the usual remedies used, chloroform, in drachm doses, was given internally to counteract spasmodic action. It acted in every case promptly, and seldom required more than one dose. Hypodermic injections of sulphate of morphia were given to allay irritability of the stomach, and found efficacious. Strychnine and atropia were used in one or two cases, but without producing any well-marked benefit. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, B. J. D. IRWIN, Surgeon and Brevet Lieutenant Colonel U. S. A Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. XVIII. I.ITTI.E ROCK, ARK. Extract from sanitary report, department of the Arkansas, for the year 1866, by Brevet Lieutenant Colonel Joseph R. Smith, Surgeon United States Army, Medical Director, March IS, 1867. In September, epidemic cholera appeared in the department. During the whole of this year the proportion of cases of bowel affections had been small as compared with any previous year since the occupation of Little Rock by our army. I had particularly observed and commented on the fact that intermittents and remittents of an obstinate type, and congestive chills, seemed to have replaced the chronic diarrhoeas and dysenteries, which in previous years had proved so unyielding and fatal. Nevertheless, as the summer advanced and reports reached us of the prevalence of cholera in other sections of our country, uneasiness began to be felt here. More rigid attention was paid to the police of the quarters and grounds occupied by the