57 LITTLE ROCK, ARKANSAS. advantages, this place, and vicinity are annually visited by the most peniicioiis forms of malarial diseases. As soon as it was discovered that patients convalescent from fever were having cholera in the post hospital, every one was removed from the building, and it was filled with chlorine gas, but if any good resulted from this it was not perceptible, and the disease con- tinued afterwards just as before the cxperidfent. At this time there was little or none of the disease in the town of Little Rock, six or eight hundred j'ards distant. The disease seemed to be localized in and around the post. In view of this it was deemed proper by the general commanding the department to have the troops removed to the opposite side of the Arkansas river, and this was done on the morning of the 16th. After a trial of the new locality for four days, it was found, however, that it was worse than the old. The command, therefore, took up the line of march again, recrossed the river, and encamped in a beautiful grove four miles southwest of Little Rock, on the 20th. Numerous cases of cholera occurred after reaching tlii.s camp; but these, as well as all seriously threatening cases, were sent back as soon as possible to the general hospital, adjoining the arsenal grounds. The last case showed itself on the 26th, six days after we left the infected position on the north bank of the river. The disease is now apparently on the increase in the town of Little Rock, while it is greatly decreasing at the arsenal, where it began. It might be asked, do not these things indicate that cholera, like other infections diseases, has a period of incubation, at the expiration of which it bursts forth withoiit regard to the place where the infected person may be ? And also that a local cause analogous to that producing malarial fevers, combined with a certain general atmospheric condition favorable to the develop- ment of this local cause, is necessary to the production of the disease in question? With reference to the peculiar atmospheric condition, it was observed that about the time when the congestive intermittents began here, say the middle of August, the oxygen of the air'seemed to acquire a .singular activity, as evinced by the rapid rusting of all oxidizable metals, and this with- out any notable in?rease of the moisture. My observations of this epidemic point to nothing which I can imagine might probably be the local cause. In regard to the treatment, a variety of remedies, singly and in different combinations, adminis- tered by the mouth and by hypodermic injection, were tried, but, with regret it must be said, none seemed to exercise mixcli influence after the cold stage set in fairly. The medicine which, however, seemed to me to bfe incomparably'more efficient than any other I used, in checking the watery diarrhoea, allaying the nausea, removing the distressing or painful sensations about the epigastrium, in .short, in arresting and curing the disease when not too far advanced, is strychnia. I gave it usually in watery solution, (dissolved in a little acetic or sulphuric acid,) in doses of one-tenth of a grain, repeated according to the lU'geucy of the symptoms, but rarely oftener than every two hours, until three or four doses were taken. Frequently a smaller quantity will suffice. I have thought that this medicine acted in cholera more beneficially alone than in combination with other substances, as morphia, chloroform, quinine, or dift'usable stimulants. I have prescribed it in cases of intermittent fever and diarrhosa many hundreds of times in the last two months, and have never seen it produce a bad symptom, but always the reverse. Extracts from Reimrt of Assistant Surgeon George 31. Wilson, Fifty fourtlt United States Colored Infantry, Little Rock, Arkansas, October 2, lS66i Sir : In obedience to instructions received from you, I have the honor to submit the following report of the appearance, cause, and treatment of cholera at the post of Huutersville, Arkansas, during the month of September, I8661 As my regiment (with the exception of one company) was mustered out and discharged the service of the United States, and myself ordered on duty at the general hospital at Little Rock on the 22d day of September, I can state its history up to that time only. In the latter part of August and beginning of September there were rumors among the inhabitants of Huntersville and its vicinity tliat there had been several deaths from cholera, and these rumors caused some to move away. The fear of these people was not quieted by the assertions of a practitioner of medicine in that place, that he had treated several cases of undoubted Asiatic cholera. Some of these cases did certainly die; but, from what I could learn about them at the time, and from what I have heard of them since, I do not think they were cases of real cholera; and, in mj' opinion, the first undoubted case of the kind that did occur near Huntersville was taken in my regiment on the morning of the 14th of September. For about two weeks previous to this date there had been a great increase of diarrhcea, but nearly always with paroxysms of intermittent fever, and were reported as quotidian or tertian iBtermitteut. Previous to the time that the diarrhoea spoken of commenced, cases of intermittent fever nearly always required an active cathartic in beginning their treatment; but at this time the diarrhoea was unusually severe, and was with diflBcnlty controlled, and several cases came near dying from it, but without exhibiting any other symptoms of cholera. It is my opinion that such cases as these had been pronounced to be cholera, and caused the alarm of the citizens of Huntersvilie and vicinity. On the morning of September 15, Private John Buskey, company I, who had been on sick report for three days with intermittent fever and diarrhoea, was attacked with profuse vomiting and purging, with cramping and coldness of extremities, and, in spite of all remedies, died at about four o'clock the same day. I am satisfied that this was the first real case of cholera we had on the other side of the river. On the night of the 16th ten other persons were attacked in the same manner as the one above, most of whom had been on sick report for several days before, witli either iutennittcut fever or diarrhoea, or both. It will be observed by the above cases that the epidemic came upon the regiment suddenly, and, I am sure, unexpectedly. Twelve cases of well-defined cholera occurred during the night of the 16th September, the greater number of which had been preceded by diarrhoea for several days, with intermittent fever, and had been under treatment for those diseases. After the cholera commenced there were many cases of severe diarrhoea, but without the intermittent fever in most cases. The diarrlia'a was also of a different character; for, before the appearance of the epidemic, quinine would alwaj's have a good effect upon the diarrhoea; but after it appeared, nearly every case seemed to be irritated by it, even when combined with opium and 8