VIIT REPORT ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. posts after having been on duty in New Orleans during the riot. The first case appeared on the 10th of August, and during the rest of the month and Septem- ber there were 17 cases and 11 deaths. At Ship island, Mississippi, the first case occurred September 8th. There w^as one fatal case among the colored troops at the post during September, and others among the hired men, convicts, &c. On the 17th of August the first case was reported at Baton Kouge, Louisiana, in the sixty-fifth United States colored troops. During August, September, and October, there were 69 cases and 43 deaths. There was also a fatal case in August, and one daring October, in the detachment of ordnance (white) stationed at the post. The reports do not indicate the mode in which cholera arrived at Ship island or Baton Kouge. The first case at Shreveport, Louisiana, on the Bed river, occurred Sep- tember 22nd. in the eightieth United States colored troops; for nearly a month previously cholera cases had been reported on the plantations below, and in the city of Shreveport just above the post. During September and October there were 11 cases and 4 deaths in the command. The steamship Texas, with recruits from Hart's Island, for the seventeenth United States infantry, left New Orleans, as already stated, July 19th, and arrived Galveston, Texas, on the 22nd. The day after their arrival one of the recruits was attacked with cholera, and died in thirty-six hours. In the outbreak which followed, 44 cases and 24 deaths are reported among the white troops at Galves- ton, and one fatal case of a colored soldier in the post hospital during August. The subsequent progress of the epidemic in Texas was as follows: The first fatal case among the colored troops at Brazos Santiago occurred August 21st; in all, 90 cases and 47 deaths were reported. Among the colored troops at White's Banch, the first fatal case was on the 13th of August; 98 cases and 37 deaths being reported during the month. Among the colored troops at Brownsville, the first case was on the 20th of August, and proved fatal the same day. In all, there w^ere 99 cases and 57 deaths reported during August and September. Among the white troops at the same post, the disease also appeared in the latter part of August. The first death was on the 1st of September; 24 cases and 8 deaths are reported. Among the colored troops at Indianola, the disease appeared in the latter part of August. The first fatal case was on the Gth of September; 39 cases and 7 deaths are reported. At San Antonio, the first case occurred on the 10th of September, in the fourth United States cavalry, (white.) The regiment was moving at the time, part of it being in San Antonio and part in comp on the Medina river, about