XXXIII REPORT ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA AND YELLOW FEVER 16. Acting Assistant Surgeon L. Reynolds, attacked August 25, 1867, at Fort Morgan, Ala., recovered August 30, 1867. 17. Acting Assistant Surgeon Heber Smith, at New Orleans, La ; no date given. 18. Acting Assistant Surgeon Henry Smith, at New Orleans, La.; no date given. 19. Acting Assistant Surgeon J. T. Payne, at New Orleans, La.; no date given. 20. Acting Assistant Surgeon J. Ridgely, attacked during September at Victoria, Tex. 21. Acting Assistant Surgeon Z. P. Dcehnler, at New Orleans, La ; no date given. To the foregoing summary statement of the progress of yellow fever in the army during the year 1867, it has been thought desirable to add a brief account of the circum- stances attending the limited occurrence of this disease among our armies during the war of the rebellion. The interesting reports and documents from which this account is drawn will, it is hoped, be presented in full in the second volume of the medical history of the war. All that can here be attempted is an outline of the most striking facts. The strict blockade maintained for military purposes during the rebellion appears to have served to protect our armies from yellow fever. The troops at New Orleans and throughout the Department of the Gulf wholly escaped, and the disease apj^eared elsewhere to but a limited extent during the years 1862 and 1864. In July, 1862, yellow fever broke out at Key West, having been imported from Havana by the bark Adventure. It subsequently extended to Fort Jefferson, Tortugas, and to Hilton Head, South Carolina, though at both these places the number of cases was comparatively small. From the quarterly reports of Surgeon E. S. Hoffman, 90th New York Volunteers, and appended documents, it appears that on June 17, 1862, the bark Adventure cleared from Havana and put into Key West, in distress, about the 20th, was quarantined ten days, and lay at quarantine three days after that time had elapsed. On the third day, or about sixteen days after leaving Havana, the first and second mates were taken sick witli yellow fever. Two days later, or about the fourth or fifth of July, these patients, and two others of the crew, also sick with the fever, were taken on shore and placed in the Marine hospital, where the first mate died two days after, and the others ultimately recovered, one of them after a sickness of eleven days. July 27th, a soldier of the 90th New York was attacked, and the disease subsequently spread through the garrison with the results shown in the following table: Month JULY. AUGUST. SEPTEMBER. OCTOBER. TOTAL. 448 447 385 382 415 2 153 137 39 331 2 30 32 7 71 The treatment generally pursued is stated to have been a hot mustard bath, followed by a purge of calomel and castor oil, and suljsequently 1)V large doses of sulphate of quinia.