CAMP FEVER. 113 details than the foregoing remarks, and the brief sketch of the pathological specimens of the affection now in the Museum, which will be given in the account of the medical and microscopical sections of that collection. Besides the forms of continued fever which may be properly included under the general designation of Camp Fever, three other forms, which have occurred during the war, deserve a brief mention in this place, viz.: True Typhus Fever, Spotted Fever, and Yellow Fever. Of typhus fever, 824 cases and 191 deaths are reported during the first year; 899 cases and 381 deaths during the second. There is evidence, however, which will be presented in the Medical History of the War, that many of these cases were not true typhus, but rather cases of typho-malarial, or of ordinary enteric fever of an adynamic character, with strongly marked typhous symptoms, or complicated with scurvy; congestive intermittents occurring in scorbutic patients, and perhaps other diseases, were also occasionally diagnosed as tophus. These facts led me for a long while to doubt whether true typhus fever had ever occurred in our army during the rebellion, and inclined me to look upon the few hundred cases above quoted as be- longing chiefly to typho-malarial fever; they have therefore been included in the fore- going statistics of camp fever. Subsequent facts, however, have been brought to my knowledge, which induce me to admit the occasional occurrence of a limited number of cases of true typhus, in connection with overcrowded and ill-policed camps, and es- pecially in the case of those of our soldiers who were detained as prisoners in the enemy's hands. Spotted fever, called also cerebro-spinal meningitis, attracted attention chiefly at a period later than that embraced in the present paper. Large numbers of cases, autop- sies and other interesting materials on this subject have been contributed, with the mere mention of which I must here content myself Yellow fever, from which the army wholly escaped during the first year of the war, made its appearance at Key West, Florida, in July, 1862, and subsequently at Hilton Head, South Carolina. The outbreak was limited to a few hundred cases and the deaths to a hundred. In both places, there was the most decisive evidence that the disease was imported in consequence of the neglect or violation of quarantine regula- tions. The fear that yellow fever would prove a terrible obstacle to the operation of our troops in the Southern States has proved wholly unfounded. It may here be men- tioned that the only subsequent outbreak of importance which has occurred up to the date of writing was the epidemic at Newborn, North Carolina, in the summer of 1864. But even here the mortality, so far as our troops were concerned, was limited to a few hundred men. In the case of this outbreak. Surgeon D. W. Hand, U. S. Vols., Medical Director of the Dej)artment, expresses the belief that the fever was not imported, but that it originated on the sjjot in consequence of the neglect of hygienic precaution by the citizens of the place and by the refugees who had made it an asylum. There is now in the possession of this office a most interesting set of papers, contributed by sur- geons who were eye-witnesses, giving the whole history of the several outbreaks of yellow fever during the war, with descriptions of the disease, of the treatment employed, etc. etc. It is proposed to publish these papers in extenso in the Medical History of the War.