REPORT ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. XVII Army, to the efficacy of the use of pure drinking water in arresting the spread of the disease, even after it has made its appearance. The troops exposed in ISlew Orleans were, by his direction, supphed with cistern water, (rain water,) as far as practicable, and where this could not be obtained, distilled water was, in some instances, purchased by the quartermaster's department. The disease did not spread to any extent among the troops thus supplied, and the majority of the cases at New Orleans occurred in the detachments of the sixth United States cavalry and first United States infantry, and in the eighty-first colored, at times w^hen these troops were so situated as, for the most part, to be obliged to use the water of the Mississippi river for drinking purposes. The interesting details of this important practical experiment will be found in the appended reports of Surgeon McParlin, and of Assistant Surgeon Hartsulf. The importance of the character of the diinking water used during epidemics of cholera had attracted attention in Europe before the date of the recent out- break in this country, and it had been shown by the Registrar General of England that the prevalence of the disease in the several districts of London bore a direct proportion to the amount of the organic impurities of the water furnished. Ac- cordingly, when the epidemic made its appearance in New York Harbor, atten- tion was at once directed to the character of the dri]dving water used by the troops, and samples sent to this office were analyzed in the laboratory by Dr. B. F. Craig. (See Appendix B, p. 61, for Dr. Craig's report.) All these waters contained a considerable quantity of organic impurity, sufiicient, under the cir- cumstances, to justify the recommendation of means of purification. This recommendation, so far as known, was not acted upon, and the only point where practical attention was directed to supplying pure water was at New Orleans, as above stated. The success there obtained has been such as to direct attention anew to Dr. Craig's recommendations. Although rain water collected in proper cisterns, is, of course, much more free from organic impurities than river or well water, it is nevertheless seldom entirely free from them, and it is not often practicable to obtain pure and suf- ciently aerated distilled water in the necessary quantities. An agent which is capable of destroying the contained organic matters, without impairing the flavor or other good qualities of drinking-water, is therefore of the first importance, and such an agent is found in the per-manganate of potassa. Dr. Craig says: " A good practical rule for purifying water is to add any solution of the per-manganate until the water, as seen in an ordinary sized tumbler, appears per- ceptibly pink. This corresponds to the addition of from half a grain to one grain per gallon. After standing for a few hours the color disappears, and the water is left pure as far as regards organic matter. If, after tv/o hours stand- ing, the water has a pinkish color when received in a large white dish or in a 3