EXTRACTS P^ROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. 122 If many died that he became afraid to administer that usually harmless remedy. I have known a dose of eight grains of blue mass, given in one case on the fifth day, and in another on the eleventh day, to cause death by profuse hsemorrhagic stools; consequently, being in doubt as to the propriety of medication in the nnddle and last stage of yellow fever, we should be cautious how we use any, confining active interference with the disease to the first stage, and should apply depletion and antiphlo- gistic measures to such cases as call for them only with a view of preparing them for the second and last. Now, in regard to the diet question, and the projjriety of a preference for nutritious enemata, any one who studies the disease closely will be led to infer, from observation, that in all bad cases, during a certain number of days, say from five to seven, after the febrile paroxysm has reached its height, the stomach, although acid, does not secrete true gastric juice, and pepsin is almost entirely absent. Now, when it is remembered how close a sympathy there is between the brain and the stomach, we can understand how, in the peculiar condition of the nervous system in yellow fever, a patient can be thrown into a delirium or coma by a small error in diet. Tlie Duke of Wellington died of apoplexy by overloading his stomach with venison which he could not digest; and how many cases can nearly evei-y physician number where apoplexy has followed an imprudent meal! In cholera infantum we know the infant's stomach loses its power of digestion from irritation of the dental nerves, and how commonly, in this condition, convulsions and coma occur, doubtless the result, in most cases, of indigestion. During last summer I lost two patients who liad reacted thoroughly from cholera and were passing through the typhoidal fever, which frequently follows the collapsed condition; one died on the sixth day of her disease—first delirious, then comatose— from talcing a small quantity of milk, the casein of which she could not digest As long as she was kept on beef-tea injections, with a little brandy, and allowed only mucilages and iced drinks by the stomach, she did well. The other case had been in collapse fifty-six hours before she reacted; during the fever which followed she vomited great quantities of bile. On the night before her death she slept soundly for the first time all night, awoke much refreshed in the morning, and said she was hungry ; called for a solt-boiled egg with some tea and toast, which she ate with great relish; in three hours after that meal she became delirioijs, and in six hours died in profound coma, the whole surface of lier body livid from congestion and stagnation of the capillary circulation. Death occurred on the eleventh day of her disease. The lesson to be di'awn from the observation of these facts is, to put on the stomach of yellow fever patients during the doubtful period, when the absence of pepsin is to be inferred, no aliment which requires any assistance in entering the circula- tion besides the force of endosmosis, but to give broths, with or without brandy, by the rectum. ****** Since writing the above I have obtained from records from the custom-house a list of all the vessels arriving from ports south of this, and the habitat of yellow fever from the first of May till the 31st of November, by which it appears there were 45 arrivals in May; June, 25; July, 19; August, 21; September, 29; October, 19: total, 158. I have also obtained from Dr. Delery's pamphlet a register of the course of the winds and condition of the weather, both of which documents I append, together with names and memoranda of cases treated by me this summer.* Very respectfully, your obedient servant, FRANCIS BARNES, M. D., City Physician, and late Actinrj Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Brigadier General T. A. McParlin, Medical Director Fifth Military District. * These documents are excluded for vvaut of space, with the excejrtion of a part of the list of vessels, and the register of the winds and weather.