LOUISIANA. 39 diarrhoea has nearly disappeared. During the epidemic, companies A and D of the tenth United States colored heavy artillery occupied the quarters of the eighty-first United States colored infantry. Two deaths from cholera morbus occurred. The peddlers were then kept out of camp, and the disease abated at once. During the prevalence of the epidemic the regiment performed the most laborious guard duty, and in the most exposed and filthy places in the city. On the first night of their encampment on Canal street they were drenched in rain, and lay in a mortar bed, as it were, for two days succeeding, inhaling the effluvia of the river at low water, and using water from the filthy pools for washing and other purposes. Extracts from monthly report of sick and wounded ,Sedgtvick (J. S. general hospital, Greenville, Louisiana, November, 1866. A. Hartsvff, Assistant Surgeon United States Army. During the prevalence of cholera here nothing has led to even a suspicion of the specific cause of the disease. That it is associated with uncleanliness. irregularities, &c., has been demonstrated in nearly every case that has come under my notice. The first cases here among the military occurred in company G, sixth United States cavalry, on duty at division headquarters. One day after. I made an inspection of their quarters, and on account of filth, wet, «fec., recommended an immediate change. Almost immediately after the change was efi"ected to light, dry, clean quarters, where disinfectants were freely used, the disease entirely disappeared, not to reappear ; but before these sanitary measures were completed twenty of the company took the dis- ease, and five died. Of the cases admitted from the first United States infantry, the first entered hospital August 3, just four days after the great riot, when that regiment vacated their comfortable quarters and exchanged them and their cleanliness, good food, and many small comforts, for, first, a bivouac in the streets of New Orleans, and then tents, where, for a want of conveniences and a change of clothing, their accustomed cleanliness could not be maintained. Their food was brought from their old quarters, a distance of five miles, and consequently served cold. Their drinking water was from the Mississippi river, and for a time they were deprived of all their minor comforts. The result was cholera, which broke out with some severity, as is indicated by my report for the month of August. * * * * * * Good food, cleanliness, disinfectants, and other sanitary measures, succeeded in saving the regiment. That the work was speedy and entirely successful is shown by the report above referred to. The early history of the disease, as it occurred in the eighty-first United States colored infantry, was precisely similar to that of the first infantry, described above. The occasion that demanded the services of the first also required the eighty-first, who, in obedience to orders, vacated their comfortable quarters and bivouacked on the levee, where for a few days they were subject to all the irregularities and privations consequent on a speedy change of quarters. Their food was badly prepared; their soiled linen was unchanged; their drinking water was from the dirty Mississippi; and, to add to their bad condition, heavy and continued rains rendered their camp little better than a quagmire. These changes were so great and sudden that the previous good health of the regiment succumbed to their influences, and on the 3d of August a large number were admitted to the hospital with cholera. The political condition of the city was such at this time as to require the constant presence of soldiers in the streets, and hence their camp could not be immediately broken up, but every other known measure was quickly adopted to alleviate their condition; and these efforts were unquestionably of great service to the regiment, for, instead of an increase of cases, there was a gradual diminution, but still the disease prevailed with much vigor until camp was broken and the regiment restored to their old quarters ; even then a few cases occurred, but they were as nothing compared with the number previously received from camp daily. The above serves as an example of the early history of all the cholera admitted to this hospital, and shows that the disease has been associated with uncleanliness, irregularities, &c., although unquestionably not entirely dependent upon the same, but probably rather developing itself in this nidus for the accumulation and concentration of the materics morhi of the disease; and that, as a rule, the poison producing the disease must receive aid and support from these collateral agencies, in order to produce its effects in any considerable degree, is further illustrated by the total immunity from the disease ex- perienced by all connected with this hospital who were not brought here with the disease. Here every sanitary measure to prevent the spread of the disease has been adopted and rigorously enforced. The wards are light, dry, and well ventilated; the sinks are of brick, laid in cement and sealed, and so arranged as to allow excreta, &c., to enter them, and prevent gases, &c., escaping from them, and into these large quantities of sulphate of iron are frequently thrown; close stools are also filled with the same previous to and after using. The wards are constantly strewn with disinfectants, such as lime, charcoal, zinc, sulphate of iron, permanganate salts, chlorine, &c. All badly soiled linen is immediately burned, and that washed for reuse is covered with lime as soon as removed from the patient, and as soon as possible sent to the laundry, where it is immediately immersed in boiling water, and after being washed, is dried by steam, at about 200° heat. Pure rain water is used for all pirrposes, and suspicious or indigestible articles of food are prohibited. The above-named strict cleanliness and faithful observance of sanitary rules have been our only prophylactic, and have enabled doctors, attendants, &c., to stand over and prescribe for their patients, and perform numerous post mortem examina- tions, while the laundresses have faithfully and constantly performed all their duties; and, under fatigue, anxiety, and care, all have enjoyed that immunity from the disease which, under like circumstances, no other well established contagious disease would have permitted. That the disease, however, is not contagious, I will not pretend to affirm, for the authority in its favor is high and abundant; but if contagious, that it difters in its contagious nature from all other contagious diseases is, I think, evi- dent from the above. The symptoms of the disease are described in my report for July, and are usually unmistakable in their character. The treatment is very unsatisfactory, because as yet no remedies have been discovered which have produced any decided effects. Various plans of treatment have been employed, but with such questionable success that we do not hesitate to abandon them all if other plausible remedies are suggested. ****** The post mortem appearances are, in brief, as follows: The brain is uniformly cong-ested, otherwise of proper consistency,