EEPORT ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA AND YELLOW FEVER. XXXIV At this time a detaclimeut of the 90th New York vohmteers garrisoned Fort Jeffer- son, Tortugas, the medical officer being Assistant Surgeon J. Chapman, of that regiment. Eleven cases of yellow fever and four deaths are reported by him during the month of October. He, moreover, reports that there were a number of cases amongst the workmen employed by the Engineer Department, and that two of them died. Dr. Chapman denies that the disease was imported, and states that all vessels arriving from infected ports were quarantined from seven to fourteen days. It hence appears that vessels did arrive from infected ports, probably from Key West, where the greater part of the regiment was stationed; and as the time of quarantine allowed was insufficient, it is, probably, from Key West that the disease was introduced on this occasion. The treat- ment employed is not reported. At a still earlier period the epidemic was carried from Key West to Hilton Head, S. C. The report of Assistant Surgeon J. E. Semple, U. S. A., dated January 1, 1863, states that the steamer Delaware, with a detachment of the 7th New Hampshire Volun- teers, arrived from Key AVest early in September, and, after a short quarantine, landed her passengers at Hilton Head September 8th. Shortly after several of them were taken sick and eight died, the last of the fatal cases terminating September 17th. Assistant Surgeon General C. H. Crane, then Medical Director at Hilton Head, exjDresses his belief that unreported cases had occurred during the passage of the Delaware from Key West. On the 9th of October a quartermaster's employe was attacked, and subsequently several officers and soldiers. All these cases occurred in the vicinity of the wharf where the Delaware had landed her passengers, and where, also, the hygienic conditions are reported to have been bad. There were at tliis time about ten thousand soldiers at Hilton Head and Beaufort, but the disease did not spread among them; and in the general hospital, where most of the fatal cases were treated, the physicians, attendants, and patients sick of other diseases, escaped. Including the passengers by the Delaware, the whole number of cases at Hilton Head was as follows: September, ten cases, eight deaths; October, twenty cases, eight deaths; November, ten cases, nine deaths: total, forty cases, twenty-five deaths. In the treatment, reliance appears to have been placed chiefly on calomel and quinine. The whole number of cases reported during 1862 at Key West, Tortugas, and Hilton Head, was 382, with 100 deaths. It is interesting to mention, in this connection, that yellow fever occurred during 1862 among the citizens of Charleston, S. C, and Wilmington, N. C. Dr. Hand, in the reports to be presently referred to, states that at Charleston a small number of cases were reported during September and October, and tliat there can be little doubt that the disease was introduced by blockade runners, several of them having been quarantined with yellow fever on board. At Wilmington the number of cases was much larger. Out of 3,000 inliabitants, white and black, who remained in the city, 1,200 are reported to have died. August 6th, just before the outbreak of the ej)idemic, the steamer Kate, blockade runner from Nassau, arrived at Wilmington with yellow fever on board. Dr. W. T. Wragg, in an article published in the Confederate States Journal, February, 1864, states, on tlio authority of a Dr. Schonwald, that other cases had previously occurred. Dr. Hand found,