155 FORT JEFFEKSON, FLORIDA. The facts which liave been presented to the board lead them to concur in the following recommendations: 1st. That unacclimated troops should never be sent to this post except to arrive in the months of November, December, and January. • 2d. That care should be taken to have always at least one company of thoroughly acclimated troops at the post to act as cooks and nurses, and to perform fatigue duty in the event of au epidemic of yellow fever. 3d. That the barracks befinishcd and the men removed from their present damp and unhealthy quarters in the casemates. 4th. That the sea wall be completed as soon as possible, and the moat dredged so that the bottom will not be exposed at low tide. 5th. That the connecting sluices between the privies and the sewers be opened, and, if necessary, enlarged, and the outlets of the sewers be carried across the moat so that they will discharge outside the wall, and not, as at present, into the moat. Cth. That the temporary wooden buildings in the interior of the fort be removed. 7th. That the post hospital should not be erected on the site contemplated in the original plan, viz; within the fort, between the officers quarters and the barracks, but outside of and to the leeward of the fort, where there is very favorable ground for that purpose. As proposed in the original plan, the hospital, besides being in the closest proximity to the quarters of the officers and men, would be enclosed on three sides by lofty structures, which would completely shut out a free circulation of air. 8th. That a supply of ice, sufficient to provide for its liberal use in case of sickness, be furnished before the approach of summer. There is a well-constructed ice-house here capable of holding over 200 tons. 9th. That, in the event of the reappearance of yellow fever in th*vicinity, the requisite means be on hand to construct summer quarters for the troops on one of the neighboring keys. ICth. That a small steamer should take the place of the schooners now in the ^ploy of the Quartermaster's Department, in order that prompt communication may be had with the mainland and the procuring of supplies be facilitated. 11th. That, at least during the summer, there be two medical officers at the post and two hospital stewards. 12th. That the fact that a grave cannot be dug to a greater depth than one and a half or two feet without filling with water, renders a proper interment of the dead, in the^'dinary manner, difficult, if not impossible. It is therefore recommended that vaults be built above ground, having separate cells, each of which should be large enough to contain one coffin. These cells can be hermetically sealed, and the remains of the dead, it is believed, be better preserved for removal after- wards by relatives or friends. We would also add in the recommendation, that Loggerhead, being the most desirable key for the location of barracks, should have erected upon it one of these vaults, to contain not less than twenty cells for the reception of the remains of those dying there, and Long Key, one-quarter of a mile from the post, should have another, to contain not le.ss than tliirty cells, in which to deposit the dead from this place. The commanding officer states that these vaults can be easily and cheaply constructed. «■ In conclusion, we would say of the origin of the disease, that not much can be determined with certainty ; but it appears, from all the evidence wo have been able to collate, reasonable to believe that it originated here, was caused by deficient and bad drainage, and the consequent accumulation of a great quantity of decomposed animal and vegetable matter was aggravated, in all probability, by damp and unhealthy quarters and the universally great amount of moisture in the months of June, July, and August last. The exemption of the troops at Loggerhead would seem to indicate tlfSit the poison was confined within the limits of the post, and at the same time throw some disproof upon the commonly advanced theory that the disease is wafted by the wind. A. H. SMITH, Assistant Surgeon, and Brevet Major, U. S. A. PAUL ROEMER, First Lieutenant Fifth U. S. Artillery. EDWARD THOMAS, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., Recorder. Extract from a Special Report on Yellow Fever at Fort Jefferson. Acting Assistant Surgeon E. Thomas, October 31, 1867. V My treatment has been substantially as follows: At the outset, a brisk cathartic, composed of ten grains of calomel, ten of jalap, and one of podophyllin. Sometimes the podophyllin was omitted, as the case seemed to require. After the bowels had been thoroughly cleansed out, the following was given: Chlorate of potassa, a drachm and a half to the ounce of water; dose, a tablespoonful, in half a tulnbler of water, every four hours. The patients have been allowed all the ice and cold water that they wanted. Limeade and lemonade also has been given them ad libitum, whenever they desired it. In cases of a marked typhoid character, even in the height of the fever, ale and porter has been freely used until sweating was induced. The principal aim in the treatment has been to keep the skin moist and the kidneys active. So soon as convalescence set in, ale, porter, and milk punch were administered two, three, or four times a day, as the case required. The underclothing of the patients has been changed twice a week ; they have also, occasionally, been changed from bed to bed. Their quarters have been thoroughly cleansed, with a thin solution of chloride of lime, from time to time. The chambers, after being used, had chloride of lime sprinkled in them. In cases of delirium ice poultices to the head and mustard plasters to the stomach were used. This has been, substantially, the treatment which I have pursued, and not a single death has occurred since its adoption.* * Dr. Thomas' cases were those which occurred at the close of the epidemic: the October report, to which the above remarks were appended, t! ive3 thirteen cases and three deaths for the whole month.— Ed. *