83 GALVESTON, TEXAS. GAtVESTOIV, TEXAS. . Headquaim ici:s, Distuict of Tkxas, Offick Chief Medical Officer, Galvestox, Aiir/ustl3, 1867. General: I have the honor to inform you of the condition of our city and the pi'ogress of the epidemic now prevailing among us. The first case of yellow fever was brought liere about the 26th of June from Indianola, and the patient died with black vomit two days afterwards, at one of the boarding -houses in the lower part of the city. The entrance of the disease was entirely the result of gross negligence on the part of the city authorities in failing to take any measures to establish a quarantine for the protection of the city. No efficient quarantine was thought of until a case had already arrived here and had died with black vomit. The first case among the troops came into the post hospital on the first of July, and one had been carried to the city hospital from among tlie quartermaster's employes on the 27th of June; since then the disease has been slowly and steadily on the increase, and became epidemic about the 25th of July. Within the past week it has increased rapidly and spread over the entire city, sparing neither natives nor strangers in its march. Sections of the city in which, heretofore, no cases had ever occurred, are now as fall as the more unhealthy localities; but still the foci of infection ai-e along the business streets in the lower part of the city, and there the disease manifests its greatest malignancy. Every day the number of cases increases, and there are now over five hundred cases in the city, including those in the city and charity hospitals. On Friday there were 15 deaths; on Saturday, 23; on yesterday, 18; the total for the week ending August lOtli was 81. I shall write you weekly, keeping you informed of the progress of the disease, and forwarding you the mortuary record for the week. I am. General, very respectfully, your obedient servant, SAMUEL ADAMS, Assistant Surgeon, and Brevet Major, U. S. A. Brevet Brigadier General Tnos. A. McParlin, Medical Director Fifth Military District, Neio Orleans, La. Headquarters, District of Texas, Office Chief Medical Officer, Galveston, August 17, 1887. General: I have the honor to report the state of the epidemic and the mortuary record of the city sexton for the week ending to-day: During the week the disease has increased terribly; the type has become much more severe and unmanageable, and it has invaded all classes of society. Yesterday there were tliree cases which proved fatal in from two to ten hours from the com- mencement of the attack. The following is the report of the burials daily, by the city sexton, for the week: Saturday, 18; Monday, 20; Tuesday, 28; Wednesday, 27; Thursday, 20; Friday, 27; Saturday, not complete; supposed to be about as Friday. Making a total of 166 deaths during the week. The cases at the post hospital are doing most favorably; we need more ice and more delicacies, as the hospital fund is small. I forward, to-day, a letter from Dr. Eowe relative to this subject; please give us as speedy a decision as convenient, as the case is urgent. We are all worked to the fullest capability night and day, but all things move on evenly and quietly, and we do not need any help. I shall write you (God willing) as often as is necessary to keep you fully informed of our condition and needs. I am. General, very respectfully, your obedient servant, SAMUEL ADAMS, Assistant Surgeon, and Brevet Major, U. S. A. Brevet Brigadier General Tnos. A. McParlin, Medical Director Fifth Military District, Neio Orleans, La. Galveston, Texas, April 15, 1868. General: My location at this city during a period including a considerable part of the recent epidemic of yellow fever renders requisite a statement of my service, at the station, during the prevalence of the disease. I respectfully transmit the following statement especially relating to the course of the epidemic in this city: On the 11th of September, being on duty at the Austin station, I received a telegraphic order from Brevet Major General Griffin, commanding the district, to report at once at Galveston foriluty as chief medical officer. Leaving Austin the day succeed- ing this order, I arrived at Galveston on the 17th of the month, the second day after the death and burial of General Griffin of yellow fever. General Griffin was the fourth officer of his stafi' who had fallen in the place of his duty during the epidemic. At this time there existed, not only along the gulf coast, but extending a long distance interior to localities hitherto deemed safe from the yellow fever, an epidemic condition, aggravated directly, so far as my knowledge extends, by localizing circumstances. The epidemic was'the most extended and disastrous that has occurred in the history of the State; the entire region of its occurrence within the State included a direct coast range of some 370 miles, the ^ine commencing at Brownsville, passing through