GALVESTON, TEXAS. 89 to produce nervous excitement of the patient in this disease is to be carefully guarded against. If vomiting was present after the febrile paroxysm passed, both of the following prescriptions were efficacious. Of the first, used in the practice of Dr. Dowell, I must speak in especial commendation : Brandy and distilled water, of each, two fluid ounces; creasote, twenty drops; sulphate of morphia, i a grain—mix. Dose: a tablespoonful every two hours, or after each attack of vomiting, if not too frequenlly repeated. In the service of Dr. Moran the second was used, which I think worthy of trial: acetate of lead, six grains; acetic acid, one fluid drachm; distilled water, one fluid ounce—di.^solve. Dose: tablespoonfii' every fifteen or twenty mimites if the vomiting was excessive; otherwise at a longer interval, or only after vomiting. lu addition, camphor and ice were applied over the laji^nx, to relieve hiccup, which almost invariably preceded the characteristic vomiting of the disease. Ice with turpentine, used in the same manner, proved valuable. Dr. Dowell, in his practice, speaks well of the use of five to ten grains of oxalate of cerium ; and also favorably of the valerianate of bismuth in order to produce sleep and allay restlessness. Where the patient tolei'ated the use, I have used the subnitrate of bismuth in sedative doses to allay vomiting after the paroxysm of fevei', but not with sufficient satisfaction to speak favorably of it. I am able in my practice to speak of the very prompt and beneficial action of the spirits of nitric ether used by the rectum in suppression of urine when the stomach would not tolerate the use. To allay restlessness after the febrile paroxysm had passed, I have used as an injection, and I think with good result, extract of valerian, one fluid drachm, and oil of turpentine, ^ a fluid drachm, combined and given in starch water. In extreme nervous excitement the extract of hyoscyamus, with pulverized camphor and extract of valerian, is an excellent combination for an injection. In convalescence I used, to quite an extent, the infusion of cinchona; if the patient was much reduced, brandy or porter was in favorite use at the hospital. I had but one patient whom I bled, (a man of full sj-stem,) which I did to remove commencing convulsions; the case, however, resulted fatally. I am cognizant of the advantageous use of the lancet, and with the most happy effect in the commencement of the attack where the nervous excitement was greatly exalted, attended with much irritability of the stomach. Negroes, in the fever wards, progressed most favorably under abundant nourishment, with morphine to stinmlate them and obtund sensation. A prominent endeavor, on the part of the physician in this disease, should be to obtain control of the mind of his patient. It is true that while a calm, hopefiil mind will do much in the way of recovery, its opposite may be one of the most alarming conditions, preventing and thwarting every labor and hope of the physician. I am. General, very respectfully, your obedient servant, C. BACON, Jr., Assistant Surgeon, and Brevet Major, U. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. 12