150 ARMY MEDIC \L MUSEUM.—MICROSCOPICAL SERIES. For the preservation of these photographs for study, glass positives have been printed, and mounted with a piece of ground glass behind them to serve as a back- ground. These are held between the eye and the light, and present, when thus ex- amined, a faithful image of the field of the microscope in every particular except color. To render these photographs available for the general illustration of the subjects to which they refer, especially of the minute pathological anatomy of camp diseases, it was attempted to reproduce them by photo-lithography, instead of copying them by any other method of drawing or engraving. After trial, however, I was reluctantly obliged to conclude that, in its present undeveloped condition, photo-lithography is in- adequate to represent the objects in question, which are among the most delicate and beautiful within the range of microscopical observation, and all the details of which are fully preserved in the photographs. Although I much regret this failure, and am not without hopes that, at an early day, improvements in heliographic methods of litho- graphing or engraving will give a process adequate to copying even the most difficult photographs, I regret it the less because I have been fortunate enough to find in Mr. H. Faber, the artist already mentioned, an engraver perfectly competent to make faith- ful copies of the photographs to be reproduced. As an illustration of what may be ex- pected in this direction, I present on the opposite page the reproduction of a photograph of a perpendicular section of ulcerated colon, from the form of Chronic Diarrhoea or Dysentery described on page 143. The blood-vessels were not injected in preparing this section. The picture is not exaggerated, and is a good representation of the orig- inal photograph, which, with the specimen, is preserved in the Army Medical Museum, where both can be seen by any one desirous of comparing them with the engraving. The Fia. 2.—Outline of the plnte on opposite pnge. A A A A. Pellicles of Lieljorkiiim. B Ji. Muscle of Brilcke. C C C C. Submucons connective tissue. D 1) D D. Circular muscle of the colon. K E E. L iri;;itniliiial muscle, cut transversely; at II II, two of llio longitudinal bands of this layer. F F F. Peritoneal layer. G G G G. Poijits of very active cell multiplication. I I. An artery and vein cut through transversely. 1. A deep follicular ulcer, extending to the muscular layer. 2. A small superficial ulcer, which has penetrated to the submucous conuectivo tissue. 3. An ulcer of greater size, penetrating nearly to the muscular layer, which is covered with granulations. wood-cut here introduced gives an outline of the plate opposite, and is lettered for the purposes of description. The section was cut perpendicularly through the colon trans- versely to its length, and presents three points of ulceration, marked 1, 2, 3 in the figure. To render this representation more intelligible, it may be remarked that two forms of ulceration have been observed in the colon in these cases of Chronic Diarrhoea. In the first, the process begins in the closed follicles; in the second, in the intestinal epithelium or the glandular layer. In the first form, the closed follicles enlarge by multiplication of their cellular elements till they project as little tumors above the surface, as shown in Fig. 3, in which ^ is the enlarged solitary follicle. This figure is