BOSTON TYBEE ISLAND. 29 II. SOLDIERS' REST, BOSTON, MASS. Mrdical Director's Office, Boston, Mass., March 14, 1867. General : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt, this day, of a communication from your office, of the lltli instant, requesting information of the antecedents of Private C. L. Faruum, sixth independent company. Veteran Eeserve Corps, who died at the Soldiers' Rest, United States army hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, July 19, 1866, of malignant cholera. In reply, I have to report that, in the absence of the hospital records, and by the decease of Acting Assistant Surgeon W. E. Townse.nd, United States army, the surgeon in charge, I can only forward what informaion I can obtain from Hospital Steward Edwin H. Brigham, United States Army, on duty in this office, and who assisted Dr. Townsend in the care of the patient. From the statement of Steward Brigham it appears that Private Farnum arrived in this city in company with a corporal of his company, (name unknown,) from Hart's island, New York harbor, early on the morning of the 19th of July, 1866, each on furlough of fifteen days, en route, and with permission to visit some small town in the State of Maine. Soon after arrival Farnum was attacked while at the house of a friend with violent vomiting and purging, and while in this state was seen by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. E. Townsend, United States army, who, at the request of the friends, ordered his removal to the hospital. He arrived there about 3 p. m., and was able to give some account of himself, but shortly afterwards sank into a comatose state, in which he remained until his death, which occurred about 8| p. m. the same day. Farnum stated tliat the cholera was raging at Hart's island on his departure, and that for two weeks previous he had been performing the duties of a ward master in the post hospital, and for three days before receiving his furlough had a slight diarrhoea. The disease was pronounced by Dr. Townsend, and also by Dr. Read, the city physician, who saw the case, to be a typical one of Asiatic cholera. Steward Brigham saw Farnum's furlough, and states that it was given at Hart's island, New York harbor. Farnum's body was removed from the hospital about 11^ p. m. on the night of his death, and buried at Mount Hope Cemetery, West Eoxbury, Massachusetts. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, A. N. McLaren, Brevet Lieutenant Colonel and Surgeon U. S. A., Medical Dirtctor. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. III. TYBEE ISLAIVD, NEAR SAVANNAH, GA. [Extracts.] Headquarters Post of Savannah, Savannah, Ga., July 31, 1866. General : I have the honor to forward to your office the following brief history of the introduction of epidemic cholera into the military quarantine grounds of this port: The steamship San Salvador, of 970 tons new, or 1,100 old, measurement, left New York on the 14th instant, with seventy cabin passengers and sixty in crew and steerage, and is reported by the master to have been at the time of sailing perfectly clean. On her way out she stopped at Governor's island and received 476 recruits for the seventh United States infantry, under command of Brevet Captain E. A. Ellsworth, United States army. # * # » During the voyage the portion of the vessel allotted to the men was what is called the " between-decks," forward of the wheel, a close, ill-ventilated compartment, containing, as nearly as I could judge without exact measurement, about 147,000 cubic feet, or 303 feet for each man. The disease appeared among the troops on the second day out, and on aiTiving at the quarantine examining ship on the morning of the 18th instant, the master reported three dead and twenty-five sick. Immediately on being informed of the steamer's arrival I directed Captain Ellsworth to disembark his troops and encamp them on the sea-beach at a distance from the hospital, to isolate his camp by an efficient guard, to have sick call twice a day, and the men watched for the purpose of detecting diarrhoea cases as soon as they occurred. The sick were removed to the hospital tents, which, through the inadvertence of the acting assistant surgeon in charge, had not been pitched on a ridge of sand hills which I had selected, but in the hollow directly behind them. The disease increased rapidly until the SSth instant, and as rapidly declined afterwards, so that to-day there was but one new case. No cases occurred among the passengers and crew who remained on the steamer during her quarantine. The entire vessel was thoroughly cleansed and afterwards fumigated with chlorine, and the between-decks was further disinfected by the thorough use of super-heated steam. When she first arrived in quarantine a strong ammoniacal odor could be distinctly perceived at the distance of one hundred yards to the windward, with a stiff breeze blowing, but after the disinfection she became perfectly odorless. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, H. s. schell, Brevet Major and Assistant Surgeon U. S. A., Post Surgeon. Brevet Major General Jas. K. Barnes, Surgeon General.