FORT AEBUCKLE NEW YOEK HA.RBOR. 61 calomel and moi'pliia. No experiments could be made with castor oil, astringents, turpentine, chloroform, hypodermic injections, and other modes of treatment which have acquired a reputation in the treatment of cholera; the reasons are already named. The supply of medicines was a large one for ordinary circumstances, but entirely inadequate for the overwhelming numbers to be treated. Our original orders carried us only to Fort Gibson, a railroad and steamboat trip of only nine days through a civilized country. When at that place I received orders to accompany the troops to Fort Arbuckle. 1 supplied myself as well as I could. It may well be imagined with what difficulties the treatment had to contend, when we consider the want of proper food and drink, the inclemency of the weather, the insufficiency of shelter, and the depressing infiuence of the sudden and fatal outbreak in the midst of the prairies. If the scientific notes on this epidemic are incomplete, I beg leave to jdead the unexpected appear- ance of the disease, involving, besides professional, so much maniffll lalior, and my own sickness. Finally, I take pleasure in connneiitling Hospital Stewart Wilson for his untiring and successful efforts and devoted attend- ance, by which he contributed essentially to the recovery of many patients. I have the honor to be, General, very respectfully, your obedient servant, ALF. C. GIRARD, Assistant Surrjcon, U. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Barxes, Surgeon General. ]\EW YORK HARBOR. FoET Columbus, N. Y. H., August 21, 1867. General : I have the honor to report that Recruit Lewis Vasser, Company " L," died to-day at 2.15 p. m. of cholera. He was admitted to hospital this morning at 7.20 in incipient collapse. He was given 20 grains of calomel, which was repeated at 8 and again at 9. He had three profuse watery evacuations after his admission to hospital, which, however, were not the pure characteristic rice-water discharges. He had no further passage from the bowels till one about 1 p. m., which was involuntary. No vomiting after the last dose of calomel. His cramps were not severe, and when I left him to attend the session of the medical board at 10 a. m., I thought that his case w-as not hopeless, though the collapse was quite profound, pulse extinct, and voice almost inaudible. He came with a detachment of 60 recruits, direct from St. Louis, which arrived at this post at 5 p. m. yesterday. He had lived for some time in Alton, Illinois, and for a short time before his enlistment in St. Louis. He had diarrhcea for two days preceding his arrival here. He left St. Louis on Sunday at 4 p. m. One man of the same detachment was taken sick on the cars en route, with cramps, vomiting, and diarrhoea, at 7 a. ni. on Monday, and died at 12 m. the same day. I have had the whole detachment carefully inspected, and find that only two of the whole number have diarrhrea; they were immediately taken into hospital and put under treatment, and the whole number isolated from the rest of the command. Recommendations have been made, through the commanding officer of the post, to the superintendent of the general recruiting service, to stop the importation for the present of recruits from that section. Should any further cases occur, the required reports will be promptly made. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, JOSEPH B. BROWN, Surgeon, and Brevet Brigadier General, U. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. B^KES, Surgeon General. Depot Hospital, Fort Columbus, N. Y. H., September 30, 1867. General: I have the honor to transmit herewith a special report of cholera patients for the month of September: I have been able to learn some additional j^articulars relative to the introduction of cholera here this season, as well as some facts confirmatory of the views expressed by me in previous reports in regard to its impoi'tation in all cases by recruits collected in our large cities. The first case occurred this summer on the 21st of August, as previously reported, in the person of Reci'uit Louis Vasser, who arrived at this post the evening previous with a detachment of recruits direct from St. Louis, Mo. One man had died en route, after a short illness, with symptoms similar to cholera. I have since learned that Recruit Vasser, with another recruit, was in personal attendance upon the sick man. The other recruit went to Bedloe's island, and is regarded by Lieutenant Colonel Randolph, post Surgeon at Fort Wood, as the individual who introduced the disease at that post, he having been attacked by cholera shortly after his arrival there. No additional cases occurred at this post until the 31st of August, an interval of ten days, when, as previously reported, ten new cases were admitted to hospital, four of these cases occuiTing among men of a fi esh detachment of recruits received here on the 28th of August, three days previous. One of these men catne from Philadelphia, two from Jersey city, and one from New York city. Four others of the ten were rejected recruits who had been on this island respectively, one month, twelve days, two weeks and three weeks, but in daily and nightly contact with all newly arriving recruits in the castle. The remaining two cases of these ten were prisoners under confinement in the castle. The facts relative to the cases occurring during the present month appear in the accompanying special report. It will be seen that six only of these cases have occurred in persons who were not recent aixivals at this depot. The treatment followed has been the same as that reported during the epidemic of last year, and our additional experience seems to confirm the supei-ior