20 ON SPECIAL WOUNDS AND INJURIES. GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE FACE. Of 4167 gunshot wounds of the face transcribed from the reports from the begin- ning of the war to October, 1864, there were 1579 fractures of the facial bones, and 2588 flesh wounds. Of the former 891 recovered, 107 died, and the terminations are still to be ascertained in 581 cases. Secondary haemorrhage has been the principal source of fatality in these injuries. It is a frequent complication in gunshot fractures of the facial bones; and the difficulties in securing bleeding vessels in this region are very great. Recourse has often been had to ligations of the carotid, with the result of postponing for a time the fatal event. Owing to the great vascularity and vitality of the tissues in this region, gunshot wounds of the face have commonly healed rapidly, and many creditable plastic oper- ations for the relief of deformities following such injuries have been accomplished. Such operations are illustrated at the Army Medical Museum by numerous casts and photographs. An interesting example is the case of Private Rowland Ward, Co. E, 4th New York Heavy Artillery. A fragment of shell removed the anterior portion of the lower jaw within one inch of the ramus on both sides, destroyed the genio-hyoglossus and genio-hyoid muscles, and afforded the occasion for a very successful cheiloplastic operation by Surgeon J. C. McKee, U. S. A. (See Photographs of Surgical Cases, S. G. 0., vol. iii. p. 1, et seq.) GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE NECK. Of the 1329 cases of this category that have been entered on the records, the ulti- mate results have been ascertained in 546 cases only. Time has not been found to trace the histories of many of the remaining cases. In the terminated cases, the mor- tality is 14 per cent. Several instances are recorded in which large grapeshot, on striking the hyoid bone, were deflected, and buried themselves in the supra-spinous fossa of the scapula, or among the muscles of the back. These patients died from laryngitis or oedema of the glottis, and might have been saved, perhaps, by tracheotomy; but they died sud- denly, when surgical assistance could not be immediately procured. Wounds of the neck, with lesions of the vertebrae, are classified with fractures of the spine. There are eight examples of gunshot perforations of the larynx or trachea among the specimens at the Army Medical Museum. The series of surgical drawings includes several curious illustrations of the escape of the great blood-vessels of the neck from injury, when balls have traversed the neck directly in their course. Cases in which the great vessels were injured are classified with wounds of the arteries. GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE BACK AND SPINE. In this class have been included the fractures of the vertebral column which were not complicated by penetrating wounds of the chest or abdominal cavity, and flesh wounds of the region covered by the trapezius, latissimus dorsi, and gluteal muscles.