16 ON SPECIAL WOUNDS AND INJURIES. Fio. 23.—SkuTl, exhibiting an extensive fracture by grapeshot. Spec. 1318, A. M. M. formed cicatricial tissue. There was a firm depressed cicatrix at the aperture of entry. There were no evidences of impairment of the cerebral faculties. At the time the drawing was made, the man was employed as an orderly. The next case illustrates Mr. Erichsen's remark that the greater splintering of the inner table does not depend exclusively upon its greater density and brittleness, but partly on the direction of the fracturing force. At the aperture of exit, the outer table is splintered more than the inner. In the same specimen the bones forming the right orbit are fractured by contre-coup: A soldier of Longstreet's Corps was killed in a charge upon a Union battery, in the second battle of Manassas, August 29th, 1862, by a grapeshot at short range. The cranium was picked up a year subsequently by Surgeon F. Wolfe, 39th New York Vols., under an abatis near the stone bridge over Bull Run. The missile entered the left parietal near the lambdoidal suture, and made its exit through the squamous portion of the temporal. According to Mr. Teevan's experimental inquiries,* the aperture of exit in gunshot perforations of the cranium is always larger than the aperture of entry, because it is made by the ball plus the fragments of bone driven out from the proximal table and the diploe. While the number of fatal results after trephining are very great, the examples of success are yet numerous. The data are not sufficiently complete to admit of fair comparative analysis; still it is difficult to avoid the impression that a larger measure of success has attended this operation in the late war, than the previous experience of military surgeons would have led us to anticipate. Surgeon D. W. Bliss, U. S. Yols., alone has reported eleven successes after the use of the elevator or trephine. Even in those almost hopeless cases in which compression of the brain follows a gunshot injury of the skull at a late date, instances of recovery are reported. In the following case it is not likely that suppuration had occurred, a complication that has rarely presented itself prior to the fifteenth day after the injury; but it can hardly be doubted that meningitis was averted or relieved by the opportune employ- ment of the trephine: Private John McK , Co. H, 105th Pennsylvania Vols., was wounded at Petersburg, Virginia, June 14th, 1864, by a conoidal musket-ball, which struck the right side of the skull very obliquely, and produced a slightly depressed fracture of the right parietal bone. He was admitted to Mount Pleasant General Hospital, Washington, on June 24th, with the report that the progress of the case had been so far eminently satisfactory. After ad- mission, he was found to be insensible, and a few hours subsequently, con- vulsions supervened in rapidly recurring paroxysms. Twelve ounces of blood were taken from the temporal artery without apparent benefit. A trephine was then applied to the seat of fracture, and, upon the removal of a button of bone, a portion of the inner table was found slightly depressed. This was elevated, and the patient soon afterwards regained consciousness. On the 28th of June, the wound in the scalp became erysipelatous, and before the inflammation subsided, there was extensive loss of substance of the integuments and pericranium, denuding a large portion of the parietal bone. Necrosis ensued, and embraced the whole thickness of the bone. In September, 1864, a portion of the parietal, three inches by four, had become so much loosened that it was readily removed. After this, cicatrization went on rapidly, and, at the date of the last report, December 2d, 18()4, the wound had contracted to an ulcer less than an inch in diameter. The patient's mental faculties were impaired somewhat, the ward physician thought, but not to a great extent. The specimen was contributed by Assistant Surgeon C. A. McCall, Fio. 24.—Exfoliation from the right parietal bone, Spec. 3452, A. M. M. * British and Foreign Mcdico-Chirurgical Review, vol. xxxiv. p. 205.