63 EXCISIONS. OF THE FEMUR FOR GUNSHOT INJURY THAT HAVE BEEN REPORTED TO GENERAL'S OFFICE. Constitutional State of Patient at Time of Operation. Progress, Treatment, etc. Result. Cause of Deatli. REMARKS. Pulse but slightly depressed; patient congratulates him- self on slight extent of his injury, as he supposes. Sank gradually. Survived the operation but a few days. Operator, John W. S. Gouley, Asst. Surgeon U. S. A. Case taken from Sanitai'y Re- port of Surgeon .John T. Cal- houn, 5th Excelsior, Decem- ber 31st, 18G1. (See paper No. 71.) Satisfactory. Surgeon Gold- smith thought the case pe- culiarly well adapted for the operation of excision. Failed gradually, and died within one week. Died March, 18C2. Operator, A. H. Thurston, Surgeon U. S. Vols. Case reported verbally by Sur- geon M. Goldsmith, U. S. Vols. Very fair; pulse 100; rather weak. He had complained of severe pain in the hip and knees. He reacted well from the chloroform, and expressed himself as feeling much better. Simple water-dressing was applied to the wound. The foot was fastened by strips of adhesive plaster to si strip of wood at the foot of the bed, which being eleva- ted, the weight of the body egg-nog, beef essence, etc., given freely. Died May 24th, 1862, at 7 P.M., of exhaustion. The autopsy revealed a clot of blood, about three ounces in weight, between the pe- ritoneum and iliacus inter- nus of the left side, proba- small arterial branch. Operator, J. S. Billings, Asst. Surgeon U. S. A. This may be called a typical case of a gunshot injury re- quiring exsection of the hip- joint. Everything appeared favorable, the patient being and the injury seemingly uncomplicated. Army Med- ical Museum, Specimen No. 19. Special Report of Dr. Billings. Feeble. Patient rallied well from operation. Very little blood was lost. Limb sustained by anterior splint. Pro- gressed favorably until the afternoon of August 25th, when a sudden and ex- tremely profuse gush of dark blood took place from the anterior bullet wound and posterior incision, which caused death in a few minutes. Died August 25th, 18G2. Operator, Robert Bartholow, Asst. Surgeon U. S. A. Parts much softened and semi- gangrenous; end of excised neck denuded of periosteum and necrosed; femoral vein melted down, and was not, at the point of injury, dis- tinguishable from surround- ing tissues; a quantity of dark iiuid blood found an- teriorly under the integu- ments. Army Medical Mu- seum, Specimen No. 400. The symptoms were grave, and the prognosis unfavor- able. Internal haemorrhage from some vessel in the pelvic cavity. The man fell into the hands of the enemy. In all prob- ability he survived but a few hours. Operator, Peter Pineo, Bri- gade Surgeon U. S. V. Army Medical Museum, Spe- cimen No. 71. The specimen has been photographed, and a wood-cut taken from it. Photographic Series, No. 1.3. Letter from Lt. Col. Pineo. 9