58 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. Excisions of the Knee-Joint.—Prior to the present war, there were but seven recorded examples of excision of the knee for gunshot injury. These were, the elder Textor's case* (in 1847); the Schleswick Holstein casef (1851), in which Fahle operated by Stromeyer's direction; Mr. Lakin's casej (1855), in the Crimea; the Alumbaugh case§ (1857), in the Indian mutiny; the case of a man in the London hospitals wounded by bird shotjl (1861'; a similar case at Birmingham^f (1861); and lastly, Verneuil's case.** Yerneuil's case and the Birmingham case were successful. The patients were lads of seventeen and nineteen. Modern surgeons have bravely striven to escape the deplorable necessity which has led to the establishment of the imperative rule of amputation in every gunshot fracture involving the knee-joint, and such eminent authorities as Legouest and Mac- leod have advised that excision should be substituted for amputation in cases in which the injury to the epiphyses is inconsiderable, the patient young and robust, and the requisite hygienic and surgical resources for careful after-treatment attainable. Un- happily, in an active campaign in the field, these circumstances are rarely met in conjunction. During the late war, complete excision of the knee-joint has been performed eleven times. An abstract of each case is here furnished: Private Alexander Eider, Co. I, 76th Pennsylvania Vols., aged twenty-five, was admitted into Hospital No. 1, Beaufort, South Carolina, October 24th, 1862. He was wounded at Pocotaligo, South Carolina, October 22d, 1862, by a rough lead canister ball, which entered over the front of the external condyle of the right femur, passed through the articulation, and lodged in the popliteal space. October 24th, 1862, Surgeon Eeed B. Bontecou, U. S. Vols., removed the ball by an incision, and sawed off the lower portion of the condyles of the femur, and excised a very thin slice from the head of the tibia. An H-shaped incision was employed. The transverse cut was accurately brought together by lead-wire sutures. The azygos artery was tied. The circulation and appearance of the limb were good, but there was some swelling of the knee-joint, which was painful on pressure or when moved. At the date of operation the patient was in good health. An ice-bag and lint wet in a solution of morphia were applied to the joint. October 25th, 1862, sulph. magnes. §i. The ice dressing was continued till November 2d. About this time there was a troublesome diarrhoea, which was checked by pills of opium and nitrate of silver. Diet, milk porridge. October 27tb, the limb was placed in a trough, stuffed with hay, which afforded much relief. Be- fore this the pain had been excessive. November 8th, no evidence of inflammation i'lo. 69.—Condyle of right femur, excised about the knee. Trausverse incision healed without suppuration. November 18th, teruaUondyief"'i>^^^^ has Steadily improved. December 1st, the bones had apparently united, and the incisions had healed except at a point on either side of the joint, from which a few drops of pus escaped on pressure. December 20th, starch bandage. December 26th, febrile disturbance. An erythematous blush over skin of lower extremity. Bandage removed. December 28th, febrile symptoms gone. The man was this day sent to the North on the steamer " Star of the South." He was seen by Dr. Bontecou in July, 1863, at "Fort Wood" Hospital, New York Harbor. He was not then able to walk, but subsequently did so with the aid of a cane. He was discharged from service August, 1863. In the summer of 1865, he was again heard from by Dr. Bontecou, and was still in good health. Corporal Charles Derrell, Co. F, 74th Indiana Vols., aged twenty-seven, was admitted, November 25th, 1863, into Branch No. 6, Field Hospital, Chattanooga, Tennessee, with fracture of the right knee-joint, by a round musket- * Fuch's Dissertat. 1854; and 0. Heyfelder's Trait6 des Resections, par E. Boeckel. Paris, 1863, p. 106. t Priedrich Esmarch, Die Resectionen nach Schusswunden, Kiel, 1851; and Statham's Esmarch, p. 113. X Macleod, Notes on the Surgery of the Crimea, p. 349. ? Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, October, 1860. II The Lancet, April 20th, 1861. ^ Medical Times and Gazette, May, 1861. ** Gazette Hebdomadairc, Nov. 1862 ; Soc. de Chirurgie do Paris, Seance de 10 Jufn, 1863; and Legouest, 'l'rait6 de Chirurgie d'Arm^e, p. 750.