40 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. can supply shall be given. If there is anything further which, in your judgment, "\ve may be able to give, please write again and let us have questions to answer, or in some other manner indicate the points upon which you wish information. I am, Colonel, very respectfully, your obedient servant, HENRY C. MEREIAM, Major 38<A Infantry, Brevet Colonel, U. S. A. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel J. C. McKee, Surtjeon, U. S. A. Washington, D. C, February 8, 1868. General: Learning that the reports regarding cholera, as it appeared in the 1st Battalion, 38th U. S. Infantry, during its march from Fort Harker, Kansas, to Fort Bayard, N. M., has been lost in transmission, I have the honor to offer the following from memory, all papers, books, &c., being left with the command : While on duty with Company " C," 3d U. S. Cavalry, then encamped on the Purgatoire river, learning of the death ol Dr. McGill, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., and that the 38th U. S. Infantry, suffering greatly from cholera, was destitute of medical assistance, my proper command being entirely free from disease of any kind, having received permission from Brevet Captain W. Cain, commanding "C" troop, I joined the detachment of 38th Infantry July 23d, 1867, they then being in camp on the Arkansas river, two miles below old Fort Lyon. The camp was, in my opinion^ ill chosen, being on the bottom ; though the high bluffs, with excellent camping grounds, were within two hundred yards. The men had dug wells at some distance from tlie river bank, using the water that percolated through, though it was highly impregnated with the alkali that abounds in those regions. The two considerations mentioned caused me to urge upon Brevet Colonel Merriam, Major 38th Infantry, commanding detachment, the immediate necessity of moving the command to a better position, besides the effect which would be produced upon the morale of the men by the constant and varied changes inci- dent to the march. The hospital was in a Sibley tent, which, from its defective ventilation and excessive heat, was anything but calculated for hospital purposes during the summer. There were about twenty men in hospital suffering or convalescing from cholera and choleraic diarrhoea diseases. On the 24th one new case occurred, coming under observation about 11 a. m. The late Dr. McGill had confined himself to the chloroform treatment, which had met with success in his hands during the cholera epidemic on David's island. New York harbor, so it was continued in the present case. A most inopportune rain storm, flooding the whole bottom, with over two feet of wa'er in the hospital, it being in the lowest portion, prevented a fair test of the chloro- form treatment, as the patient was drowned, the other patients in the hospital giving him no assistance, hnd all outside commu- nication being cut off by the violence of the storm, which prostrated every tent except the Sibley. On the 25th the command crossed the Arkansas river; after which four new cases occurred, two of them being teamsters. They were all put under the treatment thoroughly tried by myself during the epidemic of cholera which occurred in Chicago in 1853, and afterward in New York city in 1866. My belief that the extreme prostration, nervous in its character, which always accompanies a violent invasion of the disease, indicated that its force was expended almost altogether upon the spinal cord, suggested to me the use of strychnia in large doses as a powerful and certain excitant of the nervous system, combined, in the first instance, with an aqueous solution of capsicum, to stimulate the stomach and promote rapid absorption of the strychnia, The treatment, therefore, adopted was a tablespoonful of the solution, and of a grain of strychnia; the strychnia to be repeated in 15 minutes. In all the four cases in which this treatment was adopted the improvement was so immediate and marked that, in a few minutes after the second dose, the patient fell into a calm sleep, the cramps being perfectly, and other symptoms very much relieved. The treatment afterward was expectant, and all recovered. In all cases the usual symptoms of cholera, such as rice-water discharges, collapse, and apathy, were present. The last case occurred about one day's march from Iron Springs. There were of course many cases of diarrhoea and dysentery, about sixty men presenting themselves daily at sick call, but the vast majority of them were of such a light character that they were not put upon the sick report, or relieved from duty with the command. After crossing the Eaton range, all diseases, except those common to every column upon the march, disappeared; and one week's quarantine on the Upper Ocate put the command in a thoroughly healthy condition. Of the cases found by me upon joining the command, three died on the march. I cannot close this report without calling the attention of the Department to Hospital Steward D. D. Peabody, U. S. A., whose devotion and care of the sick was so unremitting as to prostrate himself completely. Trusting that the circumstances under which this report is witten will be sufficient excuse for its meagreness, I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, H. M. KIRKE, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Fort Lvox, C. T., July 22, 1867. Geneuai, : I have the honor to report that the 38th U. S. Infantry (two companies) .arrived at old Fort Lyon, C. T., July 20th, with cholera among them. I visited the command by direction of the post commander, .and ascertained from Brevet Colonel Merriam, commanding the detachment, that the first case occurred the day after they left Fort flarker, and that a citizen employe of the quartermaster's department died of cholera at Fort Harker the day before the 38th II. S. Infantry left there; that there had been twenty cases among the troo])s, with six deaths; that Mrs. Dr. McGill died of cholera on the 17th instant; that Dr. McGill, U. S. A., had been left 30 miles back, too sick to travel.