SUB-DISTPJCT OF THE KIO GKANJJE. 9i9 on this day was allowed to visit Dr. Eeilly, whose case will be noticed hereafter, and who had been taken sick in town on the 2'M, two days before. Upon Dr. Furley's return to the post hospital lie found Forbes there sick. * * * Forbes was a notorious drunkard, and for more than two weeks before his death had been drinking excessively. A few daj's before his death he started to go to San Antonio, but was taken sick and lay by the roadside (it is stated) nearly 24 hours before he was taken back to Ei(j Grande City, and from thence to the post hospital. That he vomited black matter, as stated, before his death, may be admitted, but there is most reasonable ground for doubt as to the character of the disease. It is quite certain that no one at the post of Ringgold Barracks contracted yellow fever from him by contagion. At about this date—September'24th—communication between the post and Rio Grande City was stopped; and as Dr. Furley did not again leave the post till about November 1st, none of his statements regarding the events of this period in Rio Grande City are made from personal knowledge. The second case reported as yellow fever in Rio Grande City was that of Dr. B. S. Reilly, late Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., who was taken sick Sunday, September 22d, and died Saturday, September 28th. This case has at all times been declared by Dr. Headly to be one of congestion of the brain. The history of this case, as nearly as can be ascertained, is as follows, viz: Dr. Reilly was taken sick on Sunday evening with a slight chill, followed by a moderate fever, which continued without increase or abatement till Wednesday. He had pains in the head and back, and Hushed face, when attacked, but no redness of the eyes was noticed. He did not appear to be very ill, but believed from the beginning that he would die, and on Wednesday sent for a priest. On this day increased feverishness was noticed in the morning, whicli abated at night, and he begun to have irritability of the stomach. The Doctor had been taking cathartic medicines, but they did not operate well, and believing now that his disease was intermittent fever, he began to take quinine. He was very thirsty, and during the day— Wednesday—drank freely of a very acid solution of citric acid in water. On Thursday morning another and more severe exacerbation of the fever occurred, with increased irritability of the stomach, and occasional vomiting of a clear liquid; Dr. Reilly became much excited, and at times irrational, and feared that he had yellow fever. More quinine was taken, but, as with everything else taken during the day, was vomited as soon as swallowed. On Friday morning the fever was again greatly increased; he became delirious, was quite violent during the night, and continued delirious until death on the following- day. The irritability of the stomach continued, and an increasing amount of dark-colored sediment was observed in the matter vomited during the succeeding 24 hours. Dr. Headley, of Comargo, first saw the case on the evening of this day—Friday—and said it was one of congestion of the brain ; had Dr. Reilly's hair cut short, cooling lotions applied to his head, and gave medi- cines which were rejected. Dr. Reilly grew worse rapidly, and on Saturday morning was placed in a hot bath containing a pound of Colman's mustard, (so says Dr. Headley,) and after being taken from the bath, was given black coflee to drink. Dr. Reilly became quiet and slept (comatose ?) shortly after the bath, and remained so until death at 3 o'clock p. m. He vomited very black matter two or three times during the last three hours, which made stains on the bed linen that coidd not be washed out with soap and cold water; experienced nurses then present declared this case to be one of yellow fever, which Dr; Headley does not believe. In Dr. Furley's report it is made to appear that Dr. Headley contracted the fever by contagion from Dr. Reilly, and that Mrs. Headley was sick afterwards with the same disease. The fact is, that Mrs. Headley was ill early in September with a disease which Dr. Headley thfnks was more like yellow fevei" than any other case he saw, and that Dr. Headley was not sick with yellow fever, which he had already had long before, but with some other disease. Colonel Gautierez, who is reported to have died October 5th with yellow fever, did not see bis friend, Dr. Reilly, during his illness, as stated, and was treated by Dr. Headley for congestive intermittent fever. Colonel'Gautierez survived two severe paroxysms of the fever, and was in a fair way for recovery, when. Dr. Headley being taken ill, the case came under the treatment of a doctor by whom castor oil was given to the patient, producing severe catharsis and vomiting, followed by a third paroxysm resulting in death. Mr. Dallas, whose case is mentioned in Dr. Furley's report, was a very intimate friend of Dr. Reilly; was with him night and day during his illness, and was greatly fatigued, as well as much depressed, by the death of his friend. Mr. Dallas was taken ill on the day of Dr. Reilly's burial—Sunday, September 29tli—with a very high fever, but was on the street again in three days. He has since suffered much from intermittent fever. In regard to Dr. Furley's own case, it must be said that there is much ground for doubting the correctness of his statements. On the afternoon of the 30th of September I was at Ringgold Barracks for two hours while the steamer from Brownsville, by which I visited the post, was stopping thtre. Dr. Furley was evidently very nervous and apprehensive; said that he was not feeling well; that he had been twice exposed to j-ellow fever, in the cases of Dr. Reilly and Mr. Forbes, during the preceding week, and that he expected lie would be sick. He was much jaundiced, with decided j-ellov/ness of the eyes, and had been talking much to other officers of his having the fever. Dr. Furley was taken sick on the evening of this day—Monday, September 30th—and became greatly alarmed. Dr. Headley, of Camargo, was sent for, and visited and prescribed for him during the night, or on the following morning, a fact not mentioned in Dr. Furley's report. Dr. Furley was given some blue mass and quinine, and on the following day was considered out of danger. Dr. Headley declares that Dr. Furley did not have yellow fever, and his nurse now says the same thing. It is altogether probable that his disease was simjily bilious fever, as stated by his physician. It is quite certain that no cases of yellow fever followed Dr. Furley's illness at the post. Lieutenant Colonel Shatter, who is reported as the third case on the tabular report of Dr. Furley, arrived at the post on the afternoon of September 30th from Brownsville; was taken sick only 48 hours afterwards; his illness was not severe, and, undoubtedh-, was not yellow fever. The fourth case on Dr. Furley's tabular report is of so doubtfid a character as hardly to require notice. In addition to the papers already referred to, relating to the recent epidemic at Rio Grande City and vicinity, it seems not improper to forward an official report of the case of Acting Assistant Surgeon William E. Savage, U. S. A. Dr. Savage left Brownsville, where yellow fever was prevailing, on the 8th of November, arrived at Ringgold Barracks on the 10th, was taken