92 MORTALITY RATES. with which they were prepared, and, it is believed, will compare favorably with any other set of statistical papers in existence. It is true, indeed, that the duty of making reports was sometimes neglected, and that sometimes they were missing, from the absence of surgeons, the capture of records by the enemy, or the loss of the papers themselves during transmittal;* but the de- ficiencies of this character became progressively less and less numerous and important, and, during the second, third, and fourth years of the war, the number of regiments and detachments not represented was comparatively small. Deficiencies of this kind are very much to be deplored, but they in no way diminish the value of the reports received for the troops which they represent; and where the troops represented amount to hundreds of thousands, the results have probably a scien- tific value very nearly as great as would have been possessed by complete reports. It has been deemed proper to present these considerations, because much has been said by persons unacquainted with statistical science as to the imperfection of the data which it has been possible to collect, and because it is nevertheless earnestly believed that to neglect the study of these data would be gravely prejudicial to the interests of military medicine and surgery in America. The circumstances interfering with the accuracy and completeness of our reports have operated in the case of all former military statistics in like degree, so that the results are fairly comparable; though it cannot be denied that the immense size of the figures in our case, and the consequent more perfect balancing of errors in opposite directions, lead us, on considerations which flow from the mathe- matical law of probabilities, to place greater confidence in the accuracy and importance of our results than in the figures collected under like circumstances by any other nation. The statistical tables necessary to present the data collected in a convenient shape for study can, it is hoped, be compressed into one quarto volume. They are now fully prepared for the first and second years of the war. The work on the third is well advanced; while that on the fourth has but recently been commenced. A few general considerations, based upon the manuscript of the tables for the first two years of the war, will here be presented, to give a general idea of the character and scope of the statistics in question. These considerations will have reference to the mortality rates, the prevalence of disease, and the comparative frequency of the several diseases, especially of those which have caused the chief mortality. A few remarks on the character of the latter afiections will also be presented, MORTALITY RATES. The mortality of the armies of the United States from disease alone was 48*7 per 1000 of mean strength during the first year of the war, viz., the year ending June 30th, 1862, and 65*2 per 1000 during the second year, viz., that ending June 30th, 1863.* In obtaining these ratios, the sum of the deaths reported by regiments and detach- ments, and by the general hospitals, is compared with the mean strength given by the *Thc mortality rate here given for the first year of the war differs slightly from that published in Circular No. 15, Surgeon General's OfiBce, September, 18G3, the difference resulting in part from corrections made in completing the discussion of the statistics of that year, in part from the incorporation of material not accessible when the original computation was made.