SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 62 TABULAR STATEMENT OF THE OPERATIONS OF EXCISIONS OP THE HEAD THE SURGEON Hospital and Hospital Number. 1. E Street Infirmary, Washing- ton, D. C. 2. Nash- ville, Tenn. 3. ClifiF- burne U. S. A. General Hospital, AVashing- ton, D. C. 4. National U. S. A. General Hospital, Baltimore, Md. 5. Field Hospital, Gaines- ville, Va. Name, Rank, Company, Regi- ment. Age. Date of Admis- sion to Hospital. Timothy Greely, Pri- vate Co. C, 5th Ex- celsior (74th N. Y. Vols.). Age,—. Ad- mitted October 5, 1861. Private. An infantry soldier of Gen. Buell's Army. Admitted March 18, 1862. T. C. Christopher, Pri- vate Co. D, 18th S. C. (Confederate). Age, 21. Admitted May 17, 1862. A robust and muscular man, but melancholy and despondent. John W. Nelling, Pri- vateCo. K, 1st Massa- chusetts Vols. Age, 25. Admitted July 25, 1864. , Private, Gen. R. King's Division. Admitted August 28, 1862. Description and Date of Wound or Injury. On what Occasion received. Round ball from smooth-bore musket entered near fold of nates,passed through femur, between tro- chanters,opened hip- joint and made its exit anteriorly. Fracture of upper ex- tremity of femur by a musket-ball. In a skirmish near Nash- ville, just before the occupation of the city by Gen. Buell. Wounded May 5, 1862, by amini6-ball,which entered two inches below and behind the trochanter major of the left side, and, passing forward, up- ward, and inward, remained in the body. A musket-ball entered the right groin and implicated the hip- joint. The patient was taken prisoner, and confined at Richmond for three months. White Oak Swamp, June 3 0, 1862. Ball entered over great trochanter of left femur, shattered the trochanter and produced a long fis- sure, running down the shaft to two in- ches below the lesser trochanter; the mis- sile then entered the pelvis. Gainesville, Va., August 28,1862. Date of Operation. October, 1861. March, 1802, a few days after the injury. May 20, 1862. August 21, 1862. August 28, 1862. Operation. Excision of the head, neck, and trochan- ters of the femur. Excision of the head, neck, and trochanter of the femur. A curvilinear incision four inches long was made behind the tro- clianter major, and parallel to the axis of the limb; through this the shattered fragments of the head and neck were removed; the ball was then found in the obturator fora- men, and removed; the haemorrhage was slight. Chloroform (pure) used. Excision of the head and neck of the right femur, through a straight incision car- ried down to the bone; the head was found stricken off from the neck of the epiphysis, and only retained in the ace- tabulum by the liga- mentum teres. Chlo- roform. Excision of the head, neck, trochanters, and two inches of the shaft of the left femur; the extreme length from the tip of the trochanter to the point at which the shaft was sawn, was four and three- fourths inches. Condition of injured Parts at Time of Operation. A stream of blood, and another of synovia (clear and pellucid), issued from wound of exit. External wound small. The fracture was lim- ited to the neck and trochanteric region. Tissues about joint swollen, and limb shortened and evert- ed; sanious pus dis- charging from wound; neck of fe- mur comminuted and head split into two pieces; acetabulum uninjured; the tro- chanter major was intact, and was left so by the operation. Ball entered right groin, passed hori- zontally backwards, and escaped poste- riorly. Head and neck of the femur were sound ; the great troclianter was split off in five fragments; from its base a very oblique fracture ran down- wards and inwards, anil produced a com- plete solution of con- tinuity of the shaft about two inches be- low the lesser tro- chanter.