27 NEW YOEK HARBOR The treatment has been varied. Hypodermic injections of sulphate of morphia and atropliia to 1^77) have appeared to do the greatest good. Ergot and camphor j ielded negative results. Opium alone effected little. Emetics and astringent injections have seemed to avail nothing. Turpentine stupes, sinapisms, hot-air applications, have been used. Acetate of potash and inhalations of the vapor of turpentine have appeared to act well. In one case of suppression of urine calomel in large doses was tried with no good results The most perfect rest has been enjoined and enforced, and in the last case (a successful one) a perforated mattress was used to secure it. Extracts from report of Brevet Lieutenant Colonel George M. McGill, assistant surgeon United States army. David's Island, New York Hauhor, Fehruary 25, 1867. Hart's island was originally wooded. Soon after the trees were cut down and cultivation attempted it was found that the island could not be made profitable. So it came to be in a measure abandoned. Its soil was sandy, underlaid by sienite, granite and metamorphic sandstone, and as such received what organic remains were cast upon it in its whole thickness, and, finally, where fresh water lay, in hollows of the rocky substratum. While Hart's island was used as a rendezvous for troops recruited or to be mustered out, and as a prison, from the winter of 1863-'64 to the spring of 1866, live thousand men a day received their rations and cast their excretions (in great part cer- tainly) upon its surface. I have been informed that at certain times so frequent were the foecal deposits that it was very disgusting to walk out of the main paths and roads. On its western extremity, where barracks were constructed, the soil, being comparatively thick, received organic remains and yielded products of their slow decomposition. When the atmosphere on the surface was confined and damp, these products accumulated and recombined. This confinement and dampness obtained under the barracks. These, constructed on simple shelter principles, with little or no regard to ventilation and drainage, were built, as it were, on ground-hoods, being raised to various heights, but all weather-boarded to the surface and close-floored within. What cracks there were in the floors served to receive filth and water, and to give vent upwards into the barracks to the depressing products of slow decomposition in the soil beneath. In such buildings as these seven companies of the seventeenth infantry, one of the Veteran Reserve Corps, and two of unassigned recruits were lodged in June, 1866. Little attention was given to police of the post. Among other evils the filth of years was left as accumulated upon the northern steep slope of the island. The food was not prepared with due care, nor can I think, judging from personal observation and after inquiry, that personal cleanliness was duly cared for. The command of the seventeenth infantry was composed of recruits, young and tender or full-aged and intemperate men. ********** The fire was lit by sparks from Governor's island. Recruits were sent from where cholera was to Hart's island. * The weather had not been oppressively hot. Every day sea breezes had refreshed the men. Attracted, I presume, by the accumulated organic remains, the island was swarming with flies. # * » # Extracts from monthly report of sick and wounded in De Camp VniTed States Ariny general hospital, David's island, New York hardor, July, 1S66, Brevet Lieutenant Colonel Anthony Hcger, Surgeon United States Army. The seventeenth regiment United States infantry reached David's island on the evening of July 20, 1866. Two privates were seized with symptoms of cholera during the voyage. One died on the following day, the other on the third day after arrival. There have been twelve cases to date, nine of which had all the stages of the disease in its most violent form. One of these was a laundress of company C, who is now convalescing and is in a fair way to recover. There have been seven deaths so far from the disease. ****«# None of the original occupants or patients of the island have been attacked by the disease, and the standard of health among them remains good. There have been fifty-eight cases of diarrhoea among the troops of the seventeenth United States infantry. Ihese cases were immediately taken into general hospital upon the appearance of the first symptoms, and were put upon prompt treatment. The island is thoroughly policed daily, and dietetic and sanitary measures rigidly enforced. Report of Surgeon and Brevet Lieutenant Colonel J. F. Hammond, United States Army, on the precautions taken to prevent cholera among the officers and enlisted men on duty in New York city. No. 24 West Eleventh Street, New York, September 25, 1866. In addition to the general sanitary police regulations, instituted by the Metropolitan Board of Health, special measures were talsen early in June with reference to the preservation of the health of the officers and men of the army within the limits ot this city, Williamsburg, and Jersey City, against epidemic cholera, which was then at quarantine, but had not appeared in