EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. 50 WILSOW'S CREEK, KANSAS. Extract from Montldy Report of Side and Wounded, Company "G," 10th U. S. Cavalry, Wilson's Creel; Kansas, July, 18G7. Acting Assistant Surgeon A. W. Wiggin, TJ. S. A. I was assigned to duty with this command July 25th, in accordance with Special Order No. 49, Headquarters District of the Upper Arkansas, dated July 25th, 1867. This report, therefore, covers only the last six daj's of the month. I found nearly lialf of the command unfit for duty, including the two commissioned officers, six or eiglit of the cases being cholera, the remainder diarrlioca. Four of the deaths which are borne on this report occurred during the thirty-six hours immediately preceding my arrival. I have very carefully disinfected all excrements; have had water for drinking boiled, or disinfected with permanganate of potash; by holding sick calls three or four times daily, have attacked, so fiir as reported to me, every instance of looseness of bowels at the very start. At the date of this report the disease seems to have materially abated, no new cases having arisen for forty-eight hours. I learn that this company left Fort Harker on the 16th instant, leaving behind three or four men in post hospital aifected g^ith choleraic diarrhoea. Since that time they have frequently changed camp, selecting dry, airy locations, in the vicinity of springs of water, not remaining more than three or four days in a place. Occasional cases of diarrhoea had come to the notice of the company commander, and were treated by him, from the time of leaving Harker, but did not present alarming 'features till about the 20th. From that time the disease manifested itself with unusual violence. Except so far as the disease is of purely epidemic origin, it seems to have been brought with the conmiand from Fort Harker, where cholera had existed for weeks. Its violence was, no doubt, aggravated by the water used for drinking; by lack of variety and inferior quality of the ration issued; by the carelessness and ignoi-ance of the men, new to the service, and naturally more prone to disease of an epidemic type than white men. The water is of the same character as tliat generally found in this part of the country; flowing from superficial springs, along the banks of creeks, considerably charged with organic impurities, and liable to produce diarrhoja in those wIjo are unaccustomed to its use. The men have been supplied with a very poor meat ration—fat, rancid bacon—and no fresh vegetables. CAMP C^RIERSOJV, KANSAS. Extract from the Monthly Report of Sick and Wounded, Company "C," 10th U. S. Cavalry, Little Arkansas, Kansas, July, 1867. Acting Assistant Surgeon Wm. H. Buckmaster, TJ. S. A. The cholera first appeared in this camp on the 12th of July. It was supposed to be brought here by one of the messengers from Fort Harker, where it was prevailing. After a day or two it subsided, and again broke out. Two of the men that died only lived about four hours after being taken. No cases in camp at this date. Extract from the Special Report of Cholera Patients at Camp Grierson, Kansas, for the month of July, 1867. Acting Assistant Surgeon Wm. H. Buckmaster, U. S. A. The cholera first appeared in this camp on the 12th day of July, 1867, in the person of George Broomfield, a courier from this camp to Fort Harker, where the disease was prevailing very seriously. This patient was very low, and was at one time in collapse. His recovery was quite slow after convalescence was fully established. My treatment consisted in endeavoring to relieve the vomiting, purging, and cramps, which were very severe; in the collapse I used stimulants and friction freely. Tlie next case was that of Thornton Hull,with whom I used similar treatment to the above. He seemed at one time to be convalescing, but had a relapse and died. The case of Charles Murray was somewhat milder than tlie two former cases; the disease yielded to the action of remedies employed, and made a good recovery. The case of Jeremiah Ansil was an unfavorable one; he was laboring under chronic rheumatism and pleurisy. The cases of Columbus Schloss and William Patterson were very severe, the former dj ing within an hoiu' after the disease showed itself; the latter was on guard and fell on his beat. Collapse immediately set in, and the patient died within two hours after the disease appeared. The case of David Dunn made a good recovery under the above treatment. Extract from Special Report of Cholera Patients at Camp Grierson, Kansas, for the month of August, 1867, by Acting Assistant Surgeon Wm. H. Buckmaster, TJ. S. A. There have been no cases of cholera in this camp since August 17th, 1867. Contrary to the experience of other epidemics, the disease continued very severe up to the last case, which was as severe as any of the cases during its prevalence in this camp. In some cases medicine seemed to have a very desirable effect; in other cases you could not see any effects from medicine. There is no danger of its breaking out in this camp again this year, as the cold weather is now api)roaching. I used all the sanitary means at my command to j)revent its spread among the troops at this camp, burning the clothes of the dead and the bedding used by the sick. Some of my ho-sipital stores were thus destroyed. ,