GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 25 coveries is unexpectedly large, but includes only cases in which the reports showed, beyond question, that the abdominal cavity had been involved. Abstracts of several such cases are subjoined: Private John Barr, Co. E, 76th New York Vols., aged forty-five years, was admitted into Douglas Hospital, at "Washington, May 18th, 1864, with a penetrating gunshot wound of the abdomen, received on May 9th, at the battle of the Wilderness. A conoidal musket-ball had entered at the junction of the left twelfth rib with its cartilage, and, passing downwards, backwards, and outwards through the ilium, lodged in the gluteal muscles, whence it was removed by incision. On admission, the wound copiously discharged a thin translucent fluid, resembling diluted bile, which evidently came from the small intestine, for, among other reasons, it had no fcecal odor. Were further proof of the origin of the discharge required, it would be furnished by the fact that three ascarides lumbricoides escaped from the wound during the second and third weeks of the treatment. The discharge, for nine days prior to admission, was, according to the patient, similar to that above noted. The patient was kept perfectly quiet in a recumbent posture. The discharge from the wound was facilitated by large masses of charpie being used to absorb it. For several weeks the patient was nourished solely by milk, milk-punch, and beef tea. His appetite was poor, his sleep much disturbed by cough. But there was no abdominal pain or tenderness, and at no time, throughout the treatment, was there any symptom of peritoneal inflammation. On May 2'2d, a soap and water enema was administered without result. Nothing more was attempted in this direction, as the patient was doing well, and nature seemed competent to meet every indication. On June 3d, the discharge had entirely ceased, and the patient was much improved. On June 6th, he had a large alvine evacuation, the first since May 9th. On June 11th, with the aid of an enema, he had another large dejection. From this time he improved rapidly. On August 16th, a fragment of necrosed bone, that could be recognized as a portion of the ilium, was removed from the wound in the gluteal region. About the same period bits of necrosed cartilage were taken from the fistulous orifices opening near the wound of entrance. The bowels were disposed to costiveness, and flatulence was troublesome. Early in October there was an attack of dysentery, which lasted one week. On May 5th, 1865, a needle-shaped bit of bone escaped from the wound of entrance. On May 8th, both wounds were entirely healed. On July 16th, the patient was photographed at the Army Medical Museum. He was then in good health. Private George H. Bowers, 8th Illinois Cavalry, was wounded in a skirmish near Frederick, Maryland, Septem- ber 13th, 1862, by a musket-ball, which entered two inches above the umbilicus, an inch to the left of the linea alba, and made its exit beneath the tenth rib, three inches to the left of the spinous process of the tenth dorsal vertebra. Immediately after he was shot, he vomited blood copiously until syncope supervened. Hsematemesis recurred fre- quently for seven days, and blood was passed at stool. Acute peritonitis ensued. The medical attendants had no doubt that the stomach was perforated. Liquids taken into the stomach passed freely through the anterior wound. The case was treated by opium in large doses. In May, 1863, the patient was transferred to the hospital at Stewart's Mansion, in Baltimore. The wound had healed, and the digestive organs had resumed their normal action. But the body was bent forward by intra-abdominal adhesions. The patient was subsequently discharged from service. Sergeant Lewis E. Morley, Co. F, 61st New York Vols., was wounded at Gettysburg, July 1st, 1863, by a conoidal musket-ball, which entered a little below the umbilicus and to the left of the linea alba, and passed directly through the body, dividing the intestine in its passage. When brought to the field hospital he was in a state of collapse. Faeces escaped from the wound. There was excessive tenderness and pain. Opiates were freely administered, and the symptoms of peritonitis gradually abated. On July 10th, the patient was in a condition to be removed to Balti- more. The discharge of faeces from the wounds continued until September 28th, when there was an evacuation by the rectum. The wounds soon afterwards closed, and on October 27th, the patient was sent home on furlough. Private A. J. Marker, Co. I, 4th Maine Vols., aged eighteen years, was wounded at Centreville, September 1st, 1862, by a conoidal musket-ball, which entered the left hypochondriac region, between the eighth and ninth ribs, and lodged under the skin a little to the left of the spinous process of the second lumbar vertebra. He entered Epiphany Hospital, at Washington, on the following day, and the ball was removed by an incision. There was immediately a copious faical discharge through the incision. It was ascertained that the ninth rib was fractured, and fragments of it were removed. On September 5th, a portion of gangrenous omentum presented at the posterior wound and was excised. A sphacelated portion of the descending colon was also removed. The fsecal fistula persisted until May, 1863, when the discharge from the anterior wound became sero-purulent. A month afterwards both wounds healed up soundly, and the patient was sent to his home in Belfast, Maine. In November, 1863, while the wounds were still discharging stercoraceous matter, a colored drawing was made, which is No. 15 of the Surgical Series of Drawings, Private John Harm, Co. I, 20th Indiana Vols., was wounded at the battle of Fair Oaks, May 31st, 1862, by a S. G. 0.