XXV REPORT ON 'epidemic CHOLERA AND YELLOW FEVER. case among t]ie troops at Mobile was tliat of Major Tracy, attacked September 17tb, neai'ly a month after the fever began to prevail at Fort Morgan, at the mouth of the harbor. About the same time the disease appeared among the citizens of Mobile. September 18th the troops at Mobile were moved to Stark's Landing, on the eastern shore of the bay, about ten miles from the city; a few cases occurred, however, among the troops thus moved, as well as among the few left behind; in all, there were twenty-two cases and seven deaths out of an average mean strength of 306. At Barrancas, Fla., one fatal case is reported. The patient was taken off a quarter- master's steamer from New Orleans. The disease did not extend to the command. That the escape of the troops; at Barrancas was due to the mode in which they were isolated, and not to the absence of the conditions which favor the development of the disease in persons exposed, is shown by the history of the epidemic among the citizens of the adjacent town of Pensacola and the naval station at that place. At the naval station 161 cases and 34 deaths occurred. The details are presented in the interesting report appended. (See Appendix, page 147.) At Key AVest, Florida, yellow fever was imported directly from Havana. The first case among the troops at Key West occurred August 22d; in all, there were seventeen cases and two deaths, the last cases occurring in October. The disease was introduced b}'' the Spanish frigate Francisco de Assiz, which, followed a few hours later by the English steamer Narva, arrived at Key West July 31st, for the purpose of laying the submarine cable between Key West and Cuba. The Francisco de Assiz had been lying for some time in the harbor of Havana, where she had many cases of yellow fever on board. The health officer's wish to quarantine these ships was overruled by superior authority, and free communication permitted between the ships and shere. Shortly after the arrival of the two ships, yellow fever appeared on the Narva. Her sick, officers and men, were brought on shore and treated in the principal hotel, in the Marine hospital, and in private dwellings, where many of them died. Up to this time there had been no yellow fever at Key AVest, but shortly after cases began to occur among both the citizens and the troops. According to the report of a board of officers appended, (Appendix, page 153,) the first case of yellow fever at Fort Jefferson, Tortugas, appeared August 19th; and, in all, one hundred and eighty-six cases and thirty-two deaths occurred among the troops, the last cases being in October. There are, besides, thirty-vsix cases and two deaths reported among the white prisoners at the post, and two cases, not fatal, among the colored prisoners. Tdie report of the board does not account for the introduction of the disease. The schooner Matchless, which arrived on the 25th of August, is said to have brought a case; but as five had occurred previously, the original introduction of the fever remained unaccounted for It has, however, been ascertained, quite recently, that a case had occurred before the first mentioned in the report of the board, which fully explains the mode in which the disease was introduced. An officer who had visited Havana returned to Fort Jefferson on the 3d or 4th of July; on the 18th he was attacked with yellow fever; he recovered and went north, convalescent, August 3d. The death of the medical officer in charge at the time undoubtedly accounts for the omission of this important fact in the original report. Finally, at Tallahassee, Florida, two cases and one death are reported during the month of October out of a strength of 92 officers and men. Acting Assistant Surgeon D