DIARRHCEA AND DYSENTERY. 125 lated to deceive the unwary pathologist, especially if he attempts the microscopical study of the excreta without a prior knowledge of the minute structure of the articles of diet likely to be encountered. Besides such undigested fragments, mucus, blood and pus, in variable quantities, are commonly met, with excess, deficiency, or absence of the products of the intestinal transformation of the hepatic secretions. For the recognition of blood and pus, when they exist in small quantity, the microscope is necessary; in large amounts they can be recognized by the naked eye. Especial significance is to be attached to the jDresence of pus, which, in moderate quantities, can be recognized in a vast number of cases, probably in all those in which there are ulcers of any size in the colon. Of course, it may happen that though pus exists, its corpuscles have been destroyed by the peculiar form of putrefaction which the in- testinal contents sometimes undergo; for, coincident with the diminished activity of the digestive processes, forms of fermentation and even of putrefaction occur, which are not usually met with in the healthy human body. The frequent occurrence in the stools of torula cells, indicative of the setting up of fermentation among the saccharine and starchy elements of the undigested food, has been mentioned by Dr. Salisbury in the paper before referred to. This quite accords with my own observations; but the account given in his paper of the presence of other "algoid forms," etc. is I presume, based upon some misinterpretation. For a brief statement of some facts as to the pathological anatomy of this disease, see subsequent remarks on the specimens in the Museum. The papers above referred to contain also much interesting detail as to the treat- ment of these affections, which cannot be here introduced on account of its bulk. A few remarks may, however, be made in reference to the chronic variety. In this form, the two most important elements of treatment would appear to be diet and climate. The diet should be antiscorbutic. Fresh meat and broth made from it, eggs, milk, oysters, etc. are of the greatest value; but fresh vegetables also exercise a favor- able influence. If the disease remains obstinate under this diet and suitable medica- tion, the patient should be transported to a non-malarial northern locality. As to medication, the whole range of vegetable and mineral tonics, astringents and altera- tives have been employed with variable success. Among the remedies which have been brought into extensive use in this country for the first time during the present war, I may briefly mention subnitrate of bismuth, strychnia and arsenic. Subnitrate of bismuth is perhaps the most generally available of these articles. The first paper published on its use in camp diarrhoea was that of Acting Assistant Surgeon J. B. Trask,* who recommended it in both the acute and chronic forms. Dr. Trask advised the bismuth to be given daily in one large dose of from one to four scruples, which he regarded as more efficacious than its use in divided doses. He was very sanguine as to its success in all cases in which the patient was not actually dying when the treatment was commenced. He says: "In not a case of the two hundred and seventy treated at Finley Hospital during the period named, and by this agent, was th^e a failure in promptly and radically arresting the disease, when given in the quan- * Eeport on the Treatment of Acute and Chronic Diarrhoea with Subnitrate of Bismuth at Camp Downey, Cali- fornia, and Finley Hospital, Washington, D. C, by J. B. Trask, M.D., Acting Assistant Surgeon U. S. A. San Francisco, 1863.