EXTRACTS FKOM OFFICIAL REPORTS. unavailable in tlie progress of the disease, while the citizen nurses (so promptly furnished by the Medical Director) could not at once assimilate with us. Among the enlisted men, I found, on my arrival, a prevailing dread of the disease, amounting almost to a panic as greater numbers were taken down with it; and I am sorry to say that many of them resorted to drinking intoxicating liquors to excess and to other irregularities, thus diminishing the chances of recovery if taken sick. So extended did I find the prevalence of the disease, that I made no eflbrts to continue the system of isolation previously carried out; not that I disbelieve in the principle of quarantine in this disease, but because, in my opinion, it was unnecessary and impracticable, under the circumstances, to isolate the cases. A very serious diiEculty was the entire lack of appreciation by convalescents of the necessity of extreme prudence in exertions made and in diet. Some of the speedily fatal cases that I attended were convalescents from previous mild attacks, relapsing on account of errors in diet, exposure to fatigue or cold, or abuse of stimulants. The disease seemed to them so new and unusual in its characteristics that the soldiers failed to be guided by the reiterated warnings of their (jhysicians. Owing to the urgent demands on my time for the care and supervision of the very sick, and attention necessary to officers and their families, as well as for attendance on laundresses and soldiers, either outside the garjison or in inconvenient parts of it, I found no time for taking special notes of cases or for making post mortem examinations, which I much regret. In my opinion, the use of screens around the beds of the very ill is a valuable precaution, and I have found that the treatment of some cases in separate apartments presented better results. Too much stress cannot be laid on an early giving up to treatment by the patient; frequently untoward symptoms occur on the fifth, sixth, or seventh days of the disease, directly traceable to neglect of caution and omission of treatment in the beginning of the attack. The early establishment of free action of the excretory functions must modify the subsequent conditions, tend to prevent congestion, and place the system in proper condition to receive nutrition and stimulation, when these are indicated. So simple a means as applying cloths wrung out of hot water I have found very valuable in relieving pain, and, over the epigastrium, in controlling hiccough and nausea. Cold applications to the head, and bits of ice to take into the mouth, I have found to be very greatful to the patient; and the water thus reaching the stomach, rarely, if ever, causes or promotes nausea. Carbonic aSd seems peculiarly valuable in restraining vomiting, whether combining sti(nulation, as in champagne wine, or alone, as in seltzer water. In many cases where everything is vomited from the stomach, the patient may be sustained for hours—even days—by stimulating and nourishing enemata. Private Huber, 1st U. S. Infantry, afforded a typical instance of this kind: by this means he recovered, after copious discharges of black vomit, frequent epistaxis, bleeding from the gums, and active delirium. In my opinion, the various alcoholic stimulants should be regarded, in the treatment of this disease, in the light of indispen- sable medicines, and, until convalescence is established, should be furnished as such to officers under treatment. I can speak, with grateful remembrance, of the thorough and intelligent co-operation of Brevet Brigadier General W. M. Graham, U. S. A., commanding the post, with my exertions in behalf of the sick and the health of the garrison; and I received valuable aid from Lieutenant W. N. Tisdall, 1st U. S. Infantry, acting assistant and post commissary. As medical assistant, I had Acting Assistant Surgeon M. Stovell, U. S. A., whose assistance was of great consequence, and as fully given as his impaired health jiermitted. The services of Acting Hospital Steward Edmund Lettson, private of Company "I," 1st U. S. Infantry, were very valuable, and his behavior excellent. Private George Hands, wardmaster. Company "F," 1st U. S. Infantry, since deceased, was so unsparing of himself, so attentive to his duties, as to win golden opinions from all his associates. Private John Carter, Company "K," 1st U. S. Infantry, nurse, and Private Caswell, Company "I," 1st U. S. Infantry, cook, both of whom subsequently died of the fever, rendered most valuable services. Private Robert Potter, 1st U. S. Infantry, managed the dispensing of medicines very satisfactorily during the time I was on duty. On proceeding to the barracks, I found the type of the disease more severe than I had seen in my experience and observation in the city. After my recovery, I ascertained from some of the practitioners of medicine in this city, that, at or about that period, the disease became more severe here also. Many of the soldiers of the 1st U. S. Infantry are, comparatively, recent comers to this climate, which might constitute further explanation. I cannot conclude. General, without expressing my high appreciation of your counsel and suggestions, given me in connection with critical cases of the disease and other matters, at the times of your frequent visits to the post, as well as to express my sincere thanks for your kind attentions to me in my subsequent severe illness. I remain, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, C. B. WHITE, Assistant Surgeon, and Brevet Major, U. S. A. Brevet Brigadier General T. A. McPaulin, Medical Director Fifth Military District. Extract from Motitfilij Report of Sick aud Wounded for Colored Troops, Post Hospital, New Orleans, La. E. A. Koerper, Assistant Surgeon, October, 1867. Yellow Fever: This fever, among colored troops, being of rare occurrence, the (juestion arose, why were these troops so severely visited ? The greater jjortion of yellow fever cases among negro troops was among the unacclimated recruits. Color has, also, much to do with the susceptibility for the disease, the pure Aft-ican being much less liable than the mulatto. The disease has been quite fatal in the colored wards of this hospital, although the medical attendance, nursing, and diet was the same for negro and white.