64 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. TABULAE, STATEMENT OF THE OPERATIONS OF Hospital and Hospital Number. Name, Kank, Company, Regi- ment. Age. Date of Admig- Bion to Hospital. Description and Date of Wound or Injury. On what Occasion received. Date of Operation. Operation Condition of injured Parts at Time of Operation. 6. Cliff- burne U. S. A. General Hospital, Washing- ton, D. C. , Private, Army of Virginia. Admitted September 2, 1862. Mini^-ball entered the left hip directly over the trochanter major, and embedded itself in the neck of the bone. Second Bull Run, August 29,1862. Sept. 4, 1862. Straight incision was made over trochanter major, and all frag- ments removed; the head of the femur was then removed, and the shaft of the femur cut off with a chain-saw at the level of trochanter minor. Trochanter major and neck of femur split and comminuted; head of bone not in- jured; nojointopen- ed; tissues about joint but slightly swollen, and dis- charging healthy pus. 7. Ware- house Hos- pital, George- town, D. C. F. Machlin, Private Co. —, nth Penn- sylvania Vols. Age, —: Admitted Sep- tember 8, 1862. Musket-ball entered the right buttock and emerged an inch and a half below and within the anterior superior spinous pro- cess of the right ili- um, comminuting the neck of the femur. Sept. 20, 1862. Excision of head and neck of right femur; a straight incision five inches long from a point two inches behind and one inch below the anterior- superior spinous pro- cess to the trochan- teric region; re- moval of neck at junction with tro- chanter, with chain- saw ; exarticulation vessel tied. Neck of femur in frag- ments; head in situ, and not fractured; shaft uninjured; foot everted; limb short- ened; acetabulum uninjured. 8. College Hospital, George- town, D. C. Charles E. Marston, Private Co. F, 1st Massachusetts Vols. Age, 19. Admitted September 6, 1862. A large bullet wound one inch anterior to and on a level with the right trochanter major; no exit; com- minution of the head and neck of the fe- mur. Second Bull Run, August30,1862. Sept. 27, 1862. Excision of head and neck of the right fe- mur ; a slightly curv- ed incision, five in- ches long, on the out- side of the thigh, the shot-hole in the mid- dle of the incision; rough end of femur removed by small saw; one small ves- sel tied; conoidal ball removed. Limb half as large again as its fellow; neck broken into at least forty small frag- ment s ; trochanter uninjured; head shattered. 9. No. 3 U. S. A. General Hospital, Frederick, Md. Cornelius Callaghan, Private Co. —, Penn- sylvania Vols. Age, —. Admitted Sep- tember 19, 1862. A shell wound of the outer upper portion of left thigh, with fracture of trochan- ter major. Sept. 29, 1862. An examination under chloroform, recom- mended by Medical Inspector Coolidge and Surgeon Milhau, U. S. A., revealed a fracture through the trochanter and fis- sure extending with- 111 IIH; OtlUhUlC , lllc incision was extend- ed three inches below the trochanter major, and a chain-saw was passed around the shaft of the femur, which was divided just below tlie seat of fracture; the head of the bone was then disarticulated ; no vessels required liga- ture. The trochanter was entirely separated and detached by mus- cular action.