DIARRHCEA AND DYSENTERY. 122 of the disease, for example, would be almost as unfortunate as to neglect the considera- tion of diet. The influence of climate, in this connection, is abundantly proved by the detailed statistics of individual armies and localities, too voluminous to be presented in this place, but which will appear in the official volumes. It is also worthy of note that the month of the greatest prevalence of diarrhoea and dysentery in any army is often also the month of the greatest prevalence of intermittent fever. But since it is not possible, in campaigning in malarial countries, to avoid exposure to malaria, the chief interest here attaches to the connection of climate with treatment. This connection is of such a nature, that the number of recoveries bears a direct relation to the latitude of the climate in which the patients are treated and to its freedom from malaria. Passing by the figures of the first year of the war, during which the deaths from chronic diarrhoea and dysentery were comparatively few, the second year gives the following results, which are of especial significance. During the second year of the war, the proportion of deaths from chronic diarrhoea and chronic dysentery in the general hospitals of New England was one to every forty- nine (48*8) patients admitted for these disorders; in the general hospitals of New York City and State, including the hospital at Newark, New Jersey, one to every nineteen (18-7) cases; in the general hospitals of Philadelphia and at other places in Pennsyl- vania and Delaware, one to every fifteen cases; in the general hospitals of Maryland and the District of Columbia, including those of Washington, Georgetown, Alexandria, Frederick, Baltimore, Annapolis, etc., one to every eleven cases (11"4); in the general hospitals at Fortress Monroe and on the coast of North and South Carolina, one to every seven cases (7*1). The mortality was greater in the Central region of the continent, but the relative influence of latitude was still observed. In the general hospitals of Ohio, Indiana, Illi- nois, Iowa, Missouri, Kansas and Kentucky, including those at Cincinnati, Louisville and St. Louis, the mortality was one death to every nine (8-53) cases; in those of Tennessee, Northern Mississippi and Arkansas, including among others the hospitals of Nashville, Memphis and Helena, one in five (5'4); in the hospitals of Louisiana, including New Orleans and Baton Rouge, one in four. Nor will a separate consideration of the mortality from these affections in the hospitals of the great cities on the Mississippi River be less instructive. In the hos- pitals of ICeokuk, la., the mortality was one in nine cases (9-1); in St. Louis, one in five (5-2); in Cairo, one in four (3-98); in Memphis, one in five (5*4); and at New Or- leans, somewhat less than one in five (4'7). The extreme mortality, it may be noted, is not at the point farthest south, but at Cairo, situated on the alluvial peninsula formed by the junction of the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers, where, as is well known, most intense malarial influences prevail. It is impossible to escape the conviction, based upon the foregoing observations, that a change of climate is one of the most important elements in the treatment of these diseases. The value of such a change, familiarly known to those surgeons of our army who had enjoyed the experience of the Mexican war, did not escape the at- tention of the Surgeon General's Office; and throughout the war, patients suffering from the fevers and bowel affections of southern latitudes were, as far as the exigencies of