39 SABRE AND BAYONET WOUNDS. is the principal accident. Such cases are to be sought for among the dead on the bat- tle-field rather than in the field hospitals. Surgeon J. A. Lidell, U. S. Vols., reports that on the morning of March 26th, 1865, he examined 43 bodies of soldiers killed in the combat near Fort Steadman, in the lines before Petersburg; 23 were shot in the head, 15 in the chest, and 5 in the abdomen. " The bodies of all those wounded in the abdomen were very much blanched, as if they had died of haemorrhage, and the same remark held true in regard to all but two or three of those wounded in the chest." In the few cases of primary gunshot lesions of the arteries that came under treatment, it was usually found that only a portion of the calibre of the vessel had been carried away, and that retraction had been thus prevented. But 44 cases are entered on the records. In most of them, ligatures were placed above and below the seat of injury; but, in a few instances, the main trunk was tied at a distance, and amputation was practised when the bleeding recurred. Twenty of the 44 cases term- inated fatally. A number of drawings at the Army Medical Museum, exhibiting the course of balls directly in the track of the great vessels of the neck or of the limbs, illustrate the fact so well known to military surgeons of the great resiliency of the large arteries. The dread of primary haemorrhage on the battle-field is confined to the inexperienced. It was so exaggerated at the beginning of the war, that it was seriously proposed by several benevolent associations that every soldier should carry a field tourniquet with his equipments. GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF YEINS. No cases have been reported in which the bleeding could not be controlled by pressure. GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF NERYES. Only those cases are recorded as yet upon the register that were reported in the last quarter of 1863 and the first quarter of 1864. Numerous and careful observations on this class of injuries have been received from the Christian Street Hospital, in Phil- adelphia, in which wards were especially assigned, in 1863, for the treatment of such cases. SABRE AND BAYONET WOUNDS. The number of sabre and bayonet wounds that have come under treatment has been comparatively small; 105 cases of the former and 143 of the latter comprise nearly all that have been reported for the first three years of the war. Of these wounds, two-thirds were received in action, and the remainder were inflicted by senti- nels or patrols. There are 11 deaths from sword wounds recorded, and 6 from bayonet wounds. At the Army Medical Museum there are 9 specimens of sabre cuts of the cranium,* a specimen of punctured fracture of the skull by a bayonet, and a prepara- tion exhibiting a bayonet thrust through the stomach.-j- From General Sheridan's * Specimens 235, 970, 971, 974, 1672, 2623, 3307, 3684,4206. 6 t Specimen 2258, A. M. M.