EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. 24 Medical Director's Office, Department of the East, No. 125 Blcecker street, New York, July 19, 18C(j. General: I have tlie honor to report that the cholera at Hart's island, New York harbor, is iucroasiug, and that I have intelligence this afternoon that Dr. Calhoun, in charge, was seized this morning, and his case is hopeless. Dr. Webster and his assistant, from David's island, are there rendering valuable assistance. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, WM. J. SLOAN, Brevet Colonel and Surgeon U. S. A., Medical Director Department of the East. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. Medical Director's Office, Department of the East, No. 125 Blcecker street, Neio York, .My 23, 1866. General: I have the honor to report that when, onJuly J9th, it was reported to me that Assistant Surgeon Rowe, at Hart's island, was seriously ill, I took immediate measures for sending additional medical aid. During the day I received fur- ther intelligence that Assistant Surgeon Calhoun was also fatally ill with cholera at that post. I immediately despatched Sur- geon Milhau from this city, and Assistant Surgeon Gibson from Willett's Point, both of these officers arriving with great promptness. It was very fortunate that in this emergency Assistant Sirrgeon Webster and his assistant from David's island were pres- ent, as they had been constantly, as their duties permitted, rendering every assistance. Measures were at once taken for providing a medical oflicer for temporary service at Willett's Point and others for Hart's island. I also secured additional nurses, though there has been great difficulty in procuring either physicians or nurses, on account of the panic and the temporary nature of the service. During the excitement at Hart's island, consequent upon the death of Dr. Calhoun, Surgeon Milhau, in concurrence with Dr. Webster, recommended the transfer of all the well troops, females, and children from Hart's island to David's island. The commanding general was telegraphed and gave the order. It was hoped that the moral effect would be most advantageous, as the disease seemed domiciliated at Hart's island. The troops were all transferred on Friday evening, except a company of the Veteran Reserve Corps (sixty-nine men) as guard. Unfortunately, eight cases of cholera occurred soon after the landing, and I have no doubt it will continue to increase to a limited extent. From the 7th to the 21st of July there were thirty-three cases at Hart's island and twenty-three deaths. No reliance should be placed in the newspaper accounts. There are now three medical officers at Hart's island, and four at De Camp hospital. All the supplies recpiired have been promptly furnished by General Satterlee, without regard to the supply table, and you can rest assured that nothing shall be omitted or neglected that can be made available during this crisis. I have not time now for a detailed report of the character and nature of this epidemic, being anxious only to keep you ad- vised of what is being done to mitigate its violence and maintain the good record of the medical department. I wish to com- mend the promptness of Surgeon Milhau and Assistant Surgeon Gibson in following their instructions, and the voluutarj^ and efficient aid given by Dr. Webster, United States Armj', and Acting Assistant Surgeon Thompson from De Camp hospital. Equal credit is due Assistant Surgeon Rowe, United States Army, until his illness. He is now convalescent, and on duty with the troops at De Camp ho.spital. I respectfully ask authority to secure the services of six contract physicians, as a reserve corps for prompt detail to points where they may be needed. I spent last Saturday at the posts above referred to, giving the necessary counsel and instructions. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, WILLIAM J. SLOAN, Brevet Colonel and Surgeon U. S. A., Medical Director Diparlment of the East. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. Medical Director's Office, Department of the East, No. 125 Blcecker street, New York, July 27, General: I have the honor to report that there is a decrease in the number of cases of cholera at Hart's island, all the well pcirsous who could be spared having been removed. Assistant Surgeon McGill, United States army, was assigned in charge on the 25th instant, and Surgeon Milhau and Assistant Surgeon Gibson ordered to be relieved and resume their duties in this city and at Willett's Point. Cases continue to occur at David's island, to which place the recruits of the seventeenth infantry were transfeiTcd. The new cases average about three per day. Dr. Webster's report of yesterday morning is more encouraging, there being fewer cases of diarrhoea and no new cases during the previous night. Surgeon Heger,United States Army, reported yesterday morn- ing, but being affected with slight diarrhrea, was not placed on duty; nor was there any .special occasion for his services. He will be held in readiness for any emergency. There has been no excitement at Governor's island, nor has any assistance hcvn asked for. Very respectfullj', your obedient .servant, WILLIAM J. SLOAN, Brevet Colonel and Surgeon U. S. A., Medical Director Department of the East. Brevet Major General .J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General.