CONCLUDING OBSERVATIONS. 86 As the organization of the medical stafl was perfected, the cumbrous regimental supplies were curtailed. The hospital orderly carried only a light haversack, or "field companion," containing indispensable drugs and dressings. But while the regimental hospital supplies were restricted, the brigade supplies were augmented. Each brigade was provided with a "medicine wagon," which was furnished not only with drugs, but with an am- ple provision of stores, dressings, furniture, and appliances, an am- putating table, and a limited sup- ply of bedding. The contents of the wagons were continually re- plenished from the stores of the medical purveyor of the army. The medicine wagons construct- ed by Autenrieth and Perot were those chiefly employed in the war. A preferable model, recommended by the Medical De- partment, was adopted during the last year of the war, and was built at the Government workshops. It has been imprac- ticable to prepare an illustration of it in season for this report. Models of a variety of hospital knapsacks, panniers, and wagons are preserved at the Army Medical Museum, with the reports of boards on their respective merits or disadvantages. CONCLUDING OBSERVATIONS. In the preparation of a Surgical History of the Rebellion, there are many subjects that would claim attention, which have been scarcely adverted to in the preceding hasty review of the surgical statistics of the office and their illustrations. Among these are the influence of the state of health of the troops upon the result of wounds, the use of ansesthetics, erysipelas, gangrene, the nature of the missiles employed, and the modifications in the character of gunshot injuries produced by modern projectiles. The complications of injuries by constitutional diseases, scorbutic, malarial, or ty- phoid, or by a general state of cachexia, in which pathological conditions were combined in unaccustomed synthesis, were elements that unquestionably exerted a vast influence upon the results of the surgical practice of the war. For it cannot be doubted that the frequency of osteomyelitis after amputations, the proneness to suppurative inflammation in wounds of the head and splanchnic cavities, the tendency to the sloughing of flaps, the delay in the union of fractures or the healing of wounds, and the great prevalence of pysemia, observed at certain periods and localities, were intimately connected with the morbid causes above mentioned, which had led, in many cases, to such an impair- ment of the general vitality of the men as greatly to diminish their ability to resist the effects of severe injuries. In these relations, therefore, such pathological conditions should not be overlooked in the surgical annals of the war. ±iG. ai.—Autenrieth medicine wagon.