FORT HARKER, KANSAS. 39 Fort Bayard, New Mexico, November 9, 1867. Sir: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated October 15th, and am very happy to furnish you all the information in my power upon the matter of which it treats. I will suggest, however, that Dr. Kirke, Acting Assistant Surgeon, ought to he able to give a more complete medical history of the battalion of the 38th Infantry, late under my command, than any other person, as he took charge soon (two days) after the death of Colonel McGill, with the same hospital steward and all the records. The command left Fort Marker, Kansas, on the 28th of June, apparently in good health. The following table shows the cases as they occurred, according to the records and recollection of company commanders: No. of cases. No. of deaths. 1 1 1 9 1 i. 1 3 1 2 1 3 2 1 1 1 1 2 2 4 2 1 2 2 2 1 1 1 31 12 Place of command. Cow Creek, Kansas Left Fort Zarah. 30 miles west of Fort Zarah.. Arrived at Fort Larned 40 miles west of Fort Larned . 55 miles west of Fort Larned. 65 miles west of Fort Larned. East of Fort Dodge. West of Fort Dodge. Do. do. Do. do. Do. do. East of Pretty Encampment. Salt Bottom Sandy Creek. Old Fort Lyon, C. T Do. do. Do. do. New Fort Lyon. South of Arkansas. Remarks. Taken in the morning and died in the evening. Case of July 1st died. Sergeant Wort, of Co. ''D," taken sick^ Sergeant Wort, of Co. "D," died. Mrs. McGill took cholera about 8 a. m., and died about 10.30 p. m. Dr. McGill took cholera while behind column at Salt Bottom. Dr. McGill died, at 3.30 p. m., at Salt Bottom (head of), near bluff. Ten enlisted men died, and Dr. and Mrs. McGill. The above table gives the number of deaths correctly, but the number of cases is probably larger than would liave been reported as cholera by a medical officer, as there was a natural tendency to name every case cholera. It will be seen that we had no new cases after leaving old Fort Lyon. The most malignant cases were at Salt Bottom. It is difficult, perhaps impossible, to determine where or how the cholera originated. There were no cases in the companies at or before reaching Fort Marker, but I was informed by Colonel McGill that there was a case of cholera among the employes of the quartertnaster's department at Fort Marker the day before we left, viz: the 27th June.* My march, after the appearance of cholera, was continued and conducted strictly under the advice of Colonel McGill. He was always consulted upon the selection of camps when we were in the vicinity of posts. It is proper to add here, that he regretted the selection of the camp at Fort Larned, on account of the flow of water from our camp toward the post, which he did not notice when the ground was first examined. In view of this fact, I determined to change the camp, but was prevented by Colonel McGill, who said the troops needed rest, and that it would do my command more harm to move than it could possibly benefit the post. Colonel McGill gave it frequently as his opinion that the disease in my battalion resulted from the patients having been exposed to cholei'aic influence the year before; and that the bad water of the Arkansas, and worse of the tributaries, was the exciting cause. Me also gave it as his opinion that, unless the disease became more malignant in its character, persons who had not been exposed to choleraic influence last j-ear were almost certainly safe. He seemed to be borne out in this opinion by the fact that almost every man who had cholera had been enlisted in cities where cholera was most malignant in 1866. For instance, Co. " D" had been partly organized at Jefierson Barracks, Missouri, (near St. Louis,) during the prevalence of cholera at St. Louis, and said company lost eight of the ten men who died in the battalion. Brevet Major and Assistant Surgeon Tilton, at Fort Lyon, agreed with Colonel McGill upon the question of continuing the marcli; both thought it better to march, care being taken not to exhaust the troops. I regret that I am not able to give you a minute report—such as a medical officer might make—but such infonnation as we