EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. 34 Camp at Wilson's Creek, July 26, 1867. Doctor : I beg leave to request that, if possible, a small quantity of fresh beef be sent to this post for the use of the sick, in lieu of beef extract, or until the latter can be obtained. A supply of canned milk would also, under the present circumstances, be of great advantage to the sick. I would further ask if it would be feasible to have ice forwarded to the end of the railroad— say twice a week, on designated days—whence it could be conveyed to camp by company wagons. More than anything else, we need proper food for these sick men. No medicine can avail much while the sick have to subsist on fat bacon, hard bread, and beans. The company commander concurs with me in an earnest request to have supplies suitable for sick men provided as soon as possible. We cannot wait to have business forwarded "through the proper channels." There have been several new cases of diarrhoea to-day, but no deaths since those I reported to you in my communication of this morning, and which occurred before I arrived. Three men are dangerously ill, but I hope to save them, and feel convinced that, with proper food and hospital supplies, the disease can soon be brought under subjection. Lieutenant Kennedy, commanding the company, is quite ill with remittent fever; he has, in fact, taken too much medicine during the past few days, and been only partially able to attend to his duties. Second Lieutenant Amick is also unwell, having been afflicted with diarrhoea attended with choleraic symptoms. I have the honor to be, Colonel, very respectfully, your obedient servant, A. W. WIGGINS, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. . Brevet Colonel E. Swift, Surgeon, U. S. A. Dr. Reynolds, Acting Assistant Surgeon, serving with troops at the terminus of the railroad, reports, July 28th, five cases and three deaths. A report of these cases, and seven others, only one of which, a colored soldier, belonged to the command at Fort Harker, will be furnished by Assistant Surgeon Brewer, U. S. A. Captain Helm is reported to have died at Fort Zarah yesterday. The report of Dr. McGill's death is not credited. Dr. Swift, by request, visited the town of Ellsworth, four miles distant, where the epidemic raged fearfully, and with great fatality. The physicians relied mainly on chloroform, opium, camphor, capsicum, and calomel. Some gave creasote and carbolic acid, and one was found administering chloroform by inhalation; neither success nor any marked improvement rewarded their labors. At Salina, permanganate of potassa was used with no better results. At the former place the panic-stricken inhabitants have left their workshops and merchandise and have fled to distant parts for safety. A woman found by Dr. Swift in the stage of collapse, who had taken freely of cholera mixture, improved, and probably recovered, with no other treatment than blue mass and quinine, 20 grains of each, cold tea, a bandage and compress to the abdomen, and small injections of starch, laudanum, and catechu. This injection was often used with patients in hospital. Fort Harker is situated on an elevated platform, neai' Smoky Hill creek. The formation is coarse red sand to the depth of fifteen feet, imposed upon a thick strata of coarse ferruginous sandstone, covered with a thick coat of soil. All the water used at the post is taken from a spring located in the bank of the creek, about fifteen feet above its surface, and about the same distance below the plateau. It contains, according to analysis by Dr. Heger, five parts to 100,000 of organic matter in .solution, besides what is held in suspension; about four times as much as is contained in the water of the Mississippi river. After standing twenty, four hours it becomes disagreeable to the taste, and animalculse are perceptible to the naked eye. Though the water is clear and beautifully tr»inslucent, in a few hours it deposits a very perceptible slimy substance upon the bottom and sides of the vessels holding it. A small trace of iron is discovered in solution. This is undoubtedly surface water, and the organic matter it contains, both in solution and suspension, comes along with it from the top of the ground, where the supply is abundant, having accumulated, in the numerous camps of troops and supply trains, from men and animals. The water of the Smoky Hill Fork is still more objectionable, being really offensive at times. '¥'he bottom of this stream abounds in quicksands, into which cattle and entire herds of buffalo sink and are drowned; its waters wash these rotten carcasses, and bear away their decomposing elements of the flesli of to-day and the decaying bones of ages. The atmosphere seemed to breathe a pestilential breath, nauseous to the unacclimated. Carrion flies (musca cadarerina, Linn.) have superseded the common house fly and swarm everywhere. The command numbers sometliing over 200 men, and there are between four and five hundred employes of the quarter- master's department. The first case of cholera made its appearance on the river; the second was the assistant butcher, living some distance from tbe post. Tlie epidemic seemed to have originated here, where causes are as abundant as among the pilgrims to Mecca and tlie caravans of the Great Desert. Other reports will be furnished when completed. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, EBN. SWIFT, Surgeon, and Brevet Colonel, U. S. A. By order of— Brevet Brigadier General MILLS, Medical Director Department of Missouri. To Brevet Major General .1. K. l?Ai!Xi;s, Surgeon General.