115 NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA. Very early in the season, before the appearance of any cases of yellow fever, the city of New Orleans was in an extremely filthy condition. More especially in the third district, (the French quarter,) and in those portions of the first and fourth districts bordering on the river, and inhabited chiefly by the poorer classes of foreigners and blacks, the sanitary condition was bad. There was a rigid health ordinance, but the want of either a sufficient number of sanitary inspectors, or of sufficient vigilance in those already appointed, made it a dead letter, and no attempts were made to require the street connnissioner to do his duty. The gutters and drains were choked w^ith mud; garbage was constantly thrown into the streets to decompose in the hot sun, and frequently not removed once a week; while the back-yards and privies of most of the houses—never being disinfected, and but seldom cleaned—were so many foci for the dissemination of morbific elements. The physicians of New Orleans, wlTo should have been foremost in the work of reform in tliese respects, were either disbelievers in the propriety of hygienic measures in reference to yellow fever, or else apathetic on the subject. Under your orders, the medical officers of the army made inspections of various quarters of the city and suggested improvements. In accordance with your instructions, frequent inspections were made by me of the different buildings occupied for government purposes, and particular directions given to have the sinks and privies disinfected once every day with sulphate of iron and carbolic acid. McDougall's disinfecting powder (a compound of hydrate and sulphate of lime, with a small quantity of impure carbolic acid) was also fi-eely used around the buildings, and in the stables of the cavalry command and the quartermaster's department, with the best results. In every building where any case of yellow fever occurred, or where there was any reason to suppose that the germs of disease existed from a previous season, a thorough disinfection and fumigation of the premises was undertaken, in the following manner: The rooms, being closed and every crevice and aperture sealed up, were first fumigated with nitrous acid, (prepared, by adding sulphuric acid to nitrate of potash, in a retort, and boiling the mixture;) they were then opened and ventilated for an hour, and next submitted to a similar fumigation with sulphurous acid. Where it was desirable to hasten with the fumigation, both nitrous and sulphurous acid fumes were combined by adding a quantity of nitrate of potash to a pan of burning sulphur. Finally, carbolic acid was sprinkled around the corners and poured into any crevices that could be found, and mingled with the whitewash for the walls, and then the building ventilated for several days before being reoccupied. An attempt was made to carry out the same system in the city at large through the medium of the B(jard of Health, and at the comtnencement of the season many houses were fumigated, and no doubt much benefit was derived therefrom; but as the disease became widely spread, it became a matter of impossibility to continue special fumigation in every infected house, and it was abandoned. The first case of yellow fever in the city of which I have any record was that of Lieutenant Dewey, U. S. A., who died in the latter part of June, at the St. Charles Hotel, of black vomit. This officer was under the charge of Brevet Major Mon-is J. Asch, U. S. A., at that time attending Surgeon. I have not the exact dates in his case, but he came to New Orleans from Indianola, Texas, where, as was subsequently ascertained, malignant yellow fever was at the time prevailing, and was sick on his arrival. The next cases positively ascertained to be yellow fever occurred on the bark Florence Peters *—cases full of interest in establishing the period of incubation of the disease and the importance of rigid quarantine laws. This vessel left Havana on the 3d of June with a clean bill of health, yellow fever at that time prevailing in that city. On the 13th she was visited by the health officer at the Southwest Pass, and on the 23d she arrived at Algiers, opposite the city of New Orleans. The same day a physician was called to see the captain's wife, and, finding her very ill, consulted with Dr. Francis Barnes, who pronounced it a case of yellow fever. She had no black vomit, but died of ursemia, on the 30th of June. On the 25th, two days after the bark arrived, a young lady, aged 17, the sister of the last patient, was taken ill, and the case presented well-marked symptoms of yellow fever. She eventually recovered. On the 26th the child of the captain, a baby of a few months old, was taken sick. This case also recovered, as did also the first mate, who was taken three days later, and treated on board. The second mate was about the same time removed to the Charity hospital, where he died of black vomit on the 8th of July. At this time the President of the Board of Health ordered the vessel to be cleaned and fumigated—nine days after it had been reported to the board by Dr. Barnes that there was yellow fever on board. In these nine days the vessel had twiced changed her position from Algiers to two different points in New Orleans, probably making each of her temporary resting-places a nidus for the pestilence so soon to devastate the city. On the 12th of July the captain died of black vomit, and on the 25th a man by the name of Yorke, a resident of New Orleans, who had been frequently on the vessel in search of employment. This completes the list of cases directly traceable to the vessel, but enouglnhas been shown to prove conclusively that the disease was brought on the vessel from Havana, that it made its appearance more than ten days after her departure from that port, and that in this manner the disease was introduced into the city of New Orleans; for it can hardly be doubted that the above does not comprise the whole of the cases that occurred from connection with the vessel, but that others were sick on shore, and, recovering, no special attention was attracted to their cases. It becomes a matter of interesting inquiry whether the outbreak of fever could not have been choked in its infancy had the Board of Health showed a little more promptness in disinfecting the vessel, and had ordered her to the quarantine. About the time that the first of these cases happened a man was taken ill with yellow fever at 495 Magazine street, and another on the corner of Magazine and Calliope streets. No connection could be traced between these cases and any extra mural sources of infection; but both houses had been crowded with yellow fever cases the year before, and (from points to be brought forward in writing of the disease as it existed in the Sailors' Home building at a subsequent day) there seems little doubt that these two persons contracted the disease from the infected walls of the houses where they resided. In the meantime, yellow fever of a malignant type had made its appearance at both Galveston, Texas, and New ll)eria, Louisiana, the course of the disease being directly traceable from Indianola to Galveston by means of infected bedding, and thence to New Iberia, through persons who had fled from Galveston to escape the pestilence, some of whom, it wns conclusively * For the facts in relation to tlie barlv Florence Peters I am indebted to Acting Assistant Surgeon Francis Barnes, V. S. A.