BATON ROUGE, LOUISIANA. 139 BATON ROUGE, LOUISIANA. Post Hospital, Gueenville, La., March 6, 1868. General : In reply to your communication requesting a special report of the origin, progi'ess, treatment, &c., of yellow fever at Baton Eouge, Louisiana, 1867, I have the honor to report the cases that occurred among the troops, as follows: The first case was that of a soldier who had been on detached duty at Hog point, on the Red river, from about the middle of June to the middle of July, and who was admitted to hospital at Baton Rouge, Louisiana, about the last of July. The second case occurred at the barracks, in Company "G," which company had lately reported at Baton Rouge from Young's point and Lake Providence. The soldier attacked with yellow fever was already greatly debilitated from previous sickness contracted at Young's point, and other places in that vicinity. The case was treated in camp by Acting Assistant Surgeon Piper, U. S. A. The third case occurred in November, about ten days after the troops returned to barracks from camp, and was, in my opinion, contracted in the town of Baton Eouge, where the soldier acknowledged to have visited frequently. I do not think that either of the cases above mentioned foimd its exciting cause at the barracks, as the cases occurred at long intervals, and in each instance after exposure elsewhere. The progress of the disease among the troops is told in the above remarks. The first case, after severe and lingering sickness, recovered. The second and third cases died on the third or fourth day of the attack. The following treatment was pursued in the case that recovered : First day of admission to hospital, blue mass and castor oil, warm bath, mustard plaster to stomach ; second day, twelve grains of quinine, at 8 or 10 a. m., warm bath and light diet; third day, cathartic injection, bath, blister to neck. Vomiting now commencing, nutritive enemata were given every six hours, consisting of three fluid ounces of beef essence, or milk punch, two ounces of^hiskey, with four grains of quinine. The enemata were continued six or seven days. Various medicines were tried to relieve the vomiting, all without efiect, except ice, or small quantities of ice water, administered frequently ; slightly stimulating sponge baths were given twice a day. During seven days neither food nor medicine, given by the mouth, were retained, except the ice, or the iced water. After the vomiting ceased, the case was treated as one of continued fever. The treatment of t le second and third cases consisted of stimulating baths, diffusable stimulants, applications of heat, and various other means to bring about reaction, as delirium and great depression of the vital forces existed from the day of admission to the hospital until coma occurred, which was the second day in the one, and the third day in the other case. The few cases treated gives very Httle weight to the course pursued in regard to the success of the treatment. In my opinion, the removal of the troops to camp (six miles from town) prevented the occurrence of other cases during the summer. Ten days after the return from camp, November 1st, although there had been a heavy frost, the third case occurred. The soldier attacked died on the third day. He acknowledged that he had visited the town frequently. There were two other suspicious cases about the same time. Strict orders were then issued prohibiting the soldiers from visiting the town. No other cases occurred among the troops. The camps occupied were about six miles from the Mississippi river. The almost entire freedom of the troops from yellow fever was due, in my opinion, to their removal beyond the immediate limits of the infected place, (Baton Rouge.) I am unable to give any reliable facts referring to the origin, progress, and treatment of yellow fever in Baton Rouge or vicinity. My recollection of the cases that occurred among citizens early in the season is, that they were traced from New Orleans. There was no board of health in the town, or other reliable official source, from which to get even the number of cases of yellow fever treated by the most prominent physicians.* Very respectfully, your obedient servant, W. D. WOLVERTON, Assistant Surgeon, and Brevet Lieutenant Colonel, U. S. A. Brevet Brigadier General T. A. McParlix, . Medical Director Fifth Military District. Extract from Special Report of Tellow Fever, Baton Rouge, La. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel W. D. Wolverton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A,, August and September, 1867. Private Wells was on duty from June 12th to July 11th, on the west bank of the Red river, near its mouth, where yellow fever was reported to exist. There were no cases of yellow fever reported in Baton Rouge (among citizens) until about September 10th. Private Kurtz contracted the fever at Baton Eouge, being on duty at the barracks when he was taken sick. *The command moved from Baton Rouge, La., to Camp Coe, La., about six miles from the Mississippi river, August 9th, 1867; from Camp Coe to Baton Rouge, September 23d; from Baton Rouge to Pierce's plantation, near Camp Coe, September 31st; and from Pierce's plantation to Baton Rouge, November 1st, 1SG7.