18 , EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. ]VEW ORLEAIVS, LA. Extract from Monthly Report of Sick and Wounded, New Orleans Post Hospital, Greenville, La , Novemher, 1867. E. A. Koerper, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. A tendency to choleraic diarihoea is showing itself. Henry Sadler, Private, Company "A," 39th U. S. Infantrj-, (colored,) was admitted to hospital at 11.30 o'clock a. m., in a state of collapse, and died at quarter before nine of the same day, in spite of all etTorts to save him. Extract from Monthly Report of Sick and Wounded, New Orleans Post Hospital, Greenville, La., December, 1867. E.A. Koerper, Assistant Suryeon, U. S, A. Simon Green, Private, Company "A," 39th U. S. Infantry, (colored,) died eleven hours after admission. When admitted he was in a collapsed condition, from which he could only partially be made to react. Two cases of choleraic diarrhcea were successfully treated. Extract from Monthly Report of Sick and Wounded, Greenville, La., December, 1867. Wm. Deal, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. The three cases of epidemic cholera noted on the tabular list of diseases, contracted the disease virhilst on guard duty in New Orleans. They were sent to the poet hospital as soon as reported. Two recovered, and the third died within ten hours after the attack; he was in a dying condition when the ambulance arrived with him from the city. Great care has been taken in keeping the wards clean, and disinfecting the water-closets. Daily, for over three months, a solution of sulphate of iron has been put in the privies. Many cases of incipient diarrhoea have been treated and checked without the soldiers being relieved from duty; the eight in the tabular list did not reach an average of two days in quarters. No case of cholera during the summer or fall origi- nated in camp here. Jackson Barracks, New Orleans, La., February 4, 1868. General: I have the honor to enclose herewith tabular lists of all the cases of cholera and choleraic diarrhoea which have occurred at this post during the month of January last; also, of those occurring in September, November, and December, 1867. No cases occurred in October, 1867. The cases of cholera number only three, and of choleraic diarrhoea four, and the cases of each disease thus recorded did not differ from each other except in the degree of severity of their symptoms, and, with the exception of the case in December, were all distinctly traceable to imprudence in eating or intemperance in drinking. In view of the extensive prevalence of the disease in the city of New Orleans during the past four months, the small number of cases occurring in this command during the same period is noticeable, and may be considered due to the general excellent sanitary condition of the post as to cleanliness, ventilation, &c., of the quai-ters and hospital, the thorough daily disinfection of the sinks of the post, and the immediate disinfection of the dejections of all the sick in the hospital, which measures doubtless prevented any spread of the disease, the predisposing causes of which are apparent in the adjacent city, and inherent in the habits of the soldiers of the command, a considerable portion of whom are recruits. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, B. A. CLEMENTS, Surgeon, and Brevet Lieutenant Colonel, U. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. Extract from Monthly Report of Sick and Wounded of Co. "A," 33d U. S. Infantry, New Orleans, Louisiana, January, 18i58. Heber Smith, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Epidemic Cholera : Tliis report is for Co. "A,'' 33d Infantry, (67 men,) and the post band, (17 men.) Under the head of epidemic cholera, all cases of choleraic tendency are reported, although only two of them became fully developed. The others should, in my opinion, be called "choleraic diarrhoea, or cholerine." Company "A" arrived on the lOtli inst. from the moun- tainous section of Georgia, and cholera made its appearance almost inunediately among the men.