85 EQUIPMENT, DRESSINGS, ETC. Plans and descriptions of the hospital railway trains on the lines between Washington and New York, Chattanooga and Nashville, Marietta and Louisville, are filed in this office. When the bases of military operations were contiguous to the sea-board or to the great water-courses, the sick and wounded were removed in hospital steamers. The hospital transports on the Atlantic and on the Mississippi and its tributaries formed a large fleet. Ordinary passenger steamers were of necessity employed at first; but ultimately vessels were specially constructed for hospital purposes. The internal ar- rangement of one of the best of the ocean hospital transports is figured in the accom- panying plate. It is a steamer of 1400 tons, 228 feet in length, provided with 477 beds. It was fitted up at New York, under the supervision of Surgeon A. H. Holf, U. S. Vols. EQUIPMENT, DRESSINGS, ETC. At the beginning of the war, each regimental surgeon was provided with the in- struments, medicines, and dressings enumerated in the Standard Supply Table.* In action, he was accomj^anied by a hospital orderly, who carried a knapsack containing a limited supply of anass- thetics, stimulants, anodynes, styptics, and ma- terials for primary dressings. The medicine chest and bulky hospital supplies were transported in wagons of the supply train, and were often inac- cessible when most urgently required. To obviate this inconvenience, panniers were provided containing the most necessary medicines, dressings, and surgical appliances.-}- They were designed to le carried on the backs of pack animals, but they were too heavy to be conveyed in this manner, as were the knapsacks to be borne by men. Fiti. 91.—lluspital knajp^iack of wicker-work, covered with eDamuUed cloth. FiQ. 92.—Medicine paunier. Fig. 9-t.—Surgeon's field companion. * Revised Regulations for the Army of the United States, 18(il, p. 304. t The contents of the hospital knapsacks, panniers, medicine chests, instrument cases, etc. are enumerated in Cir- cular No. 12, S. G. 0., 18G2.