82 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. Extract from Monthly Report of Sick and Wounded, Detachment 2bth Infantry, Indianola, Texas, October, 1867. Samuel Santoire, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. A (letaclinient of sixty-four men of tlie 35th U. S. Infantry arrived at this post during tlie past week, having abandoned their post at Victoria, Texas, on account of tlie yellow fever raging among them. Not a single case has manifested itself since their arrival. Extract from Monthly Eeport of Sick and Wounded, Post Hospital, Indianola, Texas, October, 1867. Acting Assistant Surgeon Samuel Santoire, U. S. A. . '' * . . . Yellow Feveh : This disease, which had apparently subsided, reappeared during the past week. Four cases occurred among the soldiers, immediately following two days of a cold north wind. Three of these cases proved to be of a milder form than during the hot season, with less tendency to congestion of the digestive organs. After the opening of the bowels by blue mass, the fever was combated by draughts of the etfervescing citrate of potash, taken ad libitum. This preparation has proved very beneficial in the hands of all practitioners who have used it at this place during the epidemic. To the refrigerant diaphoretic action of this preparation, which has the good effect of relieving the burning thirst suflered in the first stage of the fever, may be added that it maintains the secretion of the kidneys and mildly operates on the bowels. Quinine was given during the convalescence in tonic doses. One case, which ended fatally, was brought from Victoria, Texas, during a cold day. Death took place twenty-four hours after admission. He had black vomit when admitted, and during the two days previous had sufiert'd from severe epistaxis. Indlvnola, Texas, November 30,1867. Majou : I have the honor to submit the following observations relative to the introduction of yellow fever at this post, and the liistory of its progress : The disease is proved to have been imported from Mexico, in the latter part of May, upon a schooner from which some articles of bedding, etc., were landed. Two workmen who handled the said elfects were taken sick four days after, and died of wliat their physician then called pernicious fever. The deputy collector of customs who boarded the vessel labored under the same disease. In five or six days it seemed to have spread rapidly, having swept through every house around the wharf, and pur- sued its course along Main street, from one side to another, with rare exceptions. It was of a mild form, and, for ten days, mistaken for bilious remittent fever hy the physicians of this place, all of whom have passed through several epidemics. I had never before met with yellow fever, and felt very uncertain in my diagnosis. It was not until the 16th of June that the first cases occurred among the troops, and I convinced myself of the nature of the disease; more than fifty citizens were then down with the fever, and ten deaths had occurred. Thes^ fatal cases terminated by cerebral congestions; only in two instances was the black vomit observed. Our camp was located on elevated ground, to the windward, and about a mile from the town. The first cases observed were men guarding quartermaster's property in town, and through them it was propagated in the camp. On the 15th of July it became severely epidemic and assumed a more violent form. I then advised the post commander to remove his camp to Green Lake, Texas, twenty-two miles from Indianola, where good water could be had. They abandoned this post oh the 28th of July, leaving 17 men ; all these men had had the fever except two, who took it sliortly after and died. The same day of the arrival oi the troops at Green Lake, two of the men were taken with the fever; both cases terminated fatally ; no other case occurred at that place. No very successful method of treatment has fallen under my observation at this place. All my colleagues seemed united in considering good nursing as the most iuiportant part of the treatment, of which hot pediluvia. diaphoretic decoctions, and castor oil was the basis. The method of treatment which I have found to procure the greatest relief to the patients, also the most successful, is the following, introduced by Acting Assistant Surgeon E. C. Fox, U. S A., which I have adopted, with slight deviations, according to symptoms and different constitutions: At the first visit, fifteen grains of blue mass, or ten of calomel, were given, followed by a cathartic and effervescing draughts of citrate of potassa, taken ad libitum. To the refrigerant diaphoretic properties of that preparation, which has the beneficial effects of relieving the burning thirst so distressing to the patient, may be added that it maintains the secretion of the kidneys and mildly operates on the bowels, which are the main pomts to be obtained to give the fever a favorable course. The fever having abated, five grains of sulphate of quinine are to be given three times a day, to prevent recurrence. In my opinion, the characteristic symptoms of this disease seem to call for the use of mercury; but if not administered at the outset, its effects cannot be obtained. .One instance was communicated to me by a practitioner of this place, who gave two doses of calomel, thirty grains each, three hours apart, on the third day of the fever; It remained in the stomach eighteen hours, and was then rejected in the form of a paste, without having produced the slightest effect. In two in.stances I myself administered mercurials, on the third day of the fever, in small repeated doses, combined ^\itll opiates, witiiout marked effect. No instance of recovery after the setting in of black vomit is recorded. Two cases checked by acetate of lead and turjjentine ended fatally, with hemorrhage from the urethra and tlie bowels. The aliove is a true statement of the introduction of yellow fever at this place, and of the methods of treatment a(lopl<'d. 1 am. Major, very respectfully, your obedient servant, SAMUEL SANTOIRE, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Major C. Bacon, Assistant Surgeon, I'. S. A., Chief Medical Ojficcr District of Texas.