22 ON SPECIAL WOUNDS AND INJURIES. It has been the common practice to remove splintered portions of fractured ribs, and to round off sharp edges that were likely to wound the pleura or lung. After this, with the exception of extracting foreign bodies whenever practicable, and performing paracentesis when empyema was developed, it has been usual to leave these cases to the natural process of cure. The records of the results of the so-called method of "hermetically sealing" gun- shot penetrating wounds of the chest are sufficiently ample to warrant an unqualified condemnation of the practice. The histories of the cases in which this plan was adopted have been traced, in most instances, to their rapidly fatal conclusion. The following case is the only recorded exception: Corporal Peter Welker, Co. A, 1st U. S. Sharpshooters, was admitted July 30th, 1863, into Mount Pleasant Hos- pital, at Washing-ton, having received, at Manassas Gap, July 23d, 1863, a gunshot wound of the chest. The missile entered near the nipple, between the fourth and fifth ribs, traversed the lung, and emerged at the inferior border of the scapula, fracturing the sixth rib. Treatment: Opiates and stimulants, the wound being hermetically sealed. When admitted, the patient had much pain in the chest, and dyspnoea. The latter increased almost to sufFocatiou, and was accompanied by fever. On July 31st, the posterior wound gave way, and a profuse discharge of clotted blood and purulent matter escaped. The next day the anterior wound was opened, and a pint of matter of similar character escaped, after which the patient became much better. He continued to imi^rove until furloughed. On December 13th, 1863, when readmitted, he had entirely recovered. Few examples of recovery are recorded where the track of the ball passed near the root of the lung. The cases in which there was a fracture of the rib at the wound of entry were very dangerous. The established opinion, that penetrating wounds with lodgement of the ball are more fatal than perforating wounds, was amply illustrated. But very few recoveries with balls lodged in the lung are recorded, and the histories of such cases are less explicit and complete than could be desired. Private .John H. Prouty, Co. G, 27th Illinois Vols., was admitted into the Sherman U. S. General Hospital, at Nashville, Tennessee, from the Field Hospital at Chattanooga, Tennessee, with gunshot wound of the thorax. He ~ was struck in the left chest at Dallas, Georgia, May 2.5th, 1864, by a musket-ball, which lodged in the substance of the left lung, and was not extracted. The case progressed favorably, and on July 14th, 1864, the patient was fur- loughed and went to his home. Private Isaac Miller, Co. B, 139th Pennsylvania Vols., was admitted into the Haddington General Hospital, at Philadelphia, on the 3d of August, 1864, from Fort Schuyler Hospital, New York Harbor. He was wounded at the battle of the Wilderness, May r)th, 1864, by a musket-ball, which entered at the left shoulder, and passed downwards and inwards, and lodged in the left lung. He was fairly convalescent when admitted to Haddington Hospital, and ultimately regained his usual health almost, and on May 3d, 1865, was transferred to the Veteran Reserve Corps. In the following case the ball was believed to have lodged in the body of one of the upper dorsal vertebrae: Private Daniel Rich, Co. B, 5.5th Pennsylvania Vols., aged twenty-one, was wounded at the battle of Pocotaligo, October 22d, 1862, and was admitted to Hospital No. 1, at Beaufort, South Carolina, on October 24th. The ball had entered at the left sterno-clavicular articulation, traversed the apex of the left lung, and lodged in the vertebral column. Immediately after his injury, he had hemoptysis. He was able to walk from the field of battle to the hospital steamer, six miles distant. He stated that the wound bled very freely. When admitted to the hospital his face was dusky, his pulse accelerated, and crepitant rales were audible in the left chest. There was partial paralysis of the arms. He was ordered ^th of a grain of tartarized antimony every two hours, low diet, and perfect quiet. On October 25th, there was less vascular excitement and less dyspnoea. The medicine had nauseated and purged the patient. There was great tenderness of the spine in the upper dorsal region, and the vertebral column was perfectly rigid. The patient would allow no one to touch him anywhere but on the head. He was lifted by his head into an upright position, like a stick. The antimony was contiimed till October 31st. At lliis date an abscess pointed over the sternum, and was evacuated by a free incision. The wounds were poulticed. On November l.'Uh, he was allowed to sit up a portion of the time, and was much less troubled by a cough in this position. On November 20lh, he began to walk about the ward, and the wounds discharged but little. On December 1st, a necrosed bit of the sternum was removed. Cerate dressings were applied to the wounds. On December 20th, erysipelas attacked the wounds