GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 13 siderable portions of the calvaria have been removed by explosions of shell, without depression. Very rarely a musket-ball produces the same effect, as in the following remarkable case. The patient is represented in Photograph No. 58, A. M. M.: Private Edson D. Bemis, Co. K, I2tli Massachusetts Vols., was wounded at Antietam by a musket-ball, which fractured the shaft of his left humerus. The fracture united kindly, with very slight angular displacement and quarter of an inch shortening. Promoted to be corporal, Bemis received, May 6th, 1864, at the battle of the Wilderness, a wound from a musket-ball in the right iliac fossa. He was treated in the Chester Hospital, near Philadelphia. There was extensive sloughing about the wound, but it ultimately healed entirely, leaving a large cicatrix, parallel with Poupart's ligament. Eight months after the injury, Bemis returned to duty with his regiment. On February 5th, 1865, Corporal Bemis was again severely wounded at the engagement at Hatcher's Run, near Petersburg, Vir- ginia. Surgeon A. Vanderveer, 6Gth New York Vols., reports that the ball entered a little outside of the left frontal protuberance, and passing backwards and upwards, removed a piece of the squamous portion of the temporal bone, with brain substance and membranes. When the patient entered the hospital of the 1st Division of the 2d Corps, brain matter was oozing from the wound. Respiration was slow ; the pulse 40; the right side paralyzed; insensi- bility total. On February 8th, the ball was removed from the substance of the left hemisphere. In a few days paraly- sis disappeared. The patient was transferred to Fort Richmond, New York Harbor. He recovered perfectly, and on July 15th visited Washington, and was photographed at the Army Medical Museum. The wound in the head was then nearly healed. There was a slight discharge of healthy pus from one point. The pulsations of the brain could be felt through the integument. The mental and sensory faculties were unimpaired. The corporal had been discharged from service, and recommended for a pension. From the numerous instances of fracture with depression of both tables of the skull, a very few are selected. The first is an example of a common class of cases, in which symptoms of compression of the brain depend upon extravasation of blood, or inflammation of the membranes, and come on tardily. Private Leonard L , Co. F, 74th New York Vols., was wounded at the battle of Williamsburg, May 5th, 1862, and was admitted into Broad and Cherry Streets Hospital, at Philadelphia, May 13th, 1862. A musket-ball had struck near the left parietal emi- nence, and, producing a slight depression of the outer table, had lodged under the scalp, whence it had been removed by a surgeon on the field. The wound had a healthy aspect when the man was ad- mitted, and there was no cerebral disorder. This favorable condition continued unaltered till May 20th, when a febrile movement set in, accompanied by nausea and vomiting; drowsiness and stupor followed, and the patient died comatose on May 23d, eighteen days after the injury. At the autopsy, a small clot was found beneath the depressed portion of the vitreous plate; the dura mater was uninjured; the arach- noid, near the seat of injury, was opaque, and studded with deposits of lymph; the gray matter of the brain was softened. Private George V , Co. C, 84th New York Vols., was wounded at Chancellorsville, May 3d, 1863, and admitted into Carver Hospital, at Washington, D. C, on May 7th, 1863. His injury was supposed to be a simple scalp wound from a musket-ball. It was situated over the right parietal protuberance, and, on admission, was granulating kindly. Ten days subsequent- ly, the patient, after a walk out of doors, had headache and nausea, and the wound gaped and its edges ulcerated. On the 18th of May, the probe detected denuded bone; but no frac- ture was discovered. There were no febrile or cerebral symptoms. On May 20th, a depres- sion of the outer table of the skull was de- tected. At night there was delirium, and the following day the pulse became feeble and irregular, the stomach irritable, the tongue heavily furred. The patient died on May 22d, 1863, being conscious and rational to the last. At the autopsy, extensive inflammation of the dura mater was observed, and softening of the middle lobe of the right cerebral hemisphere. Fig. 11,—Portion or left parietal, showing a sliglitly dejiressert fracture of the outer table. Spec. 22i, A. M. M. Fig. 12.—Interior view nf tlie tnregoing specimen, exhibiting extensive splinter- ing of the vitreous table. PiQ. 13.—C.unshot fracture of the right pari' etal lone. Spec. 1257, A. M. M Fig. 14.- -Interior view of the foregoing specimen.