125 NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA. Jackson Bakkacks, New Okleans, La., Bcccmhcr 12,1867. General: In compliance with instructions, I have the honor to forward, herewith, tabular statements, on the prescribed fonn, of all cases of yellow fever which have occurred at this post during the recent epidemic. Appended are several tables showing the number of cases, ratio of mortality, duration of the disease, &c. ; also, a record of temperature, weather, &c., extracted from a public journal. I have the honor to submit, as required, the following special report of the epidemic, endeavor- ing to present only the more salient facts as they manifested themselves to my observation. The first case of j'ellow fever at this post occurred on July 1st, the second on July 11th; thereafter, no other case occurred until August 2d, when they gradually became more frequent, and, by August 31st, the disease might be considered to have become epidemic. The last case was seized on the 22d of November, but none had occurred before since the 4th of November, and the epidemic, which reached its height about September 28th, may be considered to have lost its epidemic character about the 10th of October, when there was little material left for it. During the extremes of this period 374 cases occurred, of which 111 died, including 4 officers. For the five months com- mencing with July, the mean of the average strength of the command was 380 officers and enlisted men; but it will be observed (tal)le 1) that in September the strength was 477. Perhaps less than 50 men of the whole command, consisting, in September, of six companies of the 1st Infantry, and Battery "K," 1st Artillery, escaped the disease while here. It will be seen that the ratio of deaths to cases was 29. 67 per cent., a result which, compared with the average mortality, (quoted from La Eoche as 43.18 per cent.,) is favorable. In June, when I assumed the duties of post Surgeon, the post was in a very thorough state of police. Later in the summer, some of the drains in the vicinity of the hospital building were not kept in the best condition, though tlie fact was represented; but on the whole the post was exceedingly clean ; the discipline .seemed excellent; though grog-shops abounded in the vicinity, but little drunkenness was usually witnessed, and the duties of the command were not arduous. A very thorough disinfection of the sinks and privies of the garrison was in daily operation, according to the plan recommended by the best authorities; this was kept up constantly, and the drains were repeatedly sprinkled with carbolated lime. In the hospital, an invariable rule was rigorously observed, to cause every stool of any patient to be disinfected, and I believe it was scarcely ever, even at the height of the epidemic, disregarded. It was recognized thai these measures would tend to limit the liability to the disease and to moderate its severity; but during the whole epidemic I observed no fact which lent support to the suggestion that, like cholera, it might be considered a foecal disease; but it will be observed that the measures adopted and just I'eferred to would present a suliicient testing of this point. Though scarcely any one escaped the disease, it can hardly be doubted that these measures were of great value. When, towards the end of August, it was seen that an epidemic was immhient, hospital acconmiodations were prepared for 100 men, a number nearly equal to one-third of the command at that time, and which it was hoped would be ample. But on August 30th three companies of the First United States Infantry, stationed in the city of New Orleans, were, unexpectedly to me, transferred to this post, and, for a few days subsequent, they furnished the greater number of new cases. On the 12th of September ten new cases were taken, and the number daily increased, until, from the 13th to the 16th, inclusive, (four days,) eighty-two new cases of the disease occurred, and from the 17th to the 28th September, inclusive, (12 days,) one hundred and sixty-five new cases occurred. The epidemic reached its height on September 28th, there being on that day 283 men on sick report, and but 4 officers and 112 men for duty. So sudden and great an invasion of the disease was not expected. It was necessary to provide further accommodation for the sick. Brevet Major C. B. White, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., who, on ■file 15th September, assumed the duty of post Surgeon, (I being prostrated with the disease the previous night,) applied himself with great energy to this work. For two or three days there was some embarrassment, but the wise liberality and prompt action of the Medical Director in affording Dr. W^hite every means which the resources of the department afforded, enabled him, by the 17th of September, to have sufficient hospital accommodations, though for a short time the wards were much crowded. Brevet Major White, after six days of incessant duty, during which time his services were of great value, was himself seized with the disease on the 20th, and Acting Assistant Surgeon M. Stovell, U. S. A., performed the duties of post Sugeon until October 3d, when I resumed charge. During this period the condition of affairs was depressing; the permanent commander of the post, seized with the disease, left his command and went to a civil hospital in New Orleans. This example was fortunately followed by but few officers, most of them remaining with their men, evincing a soldiei'ly desire to share equally with them the perils of the epidemic. Something of a panic prevailed for a while; many men indulged in intoxication, to which cause the deaths of several have been clearly traced. They were unwilling to act as nurses, and there were barely enough well men to do indispensable guard duty, to nurse the sick, and bury the dead. On September 25th there were ten deaths, and in one day thirteen bodies were carried to the cemetery of Chalmette. Among the deaths were Lieutenants Arnold, Hubbell, and Ingraham, young officers, whose sudden deaths added to the gloom which pervaded the conmiand. Before the epidemic assumed such largo proportions, many men attacked with the disease delayed to report themselves sick, either supposing the insidious symptoms to be trivial, or actuated by the soldierly motive of not avoiding duty; but it was urged upon the company officers not to permit this course. Some officers visited their companies very frequently during the day and night, and ordered to the hospital any man found complaining, and they may justly have the satisfaction of knowing that their timely care, in all probability, saved the lives of several of their men; and it was noticed by the medical officers that the men of those companies whose officers showed this interest in their welfare were more contented, and, in so far, less liable to death. During the whole epidemic the Medical Director of the Fifth Military District afforded myself, and the officers in charge during my illness, in his almost daily visits, the benefit of his advice and opinion in all matters of administration and treatment of cases. W^ith a wise liberality, which was indeed a just economy, he authorized the purchase and issue of any articles which, in the oijiiiion of the medical officers, were actually required for the proper care and treatment of the sick. The medical pur- veyor filled, with marked promptness, every requisition made upon liim. The expenditures for pioper diet and ice were neces-