SUB-DISTRICT OF THE EIO GRANDE. 103 tion or irregularity of the bowels, and castor oil was also avoid'sd as generally inducing nausea; but instead of these a saline draught was given, (as sulphate of magnesia, half an ounce, and carbonate of magnesia, 15 grains—in solution.) The patient was well, but not heavily, covered to the neck in bed with a sheet and single light blanket, the object being to promote gentle diaphoresis, and to keep the body as cool as possible without danger of chilliness after perspiration. An abundance of fresh air was provided by placing the bed in the centre of the room, with doors and windows open to allow sufficient but not too much draught; and the patient was also fanned if there was too little movement of air. Diuretics were regarded as of little avail in restoring the arrested renal functions, and were not given. This constituted nearly the whole treatment, and, in other respects, nearly the plan detailed above was pursued. On the 13th of October orders were issued stopping all conununication between the garrison and the city, except by permis- sion to certain officers and orderlies to visit the headquarters of the post then in the city. This order was very strictly enforced until the epidemic had decidedly abated in the city; and no cases of the fever occurred among the troops, except those of the four officers reported, who all resided in Brownsville, excepting myself. On account of the total destruction, by the hurricane, of the post ho.spital under my charge, and the increased sickness among the trooops, consequent upon their exposure in the storm, extraordinary demands were made upon my time and strength, and I was greatly fatigued during all of the week after the 7th of October. I saw the sick man in the city on the 12th, who died the same evening with yellow fever and black vomit, and two or three cases of the fever among the quartermaster's employes came under my care on the 13th and 14th. I was attacked on the 15th instant, and did not resume my duties until nearly the middle of November. Brevet Colonel A. M. Randol, of the 1st U. S. Artillery, who was taken sick on the 27th of October, and Lieutenant John Gotshall, of the 2Gth U. S. Infantry, who was taken sick on the same day, were under the care of a physician at Brownsville. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel S. K. Schwenk of the 41st U. S. Infantry, who was taken sick on the 20th of November, was under my own care, and though he was somewhat enfeebled by previous attacks of intermittent fever, and was in a very critical condition in the second stage of the fever, he fortunately recovered. These cases were all well marked, and in each there was like previous exposui-e. In each of them equally valid arguments can be adduced to support the theory of contagion or of infection in regard to the manner in which the disease was contracted. In other words, in each of these four cases, the disease may be believed to have been contracted by receiving contagion from persons sick with yellow fever, or, equally well, by visiting or residing in infected localities. In returning now to the consideration of the circumstances connected with the origin of the disease, I am obliged to depend greatly for information upon the statements of physicians practicing in Brownsville, who have given me the results of their observations, viz: Dr. A. F. Watson, of Brownsville, and Dr. C. Macmanus, of Matamoras. These gentlemen have resided in this country for more than twenty years, and both served, at different times, as post Surgeons at Fort Brown. The first suspicious cases of illness in Brownsville were two Mexicans, (males,) and occurred between the lOtli and 15th of September, terminating in recovery. These two persons were natives of the place, and had not been away from Brownsville for two years. These cases are now stated by Dr. Watson to have been quite well marked, and I am unable to obtain any evidence to indicate that the disease was contracted by contagion. There was some sickness cf a malarial character among Mexicans and others during the remainder of September, but the first case of fever, of a suspicious character, that came to notice after the two before mentioned, was a young man, an American, named Fisher. This man had but a short time before been discharged from Battery "L," 1st U. S. Artillery, and was employed as a clerk in the quartermaster's department at the time of his illness. Mr. Fisher was taken sick on the 23d of September and recovered on the 11th of October, and was also under the care of Dr. Watson, who regarded the case as undoubtedly one of yellow fever. The man had not been away from Brownsville f6r a long time before his illness, and it cannot be ascertained that he was in any way exposed to the disease, either by contact with persons sick with the disease, or by visiting infected places. These three cases, occurring in September, were not reported, and it was not until some time after the epidemic became pronounced that the case of Mr. Fjsher was spoken of publicly by his attending physician as being one very much like yellow fever. It is now asserted by him that the case was an undoubted one. Until recently I have entertained the belief that there had been no cases of yellow fever previous to the hurricane of October 7th, but it is plainly evident from the statements above, that its existence in Brownsville previous to that event cannot be positively denied. At the same time, the assertion that there may have been a few unrecognized cases among poor Mexican people, who did not employ physicians, also cannot be denied. In wlialever state or form the elements of the disease may have existed previous to the hurricane, it is certain that this untoward atmospheric tumult exercised a profound influence in developing the epidemic, and, as it were, expressed the disease from some epidemic infecting elements already in action. Yellow fever declared itself immediately after the storm, and, as before stated, its epidemic character was very rapidly developed. ■ The first case recognized and reported as yellow fever resulted in death, on the 12th of October, as has been before stated; but the first death from the fever is now believed to have occurred on the 9th, at a place known as Mechanics' Boarding-house. This is a low wooden building, in which a few small, close, badly ventilated rooms, used as dormitories, were crowded with boarders, most of whom were Germans or Austrians. There were many of these Austrians about Brownsville at that time, who formerly belonged to the Mexican Imperial army, and who were especially obnoxious to the diseases of this climate, with whom and the German residents yellow fever was very fatal. There was some sickness at the boarding-house during the two weeks before the 7th of October, of a trifling character, and which came under my immediate notice in attending several quarteniiaster's eniploy6s boarding there. The man that died on the 9th of October was an Austrian, who was ill a day or two before the Inirricane, and is declared to have died of yellow fever by his medical attendant, a German doctor, who professes to have seen much of the disease at Vera Cruz and elsewhere. The second death from yellow fever occurred on the 10th, also of an Austrian, who died at the same boarding-house, and was under the care of the same doctor; his illness supervened upon exposure during the storm. A third death, with black vomit, also of an Austrian, occurred at the same house on the 12th, and is the one before mentioned as that first recognized and reported as yellow fever, and was unmistakable in its character. From this time this boarding-house was evidently an infected locality, and many deaths occurred there during the ensuing ninety days.