EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. 114 Tliere were few phj-sicians in this city who did not use quinine in some form during the epidemic. Many used it in the manner recommended by Professor Stone—a full dose early in the paroxysm, with a view to both hastening and prolonging the sweating stage ; and many believe that quinine also exerts a powerful influence in sustaining the nervous system or vital powers through the terrible depression which remains alter the paroxysm. During the latter portion of the epidemic, quinine was given in another wa}', and for another object, by many of the private practitioners of the city, with marked success, viz : in large and repeated doses with Battley's sedative, in the jjropoi'tion of one drop to each grain, commencing early in the paroxysm, with a view of getting a head otj and, as it were, controlling it by the remedies. One eminent practitioner and professor gave to a member of his o^vn family a drachm of quinine with nearly as much Battley's sedative in the course of a few hours with the desired effect. All who tried this treatment speak of it as being more satisfactory in its results than any other. Many of the famous do-nothing men adopted it at last. The fact of this method of treatment coming in use late in the season may explain its success. Early in the epidemic it might not have been at all applicable ; other seasons must test its merits. The mortality of last year's sickness was remarkably low, and this is attributed to the mild type of the disease. There is no doubt that epidemics differ from each other in severity as individual cases difler; but would it not be well to attribute some of the improvement in this respect to a more enlightened and rational mode of treatment ? Advancement certainly has been made since the good old parboiling times, when blankets, close rooms, and starvation made up the course patients were put through. We heard of but few physicians who subjected their patients to the torture and murderous tendency of a seven days' starvation, as was formerly done. On the contrary, as soon as patients could take the least nourishment, it was allowed them ; often, or I may say generally, with malt liquor of some kind, for which there was a remarkable craving. Tlie tendency of the disease to spread over the city seemed to be mucli stronger this year than in other seasons. In 1864, for example, although the disease prevailed in a virulent form at the United States naval hospital, situated in the heart of the city, it was confined almost exclusively to that institution. Notwithstanding the thorough disinfection and fumigation of the house of Natallie Swago, on Circus street, where the man Cowarts remained a few hours, that neighborhood was, as it always has been in yellow fever years, a stronghold of the disease. Whether the infection came from Cowarts or not is more than any one could assume to say. In the month of July I saw cases of yellow fever in Charity hospital among patients who had been a long time under treatment in the institution, and at this time cases were reported in widely separated sections of the city. It did not seem to me to spread by an atmospheric wave. May not the virus have been carried by persons in their intercourse with the sick? In exceptional instances some unacclimated member of a family escaped the disease, although freely exposed in nursing those sick. No undoubted case of the disease occurring twice in the same person in different years came to my knowledge. Numbers of such cases were reported, but it would be found on inquiry that they claimed to have had the disease in a year when it was not epidemic, or else they would refer in evidence to the exorbitant bill of some physician for services rendered in yellow fever. The propriety of quarantine seems to depend upon the origin, or non-origin, here of the disease. If yellow fever originates in tliis city, a quarantine after the disease has commenced would seem to be useless. But if the disease does not originate here, it is reasonable to suppose that a rigid quarantine would preserve us from its ravages. Half-way measures are worse than useless; for while they do not protect the city, they do serve to throw riaicule not only upon the subject itself, but upon every member of the community who advocates it. The opponents of quarantine laughed at the puny efforts of the authorities to keep cholera out of the city in 1866, and yellow fever last year, by quarantine, and it did seem ridiculous to impose a rigid quarantine upon all vessels coming from northern ports, as was done in the former year, when cholera was raging in the north and west, while the river and railroads were left fiee to pour as much of the disease into our midst as they could transport. Last year, we all know to our sorrow, the intercourse with the West Indies and with Texas was but partially checked. It is doubtful if this community would submit to the isolation necessary to render quarantine effectual in preventing epidemics of yellow fever. This imperfect report should have been sent with the special report of yellow fever cases which 1 forwarded to you and to the Surgeon General last December. Not expecting to be required to contribute anything more than that, I was unprepared for your letter of the 7th ultimo requesting further details. I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, HEBER SMITH, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Brigadier General T. A. McPaelin, Medical Director Fifth Military District. Attending Surgeon's Office, New Orleans, La., November 8,1867. Genickal: I have the honor herewith to present my report as attending Surgeon at these headquarters during the recent epidemic of yellow fever. The officers and troops under my charge were as follows: 1. Officers and soldiers on duty at headquarters. 2. Detached officers on duty in the city. 3. Military prisoners confined in the parish jail. 4. Company "G," 6th U. S. Cavalry. 5. Detachments of other commands. Of these, the first two and the last were under my immediate charge. The military prison was at first attended by Acting Assistant Surgeon Heber Smith, and on his being transferred to Sedgwick Barracks, by Acting Assistant Surgeim Henry Smith. Company " G," 6th U. S. Cavalry was at different times during the epidemic under charge of Acting Assistant Surgeons Charles Pelaez, J. T. Payne, Francis Barnes, and Henry Smith. As special reports will be made of these commands by the medical officers in immediate charge, I shall, in this communication, confine myself more particularly to the sickness at the Headquarters Fifth Military District and among the detached officers on duty in New Orleans; and inasmuch as the officers and clerks comprised in the above were living in private residences scattered throughout the city, any report in reference to them, to give a faithful view of the causes and history of their sickness, must involve the description of the whole epidemic in the city. Were any other course followed the report would be partial, disconnected, and imperfect.