47 FORTS ZAKAH AND LAKNED FORT DODGE. Extract from Special Itjport on Cholera, Fort Zarah, Kansas, Septemher 1, 1837. Acting Assistant Siirr/eon Ira I'erri/, U. S. A. Treatment of the within cases : If tlie case was mild, as a general remedy, used the chloroform mixture. If the case was sev'cre, used chloroform in drachm doses to control the active symptoms of the disease, particuhirly vomiting, purging, pain in abdomen, cramps, sinking pulse, and cold extremities. For convalesence, used the tonic and nourishment. Other remedies: ice, always, when it was tobeliad; morphia and calomel occasionally. External applications: mustard, heat, and friction. Drinlvs: cold water, linseed tea, crust coffee; coffee and farina gruel. Food: in convalesence, beef tea, crust coffee, and bland nourishment. Remai-ks: The cholera mixture was useful in every stage of the disease, especially the first. The dose of chloroform was, usually, one drachm in half an ounce of cold water, agitated and quickly swallowed. When it operates kindly, the patiL>»it falls into a quiet sleep in ten minutes. Repeat the dose when the violent symptoms return, or at intervals of thirty to sixty minutes, so long as it operates favorably or is needed. If the stomach is full of anything, the chloroform usually acts as a speedy emetic. In that case it should be repeated as soon as the vomiting ceases. It is seldom ejected the second time. If the chloro- form fails to empty the stomach, and an emetic is needed, I have found remarkable benefit from salt and capsicum, not only to produce emesis, but to hasten reaction. Personal vigilance was used in the care of these cases, especially in timing the medicine. Mixtures above referred to : Cholera mixture : chloroform, tincture of opium, tincture of camphor, of each one fluid ounce ; compound spirits of lavender, one fluid drachm; brandy, three fluid ounces—mix. Dose: one fluid drachm, repeated every hour to every six hours, as necessary. Diarrhoea mixture: the same as the above without the chloroform. Tonic : aromatic sulphuric acid, one fluid drachm; sulpliate of magnesia, one drachm ; water, four fluid ounces—nii.x:. Dose : half a fluid ounce every three to eight hours. Emetic: chloride of sodium, six drachms; powdered capsicum, one drachm; tejiid water, six ounces—mix. Give at one dose, and repeat in half an hour if it does not operate. FORT DODGE, KAIVSAS. Fort Dodge, Kansas, July 31, 1867. Sir : I have the honor to tender the following report upon epidemic cholera, as developed at this post during the ^ast month. The report runs up to the end of the month, at which time the disease still exists, but in a greatly abated form : On the afternoon of the 7th inst., a detachment of the 33th U. S. Colored Troops, en route to New Mexico, under Brevet Colonel Merriam, reached this post, and went into camp about a mile from the post. I visited the detachment inunediately upon its arrival, and was informed by tlie medical officer accompanying the troops, Brevet Lieutenant Colonel McGill, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., that he had had quite a number of cases of cholera in the command; and that, at that time, there were a number of the men laboring under the disease. Not knowing of the existence of cholera anywhere in the west, I was much startled at the information, and at once returned to the garrison for the purpose of reporting the facts to the commanding officer. A line of sentinels was immediately established between tlie garrison and the camp, and every step possible taken to prevent communication between tlie two points. Dr. McGill informed me that the disease had been entirely confined to the negro soldiers; though there was a large number of whites with the command, no one of them had been attacked. The detachment remained at its camping ground over the 8th, leaving early on the morning of the 9tli. After its departure a lai'ge quantity of lime ■was sent down and scattered about the ground. Dr. McGill promised that, before leaving, the ground and the sinks should be disinfected. ' About 10 o'clock p. m. of the 11th, I was called upon to go up and see a man, a government employe, living about three hundred yards from the garrison. Upon reaching the house and examining the man, I recognized a full case of cholera. I took great care in isolating this case, causing a mess for employes, kept in the house, to be at once broken up, and putting the house in a strict quarantine. The house and premises I found very dirty. This was, of course, attended to at once, and a plentiful use of lime ordered. This man recovered, and no other case occurred at the house ; he was married, and had three children. On the 14tli, another case occurred among the government employes. This man also recovered. Diarrhoea began to be very frequent, both among soldiers and citizens, and proved difficult to treat. By far the greater number of cases existed among the citizens. I examined everything, particularly as to their habits of living, cooking, drinking, quarters, sinks, &c., giving positive instructions in regard to cleanliness, advising them as to drinking water, &c. Considering the two cases mentioned, and the increase of diarrhoeic affections, as but the advance guard of the dread disease, I redoubled my watchfulness in regard to police of garrison, condition of wells, and everything that might inlluence the general health of the post. No ti'ains were permitted to come into the post, a mounted man being stationed two or three miles ft'oni the post with instructions to stop trains till I examined them in person. On the 14th, a train arrived ; had had a case of cholera a day or two before, but no sickness at the time. It was ordered to go into camp three miles above the post. On the 16th, a train was reported approaching the post; it ])roved to be a Me.xicau train en route to New Mexico. It was ordered to strike off from the main road, to make a detour of two miles around the post, and go into camp at least four miles from the post.