23 NEWPORT BARRACKS JEFFERSON BARRACKS. I eay nominally occupied, because the men are out drilling and for other purposes during the day, and at night they can occupy four porches, the length of the building, in addition to their proper quarters. This want of proper barracks accommodation was pointed out to one of the assistant inspectors general, and to the super- intendent of the recruiting service last summer. The most unremitting attention has been given to general police and to the personal cleanliness of the men. The drinking water, which is brought from the Ohio river, has been freed from all impurities by the addition of permanganate of potassa. As a measure of further precaution, I have recommended that camp equipage for two hundred men be provided and kept on hand, so that at any time when the health of the command appears to suffer from overcrowding, a part may be sent into camp on one of the hills in the neighborhood. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, G. PERIN, Surgeon, and Brevet Lieutenant Colonel, U. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Baenes, Surgeon General. Newport Baiujacks, Ky., September 3, 1867. Sir: I have the honor to enclose herewith the special report of cholera patients at this post during the month ending August 31, 1867. The recruit, Allen Burton, V. R. C, was received at this post July 30th from the rendezvous at Evansville, Indiana. The day previous to his admission to hospital he was suffering from diarrhoea and came for medicine; having taken a dose of Squibb's mixture, he was directed to return if the diarrhoea continued. He went on guard, paid no attention to the direction given him, but ate the rations of two men in company kitchen ; his diarrhoea continued, and the next morning as I passed by his post I observed him vomiting. He was immediately relieved from guard and placed in bed, but it was too late. The treatment was the same as previously reported. He died 32 hours after admission to the hospital. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, G. PERIN, Surgeon, and Brevet Lieutenant Colonel, U. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnks, Surgeon General. .lEFFERSOIV BARRACKS, MO. Jefferson Barracks, Mo., Julij 16, 1867. General: I have the.honor to report the following case, which I consider modified cholera asphyxia: At 5.45 o'clock this morning I was called to the hospital to see Private Jones, of the Engineer Battalion, who had been convej'ed there sick. I found him almost pulseless; eyes sunken, nails blue, and skin c3'anosed. He had been vomiting and purging some time, and now his dejections were nearly colorless. He was suffering from cramps, and two men were employed rubbing his extremities. Sinapisms had been placed to his wrists, ankles, and abdomen. I immediately applied a compress firmly to his stomach, and gave him 20 drops each of tincture of chloroform and tincture of opium. This was at once ej^ected, and with such force and in such quantity as to cover my clothing, standing at the time three feet from tlie patient. I now gave liim 20 drops each of tincture of chloroform and tincture of capsicum, and followed this prescription with 10 grains each of calomel and quinine and 2 grains of opium, which was retained after con.siderable efforts at ejection. At the end of fifteen minutes his pulse could be counted, and was found to be 138, while his respii ation was 26, hurried and difficult. At 6.30 some improvement was plainly indicated, both in his pulse and his respiration, and an hour later the former was reduced to 120 and the latter to 22; vomiting and purging had ceased, and his tongue was moist and clean. I now allowed the patient to melt small pieces of ice in his mouth to allay in some degree his parching thirst. After waiting some time for another patient to be brought to this hospital who had been reported to me as similarly affected, (not, however, arriving,) I went to see a patient at the laundry building, and, returning to the hospital at 9 o'clock, found Jones much the same as when I left him. I now ordered for him blue mass and sulphate of quinine, 10 gftiins each. At a subseq ent visit at midday, his pulse still 12U and respiration 21, I repeated this latter prescription, and allowed him, in addition to ice, a cold infusion of tea, his thirst being distressing. On my visit at 3 p. m. reaction was well established; pulse full, at 120, respiration 19; extremities warm and tongue furred; removed the compress fi-om the abdomen. Private Jones is a strong and rather rauscularly developed man, of temperate habits, unmarried, and aged 20 years and 10 months. Had taken for f od the day previous, bread and coffee for breakfast and supper, and pork, cabbage, and bread for dinner. The day previous his diet had been much the same, at which time he suffered from a slight diarrhoea, which he did not think required any attention. Yesterday was fair, after a heavy rain the night previous, and the thennometer indicated 85° at 3 p. m. Last night was unusually cool; thermometer 58°, and 70° this morning at 8 o'clock, with a light breeze from the northeast. Dr. Culbertson, Assistant Surgeon, United States Army, on duty at this post, attended an aggravated case of cholera morbus yesterday, and we have had two cases in hospital with the same disease to-day, both doing well.