92 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS sick call of endemic diseases, I had neither time to make a diligent inquiry, nor did I wish to subject myself to the personal discourtesy which, as a federal officer, I would have received, even when laboring in such a service. Finding that my views of the advent of that deadly scourge, yellow fever, conflicted widely with the opinions of those hig.i in rank and power, and not having either health or mental ability now to urge them, I would respectfully say, in conclusion, that I know of no specific treatment for yellow fever. On the other hand, I would be understood to say that, to my own knowledge, too much medication has been resorted to, and that quinine has been used to such an extent as to become a poisonous agent. In no other way can 1 account for the mortality in Victoria. There, I am told, persons ranged before the counter of *he apothecary ranks deep, the prescription being the same—30 grains quinine, 10 pills. I placed the sick man in a hot bath enveloped in blankets ; had him supported therein till he became faint, and then removed to bed; gave him 30 to 60 grains of quinia, with 10 grains of bismuth; in two hours a mercurial purge; allaying irritability of the stomach by mustard sinapisms, (mustard that would act,) with 8-grain doses of bismuth, lime-water and milk together, and, strange to say, beef essence, which I found to be the most effective agent. I have used the bisulphite of soda with marked success. Mrs. Lathrop was treated with it by me. In conclusion, I would, with all due deference, say that there are cases in which all human interference avails nothing. Such was the case of the late Brevet Major S. H. Lathrop. With every consideration, I have the honor to be your obedient servant, JOHN RIDGELY, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Major C. Bacon, Jr., Chief Medical Officer District of Texas. Sedgwick Hospital, Greenville, La., January 10, 1868. General : I have the honor to present the following statement, in lieu of the report forwarded to the chief medical officer District of Texas. When I reported for duty at the temporary post of Victoria, Texas, (August 23d, 1867,) I found a great state of excitement, consequent upon a report which the physicians of the town had made, that yellow fever was prevailing as an epidemic. Conflicting statements prevailed, both as to the truth of the report and the origin of the disease. As for myself, knowing none of the physicians of the place, and not wishing to subject myself to discourtesy by asking questions of strangers, I have no definite knowledge as to the prevailing opinion of its origin in Victoria, but believe that the disease was introduced from Indianola, Texas. Being occupied in consolidating the men, getting them out of the weather, (as it was raining continually,) and establishing a detachment hospital, and not having any assistance, no soldier in the command being qualified to act as hospital steward, every moment of my time was taken up from the time I reported until I was taken sick ; therefore, I know nothing but from hearsay testimony, and that of a conflicting character, as to the history of the first cases of yellow fever in the town of Victoria. As to my own men who were taken sick with the disease, the first, second, and fourth on the list had been treated by me for remittent fever for a considerable time; they were convalescent from that disease when attacked with yellow fever, but still inmates of the hospital. Meyers was on detail duty at the commanding officer's quarters, sleeping over a stable in a log-house in the rear of the quarters—a most unhealthy locality. I had broken up this place, but, as the discipline was lax, several of the men would resort there. Crighton was detached as baker, employed in the town, and was taken sick there. Paradise, being a Hebrew, had permission to attend the Jewish New Year festival, and was taken sick while absent. Nelson was detached as clerk at Major Lathrop's quarters, and was taken sick in town. Moore and Colter were hospital attendants. Colter was taken sick in my quarters while acting as nurse to me. Good had just returned from Halletsville. Downing had been sleeping, contrary to my order, in the aforementioned log-house. The two last cases were of a highly malignant character. It appeared to me that the epidemical influences were greater with the citizens of Victoria than with the troops, and that, among the latter, the influences were endemic. Beyond a doubt, yellow fever prevailed in the town of Victoria as an epidemic, and so affected the citizens ; but with the troops the disease was modified or changed by endemic influences, those soldiers who had been treated for remittent and intermittent fevers escaping, or having the disease of a mild type ; whereas two of the fatal cases had never been to sick call until taken with yellow fever. I would respectfully state that I know of no specific treatment for yellow fever. On the other hand, I would be understood to say that, to my knowledge, too much medication has been resorted to, and that quinia has been used to such an extent as to become a poisonous agent. In no other way can I account for the great mortality among the citizens of Victoria. Unless one takes into consideration the different characters the disease assumes in different localities, and even in each separate case, and does not allow himself to be misled by resorting to medication ^or every vagrant symptom that may present itself, he had better leave the sick man to nature and the disease, for hy so doing the struggle will be more equable. In most of my cases abortive treatment was used; whether the result was from that treatment or otherwise, I cannot say. I have the honor to be, with great respect, your obedient servant, JOHN RIDGELY, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Brigat'ier General T. A. McPaiilin, Medi'al Director Fifth Military District, New Orleans, La.