42 ON SPECIAL WOUNDS AND INJURIES. in the revolt in India, the ratio appears to have been larger than this. Among 12,094 wounded, the British in the Crimea had 19 cases only. The histories of the 363 reported cases of tetanus are generally satisfactory in their details of symptoms, progress, and treatment: 336 cases terminated fatally. Of the 27 recoveries reported, the disease was of a chronic form in 23. In the 4 remaining cases, the symptoms were very grave. In 2, recovery took place under the use of opiates and stimulants; in 2, after amputation of the wounded part. The great majority of the cases were treated by the free use of opium, conjoined with stimulants and concentrated nourishment. Chloroform inhalations were very generally employed during the paroxysms of spasmodic contraction. Subcutaneous injections of the salts of morphia and atropia were frequently used. Cathartics, quinia, camphor, cannabis indica, bromide of potassium, strychnia, belladonna, and aconite are mentioned among the remedies employed. Cups, blisters, turpentine stupes, and ice were among the applications made to the spine; and fomentations with opium or to- bacco were, in some cases, applied to the wound. Amputation, the division of nerves, and the extirpation of neuromata in stumps were the surgical measures sometimes employed. The results have not modified the conclusion of Romberg, that ''wherever tetanus puts on the acute form, no curative proceeding will avail, while in the milder and more tardy form, the most various remedies have been followed by cure," The value of nicotine, of the Calabar bean, and of curare* as curative agents in tetanus was not tested. Autopsies were made in many cases; but with almost negative results. There were no microscopic examinations to corroborate or disprove the assertions of Roki- tansky and Demme,f that tetanus has a constant anatomical lesion, consisting in a proliferation of the connective tissue of the white medullary substance of the medulla oblongata, of the inferior peduncles of the cerebellum, of the crura cerebri, and of the spinal cord, producing a viscous mass, abounding in nuclei, and never progressing to the formation of fibres. It is frequently mentioned, however, that great congestion of the brain and spinal cord was observed, a condition on which the lesions of the con- nective tissue above described are believed to depend. The records abound with illustrations of the influence of sudden vicissitudes of temperature in producing this fatal affection, and of the effect which unextracted balls and other foreign bodies and matter confined under fasciae appear to exercise upon its development. It seems probable also that the disease occurred in a larger proportion of cases among the troops serving in the more Southern States; but this and other generalizations must be deferred until the records are more minutely examined. SECONDARY HAEMORRHAGE. On this important subject the records are still very incomplete. There are 1450 special reports relating to it yet to be examined, which will furnish a large number of cases to be transcribed upon the register. The cases have been reported in three * According to H. Demme, of 22 cases of traumatic tetanus treated by the latter agent, 8 recovered. Zeitschrift fur Heilkunde, ii. 350. t Schmidt's Jahrbucher, vol. cxii. See Schweiz,