35 TYBEE ISLAND, GEORGIA, army of the Potomac, and department of South Carolina, I had found it the best of all remedies in diarrhoea and dysentery, and very useful in allaying vomiting. Subsequently the treatment adopted was as follows : As soon as possible after the first symptoms of cholera appeared, mustard plasters were applied to the abdomen, legs, and arms, and retained only long enough to redden thoroughly the skin. One of the powders above named was administered in a gill of water every fifteen minutes, half hour, or hour, until vomiting and purging were allayed. Only small quantities of water were allowed, as it was usually vomited, and the patient exhausted by a relapse ; pellets of ice, however, were given freely. Dr. Burdctt used in his cases, he thought with service when cramps supervened, six or eight drops of chloroform and twenty of laudanum, in a table-spoonful of water. As nearly as possible, absolute rest in bed was enforced throughout; hence, friction was but little used, as it always failed to restore the circulation, and greatly annoyed the patients. Dry heat, however, which permitted rest in its use, was applied to the extremities. During convalesence, moderate quantities, frequently repeated, of iced lemonade, milk punch made with brandy, and egg-nog were given. The diet consisted chiefly of eggS; which were very generally asked for and well borne, beef tea, corn starch, &c , with fresh beef and bread when health was sufficiently restored. Dr. Winne used in some cases, for vomiting and purging, the sub-nitrate of bismuth with acetate of lead. It was generally thought, however, that the ultimate effect of the lead was not as favorable as that of the bi-carbonate of soda, my own convictions being decidedly against its continued use. Other symptoms were treated by the acknowledged remedies. A case of vomiting that had con- tinued for days was relieved by creosote in mint water. Another, as above mentioned, yielded to the wound of the actual cautery, and a dressing of morphia applied over the stomach, by order of Dr. Winne, after the usual anti-emetics had failed. In estimating the effect of the preceding plan of treatment, it must be remembered that at the date of its introduction (July 28) the cases were assuming a milder type, the virulence of the disease being almost expended ; that for the first time adequate supplies had been received, and that now the surgeon in charge was able to order the daily destruction of all straw in use, and of all soiled and infected clothing and bedding, and to replace them by fresh articles. Numerous severe cases, how- ever, «ontinvxed to be received for some days later, the lives of several of whom, it is confidently believed, were saved by the above treatment. Certainly no other operated so promptly in arresting vomiting and purging; and it is believed that cramps, when not entirely averted, were rendered much milder by its use. It has the important advantage of not increasing the patient's danger during subsequent convalescence, while so far as could be judged from its use in fifty or sixty gastro-intestinal cases, it was much more serviceable than any other plan of treatment in arresting and alleviating the severity of the acute stage. In the algid cases, like all other remedies hitherto used, it was powerless. The distribution of the powders of sub- nitrate of bismuth and bi-carbonate of soda among cholera-infected troops, with directions to take one every fifteen minutes, half hour, or hour, on the first appearance of vomiting, purging, or cramps, until the arrival of the medical officer, would doubtless save valuable time and lives that would otherwise be lost by delay. Hereafter, as heretofore, algid cases of cholera will die despite of all remedies, death beginning with the attack. In cases of the gastro-intestinal type the plan of treatment above recommended was followed by recovery in every instance in which it was used early in the attack. Its im- mediate effects were to quiet the irritation of the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal and relieve pain. As the cramps, when they occurred at all, were milder following its use, and the circulation better maintained, it is thought that the bismuth had an anti-spasmodic effect, while the soda in some measure prevented the viscidity of the blood. Their efficacy appears worthy of further trial. The last death up to this date was that of Acting Assistant Surgeon James F. Burdett, United States Army, August 5. Dr. Burdett landed on the island July 28, in poor health, (having suffered for some days previously from diarrhoea,) but in good spirits. Although he was subsequently attacked by intermittent fever and cholera morbus, he, whenever able, labored cheerfully and with success among the sick. August 2, Dr. Winne directed him, on account of feeble health, to go to camp two miles distant, as a place of safety, which, however, he requested to be relieved from doing, preferring to continue on duty in hospital, and in deference to his wishes, was permitted to do so. Subsequently, his health greatly improved, and on the morning of August 5, was apparently as good as that of any one on the ground. At 11 o'clock a. m. he mentioned being slightly ill, but attached no importance to it; at 1 o'clock p. m. was attacked with purging and vomiting, which, being bilious, he thought was the old enemy, cholera morbus, and refused remedies until nearly 2 o'clock p. m., soon after which he was in the relentless grasp of the algid form of cholera asphyxia ; at 4 o'clock p. m. he was speechless; at 6 o'clock the pulse could no longer be detected in the radial or temporal arteries ; and at 10.30 p. m. he expired. He was thirty-two years of age, and leaves a wife and four sons in Salem, Massachusetts. Dr. Burdett's mind was of the solid, liberal, and comprehensive order, and his professional attainments and general knowledge in keeping therewith. His judgment was sound and discriminat- ing; his social nature warm, lively, and congenial; in manners, frank and unassuming; in honesty and morals, above re- proach ; and in all the walks of life, the natural enemy of pretension. A rough but true diamond. "Formed on the good old plan, a tnie and brave and downright honest man." In the discharge of the duties of a profession of which he was a worthy and able member, he labored zealously to the last, and when met by the grim messenger, calmly laid down his life at the post of danger he had refused to leave. A large circle of friends will cherish his memory; none with more respect than those with whom he parted on Tybee island. I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, WM. CARROLL, Brevet Major and Assistant Surgeon United States Volunteers. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel Charles Page, Surgeon United States Army, Medical Director Department of the Carolinas.