69 EXCISIONS. EXCISIONS or THE HEAD OF THE F'EM.V'R.—Continued. Constitutional State of Patient at Time of Operation. Not favorable. Fair. Constitution naturally good; very much reduced at time of operation; discharge of pus very free; appetite poor; tongue coated; bow- els moved frequently; skin moist; pulse 90 to 100. Good. Progress, Treatment, etc. Patient lived but five days; the wound assumed no healthy action; stimulants and ice to wound; but he gradually sank. He exhibited a great deal of shock, and i-eacted slowly. May 28th. Pulse frequent and feeble; exhibits a good deal of nervous agitation; has some fever; tongue dry and furred in centre. June 1st. Condition much im- proved; wound looks well; character of the suppura- tion good. June 30th. Is doing well. Simple dressings of cold water and lint; discharge of pus moderate and heal- thy ; wound looking well; no pain; nourishing diet; tonics and stimulants given freely. Simple dressings; did well. At date of transfer the parts had entirely healed; the limb was six inches shorter than the other, and could be swung forward and backward, but could not be exercised in lateral or rotary motion. Smith's anterior splint was applied after operation. r>esult. Cause of Deatli. Died May 24th, 1864, from exhaustion from surgical fever. November 16th, 1864. Re- covered. Discharged from service October 6th, 1864, by reason of expiration of term, but unable to travel. Transferred to General Hospital at Newark, N. .1., April 15th, 186.5. He was in tolerably good health. The limb disposed to ab- scesses upon any unusual exertion. Left hospital May 6th, 1865. Died .Tune 21st, 1864. of as- thenia, consequent from gunshot wound. Furloughed Dec. 21st, 1864; readmitted and transfer- red, February 28th, 1865. to Worcester, Mass. March 31st, 1865. Patient is in perfect health; parts heal- ed and free from tender- ness ; limb movable in every direction, and perfectly under control of the mus- cles; while standing erect on the left foot, and placing the right on a line with the long axis of the leg, he can touch the floor with his toes; more than two inches of the shaft is apparently gone; upper end of femur enlarged, apparently by new osseous growth, to almost twice its normal diameter; has a good false joint, and leg can be made useful hereafter when strengthened by artificial appliances. REMARKS. Operator, J. H. Thompson, Act. Asst. Surgeon U. S. A. The fracture extended into the joint, separating tlietrochan- ter from neck and splintering the shaft of bone. Operator, George A. Mursick, Asst. Surgeon U. S. Vols. Army Medical Museum, Spe- cimen No. 3875. Operator, M. C. Mulford, Act. Asst. Surgeon U. S. A. Army Medical Museum, Speci- men No. 2618. Operator, Confederate Sur- geon. Transferred from Dale U. S. A. General Hospital to DeCamp U. S. A. General Hospital, August 28th, 1865. Asst. Surgeon Warren Web- ster's Report proves conclu- sively that the head of the bone was not removed in this case. The patient is figured in Photographs 106 and 107, A. M M. Report of Asst. Surgeon J. S. Billings, U. S. A., Acting Medical Inspector A. of P.