XVI REPORT ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. passed with more or less delay before arrival, the infection spread by readily traceable steps to Hart's island and other posts in the harbor, to Tybee island, Georgia ; to Louisiana, by way of New Orleans; to Texas, by way of Galveston; to Louisville, Kentucky; to Richmond, Virginia, and to La Virgin, Nicaragua bay. From Richmond it was carried to Norfolk, Virginia; from Louisville to Bowling Green, Kentucky. The probabilities appear to be that the disease was carried from New Orleans up the Mississippi river to various points on that stream, and west of it, and though the whole chain of evidence is not complete, yet there are a sufficient number of known cases of the transfer of the epidemic from one post to another in this region to put this view of the whole movement beyond reasonable doubt. The other principal centre appears to have been Newport barracks, Ken- tucky, where the disease was plainly introduced from the infected city of Cin- cinnati, on the opposite side of the Ohio river. Although it did not prevail to any great extent at this post, yet it is in evidence that it was carried thence to Augusta and Atlanta, Georgia, to Nashvihe and Memphis, Tennessee. At several points, as, for example, at Augusta and Atlanta, Georgia, the epidemic did not extend beyond the infected recruits by whom it was imported. In many cases, however, it involved the rest of the command, and it is highly probable that this would have been the' case far more generally but for the stringent hygienic precautions adopted. As a particular example of the value of such precautions, attention may be appropriately drawn to the appended extracts from the reports of Brevet Major E. McOlellan, Assistant Surgeon United States Army, (Appendix p. 60,) from which it appears that cholera broke out at various points in the vicinity of Fort Delaware, in fact, encircling the post, but did not invade the garrison, although one case, which recovered, occurred in the family of an officer on the island. On the whole, it must be admitted that the general tenor of army expe- rience, during 1866, is strongly in favor of quarantine, and especially points to the danger to the army incurred by the distribution of recruits or other bodies of men from infected points. As to the question of therapeutic agencies, it cannot be said that any new hght has been shed upon the existing obscurity of the subject by the army expe- rience. The chief modes of treatment employed are indicated in the appended reports, and the general tendency of the facts recorded must be to direct atten- tion rather to hygienic precautions, intended to mitigate the violence of the epidemic, than to methods of treatment which have hitherto unhappily proved so unsuccessful. Among these hygienic precautions, besides cleanliness, the use of disinfectants, ventilation, proper air-space, &c., especial attention is directed in the report of Brevet Brigadier General T. A. McParhu, Surgeon United States