VIUALIA VICKSBURG. ' 19 VIDALIA, LA. Baton Eouge, La., November 5, 1867. Gexekal : I liave the honor to forward special report of cholera, and brief history of the same as it appeared in camp at Vidalia, La., at the commencement of the month of October, 1867. During the months of June, July, August, and September, cholera appeared amongst the freedmen on man}- plantations, only several miles from our camp. This made us very vigilant. By my advice and direction, every sanitary measure ^vas enforced in order to jjrevent the disease. The camp was twice daily policed. The sinks were every day disinfected either with chloride of lime or solution of sulphate of iron. Chloride of lime was liberally spread all over the camp, and the men were daily instructed to be careful of what they ate and drank. The first case that appeared was that of Private John Long, which terminated fatally; though it is not without some diffidence that I so pronounce it, because I know that he had cardiac dropsy, for which he was under treatment; furthermore, I am informed that he had no rice-water discharges, but severe cramps in his legs and constant vomiting. Having been sick myself at the time for several days, I engag'ed the services of a good practicing physician to attend the troops. John Long, as mentioned, the first case that occurred, was under the treatment of said pliysician. He took sick on the 30th September, and died October 1st, 1867. The circumstance that from this day nearly every man in the command ^vas attacked with diarrhoea makes it, however, probable that it was a real case of epidemic cholera. Most of the diarrhoea caseS were, however, easily managed, by a pill composed of equal parts of opium, sugar of lead, and camphor. The first undoubted case was Private John Enders, who was admitted October 6th, 1867. At his admission he presented all the sjnnptoms of true cholera asiatica: violent vomiting and purging of rice-water, cramps, cold extremities, and suppression of urine. * * * * This patient rapidly recovered, but suffered a relapse by indiscretion in eating on the 14th of October. I am informed by some of the men that the preceding evening he ate apples and gingerbread in great quantities, and walked many times to the sink barefooted. On the morning of the 15th I was called to see him, and found him in a collapsed state, vomiting and purging rice-water, with cramps, cold surface, cold extremities, cold tongue, and a very weak pulse. * * « » He recovered very slowly, but at the date of this report he is strong and restored to duty. Private John Leyden was the next case, admitted October 7th, 1867. I am informed that the night he took sick he ate at least a half dozen of apples and some gingerbread. He went, as I am told, about fifteen or twenty times to the sink, and was found early in tlie morning lying near the water-closet. Nobody knows how long he was lying there. When I was called to see him, I found him in a complete collapse, with excessive spasms of the abdominal and other muscles, his pulse was quick and small, the skin was ice-cold, his features shrunken, the extremities cold and of a blueish color. » * * * jjjg yit^l powers failed rapidly; he died at 6 p. m., October 8th, 1867. The same day Charles Kopp was admitted. He had all the symptcmis of cholera, but in the incipient state. He recovered. Jones, Conners, and Schrivemhold were admitted on the 8th of October, while they had the first symptoms of cholera. They all recovered. Joel L. Tuttle was the next case admitted. He had, as I am informed, diarrhoea for several days, but did not c"511 for medicines, through dread and fear that he would be obliged to go to hospital, where the former cases of cholera had been taken. October iL; h I was called to see him, about 7 o'clock in the morning, and found him in collapse, with cold surface, cold tongue, cold extremities, and a quick weak pulse ; violent vomiting and rice-water discharges ; his features were shrunken; his fingers had the appearance of what is called the " washerwoman's hands;" there was a great similarity between this case and that of Leyden. Died October 10th, 1867. ~' The company having been removed to a healthy camp and hi^iest available ground, about four miles from Vidalia, La., diarrhoea prevailed among the men for some time, but the epidemic disappeared entirely. As to the probable cause of the epidemic, I have the honor to respectfully state that cholera was sporadic at and around Vidalia through all the summer, especially among the freedmen. Another cause may have also been that our cistern gave out, and we were obliged to use the dirty Mississippi water. This water has been boiled and purified, but, no dou^t, the men have more often partaken of the water as it came from the Mississippi than otherwise. At this time a grocer at Vidalia, who had his store near the camp, received several barrels of apples, which the men of our command purchased profusely. Having been informed of this, I requested the grocer to sell no more of the apples to the troops, which he agreed to do, but the men got the apples by sending citizens and negroes to buy for them. I am, General, very respectfully, your obedient servant, E. ALEXANDER, Actiny Assistant Surgeon, U. jS. A. Brevet Major General Joseph K. Barnes, Surgeon General. VICKSBURG, MISS. Extract from Monthly Report of Sick and Wounded, Vicksburg, Miss., June, 1867, A. A, Yeomans, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Maurice Kennelly, Private, Company A, 24th U. S. Infantry, was attacked with what appeared to be a severe form of cholera morbus on the morning of the 29tli of June, 1867 ; he was immediately admitted to the hospital. In the course of two hours well-marked symptoms of Asiatic eholera presented themselves, his extrennties became cold, the action of his heart weak, he had severe cramps, and rice-water purging and vomiting. Under the influence of warm external applications, f rictions and the