HOSPITAL ORGANIZATION AND CONSTRUCTION. 162 plan, with thirty-six radiating pavilion wards, each to accommodate 60 patients. The approach of the end of the war, however, prevented this from being executed, and the hospital, as completed, is a semicircle, in which the wards radiate from a covered way, as in Figure 13. It is, however, both on account of the substantial character of the wooden buildings and the numerous conveniences which have been carefully supplied, one of the most complete of the hospitals built during the war. The wards are built and ventilated as directed in the circular from the War Department. The administration build- ing is 132 by 38 feet and two stories high; the first story contains ofiSces for the surgeon in charge, executive officer, quartermaster, commissary and their clerks; it also contains the hospital library and printing-office. On the second floor are sleeping apartments for officers. This building is flanked on each end by a smaller one, 70 by 28 feet, one of which L liU □□ cno I 1 0 22 n '9 20 □ Fio. 13.—Ground Plan op Hicks' General Hospital, Baltimore, Md. Scale, ISO feet to the inch. 1111. Wards. 2. Administration building. 3. Liucn- rooni, etc. 4. Dispensary and operating-room. 5. Dining-ball. G. Kitchen and laundry. 7. Ward for detailed men. 8. Knaj)sack-room. 9. Commis- sary store-liouse. 10. Quarterma.ster's store-house. 11. Tank. 12. Quarters for guard. 1.3. Stable. 14. Wagon-bouse. 15. Sutler. 16. Stewards'quar- ters. 17 18. Officers' bouses (of which, also, there are several not in the figure). 10. Guard-room. 20. Guard-house, near entrance g.ate. 21. Workshop. 22. Contagion ward; this is farther distant than is represented in the figure. The wards, dining-room, and administration building are connected by a covered way, which is indicated by faint lines in the plan. contains the linen-room and post-office, with the officers' dining-room, kitchen, and pantry. The other contains the dispensary, medical store-rooms, room of the discharge board, and an operating-room lighted by a sky-light. The dining-room building is 187 by 48 feet, and is two stories high. The dining-room, which is on the first floor, is capa- ble of seating about 1200 patients. The second floor, which is accessible by stairs on the outside, is occupied by the chapel and by dormitories for female nurses. At the end of the dining-room is a T-shaped building for kitchen and laundry. The general kitchen, extra-diet kitchen, and bakery occupy separate apartments ; the former two each con- tain a suitable range and steam fixtures, the latter two bake-ovens. The laundry has a separate room for drying by steam, and immediately adjoins the engine-room, which is at the extremity of the building. There are, besides the foregoing, separate buildings for knapsack-room, quartermaster's store-house, commissary store-house, quarters for