146 EXTEACTS FKOM OFFICIAL EEPORTS. Post Hospital, Mobile, Ala., J^ml 9, 1868. General : I have the honor to state that Sergeant Luther Miller, Company " H," 15th U. S. Infantry, who died at Fort Gaines, Alabama, December 1st, 1867, with yellow fever, contracted the disease in the city of Mobile during a stay of three days on court martial r.s witness. I am, General, very respecffulh', your obedient servant, ' O. L. CEAMPTON, Acting Assistant Sur(je:n, U. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. Mobile, Ala., September 19, 1867. Sir : In answer to your letter of the 2d instant, I have to report no ease of yellow fever until the 17th instant, when Ma;for Tracy, 15th U. S. Infantry, is said to have died of it. He was treated in a private hospital, and, consequently, I do not think there was any chance of its infecting the troops. The troops have been removed to the eastern shore and placed m camp. The location for the camp was neither chosen nor recommended by me. The patients remaining in the post hospital are doing well, and in no case are there any indications of yellow fever. Your instructions will be obeyed. In answer to your question as to the manner in which my recommendations are canied out, I beg to state that, up to the present time, (i. e., to the time that Jlajor Curtis, 15th LT. S. Infontry, took command.) they have been disregarded in several instances—such as working the men in fatigue parties in the heat of the sun, &c. I have given Dr. W. B. Hedges, Acting Assistant Surgeon, charge of the camp hospital, and, in the event of any infectious fever breaking out, have instructed him to isolate the sick, and to take every precaution to avoid its spreading or being brought to the city. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, H. J. PHILLIPS, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Brigadier General J. J. Milhau, Medical Director Third Military District, Atlanta, Georgia. Post Hospital, Mobile, Ala., September 24, 1867. General : I have the honor to report one case of yellow fever in hospital this morning. The patient is Corporal Hubbard, Company "K," 15th U. S. Infantry. I would state that this soldier has not been exposed in any manner to the disease ; is sober and temperate, and has not been out of the city. This is the fourth day, and his condition this morning is favorable. This is the first case of the season in this hosjjital. The Board of Health report three cases in the city this morning. The entire command have left the city, with the exception of thirty-six men, now in hospital. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, E. W. COALE, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Brigadier General J. J. Milhau, Medical Director Third Military District, Atlanta, Georgia. Extract from Monthly Report of Side and Wounded of Companies "A," " C," " G," "I," and " K," 15th U. S. Infantry, Mobile, Alabama. R. IV. Coale, Acting Assistant Surgeon, September, 1867. Yellow Fever : This is the fii st case that has presented itself among the soldiers at this post. The patient has not been exposed to the disease, is temperate and sober, and at this time (Sejrtember 30th) is improving. On the 18tli instant the command was removed to Stark's landing, on the eastern shore, distant from Mobile about ton miles, and, up to this date, the health of the command has been excellent. The disease so far has not been of a violent character, and most of those attacked have recovered. As yet the Board of Health of the city of Mobile have not reported more than six deaths from yellow fever, though, to my knowledge, about thirty-five cases have occurred during September. The disease, as observed by me at Fort Morgan, Mobile b.ay, was of a malignant character, and life, in several instances, was destroyed in something less than seventy-two hours. I also recommended the removal of the connnand there to a distance of four miles from the fort, .and at this time there is not a single case of yellow fever at Fort Slorgan. The disease did not originate at the fort, but was brought there on the person of an officer, and from this case the disease was communicated. Extract from Monthly Report of Sick and Wounded of Companies "A," " C," " G," " I," and " K," Iblh U. S. Infantry, Mobile, Alabama. R. W. Coale, Acting Assistant Surgeon, October, 1867. There were eighteen cases of yellow fever reported durin'r the month, fifteen of whom were treated at this hospital, and three died. The three other cases were treated at camp, Captain Cuunnings and Private Simpson having died there. Mortality 20 per cent. About one-half of the cases treated by me were mild, and lasted, on the average, about five days.