53 AMPUTATIONS. ria. 62.—Necrosis of right tibia and fibula after amputa- tion of the leg. Spec. 4225, A. M. M. Fig. 63.—Hyperostosis of the extremities of the right tibia and fibula after amputation. Spec. 2778, A. M. M. bone after amputation. Wood-cuts of a few of the latter are subjoined. In regard to Specimen 4225, the following particulars are recorded: Private Daniel S. Crawford, Co. A, 47tli Pennsylvania Vols., aged twenty-seven, was wounded at Cedar Creek, October 19th, 1864, his right leg being fractured at the middle third. Amputation at the middle of the leg was performed the same day. On October 26th, he was trans- ferred to the National Hospital, at Baltimore, and thence to the Jarvis Hospital, where it was found that the amputated extremities of the tibia and fibula were necrosed. On March 2,5th, 1865, lateral flaps were reflected and five inches of the diseased bones were resected by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. G. Small, U. S. A. After this the stump healed promptly, and the patient was discharged from service May 31st, 1865. (See Surg. Eec. S. G. 0., Amputations, vol. vi. part ii. p. 141. Specimen 2778 presents a remarkable example of the exaggeration of the natural process by which the amputated ends of bones are rounded off. The redundant osseous formation presents the histological characters of ordi- nary callus. In the case which furnished this speci- men, a successful secondary amputation was performed through the knee-joint. Cases of myelitis after amputation of the thigh have furnished the Museum with a large number of sequestra comprehending the entire circumference of the bone. The accompanying example is remarkable for the unusual length of the sequestrum, and from the fact that the patient recovered after its removal. It was contributed, with the following narrative, by Assistant Sur- geon W. Thomson, U. S. A.: Corporal H. H. Ellis, Co. I, 16th New York Vols., was wounded at Chancellorsville, May 3d, 1863, and admitted into Douglas Hospital, at Washington, May 8th, 1863. A conoidal ball had comminuted the left patella (Spec. 1852, A. M. M.), and the knee-joint was involved. On the 13th of May, the thigh was amputated at the lower third by the circular method. This patient's health was much impaired by chronic diarrhoea, and after the operation, his condition was unpromis- ing. ^Secondary haemorrhage occurred on May 20th, and recurred on the 21st, when the fem- oral artery was tied in Scarpa's triangle. For many weeks this man clung to life by the slen- derest thread. The thigh stump was greatly swollen and very tender on pressure. The line of incision, however, was not unhealthy in appearance, and the dis- charge was moderate. Prom the inner angle of the stump the necrosed extremity of the femur protruded Au-ust 9th, 1863, the sequestrum was found to be loose, and was removed. After its extraction there was considerable hiEmorrhage; nevertheless, convalescence now proceeded rapidly. A formation of new bone, replacin- the orioinal femur, could be readily felt. The stump was not shorter than at first. It soon closed entirely, was firm° and in every respect satisfactory. The man was discharged from the hospital, and from the service of the United States October 26th, 1863. In December, 1864, he reported himself in good health. ' ^ The next specimen illustrates the numerous class of cases in which pycemia accom- panies osteomyelitis, and proves fatal before the dead bone is sufficiently detached to be extracted. The involucrum is thin and eroded. The specimen, with the following facts relating to it, was forwarded by Sur- geon E. Bently, U. S. Vols.: 91 inches Fia. 64.—Cylindrical sequestrum from the left femur after amputation at the lower third of the thigh. Spec. 1853, A. M. M. Fia. 65.- -Necrosis of the amputated end of the left femur Spec. 3342, A. M. M.