109 CAMP FEVER. In order to facilitate the appreciation of t^e foregoing tables, a few considerations, derived partly from the statistical facts, partlj from contributed papers and from pathological observations conducted in this branch of the office, are presented with regard to some of the more important affections. CAMP FEYER—(TTPHO-MALARIAL FEYER). On account of the great mortality resulting from it, camp fever has been, during the two years under consideration, the most important of the diseases of the army. Under the general designation of Camp Fever, all those cases are here included which were reported, during the first year of the war, under the heads of Typhus, Typhoid, Common Continued, and Eemittent Fevers, and, during the second year, under the heads of Typhus, Typhoid, Typho-Malarial, and Remittent. This grouping is by no means intended to express a doubt as to the propriety of regarding typhus, typhoid or enteric and remittent fevers as distinct affections. The enteric lesion characteristic of typhoid fever enables a ready distinction to be effected between it and a genuine typhus or a true remittent, on the autopsy at least. But as the diseases have occurred in our army during the present war, the phenomena of these two affections have continually complicated each other in the same patient: so that, in fact, the enteric fevers have broken out among men campaigning in a malarial region, with constitutions more or less thoroughly impregnated with the malarial poison; the remittents among soldiers, peculiarly prone by their exposures and mode of life to en- teric disease; and both have occurred, almost without exception, in men whose health has been more or less modified by camp diet, and who were therefore suffering in some degree from a condition best characterized as the scorbutic taint. These three modifying conditions or tendencies, each of which, acting alone, might produce simple enteric fever, periodic fever, or scurvy, when acting simultaneously pro- duce mixed types of disease that vary infinitely in accordance with the predominance of one or another of the three sets of determining conditions. For these variable resulting fevers I proposed the general name of Typho-Malarial Fever, which, in June, 1862, was, at my suggestion, adopted in the statistical nomenclature of the monthly reports of sick and wounded. Typho-malarial fever is then the most important and frequent of the diseases in- cluded here under the head of Camp Fever, and its several varieties embrace the great majority of the continued fevers of the army. Undoubtedly cases of simple enteric and simple remittent fevers did occur, especially among recruits not yet brought under camp influences, and among the attendants in hospitals or others not exposed to them. It would be difficult to state the real frequency of such uncomplicated cases, and when the extreme diversity of opinion existing among physicians on the subject of fevers is considered, it will be understood that the number of cases reported as Typhoid and Remittent Fevers are, to a great extent, to be regarded simply as those in which the typhoid or the paroxysmal phenomena predominated. Using then the term Camp Fever in the broad sense above indicated, the follow- ing statistical facts may be presented: The whole number of cases during the first year of the war was 74,619, the deaths