98 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. above and below, and did not appear in Brownsville. It is believed to be beyond doubt that there was nothing like yellow fever in these cases. With the exception of these cases, the sanitary condition of the post of Ringgold Barracks and vicinity continued quite good until some time in September. About the 1st of September began a seiies of interesting events^ of which an account is given in the accompanying report of Acting Assistant Surgeon C. C. Furley, U. S. A. In forwarding this report, however, it becomes my duty to correct some of the statements made therein, and to present the results of my own investigations relative to the disease which has recently prevailed at Rio Grande City and vicinity. This report was received at this office from Dr. Furley about the 6th of November. I afterwards received from Dr. Cnnyngliame, post Surgeon at Ringgold Barracks, the accompanying letter, dated October 3Uth.* Further inquiry was rendered necessary by that letter and by other contradictory statements received; also by the fact that Dr. Furley was entirely inexperienced in regard to yellow fever, and had not seen any of the cases that occurred outside of the post subsequent to the date of September 20th, from which time till November 1st (when his contract was annulled for official misconduct) he was in arrest, and, excepting to see the case of Dr. Reilly, did not leave the post of Ringgold Barracks. In the latter part of November, copies of all official papers relating to the subject of Dr. Furley's report were obtained from Ringgold Barracks, and are enclosed with the report; also copies of letters received from medical and other officers at that post.t There are three or four doctors in practice at Rio Grande City, Texas, and Camargo, Mexico, (which places are about four miles apart,) but of these it is understood that the only physician by education is Dr. Headley, of Camargo, who is repeatedly referred to in the accompanying report and letters, and his opinion regarding the recent epidemic in that vicinity is the only professional one to be obtained. * * * Since December 1st I have had several conversations with Dr. Headley, and substantially the same account is given by him as by Dr. Fuiley in the accompanying report of the events which occurred early in September. An ambulance arrived at Rio Grande City from Corpus Cliristi, on the evening of September 2d, in which was a man sick with yellow fever, who was immediately sent out of town, and who died the next morning. Very energetic action was at once taken by the military connn|inder at Ringgold Barracks to prevent the further development of the disease. These cases were all seen by Dr. Headley of Camargo, and those of the persons who crossed the Rio Grande and died of the fever at a.house three miles from Camargo were under his care. The Doctor believes that these cases (of the ambulance party) were yellow fever, but that subsequently to these there have been no cases of the disease in the vicinity of Camargo or Rio Grande City. His grounds for this belief are, that the vigorous and thorough action taken with regard to the ambulance and its contents, (all ot which were burned and entirely destroyed, including all blankets, silks, &c., tfec, and even the pistols of the sick man, so great was the fear of contagion among the Mexican people,) and the similar course pursued with regard to those of the ambulance party who crossed into Mexico, rendered propagation of the disease by contagion improbable, if not impossible; that the disease which became more prevalent in September was entirely malarial, of a decidedly intermittent character and congestive type, and was such as usually prevailed in the region at that season ; that all the cases properly treated recovered, the plan of treat- ment being a mercurial cathartic followed by large doses of quinine and stimulants; and that few deaths occurred among the better class of the people who had medical attendance, but many among the poor Mexicans, who could not employ physicians, but treated themselves with herb teas, sweating, &c., &c. Tiiis Mexican plan of treatment, Dr. Headley argues, should have cured a fair proportion of the patients if their disease had been yellow fever; and, on the other hand, that the actual results were what might have been expected from such treatment (without quinine) for malarial fevers of a congestive type, viz: a mortality in two months of about one hundred and fifty or two hundred persons in a population estimated at from 500 to 750 people. Returning now to Dr. Furley's report, it is evident from his letters, dated September 11th, 18th, 24th, and 25th, that matters went on very quietly at Ringgold Barracks and vicinity subsequent to the ambulance burning, September 3d, and that the existence of yellow fever was not suspected, or, at least, that the idea of its existence was not entertained, until the 24th of the month, when a citizen named Forbes was admitted to the post hospital at Ringgold Barracks. During all this period, however, there had been some sickness and a few deaths in Rio Grande City, ])articularly among children, and at various ranches above and below that place along the river. It is stated as an interesting fact, that during the whole time of the prevalence of the epidemic there was no sickness beyond a ranch about twelve miles above Rio Grande City, and that at the larger town of Roma, only three miles further up than the point where the epidemic appeared to stop, or fltteen miles from Rio Grande City, there were no cases of the prevailing disease, and but a few deaths in September and October. At the Garcia ranch, where the ambulance was burned, half a mile fi om Rio Grande City, there are several houses or huts in which Mexican families are living. It is stated by credible persons that, immediately subsequent to September 3d, there was no more sickness at this ranch than at many other neighboring ones at the same time, and that it was not of a peculiar character. Had there been any evidences of yellow fever at this suspicious locality they should have been recognized earlier than September 24th by the military and civil authorities who were looking for the appearance of the disease. The three cases (it should be stated as two) mentioned in Dr. Furley's report as having been pronounced yellow fever by Dr. Reilly, who had never before seen cases of the disease, were two women, seen but once by him, and that after dark, in a Mexican hut, and the only examination made was by the light of a coal of fire held over their fiices. The women died shortly after, and were buried before morning by direction of the doctor, who afterwards repeatedly declared that they were not cases of yellow fever. The first declared ease of yellow fever, after those of the ambulance jiarty, was that of Mr. Forbes, before mentioned as having died at the post hospital at Ringgold Barracks, September 24tli. Dr. Furley had jireviously been placed in ari'est, but * In this letter the writer reviews the alleged cases of yellow fever reported by Acting Assistant .Surgeon Furley, .md doiiios lluit they were rc;illy such, or that true yellow fever had existed up to tli.it date in Rio (irande City or its vicinity. ♦ These lotlors are not here imblished for want i;f space ; their substance isenil raccd in tliis document.