(89) Surgeon General's Office, Washington, D. C , October 20th, 1865. BREVET MAJOR GENERAL JOSEPH K. BARNES, Surgeon General TJ. S. Army. General :— In reply to jour inquiries as to the nature and extent of the data bearing on the health of the army during the war, which have accumulated in the branch of your office under my charge, and as to how far the labor of digesting this material for publication has advanced, I have the honor to present for your consideration the following state- ments. The matter collected is partly statistical, partly pathological. The first category embraces the medical statistics of the several armies and general hospitals. The second consists of a number of memoirs and reports by medical officers on the causes, symptoms, and treatment of the more important camp diseases, of numerous histories of cases and autopsies, of the fine series of medical and microscopical specimens in the Army Medical Museum, and of the results of the pathological studies conducted under my direction on the basis of these collections. In addition, there are a large number of descriptions and plans of general hospitals, of reports on hospital organization, and some other miscellaneous matters. The object kept steadily in view has been to collect all the information possible with regard to the sickness and mortality of the army during the war, and especially whatever related to the nature and causes of those affections which were the chief occasion of death and disability. The importance of such a study cannot be overestimated. The happy exemption of our army from serious epidemics, an exemption which, under Providence, was the legitimate and necessary consequence of the liberality of our commissariat and of our medical supplies, is continually quoted in terms of the highest self-congratulation. Indeed, so far as can be judged from other recent wars, and from the careful study of such imperfect information as can be collected with regard to the health of troops prior to the nineteenth century, the mortality of our soldiers from disease has been far less than that of any other army in time of war. But while our hearts are filled with gratitude at this fortunate result, it should not be forgotten that our losses from disease have, nevertheless, been enormous when con- trasted with the usual mortality of men of military ages in time of peace. Not count- ing those of our soldiers who died while prisoners in the hands of the rebels—not counting those who were discharged for diseases contracted in the service, and who subsequently died at home,—the deaths of our men from disease were far more numer- ous than all the slain in all the battles, and all the wounded who have since died or are likely yet to die of the injuries received in the struggle. Judging from the statistics of the first two years, which have already been compiled, the mortality from disease