73 EXCISIONS. EXCISIONS OF THE HEAD OF THE FEMUR—Continued. Constitutional State of Patient at Time of Operation. Progress, Treatment, etc. Result. Canse of Death. REMARKS. General health bad; night- sweats ; tongue clean and moist; appetite good; bow- els inclined to be costive. - Wound filled with lint; por- ter, chicken broth, eggs, stimulants, everything to enable him to sustain the drain upon his system. Felt easier for a few days after the operation. - Died March 30th, 1865. He became very much emaci- ated. Operator, A. McMahon, Sur- geon U. S. Vols. When admitted, patient stated positively that the surgeon of his regiment had given him chloroform, and exam- ined his wound, and that the bone was not touched. There was no evidence of fracture on admission. He had walked upon the limb. The ball had injured the neck of the bone, and the subsequent caries had caused its destruction. Patient feverish and fretful, with furred tongue. - Singultus came on immedi- ately after operation, but was arrested; antispasmo- dics. April oth. Great tympanitis. April 7th. Well-marked signs of peri- tonitis; a chill occurred, and lasted half an hour. Died April 8th, 1865; acute peritonitis. Operator, H. Allen, Asst. Sur- geon U. S. A. Autopsy: Lungs healthy; liver greatly hypertropbied; lower fifth of ilium greatly inflam- ed and injected; tissues sur- rounding left hip-joint in a sloughing condition, and in- filtrated with foetid pus, which had burrowed several inches under gluteal mus- cles; also two inches below lesser trochanter; acetabu- lum denuded and a slight fracture of upper and pos- terior border; upper two inches of femur denuded of periosteum. Army Medical Museum, Specimen No. 626. Very satisfactory. Did well for two or three days, when haemorrhage occurred. Haemorrhage was probably from iliac vein, injured by a sharp splinter of bone. Died April 7th, 1865. Operator, D. W. Bliss, Surgeon U. S. Vols. Army Medical Museum, Spe- cimen No. 4048. Patient was somewhat ex- hausted, and had consider- able fever ; pulse and res- piration nearly normal. April 13th. Wound appears healthy; suppurates w-ell; patient perspires freely; pulse 120. April loth. Pulse 118. April 17th. Pulse 120; respiration 32; slight pleurisy of right side; Diarrhoea set in. April 18th. Respiration26; pulse 130; mtich weaker. April 20th. Chill. Died April 21st, 1865; ex- haustion. Operator, Wm. F. Norris, Asst. Surgeon U. S. A. Autopsy. No evidences of py- emia found, though strongly suspected before death. Army Medical Museum, Spe- cimen No. 3235. irritative fever. It was ascertained that lon- ■ gitudinal splintering of the femur extended far down the shaft, and amputation at the hip-joint was per- formed. Died April 12th, 1865. Operator, E. Griswold, Sur- geon U. S. V^ls. ! 1