118 EXTKACTS FROM OFFICIAL KEPOETS. were fifty thousand persons in the city belonging to these classes. In the next table the nativities of those who died are given in 2,215 cases: Natives of <tbe United States : Maine 15 New Hampshire 4 Vermont 5 Massachusetts 26 Ehode Island ' 2 Connecticut 3 New York 80 New Jersey 5 Pennsylvania 43 Maryland 23 Delaware I District of Columbia 5 Ohio 29 Indiana 15 Illinois 6 Michigan 7 Virginia 33 North Carolina .i;.,.,:.:...;L,.-... 3 South Carolina 8 Florida '. 2 Georgia 10 Alabama 22 Mississippi 31 Tennessee 13 Kentucky 39 Louisiana 360 Arkansas 3 Texas 7 Wisconsin 8 Missouri 28 Minnesota 1 Oregon 1 Not stated 10 Total natives 848 Foreigners: Germany: Austria 24 Prussia 103 Province not stated 496 623 Great Britain : Scotland 31 England 97 Ireland 436 564 Italy 59 Sicily 16 75 R ssia 15 Spain 10 Sweden 10 Denmark 8 Poland •: ^ 12 Finland j.. G Greece 1 West Indies 3 Canada 36 Mexico 2 Sandwich Islands 1 Australia 1 Total foreigners 1, 367 Recapitulation. Natives of the United States 848 Foreigners 1,367 Total deceased 2,215 It will be seen that the number of natives of Louisiana in the above list (335 of whom were natives of New Orleans) corresponds very closely to the number of deaths of children under ten years of age, and, in fact, the two lists were nearly identical. Very few adult natives of the city died, although many of them had the fever. This epidemic differed from all others that have visited New Orleans, in the large number of children taken sick. It had been considered, from tlie experience of previous epidemics, that children under ten years of age were comparatively exempt, but this year they were especially liable. It is nearly a matter of impossibility to arrive at anything like a correct es.timate of the total number of cases in the city, but from the records of both the Board of Health and the Howard Association, both of whom had excellent opportunities for ascertaining the facts, the proportion of deaths was placed at not over 5 per cent., which would give rather over sixty thousand as the total number of cases, which is by no means an extravagant estimate. From the above table of nativities some idea may be obtained of the comparative liability of different classes of the population. Beginning with those most liable, the population may be divided into the following classes : 1st, unacclimated foreigners; 2d, unaedimated northern whites; 3d, unacclimated northern negroes; 4th, children borti in New Orleans; 5th, unacclimated southerners; 6th, adult natives of New Orleans ; 7th, southern negroes. In regard to the 3d class, it may be remarked, that during the epidemic a detachment of recruits for the 9th U. S. Cavalry (colored) arrived at New Orleans en route to Texas, and were quartered temporarily at Sedgwick Barracks, Greenville, where there was a yellow fever liospital. The disease quickly made its appearance among them, and they sufl'ered greatly. The same was also true of the negro sailors of the navy. There Avas no exemjition whatever foi- blacks of northern birth. Among southern negroes the disease prevailed to a certain extent, towards the last of the epidemic, but chiefly among those who had come to the city from the countvy since the emancipation, and it was not generally fatal. Tiiere were no statistics to be obtained showing the ratio of mortality among the blacks, but it was small. The clinical liistory of the disease did not differ materially from that noted in previous epidemics. Prodromic .symptoms were not constant, the attack commencing with a supraorbital headache, followed soon after by slight rigors and severe pains about the back of the neck, the lumbar region, and the calves of the legs, the rigors being succeeded within an hour by fever. Towards the close of tlie epidemic, very many case assimilated closely to malarial fever, the rigors being more prouounce<l, the fever higlicr, and decided remissions taking plac The pulse, in favorable cases, was seldom over 110, and the fever did not