126 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. sarilv largo, and. in excess of the savings of the hospital ration. A considerable number of citizen nurses were employed, male and female, and it was found that the latter were by far the most efficient, and, indeed, indispensable. In concluding this brief and general account of the principal circumstances attending the epidemic at this post, omitting many particulars which might add weight to the statements made, it may be proper to suggest for consideration that some practical lessons may be drawn from tliem : 1. When an epidemic is imminent, hospital accommodations for at least one-half the whole command should be at once provided, if at all practicable. 2. It may be regarded as certain that in an epidemic of this pestilence the hospital fund will never suffice to furnish proper diet for those ill of the disease. 3. The usual allowance of nurses is wholly insufficient; there should be at least one nurse to five average cases, to allow for day and night service, and half, when practicable, as it is in this place, should be women. Brevet Major Wliite, U. S. A., in his report to the Medical Director of his service here, (a copy of which he has kindly furnished me,) refers to the want of screens in the wards, a want which was very marked, and which could be easily supplied at small cost. 4. There should be an allowance of one medical officer to every forty patients, if possible. Epidemics of yellow fever are temporary ; the disease requires more careful watching than any with which I am acquainted, and no preparation that can be made to meet the emergencies it entails should be omitted. It is economy in the end, even in point of expenditure, human life is saved thereby, and the profession is enabled to prove its chai'acter of usefulness. I might adduce much evidence of an unrecorded kind in support of these suggestions, but will let them pass without it. In regard to the medical aspects of the disease as presented during this epidemic, I wish to express myself with reserve. Previously unacquainted practically with the disease, and, I think, unbiased by preconceived ideas of it, I have endeavored to form no opinion that is not founded on observed facts and the valuable unwritten experience of the epidemic. The epidemic began insidiously. In July and August a number of cases of disease occurred which gave rise to much doubt as to its real character. The patients would genei'ally have a not strongly pronounced chill, of short duration, followed speedily by great heat of sui-face, especially of the head, suffusion of the eyes, flushed face, and rapid pulse, with great pain in tlic head and in the limbs—in fact, with the usual phenomena of a febrile paroxysm ; but generally the pains in the limbs were complained of as excessive, lasting thus from twenty-four hours to three days, but rarely more than sixty hours, when there was a marked remission and, in some cases, a pronounced intermission, followed in most instances by speedy convalescence, but in a few by a debility out of all proportion to the severity and duration of the paroxysm. A papular eruption, appearing principally on the chest and limbs, was noticed in a number of cases ; in all the six cases in which the fact is recorded, the eruption appeared on the fourth day. Not satisfied that these were cases of yellow fever, they were recorded, with quite as little confidence, as remittent fever, or as dengue. The difficulty of exact diagnosis was increased, when it was soon after found that some cases, seized with the symptoms just briefly described, would die in six or eight days with unequivocal symptoms of yellow fever, and which, in their inception, their s3'mptoms and course, for the first two or three days, could not be distinguished from the cases which recovered in from two to six days, or, in other words, from the mildest cases. The uncertainty of prognosis was strongly impressed upon me. But, further, it was observed that in September a number of these men wlio recovered from the disease so inadequately described were seized with epidemic yellow fever. A record of fifteen of these cases is embodied in table No. 5, herewith appended, of whom six died. The brief description given of these cases makes it proper for me to say, that I gave much personal attention to them, and that the increase of exacting duties and my illness made it impracticable to keep more than brief memoranda of their details. It may be considered that these fifteen cases were analogous to those which have been met with in the commencement of several recorded epidemics, wherein there was supposed to be a blending, ov, rather, a confusion of types; but leaving it to abler hands to draw deductions fi'om these facts, I will remark, that if it be inferred that they were cases of dengue, or, as they were less accurately recorded, remittent fever, the experience of the whole epidemic furnished no means of distinguishing their early symptoms from those of yellow fever, and proved that its occurrence afforded no immunity from subsequent attacks of yellow fever. The appended table, marked No. 6, gives a record of the temperature and weather for the period. It was observed that a cold storm of rain had a bad effect upon critical cases. Of twenty-one men of the colored cavalry temporarily attached to the battery of artillery during the lieight of the epidemic, b\it one SLift'ered from the disease, and none of the colored servants in the garrison were affected by it. All the ladies and many of the laundresses had the disease, and a child ten years of age. member of the fixmily of an officer, died of it within three days alter the attack. It was noticed that but few of the habitually intemperate men recovered, though, on the other hand, of the few who wholly escaped the disease, several were notoriously old inebriates, who found in the excitement of the epidemic favorable occasion for keeping constantly drunk. Until about the l:ith Septembei-, when the epidemic became so general, a rigorous isolation, by removal to a separate building a third of a mile distant, was practiced in every case when the diagnosis was certain ; in addition, the wards were very fre- quently fumigated, and all articles of bedding and clothing were at once placed in tubs or barrels containing water with a solution of permanganate of potash, or, when badly soiled, were burned; the bedsteads were washed with a dilute solution of chloride of zinc, and the flo,')rs in the vicinity of the patients were scrubbed with the same solution. It has been already stated that disinfection of the evacuations of the sick was habitually practiced; and though very few of the command escaped the disease, it may be justly infeired that these measures must have lessened its communicability and diminished its severity; and in this connection it may be stated that several men patients in hospital during the whole epidemic with other diseases did not contract tlie yellow fever. But, at the date above mentioned, so numerous were the seizures and so great tiie demand for liDspilal accommodations, that isolation of the cases was no longer practicable, and it became evident that