EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL RF;P0KTS. 132 Jackson Barracks, New Orleans, La., March 24, 18(38. Gl«<lsRAL : I have tlie honor to respectfully communicate the following information bearing upon the yellow fever epidemic of last year, which h.as been obtained from official sources and personal inquiry and observation : At the National cemetery of Chalmette, situated on the left bank of the Mississippi, about two miles below this post, there were employed during the five months beginning witli July and ending with November, 1867, (the period of the e])idemic,) a monthly average of one hundred and sixty-three laborers. Among this number, but six cnses of yellow fever occurred during the period given—a ratio of 3.6 per cent. Eighty per cent, of the men employed were Irishmen, five per cent. Americans and Germans, and fifteen per cent, colored men, natives of Louisiana. The greater part of them were employed continuously, the changes amounting to not more than twelve per month, or 7.3 per cent. They lived in the ordinary A tent, floored and raised some ten inches from the ground, in the immediate vicinity of the cemetery, and some forty yards distant from the river. Their diet consisted exclusively of salt pork, beans, bread and coffee, no fresh meat or vegetables ever being served to them; and they almost invariably took stimulants before each meal, and all, except the negroes, a bath in the river immediately after reveille. The working hours were from 7 a. m. to 6 p. m., with an interval of one hour at noon; and they were engaged in burying the dead, frequently at night, the detail for such night service being made from the whole force and daily changed. In the evening fires, into which dried cofi'ee-grounds were thrown, were built between the tents, to drive away the mosquitoes. I have the honor to invite your attention to these facts, which I have been at pains to verify, as they show a great immunity from yellow fever among a class of men who may be supposed to have been particularly liable to contract it, and that at a time when scarc^v eight per cent, of the command at this post (only two miles distant) escaped the disease. I enclose a communication from the superintendent of the cemetery, and also from the quartermaster, the latter embodying information obtained from the authorities of the Charity hospital, where the sick of the cemetery force were treated. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, B. A. CLEMENTS, Suryeov, and Brevet Lieutenant Colonel, U. S. A. Brevet Brigadier General T. A. McParlin, Mcdi:al Director Fifth Military District, Neio Orleans, La. National Monument Cemetery, Camp Cii.^lmette, La., March 21, 1868. Colonel : In compliance with a letter received from the Quartermaster's office, requesting information as to general habits and nationality of the men employed in this cemetery during the yellow fever season, I have the honor to submit the following statement: Eighty ])er cent, of the men are of Irish nationality; five per cent, a mixture of Germans and Americans; fifteen per cent, are colored men born and raised in this State. The men were required to rise at daybreak, when they would take a bath in the river, with the exception of the colored men. The majority would then adjourn to take a stimulant; after which breakfast was issued, consisting of well-cooked black coffee, salt pork, and home-made bread. Then the men would go to work at 7 and remain until 12 m., when dinner would be served, consisting of bean soup, salt pork, and home-made bread. The working hours in the afternoon would be from 1 to 6 p. m., when supper would be served, the same as breakfiist. The men would invariably take a stimulant before their meals. For all drinking and cooking purposes, nothing but river water was used. There were no fresh meats or vegetables of any kind issued here during the season. The quarters consisted of common A tents, floored with common pine boards ten inches off the ground. After working hours the men would retire to their tents and build bonfires between the lines of their tents to keep away the mosquitoes. The coffee that had been used during the day and dried in the sun would be thi-owii into this fire, giving the air a pleasant and agreeable smell. The men would amuse themselves by dancing and singing songs, jumping, or spinning yarns. Their clothing consisted of red or blue flaimel shirts and plain cotton l)antaloons. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, JACOB GK.VY, SiiperiiUendciit. Colon(!l Cleaients, Siiri/eoii,, U. A'. A. Office Assistant Quartermaster, New Orleans, La,, Fehmurij 13, 1868. Gkneuai, : In compliance with inslructions received fi'oni your office, in letter of th(^ fith instant. I have the honoij|^o stale that the aggregate number of employes engaged at Chalmette cemetery from 1st July, 1807, to November 30th, 1867, was 307. »