EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. 104 The first recognized case of yellow fever occurring elsewhere in Brownsville, and in a distant part of the city, after the hurricane, was that of a young man (an American) employed by the U. S. revenue collector, who had an ordinary attack of inter- mittent fever on the 6th of October. He was greatly exposed to the rain and cold during the niglit of the storm. He became intoxicated on the following morning, and on the same day was attacked with a chill, followed by a fever, which terminated in death from black vomit on the 13th of October. One other case (of a German) occurred, beginning before the hurricane with intermittent fever, from which the patient was apparently convalescent; but it assumed the type of yellow fever after exposure in the storm, and resulted in recovery. There was another death from black vomit on the 13th, that of a house carpenter, (German,) who had not been away from Brownsville for two months, and who was perfectly well before his exposure during the storm. The cases of yellow fever previous to tlie date of the 13th were of persons living in different parts of the city, and the disease did not appear to affect any particular locality, excepting, perhaps, the mechanics' boarding-house mentioned above. It is impossible to state with accuracy the number of persons attacked with yellow fever during the first seven days after the hurricane. It can only be said that before that event the amount of sickness in Brownsville was trifling, with only the few suspicious cases before mentioned, but immediately afterwards the sickness was suddenly and largely increased ; and that there were at least five recognized cases of yellow fever on the 13th, eight on the 14th, and as many on the 15th. In fact, the arrangements made for securing thoroughness of investigation and accuracy and completeness of reports of cases of yellow fever were overthrown in the confusion consequent upon the hurricane, and little reliance can be placed upon the imperfect city re?ords of sickness and mortality during the period of the epidemic. In the neighboring city of Matamoras, two miles distant from Brownsville, yellow fever prevailed to some extent, but there was much less sickness there than on this side of the Rio Grande. Tlie disease did not make its appearance in Matamoras until after it had declared itself in Brownsville. It is stated, on good authority, that very many of the cases of yellow fever occurring there were of persons who had left Brownsville to escape the disease, and that in the houses in which they were sick or died no second cases occurred. It cannot be shown, however, that yellow fever was developed in Matamoras from elements of the disease conveyed there from Brownsville; and similar phenomena were observed in Matamoras to those in the neighboring city in regard to the non-existence of the disease before the hurricane, and its subsequent apparently spontaneous origin there. In considering the events of the past season, in regard to their bearing upon the question of the introduction of yellow fever to this vicinity by importation from some infected locality, or of its apparently spontaneous origin here, I have to refer to the foregoing statements and details in this report as all the facts relating to the subject that I am able to obtain. I cannot find any evidence that the disease was imported here and developed by contagion. It can be said that the disease may have been thus introduced in some unknown manner; but, granting tliis, no satisfactory evidence can be adduced from the facts observed to account for its development from such imported contagion. It is, probably, hardly to be doubted that several cases of disease manifesting the type of yellow fever occurred before October 7th, but I cannot believe that the sudden and wide-spread develop- ment of the disease after the hurricane can be accounted for on the theory of contagion. The facts as observed rather indicate that there may have existed an atmospheric epidemic influence, affecting especially the crowded and unhealthy localities in the city. This infecting element may have made its advent with the hurricane, or, if existing before, was then greatly augnnented in virulence; while, at the same time, the people were made more susceptible by being generally subjected to great physical exhaustion and the reaction from fear and mental excitement. I have the honor to be, General, very respectfully, your obedient servant, EDWARD COWLES, Assintant Surgeon, and Brevet Captain, U. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. Ringgold Barracks, Texas, Octolcr 20,1867. General : In my letter of September 4th, you will recollect I reported that upon my arrival here in the early part of August, I recommended the commanding officer at this post to stop all communication with Corpus Christi and other infected ileighbor- hoods by putting gu.ards upon the most frequented roads between those places and Rio Grande City. In accordance with these suggestions, this was done in time to prevent the entrance of an infected merchandise train, from which two persons subsequently died of yellow fever, near our quarantine station. The mail rider, who arrived from Corpus Christi about the same time, and Avas ordered back without his mail being opened, died of that disorder during his trip. I have the honor, also, to recall to your memory the fact, then mentioned, of the arrival of an ambulance containing three pas- sengers from Corpus Christi, which, by making a detour of fifteen miles north, had avoided our quarantine guards. Two of these passengers, all of whom were ill of yellow fever, were left at a point above, and crossed into Mexico, where one of them is known to have died. The third, and owner of the carriage, passing down to his residence at Rio Grande City, was seen and sent half a mile from town, where he died during the succeeding night from that disease. The citizen (Merrick) who warned him oft" and, no doubt, came in contact with luni, an old resident, habituated to yellow fever, and thoroughly acclimated, was, on the eighth day afterward, taken ill, and this was probably the first case of yellow fever in town, though, from fear of isolation b}' the military quarantine, and in part from the pecuniary interests of the few American inhabitants of the place, it was kept strictly secret. The family of the deceased person who had been with him during his illness, consisting of four adults and two children, after taking some blankets from the carriag(! and remaining a part of the night with sftne friends (named Garcia) at a ranch near the spot, fearing a rigid quarantine for themselves, crossed the Rio Grande into Mexico, having first sold the blankets which had been used by the deceased during his illness to the friends with whom they stopped during the remainder of the night. All this family, with the exception of one child, died of yellow fever. One other person, who, though not a clergyman, officiated as confessor to the