23 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. Fig. 27.—Portiona of the eleventli and twelfth ribs of the right side, exhibit- ing gunshot fractures of the sliafts with attempts at reparation. Spec. 845, A M. M. and spread over the chest. On December 28th, the patient had recovered from the erysipelas, the wounds were nearly healed, but the immobility of the spine continued. He was this day sent to a Northern hospital, on the steamer " Star of the South." He ultimately recovered, and was transferred to the First Battalion of the Yeteran Reserve Corps, A photograph of the recent wound is preserved. (See Photographs of Surgical Cases, S. G. 0., vol. i. No. 47.) In the next case the ball was extracted. Nature made an effort to repair the fractured ribs, but the wound of the lung was followed by fatal suppuration. Private S B , Co. A, 83d New York Yols., was wounded at the battle of Fredericksburg, and was admitted into the Lincoln Hospital, at Washington, December 23d, 1862. He had been struck by a conoidal musket-ball in the back of the right chest, the ball entering over the attachment of the eleventh rib, and passing forwards. The ball was extracted and simple dressings were apijlied. Pleuro-pneu- monia ensued, and resulted in empyema. On January 3d, 1863, a pint of pus was evacuated from the pleural cavity. The case terminated fatally on January 21st, 1863. The specimen was contributed by Surgeon H. Bryant, U. S. Yols., and the particulars of the case were furnished by Surgeon J. Cooper McKee, U. S. A. At the point of fracture, necrosed splinters are seen, attached by large irregular formations of callus. A remarkable recovery is recorded, in a case in which the anterior mediastinum was opened. Private Charles P. Betts, Co. I, 26th New Jersey Yols., aged twenty-two, was struck by a three-ounce grape- shot, on the morning of May 3d, 1863, in a charge upon the heights of Fredericksburg. The ball comminuted the sternum, at the level of the third rib, on the left side, and tore through the costal pleura. It remained in the wound and was removed by the patient. On the following day, Betts entered the hospital of the Second Division of the Sixth Corps. Through the wound the arch of the aorta was distinctly visible, and its pulsations could be counted. The left lung was collapsed. When sitting up there was but slight dyspnoea. Several fragments of the sternum were re- moved, and the wound soon granulated kindly. On May 10th, a colored drawing of the wound was made. (No. 19, Surgical Series of Drawings, S. G. 0.) On July 5th, the patient was transferred to Washington, convalescent. He ultimately recovered perfectly. The result was less favorable in the next case. Private Patrick H. B , Co. C, MTth Pennsylvania Yols., was wounded at Chancellorsville, May 2d, 1863, by a conoidal musket-ball, which entered between the second and third ribs, on the right side, two inches from the median line, frac- tured the sternum, and lodged beneath it. The wound bled profusely, but the haemorrhage was arrested by pressure. The patient was conveyed to Douglas Hos- pital, at Washington, on May 8th, and died the following day. He had haemoptysis and the symptoms of traumatic pneumonia. Only four cases are recorded of gunshot wounds of the heart that came under treatment. The specimens from these four cases are preserved in the Army Medical Museum. The patient that lived longest after a gunshot wound of the heart survived twelve hours (Spec. 837, A. M. M.). In this case a small pistol-shot entered the left ventricle and passed out through the right auricle. Not a few cases are recorded of gunshot wounds involving both the thoracic and abdominal cavities. Among them occur the following remarkable instances of recovery from this formidable kind of injury : Lieutenant Daniel B , 63d New York Yols., was wounded at Gettysburg, July 2d, 1863, by a conoidal musket-ball, which passed through the belly of the biceps of the right arm, entered the chest, traversed the base of the right lung and diaphragm, wounded the intestines, and passed out above the anterior superior spinous process of the left ilium. When admitted to the field hospital, he had dyspnoea and bloody sputa, and there was a faecal discharge from the wound of exit. He was treated by large doses of opium, and, at the end of three weeks, convalescence was fairly established. In the course of a few months his wounds had entirely closed, and he rejoined his regiment for duty. Fig. 28.—Sternum, showing a gunshot fracture by a muslvet-ball. The mis- shapen, battered ball ia attached. Spec. 1073, A. M. M.