HOSPITAL ORGANIZATION AND CONSTRUCTION. 153 War Department, July 20th, 1864. The following instructions are promulgated for the information of officers charged with tlie construction of gen- eral hospitals, and will be deviated from only in cases of imperative necessity: Buildings will not be taken or occupied for hospital purposes until after full examination and approval by a medical inspector, or other officer of the Medical Corps detailed for this purpose; and all alterations will be made in accordance with plans submitted by him and approved by the Surgeon General. Site.—The site of the hospital should be a well-drained plain, with a sub-soil of gravel, and sufficiently extensive to accom- modate the buildings. The situation should be elevated; as remote as possible from marshes or other sources of malaria, and must have a convenient supply of pure water. Plan.—General hospitals will be constructed on the prin- ciple of detached pavilions, each ward being in a separate build- ing, with beds for sixty patients. Besides the wards, there will be detached buildings for each of the following purposes : General Administration Building, Dining-Room and Kitchen for Patients, Dining-Room and Kitchen for Officers, Laundry, Commissary and Quartermaster's Store-House, Knapsack-House, Guard-House, Dead-House, Quarters for Female Nurses, Chapel, Operating- Room, and Stable. The wards, administration building, kitchens, dining-rooms, and chapel are to be connected by covered walks which will have floors, but no sides. No general plan for the arrangement of the buildings can be directed, as the varying character and dimensions of sites render an uniform adherence to any one impracticable. Wards may be arranged "en echelon" in two converging lines, forming a V,—in this case, the administration building should be at the apex of the V, the other buildings between the wings; or as radii from the periphery of a circle, ellipse, or rounded oblong,—in this case, the administration building should be one of the radii, the other buildings within the enclosure; or parallel to each other,—■ in this case, the administration building should be in the centre of the row, the other buildings in the rear. Other plans may be rendered necessary by the special features of the ground. In any case, the important points to be observed are, to place tbe buildings far enough apart (at least thirty feet should inter- vene between two parallel buildings), and to locate them in such a manner that no one shall interfere with the ventilation of an- other. It is preferable to locate the wards so that the long diameter may run north and south, or nearly so. Each ward will be a ridge-ventilated pavilion one hundred and eighty-seven by twenty four (187X24) feet. At each ex- tremity, two small rooms nine by eleven (9X11) feet, one on each side of a passage, six (6) feet wide, will be partitioned off. The space remaining for patients will be one hundred and sixty-five by twenty-four (165X24) feet (see Figure 5, A), which gives the location of the beds and position of the doors and windows. The small rooms are occupied as follows: Figure 5, a, chief nurse; b, closet for medicines, etc.; c, bath-room; d, closet for close stools. Figure 6 is the side elevation. The wards will be fourteen (14) feet high from floor to eaves— the pitch of the roof to vary in accordance to the materials com- posing it. The floor to be elevated at least eighteen (IB) inches from the soil, with free ventilation beneath it. A ward thus con- structed will accommodate sixty (60) patients, allowing more than one thousand (1000) cubic feet of air-space to each. The number of wards will be regulated by the number of patients the hospital is intended to accommodate. A hospital of twelve hundred (1200) beds will require twenty (20) wards. E. M. STANTON, Secretary of War.