7 INTRODUCTION. Some observations on each of these classes will be offered in another portion of this report. The several circulars requesting medical officers to forward preparations to the Army Medical Museum met with very general and liberal responses, and, in January, 1863, a numerical list of 1248 surgical specimens was published by this office. Shortly afterwards, a suitable building was procured, and cases were erected in it for the recep- tion of specimens. Several artists were engaged: a colorist to prepare illustrations of surgical pathology and representations of remarkable injuries; a draughtsman to make maps and plans; and two engravers. The requisite workshops were connected with the Museum. A medical officer was detailed to describe and classify the preparations. In short, this branch of the office was rapidly augmenting in importance. At the end of 1864, the number of specimens had quadrupled. Among the later specimens a large pro- portion of illustrations of reparative and morbid processes and of the results of operations were included. A valuable collection of drawings had been accumulated; draughtsmen having been sent to battle-fields and hospitals to portray the effects of recent wounds, or the results of surgery. A photograph gallery was now established at the Museum. Typical specimens were reproduced, and the photographs, accompanied by brief printed histories, were distributed to medical directors, to be shown to the medical officers serving with them, in order that the knowledge to be obtained from a study of these instructive examples might be generally disseminated. Other preparations were pho- tographed for the use of the engravers. Many of them are reproduced in this report. Numerous patients in hospitals were photographed, and the Museum now possesses four quarto volumes, with over a thousand photographic representations of wounded or mutilated men. Meanwhile the work of describing and classifying the collections at the Museum has been steadily pursued, and the descriptive catalogue is now nearly ready for publication. To state, then, in brief, what the records of the surgery of the late war are, and what progress has been made in their arrangement, over 40,000 monthly regimental reports of sick and wounded are on file, which furnish, under Class V.,* the total number of wounds, accidents, and injuries in the army, and the resulting mortality, as ascertained by the regimental medical officers, and which, having served their purpose of informing military commanders, month by month, of the extent of the losses in their commands, by the casualties of war, are now available for estimating the entire losses of the army from diseases and wounds. These reports have been consolidated for the first two years of the war and for the greater portion of the third year. But, as a certain number of regimental medical officers failed to make the required reports, it is necessary to correct these results by other numerical returns. Prior to September, 1862, these are only to be sought in special reports and case books of hospitals, and in the reports by medical directors of battles and minor engagements. It is found that these supply the deficiencies of the regimental returns to a satisfactory degree. For the latter part of 1862, and the whole of 1863, the "tabular statements of gunshot wounds" give the number of such injuries, separated according to regions, and the * The form of the Report of Sick and Wounded being printed in the accompanying Eeport on the Medical Statistics of the War, it is not inserted here. 2