HOSPITAL ORGANIZATION ANp CONSTRUCTION. .154 Administration Building.—For a hospital of six to twelve hundred (600 to 1200) beds, this will be a ridge-venti- lated building, thirty-eight by one hundred and thirty-two (38X132) feet, and two stories high; the first fourteen (14) and the second twelve (12) feet high in the clear. This building contains the general ofBce, office of surgeon in charge, linen and store rooms, dispensary, chaplain's office, lodging rooms for officers, etc. Dining-Room and Kitchen for Patients.—The dining-room will be a ridge-ventilated building, large enough to seat a number equal to two-thirds the number of beds. The most convenient form is a long parallelogram, into which the kitchen opens in the centre of the long side. The kitchen will be divided into two unequal parts—the larger for the preparation of ordinary diet, the smaller for the extra diet—the cooking in both to be done on ranges. Where there is an engine, steam may be advantageously used for boiling. Dinmg-Room and Kitchen for Officers.—A small building for this purpose will be situated near the administra- tion building. Laundry.—A building two stories high, with lodging for the laundresses on the second floor. The roof should be flat, with posts for stretching clothes-lines. Commissarif and Quartermaster Store-Room.—A small two-story building, furnished with boxes and shelves for the various parts of the ration,—having an ice-house connected with it for the preservation of meats and other perish- able articles, and a room for clothing. The second story to contain lodging-rooms for the cooks. Knapsack-House.—A building to receive the effects of the patients while in hospital. It will contain as many pigeon-holes, each two (2) feet square, as there are beds in the hospital. Guard-House.—A detached building to lodge the guard, with a guard-room for prisoners. Dead-House.—A small building containing two apartments, located so as not to be observed from the wards, and lighted by sky-lights. Quarters for Female Nurses.—A detached building containing lodging-rooms, dining-room, and kitchen for the female nurses. Chapel.—A detached buildmg, fitted for the purpose of religious services, so arranged as to be used also as a library and reading-room. Fig. 8. I'lo. "• Fin- 9. Operating-Rooms.—Two rooms, each fifteen (1.5) feet square; one well lighted by sky-lights, the other by win- dows. The first for surgical operations, the second for discharge-boards, etc. It should be situated near the admin- istration building. Stable.—For ambulance and officers' horses. Water Supply.—Where practicable, a large tank will be erected and kept supplied from wells or springs by pumps worked by a steam-engine. The engine, if possible, will be situated near the kitchen and laundry, in which case the steam may be made serviceable in cooking, and the power may be employed in working the washing and mangling machines. Sinks.—^havQ the supply of water is adequate, water-closets may be constructed in one of the small rooms in each ward ; but where this is not the case, privies will 1)C built at a convenient distance from the wards, furnished with water-tight boxes, which must be emptied every night. Ventilation.—During warm and mild weather the wards will be ventilated by the ridge (Figure 7), but during