126 SMALL-POX. titles and time as stated." In September, 1863, Surgeon T. Rush Spencer, U. S. Vols., made an official report on the use of the remedy in seventy-six cases, sixty of which were chronic and sixteen acute. Seventy-one of these cases were cured and five still under treatment at the date of his report. The treatment in the successful cases lasted from one to eight days. Influenced by these and other reports, I myself tried the remedy quite extensively, and was cognizant of its use in a large number of cases of both acute and chronic diarrhoea. It generally showed itself a most valuable agent. In a few cases, however, tormina, tenesmus, and other dysenteric phenomena, with an aggravation of all the symptoms, followed its use, and in a very considerable proportion of the severe chronic cases it appeared to be wholly without effect. The subsequent experience of many surgeons in the field and in hospital gave similar results; so that while it must be admitted to be a quite useful remedy, especially when given in large doses, the extravagant expectations which were at first entertained with regard to it by some must be abandoned. Strychnia was also extensively used by some surgeons. It was given in the form of sulphate, or as extract of nux vomica. Yery generally it was combined with quinine, or with quinine and iron, and proved valuable in many atonic and paralytic conditions of the bowels, but was far from being of general availability in the treatment of severe chronic cases. Arsenic in pill, or in the form of Fowler's solution, was more frequently useful, and by some surgeons this remedy was regarded almost as a specific. So far as I have been able to learn, it was chiefly available in cases complicated with chronic malarial poisoning. The utter failure of these, or indeed any therapeutic agents, to command general confidence, or to come into general use, will serve to show how subordinate their effect is to be regarded to that of proper dietic and climatic conditions. Asiatic cholera did not make its appearance during the war, nor was any similar affection of a severe type frequent. The whole number of deaths from cholera morbus was 33 during the first year and 96 during the second. SMALL-POX. From a very early period in the war the attention of the Medical Bureau was directed to the subject of vaccination, and strenuous efforts were made to render this method of protection universal. That these efibrts were to a great extent successful, is shown by the comparatively small number of cases reported: 1310 cases of small-pox and varioloid were reported during the first year and 2822 during the second—making a total of 4132; the deaths were 412 during the first year and 1132 during the second— being 1544 in all. According to these figures, the mortality would be one death to about every three (2-67) cases. Since, however, a certain number of cases of variolous disease originated in the general hospitals themselves, and upon the statistical system employed the deaths from among these cases would be included in the above figures, it is probable that the ratio of deaths to cases thus obtained is somewhat too high. If, how- ever, the experience of some of the larger small-pox hospitals, in which it is known that the cases received were treated to their termination, be compared, it will be found that the mortality shown in their reports closely approximates the above. Thus, in the two