151 BARRANCAS, FLORIDA. if not entirely, the remaining headache and muscular pains. Quinine or mercury, in ordinary cases, were found to be productive of harm. When the pains in the muscles of the back and limbs were very severe, flannels, made as hot as the patient could bear and applied in single thickness, were found more productive of relief than aught else. Opiates were not found beneficial. After the subsidence of the iebrile excitement comes a ^Brte of depression, of which the patient is not always aware, expressing himself, generally, as feeling very well. He has a return of appetite, and if left to his own guidance would, in most cases, seal his own doom. The patient was now restricted to tliin coru-meal gruel and warm flaxseed tea. The process of stimulation was commenced and conducted with great care. In most cases, ai-omatic spirits of ammonia in half-drachm doses, with fifteen minims of spirits of nitric ether, answered well. If the patient continued to do well, he was allowed chicken tea as a common drink, with warm gruel and the ammonia mixture continued. All drinks should still be given warm. This treatment was continued for another day, aromatic sulphuric acid being sometimes given and the ammonia mixture omitted. After this, sherry wine w.as given in half-ounce doses three or four times a day, and soup once a day added to the diet. In most cases this was as nmch as could be advantageously borne until the sixth, or, as with many, the ninth day, when mush and milk in the morning, sou]i, roast beef, and baked potatoes at noon, and tea and toast for supper, made a very good diet, with one or two glasses of ale or porter during tlie day. The diet was then gradually increased in nourishment until full diet could be borne. After i-unning a continued course for a certain time, the fever sometimes assumed the remittent or intermittent type. In these cases, at the time of the paroxysm, a hot bath was given, and diaphoresis re-established if possible. Quinine was here found to be hurtful, although beneficial in the intermittent attacks sometimes attending convalescence. The stage of febrile excitement was not unfrequently followed by a typhoid condition, attended with very weak digestion. This was met by muriated tincture of iron with tincture of capsicum, or citrate of quinine and iron with sherry ^vine, and in other cases with carbonate of ammonia and sherry, repeated lu)urly. Chicken tea was freely given, and was found, indeed, to answer better than beef tea. Sometimes diarrhoea would set in about the third day. This was allowed to take its course with no further medication than free administration of aromatic spirits of ammonia. In flatulence, with colicky pains, tiie aromatic spirits of ammonia, in combination with compound spirits of ether and peppermint water, answered very well, with five grains of bicarbonate of soda occasionally to correct acidity, or, if there seemed to be unhealthy secretions retained in the intestines, an emulsion of castor oil added to the other treatment was beneficial. From hiccough, relief was obtained by compound spirits of ether occasionally repeated. Delirium was treated by cold water to forehead and sinapisms over the cervical vertebrae. Some extreme cases of hypersesthesia of the nervous system, occurring during the second week, were treated with ten grains of Dover's powder and two of camphor, repeated every three or six hours, with diftusible stimulants and supporting treatment. Suppression of urine was met by aromatic spirits of ammonia, one drachm every two hours ; dry cups over region of kidneys ; purgative enemata ; alkaline diuretic enemata; hot bath, &c. In black vomit, bicarbonate of soda, five grains every 3 hours, was tried in cases attended with frequent acid eructations; as was also carbonate or subnitrate of bismuth; in some cases, muriatic and aromatic sulphuric acids; in ethers, creasote mixture, or milk and lime water in equal parts. No case of black vomit recovered, but it is believed that the course of treat- ment pm-sued prevented many from falling into that condition. All that did occur were in debilitated constitutions. During convalescence, the condition of the digestive apparatus particularly required close attention, and a strong tendency to indigestion and to sluggishness of bowels was to be combated. Patients frequently complained in early stage of convalescence of being tormented by voluptuous thoughts and desires. Happily the surroundings and discipline at this station prevented a yielding to temptation that would almost certainly have proved fatal; and it cannot be too strongly urged upon the junior medical officers of the Navy to forbid their convaleseeuts from yellow fever placing themselves within su^h pernicious influence. ■ * Kky West, Florida, October 10, 18G7. General : Your letter of the 21st September, enclosing Circular No. 3 from your office, has been received. In compliance with said circular and letter, I herewith enclose a special report of yellow fever patients at this post for the month of September, 1867, the fever commencing here in that month. It is almost impossible to give you the exact treatment of all the cases. Many peculiar symptoms, as the_y arose, according to the patient's constitution, age, &c., had to be treated accordingly, upon general principles. The large majority of cases, however, (and this was also the treatment used in the epidemic here in 1862, with very good results, considering the command were just passing through an epidemic of typhoid fever, which, on account of the climate, is peculiarly debilitating, and, consequently, gives the patient less chance to recover his strengtli,) were treated thus: The patient was immediately put into a strong, hot mustard bath up to his neck, remaining in that until perspiration commenced to show itself; then taken fiom bath, wiped dry, placed between blankets, and took from twenty-five to thirty grains of calomel. Four hours after giving the calomel, gave one ounce of castor oil, (repeated, if necessaiy;) after the oil had operated-sufficiently, commenced giving quinine in five-grain doses every hour. This was given even if the patient had fever, which was generally the case, more or less, until he has taken almost twenty grains; then gave two-grain doses until the peculiar spnptoms of the medicine showed themselves. Also, gave sweet spirits of nitre, one teaspoonful to a tablespoonful of water, every two hours or so, so as to keep up the secretion of the skin and kidneys ; the abdomen was kept irritated with mustard plasters. Very light diet for several days, and the patient kept quiet—not under any circumstances allowed to converse on any subject whereby he was likely to become excited. As a general result, in my experience, the patient, in the course of thirty-six hours, will be found very comfortable. Competent nurses are absolutely necessary, to see that all orders are strictly carried out. Should the patient at times seem to be vei'y restless and need sleep, I know of nothing better than Hoffman's Anodyne combined with tincture of valerian—say one drachm of the