DISCHARGES ON SURGEOn'S CERTIFICATE OF DISABILITY. 135 tism and neuralgia for the two years, being 186 per 1000 of mean strength for the first year; 184 for the second. How many of these were rightly named? What proportion of them were in fact, as a vast number unquestionably were, simply the outward mani- festation of incipient scurvy? What proportion of malingerers was there among those lame backs which were so common? These are questions which, unfortunately, cannot be answered with any approach to precision from our statistics, but in connection with which there exists some valuable material for future discussion. Under the head of Tubercular Disease, the most important is pulmonary consump- tion, the number of cases of which, however, was not great: 2508 cases and 550 deaths are reported during the first year; 5599 cases and 2040 deaths during the second— being 8-9 cases per 1000 of mean strength for the first year; 9*3 for the second. The deaths were one to every 4*5 cases during the first year; one to every 2*7 during the second. In the British troops in the United Kingdom, the number of cases of pul- monary consumption reported in 1861 was 9 per 1000 of mean strength; in 1862, 10 per 1000; the deaths for both years, one in every three cases. Space does not permit further or more extended comments in this direction. It is trusted, however, that enough has been said to give an idea of the scope and charac- ter of the statistical work in progress. The figures hitherto presented refer wholly to the white troops of our army. Separate statistical tables are projected for our colored troops and for the prisoners of war in our military prisons. Good data for these tables are on file. Elaborate tables are also being prepared on the subject of discharges from service on surgeons certificate of disability; these are reported by name to the Surgeon General's Office, with the cause specified in each case, so that data exist for a complete and trustworthy discussion of the subject. DISCHARGES ON SURGEON'S CERTIFICATE OF DISABILITY. The monthly reports of sick and wounded from hospitals, garrisons, and troops in the field contain in the general summary a statement of the number of soldiers dis- charged the service during the month on surgeon's certificate of disability. On the reverse of the report, a nominal list is given setting forth, precisely as in the case of deaths, the name, company, regiment, date of discharge, and nature of disability in each case. From these nominal lists, the number of discharges for disability and the nature of the disabilities can be computed with great accuracy. The various duties devolving upon this branch of the office during the progress of the war were such that it was not possible, until a few months since, to attempt the re- duction of this voluminous material; and although the work is now fairly under way, the figures for the second year of the war could not be completed in time for the present pubhcation. The statistical tables here ofiered, therefore, are limited to the first year. The total number of men reported to the Surgeon General's Office as having been dis- charged the service on surgeon's certificate of disability during the year ending June 30th, 1862, was 28,620, or 98-3 per 1000 of mean strength. Of this number, 1937 were discharged for wounds and injuries, and 26,683, or 91*7 per 1000, for disease. These discharges were apportioned as follows among the several States: 18