« FORT DODGE, KANSAS. 49 100°, acted most admirably in some of these cases. One or two wet caps over the lumbar region proved of benefit. In one patient, a citizen, who sufTered greatly from suppression of urine, I found Rhine wine, in conjunction with diuretics, of benefit. As to the origin of the epidemic at this post, during the spring we had several heavy rains, causing the Arkansas to rise, and, overflowing its banks, to fill the bottom near which the post is situated. Upon the subsidence of this overflow, and the coming of hot, close, sultry days early this month, I believe a miasma to have been generated, supplying fuel which only needed a spark to kindle into a flame of disease. This spark was, doubtless, emitted by the detachment spoken of in the beginning of this report—the 38th Infantry. Immediately upon the outbreak of the disease I caused the camps of the citizen employes to be broken up and moved back some 800 yards to the hills fronting the river. Company "H," 3d Infantry, was removed from their dug-outs, which were within half a dozen yards of the bottom spoken of, and put in tents on the hills ; the corrals were broken up and moved ofi" a quarter of a mile; everything was cleaned up and whitewashed; lime thrown about plentifully; police strictly attended to. By the time this was all done the disease began to decline. Two outside hospitals were instituted—one for citizens, one for soldiers. Sibley tents were used; a certain number set apart for diarrhosas, others for advanced cases. A corps of attendants was detailed at each. I will state, in passing, that not a single attendant has been attacked, though at work day and night. All articles with which dejections came in contact were destroyed.'' The monthly report of sick and wounded shows thirty cases of acute diarrhoea. I suppose, in addition to these, between 150 and 200 cases were treated among the citizens. Every one at the post seemed to suft'er more or less. In many cases the diarrhcea could be traced to errors in diet or in drinking. In some iustanoea I traced it among teamsters to the use of corn meal, of which they received four days' rations ; on exposure it would get somewhat musty. The issue was stopped, and diarrhoeas decreased among this class. The force of the garrison on the 20th Avas as follows: present for duty, officers, 6; present for duty, enlisted men, 194; citizens, government employes, 247 ; other citizens, about 30 or 40. A larger percentage of soldiers have, thus far, suffered from the epidemic than any other class of men at the post. From the outbreak of this epidemic till the night of the 30th I was without an assistant, Acting Assistant Surgeon Crandall having been called away on business to Junction City, and unavoidably detained. In consequence, I am now suffering greatly from exhaustion. His return, on the night of the 30th, has given me wonderful relief. He at once entered upon work, taking into his own hands such cases as came up. His assistance is invaluable, and worthy of every praise. Hospital Steward O'Leary has been invaluable to me, showing such energy, faithfulness, and knowledge in the emergencies that arose, as to call for the highest commendation. On the 24th, Hospital Steward Gunning arrived at the post en route to New Mexico, and was detained, by order, for tem- porary duty; many thanks are due him for much valuable service. To the officers of the post my thanks are due for the support yielded me in every respect. Captain William Thompson, " B " troop, 7th Cavalry, has worked wonders in every way. In putting down the fear which had seized upon every one, I give him great credit.' Still greater credit is due him for his close, kind, and considerate attention to those taken sick. To him more than one man owes his life. I render these thanks because I consider it but just that I should. At the present writing the disease is on the decline, and the hope has sprung up that it will soon disappear. Another detachment of the 38th Infantry, en route to New Mexico^under General Grover, passed around (at a distance of about two miles from) the post yesterday, going into camp about three miles above the post. Brevet Major Ely McClellan, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., on duty with the detachment, informs me that there are a number of cases of cholera in the command. How this scourge is to be eradicated I know not, so long as troops and trains are sent over tliese roads and through these posts, scattering the seed broadcast. In closing, I would state that, on the 26th of May, I made a requisition for hospital clothing and permanganate of potash. was notified that these articles had been turned over for transportation to the quartermaster's department on the 3d of June. On the 31st of July these articles have not yet reached me. The delay is incomprehensible. I have especially needed the permanganate of potash. The above is respectfully submitted. C. S. DE GRAW, Assistant Surgeon, and Brevet Major, JJ. S. A. Brevet Major Genei'al J. K. Barkes, Surgeon General. Extract from Monthly Beport of Side and Wounded, Cos. "A" and "H,' Zd Infantry, Co. "I," 37f/i Infantry, and Co. "B," 7th Cavalry, Fort Bodge, Kansas, August, 1867. Acting Assistant Surgeon J. B. Crandall, U. S. A. The two deaths from cholera noted were attacked with cholera at the mail station west of the post, while on escort duty, August 19th. Died before medical assistance could be obtained—the first in ten hours, the second in five hours after attack. No case of cholera has occurred among the troops since August 19th. Two cases, citizens, were brought to the post August 26th. No case has occurred here since then. 7