94: EXTEACTS FROM OFFICIAL EEPORTS. Having stated that the generally prevailing winds were from south to north, I would here observe, that during September aud October, contrary to the general rule, the prevailing winds were from the reverse direction. In order to attain the highest possible hygienic standard in the command, all due attention was paid to the rigid enforcement of every sanitary measure known and attainable. The entire extent of our camp ground was thoroughly policed daily; large fires of pine wood and tar were made nightly at various points around and inside of the camp ; the different disinfectants were freely used about the sinks, kitchens, &c., and doses of quinine and whiskey dealt out to every man in the command regularly every morning and evening as a prophylactic against general miasmatic infection. Colonel O'Connell, anticipating the outbreak of the epidemic, sought and got permission from Headquarters District of Texas to employ, in that event, more medical help; and as no medical officers could be obtained from the department in order to render such temporary aid at this post, he authorized me to make arrangements with an acclimated citizen physician, well acquainted with the pathology and treatment of yellow fever, to act as my assistant dui-ing the prevalence of the epidemic among our troops, with the understanding that he should consent to be in constant attendance with our sick in camp, day and night, until the epidemic had entirely subsided. Such an agreement I accordingly made with Dr. J. W. Daniel, of Houston, who entered on tlie discharge of his duties September 19th, and continued to attend our sick, in conjunction with me, and under my special supervision, until November 20th, when, nearly all our men being able to return to duty, his services were no longer needed. The yellow fever, as it prevailed among the troops stationed here, was essentially the same as I observed it among the citizen population of Houston, in its prevailing tendency to assume the intermittent and congestive type, complicated frequently during its course by hamorrhages from the nose, stomach, and anus. Among the citizens of Houston the same well-marked peculiarity in the manifestation of t^' past epidemic was observed that was noticed in Galveston and New Orleans, distinguishing the epidemic of this year most essentially from previous ones by its most sweeping and universal character, no class of the popula- tion being able to claim the least immunity from its ravages. Heretofore the majority of the most experienced members of the medical profession practising in yellow fever districts firmly believed that the fever rarely, if ever, would a second time attack the person that undoubtedly had it before; that people residing for a long time in yellow fever districts were much less liable to its attacks than newcomers from places where it was never known to have occurred; and that small children, born and raised in fever districts, as well as colored people, were nearly exempt from its ravages, or, in case they did take it, experienced generally but very light attacks. The experience of the last epidemic has most incontrovertibly proved the utter fallacy of these tenets, as a great man3' instances are known of persons having the fever this year a second time; and of others, claiming to be perfectly acclimated, taking it quite severely and dying of it; and of numbers of children and colored people suffering severe attacks of it with fatal results. Considering the great virulence of the prevailing epidemic this year, it is no matter of surprise that all of our soldiers, being entirely unacclimated, sliould have taken it, with the exception of eleven. During the first five months of this year very little sickness prevailed in Houston and vicinity ; in June and July, however, a great numljer of bilious remittent and intermittent fever cases occurred, with a well-marked tendency to assume a pernicious and congestive character. That the first cases of yellow fever observed in Houston occurred in persons that contracted the disease in Galveston is proved beyond doubt; but it is quite as certain that on account of. the excessively muddy and filthy condition of the city and all its streets, caused by the long-continued rainy season during May and June, and the utter negligence on the part of the city authorities to attend to proper drainage and the removal of the accumulated filth from the streets, gutters, and yards, togetlier with the uiuisually high rauge of the thermometer during July, August, and September, there was cause enough for the epidemic influence, once brought here, to take root and spread. As soon as the fever became epidemic in the city, the post quartermaster of this station. Lieutenant Wm. M. Van Home; upon my recommendation, rented a building close to our camp, which I immediately fitted up as a hospital for yellow fever patients, and had my three hospital tents pitched in tlie rear of it for the accommodation of the convalescents. Having, by necessity, to meet tlie approach of the grim visitor, every precautionary measure that hygienic knowledge and experience could suggest was, if possible, more rigidly than ever enforced througliout the command, in oi'der to be thoroughly prepared to battle with the insidious enemy; for, situated as we were, and unable to maintain complete non-intercourse of our men with the citizen jxjpulation, we could hardly expect to escape more or less speedy attacks. All of our men being unacclimated and liable to contract the fever at the slightest exposure, it became necessary, as soon as tlie disease was among us, to emjjloy acclimated citizen nurses conversant with the nursing and general management of yellow fever cases. As regards treatment, according to the difference in type aud character of the fever in individual cases, different indications arose and various methods of treatment were i-esortedto; generally speaking, however, the priucijial aim was to interfere as little as possible with nature's own resources and recuperative endeavors whenever powerful and energetic enough to bring about a cure. * ' * ******* it ******* * * In those cases exhibiting the mild form of the fever very little medicine was given, those cases doing well generally without any active treatment. All that was done generally consisted in giving a thorough pm'ge at once, such as compound cathartic pills, castor oil, or solution of citrate of magnesia, inducing free per.?piration by the application of hot mustard foot- baths and keeping the patient well covered up. He was not permitted to partake of any kind of nourishment for three or four days, and was allowed to swallow from time to time a mouthful of either ice water or cold orange leaf tea, in order to quench his thirst. If his fever rose considerably, the pulse remaining for thirty-six hours over 115 per minute, a teaspoonful of the follow- ing sedative mixture was administered every lioui- or two till the fever abated and the pulse fell below 90, when the medicine was omitted, and recommenced in case the pulse rose again: tincture of aconite root, thirty-five drops; tincture of veratrum viride, fifty drops;. titicture of digitalis, one fluid drachm ; orange flower water, two fluid ounces—^mix. In case the seiretion of urine became scanty, some diin-etic was repeatedly given till the kidneys acted freely. Whenever