148 ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM.—MICROSCOPICAL SERIES. The best means of making the results of our microscopical studies available for the information of medical men in America has exercised my most serious thought. Much can be done by good drawings executed with the aid of the camera lucida. Some valuable work in this direction has been executed by Mr. H. Faber, the artist before referred to. Such drawings, however, have always attached to them more or less suspicion of being in part at least ideal; and for this reason numerous attempts have already been made, both in Europe and America, to photograj)h objects as seen with the microscope. Among the experiments in this country, I may especially mention those of Prof. 0. N. Rood, of Co- lumbia College, New York, of Mr. L. M. Rutherfurd, of the same city, and of Dr. J. Dean, of Boston. The first two of these gentlemen directed their attention to test objects, and have obtained results which show the practicability of the idea. Dr. Dean has recently published a paper on the anatomy of the spinal cord, illustrated with photo-lithographs from micro-photographs of sections seen with low powers. This is the first attempt made in America to reproduce micro-photographs by photo-lithography, a method which, if successful with high powers, would be highly satisfactory, since no doubt could be entertained as to the fidelity of the picture. It was therefore resolved to attempt the photographic reproduction of the microscopical preparations necessary for the com- prehension of the subjects under consideration, and, after some preliminary experiments made at the Douglas Hospital by Brevet Major W. Thomson, Assistant Surgeon U. S. A., on preparations furnished by the Museum, the necessary apparatus was constructed, and Assistant Surgeon E. Curtis was directed to undertake the labor of preparing the neces- sary illustrations. The task was by no means an easy one. The subject of micro- photography is comparatively new, and the processes still require much improvement. On the whole, however, the results attained by Dr. Curtis have exceeded the expecta- tions formed when the experiment was undertaken, and justify the hope that they will eventuate in the satisfactory preparation of all the illustrations required. With low powers, no serious obstacle was encountered in obtaining excellent photographs of properly selected preparations. The higher powers ofiered difficulties, most of which, however, have been overcome. In experimenting with the higher powers, the lined diatomaceas were selected as test objects on account of their definite and well-known structure. With these the utmost success has been realized. A photograph of Gyrosigraa angulatum (Navicula angulata) has been obtained, for example, magnified about 7000 diameters, in which the hexagons appear of the same size and nearly as distinct as in the cut, which was made by transferring to wood a tracing from the original photograph. In fact, any of the markings on diatoms that are visible with the microscope can be photo- graphed with the utmost clearness and ease, and the time has arrived when the in- ability to photograph alleged markings will throw doubts on the correctness of the observers who have supposed they saw them. The plan employed in the photographic work, hitherto executed with high powers, is as follows: The direct rays of the sun, reflected in a constant direction from the mirror of a Silbermann's heliostat (loaned for the purpose by the Coast Survey), are condensed by a large lens upon the plane mirror of the microscope, whence they are