133 NEW OKLEANS, LOUISIANA. Till' names, etc., of those ailmitted to Cliarity hospital, in this city, for medical treatment during the same period, are as follows : Names. John Kiordan Abraham Lawler. Richard Malloney. S. K. Hodges Christian Becker.. Patrick Fitzgerald James Dulan Richard Keenan.. Andrew Murray.. When admiti'ed. July... Aun;ust. Disease. September. Chills and fever. Yellow fever. Chills and fever. Yellow fever. Not known. Diarrhoea. Chills and fever. Names. Thomas Murphy.. George O'Niel Lewis Reckinstine Christopher Sloan - Thomas Williams. James Hickey Baltesi Kiser Thomas Mallen... When admitted. September. October... November. Disease. Yellow fever. Congestive chills. Yellow fe\'er. Chills and fever. Not known. Yellow fever. u a Not known. • I am, General, very respectfully, your obedient servant, CHAS. BARNARD, Captain, and Assistant QuartvWiiiaster. Brevet Brigadier General C. H. Tompkins, Cldef Quartermaster Fifth Military District, New Orleans, La. Jackson Barracks, New Orle.vns, La., March 27, 1868. General: I have the honor to respectfully communicate tlie following statement relative to the epidemic of yellow fever at this post last year : Of forty-eight soldiers employed as cooks and nurses in the hospital at this post during the epidemic, thirty-one had the disease, of which number ten had had it before being emplo.yed in this duty. Or the essential fact may be differently stated, thus : Of thirty-eight soldiers employed as cooks and nurses in the hospital who had not previously had yellow fever, twenty-one contracted the disease while so employed—a ratio of 55.'2 per cent. It may here be added that the ratio of cases to the mean strength of the whole command for the five months of the epidemic was 98.42 per cent. Of fifty-eight citizens, (28 males and 30 females,) three (all males) contracted the disease while so employed. These persons are believed to have all been acchmated. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, B. A. CLEMENTS, Suiycon, and Brevet Lieutenant Colonel, V. S. A. Brevet Brigadier General T. A. McParlin, Medical Director Fifth Military District. Medical Purveying Depot, U. S. A., New Orleans, Louisiana, Novemher 14, 1867. G ENERAL: I have the honor to report the following in reference to my brief duty at Jackson Barracks, Louisiana, during the lecent epidemic of yellow fever: Agreeably to special orders, I proceeded, on September 15th, 1867, to that station, and a.ssumed charge as senior medical otiicer during the illness of Surgeon B. A. Clements, U. S. A., and remained on duty until the evening of September 20th, when I was attacked by the prevailing disease. It will only be necessary for me to mention a few matters that appeared to me of interest, as the excellent reputation, wide I'xperience, and observant liabits of Dr. Clements (who resumed duty about October 1st) will be guarantees for a full and insti-uctive history of the course of the disease at Jackson Barracks when full reports are rendered. During my days of duty at the post, the number of sick (nearly all from yellow fever) averaged one hundred and ninety-nine; at the same time the average strength of the command was four hundred and eighty-eight; there occurred thirty-three deaths—all but one from yellow fever—in the seven days, 15th to 21st. I bear testimony with pleasure to the excellent system I found pervading the hospital arrangements on my arrival; but so rapidly did the sick, requiring treatment in hospital, increase, that w^e were compelled to open a large additional ward, to crowd the rooms already in use, and to increase the facilities for cooking, providing hot water, etc. We labored under great difticulties from the fact that several of our best nurses and cooks became