123 DIARKHCEA AND DYSENTERY. the service would permit, transferred to the North. In October, 1863, Surgeon C. McDougall, Medical Director of the Department of the East, recommended the transfer of patients suffering from chronic diarrhoea in the Atlantic region to the hospitals in the State of Vermont, where the freedom from malaria and the fine mountain air would, it was hoped, afford the most favorable results. The experiment was tried, as far as prac- ticable, and with much success. In the West, also, such cases were sent, as far as pos- sible, to hospitals in high northern regions, as at Keokuk, la., Madison, Wis., Chicago, Detroit, etc. etc. It was never possible to give the full benefit of climatic influences to all those patients who needed it; but the Medical Department was fully alive to the advant- ages to be derived from this source, and availed itself of them as far as, at the time, with a full knowledge of all the circumstances of the case, it was believed to be practicable. Papers have been contributed by various surgeons, detailing the history, symptoms, and treatment of numerous cases of diarrhoea and dysentery. These reports, properly elaborated, will be a most important contribution to our knowledge of those diseases. An analysis which should do justice to them is quite out of the question in the present paper; but a few salient points, in connection with the chronic form, will be briefly touched upon. The most common and characteristic chronic form, as already intimated, was anatomically a chronic ulcerative colitis, occasionally an entero-colitis. Designated cor- rectly chronic dysentery by many surgeons, it was most generally known as chronic diarrhoea, or chronic camp diarrhoea; and it is to this form that the few remarks here offered are limited. Among its most striking phenomena may be mentioned the usual absence of fever throughout the greater part of its course, the progressive and ultimately often extreme emaciation, the dry, harsh condition of the skin, and the presence of complicating phenomena of malarial and scorbutic nature. The fre- quent complication of the disease with camp fever is also notable. Sometimes the attack of fever begins the disorder, and diarrhoea is left subsequently as a result. Often, however, camp fever occurs in patients who have already long suffered from chronic flux. In fatal cases of either variety, the anatomical lesions characteristic of diarrhoea are found variously combined with those of camp fever, as will be seen in the brief description of the specimens of this sort in the Museum, which is given in a sub- sequent paragraph. Chronic flux, unaccompanied by camp fever, may run its course to its own natural termination in extreme emaciation, with death from debility and exhaustion; or, as perhaps happens more frequently, terminate at an earlier period, in consequence of the occurrence of some disastrous complication. Often, for example, after the dis- ease has lasted a long time without fever, the stools varying from two or three to twenty or more daily, the patient still walking about and suffering little pain, acute dysenteric symptoms set in with fever, delirium, abdominal tenderness, tormina, tenes- mus, rapid sinking and death in a few days. An autopsy shows the colon, which is more or less ulcerated according to the previous duration and severity of the flux, to be coated with a yellowish or greenish-yellow, sometimes brownish-yellow, pseudo-mem- brane, which often extends also through the small intestines. The nature of this pseudo-membrane has been made the subject of careful investigation in the Museum, and the examination of a large number of cases leaves no doubt on the matter. It is simply the croupous lymph, pseudo-plastic lymph, caco-plastic lymph, or false membrane