69 RECRUITS FROM NEW YORK, ETC. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. Hempstead, Texas, February 4, 1868. Sir : In compliance with yours of the 15th of January, 1868, I have the honor to report tliat cholera first appeared among the troops here immediately after the arrival of recruits from Galveston, Texas, December 13th, 1867. The connnanding officer hei'e informs me tliat one of their number left in hospital at Galveston died of cholera on the 12th of December, 1867, showing that it existed among them previous to tlieir arriviil here, so that when, where, or how it originated, 1 have no authentic means of ascertaining. Respectfully, your obedient servant, F. A. WILMANS, Acting Assistant Swryeon, U. S. A. Brevet Brigadier General T. A. McPaelin, Medical Director. Quarantine Cholera Camp, Headquarters Det. Rects. 26th U. S. I., Onion Creek, near Austin, Texas, December 31, 1867. Sir: In compliance with Circular Order No. 3, War Department, Surgeon General's Office, Washington, D. C, April 20th, 1867,1 have the honor herewith to transmit a special report of cholera patients in this detachment for the present month. I beg, also, to add for your information, that in conformity with instructions received from Headquarters 26tli U. S. Infantry, post of Austin, Texas, I met the detachment on its arrival at this place on the afternoon of the 24th instant, and finding cholera prevailing among the recruits, had the command quarantined, and established a hospital and other conveniences for the treatment of tlie sick. There was no medical officer with the command, the sick being in charge of an acting hospital steward. The disease was, with few exceptions, easily controlled when seen early and the patient well nursed. The treatment found most successful w'as calomel, in large doses, placed on the tongue; brandy when the irritability of the stomach subsided; occasional injections of chloroform and laudanum, with applications of mustard. Squibli's mixture whs found useful only in the early stage of diarrhoea. The officer who accompanied the detachment from New York informs me that diarrhoea prevailed largely on board the vessel from New York to New Orleans, but that after their departure from the latter post for Indianola, Texas, the disease assumed a more malignant character. I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant, T. O'R. SHERIDAN, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. Headquarters Detach. 26th U. S. I., en route to Brownsville, Texas, Indianola, Texas, January 31, 1868. Sir: I have the honor to transmit herewith the special report of cholera patients in this command for the month of January, 1868. In regard to the case of Private John Bream, reported for this month, I am unable to obtain any particulars which would enable me to give an opinion as to the probable origin of the disease in his case, further than that he belonged to the detachment of recruits among whom cholera had been recently prevailing. I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant, T. O'R. SHERIDAN, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A: