60 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL EFFORTS. Not many hours passed before the disease broke out among the troops in general; many were attacked suddenly by severe pains in the abdomen, with watery discharges from tlie bowels. The camp was at once moved to the crest of the hill, the shelter tents carefully ditched, and large fires built in the company streets. The men were cautioned against drinking water; but it was not long before the disease claimed its second victim. Private Kennedy, convalescing from a severe bilious fever, was seized with cramps and vomiting. He soon fell into collapse and died on the next day. On the 15th tlie sickness became general among soldiers and teamsters. The third death was a hospital attendant, who, with particular attention, had nursed the first patient; without premonitory diari-hoea, he was taken with slight vomiting on the evening of the 15th, and died, collapsed, after a few hours. The sudden change in iiis features alone indicated clearly that he was to be a victim of tlie dread disease. On the same day eleven patients died, (eight soldiers, two teamsters, and one laundress.) with the ordinary symptoms of epidemic cholera, after a sickness of from twenty-four to forty-eight hours, all in a collapsed state. Being short of medicines, and suifering myself with the premonitory diarrhoea, I caused a messenger to be sent to Fort Arbuckle (fifteen miles distant) for medicines and medical assistance. Neither could be obtained, nor could we get any hospital stores. Our only food was hard bread, bacon, and beans, which, in any mode of preparation, acted like poison on the whole command. Starvation or death were the only prospects. Eighty men were more or less afllicted with cholera, leaving barely a sufficient number for the attendance of the sick and the burial of the dead; three bodies had once to await their burial for liours. With a few exceptions of German soldiers, the men obeyed most unwillingly their detail for the nursing of the sick, and escaped to their camp as soon as unobserved. Under these trying circumstances, I was ably and devotedly assisted by Second Lieutenant John Garland, 6th U. S. Infantry, who, seeing my strength failing rapidly, offered to take charge of our temporary hospital, erecting new shelters, as soon as needed, preventing the escape of the nm-ses, and watching the observance of my directions. This enabled me to devote my time to purely medical assistance and preparation of medicines, no steward accompanying the command. Of great relief, and followed by rapid and good results, was the discovery of a bag of Indian meal, forming part of the teamsters' rations. A mush was prepared which saved many of our starving patients. On the evening of the 17th I was taken witli cramps and vomiting, and sank rapidly to a pulseless state. Four men died on that day; others improved. On the 18th our tents were moved half a irtile, which was immediately followed by an improve- ment. On the afternoon of that day Hospital Steward J. H. Wilson, U. S. Army, reported from Fort Arbuckle, bringing also some medicines. Very few new cases occurred on the 18th; the disease seemed to have expended itself; many men were now recovering, but all suifering from the want of nourishment. My notes from the 17th to the time of my recovery are necessarily incomplete. On the 18tli two men died; on tlie I'Jth one; on the 20th one. On the 19th, towards night, a panic seized the com- mand ; all the teamsters but one left, moimted on mules; sixteen soldiers deserted the camp, where certain death seemed to await them. At last, on the 20lh, orders were given to move five miles, in the vicinity of some springs near the Washita river. A wagon train coming from Fort Arbuckle on its way to Gibson was seized to move the baggage to the new camp; there the wagons were unloaded and returned to take the sick to that place. Only one man died while undergoing this change. This change of camp seemed to act like a charm ; not a single new case occurred, tlie patients rapidly recovered, and after a quarantine of ten days we reached Fort Arbuckle, wliere the cholera liad also disappeared, moving further west, making great ravages among the nearest tribes. As to the causes of this epidemic, they will remain in darkness as long as the exact nature of the disease is unknown, and by conjectures alone can we account for them. It might have originated in Memphis, where, as we learned afterwards, a few cases of cholera had made their appearance on the day of the departure of the troops. We have reason to doubt it, as we had in no way suffered up to the time of the outbreak of this epidemic. It is much more probable that it was the result of direct infec- tion. Some colored cavalry had traveled over the same road, foolishly carrying with them the body of a comrade who had died, as is supposed, from cholera. They came from Fort Gibson, where the disease was epidemic among negroes and Indians. We were not then aware of the tact, and could not ascertain the location of their camps, where, in all probability, we caught the infection. The atmospheric and telluric conditions were tlie following: winds from the southwest, bringing constant rain showers ; sky heavily clouded ; (he soil of the camp was composed of a tliick layer of humus on clay, with limestone bottom at tlie depth of four or five feet. The predisposing and exciting causes were the long march in the rain, resulting in exhaustion of the troops; the impossibility of changing wet clothes; and food insufficiently cooked, on account of the streaming rain. Tlie type of the disease was the same as in other localities, j'ielding to treatment as long as there was only an abdominal disturbance ; almost invaribly ending in death when assuming the form of cerebral disease. I refrain from giving a history of the individual cases, as they were of no peculiar nature. Four cases of death were the result of purely cerebral aii'ectioii, almost without any symptom of abdominal disease. Several men having improved under treatment, tormented by thirst, took advantage of the absence of the nurses, drank large quantities of water, and died shortly afterwards. The treatment was necessarily more or less primitive, the supply of medicines being small and their variety limited. At the commencement of the epidemic, where an indigested meal was supposed to act as a source of irritation, an emetic was tried to remove tlie same, and to promote the arrested flow of bile. This practice, althougli in some cases successful, was abandoned when the number of patients prevented close watcliing. A large dose of calomel wlien constipation had preceded, small doses wlien it had not, acted very beneficially in many cases. Absolute rest and horizontal position on the liack were particularly insisted upon. Mustard poultices were used as long as the supply lasted, under proper indications. Moqihi.a, opium, camphor, quinine, and muriate of iron, were administered with more or less success. A mixture of tincture of opium, extract of ginger, and spirits of camjihor, was issued to reliable men in the companies, to be given instantly to any man taken with diarrhffia. It had a very beneficial efi'cct. In the second stage, rubefecients over tlie stomach; heated stones, wrapped in blankets, to the abdomen and extremities, relieved in many cases the painful spasms of the muscles. Internally, small doses of calomel, with antacids, camphor, ginger, capsicum, and quinine, were given according to indications ; as a beverage, small quantities of tea, breadwater, and gumwater. In the third stage, little could be done, as medicines were no more assimilated. The distressing vomiting was sometimes allayed by small doses of