17 GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE HEAD. U. S. A. A colored drawing was made representing the appearance of the parts prior to the separation of the exfolia- tion. (No. 74, Surgical Series of Drawings, S. G. 0.) The occurrence of hernia or fungus cerebri is mentioned in connection with 18 cases of gunshot fracture of the skull, complicated by lacerations of the dura mater and brain. In 4 of these cases, recovery took place without operative interference with the protruding fungous mass, which, in these instances, gradually contracted, was then covered by granulations, and finally cicatrized. In those cases in which bandaging and compression were resorted to, cerebral oppression was soon manifested, and stupor and coma eventually supervened. In those in which the tumor was sliced off, as usually recommended, at the proper level of the brain, it was commonly speedily reproduced, and death from irritation ensued. Charles T , Co. H, 63d New York Vols., aged seventeen years, was admitted to Hospital No. 1, Frederick, Maryland, on September 28th, 1862, with a fracture of the skull. He was wounded at Antietam, September 17th, 1862, by a conoidal musket-ball, which struck at the lower anterior angle of the right parietal, fractured both tables of the cranium, and lodged under the scalp in the occipital region. The scalp was lacerated, and a dark pulsating mass protruded in the wound. The left side of the body was paralyzed. The patient's mental faculties were unim- paired. On September 29th, flaps of integument were reflected by a T-shaped incision. The ball and a number of fragments of bone were removed, some of the latter being embedded in the brain substance. The inner table was found badly splintered, but the fracture of the external table was still more extensive. The pro- truding cerebral mass was shaved off. The rough edges of the frac- tured bone were smoothed by cutting forceps. The following day, the paralysis was more complete than before the operation. There was severe headache. The pulse was slow and weak. On October 3d, the fungus was sprouting and sloughing. The left arm was powerless ; the paralysis of the left leg was less complete. On October 4th, the hernia was again sliced off, and gentle compression was applied. There was great irritability and restlessness. On October 21st, the patient had improved. His appetite was voracious. He was less irritable, and the hemiplegia was much less complete. He was very sensitive to cold. The temperature of the left side was lower than that of the right. The fungus was of the size of a pigeon's egg. On November 17th, a dilata- tion of the left pupil was first noticed. Sensation in the left leg, and partial control of the muscles had returned. Since the last report the tumor of the brain had continued to grow and slough away, so that it remained of about the same size. On December 7th, the report states that little change had taken place, except a gradual amelioration of the hemiplegia, and improvement in regard to the fretfulness and irritability. On this day there was a severe chill. After this, the patient never regained his accustomed readiness and clearness of mind. The discharge from the wound became watery, unhealthy, and more copious. There was an exacerbation of fever every afternoon. On December 17th, there was a severe convulsion, which lasted half an hour, and was terminated by death. At the autopsy, an irregular portion of the right parietal, four inches in diameter, was found to be necrosed and detached. The dura mater was much thickened in the vicinity of the fracture, and was adherent to the margins of the healthy bone. Except in the immediate vicinity of the hernia, the brain matter appeared to be in a healthy state. In looking over the registers of gunshot injuries of the head, two general facts are noticed: First, that in the after-treatment of scaljD wounds, a multitude of surgeons did not consider spare diet, perfect rest, and antiphlogistic measures as of essential importance; and, secondly, that in the treatment of cranial fractures, the general tendency was to the practice recommended by Guthrie in regard to operative proce- dures, rather than the more expectant plan insisted upon by the majority of modern European writers on military surgery. The interest of the material and the import- ance of the subject alike invite extended comment; but in this brief and cursory review, the motto of Montaigne, je 7-aconte, je ne juge pas, must be rigorously adhered to. A few more cases of gunshot injuries of the head are appended, to illustrate the form of the register of wounds now in use in the army. Fig. 25.—Gunshot fiactiHL- of right parietal, followed by necrosis. Spec. 3859, A. M. M.