AMPUTATIONS. Lieutenant W. C. W , Co. I, 5th Michigan^avalry, was wounded April 1st, 1865, at the battle of Five Forks, by a conoidal musket-ball, which passed through his left ankle-joint. He was immediately carried to the hospital at City Point, and amputation at the ankle was per- formed on the same day by Surgeon St. Clair, 5th Michigan Cavalry. The articulating surfaces of the tibia and calcaneum were removed, and the cut surfaces were brought into apposition. On April 16th, 1865, the patient was transferred to Armory Square Hospital, at Washing- ton. On admission, he was in a feeble condition. An erysipelatous blush extended above the knee on the injured side; an abscess had formed in the lower part of the leg; and no union of the flap had taken place. With the employment of stimulants and nutritious diet with emollient applications to the limb, there was a gradual improvement, until April 28th, 1865, when symptoms of pyaemic infection super- vened. Rapidly recurring chills, an icteroid coloration of the skin and conjunctiva, anorexia, and a frequent feeble pulse, suggested the gravest prognosis. Energetic treatment was adopted. An ounce of brandy was given every two hours, and quinia, sesquichloride of iron, and beef tea were freely administered. On May 6th, the grave symptoms began to subside, and, by the end of the month, the patient was fairly convalescent. On June 26th, he was pronounced well. The os calcis had firmly united to the tibia, and there was a good solid stump. A cast in plaster was taken from it (Spec. 2298, A. M. M.), and a few days subsequently a photograph, which is numbered 75 in the Photographic eo.-stump after a Pirogoff ampuuti Series of the Army Medical Museum. Amputations of the Leg.—Of the 3302 amputations of the leg that have been recorded, the results have been ascertained in 2348. The ratio of mortality was 26-02, which will doubtless be augmented by further examination of the returns. The oper- ation just above the malleoli, sometimes called Lenoir's operation, has not been very largely practised, but it has given some excellent results, and its mortality rate is sur- prisingly small. The majority of the cases were amputations at the middle of the leg and at the place of election. The circular method has been most commonly employed. Larrey's operation through the head of the tibia has been done but little, though an examination of the specimens at the Army Medical Museum leads to the conviction that this procedure might have been substituted, in some instances, for disarticulation at the knee-joint, or amputations at the lower third of the thigh. Of the 1737 patients that recovered after amputation of the leg, 1057 have been furnished with artificial limbs. Amputations at the Knee-Joint.—This operation has found numerous advocates during the war, and has been frequently performed. The returns to October, 1864, give 132 cases, of which 52 recovered and 64 died. In 6 cases, amputation of the thigh was subsequently performed, with 3 recoveries and 3 deaths. In 10 cases, the result is undetermined. These figures are encouraging, and if we look at the primary operations alone, the result is still more gratifying. Of 49 cases of primary amputation at the knee-joint, 31 recovered and 16 died; while 2 underwent reamputation, of whom 1 recovered, and 1, a tuberculous subject, died. This gives a percentage of mortality in primary amputations at the knee-joint of 34-9. The mortality in primary amputation at the lower third of the thigh is much larger than this: indeed, it has been already indisputably proved by the Crimean statistics, and by M. Malgaigne, that the mortality in amputation augments in exact proportion as the incisions approach the trunk. At the Army Medical Museum there is a photograph, accompanying Specimen 2778, of the fine, well-rounded stump of Private Nevelling, Co. A, 71st Pennsylvania