APPENDIX 1.—CHOLERA. B. EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. (CIRCII1,AR No. 3.) War Department, Surgeon General's Office, Washinr/ton, D. C, April 20, 1867. In view of the possible prevalence of cholera during the approaching summer, the following instructions are promulgated : Every endeavor will be made by medical officers to prevent the introduction of cholera ftom infected commands, or its con- veyance from point to point, by a "quarantine of observation" upon all detachments of recruits or troops arriving or departing from depots, posts, or recruiting stations at or near which this disease prevails; prompt reports of its appearance in commands either en route or in garrison; and isolation of all cases so far as practicable. In addition to the strictest hygienic police, enforcement of personal cleanliness and thorough disinfection, attention should be paid to the quality of the water used for drinking and cooking purposes. When pure rain water cannot be procured in sufficient quantities, and the spring or river water contains organic impurities, it should be purified by distillation, or the noxious matter precipitated by permanganate of potash. From half a grain to one grain of tlie crystalized permanganate (or its equivalent in solution) added to one gallon of water should produce a decided pinkish hue, which disappears within twenty-four hours, (if the salt has not been used in excess,) the water should then be drawn off, and is ready for use. Turbid water, such as that of the Eio Grande, lower Mississippi and its tributaries, should be filtered, or allowed to settle before using. The deposit of impurities can be hastened by the addition of powdered alum in small quantities, well diffused by stirring. It is always, but more especially in times of threatened danger of pestilence,'the duty and privilege of medical officers to submit the practical suggestions of experience and professional knowledge for the protection of the health of troops to their commanding officers; and the history of the epidemic of cholera in 1836 shows that only by combined and untiring vigilance, energetic action, and rigid enforcement of hygienic measures, within the reach of every commander, can we hope to avoid, keep in check, or eradicate this disease. Besides the usual reports of sick and wounded, every medical officer in charge of cholera cases will forward to the Surgeon General's Office, at the close of each month, a list of cholera patients in the following form : Spicial Rtport of Chohra Patients at , Month of 186... Name. Nativity. Age. Eank. Eegim't. Comp'y. Length of service in months. Date of attack. Date of recov'ry. Date of death. Eemarks. Surgeon, U. S. A. Successful methods of treatment and results of autopsies will also be communicated. The senior medical officer at every post at which cholera appears, will make a special report to the Surgeon General, setting forth any facts he may be able to ascertain as to the introduction of tlie disease, and especially those bearing upon its importation from infected points by recruits or others, or its apparently spontaneous origin at the post. J. K. BAENES, Surgeon General, V. S. A.