REPORT ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA AND YELLOW FEVER. XXXVIII November; one death at Brownsville, in November, the patient being an officer who had just arrived from New Orleans. Finally, six cases and one death of colored soldiers at Indianola, Texas, in October. It is known that during the summer and fall of 1866 yellow fever prevailed among the citizens of New Orleans. In conclusion, a few words may be said with regard to the relations of the facts set forth in this report, and in the appended documents, to the prevention of yellow fever. It is to be regretted that"* the experience of the a,rmy throws no more satisfactory light on the treatment of the disease, but it must be admitted that it is most instructive with regard to measures of prevention. Besides those general hygienic precautions which are so important in the prevention or mitigation of all epidemic diseases, two simple and effective measures would appear to be specially indicated by the experience of the army during the war and subsequently. The first is quarantine, as a means of preventing the introduction of the disease; the second is the prompt movement of the command to some rural site on the appearance of the fever among the citizens of the town at which it is stationed, or even after the disease has appeared among the men of the command itself. With regard to quarantine, it is well known that a great difference of opinion exists among civil physicians; nor is this surprising, since, in populous cities, approached by many routes of travel, a foreign disease may readily be imported by persons eluding an imperfect quarantine. In such a case it may be quite impossible for the physicians of the place to determine the circumstances, naturally concealed by those who have broken the laws or regulations on the subject. In the case of military detachments, however, especially during times of peace, the movements of individuals being so much more readily known, the mode in which such diseases are introduced can very generally be recognized; and hence it is not surprising that recent distinguished English writers on subjects connected with military medicine—Dr. Aitkin, in his Practice of Medicine, and Dr. Parkes, in his Hygiene—are advocates of the doctrine of importation. Dr. Parkes expresses the opinion that the incubative period is longer than is usually supposed, probably often fourteen or sixteen days. Several facts set forth in the appended documents would seem to show that, in certain cases, the disease may be delayed as long as three weeks after exposure. The minimum period of an effective quarantine against yellow fever may then be set down at about twenty days. Twenty-five or thirty days would be better if attainable. Should the disease, unhappily, be introduced through neglect to provide an efficient quarantine, it becomes the imperative duty of the medical officer to recommend the imme- diate removal of the command to some healthy rural site. On this subject the reports here discussed are explicit. At the only places at which any large number of cases occurred during 1867—at Galveston, at Plouston, at Hempstead, at New Orleans, at Fort Jefferson—the troops faced the pestilence, and at each the greater portion of those exposed were attacked. On the other hand, the troops moved on the approach of the disease to camp in the country, escaped almost wholly at New Iberia, Baton Rouge, Alexandria, Shreveport, dc; while at Indianola, Mobile, Pass Christian, &c., the command being moved after the disease had appeared among the men, almost all those thus removed escaped. The Newbern epidemic afforded a similar experience. After the disease had fairly broken out among the troops, the greater part of them were moved away from the town, and nearly all thus moved esc^iped. AVhen a command is thus moved, it should be encamped on a dry and elevated site, not