6^ REPORT ON DISINFECTANTS. XXIV. REPORT OX DISINFECTANTS ATSD THEIR USE I]\ CONNECTIOIV WITH CHOEERA. Laboratory of the Surgeon General's Office, May 1, 1867. Sir: The methods in which disinfectants act are not yet understood in all their detail; but they may for the most part be referred to one of two general lines of chemical action, the tendency to follow the one or the other of which serves to separate these bodies into two tolerably distinct classes. The name of disinfectant may, in its narrowest meaning, be limited to those bodies which destroy or render inert certain products of decomposition in organic matter, or of morbid action in the living being, through the agency of a reaction in which the disinfectant itself undergoes chemical destruction. The power of acting in this way belongs to substances which are possessed of a high degree of chemical activity, or which, in other words, exist in a state of unstable equilibrium, or of strong afSnity for other matter. The class of antiseptics, or of bodies which antagonize putrefaction, is a larger and, in respect of its practical applications, a more important one. The power of preventing or delaying spontaneous decomposition seems to belong, in a greater or less degree, to all sub- stances which are capable of combining with or impregnating organic matter, and which are at the same time themselves of stable composition, and not possessed of any very powerful chemical affinities. The metallic sal's generally, including chloride of sodium, and many of the more stable forms of organic matter, such as sugar, alcohols, and resins, fall within the class of antiseptics, and all such bodies, when in contact with substances prone to putrefaction, may be imagined to act in the manner of cements, holding together by their own molecular adhesiveness the loosely connected atoms of organic matter. It has been, moreover, very clearly observed that the most efficient of the volatile antiseptics possess, probably in virtue of their power of impaiting stability to matter, a poisonous influence over these organic germs which play so important a part in the propagation of putrefactive fermentation, and, in fact, over all the lower forms of organic life. Antiseptic and destructively disinfecting properties are sometimes combined in the same body; that is, for example, we find an antiseptic salt, such as sulphate of iron, capable of effecting a chemical reaction with sulphuret of ammonia, and with other ammoniacal salts contained in the emanations from decomposing matter; and where bodies act only as antiseptics, the same hygienic results that flow from the use of such destructive disinfectants as chlorine gas are often practically attained ; but as wo have two modes of action distinct from and opposed to each other in their essential characters, the one that of hastening change and bringing about quickly the final decomposition of infectious and offensive matter, and the other that of hindering change and preventing decomposition, it would seem that the classifying of disinfectants generally, in accordance with these their chemical demeanors, was likely to assist in the intelligent understanding of their use. Among antiseptic bodies, those which are volatile have a particular usefulness where the virus of a disease is diffused through the air or impregnates buildings. The vapors of burning sulphur have been used for such purposes from immemorial antiquity, and although their powers seem to have been partially forgotten in modern times, the last two or three years have witnessed new trials and new proofs of their value in the epidemics of the cattle plague in England and of cholera in this country. In New York during the year 1866, when repeated cases of cholera had occurred in a house, giving evidence that it had become generally infected with the virus of the disease, the Board of Health adopted the expedient of closing it and of fumi- gating it, together with its contained furniture, clothing, &c., in some cases with burning sulphur, and iu some cases with chlorine gas, each of which measures seemed to be thoroughly effective. When sulphur was used it was put in pans supported on long legs. Apertures in the building having been closed, the sulphur was set ou fire, first in the~upper rooms and then in the lower; after this the house remained closed for several hours, when it was opened, ventilated, and reoccupied. As an extemporaneous means of fumigation, the occasional burning of a few sulphur matches may be reconnneuded. Among organic bodies we find a very interesting class of volatile antiseptics, which are included in the general group or type of alcohols. The preservative power of common alcohol in its liquid form is very familiar to all, and in the form of vapor it has been found of considerable efficacy in checking decomposition. Fusel oil, a liquid nearly related to it, has been found to be possessed of the highest antiseptic virtues, and iu places where it is to be cheaply procured may be used as a substitute for carbolic acid, &c.; but in the present connection a greater interest attaches to certain products of the destructive distillation of coal, whose real chemical characters as members of the group of alcohols have not always been recognized, and which, indeed, have been classed and spoken of as organic acids. The two l.omfdogous subs'ances, carbolic and cresylic acids, or, more properly, carbolic and cresylic alcohols, have been used separately and conjointly as means of arresting the spread of the cattle plague or rinderpest iu England, and, as would appear, with the most marked success. The power of even small quan- tities of these liquids in arresting putrefaction, and iu destroying the lower forms of life, is very great; and they have this advantage over the fumes of burning sulphur, that they are themselves more permanent than sulphurous acid, which under- goes gradual oxidation when exposed to the air, so that it cannot be relied on for the continuous preservation of a mass of organic matter, except in clo.?ed vessels. The.se coal tar alcohols have not as yet been much used in this country, but creosote, a body closely allied to them in physical properties and antiseptic powers, is well known and easily procured, and carbolic alcohol itself is now ou the supply table of the Medical Department, and can be obtained from medical purveyors. The powers of volatile antiseptics are most striking in the form of vapor, and when acting upon somcN liat dry sub.stances, in the presence of large quantities of water, they seem to yield in efficacy to certain metallic salts.