11 APPENDIX II.—YELLOW FEVER. B. EXTRACTS FROM OFriCIAL REPORTS. INDIATVOLiA, TEXAS. INDIANOI.A, Texas, June 30, 1867. General: I have the honor to report that an epidemic of bilious remittent fever has, within tlie last ten days, made its appearance among the citizens of Indianola. The fever, in a great many cases, assumes a pernicious and continued type on the tliird day, and, in fatal cases, generally terminates on the fourth or fifth day in a typhoid condition. One hundred and ten cases are reported, and twelve deaths. Tlie location of the troops southwest of the town seems as yet free from these miasmatic influences. Only two cases occurred among the soldiers; one has perfectly recovered, the other is in a hopeful state. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, SAMUEL SANTOIRE, Actinrj Assistanc Sanjeon, U. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. Indianola, Texas, July 31,1867. General: I have the honor to report that the health of the troops at this post is, at the present time, as good as can be expected. At the commencement of the month, yellow fever threatened to be very severe among the men. Up to the 20th, eighteen cases had occurred, with ten deaths. Upon my suggestion, the troops were removed to Green Lake, Texas, twenty miles from Indianola. The locality is healtliy and well suited for a camp, having good water, good bathing places, and a high ground. Since their arrival at that place, yellow fever has entirely ceased its ravages. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, SAMUEL SANTOIRE, Actinr) Assistant Suryeon, U. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Sunjeon General. Indlvnola, Texas, August 31,1867. General : I have the honor to report that, during the present month, the health of the troops stationed at this post has been as good as can be expected. Yellow fever seems to have subsided; but, in my opinion, for the want of proper material to work upon. Strangers coming to this place, if not acclimated, soon take the fever. Only two cases occurred among the troops during this month; both terminated in death. All the men now here have passed through it except one. I have the honor to be, General, very respectfully, your obedient servant, SAMUEL SANTOIRE, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General.