144 ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. MEDICAL SERIES. sloughs adhering to their surface or edges. It would appear that this second group of cases represents simply a more advanced stage of the disease shown in the first group; and that the conditions determining the degree of ulceration are the duration of the disorder on the one hand, on the other, the constitutional condition of the patients; those who labored under the scorbutic taint, or who were otherwise brought to an extremely adynamic condition, presenting the most extensive ulcers. In the third group, the cases present more or less ulceration of the bowel, similar to that seen in the first and second group; but, in addition, the surface of the gut is more or less coated with a yellowish or greenish-yellow pseudo-membranous layer, like that observed in the air-passages in diphtheria. This condition is generally the result of an acute dysenteric process supervening upon a previous diarrhoea of long standing. The appearances of the gut, when fresh, are masked by the plastered layer of greenish-yellow or yellowish pseudo-membrane which coats its surface. The fourth group includes those cases in which the small intestine is diseased as well as the large. Most of these are examples of the complications of diarrhoea with camp fever, and the lesions in the small intestine are therefore similar to the lesions already described as existing in fever cases. In some instances the history of the case shows fever to have been the primary disorder, from which, however, the patient never wholly convalesced, but finally succumbed to the diarrhoea which super- vened. In other cases, the fever occurred after the patient had suffered from diarrhoea for months. The character of the lesions in the small intestine and colon usually corresponds to this history. But besides these cases, in which the affection of the small intestine is evidently the result of fever, the Museum contains several specimens in which, from the charac- ter of the lesion, it must be inferred that the affection of the small intestine is simply an extension of the disease upwards from the colon. In these cases, the ileum is more or less thickened,—the thickening being greatest near the ileo-coecal valve. The thick- ened ileum presents ulcers of variable size, which appear, as a rule, to have their origin in the solitary follicles, and not in the patches of Peyer. The fifth group embraces tubercular ulceration of the bowels. The ulcers are more characteristic in the small intestine than in the large; but both small and large intestines are usually affected. The patients have tubercles in the lungs; cheesy transformation of the mesenteric glands; at times, other tubercular lesions. In the small intestine, Peyer's patches appear to determine the position of the ulcers, which are usually irregular ovals, Math their long diameter transverse to the gut, as has been observed in tubercular ulceration of the bowels in civil practice. Frequently also small tubercles can be seen on the peritoneal surface of the piece opposite the ulcers. Of this condition, fine specimens exist in the Museum. With this lesion of the small intestine, thickening and ulceration of the colon are associated. The ulcers are quite similar always to some one of the forms above described. Usually they are extensive and deep, the colon being much thickened. I have not been able to satisfy myself that they originate in tubercular deposits. On the contrary, they seem quite like the colon ulcers of other patients from the same command who have no tubercular disease whatever. Besides the foregoing groups, there are specimens of perforating ulcers of the colon, cicatrices of colon ulcers, etc. etc.