GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. 33 Fig. 34.—Upper extremity of left femur perforated by a conoidal ball. Spec. 565, A. M. M. Captain James M. L , Co. I, 20tli Indiana Vols., was admitted into Colum- bia College Hospital, at Washington, June 29tli, 1862, with two gunshot wounds, received a day or two previously in one of the battles before Richmond. The first wound was through the left lumbar muscles. After receiving it the officer fell, and while lying on the field he was again struck by an elongated musket-ball, which entered on the outer side of the left thigh, a little below the great trochanters, and, passing upwards and inwards, lodged. A finger could be readily passed into the per- foration in the femur, but the ball could not be reached. Three formal attempts to ascertain its position and accomplish its removal were made unsuccessfully. The patient died from exhaustion on August 19th, 1862. The near proximity of the ball had not induced any disease of the hip-joint. The specimen and the facts relating to it were contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. M. Notson, U. S. A. An illustration of a comminuted gunshot fracture in the trochanteric region is given in the section on excisions of the head of the femur. Of comminuted fractures of the shaft of the femur by the conoidal musket-ball, the following is a fair example : Private John Draker, Co. I, 57tli Pennsylvania Yols., aged twenty-five years, was wounded while on picket duty on the Rapidan, November 27th, 1863. A conoidal musket-ball passed through the muscles of the right thigh, and, entering the middle of the left thigh at its inner side, flattened itself against the femur, and shattered the bone. The patient was transferred to Alexan- dria by rail, and admitted, December 4th, 1863, to the Second Division U. S. A. General Hospital. He died December 13th, 1863. Just above the condyles, where the cancellated structure of bone predominates, musket-balls often make a clean perforation. But the wedge-like action of the elongated musket-ball almost invariably involves longitudinal splintering. The following is a good illustration : Private Samuel S. Kopp, Co. E, loth Pennsylvania R""""-"" iiiF'^iiiiB^ shot through the lower third of the right thigh, by a mu-Ki i-b,ill. .u IimIIi the second battle of Bull Run, August 28th, 1862. The b.iU cnn n d llllij'ili just above the patella, and made its exit in the poj)lU(Ml -p.K i. The patient was taken, after a few days, to Alexandria. On Septem- ber 20th, 1862, his thigh was amputated at the middle. He survived the operation two days. The later writers on military surgery have duly insisted upon the different effect upon bones of the impact of round musket-balls and of the cylindro- conical projectiles. The degree of difference in the injuries inflicted has, perhaps, been exaggerated. It is unquestionably true, however, that the round ball usually produces much less longitudinal splintering than the conoidal ball, with its greater weight and immense force of propulsion and wedge-like action. In the case which furnished Specimen 3228, A. M. M where a round ball entering the outer condyle behind, passed upwards, forwards, and inwards through the bone, it was practicable to amputate successfully much nearer the track of the ball than would have been admissible in the case quoted just before. One curious effect, occasionally produced by the heavy conoidal no. 37.-Condyle of left fe- striking the fcmur, has not been very generally noticed. mur nearly perforated by a o ./ a 1/ 3228,\°m!m!''"^"' The bone is fissured and comminuted, though less than is common, Fig. 35.—Fracture of the shaft of the left femur by a musket- ball. Spec. 1907, A. M. M. Fia. 36. — Perforation of the right 5 femur by a musket-ball. Spec. 76, A. M. M.