GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITIES. 29 GrNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE GENITO-URINARY ORGANS. In this category are included gunshot wounds of the genitals or urinary organs that are not complicated with fractures of the pelvis, or with penetration of the ab- dominal cavity. To October 1st, 1864, the reports furnish 457 such, wounds, of which 37 had a fatal result. Surgeon S. W. Gross, U. S. Vols., reports the singular history of a soldier of the 16th U. S. Infantry, struck at Shiloh, on the right side of the penis, by a conoidal musket-ball, which buried itself in the corpus cavernosum, and became encysted. It gave no pain, and the patient refused to have it extracted. The following is an interesting case of gunshot wound of the bladder: Private Conrad L , Co. A, 23d Indiana Vols., aged thirty-two years, was wounded at Vicksburg, Miss., June 23d, 1863, by a fragment of a hand-grenade, which entered the right nates two inches outside of the end of the coccyx, and passed into the bladder, where it lodged. Urine passed by the wound immediately after its reception. The patient was admitted into the General Hospital at Jefferson Barracks, Missouri, August 5th, , 1863. His general health was much impaired. The urine passed mainly by the wound, and was largely mixed with pus and blood. The treatment \. ■ directed comprised warm fomentations, mild diuretics, stimulants, and nu- tritious diet. On February 20th, 1864, a catheter was with much difficulty passed by the urethra, and the presence of a foreign body was ascertained. 30.-Fragment of grenade incnisted with caicu- r '1 n J lotis matter, extracted from the bladder by lithotomy. On March 19th, the general condition was improved, the wound was so far Spec, hs, a.m. u. closed as to admit only a large-sized probe. Attempts to pass a catheter or to probe the wound caused chills and febrile irritation. On April 2d, 1864, the lateral operation of lithotomy was performed by Surgeon John F. Randolph, U. S. A., the patient being anaesthetized by equal parts by bulk of chloroform and ether. A rectangular fragment of shell, largely incrusted with earthy phosphates, was extracted. It was two inches in length, seven-eighths of an inch in width, and three-eighths of an inch in thickness. It weighed two ounces and five grains troy. On April 12th, the urine passed by the wound. On April 27th, the wound had healed, and the patient was soon afterwards restored to his ordinary condition of health. The incrusted fragment of shell is preserved in the collection of the Army Medical Museum (Spec. 88). It weighs 898 grains, portions of the phosphatic deposit having crumbled away. GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITIES. When unaccompanied by lesions of the vessels and nerves, the gunshot flesh wounds of the upper extremity are not very serious injuries. All foreign bodies hav- ing been extracted, they commonly heal, under the use of water-dressings and the lightest bandaging, in a few weeks. The 21,248 cases entered on the registers are all copied from the reports for the last quarter of 1863 and the first two quarters of 1864. The gunshot fractures of the upper extremity are recorded in four classes: those of the scapula and clavicle, which are not, at the same time, penetrating wounds of the chest; those of the shaft of the humerus and either of its articular extremities; those of the ulna and radius; and those of the carpus and metacarpus. It is only with the second class that much progress has been made. This comprises 2408 cases of gunshot fractures of the humerus that have been examined and recorded. Recovery followed in 1253 cases, death in 436, and the result is as yet undetermined in 719 cases. In the 1689 completed cases, amputation or excision were practised in 996, and con- servative treatment was adopted in 693, with a ratio of mortality of 21 per cent, in the former and 30 per cent, in the latter. But it is premature to make deductions from statistics which are daily augmenting and tending towards completion.