EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. 44 disease was imported. An objection to this supposition may be that all of the first cases occuiTed not among the recruits who bad just arrived from an infected district, but among men who had been here during the entire summer. We know the mor- bific matter has been conveyed long distances in clothing, &c., excluded from contact with the air, and that upon unpacking and exposure the disease has broken out in isolated places. May not the clothing of the recruits, packed in their knapsacks, have constituted fomites, which, being unpacked here, emitted the materies morbi. Of course, upon its escape, the poison was much diluted, and hence the first victims were those whose previous debauchery and indiscretions in diet made them peculiarly susceptible to its noxious influences. Had there been no fit recipients, it is probable we would not have been visited by the epidemic. From the 12th of August, the time of its appearance, until the 30th of September, when it had entirely subsided, two hundred and fifty-five cases occurred, and of these, one hundred and three resulted fatally. During its prevalence the non- commissioned officers of the command were impressed with the importance of reporting at once all cases of illness among the men to a medical officer. Thus many cases were aborted in the incipient stages. These, in many instances, appear on the reports as diarrhoea, and frequently vi ere not reported at all, as the men did not present themselves at " sick call." In a regular hospital, where the conveniences would have been at command, these would have been assigned beds as cholera patients, and tlius the percentage of mortality of the number affected would have been materially reduced. No serious cases occurred among the officers ; and in their families but one which resulted in death Several house servants, however, were attacked. But four of the regular attendants at the cholera hospital in camp suffered from the disease. On the 21st of August the third battalion of the eleventh United States infantry, which was in camp with us, was sent to Norfolk, Fort Monroe, and Yorktown. The disease prevailed among them when they were ordered away, but not a single case occurred on the way to, nor after they had reached, their destination that I am aware of.* Yet when, on my recommendation, on the 5th of September, the troops here were ordered into tents at least a mile distant from this camp, little or no abatement in the violence of the disease resulted. This is mentioned merely as an incident in the history of the epidemic. The treatment found most successful in the early stages of the disease was large doses of calomel in combination with morphia ; ten to twenty grains of the former with half a grain of the latter. # # * I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, J. H. FRANZ, Brevet Major and Assistant Surgeon U. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. VII. CARL-ISLE BARRACKS, PENN. Extract from monthly report of sick and wounded at Carlisle barracks, Pennsylvania, August, 1866. Brevet Colonel J. J. B. Wright, Surgeon Uuited folates Army. Nothing worthy of special notice has happened since the date of last report, except the occurrence of four cases of cholera, three of which terminated fatally; the fourth patient survives, but the result of his case is yet involved in some doubt. One of the fatal cases was that of a woman, the wife of a soldier belonging to the permanent party of the post, who was attacked within thirty-six hours after her arrival at the barracks from Rochester, New York. Both the men who died came from Phila- delphia, Pennsylvania, and had been here but about thirty-six hours when they were attacked. The third man (who survives) had served as an attendant on the two fatal cases. He was a convalescent in hospital, and had been a mouth at the post. It is regarded as a singular fact that all the men who suffered from cholera were natives of Switzerland. We have no knowledge of the time when Kuble and Hilpert (who died) arrived in this country; they may have crossed the Atlantic in an infected vessel, and enlisted immediately after disembarkation. Extract from monthly report of sick ahd wounded at Carlisle barracks, Pennsylvania, September, IS&Q. Brevet Colonel J. J. B. Wright, Surgeon United States Army. The soldier who was represented in last monthly report, under the head of "remarks," as stilllaboring under epidemic cholera, recovered from a state of profound collapse. The two cases of cholera herein reported were those of men of the per- manent party who were attacked immediately after their return from Jefferson barracks, whither they had been as a part of the guard, on duty with a detachment of recruits sent from this post. They are both convalescent. I have nothing new to com- municate in regard to this opprobrium medicorum, except that I have succeeded in all the last cases which have occurred at the post in arresting the vomiting and spasms by a saturated solution of camphor and chloroform in half-drachm doses, repeated pro re nata. Extract from monthly report of sick and itounded at Carlisle- barracks, Pennsylvania, October, 18( Brevet Brigadier General J. J. B. Wright, Surgeon United States Army. Charles Nelson, cavalry recruit, arrived at this post on the Itith day of October from Chicago, where he was enlisted, s where the cholera prevailed at the time, lie was carried into the luispital on the morning of the 17th from the quarters i; * This is an error; one fatal case occurred at Norfolk in September, and three cases, with one death, in October.—1