MEMPHIS VICKSBURG. 49 day, in about the same per cent. The New York recruits did not have it again until a day later. From this it would seem that the first visitation came from exposure on Governor's island, and soon died out; but that the second appearance of the disease arose from the positive appearance of the epidemic here, and it prevailed at several points in the city of Louisville, and very generally in Cincinnati simultaneously. # * # # There was a strange increase of the bowel affections, including cholera, on every alternate day, save in one or two exceptions. Tliis would indicate the presence of a malarious cause modifying the disease; and, in fact, periodical diseases have been largely present, and several patients here have taken cholera while suffering from intermittent fever. * # * » Most of the cholera cases arose in company E, and all of these sufferers were recruits. But it also appeared in other companies of the command, in the hospital, and among old soldiers and post recruits. On the 21st of August, when the cholera was at its height here, diarrhcea and other bowel affections increased remarkably, which would seem to denote that these diseases have an intimate connection. It is a fact, mentioned before, that every man who took cholera here had diarrhoea before seized with the Urst-named disease. By reference to the number of cases of diarihnea which prevailed here in July, and of the same disease occurring in August, it will be seen that, as compared to the strength of the command, about ]4 per cent, had it in July, and 2b per cent, in August. It would seem that these data show quite an intimate relation to exist between cholera and diarrhoea, and that, therefore, the conclusion seems proper to treat diarrhoea, during the prevalence of cholera, as cholera. # # » XIII. MEMPHIS, TENIV. Extract from monthly report of sicl- and iiwunied of detachment of Sixteenth Infantry, Memphis, Tennessee, August, 1866. Assistant Surgeon W. S. Tremaine, United States Army. The case of epidemic cholera reported this month was a soldier of the fifty-sixth colored infantry, taken from the steamer Continental, passing this post from Little Rock, Arkansas, on the way to Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, with the fifty-sixth United States colored infantry on board. Extract from monthly report of sicic and wounded of detachment of Sixteenth Infantry, McmjMs, Tennessee, Scftemher, 1866. Assistant Surgeon W. S. Tremaine, United States Army. The command was moved into camp, about three miles from the city, August 14, 1866. Epidemic cholera broke out about the 6th of September, the first case occurring in a recruit the day after his aiTival from Nashville, Tennessee. From that time up to the 29th instant, there were twenty-one cases, sixteen of which died, and five recovered. Most of the cases were malig- nant in form, death occurring in a few hours. Different modes of treatment were adopted. Apparently the most successful was large doses of calomel, 20 grains, followed by castor oil, with chloroform to relieve cramps. There are four cases remain- ing under treatment at this date, September 30, all convalescent. XIV. VICKSBURG, MISS. Extract from monthly report of sick and wounded of second battalion Ffteenth United States Infantry, Vicksburg, Mississippi, August, 1866. Acting Assistant Surgeon A. N. Greenleaf. In regard to the cholera, I have the honor to state that the first case occurred in the command August 21, 1866. The colored barber was taken with the disease in a severe form, and died in about six hours. August 22 two soldiers were admitted to battalion hospital with unmistakable symptoms of the disease in an aggravated form ; and from the above date until August 29 the whole number of cases admitted was thirty-four. The first cases that occurred were of a very severe form, the patients being attacked suddenly with vomiting and purging, and almost immediately going into a collapse, from which it was im- possible to arouse them. The first cases attacked nearly all proved fatal; the last cases that occurred were of a much milder form, and they are all convalescent. No cause to produce the epidemic could be found in or about the camp or quarters of the men. The camp is located on a high and dry bluff; the strictest sanitary measures have been enforced, and the men have been kept in as good health as possible. Strict attention has been paid to policing the camp; fresh lime and other disinfectants have Leen freely used in and around the quarters of the men, and all means used by the commanding officer to insure thorough cleanliness in the camp and vicinity. 7