EXTRACTS FEOM OFFICIAL EEPORTS. 36 IV. NJEW OKI.EA1VS AND OTHER POSTS IIV l^OUISIANA. Medical Duiector's Office, Headquarters Department of the Gulf, ISlew Orleans, Louisiana, December 10, J866. General: I icaTe tlie honor to forward morning sick reports of United States troops at New Orleans, Louisiana, from July 22 to August 26, 1866, wliich I have lately caused to be prepared to complete the series already forwarded. These constitute a record of the health of troops this season, to wich a few explanatory remarks and comments should be added. The enforcement of the quarantine and health laws of the State of Louisiana devolved upon the new Board of Health since May 20, 1866. The proclamation of the governor of Louisiana, dated March 7, 1866, declaring certain ports infected, continued in force until suspended by resolution of the board October 23, 1866. Until cholera and yellew fever appeared, the general health continued good in the community and among the troops. The following points were occupied by troops in the city and vicinity: Sixth cavalry, G company.—Holmes's foundry, corner Franklin and Euphrosyne streets, first district, June 24, to July 24, 1866; corner of Love street and Cotton Press, in a cotton press, third district, July 24 to present time. thirst regiment United Slates infantry, and light company K first United States artillery.—Jackson barracks and the general hospital adjoining, Third district, July, September, October, and November, 1866; Lafayette square, in camp, first district, early in August. One company first United States infantry has continued in Lafayette square since August. Three companies first United States infantry.—Commercial Hotel, corner of Tchoupitoulas and Girod streets. First district, since August, 1866, to present time. Eighty first United States colored infantry.—Cotton press on Eobin near Annunciation street, first district, July, part of August, and September, 1866; cotton press on Tchoujiitoulas near Hunter street, first district, October and November, 1866 ; Camp street, near the Levee, in camp, August 1 to August 10. Eighty-second regiment United States colored infantry.—Cotton press on Tchoupitoulas near Hunter street, first district, in September, until mustered out of service September 22, 1866. Seventh regiment United States colored infantry.—lu camp at Greenville, Louisiana, near United States general hospital, from October 17 to October 27. ^ Ninth regiment United States colored infantry.—In camp at Greenville, Louisiana, near United States general hospital, from October 12 to December 1. One hundred and sixteenth regiment United States colored infantry.—In camp at Greenville, Louisiana, near United States general hos])ital, from October 1 to present time. JV»i(/i regiment United States colored cavalry, and thirty-ninth regiment United States colored infantry.—In camp at Green ville, Louisiana, near United States general hospital, from August 1 to present time. Recruits arrived from the north at Jackson barracks, by the steamship Mariposa, July 8; others for the seventeenth United States infantry, by the steamship Livingston from New York, July 16,, and were shipped to Galveston on the steam- ship Texas, arriving there July 21 or 22. Recruits for the cavalry, from Carlisle, via New York harbor, arrived on the steam- ship Merrimac July 23, and in a few days were shipped to Texas. In the seventh, ninth, thirty-ninth, and one hundred and sixteenth regiments cholera had appeared while on duty in Texas before their arrival here. The ninth United States colored cavalry and thirty-ninth United States colored infantry, both regular regiments, have been recruited and raised in this department. There can never be the same accuracy in determining the first appearance of disease in a city as in a military command where all cases are recorded. The health ordinance of this city did not become a law until after cholera had manifested itself; cases may have occurred which were never reported, and it is difficult, therefore, to determine when the first cases of cholera existed. The attention of the Board of Health was drawn to cases in Hercules street, a central part of the city, near the head of the basin connecting with Lake Pontchartrain, where a citizen died Julj' 13 of choleraic disease; also, to cases in Felicity street, (July 25, 28, and 31,) Race street, and White street near Thalia and Erato streets. The cases in Hercules and White streets, and Holmes's foundry were within a few (four) blocks of each other. The first case in the military service occurred at Holmes's foundry, corner Franklin and Euphrosyne streets, where Private L. Nolan, G company, sixth United States cavalry, died July 22, five days after enlistment. Fumigation and purification of the foundry wert) at once instituted ; and on the 24th the company was moved away to Love Street cotton press, a better locality, in the third district. Private Ellis, same company, enlisted July 16; was attacked with choleraic symptoms July 24, at headquarters: was sent to General hospital, and died July 25. On the same day died Corporal Fortcscue, G company, of cholera, in general hospital. At Jackson barracks (six miles below the city) died, July 25, of cholera, Private Jonas, recrait for fourth cavalry, lately arrived from New York, (July 23, on the Merrimac, as I believe.) July 25, at the Louisiana cotton press, Robin street, in the first district. Private Anderson, eighty-first United States colored troops, was seized with choleraic symptoms and sent to hospital. He died on the 26th. On the 27th, Private Gradney, eighty-first United States colored troops, died at the regiment, (Louisiana cotton press.) He had been on duty at Bull's Head stables, near the levee, in the fourth district. At Jackson barracks, July 28, died, also, of cholera. Private Williams, first United States infantry. In general hospital, (Sedgwick,) died, July 29 and 30, Privates Stevens and McElray, of G company sixth cavalry, admitted 25th and 27th of July. It will be seen that cholera was present in several distinct organizations, at w'dely distant stations, within three days. At this time occimed the riot of July 30, requiring troops to bo distributed in the city. The first infantry and a battery