145 PASS CHRISTIAN, ETC. MOBILE AND MOBILE BAY. The symptoms in the cases of Privates Lynch and Nissan were about tlie same, l)eing ushered in with a chill, followed by fever; pulse ranging from 120 to 130, lasting six hours before a reaction took place; soon after the febrile excitement was established there was a dry, hot skin, flushed face, brilliant and watery eye; restlessness; complaints of severe pains in the forehead, loins, and legs; breathing hurried; the stomach irritable; the epigastrium painful on pressure; great thirst; the bowels loose, with frequent discharges, (ink-colored, watery evacuations;) the tongue coated with a dark yellow fur, with red tips and edges. There was frequent vomiting—first, of a yellow matter, followed by altered blood, (black vomit;) oozing of blood from mouth and gums. At the sixtieth hour a subsidence of the fever took place, and the patients gradually went into a collapsed stage ; low muttering and delirium sel in, and death followed—in one case after seventy-two, in the other after eighty-two hours' illness. The symptoms in the other two cases were similar, but not of so aggravated a form as the above; the bowels were constipated, and the patients did not show a disposition to internal congestion and early prostration. The skin of the first two patients changed from a dark bronze color; in the latter cases to a bright yellow. The treatment consisted of mustard foot-baths, warm orange leaf tea, castor oil, dry cups on the stomach, followed, in the first and third cases, with blisters, cold applications to the head during the fever, lime water and milk, gum water enemata, stimulants and tonics, as the indications required. Howard Hospital, Lauderdale, Missis.sippi, Aprii 6, 1868. Sir: In answer to your communication of the 2d instant, requesting information in regard to the origin of yellow fever at Pass Christian la.st fall, I would state that the constant communication with New Orleans and Bay St. Louis, then infected points, no doubt, was the cause of the yellow fever making its appearance in that place. I was informed by Dr. Smyth, a prominent physician at the Pass, that the first case made its appearance in one of the brothers of the christian association of that place, who had been on a visit to New Orleans about the time the yellow fever made its appearance as an epidemic. Lieutenant Matile and Captain Hyatt were among the first that were taken with the fever. These officers exposed themselves unnecessarily to the morning air. and would remain out fishing until the hot sun drove them to the house for shelter. Lieutenant Matile was taken with the chill while out fishing, having been out since three in the morning. The chill came on about 10 a. m. Exposure to the night air, or to the hot sun, or any excess in eating *or drinking, especially alcoholic stimulants, in my opinion, predisposes a person to take the disease, all the surroundings being the same. I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, E. C. DE FORREST, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel .1. J. Woodward, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. mobile: and mobile bay. Extract from MontJdi/ Report of Sick and Wounded, Fort Morgan, Alabama. L. Reynolds, Acting Assistant Surgeon, August, 1867. Yellow fever was introduced at this post from New Orleans by Lieut. J. K. Hezlep, who died here. It was communicated by him to Lieutenant Breckenridge, who shared his room, and to Dr. Reynolds, who attended him. It spread to those in immediate connection with them; from Lieutenant Breckenridge to Quartermaster Sergeant Ellmore and others, and from Dr. Reynolds to his hospital steward, his laundress, her husband, and others. A fortnight after Lieutenant Hezlep's death, Dr. Reynolds and Lieutenant Breckenridge were attacked on the same day. [Extract.] Fort Morgan, Ala., September 15, 1867. General : I regret to inform you that we have had yellow fever at this post. A young officer, Lieutenant Hezlep, sent on a tour of inspection from New Orleans, fell sick when he arrived, and died of it August 13th. A fortnight after the disease broke out here, and nine have died of it up to the present date. Your obedient servant, Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. 19 LAWRENCE REYNOLDS, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A.