GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 19 IN SURGICAL CASES ONLY. RESULT. REMARKS. Here state cause of death, of discharge, or of transfer to Veteran Reserve Corps. Nature of Missile or Weapon. Round or Conical Bullet, Solid Shot Bayonet, Sword. Treatment. Amputation...Date of Excision " " Returned to duty. Date. Ti'ans- ferred to Veteran Reserve Corps. Date. To other General Hospital. State or City. Dak. Fur- loughed. Date Deserted. DaU. Dis- charged from Ser- vice. Date. Death. Date. Readmit- ted from Furlough or Deser- tion. Date. Other opera- Simple dress- Musket Ball. Musket Ball. A portion of the ball was removed from imder the integu- ment, on the field. Seven months after- wards the fistulous orifice of the wound was dilated, depres- sed bone was re- moved, and a por- tion of the ball from within the cavity of the cranium. Simple dressings. March, 1863. During his imprisonment he suffered from pain in the head, but had no delirium, coma, or paralysis. M'as perfectly well when he rejoined his regiment. (Vide Special Report from Surgeon R. B. Bon- tecou, U.S.V. General Index A, No. 59.) When admitted, liis bowels were consti- p.ated, and nausea was almost constant. His pulse was slow and feeble. His pupils wereconstantly dilated. When discharged his mental operations seemed slow and uncertain, but there was no aberration of mind, and his memory was unimpaired. (See Report of Assistant Surgeon Schell, U.S.A.) Dec. 10, 1804, to Cuyler Hospital. May 10, 1805, to Mower Hospital, Phila., Pa. May 23, 1865. Probably a piece of Bhell. May 7th. Hair shav- en, water-dressings, cathartics, injec- tions and anodynes, leeches to temples and behind the ears. May 13th. A splinter of bone removed. June 20, 1863. On admission, substance of brain protruded Jan'y 12, 1864. about one inch and a half; wound was about two inches long and one inch wide; pulsation was distinct; total loss of vision; pulse GO; inclined to sleep but co\ild not; mind dull; partial paraplegia. May 11th. Rests quietly but cannot sleep; has not slept from date of injury, no alvine evac- uation. May ICtli. Not so much pain. May 13th. Had four dejections. May 15th. Fungus retracted somewhat, with a healthy granulating surface; vision partially restored. June 16th. Sitting about w'ard, talking and laughing; fun- gus retracted eutirely, but pulsation dis- tinct; vision restored; pulse and bowels regular: sleeps well; intellect perfect; no pain. The wound is represented in Nos. 26 and 27 Surgical Series of Drawings, S. G. 0. Conoidal Musket Ball. Part of ball extracted from under the scalp in the frontal region, by forceps. This fragment was about one-third of the ball. To Graf- ton, Nov. 2, 1804. When admitted, patient had paralysis of 2d, 3d, 4th, 5th, 6th, and 7th nerves of the leftside. No pain in the head. General health of patient was good. His pulse, skin, and bowels were natural. His con- sciousness perfect. H's articulation was thick, but improved, and after the extrac- tion of the ball became .almost natural. There was a free evacuation of pus after the operation, the pupil of the left eye diminished in size, and vision partially returned. Oct. 10th, 1864. Was so far re- covered as to walk about and assist in nursing in the ward. If, however, he exerted himself too much he suffered from headache. While being transferred to Grafton, Va., he drank a large quantity of whiskey. The day after his arrival he had a violent chill, followed the next morning by convulsion, and strabismus of right eye; these continued during the day, and coma succeeded on the following morning, and he died without reaction. Post-mortem showed the larger portion of a conoidal musket-ball resting against the sella turcica. The encephiilou was extensively disorganized; the ventricles, .and nearly the whole base of the brain, bathed in pus. (Med. Des List, from J. H. Bartholf, A. A. Surg U.S.A.) Nov. 6, 1864.