47 LOUISVILLK, KY. The first case which occurred at Sibley barracks, of which command Acting Assistant Surgeon A. J. Comfort, was medical officer, was an enlisted man of the sixteenth infantry, who had been at the post twelve mouths. No cases of cholera occurring among recruits from infected points could have presented themselves at Sibley barracks, from the fact that recraits were quarantined at Cumberland hospital until the epidemic was over. I consulted with Acting Assistant Surgeou Comfort in regard to his first case, and have a distinct recollection of the facts herein given. This communication would have been answered on the day of its reception, save that I was ill with malarial fever, unable even to dictate a letter, which I am compelled to do now. I have the honor to be, general, your obedient servant, SAMUEL A. STOKROW, Brevet Major and Assistant Surgeon U, S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. XH. L,OUISVIl.L,E, KY. Extract from monthly report of sick and wounded of United States Post Hospital, Louisville, Kentucky, July, 1866. S. H. Hornor, Assistant Surgeon United States Army. With regard to the cases marked cholera, I would state that the circumstances and symptoms left little room for doubt as to the diagnosis. Both were recraits, recently arrived here from Governor's island. I saw McCall for the first time at sick call on the morning of the 29th instant. Immediately after his admission to hospital he was seized with cramps, vomiting, and purging, and very quickly went into collapse. Under the effects of warm external applications, frictions, and internal exhibition of stimuli, viz., camphor, chloroform, and capsicum, he rallied about 11 o'clock a. m., relapsed at 12 m., and died at 1.30 p. m., July 29. In the other case the symptoms, although analogous, were not quite so severe. He was admitted this 31st instant. Extract from monthly report of stck and wounded of United States Post Hospital, Louisville, Kentucky, August, 1866. <S. H. Hornor, Assistant Surgeon United States Army. In relation to the epidemic that has been prevailing at this post during the last six weeks, I have the honor to submit the following report: In addition to my duties as surgeon in charge of the post hospital, I was, on the 19th of July, assigned to duty with the second United States infantry, stationed at Taylor barracks, Louisville, Kentucky. During that day and the three preceding ones three detachments of recruits, amounting to three hundred and sixty-four, arrived at this post from Governor's island, where cholera was prevailing at the time of their departure. The amount of diarrhoea existing among them at the time, taken in connection with the fact that Taylor barracks, before its occupancy by the second infantry, had not been kept under a very good system of police, but, on the contrary, was remarkable for its unhealthiness in a sanitary point of view, aroused my sus- picion, and suggested the necessity of adopting every precaution possible to avoid or meet any contingency that might arise. To this end, upon my recommendation, a rigid system of police was instituted. A large quantity of disinfectant material (sulphate of iron and charcoal) was procured and scattered freely throughout the grounds, beneath the quarters, and in the privies ; besides, the quarters were kept thoroughly ventilated, and disinfected with chloride of lime, chloride of sodium, sulphuric acid, and manganese. Moreover, lime was profusely used throughout the garrison, the men instructed to air their bedding daily, and at the same time cautioned against intemperance of any description. In a word, no means that hygiene or prophylaxis could suggest was left unresorted to. The sequel proved these measures not to have been ill-timed or unnecessary, for on the 29th of July cholera was upon us. The first case was that of Private McCall, recruit, reported last mouth. On the 31st there were two more cases; one a recrait, terminating fatally on the 1st instant; the other, an old soldier, married, was treated in his quarters, and recovered. On the 2d two new cases, and on the 3d two new cases, were admitted; but the symptoms in them being of rather a mild character, they are borne on this report as cholerine. From the latter date up to the 17th instant, no new cases occurring, it was hoped that the disease had disappeared not to return. But, unfortunately, this hope was dispelled by its reappearance in all its characteristic epidemic virulence on the 18th. On this day there were six new cases, three of which terminated fatally in a few hoiu's ; on the 19th, two new cases, both recovered; on the 20th, five cases and one death ; on the 21st, nine cases and three deaths; on the 22d, six cases and seven deaths; on the 23d, one case and three deaths ; on the 24th, one case ; on the 26th, two cases; on the 27th, one death ; on the 28th, one case and one death, (an old case ;) on the 29th, one death. It should be remarked here that the vast majority of these cases, at the time of admission, were in the second and third stages of the disease, with symptoms of the most aggravated violence ; and every variety of treat- ment applied was of little or no avail. So true is this latter fact that I am almost convinced that, could the patient be kept quiet, without any further treatment than the use of ice to hold in the mouth, and local remedies to subdue the cramps, the result would be generally more favorable. As regards the different kinds of treatment employed—stimulants, sedatives, ano- dynes, acids, and salines—in the severe cases they were all equally unsatisfactory and inefficacious in overcoming the more violent symptoms. In the earlier stages of vomiting and purging, calomel, sub-nitrate of bismuth and opium combined, by