EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL KEPOETS. 148 Febrile disease, of a grave character, having also appeared on board other vessels in the harbor that had been loading with lumber, much of which was covered with barnacles and grass, General Sej'mour, in an order of Jul}' 23d, directed two to quar- antine, and two others to quarantine or to sea. On the 24th July the schooner Texana arrived from New Orleans, where yellow fever was prevailing, and the health oflScer reported her health good. In a few days, however, the mate was brought from the vessel to a boarding-house in the town ill of yellow fever. And from this point the disease is said to have spread rapidly, the habitu6s of the house being infected, and carrying the seeds of the disease to other localities. Prior to this an unusual number of cases of continued fever had been observed on shore; but with the natural unwillingness of a commercial community to declare itself pest-ridden, the disease was called continued fever, bilious fever, dengue or break- bone fever, red fever, Jamaica fever, &c., until the Mayor of Pensacola, in a letter of August 9th to General Seymour, officially^ announced the existence of yellow fever in that city, stating that the first case had been that of the mate of the Texana, then convalescent, but that two citizens had died, one on the 8th and one on the 9tli, ''with symptonis which leave no doubt of the character of the disease." Upon tliis the garrison at Barrancas was removed to Fort Pickens, on Santa Rosa island, and all communication with that place forbidden as far as possible. General Seymour and family, with two officers and fifteen men, remaineil at Barrancas, and all communication with Warrington or the navy yard, less than a mile distant, was prohibited, even to the few civilians residing on the reserve at Barrancas. The mail carrier alone was permitted to go to the village. Upon receipt of the above intelligence, as, indeed, when disease first appeared among the shipping. Captain Armstrong, commanding the United States navy yard and station some four miles west of Pensacola, had communicated with the senior medical officer, Surgeon J. J. Abernethy, and thorough surveys were made, not only of the navy yard, but of the adjoining villages of Wari ington and Woolsey, to discover and, if possible, remove any cause of disease or of impairment of general health. During the first ten days of August, 1867, there occurred at the navy yard three cases of intermittent and two cases of remittent fever, which require no further notice here than tliat they all progressed to recovery, excepting the case of Michael Doolin, coal-heaver of the United States steamer Tacony, admitted to hospital on August 8th with remittent fever, from which he was convalescent on the 23d. *********** * [Note by the Editor.—Here the report gives a detailed history of each case, too long for publication'in this work. From these histories it appears that the first case was that of Lieutenant Henry Y. Glesson, marine corps, who was attacked August 10th. The last case was a seaman of the United States steamer Glasgow, attacked October 25th.] NUMBER OF PERSONS ATTACHED TO U. S. NAVAL STATION, PENSACOLA, FLA., AUGUST 1, 1867. Commissioned officers, line and staff 10 Warrant 3 Civil 1 Clerks 1 Total 15 Commissioned officers U. S. Marine Corps 4 Non-commissioned officers, privates, &c. 125 Total 129 Ladies, servants, and children 17 ( U. S. Steamer Tacony 140 Officers and men belonging to North Atlantic Squadron. ^ U. S. Steamer Yucca 56 ( U. S. Steamer Glasgow 40 Officers and men belonging to Naval Station i^-^' buckthorn 16 ( U. S. Steamer Rose 13 Total 265 Aggregate 426 The above constituted all residing within the precincts of the navy yard; besides these, there were two hundred and twenty others employed in the yard as clerks, mechanics, &c., but who resided in the adjoining villages of Warrington and Woolsey.