EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. 22 Avith transmitted. The recent favorable chang'e in the weather, together with the various sanitary changes and precautions taken, has produced a marked decline in the number of virulent and fatal cases, though the number of cases of diarrhoea is still steadily on the increase, as the following abstract from the morning report for the past week will demonstrate: Date. Hospital. Quarters. Total. Friday, July 20 Saturday, " 2] Sunday, " 22 Monday, " 23 Tuesday, " 24 Wednesday," 25 Thursday, " 26 57 53 no 57 50 107 54 55 109 52 52 104 53 65 118 57 75 132 63 80 143 The treatment has been nearly the same as that witnessed and practiced so successfully by myself, under the direction of Surgeon J. J. B. Wright, United States army, at Jefferson Barracks during the cholera epidemic or 1855. The preliminary diarrhoea is treated by the administration of Squibb's mixture, paregoric, or aromatic spirits of ammonia, as required, and rest. Incipient collapse is promptly met by the exhibition of large doses of calomel, either alone or followed by a bolus of powdered capsicum; sinapisms and frictions are used to alleviate pain and cramps. No benefit has been found to result from the exhib- ition of opium or alcoholic stimulants, confirming our previous experiences, and the use of these remedies in fully-developed cholera has been entirely abandoned here. The results of this treatment are as follows : Cases of cholera up to date, 59 ; deaths, 15. A nuinber of these deaths have occurred after recovering from collapse, two of them having been, in my opinion, well-marked cases of urreniia from total and persistent suppression of the secretion of urine. One fatal case has occurred to-day, the first since the morning of the 24th instant, in a patient in hospital, ward B ; one other case only has occurred among the patients in hospital under treatment for other diseases. Every precaution is taken to disinfect and properly dispose of the dejections of the cholera patients, who are isolated from the convalescents, and these again from the ordinary sick in hospital. The wards are regularly disinfected and kept clean, and the bedding and bed sacks continually changed and renewed. A more full report will be made at a future time. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, JOSEPH B. BROWN, Brevet Colonel and Surgeon U. S. A., in charge. Brevet Colonel W. J. Sloan, Surgeon U. S. A. [Enclosure No. 1 in the foregoing.] Fort Columbus, New York Harbor, Jujw 1, 1866. Colonel : In accordance with your instructions directing me to submit my views relative to the proposed accumulation of recniits at this depot in excess of the present barrack accommodations, I have the honor to present the following sanitary considerations: The crowding together of many men in circumscribed areas under any circumstances, even the most favor- able, is indisputably a dangerous experiment, and experience has fully shown, in frequent instances, the most appalling consequences. Recruits certainly should not be submitted to such an ordeal. Entirely reckless as they are of all that pertains to personal cleanliness, and uninstrncted in the performance of essential police duties, and undisciplined in their observance, they should never be congregated in larger masses than absolute necessity compels. At the present time, Avhen cholera may be expected, every contingency should be avoided, instead of being overlooked. Recruits are sent to tliis depot from various recruiting stations in many of the largest cities in the country, and the chances are certainly multiplied that if there be any probability in the infection of cholera, it may be introduced here. To introduce it to an over-crowded garrison on a limited area would unquestionably be a serious matter. The records of the hospital show that dimng every year in which our shores have been visited by cholera, cases have occurred at this post; and it seems to me that the clear lesson taught by this experience should be to distribute the recruits from the island at this time with more than usual promptness, instead ot accumulating them. If the exigencies of the sei-vice require that recruits be sent here faster than they can be distributed, I would respectfully recommend that a portitm of them be transferred to Bedloe's island in preference to any further accumula- tion at this depot. I understand that this plan, under similar circumstances, has been adopted. Placing the recruits in camp on tills island would be liable to all the objections above mentioned, with the additional disadvantage of want of room to make those frequent changes of locality wliich would be indispensable in case cholera should appear among them. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, JOSEPH B. BROWN, Brevet Colonel and Surgeon U. S. A., in charge. Brevet Colonel J. Haydicn, U. S. A., Commnnding Post.