107 NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA. NEW ORLEANS, EOmSIANA. Headquarters Fifth Mihtahy District, New ORLE.VNS, La., May 29, 1867. General: I have learned from a reliable source that yellow fever is prevailing in the harbor of Havana, island of Cuba, and call your attention to this fact, so tliat you may put the troops of your command in the best sanitary condition, as the epidemic may reach here at any time, owing to neglect of the proper authorities to establish quarantine regulations. I am, General, very respectfully, your obedient servant, P. H. SHERIDAN, Major General, U. S. Army. Brevet Major General J. A. Mower, Commanding District of Louisiana, New Orleans, La. Circular Letter addressed to the Medical Officers serving in the Fifth Military District. Headquarters Fifth Military District, Medical Director's Office, New Orleans, La., June 17, 1867. Sir : Your attention is invited to Circular No. 3, Surgeon General's Office, April 20th, 1867, with the suggestion that the attention of the post commander be drawn to the propriety of selecting, in advance, proper sites for " quarantine of observation" alluded to therein ; and for a temporary separate encampment of his own command m addition, should the outbreak of cholera or yello\v fever necessitate its removal. Care should be taken to insure these places being kept in a fit state for occupation by troops, and with a sufficient supply of wholesome water available on each. Camp equipage should be at hand if no buildings are available. Where it is possible to choose, the highest places should be selected, and the dryest and hardest ground, such as the ridge of a watershed, and never excavated or moist ground, for encampment of troops or site for hospitals. The recession of surface water, and the consequent drying of impregnated porous soil that has been thoroughly soaked for some time, appear to be of the greatest weight in determining the time of outbreak of a cholera epidemic. In river channels, in valleys, and at the feet of steep declivities, the above three factors are often in conibined action, since these conditions of surface promote the formation, collection, stagnation and variation of surf;ice water.* Against peculiarities of soil, sui'fixce water, and poisonous impregnation, scarcely anything can be attempted at short notice; when the introduction of cholera genns coincides with the presence of these three factors in an unfavorable sense, there is nothing to be done—save disinfection—but to avoid or desert the locality. A judicious preference of high levels with compact subsoil is the more important when it is impossible to insure perfect disinfection of all excreta. The use of lime, chloride of lime, and alkalies for disinfection of excrementitious iluid or other such matter should be discontinued, and copperas, carbolic acid, or other agents, used instead to produce an acid reaction. As it is probable that the alkaline condition is essential to development of the germ or poison of cholera, the retardation of this reaction, or its complete neutralization, if the alkaline condition has been already produced, is to be secured by systematic daily use of sulphate of iron and carbolic acid, articles which are cheap and easily procured. The most complete possible removal of all exposed organic remains and foul substances from the vicinity of human dwellings, and the destruction of all worthless and suspicious refuse, should be strictly enforced, but always with a preceding thorough disinfection. The exci eta, urine, and vomited matters should be received in vessels already disinfected; all buckets, utensils, water- closets, cesspools, sewers, pipes, &c., that may have at any time contained them, as well as soiled linen, clothing, or wooden floors on which excreta have been spilt, should be thoroughly disinfected and purified. The intestinal contents of cholera corpses and everj-thing soiled by them must be similarly disinfected. Copperas and cbloi'ide of manganese (containing iron) would injure clothing and floors by rust stains. Solutions of carbolic acid in water or the salts of zinc have not this disadvantage. Carbolic acid leaves a very persistent odor, so that for linen and such matters watery solutions of sulphurous acid or of sulphate or chloride of zinc may be preferred. Whatever articles of bedding or clothing have received infected matters from patients, and cannot be readily disinfected, should be destroyed by fire. Places where cholera or yellow fever prevail should generally be avoided by troops on the march, and they should encamp in the neighboring open coimtry rather than go into quarters in an infected town. If quartered in the healthy section of a large city, all traffic with the infected districts therein should be prohibited. Cases of diarrhoea should, if circumstances allow, be treated in an isolated premonitory ward, the dejections being disin- fected. A special hospital at some little distance, or, still better, tents or huts, should receive cases of suspected epidemic disease, especially of cholera or yellow fever. Prompt isolation and disinfection may prove to be protective of the command and no dispersion become necessary. The greatest care and attention should be given, therefore, to these objects, as the inconveniences and difficulties inseparable from a removal are gi'eat, although the contingency may have been anticipated, and under the best circumstances. * Note.—See rules for the g-uidance of sanitary authorities, practitioners, and the public during the prevalence of epidemic cholera, by the Pro- fessors Dr. W. Griesinger, Dr. Max Von Pettenkofer, and Dr. C. A. Wunderlich—Appendix to Half-yearly Abstract Medical Sciences, Vol. XLIV, July—Dec, 1866, quoted here and elsewhere in this paper.