EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. 58 water. Having no means of subsistence, they were rationed from the government stores. The consequent reguhiritj in their diet doubtless contributed largely to their subsequent exemption from the disease. The following is a brief history of the only cases of cholera in the garrison, two in number: Private George Garriot, Com- pany "E," 10th U. S. Cavali'y, reported at sick call at 6.30 a. m. on the morning of July 18th, complaining of diarrhoea; was admitted to hospital at 9 a. m. of the same morning well advanced in the second stage of cholera. Active treatment was at once adopted. He remained in about the condition he was when admitted until the evening of July'20th. I find in my note-book the following entry of that date: "Visited Garriot at 5 p. m. and found him much better, with a fair prospect of recovery." He continued to improve on the 21st and 2'id, and on the 23d was up and going about the ward, against my advice, all the symptoms of cholera having disappeared. On the evening of the 23d, on my visit to the hospital, he was again prostrated; and, upon examination, I found him suffering from pneumonia, which speedily assumed the typhoid type, from which he died, July 27tli. Tliis patient was very stubborn and uncontrollable, and I attribute his attack of pneumonia to exposure and exercise in the exhausted condition in which the cholera had left him. His attack of cholera was traceable to a hearty dinner he had eaten on the 17th, at one of the negro huts in the town, consisting of green corn, beets, beans, greens, ct^-. The second case was Sergeant Cafi'rey, Company " D," 6th U. S. Infantry. It occurred during my temporary absence from the post on a tour of inspection, and was treatL'd by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. H. Congdon, U. S. A., of which ho left the following report: " Sergeant Edward Caffrey, Company " D," Gth U. S. Infantry, was attacked with diarrhoea on the morning of August 18th, which was soon followed by purging; remained on duty till 12 o'clock, when he went to his tent cramping severely; case reported at 12.30. Found him vomiting, purging, and cramping severely ; no pulse perceptible at the -wrist. Gave Squibb's mixture at once, but it was not retained till the second or third dose; applied mustard poultices to limbs and abdomen. The previous symptoms soon subsided, but he soon passed into a state of collapse, from which it was impossible to arouse him ; every means at hand was tried, but without avail; he died August 19th, at 9 a. m., after twenty-one hours' sickness. He reports having eaten apples and watermelons the day previous; the melons were ripe, but the apples were green ; they were the first he had eaten this season." Of the government employes attacked, eight were treated by me; of these three died. * * * * The question very naturally aiises here, why did the government employes suffer so much more severely from the disease than did the troops? For several reasons. The former v\ ere, for the most part, exposed to a hot sun during the whole day in tlie performance of their duties as mechanics or laborers; the latter did no duty, save the ordinarj' guard duty every tliird day, and when on guard were allowed to seek the shade. There could necessarily be but imperfect supervision of the diet of the former, while that of the latter was ke])t constantly under the most rigid scrutiny. The former were not so healthfully quartered as the latter. After work hours thotformer had greater license to roam about at night than the latter, who were obliged to answer roll-call at any hour of the day or night; and, generally, the hygienic conditions of the former were inferior to those of the hitter. And this leads me to a description of the precautionary measures adopted and enforced to keep the disease out of the garrison. The troops were encamped in wall tents, on a gentle slope, with a fair exposure to the wind, at an elevation of about thirty-five feet above the settlement in the vicinity of the garrison previously noticed as the focus of the disease. Their camp was kept scrupulously neat; the skirts of the tents were frequently raised to procure perfect ventilation; they were subjected to frequent rigid inspections. A very peremptory order was issued by the connnanding officer, Brevet Major M. Bryant, Captain, Gth U. S. Infantry, enjoining and requiring the enforcement of every regulation that would serve to improve the hygienic condition of the troops. They were enjoined to abstain from the use of fruit; to remain in the shade when their military duties would permit; to avoid the night air, and to avoid exposure, fatigue, or exhaustion from any cause ; to report at the hospital for treatment on the access of the slightest indisposition ; disinfectants were used liberally ; the bringing of fruit of any kmd by any- body to the garrison or its vicinity was strictly prohibited; the cucumber vines in the post garden were destroyed; and, in short, nothing was left undone which, being done, would favor the health of the troops. In reference to the ti-eatment of cholera, I shall say but little, as I can say nothing new. For the premonitory diarrhoea, unless the tongue be heavily coated and other symptoms be present indicating torpidity of the liver, I know no better medicine or compound than Squibb's mixture. If the liver be torpid, calomel is the sine qua non, administered in large or small doses, accordhig to the indications ; its too violent catharctic effect, when given in large doses, being guarded against by its combination in suitable proportions with opium and ipecac. Later in the disease I thought excellent results followed the use, every hour or two, of the following prescription^ calomel, 2 grains ; opium and ipecac, of each, i grain. Injections of brandy and tea, brandy and mucilage, I abandoned after fully testing their virtues in two well-marked cases, being disappointed in my expectations. Mustard I found to be useful only when used unsparingly. In my opinion, before full collapse shall have set in, the patient should be swathed in mustard. When collapse shall have supervened, mustard, in the form of cataplasms, or used diy, with friction, hot bricks, and bottles filled with hot water, and, in short, every other means used with the view to promote the rt'tin ii of natural warmth, I found almost wholly abortive. In one case seventy-two dry cups were applied successively to ditfcriMit pai'ts of the trunk wliile the patient was in collapse, and thougli he expressed himself as relieved measurably, I could find no external indication of relief No case, so far as I saw or conld learn, which entered the stage and state of full collapse recovered. * # * * Diarrhoea was almost universal, not only among the native Indian and negro population and government employes, but among tlie troops in the garrison, proving the presence of a strong epidemic tendency. My experience with the disease has led me to the following conclusions: If a person of a vigorous corfetitution be attacked tmd receive iunnediate treatment, the disease can, in a majority of cases, be easily controlled. If a person of a vigorous constitution suffered the disease to run on for twenty- four or forty-eiglit hours, which usually brought him into the advanced second stage, witliout treatment, medicines, at that late period, were of little or no avail. If the disease attacked a person of weak constitution, whether the weakness was the result of natural causes or produced by dissipation or excesses of any kind, medical interference was of littli! avail, however speedy and prompt. With proper attention to diet, the avoidance of all depressing inlluences, as prolonged exposure to the direct rays of the