EXTRACTS FROx>I OFFICIAL REPORTS. 56 I.ITTI.E ROCK, ARKANSAS. Extract from Monthly Report of Sick and Wounded of Companies " G" and " H," 28</t U. S. Infantry, Post Band and Battery 5th TJ. S. Artillery, Little Bock, Arkansas, July, 1867. Acting Assistant Surgeon W. A. Cantrell U. S. A. Hospital Steward Gustave Scliniidt, en route from Fayettevillg, Arkansas, to Vicksburg, Mississippi, was broua'lit to this hospital at 4 o'clock a m., and died at 9 o'clock on the 2Ist of July, having all^ie symptoms of cholera. For several days previous to his attack he was inebriated and exposed to the night air and hot sun, and probably imprudent in his diet. I learn that he had a little diarrhoea at 9 o'clock p. m. of the 20th, and at 11 o'clock was taken with vomiting, purging, and cramps, and died at 9 o'clock next morning. When I saw him he was pulseless, complexion livid, eyes sunken, and cold sweats. Vomiting had ceased, but the involuntary discharges continued. Extract from an Endorsement by the same, dated September 10, 1867. A case having all tlie symptoms of cholera was ivported in July, but there being a doubt as to its being genuine cholera, no special report was made. FORT SMITH, ARKAIVSAS. Post Hospit.\l, Fort S.mith, Arkansas, October 11, 1867. Sir: I have the honor to submit a special report of the cholera as it occurred among the troops at this post, and of its first appearance among the citizens of Fort Smith. The first well-authenticated case occurred on the 28th of August, in the person of Mrs. Baldwin, a widow lady, who was taken sick at 10 o'clock p. m., and died in ten hours, at 8 o'clock a. m. of the 29th, having manifested all the symptoms characteristic of Asiatic cholera. The next was the case of George Heckler, which occurred on the 29tli, and was seen by a physician two hours after first characteristic discharge. Result, recovery. The third case was that of Mrs. Esterbrooke, who was taken sick on the afternoon of September 3d, and died after fifteen hours' sickness, having all the symptoms of cholera. So it continued up to the 25th of September, proving fatal in eveiy case in whicli medical aid was not promptly rendered. Duiing the visitation of cholera, malarial pernicious fever largely prevailed, with congestion of the stomach and bowels, attended almost invariably with effusion, causing copious watery evacuations, both vomited and purged. But these cases were unattended with cramps and other features characteristic of cholera. Among the troops at this post there were but two cases pronounced cholera ; but not less than forty per cent, of the men were affected with diarrhoea or cholerine. The first case of cholera was that of Private Hiram Clarke, Company "F," 19th U. S. Infantry. He was taken with vomiting on the evening of the 16th of September while attending the funeral of a citizen who died of cholera. He returned to his quai'ters without having given information of his sickness. Vomiting and purging continued through the night, and at six o'clock in the morning he was in a state of collapse, in which condition he remained until death, which took place at 9 p. m. same day. The second case was that of Private Blanc, Company " F," 19tli U. S. Infantry. He was taken with diarrhoea some days previously to his admission, September 21st. The diarrhoea had been checked, but owing to imprudence of the patient in eating, a relapse took place, which rapidly passed into collapse, death taking place September 23d. In the cases recorded, the usual remedies were strenuously applied and careful nursing persisted in to the last. Tiie greatest precautions were taken to prevent the spread of cholera among the troops. The men were ordered to report the first premonitory symptoms that miglit occur among them. The quai'ters were disinfected, the drinking water purified, and all food tending to produce diarrhoea was sedu- lously avoided. The bed clothing used by cholera patients was destroyed. I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant, CHARLES B. BYRNE, Acting Assistant Surgeon, V. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. FORT OIRSOIV, CHEROKEE IVATION. For r Oinsox, C. N., Indian Territory, December 1, 1867. Genickai, : In compliance' with a letter of instructions from the Medical Director's office of the Department of Missouri, dated Headquarters Department of Missouri, Medical Director's office, Fort Leavenworth. Kansas, July 18th, 1867, requiring a report of ciiolera at this post, I have the honor to submit the following: It will be seen, by reference to my sjieeial report of cholera at this post, dated Fort Gibson, C. N., Novendier 18tli, 18G6, on page 58 of Circular No. 5, War Dei)artuient, Surgeon General's OHice, ("Report on E])idemic Cholera,") that cholera pre- vailed, to a limited extent, at this post during the fall of 1866, imported directly in the jiersons of two soldiers from Fort Smith.