LITTLE ROCK, ARKANSAS. 55 Septemhir 16.—7.30 a. m., misty ; dry bulb, 72° ; wet bulb, 59° ; no wind ; sun sbone out bright about 9 a. m. 2 p. m., dry bulb, 86°; wet bulb, 66° ; wind from south—gentle; wind blowing in pufFs during afternoon, and clouds appr-ared in west; less sultry. September 17.—7 a. m,, dry bulb, 72° ; wet bulb, 58° ; slight wind from southeast; clear sky. 2 p. m., dry bulb, 89° ; wet bulb, 71° ; slight breeze west of south ; thunder clouds in southwest; during the evening, wind in puffs from southeast and southwest, with clouds and lightning in north. September 18.-7 a. m., dry bulb, 74°; wet bulb, 59°'; slight breeze south by east; sky clear. 2 p. m., dry bulb, 88°; wet bulb, 68° ; strong wind from southwest; many clouds flying. September 19 —7 a. m., dry bulb, 75° ; wet bulb, 61° ; slight breeze from south ; cloudy ; rained during past night: com- menced raining again at 7.15, withjhuuder. 2 p. m., cloudy ; dry bulb, 84° ; wet bulb, 68° ; slight wind from south; thunder and lightning all the evening, constant, almost, in west-northwest and north. September 20.—7'a. m., dry bulb, 66° ; wet bulb, 53° ; wind northwest; cloudy, with occasional gleams of sunshine. 2 p. m., dry bulb, 59° ; wet bulb, 47°; strong wind from northwest; rained almost all day, hitherto ; during afternoon, cloudy, but no rain ; sky cleared about 9-^ p. m.; fires required in houses. September 21.—7i a. m., dry bulb, 48° ; wet bulb, 36°; slight wind from northwest; clear sky. 2 p. m., dry bulb, 62° ; wet bulb, 50° ; moderate breeze from northwest; clear, almost cloudless, all day. September 22.—7a. m., dry bulb, 47°; wet bulb, 36°; slight wind from northwest; clear; heavy dew during night. 2 p. m., dry bulb, 65° ; wet bulb, 52° ; moderate breeze from northeast; clouds in west. September 23.—7| a m., dry bulb, 56° ; wet bulb, 45° ; no wind ; cloudy. 2 p. m., dry bulb, 78° ; wet bulb, 65° ; quite a breeze from southeast; cloudy; during the morning sun shone over two hours. September 2\.—7| a. m., dry bulb, 74°; wet bulb, 62°; wind from south; cloudy; rained some in night. 2 p. m., dry bulb, 79° ; wet bulb, 66° ; wind southeast; cloudy ; showers all day; heavy rain about 5 p m., with lightning. September 2b.—7^ a. m., dry bulb, 60°; wet bulb, 48°; strong wind from north; cloudy; rained most of the night. 2 p. m., dry bulb, 68° ; wet bulb, 54° ; strong wind from north ; cloudy; sky cleared towards evening. September 2Q.—7| a. m., dry bulb, 55°; wet bulb, 42° ; slight wind from north; clear. 2 p. m., dry bulb, 71°; wet bulb, 57° ; slight wind, north; clear. September 27.—7^ a. m., dry bulb, 55° ; wet bulb, 43° ; slight wind from northwest; clear. 2 p. m., dry bulb, 73° ; wet bulb, 59° ; moderate wind from northwest; clear. September 28.—7^ a. m., dry bulb, 55°; wet bulb, 42° ; wind slight, northwest, clear. 2 p m., dry bulb, 73° ; wet bulb, 60° ; wind northeast, clear. From this time on the wind continued northerly for nearly three weeks, the sky generally clear, and no thunder or lightning. It cannot fail to be noticed that the phenomena above recorded indicate much electrical disturb- ance in the atmosphere from the 15th to the 25th, and point to the ozoue theory. The treatment of patients in the cholera ward was various in kind, but uniform in the fact of being unsatisfactory, and the close of the epidemic left me as uncertain as to the true pathology of the disease, or the most appropriate remedies for its relief, as the commencement found me. All the cases in general hospital were treated under my personal supervision, and were seen by me daily, and in one or another case nearly every drug was tried that has been hitherto vaunted in the treatment of cholera. When cases were presented in the first stage of diarrhoea I found Squibbs's mixture generally successful, and in the cases that recovered from the latter stages of the disease alcoholic and diffusable stimulants were freely used, and seemed to me entitled to the credit of producing beneficial results. Strychnia was a favorite remedy with Surgeon Vansant and Acting Assistant Surgeon Denell. Careful observation of the cases treated with this remedy failed to satisfy me that it was followed by the favorable results claimed for it by these gentlemen. With my present light, should the disease again make its appear- ance the coming summer, I should not fail to rely mainly on Squibbs's mixture, or some preparation of opium, and stimu- lants, in the early stage of the disease, and mainly on stimulants in the stage of collapse. While cholera was epidemic among the troops the disease also appeared among the citizens of Little Rock, mainly among the poorer classes, white and black, and to a less degree among the better classes. Proportionally the number of cases among the citizens was less than among the soldiers. A number of these cases came under my observation and care, and with pretty much the same result as to treatment. I am unable to find any record of the number of cases of cholera which appeared among the citizens of Little Rock. In the latter part of September cholera appeared at Batesville, on the White river, where it was brought by the steamers plying from Memphis. One company of troops was stationed at this point, and in this company one case of cholera is reported, which was fatal. Acting Assistant Surgeon Tonner, United States Army, was on duty at Batesville, and in his report says that after the case above reported, and a case occurring in a negro citizen, " AVe immediately had the men moved to their new quarters, and adopted the strictest sanitary rules ; also placed the town under military supervision. No new cases have appeared ; but every case of dysentery and diarrhoea at once assumed a more violent form, though not choleraic, and I have from it to report four cases of death in one week." It may well be doubted whether these four cases were not cases of cholera. Cholera also attacked the troops at Helena, on the Mississippi. The disease was prevalent at this place when occupied by troops in the last week of August. I have been unable to obtain a report on the subject from Helena, the medical officer on duty there, under contract, having left the service for his home in the north. At Fort Smith the cholera first appeared September 14, and was brought there on a steamer from Little Rock. Contrary to our experience at Little Rock, the disease was more extended and fatal among the citizens than among the soldiers. Dr. Du Val, at Fort Smith, in a pamphlet written by him on the subject, reports three hundred as the number of cases of cholera treated among the citizens of Fort Smith. I was unable to obtain a special report on the subject from the medical officer at Fort Smith, who has also left the service.