EXTRACTS PROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. 140 VIDALIA, LOUISIANA. ViDALiA, La., September 18, 1867. General : I have the honor to transmit herewith a special report of yellow fever patients at this post for the month of August, 1867: Sullivan, a robust man, of intem]ierate habits both as to food and drink, was first attacked ; lie had all the unmistakable symptoms of yellow fever. I had him covered up with several blankets, and had a foot-bath prepared for him with mustard, as hot as he could bear it; after this I gave him 15 grains of calomel, followed next morning by an ounce of castor oil, which produced a good operation. The nausea and vomiting were relieved by creasote, given in mucilage, one drop every half hour, and by the application of flannel dipj)ed in hot water and laudanum and applied to the stomach. For several days he could not keep even bland fluids, such as barley water, in his stomach. I gave him brandy and water, which agreed with him. The violent neuralgic pains of which he complained and groaned like a child were relieved by dry cupping and sinapisms. He remained very debilitated for about a week, but he entirely recovered, and at the date of this report has returned to duty. On the same day, and nearly at the same hour, William Keefe was attacked; he did not suffer much from neuralgic pain, hut the nausea and vomiting were intense. He was treated on the same principle as Sullivan and recovered. Vynerskirk was attacked the next day. This man had to be watched by two nurses constantly, as he wished always to get up to walk around. He was very anxious as to the nature and issue of the disease. He is doing very well at present. I have to remark that at this period several citizens were taken sick, two of wlioni died suddenly. The physicians declared the disease to be bilious intermittent fever. I am exceedingly sorry that I did not take accurate notes of these cases; all I give here is from memory. At that time I had from 20 to 25 patients, and had to prepare their medicines. I had, myself, intermittent fever at the same time. I am, General, very respectfully, your most obedient servant, E. ALEXANDER, Brevet Major General J. K. Baknes, Surgeon General. Actinr/ Assistant Surrjeon, U. S. A. [Extract.] Vidalia,"La., November 23, 1867. Sir : I have the honor of submitting the following report of the case of Lieutenant J. W. Hicks :* In my opinion. Lieutenant Hicks contracted the yellow fever from documents fiom New Orleans, received by the packet, arriving at niglit, and opened by him in a close, warm room, innnediately on their receipt. * » * * * J. S. MENG, Brevet Brigadier General T. A. McParlin, Actinr/ Assistant Sarr/eon, U. S. A. Medical Director Fifth Military District. Post of Richmond, La., April 20, 1868. General : In reply to the comminiication dated April 3d, 1868, inquiring whether the three yellow fever patients reported by me during August, 1867, ni Company " K," 20tli U. S. Infantry, had been in any way exposed to the disease, I have the honor to state that I cannot positively affirm whether such was the case or not. Yellow fever was at that time known to exist in the lower part of the city of Natchez, Mississippi, which city was opposite to our camp, on the other side of the Mississippi, the river being only about half a mile wide. This city was frequently visited, especially by those men of Company " K" who were known to be of irregular habits. Privates O'Sullivan and Keefe were men of bad character, and as liquor could not be procured at Vidalia, Louisiana, I believe they took advantage of the night to go to Natchez, and may possibly have contracted the disease while on a debauch. I am. General, very respectfully, your obedient servant, E. ALEXANDER, Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. Acting Assistant Surgeon, TJ. S. A. IVATCHEZ, MISSISSIPPI. Post Hospital, Natchez, Miss., April 10, 1868. Sir : I have the honor to reply, in answer to the letter from your office dated Washington city, April 2d, 1868, requesting me to state whether yellow fever prevailed to any extent among the citizens of Natchez, and how I suppose my patients contracted the disease, that the disease prevailed to a considerable extent among the citizens, but seems to have been of a mild type, few cases, comparatively, having proved fatal. The two cases reported in monthly report of sick and wounded for Company " K," 24th U. S. Infantry, for September, 1867, in my opinion, contracted the disease on quarantine guard, where, being quartered on the bank of the river, they came in contact with parties diseased and fiom diseased localities. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, F. B. GILLETTE, Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. *Lieiitonaiit Hicks wiis iittacked October I'ltli uml dieil Oetnber 22d.