GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 15 Fig. 19.—Crixniuin fractured by tho explosion of an ll-iuch shell. Spec. 2S71, A. M. M. Fig. 21.—Exterior view of the foregoing specimen. A Confederate soldier was wounded in the demonstration on Washington, July 17th, 1864, by a shell from one of the large guns of Fort Stevens, and was admitted into Lincoln U. S. General Hospital, on that day, and died two hours after admission. Over the anterior superior angle of the left parietal bone there was an extended scalp wound. On reflecting the scalp, multiple depressed frac- tures of the vault of the cranium came into view. The point of greatest depres- sion is an inch to the left of the median line, near the coronal suture. The depressed fragments measure from before backwards two inches, and from right to left three inches, and involve both parietals and the os frontis. A fissure runs through the squamous portion of the left temporal, and all the sutures of this bone are separated. There have been a very few extraordinary and excep- tional recoveries after penetrating and perforating fractures of the cranium, and, in rare instances, the fatal termination has been long delayed. In the following curious case, the presence of a ball within the cranial cavity was unsuspected: Corporal G. W. S , 12th Massachusetts Yols., aged twenty-nine years, was wounded at the battle of Fred- ericksburg, December 13th, 1802, and was admitted to Camden Street Hospital, Baltimore, six days subsequently. The humors of the right eye had been evacuated by a ball, which had likewise inflicted a slight wound of the lower lid. The left eye was observed to be unnaturally prominent, but its func- tions were undisturbed. The patient did not complain of pain or any in- convenience, except a slight head- ache. There were no cerebral symp- toms, and no one suspected that the projectile had entered the brain. The wound healed kindly, and, after three weeks, the man walked about the city habitually, with a hospital pass. He appeared to be well, except that he had an occasional pain over the left eye, until February 6th, 1863, when he had a chill, followed by a febrile reaction. No marked cerebral disorder supervened, however, until February 10th, when delirium was noticed at night. On the following day the patient was comatose, and at midnight of February 15th, he died. The autopsy revealed a conoidal musket-ball wedged between the sphenoid and the left orbital plate of the frontal bone, and lying in contact with the dura mater. The orbital plate was pressed inwards and fractured, and a fissure extended through the superciliary ridge. Over the ball, at the base of the anterior lobe of the left hemisphere, was an abscess containing two drachms of pus. The ball was incrusted by callus, and the opening it had made in entering through the walls of the right orbit was greatly diminished by osseous deposition. In the next case, half of the ball had deeply penetrated the brain : Sergeant J. N. H , Co. K, 19th Maine Vols., aged thirty-six years, was struck on the right side of the head, by a musket-ball, in a skirmish at Morton's Ford, on the Rappahannock, February 6th, 1864. The ball was smoothly cut in two, one-half lodging under the scalp, and the other passing into the brain. The patient was perfectly rational until February 11th, when his mind wandered at times. On the 12th, Surgeon Justin Dwinelle, 101st Pennsylvania Vols., ex- tracted the fragment of the ball which had buried itself in the brain. Its track communicated with the right lateral ventricle. The other portion of the ball had been removed from under the scalp immediately after the injury. When the patient recovered from the influence of the chloroform, he was rational, and continued so for twenty-four hours or more. Coma gradually supervened, and death took place on February 15th. The left ventricle was found filled with pus. A very remarkable case of perforating fracture of the skull, with recovery, is rep- resented by No. 16 of the Surgical Series of Drawings, S. G. 0. The ball entered a little to the right of the occiput, and passed out somewhat below and to the left of the vertex. The intervening bridge of bone was about three inches wide. There had been a cerebral hernia at the wound of exit, and, when the drawing was made, four months after the reception of the injury, there was still a small tumor, covered by half- 3 Fig. 20.—Conoulal ball embedded between tbe sphenoid and frontal bones. Spec. 1108, A. M. M. Fig. 22.—Section of right parietal on which a conoidal musket-ball has split. Spec. 2121, A. M. M.