EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. 26 The disease was undoubtedly cholera Asiatica, proseuting all the symptoms of a malignant form, viz., diarrhcsa, vomiting and purging of rice water, cramps, collapse, cold surface, cold extremities, cold tongue, cold breath, quick and weak pulse, leaden hue of surface, shrunken features, anxious expression, sunken eyes with dark hole, inelasticity of skin, incessant thirst, sensation of heat of body and extremities, entire suppression of urine, jactitation, nervous agitation, sometimes slight delirium, finally coma from uvsemia, loss of pulse, and death. After death, in many cases, the elevation of the temperature of the body and tl e muscular movements were very striking. Owing to the multiplicity of duties imposed upou the medical officers in attempting to avert death and to prevent further illness, no autopsies were made. There being no microscope at the post, but little information would have been obtained in making simple post mortems. The cholera ward became so infected with the cholera poison that every patient brought thither for several days died, notwithstanding the floors were kept covered with chloride of lime and sulphate of iron, and the utmost police enforced. I therefore, on the 24th, closed the ward, using the convalescent ward for choleraics, and removing the convalescent patients to the finest building on the island—the library. The improved condition of all the patients on the following morning showed the propriety of the move. Brevet Major and Assistant Surgeon McGill reported on the evening of the 24th. He immediately wont on duty, examin- ing the patients and the records, and from him may be expected a very full report of all the cases since the incipiency of the disease. July 26 I was relieved by Brevet Major McGill, in compliance with your order. During my tour the medical officers had to be constantly in the hospital supeiiutending the care of the sick and the police, the administration of medicines, stiaiulaiits, and food, and for a time had to dispense the medicines. Although the medical officers devoted themselves to these duties, it was discouraging to see the patients die, one after another, in spite of their most assiduous efforts, the malignancy being due to some endemic cause. In reference to treatment, the results were unfavorable, owing to the fact that collapse came on so soon after the com- mencement of the choleraic symptoms that medicine had no time to act, and symptoms were treated as they arose. After faith- fully trying ice bags, hot bags, heaters, sinapisms, embrocations, &c , the plan of treatment which gave the most satisfaction was to follow the indications : First, a mustard emetic, then to allay vomiting by creosote, cracked ice; to arrest purging by iajections of brandy, iufusion of tea, and acetate of lead; to ease cramps and jactitation by hypodermic injections of morphia; to restore heat of surface gradually by gentle heat, extreme heat to be avoided ; to restore secretion of urine by spirits of nitre or spirits of turpentine; to prevent collapse or avert death by stimulants, small quantities often repeated ; when thirst is great, a little ice tea, or simply ice. But nursing and constant attention are more important than medication. The patient should be kept in bed lightly covered, should use the bed pan, the stools and vomits should be immediately removed, and the utmost cleanliness observed about the patient and his bedding; a nurse should be constantly at his bedside attending to his wants. I cannot lay too much stress upon the police and ventilation of the cholera ward, and the ward changed when there is evidence of an accumulation of the poison. I cannot close this report without mentioning the untiring and zealous manner in which Brevet Major J. R. Gibson, Assistant Surgeon United States Army, discharged his duties. Brevet Major McGill and Acting Assistant Surgeon Browne deserve great credit for their prompt and efficient services. To Brevet Major Warren Webster, Assistant Surgeon United States Army, I wish to return thanks for his efficient and ready co-operation in furnishing stewards and nurses. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, JOHN J. MILHAU, Bievet Lieutenant Colonel and Surgeon V. S. A. Brevet Colonel Wm. J. Sloan, U. S. A., Medical Director Dcyarlincnt of the East. Extract from monthly report of sick and wourided, Hart's island, New York harbor, July, 186G, Brevet Major George M. McGill, Assistant Surgeon United States Army. The causes of cholera have consisted—first, in the condition of barracks, sinks, and persons of men as to cleanliness; second, in the character of the island, sand upon rock, fitted to retain in its soil and furnish to the surface the products of slow decomposition ; third, the ages and habits of those attacked; fourth, the exciting infection; this reached Hart island without influencing intermediate posts, (such as Willett's Point and Fort Schuyler,) in the systems of recruits sent from Gov- ernor's island. '* The symptoms have been cholerine, very variable in its characters, terminating in cramp in the right calf and foot, in both calves, in the arms, and in the neck, &c., vomiting and purging, rice-water discharges, water salts—epithelium, and crystals of blood, hsematoidine, suppression of urine, coldness and clamminess of the extremities, coma, (properly so called, from which a patient could be roused,) with contractions of pupils, and diverging strabismus, cyanosis, turbid circulation, cold breath and tongue, involuntary discharges, jaciitation, the most extreme prostration of strength, uraemia, and death. In cases terminating favorably, the suppression of unue yielded to treatment, the first secretion drawn from the bladder being loaded with tube casts, (in and among the epithelium of which were blood crystals,) and containing, of course, albu- men ; the rice water passages became more, then shreddy, then very dark, vomiting ceased, cramp ceased, the abdomen became tender, the tongue dry, and a delirium resembling that of typhoid fever set in, which was readily controlled by morphia; red corpuscles of the blood were close set, the white were conspicuous, and in a ft minutes after blood for examination was drawn from the veins blood crystals were observed.