EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. 152 latter to two ounces of the former—of which a teaspoonful may be given every Lour or two until the patient becomes composed. It may be necessary, under certain circumstances, to use other remedies, and here the physician must use his judgment. In case of symptoms of black vomit, I know of nothing better—after trying a good many other remedies—than the creasote, as generally recommended. I wish I could write to you more fully on tkis subject. I can, however, only report general ideas on this disease. It will be observed from the special report of yellow fever patients, that there has been but one death from yellow fever in this command, and that, I can assure you, was by his own imprudence, the disease having been nicely checked and doing well. A great many yellow fever convalescents think themselves well enough to travel around, and, when too late, a relapse sets in, and very often proves fatal. I have the liouor to be, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, W. F. CORNICK, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General, U. S. A. Note.—It may look very strange about the dose of calomel given in this disease, and the giving of (juinine when the patient has a fever, particularly in such doses. No one was more opposed to such treatment than myself when I came to this section of our countiy, but, after quite a long experience, I believe it to be not only right, but actually necessary. It is, again, to be understood, that this would not do in all cases—I speak of the general treatment. W. F. CORNICK, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. KEY WEST, FLORIDA. Key West, Florida, January 10, 1868. General : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 14th of November, 1867, with reference to the yellow fever at this place during the past summer. I would state that the island of Key West was perfectly healthy up to the middle of August, when the fever made its appearance. A strict military quarantine had been kept up to that time ; all vessels having any contagious or infectious diseases, or coming from an infected port, being immediately placed in quarantine, and there kept until all danger was over. With reference to the introduction of yellow fever on this island, the cause, in my opinion, is very plain. On the 31st July, 1867, the Spanish frigate Francisco de Assiz arrived from Havana, being followed, in a few hours, by the English steamer Narva. The Narva was the steamer that had the cable on boird to be laid between Key West and the Island of Cuba. Immediately upon the arrival of the Spanish frigate in the harbor she was boarded by the health officer, who, upon inquiry, found that she had been lying, for some time, in the harbor of Havana, where there was a great deal of fever, and she had also had a good many cases, and was, most decidedly, an infected ship. It was the intention of the health officer to put this ship immediately in quarantine, but orders came from superior authority not to do so; consequently, she remained in the harbor amongst the shipping and in constant communication with the shore. I think there is no doubt that the yellow fever was first introduced on this island last season by this ship. Shortly after this time yellow fever made its appear- ance on board the Narva; she would, also, have been put in quarantine by the health officer had he not received similar instructions as to the Spanish ship. Her officers and men were brought on shore .and treated in the principal hotel, Marine hospital, and private dwellings, where a good many of them died. I do not, of course, say that we would not have had yellow fever here but for the arrival of tliese vessels, but one thing is certain, that up to their arrival the island was perfectly healthy, and, so far as could be judged, likely to remain so. ****#***#* I think, fi'om what has been said, it will be seen how necessary it is to have a strict quarantine—a military one is decidedly preferable. Then the health officer, acting only under the authority of his commanding officer, would act without fear or favor. The people of the island have either had the fever or become perfectly acclimated, so they have no dread of the disease. With reference to the discrepancies in the reports for August and September, (weekly with reference to monthly,) they will be rectified. I have the honor to be, very respectfully, j'our obedient servant, W. F. CORNICK, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General, U. S. A. FORT JEFFERSOIV, FLORIDA. Fort Jefkerson, Florida, April 17, 1868. Dear Str : In reply to yours of the 1st instant, received yesterday, I would state that Captain Crabb returned from Havana on the 'M or 4th of July ; that on the 18th of July he was attacked with severe pains in the limbs and l>ack, had a heavy chill, and vomited. The vomiting continued for three days, when he was able to get up and go about. Dr. Bell and Dr. Holder both told him tliat they thought it was a slight attack of yellow fever. He left for the north on the 3d of August. None of