91 REMARKS ON THE STATISTICAL MATERIAL. serve the health of our troops, and to compare the results attained with those which have occurred in other armies. The comparative prevalence of those diseases which are known to be preventable, or at least greatly under the influence of hygienic control, will indicate the path in which the further exercise of sanitary precautions should be directed. In fact, the medical history of the past four years, as recorded in the official figures, will be found full of meaning and of manifold suggestion for the future. It is believed that no one would fail to recognize the importance of medical statis- tics, if confidence were placed in the data from which they are compiled; but it is often insinuated that these data are, from their nature, unreliable in all medical statistics, and that they are especially uncertain in the statistics of armies in time of war. The causes of error are twofold—on the one hand, mistakes in diagnosis; on the other, negligence, omissions, or falsehoods in the reports. That errors of both kinds exist, is to be freely admitted. That they are sufficiently numerous and important to rob the medical statistics of our army of their practical value, may be emphatically denied. Diagnostic errors can be largely eliminated from medical statistics by grouping together those allied affections which are most apt to be confounded. There is proba- bly, for example, no army in the world among whose medical officers a sufficient num- ber of men acquainted with the details of ophthalmic science can be found to give authenticity to its statistics of diseases of the eye, if the form required to be filled embraced the modern classification based upon observations with the ophthalmoscope. This fact, however, does not prevent them from being able to report correctly the total number ot diseases of the eye, or even, with considerable accuracy, the proportion of these to be included under the designation "ophthalmia;" and these are practically the most important facts. Like remarks apply to many similar cases in which there is difficulty in the diagnosis between allied affections; and it becomes therefore one of the most important duties of the medical statistician to group the several diseases together in such a way as to extinguish the greatest possible number of errors of this class. But the chief cause which disturbs confidence in medico-military statistics is the belief that medical records are imperfectly and carelessly kept, especially in the case of troops in the field. It has been insinuated that their charge is often intrusted to ignorant subordinates, and even, that in extreme cases, no records were kept, and the monthly reports required by law filled up with no other guide than memory. The objection based upon this supposition has been considerably exaggerated in certain quarters, and it is not for a moment believed that medical officers were generally negli- gent of their duty, or that their reports were not, in the vast majority of instances, based upon records kept according to the best of their abilities. Even during campaigns, when it was impossible to keep the cumbersome books required by the regulations in force at the beginning of the war, surgeons had their pocket memorandum-books, which perfectly sufficed to preserve reliable data for the simple form of report required monthly. It was a knowledge of this fact that led to the issue of the "pocket register and prescription book" at present used by troops in the field. But the most conclusive answer to every objection of this kind is to be found in the character of the reports themselves as they exist in the official files; they contain internal evidence of the care