65 REPORT ON DISINFECTANTS Assistunt Surgeon U. S. A. It is, therefore, particularly useful for sprpading over decouiposinn^ substances, and, as it wore, luaskiup tlifin. The presence of moisture interferes greatly with its eflicacy, and it is not, therefore, to be relied on where there is nmch water present. A mixture of charcoal and lime in the state of powder has been used in New York and elsewhere, and lias this advantapje, that the hygroscopic power of the lime keeps the charcoal dry, and in a state of full activity, while the caustic oxide performs its own part as a destructive disinfectant. During the prevalence or imminence of an epidemic of cholera the following measures would be among the most important disinfectant precautions: To prepare a saturated solution of sulphate of iron by adding the salt to hot water, in the proportion of about five pounds to the gallon, and stirring it for some time ; to this solution sulphuric acid may be added at the rate of about half an ounce to each gallon. If sulphate of iron is not on hand, common salt may be substituted, or about one pound to the gallon of chloride of zinc, which is the most powerful antiseptic of all, or either of these salts may be advantageously added to the solution of iron. This solution is to be mixed with the discharges in all cases of cholera and diarrhoea in the proportion of from five to fifteen per cent, of the amount of fluid present. Water-closets, and all collections of matter in an advanced state of decomposition, had better be treated first with a solution of chlorinated lime, which should be rendered acid by oil of vitriol immediately before use; and then, after the lapse of a day, the solution of the sulphate of iron or of common salt should be poured on. A solution of carbolic acid of the strength of about one per cent, should also be prepared and used on the floors and walls of privies, and wherever there is refuse matter in a tolerably dry condition. The clothes of those coming from a suspected locality may.be immediately moistened with the solution of carbolic alcohol, and afterwards be exposed to the temperature of a baker's oven, and the same treatment may be applied to the clothes of men about to be sent out from an infected locality. Clothes soiled by choleraic discharges are to be soaked in a solution either of permanganate of potash or of chlorinated lime, or soda, before being washed. Floors soiled in a similar manner are best treated with chlorinated soda. Buildings in which there has been much cholera should be fumigated with sulphur or chlorine, and, if practicable, white- washed ; and the ground under hospital wards may be covered with powdered lime or with the mixture of lime and charcoal, or sprinkled with a solution of carbolic acid. The disinfecting of drinking-water requires attention. The treatment of it by permanganate of potash has been described above. The use of alum removes much of its impurity from water, reacting with the carbonate of lime generally present, and produi ing a gelatinous precipitate of alumina, which carries down much organic matter mechanically entangled in it. The persalts of iron, when added to water, act in the same way, producing a precipitate of peroxide which not only acts mechanically, like alumina, but exerts an oxidizing power over the organic matter. I have been able to render Potomac water very clear and pure by adding first a small quantity of muriated tincture of iron, and then a little carbonate of soda. The sesquioxide of iron settles to the bottom, and a little common salt remains in solution. In all these methods of procedure, whether by permanganate, by alum, or by sesquisalts of iron, mechanical agitation is often necessary to dispose the precipitate to settle down. Places where articles of food, and esi)ecially where meats are kept, should be, from time to time, slightly fumigated by the vapor of burning sulphur, and woollen clothing in store may be sprinkled with the solution of carbolic acid. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, B. F. CRAIG, Acting Assistant Surgeon U. S. A. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel J. J. Woodward,