113 NEW OKLEANS, LOUISIANA. tlie department. During the existence of yellow fever here, about 334 cases were reported to me as having died in this district. Out of this numbLT, (all of whicli premises were "disinfected,) 293 houses had 1 death in eacli ; 12 had 2 deatlis ; 4 had 3 deaths; and 1 had 5 deaths. The mode of disinfecting was by closing the room or chamber in wliich tlie death took place, tightly stopping up the fireplace, and burning two to four pounds of sulphur in the apartfnent, which, also, was generally sprinkled with carbolic acid. Sulphate of iron was put in the privies and mixed with the excreta, and all bed clothes boiled or destroyed. During the period embraced by this report, forty-six deaths of cholera took place in forty-five liouses, only one house having had a second case after being disinfected in the first instance. * * I have studiously avoided in this report giving any opinion or theory as to th^ causation or mode of propagation of cholera or yellow fever, or of the efficiency of disinfection therein. I simply re))ort the means adopted by me, and the results obtained, from which, of course, you can make the proper deductions. Yours, respectfully, ALFEED. W. PERRY, Health Officer, Second District. Dr. S. A. Smith, President of Board of Health. Headquarters Fifth Military District, Medical Director's Office, New Orleans, La., May 15, 1858. General: * * * * * * * * * . * In my opinion it would be judicious to institute, every year after the 1st of May, along the gulf coast, quarantines of obser- vation, to pi'event the introduction of epidemic diseases from suspected ports. It will he proper, also, whenever a few cases of yellow fever appear at any gulf station in the spring or summer season, to abandon the locality, and institute quarantine against suspected persons and places ; also, to isolate early every suspicious case, and spread out those already in hospital with other diseases. At the same time, the type of the disease should continue to be studied and observed. The exemption of the troops at several stations, viz: Baton Rouge, Shreveport, and Alexandria, may be attributed to the prompt removal of the troops to other healthful localities. At New Orleans, circumstances were such as to make it desirable to keep the troops within reach. Th-j type of the disease continued for a long time to be mild, and its extension gradual, without exciting particular apprehension initil a late period. I am. General, with much respect, your obedient servant, T. A. McPARLIN, Surgeon, and Brevet Brigadier General, TJ. S. A., Medical Director. Brevet Brigadier General T. H. Neil, A. A. A. G., Fifth Military District, New Orleans, La. New Orleans, La., March 7,1833. General : In accordance with your request, I have the honor to present, herewith, an additional report upon the late epidemic of j'ellow fever in this city, with some points in regard to the cause, origin, symptomatology, and treatment of the disease that may prove of interest. I witnessed, in Charity hospital, on the 10th of June, the termination of the case tliat was then, and is still supposed to be, the first that occurred in the city, viz : that of John Covyarts, from the bark Bessie, which I reported to you in full on the following day. It has been claimed, from the evidence presented in this case, that the epidemic last season was of endemic origin; but a careful examination of all the facts will certainly cast doubts upon this conclusion that cannot easily be settled. A brief synopsis of this case will read as follows: John Cowarts, seaman, 29 years of age, had been in and about New Orleans for fourteen months previous to his death, suffering now and tlien with intermittent fever. Four weeks before his last sickness, he shipped on Ijoard a vessel lying before the city, loading with staves, and worked in the hold of this ship until the Wednesday, June 5th, preceding his deatli, when he went on shore to the house of an acquaintance on Circus street, where, two d;iys afterwards, June 7th, he became suddenly mucli worse, and was conveyed to the hospital, where he died with black vomit on Monday, the 10th. If we stop here in the investi- gation of the subject, the evidence is certainly all in favor of an endemic origin ; but Avhen we come to inquire into the previous history of the ship in wliich Cowarts had worked, we find tliat she had recently arrived from an infected port, Havana, loaded with sugar and molasses, a cargo notoriously favorable for the propagation of yellow fever, and that tlie length of time that elapsed from the first exposure of the patient to the manifestation of the disease, corresponds with the views of a late writer upon the subject, who says "that the period of incubation in yellow fever is "longer than is usually supposed, being probably often fourteen or sixteen days."—Parkes' Hj-giene, p. 447. This, then, renders the local origin of the disease last year extremely doubtful. There is one symptom of the disease that is not mentioned by wiiters as of much importance, but to which great weight is attached by physicians in this region, by some considered almost diagnostic of the disease, viz: a congested and sjiongy condition of the gums, Ideeding freely with slight pressure of the finger nail. This condition of the gums was certainly found in a very large proportion of cases last summer, but I had the opportunity of showing you and Dr. , of Charity h.ispital, who is a firm believer in the infallibility of this symptom, one interesting deviation froui the rule in the case of Mr. Price, on Baronne street, wliose gums were jierfectly natural; but the mucous memljrane of his nose was very much congested. Several well-marked cases of yellow fever came under my observation in which there was no congestive appearance whatever. 15