HOSPITAL ORGANIZATION AND CONSTRUCTION. 155 winter the ridge will be closed (Figure 8), and ventilation by shafts substituted. Four stoves will be allowed to a ward, each partly surrounded by a jacket of zinc or sheet-iron, with an air-box opening beneath it to furnish the sup- ply of fresh air. At eight (8) feet from the stove will be a shaft, properly capped, through which the stove-pipe will ascend. Figure 8 gives a section and Figure 9 a side view of the arrangement. The shaft should be eighteen (18) inches square, and should not come below the tie-beams. A conception of the character and extent of the large pavilion hospitals can be perhaps still better obtained from a description of some one of them than from the fore- going circular. A description of the Lincoln Hospital, one of the hospitals of Wash- ington, D. C, is therefore here presented. This hospital was constructed in the latter part of 1862, and j&rst occupied in January, 1863. The original plans for its construc- tion were furnished to the Surgeon General's Office by the writer of this paper. Several modifications and improvements were, however, subsequently made by the successive surgeons in charge. The following description was furnished by Brevet Lieutenant Colonel J. C. McKee, Surgeon U. S. A., for a long time surgeon in charge. Lincoln Hospital, "Washington, D. C, is located about a mile east of the Capitol Building. Its site is a gently- undulating, uncultivated plain, without shade-trees. East and south of the hospital, the plain declines towards the Eastern Branch of the Potomac, which is about half a mile distant. The soil is a light sandy loam, resting on a deep stratum of gravel. The hospital covers an area of thirty acres of ground, and consists of twenty detached pavilion wards, arranged en echelon in the shape of the letter V, the apex of which looks westwardly. The adminis- tration building is at the apex of the V. The buildings for kitchen, dining-rooms, etc. are in the space between the two sides of the letter. The whole is surrounded by a picket-fence, five feet high, between which and the wards is a wide road for ambulances. (See Figure 10 and the plate opposite to it.) The Wards are pavilion barracks, built of rough boards, white-washed, with roofs of boards covered with tarred paper; they are twenty (20) in number, ten on each wing. Bach ward is 187 feet by 24, 16 feet to the eaves and 20 to the ridge, at which there is the usual ridge-ventilation the whole length of the ward. They are plastered on the inside for about eight feet above the floor. At the west end of each are four rooms, occupying fifteen feet in length. These are used for clothing, baths, nurses, and sinks. Each ward contains thirty-four windows and four doors, one at each end and two in the middle, opposite each other. Four ventilating gratings, at regular distances in the floor of the ward, communicate by wooden flues under the floor with the air outside, thus giving a full supply of fresh air whenever the weather requires the doors and windows to be closed. With sixty-two patients, there are 72 square feet of floor and 1447 cubic feet of air-space for each. Thirty-one beds are arranged on each side, with a chair and bed- side table between each pair. An avenue of eleven feet is left between the two rows of beds. The wards are lighted at night by kerosene lamps, and heated by stoves in winter. On the inner side of the two wings of the hospital, and running the whole length of each, is a raised covered walk or corridor, on which is laid a railway track two feet wide and 2156 feet long. Box-cars convey the food from the main and extra kitchens to each ward. The Administration Building, at the apex of the triangle, is 184 by 38 feet, 22 feet to the ridge and 16 to the eaves. A hall, 8 feet wide, runs the entire length of the first floor. On the left side of the hall are the following rooms: office of surgeon in charge, 14 by 14; office of military assistant, 11 by 14 (employs two clerks); principal ofBce, 56 by 14 (employs fourteen clerks); printing-ofiBce, 19 by 14 (employs two men); quartermaster's store-room for clothing, etc., 44 by 14 (employs two clerks); wardmaster's room, 134- by 14; bath-room, 4| by 14; post-oflBce, 7 by 14 (employs a postmaster and assistant). On the other side of the hall, and on the right of the entrance door, are the ofiice of the ofiBcer of the day, 15 by 14; office of the officer of the guard, 11 by 14 (four clerks); office of surgical records, 11 by 14 (one clerk); private office of surgeon in charge, 125- by 14; office of medical inspector, 11 by 14; linen-room, 66 by 14,—all washed clothing and bed-linen is sent from the laundry to this room, and thence distributed to the different wardmasters; one clerk and four women are employed here, the latter in mending, etc. The medical store-room, 11 by 14, adjoins the dispensary, and is used for storing supplies. The dispensary, 25 by 14, usually employs four men; the medicines for the whole hospital are compounded here, under the charge of a hospital steward. Lastly, the laboratory, which adjoins the dispensary, is 22 by 14 feet, used for preparing tinctures, ointments, plasters, etc. On the second floor of the Administration Building is the Knapsack-Room, 111 by 37 feet. The effects, accoutre- ments, etc. of the patients coming into hospital are deposited in this room for safe keeping. It employs two men, who receive the articles deposited, issue tickets for the same, credit them to depositors, and deliver them when the patients leave. There are 2184 boxes, arranged in parallel rows, reaching from the floor to the ceiling. Adjoining the Knap sack-Room is the extra-duty men's room, 50 by 37 feet, used as a sleeping-room by the men employed on extra duty, and a clerks' room, 25 by 23 feet, used by the clerks of the principal office for the same purpose.