XXIV REPORT ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA AND YELLOW FEVER. One fatal case is reported at Gpelousas, La., during October, in a detachment of cavalry numbering 79 men ; no particulars have been reported. At Alexandria, La., on the Red river, there were two cases and one death during October, and two cases' and one death during November; two of these were men admitted from steamers ascending the river from Baton Rouge; the third was Acting Assistant Surgeon J. P. M. Forwood, on duty at the post, who had been visiting cases among the citizens; the fourth was the commanding officer of the post, who had been with Dr. Forwood during his attack, and who had also visited the first of the two cases of yellow fever brought by steamer to the place. The case of Dr. Forwood was, unfortunately, overlooked in preparing table 26. (Appendix, page 80.) The company of the 20th Infantry stationed at this post was removed to camp eight miles from the town and wholly escaped. The citizens of Alexandria, however, suffered severely, the disease having been imported among them from New Orleans during September. At Shreveport, La., still higher up the Red river, the disease appeared about the 24th of August, and, between that time and the close of December, 124 deaths are reported among the citizens. Communication between the troops and the town being forbidden, the command stationed here escaped. From New Orleans, also, the fever was carried to Ship island, about the 14th of Septem- ber, by a white prisoner and his guard of colored soldiers. The prisoner died, and three of the guard were attacked, but recovered. During October two other white prisoners were attacked and died. Three companies of colored infantry were at this time stationed at Ship island, with seventy-five white and twenty colored prisoners, but the disease did not spread. Company "K," 24th Lifantry, was stationed at Pass Christian, Miss,, where yellow fever made its appearance about the first of October, being introduced from New Orleans by one of the brothers of the Christian Association, who was attacked shortly after returning from New Orleans. October 11th the command was moved to Winchester, Miss., where they arrived October 13th, leaving three sick and a guard of five men at Pass Christian. Four of the guard took the fever, and a few cases occurred after the command reached Win- chester. In all, there were fourteen cases and five deaths out of a command of 64 officers and men. Yellow fever was brought to Fort Morgan, Mobile bay, by Lieutenant J. K. Heslep, of the Engineers Corps, who was taken sick August 9th, having just previously arrived from New Orleans, where the disease was prevailing; he died August 13th. An officer who roomed with this patient, and the physician who attended him, were attacked on the 23d, and, subsequently, others of the command; in all, twenty-four cases and twelve deaths out of a mean strength of 55. The command was removed during September from the post to a camp aloout four miles distant, with the apparent effect of checking the further progress of the disease. At Fort Gaines, on the opposite side of the entrance to the harbor, there was but one case reported in December out of a mean strength of 79. This man had just returned from Mobile, where the disease was still prevailing. There is uolliing positive to sluiw 1h>w yllow fever was introduced at Mobile, but as officers and others appear to have passed freely between the city and Forts Morgan'and Gaines, there can be but little doubt as to the source of infection. At all events, the first