LITTLE ROCK, ARKANSAS. 53 The first case of cholera of which I can obtain any authentic information, in Little Rock or vicinity, occurred in the arsenal grounds on the 12th of September. During the early part of this month reports multiplied of cases of cholera among the poor whites and negroes in Little Rock and at Huntersville, across the river. I made daily inquiries of practicing physicians an this city, who all denied having seen any case of cholera; and so late as the morning of September 12, I made inquiry of the secretary of the board of health, and was informed by him that no case of cholera had occurred in the practice of any physician of the place. On that .same evening (September 12) I saw with Surgeon Vansant, at his hospital, (the post hospital of Little Rock arsenal,) a soldier taken with painless diarrhoea, rice-water evacuations, coldness, cramps, and collapse, whom I believe to have been the first case of cholera occurring at Little Rock, certainly the first among the troops. I so recorded it at the time in my private diary. On the 13th I saw two similar cases at the arsenal, and from that time the disease was fully declared. Preparation was at once made for the care of the cholera cases. A separate ward of the general hospital was selected, distant about four hundred feet from any other ward. To this the cases of cholera occurring among the troops were sent as soon as the disease manifested itself. On the 14th and 15th the disease increased with rapidity. Careful examination, made by the commanding officer. Surgeon Vansant, and myself, failed to discover any local cause; nevertheless, on the 15th, I deemed it prudent to recommend to General Ord, commanding the department, that the arsenal be vacated and the troops sent to some other spot in the vicinity. Some very large quartermaster's warehouses were standing on the south bank of the Arkansas river, a short distance from the camp of I he fifty-fourth colored infantry and Huntersville. These warehouses, which contained forage, were selected, emptied, and cleaned ; and on the morning of the 16th the troops from the arsenal, deserting their quarters, established themselves in these roomy warehouses, leaving at the arsenal those sick in post hospital and a few sick in quarters. At the time of selection and occupation of these buildings no cases of cholera were reported to have occurred in the camp of the fifty-fourth, wliere the first case appeared on the 15th, and was reported to me on the 16th. This change of camp was not followed by the desired effect. The disease still increased on the 17th, 18th, and 19th, on which last day General Ord, accompanied by the commander of the troops and myself, proceeded to select a site for another camp. A wooded position was selected about four miles southeast of town, on the Benton road, gravelly, and near a creek of good water. To this camp the troops from the warehouses removed on the morning of the 20th, and speedily made themselves comfortable, occupying hospital tents, for which lumber was furnished for floors. On the 21st, 22d, and 23d, the disease continued unabated, but on the 24th commenced its decrease, the last case reported in this camp being on the 27th. During these two weeks the special report of Surgeon Vansant shows that there were sent to general hospital 119 cases. The same officer's monthly report of sick and wounded for September shows four deaths from cholera, being 123 cases. Among the convalescent and sick left at the arsenal at its evacuation by the command, seventeen cases are reported to have occurred, which came under the care of Acting Assistant Surgeon Cantrell, and are named in his special report. In all, then, there occurred 140 cases of cholera in a command consisting of the garrison of the arsenal, 429 strong, and the escort and teamsters of a train from Camden, viz., 10 men, being in all 439 men, of whom it is thus seen that 31.89 per cent, were attacked. In the fifty-fourth colored infantry the choiera made its appearance September 15, on which day two cases presented themselves. At this time the regiment was about being mustered out of the service, which was accomplished by the 22d, to which time only the record extends. Twelve cases are reported by Assistant Surgeon Wilson, of the fifty-fourth colored infantry, to have occurred on the 16th. From that time until the 22d, the disease decreased in violence. During this period twenty-two cases occurred, under care of Assistant Surgeon Wilson, and in September and October three, under care of Acting Assistant Surgeon Cantrell. Three cases of the same regiment were received into the general hospital on the 24th, making in all twenty-eight cases out of 350 men, or 8 per cent. Of these twenty-eight cases, fifteen died, or 53.5 per cent. Six of these died the same day they were attacked ; three the second day ; one the fourth day; three the fifth day ; one the sixth day, and one date not reported. The length of time the disease lasted in the cases that recovered cannot be given, as most of them recovered after they had left the service. Concerning the cases of cholera that occurred among the white troops, no detailed report has been given by Surgeon Vansant. Assistant Surgeon Wilson reports a preceding diarrhoea in nearly all his cases; and in nearly all the cases of Surgeon Vansant which were seen by myself, I know a milder diarrhoea of greater or less duration to have preceded the severer attack of cholera. I use the comparatives, milder and severer, advisedly, for I regard the so-called preliminary diarrhoea as much a part of the cholera as I do the chill as a part of the paroxysm of intermittent, or the preliminary fever as a part of small-pox. It is from the general hospital, however, that the most valuable information is to be obtained. Hither, after the undoubted recognition of the epidemic, were sent for treatment all cases of cholera among the white troops. I deemed it best that the cases occurring should be separated as speedily as possible from their comrades, that the well might be saved as much as possible from any danger of infection from the sick, whether by their evacuations or otherwise. In the cholera ward, accord- ingly, were received and treated 129 cases of cholera, two of whom were received in October, the rest in September. Four of these were colored soldiers, the remainder white. Of these, sixty-five died, or a little more than 50 per cent.; and sixty-four, or a little less than 50 per cent., recovered. In the fatal cases, death occurred as follows : On the first day, or day of admission 35 On the second day 12 On the third day ; 3 On the fourth day 3 On the fifth day 4 On the sixth day 1 On the seventh day 2 On the eighth day 2 On the tenth day 1 On the fourteenth day 1 On the fifteenth day 1 Total. 65