26 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. All the above-mentioned fifteen were well-marked cases of epidemic cholera, characterized by frequent and piofuse rice- water evacuations, cramps principally in the extremities, and more especially in the legs, more or less complete colapse, mental clearness and unconcern, and, in nearly all the cases, vomiting. In every case but one, the patients stated that diarrhoea had existed from 24 to 48 hours before I saw them, but that they neglected to come to the doctor, because they did not want to take medicine, or be put on diet, or detained in hospital while their comrades were mustered out and going home. During this same period of time twenty-eight cases of diarrhoea occurred among the men of these two companies, all of which yielded to Squibb's mixture in drachm doses, or sulphate of morphia in half-grain doses, repeated pro re nata. Outside of the colored command no cases of cholera occurred ; nor did diarrhoja increase or prevail among the other resi- dents of the post, who consisted of a company of engineer troops about one liundred and forty strong, of a gang of workmen in the national cemetery, al)out eiglity strong, and of a number of families of ofiicers, soldiers, and citizens. The fii'st two cases were seen by me about 10 a. m., October 28th, and were at once diagnosed as cholera. The third case was seen about 3 p. m. All three of these cases occurred in Company " G." I proceeded at once to inspect these companies in their quarters, especially the company in which sickness existed. Both companies occupied similar quarters, which were clean and well ventilated. Company " G,'' however, Avas larger than Company " H," and hence more crowded in quarters, so that I at once caused additional rooms to be assigned to this company, into which they moved on the evening of the same day, the 28th. All the quarters occupied by these companies had been for some months vacant. I caused them to be policed, and had big fires made in the fireplaces. The food of the command consisted of soldiers' rations, and seemed good, and well cooked. The whole command strenuously denied having eaten anything but their ordinary food, save once in a while a man acknowledged to have eaten a single apple or a few hickory nuts. The water used was that of the Mississippi river, the same used by the other occupants of the barracks. Thft water was forced by a steam engine and pump from the river into large iron reservoirs in a covered building, wlience it was distributed by iron pipes to hydrants throughout the post. None of the command had seen a case of cholera, or been exposed to one tliat they knew of. In coming to this place they passed thi'ough the city of St. Louis, where cases of cholera were said to be daily occurring. No delay occurred in taking steps calculated to check the progress of the disease ; and first and foremost, I deemed it neces- sary to change the water used. For this purpose many barrels of water were drawn from the hydrants, and were disinfected by the addition of Bowers' solution of permanganate of potash in quantity sufficient to color the water perceptibly. Directions were given to use no other water but that thus disinfected, and to use that for the present sparingly, and principally in colFee. The men were also periodically questioned by their ofiicers concerning the existence of diarrhoea, upon the first appearance of which they were directed to report to me without delay. The use of easily digestible food was directed, and tempeiance in that. I further recommended that the hea'tliy men should be kept occupied, and they were kept almost constantly busy at various work about the post. As the remainder of the 125th Regiment was ordered to this post for muster-out, and were hourly expected, I wrote to the headquarters Military Division of the Missouri, reporting the appearance of cholera, and recommending that no more troops be sent here until the disease disappeared. This reconunendation was carried out. As the disease first appeared in Company " G," so did that company also suffer most during the epidemic. Thus, of the fifteen cases reported, nine occurred in Company "G," with four deaths, while in Company " H" there were six cases, with two deaths. This I attribute to the greater crowding in quarters of the fii-st-mentioned company, as I found no other appreciable difference in the circumstances or surroundhigs of the two companies. The medical treatment consisted in the use of sulphate of morphia and Squibb's mixture in the first stage of the disease, followed by whiskey and chloroform in the stage of collapse. Frictions, sinapisms, and bottles of hot water to the abdomen and extremities, and essence of beef, tea and toast, as soon as the patient could retain them. One case of cholera occuired in addition to the fifteen above mentioned; this was in the person of the wife of one of the officers of the 125th colored infantry, who was attacked on the 29th and recovered under the above-named treatment. Thus, in all, occurred twenty-eight cases of diarrhoea, and sixteen of cholera. Of the latter, six, or 37.5 per cent. died. In the six fatal cases, death occurred in one case in 16 hours; in one case in 22 hours; in one case in 23 hours; in one case in 24 hours ; in one case in 28 hours ; and in one case in 31 hours. This time is reckoned from the hour that the cases first presented themselves to me. Previous to October 28th the weather had been warm. On this day it became cooler. On the night of the 28th there was a slight frost, and on the night of the 29th a heavy frost. This change of temperature may have aided the measures above related in cutting short the duration of the epidemic. The abatement certainly followed promptly the disuse of unpurified water; and I am satisfied, under all the cir- cumstances, that this out1)reak of cholera was caused by the change of habit of these soldiers from their out-of-door camp life in marching across the plains to life in somewhat crowded quarters, and to change in drink from the pure clear water of the moun- tains and prairie streams to the impure turbid Wiiter of the Mississippi. Very respectfully, j'our obedient servant, JOSEPH R. SMITH, Surgeon, and Brevet Colonel, U. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Baknes, Surgeon General.