EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. 20 internal use of stimulants, &c., lie rallied for a time, but died at about a quarter past three p. m. in a state of collapse. It cannot be ascertained that Kennelly has been away from camp since the disease has been reported in Vicksburg. The sanitary condition of the camp has been pronounced excellent by several inspecting officers who have recently visited the post. Disinfectants have been freely used, and such vegetables as occasion diarrhoea in this climate have been prohibited. Nothing but cistern water is used by tlie command for drinking purposes. Two or three other cases have occurred, but as the disease did not go beyond the incipient stages, they do not apjjear on this report as cholera. Medical Director's Office, Fourth Militaisy District, Vickshurg, Mississippi, July 6, 1867. General : I have the honor to forward herewith Assistant Surgeon Yeomans' report of cholera at Vicksburg post hospital for June. The soldier reported was taken sick shortly after sunrise, on the morning of the 29th ult., and died about 3.30 p. m. the same day. A citizen in good circumstances was taken sick and died the same day, with cholera, in Vicksburg. June 30th a colored boy was attacked with cholera about 10 p. m., at the house occupied by General Ord and staff, and died in about twelve hours. All of these were undoubted cases of cholera. I have made careful inquiry in regard to the previous historj' of these cases. The soldier reported does not seem to have been exposed to cholera; on the 28th, the day before his attack, he ate tainted meat, and about tattoo the same day bathed in a pond of stagnant water; otherwise his habits had been correct. Of the citizen taken sick the same day, I have no facts to report bearing on the subject—his friends say he had not been exposed. The colored boy above reported left town on the 29th to come to headquarters, which is four miles from Vicksburg; two cases of cholera are reported to have occurred in the house he left after his leaving. Some twenty cases are reported to have occurred in town, but no new cases have appeared at the post, and I know of none, for several days, in town. The troops have been ordered to drink no more river water, but cistern water; their quarters and grounds are in excellent police. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, JOSEPH R. SMITH, Surgeon, and Brevet Colonel, U. S. A., Medical Director Fourth Military District. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. * » MADiSO]\, A«li. Post oF' Madison, Ark., September 18,1867. Colonel:-In accordance with instructions received from your office, I have the honor to submit the following report of cholera that prevailed at this post. The first ease of cholera of which 1 had any knowledge was that of a citizen who had been engaged in rafting timber from the upper St. Francis river. He came down the river by raft to Linden, a town eight miles below this, where he was attacked, and died within twenty-four hours, from what was there understood and pronounced by his attendants to be cholera. A relative of his had the body inclosed in a box and conveyed in an open wagon from Linden through the town of Madison to a point farther up the river for burial before his actions could be prevented by the authorities. This man had inclosed his deceased relative in the box, find had accompanied it to Madison, and there made application, in person, at the military post, for transporta- tion to take it still further into the country. The commanding officer could not prevent the body being brought to the town, for it was already there; but he ordered it not to stop, and to be taken immediately away by the same conveyance in which it had come, and refused the request for assistance in transporting it. Of the previous history of this case I have no knowledge. I was informed that a number of deaths from cholera had occurred at Linden. According to newspaper and other reports, cholera has existed at Memphis, Helena, and points on the St. Francis river, for some weeks prior to itb visit to Madison. We liave been in weekly communication by boat with these infected places, although I have heard of no death occurring on the vessels engaged in this trade; this, however, can be accounted for by the fact that the great majority of the passengers transported, probably seven-eighths, are local or way passengers, whilst those who travel the whole distance are obliged to be aboard only about two days. I merely' state these facts in order to show that there is a possibility, and even a strong probability, that cholera was directly imported either by the body of the Linden subject and his attendants, or by steamboat communication with the places above mentioned. About July 20th, I was called in the night to see the wife of a soldier—a laundres.s—who was suflering from vomiting, cramps.