84 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. Corpus Christi, and terminating on ths east at Liberty, within an interior range at its greatest extent of 150 miles from the gulf line, and including the counties of Cameron, Nueces, Calhoun, Goliad, Victoria, Jackson, Colorado, Fayette, Fort Bend, Washington, Brazos, Grimes, Galveston, Harris, Montgomery, Walker, and Liberty. Galveston is situated in latitude 29° 18' 26" north, longitude 94° 46' 3S" west, and is built at nearly the eastern extremity of Galveston island, on a bay four miles in width and bearing the same name with the island. The city is placed fronting the bay, and is but a small elevation above the line of the water; the ground upon which the city is built is but slightly undulator^^— indeed, so nearly a level plain tliat the drainage of much of the city is exceedingly defective, the rains remaining only to be removed by evaporation and absorption. The island is composed of shingle, with the contributions of the rivers entering the bay. In conjunction, to some extent, with the Brazos river below, these contributions from the sea and land, in the process of the emergence of the island, have left much of the formation loose and readily permeable by the waters falling upon the surface, and in this exists one of the exceedingly objectionable sanitary features of the city's location, as the putrifiable matters accumu- lating within the limits of the city are held in suspension by the rains so as to enter the soil and become an accumulation of filth just beneath the surface, while the water disappears in the sea line below. Cistern water, however, is relied upon for household use in the entire city. An unguarded water line lies along most of the city front, a part of this being an unimproved flat, exposing at low tide much objectionable matter. The streets immediately receding from the water front were laid out at an early period in the growth of the city, and bear the usual character of imperfect drainage, being built over a tract of low ground, a portion of which was a marsh and subject to tidal overflow, and include much of the present business portion of the city. The improvements in this section of the city are exceedingly objectionable in a sanitary point of view ; while near the central portion of the city is a considerable extent of unimproved flat, ditfieult of crossing in wet weather; this connects by an offensive drain with a pond of water also within the city, the receptacle of much filth, being the commence- ment of what is known as Hitchcock's bayou, along which lies, within the city, much low, unhealthy ground; tliis, to some considerable extent, has been filled in and improved. It will tluis be seen that the location and sanitary condition of the city is such as to intensify epidemic causes. I have transmitted, direct, meteorological registers for the year 1857, which were furnished me by Dr. Greensville Dowell, of the city hospital. It will therein be seen that the months of May, .June, and the early part of July, included a very considerable fall of rain; the monthly mean of the thermometer for June was 81.91°, with a wind force amounting in the total (three daily observations) for the month to but 69; the rain during the month was 4.30 inches. The monthly mean of the thermometer for July was 85.77°, with a wind force of 93; the rain fall was the same as during June, 4.30 inches. No interruption appears to have occurred to the continuously hot weather during either of the months, and there was an almost equally continuous absence of any perceptible amount of wind force. I find the following remarks accompanying these observations, under date of .June 25th: " Great deal of congestion of the brain; yellow fever all around." I judge these remarks in reference to yellow fever purely unwarranted as to the prevalence of the disease. The introduction of yellow fever, as far as can be ascertained, occurred in the latter part of June. According to the census of the city assessor, taken about the 1st of June, the population numbered 23,982 ; of these 2,434 were colored ; of the first class many had had tlie disease, but the larger proportion liad been introduced since the war, and were unacclimated. The first case I find noted, of the character of which I am satisfied, occurred at the city hospital: Nathan Elliott, admitted from the city June 22d, had arrived at the city by a sailing vessel from New Orleans, where he had stopped two or three nights en route, (from Jackson, Mississippi,) and where yellow fever was reported to have been. Recovered. This case is said by Dr. Dowell, whom I regard as excellent authority, to have been a well-marked, undoubted case of yellow fever. According to his own statement, this man was admitted to hospital fourteen days from the time he was in New Orleans. The second case reported at tlie city hospital, Benjamin Sproul, a deck hand on the steamer Whitelaw, of the Houston (interior) line, entered tlie hospital June 17th with syphilis; on tlie 30th, thirteen days subsequent to admission, and on the 9tli day succeeding Elliott's admission, he was prostrated with yellow fever; he had occupied a bed adjoining Elliott. Recovered. The third case, admitted to city hospital July 1st, was from the bark Crothers, from New York. Date of arrival of tlie vessel, June 4th ; cleared for Liverpool June 28th; therefore, the case must have been .admitted directly from the city. Recovered. By this time the epidemic influence seems fairly at work, but, as yet, in a mild form. Two more cases appear on the register of the city hospital as admissions of yellow fever, July 5th. In the meantime a case had occurred on the 29th of June in tlie heart of the city, which h.ad been seen by several physicians, in the person of a young German who h.ad arrived by the steamship Harlan from Indianola, a town on the lower gulf line of the State, and but eighteen hours' distant from this city by steam communication. At Indianola the disease was at the time prevailing. Dr. Randall, of this city, had, on the 13th day of July, the fourteenth day succeeding the occurrence of this case, two additional cases—one a servant, the other a young lady at the house occupied by the young German, and who had been a good deal in the room with him. Here seems to have been one of the chief points of infection. Dr. Welch, of this city, says, referring to a period including the second week of July, "a few days after this, rumor was busy at work, and cases wei-e reported in distant parts of the city having no apparent connection with each other." The first case of yellow fever among the troops at the station appears to have occurred July 1st, in the case of Private Charles H. Cunningham, Company "F,'' 17th U. S. Infantry, on duty at District Headquarters, admitted to hospital July 3d, but taken ill, he states, two days previous to admission. Recovered. The second case reported was Private Robert Burton, Company " I," 17th IT. S. Infantry, on duty at hospital; first ill, as I can best learn, July 2d; no date of admission appears, but he is reported first in the list of cases of yellow fever for the month. Recovered, but subseciuently died; death reported of yellow fever; probably a relapsed case. Neither of the cases here mentioned could have been absent fi'om the city prior to the date of attack, while th(' soldier first mentioned can give no account of any direct exposure through which he.m.ay have contracted the disease. The third case was Private Eli Haven, Company "E," 17th U. S. Infantry, admitted to hospital July 5th ; died July 9th. Tlie fourth case was Albert Husbaum, Company "E," 17th U. S. Infantry, admitted to hospital July 8th; died July 14th. The pcxt case occured, after an interval of five days, July IMtli. Twelve cases appear among the troops during the month, and one citizen employ6 of tlie government; total for the month, 13.