28 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. the city. Special instructions were given, and they were brought frequently to the notice of each person concerned, with re- gard to diet, including alcoholic drinks, to cleanliness of person, to police, ventilation, and disinfection of quarters, offices, and depots, and their water-closets; to clothing, exercise, exposure, and to the medicines for curing or checking the disease in its earlier stages. The disinfectants employed were sulphate of iron, chlorinated lime, Squibb's calx powder, chloriniuni, per-mangaiiiate of potash and ozone, generated by phosphorus The medicines used were dilute sulphuric acid where the diarrhoea was pre- vailing generally, and Squibb's compound tincture of opium or dinrrhoea mixture. The former was given in twenty minim doses three times daily, and the latter was put into labelled vials and placed so that each man could obtain a dose of it within a few minutes after having a loose operation from the bowels; and the men were required to read carefully the labels and other instructions, or hear them read, every few days. At department headquarters, including the mustering offices, comer Seventh avenue and Fourteenth street, there were about fifteen officers and men; at the quartermaster's office, on State street, there were eighty-five officers and men; at the quartermaster's depot of clothing and equipage, on Laight and Washington streets, there were eighty to one hundred officers and men; at the commissary's office, on State street, there were about sixteen officers and men; at the paymaster's office, on Eighth street, there were fifteen officers and men; at the engineer's office, on Bowling Green, there were nine officers and men ; at the ordnance office, on Worth street, there were about twenty-five officers and men ; and in the offices and rendezvous of the superintendent of general recruiting service, including those in New York city, Williamsburg, and Jersey City, there were about sixty officers and men ; in all, exclusive of families and transient officers and families, about three hundred and twenty-five. To all of these and to many transient officers and families, Squibb's diarrhoea mixture was issued. Dilute sulphuric acid was issued to the depot of clothing and equipage chiefly. Disinfectants were not issued to transients, nor were they issued to the quartermaster's offices in State street nor to any of the offices nor rendezvous of the superintendent of recruiting ; they purchased the disinfectants. The bulk of the supplies were drawn from the medical purveyor. There was more or less diarrhoea at every office and rendezvous. Two fatal cases of cholera occurred the night of the 8th of July six doors from the recruiting rendezvous of Colonel Penrose, in Jersey City, but the epidemic did not extend to his party. The depot of clothing and equipage covers nearly an entire block. It is at a garbage wharf on the North river. A fatal case of epidemic cholera in a woman occurred the latter part of July, in a house forming a part of this block, on the wind- ward side of it, at a time when diarrhoea was prevailing in the depot. The depot was immediately disinfected by myself, and the men were put upon dilute sulphuric acid in addition to Squibb's mixture. The diarrhoea ceased in a great measure, and the appetites of tlie men greatly improved ; one case, however, suffered with cramps of the extremities. At the recruiting ren- dezvous, 115 Cedar street, oue case approached the stage of collapse. There were some convulsive movements of the abdomi nal muscles; there were no pains or convulsive movements of the legs; and the man complained of coldness of his hands and forearms. The diarrhoea in this case continued about six hours. Two doses of tlie diarrhoea mixture, taken about the last two operations, stopped it, and after twenty-four hours of perfect rest and dieting he was reported for duty. It was preva- lent and fatal about State street, about the quartermaster's and commissary's departments, but did not reach either of the latter. The dilute sulphuric acid is an excellent tonic and astringent, and apparently admirably adapted to cases of epidemic diarrhoea occurring in warm weather. Squibb's compound tincture of opium has met all the indications afforded. For the removal of epidemic diarrhoea after the stomach and bowels have been well evacuated, and for checking it even when the alimentary canal is charged with vitiated ingesta, it seems to be, with rest and proper diet, quite sufficient. These places and families have been scattered from State street to Twenty-fifth street, and from Williamsburg, east of East river, to Jersey City; and men, women, and children are included among the cases. The measures, remedies, and medicines above mentioned were the only prophylactics employed, and the chief means used when diarrhoea occurred. Not a case of cholera has been reported, and not a life, so far, has been lost. Fort Schuyler, New York Harbor, February 20, 1867. Colonel: I have the honor to submit to you, by your request, the following statement in regard to an attack of cholera that I had at this post last summer: I was taken sick about 3 o'clock in the morning on the , 1866. The disease began by violent purging, which lasted until about 9 o'clock, when I was first taken with the cramp in tho limbs. If I remember correctly I had no passage of the bowels after the cramps commenced, but began vomiting freely. I think I had three attacks of vomiting, and after the last attack became unconscious. I am of the opinion that I contracted the disease the day before on a boat running between Hart's island. Fort Schuyler, and New York city. I went aboard the boat at New York ; lay down in the cabin and went to sleep. It was very warm, and I was covered with perspiration. I slept about an hour. When I awoke the boat was in motion ; the perspiration had been entirely checked, and I felt chilly. I omitted to mention that before lying down I used the privy. This boat had been used the day previously for transporting the troops from Hart's island (where the cholera had been raging) to David's island, and the captain of the boat informed me afterwards that there had been several cases of cholera on board. My general health was not very good I had been suffering with a general lassitude of the physical system and depres- sion of the w'nd for seveial days. The quarters at Fort Schuyler are very damp, dark, and disagreeable. The sinks are situ- ated immediately in front of them, and in the summer time the effluvia arising from these sinks is at times almost unbearable. I have closed my windows often in the warmest weather, and suffered with the heat in preference to this nuisance. I am, colonel, very respectfully, your obedient servant, E. D. WHEELER, First Lieutenant First United Slates Artillery. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel L. H. Holden, Surgeon U. S. A.