40 EXTEACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. and normal in appearance; chest, right side of heart engorged, left side empty, lungs normal; the whole length of the alimentary canal is congested, the small intestines especially so; bladder empty and contracted; spleen often smaller than usual; other organs healthy; the venous system filled, and arterial system empty. Extract from montlily report of sick and wounded of the Eightieth United States Colored Ivfantrij, Rhreve- port, Louisiana, September, 1866. SSurgeon James H. Scoon. September 22 the first well developed case of epidemic cholera developed itself in this command. For nearly a month previous the disease had been reported on plantations below, and in the city of Shreveport, above this location, but to this date we remained unscathed. However, the fact could not escape notice that all were subject to some new and peculiar exciting causes of disease, manifest by gastric derangement, diarrhosa, colic, and cholera morbus. Suspecting them to be the fore- runners of cholera, I adopted every precaution to clean.se and remove all exciting causes of disease from the camp and its sur- roundings. Disinfectants were used extensively in the form of lime, thrown broadcast in and around quarters, sinks, and all points from which effluvia could arise. All cesspools were abolished, and chloriuium constantly used in, around, and under all quarters. To the free use of these agents I attribute the limited number of cases thus far developed, and anticipate its entire disappearance at no distant date. T. CJAI^VESTON AND OTHEK POSTS IN TEXAS. Headquarters Department of Texas, Office of Medical Director, Galveston, Texas, August 3, 1866. General : I have the honor to report as follows concerning the cholera, which appeared at this place on the 22d of last month : On the 7th ultimo a detachment of five hundred and nineteen recruits, eleven officers, and three laundresses, for the seventeenth United States infantry, in this department, left Hart's island. New York harbor, on the steamship Herman Livingston, all in good health. The ship was well fitted up with bunks and other appropriate fixtures, was well ventilated by wind sails, and in every way was regarded as in good condition for transporting troops. There was a plentiful supply of fresh beef and ice, and the diet was varied and well cooked. The medical ofiicer in charge (Acting Assistant Charles E. Warren, United States Army, late of the Volunteer Staff Surgeons) is above the average for efficiency and intelligence. On the first day out, July 8, a recruit was taken down with strongly marked symptoms of Asiatic cholera, and died on the afternoon of the following day. On the seventh day after this case another recruit was taken in the same way, and died the next morning early. The vessel arrived off quarantine, Mississippi river, on the 15th ultimo, and put off two recruits, said to have diarrhoea, one of whom has since died. On the 16th ultimo the command disembarked at New Orleans barracks, from which two recruits were sent to hospital with diarrhoea, one of whom has since died of symptoms of cholera. Remaining three days in New Orleans, the command embarked on the 19th ultimo on the steamship Texas for this place, and arrived on the 22d ultimo, all well except one case of diarrhoea, one of dysentery, and one wounded. The day after their arrival at this place a re- cruit was taken down with cholera and died in thirty-six hours; and up to date thirteen other cases of cholera have occurred among the recruits, with sixth deaths, with an average duration of the disease of about eighteen hours. Thedisea.se comes on suddenly, and the symptoms are unmistakable and of a violent character. The treatment has been prompt and judicious, and guided by the most recent ideas on the subject, all of which will be fully set forth in the monthly report of sick and wounded of the post hospital, Galveston. The command in question was completely isolated soon after its arrival here, and thus far the disease has been confined to them. There is no excitement here on account of it. and no fears are entertained concerning its extension, for the reason that although cholera has often been imported into Galveston, it has always been confined to the original cases brought in. I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, edw. p. vollum. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel and Surgeon U. S. A., Medical Director Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General U. S. A. Extract from monthly reports of sick and wounded, Jieadquarters band and companies D and G, second battalion, Seventeenth Infantry, San Antonio, Texas, September, 1866, William M. Austin, Assistant Surgeon United States Army. During the past month cholera has prevailed as an epidemic both among the citizens of San Antonio, Texas, and the troops stationed there. The first case occurred at the San Juan Mission, six miles from town, on the 2d of September. The patient liad just arrived from the Rio Grande, where cholera was prevailing. This case was soon followed by others, and cholera became generally prevalent. About tlie 20th of September the epidemic reached its height. Tlie number of deaths has been studiously concealed, but it is known that forty-five permits for burial were issued in one day, and unprejudiced persons estimate the