44 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 155 were cases of amputation in the continuity of the femur. The purulent infection was subsequent to excision of the shafts of long bones in 27 cases, and to excisions of joints in 28 cases. These figures by no means represent the frequency with which pyaemic poisoning has occurred. It has been one of the great sources of mortality after amputations, and its victims are to be counted by thousands. The small number of cases on the register are taken from special reports. Several valuable papers have been contributed on the pathology of this affection, and a number of statistical reports on its treatment. The conclusions of the latter are adverse to the therapeutical utility of the sulphites and hyposulphites in this disease. A series of colored drawings, illustrating the embolic phenomena attendant on pyaemia, the metastatic depots, etc., have been prepared at the Army Medical Museum. SURGICAL OPERATIONS. All surgical operations are recorded on the registers of the office, according to the form which will be presented on a subsequent page, in treating of excisions of the head of the femur. The name and military description of the patient are given, the nature and date of his injury, an account of the operation, a notice of the local lesions which made it necessary, and of the constitutional condition of the patient at the period it was performed. A summary of the progress and after-treatment follows, and the result, if ascertained, the name of the operator, and the post-mortem appearances, when known, if the case terminated fatally. If the case furnished a pathological preparation to the Army Medical Museum, a reference is made to the number of the specimen on the catalogue. While this plan involves much labor, it effectually preclydes the duplication of cases, and ensures, probably, the highest attainable degree of statistical accuracy. The name and military designation of the patient being known in all cases, the ultimate results of operations can be traced, hereafter, and errors may be corrected. Operations have been reported in this form from all general hospitals since Oc- tober, 1863. But nearly half of the sixteen thousand operations now recorded were taken from special reports and field returns belonging to an earlier period of the war, and it was necessary that these should first be transcribed on the proper forms, a task that has been accomplished by clerks who were students of medicine, their work being revised by a medical officer.