EEPORT ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA AND YELLOW FEVER. XXII disease. He admits that Dr. Savage's case was probably one of yellow fever. It is difficult to decide between sucb differences of opinion, the details of which will be found in the appended papers; but if it be admitted that the disease at Brownsville was yellow fever, and of this there appears to be no doubt, it is at least highly probable that the very similar epidemic at Rio Grande City partook of the same nature. The case of Dr. Furley is, therefore, here recorded as yellow fever. . ^ At Jefferson, in the northeastern portion of the State of Texas, two cases and one death are reported during October. The fatal case was a sergeant who had just arrived by steamer from New Orleans. The other case was one of his attendants. The fever did not, however, extend to the little garrison. Yellow fever was introduced among the citizens at New Iberia, Louisiana, by people flying from the pestilence at Galveston. It prevailed extensively during August and September, but the detachment of colored troops stationed at that place, having been removed to a camp some 15 miles distant, wholly escaped. The mode in which the pestilence was introduced at New Orleans possesses great interest, on account of the conflicting stories which have been received with regard to the origin of the disease in former years. As early as May 29th, the general commanding the Fifth Military District announced, in a letter to the commander of the District of Louisiana, that yellow fever was prevalent at Havana, and that, as the proper authorities had failed to establish quarantine regulations, he feared it would, ere long, be introduced into the city, and thence communicated to the troops. This apprehension was, unhappily, fully realized. Free communication existed not only with Havana, but with Vera Cruz. During May twelve vessels arrived from the infected port of Havana, and two from the infected port of Vera Cruz, no quarantine having been exacted; during June eleven vessels from Havana, and one from Vera Cruz ; and during July eight from Havana. In the absence of a vigilant board of health, the precise details of the first outbreak of the pestilence will, probably, never be known ; but, so far as can be learned, the first case was a man named John Cowarts, who had been engaged in unloading the cargo of the bark Bessie, recently from Havana, and had been at work in the hold several days when he was taken sick, June 5th; was carried to the City hospital June 7th, and died with black vomit June lOtli. On the 23d of June the bark Florence Peters arrived at Algiers, opposite New Orleans. This vessel left Havana June 3d; no cases occurred during the voyage, but on the day of her arrival the captain's wife was attacked with yellow fever; she died June 30th. June 25th her sister was attacked, and June 26th her infant daughter. About the same date the second mate fell a victim ; he died, July Sth, in the Charity hospital. The vessel was now ordered to be cleaned and fumigated, but she had previously twice changed her position to different points on the New Orleans side of the river. The first case reported among the troops was Lieutenant Orville Dewey, of the 4th Cavalry; he was attacked June 23d, and died June 30th, at the St. Charles Hotel. Lieu- tenant Dewey had just arrived from Indianola, Texas, where yellow fever was prevailing at the time, and where he undoubtedly contracted the disease. His room in the hotel was disinfected and fumigated, and there is no evidence that any persons were infected by him. The first case reported among the troops constituting the garrison of New Orleans was taken sick at Jackson Barracks July 1st, the second at Jackson Barracks July 11th;