IX EEPORT ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA AND YELLOW FEVER. 197 colored troops. There were also at the post over four hundred quartermaster's employes, among whom were many deaths. The hygienic condition of tlie fort and its vicinity is reported to have been very bad at the date of the outbreak of tlie epidemic. Company " K," of the 38th Infantry, reached Fort Harker June 22; Companies "D" and " F" arrived on the 25th; Company " H" on the 27th. Companies "A" and " B" had been stationed there since May 16th, and Company "C" since May .17th. * The first case among the troops at Fort Harker was a soldier of Company " H," who was taken sick June 28th and sent to the post hospital. On the same day, but a little earlier in the day, a citizen in the employ of the beef contractor was attacked. He lived in a dug-out on the bank of the river, near the slaughter-pen, a mile and a half from the fort, and half a mile from the camp of the detachment of the 38th. Stress has been laid on this case in some of the appended reports, as showing that cholera was not introduced at Fort Harker by the 38th Infantry; but the dates of the arrivals of Comj^anies " D," " F," " H," and "K," above given, perfectly accord with the theory that the detachments of the 38th Infantry brought the germs of the disease with them from Jefferson Barracks; and it has not been shown that the beef contractor's employe, living so near their camp, did not com- municate freely with the newly arrived troops. At all events, tlie first cases among the troops at Fort Harker were soldiers of the 38th Infantry, who were carried from their camp to the post hospital; and it was not till a number of these cases had occurred that the disease began to spread among the garrison of the post. But whatever question may be raised as to the introduction of cholera at Fort Harker by the 38th Infantry, there is no doubt of the mode in which the pestilence, once estab- lished at that post, was, unfortunately, carried thence across the plains. On the 28th of June, the same day on which cholera appeared at Fort Harker, a detachment of the 38th Infantry, consisting of Companies " D" and " F," Brevet Lieutenant Colonel H. C. Merriam in command, and Brevet Lieutenant Colonel George McGill, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., in medical charge, left Fort Harker to march by the Arkansas River route to New Mexico. At the close of the first day's march they reached Plumb creek, and shortly after going into camp a case of cholera occurred among the men. The command marched next day, but cases continued to occur daily until it reached Fort Lyon, Colorado Territory. The posts visited on this route were Fort Zarah, Fort Larned, and Fort Dodge, and the arrival of the detachment at each of these stations was promptly followed by the appearance of cholera. The death of Dr. McGill, July 20th, has prevented the receipt of the usual monthly report of sick and wounded for this detachment; but it appears from the appended letter of Colonel Merriam that twenty-nine enlisted men were^attacked, and ten died, out of a mean strength of 232 enlisted men. With the exception of Dr. McGill and his wife, the officers and their families escaped. The headquarters of the 38th Infantry, with Companies "A," " H," and " K," remained at Fort Harker until the 20th of July. The first case of cholera among the troops at Fort Harker, already mentioned as occurring June 28th, was a soldier of Company "H;" on the 29th another case occurred 4n the same company, on the 30th another; July 1st five cases were reported, July 2d three. All these cases are included in the statistical table for Fort Harker. July 4th there B