SECONDARY HEMORRHAGE.—PYyEMIA. 43 classes: bleeding proceeding from a stump, from a gunshot wound, or from an artery previously ligated in its continuity. Cases of the latter series have not been placed on the registers of secondary haemorrhage, but the repetition of the bleeding has been noted in the history of the case in the volume of the registers of surgical operations devoted to ligations.* Of the two other classes, 1037 cases have been examined and recorded on the registers of secondary haemorrhage. Of these, 387 were cases of secondary bleeding from a stump, and 650 were cases of secondary haemorrhage from gunshot wounds. Of the first class, 233, or 60 per cent., ended fatally; of the second, the termination was fatal in 330 cases, or 51 per cent. In the 1037 recorded cases, the femoral artery was ligated 93 times for bleeding from stumps, and 45 times for bleeding from wounds; the subclavian was tied 5 times for bleeding after amputation at the shoulder-joint, and 6 times for haemorrhage from gunshot wounds of the axilla. The common carotid was ligated 15 times for haemor- rhage from the deep branches of the internal maxillary. Amputation was practised 78 times for secondary bleeding from gunshot wounds, and reamputation was performed 14 times when other means of arresting haemorrhage from stumps had failed. The 387 cases of secondary haemorrhage from stumps were chiefly examples of arterial bleeding. In 95 cases, the haemorrhage was, perhaps, mainly venous, and was checked by elevating the stump, or applying cold water, ice, pressure, or the solution of the persulphate of iron. When the haemorrhage was arterial, the most common practice was to tie the main vessel, at the second bleeding, as near as was prudent to the end of the stump. In a few cases, the artery was successfully tied on the face of the stump. The results of tying the vessel above, according to Anel's method, were very unfortunate. In reviewing the 650 recorded cases of secondary haemorrhage from gunshot wounds, it appears that, during the earlier part of the war, there were many surgeons who were not sufficiently impressed by the precepts of Bell and Guthrie, and who fre- quently treated secondary haemorrhage from gunshot wounds by tying the main trunk at a distance from the wound, even when the bleeding occurred at a comparatively early period. Later in the war, however, it was the universal practice to endeavor to secure both ends of the bleeding vessel at the seat of injury, and some brilliant ex- amples are recorded in which this was accomplished in wounds of the posterior tibial or popliteal, when limbs had become infiltrated and swollen, and the difficulties of the operations were immense. PTiEMIA. On this subject 281 reports have been examined, and the individual cases detailed in them have been transcribed upon the registers: 251 special reports on the subject remain to be examined. The histories of 754 cases are recorded in the register, the post-mortem observations accompanying a large proportion of the fatal cases. These number 719, or 95*35 per cent. Pyaemia supervened in 377 cases of gunshot injury in which no operation had been performed, and after 295 cases of amputation, of which * See page 85 of this Eeport.