LOUISIANA. 37 of artillery occupied Lafayette square, and the eighty-first United States colored infantry camped at the'foot of Canal street, near the levee. During ten days of this camp, in a most iinfavorable locality, the eighty-first had many cases of cholera. The troops generally at this period were subjected to many inconveniences and discomforts by being temporarily away from their regular quarters. Drinking inferior water, receiving cold victuals, cooked miles away in the company kitchens, and sleeping directly on the damp ground, were changes very serious and prejudicial. Pure water was ordered to be procured at once and issued to the troops, and has continued to be distributed, as far as possible, since August 7 to this time with most marked beneficial results. The meals were inspected and improvements in cooking effected. Tea and rice replaced coffee and beans to considerable extent. Boards were procured and beds raised from the ground for such troops as did not return to permanent quarters. By assiduous efforts the sanitary condition of the troops was soon restored. As a rule, cases were sent to hospital as soon as the tendency to diarrhoea of a suspicious character was detected. Constant observation was enjoined as to the habits and condition of the men, so as to receive attention in time. The latrines were kept clean and disinfected. At no time was there any panic, so far as I am aware. The disease attained its maximum about the 8th of August, and after the 10th declined. Among the citizens the greatest daily number of burials (forty-four) occinred August 17. In the sixth cavalry, after the change from the basin to new quarters in the Cotton Press, third district, and in the eighty-first United States colored infantry, after returning to proper quarters, the disease particularly abated. Considering the number of recraits admitted to the first infantry, the peculiar exposure of the regiment at Lafayette square and at the barracks, comparatively few (twelve by cholera, two by yellow fever) have died during the season. At Jackson barracks, with a large command, cholera was not even prevalent. An occasional case was brought under treatment. Prompt and thorough measures were instituted to prevent any possible exten- sion of this disease (and of yellow fever also) in every case presented. Prior to the war it was the custom to vacate Jackson barracks, to preserve the health of the troops during the summer, moving them to East Pascagoula, and returning after the first frost in autumn. The city has been more unclean and disease more prevalent in this than during any other summer since 1862. It will be seen that cholera has continued (though broken in force) in the city, and occasional cases break out in the command. Eecruits have been continued to be added to the regiments from the city and country, and from commands arriving for temporary duty or muster out; and new material has not been wanting for development of choleraic disease at all periods. Whenever cistern water was not at hand and could not be purchased, the quartermaster's department Las procured distilled water for issue to troops. The supply at Jackson barracks, at the barracks' hospital adjoining, and at the Sedgwick hospital, Greenville, has been rain water in cisterns. The troops at the barracks have enjoyed great immunity from disease. The one hundred and sixteenth regiment United States colored troops, camped near the Sedgwick hospital, and supplied thence with cistern water, has continued entirely free from cholera. Quite recently, on muster out of the eighty-first United States colored troops, the one hundred and sixteenth was moved into quarters in the city, (Tchoupitoulas near Hunter street.) The supply of distilled and rain water, for a day or so, was scant, and some of the men used hydrant (river) water. Soon two cases of cholera occuiTed. Pure water was supplied, and there have been no more cases in the regiment. The ninth regiment United States colored cavalry and the thirty-ninth United States infantry were supplied, but not suf- ficiently, with distilled water until the cisterns at the Sedgwick were repaired, filled, and furnished rain water to them. At first the distilled water, sent up hot in casks, could not become cool before it was needed. The men preferred to drink the river water because it was cold, and did so, against orders and repeated warning, accepting the risk of disease rather than wait for the water to be cooled and aerated. Case after case of choleraic diarrhoea followed. Critical inspection failed to develop any other probable cause except the use of river water, and recommendation was made to move the regiments away from the river far enough to prevent the men obtaining it. To avoid moving, the cavalry put on a strong guard to keep the men from the river, and cistern water was supplied from the Sedgwick hospital. Cholera, since that, has ceased in the regiment. The thirty-ninth United States infantry has been moved to the ground adjoining the hospital, (former healthful camp site of the one hundred and sixteenth,) and receives cistern water from the hospital. Its sanitary condition is good. The ninth United States colored cavalry kept part of two companies guarding and attending to horses in the city, in old stables on Derbigny street. Second district. A few cases of cholera occurred among these men, until they were restrained the use of hydrant water and put into improved quarters elsewhere. Circumstances have confirmed so strongly the imjjortance of pure water, that even for troops in transitu, remaining a few days, its supply is recommended. The camps at Greenville were infested, at one period, with venders of liquors, pies, and other deleterious articles, until orders were issued and enforced against them. Cholera has not yet entirely disappeared from this city ; perhaps scattering cases may be expected to occur for some time. Professor Wood, writing in April, 1853, on a previous outbreak, says: "In the summer of 1850, and in every year since that time, it has occurred to a greater or less extent in various parts of the valley of the Mississippi, in which there is reason to fear that it has become naturalized ; but the section of our country east of the Alleghanies, with some slight exceptions, re- mained exempt from the period of its visitation in 1849 until the summer of 1854, when it again made its appearance in the epidemic form." (Practice of Medicine, vol. 1, p. 715.) I trust no such continuance—"naturalization"—will mark this %isita- tion, and that clear views of the etiology and conditions governing the propagation of cholera may at length be developed, by which the profession and the authorities may receive the co-operation of the great mass of individuals in enlightened communi- ties in all measures that tend to prevent and stay the disease. Observations in this as in previous visitations enforce the necessity of observing the first indications of disordered bowels, of having remedies at hand, and prompt medical advice. Taken at the stage of premonitory diarrha?a, the disease is quite manageable. The tendency to diarrhoea has increased in the following rates in the department of Louisiana, viz : Number of cases in June,