79 LIGATIONS. 1863, with injury to the femoral artery. There was secondary bleeding, for which the femoral was tied in the wound. Bleeding recurred, and on October 8th, 1863, the ex- ternal iliac was tied by Acting Assistant Surgeon Adinell M. Hewson, U. S. A. The patient recovered, and was discharged from service May 14th, 1864, the movements of his right leg being impaired by contraction of the muscles. Of ligations of the subclavian, 35 cases are recorded. In all, the vessel was se- cured outside of the scaleni. In 16 cases, the operation was on the right, and in 14 on the left side; in 5 cases, the particular vessel is not mentioned. The operation was performed in 13 cases for secondary hajmorrhage after amputation of the shoulder-joint, with 4 recoveries. In 2 cases, it was done for primary, and in 15 for secondary bleed- ing after gunshot wounds, with injury of the axillary artery, with 2 recoveries. In 2 cases, the operation was performed for axillary aneurism. In 2 cases, with one re- covery, it was required by secondary bleeding after excisions of the humerus, and in 1 case it was necessitated by a secondary hfBmorrhage after a gunshot wound with injury of the subclavian. The ligations included in the category of "all others" were of the temporal artery in 3 cases, the occipital in 2, the facial in 2, and intercostal in 2; the internal mam- mary, the thoracica longa, the gluteal, the superior profunda of the arm, the posterior circumflex branch of the axillary, the right dorsalis pedis, each in 1 case. The two ligations of intercostals were performed by Assistant Surgeon B. Howard, U. S. A., and Assistant Surgeon W. H. Gardner, U. S. A., according to the plan pro- posed by the former, of enclosing the rib in the ligature. Dr. Howard's patient died the day after the operation was performed. The other patient recovered. The new hiBmostatic process* recommended by Professor Simpson was adopted in a few cases, with favorable results. OTHER SURGICAL OPERATIONS. Four additional registers of operations are kept. In one is recorded the histories of 290 cases of gunshot fractures, in which the primary sequestra of Dupuytren, or de- tached fragments of bone, have been extracted. Another register contains the histories of 436 cases, in which balls or other foreign bodies have been extracted. Extraneous matters extracted from gunshot wounds have been of great variety, and comprise bits of clothing and accoutrements, fragments of watches, coins, shoe-nails, teeth, etc. A collection of over 400 such bodies is preserved at the Army Medical Museum. The register of operations for surgical diseases contains the histories of 443 cases, many of which are of great interest. For example, 15 cases of tracheotomy or laryn- gotomy are recorded, with six recoveries. The operation was done once, with success, in a case of croupal diphtheritis. Finally, in the "register of operations not included in other categories," 23 cases are recorded of the treatment of wounds of the larger joints by free incisions, or of operations for ununited gunshot fractures. * Acupressure, a New Method of Arresting Surgical Haemorrhage and of Accelerating the Healing of Wounds. By James Y. Simpson, M.D., F.R.S.E. Edinburgh, 1864. Octavo, pp. xiv., 580. 11