59 EXCISIONS. Fia. 70.—Excised kuee joint. A round ball in the inner condyle of right femur. Spec. 1956, A. M. M. ball, received on date of admission, at Mission Eidge. Missile had entered on inner aspect of the joint, fractured the inner condyle of the femur, and passed obliquely downwards and outwards, lodging in the head of the tibia. November 2Gth, Surgeon James Heller, 38th Ohio Vols., operated. An anterior semicircular incision, including the ■wound of entrance, being made, and the patella removed, seven-eighths of an inch was sawn from both tibia and femur. Two arteries required torsion, none ligature. The patient was in robust health at the time of the operation. About December 25th, symptoms of exhaustion were manifest. A supporting treatment was adopted, without avail. Death, January I8th, 1864. Private Gardiner Lewis, Co. B, 19th Indiana Vols., aged twenty-two, was wounded at the battle of Gettysburg, July 1st, 18G3, by a round musket-ball, which lodged in the internal condyle of the right femur. On November 27th, 1863, he was admitted into Jarvis U. S. A. General Hospital, Baltimore, Maryland, the knee being disorganized and discharging a foetid pus. On December 1st, Acting Assistant Sur- geon F. Hinkle, U. S. A., excised the articular ends of the tibia and femur, sawing off an inch of the condyle of the femur, and three-fourths of an inch of the head of the tibia. An H-shaped incision was employed. At the time of the operation the patient was feverish, anxious, without appetite, and sleepless from intense pain. He did well until several days after the operation, when he had a chill. Chills recurred each alternate day, and other symptoms of purulent infection were manifested. On Decem- ber 23d, the case terminated fatally. The autopsy revealed metastatic foci in the lungs, and six ounces of pus in the left pleural cavity. The incisions were healed, and the ends of the bones were found in apposition, but no union had occurred. The excised portions of the femur and tibia are preserved in the Army Medical Museum. (Spec. No. 1956.) Private Jacob Miller, Co. A, 3d Pennsylvania Cavalry, aged thirty-eight, was admitted December 5th, 1863, into the 3d Division U. S. A. General Hospital, Alexandria, Virginia, with a compound comminuted fracture of the right patella, involving the knee-joint. The injury was received in action, November 27th, 1863, at Mine Run, Virginia. On December 7th, 1863, Surgeon Edwin Bently, U. S. Vols., excised half an inch of the articulating extremities of the femur and tibia, and removed the patella. The parts were considerably swollen at the time of operation, and the patient was prostrated. Profuse suppuration ensued. A stimulating and supporting treatment Was adopted; but the case resulted fatally, from pyajmia, on December 18th, 1863. Corporal Jesse Sims, Co. B, 4th Ohio Vols., aged twenty-three, was admitted, December 5th, 1863, into the 3d Division U. S. A. General Hospital, at Alexandria, Virginia, with gunshot fracture opening the right knee-joint, received on the 27th of November, 1863, at Mine Run, Virginia. On December 8th, an excision of an inch and a half of the tibia and fibula, and an inch of the femur, was made by Surgeon Edwin Bently, U. S. Vols. The parts were much swollen and the patient greatly prostrated and anxious. Simple dressings were applied. Pyemia was soon developed, and death occurred on the 13th. A post-mortem examination showed no attempt at repair. The wound was sloughing. Metastatic abscesses were formed along the inside of the thigh, and one at the base of the lower lobe of the right lung. (Spec. 1909, A. M. M.) Private Thomas Clark, Co. D, 2d New Hampshire Cavalry, was wounded in a skirmish near Alexandria, Louis- iana, on May 4th, 1864, by a musket-ball, which entered the popliteal space, and, passing behind the artery, emerged two inches above the joint on its outer side, having fractured the external condyle. The patient was admitted to the General Hospital, at Alexandria, Louisiana, on the day that he was wounded. Immediate amputation was advised, but the patient objected so strenuously, that excision was substituted. Assistant Surgeon John Homans, Jr., U. S. A., removed two inches of the condyles of the femur, and half an inch from the head of the tibia, through a straight incision across the joint, the patient being under the influence of chloroform. The limb was put in a fracture-box, the wound being closed by sutures. No great depression followed the operation immediately. The patient took a full anodyne, and rested well. Next morning, his leg was very cold, and no pulsation could be discerned in any of the arteries below the knee. The patient was placed on a transport steamer and sent to New Orleans, where he died a week after the operation. The report adds that no necroscopic examination was made, and no satisfactory expla- nation could be given of the arrest of the circulation in the limb; but it seems highly probable that the explanation is to be found in the proximity of the track of the ball to the popliteal artery, and the formation of an occluding clot in that vessel. Sergeant Henry J. Moore, Co. P, 7th Maine Vols., aged twenty-four, was admitted, May 24th, 1864, into the 3d Division U. S. A. General Hospital, at Alexandria, Virginia, with a wound of the left knee-joint, from a conoidal ball, received May 12th, 1864, in the battle of Spottsylvania, Virginia. An excision had been made by an unknown operator, by a straight incision across the anterior aspect of the joint. On admission, the limb was in a fracture- box, the wound partially closed by sutures, and discharging but very little. The patient was prostrated by the fatigue of transportation to the hospital, and he died of exhaustion on the 26th of May, 1864. Corporal George W. Hays, Co. K, 2d Michigan Vols., aged nineteen, was wounded on June 17th, 1864, before the intrenched lines at Petersburg, Virginia, by a musket-ball, which shattered the left knee, and fractured the right