30 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. [Extracts.] Quarantine Hospital, Tybee Island, Georgia, July 31, 1866. General : I have the honor to report that in accordance with instructions I proceeded, July 22, to assume charge of quarantine station on Tybee island, occupied by detachment recruits seventh infantry, en route for Florida. I was informed by Captain Ellsworth, eleventh infantry, commanding', that epidemic cholera had developed itself on the second day after leaving Governor's island, and that four cases, with three deaths, had occurred duiing the passage. The troops had been landed and camped on the beach July 18, and I found them in a terrible condition, having abandoned themselves to despair. A severe type of diarrhcea, culminating in cholera, was raging in camp, aggravated by the green vegetables rifled by the men from gardens where they were landed. Many deserted, and either perished by cholera in the interior, or were drowned endeavoring to escape. It was not only impossible to enforce discipline, but the officers were com- pelled to accompany with drawn revolvers details carrying sick to the hospital, as otherwise they were left to perish on the sand. The hospital had been located within the old fortification surrounding the " Martello tower;" in my opinion, a very injudicious selection, as the ramparts screened the tents from all circulation of air. All the supplies that could be spared from the post hospital at Savannah had been sent down; but these had been exhausted, and the acting assistant surgeon in charge had not made a requisition for more, and many of the sick were lying exposed on the sand. No steward accompanied the command, and the details for hospital service de.serted as rapidly as sent. The grounds consequently were unpoliced, and the sick suffered for necessary attention. I made an inmiediate report of the terrible condition which existed, and Brevet Major Schell, Assistant Surgeon United States Army, then and subsequently made efforts to supply everything needed. A suggestion had been made to change the camp ground, and a position designated which was considered eligible; but on examination I considered it unsuitable; so on the 23d instant the camp was moved a mile further down the beach, each tent was widely isolated, a rigid system of police enforced, regular hours for bathing designated, a chain of sentinels stationed to compel tbe use of the sinks, which were disinfected every two hours. In addition to surgeons' call, which had been held twice daily, each acting first sergeant was directed to watch the men carefully, reporting each one who visited the sinks more than once daily ; a few simple instructions in hygiene were given, and each officer exerted himself to inspire courage and confidence among the men. After as careful an examination as the emergency permitted, the open beach fronting the "Martello tower" was selected for the hospital, and the tents moved down as rapidly as possible, everything being completed on 25th instant. The bedding, clothing, &c., in hospital, were burned twice daily when soiled, and chlorine freely used in tents and to disinfect cholera discharges. Steward Lane, United States Army, reported on 24th instant, Bievet Major Carroll, United States volunteers, on 27th, and Acting Assistant Surgeon Burdett on 28th instant. With the two acting assistant surgeons, Drs. Higginbotham and Southwick, previously on duty on the island, I had now plenty of professional assistance, and was enabled to detail Dr. Southwick exclu- sively for duty at camp. Previously I was compelled to keep both in hospital, where I took position, except when holding surgeons' call. But the type of disease was so severe that men kept in camp perfectly well in the morning were in a state of collapse before noon. Only those cases are designated as cholera in which the algid symptoms, cramps, and characteristic evacuations were present. Although in the majority of instances diarrhoea preceded the cholera, yet I am cognizant of some half a dozen or nine cases in which the patient was suddenly seized with the most prominent symptoms of collapse without previous illness. These cases, all of great severity, invariably died. When the rice-water vomiting was succeeded by vomiting of bilious matter, it was properly considered as a favorable change, and was followed by tardy convalescence. A few cases had well-marked cerebral symptoms, like the stupor of typhus; these all died. The treatment relied on as the most efficacious was a combination of sub. nit. bismuth, gr. x., and acetate of lead, gr. v.; or sub. nit. bismuth, gr. x, and bi carb. soda, gr. x, every one, two or three hours, according to the severity of the disease, together with the free administration of ice in small quantities, and tlie external application of mustard cataplasms. Dr. Sim's chlorodyne mixture in large doses, with hydrochlorate of ammonia, were used in some of the most severe cases, but was eventually abandoned as futile. *»»##*# No post mortems were held, as the medical officers were unable to do more than attend to the necessities of the living. For the same reason it is impossible to enter into the details of cases, which I bitterly deplore; but the pressing urgency and horror witnessed here surpass everything seen during the war. Chloride of lime was freely used in camp and hospital; also chlorinium and permanganate of potass; and, during the close of the epidemic, sulphuric acid was supplied and used for disinfecting sinks and vessels; but I preferred the chlorinium. All the cases who survived the first shock of the disease were left in a slate of exhaustion and emaciation, strikingly similar to that following typhoid fever, and there and then only were stimulants, punch, beef essence, &c., indicated and well borne. Previously they only aggravated the violence of the disease. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, CHARLES K. WINNE, Brevet Major and Assistant Surgeon U. S. A Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. [Extracts.] Quarantine Hospital, Tvbee Island, Georgia, August 9, 1866. Sir : I have the honor to report that, in obedience to orders received from your office July 27, a. m., I immediately reported to Brevet Major Charles K. Wiime, Assistant Surgeon United States Army, in charge of tliis hospital, for duty during the