147 BARRANCAS, FLORIDA. BARRAIVCAS, FI.ORIDA. Extract from Monthly Report of Sich and Wounded, Barrancas, Florida. Acting Assistant Surgeon C. Eberhard, August, 1867. "Private W. Snyder, Company " I," 24th Infantry, was admitted into hospital from the quartermaster's steamer Alliance, from New Orleans. He died August 25th of yellow fever." Sir : The statements in the article on yellow fever at the naval station of Pensacola,* relative to the condition of the troops at Forts Barrancas and Pickens, are substantially correct, so far as I can ascertain. The major portion of the officers and men were removed to Fort Pickens about the 14th of August, 1867, and thus comjiletely isolated. The remaining dozen of men were forbidden to pass into the woods between this command and the naval reserve, and, upon the occurrence of the case from New c Orleans, wei-e altogether removed from the barracks into buildings a quarter of a mile westward, adjoining Fort Barrancas. The few patients in hospital at the time were also moved out, and the rooms thoroughly cleaned. The man admitted, Private Wm. Snyder, Company "I," 24th Infantry, stated that he had been sick, and had taken medicine before leaving New Orleans, and, when seen here, made the remark himseltj "It is too late no^y." The removal of the men, and the avoidance in that way of a continuous exposure to infection, or of an exposure to the fermenting and decomposing products of disease, seems to have been sufficient in this case to prevent any extension of the fever. I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, W. C. MINOR, Assistant Surgeon, and Brevet Captain, U. S. A. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel J. J. Woodward, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. U. S. Naval Hospital, Pensacola, Florida, January 9,1868. Sir: In compliance with your request, I herewith transmit a report of epidemic yellow fever t as it occurred outhis station during August, September, and October, 1867, prepared by Acting Past Assistant Surgeon N. L. Campbell, U. S. N. Very respectfully, &c., JOHN J. ABERNETHY, Surgeon, U. S. N. Dr. P. J. HORWITZ, Chief of Bureau of Medicine and Surgery, Navy Department, Washington, D. C. ♦ Respectfully forwarded : JAS. F. ARMSTRONG, Captain Commandant. Beport of Epidemic Yellow Fever, Naval Station, Pensacola, Florida, during 1867, by Acting Past Assistant Surgeon N. L. Campbell, U. S. N. The yellow fever epidemic of 1867 will long be remembered by the survivors, both for its severity and its unusual range along the coast of the Gulf of Mexico, from Key West, Florida, to Corpus Christi, Texas, and inland to La Grange, Texas, and Memphis, Tennessee. At Pensacola. Florida, quarantine was established May 21st, 1867, by military authority. On the 21st of June the English ship Fair Wind arrived from Jamaica, West Indies, in ballast, and, in compliance with general rules, was ordered to quarantine for ten days. She had been reported by the health officer as remarkably clean, well ventilated, and well appointed in every respect, and with no sickness whatever on board, excepting the case of the steward, who was suffering from old age and general debility. During her quarantine one man died very suddenly—reported to have complained somewhat, to have plunged over- board for a bath, and to have died very soon after of congestion ; but as the health officer was satisfied that the case did not warrant further detention, and as she had been thoroughly cleansed and fumigated, she was permitted to anchor one mile off Pensacola city, July 2d, to takp in a cargo of lumber. Her ballast of stone, freshly quarried from the rock at Kingston, Jamaica, was taken to fill in wider and about the wharf at Pensacola, between high and low water. In this connection it may be well to state that the daily papers contained a statement, under date of Washington, July 6th, to the effect that the United States consul at Kingston, Jamaica, under date of June 6th, had reported to the State Department the existence of yellow fever as a malignant epidemic—one-quarter of the cases f;xtal. Disease of a febrile nature soon mani- fested itself among the crew of this healthy ship, and on July 10th the Mayor of Pensacola reported to General Seymour that all the crew of the Fair Wind had been sick excepting one; that three had died, and five were then ill, but that none of the stevedores had been attacked. On the 19th of July the Mayor reported another death on board the Fair Wind, and the vessel was again ordered to (juarautine. * Phila. Medical and .Surgical Reporter. Vol. xviii, p. 227. March 14, 1868. t This interesting report has been furnished through the politeness of Surgeon P. J. Horwitz, Chief of the Biureau of Medicine and Surgery, U. S. N.