33 TYBEE ISLAND, GEORGIA. supposed them cases of that disease had they not been in a cholera hospital." Mental excitement, delirium, apathy, stupor or coma early appeared and remained throughout the attack. Nearly all the patients, when unobserved, would crawl out of the head of their beds into the sand. In two or three cases the delirium was furious, but in the majority, the patients were submis- sive, and obeyed when sharply spoken to. The evacuations usually became involuntary. Only one cerebral case recovered ; death, however, did not occur as early as in the algid form, the cases often continuing several days. The application of cold to the head was the only treatment that offered even temporary relief. In the gastro-intestinal form the alimentary canal received the shock of the attack, although all the mucous membranes were involved in the visitation. The choleraic voice was present in marked degree, iu some cases being reduced to a husky whisper; the conjunctiva highly injected, the hearing generally dull, and the urine diminished or suppressed. Vomiting and purging were persistent, or at least often recurred after being suppressed by treatment. Cramps came on later and were milder than in the algid cases, in which they were often the first symptom and intenselj' painful. I think that in the gastro-intestinal cases they were generally confined to the abdominal muscles, while in the algid the extensors of the extremities, the back, and back of the neck were chiefly involved. The circulation also sank less rapidly, and although there was cold moist skin, blue lips, fingers, toes, and nails, it was due to profound prostration and exhaustion, and eventually yielded to carefully sustaining treatment. It was somewhat different in character as well as degree from the blue lividity, icy, clammy coldness of the .skin, which in the algid cases suggested the idea of some still active poison, changing the constitution of the blood from the healthy, red, circulat- ing stream, to a viscid mass incapable of being driven into the capillaries. In several cases vomiting persisted for four or five days, the change to convalescence being marked by the appearance of billions instead of rice-water ejections. In the case of Private Lindsey, obstinate vomiting was accompanied by an obstinate suppression of the urine, the vomiting ceasing with the restoration of the renal function, after its absence for four days. Private James Hill, a severe gastro-intestinal case, suffered from obstinate vomiting for five or six days, accompanied by hiccough. While retained in the stomach, eight drops of chloroform in a drachm of alcohol relieved the hiccough, but it was soon rejected. Dr. Winne finally relieved both symptoms by the appli- cation of the actual cautery over the stomach, the wound being dressed with morphia. His voice had been reduced to a husky whisper. At the present date (August 9th) he is convalescing. Many gastro-intestinal cases recovered after all hope had been abandoned ; in others the vital flame flickered, but ultimately regained a healthy vigor. Convalescence was, in almost all, as- tonishingly rapid for the shock sustained; four or five days in light cases, and six to ten or twelve in severe, usually restoring the patient to fair health. The case of Private Teriy, employed in the hospital kitchen as cook, will serve to illustrate the os- cillation of numerous cases between hope and fear. Of delicate organization, the first twelve hours of a gastro-intestinal attack had reduced him to the stage of cramps, blue skin, and general prostration. A day later Acting Assistant Surgeon Burdett came into the office and remarked that Terry was fast sinking and probably would not last another day; an hour afterwards I found him with a fair pulse and quite comfortable, and reported him getting well. We together visited him an hour later, and found him again sinking. He ultimately made a good recovery. The gastro-intestinal cases, when light, usually recovered as rapidly and with as little trouble as from diarrliosa or cholera morbus; but the severe cases in general passed into the " cholera typhoid " stage, characterized by a general outward re- semblance to typhoid fever, with sordes on the tongue and lips, typhoid expression of countenance, and dulness of mind; in some cases, tenderness of the abdomen; in more numerous instances, none. There was also some tendency to a return of the diarrhoea, but seWom any tympanites. Between it and typhoid fever there were the following important distinctions: tlie tongue was never hard or dry; there was no typhoid eruption, although the skin, owing to the great prostration and enfeebled circulation, remained for days a dark or reddish blue, cold and moist. Recovery usually took place in from four to ten days, and was often quite unexpected, or at first very doubtful. At a morning inspection Dr. Winne and myself estimated that out of sixty gastro-intestinal cases in my ward, about six to eight would be fatal. The following morning we feared one-half would be lost, general prostration and blue, cold skin and extremities being alarmingly general. The next morning the improvement was very apparent, and at this time it is probable that all, except four or five, will be returned to duty. With careful nursing, and a diet of eggs, beef tea, &c., and milk punch made with brandy, given in small quantities, the recoveries were unex- pectedly rapid, considering the profound prostration which, iu so many cases, followed the subsidence of the acute attack. The division of the cases into three types may seem unnecessary and unwarranted, but during the present epidemic they were so boldly marked, and are so essential to the value of treatment as, in my opinion, to entitle them to a place iu ever so brief a sketch of Asiatic cholera, as observed on Tybee island. Furthermore, they were not, so far as I saw, interchangeable, no algid passing into a cerebral state, or vice versa. Although the gastro-intesrinal might appear to be only the first stage of the algid form, its subsequent course differed from it somewhat iu character as well as degree, death taking place through ex- haustion and general prostration, while in the algid the victim was at once struck down with irresistible force, the body being thrown into contortions by muscular spasms, or rendered cold as an iceberg from eariy failure of the circulation. The poison was, beyond doubt, the same in all, but the difference in its modes of manifestation was as great as between those of the malarial poison in congestive, remittent, and intermittent fevers. Internal heat was an invariable symptom in the three varieties of cases, as was unappeasable thirst; and notwithstanding the coldness of the skin, the patients usually complained of the presence of the lightest covering, and threw it off the first opportunity. In consequence of the patients being covered by the inflamed bites of myriads of mosquitoes, it was impossible to observe the existence of any cutaneous eruption. In my own person the usual symptoms of cholerine, diarrhoea, internal heat, cold skin, and feeble pulse were followed a day later by reaction, and an eruption, exactly similar in appearance and pain experienced, to merciuial erythema, which, after a day or two, disappeared. It is to be regretted that it was impossible to take full notes of cases, and make post mortem examina- tions, but, under the circumstances, it was simply impossible. To organize a hospital, with the sick awaiting its erection, the nur.ses and attendants, with a few exceptions, deserting as soon as the officers' backs were turned, rendered it no light task to extend even tolerable care to the living, while the dead, during the first week of the epidemic, were buried in their blankets in trenches dug for their reception.