GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. 21 Of 187 recorded cases of gunshot fracture of the vertebrae, all but 7 proved fatal. Six of these were fractures of the transverse or spinous apophyses. The seventh case is that of a soldier wounded at Chickamauga, September 20th, 1863, by a musket-ball, which fractured the spinous process of the fourth lumbar vertebra, and penetrated to the vertebral canal. The ball and fragments of bone were extracted at a Nashville hospital. The patient was transferred to Louisville, thence to Jefferson Barracks, Mis- souri, thence to Madison, Indiana, and finally, on July 26th, 1864, to Quincy, Illinois. The last report states that he was likely to recover. Gunshot lesions of the vertebrae and spinal cord are illustrated at the Army Medical Museum by 66 specimens. An engraving of one of these is subjoined. Private Frederick L , Co. H, 8tli New York Vols., aged twenty-six years, was wounded at Cold Harbor June 3d, 1864, and admitted into Carver Hospital, at Washington, D. C, June 11th, 1864. A conoidal musket-ball had entered the right side of his back and penetrated the vertebral canal, shattering the transverse and articular processes of the eighth and ninth dorsal vertebrse. The patient stated that, immediately upon the reception of his injury, he lost all sensation and power of mo- tion below the wound. On admission, he was in a very feeble state; his pulse was slow, his respiration labored, his skin cool, clammy, and cyanosed, his excretions in- voluntary. In this wretched condition he lingered till the 27th of June, when symp- toms of extreme gastric irritability supervened, and every form of nourishment was promptly rejected by the stomach. He died July 2d, 1864. At the autopsy, the spinal cord appeared to have been completely severed at the seat of injury, and was disorganized above and below. Five thousand one hundred and ninety-five gunshot flesh wounds of the back have been recorded, of which a large proportion are injuries from shell. Troops being often ordered to lie down under a shell fire, this region becomes particularly exposed. G.26.—Eighth, ninth, anil „cnth dor- sal vertebrfe, with a conoidal ball in tlie vertebral canal. Spec. 2939, A. M. M. GrNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. Of 7062 gunshot wounds of the chest that have been examined and transcribed from the reports belonging to the period prior to July, 1864, there were 2303 that either penetrated the thoracic cavity or were accompanied by lesions of the thoracic viscera. The results have been ascertained in 1272 of these, and were fatal in 930, or 73 per cent. The 4759 flesh wounds presented a very small ratio of mortality. It was observed, however, that they were commonly long in healing, in consequence, no doubt, of the mobility of the thoracic parietes. The cases of wounds of the lung by the sharp edges of the fractured ribs, or of contusion of the lung by non-penetrating gunshot inj uries, have been recorded with the penetrating wounds. In the treatment of penetrating wounds of the chest, venesection appears to have been abandoned altogether. Haemorrhage was treated by the application of cold, per- fect rest, and the administration of opium. These measures seem to have proved adequate generally, and no instances are reported of the performance of paracentesis or of the enlargement of wounds for the evacuation of effused blood. Haemorrhage from the vessels of the costal parietes has been exceedingly rare, and, in the few instances recorded, was a secondary accident. Hence the management of bleeding from wounded intercostal arteries has presented theoretical rather than practical difficulties.