FORT JEFFERSON, FLORIDA. 153 those who attended him were attacked with the fever until after it had liroken out in Company "K," on the opposite side of tlie fort, sixteen days after he left the post. I have lieard of no otlier suspicious cases before tlie outbreak of the epidemic. In the report to which you refer it should have been stated that Company " K," in which the disease l)roke out, contained a very large proportion of unacclimated men, probably more than two-thirds of the company being composed of recruits who arrived in May and June preceding. This fact is probably more significant than the location of the quarters of the company. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, A. H. SMITH, Assistant Surgeon, and Brevet Major, U. S. A, Brevet Lieutenant Colonel J. J. Woodward, Assistant Surr/eon, U. S. A. Beport of a Board of Officers convened at Fort Jefferson, Florida, in pursuance of the folloivin(j order: Specul Order, ) ^ ^ ^ ^ ' f ■ Headquarters, Fort Jefferson, Florida, No. 233. S December 14, 1867. A board of officers will meet on the ISth of December, or as soon thereafter as may be practicable, to collect and report facts in relation to the epidemic of the year 18S7, and to propose the proper means of avoiding any injury to the service by the appearance of disease in the Tortugas islands in future. The board will not be limited in its field of examination or recom- mendation, and will take evidence whenever it may be necessary. Detail for the Board : Brevet Major A. H. Sniitli, Captain and Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. ; First Lieutenant Paul Roemer, 5th U. S. Artillery; Acting Assistant Surgeon Edward Thomas, U. S. A. By order of Major Geo. P. Andrews : PAUL ROEMER, First Lieutenant 5th U. S. Artillery, Post Adjutant. * The board met December 16th, 1867, in pursuance of the above order, all the members being present, and proceeded to collate evidence from persons present during the epidemic—from the records of the post and of the hospital, and by personal inspection of the fort and its vicinity—and, as the result of these invesfigations, respectfully report as follows : The subject of these investigations consists of an epidemic of yellow fever which occurred at Fort Jefferson, Dry Tortugas, Florida, beginning on the 19th of August and ending on the 14th of NovemI»er, 1867, furnishing 270 cases, and occasioning 38 deaths.* Fort Jefferson is in latitude 24° 38' N., and longitude 82° 53' W. It is constructed upon a coral island, 3i feet above the level of the sea. The island contains about seven acres, nearly the whole being occupied by the fort. At the depth of two feet brackish water is obtained. The only sources of procuring fresh water are the rainfall, whicli averages 39.38 inches annually, and two condensers for evaporating sea water. The present available surface of roofing v.'ould yield an average of 2,500,000 gallons annually. If the buildings now in process of construction were properly roofed the yield would be about an average of 3,500,000 gallons annually. There are ample cisterns. The condensers are capable of yielding about 6,000 gallons per day. The facilities for supplying fresh meat to the troops are exceedingly defective. The cattle for beef are usually brought from the vicinity of Tampa, Florida, and are very inferior when purchased. They are then subjected to a passage of about seven days in the hold of a schooner. On arriving, they are placed upon a small barren island in the vicinity of the fort and fed- upon dry forage, to which they are wholly unaccustomed. By the time they are slaughtered, it is rarely that a full-grown bullock will dress three hundred pounds. The supply of meat, wretched as it is, is often deficient; when at the best, but three rations per man can be afforded in ten days; but it frequently happens that no fresh meat can be had for days at a time, on account of deficient transportation and the difficulty of getting estimates approved in time to take advant§5;e of the sailing of the chartered schooners. This is owing to the isolated position of the post and the unfrequent and uncertain communication with the mainland. The greater portion of the troops are quartered in casemates, which are very leaky and constantly damp. In thai portion of the fort where the fever first appeared the walls are slimy and covered with a green mould. Notwithstanding these dis- advantages, the general health of the post in past years has been remarkably good. From January 15th, 1866, to August 15th, 1867, the mean ratio of sick per 1,000 mean strength was 66.30; among the prisoners during the same period the ratio was 70.10. The principal diseases have been intermittent and remittent fevers and diarrhoea. A considerable number of cases of dengue or break-bone fever have occurred during the summers. Although but little actual sickness occurs as a rule, yet the climate produces a remarkable deterioration of bodily strength. Tlie superiTitendent of the laborers in the engineer department states that it is customary, in making up labor estimates, to allow two men for the same amount of work as is perform.ed by one man at the north, and that in practice these estimates always fall sliort, three men not accomplishing more work than one man is accustomed to perform in the northern States. A remarkable example of this eflfect of the climate occurred liere a few days ago. A piano which -,vas handled with ease by three men in New York required fourteen to carry it here, and then they were obliged to put it down every few rods and rest. These being the general facts bearing upon the health of the garrison, the special circumstances which may have influenced the late epidemic are the following: * This includes prisoners and others a{ the post, as well as troops, and also .58 relapses. 20