45 FORT HARKEK, KANSAS. road ; one was tlie servant of Mr. Brown, tlie other a soldier who had been admitted to hos])ital on the 24th. Marched about 15 miles; made camp on river bank ai 1.30 p. m. Two cases of cholera and five of cholerine occurred during the day, and before midnight two cases of those attacked on the 25th died. July 28th, left camp at 5..50 a. m.; marched about 15 miles, and camped on river bank at 1.30 p. m. One case of cliolera occurred, and proved fiital witliin twelve hours; five cases of cholerine also occurred. July 29th, left camp at 4.50 a. m.; marched about 18 miles, and went into camp near the river at 12.30 p. m. No new cases of cholera occurred among the enlisted men, but a servant of Mr. Brown was attacked by the disease while on the march. July 30th, left camp at 4.30 a. m.; marched about 13 miles, and made camp at 12 m., two and a half miles west of Fort Dodge. On approaching this post the column left the stage road, which passes through the works, and moved to the right, so that there should be no communication between the commands. No more cases occurred. The servant of Mr. Brown who was taken sick on the 29th died this day. From' this date no cases of cholera occurred in the command; its subsidence was followed by the development of scurvy, and the diarrhoea, which still continued, lost its choleraic character. The general health of the command was much improved, and the daily march averaged 20 miles. On Saturday, August 10th, soon after the arrival of the command at Fort Lyon, a sporadic case of cholera occurred in the person of Mrs. Sweet, the wife of an officer of Company "A." The attack was severe, but yielded readily to treatment, and on the 12th she was fully convalescent. It is a matter of regret on my part that I am unable to forward a detailed report of individual cases. This is now impossible for me to do, from the fact that my case book was lost or disappeared after crossing the Arkansas. I am, therefore, oompelled to form this report from such data as my private journal, the sick report, and prescription book afford. As before stated, a very marked difference in type was apparent between these cases and those of cholera which came under my observation during the preceding season. This difference existed in the mitigation of all, or the absence of some, of the characteristic symptoms. In the cholerine cases, the attack commenced with profuse bilious discharges from both stomach and bowels, followed by cramps, generally confined to the abdomen, and but rarely extending to the muscles of the extremeties; a cold sui'face and depressed respiration. At this point of the disease the majority of cases yielded to treatment, which consisted in the ■ exhibition of blue mass in full doses, and in emptying the contents of the bowels with castor oil; the exhibition of chloroform, the preparations of mercury, camphor, opium, and quinine. *#»*«# In a few of these cases, the discharges could not be controlled, and, after the lapse of a few hours, lost the bilious tinge, became vv'hjtish, containing shreds of epithelium, and ultimately became pure rice-water, with the development of other cholera symptoms. In the cases of epidemic cholera which occurred, the prodromic diarrhoea was invariably feculent and bilious in its earlier stages, and continued from ten to twelve hours prior to the occurrence of severer symptoms. In these cases, with the exception of those of which special mention will be made hereafter, the severity of the symptoms were mitigated, and yielded readily to treatment, and the majority of the deaths occurred when the cholera symptoms had been relieved, but the depression of the vital powers was so great that no lasting reaction could be induced. In all pure rice-water discharges were observed, with clonic spasms of the muscles of the abdomen and extremities, cold, clammy surface, depression of respiration and circulation, partial suppression of the secretions, and semi-collapse. In the cases that recovered, the profuse perspiration of the disease was wanting; the thirst, although present, was not intense; but one case, that of Colonel Brown, presented the peculiar huskiness of the voice; and in but one, that of Mrs. Sweet, did the spasmodic irritation extend to the heart. No case in which the symi5toms were fully developed, or in which the collapse became complete, recovered. These cases, six in number, occurred between the 24t^ and 29th of July. In them the disease was virulently developed, defied all treatment, and terminated fatally within a few hours of its inception. In the treatment of the disease, no special line could be adopted; therefore, no statistics of value could be obtained. Each case was treated, as its exingencies demanded, with the means at hand. The morale of the troops depended so greatly upon the daily march of the command, that the wants of the sick were, in a measure, disregarded in favor of the necessities of the well. At the onset of the disease, purgatives (castor oil or seidlitz powders) were employed in some case with marked results. The internal administration of chloroform, strong frictions with rubefacients, and sinajjisms, were employed for the relief of the muscular spasms. Chloroform, creasote, sulphuric and nitric acids, muriated tincture of iron, and soda powders were employed for the relief of vomiting. Cold water was allowed ad libitum. Calomel and quinine, in both large and small doses, were exhibited without success. The most favorable results were obtained from a modification of the saline treatment of Stevens, as follows: bicarbonate of soda, 20 grains, common salt and chlorate of potassa, of each ^ a drachm; administered dissolved in water, at one dose, and rejieated every half hour, in conjunction witli hot saline injections. In the case of Colonel Brown, the most decided advantages from saline enemeta, at 100° Fahrenheit, repeated every 30 minutes, were obtained by Dr. De Leon. In a few cases, it was thought that good resulted from small enemeta of hot beef tea and brandy, administered after each dejection. No advantage was derived from the employment of stimulants until reaction occurred, when vinous or alcoholic stimulants, combined with food, and both carefully administered, were of advantage. During convalescence, which was tedious in most cases, the occasional emphn-ment of mercurials and the active exhibition of quinine, or some other preparation of cinchona, was demanded. During the march the sanitary precautions which had been adopted at Harker were, as far as practicable, carried out. The hospital camji was pitched to the leeward, and at a distance from4he command; the excreta were disinfected with carbolic acid and buried; the clothing of patients who died or became convalescent was burned; the ambulances and wagons used in the transportation of the sick were frequently cleaned and carefully disinfected. While on the daily i larch, the excreta of patients were disinfected before being thrown away; every efl'ort was made to avoid disseminating the disease. To hospital attendants and drivers of ambulances and hospital wagons, regular issues of wliiskey were made; these men, although constantly on duty, remained free from the disease. The disease was confined almost entirely to the family of Colonel Brown and the eidisted men of the command. But one case occurred among the teamsters. No officer was attacked, although all suffered more or less during the prevalence of the disease