144 EXTRACTS FEOM OFFICIAL REPORTS. enjoyed entire iinmunitj. The treatment that appeared most successful consisted in the administration of the mildest remedies and careful watching." Of the number of cases above reported, but about ten were colored, although the population is largely composed of freed- men. The course of the epidemic could be readily traced from point to point along the indirect mail route between this place and New Orleans, but it did not become general. A number of fatal cases occurred during the last of November and the first of December, on the return of those persons who had moved away from town to escape fever, notwithstanding the epidemic seemed long before to have almost entirely disappeared. From this circumstance the troops were kept away from town until December 10th, before which time we had several severe frosts. Many facts of interest and correct observations that could have been made at the time have necessarily been lost by not being able to note them as they occurred; but this fact seems clear, that yellow fever was brought here in some way by communication with New Orleans, where it was epidemic at the time, and, after being introduced, became epidemic here; and that persons only a few miles distant and not in communication with the infected locality were free from the disease. The cases reported and the mortality do not exceed, but perhaps fall short of, the actual number. SHREVEPOKT, LOUISIAIVA. Shreveport, Louisiana, March 21, 1868. Sill: I have the honor to make the following report in reference to the late epidemic of yellow fever. The same made its apjiearance in this city on or about the 24tli day of August, 1867. There were about 1,300 cases, and about 124 deaths ; the last case occurred about the last of December, 1867. There were no cases in this camp among the troops, on account of the healthy location of the same, the cleanliness of the camp and men, good water and diet; also, the communication between the camp .md the city was discontinued, and the men had no access -^hatever to the town during the epidemic. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, CHARLES W. KOECHLINa, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Brigadier General T. A. McParlin, Medical Director Fifth Militarg District, New Orleans, Louisiana. SHIP ISJLAND, MISSISSIPPI. Extract from Monthly Ixeport of Sick and Wounded, Ship Island, Mississippi. .B. Gesner, Acting Assistant Surgeon, October, 18G7. Yellow fever made its appearance on the island on or about the 14th of September, being introduced from New Orleans, Louisiana, by a prisoner, and the guard accompanying him. The prisoner died ; the guard has since recovered. The disease has not spread. PASS CIIRISTIA]\ AISD WIIVCIIESX ER, ItllSSISSIPPI. Extract from Monthly Ileport of Sick and Wounded of Company " E," 2\th. U. S. Infantry, Winchester, Mississippi. E. C. De Forrest, Acting Assistant Surgeon, Octoher, 1867. > October 11th, 1867, Comj.anyK," 24th U. S. Infantry, was ordered from Pass Christian, Mississippi, to Winchester, Mississippi, to prevent the further spread of yellow fever, which had already made its appearance among the troops. The first case was Lieutenant Matile, 24th IJ. S. Infantry ; the second. Captain C. C. Hyatt, of the same regiment, who died October .'Sth. 1867, five days after he had taken the fever. Two enlisted men were also down with the disease at that time. The above cases were left in care of Dr. C. B. New, at Pass Christian, Mississippi, with sufficient medical and hospital supplies, and a detail of five men as nurses ; of the nurses, four took the fever, one of whom died. The troops moved from Pass Christian to this place on the 11th instant were seemingly in good health, and continued so up to the morning of the 13th, when Private Lynch was taken with the fever, and in seventy-two hours thereafter died. The next case. Corporal Graves, who had been a volunteer attendant on Captain Hyatt during hi.s illness, took the fever on the inoi-ning of the 14th, and at the present time is convalescing. The third case. Private Nisson, took the? fever on the 1.5th, and died after eighty-two hours' illness. The fourth case. Lieutenant V. W. Paul, 24th U. S. Infantry, took the fever on the morning oftlie 23d. ten days after our arrival at this post ; he is slowly convalescing with a fair prospect of recovery.