EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL EEPORTS. 102 Taking into consideration all the circumstances detailed above, and those connected with the first cases of yellow fover in Brovvsville, as far as they can be known, the results of all investigations made by well-informed medical men in this vicinity, and by raj-self, do not discover any facts, or even well-grounded siisjjicions, to indicate that the disease was imported to Browns- ville from any infected localit}'. During the month of August there was some sickness at the ranches along the river above and below Brownsville, and it seemed to increase somewhat in the latter part of September, upon the subsidence of the waters after the August and September rains. During this period the appearance of yellow fever was several times rumored, as was to be expected from the appre- hension that prevailed among the people of this vicinity; but in ail cases, upon investigation, the sickness was found to be of a malarial character and with little or no mortality. In the city of Brownsville, however, and also in Matamoras, Mexico, a remarkable state of health existed during the months of Jidy, August, and September. In Matamoras, with a population estimated at 12,000, it is reported that there were only five interments in the city cemetery in the month of August, and the mortality in September was also very small. On the 15th of September, the health officer of Brownsville reported that, from the 1st of July to that date, there had been only 23 deaths in a population of 5,000. Of these deaths, 13 were children, and in none of the cases was the disease of a suspicious cliaracter. There was an equally small rate of mortality from September 15th to October 7th, and none from yellow fever; and at the latter date it was officially reported and generally believed that there had been no cases of yellow fever in Brownsville. On the 7th of October the lower valley of the Rio Grande was visited by a terrible and destructive hurricane. The storm came from the Gulf of Mexico and moved in a direction from about southeast to the northwest. Its path was about 80 miles in width ; its vortex passed over the cities of Brownsville and Matamoras, and it was about 20 hours in passing those places. On the morning of the 7th the wind began blowing from the northeast, and gradually increased in violence until midnight. There was then a calm for nearly an hour, when tlie wind began blowing from the southwest with appalling fury, and continued until morning, when it gradually ceased. The cities of Brownsville and Matamoras appeared almost entirely destroyed, and in fact there were very few houses left standing without being seriously damaged. There was no little loss of life, and many persons received severe injuries. All were more or less exposed, and in many cases the exposures of the night induced serious illness. The rapid increase of sick- ness after the night of October 7th was attributed to the effects of the exposure during the storm, but on the 12th of the month it was announced that a German had died in Brownsville of yellow fever, and with the black vomit, and that there were several persons sick with the disease in different parts of the city. The number of cases increased, and in a few days the fever became decidedly prevalent. From the 9th to the 18th of October there were 20 deaths from yellow fever, and by the 20th the deaths were from 3 to 6 daily for several days. The mortality continued at about the same rate and became somewhat increased in the latter part of November. About the 1st of December there were in one day seventeen interments of persons who had died of the fever. It is estimated that at the end of 60 days after the appearance of the fever, or on the 9th of December, there had been at least 240 deaths; and on the 9th of January there had been at least 300 deaths. On the latter date frost appeared, and the dis- ease was suddenly checked, there being five interments on the 9th, four on the 10th, and none for many days after the 10th of January. Of those who had yellow fever, many were Germans,.with whom it was especially fatal; and a large proportion of the sick were unacclimated persons. The disease prevailed quite extensively among the Mexicans, who compose a large part of the popu- lation of the city of Brownsville, and who suffered much from exposure, insufficient shelter, and want of the necessaries of life, consequent upon their losses in the storm of the 7th of October. A marked peculiarity of the epidemic was the exemption of females from the diseasS. Of 67 recorded deaths, that occurred in the practice of one physician, before the 2()th December, 5 were females, and 10 were children ; and among females there was an equally small proportion of sickness. During the last 30 days of the epidemic, before the 9th of January, a very large proportion of the sickness and the deaths was among children. The epidemic is considered as having been mild in its character, and with all persons in a good physical and hygienic con- dition the rate of mortality was very small. Persons addicted to the use of alcoholic stimulants were, other things being equal, apparently most liable to the disease, and were earliest attacked, and it was most fatal to them. In all fatal cases there was a decided tendency to gastric irritability, and in an unusually large number of these cases there was black vomit. The plan of treatment quite generally followed during the epidemic was, to give the patient, upon the onset of the disease, a mercurial cathartic, to be followed in a few hours by a full dose of castor oil. Immediately upon being attacked the patient was well covered in bed after having a hot mustard foot-bath. Cooling applications were made to the head, when agreeable to the patient, and indicated by a tendency to cerebral congestion, and orange leaf tea was administered freely during tlie con- tinuance of the fever. Sponging the body under the bed clothes was employed to allay the heat and dryness of the skin. Little nourishment was allowed, except rice water or barley water at the approach of the second stage, and afterwards fresh milk, chicken broth, or beef tea, as convalescence advanced. Nourishing enemata were administered in cases of gastric irritability. Small pieces of ice, lime water, with or without milk, and sometimes ereasote, &c., were employed to allay irritability of the stomach, together with sinapisms externally. In pursuance of this plan of eliminating the disease by the perspiration, urine, &c., nitrate of potash was also given f<n- its action upon the kidneys, and to meet the perplexing symptom of suppression of the urine. Quinine was not given unless there were marked periodic exacerbations of the fever. Opiates in any form were avoided as dangerous, and no stimulants were allowed until convalescence was well advanced. The most absolute rest was enjoined during the progress of the fever, and little physical exertion was permitted until recovery was well assured. This plan of treatment was varied somewhat in many cases to conform to the theory of elimination of the disease by the lungs, and, to my mind, the i-esults appeared to be quite as satisfactory as by the other method of treatment. Mercurial cai thartics were not given, unless especially indicated by constipa-