48 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. Vols., who was wounded at White Oak Swamp, and jimputated, at Philadelphia, by Acting Assistant Surgeon T. G. Morton. The objection to amputations at the knee-joint, that the resulting stump is ill adapted to the use of an artificial limb, is set at rest by the results obtained by Hudson and other manufacturers, who distinctly declare that the stumps from the operation at the knee-joint give a base of support far better than any possibly to be gained in thigh-stumps. It is well known that M. Legouest emphatically pronounces the disarticulation at the knee "une mauvaise operation, plus grave que 1'amputation de la cuisse dans la continuite, et qui doit etre rejetee de la pratique," basing this assertion on the Crimean returns; but it is probable that the more extended experience of the late war will lead surgeons to share the convictions of Macleod, Baudens, and Malgaigne, that this oper- ation is altogether preferable to the amputation at the lower third of the thigh. Amputations of the Thigh.—In 1597 terminated cases, 568 recovered and 1029 died, or 64'43 per cent., which is within a fraction of the mortality after amputations of the thigh in the English army in the Crimea during the latter part of the campaign. In the French army in the Crimea, the whole number of amputations of the thigh for gunshot injuries was 1666, of which 1531, or 91'89 per cent., terminated fatally. Of these 1597 amputations, the date of operation is ascertained with precision in 1061. Of these, 423 were primary and 638 were intermediate or secondary. The ratio of mortality was 54*13 in the former, and 74*76 in the latter. In the 568 recoveries after amputation of the thigh above mentioned, the patients have been supplied with artificial limbs in 254 cases, and reports are on file of 439 other cases of recovery after this operation in which artificial limbs have been provided. These cases are not entered on the registers, because the returns exhibiting the deaths for the corresponding periods have not yet been reached. Amputations at the Hip-Joint.—At the commencement of the war, the uniform fatality of amputation at the hip-joint in the Crimean war was impressed upon the minds of surgeons, and many believed that the operation should be discarded alto- gether. Still, it has been occasionally performed, and several lives have unquestion- ably been saved by it. A noted case is that of Kelly, whose appearance, after recovery, is represented in the plate opposite. The following is an abstract of the case : Private James E. Kelly, Co. B, 56th Pennsylvania Vols., aged twenty-eight years, was wounded at about 9 o'clock of the morning of April 29th, 1863, in a skirmish of the First Division, First Corps, on the Rappahannock, nearly opposite the " Pratt House," below Fredericksburg. A conoidal muskct-ball, fired from a distance of about three hundred yards, shattered his left femur. A consultation of the senior surgeons of brigades decided that exarticula- tion of the femur was expedient, and the operation was performed, at four in the afternoon, at the " Fitzhugh House," by Surgeon Edward Shippen, U. S. Vols., Surgeon-in-Chief of the First Division. The single flap method was adopted, and the amputation was accomplished with slight loss of blood. The patient was at first placed in a hospital tent, and was transferred, May 22d, to the Corps Hospital, progressing favorably. By May 28th, all the liga- tures had been removed. On June 15th, 1863, the patient was captured by the enemy, and was removed to the Libby Prison, in Richmond. Up to this date there had been no bad symptoms. On July 14th, Kelly was exchanged, and was sent to the Annapolis U. S. A. General Hospital. On his admission, he was much exhausted by profuse diar- rhoea. The internal portion of the wound had united, but the external portion was gangrenous. Applications of bromine were made to the sloughing surface without amelioration. A chlorinated soda lotion was substituted, and in the latter part of July, there was a healthy granulating surH^ce. On December 23d, 1863, the wound had entirely healed, and Kelly visited Washington and obtained an honorable discharge from service, and a pension. Kelly then went to his home, near Black Lick P. 0., Indiana County, Pennsylvania. A letter dated January 12th, 1865, was received from him at this office, and represented him as in excellent health and spirits at that time. A year after the operation, a photograph of the stump was obtained. The accompanying plate is copied from it.