52 EXTEACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. troops, and every symptom occurring among them of sickness resembling cholera was closely scanned. Among the citizens of Little Rock similar uneasiness prevailed and similar steps were taken. Attempts were made to police the city propeily, and a board of health was organized to meet any coming emergency. From time to time, during the month of August, steamboats arrived both at Little Rock, on the Arkansas, and Duvall's Bluff, on White river, on wliich rumor said that cases of cholera either existed or had occurred. Examination, made by other physicians here and at Duvall's Bluff as well as by myself, failed to confirm the report of the present existence of cholera on board these boats, although I was satisfied in several instances, from the histories related to me, that fatal cases of cholera had occurred during their trips from Memphis to Little Rock. Upon the last day of August it was reported to me that great sickness existed at Duvall's Bluff, both among soldiers and citizens, believed by the inhabitants to be cholera. September 1, in obedience to orders from General Ord, I proceeded to Duvall's Bluff to investigate the nature and cause of this sickness. I was unable to find any cases of cholera. A number of cases were related as having occurred, which might have been cases of chojera. In these, after imprudences in eating, followed immediately by bathing in the river, the following symptoms occurred : pain in abdomen, with cramps more or less general; vomiting, purging, and death in a state more or less resembling collapse. No such cases were presented during my visit, and on my return to Little Rock I made the following report: "Medical Director's Office, Department of Arkansas, Little Rock, Arkansas, September 3, 1866. " General : I have the honor to report that, in obedience to your orders, I have inspected the post of Duvall's Bluff, and fouEd as follows: " Of seventy soldiers on duty there, twenty-five were sick on the 1st instant, or about 35 per cent. Their sickness is mainly diarrhoea, dysentery, and malarious fevers, which arc the prevailing diseases of this latitude ; no cholera. Similar diseases, and to a corresponding degree, affect the citizens at Duvall's Bluff. The troops were in crowded quarters. Their food was well cooked, their habits cleanly, and their quarters in good police. They used river water. Their medical supplies are of good quality and sufificieut. The medical officer in attendance is inexperienced, but the prescriptions for the sick entered by him in his prescription book were generally well judged and appropriate. No better man is available to supply his place at present. I urged the immediate change of quarters previously directed by you, directed the use of well instead of river water, and gave the ordinary instructions in regard to the sanitary habits of the men. Should the health of the troops not show signs of improvement within the next two days I recommend that they be removed from Duvall's Bluff. I am of the opinion, however, that the change to better quarters and proper care will render a change of post unnecessary. " I omitted to state that there have been no deaths among the soldiers at Duvall's Bluff during the past nine days. During the preceding nine days there were five deaths. " Very respectfully, your obedient servant, "JOSEPH R. SMITH, "Surgeon U. S. A., Medical Director Department of Arkansas. "Major General E. O. C. Ord, "Commanding Departmtnt of the Arkansas." No subsequent cases resembling or considered as cholera appeared at Duvall's Bluff, and the health of the troops improved so as to render a change unnecessary. During the cholera epidemic at Little Rock the colored troops at the post consisted of a detachment ot the fifty-fourth United Slates infantry, numbering three hundred and fifty men These troops were quartered on the north bank of the Arkansas river, on a sandy ridge running parallel with the river, about five hundred yards distant. The ground was well drained with lower ground in front and rear. The barracks consisted of log huts built in company streets. Originally built for the whole regiment, the small detachment now occupying them had more than abundant room. The grounds and quarters were in excel- lent police, and had been so during the whole of the summer, so much so as to have met the frequent encomiums of the general commanding and inspecting officers. A few hundred yards distant from the quarters of this regiment, directly on the river bank, was the small, dirty, and ill- built town of Huntersville, consisting of a few groceries, drinking shops, and huts occupied by forty or fifty whites and several hundred negroes. In this town cases of cholera had been rumored previously to exist, but none such are known authentically to have occurred. Here was the terminus of the railroad from Duvall's Bluff, on White river, the main avenue of travel between Little Rock and points east and north, and here also steamboats frequently landed. The first case of cholera among these troops appeared September 15. The white troops at Little Rock consisted of four companies of the third battalion nineteenth infantry, numbering 339 men, and battery G fifth artillery, numbering 90 ; in all, 429 men. These troops occupied barracks erected in the grounds formerly occupied as the Little Rock arsenal. These grounds form a parallelogram, whose sides together make one mile. Beautifully shaded with trees of every variety native to this latitude, grassy, of the same elevation as the grounds on the north, east, and west, and with lower lands to the south,.this arsenal is the choicest spot in the vicinity of Little Rock, from which a street only separates it. The barracks occupied "by the troops consisted of ridge-ventilated pavilions, built for and formerly occupied as wards of the general hospital, from whose site they had been removed in pieces and erected on the arsenal grounds. One of these pavilions was devoted to each company. The grounds and buildings, occupied by troops but a few weeks, were well policed and in good order. The water supply was obtained from wells dug on the grounds, where water was readily reached at a depth varying from sixteen to twenty feet. The officers' quarters were brick buildings, formerly used for arsenal purposes. A little more than a mile to the southward the arsenal and the town of Little Rock are surrounded by a bayou, filled in seasons of high water by the back-water from the river, but never dry, and without current generally. During the summer this bayou had experienced overflow from the high water previously described.