49 " AMPUTATIONS. A successful primary case, operated upon at Memphis, by Dr. Fenner, is reported by a student of Dr. F. H. Hamilton, late Medical Inspector U. S. A., who saw the sub- ject of it after his complete recovery. A successful secondary case, reported by Assistant Surgeon C. Wagner, U. S. A., was a reamputation of a diseased stump. Necrosis of the femur was induced by osteo- myelitis, and the disarticulation was effected at a period when the traumatic phe- nomena had entirely disappeared. The particulars of this case are subjoined : Private Eben. E. Smith, Co. A, lltli Maine Vols., aged nineteen years, was wounded at the engagement at Deep Bottom, near Drury's Bluff, Virginia, on August 16th, 1864, by a musket-ball, which fractured the head of the right tibia. He was admitted at the U. S. General Hospital, at Beverly, New Jer- sey, on August 22d, 1864. On admis- sion, the injured knee-joint was swollen and painful, and there was irritative fever of a moderate grade. On Sep- tember 12 th, secondary haemorrhage oc- curred, and the thigh was amputated by circular incisions at the lower third, by Acting Assistant Surgeon T. M. Mor- ton, U. S. A., the patient being under chloroform. The case progressed favor- ably until October 17th, when secondary haemorrhage recurred, and was arrested by ligating the femoral artery in Scarpa's triangle. The stump remained swollen and painful, and furnished a profuse foetid suppuration. Osteo- myelitis supervened ; the end of the femur protruded, and was removed by the chain-saw. Necrosis finally extended as high as the trochanters, and numerous abscesses formed. On January 19th, 1865, amputation at the hip-joint was performed, under chloroform, by Acting Assistant Surgeon J. H. Packard, U. S. A., the antero-posterior flap operation being adopted. On January 27tli, there was haemorrhage from the stump, and.the external iliac artery was tied. The ligature separated on February 17th, and two days afterwards there was profuse bleeding from the divided artery, which was controlled by pressure for fourteen days. After this the patient rapidly improved. In April he was reported well, and Hospital Steward Baumgras, one of the artists of the Army Medical Museum, was sent to Beverly, and made the drawing from which the engraving was taken. It is numbered 67 in the Surgical Series of Drawings of the Surgeon General's Office. On April 12th, 1865, Smith was transferred to V^^hite Hall Hospital, near Bristol, Pennsylvania. Assistant Surgeon W. H. Forwood, TJ. S. A., reports that, on May 27th, 1865, he was discharged from service quite well and strong, the wounds being entirely healed. The necrosed lower portion of the femur is Specimen 3709; the upper portion is Specimen 81, A. M. M. Another successful secondary disarticulation of the femur is reported, which was also a case of reamputation, necessitated by disease of the femur. The first amputa- tion was performed at the lower third of the thigh on account of a bayonet wound of the knee-joint. The case is consequently excluded from the tabular statement of am- putations for gunshot injury. The patient is represented in Photograph 113, A. M. M. Private Lewis Francis, Co. I, 14th New York Vols., aged forty-three years, was admitted to Ladies' Home U. S. A. General Hospital, New York City, on October 28th, 1863. He had been wounded by a bayonet in the right knee, at the battle of Bull Run, July 21st, 1861, and was taken prisoner, and suffered amputation of the thigh in Richmond, Virginia, May 28th, 1862. The femur becoming diseased subsequently, its protruding extremity had been sawn off. What remained of the femur was necrosed, when the patient arrived in New York, and, on May 21st, 1864, the flaps were laid open, and the necrosed femur was removed by Surgeon Alexander B. Mott, U. S. Vols. No untoward symptoms followed, and the patient recovered, and was discharged from the service, August 12th, 1864. A memorandum is subjoined of all amputations at the hip-joint for gunshot injury that have been reported. Nine were primary, and twelve were secondary operations. This is followed by a table exhibiting the results of this operation in previous wars. Fia. 61.—Appearance of etump three months after secondary amputation at hip joint.