53 NEAR FORT WALLACE, KANSAS. up when required ; prohibiting the drinking of water (as the men were accustomed to do in hxrge (luantities) without being boiled ; promptness in procuring tents; and his vigilance in watching and correcting any lack of personal cleanliness in the men of the command, have produced favorable results. To Dr. Coates, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., is due great praise ; his excel- lent counsel and constant assistance in endeavoring to ward off and prevent the spreading of the disease, show his interest in humanity and the good of the service. I de.sire to make mention of the kindness of Dr. Tui-ner, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., on duty at Fort Wallace, Kansas, in letting me have beds, bedding, &c., when requested, i'inally, I beg to mention the names of Hospital Steward P. J. Clampett, U. S. A., and Acting Hospital Steward Alexander Macgregor, who have both performed their duties in a praiseworthy manner. I have the honor to be, General, very respectfully, your obedient servant, HENRY LIPPINCOTT, Assistant Sanjcon, JJ. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. HeADQUARTEKS 7TII U. S. C'AA^VI,ltY, IN THE FlELD, Near Fort Wallace, Kansas, July 31, 1867. General: I have the honor to report that cholera is again on the increase. At 4 o'clock a. m. on the 29th instant, Private Rein was taken with the disease, since which time we have had five more cases and three deaths. I beg to assure you that we are doing everything in our power to arrest the progress of the disease. I have the honor to be, very respectfully, HENRY LIPPINCOTT, Assistant Surr/eon, U. S. A. Brevet Major General .7. K. Barnes, Surr/eon General. Extract from MontTdy Heport of Sick arid Wounded of Companies "A," " D," " E," " H," " K," and " M," 7th U. S. Cavalry, Camp near Fort Wallace, Kansas, part of July, 1867. Henry Lippincott, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Cholera patients are treated in isolated tents. The disease first appeared at this camp at 11 a. m., July 22d, 1867. Besides the fourteen cases of the disease on the face of this report, there wore two (piartennaster's employes and one Indian scout taken with it, and all three died. Camp of the 7th U. S. Caa^alry, in the Field, Kear Fort Wallace, August 12, 1867. General : I have the honor to inform you that the progress of epidemic cholera has again been arrested in this camp. Two persons only have been attacked with the disease since my lasf report, (July 31, 1867,) and they were taken with it August 2d and 3d, respectively. One of the last cases died August 4th. I take much pleasure in informing you that the sanitary condition of the camp is, considering the epidemic, fast approaching that point which is so much desired. I have the honor to be, General, very respectfully, your obedient servant, HENRY LIPPINCOTT, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General, U. S. A. Camp of the 7Tn U. S. Cavalry, in the Field, Near Fort Wallace, August 31, 1867. General : I have the honor to inform you that epidemic cholera has been entirely arrested in this camp. The last case occurred August 17th, since which time we have been entirely free from the disease. I take much pleasure in stating that the health of the command is excellent; and as the weather is becoming daily cooler, I am almost sure we will have no more new cases of the disease. I have the honor to be, Geperal, very respectfully, your obedient servant, HENRY LIPPINCOTT, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General.