ON SPECIAL WOUNDS AND INJURIES. 38 introduced through it for three inches. There was a large deposit of new bone. The patella was firmly anchylosed to the femur. The facts of the case were forwarded by Assistant Surgeon Wm. F. Norris, U. S. A. Two more illustrations of gunshot injuries of the knee-joint are here introduced: The patient who furnished the first (Private B. M , Co. A, 28th Massachusetts Vols.) was brought to Washington on December 26th, 1862, his left knee having been shattered by a shell at the battle of Fredericksburg, on December 14th. He died on December 29th. Evidently primary amputation could alone have saved this man, and this was probably impracticable on that disastrous day. (See Figure 50 on the preceding page.) In the next case of shell wound involving the knee-joint (Private C. H. M , Co. P, 1st Maine Heavy Artillery), primary amputation was performed on October 2d, by Surgeon Jamieson, 86th New York Vols. The patient died of exhaustive suppuration on October 27th, 1864. (Figure 51.) Of gunshot injuries of the tibia and fibula, two examples are given. If a'fragmenrorthe One of fracture by a musket-ball, the other of comminution by solid Firi. fil.—Upper portion of left tibia comminuted base of a shell, which -i is attached. Spec. 4121, SllOt: A. M. M. A general officer was wounded at the assault on Port Hudson, May 27th, 1863, by a conoidal musket-ball, which passed from the inner to the outer aspect of the right leg, and shattered the upper thirds of the tibia and fibula. A staff surgeon extracted a number of detached fragments of bone, and dressed the limb, and, on June 2d, the patient was removed to New Orleans. The wounds were opened, and decomposed coagula, pus, and bone splinters in large quantities were evacuated. The constitutional symptoms were of the most aggravated character. About the middle of June, amputa- tion was performed at the lower third of the thigh by Professor Warren Stone, with the very slightest hope of success. The patient, however, struggled through, and ultimately wore an artificial limb with comfort. The specimen and the particulars of the case were contributed by Prof. F. Bacon, of Yale College, formerly Surgeon U. S. Vols. (Figure 52.) Major General D. E. Sickles, U. S. Vols., was wounded on the evening of the second day of the battle of Gettysburg, by a twelve-pounder solid shot, which shattered his right leg. General Sickles was on horseback at the time and unattended. He succeeded in quieting his affrighted horse and in dismounting unassisted. Aid arriving promptly, he was removed a short distance to the rear, to a sheltered ravine, and amputation was performed low down in the thigh by Surgeon Thomas Sim, U. S. Vols. The patient was then sent to the rear, and the following day was transferred to Wash- ington. The stump healed with great rapidity. On July 16th, the patient was able to ride about in a carriage. Early in September, 1863, the stump Fia.52.—Ripht tibia was completely cicatrized, and the general was able again to mount his horse. t\"rldby"imu8*ket- Specimen was contributed to the Army Medical Museum by General a" M M''"'''' '^i'''^^^^' ^^'^ hcts of the case by his stafi' surgeon, Dr. Sim. (Figure 53.) Ffa. S.*!.—night tibia and fib- ula shattered by a cannon- shot. SjKC. 1335, A. M. M. GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE ARTERIES. The number of cases reported under this head is extremely small. In the cam- paign of the Army of the Potomac from the Rapidan to the James, in May, June, and July, 18G4, of a total of 3G,508 gunshot wounds, only 27 belonged to this category. The cases of compound fracture complicated with injuries of the large vessels, the cases in Avhich limbs are carried away by solid shot or shell, and the cases in which all the tissues of a limb are disorganized by contusion from a large projectile and the vitality of the arteries is destroyed, are all returned under other heads. Those only are included in which the canal of a large vessel is primarily opened, and in which this