ni NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA. its value in yellow fever, etc. The report of Dr. Lewis (copy appended) deserves the attentive consideration of practitioners in this section. It may be claimed by the health authorities, that the disease was held in check, and restrained from becoming epidemic as soon as it otherwise would have done, by the vigorous measures taken to combat it in the localities where it appeared. In this connection it is proper to remark, that the eai-lier and important cases were sick in widely di.stant sections of the city, viz: Bull's Head, Circus street, St. Charles street near Julia street. Charity hospital, Julia street near Camp street, Girod street, Texas Hotel, the St. Charles Hotel, at Algiers, at Jackson Barracks, "G" Co., Cavalry quarters, 3d district, and at Greenville. It is difficult for a health officer to ascertain promptly when sanitary measures and disinfectants are needed, as the report of any case of suspicious or infectious disease to the Board of Health is liable to be neglected. The fever was epidemic in New Orleans about September 1st. It was reported there, also, as of milder type and less fatal than elsewhere. Why did it thus differ, and why was it slow in attaining, in New Orleans, the epidemic character, (the maximum mortality was reached on the 25th of September,) are questions of interest. In certain localities in the 2d and 3d districts the cases were grouped together, in July and August, chiefly in or around sailor boarding-houses and fever nests which received passengers from Texas, Mexico and the West Indies. The levee, market, and restaurants in this section were favorable resorts for newly arrived passengers. There was an arrival there during the season of several hundred discharged soldiers of the Imperial Maximilian Legion, from Mexico, and in the same district was the field of cholera, where so many died in July, details of which will appear in the accompanying papers.* The municipal and health officers of the 2d and 3d districts put in force vigorous sanitary measures as soon as they believed that genuine yellow fever cases were under treatment and a tendency to outbreak was noticed, and, as I believe, accomplished very beneficial results in their districts. I regret that similar efforts were not made sooner by the authorities in the 1st and 4th districts. The fever finally spread gradually in every direction, advancing upward to Lafayette, (4th district,) Jefferson City, and Carrollton, and backward in the direction of the swamp and Lake Pontchartrain. On the 3d day of September, quarantine was raised by the local authorities as being, in their opinion, useles^ and no longer necessary. The pestilence increased day by day, and extended to many who, as Creoles or long residents in the south, had deemed themselves and their families secure, and not a few who had the disease in former years were again attacked. The experience of this season established the fact, that the number of persons liable to be exempt, as a rule, is limited to the class who have unquestionably had the disease during an epidemic season. Here, as well as at other places, it was noticed that many young children, born in the city, were attacked, and a number of them died. It is reported that cases already in hospital at the time when patients with yellow fever were admitted and brought beside them, contracted the disease in some instances. This was observed at the City hospital, Galveston, by Dr. Dowell, and at Charity hospital, New Orleans, by Dr. Heber Smith. The propriety of isolating the first cases o^the disease is clear; and when it cannot be perfectly accomplished, the cases should be spread out far apart in hospital, and the companies in barracks and tents dispersed or removed from the locality and isolated from infected precincts. It is probable that here upon the borderof the yellow fever zone two kinds of yellow fever may be confounded by observers, and laws deduced from observation of one type in any season erroneously applied to the other. The febris icterodes remittens (malarious yellow fever) may occur sporadically in New Orleans every season. The febris icterodes, true specific yellow fever of continuous type, and communicable as stated by Aitken, would seem to be more virulent and essentially epidemic in its tendency. While the necessity of excluding such a disease by quarantine (and it is generally imported) is imperative, the difficulty of doing so is great, for the virus conveyed by fomites may pass the ordeal of quarantine undestroyed. I know of no special advance in the etiology of the disease this season. Some tolerance has been gained for efforts towards prevention, and to stay or extinguish it. An honest endeavor to do something in that direction is laudable, and preferable to indifference and inaction. An exhausted treasury, the depression of the times, and the disturbed political situation, will prevent this city from speedily improving its sanitary condition. A step has been gained recently in the purchase and control of the water-works by the city, with the possibility of improved drainage and cleanliness. Cases of the fever conveyed to some localities, (e. g., to Austin, Texas,) though fatal, did not spread to others and infect the community. In concluding this paper, I desire to acknowledge the valued services rendered by medical officers of the army serving in this district, specially exposed for two years past to the incursion of epidemic diseases. Their intelligence, zeal, and vigilance have greatly contributed to preserve the general health of the command. Doctors George Taylor, Samuel Adams, and Charles H. Rowe, of the medical staff', died in the performance of their duty, all within 30 days, at one station. Doctors Bacon and Cronkhite promptly repaired to "the post of danger, at Galveston, where the latter soon after became ill with the fever. Surgeon B. A. Clements and Assistant Surgeon C. B. White, at Jackson Barracks, Assistant Surgeons H. E. Brown, in New Orleans, E. A. Koerper, at Greenville, La., and E. Cowles, on the Eio Grande, were themselves stricken down while administering to others. As one fell, charge was taken by another. Acting Assistant Surgeons Orsamus Smith, Heber Smith, and Mathevv Stovell, took charge in this way of their respective hospitals. Acting Assistant Surgeons Wm. Deal, F. A. Wilmans, J. J. Auerbach, and Henry Smith, also contracted the disease while on duty with troops. The commands with which Assistant Surgeon W. D. Wolverton, and Acting Assistant Surgeons Charles E. Warren, C. W. Koechling, and J. F. M. Forwood, were serving, were shielded from the shock of the epidemic. As they were liable to receive it, the gratifying I'esult is creditable to these gentlemen and the commanding officers. In the pej-iod of greatest need, many physicians of the army being prostrated by illness, a very generous tender of profes- sional assistance was made to Me by the President of the Board of Health, Dr. S. A. Smith, and the Professor of Practice of * The greater part of these papers are omitted in this report for want of space.—Eil.