24 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS If we are to consider this a case clearly of Asiatic cholera, I can only attribute its origin to emanation from last year's deposits from this disease. The police of this post is bad, and its sanitary condition not good, though improving. Very respectfully, &c., EBN. SWIFT, Surgeon, and Brevet Colonel, U. S. A. Brevet Brigadier General M. Mill.s, Medical Director, Department of Missouri. Jefferson Barracks, Mo., July 17, 1867. General: I have the honor to report, in the case of Private Jones, well-established convalescence. At 9 o'clock this morning he had a free discharge of urine, which had been suppressed 29 hours; and at 3 o'clock this p. m. his thirst is greatly diminished, feels comfortable, and has had a natural evacuation of his bowels. His respiration is good, and his pulse full, strong, and 84. Prescribed rest and a milk diet. At noon to-day I was called to see the child of a laborer employed in the soldiers' cemetery at this post. I was not at my quarters when the messenger arrived. I saw the child at 12.45 p. m. He had died about 20 minutes before. His limbs were cold and his chest warm; his features compressed, and his eyes deeply sunk. While getting the history of the case, the right shoulder was observed to raise and the arm to move. Some bystander remarked, "He is alive!" I immediately placed my hand over the region of tlie heart, and for a moment was myself deceived, so great was the motion observed in the chest. Three or four pulsations were imitated, and the ribs moved under my hand. Some fruitless eifoi-ts at resuscitation soon convinced me the s^park of life had fled. Would the electric fluid recall it in these cases, not uncommon, of sudden deaths? This boy, John Keevans, aged 12 years and four months, was of sliglit frame, though well developed in body and limbs. Had generally been healthy. Yesterday he was employed at some light work, errands, etc., in a family of the^arrison. He had taken bread, meat, coffee, and molasses at breakfast and supper, but had eaten no diiuier at home or anywhere else, so far as I could learn. During the night, towards morning, his mother knew of his leaving his bed and room; that he was sick and vomited. At 6 and at 7 his bowels were purged; also at 9 and 11. These latter motions, not copious, were frothy and whiteish. He now complained of excessive thirst, and had cramps in his legs. Previous to this his mother thought his sickness did not "signify anything;'' he had had something like it a year ago in Illinois. This was in reply to my inquiry why she did not send for me sooner. From such history of this case as I have been able to collect, its sudden fatal termination from apparently insufficient evacuations, I am constrained to look upon it as one of cholera asphyxia not unlike that of Private Jones, reported yesterday. This boy's father was attacked with cholera morbus yesterday, and Dr. Culbertson gave him calomel, rhubarb, and morphia, and to-day he is able to be about the house. Also, Pat McBride, laborer in the cemetery, and John O'Neil, ambulance driver, took the same complaint during last night. These are doing well. Very respectfully, &c., EBN. SWIFT, Sunjeon, and Brevet Colonel, U. S. A. Brevet Brigadier General M. Mills, Medical Director, Department of Missouri. Jefferson Barracks, Mo., July 17, 1867. Sir : I desire respectFully to call your attention to the urgent necessity of having a large detail from your command employed in removing the rank vegetable growth of grass, weeds, etc., about the quarters occupied by the men under your charge, to permit tlie sunlight and heat to exercise its sanitary influence upon the surface of the ground. They should disinfect all slop vessels, drains, privies, etc., by means of chloride of lime or zinc, sulphate of iron, or carbolic acid. Strict cleanliness should be enforced in dormitoi'ics, kitchens, etc., and the former should be fumigated witli fumes of burning sulphur. Care should be observed, in the preparation of food, that meats and vegetables are thoroughly cooked. Since the spring at the quarry, from its location, may receive the sub-surface drainage of the cemetery, I must recommend that its use be at (mce discontinued by all. No disinterments at the cemetery should be made for the present. The unfortunate family which lost one of its members by cholera to-day should be furnished with other quarters, and those now occupied by them should be thoroughly cleansed and disinfected. Respectfully, ifcc, EBN. SWIFT, Suri/eon, and Ilrevet Colonel, U. S. A. v. W. CooPKR, in rharye of Cemetery.