61 WATER FROM NEW YORK HARBOR. During the prevalence of the disease at Delaware City one case occurred at Fort Delaware, which is distant from it one and a quarter mile, situated nearly in the middle of the river, and at this season subject to strong east winds. This case has already been noticed in report of sick and wounded for September of this year; and although during the months of August and September dianhceas were prevalent, there was no recurrence of the disease, a very strict quarantine having been estab- lished, and all fruit and unripe vegetables excluded from the island. A close watch was also kept upon the men's sink, and any one found with two or more discharges from his bowels was immediately placed under treatment. In August an isolated case occurred in Salem, New Jersey, which is situated upon a small tributary of the Delaware, some seven miles below this post, but with no recurrence of the disease until the following October, when several malignant cases appeared within a few days of each other. About the same time, the disease occurred with much severity at Bridgeton, New Jersey, also upon a tributary of the Delaware, but some twenty miles further down stream. By the kiudness of Drs. Worrell and Kemp, of Delaware City ; Drs. Merritt and Fromberger, of New Castle ; Drs. Sharp and Gibbons, of Salem ; and of Dr. Elmer, of Bridgeton, I am able to report their cases, with the treatment pursued. This report of cases of epidemic cholera which have occurred in this vicinity (in fact, encircling this post in the course taken by the disease) has been forwarded, in view of the extensive and expensive policing and improvements which were made upon this island during the past winter, the orders for which were based upon the sanitary reports which, at the time, I had the honor to make for your consideration. I am very strongly of the opinion that, had not this island and the fortitications been placed in the very highest sanitary condition, and had not the most rigid quarantine been established, this command would in all probability have suffered severely from epidemic cholera during the past season. In this opinion I am joined by the line officers of the command who were on duty at the post prior to December, 1865. I am, general, very respectfully, your obedient servant, E. McCLELLAN, Assistant Surgeon and Brevet Major U. S. A. Brevet Major General Joseph K. B.-vrnes, Surgeon General. XXII. OX THE DISTRIBUTION OF CERTAIN RECRUITS. Adjutant General's Office, Washington, April 8, 1867. Sir : In reply to certain inquiries made by you in a communication without date, you are respectfully informed: 1st. The detachment of the fifteenth United States infantry, at Vicksburg, Mississippi, received 185 recruits July 11, 186C, from the general depot at Fort Columbus, New York harbor. 2d. Company E, second battalion fifteenth United States infantry, Jackson, Mississippi, received 51 recruits July 17, 1866, from Fort Columbus. 3d. The detachment of the nineteenth United States infantry, at Helena, Arkansas, received 28 recmits August 3, 1866, by transfer; supposed to be a portion of a detachment of 60 recruits which left Newport barracks, Kentucky, July 28, 1866, for the nineteenth infantry, at Little Rock. 4tli. Detachments of recruits left Newport barracks, Kentucky, for assignment to the sixteenth infantry, as follows: August 21, 1866, 90; August 24, 1866,90; August 26, 1866, 90; August 30, 1866,90; September 10, 1866, 98. Of these recruits, 59 were assigned to the companies at Memphis, Tennessee, September 6, 1866. 5th. The detachment of the nineteenth United States infantry, at Little Rock, Arkansas, received 9 recruits August 10 1866; 60 recruits left Newport barracks for this regiment July 28, ],-S66, and the 9 recruits above mentioned are supposed to be a portion thereof. None were received in September. Battery 6, fifth United States artillery, received no recruits either in August or September, 1866. 6th. Company G, nineteenth United States infantry, at Fort Smith, Arkansas, received 3 recruits by transfer Au"-ust 3, 1866, supposed to be a portion of the detachment of 60 which left Newport barracks July 28, 1866. Company F received no recruits either in August or September, 1866. Very respectfully, your obedient sei"vant, E. D. TOWNSEND, Assistant Adjutant General. Brevet Major J. J. Woodward, Assistant Surgeon U. S. A., Surgeon General's Office, Washington, D. C. XXIII. ON THE AMOUNT OF ORGANIC MATTERS CONTAINED IN CERTAIN WATER FROM NEW YORK HARBOR. Laboratory, Surgeon General's Office, Washington City, D. C, August 13, 1866. Sir : Having received five samples of the water used for drinking at posts in New York harbor, where cases of cholera ^have occurred, I proceeded to make a comparative analysis of them, with a view to the determination of their organic matter. The method used was that of digesting the water for a limited period with an acid solution of permanganate of potash, and .subsequently determining the amount of undecomposed permanganate. As the digestion is stopped at a certain point, it gives,