REPORT ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA AND YELLOW FEVER. XXXV upon inquiry, that Dr. Sclionwakl was an empiric, in whose statements no confidence can be placed. Yellow fever was prevalent at Nassau at this time. Yellow fever did not again appear in the army during 1863, but during 1864 Key • West was again visited, and the disease became epidemic among the troops stationed at Newbern, North Carolina. At Key West, Surgeon A. E. Stocker, United States Volunteers, reports sixty-four cases of yellow fever and seventeen deaths in the "District of Key West and Tortugas" for July, 1864; fourteen cases and four deaths for August. No particulars have been reported, but most of these cases are understood to have occurred at Key West. At Newbern, N. C, the fever appeared about the first of September of the same year, and continued until towards the end of November. Seven hundred and five cases and two hundred and eighty-eight deaths were reported among the white troops in North Caro- lina, chiefly at Newbern, and thirty-eight cases and fifteen deaths among colored troops at same place. There were at this time about seven thousand white troops in North Carolina. Sur- geon D. W. Hand, United States Volunteers, at that time Medical Director of the District of North Carolina, was authorized by the Surgeon General, January 16, 1866, to visit Newbern, N. C, and such other points as might be necessary, in order to collect such facts with regard to this epidemic as could be obtained at that date. Especial interest attached to the subject on account of the assertion that the fever had been introduced by infected clothing from the West Indies, sent via Halifax under the auspices of Dr. Blackburn. On this subject Dr. Hand has made a special report, dated April 1, 1866, in which he recounts his inquiries on the subject, and concludes, that although the infected clothing reached Washington, D. C, and was sold there, no evidence exists to render it probable that any of it reached Newbern. This source of importation excluded, and the rigid nature of the blockade enabling Dr. Hand to make the statement that no vessel was admitted from an infected port, it must be supposed either that the disease originated at Newbern, or that it was brought overland from Charleston, S. C, where it became epidemic a month earlier than the first case at Newbern. The following are the facts bearing on this question as collected by Dr. Hand : Yellow fever appeared in Newbern about the first of September, 1864, and was at the time reported by Dr. Hand to Surgeon C. McCormick, the Medical Director of the department, as an epidemic of hepatic remittent fever of a fatal character. The real nature of the disease, however, was soon recognized. Dr. Hand enumerates the initial cases as follows: "Private 0. Pollock, 3d N. Y. Artillery, clerk at District Headquarters, corner of Union and East Front streets, was admitted to Foster hospital September 2d and died September 6th. "Private F. Coates, 3d N. Y. Cavalry, orderly at District Headquarters, had been sick several months; returned to duty August 23d, from Morehead City general hospital^ admitted to Foster hospital September 1st and died September 6th. "Private Q. C. Lillie, U. S. Signal Corps, was admitted to Foster hospital September 4th, from Signal Corps office, on opposite corner from District Headquarters, and died September 6th.