REPORT ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA AND YELLOW FEVER. XII others, seventeen cases and eleven deaths being reported during July and August, besides a number among the citizen employes. The mean strength of this detachment during July and August was 220 officers and men. It is reported that most of the cases occurred among the soldiers and employes who were debilitated and exhausted by the exposure of the Platte River expedition. Notwithstanding the proximity of the camp of the 7th U. S. Infantry to Port Wallace, the garrison of the latter place wholly escaped, intercourse being restricted, though not wholly prevented. On the 8th of August, a detachment of the 5th U. S. Infantry arrived at Fort Wallace from New Mexico and encamped about a mile west of the fort. The command is said to have been healthy on the road, with the exception of diarrhoea, after leaving the Arkansas. Seven days before reaching Fort Wallace, they passed, without halting, a camp of colored troops, among whom cholera was prevailing. On the day of their arrival at Fort Wallace a case occurred, followed by others, making in all twenty-five cases and eleven deaths during the month. A quarantine hospital was established on the 10th, in which all the cases were treated. These cases were wholly confined to the detachment of the 5th U. S. Infantry, which, at the time of its arrival, numbered about 343 officers and men. None of the original garrison of Fort Wallace were attacked; as, however, a part of this detachment remained at Fort Wallace, these cases are included in the tabular statement for that post. (See Appendix, table 26, page 11.) Turning, now, from the plains to the route into Indian Territory, the record will be found equally instructive. One fatal case of cholera was reported at Little Rock, Arkansas, during July. The patient had been intoxicated, and the case is admitted to have been a doubtful one. (See Appendix, page 56.) It is not, therefore, included in the statistical tables of this report. At Fort Smith, Arkansas, where cholera had occurred during 1866, it reappeared among the citizens August 28th, 1867. The precautions taken to prevent the disease from extending to a company of troops stationed at the post (see Appendix, page 56) were so effectual, that but two cases occurred—the first September 16th, the second September 21st; both proved fatal. At Fort Gibson, Indian Territory, where cholera also prevailed during 1866, it reappeared towards the close of June, 1867, among the Indians and Negroes. These people, who were surrounded by the worst hygienic conditions, sufiered severely till the close of July, when a nest of negro huts, where the disease had been most virulent, was burned, and the survivors removed to a camp in the open prairie, after which the disease abated, The troops, encamped in wall tents on elevated ground near the fort, escaped, having but two cases—one, a negro soldier, attacked July 18th, died July 23d ; and the other, a white soldier, attacked August 18th, died next day. The mean strength of the command at Fort Gibson during the six months was 159 white and 80 colored troops. Towards the close of June, just after the appearance of cholera among the Indians and Negroes near the post. Company "D," 10th U. S. Cavalry, left Fort Gibson for Fort Arbuckle; had much diarrhoea on the road, and one man died July 1st with symptoms of cholera. The company, bringing with them the dead body of their comrade for interment, arrived at Port Arbuckle July 2d. Immediately after tlieir arrival three cases of cholera occurred in this company, and five cases and four deaths followed, during July, among the white troops stationed at Fort Arbuckle, 166 in number.