127 NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA, the disease was then too wide-spread to be materinlly limited by this measure. I did not observe, nor have I heard of, any case whose occurrence coukl be clearly traced to peisonal contact. Only brief mention will be made of the symptoms of the disease as it appeared here; the absence of detailed records of the cases, which circumstances made it nearly impossible to keep, will not allow that exactness which would be desirable in a strictly professional report. The <lisease was often sudden in its onset. A man would go on guard and within an hour would be in hos])ital. My orderly, a stout, healthy-looking man, complained at noon of feeling badly, was sent to hosi)ital, and died within three days. A soldier, Private John Cleaves, Co. " H," 1st Infantry, was remarked for his vivacity early one morning ; at night he was pros- trated, and died by reveill6 next morning before he could be sent to hospital. On post mortem examination his stomach was found to contain a pint of grumous fluid, which was believed to be altered blood; there was no other lesion, and though the case was not recorded as yellow fever, I now believe it to have been such. The most prominent symptoms were pain in the head, in the limbs, and excessive restlessness ; the latter was marked, and it required unceasing attention to prevent the men from leaving their beds, and justifies the suggestion I have made that a very large proportion of nurses is necessary. I did not observe any appearance of the tongue that could be considered distinctive; it never presented the dryness of typhus, but the appearance and feel of the skin were unmistakably peculiar ; there seemed to be a want of vitality in it; it felt and looked like moistened parch- ment, but it was generally only after the critical period that it assumed a decided yellow hue. I observed in a number of cases that black vomit was preceded by a peculiar restlessness and expression of countenance indicative of a hopeless seeking for aid. In passing through a ward I noticed this expression in the case of Sergeant McGuire; 1st Infantry; even then he asked to be allowed to get up. I had not left the ward before the nurse showed me a towel containing a stain of black vomit, which he had at that moment gulped up, and he died of black vomit in 24 hours after. Such cases were not infrequent. Oozing from the gums and nostrils was often observed; in a number of cases, whicli were generally rapidly fatal, delirium occurred, and in some of these death ensued immediately after a paroxysm, in which the patient would strive with violence to break away from his nurses, as in the cases of Lieutenant Hubbell and Private Hands, 1st Infantry. Early in the epidemic, I tested the uiine in a number of cases, but without results worthy of note. Enlargement of the liver, evident on palpitation and percussion, was observed in the majority of cases that I personally attended, and tenderness over the epigastrium was the rule. It was noticed that boils were very frequent as sequelae in the cases that recovered, and several patients had large cold abscesses in their thighs. It was found necessary to foi'bid the making of autopsies. As to the treatment pursued, but little medication was practiced. A dose of oil at the commencement, and when the state of the tongue indicated disorder of the alimentary canal, calomel or blue mass in a purgative dose, and subsequently hot foot- baths with mustard, was the general treatment; but it was found necessary to restrain, in some cases, the civilian nurses from the too frequent use of hot foot-baths. Quinine I did not find of any marked advantage; but in some cases diaphoretics, generally the citrate of potash and sweet spirits of nitre, were of service. Mustard plasters to the epigastrium were beneficial from their speedy action, though I think blisters to the epigastrium were preferable. But it may be strongly stated that careful nursing is of the first importance. Nothing but personal observation can convince one of this. The disease, as has been aptly said by that sound physician, Dr. Metcalfe, of New York, is, "to be managed, to be led, but not to be driven violently, towards a favorable issue." There is no disease with which I am acquainted in which minute attention to the comfort of the patient is so necessary; it can hardly be overrated. Instances were frequent where a slight imprudence caused relapse and death; indeed, it is attention to the minutest details, such as not allowing the patient to raise his head or put his arms from under the blanket, that often determines the issue of life and death. I conclude this report by stating that the medical officers of the post, Acting Assistant Surgeons M. Stovell, Z. P. Dcehnler, and J. T. Payne, U. S. A., performed their arduous duties most satisfactorily. Brevet Major White, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., assuming the duties of the post at the most trying period, evinced much energy and devotion during the short time he was on duty, and his overexertion doubtless hastened the attack from which he suffered so severely. Acting Hospital Steward Edward Lettson, 1st Infantry, performed his arduous duties very faithfully, and many enlisted men employed as wardmasters and nurses showed a most commendable zeal and interest in their duties. Brevet Major White, in his report which he has kindly furnished me, refers in terms of high and grateful praise to the hearty support he received from Brevet Brigadier General Graham, 1st Artillery, temporarily commanding the post in the absence of the permanent commander, and I am personally aware of his earnest efforts to afford every assistance in his power to the medical officers. I may be permitted to depart from the strict formality of an official report to express the sense I entertain, in common with many officers and men of this command,v,of the kind attention given by Brevet Brigadier General McParlin, Medical Directoi" of the district, to whose friendly and professional care I am indebted, under a higher power, for my recovery from the disease which has destroyed so many of our comrades. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, B. A. CLEMENTS, Brevet Lieutenant Colonel, and Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General.