INTRODUCTION. 8 number of operations to which they gave rise. These tabular statements have been consolidated for the entire period, and the results for 1862 have been published. After March, 1863, consolidated classified returns of wounds and injuries were rendered, after every engagement, by the medical directors of armies or detached commands. This series is very complete. It serves as a check upon the monthly reports, and as a basis for estimating the frequency and fatality of wounds according to regions, and the total losses of the army in killed and wounded for the period covered by the returns. These results are not yet worked out, although satisfactory progress has been made towards their attainment. Throughout the war, many medical directors had trans- mitted to this office nominal lists of the wounded in battle; but after November 4th, 1863, this was made obligatory. After October 1st, 1863, all general hospitals reported by name all wounded men received, and gave full details of their injuries. From these two sources nearly complete lists of the wounded for the last two years of the war have been procured; for the names of those who died before reaching the base or general hospitals are found on the battle-field casualty lists. The progress that has been made in classifying and collating these returns has been already indicated. It will appear, hereafter, that the additional information afforded by case books and special reports has not been neglected. The formal reports of medical directors of armies give a general view of the oper- ations of the Medical Department. For the Army of the Potomac, the reports of Med- ical Directors Tripler, Letterman, and McParlin furnish a connected narrative of the services rendered by the medical staff. For the Western armies, the reports of Medical Directors McDougall, Murray, Cooper, Perin, Moore, and Hewit afford similar informa- tion. These papers will guide the future historiographer of the surgery of the war, and enable him to put in evidence the immensity of the task that devolved on the Medical Department, and to vindicate its achievements, in showing the extent of the succor given to the wounded in despite of almost incredible obstacles. Besides these authoritative documents, there are on file in the office, to serve as supplementary reports, individual narratives of observations in active service from each member of the regular or volunteer medical staff. The remaining papers for reference are the reports of boards on surgical improvements and appliances, or methods of transport for the wounded; 17,000 descriptive lists of surgical cases; 4200 reports from the manu- facturers of artificial limbs of cases of recovery after amputation; and the surgical essays and dissertations that have been contributed. All of these have either been bound, or indexed and filed in a convenient and accessible form. Lastly, the great treasures of the Army Medical Museum, comprising over five thousand illustrations of military surgery, have been so far classified and arranged as to be available for scientific inquiry.