NEW YORK HARBOR. 63 W. C. Minor, Brevet Captain and Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., Recorder. proper to renew recruiting in New York city and vicinity. The board will meet twice each week, or oftener at tlieir discretion, until all danger of cholera has passed, and consider the state of healtli at the depots and in the vicinity, and make such recom- mendations from time to time as they may deem proper and necessary for the health of the general and sub-depots and recruiting stations in the city. The junior officer will act as recorder. The records of each meeting will be sent to this office. By order of Brevet Major General Buttereielj) : E. G. LAY, Brevet Lieutenant Colonel, and A. A. Adjutant General. Fort Columbus, New York H.\rbor, 3 o'clock, p. m., September 5, 1867. First day : The board met pursuant to the above order. Present: Brevet Brigadier General H. D. Wallen, U. S. A.; Brevet Captain W. C. Minor, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. In consequence of the absence of three of the members of the board detailed in the above order, the board adjourned to meet again to-niorrow at .3 o'clock p. m. H. D. WALLEN, Brevet Brigadier General, U.S.A., President. W. C. Minor, Brevet Captain and Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., Recorder. Fort Columbus, New York Harbor, 3 o'clock p. m., September 6, 18G7. Second day: The board met pursuant to the above order and to adjournment of yesterday. Present: Brevet Brigadier General PI. D. Wallen, U. S. A., commanding depot; Brevet Brigadier General Jos. B. Brown, Surgeon, U. S. A.; Brevet Lieu- tenant Colonel E. P. Vollum, Surgeon, U. S. A.; Brevet Lieutenant Colonel John F. Randolph, Surgeon, U. S. A.; Brevet Captain W. C. Minor, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. After a careful examination and inspection of the quarters occupied by the men at Castle Williams, South Battery, and of the hospital, kitchens, privies, sinks, drains, wells, and cisterns, and after informing themselves concerning the recent cases of cholera at this depot, the board are of opinion that at present a quarantine of Governor's island is not necessary. The board are unanimously of the opinion that it is not safe or proper to resume recruiting in New York and vicinity; furthermore, that recruiting should be suspended for the present in the surrounding States, and that no more recruits be sent to or from Governor's island for some time, and that no recruits should be sent from Bedloe's island. New York harbor, who have not been there at least fifteen days from the date of those last received at that island. The board then adjourned to meet again at 11 o'clock a. m. Tuesday next, 10th instant. H. D. WALLEN, Brevet Brigadier General, U. S. A., President. W. C. Minor, Brevet Captain and Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., Recorder. <> Fort Columbus, New York Harbor, September 10, 1867. Third day: The board met pursuant to adjournment. Present: Brevet Brigadier General PI. D. Wallen, U. S. A. ; Brevet Brigadier General J. B. Brown, Surgeon, U. S. A.; Brevet Lieutenant Colonel E. P. Vollum, Surgeon, U. S. A.; Brevet Lieutenant Colonel J. F. Randolph, Surgeon, U. S. A.; Brevet Captain W. C. Minor, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. The communication presented from the New York Board of Health of August 31, 1837, was regarded as confinuing the previous opinion of this board, since the city is therein reported as sufficiently infected, in the opinion of the board, to forbictthe renewal of recruiting. The board are still of opinion that recruiting at all stations from which recruits have been sent to New York harbor should be suspended until all danger of cholera is past. The board recommend that all bedding and clothing soiled by patients, or that may in any way be infected by them, be deslroyed by fii-e. The board recommended that Special Orders No. 177, of September 9th, from Headquarters General Recruiting Station, be extended to Bedloe's and David's islands. The board then adjourned till Friday at 11 a. m. H. D. WALtEN, Brevet Brigadier General, U. S. A., President. W. C. Minor, Brevet Captain and Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., Recorder. Fort Columbus, New York Harbor, September 13, 1867. Fourth day: The board met pursuant to adjournment. Present: All the members. No cases of cholera have occurred at Bedloe's or Governoi-'s island since the last meeting of the board. A communication, referred by General Butterfield, from the New York Board of Health of September 10th, was read, declaring the continuance of Asiatic cholera in New York city, and the board advise the continuance of their previous recommendation in regard to the suspensron of recruiting. The board then adjourned till Tuesdaj^ next at 11 a. m. H. D. WALLEN, Brevet Brigadier General, U. S. A., President.