HOUSTON HEMPSTEAD. 95 t1ie surface of the body became either hot and dry, * cold and clammy, the application of hot bi-icks, enveloped in woolen rags saturated with vinegar, to the soles of the feet and knees, almost always sufficed to bring about very speedily the desired moist state of the skin. In order to counteract the septic influence of the fever poison on the composition of the blood and mucus membranes of the stomach and bowels, a tablespoonful of solution of two drachms of either the sulphate of magnesia or hyposulphite of soda, in six ounces of water, or a teaspoonful of chlorine mixtLii'e, (prepai-ed by mixing togetlier two ounces of hydrochloric acid, two ounces of water, and two drachms of chlorate of potassa, and taking from this mixture one fluid drachm, to be added to eight ounces of mint water,) was, in some cases, ordered to be given every three or four hours. If, on the fourth day, the fever had nearly abated and no untoward symptoms of any kind were observable, the patients were generally allowed small quantities of some bland, mucilaginous, and slightly nourishing drink, such as barley slime, oat or cornmeal gruel, iS:c.; the day after, perhaps a little weak beef tea and brandy toddy were added; and on every succeeding day the quantities and variety of nutriment were very carefully and gradually increased till full convalescence was established. In those cases where excessive dryness of the skin was, from the beginning, a noticeable feature, and where the repeated applications of hot mustard pediluvia, hot moist bricks, and rubbing the body and extremities with either dry mustard powder or hot stimulating lotions seemed to be of little or no avail, nothing has succeeded better in my hands, in order to bring about reaction and establish free diaphoresis, than resort to the cold wet-pack; that is, enveloping the patient in a cold wet linen sheet, and rolling him up very closely in three or four woolen blankets. If, in such conditions, the resort to this wet-pack is not too long deferred, it generally acts like a charm in soon producing very profuse pei'spiration and abating the excessive heat and often insupportable cephalalgia. Care must be taken not to let the patient remain too long in the pack—two or three hours are generally sufficient; when he should be quickly taken out and the surface of his body thoroughly rubbed off with rough towels and well covered up afterwards. Another admirable method of treating such cases consists in applying several smaller wet sheets, under a good cover, over the entire surface of the body, and changing them as often as the sheets become hot and steaming. lu cases early showing an irritable state of the stomach, with a sensation of heat and oppression about the precordia, the frequent administra- tion of a half tablespoonful dose of the chlorine mixture above mentioned had the happiest effect in allaying these untoward symptoms. In others, however, where this remedy seemed to do no good, aud where nausea and vomiting supervened, I often succeeded in effecting a change for the better by giving, every two or three hours, a tablespoonful of a mixture of subnitrate of bisnuith in creasote water, aud chloroform, in conjunction with applying a blister to the region of the stomach. In cases where patients were of very robust, plethoric habits, and seemed to be threatened, soon after taking the fever, with symptoms of general congestion, I promptly bled them from the arm to the amount of from twelve to twenty-four ounces, following it up in some instances by free cupping, after a lapse of eight or ten hours, and I am satisfied that by doing so I saved their lives. In others I applied eounter-irritation-^n the form of small blisters to the extremities, and feel convinced that it did good service as a derivative in a good many instances. In cases where the patients were taken with a severe chill, during the the first intermission of the fever a powerful dose of quinine was ordered, and sometimes with the best effect, as chills hardly ever recurred again, and the subsequent fever was very light and easily subdued. Before closing this report, I will take this occasion to attest to Dr. J. W. Daniel's very faithful performance of his arduous duties; to the untiring labor and energy displayed by him on all occasions; for to his intelligent and valuable services are due the saving of many lives and the alleviation of the suffering of all our patients. Much praise is likewise due to Lieutenant Wm. M. Van Home, commander of this post since th5 death of Colonel O'Connell and Captain Warren, for the prompt and efficient manner in which he supplied me with everything needful for the comfort of our sick during the trying time of the late epidemic. Our supply of various articles of diet, stimulants, bedsteads, mattresses, sheets, &c., becoming exhausted, and not being able to obtain these articles in time from the medical purveyor at New Orleans, I was obliged, several times, to make requisition on him as post quartermaster in order to supply our immediate wants. All of which is respectfully submitted. F. HASENBURG, M. D., Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Baknes, Surgeon General. HEMPSTEAD, TEXAS. Hkmpstead, Texas, J^«v7 G, 1868. Sir : In compliance with your request, I have the honor to inform you that yellow fever was introduced here from Galveston' It first apppeared amongst the citizens, one Vorhees, from Galveston, who died here in August, 1867, being the first well authenticated case, so far as I can learn. Several citizens were attacked soon afterwards, and on the Gth of September one of the officers of this post was taken with it. None of the privates were attacked until near the middle of the month. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, F. A. WILMANS, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel Warren Webster, Sargeon-in-Cliief.