REPOET ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA AND YELLOW FEVER. XIX and Tennessee where cases are reported. At Key West and at Fort Jefferson, Tortugas, it was introduced directly from Havana. The following paragraphs present a sketch of the facts attending the appearance of the disease at, each of these posts : In the latter part of the month of May, an infected schooner from Vera Cruz, Mexico, arrived at Indianola and landed bedding and other articles; four days afterwards, two of the workmen who handled these effects were taken sick with yellow fever; both died. The disease subsequently spread among the citizens; at first in the neighborhood of the wharf at which the schooner landed, afterwards extending from house to house up Main street. The company of troops on duty at the post was stationed to the southwest of the town, and escaped until the 16th of June, when two men who had been employed guarding quartermaster's property in the town were taken sick, and communicated the disease to the camp. During July other cases occurred, and the medical oiEcer in charge. Acting As- sistant Surgeon S. Santoire, recommended the removal of the command to Green Lake, twenty-two miles distant. This was done July 28th, leaving but a small detachment at Indianola, composed chiefly of men who had had the fever. Two cases occurred at Green Lake shortly after the detachment reached there, but none subsequently. Towards the close of October, a detachment of the S-'^th Infantry, who had broken up their camp at Victoria, Texas, on account of the prevalence of yellow fever, arrived at Indianola; their arrival was followed by four cases and one death. There were in all 29 cases and 14 deaths among the troops near Indianola.* ' The epidemic at Indianola was at first imagined to be bilious remittent fever, as has «o often happened on the first appearance of epidemic yellow fever. The appearance of yellow fever at Indianola was speedily followed by its outbreak at Galveston. There was unobstructed, almost daily communication between the two places, and the Morgan line of steamships made regular trips between Indianola and New Orleans, always stopping at Galveston both going and returning. Brevet Major Samuel Adams, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., states, in a letter dated August 13th, (see Appendix, page 83,) that the first case of the fever which occurred at Galveston was brought from Indianola about June 26th, and died, two days afterwards, at one of the boarding-houses in the lower part of the city. He asserts that the introduction of the disease was the result of gross negli- gence on the part of the city authorities, who did not attempt to establish quarantine until after this fatal case had occurred. Brevet Major Cyrus Bacon, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., who arrived in Galveston September 17th, after the death of Dr. Adams, has contributed an interesting report of the epidemic at Galveston. In this paper he states, on the authority of a local physician, that a man from New Orleans had been admitted to the City hospital June 22d with yellow fever, and recovered. The details of the history of this case have not been communicated, and the well-known accuracy of Dr. Adams, who was on the spot at the time of the occurrence of these cases, leads the writer of this report to look upon liis statement with regard to the first unmistakable case of yellow fever as being substantially correct. The Galveston and Texas Medical Journal of February, 1868, contains an excellent account of the epidemic in this city, by Dr. S. M. Welch, a resident of Gah^eston. The writer gives an account of the introduction of yellow fever, which perfectly agrees with .^he^ story of Dr. Adams, although he mentions the alleged case of June 22d, which he *The foot note to table I, Appendix, page 71, says, erroneously, "there were, besides, two cases in June.''. It has since been observed that the July list of names duplicates these cases, so that the text above is accurate.