XIV REPORT ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA AND YELLOW FEVER. of cholera and eighteen of choleraic diarrhoea were admitted to the post hospital at Galves- ton from these detachments; five of the cases of chol^era died. Three men of the 17th Infantry, into whose barracks the first party of recruits were received, were also attacked, but all recovered. On the 13th of December a party of the recruits from Galveston arrived at Hemp- stead, Texas, where fifteen cases of cholera occurred among them, with, however, but one death. The detachment that went to Indianola reports thirteen cases and two deaths of cholera at that post, but the disease did not extend to the garrison. Finally, a party of these same recruits were quarantined at Onion creek, near Austin, December 24th, where nine cases and one death are reported during December, and one fatal case during January in the same detachment, then at Indianola on their way to Brownsville, Texas. The extreme mildness of the cases among these recruits cannot escape attention; there were among them, in all, sixty-three cases and but nine deaths. This happy result, which is attributed, by the medical officer at Galveston, to the use of tannin in large doses, was observed also at Hempstead, where reliance appears to have been placed on camphor and opium pills; and at Onion creek, where calomel was employed in large doses. The foregoing brief statement will serve to indicate the movements of cholera in the army during 1867. The general summary on page 15 shows that the total iiumber of cases among the white troops during the year, including the month of June, was 317, of whom 139 died; among the colored troops. 187 cases and 91 deaths. The mortality was, therefore, 1 to every 2.28 cases for white; 1 to every 2.05 for colored troops. A comparison with the data of Circular No. 5 shows that the mortality during 1866 was, 1 to every 2.5 cases for white; 1 to every 1.9 cases for colored troops. The proportion of deaths to cases during 1867 was, therefore, rather larger for white and rather smaller for colored troops than during 1866. The list of names already referred to gives a distinct record of 308 of the above cases among the white troops, and of 153 among the colored troops. From these lists the following tables have been compiled, showing nativities, ages, length of service, and duration of recoveries, and of fatal cases: WHITE TROOPS. 1. NATIVITIES.' C ASES. Deaths. Cases. Deaths. United States Caiiafla England . Ireland Scotland . Wales Germany 145 12 14 65 4 1 48 58 2 7 29 2 24 Hungary .. Sweden Denmark .. France Switzerland Not stated . Total. 308