62 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. not the whole amonut of organic matter present, but that portion of it which is in the act of decomposing, or which is the most ready to undergo decomposition. In the present state of our knowledge, the results thus attained would seem to give, more correctly than anything else, the tendency of water to become the vehicle of disease, or to produce any of the effects which are commonly attributed to its bad quality. The samples of water sent for examination were labelled as follows : No. 1.—Sample of water from well inside Fort Columbus, where companies A and C, and company D recruits, are quartered. The handle of this pump has been taken off, and the use of the water discontinued. No. 2.—Specimen of water used in mess 7, by Privates David Henderson, Anthony Acorn, Alfred Fifert, and Michael O'Brien, second battalion seventeenth United States Infantry, company C, who died of cholera at De Camp general hospital, David's island, New York harbor. No. 3.—Specimen of water used in mess 10, by Privates Wm. H. Haskins and Patrick Sheilds, first battalion seventeeutb United States infantry, company G, and Frederick Jackson, second battalion seventeenth United States infantry, company B, who died of cholera at De Camp general hospital, David's island. New York harbor. No. 4.—Sample of water from well at South Battery, where company B music boys are quartered, Governor's island. New York liarbor. No. 5.—Sample of water from well near Rotten Row, used by the prisoners, officers' families, and, since the discontinu- ance of the well inside Fort Columbus, by men from fort. As a standard of comparison, the water supplied from the Washington aqueduct, which is decidedly impure water, con taining more organic matter than that supplied to London from the Thames, was employed. The results obtained might be expressed in various ways, but I have concluded to state them in the quantities of perman- ganate decomposed by a gallon of the water, while standing for three hours at a temperature of 80° Fahrenheit, the perman- ganate being supposed to give up one-half of its available oxygen, which is about the case when it is used for the purification of water. The following table gives, in grains and decimals of a grain, the amount of pure permanganate of potash actually required for the purification of each gallon of the different waters examined: Water, one gallon. Permanpanate. ' ° Grains. Washington aqueduct 0.5106 No. 1, New York harbor 3. 5880 No. 2, New York harbor 0. 4370 No. 3, New York harbor 0. 4508 No. 4, New York harbor 0.4830 No. 5, New York harbor 1. 7940 The large amounts required in Nos. 1 and 5 are partly dependent upon the presence of considerable quantities of nitrites, whose abundance indicates that these wells receive filtration of water charged with animal matter. The waters Nos. 1 and 5 may be pronounced unsuitable for drinking purposes in their present condition. Nos. 2, 3, and 4 are much better in quality, but not so pure as to be altogether safe for those who are suffering from diarrhoea, or who are exposed to the infection of cholera. When permanganate of potash is added in suitable quantities to impure water, it converts the organic matter into carbonic acid water &c., undergoing itself a gradual decomposition, with the deposition of insoluble dentoxide of manganese, and the production of carbonate of potash to the extent of nearly one-half of the weight of the permanganate actually decom- posed The officinal crystallized permanganate is the most suitable for the purpose, and if the impure green salt, termed per- manganate in commerce, be used, its real strength must be ascertained if it is to be added by weight. A good practical rule for purifying water is to add any solution of permanganate until the water, as seen in an ordinary-sized tumbler, appears per- ceptibly pink. This corresponds to the addition of from one-half a grain to one grain per gallon. After standing for a few hours the color disappears, and the water is left pure as far as regards organic matter. If, after two hours' standing, the water has a pinkish color when viewed in a large white dish, or in a bucket of polished tin, the amount of permanganate used has been sufiBcient, and if a pink color still remains after twenty-four hours, it has been used in excess. Very respectfully, yoiu- obedient servant, B. F. CRAIG, Acting Assistant Surgeon U. S. A. Brevet Major J. J. Woodward, Assistant Surgeon U. S. A. LAiionATouy, Surceon General's Office, Ifashington City, D. C, August 25, 1865. Sir : The water sent from Hart's island, New Y''ork harbor, being tested with permanganate of potash, together with water from the Washington aqueduct, gave the following results, expressed in the amounts of pure permanganate required to destroy the organic matter present by standing with it for three hours : Washington aqueduct 36 grains per gallon. Well No. 1, Hart's island 42 " " Well No. 2, Hart's island 36 " " . Well No. 3, Hart's island 38 " Very respectfully, your obedient servant. Brevet Major J. J. Woodward, Assistant Surgeon U. S. A. B. F. CRAIG, Acting Assistant Surgeon U. S. A.