1 Surgeon General's Office, "Washington, D. C, Nomemher 1st, 1865. Xlie following Circular is publislied for tlie information of tlie IM^edical Officers of tlie -A.rmy. JOSEPH K. BARNES, Surgeon General. CIRCULAR NO. 6. Surgeon General's Office, Washington, D. C , October 20th, 1865. BREYET MAJOR GENERAL JOSEPH K. BARNES, Surgeon General TJ. S. Army. General :— In response to your inquiries relative to the nature, extent, and value of the sur- gical data that have accumulated in the department of jour office under my charge, and in regard to the progress that has been made in arranging these materials, I have the honor to make the following report: The materials in the office relating to the surgery of the late war consist of the . reports of the medical officers engaged in it, and of illustrations of these reports in the shape of pathological specimens, drawings, and models. The documentary data are of three kinds: first, the numerical returns, in which the number alone of the different forms of wounds, accidents, injuries, and surgical diseases is given; secondly, what may be called the nominal returns, in which are furnished the name and military description of each patient, and the particulars of the case, with more or less of detail; and thirdly, the miscellaneous reports. To the first class belong the "classified return of wounds and injuries" which every medical officer has been required to furnish imme- diately after every engagement, the "tabular statement of gunshot wounds," and the portion of the "monthly report of sick and wounded" referring to surgical diseases and accidents. The second class comprises the "quarterly reports of wounded" and the "quarterly reports of surgical operations" required of all general and post hospitals, the quarterly "sanitary reports" of regimental surgeons, the "nominal lists of wounded" forwarded by medical directors after every general engagement, and extracts from "case books." In the third class are included the reports of medical directors of armies