ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. MEDICAL SERIES. 141 alterations of the mouth. During life, these cases are marked by the extremely ady- namic character of the symptoms, by petechise, at times even by the characteristic scor- butic lesions of the mouth, by hasmorrhage from the bowels, and other hasmorrhages which complicate the disorder and often prove fatal. The specimens preserved in the Museum, although they have lost their color, show satisfactorily the pulpy slough-like transformation of Peyer's patches. This variety I have proposed to designate the Scorbutic form of Typho-Malarial Fever. It occurred chiefly at times when other scorbutic diseases were prevailing among the troops. Specimens of the third group are quite identical with those obtained from the typhoid or enteric fever of civil life, and the cases in many instances are undoubtedly that affection in its ordinary form. As it occurred among the troops, however, the course of the disease was so generally more or less modified by the influence on the soldier of malaria, or of the scorbutic taint, or both, that I have proposed to indicate such cases as the Enteric variety of Typho-Malarial Fever. Besides these groups, there is a fine series of preparations showing the several forms of * ulceration left by the softening and destruction of the patches and solitary glands in each of the varieties, the difierent methods of perforation, of cicatriza- tion, etc. A few brief abstracts of cases, selected from the foregoing series, are here presented in illustration, especial prominence being given to the conditions observed in the autopsies: Private C——, 61st New York Vols., was admitted to Satterlee Hospital, West Philadelphia, Pa., July 10th, 1862, from the Army of the Potomac, then on the Peninsula. His disease was registered Typhoid Fever. He died August 24th, 1862. Autopsy, August 25th: Organs generally healthy, except that the solitary glands were thickened, and both these and Peyer's glands of a black color, resembling the bluish-black of tattooing. The surrounding parts of the mucous membrane were pale and devoid of anything like congestion. No. 270, Medical Series, is a piece of the ileum, showing numerous solitary glands the size of large pin-heads, and a Peyer's patch, which is not perceptibly diseased. The whole ileum was received at the Museum in alcohol, and none of the Peyer's patches were prominent. Contributed by Prof. J. Leidy, then Acting Asst. Surgeon U. S. A. Private D , 17th U. S. Infantry, was admitted to Satterlee Hospital, West Philadelphia, Pa., August 10th, 1862, from the Army of the Potomac. His disease was registered Typhus Fever. He died August 22d. Autopsy: Age about twenty-two ; body moderately emaciated; ecchymoses on the surface of the trunk. There were a number of minute ulcers in the lesser curvature of the stomach; the ileum was congested in patches; most of Peyer's glands were healthy, a few of them slightly thickened, but none ulcerated ; the solitary glands were enlarged; the colon was slate- colored, with patches of congestion, a number of spots of ecchymosis, and in the descending portion a few small ulcers. Nos. 273 to 276, Medical Series, are successive portions of the ileum, showing the enlarged solitary follicles and a few slightly-thickened Peyer's patches. No. 272 is the stomach, with minute ulcers in the lesser curvature. Contributed by Prof. J. Leidy. Private B , 7th Maine Vols., was admitted to Satterlee Hospital, West Philadelphia, August 10th, 1862, from the Army of the Potomac. His disease was registered Diarrhoea. He died October 8th. Autopsy: Age about twenty-seven years; body much emaciated; skin ecchymosed. There was continuous congestion throughout the small intestine, which was most intense in its lower part; the ileum was of a deep maroon color; Peyer's glands were not perceptibly altered; the solitary glands numerous and conspicuous from enlargement; the ascending colon was also congested, and presented a few spots of ecchymosis with pigment in some of its solitary follicles. Nos. 237 and 238, Medical Series, are successive portions of the ileum of this patient; each presents a normal Peyer's patch and a number of enlarged solitary follicles. Contributed by Prof. J. Leidy. Private W , 20th Michigan Vols., was admitted to Satterlee Hospital, West Philadelphia, December 13th, 1862, from the Army of the Potomac. His disease was registered Diarrhoea. He died December 26th, 1862. Au- topsy, December 27th: Age about twenty-two years. Body rather emaciated; spots of purpura on the trunk; recent pleurisy on both sides, most marked on the right; pneumonia in the lower lobes of both lungs ; bronchitis; liver and spleen enlarged; moderate congestion diffused throughout ileum and colon; enlargement of the solitary glands in lower part of ileum; Peyer's glands reddened; slight enlargement of the solitary follicles of large intestine. Nos. 107 and 108, Medical Series, are successive portions of ileum, No. 108 taken from just above the ileo-ccecal valve;