6 INTRODUCTION. required to fill up these forms for the months of October, November, and December, 1863. In January, 1864, the new registers were introduced in all the general hospitals, the "consolidated statement of gunshot wounds" was discontinued, and a quarterly transcript from the registers of all cases of wounds or of operations was required. The new system has been found to work well, and the surgical records of the last quarter of 1863, and for 1864-65, are believed to possess a higher degree of statistical accuracy than has heretofore been attained. Early in 1864, the new forms of reports of wounds and operations began to arrive at this office, and the work of transcribing and classifying their contents began. The cases of wounds were recorded in ten books, the new hospital registers being used for this purpose. The classification was as follows: nine volumes of gunshot injuries, viz.: 1. Wounds of the Head and Face. 2. Wounds of the Neck and Chest. 3. Wounds of the Abdomen, Back, and Spine. 4. Wounds of the Perineum and Genito-Urinary Organs. 5. Fractures of the Upper Extremities. 6. Fractures of the Lower Extrem- ities. 7. Flesh Wounds of the Upper Extremities. 8. Flesh Wounds of the Lower Extremities. 9. Wounds of Arteries, Veins, and Nerves; and a tenth volume embrac- ing Sword, Bayonet, and Miscellaneous Wounds. The cases of operations were recorded in five books, viz.: 1. Amputations in the Continuity. 2. Amputations in the Con- tiguity. 3. Excisions. 4. Ligations. 5. Miscellaneous Operations. On September 1st, 1864, there had been transcribed upon these registers the histories of 30,435 wounds, and of 1179 operations. It was objected to this mode of registration, that injuries of the gravest and most trivial nature were confounded, and that the great mass of materials contained in the special reports, which medical officers had been encouraged to forward, was entirely omitted from the records. The least important cases received as much attention as the most serious, or even more, because the patients with trifling wounds were more likely to be transferred from hospital to hospital, and their histories were traced with greater difficulty. Moreover, the registers, though well adapted to the requirements of hospitals, were unsuitable for permanent records, the space being inadequate for the requisite details of important cases, or for summaries of the treatment and results in cases protracted through several quarters. It was therefore determined that an effort should be made to arrange the records in a form more convenient for reference and study. In the first place, the early returns of the war were examined, and cases of the more important injuries were gleaned from them, and tabulated upon the new form of surgical reports. This work was of neces- sity performed by medical officers, or by clerks possessing a competent share of surgical information. In October, 1864, suitable books of record having been procured, the task of revising the surgical records began. It was decided to make numerous sub- divisions, and, while avoiding impracticable refinements, to group together similar classes of injuries. On the new registers were entered, in the first -place, the cases extracted from the early reports. Then the registers in use were examined, and the category in which each case should be placed was indicated; or, if from lack of pre- cision in the report this was impossible, additional information was sought from the source from which the report had originated. Thus the cases recorded in the register of gunshot wounds of the head and face were distributed in six registers, viz.: those