EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS 48 On tlie ISth, several trains were reported approaching loaded with supplies for this post; they were ordered into camp over a mile from the post. Upon insj)ecting the trains, I found one case of cholera. The trains were ordered to unload at that point, and the lumher and grain, with which they were loaded, to remain there (proper watchmen being put over it) until disinfected by exposure. In spite of all precautions, the fearful scourge came upon us. On tlie 21st, about 3 p. m., a man, Private Nolan, Company "A," 3d Inf;inti-y, one of the guard at the stone quarry 15 miles distant, was brought in in a state of collapse; he had had diarrhoea for two or three days previous, and had indulged largely in drinking water, which, as I learn, was full of impurities, and strongly impregnated with iron and sulphur. On the night of the 20tli he was seized with cramps and vomiting; was better next morning, when he was put into an army wagon and driven in to the garrison, over a rough road, very rapidly, tbe driver believing they were chased by Indians. On the road his sj'mptoms increased greatly, and on reaching the post he was in collapse. Chloroform was administered immediately, in one drachm doses, with stimulants; mustard was applied freely to all parts of the body; but he rapidly sank, and died in less than three hours. On the 22d, a case made its appearance in Company "I," 37th U. S. Infantry—a weak, puny Gei-man boy, who liad been on duty at one of the Santa Fe mail stations up the road. On the 23d, three cases : another in Company " I,'' one in Company "H," one in Company "A,'' 3d Infantry. The one in Company "A" died on the 24th ; the one in Company "I" recovered ; and the other is now in a typhoid condition, and will die. On the 24th, no cases among the soldiers ; several among citizens. On the 25th, three cases reported: one of "B" troop, 7th Cavalry, recovered ; one of "B" troop, 7th Cavalry, a patient in hospital at the time, died on the 26th ; one in Company '' I," 37th Intiintry, died on the 26th. On the 26th, eight cases are reported: Major Henry Douglass, 3d Infantry, commanding post, was attacked early in the morning; one of "B" troop, 7th Cavalry, prisoner in guard-house, convalescent; one of Company "A," 3d Infantry, prisoner in guard-house, returned to duty this morning; one of Company''H," 3d Infantry, recovered; one of Company " H," 3d Infantry, brought in from stone quarry guard, 15 miles distant, died in a few hours; this man had been eating large quantities of wild cherries and plumbs; one of Company''I," 37th Infantry, returned to duty on 28th; one of Company " I," 37th Infantry, died on the 27th. On the 27th, two cases : one of Company " H,'' od Infantry, died same day; one of Company I," 37th Infantry, brought in by escort from Cimaron crossing, Santa F6 mail station, 25 miles from post, died in collapse a few minutes after reaching jjost. July 28th, one in " B " troop, 7th Cavalry, nearly recovered. July 29th, one in Company "A," 3d Infantry, died same day. July 30th, one in Company "A,'' 3d Infantry, died same day. July 31st, no cases. Among the citizen employes during this same time, (from 11th to 31st, inclusive,) twenty-six cases have occurred, with eleven deaths. Two other cases, both fatal, occurred among other citizens (not employes) about the post. To sum up, from the 11th July to the 31st, inclusive, number of cases, of soldiers and citizens, attacked with the disease, 49; recovered or convalescing, 24 ; died, 25. The disease was at its height on the 26th, when there were eiglit soldiers attacked, and as many citizens. There were six deaths that day—three soldiers and three citizens. At this time a panic seized upon the citizen employes, thereby increasing sickness among them, livery attempt was made by them, and by certain of the soldiers, to obtain whiskey. Several cases are directly traceable to a debauch at tliis time. As a genera] thing, the soldiers were cheerful, but the employes were completely demoi-alized, with a few exceptions. Some of them made a demonstration upon the stock, with a view of getting away fi'om the post; a few shots, however, among them, vv-ounuing one of them slightly, quickly gave tliem to understand that they were closely watched, and no further attempts were made. On the morning of the 2Gth Major Douglass, 3d Infantry, commanding post, was attacked. I am happy to be able to sny that at present he seems in a fair way to recover. Mrs. Douglass was attacked on the morning of the 29th, in the midst of her devoted attention to her husband, and lies dangerously ill frorcg^the disease. Their infant often months is suffering from cholera infantum, but I believe it will recover. In treatment of cases as they occur, I do not confine myself to any particular course, but cannot say that I derive any great degree of satisfaction from whatsoever I may try. In a majority of the threatening diarrhoeas I have used a mixture of tincture of opium, tincture of capsicum, fluid extract of ginger, tincture of camphor, tincture of catechu, with brandy ; sometimes adding enough chloroform to give five or ten drops at a dose. In many cases, judging by the tongue, I prescribed, with excellent eflect, 2 grains of blue mass, with ^ or I- of a grain of powdered opium every three hours. This had the effect of altering the ch.aracter of the passages in a few hours; sometimes the diarrhoea ceased entirely ; when it did not, astringents, which seemed of no effect before, now acted admirably. In the stage of cramps, purging, and vomiting, I have placed my main reliance upon chloroform, giving from 30 to 60 minims every half hour in ice water, sometimes in sherry wine; free and hard frictions to surface with turpentine; mustard plasters; injections of sugar of lead and tannin after each passage; ice swallowed in pellets, the patient to be kept from drinking. I have but little confidence—none, I might say—in opiates, in this or the after stages. In so7ne cases calomel satisfied me, in othei-s it did not. I gave it in small doses. In the stage of collapse I have used everything I could think of: general application of mustard ; rubbing with turpentine ; hot applications externally ; internally, chloroform, in 6(1 minim doses; ice; now and then (not frequently) a teaspoonful of iced brandy. In one case (that of Egan, in special cholera report) strychnia was tried, in grain doses, every half hour, until three doses were taken. The man a]ii)eared at his Ifcst gasp, but rallied, and came out of his collapse. The medicine gave no indication of bad effects, but the man again sank into collaj).'*e and died. In the stage of reaction great watchfulness becomes necessary. The urinary organs demand special attention. In several of the cases reported there was entire suppression of urine for some hours—in one or two cases, for one, two, or more days—after reaction came on. To overcome this, I relied upon chlorate of potassa in large doses internally, sweet spirits of nitre, and other diuretics. Injections of chlorate of ])otassa, salt, bicarbonate of soda, one drachm each, to a pint of hot water, about