EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. 86 Brevet Major Henry A. Swartwout, U. S. A., Captain, 17th Infantry, and Acting Assistant Adjutant General, died of yellow fever on the 8th of the mouth, after an illness of little more than three days. On the almost entire subsidence of the epidemic among us, and on the convalescence of Assistant Surgeon Cronkhite, we, on the 19th of the month, discontinued the hospital as a ward for patients, discontinuing my own liospital work, and removing my ofKce trom the building. Subsequently, the hospital at the barracks (which had been used chiefiy as a convalescent ward, and for the admission of cases other than of yellow fever) only was occupied. Succeeding the discontinuance of the military hospital in the city but three additional cases occurred; of these Hospital Steward Henry J. Levy, U. S. A., on duty in my office, was admitted to hospital October 20th, and died on the Slst of the month. No additional cases occurred among the troops in November; but there was one death, (white,) and this was a continued case. In the city the fever during November presented but few additional cases; and in December the infection may be said to have entirely run its course. In this month the city again became occupied by returned unacclimated residents, without any spread of the disease, notwith- standing no ice or frost appeared until in January of the present year. Before proceeding to the summary of the prevalence of the fever, I should speak of the hospital service, during nearly the entire epidemic season, of Hospital Steward Ernest Cauzler, U. S. A., who, imacclimated, had been placed on duty at the militarv hospital for the epidemic, having arrived at the station on the 22d of July. On the 5th of September he was prostrated, but early resumed his duty. For a time, when all the medical officers of the army were ill, he was the only one of the department on duty. I should do injustice to pass over the name of Charles H. Weeks, Sergeant, Company " F," 17th U. S. Infantry, who, unac- climated, voluntarily assumed, at an early pei iod, the immediate duty of an acting hospital steward in the convalescent ward of the hospital and barracks in the city, only ending his faithful service with his life, dying of yellow fever at nearly the close of the epidemic. I enclose a summary of cases among the troops during the epidemic. The deaths given I find reported in the following order of date, including the date of admission : on the second day, 10 ; on the third day, 11; on the fourth day, 13 ; on the fifth day, 15; on the sixth day, 11; on the seventh day, 6; on the eighth daj', 3 ; on the ninth day, 7 ; on the tenth day, 3; on the eleventh day, 1; on the 12th day, 2; on the 13th day, 2 ; additional continued cases, 2; unknown, 5. Some of the dates given, occurring in quarters and through the city, are not entirely exact. The U. S. steam revenue cutter Delaware (on duty in the harbor, but lying well oft' from the city, in excellent sanitary condition) lost 50 per cent, of the commissioned officers who had the disease; but of a crew of forty-two enlisted men lost but one ; and this death, I am informed, was consequent upon a relapse. All belonging to the ship, with one exception, had the fever. The first interment among the Hebrews of the city was made .July 30th. The percentage of deaths among them was about ' 21.33. As a class, they were very largely unacclimated; more died of those direct from Europe, in proportion, than of those from the northern states whose first season south it was; of the deaths twenty-nine were males and three females ; no children. I enclose, for the information of the department, a statement of cases of yellow fever in the hospitals of the city during the epidemic. First, Island City Hospital, under the charge of Dr. Greensville Dowell. I have taken this from the published report of the hospital. Second, Charity Hospital, under the supervision of the Sisters of Charity, the report of which is furnished me by Dr. James Nagle, managing Surgeon. Of the three Sisters first engaged in the organization of this hospital, all had arrived in the year from Europe; all took the fever; one, the Sister Superior, died. Two thousand and twenty-six cases were relieved by the Howard Association during the epidemic, including all applications, supposed to have been yellow fever cases. A small proportion of these, however, no doubt, were cases passing through the city, and who were sufferers from the epidemic. The estimate of the number of cases of yellow fever for the entire city during the epidemic (troops and civilians) approximates nine thousand. This, making a deduction of the colored portion of the population, and of the whites remaining in the city who had previously had the disease, would leave a small margin, including persons entirely escaping attack. Of the total of cases liere given, the mortality may be estimated at 14 per cent. The army suft'ered severely in proportion to its number of cases. The infection chiefly spread at the barracks in the months of August and September, a period including the most malignant portion of the epidemic. Again, it is to be remembered that those of the army were men almost wholly unacclimated. In the mental depression that witnessed so many falling around them is evidenced another fact tending to increase the mortality. I may here speak of the work of the Howard Association, who, while the terrible scourge was pi-ostrating the heart of the city and decimating its population, laboriously, zealously extended lielp and comfort in the want and sorrow of the almost pulseless city. To us of the army they extended warm sympathy, and at all times gave their assistance promptly when it was asked. On our own account, I can hardly say too much in their behalf. Mr. Yard, president of the association, has given me much aid in procuring material relating to the course of the epidemic. The epidemic was one of the most sweeping that has occurred in the history of the city, becoming especially virulent, as has been seen, toward the close of the month of July; at this date, and initil toward the latter month of the epidemic, the tendency of the fatal cases was to death by congestion of the brain. In the last month, however, the disease assumed its more ordinary char- acteristics, expending its force usually upon the digestive organs, and the tendency was to death, attended with black vomit. Thirty or thirty-three per cent, of the fatal cases of the first part of the epidemic may be estimated to have been attended with cerebral congestion, death usually occurring within twelve hours after the supervention of the cerebral symptoms ; in many instances death succeeded the appearance of such symptoms much more speedily. In the fatal cases attended with black vomit, death was apt to occur within 12 or 24 hours after this condition presented; not unfrequently a lesser period intervened ; this was not, however, considered necessarily a fatal symptom. All ages and sexes appear to have been equally .susceptible of attack, though among children, to the age of twelve years, the disease was almost invariably less virulent. I doubt that the average of deaths among these would exceed five per cent. The comparative mortality