ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. MEDICAL SERIES. 143 tongue, and some bronchial irritation. November 12tli. Improved under treatment until tins morning; his respiration is now hurried; there is a renewal of all the febrile symptoms, more cough, and dark flashed cheeks, but none of the physical signs of pneumonia. November 15th. Better. November IGth. Feeble, skin cool. November 17th. Bilious vomiting several times last night; some pain in the epigastric region; no tympanites; pulse feeble; the stomach continues irritable, with frequent vomiting, the matters vomited resembling coiFee-grounds towards the last; death at 8 P.M. Autopsy: Not much emaciation ; intestines glued together with pasty yellow lymph; abdominal cavity con- tained two pints of yellow turbid fluid, with foecal odor; a perforation about ^ of an inch in diameter near middle of ileum ; Peyer's glands much enlarged; spleen enlarged and softened. No. 439, Medical Series, is a piece of the ileum of this patient, presenting two deep typhoid ulcers quite like those encountered in ordinary enteric fever. One of the ulcers has perforated, and the peritoneal surface of the piece is coated with pseudo-membrane. Contributed by Surgeon B. Bentley, U. S. Vols. The series illustrative of diarrhoea and dysentery consists of over 200 specimens, grouped as follows: The first group embraces the examples of follicular ulceration of the colon. The specimens present all the transition forms of simple enlargement of the solitary follicles of the colon, the rupture of the same, and the formation of punched-out ulcers of mod- erate size. The colon is usually more or less thickened, the thickening, in some cases, amounting to a quarter of an inch. The ulcers are usually rounded or oval, extending nearly or quite to the muscular coat, and looking much as if they had been cut out with a punch; when received fresh at the Museum, the appearances varied with the stage of the process. In the few cases in which the solitary follicles were simply enlarged, with- out ulceration, the intestine was seldom thickened. It was often normal in color; some- times, however, slate or ash colored; sometimes it presented patches of congestion. The enlarged solitary follicles were often the seat of pigment deposits; sometimes also an areola of pigment, deposited in and among the glands of Lieberkiihn, surrounded the enlarged and blackened solitary follicles. These patients had generally died of some other disease, as of camp fever supervening upon the diarrhoea, with lesions of the small intestine—of gunshot wounds, etc. In the more serious cases of diarrhoea, the colon was more or less thickened, and presented punched-out ulcers which had originated in the solitary follicles. The colon was then seldom normal in its color. Sometimes it was red, reddish brown, or reddish black; at other times greenish, slate, or ash colored; at others, again, unnaturally pale. Its texture, when cut into, was sometimes tough and lardaceous; sometimes it was softened. The ulcers usually presented a grayish or yellowish-gray base. They were sometimes filled with mucus, at other times con- tained pus. In the majority of the cases of this class, the small intestine was not involved, unless camp fever had existed as a complication. In the second group of cases, the follicular ulcers have extended until, in extreme instances, the greater part of the mucous membrane of the colon is destroyed by the vast erosions thus produced. The follicular ulcers usually extend by burrowing in the submucous connective tissue; in this way, in some of the specimens, several of these ulcers communicate with each other in the submucous tissue, though still retaining dis- tinct orifices. The mucous layer containing the glands of Lieberkiihn, undermined by the extension of the ulcer, not unfrequently hangs in shreds like a fringe from its edge; the undermined portion being occasionally destroyed by ulceration, but more frequently perishing by sloughing. In such specimens, when received fresh at the Museum, the mucous membrane was generally of a dark-red, brownish, greenish-brown, or slate color. The ulcers presented yellowish-brown or yellowish bases, often with blackish or brown