EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. 44 constantly exposed to the epidemic, although both had been comparatively free from the disease. Companj' "H," in which the disease had not reappeared, was retained at the post. Prior to starting, a most rigid inspection Avas made of the command, and in accordance with an arrangement which had previously been made with Assistant Surgeon Sternberg, U. S. A., all suspicious cases were placed in camp, for either observation or treatment, so that the command started with an absolutely clear sick report. The hospital arrangements consisted of a fully equipped Autenrieth medical wagon, an extra supply of disinfectants, stimulants and stores, and three ambulances. Dr. D. C. De Leon, formerly of the army, and who was en route to Albuquerque, New Mexico, accompanied the command as my personal guest, and subsequently rendered me valuable aid, although inclined to embrace all cases of intestinal disorder which occurred among those of pure cholera. The command numbered as follows: Two hundred and twenty enlisted men, twelve officers, thirty-seven ladies, children and servants, forty-four quartermaster's employes, and was joined, after crossing the Smoky Hill, by Col. Brown, (the sutler at Fort Sumner, New Mexico,) with a family of ten persons ; making a total of 324 persons. The march of July 20th was a distance of 18 miles, over the usual Santa Fe road, to Plumb creek, on the west bank of which the camp was made, great care being taken to avoid ground which had been used for camp purposes, as all western bound trains, for several weeks past, had been affected with cholera. The water was good, and was procured from a spring one mile beyond the ford. No sickness of any character was developed during the day. July 2l8t, the command left camp at 5. 30 a. m., marched 10 miles to Cow creek, and went into camp on its west bank at 10. 30 a. m. Old camp grounds were avoided; the water obtained from the stream was good. At 9 o'clock a. m., while on the march. Private John Hughes, Company "A," was suddenly seized with cramps of lower extremities and abdomen, accompanied with vomiting and purging, which rapidly assumed the rice-water character. This man, I subsequently learned, had been exposed to the disease as a nurse in the cholera tents at Fort Harker. The case proved amenable to treatment. Shortly after making camp, the disease, which we had hoped to escape, was suddenly developed among the enlisted men. Five well-marked cases of epidemic cholera, and four of cholerine, were admitted to hospital. The disease did not, however, assume a virulent type. By midnight the severity of the symptoms were relieved, none of the cases proving immediately fatal. Isolation of these cases was carried out as far as was practicable, and greater surveillance over the men was enforced. July 22d, the command left camp at 5 a. m. The sick were well provided for iu the hospital ambulances and wagons which had been turned over by the commanding officer for that purpose. The march of 13 miles to Walnut creek was made by 10 a. m., and the camp was formed on the east side of the creek, a mile from Fort Zarah, it being found unadvisable to cross the stream, from the fact that, Zarah being a rendezvous, the ground, for a very considerable distance on its west bank, had been used repeatedly for camp purposes. During the day two cases of epidemic cholera and one of cholerine were developed, but, as on the preceding day, without malignanant symptoms. July 23d, at 3 o'clock, it was found impossible to ford the creek, as, since midnight, the stream had rapidly risen, and was then three feet higher than usual. The bridge below Zarah was examined, and pronounced unsafe to cross the train. The command remained, therefore, in camp during the day. Two new cases of cholera and five of cholerine were admitted for treatment, and many of those who were considered as having passed into convalescence exhibited symptoms of increased disorder. Two cases of those attacked on the 21st terminated fatally. The disease, which had previously existed at Fort Zarah to some extent, but had subsided, was this day again developed, the first victim being Brevet Captain I. Helm, of the 3d Infantry, who died a few hours after the inception of the disease. July 24th, the command was still detained "in camp by the impossibility of crossing the creek. Eight cases of cholera and five of cholerine were developed; two cases terminated fatally during the night, one of which had been taken with the disease on the same day and the other on the 22d. July 25th, the ford being found practicable, the command crossed Walnut creek, and for the first time on the march it was practicable to adopt the rule so strongly recommended by Parses and leave the line of march. It being foind that the lower road, or that which follows closely the banks of the Arkansas, had been unused during the entire season, on account of the existing Indian troubles, the commanding officer determined upon taking it at all hazards. Before crossing the creek, a teamster of the quartermaster's department was seized with cholera, and was removed by the wagonmaster to the post hospital. I have been unable to learn the termination of the case. Immediately on making the crossing, Private William Mitchell, of Company "A," who left camp in apparent health, was seized with cholera, and it proved the only virulent or rapidly malignant case that occurred on the march, resisting all treatment; it proved fatal in four hours from its inception. A march of about fourteen miles brought the command to the Arkansas river. As had be en reported, the road was found unused—no trails or signs of camps to be perceived. In addition to the cases reported, five cases of cholera and fourteen of cholerine occurred, and one case, attacked the previous day, died early in the evening. July 2(ith : the eflfect of remaining in camp was evidently so pernicious to the morale of the command, that it was decided to move camp each day, if enabled to make only a few miles. Therefore, the command moved at 5.30 a. m., crossing the Pawnee fork, marched about 18 miles, and camped at 2 p. m. on the river opposite Fort Earned, but six miles distant. Three cases occurred during the day, and two deaths, one of whom was taken sick on the 25th, the other on the 21st. In addition to these, Mr. Brown, whose presence with the command was before noticed, was taken sick with cholera; his case proved an aggravated one. At this post an unsuccessful effort was made to leave in the post hospital the convalescent cases, in order to afford better accommodations to those seriously ill. I succeeded, however, in obtaining three large wagons, in addition to those already in use, and was then enabled to transport with comfort all the sick. During tlu! past few weeks the days had been oppressively hot and close, but were followed by chilly nights and heavy dews. The damp heat of tlie earlier part of the dtiy added greatly to the physical fatigue of the march ; but during this night a violent rain .storm with thunder and lightning came on, and lasted for several hours. The salutary effect of this was evident on the succeeding days. July 27th, left camp at 5.10 a. m., two cases being in extremis, who died seven miles from camp, and were |jnried on the