EXTEACTS FROM OFFICIAL EEPORTS. 51 Extract from Special Cholera Beport, Betachment of the 7th U. S. Cavalry, in Camp near Fort Wallace, Kansas, July, 1867. Assistant Surgeon H. Lippincott, U. S. A. Left Fort Hays, Kansas, on the expedition to the Platte river, June 1st, 1837. Hard marches and bad food. Arrived at Fort Wallace, after marching over 700 miles, July 13th, 1867. Prophylactic treatment: Great attention to personal cleanliness; drinking of water which has not undergone ebullition pro- hibited ; alcoholic liquors forbidden; fi eqiient inspections and disinfecting of sinks; daily inspections of quarters and food; liberal use of cold tea as a drink ; burning of all infected articles ; use of disinfectants in company quarters; isolation of patients and nurses. Treatment: In the fatal cases we used almost every remedy recommended in the books, and found them nugatory. The solution of camphor and chloroform seemed to arrest the cramps and vomiting in some instances. A very strong solution of iodine in alcohol, applied to the chest, abdomen, legs, and feet, was also found beneficial in arresting cramps in some cases. In the cases of recovery, we think calomel and blue mass were useful agents. Acting Assistant Surgeon J. T. Coates, who is still with us, is, and has been, most indefatigable in his duties. From Special Cholera Report of the same for August. No cases of cholera have arisen since the 17th ; and as the health of the command is excellent and sanitary surroundings good, I am almost confident that the disease is entirely arrested in camp. FORT WALLACE, KAIVSAS. Post Hospital, Fort Wallace, Kansas, September 1, 1867. General : Enclosed I have the honor to forward a report of sick and wounded at this post for the month ending August 31st, together with a special report of cases of cliolera which liave come under my notice, none of which have occurred among the gai'rison proper of the post, which has consisted of Companies "F" and "I," 7th U. S. Cavalry, and " E," 3d U. S. Infantry, each of which had gone through the epidemic of cliolera at Fort Riley last year, and Company "D," 37th IT. S. Infantry, which had been exposed at Little Rock, Arkansas, during the prevalence of the disease at that post last fall; in all 339 officers and men. Besides the command, there were 120 citizens employed in the quartermaster's department at the post. With the exception of about seventy enlisted men who were quartered in the only barracks at the post, the whole command has occupied tents; of course in the absence of all shade. During July several companies of the 7th U. S. Cavalry, having closed an arduous campaign, occupied several camps in this vicinity, none nearer than a mile from the post. Among them cholera prevailed and disappeared without infecting the post, intercourse being restricted, but by no means prevented. All sanitary precautions practicable have been enforced throughout the season, attention having been paid to diet, which has been good and well prepared, and drink, as well as police and disinfec- tions. The sale of beer and alcoholic drinks, never promiscuous, was early prohibited. A part of the water used at the post has been obtained from the Smoky Hill river, which is a swift-running stream of small size, with gravel bottom and well-defined banks, and, at this point, is forty-five feet below the level of the bluff on which the post is erected, and three hundred yards distant. The balance of the water has been obtained from a well between the post and river, but is of little better quality than the river water, both having been subjected to purification during times particularly threatening. An extra issue of tea at one time aflbrded almost the exclusive drink of the command. The occurrence of disordered bowels, which I noticed in my last monthly report, continued with increased frequency and severity, and the weather continued hot and dry, as the accompanying meteorological statement shows: The mean of the thermometer during the first fifteen days of the month was 83.78^^; the mean of the hygrometer was 68.22째; no rain having fallen during this period. Tlie average was deduced from observations made at 7 a. m., and at 2 and 9 p. m. The maximum was reached on the 6th, it being 106째 in the shade at 2 p. m. Subsequent to the loth a favorable change took jihice, which still continues. Latitude, 39째 ; longitude, 101째 ; altitude, 3,318 feet, On the 8th inst.. Companies "B," "E," "G," "H," and "I," of the 5th U. S. Infantry, arrived fiom New Mexico, and encamped about one mile west of this post on ground not previously occupied, and well calculated for the purpose, with an aggregate of 343 officers and men, Acting Assistant Surgeon Bradford, U. S. A., being on duty with them. The command is said to have been healthy on the road, though much diarrhoea seems to have existed unnoticed after its leaving the Arkansas.