GUNSHOT INJURIES OF THE HEAD. IT Legouest, Traite de Chirurgie d'Armee, p. 283. See also Compendium dc Chirurgie, t. ii. p. 573. 11 Fig. 3.- -i.xtLU.ir view ol the luri-goiug speuimen. No further particulars of J The patient continued to sink on the 27th, and died at 1 a.m. on the 28th of July. At the autopsy the internal tabic of the left parietal was found to be fractured and depressed at a point corresponding with the wound in the scalp. The dura mater was wounded, and there waip a large abscess in the left cerebral hemisphere. In a specimen which is believed to be unique, without any apparent lesion of the external table, a fragment of the vit- reous plate of the frontal bone was found to be completely detached and depressed upon the dura mater. The history in this case is unfortunately imperfect. Private A L , Co. C, 78th New York Vols., was wounded by a co- noidal musket-ball, at the battle of the Wilderness, May 6th, 18G4, and entered Armory Square Hospital, at Washington, on May 12th. He was in a comatose condition when admitted, and died on May 24th, eighteen days after receiving the injury. the case could be obtained. At the autopsy a fracture was discovered of the inner table of the frontal bone, near the coronal suture, to the left of the median line. There was no solution of continuity in the outer table; but it was softened where the pericranium was destroyed by the ball. A frag- ment, an inch and a half in length and half an inch broad, was completely detached from the vitreous table. The speci- men was forwarded by Surgeon I). W. Bliss, U. S. Vols. In a case which was observed by Sur- ^ geon Bontecou, U. S. V., who had examined J the specimens above referred to, the proba- ^ , ^ / '- Fig. 5.—Kxtcrior view of the fore- bility of a depression of the vitreous table goicg specimen. FlG.4.—Fracture of the vitreous table ' r. -i ii t • • r' -\ -i of the frontal boiie without f.ac-was lufcrrcd, aud thc diagnosis was vermed, during life, bv the ture of the external table. Spec. ' ' a ^ J 23i3,A.M.M. application of the trephine. Unhappily, an abscess had formed in the brain, and the operation, though performed as soon as evidence of compression existed, was too late to save the patient. Private D S , Co. E, 2d Virginia Cavalry, aged twenty-one, was wounded at Appomattox Court House, April Gth, 1805, and admitted to Harewood Hospital, at Washington, on April 19th, with a gunshot wound of the scalp, just below the coronal suture. The bone was denuded of its pericranium, but there was no apparent fracture. Prior to his admission, the patient had chills, which recurred at intervals of twelve hours, until April 25th, quinia having no appre- ciable influence upon the paroxysms. There was no pain in the head nor disturb- ance of the cerebral faculties until April 26th. On the 25th, inflammation of the lower lobe of the right lung was observed, and on the 26th, there was endocarditis. At 10 P.M. of the 26th, the patient became unconscious. Shortly afterwards he was trephined. When the external table was passed, pus exuded from the cells of the diploe. A depressed fracture of the inner table was discovered, and the detached fragments were removed. The patient did not arouse from his comatose state, and died the next morning, April 27th, 1865. A photograph of this patient, prior to the operation, was preserved at the Museum. (Photo. Surg. Cases, vol. i. No. 58.) Specimens 3639, 340G, 622,1922, and 646, A. M. M., afford other examples of this rare form of injury, to which S. Cooper,* Guthrie,f Hennen,J Hewett,§ Williamson,|| and Legouest^ allude, illustrating their observations by a case examined by Mr. Dean, of Cambridgeshire, a specimen in the Dupuytren Museum, which is figured in M. Legouest's work, and specimen No. 2893 of the Netley Collection. Fig. 6.—Section of cranium, showing a de- pressed fracture of the vitreous table. Tliere was a contusion only of the outer table. Spec. 4344, A. M. M. * S. Cooper, Dictionary of Practical Surgery. X Hennen, Military Surgery, p. 326, ed. 1829. II Williamson, Military Surgery, pp. 29, 30. t Guthrie, Commentaries, paragraph 262. 'i Holmes' System of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 114,