142 ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. MEDICAL SERIES. both exhibit well-marked enlargement of the solitary follicles, many of which are as large as bird-shot. Each piece exhibits a Peyer's patch, in which, in the alcoholic specimens, nothing abnormal is visible. No. 109, Medical Series, is the enlarged spleen of this patient, 7j inches long, 5 wide by 3 thick. Contributed by Prof. J. Leidy. Corporal S •, 9th Wisconsin Vols., was admitted to Satterlee Hospital, West Philadelphia, December 16th, 1862, from the Army of the Potomac. His disease was registered Diarrhoea. He died December 24th. Autopsy the same afternoon: Age about thirty years; cadaver rather emaciated; spots of purpura on chest and abdomen; lobular pneumonia in lower lobes of both lungs; the inflamed portions numerous, from the size of a marble to that of a walnut, and in a state of gray hepatization; bronchitis; stomach much contracted; patches of congestion in small intestines; Peyer's patches congested and dark red in color, with, however, only the slightest degree of thickening in some of the lowest of them; the solitary glands looked like yellow mustard-seeds sprinkled on a red ground; large intestine streaked with ash color and dark red, and with purpura-like spots of ecchymosis. Nos. 93 to 98, Medi- cal Series, are successive portions of the ileum of this patient. As preserved in the Museum, Peyer's patches are not perceptibly diseased, except the large patch in No. 98, which was taken from just above the ileo-coecal valve, and which is slightly thickened. The solitary follicles in all the pieces are enlarged to the size of mustard-seeds. Contributed by Prof. J. Leidy. Private D , 100th Pennsylvania Vols., aged eighteen, was admitted to Carver Hospital, Washington, D. C, July 5th, 1864, from hospital at City Point, Va. He was considerably emaciated; his tongue thickly coated ; pulse rapid and feeble; there was headache, anorexia, and diarrhoea; the left parotid gland was swollen and painful. July 15th. The parotitis has terminated in suppuration; the abscess was opened to-day; the febrile symptoms continue; there are distinct remissions during the forenoon of each day; persistent diarrhoea. July 22d. Patient has grown gradually worse; the integument over the parotid has sloughed; diarrhoea continues; there is deafness and low delirium, espe- cially at night; the remissions have not been so distinct for the last few days; died this evening. Autopsy: Emacia- tion; lungs congested; heart pale and flabby; Peyer's patches congested, but not thickened; the solitary follicles of the ileum considerably enlarged; several very minute ulcers in the vermiform appendix and the ascending colon. Nos. 385, 386, and 387, Medical Series, are successive portions of the ileum, showing marked enlargement of the solitary follicles. Peyer's patches are not perceptibly diseased. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon 0. P. Sweet. Private V , 126th Ohio Vols., was admitted to Carver Hospital, Washington, D. C, from Field Hos- pital, Army of the Potomac, July 4th, 1864. He was much emaciated, and suffering from symptoms resembling typhoid fever. Tongue coated with thick, dry, brown fur, teeth with dark sordes ; tympanites; petechiie on abdo- men and chest; the diarrhoea was severe, but the stools feculent; the patient at first improved, but July 25th the diarrhoea began to grow worse and delirium set in; death July 30th. Autopsy: Old pleuritic adhesions on both sides; two ounces of serum in pericardium; liver large and pale ; spleen large and firm; the solitary follicles of small intestine enlarged to the size of large pin-heads; Peyer's patches congested, but not thickened ; the colon thin, pre- senting a number of ulcers, which, in the descending colon, were large and irregular. No. 416, Medical Series, is a portion of the ileum of this patient, taken from just above the ileo-ccecal valve, showing pin-head enlargement of the solitary follicles. The whole ileum (preserved in alcohol) was received at the Museum. No disease of Peyer's patches was visible. Nos. 417 and 418, Medical Series, are from the transverse and descending colon, and present a number of irregular ulcers. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon 0. P. Sweet. Private W , 7th Western Virginia Vol. Cav., aged nineteen, was admitted to Carver Hospital, Washington, D. C, from the Army of Western Virginia, August 21st, 1864. He was considerably emaciated, and had been sick for some time with fever, diarrhoea, and vomiting. When admitted, he appeared exhausted; his pulse was frequent and feeble; he had slight diarrhoea and incessant vomiting; under treatment, the vomiting disappeared, and the diarrhoea greatly improved, but he remained in a typhoid condition, and died August 25th. Autopsy: Hypostatic congestion of posterior part of lungs; the right side of heart contained a large fibrinous clot; the ileum presented patches of congestion, with enlargement of the solitary follicles; there were numerous ulcers of Peyer's patches, which, however, presented this peculiarity, that three, four, or more small oval ulcers, a few lines in diameter, were seated in each patch, but the remaining portions were nearly normal. This condition is well shown in the portions preserved in the Museum, Nos. 407 and 408, Medical Series. In the colon, the solitary follicles were the seat of pigment deposits. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon 0. P. Sweet. Private C was admitted to Hospital No. 3, Alexandria, Va., from the Field Hospital at City Point, November 30th, 1864. He was in an extremely typhoid condition, with sordes about the mouth, muttering delirium, petechial spots on the surface, and hfemorrhage from the nostrils and bowels. He died December 3d. Autopsy: Peyer's patches converted into black, pultaceous sloughs; the solitary follicles enlarged, near the ileo-coecal valve some of them ulcerated; a few small ulcers in the ccecum. No. 468, Medical Series, is the lower part of the ileum, which well exhibits the sloughs described. After nearly a year's immersion in alcohol, they have not yet lost their dark color. Contributed by Acting Assistant Surgeon W. Miner. Private F , 42d Massachusetts Vols., was admitted to Hospital No. 3, Alexandria, Va., October 29th, 1864. He was taken sick about a week before with a decided chill, followed by hot skin, severe headache, thirst, and diar- rhoea; has had no epistaxis or tympanites; is wakeful, with hot skin, pulse 120, thirst, scanty urine, coated dry