EEPOET ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA AND YELLOW FEVER. XVIII These tables were prepared from the monthly reports of sick and wounded ; after which they were carefully compared with the lists of names furnished, every discrepancy being investigated and corrected, as was done in preparing the cholera tables. Some of the appended extracts from official reports give figures differing from the tables by one or two cases. The editor has not felt at liberty to change their text, but believes that in all such instances the corrected tables prepared under his supervision will be found to be accurate. The extracts from official reports are quite voluminous, (Appendix, pp. 81-156,) but, it is thought, will be found full of interest. From them the following brief history of tlie epidemic has been prepared. The more thoroughly the facts connected with the spread of yellow fever in the army during 1867 are known, the more strongly they appear to favor the theory of the exotic origin of epidemic yellow fever in the United States. It is believed that a careful study of the documents here presented will satisfy the reader that the experience of the medical staff of the army last year furnislies many facts favorable to the doctrine of the portability and transmissibility of the disease, and favor- able, therefore, to the establishment of an efficient quarantine in the case of vessels or persons coming from infected places. In this the experience of last year agrees with the general tenor of the experience of the medical staff of the army during the late war. In addition to this important practical point, the events of last year will serve to direct the attention of medical men and commanding officers to the importance of promptly removing any command' exposed to this pestilence to some healthy rural site ; and this with every hope of avoiding the spread of the disorder to any serious extent, even if the removal has been delayed until cases have occurred among the men. These practical conclusions appear the more important because the ordinary hygienic precautions were not found so effectual against yellow f^ver as experience had shown them to be against cholera, and because therapeutic endeavors have proved comparatively fruitless. The reports indicate clearly two foreign sources from which the disease was imported into the United States last year—Vera Cruz, Mexico, and Havana, Cuba. From Mexico it was brought to Indianola, and thence to other points in Texas. At all other statrons it seems to have been brought directly or indirectly from Havana ; and it is worthy of remark that the cases here indicated as of Mexican origin were more fatal than those of Cuban origin, two out of every five cases of the former dying, while the mortality of the latter was but two out of seven. The ratio of deatlis was 400 per thousand cases for the first of these groups, 284 per thousand for the second. From Indianola the pestilence was carried to Galveston, and from each of these points it spread towards the interior of the State, along the chief routes of travel, being carried from Indianola to Victoria and Goliad; from Galveston to Houston, Hempstead, Brenham, and Austin. At Ringgold Barracks and at Brownsville it was more directly of Mexican origin, as will be presently shown; and at Jefferson, Texas, in the northeastern portion of the State, where there were but two cases, one was a man who had just come up the Rod river from New Orleans, the other was his attendant. The fever was first introduced at New Orleans from Havana. It spread from New Orleans to Ship island, to Baton Rouge, and to all the other places in Mississippi, Alabama,