166 CONCLUDING REMARKS. In addition to hospital construction, it is important that the system of hospital administration should be faithfully described. The hospital fund and its manage- ment, the slush fund, hospital cooking and diet tables, nurses, the question of female nurses, the hospital records and reports, are all subjects on which there are abundant data for a complete historical investigation. In the foregoing remarks, my intention has been simply to give an idea of the nature and extent of the data for a Medical History of the War to be found in the part of the office under my direction. Many matters of interest have not been touched upon, for a full discussion of which abundant material exists; as, for ex- ample, the comparative health of the colored troops, of the prisoners of war held by us, of those of our own men who were unfortunate enough to fall into the hands of the rebels, etc. Moreover, there is much material in other branches of the Surgeon Gen- eral's Office the consideration of which is necessary to a full understanding of the medical administration of the army. In conclusion, I may express the opinion that, with the utmost brevity and care, it may be hoped to digest the material above sketched, not including surgical cases, into three quarto volumes, of about the size of the volumes of the Medical Statistics heretofore pub- lished. The prominent subjects in these volumes would be the medical statistics of the several armies, with the principal facts in their medical histories; the medical statistics of the several general hospitals, with descriptions of their construction and administra- tion, illustrated by a sufficient number of ground plans and perspective views to give a just idea of them; and lastly, an account of the causes, history, symptoms, pathology, and treatment of the principal diseases of the troops, based upon statistical facts, con- tributed papers, histories of cases and autopsies, and observations made in the medical and microscopical sections of the Museum. This part of the work it is proposed to illustrate with such colored plates of morbid conditions and representations of the microscopical anatomy of the chief diseases as may be necessary to preserve, for the future study of medical men, a faithful account of the costly experience of the Med- ical Department during the war. Of the subjects thus indicated, about one-half of the statistical matter is compiled, and most of the material required for the remaining por- tion of the work is collected, and can be prepared for the press with reasonable rapidity. Almost all the necessary drawings are made, and ready for the lithographer; a large number of the wood-cuts are actually executed, and the material for the microscopical illustrations is in a forward condition. I have the honor to be, Very respectfully. Your obedient servant, J. J. WOODWARD, Assistant Surgeon and Brevet Major U. S. A., In charge of the Record and Pension Division, Surgeon General's Office, and of the Medical Section, Army Medical Museum. G