75 EXCISIONS. EXCISIONS OF THE HEAD OF THE FEMUR—Concluded. Constitutional State of Patient at Time of Operation. Very much exhausted from profuse suppuration. Very much exhausted. Progress, Treatment, etc. Nourishing diet; two bottles of porter daily, eggs, beef tea, and everything he de- sired. Did not rally well; stimu- lants very freely adminis- tered. Kesult. Cause of Deatli. Transferred to Marine Hos- pital, New Orleans, La., May 2Cth, 1865; doing well. Died June 5th, 1865; exhaustion. Died May 2d, 1865; capil- lary haemorrhage. REMARKS. Operator, A. McMahon, Sur- geon U. S. Vols. This case was unfavorable for any operation; but as death evidently would otherwise result, the only hope for him was in operation. Operator, A. McMahon, Sur- geon U. S. Vols. No operation performed on elbow-joint, as condition of patient would not admit it. The specimen in Surgeon D. P. Smith's successful case indicates that na- ture had attempted something in the way of reparation. (Specimen 1192.) A drawing has been made of the appearance of* the limb of the patient who furnished this specimen.* (Surgi- cal Series of Drawings No. 73, A. M. M.) In Medical Inspector Pineo's case (Specimen 71, A. M. M.), the ball, after shattering the trochanters and neck of the femur, unhappily entered the pelvic cavity. Fio. 74.—Excised head of femur, witli callus formation below the trochanters. Spec. 1192, A. M. M. Pig. 75.—Excised head of femur. Spec. 71, A. M. M, * The following letter, which is quoted in his own language, has lately been received from Mr. Brown : BvT. Lt. Col. George A. Otis, Coopersville, Michigan, September 26th, 1865, Surgeon U. S. Vols. Sir :— Yours of the 21st inst. has just come to hand, and I take pleasure in informing you that my general health is good; my leg is improving slowly; the knee remains quite stifi" yet, but I think it is better than it was one year ago. I have some control over the movements of the thigh. When standing, can move the leg backwards and forwards, about two and a half feet, and sideways enough to bring the foot across in front of the other foot. Can bear considerable of my weight upon it, but not enough to do away with the use of one crutch yet. Cannot perceive that there is any difference in the length of the limb since I was discharged, as I use the stirrup on the crutch the same as then. There has been no breaking out of abscesses, nor any soreness of any kind since March, 1864, nor since my discharge, to amount to anything. * * * * Respectfully yours, (Signed) JOSEPH BROWN, Late of Co. /, 3d Michigan Vols.