FORT HAKKER, KANSAS. 41 I found five mild cases of cholera in tlie hospital tent. I advised Colonel Merriam to encamp at least six miles from the post, where supplies could be sent him without any of his command visiting the post. I then started to visit Dr. McGill; it was 9 o'clock p. m. when I arrived at the Doctor's wagon, and found that he had died at 3 o'clock p. m., 20th inst. He was taken sick on the morning of the 19th inst. On the 21st I returned to the command, and found two additional cases, one of whom died. Colonel Merriam had gone towards the new post, leaving instructions for the command to follow. Ou my way back to the post I was very much surprised to find that the Colonel had pitched his camp only three miles from the post, and had gone on to the fort. When I saw 4iim I urged him to make the distance twice as great. The post commander requested me to return and see where the troops would be encamped. They were marching into camp when I arrived. Colonel Merriam went with me to the point I selected, but declined to take his men back, saying that he thought it would do them more harm than it would benefit us by the change. He expressed regret that he had got so close, and said that just before selecting the camp he had met an ambulance driver from the post, who told hiin that In was about seven miles off. At the same time, he denied the authority of the post commander to place him in quarantine. Under the circumstances, I advised the post commander to fill their requisitions as soon as possible, and then let them march around the post, cross the ferry five miles above, and march at least five miles above the ferry before encamping. No new cases have occurred to-day. Acting Assistant Surgeon H. M. Kirke, U. S. A., who was on duty with the 3d Cavalry, Company "C," was detached and sent to the 38th this morning. Company "C," 3d U. S. Cavalry, is acting as escort to an engineering party; it has no sickness, and there are four citizen doctors with the s\irveying party. Acting Assistant Surgeon E. Schiffman, U. S. A., had been sent down the Arkansas river to visit various detachments at the stage stations, and men not available. I deem it much safer for the command to continue its march than to go into a permanent camp. There is no excitement nor alarm among the men. To quarantine them would, in my opinion, greatly increase the mortality. Every day's march brings them nearer the mountains, and I have strong hopes that, by strict sanitary measures, the disease will be entirely eradicated before they cross the Eaton Mountains. The commanding officer at Fort Union has been notified. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, H. E. TILTON, Assistant Surgeon, and Brevet Major, U. S. A. Brevet Brigadier General Madison Mills, Medical Director Department of the Missouri. Skcond Detachment of the 38th Infantry en route from Fort Harker, Kans.vs, to New Micxico. Fort Craig, New Mrxico, September 25, 1867. Colonel : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 16th inst., enclosing a communication from the Surgeon General's Office relating to the reports of sick and wounded, for the months of June and July of this year, in the detachment of the 38tli U. S. Infantry under my charge, and to report thai, until the 27th of June, 1867, I performed no duty as medical officer with that command, having been ordered by Special Order No. 61, headquarters 38th U. S. Infantry, dated Jefierson Barracks, Mo., June 10th, 18B7, to proceed to Port Leavenworth, Kansas, and make requisitions for and prepare the medical supplies and ambulances for the regiment, in view of their expected march to New Mexico. I would further report that, on arriving at Fort Harker, Kansas, with the headquarters and one company of the 33th Infantry, on the 27th of June, I found that, owing to the damage to the Unit)n Pacific Eailway by the severe floods, no medicines or hospital stores had arrived for the command; and that, until their arrival on July 2d, the sick of Comiiany "H," then on duty with the headquarters of the regiment, were treated in the post hospital at Fort Harker, under the charge of Brevet Major and Assistant Surgeon Sternberg, U. S. A., in whose report of sick and wounded for June, 1867, such cases as occurred were embraced. The monthly report of sick and wounded for July, 18S7, (a copy of which is herewith enclosed,) was duly forwarded, and I have made every eflbrt to promptly furnish all required reports while the command was on the march, forwarding them from military posts or mail stations. ■ I am now engaged in preparing, and will forward as soon as possible, a detailed report of the late epidemic of cholera, as it occurred under my observation. I am. Colonel, verj' respectfully, your obedient servant, E. McCLELLAN, Assistant Surgeon, and Brevet Major, U. S. A. To Brevet Lieutenant Colonel J. C. McKee, Sun/con, U. S. A., Chief Medical Officer, District of New Mexico. Fort Craig, New Mexico, Xovember 1,1867. General : In accoi-dance with the requirement of Circular Order No. 3, War Department, Surgeon General's Office, dated April 2nth, 1867, I have the honor to forward my special report of cases of epidemic cholera in the command with which I was on duty during the months of .June, July, and August of the current year, and to state that it was impracticable for me to make this report at an eai'lier date, from the fact thai, during the greater portion »f the months named, the command was upon the march en route for this Territory. G