60 SUEGICAL OPERATIONS. patella and opened the right knee-joint. Primary amputation at the lower third of the left thigh was performed at the field hospital, and the patient was transferred to Washington, where he was admitted to Harewood Hospital, on June 20th. On admission, the stump was in a satisfactory condition; the right knee-joint, however, was disorganized. The ball, after fracturing the patella, had passed through the articulation, grooving the head of the tibia. On June 24th, the patient was etherized, and Surgeon Bontecou, U. S. Vols., excised two-thirds of the condyles of the femur, the articular surface of the tibia, and the shattered patella. The limb was dressed with the bandage of Scultetus, and supported by bran bags. The case terminated fatally on July 2d, 1864. The specimen is No. 3046, Army Medical Museum. Private D. F. E , Co. I, 49th Georgia (Rebel) Regiment, was wounded and taken prisoner at Petersburg, Virginia, on April 2d, 1865. A conoidal musket-ball struck his right knee, and fractured the patella and the external condyle of the femur. He was admitted at the General Hospital, at Fort Monroe, on April 13th. The joint was intensely inflamed, and there was great suffering. On April 18th, the patient was placed under the influence of chloroform, and Surgeon D. G. Rush, 101st Pennsylvania Vols., excised the knee-joint, removing an inch from the femur, half an inch from the tibia, and the entire patella. The Fig 71—Excised kne e joint patient rallied well after the operation ; but the wound began to suppurate freely, and the Spec. 4^12, A. M. M. case terminated fatally ou April 26th, 1865. At the autopsy, it was found that there was no attempt at reparation. Of the tenth case it is only known that a complete excision of the knee-joint for gunshot injury was performed at Fairfax Seminary Hospital, in the autumn of 1862, and that the case terminated fatally, but not until the H-shaped incision had nearly healed. The pathological preparation from the case was forwarded to the Army Medi- cal Museum by Acting Assistant Surgeon Bannister, and is numbered Specimen 600, but it is unaccompanied by a history. The success claimed in the next case is so extraordinary as to suggest some doubts of its authenticity. It appears on the quarterly report of the General Hospital at Kansas City, Missouri, for the last quarter of 1863. Private Samuel Miller, Co. L, 1st Missouri State Militia, was admitted into the General Hospital, at Kansas City, Missouri, April 1st, 1863. He was wounded near Independence, Missouri, on December 28th, 1862, the ball having fractured the outer condyle of the right femur, passed obliquely through the patella, and lodged in the head of the tibia. On April 7th, 1863, Acting Assistant Surgeon Joshua Thome, U. S. A., performed an excision of the outer condyle of the femur, with part of the shaft, removing by an oblique section two and a half inches from the femur, together with the patella and articulating surface of the tibia. No anaisthetic was used. The wound was full of shattered bone, and an extraordinary amount of pus came out of the joint. There was severe pain and extensive inflammation in the leg. The patient was much emaciated from copious diarrhoea. Skin dark and dry, very like parchment. At the time of the operation he was nearly insensible, pulse 120 and feeble. He was greatly prostrated after the operation, but on the next day he revived. Nutritious diet, with porter, was given him, and he continued to improve. Complete bony anchylosis resulted, with the leg bent about ten degrees. On December 8th, 1863, Miller was discharged from service. He was able to walk almost as well as ever. Seven partial excisions of the knee-joint for gunshot injury have been reported. Three of these were excisions of the patella. The operators were Surgeon Bontecou, U. S. Vols., Surgeon Mosely, U. S. Vols., and Acting Assistant Surgeon Coale, U. S. A. The patients survived the operations fifteen, eighteen, and twelve days, respectively. Surgeon John A. Lidell, U. S. Vols., laid open the knee-joint, and removed the fragments of a patella, shattered by a musket-ball. His patient lived ten days. Acting Assistant Surgeon Theo. Siebold, U. S. A., made a free incision into a knee-joint dis- organized by inflammation following a gunshot fracture, extracted fragments of the head of the tibia and of the patella, removed the semilunar cartilages, painted the synovial membrane with tincture of iodine, and scraped the articular cartilages from the end of the condyles. His patient survived twelve days. In two cases the head of the fibula was excised, and portions of the head of the tibia. Both recovered. In these cases, reported by Surgeon Judson, U. S. Vols., and Dr. Bournonville, it does not clearly appear that the articulation was opened.