VI REPORT Oi\ EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. been but three clays at the post. About an hour after his admission into hospital another case occurred, also a recruit of unknown previous history. Cholera was at this time prevailing in New York city.* Recruits from Governor's island carried cholera to Hart's island, where the first case "occurred on the 8th of July. The epidemic becoming severe among the troops at this post they were moved on the 20th to David's island, where the disease subsequently prevailed to a limited extent among the troops thus trans- ferred. These cases are reported from the De Camp Hospital, David's island, where they were sent for treatment. A single case also occurred at Fort Schuyler, New York Harbor. The patient was a heutenant of the first United States artillery who had slept on board the steamboat used the day before in trans- porting the infected troops from Hart's island to David's island. No cases occurred in the garrisons of Forts Hamilton, Lafayette, and Wadsw^orth, the fort at Sandy Hook, Madison barracks, or Willett's Point, New York Harbor. Moreover, there were none among the officers and men on detached duty in New York City, Jersey City, and Williamsburg. The total number of cases reported among the troops in New York Harbor was 181, with 78 deaths. On the 19th of July a soldier died of cholera at the "Soldier's Eest," Boston, Massachusetts. This man arrived in Boston on the morning of the 19th from Hart's island, where he had been on duty as a wardmaster in the cholera hospital. No further military cases occurred in Boston. On the 14th of July the steamship San Salvador left New York with 70 or 80 cabin passengers, and 60 in the crew and steerage. She touched at Governor's island and took on board 476 recruits for the seventh United States infantry. The men were lodged between decks, and were greatly over- crowded. On the second day out cholera appeared among the recruits, and when the vessel arrived at quarantine, near Savannah, Georgia, three deaths had occurred, and there were 25 ill of the disease. The troops were landed on Tybee island and a hospital extemporized. Cholera continued to prevail on the island during July and the first few days of August. Altogether there were 202 cases and 116 deaths, including 18 deserters, reported as having died in the woods of Tybee Island, and one who escaped from the island and died in the Whitemarsh quarantine hospital. The cabin passengers and crew of the San Salvador appear to have escaped, but of the ten white citizens residing on Tybee Island, nine were seized with cholera shortly after the arrival of the infected ship and five died. The tenth fled from the island, and is reported to have died of cholera somewhere in the interior of Georgia. No cases of cholera occurred among the troops stationed in Savannah. Recruits from New York Harbor arrived at New Orleans on the 8th and * Sec annual report of \hv Metrojiolitan Board of Ilealtli, 1SG6.