XVIII REPORT ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. backet of polished tin, the amount of per-manganate used has been sufficient, and if a pink color still remains after twenty-four hours, it has been used in excess." The water is ready for use after standing twenty-four hours. A slight excess of the per-manganate is injui-ious only to the appearance of the fluid. An interesting and valuable discussion of the general question of the use of disinfectants during epidemics of cholera will be found in the report on this subject, also, by Doctor B. F. Cr^ig, which is presented in Appendix B, page 63. This report contains a brief practical discussion of the merits of the more important disinfectants, their mode of action, and the conditions which call for the use of each. It contains, in fact, a brief summary of the most important facts which have been established in connection with this subject, and will be found well worthy of thoughtful consideration. The following medical officers died of cholera while engaged in the active performance of their duties in connection with the epidemic : 1st. Brevet Major J. T. Calhoun, Assistant Surgeon United States Army, died of cholera July 20th, 1866, at Hart's island, New York Harbor. 2d. John E. McDonald, Assistant Surgeon United States Army, died of cholera September 10th, 1866, at St. Louis, Missouri. 3d. Acting Assistant Surgeon J. F. Burdett died of cholera August 6th, 1866, at Tybee island, Georgia. 4th. Actino- Assistant Suro'con Samuel Catlin died of cholera November 27th, 1866, at New Orleans, Louisiana. 5th. Benjamin Hobbs, Surgeon one hundred and sixteenth United States colored troops, died of gastro-enteritis (?) August 28th, 1866, after rising from a sick bed to attend cholera cases in his regiment at White's Eanch, Texas. I have the honor to be, general, very respectfully, your obedient servant, J. J. WOODWARD, Asshtant Surgeon and Brevet Lieut. Col. U. S. Army, in charge of the Record and Pension Division, Surgeon General's Office, and of the Medical Section of the Army Medical Museum. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General United States Army. I