46 EXTRACTS P^ROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. Adjutant General's Office, Washington, D. C, March 30, 1867. Sir : In reply to your inquiry of this morning, I have respectfully to inform you that the recruits who were received at Atlanta and Augusta, Georgia, in September, 1866, were sent from Newport barracks, Kentucky. With reference to Private L. Nolan, company G, sixth cavalry, the records show that he was enlisted by Lieutenant A. R. Chaffee, sixth United States cavalry, at New Orleans, July 17, 1866, and died of cholera at New Orleans, July 22, 1866. He was born at Galway, Ireland. It is not known whether he liad acquired a residence in the United States, nor what other locality than New Orleans he might have been in previous to enlistment. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, R. WILLIAMS, Assistant Adjutant General Brevet Major J. J. Woodward, Assistant Surgeon U. S. A. XI. ]VASHVIL.L,E, TENW. Extract from monthly report of sick and wounded, detachment of Ffth United States Cavalry, Nashinlle, Tennessee, September, 1866. Brevet Major D. Bache, Assistant Surgeon United States Army. The increase in malarial diseases during this month is, with four exceptions, due to importation ; a detachment of fifty men sent to Grenada, Mississippi, in July, returning September 22, having suffered, without exception, from remittent and intermittent fevers. Many of the men are still enfeebled, and the debility in all has been protracted, and the subsequent attacks have proved obstinate, and but little amenable to ordinary treatment. The increase in the number of cases of diarrhoBa is to be ascribed, in great part, to the unusual tendency to such disorders which co-exist with an epidemic of Asiatic cholera; but two cases of this latter disease are reported, which shows this command to have so far happily escaped the violence of the epidemic. When the mortality alone in the city of Nashville is considered, not less than 1,200 in a population not exceeding 35,000, the exemption is the more remarkable. This immunity is due, in great part, to the healthy situation of the barracks, their commodious nature, and to the strict enforcement of sanitary precautions. The two cases of cholera reported occurred as the direct result of a prolonged debauch in one instance, and in the other as the consequence of excessive indulgence in green and unwholesome fruit. In the latter case the man lived but three and a half hours from the inception of the attack. It could not be ascertained whether or not there was a premonitory diarrhoea in these cases. It is a fact worthy of remark that in no instance has diarrhoea, under treatment, resulted in cholera, although many times the diarrhoea has been protracted and severe. Extract from monthly report of sick and wounded. Post Hospital, Nashville, Tennessee, September, 1866. Brevet Major Samuel A. Storrow, Assistant Surgeon United States Army. The first two deaths in the foregoing list were of patients admitted in previous months with other diseases than those given as the cause of death. Also, the eighteenth one on the list was of a patient admitted during the month covered by the report, but with a different disease than the one causing his death. From this it appears that during the month forty-four cases of epidemic cholera occurring among white soldiers were treated in the hospital, with twenty-two deaths, or fifty percent, of the cases treated. From the foregoing list it also appears that one half the deaths from epidemic cholera occurred among members of company F, third battalion, sixteenth United States infantry, which, since the 2d of August last, has been on duty at this hospital. Only two cases and two deaths occurred among white soldiers, patients in the hospital at the outbreak of the epidemic. During the last days of August and the first of September four squads of recruits, numbering ninety each, from Newport barracks, Kentucky, in the immediate neighborhood of an infected city, were quartered for quarantine purposes at this hospital. The company on duty here were thrown in immediate contact with these recruits, in fact messed with them, while the patients at the time in hospital seldom came in contact with them. It is an interesting query how far association with these recruits on the part of the company doing duty here contributed to the occurrence of the disease so extensively and fatally among them. Previous to September 2 no cases of cholera had occurred among the recruits subsequent to their removal here, although diarrhoea of an vinusually intractable character was quite prevalent among them. Taylor Barracks, Louisville Kentucky, March 20, 1867. Sir: I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your communication of 13th instant directing me to inform your office " whether the first cases of cholera in Nashville, Tennessee, last September, occurred among recruits from Louisville, Ken- tucky, or other infected points." The first three cases which occurred at Cumberland hospital were in the persons of recruits for the JGth United States infantry, from Newport barracks, Kentucky. Before this, however, Nashville itself had become an "infected point," more especially the outside surroundings of Cumberland hospital. These men had exposed themselves to the prevailing influences by remaining absent, witiiout leave, for two days in a " house of ill fame" infected with cholera.