REPORT ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. IX fifteen miles distant. In the latter detachment three cases appeared from the 7th to the 10th, in the former, two cases on the 11th. The first death occurred September J 0th. Cholera was prevailing among the citizens of San Antonio at the time, the first case having occurred September 2nd, at San Juan mission, about six miles distant; the patient had just arrived from the Eio Grande, where the disease w^as epidemic. A detachment of the seventeenth United States in- fantry at San Antonio escaped until after it was moved from town, September 16th, to camp on the Medina, near the cavalry camp. Cholera appeared in this detachment a few days afterwards, however, having apparently been introduced by two Mexican teamsters who came from San Antonio, stopped for the night near the camp, and died of the disease. The total number of cases reported among the w^hite troops at and near San Antonio during September was 387, with 64 deaths. Among the white troops at Austin, to which place the disease was carried by recruits who arrived by way of Indianola, the first death was on the 18th of September. During September and November 12 fatal cases are reported. It is much to be regretted that several of the October reports of sick and wounded from Texas miscarried, and have not been received at the Surgeon General's Ofiice up to the date of this report. It is probable that a small number of cases of cholera were lost, especially in the reports from Austin. (See letter of Assistant Surgeon C. Bacon, jr., Brevet Major United States Army, Appendix, page 42.) At Richmond, Virginia, the first case occurred at Camp Grant, on the 12tli of August. Becruits had been received during July and August from New York Harbor and Newport Barracks. It appears, however, that the earliest cases were not among those recruits, but among soldiers who had been at Bich- mond the entire summer. Cholera appeared in the city of Richmond about the same time. The total number of cases was 271, with 103 deaths, all white. On the 21st of August the third battahon of the eleventh United States infantry was sent from Camp Grant to Norfolk, Fortress Monroe, and Yorktown. Four cases and two deaths occurred during September and October among the companies thus removed to Norfolk. August 12th, a death from cholera occurred at Carlisle Barracks, and another on the 20th. Both were Swiss recruits from Philadelphia, where cholera was prevaihng to a moderate extent. One of the attendants on these men was attacked but recovered. Two cases also occurred in September, but recovered. These men were attacked immediately after their return from Jef- ferson Barracks, Missouri, where cholera was prevailing. On the 17th of October a cavalry recruit was attacked and died in thirty-six hours. He had 2.