24 ON SPECIAL WOUNDS AND INJUKIES. Captain Robert S , Co. A, 29tti New York Yols., was wounded at Chancellorsville, on the 2d of May, 18C3. A round musket-ball, fired from a distance of about one hundred and fifty yards, entered the eighth intercostal space of the left side, at a point nine and a half inches to the left of the extremity of the ensiform cartilage, and fractured the ninth rib. Without wounding the lung apparently, the ball passed through the diaphragm, and entered some portion of the alimentary canal. Captain S walked a mile and a half to the rear, and entered a field hospital. On examining his wound, the surgeons found a protrusion of the lung of the size of a small orange, which they unavail- ingly attempted to reduce. The wound was enlarged, and still it was impracticable to replace the protruded lung. On May 3d, the field hospital where Captain S lay was exposed to the enemy's fire. He walked half a mile further to the rear, and was there placed in an ambulance, and taken across the Rappahannock, at United States Ford, to one of the base hospitals. Here fruitless efforts were again made to reduce the hernial tumor, after which a ligature was thrown around its base and tightened. A day or two subsequently the patient passed into the hands of Surgeon Tomaine, who removed the ligature from the base of the tumor. A small portion of gangrenous lung sepa- rated and left a clean granulating surface beneath. On May Tth, the ball was voided at stool. On May 8th, the patient was visited by Surgeon John H. Brinton, U. S. Yols., who found him walking about the ward, smoking a cigar. There was an entire absence of general constitutional symptoms; no cough, no dyspnoea, no abdominal pain; the bowels were regular and appetite good. The protruding portion of the lung was carnified, and there was a dullness on percussion and absence of the respiratory murmur in a zone an inch and a half in width around the circumfer- ence of the base of the tumor. Surgeon Tomaine stated that the hernia had been gradually diminishing in volume. It was at this date half the size of an egg, and covered with florid granulations. On May 10th, a drawing of the parts was executed by Mr. Stauch, artist of the Army Medical Museum. On June 2d, Captain S was transferred to Washington. There was an elastic partly reducible tumor, over which was an oval granulating surface, an inch and a half by three-quarters of an inch. The vesicular murmur was perfect throughout the Inns, except in the immediate vicinity of the tumor. Compression of the tumor was advised. After a furlough of sixty days. Captain S was again examined. The wound had entirely healed; the respiratory sounds were normal; there was still a slight hernia of the lung. The general health of the patient was excellent. At this date a second drawing was executed. Private B. S. Sheridan, Co. A, 9th Massachusetts Yols., was wounded at Malvern Hill, July 1 st, 1862, by a musket-ball, which entered the right side between the ninth and tenth ribs, and passed oat a little to the right of the xvphoid cartilage. Soon after the reception of the injury, a portion of the lung protruded from the anterior wound, and from the posterior wound there was a constant dripping of bile. On July 4th, Sheridan walked from the ambu- lance station to James River, a distance of a mile and a half, with the hope of getting on board of a gunboat. He was disappointed, and was taken prisoner and conveyed to Richmond. No dressings were applied to the hernia of the lung. It was uncovered, and the patient occasionally washed it. He suffered little pain or dyspnoea, and there was an amazing absence of shock or prostration. On July 25th, the bile had ceased to dribble from the posterior wound, and the hernia of the lung had greatly receded. The imperfect field notes state that the patient ultimately recovered, and was exchanged. Private Latimer Whipple, Co. H, 73d New York Yols., was wounded at Bristoe Station, Yirginia, August 27th, 1862, and admitted to the First Division Hospital, at Alexandria, on August 31st. A musket-ball struck him on the right side, four inches above the crest of the ilium, and six inches from the spine, passed upwards and inwards, and lodged. On admission, the patient had cough, with bloody expectoration, and crepitant rales in the lower lobe of the left lung. There was a profuse discharge of bile from the wound. There was acute pain and tenderness in the hepatic region, but no evidence of peritonitis. At the end of a week the symptoms of acute inflammation of the lung sub- sided, but a cough, with purulent expectoration, persisted for months. Early in October the discharge of pus and bile from the wound began to diminish, and in November the pain ceased in the hepatic region, and was referred to the immediate vicinity of the orifice of the wound. The patient now began to walk about the ward. Throughout the treatment there was great tendency to constipation, which was obviated by enemata. In the middle of December the cough had nearly disappeared, and there was but a scanty discharge from the wound. On January 12th, 1863, the wound was entirely healed, and the patient was discharged from service. GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE ABD0:MEN. Of 2707 gunshot wounds of the abdomen reported from the beginning of the war to July 1st, 1864, there were 2164 flesh wounds, and 543 cases in which the peritoneal cavity was penetrated or the abdominal viscera injured. Among the flesh Avounds, 114 fatal cases are recorded, which were, in most instances, cases of sloughing from injuries of the abdominal parietes by shells. Of the 543 penetrating wounds, the results have been ascertained in 414, and were fatal in 308, or 74 per cent. The number of re-