ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. MEDICAL SERIES. 140 diphtheria, pleurisy and pleuro-pneumonia, camp fever, and camp diarrhoea and dysen- tery. A collection illustrating the diseases of the freedmen has lately been commenced, and promises to be of considerable interest. The manuscript catalogue, containing the description of these specimens and the histories of the cases, occupies 350 pages folio. A few words may be said with reference to the specimens illustrative of fever and diarrhoea. The series illustrative of camp fever consists of about 160 specimens, chiefly preparations exhibiting the condition of the intestine in this form of disease. The pieces have been mounted upon frames of glass rod, and suspended in alcohol, so that they can be viewed by either reflected or transmitted light. The specimens in this series are arranged in several groups. In the first, the characteristic lesion is enlargement of the solitary follicles of the small intestine, and especially of the ileum. Thickening of Peyer's patches may be quite absent, or may be present to a variable extent. All degrees of enlargement have been noticed, from the slightest change to cases in which the follicle attains the size of a pea. The most characteristic specimens may be thus described: In the fresh intestine, as received at the Museum, the ileum presents patches of deep congestion of variable extent; the solitary follicles, enlarged to the size of large pin-heads, are frequently black with pigment dejDosits. The Peyer's patches, sometimes quite healthy, are more gen- erally the seat of pigment deposits in the individual follicles composing the patch, which appears of a gray color, dotted over with blackish points, presenting a resemblance to the freshly-shaven chin. The name "shaven-beard appearance" has been quite currently bestowed upon this condition. In other cases, the Peyer's patches are somewhat thick- ened, and occasionally as much so as in ordinary cases of enteric fever. In the preparations, as preserved in the Museum, the color of the piece, including that of the pigment deposit, gradually disappears. The enlarged solitary follicles, and the alterations in the Peyer's patches, are, however, well preserved. The solitary fol- licles are not ulcerated in these cases, except rarely some of the largest, which may present a minute point of ulceration on the apex. The form of fever from which these specimens are obtained is that which attracted attention in 1862, under the designation of Chickahominy Fever, but which, before and since, has prevailed whenever our armies have operated in malarial regions. It is a continued fever, which presents also a more or less decidedly remittent type, at the beginning at least. It is accompanied by diarrhoea and abdominal tenderness, but usually without tympanites. Cerebral and pulmonary complications are common, as in ordinary enteric fever. En- largement of the spleen is frequent, and often excessive. The fever usually lasts from three to five weeks, and terminates in a lingering and protracted convalescence. This variety I have proposed to designate as the Malarial form of Typho-Malarial Fever. The second group of specimens are less numerous, and represents, so far as I have been able to learn, a rarer form of disease. As first received at the Museum, the ileum presents intense reddish-black patches of congestion, which sometimes extend through- out its whole length. The patches of Peyer are converted into livid, blackish, pulp-like sloughs, which are often remarkable for their size and fungoid appearance. Petechia- like blotches in the mucous membrane of the colon, the small intestine, and the stomach are of frequent occurrence. Similar discolorations are at times observed in other organs. The cadaver often presents petechia) on the external surface of the body and scorbutic