EXTEACTS FEOM OFFICIAL EEPORTS. 34 As to the portability of cholera there can be left no doubt; it was brought to the island, and all the residents were attacked by it. Concerning its contagion, nothing new has been demonstrated by the present epidemic. None of the cabin passen- gers, officers, or crew of the San Salvador were attacked. The cases among the medical officers on duty in this hospital were in less ratio than among the troops in camp. The nurses, in several cases, were attacked, and in some instances died ; but they were not in larger proportion than those less exposed. From the fact of some of the nurses having been attacked by diarrhoea soon after nursing severe cases, I incline to the belief that a zymotic poison is produced from the patient or his evacuations, which, under certain conditions of atmosphere and health not now understood, propagates the disease. The best preventative appeared to be a healthy balance of all the bodily functions, with a moderate degree of elevation, and perhaps equanimity of mind. Great strength of constitution certainly afforded no defence, the strong falling victims in as large pro- portion as the more delicately framed, and usually passing into the algid or cerebral form. Although fear, by disturbing the general balance, probably predisposed to an attack in the presence of the morbific agent, courage did not afford immunity, several of those who had been conspicuous for good conduct during the epidemic at last being struck down by a deadly blow, to which neither courage, previous good health, nor medical aid could offer the slightest effectual resistance. Treatment in the algid and cerebral cases proved utterly useless, all dying as quickly and painfully with as without it. During the first few^ days of the epidemic there was no treatment, or next to none, followed in any case, there being no medicines on the island ; iu fact, until the 28th of July the supply was most inadequate. Dr. Winue had made the necessary requisitions iu the most pressing terms, but they had to be purchased by the quartermaster's department, which occasioned a tedious and painful delay. In three algid cases I gave the " chlorodyne cholera mixture," with hydro-chlorate of ammonia, as prepared by Dr. Thomas Sim, viz., ]^—Tinct. cannabis ind., f.jii; chloroform, f.3 iv; theriaca, f.3 ii; mucil. acacia, f.3 ii; morph. muriat., grs. v; acid hydrocyanic dil., (2 per cent.,) f. 3 ii; ol. month pip., gtt. vi; misce bene. Dose, 12 to 30 drops; which is almost identical with the mixture of same name originally used, and highly vaunted by Surgeon CoUis Brown, of the British East India Company's service, during an epidemic in India. The results were as follows: Private Thomas Riley was admitted at 4 p. m., July 27; had been sick two hours; had cramps and rice-water vomiting and purging. Mustard was applied externally to the abdomen, arms, and legs, and the chlorodyne cholera mixture and hydro-chlorate of ammonia given internally in large doses. At first they were rejected, but subsequently retained. Some alleviation of the symptoms followed, and it was hoped he was better. He died at 12 p. m. the same night. Private Thomas Flaran was admitted at 5 p. m., July 27 ; had been sick but two hours ; had but little vomiting, but now had cramps ; the same treatment as in the preceding case was pursued without any perceptible effect. He died during the night. Acting Ser- geant Harding was admitted at 11 a. m., July 29 ; had been sick about two hours ; was a man of fine constitution and courage ; was now in the cramps of the algid form. His treatment was the same as in the two preceding cases ; the cramps and pains continuing so severe that he remarked, "If I had a friend he would shoot me." The fingers and toes were greatly distorted by spasm of the extensor muscles ; not the slightest alleviation of the cramps nor improvement of circulation was produced by thq treatment. He died the same night. Dr. Burdett used it in four cases, all of whom died without any alleviation of symptoms. When cramps supervened in gastro-intestinal cases, it afforded far less relief than a simple mixture of six drops of chloroform with twenty of laudanum, given in a tablespoonful of water, used by Dr. Burdett to relieve pain and alleviate spasm. The less of such remedies used the better was the subsequent convalescence. The unanimous verdict of the medical officers present on duty was, that however it may have acted elsewhere, in the present epidemic the chlorodyne cholera mixture was worthless. All the plans of treatment used in algid and cerebral cases proved equally inefficacious, (except, perhaps, cold to the head in the delirium of the last class, which sometimes afforded temporary relief to the pain.) I conclude, therefore, that unless something more useful than the remedies now offered can be discovered, the patients may as well be spared the additional annoyance of treatment. It was only in the gastro-intestinal, which constituted over half the entire number of cases, that treatment was of any avail. Early in the attack there is time for remedies to be absorbed before the accession of the cramps. Numerous such cases will and did recover without any treatment; others were arrested in the first stage by the use of the usual combination of chalk, opium, vegetable astringents, and carmina- tives, left to nature, would terminate fatally. It is in this class of cases that the value of treatment is to be estimated. In such, which constitute ordinary mixtures for diarrhoea. A very considerable proportion of them, however, certainly more than half, chalk mixture, vegetable astringents, opiates, carminatives, t&c, are not well borne by the stomach, nor usually very effica cious in arresting the vomiting or purging for any length of time ; still less so, in preventing cramps and maintaining the circulation, the irritation of the alimentary mucous membrane seeming not to be effectually quieted, if it was not sometimes actually increased, by their use. Stimulants, except in the very earliest moments of the disease, are worthless ; taken, how- ever, at that tim e, and in moderate amount, they may, by the general but moderate elevation of the vital powers, ward off a lialf-formed attack. Their continued use, however, can be of no benefit, and in consequence of their irritating effects upon the alimentary mucous membrane, is ultimately an additional obstacle to recovery. Large doses of opiates did mischief only. The sulphuric acid treatment was not tried. Calomel had no advocates aud was not used. In the algid cases, the patients would have died while awaiting its action; in the cerebral, the typhus and typhoid symptoms rendered it out of the question; and in the gastro-intestinal, simpler and safer means sufficed. The fatal effect of purgatives was illustrated by several cases, in which the men clandestinely obtained tliom for the relief of costiveness. The following case is in point: July 28, Private McCarthy, one of a fatigue party sent from camp to hospital, ajiplied for relief from a pain in his stomach. A powder of ten grains each of bi-carbonate of soda and sub-nitrate of bismuth was admiuistered. In the evening he reported himself entirely well, and returned to camp. August 1 he was admitted to hospital iu a state of collapse, and reported that he had clandestinely procured and used Epsom salts ; the diarrhoea induced had been treated with opium without effect. He died August 5. Several cases of cholera followed the use in a similar way of cathartics. July 28 a supply of sub-nitrate of bis- muth having been received, the effects of a powder composed of ten grains of it, in combination with the same quautity of bi-carbonato of soda, were tried with gratifying eflects. During over three years' service in the department of the Cumberland,