27 FORT EILEY, KANSAS. FORT RILEY, KAIVSAS. Fort Riley, June 22, 1867. Sir : In view of the fact tliat cholera in an epidemic form visited this station last summer, and that tlie warm season may bring with it a return of the disease, I respectfully suggest, for the consideration of the post commander, the necessity of instituting and maintaining, during the summer and autumn, a thorough system of hygienic police, which should be rigidly enforced, throughout the garrison and its vicinity. I would suggest the propriety of liaving all the latrines and water-closets cleansed*, whitewashed, and ventilated. Twice each week qiTicklime should be freely distributed in the sinks, and one quart of vinegar should be thrown into each sink in use twice a week, while there is any tendency to a return of the disease. The quarters of the enlisted men and civil employes should be kept scrupulously clean, frecjuently whitewashed, and all refuse garbage and effete matter promptly removed to a distance. Slop barrels should be provided for the use of kitcliens, and all persons held to a strict accountability for the cleanliness of their premises. -A general police of the garrison should be made at least once a week. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, B. J. D. IRWIN, Surgeon, and Brevet Lieutenant Colonel, U. S. A. Brevet Captain C. N. Warner, 4th U. S. Artillery, Post Adjutant, Fort Rileij, Kansas. [Post Order No. 7.] ^■ Headquarters, Fort Riley, June 24, 1867. I. Upon recommendation of Brevet Lieutenant Colonel B. J. D. Invin, U. S. A., Post Surgeon, and in view of the fact that cholera in an epidemic form visited this post last summer, a thorough system of hygienic police will at once be instituted throughout the whole garris<jn and its vicinity, and will be rigidly enforced during the summer and early autumn months. II. All the latrines and water-closets of the post will be cleansed, whitewashed, and provided with ventilators—the latter to extend from the vaults to about twelve inches above the roof, and to be six inches square in the clear. Twice each week—namely, on Tuesdays and Saturdays—quicklime will be freely distributed in the sinks, and one quart of vinegar will be thrown into each sink in use on such days. The quarters of the enlisted men and civil employes will be kept scrupulously clean, whitewashed, and all refuse garbage and other offensive matter will be promptly removed to a safe distance. Slop barrels will be provided for the kitchens, and all persons will be held to a strict accountability for the sanitary condition of the premises occupied by them. A general police of the post will be made on Saturday of each week. By order of Brevet Lieutenant Colonel C. C. PARSONS. C. N. WARNER, First Lieut., Ath U. S. Artillery, Brevet Captain, U. S. A., Post Adjutant. Extract from Special Report of Cholera Patients at Fort Biley, Kansas, June, 1867. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel B. J. I). Irwin, Surtjcon, U. S. A. Thomas Cafflen, age 25, employe of the quartermaster's depastment, attacked June 22d, and died the same day. Admitted to hospital June 18th with an attack of diarrlioea, which yielded readily to treatment consisting of 1 grain of camphor, I a grain of capsicum, and i of a grain of opium. At the morning visit on the 22d he showed symptoms of cholera: cold surface of body; eyes sunken; voice husky; tongue cold; has had three serous stools during the latter part of the night, and vomited twice. Sinapisms over epigastrium and to the calves of the legs; hot water to feet; aromatic spirits of ammonia and Hofifman's anodyne, twenty drops each, were given, with toddy every half hour. 11 o'clock, cramps severe in lower limbs; administered chloro- form, one fluid drachm internally, which gave prompt relief Complete collapse. Died at 1 o'clock p. m. Post mortem examination : Age 25; dark hair, blue eyes ; about five feet seven inches high, and 130 pounds weight. Eighteen hours after death, rigor mortis well marked; upper surftice of intestines blanched; lower congested, with distinct erosion of mucus surface in small patches; contents wheylike fluid devoid of feculent characteristics; bladder empty and strongly con- tracted; kidney highly congested; the small quantity of urine turbid and peculiar; liver small, about 2A pounds; friable, serous covering removed with ease.