5 « FORT HAKKER,, KANSAS. 38 with all necessary medical and hospital supplies, and take them with you in the ambulance. Estimate for the kind and quantity of disinfectants you will require. If, in your opinion, the water used in the camp in any way conduces to the increase of diarrhoea, you will advise the officer in command to have it boiled, or made into tea for drinking purposes. Disinfect privies and dejections promptly, and recommend a thorough police of the camp, or its immediate removal to another place on the creek. Report to me in detail the history of the cases presumed to have been cholera, and each case in full as it occurs. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, EBN. SWIFT, Surrjeon, and Brevet Colonel, U. S. A. A. W. Wiggins, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. July 26th. Neide, ambulance driver, died this morning. Dr. Renick saw the following cases at 2 o'clock this morning, (citizens belonging to hay party and trains passing the post,) and reports as follows : Charles Ferolin, aged 18, unmarried, laboring at haymaking one and a half miles from the post, was attacked witli severe vomiting and purging at 6 o'clock on the evening of the 25th. Saw him at 2 o'clock the following morning in profound collapse; pulse imperceptible at wrist, and heart fluttering; had had rice-water evacuations and vomiting, which had ceased. Gave him brandy, a teaspoonful every 15 minutes. No reaction took place, and at 9 a. m. he died. Patrick Day, married, belonging to the same party, was seized in the same manner and at the same time; saw him at 2 o'clock a. m.; symptoms and treatment as above. He was transferred to the post hospital, and died at 11 a. m. David Gillispie, Mexican, belonging to the train, aged 50, married, was attacked at 9 p. m., the 25th, with vomiting and purging. Saw him at 2 o'clock the following morning, with cramps, rice-water evacuations, pulse soft and 120. Gave him calomel, grains 10, and morphine, -J grain, which, being vomited, was at once repeated and retained. Half a grain of morphine was subsequently repeated every hour. Saw him again at 11 a. m. on the 27th ; vomiting and purging had ceased; hands shrunken, pulse imperceptible, heart fluttering; sunk rapidly, and soon died. Jos6 Maria Villareal, Mexican, aged 30, belonging to a passing train, was attacked yesterday, about 4 p. m., with diarrhoea and vomiting. His symptoms (12 m., July 26th) are those of profound collapse—cramps in the extremities; vox choleraica; coldness of hands and feet; hands also shrunken; tongue and breath cold. Gave him 10 grains calomel, ^ grain sulphate morphia, and a teaspoonful of brandy every fifteen minutes. His pulse was imperceptible at the wrist. July 27tli, 2 o'clock p. m., tongue moist, breath warm; could detect the pulse at the wrist; has had no cramps or vomiting since yesterday evening. Had one passage this morning; ordered the brandy to be continued and the man to be transferred to hospital; arrived at hospital at 6. 30 p. m., not much improved; still in collapse; injected sulphate atropia, 3-./ grain, in arm ; his pulse rose. Dr. Brewer injected atropia in two cases, also, one of which recovered, and the other survived four days. Dr. Renick also reported, July 27tli, two fatal cases. Ford and Prior, in passing trains, in the stage of collapse, and rapidly sinking when he saw them. The following communications were to-day received from Dr. Wiggins by Dr. Swift, and his requirements at once complied with: Wilson's Creek Station, Juhj 26,1867. Doctor : I have the honor to make the following report: I arrived at this station at 4 p. m. yesterday, (25th inst.) I cannot at present give in full detail a history of the four fatal cases that occurred before my arrival, as both the officers with the company are quite unwell, and unable to give me the necessary data. Such facts as I could obtain from nurses are as follows : James Ferguson was taken sick while on guard during the night of July 23d and 24th, and drank very largely of water; was attacked with violent pain in the stomach, cramps in limbs, frequent discharges from the bowels of " whitish water, like the white of an egg;" no vomiting; died at 2 o'clock p. m. July 24th, post mortem appearance shriveled and shrunken. George Kelly was taken sick on evening of tlie 23d, with very nearly the same symptoms throughout as Ferguson ; died 3 p. m., July 24th. Charles Herman was taken sick at 3 p. m., July24th; vomited dinner, which had consisted mainly of underdone beans; no further vomiting; diarrhoea (rice-water) and cramps ; died at 8 a. m., July 25th. Lieutenant Amick is of opinion that in some of these cases there was a greenish color to the evacuations, but the nurses that attended them constantly describe them as uniformly watery and whitish. I have now eleven men under treatment, none of them as yet cases of cholera, and I am sanguine of the recovery of all. Two are in a typhoid condition, resulting from diarrhoea, fatigue, improper food, &c. The cases of diarrhoea are, I believe, under control. I found the company on my arrival in process of moving from the west to the east side of creek—an improvement in location, perhaps, though either locality seemed very clean and healthy. The water is very much like that used at Fort Harker. I have requested that, for drinking purposes, it be boiled or made into tea. I am unable to see any adequate cause for the prevalence of this disease here ; possibly epidemic influence is at the bottom, but modified materially by bad drinking water and improper diet. The rations consist of very fat bacon, hard bread, beans, &c. Fresh meat has been had only once, and that buffalo meat. If we can bring about more variety of food, and enforce temperance in tlie use of water, I am convinced that the epidemic will soon be checked. Lieutenant Kennedy and Lieutenant Amick are both quite indisposed—the effect of constant labor with the sick, anxiety, and, in part, I have no doubt, from too liberal use of Squibb's cholera mixture. I will report progress as frequently as occasion requires. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, A. W. WIGGINS, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Colonel Ebn. Swift, Surgeon, U. S. A.