90 REMARKS ON THE STATISTICAL MATERIAL. during the war—not counting deaths among prisoners of war or discharged soldiers— was more than five times as great as the mortality of men of the same ages in civil life, and it is not to be disguised that the diseases which produced most mortality were pre- cisely those which are most under the control of hygienic means. At the commencement of the present struggle, the only important work which could serve to give correct notions as to the nature of the diseases of armies, and the direction to be given to the activity of those whose duty it is to combat them, was the Official Medico-Chirurgical History of the British Army in the Crimean War, laid be- fore Parliament, in two folio volumes. This work refers to a comparatively small num- ber of troops serving in a climate very different from our own, yet its study was of great value in giving direction to our efforts. What was the direction these efforts took—what were the results attained—why our soldiers died, and how this can be best and most economically prevented in future wars—are questions upon which the experience of the present struggle, as recorded in the official reports and documents, can throw a flood of light. Such a publication, therefore, becomes one of the most important duties of the Medical Department of the army; a duty the evasion or neglect of which would be a grave crime against the army of the United States, and against every American citizen who, in future wars, volunteers in the defence of his country. The character and importance of the material available for such a publication, and the labor yet necessary to complete its preparation for the press, can be best appreciated after a brief description of each of the divisions mentioned at the commencement. REMARKS ON THE STATISTICAL MATERIAL. The statistical material embraces a mass of facts with regard to the several armies and general hospitals. Tables are being prepared for each aTmy, showing the monthly number of cases and of deaths from each form of disease or injury. Other tables give the numbers returned to duty, sent to general hospitals, discharged the service for disability, transferred to the Veteran Reserve Corps, died, and remaining at the close of each month. The tables referring to the general hospitals show the number admitted into each hospital monthly and the causes of admission, the number of deaths from each disease or class of wounds, the number returned to duty, transferred to the Veteran Reserve Corps, transferred to other hospitals, discharged the service for disabiUty, and remain- ing under treatment at the close of the month. The data furnished by these tables render it possible to calculate ratios illustrating many important matters connected with the laws of the sickness and mortality of armies operating in the United States. By such ratios we shall be enabled to form an intelligent judgment as to the success of the means adopted by the government to pre-