REPORT ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. XI The first case among the white troops at Memphis, Tennessee, occurred September 6th, and died the next day. The patient was a recruit who had arrived the day before the attack, from Nashville. Altogether, there were 21 cases and 16 deaths during September among the white troops at Memphis. On the 15th of August, however, a fatal case had occurred in the post hospital at Memphis. The patient was a soldier of the fifty-sixth United States colored troops, who was taken from on board the steamer Continental passing up the river from Helena, Arkansas. The first case among the white troops at Vicksburg, Mississippi, occurred on the 22nd of August, on which day two soldiers were attacked. The colored barber had died of the disease the day before. There were, in all, 59 cases and 25 deaths in Vicksburg. A detachment of 145 recruits had been received July 11th, from Fort Columbus, New York Harbor. Cholera also appeared in a detached company (E) of the fifteenth United States infantry, stationed at Jackson, Mississippi, where, during August and September, there were 8 cases and 6 deaths. A detachment of fifty-one recruits had been received at Jackson, July 17th, from Fort Columbus, New York Harbor. The fifty-sixth colored infantry left Helena, Arkansas, in two detachments— the first on the steamer Continental, August 9th; the second on the Platte Valley, August 10th. A death, probably of cholera, occurred on the Platte Valley about twenty-four hours after starting, and another while between Cairo and St. Louis. The disease, however, was not recognized until the morning of the 14th at St. Louis, when the vessel was ordered to the quarantine grounds at Jefferson Barracks. Cholera broke out on the Continental shortly after leaving Helena. A case was put on shore at Memphis, and died in the post hospital. This vessel also went into quarantine at Jefferson Barracks, where she arrived before the Platte Valley. During August and September, 256 cases and 134 deaths were reported in this regiment; this number, however, does not include those who died on the river before reaching Jefferson Barracks. The disease spread to but a Hmited extent among the white troops at Jefferson Barracks. The first fatal case was August 15th, several days after the arrival of the 56th United States colored infantry. Altogether there were 8 cases and 7 deaths. Four cases and three deaths also occurred during August and September in the ordnance detach- ment at St. Louis Arsenal, the first fatal case dying on the 17th of August. On the 25th of August 384 cavalry recruits (white,) from Carlisle Barracks, Pennsylvania, by way of St. Louis, arrived at Fort Biley, Kansas. One of them died of cholera August 30th. From this time to October 16th, 59 cases and 27 deaths occurred, all among the recruits, the rest of the garrison escaping. At Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, (white troops,) the first case occurred Sep- tember 18th ; the patient died next day. Altogether there were 7 cases and