108 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. If a rleckled outbreak, liowever, occur in the barracks, especially of cholera or yellow fever, (indicatinfr an epidemic tendency in an unmistakable manner,) it will be proper to evacuate the premises, and then no delay should attend the movement; the sick with ordinary diseases being also taken away, to share the benefit of removal from the infected atmosphere. The command should not return until the epidemic has ceased. The barracks should not be reoccupicd until they have been thoroughly fumigated, disinfected, ventilated and purified. Should cholera or yellow fever follow the troops, they should be moved short distances every second or third day without fatigue to the men, at right angles, if possible, to the prevalent wind and track of the disease. Wood fires, if necessary, can be maintained to the windward of camp. A camp once left should not, be returned to again if another can be selected. Separate the sick and place the hospital tents to leeward. The excreta should be buried deeply and covered with earth by a special party with a non-commissioned officer in charge. Take care in moving to cover effectually everything liable to make the place a focus of disease for others. During the removal the men should not sleep on the ground or in damp places; cots should be carried, if possible. The prevision of the commanded for this contingency will diminish the amount of exposure and consequent sickness among the men. The daily use of disinfectants should be continued throughout the season, and will assuredly tend to lessen the tendency to grave types of disease and promote the general health and efficiency. At all times let the best water be secured, and see that the supply is daily as pure as possible. When cholera approaches every person should carefully avoid all influences which his experience tells him are likely to produce diarrhoea, and if attacked should immediately seek medical aid. I" requent daily visitations of the healthy, so as to detect all illness at its commencement, has, in all epidemics, been of the gi'eatest benefit to the people. Tainted provisions should be avoided, diet shoidd be moderate, clothing should afford sufficient protection from cold without checking transpiration. Being chilled will often drive the circulation from the surface of the body and occasion congestion of internal organs, or catarrh of the mucus membrane. The abdomen should be warmly clothed, which can be suitably done by a flannel bandage. Good beds and clean linen are important aids to uninterrupted transpiration. Long continuance in a confined air (as in a dwelling) which withdraws too little water and carbonic acid increases the disposition to cholera. The absence of fresh air, bad ventilation (as in ships) in crowded barracks, prisons, or rooms too small for the number of inhabitants, have been shown by much experience to be. a frequent cause of violent choleraic outbreaks. The perils frequently, but erroneously, ascribed to too great a current of air ("draught," as it is termed) may be obviated much better by clothing, bedding, heating, &c.,than by shutting up the doors and windows. Ventilation improves foul air and dilutes all foreign matter it contains. The use of chloride of lime in rooms containing tainted air has long been customary, but there is no proof of the smallest benefit from it. The evaporation of vinegar or acetic acid may be supposed to exert some little power as a disinfectant, and at the same time diffuses an odor agreeable to the sick. When the introduction of cholera is feared, we ought not to wait with our disinfectants until the epidemic character of the outbreak has been shown in several houses and cases. The acid reaction produced in the excreta should be maintained until they can be moved away from the vicinity of human dwellings: they should be deeply buried. The concealment or neglect of the first case of cholera is one of the greatest errors, and usually occasions more injury than can be retrieved by the greatest efforts and sacrifices. The vigilant enforcement of sanitary measures is particularly necessary in a southern climate, and if yellow fever, like cholera, may be considered to be a foecal disease, we may presume that successful efforts directed to the prevention of one disease are prophylactic with regard to the other. I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, T. A. McPARLIN, Surgeon, and Brevet Brigadier General, U. S. A., Medical Director Fifth Military District. Report of the Epidemic of Yellow Fever in New Orleans, La., during 1867, hy Brevet Brigadier General T. A. McPaulin, Surgeon, U. S. A., Medical Director Fifth Military District. Medical Director's Office, Fifth Military District, New Orleans, La., May 15, 1868. General : I have forwarded to your office, at different times, all reports received fi'om the medical officers u]ion the diseases prevalent at their stations. The reappearance of yellow fever and cholera in this district in 1867 gives the subject unusual interest, especially in regard to yellow fever, which commenced early, spread widely, and proved fatal to many thousands. In 1866, Asiatic cholera, newly imported, rapidly spread after June, and was the prominent and most fatal disease. Yellow fever did not appear until late in August, 1866, and though the hidividual cases were severe, its greatest mortality did not exoeed seven per day. The lateness of the season, the advent of cold weather, (which was earlier in 1866 than in 1867,) and the presence of cholera, may have contributed to prevent it becoming epidemic in 1866. Cholera reappeared here June, 1867. It assumed, in July, an alarming character in one precinct, and called for very energetic action on the part of the civil authorities. It then declined and almost passed out of consideration until autumn, when, as yellow fever declined, cholera again increased to sixteen deaths per day. Five hundred and eight^'-one citizens died of the disease in 1867 compared with 1,180 in 1866. Five soldiers died in 1867, (average mean .strength of the command 1,140,) as compared with 173 in 1866 among United States troops'in this vicinity.