132 CERTAIN OTHER DISEASES. The great proportion of deaths to cases thus indicated was undoubtedly connected to a certain extent with the character of the disorder. The two chief types to which, as far as can be learned, the majority of the cases belonged, were Typhoid Pneumonia and Adynamic Pleuro-Pneumonia; the first characterized in fatal cases by the condi- tion of the lung designated Splenization, the second, besides the lung lesion, by the presence on the pleura of considerable masses of yellow opaque lymph, with fluid in the pleural cavity. Both these forms occurred in a large number of cases as sequelaB to measles, or intercurrent affections in the course of chronic diarrhoea and chronic malarial poisoning. In many instances, moreover, what was called pneumonia proved, on the autopsy, to be camp fever, in which the usual intestinal lesions were associated with congestion of the lungs, with capillary bronchitis, or with pneumonia: of course these circumstances would lead to the expectation of a greater mortality than is found among uncompli- cated cases occurring in civil practice. The mortality from pneumonia in the British army in the Crimea was still greater than our own figures, being one death to every 3'6 cases. A considerable amount of valuable material has been contributed on the symp- toms, post-mortem appearances, and treatment of this disorder, a careful analysis of which will be presented at the proper time. With regard to treatment, it may be stated that the use of alcoholic stimulants, supporting diet, quinine in large doses, and the expectant plan found numerous advocates, as well as opium, ipecacuanha, veratrum viride, antimony, cupping, and mercurials. The attempt to appreciate these methods must be postponed for the present. CERTAIN OTHER DISEASES. The most important affections reported under the head of Entlietic Diseases were the several forms of venereal. The reports give separate figures for syphilis, gonorrhoea, orchitis, and stricture of the urethra. The latter two affections being gonorrhoeal sequelae, may be grouped under the head of Gonorrhoea. Of syphilis, there were 9011 cases and 12 deaths during the first year; 13,781 cases and 27 deaths during the second—total, 22,792 cases and 39 deaths. Of gonorrhoea and its sequelae, 14,768 cases and no deaths during the first year; 25,705 cases and 12 deaths during the second— total, 40,473 cases and 12 deaths. The number of cases of all kinds of venereal w.as 23,779 for the first year and 39,486 for the second, being 85 cases per 1000 of strength for the first year and 66 per 1000 for the second. The ratio of venereal to the total amount of disease was one case of venereal to every 35 taken sick during the first year; one to every 41 taken sick during the second. If these figures be compared with the experience of other armies, we cannot fail to congratulate ourselves on the comparative exemption of our troops from these loathsome affections. The published statistics of the English army, for example, show that in 1859 there were 422 admissions to hospital for venereal among every 1000 men serving in the United Kingdom; in 1860, 369 per 1000; in 1861, 354, and in 1862, 330— being thus between one-third and one-half the whole number of admissions to hospital. It may be thought, perhaps, that the active occupations of a war carried on in an ex-