30 ON SPECIAL WOUNDS AND INJURIES. Gunshot lesions of the upper extremity are illustrated at the Army Medical Mu- seum by 978 specimens, including examples of almost every variety of contusion and fracture, of the repair of fractures, of consecutive diseases of bones, and of excisions, amputations, and their secondary lesions. A few specimens are copied here. Private "William F , Co. F, ISth Massachusetts Vols., aged thirty years, was wounded at the second battle of Bull Eun, August 30th, 1862, by a conoidal musket-ball, which entered to the left of the spinal column, and, passing outwards, trav- ersed the body of the scapula and the muscles of the upper part of the arm. The patient was conveyed to Union Chapel Hospital, at Alexandria. On the 3d, and again on the 5th of September, misshapen pieces of ball and a few fragments of bone were extracted through an „ „, ^ ^ , . . 1 ^ . incision on the outer edge of the scapula. On Septem- FiQ. 31. — Left scapula, Bhowing a gunshot fracture, o r i nearly parallel with the spine of the scapula, with two ber 19th, symptoms of purulent infection were manifested. fragments of a conoidal musket-hall. Spec, 178 A. , .-i, ... , M. M. An active treatment by stimulants, quinia, iron, and am- monia, was instituted, but unavailingly, and on September 25th, 1862, the case terminated fatally. At the autopsy, a large collection of extravasated blood was found beneath the scapula, and between the muscles of the shoulder. There was extensive serous effusion in the left pleural cavity, and numer- ous metastatic foci in both lungs. A soldier of the 2d Division of the 12th Army Corps had his left arm shattered by an elongated musket-ball, in the attack on the stone wall on the heights at Fredericksburg, December 14th, 1862. Primary amputation at the shoulder-joint was performed, and the patient recovered. The specimen illustrates the ordinary longitudinal splitting produced by a conoidal ball in the shaft of a long bone. Private B W , Co. I, 37th New York Vols., aged twenty-two years, was wounded at "Williamsburg, Virginia, May 5th, 1862, in the right elbow, by a conoidal musket-ball. A simple dressing was applied, and he was re- moved to Yorktown, and thence to Phil- adelphia, where he was admitted to Race Street Hospital. No report could be ob- tained of the progress of the case until yio. 32.—Lei March 13th, 1863, when the patient was Fig. 33.- -Necrosis of the shaft of the humerus, following a gunshot wound of the elbow. Spec. 2741), A. M. M. hu nierus, couiniinu- ted hy a conoidal transferred to the McClellan General musket-baii.^ijec. Hospital, at Nicetown, with extensive > • • • necrosis of the shaft of the humerus and caries of the elbow-joint. About the joint and arm there were numerous sinuses, through which a profuse purulent discharge escaped, and, occasionally, small fragments of detached bone. Under a supporting treatment, the general condition improved. About the middle of July, it was first noticed that the patient's legs were edematous. General anasarca ensued, and an examination of the urine showed that it was highly albuminous. The patient became rapidly worse, and on August 12th, an uncontrollable diarrhoea set in, accompanied by vomiting. The case terminated fatally, August 22d, 1863. The characteristic lesions of Bright's disease were revealed by the autopsy. GUNSHOT "WOUNDS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. Of these, 30,014 cases have been recorded, of which 4862 were fractures, and 25,152 were flesh wounds. The latter were transcribed from the reports from October 1st, 1863, to October ~"lsLt, 1864. It has not been practicable as yet to tabulate the flesh wounds of the lower extremities that occurred in the earlier part of the war. For gunshot fractures of the femur, two registers have been kept. On one, all cases were entered. On the other, only those in which the histories of the cases had been carefully scrutinized, and in which the locality and extent of the injury were clearly designated in the reports. In the latter register 1823 cases had been entered on September 1st, 1865, or about one-third of the total number that have been reported.