ON SPECIAL WOUNDS AND INJURIES. 34 at the point at which the ball impinges, while at two or three inches above or below this point, according as the point of impact is below or above the middle of the shaft, a nearly transverse fracture of the shaft is produced. The accompanying figure is an example; but the Museum contains a dozen better illustrations. The best are of cases in which a ball has struck the condyles anteriorly, and the shaft is snapped across two inches above. In several of these specimens, the transverse fracture is not connected by fissures with the comminuted fracture jDroduced by the ball. It appears that these injuries were produced by balls fired at short range. When the femur is simply contused by a ball, a limited necrosis Fia 38-Fracture of the commonly eusucs from the destruction of the periosteum, and inflam- fem7r*bv'^a'*^conoi^^^^^ of thc mcdullary cavity often results, and death from pysemic A."M.1i!"'' ■ ' infection. The records would indicate that gunshot contusions of the long bones, a subject ably discussed* of late by Surgeon J. A. Lidell, U. S. Vols., are more dangerous accidents than comminuted gunshot fractures even. Of gunshot contusions of the femur, there are seventeen specimens at the Army Medical Museum. Several of these bones were sawn through the long axis, immediately after the death of the patient, and colored drawings were prepared, exhibiting the appearances of the inflamed or suppurating or gangrenous medulla. Cases in which a portion of the shaft of the femur is gouged out, or a part of its cylinder crushed without entire division of the continuity, are also very fatal. The following is an example: Private Orson B. Norwood, Co. K, 3d Michigan Cavalry, was wounded July 15th, 1863, in a skirmish near Jackson, Tennessee. He was acting as a vidette at the time, and was stationed on a bridge. The ball, fired from below, produced a long fissure in the lower third of the inner aspect of the femur, and was it- self split by the compact lamina of the bone. This patient was removed to the General Hospital, at kut-baii. ^iiec. 1788, A.M. M. Grange, Tennessee, July 22d, 1803. The thigh was then erysipelatous, and amputation was deemed inadvisable. Septem- ber 2'7th, 18f)3, he was removed to the Washington Hospital, at Memphis, where he died of pyaemia, October 2d, 1863. The fragment of the inner sur- face of the femur, though but slightly separated from the diaphysis, was found to be necrosed. The series at the Army Medical Museum, illustrating the reparative efibrts of nature after gunshot fractures of the femur, consists of 190 specimens, and is of exceeding interest. A few cases are selected. The first shows the extent of repair ten weeks subsequent to the injury. Private E. W. A , Co. G, 5th Florida (Rebel) Eegiment, aged eighteen years, was wounded July 3d, 1863, at the battle of Gettysburg, by a conoidal musket-ball, which shattered the upper third of the left femur. He was first treated at a field hospital, but on August 5th, 1863, was admitted to Camp Letterman General Hospital. At that date, the patient was reduced by profuse suppuration; he was greatly emaciated, and large bed-sores had formed ou his back. On August 12th, a troublesome diarrhoea set in. He lingered Fia. .39.—Lower end of n'sht fe- mur, split by a conoidal nius- Fio. 40.—Loft femur, exhihitinp; attempts at rejiair nftor a gunshot fracture of the upper third. The patient survivud ten weeks. 1U38, A. JI. M. * American Journal of Medical Sciences, vol. xlix. p. 17, et seq. I