EXCISIONS. 67 EXCISIONS OF THE HEAD OF THE FEM.JJR—Continued. Constitutional State of Patient at Time of Operation. Progress, Treatment, etc. Result. Cause of Deatli. EEMAEKS Loss of appetite; pulse small and frequent. Rallied with difiSculty from the shock of the operation. In forty-eight hours an erysipelatous blush per- vaded the whole thigh, and typhoid symptoms were manifested. A cathe- ter was passed into the wound, and maintained there as a drainage tube. The wound was frequently washed out through this tube. March 26th. A rigor, apparently caused by hiem- orrhage to the extent of six ounces. After the first few days the limb was supported by the anterior splint of Professor Smith, and subsequently by a Isind of hammock. Brandy, beef tea, and eggs were given in large quantities. April 30th, 18G3. Nearly well. May 31st, 1863. En- tirely well. August 22d, 1863. Successful result. Operator, David P. Smith, Sur- geon U. S. Vols. A letter from this man, dated Coopersville, March 21st, 1864, in which he speaks of himself as being in good health. He wallvs about and attends to home business, splits and saws a little wood, but complains of some pain in the leg and stiffness in the knee. On the whole, he says, "there is a constant improve- ment, and he is exceedingly thankful for the service done him by his surgeon." An- other letter, dated September 26th, 1865, states that he con- tinues in good health. Army Medical Museum, Specimen No. 1192. Surgical Series of Drawings, S. G. 0., No. 73, represents the appearance of the patient in August, 1863. Emaciated, and has night- sweats. Recovered well from chloro- form, but never fairly re- acted from the shock of the operation. Died February 25th, 1863. Operator, H. A. Dubois, Asst. Surgeon U. S. A. Specimen 3907, Army Medi- cal IMuseum. Patient removed to a com- fortable hospital in .Jack- son the same day. Gradu- ally sank. Died May 19th, 1863. Operator, Henry S. Hewit, Surgeon U. S. V. History compiled from his verbal report. Died. Operator, a Confederate Sur- geon. See Confederate States Medi- cal and Surgical Journal, vol. i. No. 10, p. 155, Octo- ber, 1864. Satisfactory. Very favorable. It was sta- ted by Dr. Latimer that the patient could ultimately walk without crutches, with the aid of a cane and a high-heeled boot. The patient so far recovered, at the end of six weeks from the date of operation, as to be able to be removed to his home in North Caro- lina. He was last heard from in September, 1864, when all sinuses had heal- ed, and considerable weight could be borne on the in- jured limb. Operator, J, B. Reed, Surgeon Confederate States Army. The facts in this case were ob- tained by Surgeon Otis, U. S. Vols., from Dr. Latimer, Asst. Surgeon C. S. A., who con- ducted the after-treatment in Lieut. Jarratt's case. Army Medical Museum, Photogra- phic Series No. 41. Not good. Charpie soaked with per- manganate of potash, ap- plied to wound; tonics and stimulants internally. Died May 23d, 1864, of pysemia. Operator, J. H. Thompson, Act. Asst. Surgeon U. S. A.