ON SPECIAL WOUNDS AND INJURIES. 26 musket-ball, which entered three inches to the right of the spine and one inch above the crest of the ilium, and, pass- ing upwards across the abdominal cavity, made its exit in the left hypochondriac region. He was admitted to Broad and Cherry Streets Hospital, in Philadelphia, on July 29th, 1862. He stated that there was free hemorrhage from the wounds at first, and subsequently a discharge of fa;ces. At the date of his admission, the wound of exit had closed; but foeces and flatus still escaped by the posterior wound. At the end of October, 1862, this wound also closed; but it reopened a few weeks subsequently, and a fragment of flannel was extracted from it. After this it healed soundly, and the patient was discharged from service. Private Franklin Harsh, Co. G, 7th Ohio Vols., was wounded at Chancellorsville, May 3d, 1863, by a conoidal musket-ball, which entered the abdomen six inches to the right of the umbilicus, and passed out posteriorly, having wounded the ascending colon and the crest of the right ilium. He was admitted to Armory Square Hospital, at Washington, and remained there for a long time with a ftecal fistula. On September 13th, 1863, the anterior wound had closed, and the discharge from the posterior wound was much diminished. Ultimately the fistula closed, and the patient was discharged from service. Early in the history of the case, a colored drawing of the patient was made. (Nos. 21 and 22, Surgical Series of Drawings, S. G. 0.) Sergeant Joseph E. Fletcher, Co. D, 8th Connecticut Vols., aged twenty, was struck at the battle of Antietam, September 17th, 1862, by a musket-ball, which entered six inches to the left of the umbilicus, and, passing somewhat downwards, emerged an inch and a half to the left of the spine. The ball opened the descending colon, and when the patient was examined by Surgeon T. H. Squire, 89th New York Vols., there was a profuse faecal discharge from the wound of exit. The ensuing peritonitis was circumscribed, and the patient was transferred to Frederick, a few weeks subsequently, in a satisfactory condition. The faecal fistula finally closed and the patient recovered. Lieutenant G. P. Deichler, Co. I, 69th Pennsylvania Vols., aged twenty-two years, was wounded by a conoidal musket-ball, at Hatcher's Run, Virginia, in March, 1865. The ball entered the right iliac region, and, passing through the ascending colon, made its exit a little to the left of the last dorsal vertebra. The patient was taken to a field hospital, and from thence to Armory Square Hospital, at Washington, where he was admitted on April 1st, in an exhausted condition, with grave symptoms of peritonitis. There was a copious faecal discharge from bothi wounds. Appropriate dressings were applied, a fourth of a grain of sulphate of morphia was ordered to be given every second hour, and stimulants were directed. On April 7th, sloughs separated from both wounds, and left a clean granulating surface. A large piece of sphacelated omentum was removed from the anterior wound. The opiate treatment was continued till April 27th, when there was a foscal evacuation by the anus, for the first time since the injury. On June 12th, the discharge from the wounds was very slight. The edges of the wounds were now refreshed and approximated by adhesive strips. On August lOtb, the anterior wound was firmly healed. There was a small fistulous sinus at the posterior wound, discharging pus scantily. On this day, a photograph was taken at the Army Medical Museum, from which the plate opposite is copied, and the patient left the hospital for his home in excellent general health. Private Robert Brierly, Co. A, 1st Delaware Vols., aged twenty-two, was wounded at the battle of Antietam, by a conoidal musket-ball, which entered a little to the left of the umbilicus, and lodged under the muscles near the anterior superior spinous process of the right ilium. There was great prostration, with nausea and vomiting, which were treated at the field hospital by the administration of opiates. Three weeks subsequently, the patient was trans- ferred to Frederick, Maryland. On October 25th, fceces escaped through the lower wound, which had been for several days in a sloughing state. The artificial anus continued open until November 15th. On November 25th and December 11th, there were attacks of colic, followed by reopening of the faecal fistula. By the end of December, the wounds appeared sound and permanently healed, and the patient was transferred to Baltimore, and subsequently was discharged from service. Private James T. Dowdy, 28th Virginia (Rebel) Regiment, aged twenty-three years, was wounded at the battle of Gettysburg, July 3d, 1863, by a conoidal musket-ball, wliich entered at the tip of the ensiform cartilage, and remained in the body. He was removed to one of the Gettysburg field hospitals. On July 4th, fourteen hours after he was shot, he passed the ball at stool. There was no general peritonitis, and the wound healed promptly, and the patient was transferred to Baltimore, and thence sent to City Point, Virginia, for exchange. Recoveries after wounds of the large intestines have been much more numerous than after wounds of the ileum or jejunum. No case has been reported in which it was thought expedient to apply a suture to the intestines after gunshot wounds. Gunshot wounds of the liver were usually followed by extravasation into the abdominal cavity and rapidly fatal peritonitis. Of 32 cases in which the diagnosis was unquestionable, all but 4 terminated fatally. Abstracts of two of the fortunate cases are appended: Private Fritz Siebel, Co. D, 139th New York Vols., aged twenty-three years, was wounded at Cold Harbor,