MORTALITY RATES. 94 which contain the number of deaths from disease and the mean strength of the army; but unfortunately, after the first few months, these tables, which are headed " Mouve- ment des Ambulances de Crimee," do not include the deaths in the general hospitals established by the French in Turkey. Separate tables for each hospital are given, but these consolidate the deaths from wounds with those from disease, under the general designation "Morts," and do not, therefore, render it possible to complete the computation. If, however, from the total mortality given in the report, the killed in battle and the deaths from wounds, as given in the tables on the several individual injuries, be deducted, it will be seen that the deaths from disease alone cannot be much short of 75,000 during the twenty-eight months, while the strength constantly present was about 100,000; this would indicate an annual ratio of over 300 per 1000 of mean strength. It is thus seen that the losses of our troops from disease during the first half of the recent struggle were proportionately much less than those of the allied armies in the Crimea, or of our own army in the Mexican war; and although the present condition of the statistical work progressing under my direction does not permit me to present mortality rates for the third and fourth years of the war, yet, from the examinations I have thus far made, I am inclined to the belief that the proportion of deaths from disease rather diminished than otherwise during that period. The mortality of our troops from disease was considerably greater during the second year of the war than during the first. It was also different in the different regions in which the troops operated. For the purposes of this comparison, which will also be made in the case of the several diseases, the United States may be regarded as divided into three great regions, designated severally the Atlantic, the Central, and the Pacific regions. The Atlantic region will embrace all the slope between the Appalachian range and the sea. It will include the Northeastern and Middle Departments, the Army of the Potomac, the troops in North and South Carolina and in Florida. The Pacific re- gion embraces all that lies west of the Eocky Mountains. It includes California, Oregon, and Washington Territory; to these. New Mexico* has been added, as more allied to this than to the Central region. The Central region embraces all the great basin of the continent between the Appalachian and the Rocky Mountains. It con- tains the valley of the Mississippi River and its tributaries, and includes the Northern and Northwestern Departments, Western Virginia, Kentucky, Missouri, Arkansas^ the Army of the Tennessee, the Army of the Cumberland, and the Department of the Gulf. The exposures of the troops in each of these regions presented certain well-marked characteristics. In the Pacific region, the conditions approached those of peace. The forces were mainly scattered in numerous small posts, and shared few of the active duties of war. In both the Atlantic and the Central regions, on the other hand, cam- paigns were conducted on a grand scale. In the Atlantic region were the several coast expeditions—the Army of the Potomac and its great battles; in the Central, the expe- ditions on the Tennessee and Mississippi Rivers, and conflicts like those of Shiloh and Stone River. One of the chief characteristics of the Central region would appear to * In the tables given in Circular No. 15, S. G. 0., above cited (see note to p. 92), New Mexico was included in the Central region.