ON SPECIAL WOUNDS AND INJURIES. 32 The only recorded recoveries after gunshot fracture of the femur involving the hip-joint are those in which excision was practised. In fractures of the upper third, the mortality rate is greatest for the cases treated by amputation. There were 43 of these cases, and in 19 of them the amputation was done at the hip-joint. Excision gives 7 recoveries after fractures of the upper third; 2 of these were excisions of the head and a portion of the shaft of the femur, 4 were formal excisions of the continuity, and 1 was a removal of fragments and rounding off of sharp edges of bone, which was admitted among the excisions with some hesitation. Under conservative measures 93 cases of fracture of the upper third had survived the injury a year or more, and are reported as recovered. The mortality rate of the completed cases of amputation for gunshot wounds of the knee-joint is large, and will probably be modified when the results of the numerous unfinished cases are recorded. It depends partly, however, upon the excessive mortality of intermediate amputations of knee-joint injuries. With six or eight exceptions, the 50 recoveries without amputation classified with gunshot wounds of the knee-joint were examples of fractures of the patella, in which the evidence that the joint was opened was not unequivocal. Comparing in gross the 822 finished cases treated by amputation, with the 1117 treated by conservation, the mortality rate of the former has the advantage by 8 per cent.; an advantage that is maintained in the different regions, except in the upper third. It must be remembered that the amputations include most of the bad cases, and those in which preservation of the limb was attempted and abandoned. But little progress has been made in the examination and registration of the frac- tures of the tibia and fibula. Only 1056 have been recorded, of which 696 are term- inated cases, chiefly belonging to the earlier periods of the war. Of these, 169, or 24 per cent., were fatal. A similar remark applies to the fractures of the tarsus and metatarsus. But 629 cases have as yet been recorded. For gunshot fractures of the phalanges, it has been thought superfluous to keep a separate register, as the majority of such cases will appear on the register of amputa- tions of the toes. At the Army Medical Museum, the gunshot injuries of the lower extremity are illustrated by 1984 specimens, comprising examples of almost every conceivable form of contusion or fracture, illustrations of secondary lesions, and of reparative attempts in all stages, wet preparations showing the appearances of wounds of entrance and exit, the ravages of hospital gangrene, wounds or consecutive lesions of the great vessels, numerous drawings, casts, and photographs, and, among the latter, representations of over seventy patients, who had so far recovered after gunshot fracture of the femur as to be able to move about. The specimens of fractured or diseased bones at the Museum are arranged accord- ing to the regions involved, the primary being separated from the secondary lesions, and the illustrations of operations being classified apart. Representations of a few specimens will be introduced here. In Stromeyer's classification of the action of bullets on bone, the fifth division is that in which the ball pierces the bone and forms a canal without causing further splintering. Examples are common in the upper portion of the tibia, but very rare in the upper extremity of the femur. The following is such an instance: