NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA. 109 In anticipation of an epidemic, disinfectants were distributed to the stations in the spring, and recommendations made in April to t'Stablisli quarantine stations in Texan ports, and maintain quarantines of observation after May 1st, 1867. In Louisiana, civil quarantine stations, regulations, and officers were already in existence under State laws. The public press had reported yellow fever at the Isthmus of Panama in March, and also in May at Nassau, St. Thomas, Jamaica, Guayaquil, Buena Ventura, Havana and Vera Cruz. There were 68 cases and 18 deaths reported on the steamer Resaca en route from Panama to San Francisco in July. At Havana, and especially in Vera Cruz, which had been some time a besieged city, the disease prevailed severely. From both places there were arrivals at this port as well as from Indianola, where yellow fever had been introduced by arrivals on the schooner Santa Margarita, which left Vera Cruz the 11th of May and arrived May 21st. There was no quarantine attempted anywhere in Texas until July, and in Louisiana, although it may have been enforced generally by quarantine physicians with especial vigor, it is true that passengers from several infected localities passed up to this city, without being detained as suspected, until July. The fever broke out in Indianola in May, 1867, and though many were dying in June of the disease, the fact was not known elsewhere until late in June, perhaps July, when passengers from Indianola had sickened and died at Galveston, South West Pass, mouth of the Mississippi river, and New Orleans. The fever appeared at the Mississippi river, the principal quarantine station, July 1st, viz: 4 cases on the brig Virginius from Havana. It did not, however, visit the colored troops and white officers at the forts a few miles below quarantine, viz: Fort Jackson and Fort St. Philip. Neither did it appear at Fort Pike at the Rigolettes. If the disease be propagated by an atmospheric wave, it might be expected to have affected some one of these localities. The only stations in the State of Louisiana where the troops were affected to any extent were those at and adjoining New Orleans. The troops here, when yellow fever appeared, were quartered as follows: Commercial Hotel building, corner Tchoupitoulas and Girod streets, 1st district. Companies "C," " G," and " H," 1st U. S. Infantry; Sailors' Home building, corner Tchoupitoulas and Erato streets, 1st district. Companies " A," and " B," 1st U. S. Infantry ; Cotton Press building, corner Cotton Press and Love streets, 3d district, Company "G," 6th U. S. Cavalry; Jackson Barracks, six miles from the central portion of the city but adjoining the city limits, Companies "E." "F," and "K," 1st U. S. Infantry, and Battery "K," 1st U. S. Artillery. Three Companies ("C," "G," and "H") 1st Infantry were moved from Commercial Hotel to Jackson Barracks August 28th, 1867. Companies "A"' and "B," 1st U. S. Infantry, quartered in the Sailors' Home since March 29th, 1867, and the post band, were moved, August 17th and 18th, 1867, to Greenville Barracks, being the late General Hospital pavilions connected with the post hospital at Greenville, distant six miles from the central portion of the city. Greenville Barracks, headquarters band, and " H" and " I" Companies of the 39th U. S. Infantry, colored regiment, numbering 225 men, occupied the pavilions not in use as hospital wards. At Greenville, 79 colored recruits of the 9th U. S. Cavalry, and 16 recruits of the 41st U. S. Infantry, were encamped several hundred yards from the hospital. In consideration of the previous use of the building, and the unhealthfulness of the locality, the troops in the Sailors' Home were observed closely in the expectation that disease might appear there early, and as soon as there was reason to believe a local cause might be operating, the building was vacated. Dr. Brown, in his report, states that the Sailors' Home was occupied in 1865 and 1866 as a yellow fever hospital for the naval vessels stationed at New Orleans. Dr. Heber Smith details the history of the occupation and use of the building. His letter is enclosed. It would appear that it was during the summer and fall of 1864 that there was so much fever in the squadron, and that yellow fever patients were received from the ships until late in the winter. Fatal cases occurred there as late as February, 1865. He thinks there were no cases of yellow fever admitted in the summer of 1865, and that no new patients were received for several weeks before it was iinally broken up, patients being transferred to Pensacola at different times, as they were able to travel, before the hospital was broken up, October 1st, 1865, and the appurtenances removed. It was feared that yellow fever would again prevail in 1865 if this course was not pursued. * The Sailors' Hcmie was vacant in 1866, I believe. It was first occupied by U. S. troops March 29th, 1867; July 20th, August 3d, 4th, 7th, 8th, and 9th, single cases of fever occurred at the Home. On the 10th, two cases; on the 12th, four cases; after which it was determined to evacuate the building. The troops were transferred thence to Green\'ille, a few miles above the city. The troops at the Commercial Hotel were movSd, not because there was necessity for vacating the building, but as the disease was extending in the city, and likely to invade these quarters, they were moved while still considered a healthy connnand to the barracks, in order to be out of the city, and at the same time to be near to ho^ipital accommodations for prompt treat-' ment. After August 3()th the troops, except Company " G," 6th Cavalry, which, being in the 3d district, was not far fi'om Jackson Barracks, were out of the city, and convenient to the principal hospitals. The necessary duty to be done in the city, however, brought the men back and forth to the city, and in the hot sun. The admissions to post hospital Greenville of cases of yellow fever early in the season were of soldiers serving in New Orleans, and did not originate at Greenville. The period of extreme severity among the troops, when the number of daily admissions of new cases and deaths were largest, continued from the 15th to 30th of September. As the epidemic advanced additional medical attendance became necessary. Assistant Surgeon Cronkliite, and Acting Assistant Surgeons Mauran and Tonner, were sent to Galveston; Assistant Surgeon C. B. White, September 5th, and Acting Assistant Surgeons J. D. Johnson, September 14th, Z. P. Doehnler, September 20th, J. T. Payne, September 26th, and Charles Lodge, October 2d, were sent to Jackson Barracks for duty. The following Acting Assistant Surgeons were sent to Greenville for duty in and near the New Orleans post hospital: Dr. J. J. Auerhach, August r2th ; J. T. Scott, September 16th; Heber Smith and Charles Pelaez, September 23d; F. A. Wilmans, September 26th ; ;ind J. O. Taylor, October 22d. The greatest virulence of the disease seems to have been manifested in the following commands : Indianola, where, out of 29 cases, 14 died; Hempstead, 55 cases, 29 died; Galveston, 207 cases, 82 died ; Houston, 71 cases, 25 died; New Orleans and