112 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. Medicine in the University of Louisiana, Prof. S. M. Bemiss. This contemplated, unavoidably, very great sacrifice on their part, their time being occupied by pressing and important professional engagements. Tlie timely permission accorded to employ experienced nurses prevented many embarrassments in administration and suftering to tbe sick. Assistant Surgeon H. E. Brown gave me his assistance in procuring them by contract at times when increase of duties at the height of the epidemic, and tlie necessity of visiting the hospitals, prevented my being present in my office. I am. General, with much respect, your obedient servant, T. A. McPARLIN, Surgeon, and Brevet Brigadier General, IT. S. A., Medical Director. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. New Orleans, Louisiana, December 2, 1867. Sir: Your note of November 1st, requesting a general report of the work accomplished at my office from May to November, was not received until the '^Sth, otherwise the report would have been made out earlier. During the month of May, and until about the latter part of June, my district was exempt from epidemic diseases, and consequently neither fumigants nor disinfectants were employed. From that time until August, true cholera appeared in the district; the first case, originating at the corner of Mandeville and Prosper streets, terminated fatally at the Charity hospital. This place was not immediately disinfected, and soon the whole neighborhood, from Elysian Fields to Mandeville, on Prosper, Josephine, Solidette, Morales, and Urquehart streets, was thoroughly infected with cholera, about twenty-five cases occurring in a week. Requisitions for disinfectants were made and forwarded to tlie street commissioner, and about the tenth of July over thirty houses in the locality mentioned were thoroughly fumigated and disinfected. From that time not more than two or three cases originated in that part of that district. Other cases were afterwards reported in various portions of the district—on Greatmen, Congress, Casacalvo, and Front Levee streets—but the infected houses were promptly attended to, and the cliolera was effectually checked. I have no hesitation in stating that it was checked, for I observed that wherever the work of purifying infected houses was delayed, whether from want of promptness on the part of physicians in reporting these cases, or from other cases occurring in the same places,, that the adjoining houses suffered, which did not prove the case when nothing interfered with or obstructed me in my duty. Though I caiinot assert so positively the beneficial effects of disinfectants during the prevalence of yellow fever, I firmly believe that yellow fever can be checked; but for that purpose, a removal of the sick would be necessary, especially the first cases, and a better knowledge of the disease on the part of practitioners of medicine, so that the early cases would not escape notice. The number of houses disinfected of yellow fever from the middle of August to November 1st was about three hundred. The first case died at the hospital, but was taken there from Antonio Baptistella's, on Victory street near Elysian Fields street. Four days after there were upwards of forty cases on Victory street, from Frenchmen to Elysian Fields streets. Every house is a boarding-house, and many were filled to overflowing with strangers. These houses were not only fumigated witli sulpliur and disinfected with sulphate of iron in solution, but were pumped from top to bottom with carbolic acid, which impregnated the atmosphere for some distance off. This was repeated as often as new cases occurred. From the 1st of September to the present time, there has not been a more healthy neighborhood ; and notwithstanding new sets of boarders, also equally unacclimated, have taken the places of those who have gone away, but very few, to my knowledge, have been sick with yellow fever. For the removal of various nuisances since the first of May, four hundred and sixty-seven written orders have been issued by me. This is independent of the orders given by police officers, acting under me, in their inspections of privies. From November 24th to the present day, 22 places, infected with cholera, have been fumigated and disinfected: No. 32 Elmira street, corner of Moreau and Frenchmen; 432 Casacalvo; brig Harvest Home; ship Zimi; bark Estin ; house corner of Spain and Casacalvo streets; 160 Clonett street; Congress between Moreau and Casacalvo; No. 8 Port street; Piets near Cove; 115 Frenchmen street; 36 Annetto street; Casacalvo near Frenchmen; Levee between Mazant and Liseps; ship Zimi, a second time fumigated; ship City of Limerick; corner of Enghien and Morales streets; Independence street; 595 Casacalvo; corner of Port and Good Children; corner of Elmira and Greatmen. Respectfully, E. S. LEWIS, Health Officer, Third District. Dr. S. A. Smith, President of the Board of Health. New Orleans, Oi fice of the Health Officer, Second District, December 3, 1867. Siu : In compliance with your letter, I make the following report of the operations of this office during the months of July, August. September, October, and November: Up to the 4th of August, the small amount of disinfection required was performed by Police Officer H. Tricou, detailed from the police force of this district. The number of cases of yellow fever increasing, I made application to the deputy street commissioner, second and third districts, Mr. Louis C. d'Honiergue, who supjilied me with men, who have been employed in disinfecting, inspecting, and serving notices. I have always found this officer ready to furnish any assistance in the execution of sanitary measures, and an ample supply of disinfectants was always ki'|)t on liand by