106 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. Private Alexander, (a negro,) a nurse, who had been exposed, and may, perhaps, have had a slight attack; but I think his case was called yellow fever on too slight grounds. I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, ^ CHARLES C. FURLEY, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Suryeon General. JEFFERSOIV, TEXAS. Jefferson, Texas, November 30, 1867. General : I have the honor, respectfully, to report as follows upon the appearance of yellow fever at this post: Sergeant Joseph Hogan, Company D," 20th U. S. Infantry, arrived here on the evening of the 22d ultimo direct from Baton Rouge, La., by steamboat direct ftpm New Orleans, (where he had gone about one month previous as witness at a court martial,) with no apparent symptoms of disease but those of the character to which unacclimated persons are so subject in this climate, and similar to attucb^ he had had during the season. Several days previous to his departure he was seized with a violent attack of vomiting and retching, which recurred, while en route, several times during the day, but less violently. It is my opinion that what he had here was a relapse, the disease having been contracted at Baton Rouge, La., and that he had gone through the first and a portion of the second stage before arriving here—in a very mild form, however; three prominent resident physicians whom I had in consultation fully concur with me in this. It is my opinion, further, that his was a sporadic case, as he was not directly exposed to any contagious influence, it not having been epidemic at Baton Rouge, La., nor was there even a case there so far as I can learn; neither were there a case on board the boat which brought him here. Though the season was far advanced and our camp distant four miles from the city, upon a high and open site, yet every precaution was taken to prevent its spreading, by isolating those who had been directly exposed upon sites to leeward of the camp, keeping large fires burning continually to windward of it, and administering quinine and whiskey as a prophylactic to the well portion of the command three times per day for the period of two weeks. Out of five who were directly exposed, but one took it; this case was of a very mild form, recovery was rapid and without one untoward symptom, having used no other treatment than that known here as the domestic. I am. General, very respectfully, your obedient servant, A. L. BUFFINGTON, Acting Assistant Surgeon, V. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. WEW IBERIA, EOinSIANA.* [Extract.] New Iberia, La., October 1, 1867. General : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Circular No. 5 on epidemic cholera, it being the fourth circular that has reached me since I have been here. Having been sent here by the Surgeon-in-Chief of Bureau R., F. and A. L. to assist in the relief of the sick and destitute freedmen during the terrible epidemic of yellow fever, there being no acting Surgeon besides, I have taken them from the post office. The command at present is removed, for safety, some fifteen miles from this place, their acting Surgeon having died lately. * * # # Most respectfully, WM. M. MILLER, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. * With regard to theorijrin of the epidemic at New Iberia, see also tlie New Orleans report of Brevet Major H. E. Brown, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A.