EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. 42 of iron used in the sinks. There was no unusual numher of cases of diarrhrea until the disease actually appeared, when they became very numerous and severe. For the diarrhoea perfect quiet is of the utmost importance. The sulphuric acid mixture did not render as good results as I had been led to hope for. The compound tincture of opium, as recommended by Dr. Squibb, of New York, was used in large quantities, and in the early stages it could not have done better; but after the diarrhoea had existed for some time it did not answer as well as a pill of calomel, acetate of lead, and opium. Acting Assistant Surgeon Miles used sulphate of copper in such cases, and he reports himself well pleased with its use. For cholera, to allay the vomiting, chloroform with camphor dissolved in it was given; small pieces of ice, heat to the extremities, and mustard draughts, and an injection of brandy, green tea, and acetate of lead, to be repeated after each evacuation. Acting Assistant Surgeon M. S. Jones used an injection of the chloride of sodium and the phosphate of soda, with good results. The quantity of this injection absorbed was remarkable. In the collapse, stimulants were used freely—aromatic spirits of ammonia, external heat and mustard to spine and extremities. I am strongly in favor of the use of calomel and in large doses, with the internal injection of brandy. I saw the happiest benefit in one very severe case from ice to the abdomen ; the patient expressed great relief from it. I think it is worthy of use. Did not omit the heat to the ex- tremities. Is this disease contagious? In San Antonio, where, after so many people had fled, there were over six hundred deaths— where there is scarcely a house in which the disease did not enter—in the centre of this city, a Roman Catholic convent, filled with students, as soon as they heard of the disease closed their doors, allowing no one to enter. Not one single case occuned, nor were there any of the premonitory symptoms. There is no other house of the same number of inmates or any other school in town that can claim like exemption. I cannot close without speaking in especial praise of the faithfulness and care of Acting Assistant Surgeons Jones and Miles. They both deserve to receive more than I can bestow by recommendation. [Extract.] Jacksboro', Texas, February 8, 18G7. Colonel : I have had the lionor to transmit circular letter, office chief medical officer, Galveston, Texas, January 4, 1867, to the medical officer on duty with the part of regiment stationed at Austin, at which station cholera prevailed last summer and fall. I have none of the records with me. Cholera first appeared in a detachment of recruits proceeding via Indianola to join the regiment, and before their leaving the coast. September 16 they were imperfectly quarantined at quite a distance from the city of Austin. Some four or seven deaths occurred in the detachment under the care of Acting Assistant Surgeon Kirk. Succeeding the approach of the recruits two cases appeared at Austin under my immediate charge, but my attendance was not called until late in each case. Sanitary measures and attention given to cases of bowel irritation among the recruits checked its appearance. Ten deaths had occurred out from Indianola. At Austin no further indications of its presence presented. Sanitary measures were here also carefully entered into. After its disappearance I was absent on duty. During my absence the disease again appeared iu the command, a considerable number of deaths occurring. * * » # * « I am, colonel, very respectfully, your obedient servant, C. BACON, Jr., Brevet Major and Assistant Surgeon U. S. A. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel George Taylor, Surgeon U. S. A. [Extract from a letter by the same to the same dated February 9, 1867.] ******* Cholera had appeared in the detachment prior to its leaving Indianola. #»»#»• Extract from monthly reports of sick and wounHcd at Brownsville, Texas, August, 1866. Ira Perry, Assistant Surgeon Ninth United States Colored Troops. Cholera suddenly appeared in this camp August 'iOth. No premonitory symptoms were known to exist at tlii^ time ot invasion. Thirteen (115) of the fatal cases had not been under treatment before the third stage began. They were in col- lapse when the medical officer first saw them, and sank in .spite of earnest efforts to avert death. Diarrhoea did not prevail iu the regiment at this lime. Only eleven cases came to sick call between the 1st and 22d of August, who were excused on account of diarrhoea. In a few days after the appearance of cholera diarrhoea increased rapidly. Tliis camp is located on dry ground, but has stagnant, marshy water on three sides. No better spot can be had at a convenient distance. The sanitary condition of the camp is good. The men are kept steadily at work every day on guard or fatigue duty.