APPEIDIX B.-EXTKACTS FEOl OFFICIAL EEPORTS. I. TVEW YORK HARBOR. [Extracts.] Medical Director's Office, Department op the East, No. 125 B'eeckcr Street, New York, July II, IHGG. General: I have also to report that the first detachment for the seventeenth infantry left Hart's island on Saturday for Texas, and that on the succeeding days, Sunday and Monday, there were five cases of cholera at the post, three being fatal. I visited the island yesterday, and there had been no new cases, and all the necessary precautions had been adopted. f * * The sailing of the .second detachment of the seventeenth infantry has been delayed to await further developments, upon the advice of the medical officer of the post, which I approved. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, WILLIAM J. SLOAN, Brevet Colonel and Surgeon V. S. A., Medical Director Department of the East. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. Depot Hospital, Fort Columbus, New York Harbor, July 26, 186fi. Colonel : In accordance with instructions from your office of the 24th instant, this day received by me, I have the honor to make, for the information of the Surgeon General, the following statement of the prevalence of cholera at this post. During the latter part of the month of June the cases of diarrhoea commenced steadily to increase in number and persist- ency, but not more than was to be expected from the intense heat of the weather and the irrepressible imprudences of the raw recruits, who were pouring into the depot from all sections until the aggregate strength of the command reached, on the 30th of June, 1,189 men. Several detachments were sent away about the first of the present month, relieving, in some measure, the over-crowded quarters. On the evening of the 3d of July a case presenting all the characteristics of well-marked cholera was brought into the hospital. He was profoundly collapsed when admitted, and died the next morning. This man had been but three days at this post, and came direct from the recruiting rendezvous at Minneapolis, Minnesota. Nothing of his pre- vious history could be learned, though I well remember remarking the cadaverous and wasted appearance of this man when inspected the day previous to his attack. About an hour after the admission of this man, a second man was brought from the same company (D recruits) to hospital, with cramps, rice-water discharges, vomiting, and commencing collapse. Twenty grains of calomel were promptly administered and repeated, with the effect of checking the vomiting and discharges and pro- ducing reaction and eventual recovery. No connection could be traced between these cases. The next cases, admitted on the 5th instant, were two prisoners from the guard-house with well-marked cholera; but, under the above treatment, they both recovered. Three cases were admitted on the 6th, two on the 8th, one on the 10th, two on the 12th, six on the 15th, when the next fatal case occurred. The assignment of recruits to regiments and their transfer from this depot seemed to be, for some reason, again interrupted, so that a steady accumulation from the influx of the new recruits, at the rate of about seventy-five per diem, was the conse- quence, until the number present on the island readied, on the 14th instant, 1,216. The capacity of the quarters was not sufficient to accommodate so large a number of men, and the results of this over-crowding were difficult to contend against. Jn this connection I beg leave to call attention to a report made by me on the first day of June, 1866, a copy of which I herewith enclose. The sanitary condition of this island, with this exception, was excellent; and every attention to this sub- ject, by frequent inspections, directions, and advice was given by me. The water used by the men was not considered injurious, as far as I could observe its effects, except in the instance of the pump inside of Fort Columbus. The use of this water was immediately discontinued, and the pump-handle removed from the pump by my advice and direction. Several cases now occurred among the prisoners, and by my advice the guard-house was almost entirely vacated, the prisoners being sent to Castle Williams to sleep. This measure seemed to have a beneficial effect. The next cases occurred among the music boys of company B at the south battery. It was immediately recommended that these boys be placed in tents and their quarters meas- urably vacated and disinfected. This plan was also at once followed by beneficial results. Attention is called to a communi- cation addressed to the commanding officer relative to the over-crowded condition of these quarters, a copy of which is here-