48 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. 4 the mouth, and brandy and strong teaser rectum, appeared to control and arrest the symptoms. Creosote, to check vomiting, and hypodermic injections of morphine for the same purpose, as well as to assuage the pain of cramps, were employed, but not with sufficient success to warrant their continuance. Saline injections into the veins were resorted to in some cases, but, it is needless to say, without that miraculous etfect some are disposed to ascribe to it. These patients were isolated and treated by themselves in a separate building, the best that could be done under the circumstances. My experience in the epidemic just described warrants the conviction that cholera wards and cholera hospitals are to be condemned, for, in my mind, there is not the slightest doubt that in these epidemics many cases, at first comparatively mild in character, acquire their gravity the moment the patient is subjected to and yields to the moral influence derived from associa- tion. If each patient could be kept completely isolated by himself the rate of mortality would be greatly diminished. An autopsy was made in two eases. One where death occurred in the stage of collapse, a strong, robust, plethoric, but intemperate man : rigor mortis, moderate; the body presented the usual characteristic blue, livid appearance; upon cutting down through the integuments of the abdomen, blood escaped quite freely from the small vessels ; the stomach and bowels were filled with the rice water fluid ; their mucous membrane injected and eroded in some places, and covered with a flocculent, gelatinous fluid, composed, I presume, chiefly of epithelium ; the bladder was empty and firmly contracted; the thoracic viscera presented no unusual appearance. In the other case, where death occurred in the inflammatory or typhoid stage, the phenomena observed were precisely those met with in severe cases of typhoid fever. Post mortem, two hours after death: Rigor mortis complete ; peritoneum inflamed and injected and thickened; the mucous )nembrane throughout the whole extent of both large and small intestines exhibited a state of inflammation in certain portions, particularly those of the lower half of the ileum, and in the coecum this condition being very marked; the solitary follicles enlarged to the size of a pin head, the seat of pigment deposit, and projecting into the interior of the canal; the inflammation had not reached a destructive degree, except in the case of Peyer's patches; these were extensively altered, and presented signs of deep structural lesion ; in some the mucous coat was entirely destroyed ; they were generally enlarged (one enormously) to the extent of two inches in length by an inch in width ; the spleen was found to be of twice its normal size, its capsule containing tuberculous deposit; the liver was also greatly enlarged, the gall bladder filled to distension, and, upon being opened, allowed at least a pint of dark brownish fluid to escape ; the intestines were filled with a fluid of similar character. At the time of the patient's death, which occurred on the sixth day from the inception of the malady, he was upon a supporting and alterative treatment. The right lung was extensively compromised, its upper lobe being in a state of red hepatization; the left lung but slightly altered; heart normal. The phenomena above described, as revealed by post mortem examination, cannot fail to warn the practitioner of the grave nature of the disease in this stage, and to point out the indications to be fulfilled in the course of treatment. He must be prompt, too, in the application of remedies, for the condition of the patient is one of extreme and almost immediate prostra- tion. In some respects, the condition more closely resembles typhus than typhoid fever. It is worthy of observation that more than fifty per cent, of the cases were from one company, chiefly composed of recruits. This prevalence I am disposed to ascribe to a want of proper care in the preparation of their food. This company (E) was ordered to Bowling Green on the 21st, leaving six cases of cholera in the hospital. It took the disease with it, as the com- manding officer reported, three days after its departure, that six cases of mild nature had occurred since its arrival at that place. I have received no intelligence of the disease having extended to the community. Upon the first appearance of the disease, in the hope that it would not prevail generally, I endeavored to trace the cause to indiscretions committed on the part of the men, but the rapid multiplication of cases compelled me to abandon this idea, and to recognize the fact that it existed in its true epidemic form. In conclusion, I would add that many of the cases marked " acute diarrhoea" on this report were of a sufficiently malig- nant type to render the question of diagnosis a very delicate one. I am indebted to Assistant Surgeon H. Culbertson, United States Army, who relieved me of the charge of the regiment on the Gth instant, for kind and valuable assistance rendered. Ext7-acts from monthly report of sick and wounded at Taylor harrackx, Louisville, Kentucky, August, 1866. H. Culbertson, Assistant Surgeon United Slates Army. * * * Other bowel diseases, during the period from the 19th of July to the 31st of August, 186C, inclusive, amounted to 25.34 per cent, in old soldiers, while in the New York recruits the percentage increases to 39.55, and the post recruits had such aflections only to 10.40 per cent. The post recruits referred to were enlisted here within six months, and were carefully selected by the medical officer of the regiment, and hence, it would seem, arises the per cent, of sickness aniong this class. Again, it may be that so large a per cent, of the old soldiers had such diseases because it is well known that, although the majority of old soldiers are comparatively free from disease, yet there are unfortunately among this class many who are broken down from drinking and disea.se. The presence of such men in a cholera atmosphere would naturally increase tlic number of diarrhoea cases, and they might not suffer much from cholera. Further, it may be that the per cent, of " other bowel affections" in the New York recruits is largest, because the.se troops were exposed to cholera on Governor's i.sland, wliich place they began to leave on the 12th of July, and all reached here by the 19th of July, 1866, and because they were exposed to the ills of travel en route here, and nuiinly because they were unused to the habits, diet, &c., of the soldier. * * * It will be seen, also, that the old soldiers sutfered least, the post recruits more, and the New York recruits most from the cholera during the same period. « # « * Qu the 29th of July and 1st of August cholera occurred among the New York recruits, but not a post recruit or old soldier suftered from the di.sease until the Idth of August, nineteen days aftci the lir.st visitation, \vlien the old soldiers and post recruits took it on the same