EXTRACTS FEOM OFFICIAL REPORTS. 116 proved, had arrived in that village. Dr. George W. Shields, an Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., arrived in New Orleans from New Iberia, was taken sick a few days after his arrival, and died of black vomit. Other cases shortly after occurred in the house where he died, 21^! Common street. I have thus briefly indicated four sources of infection wliich may throw some light on the etiology of the disease: 1st. The unclean condition of the city and the entire neglect of proper hygienic measures. 2d. Importation from Havana, as in the case of the bark Florence Peters. 3d. Importation from New Iberia, Galveston, and Indianola, as in the cases of Lieutenant Dewey and Dr. Shields. 4th. The spread of the disease from houses infected the previous year which had not been fumigated at the time. That the last is not exaggerated as a means of propagating the fever, the history of the outbreak among the troops at the Sailors' Home will show. This building, a large four-story edifice, originally constructed for an asylum for disabled sailors, was occupied in 1865 and 1866* as a yellow fever hospital for naval vessels stationed at New Orleans. Only the two lower stories were so occupied, the upper part of the building being vacant. This year it was used as barracks by two companies of the 1st U. S. Infantry and the New Orleans post band. Yellow fever made its appearance among these troops, especially in the band, and there were some twenty-eight or thirty cases in the command before it was removed to Sedgwick Barracks. The band occupied the rear room on the second floor, and suffered most: this room was used last year for yellow fever patients. The company quartered in the upper story suftered but little; thvis almost forcing one to the conclusion (there being no other special reason why one portion of the command should suffer more than the other) that the virus of the disease had penetrated the wood-work and walls of the room, had slumbered there through the winter, and, with the approaching beat of summer, had been developed into action when appropriate food was offered it. I think if there is one lesson more than another to be learned from the history of this epidemic, it is that there is nothing in the climate or tropical position of New Orleans which originates yellow fever; that with a complete system of disinfection and fumigation of every infected house, a proper attention to street cleaning and drainage, the removal of abattoirs, soap factories, cemeteries, and other nuisances beyond the city limits, and an absolute quarantine, (at least fifteen days for all vessels coming from infected ports,) yellow fever can be kept out of the city. I am aware that this is not the opinion of some of the most prominent New Orleans physicians, but I have not seen any valid arguments to prove that yellow fever is endemic in this city, and I have observed much that goes to prove the contrary. It will be observed, in looking at the chart of the epidemic which accompanies this report,t that during the whole month of July (i. c, the period in which the fumigations were most efficiently carried out) the number of deaths did not at any time exceed five per day; and that although the fever was pronounced epidemic by the Board of Health on the 12th of August, yet it was not until the latter part of that month that it became at all formidable. After this time, both fumigations and quarantine were abandoned as useless; the virus of the disease became concentrated in certain houses and localities, and the more malignant types from Vera Cruz, Galveston, New Iberia, and other places, were constantly introduced into the city, undoubtedly aggravating the very mild character of the original disease. From the middle until the latter part of July, the fever prevailed quite extensively in a filthy locality in the third district. Several hundred cases occurred in the vicinity of Victory, Marigny, and other streets in this vicinity. It subsequently died out here entirely, and about August 1st made its appearance in the first district along Tchoupitoulas, New Levee, Magazine, St. Mary, and other streets, extending thence into tlie fourth district, and being especially malignant in the vicinity of the stock-landing, near the foot of Washington aveime. By the 12th of August it was so generally prevalent as to wan-ant its being pronounced epidemic by the Board of Health. From this time the number of deaths increased in a steady ratio until the 24th of September, when the mortuary report was 82 from yellow fever, and 133 from all causes. It then commenced to decline, rather irregularly at first, but by the 10th of October very decidedly, and on the 5th of November the fever was no longer pronounced epidemic. During the last few weeks it, to a great measure, abandoned the central portion of the city, and most of the cases were to be found along Claiborne, Union, and the streets on the outskirts of the city towards Lake Pontchartrain. Nearly all the officers and men under the charge of the attending Surgeon had the disease. The following table shows the number of cases: Command: Headquarters Fifth Military District. Clerks and orderlies Detached officers Detachments Company "G," 6th Cavalry- Total. be 13 17 4 5 40 66 1 5 14 28 33 11 12 55 111 The enlisted men embraced in the above table were sent to Sedgwick hospital, Greenville, Louisiana, as soon as taken sick, and the result, in their respective cases, reported by the Surgeon in charge of that institution. Consequently, I am unable to give * Dates erroneous. See p. 109. t It is regretted that it was not jiracticable to imblisli tliis chart.