157 HOSPITAL ORGANIZATION AND CONSTRUCTION. employs one engineer and an assistant. It supplies power for the tank as well as for the laundry. The well which supplies the tank is 40 feet deep, with usually 4 feet of water; its diameter is 6 feet. The steam pump can raise 2000 gallons of water per hour. The building for Sisters' Quarters is 23 by 51 feet, with a wing 16 by 28, forming a letter "L." It is divided into chapel, sitting-room, kitchen, etc. Twenty-eight Sisters of Charity were on duty, and I must bear evidence to their efl&ciency and superiority as nurses. The extra-diet kitchen is under the care of a sister, and one is detailed by the superior for each ward. They administer medicine, diet, and stimulants, are under the orders of the ward surgeon, and are responsible to him alone. They have been beloved and respected by the men. The Stewards' Quarters are 18 feet north of the engine-room, are two stories high—contain dining-room, kitchen, sleeping-rooms, etc. Five stewards generally occupied this building. The Operathig-Room is 25 feet east of the engine-room. It is 17 feet square, and lighted by a sky-light on the north side of the roof. A revolving-table is in the centre of the room; also a cupboard for instruments, sponges, microscope, etc., with a sink in the northwest corner. The Examining-Room adjoining it is 17 feet 7 inches square, and communicates by a door with the operating-room. The Extra-Diet Kitchen is under the same roof with the general kitchen. It is 18 by 24 feet—has in it a Harri- son's European range, 8 feet front, 3 feet 6 inches deep. A room 18 by 12 feet adjoins on the south. This kitchen is under the supervision of a sister, who is generally assisted by from four to six men. The Main Kitchen is 77 by 24 feet. It contains a cooking-range, 28 feet 10 inches long and 3 feet 2 inches wide; also three of "Peters' and Johnson's bake-ovens or roasters," two boilers for tea and coffee, each with a capacity of 120 gallons, five boilers or cauldrons for soup or hash (60 gallons each), and two for heating water (one 60 gallons, the other 22 gallons). Full diet is prepared here for all the men in the hospital. On either side of the kitchen, opening from it north and south, are the Dining-Rooms, each 146 by 24 feet, with three tables running the whole length of each, capable of seating in all 860 men. At the distal end of each room a door opens on a corridor and raised walk, so that the patients are protected from the weather in coming to their meals. Cars, with cans fitted in them, are run around the corridors to the several wards with the food for those unable to come to the dining-room. On the northwest corner of the kitchen is a room 30 feet long, 14 feet wide, and 10 feet high, used for washing dishes, roasting coffee, etc. Prom 40 to 50 men are usually employed in the various departments of the kitchen. Opposite the centre of the northern dining-room, and distant to the west 30 feet, is the Fire-Engine and Hose House, 26 by 20 feet—contains one fire-engine, three hose-carriages carrying 1850 feet of hose, 34 ladders, 22 hooks, 278 axes, and 300 buckets. Thirteen feet south of the kitchen is the Meat-Shop, 14J by 23. In its centre is an ice-box, 3| by 14^- and 4 feet deep, lined with zinc. The allowance of ice per day is one pound for each man. East of the kitchen, and connected by a covered way, is the Commissary Building, which is two stories high,—- the upper story is used to lodge attendants; the lower story, used for commissary store-room, is 82 by 232-, and is under a commissary steward. In the northeastern corner is the liquor-room, 8j by 13, heavily planked and secured against marauders. All liquor is issued here on the orders of the ward surgeons. The vegetable-room is in the northwestern corner, and is 9 by I35-. An office, 9 by 15j, adjoins the liquor-room. The books and accounts are kept in this office. The store-room is provided with a counter 52j feet long, and gives employment to one steward, one clerk, and two men. At the southern end is the bread-room, 14|^ by 23, which employs two men cutting bread for the tables. Adjoining, on the east, is the bakery, 14 by 23|. The oven is 10 by 16 feet. The Chapel is situated 63 feet east of the commissary building. It is a structure shaped like the letter "T," one story in height, with a cupola on top. The main building is 24 by 78 feet. The northern end is used during the week as a reading-room. The left wing, 18 by 26 feet, is used as a library; it contains 3000 volumes, contributed to the hospital from various sources. The right wing is the same size, and is used as a school for the freedmen employed in the hospital, who are instructed by two female teachers. Twenty-four feet south of the chapel is the Sutler's Store, 24 by 68. The Stables, 25 by 101 feet, are 72 east of the sutler's shop; they contain 18 horses, 3 wagons, 3 ambulances, 3 carts and 1 night-cart. Thirteen men are employed as hostlers, drivers, etc. One hundred and twenty-one feet northeast of the stables is the Guard-House, 15 by 47 and one story high. South of this is the Oil-Room and Freedmen's Quarters, 29 by 69 feet. The oil and lamp room are in the northern part. Kerosene oil was used in lighting the whole hospital, and all the lamps were filled and trimmed in this room. A corporal and two men were employed. Ninety-one feet southeast of the oil-room is the Dead-House, 15 by 40 feet. It is divided into two rooms—the northern one used in making post-mortem examinations, and the southern for plaster-casts, etc. Thirty-two feet south of this room is the Photographic Gallery, 16 by 24 feet. An operator is em- ployed at $100 per month, paid from the slush fund. Surgical cases, pathological specimens, etc. are taken; also like- nesses of all men discharged on surgeon's certificate of disability, as a guard against fraud. On the base line of the triangle are Medical Ojjficers' Quarters, 63 by 24 and two stories in height; also, in the same line, the quarters for the Veteran Reserve Corps, a building two stories high, with an outside entrance-stairway to the second floor. Ninety feet further back, 100 hospital tents are pitched, placed four end to end, on substantial frames, with floors raised from the ground and a door at each end of the frame. The sides of these tents were always easily raised, and gave the best of