FORT IIARKIiE, KANSAS. 43 relieved; although in tlie majority convalescence was slow and tedious. The treatment consisted of pure chloroform for the relief of cramps and vomiting, and also as a stimulant; the employment of calomel in graduated doses, camphor, opium, the various alkaloids, brandy and food. Infected articles of clothing and bed furniture were destroyed by fire; deep but narrow pits were dug to receive excreta of all kinds, and were constantly kept disinfected by fresh earth and mineral acids, after the manner of Pettenkofier; close-stools were constructed of small boxes, which were nearly filled with earth, and were exclusively used by diarrhoea patients. After each evacuation the dejection was inspected by an intelligent attendant, who recorded the character of the discharge, disinfected it with acids, placed it in the pits before described, and renewed the earth in the boxes. In the tents, carbolic acid and chlorine were employed as disinfectants ; and in the drinking water the solution of permanganate of potash. Of the cases before enumerated, five proved fatal; in them the disease had been arrested, but the subsequent debility becoming typhoid, no impression by medication of any class could be obtained. In the management of these cases, great assist- ance was rendered me by the late Acting Assistant Surgeon Algernon M. Squier, IJ. S. A., who was unremitting in his care and attention to the sufferers from the disease to which he was so soon to fall a victim. From the 7th of July no new cases of cholera occurred in the command, although it still continued epidemic in and aroinid the post, where the disease seemed confined to two companies of the 33th Infantry and one company of the 10th Cavalry, who were doing garrison duty, to the quartermaster's employes, and to citizens. No officers or members of their families had been attacked; nor had it spread to a company of the 37th Infantry. After a slight subsidence, the disease was again suddenly developed with increased severity, the first victim being Mrs. Sternberg, a most lovely and accomplished lady, who died, after eleven hours of intense suffering, which defied medical aid. On the 16th, 17th, 18th, and 19th, the disease raged with unabated fury, but no new cases were developed in the camp of the 38th. The precise manner in which the disease was imported to Fort Harker would be difficult to determine. The post had been but lately located upon high, well-drained, and unused gi-ound. It was distant some two miles from the travelled route to the Arkansas and Santa Fe. The supply of water was good, and was obtained from a spring, which was guarded with every care, to prevent the introduction of excrementitious matter. The subsidence of the June floods had not produced anj' susceptible malarial influences. No obvious cause was to be found in the post for the development of the cholera poison. It might be presumed that the disease was directly imported from Fort Eiley, on the following grounds : I. The progress of the disease had been arrested at that post in the preceding season, after fifty-nine cases of cholera and six hundred and thirty-five cases of acute diarrhoea had been treated in that garrison. II. As, on June 22d, a fatal case of sporadic cholera had occurred at that post while troops of the 38th Infantry were encamped in its vicinity. III. As three detachments of the same regiment, also en route for Harker, had been temporarily encamped near that post, and on ground which had been used for camp purposes. IV. As the disease appeared at Harker, among the men of this regiment, within seven days of the case at Fort Eiley. V. As, about the same time, the quartermaster's department was removed from Riley to Harkei', thus introducing a lai-ge number of employes, many of whom had been employed at the first-named post for a considerable period. On the other hand, it has been shown that the disease was developed simultaneously in three distinct localities: I. In the person of the herder of the beef contractor, who lived nearly two miles from the post. II. Among the enlisted men in the camp of the 38th Infantry. III. In the command of Col. Merriam, at Plumb creek, some eighteen miles distant. Again, the events of the days following its appearance at Harker determined the following fiicts: I. That the disease existed among the men of Mexican freight trains that had been loaded further east. II. That the quartermaster's employes who were first attacked, and who had the disease most severely, were not those brought from Fort Eiley, but those who had been employed for some length of time at Harker. III. That, at the inception of the epidemic, the citizens living in the viemity of the post were found to be most liable to the disease. Prior to the outbreak of the disease, the stations of both the Santa Fc and Smoky Hill stage routes were removed to the vicinity of the post. The cholera poison may have been deposited through these channels, but the inhabitants of these stations were exempt from the disease; nor have I been able to learn of any cases having occurred on either of these routes until after the movement of the troops then at Harker. The working parties of the Union Pacific Eailway had reached the post, but, as far as could be determined, no cases of sickness had occurred among them; and I have lately been informed by General W. W. Wright, chief engineer of that route, who, in making an extended survey, was accompanied by a large corps of engineers as far as this post, (Fort Craig, New Mexico,) that he had been constantly ahead of the cholera, no sickness occurring among his men. Lastly, some facts concerning the organization of the 33th Infantry may point to the mode of distribution. The enlistments were commenced in October, 1866, and completed in June, 1867. The regiment was then 1,200 strong. The majority of the men (negroes) were enlisted in the southwest, and had served in volunteer organizations; the western and middle States fur- nished the remainder of the quota. The material of which the regiment was composed was good, but the localities in which the largest number of enlistments were made had, during the season preceding the regimental organization, been visited by epidemic cholera, viz : Chicago, Illinois ; Cincinnati, Ohio ; Louisville, Kentucky ; Nashville and Memphis, Tennessee; Vicksburg and Jackson, Mississippi; Atlanta and Augusta, Georgia. These facts have been stated in detail, as all having a bearing upon the question ; but by far the most plausible theory can he drawn from the fact of the first case occurring near an old slaughter-pen, which contained masses of filth, and in a miserable foul "dug-out." The man had been sick two or more days before the attention of Dr. Perry had been called to his case, and his death ensued within a few hours of the first medical visit. Until the diarrhcea and vomiting had become profuse, the jjatient had gone into the bushes near at hand to empty his bowels ; when they became more frequent and urgent, a bucket was used as the receptacle, and at the time of our visit it contained quite a considerable quantity of rice-water discharges. Time enough had therefore elapsed for ^^'mentation to have occurred, and for the cholera matter to be widely disseminated prior to the departure of Colonel Merriam's command. On the morning of July 20th the headquarters of the 38th took the road for New Mexico, the command consisting of Com- panies "A" and "K." These companies had, until this date, composed a portion of the garrison of Fort Harker, and had been