38 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. 94; in July, 171; in August, 54G; of whicli number there were due to cases in New Orleans, in June, 10; July, 133; August, 375. The number taken on sick report for zymotic diseases in Louisiaua was, for June, 825; July, 1,099; August, 1,681; from which the deaths were, in June, IJ ; July, 16 ; August, 108. The class of zymotic diseases in August (1,681 as above) was made up from acute and chronic diarrhoeas and dysenteries and cholera, 934; fevers, 581 ; other zymotic diseases, 166. The total deaths, from all diseases and injuries, of those on sick report in Louisiana were, in June, 18; July, 22; August, 112. Deaths from cholera among citizens in New Orleans from July to October 31 were 1,180; among United States troops for the same period, 110. Deaths from yellow fever among citizens, 149 ; among troops, 4. The record of sick and wounded of troops in Louisiana is not quite complete, but sufficient to show a total on sick report of 1,600 in September, and 1,591 in October; and the deaths, from all diseases and injuries, in September, 83; in October, 66. In these totals the class of zymotic diseases embraced, in September, 1,236 cases, of which 77 died; and in October, 1,329 cases, of which 62 died. It may be of interest to notice the date of irruption of cholera at different points. So far as I am informed, it appeared at Galveston July 22; Fort St. Philip, Louisiana, (in troops from New Orleans returned to their station,) August 10; White's Ranche, on the Kio Grande, Texas, August 10, among troops. Dr. Merrill, one hundred and sixteenth United States colored troops, reports that several cases appeared among Mexicans at the station, a mile from camp, many days, perhaps a fortnight, previous, and that the disease was brought by citizens from New Orleans. It appeared also at Baton Rouge, Louisiana, August 17; at Brownsville, Texas, August 20 ; Brazos St. lago, August 25 ; Ship island, Mississippi, September 8; San Antonio, Texas, September 10; eightieth United States colored troops, Shreveport, Louisiana, September 22. Surgeon Scoon reports, "for nearly a month previous the disease had been reported on the plantations below, and in the city of Shreveport, above this location." Tlie recruits who arrived at Jackson barracks in July were carefully inspected on arrival and placed in camp. Some of them visited the city and indulged in customary imprudences in eating and drinking. From the Mariposa and Livingston two or three sick soldiers had been taken out at quarantine ; one of them, a recruit to the seventeenth United States infantry, died there. There was no case of cholera at the banacks until July 25. The Merrimachad arrived and landed her passengers (soldiers at the barracks and civilians in the city) on the 23d. The recruits by the Livingston, from New York, were lauded July 16, and shipped to Galveston on a different vessel—the steamship Texas. A case of cholera occurred July 22, at Gal- veston, in one of the recruits, and was rapidly followed by other cases among them. July 22 occurred the first case among our troops, (Nolan, company G sixth cavalry,) but in a far.distant locality from the barracks, and in the central part of the city—a locality where other cases had been appearing, from the 12th of July, among citizens. The source of cholera and the date of its first appearance in this city can be determined better hereafter, when all the facts are known. Vessels and passengers have continued to arrive in New Orleans from eastern cities throughout the season. I have not heard of cholera being at the quarantine station on the Mississippi. Of yellow fever, the first fatal case reported is said to have occurred in New Orleans at the Hotel Dieu, where a citizen died August 13. There were twelve other fatal cases in the city prior to September 15, at which date one of the clerks at these headquarters died at his lodgings, 190 Baronne street in this city. One other fatal case occurred at lodgings in the city Sep- tember 21, and two fatal cases September 14 and October 18 at United States hospital, Jackson barracks. One fatal case occurred at Jackson barracks November 27, supposed to be yellow fever. The total reported of yellow fever among the troops is seven cases and five deaths. The number of fatal cases in the city was one hundred and eighty, prior to November 30. There have been a large number on the sick report, from various causes, this season, as it was important to watch and treat promptly the beginnings of disorder and enjoin rest and respite from duty. The medical officer at the barracks has reported a number of cases of dengue fever. The medical officers have manifested zeal and fidelity in the discharge of their important duties. Assistant Surgeon A. Hartsuff, United States Army, and Acting Assistant Surgeons S. W. Blackwood, Heber Smith, and Daniel McLean, United States Army, have been continuously on duty since cholera first appeared. We had the sorrow of losing one of our officers—Acting Assistant Surgeon Samuel Catlin, United States army—who died in this city, of cholera, the 27th of November, while on duty with three companies of the first United States infantry, with which he had rendered valuable service. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, THOMAS A. McPARLIN, Brevet Brigadier General and Surgeon U. S. A., Medical Director Dcjmrtmcnt of the Gulf Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. Extract from monthly report of sick and wounded of tlic Eighty frst regiment United States Colored Infantry, New Orleans, Louisiana, August, 1SG6. Surgeon Samuel W. Blaclcwood. On the 27th of July a case of cholera was brought from guard, in the neighborhood of Bull's Head, and died in camp. No other cases occurred near at that time. On the 2d of August the regiment pitched tents on the lovee, at the foot ot Canal street, and while there, until the 10th of August, cholera cases were brought oft" guard and from hovels in the city hourly, many coming into camp in a condition of collapse, and soon expiring. The water from the river was used both for drinking and to-swim in; and the soldiers bought garbage of the hucksters and i)eddlers, and no doubt the mortality was thus increased. During the worst of the epidemic twenty to thirty cases were sent to general hospital, and one or two died in camp or in their huts. On the 10th of August the regiment returned to camp, and since that time not a death has occurred, and even choleraic