HOSPITAL ORGANIZATION AND CONSTRUCTION. 160 40, radiating from the periphery of a circular covered way, in the centre of which are the buildings for kitchens, etc. etc. The arrangement is shown in Figure 11, in which the part towards the bottom of the page is that facing the river front. Outside the circle, at convenient distances, are detached buildings for chapel, cooks' and nurses' quarters, laundry, gas-house, bake-house, dead-house, reservoir, and stables. All these buildings are constructed of boards, set upright and battened; the roofs shingled, and open at the ridge for ventilation. They are raised 3 feet above the ground on brick piers. The covered way which connects them is twelve feet wide. The ward pavilions have two small rooms partitioned off at each end, leaving a space in the centre, 115 by 24 feet, available for patients. There are two beds between each pair of windows, as in the plan figured on page 153, but the number of beds is less—40 to each ward. The dimensions allow about 69 square feet of floor and 1200 cubic feet of air-space to each patient. Three of the small rooms mentioned are occupied as sleeping apartments for nurses. The fourth, which is one of those at the outer extremity of each ward, is divided into bath-room and water-closet. The administration building is two stories high, and contains the office, dispensary, officers' reception, lodging, and dining rooms, etc. etc. The hospital kitchen is shown in Figure 12, which explains its arrangement. The building is 80 by 30 feet. There is a patent steam cook- ing apparatus with boilers, etc., and a carving-table, the pans of which are kept warm by steam. There is also one of Myers, Sandford, Winslow & Co.'s challenge ranges. No. 10, for roasting and cooking extra diet. The railway, on which cars run to distribute food to the wards, passes through the centre of the kitchen. This kitchen is reported by Medical Inspector Vollum as having been "sufficient and in good condition" at the time of his visits. The laundry is situated on the river bank, and is furnished with a steam washing-machine, capable of washing for 1500 patients. Water for washing, etc. is obtained from a reservoir on the river bank, capable of holding 320,000 gallons, whence it is carried by pipes through the administration building, wards, kitchen, dining-rooms, and dead-house. For drinking purposes, rain-water is collected in a central cistern, which holds 150,000 gallons, and in smaller cisterns, holding 10,000 gallons each, at the end of each ward. The water for these cisterns is carried from the roofs of the buildings by zinc gutters and pipes. For the purposes of drainage, the grounds are graded from the centre of the circle towards the periphery with a descent of one inch to every 10 feet; the surface water flows at the periphery into brick sewers, which also receive the sewage from the water-closets, kitchen, etc. by pipes. The several sewers unite into a common trunk, by which the sewage is carried far to the rear of the hospital into the swamps which drain into Lake Fontchartrain. The water-closets throughout the hospital are furnished with patent pans, and discharge into brick sinks lined with cement and built up to the floor. These sinks, which are of some size, are connected with the sewers into which all the liquid parts drain. The hospital is heated by coal-stoves, and lighted with gas which is generated on the premises. This hospital was opened for the reception of patients April 1st, 1865, and, at the time of writing, is still in existence. On the thirty-first day of October, 1865, which is the date of the last report, there were 9 7 sick and 8 wounded patients remaining under treatment. Prior to that date, the total number of admissions of white soldiers was 2163, of whom 1869 were sick and 474 wounded. The number of patients sent to other general hospitals was 673. Deducting this number and the remaining, we have 1385 terminated cases to be accounted for, the results of which were as follows: Total to be accounted for, excluding those sent to General Hospitals and the remaining Oct. 31, 18G5 Returned to duty Mustered out of service at the close of the war Furloughed Discharged for disability Died 1385 818 210 181 56 90 1885 1385 As one of the most recently constructed hospitals, I may mention the Hicks' Hos- pital, at Baltimore, Md. The Hicks' Hospital is situated on the continuation of Townsend Street in the western suburbs of Baltimore, near the city boundary. It was opened for the reception of patients June 9th, 1865, and is therefore one of the most recently constructed hospitals. The plan was essentially the circular one already described, but many important improvements and additions were devised by Surgeon Thomas Sim, U. S. Vols., under whose supervision the details of the plan were prepared. The original design contemplated a circular hospital, built on the War Department