COMPARATIVE FREQUENCY OF THE SEVERAL DISEASES. 100 boundary were attempted, it would certainly not correspond with the classification under consideration; a large proportion of the "local" inflammatory aflfections being conditioned in frequency and severity at least, if not determined, by want of proper clothing and shelter, unnecessary exposure to cold and moisture, and other causes quite as well understood, and certainly more readily modified by hygienic means, than the causes of diphtheria, of enteric fever, or of epidemic cholera. But notwithstanding these critical objections, the English classification appears to be the most convenient and rational hitherto proposed, and, with the slight modifications above mentioned, it has been thought best to employ it. The following tables give the number of cases and deaths in each of the three great regions for the several classes, orders, and individual diseases during the first and second years of the war. Under the head of "taken sick," in these tables, all cases oc- curring in the field and in garrison are included, but not the "admissions" into general hospitals; because this would have involved a repetition of cases previously reported in the field or in garrison. Under the head of deaths, however, the deaths in general hospitals are included. In calculating the ratio of cases to strength in the following tables, then, the strength employed includes only the troops represented in the reports, and this be- cause it was among them only that the cases occurred. In computing the ratio of deaths to strength, however, as already explained under the head of mortality rates, the strength in hospital is included. The average annual strengths represented in the reports from which the following tables were compiled, are as follows: For the first year—Atlantic region, 177,899 in field and garrison, 4687 in general hospitals; Central region, 96,583 in field and garrison, 5072 in general hospitals; Pacific region, 6695 in field and garrison,—no general hospitals. For the second year —Atlantic region, 283,703 in field and garrison, 27,802 in general hospitals; Central region, 306,405 in field and garrison, 17,885 in general hospitals; Pacific region, 8713 in field and garrison,—no general hospitals. These strengths are those employed in comj)uting all the ratios given in this paper. The six tables now presented are arranged as follows: Table YI. shows the num- ber taken sick and died for each class of disease in each of the three regions, and for the whole army, during the first year of the war. The ratio of cases and deaths to strength, in each region and for the whole army, is also given. Table VIL contains similar figures for the second year. Tables VIII. and IX. are arranged in the same manner, and give the number taken sick and died, and the ratio to strength for each order. Tables X. and XI. contain the number taken sick and died from each individual disease and injury for the two years. The years spolcen of here, and throughout the paper, are congressional fiscal years, beginning on the 1st of July and terminating on the 30th of June following.