36 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. It will bp seen that a larger relative mortality prevailed, apparently, among the troops than among the citizens or quarter- master's employes. The greater number of deaths among troops occurred among the recently enlisted Kansas volunteers. I am satisfied that some deaths occurred, which are not included in the tables, among citizens; also, that many of the cases reported as cholera among the citizens and emploj'es were not genuine cases of the disease. It was with great difficulty that I could collect the necessary data on which to base a report. The record was in many cases deficient; thus, none of the cases occurring during the first seven days of July were recorded. I ascertained that Acting Assistant Surgeon Ira Perry, U. S. A., who had charge of these cases, had left no record of them. He had left the post previous to my arrival. I immediately wrote to him and obtained all the cases he had kept any record of. No detailed account of the treatment of these cases, nor of those occurring previously, could be obtained, as the hospital prescription books had not been kept up since September last. The cases which were admitted intohospita' after my arrival I treated variously. At the commencement of the attack calomel seemed to exercise a marked effect, both in allaying the irritability of the stomach and re-establishing the biliary secretion. I used opiates and alco- holic stimulants very cautiously. I saw no good effects follow their use in the early stages of the disease; but, after reaction, very small doses of brandy and beef tea, associated with di'uents, I believe, contribuied much towards a speedy recovery. In the stage of collapse I found no remedy so efficacious as that pi-actised by Brevet Brigadier General J. J. B. Wright, Surgeon, U. S. A., and afterwards by Brevet Brigadier General J. B. Brown, Surgeon, U. S. A., during the prevalence of cholera last year in New York harbor, viz: the exhibition of large doses of calomel, either alone or followed by a bolus of powdered capsicum. I am satisfied that I have seen good results follow this plan of treatment. In three cases, after collapse was fully estabhshed, I tried the plan first proposed and put in practice by Professor J. T. Hodgen. of the St. Louis medical faculty, viz : the subcutaneous injection of atropine, followed by saline injections per rectum. Dr. Hodgen attributes the reaction which he claims is brought about by this agent to its powerful influence over the sympathetic system of nerves. In the first case no result followed its use; in the second, reaction w.as promptly established, but the patient died at a subsequent period from ursemia; in the third case, reaction was brought about, but was not established until the remedy had been used four times, at intervals of one hour. After the saline injections had been used some time, a marked change in the appearance ensued; the patient lost the peculiar livid hue of collapse, and became blanched; a decided increase of bulk was manifest at the same time. The patient recovered without unpleasant symptoms. The proportions of atropine used were from 3',, to of a grain. I have seen no notice of this remedy other than a modest pamphlet issued by Dr. Hodgen. I believe it is deserving of further trial. Other remedies were used by the medical officers present, and a measure of success claimed for each of them. Acting Assistant Surgeon Wm. H. Eenick, used calomel and morphia, in the proportion of 10 grains of the former, and i grain of the latter; and in collapse, carbonate of ammonia, combined with quinine and morphia. I had assigned Dr. Renickto the duty of attending the cases which occurred among contractors' trains and citizens in the immediate vicinity of the post; he also rendered me much valuable assist- ance in the hospital. I am unable to speak of the mode of treatment practised most successfully by Surgeon E. Swift, U. S. A. I had hoped to derive much valuable information from his former experience in the treatment of the disease, but he was called away to places so distant from the post that this was rendered impossible; he remained but a short time at Fort Harker. Other auxiliary measures were adopted for the alleviation of the symptoms. Hypodermic injections of morphia were used for cramps, also to allay irritability of the stomach; chloroform for vomiting; frictions, sinapisms, &c. Patients were allowed to drink moderately of cold tea, and, during convalescence, of milk punch and beef tea, in small quantities. The following case I report in full, because it presented all the symptoms of a well-marked case of Asiatic cholera; its occurrence, moreover, under the worst hygienic conditions, and in a stout, hearty man, previously in good health, is calculated to verify the fact, already, I think, so well established, viz: that bad hygienic influences are eminently concerned in developing and characterizing the disease : • Foster Hanse, age 30 years, unmarried, an assistant wagonmaster in the employ of the quartermaster, was seized, on the morning of the 25th of July, at 8 o'clock, with vomiting and purging of a fluid resembling rice water, attended with cramps of the abdomen, upper and lower extremities; he had no piemonitory diarrhoea. Patient was seen at 10 minutes past 8 o'clock by Drs. Chase and Renick; was ordered Squibb's mixture, and sinapisms to abdomen, and friction to extremities. I Eaw4he patient at 40 minutes past 10 o'clock, with Dr. Swift, who removed the sinapism substituting therefor a compress and bandage. Dr. Renick also prescribed calomel, 10 grains, morphia, i grain, which was immediately rejected; he prescribed, also, morphia, ^ grain ; followed by quinia, 10 grains ; capsicum, 2 grains. The quinia and capsicum were rejected and repeated ; the last dose was retained. Patient was allowed ice and cold tea for drink. Died at 4 p. m, I examined the abdominal viscera two hours after death, assisted by Dr. Renick : surfiice of body warm ; no muscular spasms; muscles of abdomen healthy in appearance, and red blood followed the track of scalpel; intestines highly injected. The region of intestine about the ilio-coccal valve was in a state of intense inflammation, Tjie stomach and intestines contained the characteristic rice-water fluid. The epithelium was extensively detached, and, in some situations, the mucus membrane presented a scraped appearance. I^iver, spleen, and kidneys highly congested; the right kidney contained a substance resembling lymph ; bladder empty and contracted. The head and thorax were not examined. The above case presented all the symptoms of Asiatic cholera, and the autopsy verified the diagnosis. The patient had been subjected to the worst hygienic influences. The train to which he was attached was camped on a bottom, near the banks of Page creek, and received all the drainage from the fort above. I saw scattered about on the ground, in a state of decom- position, refuse articles of food, bread, meat, beans, »fec. The stench arising from these sources of filth, together with that of decomposing excrement from tiie mules, was intolerable. There were no sinks for the use of the men. I was informed that they were accustomed to defecate on the banks of the creek, the water of which was used for bathing, and, in some instances, for drinking purposes, though the springs, situated but a short distance above, f urnished the general water supply for the whole garrison and its attaches. I could discover no trace of disinfectants, though I believe it liad been claimed by the quartermaster tliat disinfection had been practised. I reported the condition of this camp at once, and it was promptly removed to a better site. As to the origin of the epidemic of Asiatic cholera at Fort Harker, notlang can be established with any great degree of