SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 54 Private Andrew H , Co. B, 6th New Jersey Vols., was wounded May 6th, 1864, at the battle of the "Wilder- ness, by a musket-ball, which entered the left knee-joint, at the upper outer margin of the patella. He was admitted to the 3d Division General Hospital at Alexandria, Virginia, on May 26th. On July 9th, a large abscess near the elbow was laid open. Others formed along the thigh, and were likewise opened. On July 16th, the thigh was ampu- tated in the lower part of the middle third. The case terminated fatally on July 26th. The autopsy revealed numerous metastatic foci in the lungs ; the liver was fatty; the spleen much enlarged. There were bed-sores on the back, and the body was much emaciated. EXCISIONS. The number of excisions after gunshot injuries that have been transcribed from the reports is given on page 6 of this report, and indicates that this branch of conserva- tive surgery was hirgely practised in the late war. It is proposed here to review very briefly the records of the individual excisions. Excisions of the Wrist.—The 35 cases included in this category were all examples of partial excision. In 27, the ends of the radius or ulna, or of both, were removed, and, in some instances, shattered fragments of the upper row of carpal bones. In 8, the greater part of the carpus was excised. Death took place once from pyaemia, and twice from exhaustion from protracted suppuration and irritative fever: 2G cases are reported as recovered. In 2 cases, amputation of the forearm became necessary. The reports are unsatisfactory in relation to the amount of mobility left in the hand, and the cases are now under investigation with reference to this point. As the literature of this subject is meagre, a few illustrative cases are appended: Private Joseph Hoover, Co. A, 62d Pennsylvania Vols., aged twenty-six years, was wounded at Spottsylvania, May 12th, 1864, by a musket-ball, which passed through both wrists. He entered Judiciary Square Hospital, at Washington, on May 26th. His right forearm had been amputated on the field. On May 30lh, Assistant Surgeon A. Ingram, U. S. A., removed nearly all the left carpus, the styloid process of the ulna, and the carpal end of the first metacarpal bone, and made free incisions over the ulna and the dorsum of the hand for the evacuation of pus. The patient recovered, and was discharged from service. The condition of the hand is not reported. Surgeon H. Culbertson, U. S. Vols., removed the cuneiform and pisiform, and a portion of the os magnum, and extracted fragments of the unciform and semilunare in the case of Private Neal, Co. D, 3d Wisconsin, who was shot through the carpus, at Dallas, Georgia. The patient recovered with some use of his hand, and entered the Veteran Reserve Corps, April 1st, 186.5. Assistant Surgeon C. Bacon, U. S. A., excised the lower portion of the right radius, the trapezoid, scaphoid, OS magnum, and the second, third, and fourth metacarpals, in the case of Private Bard, Co. I, 1st Pennsylvania Vols., who was wounded at Antietam. The result is stated to have been favorable. Photograph 59 of the Army Medical Museum represents the forearm and hand of Major C. "W. Hobbs, 7th New York Heavy Artillery, who was wounded at Cold Harbor, Virginia, June 3d, 1863, by three musket-balls. One inflicted a flesh wound of the left thigh, passing across the popliteal space, close to the hamstring tendons. A second fractured the third and fourth metacarpal bones of the left hand, and made its exit near the wrist. The third entered the left hand between the distal extremities of the first and second metacarpals, comminuting the second and third metacarpals, the unciform and cuneiform bones, and the lower extremity of the ulna, and made its exit on the outer side of the forearm. Primary excision was performed by Surgeon J. E. Pomfret, 7th New York Heavy Artillery. Two inches of the distal extremity of the ulna were removed, with the fractured bones of the carpus and metacarpus, and three outer fingers. The case progressed without any untoward complication, and recovery was complete in two months. The remaining portion of the radio-carpal articulation was not anchylosed, and the movements of the thumb and forefinger were unimpaired. Professor Joseph Lister's recent paper,* in which are narrated the successes ob- tained by his method of excising the entire wrist-joint for caries, encourages the hope that the same operation may be hereafter successfully adopted in cases of gunshot wounds of the wrist. * Lancet, American edition, July, 1865, p. 306.