TYBEE ISLAND, GEORGIA. 31 epidemic of Asiatic cholera prevailing among the troops on this island. No new case nor any deaths having occurred since August 5, the epidemic is considered over. My services being therefore no longer required, I am directed by Special Order No. 15, post surgeon's office, Savannah, Georgia, August 8, 186G, to return to my station, and undergo the usual quarantine, at Braddock's Point, South Carolina. The following report of the epidemic, as collected from statements of officers present on duty with infected troops and my own observations, is respectfully submitted : July 14, 1866, the steamship San Salvador, bound from New York to Savannah, Georgia, with eighty cabin passengers and the usual crew, took on board from Governor's island, New York harbor, four hundred and seventy-six recruits, under command of Captain Ellsworth eleventh United States infantry, and Lieutenants Mays, Nickerson, and Blenker, destined for the seventh United States infantry, serving in Florida. » »• * # Cholera existed among the troops on Governor's island ; one recruit was carried on board the ship with symptoms of that disease, which developed itself among the recruits on the ship the day after sailing, three of themd> ingof it during the voyage to the mouth of the Savannah river. On the morning of July 18 the San Salvador ran into Port Royal roads, (i. e., Hilton Head harbor,) South Carolina, but was, by the health officer, Acting Assistant Surgeon Lathrop, United States Army, ordered, in obedience to existing quarantine regulations, to proceed to the quarantine station and hospital at Braddock's Point, South Carolina, to disembark the passengers and troops. The master of the vessel, however, proceeded to Tybee island, Georgia, on which the troops were landed, the cabin passengers and crew going into quarantine on the ship in Tybee roads, no disease having appeared among them. Soon after landing, the troops ate freely of melons, cabbage, &c., in a garden on the island. The epidemic spread rapidly, and soon caused a panic among the troops, many of whom endeavored to escape, in several instances with success, some having subsequently been captured in Savannah and returned to camp. About eighteen were seized with cholera in their flight and died in the woods and swamps. Two steamboats were soon placed, by Brevet Major Schell, United States Amiy, post sur- geon of Savannah, as patrols around the island, to prevent any further efforts at escape. Until July 26th there were almost no provisions for the care or treatment of the sick, who were huddled together within the sand breastworks of an old fort, surrounding the Martello tower, on the north end of the island. Free circulation of air was impossible, while the rays of the sun were reflected from the inside of the walls into the enclosure. Water was defective in quality and deficient in quantity. There was very inadequate food, no hospital stores, bedding, or appliances, and almost no medicines. July 17, Acting Assistant Surgeon Higgenbotham, United States Army, had been landed on the island, with tents to establish a hospital, but the almost complete insubordination of the troops, and the absence of all the other essentials of a hospital, rendered his efforts in that direction futile. July 19, Acting Assistant £u ^con Southwick, of the Freedmen's Bureau, reported for duty. July 22, Brevet Major Charles K. Winne, assistant surgeon United States army, arrived and assumed charge He was accompanied by Rev. Father Kirby, a Catholic clergyman of Savannah, Georgia, who volunfeered his services, and remained during the epidemic. Hospital Steward Lane, United States Army, reported July 23, followed by myself on the 27th, and Acting Assistant Surgeon James F. Burdett, United States Army, on the 88th. Assistant Surgeon Miller, United States Army, reported August 6, and Acting Assistant Surgeon Ridgely, United States Army, on the 7th. On his arrival Brevet Major Winne at once began the removal of the hospital to a well-selected spot on the seaside, re- moved the troops to a camp over two miles distant, made urgent requisitions for needed supplies, characterizing past neglect as "cruel and atrocious; " and as soon as received, (July 27 and 28,) hy his energy and good judgment brought order out of chaos. The virulence of the epidemic from that time forward rapidly diminished, the cases generally assumed a milder form, confidence was restored among the well, and, for the first time, due care extended to the sick. The course and character of the epidemic may be inferred from the following facts : Strength of command. Officers, (line and medical) 8 Enlisted men 476 Total 484 Mean average strength present during epidemic 403 Number of cases of cholera. On shipboard, from July 14 to 18 3 Admitted to hospital July 18 to August 6 180 Bodies found in the woods July 18 to August 6 18 Total 20] Number of deaths. On shipboard durmg voyage 3 In quarantine hospital, Tybee island, Georgia 94 In the woods and marshes 18 Total 115