CERTAIN OTHER DISEASES. 134 ism were reported. This would give a ratio of 6 cases of all kinds per 1000 of mean strength for the first year; 4 per 1000 for the second. It is worthy of remark that the proportional number of cases was much greater on the Pacific coast, where the condi- tions of peace being more nearly approximated to, the men must of course have had more opportunity and more leisure for debauch. In the Atlantic region, the ratio of cases from the abuse of alcohol was 6 per 1000 of mean strength for the first year of the war; 3 for the second. In the Central region, 4 per 1000 for both years; while in the Pacific region it was 33 per 1000 for the first year and 35 for the second. The amount of Scurvy reported was comparatively small: 1328 cases and 9 deaths for the first year; 7395 cases and 90 deaths for the second. To this may probably be added the greater part of the 304 cases and 31 deaths of purpura reported during the second year. This extremely small number of cases of scurvy is unparalleled in the history of armies, being but 5 per 1000 of mean strength for the first year and 13 for the second. It undoubtedly stands related to the quantity and comparatively good quality of the army ration,— to the immense supplies of antiscorbutics, of medical stores and comforts issued to the men by the Government, and to the large pay of the private soldier, which is very many times greater than in any other army in the world, and which, in part at least, was often spent at the sutler's on pickles, apples, pies con- taining dried fruit, etc. From all these sources, ours have undoubtedly been the best- fed soldiers in the world; and besides all this, they received at various times and localities, stores collected and distributed by several benevolent and patriotic asso- ciations, whose supplies, though of course comparatively small when contrasted with those of the Government, were yet of considerable value in aiding to form the sum total of the soldiers' resources. Still it is not claimed that the alimentation of our troops was all that could have been desired; for recognizable scurvy existed to a limited extent, and a scorbutic taint, more or less pronounced, was a prominent phenomenon in most of the diseases of the war. The open question of the army ration, and of its possible economical im- provement, is one of great importance, which will not be here discussed. That some alteration is needed, cannot be denied. The scorbutic taint manifested itself very generally in the form of rheumatic pains in the back and limbs, associated with the scorbutic clay-like appearance of the skin, sometimes even with sponginess of the gums, much more rarely with petechioe, scorbutic discolorations about the flexure of the knee, etc. Most of the physicians called upon to treat these cases, having had in their pre- vious private practice little experience with scurvy, reported them as rheumatism, lumbago, or neuralgia. It is by no means insinuated that all the cases reported under these heads were of a scorbutic nature. Many of malarial neuralgia and many of malingering were thus reported. Undoubtedly also a great deal of true rheumatism existed; certainly, however, the latter affection formed but a small part of the enor- mous number of rheumatic cases reported. During the first year of the war 20,257 cases of acute rheumatism, 14,216 of chronic, and 4289 of lumbago were reported, making a total of 44,702 rheumatic cases; during the second year 45,677 cases of acute rheumatism, 45,758 of chronic, making 91,435 rheumatic cases; of neuralgia, 7546 during the first year, 18,533 during the second. The sum is 162,276 cases of rheuma-