CONCLUDING OBSERVATIONS. 88 Fia. 96.—a. TJ. S. rounfl musket-bull, calibre 69, weight 3S7 grains; b. Springflelcl rifled musket-ball, calibre 58, weight 500 grains; c. Enfield rifled musket-ball, weight 450 grains; d. Aus- trian rifle-ball, weight 460 grains. Missiles.—The collection at the Army Medical Museum of over five hundred pro- jectiles extracted from wounds, together with the numerous preparations of fractures and wounded viscera in which the missiles that produced the injuries have been pre- served, afford opportunities for the comparison of the various forms of bullets and their effects. During the protracted siege operations in front of Petersburg, an artist of the Museum prepared upon the spot a large number of colored drawings, illustrating with singular fidelity the recent appearance of wounds inflicted at short range by shot and shell. The reports on gunshot wounds have specified the nature of the missile whenever it could be ascertained. From these different sources ample materials are available for the study of the modifications in gunshot wounds re- sulting from modern improvements in ordnance. The general employment in the late war of cy- lindro-conoidal projectiles, moving in low trajec- tories, largely increased the proportion of wound- ed to the troops engaged, and the frequency of the occurrence of several wounds in the same individuals. The projectiles for small arms chiefly used were those of the Springfield, Enfield, and Austrian rifled muskets. The rebels also used quite largely, for the Enfield rifle, an elongated bullet without grooves. "Wounded on the Battle-field.—Surgeon T. H. Squire, 89th New York Vols., has furnished this office with two instructive reports on the wounded that came under his observation during the battle of Antietam and in the engagements before Petersburg. Similar papers on the wounded at Chickamauga have been contributed by Surgeon John C. Norton, U. S. Vols., and Surgeon J. T. Wood, 99th Ohio Vols., and in relation to the wounded at Chattanooga by Surgeon A. McMahon, 64th Ohio Vols., and Surgeon C. H. Walton, 21st Kentucky Vols. Surgeon H. S. Hewit, U. S. Vols., and Surgeon E. Batwell, 14th Michigan Vols., have communicated valuable reports on the wounded in the engagements of the Atlanta campaign. Recorded observations on the primary attention given to the wounded in battle are, from the nature of things, rare, and these important memoirs therefore merit especial recognition. In conclusion, it has been estimated that it will be possible, by judicious condensa- tion, to include in one large quarto volume the statistics of the graver injuries, as frac- tures of the extremities and wounds implicating the joints or great cavities, and of the major surgical operations they have involved, the individual cases, their progress and results, being concisely recorded; while a second quarto volume could comprise numer- ical tables of the less serious injuries, an historical summaiy, and a discussion of the lessons derived from the statistical records of the war. I have the honor to be. General, Very respectfully. Your obedient servant. GEORGE A. OTIS, Brevet Lieut. Col. and Surgeon U. S. Vols., In charge of the Division of Surgical Records, S. G. 0., and Curator of the Army Medical Museum.