55 EXCISIONS. Excisions of the Elbow.—The returns for three-fourths of the entire period give 315 cases of excision of the elbow, and the results are ascertained in 286 cases. In 16 cases, amputation of the arm became necessary: 62 cases terminated fatally, or 21*67 per cent., which is a mortality a fraction greater than that resulting from amputations of the arm. This result is altogether opposed to the Schleswick Holstein and Crimean experience, and will doubtless be modified when the statistics are completed. It may be ascribed partly to the fact that the returns for the earlier part of the war include quite a large proportion of partial excisions, which are far more hazardous than com- plete removal of the articular surfaces. The Army Medical Museum possesses 98 specimens of the injured epiphyses re- moved in excisions of the elbow, and a goodly number of photographs of patients in whom the operation has been performed. The happy results of this well established operation are so fully known, that it is unnecessary to give more than a single illustrative case: Private William D. Riley, Co. D, 86tli New York Vols., aged twenty-one years, was accidentally wounded at Brandy Station, Virginia, November 26th, 1863, by a musket-ball, which shattered the inner condyle of the right humerus and the olecranon process of the ulna. He was admitted to Mansion House Hospital, at Alexandria, the same day, having bled quite largely on the way. On December 19th, 1863, Surgeon Charles Page, U. S. A., excised the elbow-joint, employing the H-shaped incision. Two and a half inches of the lower extremity of the humerus, an inch of the upper extremity of the ulna, and a small portion of the head of the radius were removed. The case progressed most favorably, and in May, 1864, Riley went to his home, on furlough, with a useful arm. He was subsequently discharged from service. In 1865, he re-enlisted in Co. K, 5th Regiment, First Army Corps, with the approval of Lieutenant Colonel Dougherty, Medical Director of the Corps. "The man went through the manual before me," Surgeon Dougherty writes, "and stated his readiness to do all the duties of a soldier. He wished it recorded that he was competent and prepared, in order that, during the term of his service, he might be held to full duty. The degree of motion was, perhaps, one-third of the normal amount." A photograph of the patient (No. 54, A. M. M.) was taken in June, 1865, at the Army Medical Museum. Excisions of the Shoulder-Joint.—Nearly all of the cases that have been reported during the war have been recorded. The results are given in the following table: Table, exhibiting the Results of Cases of Excisions of the Shoulder-Joint for Gunshot Injuries. Primary Operations. Secondary Operations. 50 160 42 115 183 25 252 323 The percentage of mortality is 23"8 in primary cases, 38-59 in secondary cases, or a mean ratio of 32-48. The ratio in amputations at the shoulder-joint is 39-24, a per- centage of 6*76 in favor of excision. Of 36 cases of gunshot fracture of the head of the humerus, selected as favorable cases for the expectant plan and treated without exci- sion or amputation, 16 died, or 44-4 per cent,, a ratio in favor of excision of 11-96 per cent. But it is superfluous to offer further proofs in behalf of this admirable operation. 8