41 TEXAS. number who have died as about five hundred. Among the troops, the first cases appeared September 10, in the fourth Uuited States cavalry. This regiment was moving at the time; half of it was camped on the Medina river, fifteen miles from town, and half in town. Three cases occurred in the porti.m on the Medina on the 10th, and two in the portion in town on the 11th. The exact number of cases that have occurred I do not know, but nearly fifty have died. At this time it has been a week since any new cases have occurred there. In the seventeenth infantry, long prior to the advent of cholera, the strictest police and cleanliness had been observed. The men were in barracks, very unfavorably situated as regards health, low, badly drained, and next the commissary building, which was filled with old and damaged provisions. To remedy this the floor ot the (luar- ters was taken up, gravel filled in, and the floor relaid. Drains were dug, so that no water could settle near the place. The building was whitewashed, the sinks disinfected, the damaged stores removed, and personal cleanliness required among the men. Up to the 16th of September, when the seventeenth left town for the camp on the Medina, no cases ot cholera had occurred in the regiment, though citiz«is had died in the immediate vicinity. The present camp was well chosen, ou a high spur of land, well drained, and convenient to water. Every possible precaution to prevent cholera was taken. The camp was strictly policed, bunks were built for the men, so that none should sleep on the ground, bedding aired daily, tents struck every few days, sinks kept clean and disinfected, and sentries posted to prevent men from relieving themselves elsewhere, all meals inspected, and food not properly cooked forbidden to be served, men not allowed to visit the cavalry camp, and the prevailing diarrhoea promptly treated. Notwithstanding, cholera did appear, though it did not spread or last long. I trace its origin to the fact that two Mexican teamsters coming from town stopped for the night near the camp and died of cholera. I immediately had them and their effects buried, kindled large fires on the spot where they died, and disinfected it. A sentry kept the men away. Two days after, cholera appeared in camp. Extracts from the montldy report of sich and wounded. Fourth United States Cavalry, September, 1S6G. P. V. Hchenck, Assistant Surgeon and Brevet Major United States Army. This regiment has been stationed at San Antonio, Texas, for one year. During the winter of 1865 and 1866 they were encamped in a place well protected from the northers, at the head of the San Antonio, about four miles from the city. They occupied Sibley tents, which were brought from New Orleans, and old when issued. In the spring they were moved into town and the tents exchanged for the A or common tent. San Antonio is an old Spanish town, located on a river of the same name. It is in a dry limestone region, and is only cultivable where it is imgated from the river, which is done by means of ditches, which run through all portions of the town. No regard whatever is paid to the observance of sanitary laws. The population is mixed, composed of Americans, Germans, and Mexicans ; the latter live in a most primitive manner, a bull hide on four sticks answering with many the purpose of a house ; jerked beef, a corn cake, or tortilla, and red pepper sufficing for food. The health has been remarkably good when we consider all the attending circumstances. During the winter there were several cases of pneumonia, and in the summer they suffered somewhat from the different fevers. * # * Cholera during the past month appeared in the city and among^he troops in an epidemic form. It was brought into the city in the person of a Mrs. De Witt, who was taken sick at a mission several miles below the city, to which point it had been carried by Mexican trains from the Rio Grande. For several months previous every sanitary precaution had been taken in camp. Orders enforcing personal cleanliness and carefulness in diet, &c., had been rigidly carried out. Many had concluded that through our isolated position we would escape entirely the pestilence, or if it did come, we would hear of its gradual approach. Every one was therefore surprised at its unexpected appearance. As soon as possible an order was given for the removal of troops from the town, and the camp commenced to be removed to the Medina, a distance of twelve miles, a point where they did not have cholera when it was so fatal in the city in 1849. Besides, the ground was high, and the Medina was not as strongly impregnated with limestone as the San Antonio. Added to this, we could have for the use of the officers and hospital pure cistern water, which in that country is a great essential during a cholera epidemic. The time for moving proved peculiarly unfortunate, for when one-half of the command had moved, a flood of before unheard of severity came, causing the river to overflow the camp, and converting that which had been dry into one huge mud- hole. Over two hundred recruits had just arrived from the coast, many of whom had been sick. * * # In this condition of affairs cholera broke out among the troops. The medical otficer I had telegraphed for to Galveston had not arrived. My assistant was out at camp with the cases there; and I would here state that I am under many obligations to Assistant Surgeon William Austin, United States Army, for the assistance he there rendered me. As soon as the roads would permit, the remaining portion of the command was sent out, and a cholera hospital established on the Medina. The first case occurred on the 7th, and the first death on the lOtli. The greatest mortality was reached ou the ■ I9th and 20th, when it rapidly commenced to decrease, and at the end of the month it had entirely disappeared. The number of cases of diarrhoea I have not reported; three-fourths of the whole command suffered from it. An order was issued that when a man had more than one discharge during a day he should report the fact, and medicine was kept ready at the dispensary. To the aggregate should be added two hundred and seventy recruits. One remarkable fact is the large number of deaths in K company. This company had been for several months under the same circumstances as the others. I can onl}' account lor it in the manner of cooking not being as good as with the rest. In regard to the treatment, every sanitary precaution was used ; the evacuations were disinfected and buried. No one was allowed to come near the hospital unless he had some duty there. Liine was thrown all around the camp, and the sulphate 6