40 ON SPECIAL WOUNDS AND INJURIES. Fio. 5-1.—Three sabre cuts (.11 tho left parietal. Spec. 3307, A. M. JI. campaign in the Shenandoah Yalley, 25 sabre wounds are reported; and from the battle of Jonesborough, in Georgia, 30 bayonet wounds. After the first battle of Bull Run, several of the wounded left upon the field were bayoneted by the insurgents.* A patient, brought afterwards to Georgetown, received no less than fourteen stabs. A ' "^""^ similar instance occurred after the battle of Fair Oaks.f , Later in the war such atrocities were very infrequent. A few abstracts are subjoined of cases of sword and bayo- net wounds: Private E H , Co. C, 7th Colored Eegiment, U, S. Artillery, was wounded at Fort Pillow, Tennessee, April 12tli, 1864, by three sabre cuts on the left side of the head, one of the wounds penetrating the skull. The symptoms are not recorded, but it is stated that the patient died on April 21st, 18G4, and that the post-mortem examination revealed a large extravasation of blood upon the brain, and a splinter an inch and a half long from the inner table driven through the dura mater. Private J. T. B , Co. F, 7th Michigan Cavalry, was captured on July 3d, 18G3, at Gettysburg, his horse being shot under him. He was hurried to the rear with other prisoners. In the subsequent retreat he was un- able to keep up with the column, and all efforts to goad him on being un- availing, a confederate lieutenant, in command of the provost guard, cut him down, and left him for dead by the roadside. He was brought in by a scouting party, and admitted to the Cavalry Corps Hospital. On the 25th of July, he was sufficiently rational to give the above account to Surgeon Rulison, 9th New York Cavalry. He was in a very depressed state at this time. His pulse was weak, and beat from 40 to 45 per minute. He was indisposed to mental exertion; but when aroused and interested was quite rational. He lingered until August 15th, 1863, the tendency to stupor becoming greater and greater towards the close. The autopsy revealed a sabre cut six inches long, which had raised an osseous flap, adherent at its base, from the left parietal, and cloven the right parietal, with great splin- tering of the vitreous plate. The sabre had penetrated the dura mater on the left side, and on the right side the meninges were injured by the de- pressed inner table. The posterior lobes of both hemispheres of the brain were extensively disorganized. The speci- men, with the above history, was contributed by Surgeon W. H. Rulison, 9th New York Cavalry, since killed in battle. Private John H , aged twenty-five, of the guard of Lovell General Hospital, Portsmouth Grove, Rhode Island, was confined on February 28th, 1863, in a strong box, as a punishment for bringing liquor into camp. When released, he rushed upon the sergeant of the guard and struck him, whereupon the sergeant drew his sword and put himself en garde. In this position the prisoner made a second assault, but the ground being uneven he slipped, and fell heavily upon the point of the sword, and to the ground. When raised, his face was bleeding, and he was insensible. He was examined by the medical officer of the day, who found a slight cut on the ala of the nose, and ascribed the insensibility to intoxication, and to the fall on the head. The prisoner was removed to the guard-house and there spent the night. In the morning, he was still unconscious and breathed stertorously, and had a slow pulse and dilated pupils. He was removed to a ward in the hospital, and the remedies commonly employed in cases of apoplexy were prescribed. There was no return of consciousness, and the case terminated fatally on March 2d, thirty-one hours after the injury. At the autopsy, it was found that the sword had entered at the right nostril, pierced the right superior turbinated bone and the body of the sphenoid, and caused a transverse fracture at the base of the posterior clinoid process. There was much extravasated blood in the cranial cavity, especially on the surface of the right hemisphere. Fio. 55.—Section of tho posterior portion of a cranium, showing a sabre cut of both parietals parallel to the lambdoidal suture. Spec. 1672, A. M. M. Fia. 56.—Portion of a sphenoid bone transfixed by a sword. Spec. 1612, A. M. M. * Surgeon Joseph R. Smith's Report. t Report of Assistant Surgeon H. B. Brown, 70th New York Vols.