EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. 64 FoET Columbus, New York Harbor, September 17, 1867. Fifth day: The board met pursuant to adjournment. Present: All the members. The health of Governor's island is reported as on the gain, no cases of cholera having occurred since the last session, and the number of diarrhoea cases having decreased. The health of Eedloe's island is not so good, two or three suspicious caseg having occurred there, though none as yet fatal. A communication from General Butterfield was received, requesting this board to put itself in communication with Dr. Harris, and enclosing a letter of Dr. Harris, of date September 13th, relative to the appearance of cholera in the west and in the city. The board acknowledges the receipt of this paper, and will be happy to receive any communications from Dr. Harris that General Butterfield may see fit to communicate. It was officially brought to the notice of this board, in an endorsement from General Butterfield's oflice, of date September 13tli, that recruiting officers are'ordered to continue recruiting for bands in the city, and that these recruits are sent to David's island. The board consider that there is the same danger from their enlistment as from that of any other class of recruits, and recommend that it be stopped. The board recommend that tlie previous recommendations of this board relative to enlistments be continued in force for fifteen days from this date. The board then adjourned till Friday at 11 a. m. H. D. WALLEN, Brevet Brlrjadier General, U. S. A., President. W. C. Mes^OR, Brevet Captain and Assistant Surgeon, TJ. S. A., Recorder. Fort Columbus, New York Harbor, September 20, 1867. Sixtli day : The board met pursuant to adjournment. Present: All the members. Governor's Island is reported as still free from cholera. No new cases have occurred at Bedloe's island since the last meeting of the board. In view of remonstrances from the Engineer Department, officially laid before the board, relative to the burning of offal accumulated by the tides on Governor's island, the board urgently recommend the completion of the sea wall, to prevent its lodgment on the shore, and strongly recommend its destruction by fire, in the meantime, as the only complete and thorough method of preventing infection, which might otherwise arise from it. It is also strongly recommended by the board that Castle Williams be discontinued as a basracks for recruits and men, and that pemianent barracks, sufficient to accommodate from 300 to 500 men, be erected without delay. It is the opinion of the medical officers that the castle is not suitable for barracks, being damp and cold, giving rise to rheumatism and dysentery; and tlie records of the post show that, for a succession of years, infectious diseases have commenced among the recruits occupying Castle Williams. Tlie board then adjourned till Tuesday next at 11 a. m. H. D. WALLEN, Brevet Brigadier General, TJ. S. A., President. W. C. Minor, Brevet Captain and Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., Recorder. Fort Columbus, New York Harbor, September 24, 1867. Seventh day : The board met pursuant to adjournment. Present: All the members. No cases of cholera have occurred since the last meeting of the board, at either Governor's or Bedloe's island. In reply to an inquiry from the Superintendent General Recruiting Service, of date September 17th, relative to the removal of the veteran reserve corps, it is tlie opinion of the board that they may be removed from Governor's island to posts on the northern lakes without any danger of spreading the cholera. As only seven days have elapsed since the last case of cholera at Bedloe's island, it is not considei-ed safe to send recruits from that point as yet. The board then adjourned till Friday next at 11 a. m. H. D. WALLEN, , Brevet Brigadier General, U. S, A., President. W. C. Minor, Brevet Captain and Assistant Surgeon, JJ. S. A., Recorder. Fort Columbus, New York Harbor, September 27, 1867. Eighth day: The board met pursuant to adjournment. Present: Brevet Brigadier General II. D. Wallen, U. S. A.; Brevet Lieutenant Colonel E. P. Vollum, Surgeon, U. S. A.; Brevet Lieutenant Colonel J. F. Randolph, Surgeon, U. S. A.; Brevet Captain W. C. Minor, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. No cases of cholera have occurred at Governor's island since the last meeting. One case only has occurred at Bedloe's island, but not fatal. Special Orders No. 190, from Headquarters General Recruiting Service, U. S. A., of date September '26tli, was laid before the board, relative to transfer of prisoners from Newport barracks to Governor's island. In the opinion of this board, it is not safe to send any men here till it is safe to begin recruiting. The board then adjourned till Tuesday at 11 a. m% H. D. WALLEN, Brevet Brigadier General, U. S. A., President. W. C. Minor, Brevet Captain and Assidant Surgeon, U. S A., Recorder.