Rt:PORT ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. XII 5 deaths at this'post. A few days before the appearance of cholera, about twenty cases were reported among the citizens at Leavenworth city, two miles south of ■ the garrison. Intercourse between the city and the post was unrestricted. One case, not fatal, was reported at Albuquerque, New Mexico, in October; particulars not known. At Helena, Arkansas, the first fatal case (white troops) occurred August 30th, and during August and Beptember there were 10 cases and 6 deaths. A detachment of 28 recruits was received at this post August 3rd, supposed to be a portion of a detachment of recruits which left Newport barracks, Kentucky, for Little Eock, Arkansas, July 28th. At Little Rock, Arkansas, the first case occurred September 12th. Altogether there were 131 cases and 64 deaths among the white troops. A company of the fifty-fourth United States colored infantry, stationed at the same post, had 3 cases and 1 death in September, and 4 cases and 1 death in October, the first fatal case among them being September 27th. Nine recruits for the nineteenth United States infantry arrived at Little Eock, August 10th,from Newport barracks, Kentucky. It does not, however, appear probable that cholera was imported into Little Eock by this detachment of recruits. The report of Brevet Lieutenant Colonel J. E. Smith, Surgeon United States Army and Medical Director, would rather seem to show that it was carried there by steamboats coming up the river from infected points. Surgeon Smith sa3^s: "From time to time during the month of August, steamboats arrived both at Little Eock, on the Arkansas, and Duvall's Bluff', on White river, on which rumor said that cases of cholera either existed or had occurred. Examination made by other physicians here and at Duvall's Bluff', as well as by myself, failed to confirm the report of the present existence of cholera on board these boats, altlioiigh I ivas satisfied, in several instances, from the histories related to me, that fatal cases of cholera had occurred during their trip from Memphis to Little Rock^ At Huntersville, a suburb of Little Eock, Arkansas, there w^ere 21 cases and 9 deaths during September, in the fifty-fourth colored infantry, the first case occurring September 15th, and proving fatal the next day. At Fort Smith, Arkansas, there were 2 cases in September, and 6 cases and 2 deaths in October, among the white troops. Four cases and two deaths among the colored troops for the same time. The disease was carried to Fort Smith on a steamer from Little Eock. Three cases and two deaths occurred at Fort Gibson, Cherokee Nation, durinp' October; the first case occurred October 15th. Two of these cases were soldiers belonging to company F nineteenth infantry, which arrived at Fort Gibson October 12th fi'om Fort Smith, Arkansas The third had attended them during their illness. One fatal case occurred during November.