EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. 96 BREIVHAWI, TEXiTS. Brenham, Texas, Becemher 2, 1867. Sir : In accordance with your instructions, I have the honor to submit the following report relative to the prevalence of yellow fever in this town, and the remarkable fact that the troops stationed here have escaped entirely : On the 8th of August, James A. Devine, late Captain, U. S. Volunteers, and at that time on duty in the Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen, and Abandoned Lands, came to this post en route for the interior. He left Galveston the day before, the yellow fever prevailing there at the time. The next evening, at 4 o'cloclt p. m., while in camp, he complained of feeling unwell, and went to his hotel; in a short time he sent for me. I saw at once symptoms of yellow fever, but he insisted that he had had the disease, and I was not certain as to his case until the day following, when yellow fever was plainly developed. On the 13th instant he died with black vomit. This was the first case tluit occurred in Brenham. No apprehensions were then felt that the disease would assume an epidemic form, as there had never been but two cases of the fever in Brenham, and those were persons who had come from an infected district a few hours before they were attacked by the disease. I think there were one or two cases reported by resident physicians daring the two weeks subsequent to Devine's death, when the disease became epidemic, and its ravages were most fearful; whole families were swept away, every family suffered, and the inhabitants became terror and panic stricken. About this time I chanced to hear that mustard seed (sinapis alba) had been used successfully as a prophylactic against yellow fever, and remembering to have seen it used on the Isthmus of Panama as a preventive against intermittent fever, I thought that if I adopted the use of something of this kind, and could lead the men of this command to believe that they were safe from the disease, it might, perliaps, have a good moral effect upon them. Through your kind assistance I procured a large sujjply of mustard seed, and gave a tablespoonful, with an ounce of whiskey, to all in the command, including servants and laundresses: this was given daily, at 11 o'clock a. m., up to this date. We have had a heavy frost, and I now believe the fever to have left us entirely. Our camp is located in the town, about one-fourth of a mile from the centre. During the epidemic there has been more than one liundred and fifty fatal cases among the whites, and half that number among the blacks. Almost the entire population who remained in town have had the fever; every house in tlie vicinity of our camp, and at every point of the compass around it, has had fatal cases of the disease—one house, in close pi'oximity, lost six members of the family. Our men were exposed to the disease as much as any others living in town, they being compelled to go through town for wood and to the depot for supplies. Two of these men nursed a case of the fever. What conclusion, if any, can we draw from these facts ? Here is a camp in wliich are sixty souls, located in a town where yellow fever is epidemic, and of a most malignant type—where, in every occupied house, from one to ten cases of the disease may be found—where, at one time, scarcely people enough could be found to bury the dead—these sixty souls breathing the same atmosphere, and exposed, in everyway, as much as any of the inhabitants—not scattered, but living together—escajung without one case. Troops ordinarily sufler as much from any prevailing disease, perhaps more, than any other class. At Hempstead, but twenty-tv/o miles from this place, the troops have, as you know, suffered terribly. I might remark here that our camp has been a very clean one. As early as June 1st I gave my careful personal attention to disinfectants; the camp was disinfected twice daily with sulphate of iron, and all wood-work frequently whitewashed; the tents were raised eighteen inches from the ground and lime thrown under them; the ends of the tents fronting north and south were made of lattice- work, giving a free circulation of air. I am not prepared to say that white mustard seed will prevent an attack of yellow fever ; but this body of people have entirely escaped, and I can safely say that they are the only ones in the town who have escaped, and they have been exposed equally with all. Not one of these men was acclimated. A clerk from Galveston en route to Austin was taken with the fever in one of the tents of the command ; he had slept with one of the men the night previous. Not a person who has taken the mustard and whiskey has taken the fever. We know that the mustard promotes the action of the kidneys, stimulates the digestive organs, and creates a moisture upon the surface of the skin. While the troops have, in this State, suffered terribly, we have escaped; wliether it be mustard seed, or whatever the preventive may have been that has kept us preserved from the disease, we can but feel thankful that we have escaped. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, CHAS. E.WARREN, Actinrj Assistant Surr/eon, U. S. A. Brevet Major C. Bacon, Assistant Surr/eon, U. S. A. Brenham, Texas, April 6, 18G8. Sill: First Lieutenant L. J. Lambert came to this post from Houston ; he had been on duty at that place for a considerable length of time, during which time, and at the period of his leaving, yellow fever was an epidemic at Houston. He was taken with the fever about thirty-six hours after liis arrival at this post, aud did not use mustard seed. During his sickness I was ordered to Foit Stockton, and relieved by Dr. Jackson. Dr. Jackson put Private J. Thompson on duty as a nurse, he being then a patient in tlie liospital. He had been under my treatment for some time previous for pastritLs. A day or two after Private Thompson was put on duty as a nurse with Lieutenant Lambert, Dr. Jackson was taken sick with remittent fever, and I took charge. I found Thompson lying beside Lieutenant Lambert's bed exhausted. I removed him to the liospital, where he died from exhaustion. Dr. Jackson did not see him for some days before his death, but was on duty at the end of the month, and made the report for the month of September to which the lettei' from the Surgeon General's Oliice refers. Dr. Jackson recovered. I'rivate J. Tliomjison had not the yellow fever, nor a single symptom of the s.ame. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, CHAS. E. WARREN, Actiixj Assistant Surijion, U. S. A. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel Warren Webster, Surycon-in-Chief District of Texas, Austin, Texas.