ARirr MEDICAL MUSEUM. MICROSCOPICAL SERIES. U7 in the Museum. The Microscopical series grew out of the attempt to conduct exact investigations into the minute anatomical changes characteristic of the several camp diseases, and especially of fever and diarrhoea. The great mortality of these aflfections has already been intimated, and the vast practical importance of the present study will therefore be at once understood, when it is recollected that no intelligent efforts to prevent or cure diseases can be made without a reasonable comprehension of their nature, and that this must rest as a basis upon a just knowledge of their patho- logical anatomy. Unfortunately, in the United States, pathological anatomy is but little studied, and especially the application of the microscope to this branch of investi- gation has not received the attention it deserves, so that there appeared little proba- bility that an exact study of the pathological anatomy of our camp diseases would be attempted, if it were not undertaken in the Army Medical Museum, and it became an imperative duty to make an effort in this direction. The result of this effort is the microscopical series, which, although small when contrasted with some of the European collections, is the only considerable micro-pathological collection in the United States. The majority of the specimens thus far placed in the cabinet are sections illustra- tive of the normal histology of the intestines, and of the changes they undergo in fever and diarrhoea; but the actual number of specimens preserved indicates only a small part of the work done. Investigations have been continually made into pathological processes, in which want of time and of a sufficient number of assistants have not per- mitted the preservation of specimens. And this branch of the Museum has also been frequently consulted in questions of adulterations, etc. requiring microscopical investi- gation for their solution; a duty of considerable importance, which, of itself alone, would more than repay the trifling cost of the establishment of this branch of the Museum. The greater number of the preparations hitherto made in the microscopical branch of the Museum are the work of Brevet Captain Edward Curtis, Assistant Surgeon U.S.A., whose patience and dexterity are deserving of high praise, and to whose intelligent assistance I owe much of the success attained in this direction. In addition, Acting Assistant Surgeon J. C. W. Kennon, who has recently been assigned as an assistant in this branch of the Museum, is preparing a series of very beautiful minute injections, which will form an important part of the collection. It would be whollj- impossible to present here a detailed account of the results arrived at by the microscopical work performed. This must be postponed to its appropriate place, in the discussion of the pathological anatomy of our camp diseases in the Medical History of the War. It may, however, be noted, as a matter of interest, that the general results attained are not only of value in connection with camp diseases, but have an important bearing on the general comprehension of normal structure and of morbid action, as must in fact be the case with all studies honestly and earnestly directed to any one series of pathological lesions. In a general way, it may be said that the results of the investigations made in the Museum accord, in many respects, with the ideas of the modem Berlin school of pathological anatomy, are contradictory of the doctrine of exudation, taught so gen- erally in the older medical text-books in use in this country, and at variance also in several particulars with the views of Dr. Lionel Beale, lately so favorably received in England.