55 FORT WALLACE, KANSAS. SeVL'n days' march IVom this post tliey passed, without halting, a camp of colored troops, among whom cholera was prevailing, tind tliis is supposed to be the only contact, if contact that can be called, with the disease to which the command was subjected. On the 9th cholera was reported, and, visiting the camp, I saw a number of cases, and learned that the first case had occurred on the 8th, which had proved fatal. At this time the command was panic-stricken; considerable excitement had also arisen in my own camp, which required constant attention to allay. Everything required was placed at the disposal of the medical officer, including a quarantine hospital, of which I took charge on the morning of the 10th, and received all the cases then existing, as well as those which subsequently occurred. My records include nothing pertaining to the course of the disease to that time, excepting the deaths of the first five men that appear on this report, wlio died in the camp hospital under charge of Dr. Brad- ford. The sixth case upon the report was retained, without my knowledge and contrary to my wishes, with his family near the camp, which was moved on the lOth to a new locality, and frequently moved subsequently. Strict sanitary measures were from this time enforced in the regiment. Of the nine cases reported as having occurred on the lOtli, five were brought to the quarantine hospital early on the morning of that day, having been attacked the night previous; the remaining four cases were attacked and brought to the hospital during the day. Of the first five, I have recorded three deaths, two of which occurred on the 11th, and one on the 12th. These were brought to me in a state of collapse; only one of them was attended with any symp- toms of improvement, which were as temporary as deceptive; cramps in each were more persistent than either vomiting or pui'ging, which almost ceased in each case, to be followed by involuntary discharges; in two cases, before death, suppression of urine persisted. Of the remaining two, neither was in complete collapse, though both were severely prostrated and presented the familiar symptoms of the disease. During recovery cramps ceased before discharges, the patients recovering with a rapidity only less surprising than satisfactory. Of tlje four cases which occurred during the 10th, there was one, apparently, not in an alarming state, tliough the diagnostic discharges which existed were promptly followed by more violent cramps in the extremities and a more complete collapse; death took place on the 12th. One case of the four, similar to this, recovered, the same treatment being adopted in each case. The remaining two were slightly, though characteristically, marked. Subsequent to the 10th, all the cases admitted, with one exception, assumed a comparatively slight form of the disease, though all were characteristic. From the 13th to the 17th, no cases occurred, when private Fralin was brought to the hospital vomiting and purging, and evidently drunk, which state passed into cholera, of which he died on the 20th, having passed through all the stages of the disease. Of his case I saw but little, as I was most of the time confined to my own bed by sickness. His wants were attended mostly by my steward, David B. Long, my only assistant, whose faithful performance of duties gives him much claim to my gratitude. In connection with the treatment, I need hardly say that many remedies of reputed efiicacy have been tried, but I have nothing to say in their favor. Mercurials are the only remedies from which I have learned to expect much, and to them I have resorted, early and late, in the disease. To give a purgative, with a mixture of chloroform and capsicum with brandy and opium, using subsequently calomel, lead and opium, in minute quantities, with injections of brandy, lead, and opium, as well as cold tea in connection with counter-irritants, was the general plan of treatment, in the less severe cases, followed by recovery. One of three fatal cases referred to on the 10th, which seemed to have reacted somewhat, did so after having been treated with violent counter-irritants and heat to the extremities and body. A solution of chloroform and camphor, with the injections above mentioned, was made use of, a full dose of calomel having been first retained. But one serious case occurred among the officers of the 5tli U. S. Infantry, or their families—the case of Mrs. Colonel Bank- head, whom I saw on the morning of the 12th, suft'ering from a painless and not frequent diarrhosa, which, though I was not so informed, had existed for several days. The course of her disease, to its fatal termination in forty hours, was painfully gradual and surprising. Her husband, under similar circumstances, had applied for treatment the day previous. Other similar cases came under my notice among the officers. At the time of the arrival of the 5th Infantry at this post, the physique of the men was good; they had performed a long march, but had taken it quite leisurely, and were well supplied with equipage. There was no scurvy among them. The cause of the attack seems to have been an atmospheric one. It is probable that the violence with which the disease commenced was owing somewhat to the dissipation with which the men celebrated their arrival at the post; and that tlie panic which ensued was productive of cases, is, I think, as little to be doubted. The good eftects attending the establishment of the quarantine were evident, while I do not think that any patient was depressed by removal to the cholera hospital. The belief in the contagiousness of the disease was so universal among the men, that they were anxious to see their fallen comrades isolated. None of the nurses employed in the case of the cholera patients were attacked by the disease. Previous to the outbreak of the disease, I had been largely supplied with disinfectants, as well as all kinds of supplies, and throughout its prevalence I had on hand everything required at the post or in its vicinity. Assistant Surgeon Lippincott, my patient and guest at the post, convalescent from disease brouglit ©n by excessive labors during the prevalence of cholera in his own command, (7th U. S. Cavalry,) kindly furnished assistance; but the little strength that had accrued to him was soon exhausted, and lie was subjected to a relapse which prostrated him for two weeks. The 5th Infantry has since been distributed as follows: Two companies went east, one to Fort Hays, and one to Downer's Station, Kansas. The three remaining companies, having been assigned to this post, are now sharing the duties of the gari-isou. In consideration of the continuance of the favorable change in the weather, and present sanitary condition of the command, I consider cholera to have pa.?sed for tlie season, and will be surprised if it again makes its appearance. Acting Assistant Sugreon Bradford accompanied the first detachment of the 5th Infantry going east. I am. General, very respectfully, j'our obedient servant, T. H. TURNEE, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Baekks, Surgeon General.