GOLIAD HOUSTON. 93 CiOLrlAD, TEXAS. Lake Tkinidad, Tkxas, April 28, 1808. Sir : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of March 24th, 1868, relative to the yellow fever at Goliad, Texas. The presence of the fever at Goliad was, in my opinion, consequent upon intercourse w-ith the neighboring town of Victoria, 28 miles distant, where the disease prevailed some time previous to any cases occurring in Goliad. Heretofore, when the disease has existed on the coast, and in .some of the interior towns, Goliad has been exempt. No local cause, I think, produced the yellow fever in Goliad. It is a place noted for health, and situated on high ground, with no swamps or stagnant water for several miles around. Communication between Goliad and Victoria was uninterrupted duiing the prevalence of the epidemic at the latter place, and many refugees resorted to Goliad to escape the disease. The disease existed in Goliad about three weeks before the troops were attacked. In consequence of the fever making its appearance in the town, a quarantine was established, allowing no soldiers to leave camp or citizens to visit there. The camp was situated about a quarter of a mile from the town. About one-ninth of the entire population were attacked, and there were about twenty-five deaths among the citizens. The comparatively few cases among the troops was, I think, in consequence of the rigid quarantine enforced. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, COLUMBUS J. WHITE, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. HOUSTOIV, TEXAS. HoL'sTox, Texas, Novemher 30, 1867. The following statement in regard to the first appearance and subsequent progress of yellow fever, as it occurred at this post during the months of September, October, and November, 1867, is respectfully submitted: The fii'st cases of yellow fever in the city of Houston were brought from Galveston in the second week of August, where the disease was at that time prevailing epidemically. The number of new cases gradually increased from this time forth till about the 20th of August, when the fever was declared epidemic. The first case of yellow fever among the troops at this post occurred on September 7th, terminating fatally on the 11th by the supervention of a violent congestive chill. This was the case of Private Matthew Hale, Company "D," 17th U. S. Infantry, who had for some weeks been employed as teamster, and was consequently compelled to visit the city daily for drinking Water and other purposes. Brevet Colonel J. D. O'Connell, U. S. A., Major 17th U. S. Infantry, commanding this post, who was at that time residing with his family at tlie Hutciiins House, in this city, was attacked by the fever September 12th, and died September 16th. Mrs. O'Connell took the fever on September 13th, and died on the morning of the 19th. * * * Captain Lyman H. Warren, U. S. A., commanding Companj- ''C," 17th U. S. Infantry, was taken with the fever on September 15th, * * * » g^^^f\ dlQi at an early hour on the morning of the 18th, having ejected during the night large quantities of black vomit. During the month of September the fever made but slow progress among the troops, 1.5 cases occurring in all, of which number 5 died. On the 30th of September there remained under treatment 4 cases, all of whom died during the first week of October. In October, however, the fever made rapid progress, 54 cases occurring, 20 of whom died. On the 31st of October there remained under treatment 7 cases; 2 new cases occurred on November 1st and 3d, respectively, all of whom recovered. There occurred in all 71 cases, 25 of whom died. The extreme virulence of the prevailing epidemic influence—the fact that all our men were entirely unacclimated—the impos- sibility of eifectually establishing complete non-intercourse of the men with the inhabitants of the city—the prevalence of the violent north winds during the greater part of September and October, to which our camp, otherwise vei'v favorably situated, was exposed—and the unfortunate circumstance that so many of our convalescents, in spite of all our endeavors to prevent it, clandestinely managed to procure for themselves improper articles of diet, in which they imprudently and voraciously tndulged, thereby causing relapse, which proved to be much more severe and fatal than the original attacks—all tliese causes combined go far to account for the heavy mortality among this command during the past epidemic. ****** The general sanitary j?ondition of the troops composing this command before yellow fever became epidemic in the city was very satisfactory, no death having occurred during the year; and, with the exception of the months of July and August, when an increase of intermittent and bilious remittent fever cases was observed, there was but very little sickness at any time in the connnand. As soon as yellow fever was known to exist in Galveston, we had every reason to infer that it would also soon make its appearance here; and as our old camp was at that time on the north side of the Buffalo bayou, exposed to the generally prevailing south winds, sweeping over the entire extent of the city, and as it had been proved by the experience of previous epidemics that the mortality had invariably been much heavier in the northeiii portion of the city than elsewhere, I advised Colonel O'Connell, conmnanding the post, to move the camp, for obvious hygienic reasons, to the extreme eastern portion of the city limits. Colonel O'Connell coinciding with me, our camp was accordingly moved during the latter part of July, particular attention l)eing jtaid in selecting favorably situated grounds, where we also had the advantage of being able to obtain readily a suitable building for the purpose of establishing a hospital therein, in case it should be necessary to do so.