41 TETANUS. Private Thomas B , Co. B, 90th Ohio Vols., was admitted into Hospital No. 1, Nashville, on November 27th, 1863, with a bayonet wound behind the left parietal protuberance, inflicted by whom the patient, being intoxicated, had refused to obey. For several days after admission he was somnolent and obstinately constipated. Under the use of powerful purgatives this condition was removed, and the wound nearly cicatrized. But, on December 8th, the patient complained of headache, and a probe passed through the small orifice of the wound revealed the presence of denuded and detached bone. A crucial incision was made and the frag- ments of dead bone were removed. On December 11th, there was more headache, and a tendency to stupor; the pulse was at 48; there was intoler- ance of light and sound ; the scalp was tumid; the wound gaping, and filled with fungous granulations. The incisions in the scalp were extended, an ice-bladder was applied to the head, and purgatives and purgative enemata were employed. A day or two subsequently cerebral hernia took place; then extended suppuration in the left hemisphere; then delirium and coma, and death on December 23d, 1863. The description and specimen were con- tributed by Assistant Surgeon 0. J. Kipp, U. S. Vols. Tennessee, a sentinel. Fig. 57.—SkuU-c:tp, exhibiting a fracture of the left parietal bone by a bayonet. Spec, 2179, A. M. M. SIMPLE FRACTURES AND MISCELLANEOUS WOUNDS. The number of cases reported is quite large, and the record is still very incom- plete. For the first two years of the war, the monthly reports give of simple fractures alone 2864 cases with 92 deaths. The Army Medical Museum possesses comparatively few illustrations of this class of injuries, and it is to be desired that this department of the collection may be augmented. Specimen No. 6 presents a good example of a united simple fracture of the femur through the trochanters. It was taken from a man of forty, who died of pneumonia two years after recovery from the local injury. The number of incised and punctured wounds received in broils and altercations is quite numerous. The following is an interesting example of this class of cases: Private George S , Co. B, 15th New York Engineers, was stabbed in the back by a dirk, April 20th, 1863, at Falmouth, Virginia, in an altercation with a comrade. The blade passed between the transverse processes of the fourth and fifth vertebrae, and severed the spinal cord. The man fell instantly, completely paraplegic. He was admitted to Armory Square Hospital, at Washington, April 22d. On April 27th, he began to pass his faeces and urine involuntarily, and bed-sores appeared on the portions of the lower Fia. 59.-Fourth, fifth, and a portion of the sixth P^'* "'[l'^'^ ^fj. f P°^^^ ^O pressure. He Sank dorsal vertebra;, sawn asunder to exhibit a dirk gradually, and died from exhaustion On May 27th, which traversed the spinal canal. /Spec. 1160, A. lofio oiu^ „ • . i . "1 • M. M. ihe specimen was contributed by Assist- ant Surgeon 0. 0, Byrne, U. S. A. Fig. 58. — Firmly consolidated simple fracture of the left fe- mur. Spec. No. 6, A. M. M. TETANUS. The 363 cases of traumatic tetanus recorded in the register for that subject are all that have been reported during the war. The proportion to the total number of wounds is not large. In the Schleswick Holstein war, Stromeyer had 6 cases among 2000 wounded. In Napoleon's campaign in Egypt, in the Peninsular campaign, and