97 AUSTIN, TEXAS SUK-DISTRICT OF THE EIO GRANDE. AUSTIIV, TEXAS. Extract from Special Eepm-t on Yellow Fever, Austin, Texas, September, 1867. Acting Assistant Surr/eon li. M. Kirl, U. S. A. Higgins, a prisoner, supposed to be a member of the 4th U. S. Cavalry, was attacked September 9th, and died f-ame day. He arrived, some days previous to the attack, from New Orleans, La.; was unconscious when received in hospital, and remained so till death. Extract from Special Report on Yellow Fever, Austin, Texas, November, 1887. Acting Assistant Surgeon R. M. Kirl-, U. S. A. Private J. B. Shearer, attacked November 6th; recovered November 12th. Was clerk at District Headquarters. Arrived at the post, fi-om Galveston, October 23d. SUB-DISTRICT OF THE RIO ORAIVDE—BROWi\SVILEE AND RIIVOGOED BAR- RACKS, TEXAS. Headquarters Sub-District of the Eio Grande, Office of Chief Mfdical Officer, Brownsville, Texas, January 28, 1868. General : In compliance with the instructions of Circular No. 3, S. G. O., April 20th, 1867, I have the honor to forward the accompanying special reports of yellow fever patients for the months of October, Novemljer, and December, 1867, in the sub-district of the Rio Grande, at the posts of Ringgold Barracks and Brownsville, at which posts alone cases of tlie disease have occurred. The special and full instructions relative to the sanitary condition of troops issued from tlie Office of the Surgeon General U. S. A., and by the medical director of the Fifth Military District, and the chief medical officer of the District of Texas, during the earlier part of the past season, were carefully followed and strictly enforced by commanding officers at all posts in the command. The health of the troops continued remarkably good during the whole season, with the exception of the few cases of yellow fever reported. On the 28th of June last application was made to the chief medical officer of the District of Texas for instructions relative to the establishment of a quarantine station at Brazos Santiago, and, in accordance witli the orders received, a rigid quarantine was establislied July 8th at that port, and so effectually enforced that none of the cases of yellow fever that have occurred during the season in the vicinity of the Rio Grande can be traced to that port as the source of infection. There were three deaths in quarantine during the season, but none were reported by the health officer of the port as yellow fever; and only one case was regarded as suspicious—on board a schooner from Pensacola, Florida—which resulted in death early in September. Much apprehension was felt during the months of August and September regarding the port of Bagdad, Mexico, at tlie mouth of the Rio Grande, where, notwithstanding the satisfactory assurances of the Mexican autliorities at Matamoras and the port of Bagdad, and the great vigilance and very commendable efficiency of Acting Assistant Surgeon Wm. E. Savage, U. S. A., the health officer at the port of Brazos Santiago, Texas, there was some laxity in the enfoi-cement of quarantine regulations in regard to some vessels from Mexican ports, and to the steamer Pisano, from New Orleans, some passengers from which arrived in Mata- moras about September 16th. None of these people were allowed to come to Brownsville, although their passage from New Orleans had been a long one, and there was no sickness among them. In regard to the port of Bagdad, however, it is considered certain that no elements of infection or contagion were admitted there from which the epidemic that appeared a month later could have been developed. As soon as it was announced that yellow fever was epidemic at Corpus Christi early in August, quarantine stations were established, on the 12th of the month, at the crossings of the Arroyo Colorado and the Corpus Christi roads, between tliat place and Brownsville, and, it is believed, with the most satisfactory results. Almost all travel on this route was prevented or turned in other directions by these obstructions, but few people arrived at Brownsville from Corpus Christi during tlie months of August and September, and no cases of the fever occurred among them or can be traced to them. At about the same date, August 12th, directions were given from this office, to Acting Assistant Surgeon C. C. Furley, U. S. A., post Surgeon at Ringgold Barracks, to exercise all possible vigilance in quarantining the road to that point on the Eio Grande from Corpus Christi. Soon after very stringent orders were issued by Brevet Brigadier General McKenzie, commanding that post, prohibiting all travel upon that much frequented route. That these orders were most vigilantly enforced is indicated by the accompanying special report of Dr. Furley. It is believed that a number of deaths from yellow fever occurred on that route among persons attached to wagon trains, and others at points outside of the quarantine stations, during the months of August and September, while the disease was prevailing at Corpus Christi. In the latter part of July and in August the usual summer freshet of the Eio Grande occurred, and the river continued very high during all the month of September. From the 19th of August, for ten days, it rained almost incessantly, and during this period the ^\llole country along the lower Eio Grande, from Eio Grande City down, was almost literally flooded, rendering all the roads quite impassable. Upon the cessation of the rains and the subsidence of the waters, about September 1st, malarial fevers of a congestive type began to prevail among the Mexican people in the vicinity of Eio Grande City, Texas, and Caniargo, Mexico. The same thing occurred in the vichiity of Brownsville, but the sickness was confined to the ranches near the river, 13