SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 66 TABULAR STATEMENT OF THE OPERATIONS OF Hospital and Hospital Number. 10. Fairfax Seminary U. S. A. General Hospital, Va. 11. Fred- ericli Gen- eral Hos- pital, Md. No. 5. 12. Field. 13. 14. "Stew- art" Con- federate Hospital, Richmond, Va. 15. Judi- ciary Square U. S. A. General Hospital, Washing- ton, D. C. 7019. Name, Rank, Company, Regi- ment. Age. Date of Admis- sion to Hospital. Joseph Brown, Private Co. I, 3d Michigan Vols. Age, 38. Ad- mitted September 11, 1862. Edward Hunt, Private Co. D, 71st Pennsyl- vania Vols. Age, 24. Admitted January 20, 1863. .James Tallman, Ser- geant Co. H, 18th Wisconsin Vols. Private. Confederate. Jarratt, Lieuten- ant, 1.5th North Caro- lina Confederate States Army. Charles Cleaver, Pri- vate Co. C, 2d U. S. Infantry. Age, —. Admitted May 18, 1864. Description and Date of Wound or Injury. Ou what Occasion received. A musket-ball passed througli the trochan- ter of the left femur at the second battle of Bull Run. After lying exposed on the battle-field for three d.ays, the patient was taken to Centreville, and thence to Fair- fax Seminary Hos- pital. On two occa- sions fragments of bone were removed from the wound. Missile entered two inches above tro- chanter major, and grazed the neck of femur; passed out at the nates. Comminuted fracture of left femur by a co- noidal musket-ball. After Jackson, Miss., May 14, 1803. Gunshot fracture of the upper extremity of the femur. Comminuted gunshot fracture of the upper extremity of the left femur by a conoidal musket-ball. Compound comminu- ted fracture of femur involving the joint and four inches of shaft by minie-ball. Spottsylvania, Va., May 12, 1864. Date of Operation. March 21, 1863. Feb. 23, 1863 May 15, 1863. 1863. January 9, 1864. May 19, 1864. Operation. A large exploratory incision was made from three inches above to five inches below the trochan- ter ; the femur was divided squarely by powerful bone - cut- ting forceps, six in- ches below the tro- chanter ; the neck of the femur was so much diseased that the head of the bone was then removed. Excision of the head of the femur, the neck being divided by the lion-jawed cutting forceps; very little blood lost. Chloroform. Excision of the head and portion of the shaft of the left fe- Excision of the head of the femur. Chlo- roform. Secondary operation. Excision of the head, trochanters, and sev- eral inches of the shaft of the left fe- mur. Chloroform. Excision of head of bone and four and a quarter inches of shaft; incision curv- ed, and six inches in length. Condition of injured Parts at Time of Operation. Early in March the limb began to swell immoderately, and the discharge from the wound became scanty and foetid; much callus had been thrown out. A draw- ing of the case repre- sents much burrow- ing of pus amid the muscles of the thigh. Profuse suppuration, estimated at a quart in twenty-four hours; abscesses about the hip and upper part of thigh. Head of femur commi- nuted, and shaft shat- tered three inches below the surgical neck. Extensive laceration of soft parts; pus, of an ill-conditioned character, burrow- ing in every direc- tion.