EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS 22 western slope of the ridge formerly occupied. We have here an excellent spring of pure water. One case in which cholera symptoms were prominent has occui'red since the change : it yielded to treatment, however, and the man is now well. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, J. B. DOWNEY, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel C. C. Byrne, Surgeon, U. S. Army, Surgeon-in-Chief Sub-district of Arkansas. Extract from Monthly Report of Side and Wounded, Company " C," IQth U. S. Infantry, Madison, St, Francis County, Arkansas, July, 1867. J. B. Downey, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. With reference to the cholera which made its appearance at this post July 26th, and of which there are three deaths recorded on the report, I would state that the camp at Madison I considered to be in good sanitary condition. It was situated on an elevated ridge immediately back of the town, and was considerably higher than either the town or surrounding country. The citizens, however, consider the eastern slope of the ridge more unhealthy than the western. The two first cases that occurred were purely epidemic cholera. They died within twenty-four hours after being attacked. Two other deaths that occurred were cases of cholera supervening ou the debility which follows remittent fever. The stimulant plan of treatment was a failure. Of a number of cases that were attacked, but which did not result in death, it seemed that if the secretions could be once unlocked by the influence of mercurials, the discharges were controlled. Of the cases tiiat died, the symptoms were violent and uncontrollable; vomiting and purging; cramps in body and limbs; shriveled, shrunken, and dark-colored skin; hands and fingers looking as if they had been soaked in water; extremities cold from the beginning; pulse weak and slow; involuntary discharges from the bowels which were frequent—rice-water, or watery with tiocculent masses tloatiiig in the liquid ; eyes sunken ; conjunctiva dry and dirty ; insatiable thirst, and cold breath and death. NEWPORT BARRACKS, KEI^TUCKY. Newport Barh.vcks, Ky., Jnly 3, 1867. Sir : I have the honor to transmit herewith my monthly report of sick and wounded at this post during the month of June, 1867; also the special report upon epidemic cholera required by Circular No. 3, dated Surgeon General's Oflice, April 20, 1867. Although diahrroea and dysentery have been quite prevalent during the latter part of the month, but two cases of cholera have occurred. This disease was distinctly marked in its stages, but proved of mild type, terminating favorably. The treat- ment pursued was practically the same as that adopted by Surgeon J, B, Brown, at Fort Columbus, last year. In reference to the origin of cholera, whatever may be said of overcrowding as a direct agent in the production of the disease, it certainly presents the most favorable conditions for the inception and spread of the poison. Neither of the men attacked were exposed directly to the contagion so far as I have been able to learu. Cases are said to have occurred both in Cincinnati, Ohio, and Covington, Ky., a few days before these men were taken .sick. Private William Anderson, a prisoner, joined from desertion, February 7, 1867, and has not been away from the post. The other recruit, Thomas Piper, general service, joined June 20, 1867, from Quincy, Illinois. The guard-house, from whence the first case came, is occupied by seventy-one prisoners, forty-three of whom belong to regiments. These men are all confined for grave offences—a few under charges, the others undergoing punishment. The three rooms now occupied by the prisoners contain but eleven thousand seven hundred and ninetj'-one cubic feet of air space, and are arranged according to the enclosed plan.* The police of the prison and the personal cleanliness of the prisoners may be con- sidered faultless. I iiave frequently called attention to the crowded condition of this guard-house, suggesting means of ventila- tion, and that additional rooms be given for the use of the prisoners. My suggestions have been approved and carried out to the extent of the moans in the power of the commanding officer. Representations were made to the authorities sending prisoners from organized i-egiments to this post, setting forth the want of capacity in the guard-house to accommodate them with safety to the health of the troops at this depot, but the evil continues. Estimates were also made for the enlargement of the prison, but they failed to meet with approval. I deem this a subject worthy the attention of the general commanding, and would I'cspect- fully recommend that either the forty-three prisoners, from organized regiments, confined here, be sent elsewhere, or that the prison be enlarged without delay. Enclosed I send you a copy of a communication recently addressed to tlie commanding officer on this subject. The second case, that of Recruit Thomas Pi])er, general service, occurred in the recruit barracks. There are but four rooms assignable as dormitories for enlisted men at tliis depot; the dinien.sions of these are as follows, viz: two, 83 feet 6 in, X 28 feet X 12 feet each; two. 58 feet 8 in, X 28 feet X 12 feet. Three of these rooms are occupied by the permanent jiarty, whic'h con- sists, with the field musicians, of two hundred and thirty-five men. On the 30th ult,, two hundred and seventy men nominally occupied the fourtli and only room assignable for recruits. This room has a capacity of 83 feet 6 in. X 28 feet X 12, thus giving 103 cubic feet to each man. * Not published iu thi.s report.