X REPORT ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA, arrived the day before his attack, from Chicago, Illinois, where cholera^ was then prevailing. No other case occurred at this post. A detachment of recruits from Governor's Island, New York Harbor, arrived at Newport barracks, Kentucky, July 12th ; recruits were also received during the latter part of July and first of August from St. Louis, Missouri, and Cincin- nati, Ohio; from the latter place almost daily after July 13th. The first case of cholera at this post occurred August 12th. The patient was a recruit who had been doing duty as a teamster, and visiting Cincinnati daily. Cholera was, at this time, epidemic in the city of Cincinnati.* From this time to the close of November there were 9 cases and 5 deaths of cholera reported at the station. During September cholera also appeared at Atlanta and Augusta, Georgia, among recruits who went from Newport barracks by w^ay of ^sl ashville. The disease w^as limited to the recruits. The first fatal case at Atlanta was on the 9th of September, and 19 cases, with 7 deaths, occurred during the month. At Augusta, the first fatal cases were also on the 9th, and the total number during the month was 8 cases, of whom 7 died. At Louisville, Kentucky, the first case occurred July 29th. The patient was a recruit from Governor's island, New York Harbor; 364 recruits from Governor's island arrived at Taylor Barracks, Louisville, between the 16th and 19th of the month. Cases of cholera occurred first among these recruits, but subsequently among the rest of the garrison. The first case in the garrison (excluding New York recruits) occurred August 18th. The total number of cases at Louisville w^as 36, with 23 deaths. On the 21st of August, company E, second United States infantry, was ordered from Taylor Barracks to Bowling Green, Kentucky. Six cases of cholera occurred iu this company during the remaining days of August, and two in September. None were fatal. During the last days of August and the first of September, squads of recruits, numbering ninety each, arrived at Nashville, Tennessee, from Newport barracks, Kentucky, and w^ere quartered for quarantine purposes in the immediate vicinity of the post hospital. The first three cases occurred among these recruits—the first fatal case being on September 2d. About this time, also, cholera began to prevail among the citizens of Nashville, and it would appear probable that it was from this source that the disease was introduced into the detachment at Sibley Barracks, as the first two cases at this post w^ere men who had been on a debauch in the town. Altogether, there were 72 cases and 39 deaths among the w4iite troops. Two deaths of colored soldiers also occurred in September, in the Nashville post hospital. * Cincinnati Lancet and Observer, vol. IX, p. 561.