EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. 46 from bilious disorders ; and but one case occurred among the ladies aud children accompanying the column. In the faniilj'of Colonel Brown, three cases of Asiatic cholera occurred, two proving rapidly fatal; while the remaining members, seven in number, were all taken with cholerine at diiferent stages of the journey. These persons were remarkably imprudent in their diet, canned fruits, vegetables, and meats being used to great excess. The most persistent case of cholerine occurred in the person of the Rev. Mr. Vaux, post chaplain at Fort Sumner, N. M. In this case the discharges were frequent, small, bilious in character, attended with tenesmus, exhaustion, cold clammy and bluish surface. The disease, resisting all treatment, continued for several days, and finally yielded to full doses of blue mass, camphor, and quinine. The exhibition of opium invariably aggravated the disorder. It was a noticeable fact, that while daily marches were made, even in the unvarying scenery of the Arkansas valley, the morale of the entire command was unaffected; but, on the other hand, one day of rest, or even the prospect of remaining twenty-four hours in camp, developed cases of choleraphobia. In conclusion, I desire to acknowledge the great assistance rendered me by Hospital Steward Charles Bowmer, U. S. A., wlio reported to me for duty at Fort Harker, Kansas, the day prior to the departure of the command. The training of Steward Bowmer, during the epidemic in New York harbor, prepared hipi for rendering most valuable and reliable assistance in carrying out the treatment adopted in individual cases. I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant, E. McCLELLAN, - Assistant Surgeon, and Brevet Major, U. S. A. FORTS ZARAII AND LARIVED. Extract from Monthly Bcport of Sick and Wounded, Fort Lamed, Kansas, July, 18G7. John J. Marston, Active/ Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Epidemic cholera was brought to this post by two companies of the 38th U. S. Infantry, under command of Major Merriam, en I'oute to New Mexico, which arrived at this post on the 2d instant, having several cases of epidemic cholera along. On my learning that there was cholera in that command, I innnediately reported the facts to the commanding officer of this post, and requested him not to allow that command to camp within two miles of the post; but the request was not complied with, and the command went into camp within 500 yards of this post, and remained there for forty-eight hours. The first case occurred at this post on the evening of the 6th instant. The characteristic symptoms of cholera asiatica were prominent and very violent, and the case proved fatal after an illness often hours. Two more cases occurred on the 10th and 11th instants, one of which proved fatal in six hours ; the other case recovered. The above were the only cases that occurred amongst the troops of tliis post during the month. There were also some eiglit cases amongst the quartermaster's employes at this post, four of which proved fatal. The last case occurred on the 15th instant, and since that time no case lias been reported either amongst the troops or employes of this post. There were also two fatal cases—one commissioned officer and one enlisted man—at Fort Zarah, which is a picket post thirty-five miles east of this point. Acting Assistant Surgeon Ira Pen-y is on duty with the picket at that post. All public trains and detachments of troops passing have more or less cases of this disease; but all cases from these infected commands, when brought to this post for treatment, are treated in a quarantine hospital two miles distant from the post. Numerous cases of diarrhoea have been prevailing at this post during the month, but all cases yield readily to prompt treatment. On the appearance of the disease at this post, every sanitary measure was adopted to prevent its further spreading. Sinks and all foul places were disinfected by unslaked lime and strong acids; lime was scattered abundantly about all the quarters, and a thorough police of the whole camp promptly and regularly enforced. Troops were instructed as to the importance of cleanliness, and the cooking closely watched; and all persons having diarrhoea were instructed to report promptly to the hospital for treatment. The treatment adopted during the attack was large doses of calomel, injections of starch, strong tea, brandy, and acetate of lead, sinapisms, and frictions. As a drink, strong tea was used, and the patient was allowed to suck ice. I may also leport, as a sanitary measure, that the camp of the quartermaster's employes, which was in the post, was moved out half a mile distant. Extract from Monthly Report of Sick and Wounded, Company "A," 10th U. S. Catfilry, Fort Lamed, Kansas, August, 1867. Acting Assistant Surgeon. J. J. Marston, U. S. A. One case of epidemic cholera is reported at Fort Zarah on the 21st of this month. Private George Evans, Company " II,"' 38th Infantry, a member of the escort party rcfan-ning from this po.st to Fort Ilarker, Kansas, was taken sick with active symptoms of ejiidemic cholera on the road on the 20tli of this month, and died at the picket post of Fort Zarah on the "ilst of this month, after an illness of 36 hours.