101 SUB-DISTK'ICT OF THE RIO GRANDE. The recommendations made were ordered to be carried out and enforced by the military commander of tlie post of Browns- ville with vei'y beneficial results, as far as the cleanliness and appearance of the city was concerned. The sanitary regulations in force in the garrison were continued with unabated care and vigilance by all the connnanding officers of the troo[)S and the camps at the post. As soon as it was known that yellow fever had appeared at Corpus Cliristi, quarantine guanls were, on the 12th of August, placed upon the Corpus Christi roads where they cross, by several ferries, the Arroyo Colorado, wliich is a salt-water inlet extending many miles inland. Tliese crossings are distant from Brownsville about 30 miles. At about the same date quarantine guards were also stationed upon the roads from Corpus Christi to Rio Grande City. All these quarantine stations were con- tinued, and their regulations rigidly enforced, until after yellow fever had declared its presence in Brownsville in October. In regard to the quarantine at the ports of Brazos Santiago and Bagdad, they were so efiectual, through the most commend- able efficiency and vigilance of the health officer at Brazos Santiago, Acting Assistant Surgeon Wm. E. Savage, U. S. A., now deceased, that it is believed that no elements of infectious or contagious diseases were introduced through those ports. In regard to the land quarantine, it did not so effectually obstruct travel by the land routes. During tlje months of August and September three or four persons arrived in Brownsville from Corpus Christi, but such was the apprehension of the people here, and the vigilance of the health officers and other city authorities, that every such person is believed to have been reported and kept under observation. These persons were residents of the country, who, finding themselves unable to return here by sea, and having already had yellow fever and not being afraid of it, did not fear to return by almost the only available route—byway of Galveston, Indianola, and Corpus Christi—by land. They were, in every case, a long time on the way, and it is believed that all were kept under observation at the quarantine stations until the period of incubation was over. No suspicion has been attached to these persons as carriers of the contagion from which the recent epidemic was propagated; nor has it been possible to trace to them, as sources of contagion, any of the first cases of fever tliat occurred in Brownsville in September and Oetober last. During the month of August everything seemed promising for the continued good health of this community; the weather was pleasant and agreeable during the first eighteen or twenty days of the month, and the healthful southeast breezes prevailed. In this month occurred the usual summer freshet of the Rio Grande, and the river continued very high till the latter part of September. In the month of August there was also a great deal of rain, which fell continuously from the 19th for ten days, or till the 29th. All the lower valley of the Rio Grande and adjacent country was almost literally flooded, and all the roads leading to Brownsville and Matamoras were, for many weeks, so bad that the amount of travel upon them was trifling, and they were at times quite impassable. The August rains ceasing about the 29th of the month, the water began to subside from the flooded country, but it was again very rainy for many days from the 10th of September. Nearly all commercial intercourse between Brownsville and places up the river was stopped during the months of August and September, in consequence of the importation of merchandise being obstructed by the quarantine. The only communication by steamer during these months, with the towns above, was one trip to Rio Grande City about August 16th, and one about Sep- tember 16th, and one to Ringgold Barracks , which is below Rio Grande City, September 30th. After a careful investigation of the circumstances relating to this apparently possible means of importation of contagion, it must be admitted that no suspicion can be entertained of the introduction of any elements of disease by the river steamer from any infected locality. Wlien the steamer was at Rio Grande City in August there was then, certainly, no yellow fever there. Again, in the middle of September it was not believed by any one at Rio Grande City that there had been any cases of the fever in that vicinity, except of some persons who came by ambulance from Corpus Christi and were disposed of on the 3d or 4th of September, of whom an account is given in the accompanying report from Ringgold Barracks. Furthermore, it is found impossible to trace any connection between these circumstances and the appearance of yellow fever in Brownsville. Upon the last-mentioned trip of the steamer it became known, just as she was leaving Brownsville on the 27th of September, that there had been some cases of the fever reported at Rio Grande City. The steamer touched only at Ringgold Barracks, and there remained about two hours on the afternoon of September 30th. Being present at the time. I am personally cognizant of all the circumstances, and can state as my firm belief, that the only possible means by which yellow fever could have been contracted by contagion by any one, was by personal contact with Acting Assist- ant Surgeon C. C. Furley, U. S. A., the post Surgeon, who was taken sick on the evening of the same day, after the steamer's departure. But it is my opinion, for which reasons are given in an accompanying report on this subject, that Dr. Furley did not have yellow fever at all. I also believe that there was no disease, nor were there any elements of contagion, existing at Ring- gold Barracks on the afternoon of September 30th, to be communicated in any way to persons on board the steamer. Nothing can be found in subsequent events to indicate that yellow fever was conveyed to Brownsville by this steamer. In regard to the communication between Rio Grande City and Brownsville by land, a distance of about 130 miles, it was unobstructed during the mouth of September, no reason being known for placing any restriction thereon, except by the very bad and almost impassable condition of the roads, on account of which there was but little travel between the two places. But upon the recognition of the existence of yellow fever in Rio Grande City, an efficient quarantine guard was placed on the roads at a point 12 miles from Brownsville, and all communication between the two towns was prohibited on tlu 2d of October. At the town of Edinburgh, on the Rio Grande, about 75 miles from Brownsville, on the road to Rio Grande City, there began to be some sickness from malarial disorders in the latter part of September, upon the subsidence of the waters after the August and September rains. The first death at this period occurred about October 12th; and subsequently there was much sickness and a few deaths, the number of inhabitants being small, and most of the sickness being among children. There is no physi- cian in that vicinity, and it is reported to me that it was not thought by the people, who are, with the exception of two families, all Mexicans, that there were any cases of yellow fever among them during the past season. Similar fiicts have been elicited with regard to the sickness at other points along the Rio Grande, between Brownsville and Edingburgh, and it appears that malarial disoi'ders were very general among the people during the months of September, October, November, ami December, but with little mortality.