ON SPECIAL WOUNDS AND INJURIES. 36 Fig. 44.—Upper half of right fe- mur, exliibiting a consolida- tej gunshot fracture. Spec. 1042, A. M. M. Fia. 45.—Outer condyle of right femur, grooved by a musket-ball. Spec. 2134, A. M. M. limb was shortened four inches. The wound on the inner side of the thigh had closed. There was a slight fistula, with trifling discharge at the wound of entrance. The patient passed several hours daily in the open air, on crutches. About this time, cough and night-sweats, and other indications of tuberculosis of the lungs, appeared, and confirmed phthisis was soon established. The patient died March 9th, 1863. (Figure 44) Of gunshot injuries of the knee-joint, the Museum possesses 355 specimens, A number of illustrations will be given. The case that furnished Specimen No. 2134 (Private Baldwin, Co. K, 42d Indiana Vols.) was treated by laying oj)en the knee- joint, by free incisions, as soon as suppuration was established. The patient was wounded September 20th, at Murfreesboro', and died December 12tli, 1863. The injury to the outer condyle was very slight. The specimen was contributed by Surgeon Israel Moses, U. S. Vols. Dr. Bell anger has recorded* five fatal cases of gunshot injuries of the knee-joint treated by free incisions into the articulation, and Surgeon Lidell, U. S. Vols., has published three such cases.-}- The records contain a score of similar examples. Yet amputations for gunshot injuries of the knee that have reached the secondary period are scarcely less disastrous. The next case well illustrates the obscurity of symptoms and difficulty of diagnosis of a serious gunshot injury of an articulation so accessible for examination as the knee. The fracture of the internal condyle was not discovered until after death. The speci- men was contributed by Surgeon J. A. Lidell, U. S. Vols. Private Kisner, aged twenty-nine, Co. E, 7th Michigan Cavalry, was wounded June 19th, 1863, while on picket at Chantilly, Virginia, by an elongated carbine-ball, which entered in front at the middle of the left thigh. He was admitted to hospital, in AVash- ington, on June 26th, and the ball was cut out from beneath the integument on the inner aspect of the knee. On the next day, there was pain and tender- ness of the joint. Death took place July 18th, 1863. In the next case a conoidal ball, fired from a great distance, has crushed the anterior part of the femur just above the condjdes, and produced fissures that extend to the joint. The patient that furnished this specimen was wounded at Petersburg, March 31st, was amputated at Emory Hospital, April 7th, and died on June 24th, 1865. The specimen was contributed by Surgeon N. B. Mosely, U. S. Vols. The two following figures exhibit the common appearances of fractures of the bones composing the knee-joint by round musket- balls. Private Richard Williams, 28th Pennsylvania Vols., was wounded September 16th, 1862, at the battle of South I^Iountain, by a musket-ball, which entered near the outer hamstring, and lodged between the condyles orthe right femur. He was conveyed to Washington, D. C, Fio. 46.—Gunshot fracture tlio internal condjle of the left knee. Spec. 1390, A. M. M. Fio. 47.—l';u tiai iraciuio of the left fi inur by a conoi- dal ball, which has lodged ill thocancellated structure. ■Spec. 4071, A. M. M. * American Journal of Medical Sciences, vol. xlvi. p. 42. t Ibid., vol. xlix. p. 295. \