ON SPECIAL WOUNDS AND INJURIES. 12 Fig. 7.—Section of tho frontal bone exhibiting a fissure over the left supru-orbital region. Spec 24, A. M. M. It is believed that this accident results, in most instances, from a small projectile striking the cranium very obliquely, or possibly, in some cases, from a comparatively slight blow from a body with a large plane surface. Closely allied, clinically, to the foregoing cases are those in which a ball produces linear fissure of the external table with displacement of the inner table. Specimen No. 24, of the Army Medical Museum, afibrds an excellent illustration. The following is an abstract of the case: Private M. L. H , Co. E, 21st Virginia (Rebel) Regiment, aged twenty years, was wounded and talsen pris- oner in one of the later engagements prior to the capitulation of the Army of Northern Virginia, and was admitted _ into the Lincoln General Hospital, at Washington, on March 25th, 1865, with a wound over the left supra- orbital ridge, inflicted apparently by a glancing musket-ball. There were no cerebral symptoms when the pa- tient was admitted, and he seemed to be doing well for several days, being (juite free from pain or any febrile movement. The pulse was normal and the bowels in good condition. Fig.S.—internal view uf the foregoing specimen, show- ° mg the extensive splintering of the vitreous table. On April 1st, he complained of a dull deep-seated pain over the left eye. Later in the day he was feverish and restless, his countenance was pale, and his pulse slow and weak. On April 2d, he failed rapidly. On the night of the 3d, he was delirious. On the 4th, there was violent raving, which continued until his death, on the afternoon of April 5th, 1865. At the post-mortem examination, a fissure was found extending into the right orbii, and upwards beyond the left frontal prominence. The vitreous table beneath was largely depressed. There was a small abscess in the anterior lobe of the left cerebral hemisphere. Of fractures without depression, the cases in which the mastoid process is knocked off by a ball afford ex- amples. Specimen 183, A. M. M., is a very perfect illustration of this accident. The mastoid cells were opened. After a fortnight, meningitis supervened. Specimen J451 was furnished by a fortunate case of recovery after a fracture of the mastoid process. Private William F , Co. G, 98th Pennsylvania Vols., was wounded near Fort Stevens, Washington, July 12th, 1864, by a glancing shot from a conoidal musket-ball, and was admitted into Mount Pleasant Hospital on the following day. A little above the right auditory meatus was a scalp wound an inch and a half long. A piece of the mastoid process w as chipped off, and a fracture extended into the petrous portion of the temporal. The patient did well with simple dressings and rest and gentle cathartics till the 20th of July, when the wound began to slough. Applications of nitric acid, creosote, etc., failed to arrest the sloughing, which presently gave rise to repeated hasmorrhages from branches of the temporal artery. The gangrene continued to spread until August 9th, when the eschars sepa- rated, leaving a space five inches in diameter on the right lateral region of the head, denuded of integument, fascia, and muscles. During this long period, the patient complained of no inconvenience at the seat of fracture, though there was at times acute frontal pain. Early in September, it was evident that the exposed portions of the temporal and parietal bones were necrosed, and on September 6th a fragment of the squamous portion of the temporal was removed. Two days subsequently other fragments were detached and extracted. After this the wound began to cicatrize rapidly, and on December 3d, 1864, the patient was reported to be entirely out of danger, and in fact nearly well. Several cases of undepressed fracture are reported in which a ball gouged out a small portion of the external table. A number of instances are recorded in which con- Fig. 9.—Quusliot fracture of right temporal. S2)ix. 183, A. M. M. t'la.W.—Exfoliation from the right pari etal anil temporal, resulting from gun- shot injury. Spec. .'U.Ol, A. M. M.