57 EXCISIONS. without a bad symptom, and with a remarkably useful limb. He visited the Army Medical Museum nearly two years after the operation, and a photograph was then taken of his arm. The motions of the forearm and hand were unim- paired. The arm could be moved forwards and backwards with considerable freedom. The hand could be readily raised to the mouth, and placed in the position represented in the wood-cut. In the remarkable case of Private Cleghorn, 1st New Jersey Cavalry, after an excision of the head and upper third of the humerus, the remainder of the bone became necrosed, and was excised, together with the articular ends of the radius and ulna, and yet a limb was preserved, which, with the aid of ingenious apparatus, is very useful. (Photograph 112, A. M. M.) Numerous patients have been photographed at the Army Medical Museum, in whom, after excision, a very satisfactory degree of motion at the shoulder-joint existed. Photograph No. 103, A. M. M., represents the case of Lieutenant Jacobs, who re- tains to a remarkable degree the power of abducting the arm, which is usually very limited. The control over the movements of the arm is much augmented by the con- trivance furnished by the makers of surgical apparatus, in which elastic bands supply the diminished power of the deltoid and biceps. Sixty-one excised heads of humeri have been contributed to the Museum. Excisions of the Ankle-Joint.—Of 22 recorded cases, 8 were excisions of the tibio-tarsal articulation, and the remainder were nearly all ablations of portions of the tarsal bones. Of 18 terminated cases, 12 recovered and 6 died. Five of the fatal cases are reported by Surgeon R. B. Bontecou, U. S. Vols., the operations being described as "excisions of the ankle-joint" in four cases, and in one as "excision of the lower end of the tibia and head of astragalus." They were all secondary operations, performed on account of perforation of the ankle, with comminu- tion, by musket-balls. They seem to have been formal resections, and not mere goug- ings of necrosed bone. The results are sufficiently discouraging. The sixth fatal case is reported by Surgeon J. A. Lidell, U. S. Vols. It was a secondary excision of portions of the calcaneum and astragalus. Surgeon Whitehill, U. S. Vols., reports a complete excision of the calcaneum and astragalus in the case of Private Roberts, 7th Wisconsin Battery, with the prospect, two months after the operation, of a useful limb. Assistant Surgeon Billings, U. S. A., "removed the external malleolus, the entire astragalus, and a portion of the scaphoid, in the case of Private Ludwig Ettinger, 58th New York Vols., and eight months afterwards the patient could walk with the aid of a cane. In the case of a negro boy of nineteen, with a ball lodged in the astragalus. Dr. Billings extracted the ball and fragments of the astragalus, and the patient recovered without anchylosis, and was able to walk with no perceptible limp two months after the operation. Surgeon J. A. Lidell, U. S. Vols., extracted the shattered fragments of the cuboid and external cuneiform in the case of Private Ganlert, Co. K, 6th New York Cavalry, with satisfactory results. It appears, then, that the judicious use of the gouge and bone forceps is admissi- ble in gunshot wounds of the ankle-joint; but that the formal excisions are rarely successful.