KEPOET ON EPIDEMIC CHOLEEA AND YELLOW FEVER. XI men sick of choleraic diarrhoea; they went into camp at Wilson's creek, about 15 miles from Harker, where, during the rest of the month, they had fifteen cases of cholera, eight of which died during July and one in August. The command subsequently went to Fort Hays and became a part of the garrison of that post. Company "P," 3d Infantry, in camp near Cow creek, Kansas, at the terminus of the Pacific Railroad not far from Fort Harker, reports seven cases and four deaths during July and one case during August, out of a strength of 68 officers and men ; the disease was brought from Fort Harker. Company "C," 10th Colored Cavalry, at Camp Grierson, Kansas, on the Little Arkansas river, reports seven cases and four deaths during July, and ten cases and four deaths during August, the mean strength for the two months being 78 men; the officers escaped. The disease is reported to have been brought to the camp by one of the messengers from Fort Harker. Leaving, now, the vicinity of Fort Harker, we find cholera transported along the route of the Smoky Hill Fork, towards Denver, as far west as Fort Wallace. The posts on this route are Fort Hays, Downer's Station, Monument Station, and Fort Wallace. The first case at Fort Hays was a citizen, who had just arrived from Salina, whither the cholera had extended from Fort Harker. On the same day, July 11th, a colored soldier of the garrison was taken sick, and died next day. During July, August, and September, thirty-three cases and twenty-three deaths are reported among the colored troops, whose mean strength during the three months was 215 men. September 1st, a white soldier was attacked, but recovered; the rest of the white troops, averaging, during the three months, 34 in number, escaped. Free communication had existed with Fort Harker previous to the appearance of the first cases, and trains with escorts of troops were continually passing from Fort Harker, by way of Fort Hays and the other posts on this route, to Fort Wallace, and back again. Notwithstanding the free passage of such trains, however, the detachment at Downer's Station, Kansas, escaped until August 9th, when a supply train-en route from Fort Harker to Fort Wallace, accompanied by a detachment of Company "B," 38th U. S. Infantry, encamped at Grinnell Springs, a small stage station about 20 miles from Downer's, and guarded by a party from that post. The day after the arrival of the train, two of the men at the stage station were taken sick, and were sent to the hosiDital at Downer's Station for treatment. One of them recovered, the other died. The mean strength of the command at Downer's Station during August was 91 officers and men, but no other cases occurred. Company "I," 38th Infantry, which had been stationed at Fort Hays since May 25th, left that place June 24th and established a post at Monument Station, Kansas. During July three cases and one death of cholera are reported in this detachment,'the strength being reported at 115 men. JSTo particulars have been received. June 1st, 1867, a detachment of the 7th U. S. Cavalry left Fort Hays on an expedi- tion to the Platte river, and, after marching over 700 miles, subjected to great hardships, went into camp July 13th, near Fort Wallace. A second detachment of the 7th left Fort Hays on the 12th of July, the day after the first cases of cholera had appeared at that ,^st, and, marching directly to Fort Wallace, went into camp, July 18th, with the first detachment. July 22d, the first case of cholera occurred, and was rapidly followed by