MADISON, ARK. 21 and frequent painless rice-water evacuations, accompanied by considerable prostration. I treated her case as cliolera morbus, controlling discharges with astringents and opiates; vomiting by a sinapism laid over stomach; prostration by slow and gradual stimulation; and cramps by friction with cloths and hand; thirst, which was intense, was alleviated by pellets of ice allowed to dissolve in the mouth. Under this treatment she rapidly improved, and the extremities, which had given evidence of coldness, soon regained wonted warmth. #»» »« At this time diarrhoea became prevalent to an alarming extent; out of a mean strength of about 75 men, almost one-half were more or less affected, although they did not all report at regular mormng ''sick call." Preceding this, one or two cases of scurvy had reported for treatment, in consequence of which I had recommended a full supply of vegetables to the whole command. Thinking that probably the unusual quantity of vegetables might account for the unusual number of diarrhoea cases, I again suggested that the amount and kind of vegetable food be diminished; that only those of known healthfulness, as potatoes, onions and ripe berries, be allowed. This change of diet did not, however, produce any material reduction either in the number or obstinacy of diarrhoea eases. If an ordinary dose of castor oil was administered, it often produced a diarrhoea that was-<ilmost uncontrollable, and the same applies to other mild cathartics. The administration of Epsom salts, or anything drastic, could not be thought of in any case. Cholera morbus also prevailed; the attacks could generally be traced to some imprudence or irregularity in diet, or to exposure : they were amenable to treatment. Among the cases of this kind that are worthy of notice is ihat of Private Comstock, who, in company with Private Gallagher, (both of Company "E," 19th Infantry,) had deserted their command at Fort Gibson, and after an absence of nearly a month gave themselves up to the commanding officer of this post. These men had been exposed to the deleterious night air, from which they bad no protection, and had fared rather indifferently in the matter of food. Comstock was admitted to the hospital July 20th. His symptons were violent vomiting and purging, which were succeeded by cramps of the abdomen and spasmodic contraction of the muscles of the lower extremities; rice-water discharges from the bowels were frequent and copious, accompanied by prostration; skin was cold; lips blue; discoloration and rings beneath tlie eyes. This case, as well as the laundress above described, recovered without any untoward event, although it might not probably have been going wide of the truth to have classed them both as gastro-iutestinal cases of cholera. The first case of epidemic cholera that occurred was that of Private Jacob H. Anion, teamster. He had been sleeping in an open ambulance, and had, in consequence, been much exposed to miasm, night air, and dew. His personal cleanliness had not been exemplary. On the morning of July 26th, he reported at "sick call" with diarrhoea. A combination of blue mass, opium and acetate of lead, was administered, and he was ordered to report again after a lapse of two hours. He did not report as instructed, thought it a mere diarrhoea that would soon cease without remedy, and, from what I subsequently learned, did notliing throughout the entire day to arrest the disease. In the evening one of his comrades reported him very ill, when he was imme- diately conveyed to hospital for treatment. « * « * jj^ (jjg^ from 25 to 30 hours after first reporting sick. The next case was that of Corporal Henry C. Bennett, July 29th, two daj^s after the death of Amon. He was in the performance of his duty as corporal of the guard; at 9 p. m. he reported sick Avith diarrhoea; medicine was at once given to check the disease, and some was given him to take during the night should liis condition demand it. He was relieved from duty on guard, and instructed to go immediately to his quarters and to bed. At 6 a. m., July 27th, he reported no better, and was at once taken into the hospital. This case also tei-minated fatally. The third fatal case was that of Terrence Gallagher, Company "E," 19th Infantry, who was one of the deserters from Fort Gibson, elsewhere mentioned. He was admitted to the hospital with remittent fever; had been suffering from remittent some days before attacked with cliolera. Suddenly, on July 30th, vomiting and purging, accompanied with other choleraic symptoms, commenced. He sunk into collapse, and died the following day. **#»»* The fourth case was that of Private Henry Prendergast, who had been an inmate of the hospital from tlie beginning uf the epidemic, and was convalescing from an attack of remittent fever. Owing to the fact that hospital accommodations were limited, cholera patients could not be far removed from others. He had known of the three preceding deaths, and was no doubt nientallv depressed thereby. He was attacked with diarrhasa on the evening of July 31st, and died on the morning of August 2d, in less than thirty-six hours from the time of attack. Of about six other cases that were attacked, and which had progressed so far as to have rice-water vomiting and discharges, but with only slight symptoms of cramp, their recovery seemed to be mainly due to calomel, which was administered in large doses, and repeated until either discharges were checked, or some evidence of constitutional effect of the medicine was observed. Whether these cases would have recovered as well under a different course of treatment, I have no opportunity of knowing. As to the local causes that conjoined to excite the disease, I would state that the camp was situated on an elevated ridge back of the town, and was several huudred feet higher; that the town and surrounding country are subject to overflow from the St. Francis, Mississippi, and L'Anguille rivers, and during the freshet of last spring were completely submerged; that the town was and is dirty, owing to the want of proper drainage, stagnant water in ponds, and decaying vegetable matter and garbage, tlirown out by the inhabitants and allowed to lie festering in the sun; that low lands and swamps are in the immediate vicinity, and that miasmata must of necessity arise therefrom. The water used was from a well which had been dug by the troops, on a side-hill, protected by embankment around its mouth, to keep debris from being washed into it. Previous to the appearance of cholera the water had a tainted taste. The well was cleaned out, when, among other dirt found in its bottom, were a couple of dead rats. Whether they had anything to do with the production of the disease I cannot say. After the well was cleaned, lime was thrown into it as a purification. The camp and quarters for the men were as clean and comfortable as they could be made. Each tent had a floor, and bowers had been built for protection from the rays of the sun. Fatigue and other duty was suspended during that part of the day when the heat of the sun is most intense ; and everything that good judgment and prudence on the part of the conmianding officer could efl'ect to preserve the health of the command was enforced. The bread issued was well baked and good, and the ration generally was well prepared. I have a knowledge of ten or twelve citizens in and around the town who died of cholera. The epidemic made its first decided appearance July 26th. On the evening of August 2d we moved camp some four miles from Madison. It is on the