45 NEWPORT BARRACKS ATLANTA AUGUSTA. state of collapse. He may have been stiflfering during most of the preceding night, but owing to the neglect and disobedience of orders of the non-commissioned officer in charge of the room, the case was not reported. The disease ran the usual course, and terminated fatally thirty-six hours after his admission to the liospital. The vomiting and spasms subsided under the in- fluence of a saturated solution of camphor in chloroform, and some approach towards reaction was manifest twelve hours before death, in response to stimulation, &.c. The function of the kidneys was entirely abolished during the last twenty-four hours of his life, while his condition rendered it apparent that the retained urea was poisoning the blood. Health Office, Philadelphia, Southwest corner Sixth and Sansom Streets, April 4, 1867. Sm: Yours of the 2d instant is received, and in answer thereto I reply : 1. That the first case of cholera was reported to this office on April 25, and the second on April 27, 1866, and the last in December. 2. The deaths were as follows: In June, 2; July, 31; August, 246; September, 217; October, 340; November, 67; December, 7. Total, 910. Yours,&c., WASH. L. BLADEN, Chief Clerk. J. J. Woodward, M. D., Assistant Surgeon, Sfc, Washington, D. C. Vm. NEWPORT BARRACKS, KY. Newport Barracks, Kentucky, March 16, 1867. General: In reply to your communication of the 13th instant, in reference to the case of recruit Thomas Gamble, who died of cholera at this post August 12, 1866, I would respectfully state that he joined this depot August 2, 1866, from Beloit, Wisconsin. He was detailed as teamster in the quartermaster's department August 5, and his duties called him to Cincinnati daily. The permanent party at this post joined from Governor's island July 12, 1806. No other men were received from New York harbor prior to Gamble's death. Recruits were received from Cincinnati, Ohio, alraost^daily from July 13 to August 12, 1806, and from St. Louis, Mo., on the 13th, 18th, 23d, 27th, and 31st of July, and on the 9th and 13th of August, 1806. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, G. PERIN, Surgeon and Brevet Lieutenant Colonel U. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. IX. ATLANTA, GA. Extract from monthly report of detachment of Sixteenth United States Infantry, at Atlanta, Georgia, September, 1866. Acting Assistant Surgeon H. C. Yarrow. In regard to the occurrence of cholera among the recruits sent here for distribution to their several companies, I would state that the disease manifested itself the morning after their arrival, Sunday, September 9. It was at once determined upon by the commanding officer, on my recommendation, to send them at once without the city, and the mayor having tendered the use of a piece of ground, a quarantine camp was established, and four hours after the appearance of the first case the recruits were marched out. Most of the cases occurring were of the most malignant type, and some were almost in a state of collapse before reporting for treatment. The treatment consisted principally in the administration of small and frequent doses of calomel, acetate of lead, and opium, in connection with a compound chalk and chlorodyne mixture, muriate of ammonia in twenty to thirty grain doses, sub-carbonate of bismuth to control vomiting, besides sinapisms, continued frictions, &c. When other remedies failed to control purgation, injections of starch water and laudanum were found beneficial. From my experience in the treatment of this disease I am disposed to place great reliance in the remedies used, particulariy the sub-carbonate of bismuth, and the chlorodyne mixture. The statistics will show that for the number of the recruits present at the camp the cases were few in number. Two of the cases received were brought from Chattanooga in a dying condition, which leaves five deaths under treatment. From all I can leara, the first detachment of recruits sent from Nashville to this post had received nothing to eat for two days except some hard bread and a canteen of coftee, and gorged themselves upon the road with green iruit and milk. It would seem as if very little authority had been exercised by the officer in charge to prevent these excesses. Great attention has been paid at the quarantine camp in regard to the cleanliness and diet of the recruits, and I have no doubt the disease was prevented from further ravages by the earnest sanitary measures taken. X. AUGirSTA, GA. Extract from monthly report of sick and wounded of detachment (f First Battalion, Sixteenth United States Infantry, Augusta, Georgia, September, 1866. Acting Assistajit Surgeon J. W. Magruder. The men of A and F companies (the fatal cholera cases reported) were recruits w ho were taken sick ou their way to their commands.