ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. MEDICAL SERIES. 139 figures would appear to justify some of the criticisms that have been made on the man- ner in which recruits were examined and discharges granted during the early part of the war. It certainly cannot be denied that these criticisms had a certain foundation, and that many men found their way into the service who were either physically disquali- fied at the time, or whose constitutions were so feeble from youth, age, or predisposition to disease, that they soon broke down under the labors and exposures of actual campaigns. But when it is considered with what haste it was necessary to organize those large armies, this fact ceases to be surprising, and it becomes rather a matter of wonder that the discharges for disease should be represented by a figure no greater than nine per cent, of the strength. It is also to be remarked that it is well known that numbers of those who were discharged for curable diseases recovered and re-enlisted; so that while the humane policy of releasing promptly from military restraint those who were not likely to recover if they continued in service was doubtless the means of saving thou- sands of lives, it is probable that the army rather gained than lost in actual strength by this liberality. The statistics of the several drafts and of the Veteran Reserve Corps belong to the Bureau of the Provost Marshal General.* ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. Besides the statistical material and the documents accompanying it, such as the reports of medical directors of armies, etc. etc., much valuable material of a strictly pathological nature has been collected. To this category belong numerous valuable memoirs on subjects connected with the leading diseases of the troops, histories of cases, autopsies, etc., and the work done in connection with the Army Medical Museum. The portions of this institution under my charge are the medical and microscopical col- lections. The Medical Series of the Museum, which is still growing, consists at present of about 700 specimens, chiefly wet preparations preserved in alcohol. Each preparation, after careful dissection, in order that the lesion to be exhibited may be as clearly displayed as possible, is suspended in alcohol from a glass hook in the stopper of a fine glass jar. The jar has tied on its neck a parchment label, with the number of the preparation, and the name of the lesion shown. Besides a number of miscellaneous pathological preparations, the Museum contains good collections on valvular disease of the heart, * For interesting information on this subject, reference may be made to the published reports of the Provost Marshal General for 1864 and 1865.