99 COMPARATIVE FREQUENCY OF THE SEVERAL DISEASES. heads of the several orders to which they belong. In compiling the statistical tables for the first year of the war, the material contained in the reports has been rearranged to make its classfication correspond with that adopted for the second and subsequent years. The classification adopted is, with some slight alterations, that proposed by Dr. Farr, and employed in the reports of the Registrar General of England, and in the an- nual reports of the British army. The chief points of difference are, that "parasitic diseases" have been made a separate class, instead of being included with "zymotic diseases;" that "diseases of the eye" and "of the ear" are made separate orders of "local diseases," instead of being included with "diseases of the nervous system;" that "developmental diseases" are omitted as having no special applicability to army statistics, and that the class of "wounds, accidents, and injuries" is subdivided in a less elaborate manner than in Farr's classification. To these may be added the minor point that Farr includes rheumatism and tonsillitis among miasmatic diseases, instead of which, in our classification, rheumatism is placed among "constitutional diseases," and tonsillitis with diseases of the digestive organs. The classification has been adopted as a matter of convenience in grouping the facts, rather than as an expression of any well-considered natural relationship between diseases. Thus, at the very threshold, the question may be raised whether the funda- mental notion which furnished the name "zymotic," is not a mere conjecture; but if, without thereby meaning to insist upon the idea of a ferment, we retain the term to indicate certain grave constitutional disorders determined by dietic errors, by inocula- tion or contagion, by epidemic or endemic influences, or by those groupings of conditions found in camps which act like epidemic influences on many at once, it may be asked whether many of the affections now placed under local diseases ought not to be trans- ferred to this class ? Thus, for example, in the tables of Farr, simple coryza and catarrh, as well as epidemic catarrh, are placed in the first order of zymotic diseases; while acute bron- chitis and pneumonia are placed among local diseases. It would appear, however, that all these affections belong in fact to one category, are developed by a like series of con- ditions, acting with different intensities or in constitutions of different resisting powers; that catarrh stands at one end of the scale, pneumonia at the other; and that, regarded as the expression of more or less exposure to unfavorable climatic influences, the proper place for all these affections is with miasmatic diseases. Without entering into a further discussion as to the scientific accuracy of the English classification, it may be remarked that one of the arguments most frequently used in its favor is derived from a very different source. It is claimed that the various affections embraced under the class of zymotic diseases are to be regarded as essentially 'preventable, while diathetic, local, developmental, and violent diseases are more or less inevitable. The classification therefore has this special advantage for military and political purposes, that the amount of disease which, by proper sanitary precautions, might have been avoided, is kept constantly in view; a consideration which must un- doubtedly act as a constant stimulant to sanitary effort. Unfortunately, however, our notions of the causation of disease are not sufficiently accurate to enable us to draw any sharp boundary between preventable and unavoidable affections; and, indeed, if such a