XXXVI EEPORT ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. AND YELLOW FEVER. "Mrs. Wilcox, a white refugee, corner of George and South Front streets, had chills for a month or more ; taken quite sick September 1st; had black vomit; turned yellow, and died September 7th. This woman had lived in that house one month, and in Newbern eight months. "A Mrs. Prudence Rice, whom I did not see, died September 6th, in the next house to Mrs. Wilcox, with what was probably yellow fever. "Sergeant M. Rogers, 15th Connecticut, jailer at Confederate prison corner of George and Pollock streets, was taken September 7th; admitted to regimental hospital the same evening; had black vomit, and died September 9th." It will be seen, from the above extract from Dr. Hand's report, that Mrs. Wilcox was taken sick on September 1st, which is the same date as the earliest case reported among the troops ; that her neighbor, another woman, had the same disease, and died September 6th, the date at which she was taken sick being unknown; nor is it possible now to know how many other cases, unobserved and unreported, may have occurred among the refugees at an earlier period. It has been suggested that refugees from Wilmington, North Carolina, may have intro- duced the fever; but Dr. Hand's inquiries would appear to show that the epidemic at Wilmington broke out at a later date than at Newbern; and he relates that although a few refugees came in during August, none of them are known to have come from Wilmington. On the whole, Dr. Hand is of the opinion that the disease at Newbern was of local origin, and he recounts the various unfavorable hygienic influences which he supposes may have contributed to its production. After the existence of the disease was recognized, soldiers and citizens were sent rapidly away from Newbern to Morehead City, Beaufort, Platteras, Roanoke island, and elsewhere. To this fact we must undoubtedly attribute the large proportion of the troops who escaped. In a number of instances individuals were attacked with the fever among those thus sent away; but, according to Dr. Hand, the disease nowhere spread to others, except at Beaufort, where it prevailed to a limited extent. Beaufort is described as being deficient in police and crowded with refugees from Plymouth and Little Washington. The following was the monthly number of cases and deaths among the white troops : September, 174: cases, and 70 deaths. October, 493 " " 200 " November, 38 " " 18 " Total, 705 " " 288 " This gives the proportion of one death to every 2.4 cases, or about two to five. At the Poster general hospital there were treated, besides, thirty-eight colored soldiers, of whom fifteen died, and forty-one quartermaster's employes, of whom twenty-six died. In a letter dated October 31, 1864, Dr. Hand states that sixteen medical officers had been attacked up to that date, and eight had died. The treatment regarded best was a cathartic dose of calomel, followed by repeated small doses of the same medicine, not, however, pushed to ptyalism. Precise data as to the prevalence of the disease among the citizens of Ncwbcrn and the refugees are not attainable.