52 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL RETORTS. DETACHMENT OF THE 7tll CAVAERY, I¥EAR FORT WAEEACE, KANSAS. Hkauquakters 7'jii U. S. Cavalry, in the Field, Near Fort Wallace, Kansas, July 22, 1867. General: I have tlie honor to inform you that cholera lias made its appearance in this command. I was called, about 11 o'clock this day, to see Private Bye, Company "H," 7tli Cavalry, whom I found lying under a tree near camp sulFeriiig terribly fi'om cramps in the abdomen and legs, attended with incessant vomiting and purging of rice-water fluid, excessive pros- tration, cold and clammy skin, nose icy cold, pulse entirely gone at the wrist, general cyanosis, pupils contracted, coma; could be roused, but would inmiediutefy foil away into deep sleep; urine suppressed, and features collapsed. I would respectfully add that cholera first ]n-eseiited itself near new Foi-t Hays, Kansas, about 4 p. m, July 11th, 1867, in the person of a citizen belonging to a citizen train which came from Salina, Kansas, with supplies for a trader near camp. The man was at least three-quarters of a mile from camp, and was not brought into or near it, although removed to a more suitable place than the one he occupied. A colored soldier was also taken with the disease the same night. They both (soldier and citizen) died next morning. Our detachment of cavalry was some distance from the colored troops, (for the camjs was large,) and communication between them, af^;er the disease broke oRt in camp, did not exist. We left new Fort Hays, Kansas, about 1 p. m., July l'2th, up to which time no symptoms of cholera had appeared among the men of the detachment. The water at the first station west of Fort Hays is very bad, the drinking of which caused several cases of acute diarrhoea, but no symptoms of cholera were visible wiiile on tlie march from Fort Hays to this camp, and the time occupied was seven days. That the disease was brought here, I am perfectly satisfied, for the men of the government and citizen trains at Fort Hays had constant intercourse with each other; besides, some of the same men, belonging to the government train at Foi't Hays, came to this camj) with property belonging to the 7th Cavalry at the same time that the detachment did. That the disease which has broken out at this camp is true Asiatic cholera, I have not the least doubt; and I am fully supported in my diagnosis by Dr. Coates, who is on duty with the regiment. I have the honor to be, General, very respectfully, your obedient servant, HENRY LIPPING OTT, Assistant Suryeon, U. S. A. Brevet INIajor General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. Headquarters 7th U. S. Cavalry, in the Field, Near Fort Wallace, Kansas, 10 o'clock p. m., July 25, 1867. General : I have the honor to inform you that cholera is on the increase in this camp. I have just recorded (9 o'clock p. m.) the tenth case of the disease, and the four th death. At surgeon's call this moi'ning we had seven cases of diai'rhoca; the latter not severe, however. Two quaitermaster's employes and one Indian scout are included in the cases of cholera above mentioned. I would respectfully recall your attention to the fact that cholera did not present itself among the men of the detach- ment of the 7th U. S. Cavalry while on the march from Fort Hays, Kansas, to this camp, and the time occupied in coming from that post to this camp was seven days. As cholera had only broken out at new Fort Hays, Kansas, jon the evening of July 11th, 1867, and as we left that post the ne-xt day about 1 o'clock p. m., and as we were on the road seven days without any signs of cholera arising, it was not considered necessary to go into quarantine after our arrival at this camp. Every eflbrt is being made to arrest the progress of the disease, and I hope I shall be able to make a more favorable report very soon. I have the honor to be. General, very respectfully, your obedient servant, HENRY LIPPING OTT, Assistant Saryeon, U. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. Headquarters 7th U. S. Cavalry, in the Field, Near Fort Wallace, Kansas, 11 o'clock a. m., July 27, 1867. General : I have the honor to report that cholera is decreasing in this camp, although we have had one new case and four deaths since my last report. All the fatal cases seemed to begin with death. Desjiite every effort to avert or prevent it, disso- lution was inevitable, death suj)ervening in from 6 to 15 hours. It will be seen, by referring to my former reports, that I believed the disease was brought here by human agency. I still adhere to the same opinion. But for the benefit of those who do not give credence to the importation of cholera from infected jioints, I would resjiectfuily state that a part of the 7th Cavalry left Fort Hays, Kansas, .June 1st, 1867, on an expedition to the I'latte river, and after marching over seven liimdred miles, subjected to gi'eat exposure, eating bad aiul insuflkient food, drinking impure and often a too limited su])|)ly of water, arrived at this point July 13th, 1867. The detachment of 7th U. S. Cavalry and quarterma-ster's train from Fort Hays, Kansas, arrived here July 18th, 1807, and a citizen ti-ain came in next day with supplies for the post. Cholera broke out on the 22d, and was and still is conrined to the soldiers and employes who were on the expedition to the Platte river. To Major Elliott, the present commanding officer, nuich credit is due in arresting the progress of the disease. His promptness in having wells dug, at my suggestion; making many daily inspections of tlie men ; causing the grounds around the wells and quarters to be kept clean; sinks to be inspected and filled