25 JEFFERSON BARRACKS, MO. Jefferson Barracks, Mo., July 18,1867. General: I have tlie honor to report continued convalescence on the part of Private Jones. At 12 o'clock last night I was called to see Henry Hardy, employ^ of the quartermaster's department, at work getting out rock in the quarry for the cemetery. Found him suffering exceedingly from cramps in the legs, thighs, and abdomen. Three men were industriously employed in rubbing him. His complaints were loud and constant, his pulse feeble and 108, and his respiration hurried. Had him immediately conveyed to a ward in the hospital, about one hundred yards distant, and gave him tincture of chloroform, twenty drops, tincture of opium and tincture of capsicum, each fifteen drops, and applied a large mus- tard plaster to his abdomen. This movement of the patient did not occupy more than ten minutes, and did not seemingly exhaust him, yet his pulse went up to one hundred and eighteen. Vomited little, but purged excessively. His evacuations were tinged with bile, and foccal in character; the first more so than the succeeding. Gave him of calomel and quinine each ten grains, and sulphate of morphia half a grain. Removed mustard and placed a compress firmly to his abdomen. At 1 o'clock I repeated the chloroform mixture previously given, which succeeded in arresting the cramps. At 2 o'clock I left the patient quite comfortable. I saw him at 6 this morning, and gave him blue mass and quinine, of each ten grains, which I ordered to be repeated at 10 o'clock, should there be no evacuation of the bowels. At 11 o'clock, his pulse being still feeble and 120, I gave him a milk punch, whicli seemed to establish complete reaction, and at 3 this p. m. his pulse is full, strong, and 100. I oan only consider this case as exaggerated cholera morbus. The excretions were not at any time quite destitute of bile, but from the severity of the symptoms I feared the result. This case occurred in the dormitories near the rooms occupied by the family whose son died suddenly yesterday. Very respectfully, EBN. SWIFT, Surgeon, and Brevet Colonel, U, S. A. Brevet Brigadier General M. Mills, Medical Director, Department of Missouri. Extract from Monthly Beport of Sick and Wounded of Company "E," United States Engineers, Jefferson Barracks, Mo., Septem- ber, 1867. S. Citlberison, Assistant Suryeon, U.S.A. As cholera has been prevailing at St. Louis, and so near to this post, the following sanitary measures were adopted here: The disinfection of all sewers, drains, vaults, and latrines, with a saturated solution of sulphate of iron, and also with chloride of lime, and the placing of the latter salt in the quarters of the men; thorough ventilation and cleansing of the quarters, and policing of the grounds; frequent airing of the budding of the men; the proper cooking of the food, and the inter- diction of all fruits and vegetables; the use of river water purified with alum; the disinfection of the clothing and discharges of all patients in hospital who have diarrhoea or cholera morbus; and the removal of the dejections at once, and the frequent disin- fection of the hospital with burning sulphur; also with chlorine. In addition, the men were enjoined to report at once for treatment so soon as they have diarrhoea; and, further, to cut off as much as possible malarial diseases, or the debilitating effects of miasmatic agencies, reveille is called at seven o'clock a. m. each day, and the men are enjoined to keep within their quarters after sunset. No cases of cholera have occurred at this post during the month. We have been employing subcutaneous injections of sulphate of morphia in acute dysentery (introduced an inch from the margin of the anus) with excellent results. This plan of treatment was accompanied with the exliibition of sulphate of magnesia, quinine, or aromatic sulphuric acid, and was used when the ordinary injections failed. It aided matei'ially the action of the other agents mentioned. Jefferson Barracks, Mo., December 12, 1867. General : I have the honor to report for your information the following circumstances connected with the outbreak of cholera at this post in the month of October last: On the evening of October 26th, two companies, "G" and " H," 125th Colored Infantry, ai-rived at Jefferson Barracks for muster out of the service of the United States. They had left Fort Bliss, Texas, a few weeks previously, marching across the plains to Fort Harker, whence they had come by railroad through St. Louis to this jjlace. During the whole journey they had enjoyed excellent health. " They numbered four officers and one hundred and fourteen soldiers. Several families also accom- panied the command. They were assigned to quarters in the south row of buildings constituting Jefferson Barracks. At sick call on the 27th of October, two soldiers of this command appeared; one of them suffered from bronchitis, and one from chronic dysentery. On the 28th three cases of cholera occurred which proved fatal within 24 hours. On the 29th, seven cases appeared ; on the 30th, two ; on the 31st, one; and on November 1st, two. No other cases occurred among the troops. Of this number, six died, as follows : on the 29th, three ; on the 30th, two; and November 1st, one. The command was mustered out of service and left the post Novembei' 1st. 4