GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE LOWEE EXTREMITIES. 37 Fig. 48.—Loiver extremity of right femur, the outer con- dyle split off by a round musket-ball. Spec. 59, A. M. M. Fia. 49.—Ampiitated end of right femur and head of tibia, with a round musket-ball impacted in the latter. Spec. 1481, A. M. M. and admitted into Mount Pleasant General Hospital, September 22d, 1862. On September 30th, his right thigh was amputated by flap incisions. At this date the limb was excessively swollen; the discharge of pus was profuse; abscesses had burrowed in the soft parts, and initative fever existed to an alarming degree. The case terminated fatally on October 2d, 1862. Private ■ , a soldier of the 3d Division of the 1st Army Corps, was wounded at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, on July 1st, 1863, by a musket-ball, which entered through the right popliteal space, fissured the internal condyle of the fe- mur, and lodged in the head of the tibia. He underwent amputation at the lower third of the thigh on July 15th, and died July 17th, 1863. The specimen was contributed by Sur- geon Quinan, in charge of the Division Hospital. (Figure 49.) Three patients have been photographed at the Army Medical Museum who had recov- ered without amputation after gunshot injuries of the knee-joint. (Photographs Nos. 63, 64, and 78.) Four or five additional cases appear upon the records. In scarcely any of these cases could it be asserted that the danger of consecutive disease of the knee-jointw^as passed. The "curious fact," adverted toby Surgeon I. Moses, U. S. Vols.,* "that more men had been discharged the service at that post [Louisville, Kentucky] who had received gunshot wounds of the knee-joint with recovery than when ampu- tation of the thigh had been performed," is directly contradicted by the official reports from that post. The following is the most carefully compiled of the abstracts of cases of recovery after gunshot wounds involving the knee. Photograph 63, A. M. M., represents the patient. Private Peter Stuck, Co. B, 116th Pennsylvania Vols., was wounded on May 12th, 1864, at the battle of Spottsylvania, and was admitted, on May 18th, to Douglas Hos- pital, in Washington. The projectile, which was probably a conoidal musket-ball, had entered at the inner edge of the right patella, passed directly through the articulation, and made its exit near the centre of the popliteal space. The inner condyle was slightly grooved, but the ball passed mainly through the intercondyloid notch. There was an abundant thin discharge of mingled pus and synovia. The joint was somewhat swollen, but the inflammatory symptoms and constitutional disturbance were moderate. The patient was of a delicate organization. The treatment was limited to rest and water-dressings. On June 9th, there was swelling and pain in the joint, and a febrile reaction. Poultices were applied to the wound of exit, the anterior wound having healed. In a few days the bad symptoms abated. In the latter part of August, 1864, the patient began to walk about on crutches, the leg being flexed at an angle of 135° with the thigh. In October, the limb was bandaged to a movable angular splint, and the flexion was gradually reduced. Almost complete extension was obtained without exciting inflammation in the joint. The patient kept his bed during this period of the treatment. For the following eight months nothing of special interest transpired. There were several attacks of inflammation of the joint; but they were moderate in degree, and were readily subdued by poulticing. On such occasions abscesses some- times formed in the thigh. For the greater part of the time the patient's appetite was fair, his bowels regular, his sleep refreshing. When inflammatory mischief was threatened, poultices, hot fomentations with flannel covered with oiled silk, and appli- cations of tincture of iodine were employed. At other times, cold water-dressings, with charpie to absorb the discharge, were used. Ice was never applied. A photo- graph was taken July 9th, and the patient was discharged from service and the hos- pital July 14th, 1865. The posterior wound was still open, and a probe could be a. 50.—Destruction of the left knee by a shell explosion. Spec. 709, A. M. M. * American Journal of Medical Sciences, vol. xlvii. p. 341.