56 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. At Fort Gibson cholera appeared, but not until October 15 It was then brought to that post by a company of soldiers from Fort Smith, who arrived at Gibson October 12. Of this company two men had been under treatment at Fort Smith for chronic diarrhoea. Upon arriving' at Gibson one was attacked with cholera October 15, the other October 17. Both died. A hospital nurse belonging to Fort Gibson command, who attended the before-aientioned cases, was attacked October 19, but recovered. A fourth case, belonging, like the last named, to the Gibson command, was attacked November 11, after excess in eating, and died in twelve hours. This last case is called by Assistant Surgeon Hubbard, United States Army, sporadic, and is believed by him to have had no connection with the previously mentioned cases, the last of which died October 19, or over three weeks before, and no symptoms of the disease had appeared in the mean time. No cholera showed itself among the white citizens or Indians in the vicinity of Fort Gibson. I believe the cholera to have been imported into every place in Arkansas where it appeared during the summer by direct communication with infected points, and I deem it of vital importance to attempt its exclusion by well-devised quarantine measures. I send herewith the special reports in regard to cholera of Surgeon ,J. Vansant, United States Army; Assistant Surgeon V. B. Hubbard, United States Army; Assistant Surgeon George M. Wilson, fifty-fourth United States colored infantry, and Actino- Assistant Surgeon E. V. Denell. In making out my own report above of the history of the disease in the general hospital at Little Rock, I have been able, in a few instances, to correct the report of Acting Assistant Surgeon Denell by the morning reports received at my office from that hospital. I have not been able to trace a connection between the outbreak of cholera at the Little Rock arsenal and its arrival from an infected point. Recruits arrived at Little Rock during the months of July and August. Their route to Little Rock was through an infected portion of the country. Within a few days I hope to be able to report specifically the dates of arrival of each detachment of recruits at Little Rock, and the depot from whence they arrived, with date of departure therefrom. An examination of the report of Acting Assistant Surgeon Denell will show a striking exemption from cholera in the case of battery G, fifth artillery, as compared with the other companies in the same garrison. This company was quartered and supplied in the same manner as the companies of the nineteenth, by its side. But, under the personal supervision of its com- mander, Brevet Major General R. Arnold, this battery had attained a higher state of police and discipline than its neighbors, and to this must be attributed its comparative exemption. I only desire to add that about the same date that cholera made its appearance cases of congestive intermjttent fever also occuned both among citizens and soldiers at Little Rock, Fort Smith, Duvall's Blulf, Batesville, and Helena, which so closely simulated cholera in its symptoms as sometimes to defy distinction. They were equally fatal. I have already detailed one of the principal means resorted to as a means of checking the epidemic, viz., flight from the infected barracks. Other means, however, were not neglected. Scrupulous cleanliness of person and camp was enjoined, orders were issued to every soldier to repair to the .surgeon upon the first appearance of diarrhoea, extra issues of potatoes were ordered, and ice was freely supplied by order of General Ord. The removal of the cholera cases to a distant cholera ward was ordered, not only to avoid the danger of infection, but also to prevent the natural feelings of alarm caused by the constant presence of the sick among their still healthy comrades. The almost daily visits of the commanding general, and the efforts of the other officers, especially their immediate commander. Brevet Major General R. Arnold, did much to keep up the spirits of the command. The position of Surgeon J. Vansant, United States Army, was a very trying one in charge of the camp where the epidemic was prevailing, and this officer is entitled to much credit for his untiring devotion to the command under his guardianship. Acting Assistant Surgeon E. V. Denell, in immediate charge of the cholera ward, was also constant in his attendance on the sick, and throughout behaved with coolness and judgment. I desire also to bring to the notice of the Surgeon General Hospital Steward Kelly, on duty in the post hospital at Little Rock; Hospital Steward Wilson, on duty in the cholera ward; and Hospital Steward Meyenn, on duty in my office, who volunteered for duty in the cholera ward, and there rendered valuable assistance. The nurses of the cholera ward have already been brought to the notice of the general commanding the department, and been mentioned by him in general orders. ##»#** * Extract from monthly report of sick and wounded, third hattalion Ninetetnth Infantry, Little Ro:k, Arkan- sas, September, 1866. Surgeon John Vansant, United States Army, During a part of the present month epidemic cholera prevailed extensively in this command. The first case occurred on the 14th day of September, and proved fatal in two days. On the same day, and nearly at the same hour, and in the same company quarters, another soldier was violently attacked with the disease, but, having a very vigorous constitution, he still survives, in a debilitated condition. The next cases happened in the post hospital, and then, in rapid succession, every day, men were seized in all parts of the garrison. The arsenal grounds, where the men were stationed, are dry, grassy and well shaded with large oak trees. Tlie (quarters are new, spacious, uncommonly well ventilated, and always thoroughly policed. The situation of the place, with reference both to its near and more distant topographical relations, is such as might be supposed to indicate great salubrity. The Arkansas river runs below a steep bank, about half a mile to the northward, while on almost every other side, distant from one to three miles, a high, verdant, and prettily timbered ridge encompasses the site; but, notwithstanding these seeming