EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. 32 Larce details have been made from the command, and from the employes of the quartermaster's department, to thoroughly police the grounds, move tents, and disinfect privies and latrines, etc. Tents are being put up for the accommodation ot cholera patients on the opposite side of the garrison from the hospital now occupied. Requisitions for ice and an abundant supply of disinfectants, medical and hospital supplies, etc., have been made. The following communication has been presented to Brevet Major General Smith, commanding the District of the Upper Arkansas, for his consideration and action : Fort Hakker, July 23, 1867. General : In view of the fact that cholera prevails at this post, I feel it my duty to suggest that all labor, not absolutely necessary to the forwarding of supplies, be suspended for a time, and that the command be turned out under a commissioned officer for general police. All tents should be struck and spread in the sun, inside out, and all sinks and privies should be filled up, and new ones should be dug to the leeward of the post and camps, when practicable. All filth sliould be sought out, and, when found, should be burned or buried, as it is impossible to say how far the decaying, dead, and decomposing vegetable and animal matters may affect the health of the troops and emploj'fis. All rank-growing grass and weeds should be cut down and burned, and a general and thorough policing of all camps, as well as the post, ordered. Inasmuch as the mechanics are leaving the post, I beg leave to suggest the propriety of suspending, for a fortnight, the ■ buildings going on. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, MADISON MILLS, Medical Director Department of Missouri, U. S. A. General A. J. Smith, Commanding District Upper Arkansas, Fort HarTcer, Kansas. July 24th : McEntire, Scott, and Duffy doing well. Dr. Swift visited all the camps and trains in and about the post, advising a change of position for some, and a thorough policing of grounds for all; digging of sinks and using them; boiling all water for drinking pin-poses, or, when practicable, making tea to be drank cold; cleanliness of person, etc., to be strictly observed. The doctor found J. Rourke, a teamster, in one of the cook's tents in articulo mortis. He had been visited by Dr. Chase, contract physician. Dr. Chase found him in the stage of collapse; had vomited and had rice-water evacuations, cramps, etc., following a diarrhoea of four or five da3's' continuance, before calling for assistance. The doctor gave him ^ grain of sulphate ot morphia, and a mixture of chloroform, brandy, and camphorated tincture of opium every 20 minutes, to no purpose. N. N. Steele, aged 56, married, was brought to the hospital at 7 p. m., suffering from diarrhoea and a large hernial protrusion from the right inguinal region. This he had had since a boy, and had controlled it without difficulty till the present time, when he found himself unable to reduce it. He had no nausea or vomiting, but his pulse was 108 and feeble; his skin bathed in perspiration, and his comitenance expressive of anxiety; would rather not have the hernia reduced until next day; without the aid of chloroform, by means of local anesthesia, with firm but gentle pressure, the sack and contents gradually disappeared, with distinct gargouillement; he became calm, and slept comfortably, but died suddenly and without pain the following morning. A post mortem examination revealed evidence of strangulation of the hernial sack. This case is mentioned because of a feeling prevailing that a choleraic influence was to some degree the cause of its sudden and unexpected fatal termination. ' July 25th : The nujrning calm, clear, and bright, after a thunder storm of unusual violence; not a breath of air to drive away the warm vapors from the low grounds. In one of these localities near the river, a wagon train still remained in camp. In this camp a case of cholera was reported about 10 o'clock. Medical ollicers immediately repaired to the spot, and found the assistant wagon- master, Hanse, aged 29, unmarried, with cholera, in the stage of collapse. The attack was ushered in by purging about two hours before; had vomitetT but twice. He was now pulseless, bathed in perspiration; breath and tongue cold; eyes sunken, skin cyanosed and shriveled, cramps and thirst excessive. He was lying on the ground, a wagon cover stretched over him to protect him from the sun, and several men were employed in rubbing his limbs. Chloroform, half a drachm, combined with 20 drops each of camphorated tincture of opium and tincture of capsicum, was given him, which seemed to control the cramping, and a bandage with a large compress arrested the involuntary rice-water discharges from the bowels. Calomel and quinine, of each 15 grains, sulphate of morphia, I grain, was given, and repeated two hours later. Pieces of ice were freely given, and cold tea as desired. Milk punch was administered with great caution, and at 2 o'clock p. m., and later, simie feeble efforts at reaction were apparent, which, however, soon passed away, and he died at 4 p. m. A post mortem examination at 6 o'clock revealed nothing beyond the congestions and lesions usually found in such cases. Hanse was a inan of unusual health, strength, and vigor, and up to the moment of attack was as well as usual. At the same time, and in the same locality, the medical officers were called on to see Neide, ambulance di-iver, aged 24, unmarried, fair complexion, sligiit form, and delicate organization. He had suffered from diarrhtt'a several days, but the day previous, and up to the moment of the attack of cholera, he felt himself to be convalescent. Symptoms, except in degree of severity, and treatment, were almost the same as in the above-mentioned case ; reaction, however, seemed to be more complete, and gave promise of continuance. Dr. Swift, whom I left last night in charge at Fort Harker, makes the fcjllowing provision for the conunand at Wilson's creek, near the terminus of the railroad track : Fort H.VRKr.R, July 25, 1867. Doctor : An ambulance will be set to you in a few moments to take you to Wilson's creek, about fifteen miles from here, where it is reported two men died with cholera last night. They also report many cases of diarrhoea. You will provide yourself