RECRUITS FROM NEW YORK, ETC. 67 Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. RECRUITS FROilI MEW YORK TO TEXAS VIA NEW ORLEANS. Adjutant General's Ofitck, Washington, April 16,1868. Sir; In reply to the inquiry contained in your communication.of this date, you are respectfully informed that recruits were forwarded to Texas, from the general depots in New York harbor, during the month of November, 1867, as follows: From Bedloe's island, November 23d, 1867, a detachment of 398 recruits, viz: 73 for Battery " I," 1st U. S. Artillery, Brownsville, Texas, and 325 for the 17th U. S. Infantry, Galveston, Texas. From David's island, November 30th, 1867, a detachment of 509 recruits, viz: 295 for the 26th U. S. Infantry, Austin, Texas, and 214 for the 35th U. S. Infantry, Sun Antonio, Texas. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, R. WILLIAMS, Assistant Adjutant General. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel J. J. Woodward, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. Army. Four Columbus, N. Y. H., January 7, 1868. General : I have the honor to submit the following report: In obedience to Special Orders No. 309, from these Headquarters, dated November 23d, 1857, detailing me to accompany a detachment of recruits to sail that day for Galveston, Texas, I reported to Captain W. A. Crafts, commanding detachment, on board the A. C. M. S. S. Co.'s steamer Raleigh, pier 32, North river. The detachment consisted of five hundred and thirty ri?cruits and a band of eighteen musicians, and was quartered between decks, Inuiks being provided for five hundred and thirty. Ventilation was secured by means of open hatches, fore and aft, and numerous portholes; the cooking was done by steam. After a voyage of nine days of good weather, during which, with the exception of sea-sickness, the health of the men was excellent, we arrived at New Orleans on the evening of December 2d, without a man unfit for duty on account of sickness. During this voyage a daily inspection was made between decks, the place kept thoroughly policed, and disinfectants freely used. On arriving at New Orleans, one hundred and ten men were disembarked, and there being no steamer ready to take the detachment on board for Galveston, they were kept twenty-four hours on the Raleigh. Hearing, for the first time, of the prevalence of cholera in the city, (fifteen deaths having been reported on that day from this cause,) every precaution was taken to prevent uifection. The steamer was anchored a short distance out from the wharf, nothing allowed to be sold or given to the men, and as far as possible they were prevented from drinking the river water. On the evening of December 3d, the detachment was transferred from the Raleigh to the hurricane deck of the steamer W. G. Hewes, of the Morgan line, for Galveston, and at once started down the river. Ten miles below the city we were obliged to anchor for the night, on account of the fog. During the 4th of December, I prescribed for a number of cases of diarrhoea of a character to alarm me, on account of the nature of the discharges, (being of the rice-water variety and exceedingly copious,) the absence of pain, and the great exhaustion consequent upon it. Tliese were, however, generally amenable to treatment, and kept in check by the usual remedies. In the case of one man, however. Fisher, who had neglected to report himself early, the diarrhoea was unaffected by treat- ment ; vomiting and cramps supervened, and it assumed all the characteristics of a case of real cholera ending in collapse. By means of artificial heat and friction with dry mustard he reacted slowly without a return of the vomiting and purging. Two others, White and Ornisby, were similarly afiected, but did not arrive at the state of collapse. We arrived off Galveston on the morning of December 6th, but on account of low water were detained eight hours on th^ bar. By an officer going ashore I informed the medical director. Dr. Bacon, of the state of affiiirs, who, with Assistant Surgeon Cronkhite, came on board at once, and confirmed my opinion of the nature of the disease. On arriving at the wharf, everything was found in readiness; the sick men were at once removed to a hospital, and the troops quartered in tents outside the town. At the time of my leaving Galveston, December 8th, no deaths had occurred, though six new cases of choleraic diarrhoja had been received in hospital. They were all under the care of Assistant Surgeon Cronkhite. The few days that these men were under my care would make any remarks on their treatment of little weight, though I will venture to remark, that in the diarrhoea I had to combat, I found the combination of a mercurial with the usual remedies employed to be not only beneficial, but almost, it seemed to me, indispensable in arresting the discharges and changing their nature. In the case of Fisher, whilst in a state of collapse, the purging and vomiting having ceased, and the thirst being excessive, I found the administration of ice and ice water in small quantities, frequently repeated, to have a surprisingly reviving effect without renewing the vomiting. It may he in place to remark, that the supply of coffee was exhausted about the time of leaving New Orleans, and that a chest of tea which was to serve for the rest of the voyage failed to be transferred; so that the men were without tea or coffee for several days, with the exception of one meal, when tea was fur- nished from the ship's stores at the request of the commanding officer. I have only left to say, that in everything necessary to be done for preserving the health of the detachment, I had the earnest co-operation of the commanding officer, and to acknowl- edge the kindness of Captain Trijjp Hewes, who proffered the resources of his ship without reserve for the use of the sick men. I am. General, very respectfully, yoiu- obedient servant, J. K. CORSON, Assistant Sinyion, U. S. A.