42 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. Having been detached on special duty from the headquarters of the 3Sth Infantry, (which regiment I had been ordered to accompany on its march to New Mexico,) I arrived, on the 18th day of June, 1867, at Fort Eiley, Kansas, to await the arrival of the command, then supposed to be upon the road from St. Louis, Mo., and was occupied until the 25th day of the same month in providing for the sick of such detachments of the regiment as preceded the arrival of headquartei's. These detachments, three in number, each reported quite a large number of diarrhoea cases, painless in character, and but few requiring any considerable medical aid. On the SSda detaclmient consisting of two companies left Fort Riley, accompanied by the late Brevet Lieutenant Colonel Geo. M. McGill, U. S. A., who informed me on my arrival at Fort Harkerlhat quite a number of violent cases of acute diarrhoea had occurred in that command during its march to the last-named post. On the day that this detachment left Fort Eiley (June-22d) an aggravated case of sporadic cholera occurred at that post in the person of a quartermaster's employe. This case, through the kindness of Brevet Lieutenant Colonel Irwin, U. S. A., I had an ojiportunity of viewing a few hours prior to its fatal termination. On the 25th, tlie headquarters and one company of the 38th left Fort Eiley; arrived at Fort Harker on the morning of the 26th, and though tlie men had been exposed to a violent rain storm on the preceding night, no sickness of any consequence was reported. The regimental camp was made upon a small plateau or beach formed by the first rise of ground from a small creek, a tributary of the Smoky Hill fork, and about half a mile to the southwest of the post, and about the same distance from the creek. This plateau, although lower than the ground upon which the post was situated, presented so many natural advantages, that it was selected, after careful consideration, in preference to more elevated positions. The drainage was admirable; the natural slope of the plain was to the southwest; on the north and east large arrayos received the wash from the higher ground, while to the west the fall to the meadow bordering the creek was abrupt. The plain was covered with short prairie grass; the soil was loose and gravelly; the gi-ound had never been occupied for camp purposes. The troops were well clothed, and provided with camp and garrison equipage; the tents were new, of the A pattern, and of a sufficient number to prevent any over- crowding. Great care was taken by the commanding officer to observe all sanitary precautions. There was no epidemic of any character at the post, and the tendency to diarrhoea, which I had observed prior to my arrival at Harker, seemed to have subsided. On the 28th, a detachment of the 33th Infantry, consisting of Companies " D" and " F," under the command of Brevet Lieu- tenant Colonel H. C. Merriam, and under the medical charge of Brevet Lieutenant Colonel McGill, U. S. A., left the post en route to Fort Union, N. M. Owing to the extensive damage done to the Union Pacific Railway by the extraordinary June floods of this year, the medical supjdies for this detachment, which were most liberal as to quantities and amounts, were detained at some point east of Harker, and Dr. McGill was obliged to commence the mai'ch but poorly provided with medical stores, his requisition being based upon the ability of the post hospital to fill it. A few hours prior to their departure, I had assisted Dr. McGill in his inspection of the men of this command, and no indication of latent disease was discovered, the sick report being of the simplest character. This command crossed the Smoky Hill about noon, and before any suspicion was excited as to the existence of epidemic cholera in the vicinity; but shortly after their departure, I was requested by Acting Assistant Surgeon Ira Perry, U. S. A., to see with him a citizen employed by the beef contractor of the subsistence department, whom he feared was seized with malignant cholera. The man was living in a "dug-out," the most miserable form of human liabitation, in the immediate vicinity of a filthy slaughter-pen, and about one mile and a half southwest of the camp of the 38th. On our arrival the patient was found perfectly collapsed, exhibiting all the peculiar symptoms of the disease, and the case terminated fatally within a few hours. The clothing, articles of furniture, and ground around this patient were infected by the excreta, which had been thrown out in all directi(ms, the patient having suffered from the disease and its premonitory symptoms many hoars before calling in aid. Active disinfectant measures were instantly instituted by Dr. Perry. On the evening of the same day, Private Henry Groom, of Company " H," 38th Infantry, was taken with fully marked symptoms of the same disease, and was conveyed from camp to the post hospital, where he died early the next day. These cases inaugurated the epidemic at Fort Harker; and I subsequently leai'ued from a report which Hospital Steward D. D. Peabody, U.S. A., (who was on duty with Dr. McGill,) was kind enough to make for my information, that the first case in Colonel Merriam's command occurred at Plumb creek, their first camp, on the evening of the same day. On the 29th of June, Private Tony Powell, also of Company " H," was attacked, and was sent to the post hospital, whore the disease yielded to treatment. On the 30th, Private W. Jackson, of the same company, was seized with the disease ; he was also sent to hospital, where he died the next day. The removal of these men to hospital was necessitated by the non-arrival of my medical supplies, from the same cause as was stated in Dr. McGill's case. In the camp of the 38th Infantry the inost rigid precautionary measures were at once adopted. The men were, as far as possible, debaired from communication with the post. The supply of water was obtained from a spring near the site of the abandoned Fort Ellsworth, distant nearly two miles from Harker; and new cedar water-casks were procured for this purpose. Great care was observed iu disinfecting the sinks, for which purpose fresh earth and quicklime were used each day; the conqiany tents were struck and removed to fresh ground every few days; company officers weie required to inspect the food prepared for each meal; hospital tents were erected, and bunks were provided for the sick. On July 1st, five enlisted men were attacked with cholera, although not aggravated in its type; and the same dny six cases of painless but exhaustive diarrhani were reported. On the 2d, three cases of cholera occurred, with four of prodromic diarrhcoa. On the 3d there were four cases of cholei'a and two of diarrhoea; on the 4th, two cases of cholera and one of diarrhoea; on the 5th, one case of cholera and one of diarrha-a; and on the 7th, one case of cholera. At this date the disease, as far as Com- pany H" was concerned, seemed to be arrested, altliough the diari-hoea still continued. In these cases the disease, although well marked, was not aggravated in its type, a very marked difference being observalile between them and those which occurred in tlyj.immediate vicinity of tiie post, where, in spite of the most uin-emittiug and devoted care of the medical attendants, many rapidly jiroved fatal. In my cases the characteristic symptoms were, without dilliculty,