ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. MICROSCOPICAL SERIES. 149 reflected through the achromatic condenser in the usual wa,y. Before reaching the achromatic condenser, however, the rajs pass through a cell containing a solution of the ammonio-sulphate of copper of sufficient density to absorb nearly all the rays except those at the violet end of the sjaectrum.* The light used, therefore, is essen- tially monochromatic, and contains, with enough illumination for agreeable vision, the greater part of the actinic force of the sun's rays. The heating rays being chiefly at the other extremity of the spectrum are of course excluded, and great actinic force is obtained, therefore, without any danger to the preparations or the balsam cementing of the object-glasses. The object-glass employed in the photograph of Gyrosigma above alluded to was a one-eighth of an inch, by W. Wales & Co., of Fort Lee, New Jersey. This glass is so constructed as to bring the actinic rays to a focus. At the bottom of the draw-tube was placed an achromatic concave lens—the am- plifier of Tolles (of Canastota, N. Y.), and an ordinary medium eye-piece com- pleted the optical apparatus. The eye-piece extremity of the microscope was thrust into one end of a long camera box, the connection made light-tight by means of a black silk hood, and the image, received on a piece of plate glass, observed by means of a focussing glass, while the focal adjustments were made. As with the very long camera used, the arm of the observer cannot reach the milled head of the fine ad- justment of the microscope, this head was grooved, and connected by a band with a grooved wheel at the end of a long steel rod, the other extremity of which is near the observer, who, by means of it, can focus accurately with any required length of camera. There is nothing peculiar in the chemicals employed, and, with ordinary collodion, and the high power above spoken of, from thirty to forty seconds' exposure was quite sufficient. Of the foregoing devices, most importance is to be attached to the employment of monochromatic light (the violet end of the spectrum), and the use of an object-glass constructed with special reference to the actinic rays. Both these points were suggested to me by Mr. L. W. Rutherfurd, of New York, so well known by his connection with telescopic photography, who has thought much, and made many satisfactory experi- ments in this direction. I believe, however, that the apparatus, as above described, loses some of its advantages by the use of the eye-piece, which I propose to substitute by a lens of proper magnifying power, corrected, like the object-glass, in such a way as to bring to a focus the actinic rays. Such a lens is now in process of construction for further experiment. The pathological photographs hitherto satisfactorily executed in the Museum have chiefly been made with moderate magnifying powers, twelve to fifty diameters, though some experiments with higher powers justify me in the belief that with the improve- ments above described, all that is desired in this direction can be attained. Among these experiments, I may particularly mention a view, magnified about four hundred diameters, of the polygonal cells and flat cholesterin tables of a cholesteatoma, which was found on the inner surface of the frontal bone of a soldier who died of epilepsy in the neighborhood of Washington. * Einleitung in die Hi3here Optik, von Dr. August Beer. Braunschweig, 1853, p. 48.