EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS, 136 attendant, who used all precautions against a return of cholera symptoms, and, consequently, his system was in a renovated condition, and could hardly be affected by any other than a specific poison. In conclusion, I would remark that an exceedingly guarded use of the articles of the materia medica, with a proper, timely use of supportants and stimulants, is all that pertains to the mystery of a successful treatment of yellow fever. Without proper nursing, the patient dies. I do not wish to convey the idea that the presence of a physician is superfluous; far from it, for no matter how well trained the nurse may be, there are times when the appearance of new symptoms requires the educated mind of the physician for their interpretation. Enclosed I have the honor to transmit tlie report of Acting Assistant Surgeon J. J. Auerbach, U. S. A., on duty Avith yellow fever patients at this hospital during the past epidemic. I also respectfully transmit tabular report of yellow fever cases treated in this hospital. I have the honor to be. General, very respectfully, your obedient servant, E. A. KOERPER, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Major General J'. K. Baenes, Surgeon General. Post Hospital, Greexvillk, La., December 1,1867. General : On the 12th of the month of August, 1867, I was ordered by the Medical Director of the Districts of Louisiana and Texas to peiform duty as medical officer in the New Orleans post hospital, Greenville, Louisiana, where I was especially assigned to attend to the yellow fever patients. The result of my observations, and my opinions on the subject of yellow fever, I most respectfully submit in the following lines : I am of the opinion that the only existing cause of yellow fever is the exposure to marsh miasmata, and that the disease is really a marsh remittent fever. I think myself justified, from repeated observations in Louisiana and Texas, in concluding that the joint influence of marsh miasmata and of an atmos- phere unusually and sufficiently heated, upon persons habituated to a cold or temperate climate, is, of itself, fully capable of causing an epidemic of yellow fever. It seems to me very probable that these marsh exhalations, and the eflluvia arising from putrid vegetable and animal substances under a concurring vitiated state of the atmosphere, were the causes which gave rise this summer to the outbreak of this fever in New Orleans, and that it was afterwards kept up by contagion, heightened, by various accidental circumstances, to a pestilential degree of violence. During the months of April, May, and June an unusual amount of rain fell in the city, followed by very hot and sultry weather. Among the sufferers from yellow fever in this hospital, the colored troops quartered in its superfluous wards were by no means so apt to be seized with it as the whites. When the disease did appear among them, it was always much milder, except in those cases occurring among the colored recruits from the north. Soldiers of a full, plethoric habit, and who were intemperate in their mode of living, were much greater sufferers by it than those of a lax fibre and who were guilty of no irregularity. A noteworthy fact has manifested itself in the epidemic of this year, viz: that long residents, natives in general, were attacked by yellow fever in its continued and malignant form, and became victims to it, notwithstanding their bodies had become creolize^ * * * * Our patients were mostly attacked with lassitude and weariness, chilly fits, flushing of the face, redness of the eyes, paiirs in the eye-balls and lower part of the forehead, as, likewise, in the back and calves of the legs ; great anxiety about the praecordia, debility and sighing, thirst, and a tendency to coma; the urine high-colored, small in quantity, and turbid ; a quick, small, and hard pulse ; skin hot, dry, and hard. Not one case came under my observation among soldiers, as well as among civilians, in which more or less costiveness did not prevail. I could not perceive, in any patient, an evident remission, until the fever had entirely gone through its first stage, which was generally from thirty-six to seventy-two hours. Tiiere was then often such an abatement of the symptoms as to induce the patient to think himself tolerably well; but an early recurrence of the symptoms in an aggravated form, accompanied with extreme debility, soon convinced him of the contrary. This extreme debility prevailed in the last stage of the disease: large patches of livid spots could be observed on different parts; the tongue became dry and black, the teeth incrusted with a dark fur, the breath highly offensive, the whole body exhibit ing a livid yellow in many cases; hasmorrhages from the mouth and nostrils occurred; dark and fetid stools were discharged; hiccqygh ensued, the pulse sank, and death quickly followed. Not unfrequently patients were brought to hospital from the quarters in the city 5 miles distant, after having felt the pre- monitory symptoms for two or three days, particularly suffering from constipation of the bowels, a dull pain in the right side, defect of appetite, flatulency, heat in the stomach, giddiness and pain in the head and small of the back, red eyes, low spirits, a disposition to sweat after moderate exercise, etc. The color of the excretions was almost black, the urine, as before mentioned, of a high color, hut small in quantity, the tongue, at first moist and pale, became red as the disease advanced, and towards the close a dry black streak appeared in its middle which soon extended to every part of it. On the nervous system the effects produced were different, according as the fever affected tiie brain, the muscles, or the nerves; tremors of the limbs and twitching of the tendons were not uncommon; delirium was a frequent symptom, but the majority passed through the disease without the least disarrangement of ideas. As my case-book shows, two patients in their convalescence were taken with swelling of the right parotid, and one seaman (of the U. S. gunboat Mahaska) with swelling of the inguinal glands, which swellings did not proceed to suppuration. The yellow color was by no means universal; when it did occur, it was seldom before the fifth or seventh day from the first attack. The eyes seldom escaped a yellow tinge. There were eruptions of various kinds on the skin, and in the later stage jietechia; were common. In four cases carbuncles appe.ired. The fever exhibited during its pn^valence this year a greater variety of symptoms than in the years 1859 and 1864, in which years it visited Galveston and Houston, Texas.