NEW YORK HARBOR. 23 [Enclosure No. 2 in the foregoing.] Depot Hospital, Fort Columhus, New York Harbor, July 24, 18CC. CoLONKL: I have the honor to represent that the quarters occupied by the music bojs at this depot are, in their jn-esent condition, entirely unsuited lor the purpose. The following statement will show the arrangement now in existence, and will demonstrate, I think, that the case demands immediate attention, and admits of ready improvement: South Battery, first floor, four rooms, Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4, each 18 feet 6 inches by 18 feet 6 inches, by 9 feet 9 inches, occu- pied by boys, as follows: No. 1, 15 boys ; No. 2, 23 boys ; No. 3, 22 boys ; No. 4, 24 boys. These rooms contain each 342| square feet—3,339^ cubic feet—giving in No. 4 Little over 14 square feet and 139 cubic feet to each boy. In addition to this they are badly ventilated, having only one small window on one side, and two on the side opposite. It is not surprising, under these conditions, that cholera has recently made its appearance in these quarters. The records of the hospital also show that typhoid fever, yellow fever, and in previous epidemics cholera has invariably been developed in these same rooms. I respect- fully recommend that the boys be continued in tents, as directed, at my suggestion, by Lieutenant Colonel Conrad, United States Army, commanding depot in your absence, and that the present occasion be taken to remove the partitions which divide this lower floor of the South Battery barracks into so many small and cell-like sections. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, JOSEPH B. BROWN, Brevet Colonel and Surgeon U. S. A., in charge. Brevet Colonel J. H. Hayden, U. S. A., Commandins Post. Extract from montldy report of sick and wounded, HarCs island, Neio York harhor,. June, 1866, Brevet Major J. T. Calhoun, Assistant Surgeon United States Army. In view of the dreaded approach of cholera and the wide-spread interest felt in all diseases of the intestinal canal, a few remarks touching the numerous cases of diarrha3a and cholera morbus this month reported may not be without interest. This command has been made up during the past month of two regiments (returned from the Gulf coast for muster out, and which remained but for a few days, and gave us but a few cases) and of a large number of recruits for the seventeenth United States infantr}^ These recruits have been just enlisted, and are suddenly thrown together into provisional companies, without any non-commissioned officers, except such as were very hastily improvised for the occasion, and without experienced cooks. They have drilled several hours a day under a very hot sun, and have been subjected to the restraints of discipline, to which most of them were hitherto total strangers. Ninety-three cases of diarrhoea are reported. These cases were mostly characterized by headache, giddiness, nausea, abdominal pains, and diarrhoeic stools, which, however, were not very frequent, and as a rule were decidedly foecal. The treatment adopted has been a mild cathartic to unload the alimentary canal, followed by rest and small doses of opium, or opium and camphor. To this treatment the cases yielded readily. Only three of the cases partook of a dysenteric character. Of the forty-eight cases of cholera morbus nearly all occurred on one day, (the 28th,) between the hours of 9 and 11 p. m. The recruits of D and E barracks were the subjects. The attacks were very sudden, one man after another being suddenly stricken down with severe abdominal pains and cramps, vomiting, and slight diarrhoea. Of course, the ignorant, undisciplined recruits supposed that they were seized with Asiatic cholera, and as one after another was carried to the hospital a panic seized upon them, which can be more readily imagined than described. My treatment was preventative as well as remedial. I assured the men in the barracks that the cases were not Asiatic cholera; that there was no danger and nothing to be afraid of. I spoke most confidently and reassured many of the frightened. The patients sent to the hospital were given combinations of ginger, opium, camphor, &c., with large sinapisms to the abdomen, and with the happiest results. Many were returned to duty the next day, and in the few cases which were left with headache and nausea, a dose of castor oil was all that was needed to complete the cvu'e. The vomited matter gave a clue to the origin of the sudden attack, which subsequent investigation proved to be correct. Half-cooked beans were the cause of all the trouble. None of the vomited matters or intestinal discharges evinced any of the rice-water characteristics of cholera, and it is also worthy of note that none of our diarrhoeas have been painless, nearly all the patients mentioning pain as a prominent symptom. [Extracts.] Hart Island, New York Harbor, July 17, 1866. Colonel: I have the honor to report five cases of cholera admitted within the past twenty-four hours, and four deaths from that disease. It must be borne in mind that the cases reported are only those in the stage of collapse. The diarrheal tendency still continues, and many cases are cut short before reaching the alarming stage. » * * I have directed the steward to burn all bedding soiled with the vomit or evacuations of the patients. Such as is not soiled I disinfect, then boil, then wash. Should you not coincide with this plan, please express your disapproval. I make requisi- tion for more bedding to supply deficiencies and to meet contingencies. » * * " I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, J. THEODORE CALHOUN, Brevet Major and Assistant Surgeon U. S. A., Post Surgeon. Brevet Colonel W. J. Sloan, Surgeon U. S. A., Medical Director Department of the East.