X EEPORT ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA AND YELLOW FEVER. were two cases; July 5t]i and 7th each one case. After this no more cases occurred in this command for some days, ahhough the disease still prevailed among other troops at Fort Harker and among the quartermaster's employes and other citizens. July 20th, Headquarters, with Companies "A" and " K," started across the plains with 12 officers, 220 men, 44 quartermaster's employes, and 37 ladies, children, and servants. After crossing the Smoky Hill Fork they were joined by the sutler of Fort Sumner with a family of ten persons, making in all 324 souls. July 21st, on the march, a soldier was attacked with cholera and cases continued to occur until July 30th, when the command had reached a camp a few miles west of Fort Dodge, after which no more cases occurred among the troops. Up to this time there had been forty-six cases and seventeen deaths, all enlisted men ; the rest of the party escaped, with the exception of the wife of one of the officers, who was taken sick after the command reached Fort Lyon and recovered. The case reported during August was a man who had been detached with the mail between Forts Larned and Harker, and who was brought sick to camp. In making this march the command avoided communication with the posts along the route, and, after the 25th of July, avoided the route taken by Col. Merriam's detachment. Two detachments of the 38th Infantry are thus shown to have cal'ried cholera with them across the plains by the Arkansas River route. It was by the first of these that it was distributed to the military stations on the way. On the first of July Colonel Merriam's detachment of the 38th Infantry arrived at Fort Zarah, and on July 2d or 3d at Fort Larned, going into camp within 500 yards of the fort, and remaining there for forty-eight hours. July 6th the first case occurred in the garrison at Fort Larned, and subsequently cases oocurred at both this post and Fort Zarah. Fort Zarah being occupied as a picket post of Fort Larned, the cases at both posts are included in the monthly reports of sick and wounded of Fort Larned, and are included in tables 15 and 16, (Appendix, p. 8.) In all, there were five cases and four deaths of white troops during July ; of colored troops, one fatal case during July and one during August. There were quite a number of cases among the quartermaster's employes. According to Brevet Major C. S. De Graw, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., Colonel Merriam's command arrived at Fort Dodge on .the afternoon of July 7th and went into camp a mile from the post, remaining forty-eight hours. An unsuccessful attempt was made to isolate the command when it was understood that cholera was prevailing in it. During the evening of July 11th a government employe, living about three hundred yards from the garrison, was attacked; on the 14th another; and diarrhoea became very prevalent among the citizens about the post. On the 18,th several trains arrived from Fort Harker with supplies for the post, and a man accompanying one of these trains was found to have cholera. On the 21st a soldier of the garrison was attacked while on guard duty some distance from the post and brought to the post hospital. This was followed by other cases, and during the rest of July and the early part of August, twenty-five cases and fourteen deaths occurred among the troops. The mean strength for the two months was 226 officers and men. There were also a number of cases among the citizens. The pestilence did not extend on-this route to posts west of Fort Dodge. Keturning now to the neighborhood of Fort Harker, we find that Company " G,' 10th Colored Cavalry, moved from Fort Harker July 16th, leaving behind three or four