FOliT GIBSON FORT ARBUCKLE. 59 sun, exposure to the night air, extreme physical exhaustion, excesses of all kinds, the depressing passions, chief among wliicli is fear—in short, the strict observance of, and adherence to, all approved hygienic regulations—I see no reason why cholera should excite such unwonted fear and dread as it usually does. With reference to the origin of the disease at this post, I think there can be but one opinion—that it sprang up here de novo; that it took ap its line of march early in the summer of 1867 where it had left off in the fall of 1886. It was impossible to trace it to any source of contagion. Cholera was not prevalent at the time at any point with which we were in communication, so far as I could learn. The first case was a native negro woman who had not been away from the post. The period of prevalence of cholei-a here as an epidemic was from the 28th day of June to the 1st day of August, 1867. After the latter date but few cases occurred, and those were traceable directly to some exciting cause in tlie behavior of the person attacked. Cholera prevailed to a considerable extent among the following tribes in this Territory: Cherokees, Creeks, Caddos, Comanches, Seminoles, VVicbitas, Delawares, and Shawnees, but I could not obtain data to justify more than a simple mention of the fact. I have the honor to be, very respectfally, your obedient servant, V. B. HUBBARD, Assistant Surgeon, and Brevet Major, U. S. A. Brevet Brigadier General M. Mills, Medical Director Department of Missouri. FOKT AKBtJCKLE, CHEROKEE NA'MOIV, II^BIAIV TERRITOKY. Extract from Monthly Report of Sick and Wounded, Fort ArbucHe, C. N, Jidij, 1887. Acting Assistant Surgeon J. Beagles, jr. I am of the opinion that cholera was brought to this post by a colored soldier of Co. "D," 10th U. S. Cavalry, who died at or near Cochran's station, forty miles east of here. From what I have been able to learn in relation to the case, he must have died of cholera, and was carried to this place for interment; this»was on the 2d of the month. On the evening of the 3d, I was called to visit a government employ^ who lived at the corral, and found him suffering from a severe attack of sporadic cholera brought on by eating green peaches. The other cases reported were of a decided epidemic character, resulting in death in from six to tAventy-four hours. I found the calomel and opium treatment the most satisfactory. Almost all cases of dysentery assumed the epidemic character, and resembled cholera to a very great degree—vomiting, cramping, etc.—with the exception of the rice- water discharges; these discharges ai'e of a dark brown or greenish color, the patients having from thirty to sixty in twenty-four hours, when they sink into a comatose state or collapse, and death closes the scence. ^ I have found a pill composed of 2 grains each of calomel and opium, and 1 grain each of capsicum and camphor, to be of great service in checking the discharges. Detachment of the Gth Infantry en route to Fort Arbuckle, Cherokee Nation. Citadel, Charleston, S. C, September, 1867. General: I have the honor to submit the following report relative to the epidemic of cholera which visited the battalion of the 6th U. S. Infantry, near Big Sandy creek, C. N., I. T., from the 14th to the 20th of July, 1867, and which resulted in the death of sixteen soldiers, four teamsters, one laundress, and one servant: Companies "E'' and "F," 6th U. S. Infantry, left—the first Columbia, the latter Charleston, S. C—on the 11th of June, 1867, for the Indian Territory, and were ordered at Memphis, Tenn., to proceed, via Fort Smith, Ark., to Fort Arbuckle, Cherokee Nation. From the 1st to the 14th of July, on its march through the Indian Territorj', the command enjoyed perfect health; the soldiers were cheerful, not dreading or expecting any sickness. No cholera was known to have appeared as yet in any of the places they passed on the road. The marches were regulated by the supply of water, but never exceeded twenty-four miles, the average being fourteen miles a day. The troops were fed ou the ordinary full ration, with one day's fresh beef in the first two weeks. On the 8th a messenger from I'oi-t Arbuckle passed our camp, reporting that cholera had broken out almost simultaneously at Forts Gibson and Arbuckle. We prevented his intercourse with the troops for obvious reasons. On the 11th a heavy rain fell, and compelled us to remain in camp on the 12th, on account of the swelling of the streams. On the 13th we started under a drizzling rain, which, after a short time, increased in force, and continued for several days. At daybreak on the 14th I was called to attend Private Iv^lhoft, Company "F," who had been found lying on his back, drenclied with rain, in an apparently collapsed state. I was informed that he liad been vomiting and purging repeatedly, (probably all night,) but was discovered only a short time before my arrival. His comrades gave as the probable cause of his illness, the imprudence with which he ate, on the previous day, as soon as we arrived in camp, his whole day's ration (hard bread and bacon) raw. The history of his case, together with his cold extremities, leaden hue of skin, shrunken features, sunken eyes, with dark eyeholes— in short, his facies hippocratica—taught me at once that cholera had appeared in our camp. A tent was inuuediately ordered to be put up at a distance from the camp, (on the leeward side,) to which the patient was removed. Notwithstanding every effort used to bring on reaction, he died at 10 a. m.