EXTEACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. 88 during the entire season, taking a small quantity, frequently, of an acidulated (acid sulphuric) solution of quinine, with an additional slight quantity of spirits of niti ic ether. Of eleven persons who used this, all escaped infection. In both instances above mentioned the course must have been promotive of a healthy condition of the system. So these facts go for to establish the principle that a healthy system is, in a large measure, a guarantee against infection. Among my cases occurring among the troops, I find the paroxysm of fever preceded by the premonitory symptoms of a day or two in duration, the patient complaining of feeling unwell, but endeavoring to continue his duty; or, again, being well until about the time of being taken with the chill with which th^paroxysm of fever usually made its appearance; tlie chill was accompanied with or succeeded almost invariably by pain in the head, neck, and back; pulse 120; tongue furred at the centre, moist, and with scarlet edges, or, perhaps, somewhat pale; again, near the point and edges, the papillte projected through the light coating; the eyes frequently injected; thirst extreme. Early in the disease the stomach and bowels were, as a rule, not affected to any extent. I have, however, seen the stomach excessively irritable from the first. In severe cases the nervous anxiety and the restlessness early in the paroxysm of fever was excessive; this, in the progress of the case, was succeeded by a want of mental restraint, resembling a mild form of mania, the patient not realizing his danger, thinking himself capable of much exertion, and impatient of restraint, yet committing the most preposterous acts. I have witnessed, at an early period of the disease, livid, dark, crimson edges of the tongue, exhibiting imperfect aeration of the blood, and, in severe cases, indicating the approach of dissolution. This I recall in the case of Brevet Major Swartwout, whose death was one of the most remarkable I witnessed, from the gradual approach of dissolution, retaining his mental faculties until toward the close of his sickness. The paroxysm of fever in the cases under my observation continued, as a rule, from 48 to 72 hours. Comparatively few of my cases had suppression of urine. I ascribe this more especially, however, to the use of chlorate of potash in my treatment. I do not recall a case, in which the use of this was continuous, that this symptom presented. With convalescence almost invariably commenced (at the period of the patient's first going into the open air) a desquamation of the entire cuticle, making the course of recovery to the patient quite uncomfortable by the attending pruritus. At the military hospital for the epidemic, the ward occupied was large, eould be well ventilated, and obtain in its entire extent the prevalent breeze directly from off the open gulf. The ward was with much care disinfected with diluted carbolic acid. I found, in trying to obtain proper ventilation, much direction of the nurses was required in order to secure fresh air without draft directly upon the patients. During much of the period of the epidemic the department had employed acclimated civilian nurses, at a large rate of compensation. Some of the men employed were excellent nurses in individual capacity; but had I again a similar hospital charge, I should prefer, in the care of a large ward, acclimated—could these he obtained—reliable enlisted men of the army, under the direction of capable, faithful wardmasters; and I think I should find in such a corps better discipline and attention than civilians would give, who are necessarily men employed for but a limited period. During the earlier part of the epidemic several men of the command voluntarily entered the hospital for the epidemic as attendants ; these men were unacclimated; such devotion to duty is worthy of highest praise. The course of treatment pursued was, in general terms, intended to modify and control the disease in its course. In any comjjlication the treatment which clinical experience has indicated was modified by a knowledge of the characteristics of this epidemic. Could the patient live over seven days subsequent to the attack, his recovery was, as a rule, established. The general course of treatment pursued at the hospital differed somewhat with the physician. The course of Dr. Mofan, of the city, was directed to making the covering of the patient comfortable, and yet using, during the active fever of the first paroxysm, sufficient covering to keep up the action of the skin. At first the mustard foot-bath and the efficient use of castor oil, restricting the use of the foot-bath to the period of the chill, or the early period. Subsequently the following: sulphate of magnesia, one ounce and a half; tartrate of antimony and potassa, one grain; diluted sulphuric acid, half a drachm; distilled water, ten fluid ounces—mix. Take one fluid ounce at a dose. Given, in the first paroxysm to moderate febrile action—more or less a purgative, according to use—preferring, if the patients were of a full sj'Stem, to reduce tliem freely and actively, in order to avoid tendency to local congestion. After the bowels had been moved, the following was given: infusion of linseed, one pint; tincture of hyo.scyamus and chloric ether, of each, two fluid drachms—mix. Dose: a tablespoonful frequently repeated, almost as frequently as the patient desired to use it. After the severitj- of the first part of the attack had passed, the above-mentioned magnesia mixture was used as an occasional laxative, or as required by the condition of patients, combined, if there was costiveness and torpid secretions, with mercury and chalk and a sufficient purgative. During the earlier stages of the attack the mildest diet should be adhered to, with a little cool water, without ice. Dr. Dowell's general course of treatment was somewhat at variance with the above. In the earlier part of the attack, if the bowels had been moved, he used the mild chloride of mercury in combination with sulphate of quinine and Dover's powder, nine grains of each, divided into three powders; one to be taken every three hours. If the fever was high, skin dry, tincture of aconite with spirits of nitric ether was in favorite use. Small quantities of ice, ice water, and iced lemonade were frequently given (each time a small amount.) Nourishment, from an early period in the febrile paroxysm, was given, as a rule, first in the form of mucilaginous drinks, to be quite eai-Iy followed by a much more liberal use of food. My own preference was for the early use of the mild chloride of mercury, succeeded, when the stomach was sufficiently retentive, by the free purgative use of castor oil; subsequently the action of the mercury, and almost invariably the chlorate of potash in small amounts, when the condition of the stomach would permit. I cannot speak very favorably of the use of quinine. In my own course I eai ly discontinued the use of quinine in com- bination with blue mass, and think the nourishment of the patient may well be extremely light until the system has passed through the earlier part of the attack, and then it requires to be'guarded. Yet I have seen injurious results in allowing the patient to become exhausted from the continued want of requisite nourishment. Had I to decide as to the use of ice or ice water to relieve thirst, I should use only the latter, as a rule, pleasantly cool, and only in a small amount at a time. If there was deter- mination to the head or stomach. Dr. Dowell preferred cups and the use of blisters. Dr. Moran judged the use of injections most efficacious. Blisters, toany con.?iderable extent, I think injudicious, through the consequent irritation. Everything tending