REPORT ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA. 16th of July, others from Carlisle Barracks, by way of New York Harbor, on the 23d. One of these detachments on the steamship Herman Livingston brought recruits from Hart's island, which she left on the 7th. On the 8th a case of cholera occurred which proved fatal next day. A week subsequently another fatal case occurred. The vessel arrived off quarantine in the Mississippi river on the 15th and put off two recuits said to have diarrhoea. On the 16th the command disembarked at Jackson Barracks, six miles below New Orleans, where two recruits were sent to hospital with choleraic diarrhoea. The com- mand remained three days in New Orltans, and on the 19th of July embarked on the steamship Texas for Galveston. • The first case reported among the troops at New Orleans was on the 22nd of July in company G, sixth United States cavalry, stationed at Holmes's Foundry. The patient was a recruit recently enlisted in New^ Orleans. It is not known whether he had been in communication with the New York recruits. On the 25th of July, a case occurred at Jackson Barracks, six miles below New Orleans. The patient was one of the recruits recently arrived from New York Harbor on the Herman Livingston. A number of cases subsequently occurred among the troops at this post, and in company G of the sixth United States cavalry. On the 25th of July, also, a soldier of the eighty-first United States colored infantry at the Louisiana cotton press in the first district of New Orleans was seized with symptoms of cholera and sent to hospital; he died on the 26th. On the 27th another man of the same regiment, who had been on guard duty at Bull's Head stables, near the levee in the fourth district, was brought into camp with cholera and died the same day. The disease spread rapidly through the regiment. Cholera already existed among the citizens of New Orleans, and a number of the early victims among the troops were out of camp when attacked, many of them being brought in a state of collapse from hovels in the city. The health ordinance in New Orleans did not become a law until after cholera had manifested itself, and it is difficult, therefore, to tell when the first cases among the citizens occurred. In the seventh, ninth, thirty-ninth and one hundred and sixteenth colored regiments, the disease had appeared while on duty in Texas; the large majority of the cases reported in New Orleans, however, occurred in company G, sixth United States cavalry, and in the eighty-first United States colored infantry. Altogether 93 cases and 24 deaths were reported among the white troops at New Orleans, and 254 cases and 149 deaths among the colored troops. The disease was carried to the colored troops at Forts St. Philip and Jackson, below New Orleans on the Mississippi river, by detachments returning to those