146 AEilT MEDICAL MUSEUM. MICROSCOPICAL SERIES. were thickened, with follicTilar ulcers, and coated with patches of pseudo-membrane. The mesenteric glands enlarsed. No. 435, Medical Series, is a portion of the liver in this ease, exhibiting the abscess cavity. Nos. 436 and 437 are successive portions of the ulcerated colon. No. 434, the collapsed right lung, coated with pseudo-membrane. No. 435, the seventh rib of the same side, its inner surface denuded of periosteum, and presenting several new formations of bone. Contributed by Surgeon Thomas Crosby, U. S. Tols. Private E . 1st Eegt. Veteran Eeserve Corps, aged forty-one, was admitted to the Post Hospital, Fort McHenry, Md., September 30th, 1865. He had sufTered from chronic diarrhoea for several months, and was much emaciated; stools, from eight to ten daily. October 18th. He complained of a violent pain, which appeared to have its seat in the kidneys. Death, October 21st. Autopsy: Hypostatic congestion of the posterior parts of both lungs; four ounces of bloody serum in right pleural cavity; the right lobe of the liver, adherent to the abdominal walls, presented three abscesses, each containing about four ounces of thick flaky pus ; spleen very large and soft; colon ulcerated from one extremity to the other: some of the ulcers very large, and penetrating to the muscular coat. No. 668, Medical Series, is the liver from this case. Contributed by Brevet Major De "Witt C. Peters, Assistant Surgeon U. S. A, The arrival of recent specimens at tlie Museum has afforded good opportunities for making drawings representing the appearance of the preparations immediately after their removal from the body. Accordingly a series of careful water-color drawings has been made, which show most of the typical forms of camp diseases. The drawings are the work of Mr. Hermann Faber, and are faithful to the minutest detail. Some experi- ments have been made which show that they can be reproduced with reasonable fidelity by chromo-lithography. The chromo-lithograph here presented will, it is hoped, give an idea of the capa- bilities of this kind of illustration. (See plate opposite.) It represents a portion of intestine, taken from near the middle of the ileum, of a patient who died in the Third Division General Hospital, Alexandria, Virginia, December 11th, 1864. His disease is given in the mortality report of the hospital as typhoid fever. He stated on admission, however, that he had suffered from diarrhoea for several months before the febrile symptoms set in. On the autopsy, the ileum was found to present considerable vascularity, with patches of congestion. The solitary fol- licles were enlarged to the size of pin-heads. The patches of Peyer slightly thickened, with pigment deposits, giving them the shaven-beard appearance. There were a few small ulcers of the solitary follicles near the ileo-coecal valve. The colon was thickened, with numerous follicular ulcers, especially in the coecum and sigmoid flexure. In the transverse colon, several of the ulcers were in the different stages of cicatrization. The portion of ileum here represented is No. 465 in the Medical Series of the Museum, No. 466 is a portion of the transverse colon, showing the cicatrizing ulcers. This case belongs to the class in which ty[)ho-malarial fever super- venes in the course of chronic diarrhoea. The drawing here presented is equally characteristic of the uncomplicated cases of the malarial form of this fever. The plate represents the portion of ileum slit wp along its mesenteric attachment, and spread out for examination. The blush of congestion in the lower part of the piece, the injected condition of the vessels, the pin-head tumors formed by the enlarged solitary follicles, the shaven-beard appearance of the small Pej'er's patch near the top of the piece, and of the larger one near the bottom, are all shown with reasonable accuracy. It is desired to publish in the Medical History of the War about thirty plates, in this style, to illustrate the most important phases of the anatomical lesions m camp fevers and camp diarrhcea. The Microscopical Series of the Museum consists already of about 1400 speci- mens, of which 400 have been obtained by purchase and the rest have been prepared