120 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. water from the river running through the city, and the quantity of rain which fell necessarily kept the streets cleaner than in the year before. Besides, a greater activity of the health authorities was used in this direction, under the influence, no doubt, of a feeling of responsibility to military government, which always exacts stricter account of otficials than can be obtained b}- any municipal government. The coincidences which show importation as the cause of the fever becoming epidemic are much greater in number tlian usual, and would prove its foreign origin, it seems to me, to any mind that admits yellow fever to be, in its nature, infectious and importable. The Florence Peters' history illnstrates the viciousness of the system of quarantine in operation here, which does not deserve the name, being a sham, a delusion, a make-believe, in place'of one which would be efficacious if properly carried out. The yellow fever prevailed last year in. its true infectious form in the West India islands and in Vera Cruz. It invaded successively all the cities and towns on the Mexican as well as on the Texas coast, before, as I may term it, the wave rolled over us, appearing at Galveston and Indianola before reaching New Iberia and this city. The Florence Peters arrived almost at the same time as the ship from Indianola which brought the young Lieutenant of the 4th U. S. Cavalry who died at the St. Charles. There was no quarantine enforced in regard to Texas vessels for a month or six weeks after the arrival from Indianola referred to, and, as will be seen in the case of the Peters, the quarantine was merely nomhial in regard to vessels from the West Indies, and the usual number of arrivals during the summer from those ports would increase the number of foci of infection. It is notorious that 500 of Maximilian's disbanded army reached this city near the 1st of June, and yellow fever broke out among them on their voyage to New York subsequently. If the yellow fever infection can be imported or trans)3orted from place to place in the holds of ships, in fomites, or in the living bodies of human beings, it must be confessed that there were abundance of such opportunities occurring all of last summer—158 from the 1st of May till the first of November, (see list of arrivals during May, June, July, August, and September, annexed.) Now, to explain what I have remarked in relation to the system of quarantine which is trusted to prevent infectious diseases being imported into New Orleans, first, ships from infected ports are only detained ten days; then cargoes are not discharged, and, consequently, the vessel's hold cannot be scrubbed or washed out; wind sails cannot conduct air to replace that fouled in the hold, fumigations being made from utensils placed on the top of the cargo in the hold. It is a physical impossibility that their gases can be disengaged in such quantities as to replace the foul air in the hold, especially that which is held imprisoned in the cellular cavities of the wood with \vhich the ship is built. The quarantine here is notoriously a failure in rendering any protection to the city, while that of New York is a success, if that be the means by which that city has enjoyed an exemption for so many years. The New York quarantine exacts 30 days' detention of vessels and passengers at the quarantine station; it exacts that the cargo be discharged from the ship and be disinfected, that the bilge water be pumped out, the hold thoroughly washed out and fumigated, and wind sails must play into the empty hold of the ship for a period of at least twenty days, while the cargo is not resRipped, but is sent up to the city on lighters. It exacts most rigorous non-intercourse with the suspected ship, its crew and passengers, or contact with them and its cargo, from all outside persons. I have ascertained, from facts not to be disputed, that the period of incubation, or that during which yellow fever may be dormant in the systems of individuals before manifesting itself by the prostration of the person by the disease, is twenty-four days. In 1854 the yellow fever appeared in the town of St. Joseph, in Tensas parish, Louisiana, in three different houses not connected with each other, and only affecting the residents of those houses; houses that were between them escaped. Each one of these houses had its own focus of infection nearly simultaneously with each other, and the disease appeared epidemic in them all twenty-four days afterwards. Let me mention, also, that during the year 1863, when the fever appeared in so many towns in Louisiana, St. Joseph escaped, for the reason, undoubtedly, that the rigid isolation from the world outside, which the people exacted of themselves, protected them from infection ; while a disregard of former precautions on the part of some of them rendered them liable in the following year. The first cases which I saw were those from the ship Florence Peters, a vessel of 347 tons. She cleared from Havana on the 3d of June, 1867; at the time she left, yellow fever was very prevalent in the shipping of the port. She was boarded at the South West Pass on the 13th. She arrived and tied up at the wharf in Algiers on Sunday morning, the 23d. She had on board, as ship's company, the captain, captain's wife, son, and baby, and the wife's sister, a young lady about seventeen years of age. It seems that all were well up to the day of the ship's leaving the quarantine station, on which day Mrs. Hoojier, the captain's wife, was taken sick, and, by the time the vessel reached Algiers, became so alarmingly ill, that the vessel was no sooner tied to the wharf than Doctor Riley was sent for in the greatest haste. On the following Tuesdiiy Mrs. Hooper's fever passed ofif, and she was removed to a boarding-house in Algiers. On this day her sister was seized, and the following day the baby. The captain's son had been sent over to New Orleans—where, I did not learn—and was also taken sick some time that week. Mrs. Hooper's remission lasted eighteen hours, when she had an accession of fever, which proved to be a secondary continued fever, of which she died the following Sunday, having been ill for a period of nine days. I was called in consultation in her case the day she died; the Doctor had no suspicion of yellow fever, he had never seen a case, and thought that this family was down with ship or typhoid fever. I did not hear where the ship was from until I had seen the patient. I found Mrs. Hooper, her sister, and the baby, all in one room, the two ladies in the same bed. A very brief examination of the cases satis/ied me that they were yellow fever. The baby had a bronchitis, which rendered the diagnosis complicated, but I think it fair to presume that it was laboring under the epidemic infection, and the progress of its disease coincided with what should have luii)])ened had the child been suffering with yellow fever complicated with bronchitis. Mrs. lIo()j)er died the day I saw her, June 3Uth from ursemia; the rest recovered. At this time the first mate was sick on board the ship, was treated by the captain, and recovered: the captain also treated the second mate on board till he threw up black vomit, when he was removed to the Charity hospital, where he died on the 9th of July; he had been taken sick on the 4th and was admitted into hospital on the 8th. The ship, at this time, had been removed to pier 22, second district. The next death from this ship was that of the captain, who was taken sick on the 7th of July and died on the 13th. The last death was that of Seth Yorke, who went on board frequently in expectation of tiiking the place of the deceased mate ; he died on the 25th of July. The six seamen on board disajipcared, for I find no trace of wluit became of them. The vessel was 0