ON THE MEDICAL STAFF AND THE MATERIA CHIRURGICA. THE MEDICAL STAFF. After its organization was fairly completed, the medical staff that served in the late war was composed of a surgeon general, one assistant surgeon general, a medical inspector general, 16 medical inspectors, 170 surgeons and assistant surgeons of the regular army, 3G2 volunteer staff surgeons and assistant surgeons, 3000 regimental surgeons and assistant surgeons of volunteers, 2500 acting assistant surgeons or physi- cians serving under contract, and 6 medical storekeepers. The medical service in the field was organized upon the basis of an independent hospital and ambulance establishment for each division of three brigades. The jper- sonnel of the division hospital consisted of a surgeon in charge, with an assistant surgeon as executive officer and another assistant surgeon as recorder, an operating staff of three surgeons, aided by three assistant surgeons, and the requisite number of nurses and at- tendants. Tlie division ambulance train was commanded by a first lieutenant, assisted by a second lieutenant from each brigade. The enlisted men detailed for ambulance duty were a sergeant from each regiment, three privates for each ambulance, and one private for each wagon. The ambulance train consisted of from one to three ambulances for each regiment, squadron, or battery, a medicine wagon for each brigade, and two or more supply wagons. The hospital and ambulance train were under the control of the surgeon in chief of division. The division hospitals were usually located just out of range of artillery fire. Sometimes three or more of the division hospitals were consoli- dated under the orders of a corps medical director, who was assisted by his inspector, quartermaster, commissary, and chief ambulance officer. The medical officers not em- ployed at the field hospitals accompanied their regiments, and established temporary depots as near as practicable to the line of battle. How faithfully this perilous duty was performed majj^ be inferred from the fact that, during the war, thirty-six medical officers were either killed, or died from wounds received in battle. As soon as practicable, after every engagement, the wounded were transferred from the division or corps hospitals to the base or general hospitals, which at one time were 205 in num- ber. These were under the charge and command of officers of the regular or volunteer staff, who were assisted by acting assistant surgeons, and by officers of the second bat- talion of tlie Veteran Reserve Corps. The organization of the medical staff in the field and in permanent hospitals is very fully discussed, in papers on file in the office, by Colonel Charles S. Tripler, Dr. Jonathan Letterman, and Colonel T. A. McParlin, successively medical directors of the Army of the Potomac; by Colonel G. E. Cooper, medical director of the Army of the Cumberland; by Lieutenant Colonel J. J. Milhau, medical director of the 5th Army Corps; by Surgeon L. W. Read, U. S. Vols., surgeon in chief of the 3d Division 5th Army Corps; by Surgeon T. M. Flandreau, 146th New York Vols., surgeon in chief of brigade, and in the reports of the medical inspectors of military departments. («0)