32 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS, The deaths in the hospital occurred as follows : July 19 1 " 20 3 " 21 9 " 22 9 " 23 ]5 " 24 12 " 25 6 " 26 13 " 27 9 " 28 2 July 29 8 " 30 1 " 31 2 August 1 2 ] 3 4 1 fi 2 Total 94 The duration of the fatal cases admitted to hospital was as below: Died the day of their admission to hospital 43 Died the day after their admission to hospital 26 Died two days after their admission to hospital 7 Died three days after their admission to hospital 5 Died four days after their admission to hospital 4 Died five days after their admission to hospital 4 Died six days after their admission to hospital 3 Died eight days after his admission to hospital 1 Died nine days after his admission to hospital 1 Total 94 As those who died on the day of admission did not, on an average, live twelve hours each after being attacked,the average duration of cases dying in hospital was less than one and a half days, while sixty-nine out of ninety-four died within twenty- four hours after their admission, which was usually from one to two hours after the first accession of the attack. Of those admitted to hospital there were— Returned to duty 18 Died 94 Remaining under treatment 68 Total : 180 Of those remaining under treatment, all except five or six are rapidly convalescing, and will probably be returned to their command within the next ten days. Of the deaths there were— Line officers, (Lieutenant Mays) 1 Medical officers, (Acting Assistant Surgeon Burdett) 1 Enlisted men 113 Total 115 It is somewhat remarkable that not one of the cabin passengers or crew of the San Salvador were attacked, while of the ten civilians (white) residing on Tybee island nine were seized with cholera, and five died soon after the troops landed ; the tenth escaped, and was reported in the newspapers as having died of cholera in the interior of Georgia, making the entire number of deaths one hundred and twenty-one. The disease—true Asiatic cholera—assumed three well-defined forms—the algid, cerebral, and gastro-intestinal. In the algid type the rapid failure of the circulation, early accession of cramps after little or no vomiting, or purging, were the dis- tinguishing features of the invasion. Of this fjrm it may truly be repeated that "it begins where other diseases end—in death." It is cholera par excellence. In such cases, within the first hour or two of the attack, cramps, usually of the extensor muscles, seized the patient after little or no vomiting or purging, and were of the most painful character. The circulation failed rapidly, the skin turned blue, became icy cold, and was bathed iu a most profuse clammy perspiration, while the patients experienced a sense of heat, refused to allow any covering upon them, and asked incessantly for ice-water. Rarely there was a sense of chilliness, and blankets were asked for. The eyes sank rapidly into their sockets, a blue crescent underneath them, and the balls upturned between the half closed lids. The features assumed a death-like hue and shrunken appearance, and the finger.'), the "washerwoman's hand," shrivelling. The pulse sank to a mere thread, and the mind into apathy. Within two or three hours, from apparent health the patient was a livid blue color, shrunken in size, cadaverous in expression, and past the possi- bility of hope. After remaining six or eight hours in this state of profound collapse, death completed the work. No algid case recovered, remedies being utterly useless. The sixty-nine cases that died within the first twenty-four hours after their admis- sion into hospital were chiefly of this type. In the cerebral form the poison expended its force on the brain. The circulation sufl"ered comparatively little, the distinct- ive choleraic symptoms being subordinate to a set so resembling typhus fever that Acting Assistant Surgeon Burdett, who had been resident physician during a typhus epidemic in Blackwell's Island hospital, remarked that, "At first sight I would have