FORT HAEKEE, KANSAS. 37 cei'tainty. That the disease was imported in some manner, would agree with the most generally accepted theories of the means of its propagation; but no positive evidence of its importation can be obtained. Tlie evidence I have succeeded in obtaining in favor of its importation is meagre, and yet not so much so, I believe, as to preclude tlie possibility of its derivation from this source. The post commander at Fort Eiley, Bvt. Lieutenant Colonel C. C. Parsons, Captain, 4th U. S. Anillery, infoiTned me that two days previous to the departure of the 38th U. S. Colored Infantry from that post for Fort Harker, a case of sudden death occurred, the patient being an employe of the quartermaster's department, and that the post surgeon, Surgeon B. J. D. Irwin, U. S. A., reported it to him as a case of sporadic cholera. After the 38th left Fort Eiley, and had arrived at Junction City, but three miles distant, he received information from Asst. Surgeon G. M. McGill, U. S. A., that he would leave a number of men at Junction City sick with diarrhoea. These men were brought back to Fort Eiley. Two days after ihe arrival of the 38th at Fort Harker the first case of cholera occurred, but the patient was a butcher, in the employ of the commissary department. Cases soon made their appearance, however, among the 38th, and continued to prevail among them with great fatality. Now, it is well known that cholera prevailed at Fort Eiley last year, but did not extend further westward. Associated with this circumstance is the fact that, since last year, the facilities for travel westward have been greatly increased by the extension of the railroad to Fort Harker. It is also known that, as soon as the railroad reached Fort Harker, that post at once became the outfitting depot for the plains. A large number of quartermaster employes were brought thither from Fort Eiley, partly on account of its being the depot and partly to construct the fort. It seems not unreasonable to suppose that the cholera germ might have been transplanted from Fort Eiley by these means ; and after having once reached Fort Harker, that the essential conditions for its development and spread were abundantly alForded, I shall presently proceed to show. Another supposed origin of the disease (but one to which little value should be attached) is based on a report brought to Fort Harker that one company of the 38th came direct from Nashville, Tennessee, to Fort Harker, stopping but two days en route at Jefferson Barracks, Missouri. I have no means of establishing this fact, and, moreover, it is not even known that cholera prevailed at Nashville at the time of the company's departure. In favor of the local origin of the disease, much can be urged. That the essentials for its development and propagation (after the specific germ had been presented) existed at Fort Harker, there can be no doubt, provided the views of Professor Pettenkoffer on this subject are correct, viz: a porous soil, the existence of subsoil water, and the presence of a certain degree of heat and moisture; but, in addition to these, there were certain other influences at work, influences which have been long recognized as essential elements in the production of diarrhcea, dysentery, and certain diseases characterized by a low degree of vitality. Dr. Peters states, in his recent work on cholera, "that no amount of filth, imprudence, or diarrhoeal disease, without the addition of the peculiar cause, can give rise to the disease in temperate climes." Eecent investigations, moreover, point to these very causes, viz : filth, imprudence, &,c., operating in tropical climes, as the factors in the production of the disease. Thus, in a recent article in Eanking's Abstract for January, 1867, Dr. Norman Cheevers attributes the origin of the disease at its presumed source, the Delta of the Ganges, to drinking water contaminated by emanations from sewers, burning ghats, stable manure, night-soil, &c. That most of these causes, or their equivalent, were (with the exception of a tropical clime) in full operation at Fort Harker at the time of the breaking out of the epidemic, I think I can satisfactorily show. The water for drinking purposes at Fort Harker is derived from two springs situated about 30 feet below the general level of the ground; the soil at their mouths is composed of coarse sand, immediately beneath which, and composing the sui-face soil for miles around the post, lies a porous soil of a character eminently fitted for absorbing and transmitting to the subsoil water the products of the decomposition of animal and vegetable matters. Specimens of the drinking water from each spring, with samples of the surface soil and new red sandstone from the vicinity of the post, were forwarded to the Surgeon General's Office. An incredible amount of filth had been allowed to collect in and around the post. Dead animals were left at no great distance from the post unburied, and subjected to the full influence of a sun almost tropical. Eefuse articles of food—beef pork, beans, <fec.—were cast out to putrify on the ground, without regard to cleanliness. Trains were accustomed to camp around the post, sometimes remaining for one night only, sometimes for several days and nights ; and no regard was paid to tlie construction of sinks or receptacles for the refuse food, &c. But the neglect of sanitary measures was not confined to this class. After my arrival at the post, I found, on more than one occasion, meat, bread, cabbage, &c., undergoing decomposition in the sun, and that within a few feet (in more than one instance) of the officers' quarters. Eank weeds were allowed to grow on the parade ground and about the quarters of the officers and men. The stables of the post were situated at one end of the parade ground, on a piece of ground sloping gently to the creek. These stables, it is true, were not built until February, 1867 ; but for months previous to that time their site had been occupied by the horses of two companies of the 7th Cavalry. I think there can be no reasonable doubt that the drinking water was impregnated with organic matters derived from these several sources. One other source of contamination deserves special mention. As soon as evening closed in, a horrid stench settled down on the fort. The source of this was for a time veiled in obscurity; it could not be accounted for by the emanations from the sinks and privies, (though these last were not in a cleanly condition,) for the same odor continued after disinfection had been practised. The Medical Director soon discovered the source of this impurity, which was a large pit, situated directly in the quarter whence came the prevailing wind, from one-quarter to half a mile from the post; this was and had been (for how long a time it is not known) the receptacle of every conceivable kind of filth, decomposing meats, oflFals, &c. This hot-bed of disease swarmed with large maggots, and the stench emanating therefrom was intolerable. Swarms of large green flies filled the quarters of the officers and men, and attacked all food left exposed. There was nothing peculiar in this species of fly; it is one which is found everywhere where filth is allowed to accumulate in large quantities. With reference to the hygienic measures adopted, as soon as I reached the post I put in operation every means available for correcting the deplorable condition of affairs. I deemed it of first unportance to place the hospital, the cholera tents, and sur- roundings in as good hygienic condition as possible. With this view, I had all sources of filth removed; weeds were uprooted and burned or buried; the grounds were thorouglily policed daily; sinks were frequently disinfected and removed; the cholera