56 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. Fio.ee.—Ball impact- ed In the head of the humerus. A typical case for ex- cision. Spec. 1206, A. M. M. Esmarcli* makes the curious observation, that resection of the left shoulder gives less favorable results than the operation on the right side. This statement is not con- firmed by the returns. Of 442 terminated cases in which mention is made of the side injured, the right shoulder was involved in 200 and the left in 242. The oper- ation resulted fatally in 72 of the former, or 36 per cent., and in 71 of the latter, or 29"3 per cent. The greater frequency of injuries requiring the operation on the left side is doubtless due to the exposed position of the left shoulder in firing. Generally the operation has been done in cases in which the head of the bone was alone implicated, and consisted simply in a decapitation of the humerus. Partial ex- cisions have been seldom practised. The method commonly preferred was that by a single vertical incision, though some operators raised a V-shaped flap, and all endeavored to include the wound made by the ball in the incisions. It is frequently mentioned that the long tendon of the biceps WAS preserved. In 29 cases, portions of the clavicle, or of the coracoid and acromion processes and neck of the scapula, were excised, as well as the head of the humerus. Only 4 of these cases terminated fatally, and the average result in the recovered cases was as satisfactory as the ordinary result in decapitation of the humerus. Where the shaft of the humerus has been extensively shattered, our surgeons have not been deterred by the prohibition of Guthrie, but have frequently removed the head with even five and six inches of the diaphysis. It is true, as Stromeyer has clearly shown, that in gunshot fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus, with extensive longitudinal splitting, the fissures rarely implicated the epiphysis; yet no good purpose seems to be answered by leaving the head of the bone in these cases, and excellent results are obtained after excision of the head with very con- siderable portions of the shaft. The fol- lowing case is an ex- ample : Private John F. Readon, Co. C, 6th New York Cavalry, aged twenty-two years, was wounded at Culpepper, Vir- ginia, October 11th, 1863, and entered Armory Square U. S. General Hospital, at "Wash- ington, on the following day. It was found that his right Fio. 67.—Excised head and shaft of right hn- humerus had been fractured by a fragment of shell, which was removed from its merus, with the fragment of shell that caused , , i i,,/. - ii i„ the fracture, ^pee. 1738, A.M. M. lodgement Under the deltoid muscle, and proved to be four inches long ana one inch broad, and to weigh nine ounces. The head and upper third of the shaft of the humerus were then excised through a straight incision, by Surgeon D. W. Bliss, U. S. Vols. The patient recovered Fia. 68.—Appearance of the patient who furnished the foregoing Bpccimcn, two years subsequent to the operation. Photographed on wood. * Statham's edition of Esmarch, American edition, 1862, p. 57.