65 NEW YORK IIAKBOK. # FoKT Columbus, New Youk Hakboh, October 1, 1867. Ninth day : Tlie board met pursuant to adjournment. Present: Brevet Brigadier General H. D. Wallen, U. S. A.; Brevet Brigadier General J. B. Brown, Surgeon, U. S. A.; Brevet Lieutenant Colonel J. F. Eandolph, Surgeon, U. S. A.; Brevet Captain W. C. Minor, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Absent: Brevet Lieutenant Colonel E. P. Vollum, Surgeon, U. S. A. There being a quorum present, the board proceeded to business. No cases of cliolera have occurred at either Governor's o:- Bedloip's island since the last session of the board. The last case of cholera at Bedloe's island occurred seven days ago. A communication from the General Superintendent Recruiting Service, of date September 30th, was laid before the board, inquiring whether recruits cannot be received at the general service depot. The board is of the opinion that they should not be received here for at least ten days. The records of the hospital show tliat cholera was reintroduced at Governor's island with the premature renewal of recruiting last year. Three deaths from cholera occurred as late as the 6th of October, 1866, among recruits received at the depot the last of September. The board then adjourned till Friday next at 11 a. m. H. D. WALLEN, Brevet Brigadier General, U. S. A., President. W. C. MiNOi!, Brevet Captain and Assistant Surgeon, V. S. A., Recorder. Fort Columbus, New York Harbor, October 4, 1867. Tenth day: The board met pursuant to adjournment. Present: All the members. No cases of cholera have occurred at Governor's or Bedloe's island since the last session of the board. In reply to an inquiry from the General Superintendent of the General Recruiting Service, in regard to sending troops away from Governor's and David's islands, the board are of opinion that they may be sent without any danger of spreading cholera from these points. The board recommend that intercourse with the city Irom Governor's island be allowed to enlisted men, at the discretion of the commanding officer. No further business being before the board, it was adjourned till Tuesday next at 11 a. ni. H. D. WALLEN, Brevet Brigadier General, U.S.A., President. W. C. MusrOR, Brevet Captain and Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., Recorder. Fort Coluaibus, New York Harbor, October 6, 1867. Eleventh day: The board met pursuant to special instructions from Headquartei s General Recruiting Service, of date October 4th, for the purpose of considering certain orders and circulars submitted to the board. Present: All the members. The health of Governor's and Bedloe's islands remains as at last session. Relative to the removal of quarantine from Governor's island, the board are still of the opinion expressed in their session of October 4th, unrestricted intercourse with the city being still undesirable. In regard to the renewal of recruiting on October 9th, the board are of opinion that, inasmuch as three deaths from cholera occurred here as late as the 6th of October, 1866, and as deaths from cholera have occurred in New York city as late as Saturday, October 5th, of the last week, the board are of opinion that recruiting should not be renewed till the 15th of this month. The board are further of the opinion that neither recruits nor prisoners should be sent to Governor's island till after the 15th of this month. No further business being before the board, it was adjourned to Friday next at 11 a. m., unless sooner convened. H. D. WALLEN, Brevet Brigadier General, U. S. A., President. W. C. Minor, Brevet Captain and Assistant Surgeon, U. S.A., Recorder. Fort CoLUArsus, New York Harbor, October 11, 1867. Twelfth day : The board met pursuant to adjournment. Present: All the members. The health of Governor's and Bedloe's islands remains as at last session. In response to the inquiry from Headquarters General Recruiting Station, New York city, of date October 9th, 1867, the board are of opinion that recruits may be sent away at once from Bedloe's island, and that it will be safe to send others there after the 15th of October. The board also recommend that unrestricted intercourse be peimitted between the city and Governor's island, and after the 15th with Bedloe's island. The danger from cholera having passed, in the opinion of the board, and there being no further business before them, the board adjourned sine die. H. D. WALLEN, Brevet Brigadier General, U. S. A., President. W. C. Minor, Brevet Captain and Assistant Surgeon, U. S, A., Recorder. 9