GALVESrON VICTORIA. 91 U. S. A. Post Hospital, Galveston, Texas, April 17, 1868. General: In response to your communication of the 11th instant, inquiring as to the number of citizens who died of yellow fever in this city in the epidemic of 1867, I have the honor to enclose the city sexton's report of interments from July 27th to November lltli, inclusive, a period including most of the epidemic. The summary of the records I enclose estimates the 1,134 interments to have been of yellow fever. For the period reported, it is impossible to obtain an entirely accurate estimate. Yellow fever is known to have been in the city since the preceding month of June. The sexton furnishes me with a list of 14 interments of yellow fever, and one of jaundice, for July, not including enlisted men of the army. This increases the number for the period reported to 1,149; to this, I judge, may be added in July and in the latter portion of the epidemic—say 50 to 70 deaths from yellow fever, incorrectly reported as due to congestion of the brain, inflammation of bowels, and miasmatic and typho-malarial fevers. Not only was cerebral congestion one of the prominent characteristics of the epidemic, but also the tendency to other local determinations is well known to be, in this disease, influenced by the peculiar health and habits of the system of the person attacked. And, again, in the presence of a sweeping epidemic, almost all sickness more or less partakes of the type of the prevalent disease. If we estimate 15 deaths from yellow fever for the close of the epidemic not given in report, we obtain a total of 1,234, which, less 5 officers and 49 soldiers, leaves 1,180 deaths of civilians. I yesterday mailed to Colonel Webster my report of the epidemic, in which I liad collected considerable material of interest relating to the rise and course of the fever in the city. I am, General, very respectfully, your obedient servant, C. BACON, Jr., Assistant Surf/eon, and Brevet Major, U. S. A. Brevet Brigadier General T. A. McParlin, U. S. A., Medical Director 5th Military District, Ncio Orleans, La. VICTORIA, TEXAS. Victoria, Texas, September 24, 1867. General : I have the honor to report, in compliance with circular order, the first case of yellow fever at this post of which, personally, I have any knowledge. The patient was T H. Leeds, quartermaster's agent at this place. He is now under treat- ment by me, progressing favorably. Health of troops, under existing circumstances, most favorable. Every precaution has been adopted to enforce a strict sanitary police. No communication allowed between the troops and the citizens of the town. I am hopeful in believing that I will not have any yellow fever cases in military hospital. I have the honor to be, with great respect, your obedient servant, JOHN EIDGELY, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Major General Joseph K. Barnes, Surgeon General. Extract from Monthly Beporl of Sick and Wounded, Victoria, Texas, September, 1867. Acting Assistant Surgeon J. Eidgely, Companies " B," " D," and " H," 35</i Infantry. Yellow fever is now epidemic, combined with a favorable endemic condition. Two-thirds of the citizens are down, or have been sick with the disease. The mortality with them, so far as I can learn, is very heavy. With the troops, no deaths as yet. New Orleans, Louisiana, November 26, 1867. Major : I have the honor herewith to transmit special reports of yellow fever at Victoria, Texas, for September and October, 1867. The names and military history of the men I am unable to give. Having only a detachment hospital, no record is kept except the morning i-eport and prescription book. I have applied to headquarters of the regiment at San Antonio, Texas, forthe information ; but as so much time has elapsed since the report was overdue, I send without it. I would respectfully state that I reported for duty at Victoria August 27th, at which time most conflicting reports were prevailing as to the existence of yellow fever in the town. Necessarily niudi occupied with my official duties, having a large