EXTRACTS FEOM OFFICIAL REPORTS. 58 aromatics. Stiycbnia, with opium, was used in many cases of the premonitory diarrhoea, and apparently with very good effect. Where the diarrhoea was very great, it was frequently checked by tannin and tincture of opium in brandy; but nearly always when so cheeked caused great pain and uneasiness in the bowels, which was not removed until the bowels were again moved. Such cases were so frequent that I almost ceased to give any astringent, and treated cases of diarrhoea with stimulants, a diet of easy digestion, and perfect quiet. * # # * # It ».* XIX. FORT GIBSOIV, C. IS. Extract from monthly report of sick and wounded, Fort Gibson, C. N., October, 1866. Brevet Major V. B Hubbard, Assistant Surgeon United States Army. The two cases of cliolera reported were privates of company F, third battalion, nineteenth infantry, who were brought here from Forth Smith, Arkansas, where the disease had been prevailing with unusual virulence for a considerable time, by company F of the third battalion of this regiment, which passed through Fort Gibson en route to Fort Riley, Kansas. But one case occurred in this first battalion, a nurse who attended the two who died ; but the disease was easily controlled by the speedy use of appropriate remedies. The most strenuous efforts were immediately adopted to prevent the spread of the disease in this command, which, happily, were entirely successful. First Battalion Nineteenth United States Infantry, Fort Gibson, C. N., November 18, J866. Sir: In reply to your communication of the 3d inst., requiring "a special report upon cholera at this post," I have the honor to submit the following: During a summer of unusual heat and dryness, with a great abundance of fruit, much of which was brought to the fort in an unripe condition by the Indians, and although no efforts were made to interrupt communication by land or the river with Fort Smith, Arkansas, where cholera was prevailing with great severity, and a large daily mortality, no symptoms of cholera developed themselves until the 15th day of October, l&GC. There had been, up to that time, but three cases of cholera morbus, which yielded kindly to the ordinary remedial measures, and diarrhoeas were far less prevalent than might have been expected. Dysentery prevailed to a considerable though not alarming extent, and, excepting three cases, one of which proved fatal, the disease was very manageable. On the 12th day of October, 1866, company F of the third battalion of this regiment arrived at this post, en route from Fort Smith, Arkansas, to Fort Riley, Kansas. On the day following, John Taylor, a private of said company, was admitted to the post hospital suffering from chronic diarrhoea. The commanding officer of the company informed me that Taylor had been for some time in the post hospital at Fort Smith, undergoing tieatment for the same complaint. On the 15th, two days after admission to the hospital, he was seized with violent cramping of the stomach, bowels, and legs, with profuse diarrhoea and vomiting. The extremities were cold, the countenance livid, the hands shrivelled, and no pulse could be felt either at the wrist or ankle. The dianhoea was cliecked at the sixth discharge, and vomiting ceased after three evacuations of tlie stomach. The discharges from the mouth and rectum were of the rice-water character. The cramping was only partially controlled. The most persistent and well-directed efforts failed completely in restoring natural warmth to the extremities; the patient re mained pulseless to the last. He died at 6 p. ni. iu the collapsed state, twelve hours from the attack. The second case was private William Yaeger, of the same company, (F, third battalion.) The company was encamped ou the opposite side of the Grand river from the fort. On the night of the 17th of October, 1866, Yaeger was attacked with cholera, and requested the sergeant of the company to send for me. This was not done. I did not see the case until the man was brought to the hospital at 8 o'clock on the morning of the 18th. He was already in a state of collapse. The history of the first- mentioned case, nomine mutatis, will very accurately describe this case. The patient died at 9 p. in., October J8, 18G6, about eighteen hours after the attack. It should be stated that this man, like the first, had been in the post hospital at Fort Smith for chronic diarrhoea. The third case was private Charles I. Davis, company E, first battalion, who attended very assiduously to the wants of the above men in the capacity of hospital nurse. He was attacked on the morning of the 19th of October, but the adoption of prompt measures subdued the symptoms in twelve hours. He is still on duty as hospital nurse. The fourth case was August Westphal, private company G, first battalion, who died on the llth day of November, of sporadic cholera. I call the case sporadic because there were no symptoms of the disease either at the garrison among the soldiers or among the natives residing at the fort at the time, nor had there been since the departure of company F, third bat- talion, on the 19th day of October, nearly a month previously. This soldier, on the day preceding the day of his death, had eaten inordinately of fruit and pics. Feeling indisposed ho was relieved from guard at midnight. I was not sent for until 7 a. m. of November 11, when I found him collapsed. The vomiting and purging had ceased, though the cramping still continued. He was pulseless, and remained so until noon of the llth instant, when he died, twelve liours after being attacked. Th symptoms in this case were very similar to those described as occurring in the case first mentioned. In fact, there was a striking similarity in the symptoms of the first, second, and fourth cases. I do not entertain tlie slightest doubt that the disease was brought to this post hy company F of the third battalion, from Fort Smith, Arkansas, where cholera had been prevailing to an alarming extent for several weeks, and was prevailing at the