150 EXTEACTS FROM OFFICIAL EEPORTS On the 23(1 of August the U. S. army transport Alliance came to Barrancas from New Orleans, where yellow fever was raging, bound to Key West and Tortugas. On board was a detachment of the 24th U. S. Infantry, escorting prisoners to the latter place. During the day Private Wm. Snyder, of Company "I," 24th U. S. Infantry, came ashore and was found at the kitchen of the commanding otBcer complaining of illness; was sent to the post liopital and placed in a ward among other sick- These, as well as the hospital steward and attendant, were all northern men and unaeclimated. Snyder died at 1 a. m. of the 25th of malignant yellow fever, and was not buried until 11 a. m. The few men in barracks were immediately removed to Fort Barrancas, two hundred yards distant, and the hospital rooms were thoroughly fumigated. General Seymour adds: "There was no sequence to this case, and not a single case occurred in the command, which, otherwise, was never more healthy than during this summer." As an instance, on the other hand, of the portability of the disease, I may state that a Mr. McGinn, an old resident of Warrington, who had, in previous epidemics, been thrice attacked by yellow fever, lost a member of his ftimily in this epidemic, and removed the others to the house of a Mr. Este, some three miles west of the light-house and six miles from the navy yard; a locality hitherto deemed unusually healthy, some fifty feet above the neighboring lagoon, and with no marsh near worth notice. Here McGinn Mmself soon fell ill of yellow fever for the fourth time in his life, and the disease spread to liis wife, to Mr. Este, his wife and child, and to five colored people living near by. Careful examination of the meteorological records kept at the office of the naval commandant shows that the lowest thermometrical range in August was 70° Fahrenheit at 4 a. m. of the 25th and 26th; the highest, 96° Fahrenheit at 4 p. m. of the 9th. Averages, 78.6° and 89.2°. In September, the lowest was 72° at 4 a. m. of the 30th; the highest, 96° at 4 p. m. of the 29th. Averages, 77.5° and 87°. In October, the lowest was 50° at 4 a. m. of the 31st; the highest, 93° at 4 p. m. of the 22d. Averages, 68.4° and 81.8°. During August the prevailing winds were eleven days northerly, thirteen southerly, six easterly, and one westerly. Duriug September, eighteen days northerly, seven southerly, and five easterly. During October, twenty days northerly, two southerly, eight easterly, and one westerly. Rain fell in two days in August, five in September, and three in October. The excessively infectious nature of the breath and of the black vomit was shown in the fatal case of M. Doolin, as well as in the statement by Doctor Drummond, that in his eflx)rts to assist Doctor Piek in the dj'ing moments of the latter, he received upon his garments much of the ejected matter; upon returning to his quarters the discarded things were placed in a tub full of boiling water by his servant, a middle-aged negress, native of Pensacola, who, upon inhaling the steam, fell to the ground in a state of syncope that called for free stiraulatioff. Other cases of sickness and prostration from the breath of patients were also noticed. The writer has seen a gold stud-button worn by Mrs. S. during her fatal attack of August 31st, and it is even more discolored by the nature of the perspiration than the gold ring spoken of belonging to Dr. Murphy.* Treatment: If the patient was seen in the stage of chill or rigors, or after the hot stage had set in—as was, indeed, the more frequent—the following was found to be the best mode of procedure: the patient was stripped, well rubbed from head to foot with dry mustard, and then put in a full length bath at his bedside, made as hot as could be borne, a blanket thrown over to retain the heat, tte patient's head only appearing, and there he was kept until the pulse began to lower and he expressed relief from headache and other pains. Not only were all these effects experienced at the end of five or seven minutes, but in many cases the desire to free micturition was irresistible. The patient, when taken out of the bath, was laid upon a spare bed, quickly rubbed dry, clad in dry night clothing, and placed in his bed with plenty of blankets above and beneath him. By this time the perspiration, that had already begun in the bath, would greatly increase. While in the bath and during the sweating stage the patient partook freely of hot drinks; table tea, orange leaf tea, and the hot infusion of the horse-mint, which grows abundantly in the neighborhood, were used. Flaxseed tea was found to be as good as any other; but as the patient was apt to tire of any one drink, it was found well to have the others by way of change. At the same time, an alkaline diaphoretic seemed to be indicated. The liquor of the acetate of ammonia was given in half-ounce doses, alone or combined with fifteen minims of spirits of nitric ether, or five grains of nitrate of potash, with spirits of nitric ether every three hours; or five grains of sulphate of soda, every three hours, in flaxseed tea; or chlorate of potassa, in five-grain doses, every two or three hours, either alone or with spirits of nitric ether. This last combination was found to answer best. Some one of the above was continued until subsidence of the febrile stage. After the patient was put to bed from the hot bath, all muscular exertion on his part was strictly forbidden as extremely detrimental, not only by deranging the bed covering and checking the perspiration, but also by exhausting his strength. Raising the head frequently to drink was tiresome, increasing headache and productive of harm. To obviate this, he was kept still and his drink administered through a tube; a common clay pipe, new and well washed, was found to an.iwer this purj)0se very well. After the fever abated the sweating was allowed to subside of itself, and the bedding, ifcc, changed. This was found to be an important process requiring great care. It should not be performed until the fever abates and the sweating subsides. At this time the odor from the blankets saturated with perspiration is very ofl'ensive to those about the patient, and, for the first time generally, to himself The blankets only should be removed, to be replaced instantly by others previously well warmed, as the least cooling of the patient's surface may be followed by suppression of perspiration and other serious consequences. Tiie covering should now be sufficient to encourage gentle diaphoresis. In four or five hours after, the body clothes should be removed, the patient well rubbed with dry warm towels under the bed clothes, shifted to a clean dry bed, with warm cotton sheets and fresh body clothes put on, keeping him covered all the while. By this time the headache is, in most cases, greatly abated, although the pain of back and limbs still continues. A cathartic is generally of service now, especially if the bowels had not been moved since the seizure, as was, indeed, almost invariably the case. For this purpose, an emulsion of castor oil was found to answer best, on account of the tendency to irritability of stomach. Any further necessary purgation was generally effected by enemata. The cathartic usually brought away copious dark, offensive dejections, and relieved greatly, * Of Dr. Murphy, the w riter says, in the histoiy of his case, that before he was attacked '' his general health all this time was good, but a gold ring that he had worn for many years in this and other climates was now discolored—of a bluish tint around the edges and in the chasing; something that he had never before witnessed."—Ed.