50 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. XV. JEFFERSON BARRACKS, MISSOURI. Headquarters Fifty-Sixth United States Colored Infantry, Quarantine Grounds, Missouri, August 18, 1866. General : I have the honor to report, that in obedience to Special Orders No. 18, current series, headquarters department of Arkansas, companies A, B, E, G, and K, which had been stationed at Duvall's Bluffs, Arkansas, joined the regiment at Helena, Arkansas, by steamer Commercial, August 5, 1866. On the morning of the 7th the regiment was ready to move, but had to wait for suitable transportation until the evening of the 9th, when the steamer Continental came up the river, bound for Saint Louis ; but she not having sufficient accommoda- tions for the whole command, the five companies which had been stationed at Duvall's Bhiff, Arkansas, (Captain J. M. Thomas commanding,) took passage for Saint Louis, Missouri, and the remaining five companies, with the regimental head- quarters, took passage on the Platte Valley steamer on the morning of the 10th. Both boats were large and had the usual accommodations—that is, boiler and hurricane decks—for the accommodation of soldiers. The command had been trnusually healthy during the summer; and as both medical officers of the regiment were in charge of post hospitals and had not yet been relieved, I had no medical officer with me, but sent an experienced hospital steward, with a supply of medicines, with the detachment on the Continental. When about twenty-four hours from Helena one man died on the Platte Valley, of what I supposed to be congestive chills. Arrived at Cairo, Illinois, I was informed that the Continental, which preceded me a few hours, had thirteen dead bodies on board and from fifty to sixty sick. At the same time, the number of sick increased to an alarming extent on the Platte Valley, which induced me to engage a physician at Cairo, who treated about fifty men for various complaints, one of whom died of congestion between Cairo and Saint Loiiis, Missouri. Arrived at the quarantine grounds, near Jefferson barracks, Missouri, I found the detachment from the Continental disem- barked ; and Captain Thomas reported to me that over fifty men had died on the passage, and deaths were rapidly occurring since the landing was effected. Brevet Colonel Swift, Surgeon United States Army, was on the ground, and at my request in- spected the sick on the Platte Valley, and reported no cholera among them. The Platte Valley then proceeded to the port of Saint Louis, arriving about midnight on the 13th. I kept the troops aboard till morning, when the physician reported "a clear case of cholera" on board. I had the case removed by the civil authorities. I then reported in person at the head quarters of Lieutenant General Sherman, and was ordered to proceed to the quarantine grounds. Although I had kept the two detachments in separate camps, the disease seems to have infected the whole regiment. Everything has been done that medical skill can do to stay the progress of the disease by Surgeon E. Swift, United States Army. Surgeon D. A. La Force, fifty-sixth United States colored infantry, (reported for duty yesterday morning,) with a num- ber of citizen physicians, are untiring in their efforts to relieve the sufferings of the sick. The following is the melancholy mortality report of the regiment since leaving Helena, Arkansas: Detachment on Continental: Company A 27 B 18 E : 26 G 12 K 19 102 Detachment on Platte Valley: Company C 9 D 5 F - 10 H 9 1 4 37 Total 139 Up to the present time but one commissioned officer of the regiment has beou affected by the disease. I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, CHARLES BENTZONI, Colonel n/ty-sixth U. S. Colored Infantry, Commanding Regiment, Adjutant General, IVashington, D. C. XVI. FORT RILEY, KAIVSAS. Extract from montTily report of sick and wounded, Fort Riley, Kansas, August, 1866. Brevet Major W. H. Forwood, Assistant Surgeon United States Armij. John Clare, private, company A, unorganized United States cavalry, died of epidemic cholera. Date of death, August 30, 1866. This man arrived August 25, with three hundred and eighty-four other recruits, direct from Carlisle, Pennsylvania, via