30 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. weeks, previously to which time he worked in the mess-house of the quartermaster's employes. He was first seen by Acting Assistant Surgeon Perry, U.S.A., at 3 o'clock a.m., June 28th; was found in a state of collapse; had rice-water discharges from stomach and bowels; cramps and shriveled appearance of fingers; liad been suffering from diarrlicea for two days, but had not applied for treatment. The patient died at 3. 30 p. m. the same day. This man lived in a dug-out (hole in the bank) near the slaughter-pen, at a distance of a mile from the post or any camp. At 7 p. m. the same day Private George Groom, Company "H," was sent to the post hospital by Assistant Surgeon E. McClellan; was in a state of collapse when admitted, with all the symptoms of cholera. Died at 11 a. m., June 29th. A child of Geo. Irwin, quartermaster's employe, was taken sick with cholera at 10 o'clock a. m., June 29th; his wife at 12 m. same day, and himself at 2 p. m., June 30th. The man recovered; the wife and child died on the 30th. This family lived in a dug-out in the bank of the creek running near the post, (not far from the spring.) They were over half a mile from either of the other cases. They had drank the creek water. Tony Powell, Company " B," 38th Infantry, admitted to hospital at 6 p. m., June 29th. Recovering. The following is a record of cases and deaths occurring among the troops at the post under my supervision: Date. No. of cases. No. of deaths. Date. No. of cases. No. of deaths. Date. No. of cases. No. of deaths. June 28th 1 July 10th 1 July 22d " 29th 1 1 " nth 1 1 " 23d 1 2 " 30th 1 " 12th 1 " 24th July 1st 1 " 13th 4 " 25th 1 " 2d " 14th 3 6 " 26th 3d " 15th 2 1 " 27th 2 2 " 4th 1 " 16th 2 " 28th.- 1 " .5th 2 " 17th 1 1 " 29th 1 " 6th 3 " 18th 4 1 " 30th 1 " 7th 1 " 19th 11 6 " 31st 2 " 8th " 20th 2 August 1st 3 " 9th " 21st 3 Total* 47 32 In addition to the above cases, quite a number of citizen employes of the quartermaster's department were treated at the post hospital. Many cases, that I am now satisfied were mild cases of cholera, were diagnosed at the time as choleraic diarrhosa, and do not appear in the above report, which only contains the clear and unmistakable cases. During the first few days of the epidemic, Acting Assistant Surgeon Perry, U. S. A., rendered valuable assistance in the care of the sick. He was then ordered to Fort Zarah, Kansas, where the cholera had made its appearance. Acting Assistant Surgeon Squier, U. S. A., assisted me in a most faithful and efficient manner for about a week, and was then ordered away with the Kansas militia. He shortly after fell a victim to the disease. On the 22d of July, Brevet Colonel Swift, Surgeon, U. S. A., and Brevet Major Brewer, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., arrived at the post and kindly relieved me of any further care in regard to the sick, and on the 26th I left the post on leave of absence. Acting Assistant Surgeon Chase, U. S. Army, attended to the sick among the quartermaster's employes dui»ing the greater part of the time, but was prevented from doing so from July 18th to 28th by sickness. He reports 79 cases, and 26 deaths. His last case occurred on the 30th .July. Many of his worst cases were treated at the post hospital, and the deaths occurring there are not included in his report. At first we tried the chloroform treatment, as recommended by Assistant Surgeon E. McClellan, in doses of from 15 minims to one fluid drachm, repeated every half hour, or at larger intervals. Tlie chloroform seemed to have a decided effect in controlling the diarrhoea and vomiting, but I could not see that it had any effect in the way of producing reaction from a state of collapse. We afterwards adopted the calomel treatment, giving from 10 to 20 grains every hour until three or four doses had been administered, and the results of this treatment were more satisfactory than of any other tried. A number of apparently hope- less cases rallied under this treatment, but were afterwards carried off by the consecutive fever. We used Squibb's mixture very extensively in the treatment of the prevailing diarrhoea, and found it to answer admirably. This spring the Smoky Hill river overflowed its banks to an unusual extent, and the low lands near it were e.xtensively flooded. There was an unusual amount of moisture in the atmosphere during the months of April, May, June, and July, and a great deal of rain for this section of the country. Decomposition of animal and vegetable matter has taktn place with unusual rapidity. The air here is usually so pure and dry, that a piece of meat, cut thin, will dry when hung in the air without becoming tainted; but this summer the reverse was the case. There have been an unusual number of flies and mosquitoes. Houses have been infected with a large fly which difters from the common house fly. During the prevalence of the epidemic the nights were cool, and often almost cold. More deaths occurred during the coldest nights than at any other time. After a thunder storm the number of cases decreased in a marked degree. A large proportion of the cases were among those ^vho had recently arrived at the post, or had just returned from a tour of escort duty. A number of cases could be traced to an attack of indigestion from the use of improper food, and others to th»innnoderate drinking of river water. The disease was most fatal among the Kansas militia, who were for several days eilfemped on the baidis of the river near the slaughter-pen where the first case occurred. They drank the river water. *The above table eontains one case more than the list of names received IVom Fort Barker.