NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA 121 fainignted by pots, placed over all the hold, while she lay at quarantine; she was also, when empty, cleansed and fumigated, if the order from the Board of Health was C(miplied with, about the 10th or 11th, and it was after this date that Seth Yorke was attacked. A large number of sea captains, mates, &c., attended the funerals of Captain Hooper and his wife ; and many cases among seafaring men, which occurred shortly after their funerals, were believed by this class of men to have originated from tliat circumstance. Captain Hooper's brother came here to take command of the ship, but became so ahirnied from circumstances whicli seemed to prove the persistence of infection in this sliip, that he declined to go out in her, but preferred joining her in the Mediterranean by the mail steamer. The records of the Board of Health show three deaths from yellow fever in June. The first occurred on the 23d, in the thirteen buildings, Julia street, and was reported by Dr. Folwell; the next on the 26th, at the hotel near the stock-landing, the resort of stock merchants from Texas, reported by Dr. Greenleaf. The third case was that of a man named Dougherty, employed at headquarters coal barges, Algiers, who was taken sick on the 25th and died in Charity hospital on the 29th. Dr. Wood's two first cases terminated favorably. His first was Captain J. D. Bell, Texan stock-trader, who came over in the same vessel witli Lieutenant Dewey. He paid him the first visit on tlie 30th of June, at the Stock-landing Hotel, a place where Texan travellers by the Morgan line usually stop on arriving in the city if they be engaged in the stock business. Dr. Wood found him, as lie was informed, in the third day of his attack. Dr. Greenleaf's case died on the 2Gth, in the same house; so that Bell must have been taken down the day after the death of Dr. Greenleaf's case, (Bonanan.) Dr. Wood saw his second case on 1>lie 9th of July—a man named Pratt, aged 40 years, on Washington between Camp and Magazine streets. His third case v/as Captain Pennington, who died on the 19th of July, and who had dined several times on board the Texan steamers. July shows a mortality on the public records of 11; August has 255; September, 1,637; October, 1,072; November, 103; December, 26 : grand total, 3,107. The above is, of course, but a feeble contribution to the etiology of the disease for the last summer. It is given in the hope that a portion may fill a hiatus in your records. Of course, in a city like New Orleans, where neighbors are often ignorant of the names of those residing even next door to them, it would almost be a matter of impossibility to trace the progress of an epidemic with only one focus; but where the foci are multiplied indefinitely, we are only able to reach an approximation to the truth by conjecture. » ■»«*#*«■#*«««* Annexed are memoranda of results of cases treated by me last summer in private practice, the city workhouse, the boys' and girls' house of refuge, and the army, by which it will be seen that in the workhouse there were 64 cases treated and 3deaths; in the girls' house of refuge, 13 cases and no deaths ; in the boys' house of refuge, 5 cases and 2 deaths ; in city general practice,. 76 cases and 10 deaths; in the army, 1 case and no death: total, 159 cases and 15 deaths. My treatment of yellow fever consisted in the observance of the following general outlines : that, as yellow fever is a disease which, like the exanthemata, (to which class, in my opinion, it belongs,) has a definite course to run, wliioh cannot be abbreviated and hardly modified by drugs, I gave but little medicine; that, as typhoid symptoms indicated putrescent secretions, and that the patient, by breathing the effluvia from his own body, might increase the virulence of the poisoning process which was evidently going on in his system, I took pains to secure as full and free a supply of fresh air in his apartment as circumstances could atford, always mindful not to place him in a draught. Eest of body, mind, and alimentary canal I considered essential, never allowing the patient to rise in the bed or get out of it for any purpose, and urging liim to turn over slowly in changing position, so that a quick, sudden jnovement should not accelerate the circulation. Free perspiration seems to be the mode by wliich nature i-elieves the effects of the excessive animal heat generated in this disease; accordingly, it was encouraged in moderation, avoiding covering the patient too warmly. Two blankets at first, afterwards reduced to one, were all I directed to be used. Warm or acid drinks seemed to have equally good results in this way, and I gave the patient his choice. The fatal results of suppression of the urine, its acid reaction and its irritant properties, required close attention from the first, and I used alkalies—the carbonate of soda or potassa, flaxseed tea, and spirits of nitre—for this purpose; in addition, in some cases, to a liniment applied over the region of the kidneys, composed of equal parts of turpeiftine and spirits of nitre. The neuralgic pains of the head and back or limbs were controlled by using mustard plasters, foot-baths as well, with small doses of morphine. The eau sfidatif de Easpail, ice-cold, I found an excellent application to the head. In view of the condition of the mucus membranes in regard to softening, as well as the arrest of the function of secreting pepsin, I starved my patients, except so far as any food which could enter the system by endosmose was concerned, for at least six days, and, for a reason which I shall give hereafter, preferred administering thin broth by enemata, to sustain his strength, to giving by the mouth any food requiring digestion. In a few cases of great apparent congestion of the brain or viscera I used cupping and the abstraction of blood, never more than eight or ten ounces. I also used blisters over the stomach or to the temples and back of the ears to relieve the brain or the stomach later in the disease. Stimulants were not used by me indiscriminately, but only as occasion required, rather avoiding than using them too hastily, and carefully watching their effects. Brandy was selected for the remission, and porter for the ccmvalescence. The carbonic acid water was a grateful drink, and acted like a charm in most cases in controlling vomiting and relieving nausea. The per chloride of iron I used, much diluted with water, to arrest liajmorrliages, (both as drink and month- wash,) and in some instances by enemata witli brandy, using about twenty-five drops to a tumblerful of watei-. To go over the ground again: the mutation of the tissues, secretions, and excretions are influenced in this disease in a remarkable manner by the condition of the blood. There is a period of variable duration in which this fluid is preserved in a normal or nearly normal condition. During this period remedies may be used and certain tlierapeutical effects ordinarily observed, as their action may be expected to follow. During the first period of the disease, blood-letting freely, tartar emetic, calomel, quinine, sulphuric ether, &c., have been used, and, their advocates assert, with great benefit. But in the calm stage, or when the hajmorrhagic phase is reached, it is difficult to foretell what will occur from the administration of any remedy. I knew a physician who, in Vera Cruz, in 1849, gave a great number of patients sulphuric ether to relieve liiccough. So