60 EXTEACTS FROM OFFICIAL KEPORTS. Extract from monthly rejiort of sick and wou7ided unassigned recruits for Eighth United States Cavalry, La Virgin, Nicaragua, December, 1866. Brevet Major Thomas McMilhn, Assistant Surgeon United States Army. The command, consisting- of six officers and tbree hundred and fifty unassigned recruits for the eighth United States cavalry, sailed from New York city November 19, ]866, for San Francisco, California, and arrived at San Juan del Norte December 8, 1866, but was not disembarked until December 15, ]866. On the morning of December 16 the command pro- ceeded up the San Juan river, all on board in perfect health. No communication was held with the mainland, nor did the men have access to fruit or liquor. The first case of cholera occurred on the 16th, shortly after leaving Del Norte. It appeared also at the same time on another steamer, among the passengers and native boatmen. On the '20th the detachment reached Virgin bay, Nicaragua, went into quarters, and the hospital was established. Up to this date there has been among the troops fifty-four cases and twenty-seven deaths from cholera. The epidemic has been equally severe among the passengers, and much more so among the natives. A communication informing the Surgeon General of the appearance of the epidemic and the detention of the command in the transit was forwarded from Virgin bay on the 27th of December. XXI. FOKT DELAWARE, DEE. Extract from the montldy report of sick and wounded at Fort Delaware, September, 1866. Brevet Major E. McClellan, Assistant Surgeon United, States Army. Epidemic cholera has existed to a very considerable extent during the past month in and around Delaware City, where, in an aggregate of fifteen hundred inhabitants, some thirty-odd deaths have occurred. It has also existed to some extent in Salem, New Jersey, and the surrounding country. No case has occurred among the troops of this command, and but one upon the island—this in the family of an officer of the post, whose wife, after neglecting a slight diarrhcea for several days, was taken on the morning of the 11th instant with a violent cramp in the lower extremities, and rapidly went into a state of collapse, of which the symptoms were fully marked. Pure chloroform, in doses of CO minims, was administered in iced water every forty minutes, until four drachms had been taken. Dry beat and frictions were applied to the surface of the body. Reaction was very slowly established, and it was many hours before the entire surface had regained its heat. I would hero note that the diarrhoea was arrested after the first dose of chloroform, and that when reaction was fully established at least three quarts of turbid urine were voided in the space of half an hour, establishing, to my mind, the truth of the assertion of Dr. H. Osborne, of London, as to the mode in which chloroform is eliminated from the system when used internally. I regret that, on account of severe mental anxiety under which I was laboring, the pathological condition of this urine was neglected. The treatment in this case, after reaction, consisted of small doses of calomel and the exhibition of camphor and the preparations of ammonia. The convalescence was slow; at the expiration of three weeks the patient has but partially recovered the use of her lower extremities. There have been during the month frequent cases of painless diarrhoea. They have invariably yielded readily to the action of chloroform, which has, in the majority of cases, produced the diuretic eftect before mentioned. The command is in a good state of police. The most rigid regulations are enforced as regards conmiunication with either of the adjacent towns, viz., Delaware City, Delaware, and Salem, New Jersey, and no fruit is permitted to be landed upon the island. During the past ten days the diarrhoea has disappeared, and is followed by remittent fever, which has prevailed to a considerable extent, some eighteen cases having occurred among the persons who remain outside the fortifications. These cases have been characterized by the intensity of the hepatic disorder, and. in the majority of cases, by the jaundiced condition of the skin. Advantage has been taken to test the power of chloroform iu eliminating the bile—ten minims of chloroform, agitated with a fluid-ounce of iced water, given twice daily, or oftener, as required by the case. The removal of the bile from the skin and conjunctiva is very rapid, and the urine beiug tested after the manner of Petenkofer, the bile in every instance responded. [Extracts.] Fort Delaware, Delaware, November 20, 1866. General : I have the honor to forward a report of cases of epidemic cholera which occurred in the vicinity of this post during the past few months. During the spring and early summer months of this year intermittent and other fevers were unusually prevalent upon the banks of the Delaware river, «nd continued until early in the month of August, when, in isolated cases, epidemic cholera made its appearance. In each locality, as it occurred according to its severity, the type of the general diseases was changed, and diarrhoeas, of greater or less intensity, complicated any constitutional disturbance. The usual course of this disease, in ascending the banks of rivers, was not observed iu the occurrence of this epidemic. Its first appearance was in an isolated case, which occurred July 22, at New Castlo, Delaware, in an aged resident of the town. During the latter part of August it became epidemic in Delaware City, a .small town at tlic eastern terminus of the Chesapeako and Delaware canal, and ten miles down stream from New Castle, here beiiig confined to the lowest class of the couniiunity. It was virulent and fatal in its type, and was not arrested until about the 20th of September, by which time it had become epidemic in New Castlo, the point first visited.