31 FORT HARKER, KANSAS. The disease has traveled from here westward on both the Santa Fe and Smoky Hill route, but has not extended eastward, although most of the fugitives from it went in that direction. One mild case of cholera occurred on the route from Fort Eiley to this post late last year, and was brought here, where the patient recovered. I cannot find any evidence that the disease was brought here I'rom the east by troops, or that any cases had occurred at Fort Riley, Fort Leavenworth, or Jefferson Barracks; nor can I find any local causes that seem sufficient to account for its appear- ance here. I can oidy suppose that the disease, having traveled as far westward as Fort Eiley last year, the germs have been preserved in some way until a condition of the atmosphere prevailed favorable to their extension; and in conformity with the usual law, the disease has this summer continued its westward march. Nearly every officer at the post suffered from choleraic diarrhoea ; but no case of cholera occurred among them. One of the ladies of the garrison died of cholera on the 15th of July. Fort Riley, December 8, 1867. General : I have the honor to request that the following explanatory note may be appended to my report in regard to the epidemic of cholera at Fort Harker, Kansas, during the past summer. The ratio of deaths for the number of cases is not fairly shown by my report, as the four companies of Kansas militia, "H" Company, 38th U. S. Infantry, and " F" Company, 10th Cavalry, were independent commands in camp near the post, ujider their own medical officers. Only the most severe cases from these conunaiids were taken into the post hospital, and are reported by me. Many of the milder cases were treated in camp, and many of the cases sent to the hospital were in a hopeless state of collapse when admitted. Very respectfully, j'our obedient servant, GEO. M. STERNBERG, Assistant Surgeon, and Brevet Major, U. S. A. Brevet Major General Jos. K. Barnes, Surgeon General. Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, August 5, 1867. General: I have the honor to inform you that, on the morning of the 22d ultimo, I left this place in company with Assistant Surgeon Brewer, U. S. A., en route for Fort Harker, having been apprised of the alarming increase of the cholera epidemic at that place. At Lawrence I was joined by Dr. Swift, U. S. A., whom I had ordered up from Jefferson Barracks, aiid Doctors Wiggins and Renick, phj'sicians under contract, engaged by the Medical Purveyor at St. Louis, at my request, for service at and about Fort Harker. At 10.30 p. m. I arrived at my place of destination, and found both medical officers at the post disabled from duty, and many sick in quarters and in hospital. Dr. Sternberg, Post Surgeon, on account of fatigue, had gone to bed. Dr. Chase, overwhelmed with grief on account of the loss of his wife, who had suddenly died at 4 o'clock that afternoon, was not in condition to do any kind of duty. In company with Doctors Swift and Brewer, I at once visited the sick in hospital, and found Ed. McEntire, Private, 3d U. S. Infantry, entered the day previous, convalescing from cholera, and now suffering from irritation of the bowels, and restive. Sulphate morphia, -J grain, and mustard to the abdomen, was prescribed. Private Henry C. Irvy, 18th Kansas Cavalry, aged 23, unmarried, entered the hospital on the 19th instant with symptoms of cholera ; his dejections were now small and frequent, tinged with bile; had taken 50 grains calomel. Diarrhoea mixture— calomel and sulphate of quinine, of each ten grains, morphine, J grain—and compress to the abdomen, were ordered. Visited at 2.30 o'clock and 4.30 o'clock a. m., by Dr. Swift, with other inmates of the hospital tents. At the latter hour it was discovered that the compress had been neglected, and it was immediately applied. The pulse, from being imperceptible at the wrist, could soon be distinctly counted, and found to be 116; bandage could not be tolerated, consequently his pulse fell rapidly ; brandy and milk punch prescribed every half hour to no purpose. Irvy died at 12 m. w John Scott, a Private of the 3d U. S. Infantry, aged 21, unmarried, entered the hospital on the 18th instant with un- mistakable evidences of cholera; had taken diarrhoea mixture and 40 grains of calomel, and had mustard applied to the abdomen. Respiration labored and pulse 105, though not then suffering from any irritation of the intestinal canal; his debility was so great that convalescence could not be considered as established. Cold tea and milk punch were prescribed. D.O.Duffy, Private, Kansas Volunteers, aged 20, unmarried, entered hospital on the 19th instant; pulse full and 108; respiration oppressed, comatose; had taken 30 grains of calomel and diarrhoea mixture; brandy and milk punch everj'half hour; diarrhoea recurring at 9 a. m., camphorated tincture of opium, 2 drachms, and compress to abdomen, were prescribed. Frank Hunt, citizen, aged 19, unmarried, was brought to hospital at 10.15 a. m., pulseless, restive, and cyanosed; had vomited his breakfast and purged twice; complained of pain in the umbilical region, for which Dr. Brewer administered, endermically, a solution of i grain of sulphate of morphia; half a drachm of chloroform was given, followed by calomel and sulphate of quinine, of each 15 grains. At the end of 45 minutes, 20 grains of sulphate of quinine was administered; no effect was recognized, unless that produced by the morphine, and death at noon resulted. Joseph De Foy, aged 57, married, a laborer in the quartermaster's department, entered the hospital at the same time with the above-mentioned Frank Hunt; had been vomiting and purging excessively for several hours, or since half-past five, and was seized with excruciating cramps in the abdomen and inferior extremities; pulseless, voice weak and husky; gave him chloroform, I drachm, camphorated tincture opium, 2 drachms, which, being retained, was followed by calomel and quinine, of each 10 grains. Assistant Surgeon Brewer injected, endermically, a solution of 1 grain of sulphate of morphia; entire relief from pain :tnd cramp followed. A compress had also been placed upon the abdomen, though the evacuations from the bowels were entirely suppressed, and stimulants in the shape of brandy and milk punch were freely administered; no reaction followed; and death occurred at 5 o'clock p. m. An autopsj' of the patient was prevented by his hasty interment.