10 ON SPECIAL WOUNDS AND INJURIES. Fio. ].—Seciinn of a cranium, exhihitinjj; five trephine per- forations lor the evacuation of pus, tlio result of a gun- shot contusion of the right parietal. Spec. 2000, A. M. M, consequence of inflammation in the veins of the diploe. Compression has resulted either from extravasation of blood, or inflammation of the brain or its membranes, or from suppuration. The following is an example of a scalp wound, followed by inflam- mation of bone and meningitis: Private Joseph R , Co. E, 151st New York Vols., received, in a reconnoissance near the Rapidan, November 27th, 1863, a gunshot wound of the scalp. The nature of the missile was unknown. The patient was removed to Fairfax Seminary General Hospital near Alex- andria. There were no cerebral symptoms at the time of his admission, and it was hoped that the pericranium had escaped uninjured. He was up, and apparently well on December 13th, 1863, when he was suddenly seized with convulsions, which were followed by coma. Surgeon I). P. Smith, U. S. Vols., laid bare the calvaria at the seat of injury, and finding the bone diseased, applied the trephine. Matter was found immediately beneath the bone and oozing from the diploe. It was thought expedient to make five perforations with the trephine, in order to remove the diseased bone and to give free exit to pus. Convulsions did not recur, but the comatose condition continued, and the case terminated fatally twelve hours after the operation. The autopsy revealed difi'use inflammation of the arachnoid and of the dura mater. The foregoing case illustrates the fallacy of Pott's views in relation to trephining for pus under the skull-cap; and yet, under such circumstances, the best modern authorities advise the use of the trephine as affording the patient the only chance of recovery. The records attest how slight this chance is, and corroborate the observation of Mr. Hewett, that "the successful issue of a case of trephining for matter between the bone and the dura mater is almost unknown to surgeons of our own time."* The Army Medical Museum furnishes very ample illustrations of almost every variety of gunshot injury of the skull and its contents. The number of osteological specimens relating to this class of injuries is 246, of wet preparations 22, of drawings, photographs, engravings, and plaster casts 97. There are 22 specimens of gunshot contusion of the cranium. In these, either necrosis has taken place, with exfoliation of the external table only, or of the entire thickness of the bone, or else inflammatory suppuration has occurred in the diploe or between the skull and dura mater. The Museum possesses eight examples of that rare and interesting variety of gunshot fracture of the cranium, in which the external table is unbroken, while the vitreous table is fissured and some- times depressed. One of the most perfect of these specimens (No. 1568, A. M. M.) is figured in No. 94, Photographic Series, S. G. 0. An abstract of the case is subjoined: Private David P , Co. C, 3.5th Wisconsin Vols., was wounded at Tupelo, Mississippi, July 18th, 1864, by a musket-ball, which struck the skull obliquely, and apparently inflicted a scalp wound merely, between the sagittal suture and the left parietal protuberance. There were no signs of cerebral disturbance. The wound was dressed simply, and the patient was conveyed to Memphis, Ten- nessee, and admitted into the Adams U. S. General Hospital on July 23d. He was then perfectly rational and free from head symptoms. Two days subse- quently, indications of compression of the brain were observed, and on the after- noon of the 25th they had rapidly become aggravated. The pulse was slow, the respiration labored, the pupils dilated, the sphincters relaxed. A very careful exploration of the wound was made, but, of course, no cranial fracture could be detected. The treatment was limited to cold applications to the head, scarified cups to the nucha, and brisk purging. On the 26th, the patient gradually became comatose. The discharges from the bowels and bladder were involuntary. Fig. 2.—Section of skull-cap, exhibiting a de- jirensed fracture of the vitreous table. Spec. 1508,A. M.M. * A System of Surgery, Theoretical and Practical, in treatises by various authors, edited by T, Holmes, M.A. Cantab. London, 1861. Vol. ii. p. 101.