68 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. Galveston, Texas, January 1, 1868. Colonel : I have tlie honor to submit the following statement concerning an epidemic of cholera which prevailed at this post during a part of tlie month of December, 1867. On the 6th of that mouth a vessel, transporting four hundred and twenty-five U. S. soldiers from New York city to Texas, arrived at Galveston, having cholera to a limited extent among the troops on board. They were disembarked and quartered in tents for three days. At the expiration of that tinie, on account of tlie inclemency of the weather, they were put in barracks with the detachment of the 17th U. S. Infantry on duty here. On the 11th of December another vessel, bringing fr(mi New York city to Texas five hundred and ten U. S. Soldiers, among whom also cholera had ap- peared, reached this place. The second transport remained one day and sailed for Indianola, Texas, with all of its detachment on board, except the sick who had been left for treatment in this post hospital. The troops on both the ships, while en route from New York to Texas, stopped a day at New Orleans, La., and the malady appeared among them soon after leaving the latter city. Cholera was epidemic in New Orleans at the time. One death from that disease occurred on the second transport before it reached Galveston. Altogether twenty-five cases of cholera and eighteen of choleraic diarrhcea were admitted into Galveston post hospital. Four cases of cholera terminated fatally. Twenty-one cases of cholera and all the cases of choleraic diarrhcea resulted favorably. Three privates of the 17th U. S. Infantry previously on duty here were attacked with cholera. They all recovered. The remedy mainly relied upon was tannin, in doses varying fi-om half a drachm to two drachms, in fresh solution, after each discharge by vomiting or per anum. After commencing its administration to the extent mentioned, none were lost who came under treatment before the stage of*collapse had set in. The first eifect of the tannin was to cause the stomach to discharge its contents ; but in every case it finally completely arrested the discharges and relieved the cramps attending them. The men who were received in a pulseless condition died. I witnessed no good effects from acoholic stimulants. They were usually very offensive to the stomach, and did not appear capable of influencing the circulation in the stage of collapse. The epidemic has intirely disappeared from this post. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, H. McL. CRONKHITE, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel W. Webstek, Surgeon, U. S. A., Chief Medical Officer District of Texas. Uxtrctct from Weehly Heport of Sick and Wounded, Indianola, Texas, week ending December 14, 1867. Acting Assista-nt Surgeon S. Santoire, U. S. A. Thirteen cases of cholera were admitted from a detachment of recruits from Galveston, Texas. The disease has not yet spread in this place. 0 Post Hospital, Indianola, Texas, December 31, 1867. Colonel: In reply to your communication of December 23d, 1867, I have the honor to inform you that cases of cholera admitted from a detachment of recruits passing through en route for San Antonio, Texas, referred to in one of my letters to your office, are cases of what is called, by recent European writers, common or sporadic, also European cholera. Although in all of these cases rice-water discharges were observed, the disease progressed slowly, and not one of the cases showed that stage of collapse found in Asiatic cholera. Two cases terminated fatally, on the 6th day of the disease, in a typhoid condition; none existed in this command nor among the citizens at this place. I am^Colonel, very respectfully, your obedient servant, SAMUEL SANTOIRE, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel W. Webster, Surgeon, U. S. A., Chief Medical Officer District of Texas. Hempstead, Texas, January 3, 1868. SiK : I have the honor to transmit a special report of cholera patients for the month of December, 1867. Besides the accompanying list, I am satisfied that there was considerable choleraic diarrhcea which failed of full development on account of the prompt measures taken to stop it. Not only was cleanliness and disinfection attended to, but opium and camphor pills were placed in the hands of the sergeants of companies, with instructions to watch the sinks, and all men frequenting them too often had a dose administered after e.-icli evacuation, and every case proving obstinate was at once reported to the hospital. ' Respectfully, your obi dieiit servant. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel VVahuen WeBSTER, Surgeon, U. S. A., Chief Medical Officer District of Texas. F. A. WILMANS, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A.