ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. MEDICAL SERIES. 145 Abstracts of a few cases are here very briefly presented in illustration of the fore- going series: Private R , 4th Iowa Cavalry, was admitted to Hospital No. 3, Vicksburg, Miss., October 10th, 1863. He had suffered from diarrhoea for nine months previous to his decease. The attack began as dysentery, with frequent bloody stools, which, in a day or two, greatly diminished in number, becoming mucoid and gelatinous. After five weeks, the disease assumed the characters of chronic diarrhoea, which continued till his admission ; the dysenteric symptoms, however, recurring from time to time. He died November 17th. Autopsy: A few calcareous tubercles and cicatrices at the apex of eadh lung; patches of congestion in small intestine; at the lower end of the ileum a few of Peyer's glands were slightly prominent; coecum of a deep red color, its mucous coat softened ; the rest of the colon much thickened, cutting like cartilage, pale, with livid spots or stains, and presenting great numbers of small punched-out follicular ulcers; spleen small. Nos. 119 to 123, Medical Series, are successive portions of the colon, which show very well its thickness and the follicular ulcers. Contributed by Surgeon George P. French, U. S. Vols. Private B , 5th Illinois Cavalry, aged twenty-one, was admitted to Hospital No. 3, Vicksburg, Miss., October 10th, 1863. Has been sick eight months. His disease began with an attack of intermittent fever, which was suc- ceeded by dysentery for a few days, when the stools became watery, and the complaint assumed the character of chronic diarrhoea, which it retained, with occasional dysenteric symptoms, until the date of his admission. Death, November 19th. Autopsy: Old pleuritic adhesions; patches of congestion in small intestine; solitary glands en- larged to the size of small shot; Peyer's glands healthy; coecum inflamed ; descending colon and rectum extensively ulcerated. No. 145, Medical Series, is a piece of the ileum, with enlarged solitary follicles. No. 146, of the ulcerated colon. Contributed by Surgeon George P. French, U. S. Vols. Private 0 , 2d Battalion, Veteran Reserve Corps, on duty at the Fairfax Seminary Hospital, near Alexandria, Va,., applied for treatment August 6th, 1864. He stated that he had suffered from frequent attacks of diarrhoea during the previous six months. He was pale and sallow, with furred tongue, quick pulse, and dry skin. The stools were from ten to fifteen daily, consisting of thin frothy mucus mixed with blood. He died November 25th. Autopsy: Small intestine normal; colon extensively ulcerated, and coated with a dark-colored pseudo-membrane, which hung in shreds from the edges of the ulcers. Nos. 383 and 384, Medical Series, are successive portions of the colon, exhibiting the conditions described. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon H. Allen, U. S. A. Private M , 108th New York Vols., was admitted to Douglas Hospital, Washington, D. C, February 13th, 1863. Had been taken sick in the Army of the Potomac, and was brought from Aquia Creek in a very feeble con- dition. He was greatly emaciated, pulse 110, tongue red, stools frequent and liquid. He gradually sank, the abdomen became tender and tympanitic, and he died March 20th. Autopsy: Pleuritic adhesions of lower lobe of right lung; nutmeg liver; patches of inflammatory congestion in small intestine ; the colon thickened, with numerous large ulcers; the remainder of its mucous surface plastered with pseudo-membrane. Nos. 288 and 289, Medical Series, are succes- sive portions of the colon in this case. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon William Thomson, U. S. A. Private McD , 39th Massachusetts Vols., was admitted to Douglas Hospital, Washington, D. C, from the Army of the Potomac, September 9th, 1864. He had suffered from frequent attacks of diarrhoea during the summer, and had also had intermittent fever. For three weeks prior to his admission, he had been in field hospital. On admission, he was emaciated and feeble; conjunctiva yellow; tongue furred ; pulse 80; abdomen flat and tender, especially over the course of the colon ; frequent stools; slight cough. Death, September 30th. Autopsy: Pleuritic adhesions on both sides; peritonitis; the pelvic cavity filled with thin pus; the viscera coated with patches of yellow lymph ; small intestine normal; large intestine greatly thickened, with extensive irregular ulcers. No. 400, Medical Series, is a portion of the colon of this patient. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. F. Norris, U. S. A. Private S , 2d New York Heavy Artillery, was admitted to Douglas Hospital, Washington, D. C, from the Army of the Potomac, September 9th, 1864, with chronic diarrhoea. At the time of his admission, he was much emaciated, with jaundice and frequent bilious vomiting. Abdomen flat and tender ; stupor; low delirium ; involun- tary stools; and death on the 17th. Autopsy by Assistant Surgeon E. Curtis, U. S. A.: Emaciation; jaundice; thoracic organs healthy; small intestine normal; mucous membrane of colon greatly thickened, with large irregular ragged ulcers ; a perforation the size of a dime in the caput coli; peritoneal adhesions, principally between right lobe of liver and colon ; numerous metastatic foci in liver, especially in right lobe. No. 448, Medical Series, is a piece of the ulcerated colon. No. 449, a section of the liver. The small yellow foci scattered through the liver consisted of granular matter and the debris of normal tissue, but contained no pus. The condition was similar to what is often observed in pyaemia due to gunshot wounds. Contributed by Assistant Surgeon W. P. Norris, U. S. A. Corporal C , 160th Pennsylvania Vols., set. twenty-four, was admitted to Columbian College Hospital, Wash- ington, D. C, October 30th, 1864, for chronic diarrhoea. There was great emaciation, frequent pulse, and five or six loose stools daily. November 11th. Attention was drawn to a dry cough at night, with frequency of respiration. Death, November 18th. Autopsy: A large abscess was found in upper part of right lobe of liver. It had burst through the diaphragm into right pleural cavity, which contained a gallon of sero-pus. The fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs on this side wore denuded of periosteum by the burrowing of the pus. The lower parts of the ileum and colon