SUB-DISTRICT OF T^E RIO GRANDE. 105 dying man, fearing isolation, went to a ranc-li about four miles down the river, on the American side, wliere, some days afterwards, he was taken ill and died, it is supposed from the effects of the same disease. This one, and ihose of the Garcia family, six or seven persons, mentioned above, were the first deaths from yellow fever, but not known to be that disorder, because the connec- tion between the Corpus Christi cases which occurred in the ambulance was not established, and, being p«or Mexicans, no physi- cian was consulted. These parties, with the exception of the two left up the river, were all Mexicans, and ihe evidence, thus far, of direct infection, is reliable. The ambulance, a private conveyance which had conveyed the disease to this locality, was burned during the day, after the death of its owner, on my reconunendation, by order of Brigadier General Mackenzie; and it was supposed that the entire contents of the carriage were at the same time destroyed, and it was not for some time subsequently that the sale of the two blankets mentioned above was ascertained from the surviving member of the Garcia family. About the third week of September the mortality in Rio Grande City, which is about the third of a mile from these barracks, and said, according to good authority, to contain about seven hundred and fifty inhabitants of all ages, began to assume an alarming increase, but was entirely confined to tlie Mexican portion of the population. About the same period Dr. B. S. Reilly, late an Acting Assistant Surgeon, stationed at this post, informed me that he had seen and treated three cases of yellow fever in one jacal, (hut,) but on an inquiry being made of him a short time afterward by the commanding officer, he denied its being yellow fever. Inquiry made of citizens at the same period brought out the statement that it was not yellow fever, but a bilious remittent fever, usual every fall. No more attention was paid to the subject until September 23d, when a citizen was sent to the post hospital by Brevet Brigadier General Mackenzie, commanding the post, without my knowledge. The patient, F. H. Forbes, a former employe of the quartermaster's department, being sick in town, was sent into the hospital as stated. On hearing of his admission about four or five hours afterwards, I visited him, and, suspicious of his appearance, cautioned the hospital steward; and when the disease developed itself, I had the greater portion of the bedding removed from the ward. A short time afterward, the mnnis- takable black vomit appearing, the hospital was at once vacated, and the patients put into tents. The patient died during the night, and was buried two hours afterward. The hospital was tlien closed and thoroughly fumigated with sulphurous acid, and no person permitted to enter the building. Some of the clothing of the three soldiers (blacks) acting as his attendants, together with all the bedding contained on the patient's bed and the two adjacent ones, was burned, and it was expected that these prompt steps would prevent its further development at these barracks. The second case known as yellow fever, occurring in the neighborhood, was that of Dr. Reilly, at Rio Grande City, who was taken ill on Sunday or Monday, September 21st or 22d, and died September 27th. Dr. Headley, of Camargo, Mexico, who attended him throughout the night of September 26th, and until he died, pronounced this a case of yellow fever, as did a number of citizens who had before seen and nursed the disease. The following Saturday, October 4th, Dr. Headley was taken ill at his home in Camargo, and on the 9th day succeeding his attack, October 13th, his wife, Mrs. Headley, who attended him through the first night of his illness, was taken sick with the prevalent disease. Another case may be mentioned of an American named Garner, who was the sleeping companion of Forbes for about ten days previous to his illness. This person was taken during the middle of the week and died on Saturday, September 27th, the same day as Dr. Reilly. Mr. Dallas, on Tuesday, September 23d, brought my patient Forbes to the hospital in a buggy and was taken ill on the following Monday night. On the same day, September 29th, I was taken ill, it being the seventh day after the admission of Forbes to the hospital. There being no physicians of easy access, I had recourse to a merchant who had spent the sununer in Corpus Christi, where, having recovered from the disease, he acted as a volunteer nurse and saw a large number of cases. His idea of my appearance was that the disorder which manifested itself was yellow fever. The skin, though not presenting a marked appearance, was, I have been told since by officers, very slightly tinged; and the eyes, according to my nurse, the merchant spoken of, presented a peculiar appearance. Pain over the inner canthus of the eye, which seemed to reach to the back of my head, where it was most intense, was the most noticeable symptom to me. Tenderness over the stomach and liver were reserved until the third or fourth day, and not very marked. The icteroid hue of the skin became very plain, and the eyes somewhat more highly colored about the same period. I have followed the origin of this disorder here more closely, and have taken pains to ascertain the facts more particulai-ly, because many seemed at first to question if this was yellow fever. Some of the citizens insisted that it was not; but a remit- tent fever, with a jaundiced condition of the skin and eyes, and, in fatal cases, a vomiting of blackish matter, but not the real black vomit of yellow fever. Otiiers, quite as intelligent, as strenuously asserted that it was yellow fever, of which they were com- petent judges, having seen and nursed it through repeated epidemics. The first case recognized as yellow fever in this vicinity was that of the citizen Forbes, which occurred in this hospital, and whatever the citizens in town may determine their epidemic to have been, it is none the less certain that it was an infections disorder presenting many of the characteristics of yellow fever. Never since the last epidemic of yellow fever in 1858 has the mortality at this place been one-tenth as severe as during this fall. The little graveyard of Rio Grande City, for the thirty days ending the middle r.f October, showed over eighty new-made mounds, speaking louder of the mortality for that month than any statistics that could be arrived at in such a community. The first nights of October were ushered in with, quite chilling weather, and, either from want of more material, which some assert, or the effects of a few nights at a temperature about forty-five degrees, the disease seems to have abated, and we hear of scarcely any new cases, though I am told six or seven deaths have occurred during the past week. The commanding officer of the post, as soon as the first case was discovered, was recommended to prohibit counnunication between the garrison and tin; citizens, and isolation of all suspected cases; a cordon of sentinels completely around the garrison accomplished this object, making ingress and egress impossible. My own case being the only one that subsequently occurred, I received the full benefit of my own suggestion, by having sentinels placed a short distance off entirely around the building which I occupied during my illness. Two other cases were reported during my illness : the first was that of Colonel Shaffer, who was taken ill on the second day after his arrival at the post, but, according to my mind, with none of the symptoms of the yellow fever. The other was that of 14