ON SPECIAL WOUNDS AND INJURIES. 14 Fig. 15.—Fracture of the fron- tal bone by a ]iistol-baU. Spec. 1673, A. M. M. Fig. 10.—Interior view of tho foregoing specimen. The next case is an example of the classical "punctured" gunshot fracture of systematic writers. ' Private James K , Co. G, 6th New York Cavalry, was wounded at the battle of Gettysburg, July 3d, 18G3, by a pistol-ball, which produced a punctured fracture of the os frontis. He was con- veyed to a hospital at Baltimore, and from thence to Carver Hos- pital, at Washington, on July 24th. He stated that, at Baltimore, he walked about and felt no inconvenience from his wound. On July 27th, he had a convulsion. The wound, which was nearly healed, was laid open, and depressed bone being detected, an effort was made to elevate it. Several small necrosed fragments were re- moved, and a small quantity of fetid pus escaped. The patient had become comatose, and the operation had no influence in relieving the symptoms. Death took place a few hours subsequently. At the autopsy, the extended depression of the inner table was discovered, and a large abscess of the brain. Instances were not uncommon of the splitting of round musket-balls in striking the skull at an acute angle. The following is an example : _ Corporal John N , aged eighteen years, Co. H, 1.59th New York Vols., was struck on the left side of the forehead, on April 14th, 1863, at an engagement at Irish Bend, Louisiana, by a round musket-liall. He was admitted to the University Hospital, at New Orleans, on April 17th. The ball had been removed on the field. Several depressed frag- ments of bone were removed, and cold water-dressings were applied. The case progressed without a bad symptom until April 30th, when there were clonic spasms, which, after a few hours, were followed by a semi-comatose condition, which continued until death, on May 2d, 1863. A necroscopic examination revealed extensive meningitis, and a large abscess of the left cerebral hemisphere. The lateral ventricles were filled with sero-purulent matter. The surfaces of the pons Varolii and of the medulla oblongata were covered with lymph. The specimen was forwarded by Assistant Surgeon P. H. Conner, U. S. A. Conoidal balls were less liable to split after this fashion, yet such instances were occasionally observed. Private C. C. W , Co. I, 6th Wisconsin Vols., aged twenty-one years, was wounded at Spottsylvania, May 12th, 1864, and was admitted to Douglas Hospital, in Washington, four days subsequently. It was ascertained that the cranium was fractured, but the symptoms were not urgent, being limited to slight paralysis of the right upper extremity, and operative interference was deferred. On May 31st, a conoidal musket-ball and several fragments of the left parietal were removed by Assistant Surgeon Wm. F. Norris, U. S. A. One large fragment of the vitreous plate was Q^''^ ^ K"^'^'5S^)(CyvTrtyVYVvs/ prc.ssing on the dura mater; this was elevated and removed. The next -^^^ K- ^ ^rismj symptoms of compression of the brain were manifested. An explo- ration of the wound was made and a quantity of pus evacuated. On June 4th, 1864, twenty-three days after the injury, the case terminated fatally. At the autopsy, the arachnoid was found little altered. There was an abscess in the posterior lobe of the left hemisphere near the longitu- dinal sinus, of the size of a walnut. Its walls were of a greenish-yellow color. It communicated with the lateral ventricle. The right ventricle was filled with sero-sanguinolent fluid. There was a deposition of lymph at the base of the brain, extending from the medulla oblongata to the bifurcation of the optic nerves. The specimen and facts connected with it were contributed by Assistant Surgeon William Thomson, U. S. A. The depressed fractures produced by cannon-balls, or by the explosion of large shells, were commonly attended by frightful comminution and disjunction of the sutures, and were almost always immediately fatal, and hence had little surgical interest. A single example is given : Fig. 17.—Section of a trifntal hone, witli a split musket ball. Spec. I:i93, A. M. M. Fio.lS.—Sknll-cap, exhibiting guushot fracture near tho vertex, by a conoidal muskct-ball which has split against tli(^ laniiuii of the left parietal. Spec. 3543, A. M. M.