FOKT HARKER, KANSAS. 29 In addition to the above cases, three cases occurred this morning (July 2d) among the quartermaster's employes—one has already proved fatal—but I have not yet had the opportunity to get the names from Acting Assistant Surgeon Chase, U. S. A., who is attending them. No cases have as yet occurred in the garrison proper. George Keeton lived in a dug-out (hole in a bank) about amOe and a half from the post, near the slaughter-pen on the banks of the Smoky Hill river. Tlie soldiers of the 38th Infantry, reported above, are recently from Jeff'ersou Barracks, Missouri. They are encamped three-quarters of a mile from the post, and over half a mile from where the first case occurred. George Irwin and family lived in a dug-out in the banks of a creek one-quarter of a mile from the post. He says they sometimes drank the creek water, (stagnant nearly,) and had been eating wild gooseberries stewed. The men, Arnold and Edwards, had recently come from Fort Riley, and were in camp on the creek bottom not far from Irwin's dug-out. The death reported to-day is at the stone quarry, over two miles northeast from the post. The wind has been blowing steadily but gently from the south for several days. The days have been warm and oppressive; the nights cool and comfortable; the mornings misty. We have had for some time very poor bread at the jjost; it is often sour and heavy. I have recommended the issue of hard bread in the place of the bread from the post bakery. I made a thorough sanitary inspection of the post on Sunday, June 30th, and all my recommendations in regard to policing have been carried out by the post commander. The camps of the companies of the 38th Infantry have been moved to higher and better grounds. The old sinks have been filled up and new ones dug. A hospital tent has been pitched for the sick in the quarters of each company. The cases received into the post hospital have been treated in a hospital tent pitched 50 yards in the rear of the hospital. Disinfectants are freely used, and requisition has been made for more. Report on Epidemic Cholera at Fort Marlcer, Kansas, during the summer of 1867, by Brevet Major G. M. Sternherg, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Fort Harker, Kansas, is located on high ground, about a mile east of the Smoky Hill river, at the junction of the Smoky Hill road to Denver city and the road to Santa F6, via Fort Zarah and the Arkansas River route. It is eighty-five miles west of Fort Riley, and since the 10th of July has been in railroad communication with the east by the completion, thus fiir, of the Union Pacific Railroad, Eastern Division. Tlie elevation above the bed of the river is from sixty to seventy feet; the surface descends to the east, south, and west, affording excellent drainage. The soil is but six or eight inches thick, and below it is a bed of fine gravel, about thirty feet thick, composed mostly of quartz and flint; below this is a bed of clay. The bluffs to the north and east of the fort are composed of a recent red sandstone, which contains impressions of the leaves of trees of existing species, (oak, ash, willow. Sec.) In places there is a large amount of iron in the sandstone. The water used at the post is obtained from a spring in the bank of a creek one-quarter of a mile west from the post. The spring issues from the bank about fifteen feet above the level of the creek, over the stratum of clay, above which is the gravel. An examination of the water from the spring, made in July, 1887, showed but a small trace of organic matter. One grain of per- mangante of potash to a gallon left a distinct pinkish tinge after 24 hours. During the past year diarrhoea has been of rare occurrence among those who have been at the post for any length of time. During the month of June, 1867, but twelve cases of diarrhoea are reported. A company of the 37th Infantry ( "E") came to the fort in October, 1866, from Little Rock, Arkansas. Very many of the men were suffering from diarrhoea, and nearly every one from intermittent fever. After being at the post five or six months, nearly every man in the company became healthy and robust, and diarrhoea among them of rare occurrence. But two men of this company died of cholera. The garrison of the post, when cholera first made its appearance,, consisted of Company "E," 37th Infantry, (white,) and Companies "A," '• p," and " K," 38th U. S. Infantry, (colored.) The companies of the 33th Infantry had been recently organized at Jeiferson Barracks, and came from there here, "A" and " B" Companies stopping a little more than a month at Fort Riley on their way. In addition to these troops, "H" Company, 38th Infantry, and "F" Company, 10th Cavalry, (colored,) were temporarily at the post under the medical supervision of Brevet Major Ely McClellan, Assistant Surgeon, U.S.A. The troops (with the exception of " E" Company, 37th Infantry, which was in a stockade building) were in camp at a distance of from one-eighth to half a mile from the post, on high ground. Four companies of Kansas militia were mustered into the United States service, and remained at the post about two weeks in July, during the worst of the epidemic. There were also encamped at and around the post from five hundred to eight hundred quartermaster's employes, (masons, carpenters, laborers, and teamsters.) The number of these was constantly varying, many leaving in consequence of the epidemic, and others coming from the east. The police of the camps was not good when cholera first made its appearance. Some of the company sinks were in wretched condition, and there were several offensive holes about the post where slops and garbage from the kitchen had been thrown. Measures were at once taken to remedy these evils; a strict system of policing Avas inaugurated; the camps were all moved to new grounds, and disinfectants were pi-ocured and freely used. The men were in wedge tents, from two to four in a tent. On my recommendation a hospital tent was pitched for the use of the sick in the quarters of each company, (for slight cases of diarrhoea, etc.) The hospital patients were all treated in hospital tents, which were pitched about fifty yards in rear of the post hospital. Convalescent^aml uncertain cases were kept in separate tents from the cholera patients. The discharges from the patients were all disinfected as soon as passed. The first case of cholera in ihis neighborhood, and, so far as I can learn, the first case this year in the State of Kansas, was that of Geo. W. Keeton, a citizen employed by the beef contractor as a herder and butcher. He had been so employed for three