ALEXANDRIA, LOUISIANA. 143 The imminent danger of the command and the probability of many fatal cases among the nnacclimated men rendered it necessary to take steps to prevent the introduction of this disease among the troops. A thorough inspection of the camp and vicinity and of the personal cleanliness of the men was at once made, and a strong police force instituted to keep them thoroughly cleaned every day. The supply of disinfectants on hand was liberally u.sed in the sink and other ])laces, and pulverized quick- lime was scattered about and under the cabins. One fluid ounce of whiskey and three grains of sulphate of quinia were administered to each man at reveill6 every second or third day. This was continued until the beginning of October. From the fact that steandioats with merchandise and passengers came direct to this point from New Orleans, and goods were reshijijied as before stated, the introduction of the disease through this thoroughfare of direct communication seemed certain, not oidy into the city, but among the troops at the post, and it was evident that additional steps should at once be taken to prevent, if (jossible, such a calamity. In consultation with the commanding officer at the post. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel J. C. Bates, it was thought to be impracticable to establish a quarantine for the following reasons, viz: 1st. There were neither hospital accommodations nor medical supplies provided for the sick under such circumstances by the city of Alexandria. 2d. It could not be effectually accomplished by the few troops, because of the large district of country to be guarded. 3d. It would stop navigation to all points above this, and thereby give much inconvenience and detention, while the i-esult would be not to insure our safety, but to make a depot for the spread of this disease directly in our midst. It was, therefore, determined to establish a temporary camp sufficiently far back in the pine woods to sever all communication not actually necessary from both the town and river. A personal inspection of several places by the commanding officer and myself resulted in the selection of a site eight miles distant from Pineville, on Haw creek. The chief difficulty was in getting pure water; the stream, however, was one of considerable strength, with a gravel bed, and following in a half circle around an open space of several acres in the pines, once the site of a summer resort, but now entirely unoccupied and in an unsettled part of the woods. As soon as the epidemic made its appear- ance in the town the command was moved to this camp, and remained there in tents until the middle of December. Those detached to otlier parishes returned in October, and, not coming from places where the epidemic was prevailing, were sent at once to the temporary camp. Thus the whole command, with the exception of about six men left to guard the permanent camp at Pineville, remained eight miles distant from the river and town from the 2d of October to the 10th of December, 1867, when the epidemic among the citizens had entirely disappeared. I have stated in a previous report forwarded, that not a single case of yellow fever occurred among these men. The only communication they had with the men in camp was in sending a wagon twice a week with the bread baked at the post bakery and the fresh beef. The number of sick reported for the week ending September 21st was sixteen ; mean strength of command, forty; these were cases of ordinary endemic types of fever. At this time some rumored cases of fever were reported as having occurred on steamboats en route up the river, but no well-authenticated cases occurred until about the 2Gth of September, when a case was seen on the steamboat Frolic, then engaged in transporting cattle between here and New Orleans. It was, I thiak, the last evening in September that I was called to see a lady in Alexandria who had had a slight chill in the afternoon, and was then suffering from fever without any peculiar symptoms noted at the time. I did not see the patient afterwards; in less than a week from this time I was myself taken sick with what proved to be yellow fever. I afterwards learned that the lady had lived in the locality where the epidemic first appeared and herself had the fever. I had not, to my knowledge, up to this time, been in any way exposed to the epidemic. I remained sick from the 2d to the 27th of October—twenty five days. On the 27th of October a soldier of Company "D," 20tli Infimtry, was landed here for treatment from a steamer going up the river, and died of black vomit in six hours A similar case occurred, November 6th, which also proved fatal in four days. A fourth case was that of the commanding officer, who was taken with fever at the post November 3d, after having visited the first patient in hospital, having previous to this been with me during the whole attack. This proved a mild case and terminated favorably in ten days. The above were all the cases that occurred at the post, except one, a laborer in the quartermaster's department, who recovered in about eighteen days. The treatment was, in the commencement of the attack, to administer a laxative either of castor oil or carbonate of magnesia and creara of tartar, and usually a hot mustard foot-bath; rest, cool drinks, and abstinence from all food until after the violence of the fever subsided. After the initial stage, and when the struggle of the prostrate forces began, stimulants, tonics, and beef tea enemata were used in two cases, but did not prove satisfactory. The progress and origin of the epidemic in the city and vicinity have been furnished by Dr. Casson, a practicing physician of good standing in Alexandria, and are as follows : "It was during the last days of September, 1867, that I was called to see a negro on board of the steamer Frolic, running between this place and New Orleans, he having arrived here only a few days previous to my visit. The epidemic fever was prevailing in that city at the time of her departure. In consequence of the diagnosis of yellow fever the boat was ordered to leave the port, and the patient, not being put ashore, was lost sight of. About a week subsequent to this event a lad ten years of age, residing in this town, sickened and died in a few days of black vomit; this case occurred in the practice of Dr. Price, who obligingly communicated the facts in connection. Shortly after the death of this patient, another child in the same family contracted the disease and died of the vomit. It became an interesting question how to account for the appearance of infection in this family, and, on instituting a close inquiry, it turned out that the boy who first became ill had been playing and rambling over the boat Frolic as it lay moored to the landing. It seemed that other cases of fever had been ob.served on the same steamer on a previous trip, during which several of them proved fatal before reaching Natchitoches. About this time a young man from tlie country visited Alexandria and had transactions with parties connected with the family referred to; soon after his return home he also fell sick and died (as far as could be ascertained from non-medical sources) with symptoms that left no doubt of the nature of his disease. The fever from this time increased rapidly, and in three weeks the epidemic might have been considered to have reached its acme. The largest number of cases at one time under treatment being, perhaps, not far from thirty, in a population of one thousand or twelve hundred; the whole number of persons attacked is estimated at two hundred, the mortality at about fifteen per cent. Those having had the disease in previous epidemics, with scarce an exception,