CONCLUDING OBSERVATIONS. 87 Anesthetics.—There have been consulted, in regard to the employment of anaes- thetics, the reports of 23,260 surgical operations performed on the field or in general hospitals. Chloroform was used in 60 per cent, of these operations, ether in 30 per cent., and in 10 per cent, of the cases a mixture of the two was administered. At the general hospitals, the greater safety of ether as an anaesthetic was commonly con- ceded. It was often employed, and no fatal accident from its use has been reported. In the field operations, chloroform was almost exclusively used. The returns indicate that it was administered in not less than eighty thousand cases. In seven instances, fatal results have been ascribed with apparent fairness to its use. Detailed reports of these unfortunate cases are on file. The following synopsis is derived from them: Case I.—A soldier of a North Carolina regiment, a robust, healthy man, after the battle of Hanover Court House, May 29th, 1862, underwent amputation of the thigh. The operation was performed in the open air. He inhaled chloroform very freely. He expired just as the operation was completed. He had lost but little blood. No autopsy was held.—Report of Surgeon Edwin Bently, U. S. Vols. Case II.—D. Zebriske, Co. 1,12th Alabama Eegimeut, a prisoner after the battle of Antietam, had a gunshot flesh wound of the hip. A slight incision for the extraction of the ball was made October 19th, 1862, at Hospital No. b, Frederick, Maryland. Chloroform was carefully administered. The patient expired suddenly. The autopsy threw no light on the cause of death.—Report of Surgeon H. S. Hewit, U. S. Vols. Case III.—Corporal Ballou, Co. E, 14th Pennsylvania Cavalry, was placed under the influence of chloroform, to undergo amputation of the right index and middle fingers, at Beverly, West Virginia, October 12th, 1862. He died in the midst of the operation. Slight calcareous deposits were found post-mortem about the valves of the heart.— Report of Surgeon William B. Wynne, lAih Pennsylvania Cavalry. Case IY.—Private Thomas Hamilton, Co. A, 1st Maryland Vols., aged thirty-one years, took chloroform Sep- tember 3d, 1864, at Patterson Park Hospital, Baltimore, to undergo an operation for necrosis of the carpal bones. The anaesthetic was given with a large admixture of air. Sudden death ensued. The autopsy revealed fibrinous coagula in the auricles. The thoracic viscera were perfectly normal in appearance.—Report signed hy Acting As- sistant Surgeons Fay, Cherbonnier, Kemster, and McLetclien. Case V.—Colonel McGilvray, Chief of Artillery of the 10th Army Corps, inhaled two drachms of chloroform, September 4th, 1864, for an excision of a phalanx of the left index finger. He expired suddenly before the operation was commenced. There were no pathological appearances found to indicate the cause of death.^—Report of Surgeon A. B. Clark, U. S. Vols. Case VI.—Private Robert Gormley, Co. I, 7th New York Artillery, died suddenly at McClellan General Hos- pital, November 29th, 1864, having taken chloroform to submit to an incision in the calf of the right leg for the re- moval of a ball. There was no autopsy.—Report signed by Acting Assistant Surgeons Ely and Uhler. Case YII.—Private John Johnson, Co. B, 2d Pennsylvania Heavy Artillery, a patient in Mower General Hos- pital, near Philadelphia, expired suddenly on May 13th, 1865, while inhaling chloroform preparatory to undergoing a surgical operation.—Report of Surgeon J. Hopkinson, U. S. Vols. Erysipelas.—In the ill-ventilated barracks and private edifices which were some- times of necessity occupied as hospitals during the earlier period of the war, erysipelas was a frequent visitant. Elaborate reports on its prevalence in the hospitals of Louis- ville, Nashville, Memphis, and Madison have been transmitted by Surgeon Goldsmith, U. S. Vols., Surgeon Weeks, U. S. Vols., and Surgeon Culbertson, U. S. Vols. Gangrene.—The various forms of sloughing, phagedena, and traumatic gangrene, described in systematic authors, were among the complications of wounds that through- out the war often rendered the skill of surgeons abortive, but the ravages of true con- tagious hospital gangrene were comparatively limited. Voluminous papers on this subject have been contributed. It has been discussed in its clinical relations by Medi- cal Inspector Hamilton, and Surgeons McParlin, Brinton, Goldsmith, Breed, Weeks and Moses, and its pathological anatomy has been investigated by Assistant Surgeons Woodward and Thomson.