74 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. TABULAR STATEMENT OF THE OPERATIONS OF Hospital and Hospital Number. Name. Kank, Company, Regi- ment. Age. Date of Admis- sion to Hospital. Description and Date of Wound or Injury. On what Occasion received. Date of Operation. Operation. Condition of injured Parts at Time of Operation. 31. St. Louis U. S. A. General Hospital, New Or- leans, La. 7643. Marine General Hospital, New Or- leans, La. T. E. Foulke, Private Co. D, 2(1 Alabama (C. S. A.). Age, 17. Admitted April 15, 1865. Admitted May 26, 1865. Conoidal ball entered posteriorly at middle third of left thigh; extracted above an- terior superior spi- nous process of left ilium, fracturing up- per third of femur, involving trochanter and neck. Fort Blakely, Ala., April 9, 1865. April 27, 1865. Excision of two inches of shaft of left femur, including trochan- ters, neck, and head. Chloroform. Great comminution; parts surrounding hip-joint filled with unhealthy pus. 32. St. Louis U. S. A. General Hospital, New Or- leans, La. 7641. G. "W. Brantley, Pri- vate Co. C, 2d Ala- bama (C.S. A.). Age, 18. Admitted April 15, 1865. Conoidal ball entered left groin, passing through, fracturing neck of left femur, emerged posteriorly from left gluteus; also gunshot frac- ture of external con- dyle of right hume- rus. Fort Blakely, Ala., April 9, 18G5. April 28, 1865. Excision of head,neck, and trochanter of left femur; no ligations. Chloroform. Thigh, groin, and sur- rounding parts infil- trated by unhealthy pus. A case is reported by Acting Assistant Surgeon Siebold, TJ, S. A., in which only a portion of the head of the femur was removed, a ball being at the same time extracted from the acetabulum. The patient, Private Robb, 188th New York Vols., was treated at Point Lookout Hospital, and died four months after the operation. Many other cases occurred in which the operation was admissible, so far as the local lesions were con- cerned. But the requisites for after- treatment were not attainable in the field hospitals, and when the patients reached the base hospitals, their condition forbade operative in- terference. The annexed engraving of a specimen (No. 125), taken from a patient who died in the Patent Of- fice Hospital, in Washington, in September, 18G2, illustrates such cases. At the Army Medical Museum there are preserved 16 excised heads of femurs, including the specimens from two of the successful cases. Specimen 3375 exhibits the extensive comminution of the trochanters in Dr. Mursick's successful case. The black object below the neck represents the battered shapeless ball. FiQ. 72.—Conoidal ball embedded in the head of femur. Spec. 125, A. M. M. Fig. 73.—Head of femur excised for gunshot iiyury. Sx>ec. 3375, A. M. M.