66 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS Fojrr Wood, N. Y. H., October 1, 1867. General: I have the honor lierewith to forward a monthly report of sick and wounded at this post for September, and a special report of cholera cases for the same period: On the 12th of September I reported the first fatal case of cholera through the chief medical officer, New York city, but failed to mention three cases wliich previously occurred bearing every resemblance to cholera, as will be observed in the special report of cases. » The first—William Harden—was admitted August 25th. He arrived at Governor's island on the 22d from St. Louis, Mis- souri. On his way east, assisted by another recruit, he waited upon a man who died with cholera and was buried on the way. The assistant, the day after their arrival at Governor's island, was taken with symptoms of cholera and died in a few hours. This was the first case of cholera reported on that island. The place was at once quarantined. On the 24th, however, quaran- tine restrictions were removed, and one hundred and forty-four recruits were sent over to this post for distribution, recruit Harden among them. Two days afterwards all of the detachment, except ten or fifteen men, were sent to posts in New England, and the officer who accompanied them informs me that a St. Louis recruit, destined for Portsmouth, I think, was taken violently ill at Boston with symptoms resembling cholera. The fact shown by the history of Harden makes it very clearly appear that cholera, this season, was first introduced at Governor's island, and here through that post, by St. Louis recruits; and it is unfortunate that more time did not elapse after the occurrence of the first case before recruits were allowed to depart. The infection had evidently taken root, as shown by the cases here and in Boston ; and if their destination had been to a less favorable latitude, the consequences might have been different. There was no cholera on this island last summer, and since early spring a constant "quarantine of observation" has been kept—the whole island thoroughly policed daily, and disinfectants abundantly used; no possible local cause of disease has existed. A large number of diarrhcea cases are reported, but many were of but little consequence. As soon, however, as cholera infection was suspected, the mildest cases were observed closely; and I found that when a man was put to bed in time and absolute rest required, the disease succumbed to simple remedies. In the more serious cases the subcarbonate of bismuth seemed to act better than anything else tried in checking vomiting, and chlorodyne mixture relieved cramps very promptly in some instances. The majority of cases of diarrhoea were controlled by simple chalk mixture, combined, in the more urgent cases, with laudanum and tincture of catechu. In treating cholera, I should not hesitate to use large doses of calomel, from twenty to thirty grains, placed dry on the tongue, to be washed down by the saliva, and repeated in the course of an hour or so, if necessary. It seems to relieve cramps and vomiting sooner and more effectually than anything else tried, and no unpleasant effects were observed from the peculiar action of the drug. This treatment I was induced to ti'y from the experien<!e of Surgeon Brown, post Surgeon, Governor's island, who has obtained better results from it than any other during several epidemics he has witnessed and in a large number of cases. To restore the action of the kidneys, which seem to lose their functions so completely in this disease, I found excellent results from a combination of acetate of potash and sweet spirits of nitre—10 grains of the former to J a flvud drachm of the latter, given every hour. From the fifth to the seventh dose generally produced free diuresis. During the month Acting Assistant Surgeon H. C. Yarrow, U. S. A., has been on the island—his duties in Brooklyn having been suspended by the discontinuance of recruiting—and he has rendered me valuable assistance in looking after the general sanitary condition of the post, visiting the sick at^all hours, and constantly exhibiting a most commendable zeal. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, J. F. RANDOLPH, Surf/eon, and Brevet Lieutenant Colonel, U. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. Baknes, Surgeon General. Plattsbuugh Barracks, N. Y., September 30, 1867. General: I have the honor to make the following report concerning the case of cholera which appeared at this post on the 1st of the present month : I would state that the patient bad just returned, on the day preceding the attack, from Governor's island, New York harbor, where he had been sent for trial by general court martial for desei tion. He was necessarily detained there for several days awaiting trial, and it is reported by his comrades that while there he had partakent freely of fruit, and that he had also eaten a quantity of preserved peaches after his return to this post on the day previous to the attack. During the night of August 31st he was suddenly seized with cramps, vomiting, and purging, but owing to the neglect of the guard in charge of the room, the case was not reported for treatment until four houi-s after the attack, when he was brought to this hospital, and the case then presented all the characteristics of well-marked cholera. The patient quickly sunk into a state of collapse. The treatment consisted principally of the admmistration of small and frequent doses of calomel in connection with stimulants, and externally warm applications to the limbs, mustard plaster to the abdomen, and continued frictions to the body. The vomiting and purging subsided twelve hours before his death, and there was apparently some approach towards reaction, but soon afterwards followed by relapse, and the disease ran the usual course, and terminated fatally at one o'clock on the morning of September 2d, twenty hours after his admission. Prompt measures were immediately adopted to prevent the progress of the disease at this post, by a free use of disinfectants and burning of all clothing, «fcc., used by the patient, and no fia-ther indication of the presence of cholera has been manifested in this command. I do not entertain any doubt that the disease was brought to this post from Governor's island, New York harbor, by the deceased. I am, sir, vei-y respectfully, your obedient servant, J. PLATT FOOT, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Bi-evet Major General .). K. Barnes, Surgeon General.