XXIII EEPORT ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA AND YELLOW FEVER. altogether four cases and three deaths in July. The disease became epidemic in the city, of New Orleans during August, and continued to prevail until December. During this period, out of an average mean strength of 761 white troops, six hundred and fifty-nine cases and one hundred and ninety-five deaths are reported, with one hundred and sixty- three cases and twenty-three deaths, out of an average mean strength of 313 colored troops. Besides the above, sixty-six white seamen, of whom fifteen died, and fifteen colored seamen, all of whom recovered, were treated at the post hospital. Among the patients were fourteen medical officers, two of whom died. Over three thousand deaths were reported among the citizens of New Orleans. The fever having become epidemic at New Orleans, subsequently spread thence to various points between Avhich and New Orleans unrestricted water communication existed. At Baton Rouge, La., it appeared among the citizens about the 10th of September. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel W. D. Wolverton, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., says that his recollection of the cases that occurred among the citizens at that place during the season is, that they were traced from New Orleans. There were, however, but three cases among the troops. The first was admitted to hospital July 31st; he had been on duty, from June 12th to July 11th, on the west bank of Red river, near its mouth, where yellow fever was reported to exist among the citizens. The second patient was attacked September 24th and died September 29th; he contracted the fever in Baton Rquge, where the disease was then prevailing. The third was attacked November 9th and died next day; he also contracted the fever in Baton Rouge. There were no other cases in the detachment stationed at Baton Rouge, the average mean strength of which was 222 ofiicers and men. This immunity is ascribable to the fact that the command was moved away from the town to Camp Coe, about six miles from the riA^er, shortly after the first case occurred. At Vidalia, La., Acting Assistant Surgeon E. Alexander reports three cases, during August, in Company "K," 20th Infantry; neither of these cases proved fatal. One fatal case, during October, is attributed by him to the receipt by the patient of infected docu- ments from New Orleans. The soldiers stationed at Viclalia were in full communication with Natchez, on the opposite side of the river, where the disease prevailed among the citizens. At Natchez, Miss., on the opposite side of the river from Vidalia, two cases are reported during September in the detachment there stationed; both of these cases recovered. The disease had previously prevailed among the citizens, and these cases are believed to have been contracted on quarantine guard. At Vicksburg, Miss., the first case among the troops occurred October 15th, the last, December 21st; in all, thirteen cases and four deaths; mean strength of the command for the six months, 267. Before the first case among the troops, the disease had broken out among the citizens of the town, and most of the cases among the troops were men who were on duty in the city at the time of their attack. At Jackson, Miss., one fatal case is reported during October, out of a mean strength of 278. A number of cases had previously occurred among the citizens at By]-am's Station, some nine miles from Jackson, and a few among the citizens of Jackson. ^^At Memphis, Tenn., the disease also prevailed among the citizens, but the troops escaped, with the exception of Assistant Surgeon W. S. Tremaine, in charge of a detach- ment, and the man detailed to nurse him. Dr. Tremaine had visited citizens sick of the fever during the mouth of October.