EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS no vicinity, 822 cases, 218 died ; Victoria, Texas, 18 cases, 4 died. It is proper to remark that only 18 cases and 9 deaths occurred in the whole of the commands serving in the District of Louisiana outside of New Orleans. The number of citizens who died in Galveston of yellow fever was 1,170, and in New Orleans, 3,107. The disproportion in the population between the two cities evidences the excessive fatality of the disease at the former place. I am of o))iniou, however, that many died in New Orleans of the prevailing disease wlio were erroneously reported as dying of other diseases. The mortality by fevers in New Orleans during the year was 4,076, and from all causes, 10,096. The aggregate number of yellow fever cases belonging to the army, serving in the States of Louisiana and Texas, and in Ship Island, Mississippi, during the season, was 1,237, and the deaths 384. During the year the total mortality from all causes in the army serving in the Fifth Military District was 592. John Cowai'ts, the first fatal case reported in New Orleans, died June 10th, with black vomit, in the Charity hospital, a day after admission ; he came from No. 261 Circus street. Three weeks before his death he had shipped as sailor on the Italian bark Bessie, loading with staves in the 4th district for Barcelona. The vessel came from Havana March 25th, 1867, loaded with sugar; arrived in New Orleans April 22d, and went into dry-dock at Algiers for repairs before loading with staves, having been damaged while coming up the river. Second case, John Eoddis, Dr. Brickell reports as taken sick on St. Charles street, near Julia street, on the 13th of June; he recovered. Third case, H. A. Gelston, reported, by Dr. Folwell, sick on Julia street, between Camp and St. Charles streets; he died June 23d. Fourth case, Johii Bonanan, arrived from Galveston on steamer Hewes; sick in Galveston ou the 19th with chill; arrived at New Orleans stock-landing 21st of June, and went to the Texas Hotel, at the head of Napoleon avenue; he died June 26th with black vomit. Fifth, John Dougherty, died at Charity hospital 29th of June—brought from No. 61 Girod street; he was employed near the shipping on coal barges at Algiers. Lieutenant Orville Dewey, U. S. A., died of yellow fever, June 3(lth, at the St. Charles Hotel; lie had arrived from Indianola on a steamer a few days previous. June 30th, Mrs. Hooper, wife of the captain of the bark Florence Peters, died of yellow fever; arrived at Algiers from Havana and quarantine about June 22d. The bark left Havana June 3d loaded with sugar. Mrs. Hooper was sick on arrival at Algiers, opposite New Orleans. Dr. Barnes, who visited Mrs. Hooper, reports the following cases of the disease connected with the bark Peters : Mrs. Hooper's sister, taken sick June 25th, recovered; Mrs. Hooper's babe, taken sick June 26th, recovered; Mrs. Hooper's son, taken sick during the same week, recovered ; 1st mate of the Peters, taken sick about .June 30th, recovered ; 2d mate of the Peters, sent to Charity liospital, and died July 9th; Captain Hooper, of the Peters, taken sick July 7th, died July 13th; Seth Yorke, who had visited the Peters frequently, died at Charity hospital of yellow fever July 25th. The remainder of the crew, six sailors, disappeared, and no trace has been found of them. Captain J. D. Bell, Texan stock-trader, who came passenger on the same steamer with Lieutenant O. Dewey, was visited by Dr. Wood, June 30th, at the Stock-landing Hotel, being then in the third day of his attack of yellow fever. In the same house, Bonanan, Dr. Greenleaf's patient, died the day previous to Captain Bell being taken sick. Captain Bell recovered. Captain Pennington died July 19th of j'ellow fever: I believe he was Captain of the bark Frank Marion, which arrived in New Oi'leans fiom Cardiff about the 22d of June. He was a patient of Dr. Wood. July 1st, four cases of yellow fever were brought to the quarantine station, arriving on the brig Virginius, from Havana, after eight days' passage. During their detention two other cases occurred. Private Benjamin Miller, 1st Artillery, taken sick at Jackson Barracks July 1st, died July 8th, of yellow fever. Private Charles H. Wurtz, taken sick July 11th with yellow fever at Jackson Barracks, recovered. Private John O'Neil, Company ''G," 6th U. S. Cavalry, was taken sick July 5th, in New Orleans, and died July 13th of yellow fever, at post hospital, Greenville. Private Francis Zimmer, Company "H," IstU. S. Infantry, reported July 22d, and died July 25th of yellow fever, at Greenville. Thomas Kelly, age 30, born in Newfoundland, longshoreman, last at sailor's boarding-house, No. 373 Victory street, near Pontchartrain railroad depot, came from New York, had been twelvemonths in the city, was admitted to Charity hosj^ital July 22d, and died the same day of yellow fever. Peter Ferrell, age 21, came sick from Galveston, Texas, July 24th, died July 27th ; he came to New Orleans on steamer Fire Queen, from Dublin, Ireland, May 24th, 1867, and came from Galveston on steamer Hewes ; he was born in the city of Dublin, had been attended by Dr. Bell, and died with yellow fever at his brother's residence. No. 621 Moreau street, near Mon- tague. LudwigjuAntonell, age 32, from Denmark, arrived about February, 1867; he was taken sick July 30th, 1867, and died August 4th, 1867 ; he was a glazier, and died at his boarding-house, No. 365 Victory street. The wife of Antonell, age 31, from Denmark, came with her husband, was taken sick July 30th, and died August 2d, of black vomit, at No. 365 Victory street. Mrs. Lawson, age 44, from Copenhagen, Denmark, came from Mobile, July 5th, 1867, was taken sick August 9th, and died August 12th, of black vomit, at No. 365 Victory street. James Hannigan arrived from Galveston, Texas, on the steamer Harlan ; took board at No. 339 Old Levee street, July 22d; died on the 25th with yellow fever. The jjreceding cases suffice to show the origin of such as are known to me. The archives of the board of health may give more, and in regular succession. I question whether there is any source from which a complete record could b<; ])re]iared, on account of the neglect of practitioners to report all their cases. The very diverse estlTuates made of the number of cases an{l rate of mortality evidences the difficulty of obtaining reliable data. Whatever may be deduced from some of the cases, importation is shown fi'om Havana, Indianola, Galveston, and New Iberia. The disease was introduced into Indianola from Vera Cruz, as before stated, in May. The fever was epidemic in Indianola June 15th ; at Galveston late in July. It vei-y soon appeared in the adjacent interior towns, viz : at Houston, Lavacca, and Corpus Christi, Texas. Quarantine was enforced in New Orleans in July against Texan ports, and passengers from Texas made their way into the adjoining counties of Louisiana. Very soon yellow fever broke out with violence in New Iberia, in western Louisiana, and became epidemic the first week in August. The Howard Association of New Orleans sent assistance, nurses, and physicians there August lOtli. On that day Dr. Shields, Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A., recently arrived from New Iberia, upon sunnnons as a witness, died in this city, of balck vomit. Other places in the interior of Louisiana and Texas then became attected. The yellow fever of 1867 may be stated to have become epidemic generally wherever it apjieared within its usual limits, and it would seem that the type of the disease was such as tended naturally to extend rapidly over ])opulations. In New Orleans sanitary eflbrts were made for prevention and mitigation of its spread. Although they were emjiloyed at a late period, to a limited extent, and not employed generally with confidence by the health autiiorities, it is fair to say, that such as were propi'rly employed were beneficial. The trial of disinfection has not yet been comj)lete, fair, and conclusive as to