141 VICKSBURG JACKSON. VfCKSBUKG, MISSISSIPPI. Extract from Monthly lieport of Sick and Wounded, Viclcshury, Mississippi. Assistant Sarjcon A. A. Teomans, U. S. A., October, 1867. The first case of yellow fever reported in the city occurred about a month ago. Since then the disease has spread, and has lately been pronounced epidemic. One of the local newspapeis of last week stated that there were over one hundred eases under treatment in the city. The first case among the troops was Private Peter Huff, Company "D," 24th U. S. Infantry, who was taken sick October 15th, 1867. As a general rule the disease is of a mild form. All the cases under treatment at present are doing well. Extract from Monthly Eeport of Sick and Wounded, Vicksburc/, Mississippi. Assistant Surgeon A. A. Yeomans, U. S. A., November, 1867. All the cases of yellow fever treated at this post, except two, occurred amongst men on duty in the city, or at some other post. Corporal Hardy and Private Rhodes, both fatal cases, are supposed to have contracted the disease at Woodville, Miss., from which place they had just arrived when attacked. The disease in the cases was of the most severe form, ending with hffimorrhage from the tliroat and mouth and black vomit. Many cases of remittent fever rapidly assume a typhoid form and require the utmost vigilance on the part of the nurse, careful watching by the Surgeon, and the constant exlubition of stimulants, witli nourishing diet, to bring them back to their normal condition. M Extract from Monthly lieport of Sick and Wounded, Vicksburg, Mississi2)2^i. Assistant Sunjeon A. A. Yeomans, U. S. A.< December, 1867. There has been no yellow fever reported amongst the troops at this post since the 21st of December. JACKSON, MISSISSIPPI. Jackson, Mississippi, April 14, 1868. General : In reply to your communication of the 2d instant, I have the honor to state that yellow fever was prevailing here during the summer of 1867, and only four or five citizens died; but at Byrani Station, some nine miles from here, on the New Orleans and Jackson Railroad, were 36 cases of the same disease, of which 20 died, and only three or four of the citizens escaped the epidemic. I believe that Private Clark, of Company "E," 5th U. S. Cavalry, contracted the disease here at Jackson, as he was in a very feeble condition, when he came to this post from Yazoo City. I was informed by his commander that he was nearly all summer reported as sick. Only a few squares from our camp a young man (citizen) named Maple died of j'ellow fever, which case all medical gentle- men here believe to have been the cause of spreading the disease amongst the citizens and troojis. Also a few cases died at Madison Station, some three miles from this post, where the epidemic prevailed more extensively and malignant than here, although Jackson is located between Byram and Madison Stations. In 1853 I was one of the afflicted of the same epidemic at New Orleans, while visiting physician of the Charity hospital, in which institution I remained until September 22d, 1855, when sent by the Howard Association for the relief of the suffering of this epidemic to this place. I have had gxeat opportunity to treat several hundreds of cases without much loss on the average, and here, in Jackson, I can say I have had tlurty-seven cases and have not lost one. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, C. G. CADE, M. D. Brevet Major General J. K. Barnes, Surrjeon General.