151 ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM. MICROSCOPICAL SERIES. an outline transferred to wood from a tracing of the original photograph, which is quite , as beautiful and de- ■ . i tailed as that repre- ! --^^™^^^^>Mt^ A rented in the plate. a---^MMIN/^^^------a B— ■ - . I ^ ,g It IS lettered like ^\ = Fig. 2. The tumor, jir:i:r:z3r:^=:=:—° having enlarged to a ^' ~~ T certain extent, rup- ^ - i^rzrzrrrr -dr- ^ Fig 4 tures, its cellular ele- ments escape, and a minute ulcer is formed, as shown in Fig. 4, in which ^ is the ruptured follicle with the minute ulcer; the letters represent the same parts as in the two previous figures. The cells or corpuscles of the connective tissue surrounding the enlarged follicle now multiply, and the ulcer spreads by the superficial cells floating ofi" into the intestinal cavity, while a new base is continually formed by the multiplication of the subjacent cells. If the plate be carefully observed (especially with a lens), it will be noticed that the connective tissue layer presents a finely granular aspect, in which each granule corresponds to what, with a higher power, is recognized as a connective tissue cell or corpuscle. In the neighborhood of the edges or base of any of the ulcers, it will be seen that these corpuscles are more numerous, giving the tissue a more granular aspect. Whether the corpuscles in question are true cells, with distinct cell walls, as argued by Virchow and the Berlin school, or mere masses of germinal matter without distinct parietes, as Beale would have us believe, is a question which cannot here be entered upon, on account of the space necessary to explain and justify the views entertained. In either case, it must be admitted that it is through the multiplication of these corpuscles by division that the greater number of elements is produced, and not by the equivocal generation of new cells, as has been so generally held. The Museum contains preparations which illustrate all the stages of this multiplication, and it is believed that these can be satisfactorily photographed for the Medical History of the War. The multiplication of the cells or corpuscles of the submucous connective tissue is accompanied by the marked thickening of the intestine so common in the disease under consideration. The ulcers shown at the right and left of the section represented in the plate (and in Fig. 2, ^ and ^) show difierent stages of the excavation thus produced. The second form of ulceration begins by an abrasion or denudation of epithelium at some point which does not correspond to the position of a solitary follicle. The follicles of Lieberkiihn are next destroyed, and the ulcer spreads in the connective tissue by the process which has just been described. The central ulcer of the plate (Fig. 2, ^) is of this variety. Such ulcers are much rarer than those of the first kind, and probably are always secondary to them. It is not possible to go into further details in this direction at present, but it is hoped that a careful and fully illustrated account of the minute anatomy of these diseases will be presented to the medical profession in the Medical History of the War. 20