NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA. New Orleans Post Hospital, Greenville, La., Forwarded January 12, 1868. General : In July, 1867, soon after my arrival in the city of New Orleans, I became acquainted with two prominent city physicians, and I made every effort to gather from them positive data by which to recognize yellow fever, in case it should make its appearance among the troops under my charge; but their statements seemed so vague and unsatisfactory that I came to the conclusion that the diag-nosis of tliis disease by symptoms is a matter of some difficulty. The first case of yellow fever that came under my care occurred at the Sailors' Home, New Orleans, and at its outset I mistook it for a case of bilious remittent fever, the symptoms seeming to point to that diagnosis as the correct one. This case was soon followed by others in rapid succession. In the beginning of the epidemic, the approach of the disease was usually indicated by the following prodromes, viz : the patient would experience, for a day or two previous to its outbreak, a feeling of weariness, an inability to exert his mental powers, a sense of fullness across the forehead, slight fever, and constipation of the bowels. Soon, however, cases occurred with apparently no premonitions of the approach of the fever. A man, previously in apparently excellent health, would be suddenly attacked by an intense fever, (pulse from 120 to 140,) accompanied by frontal or occipital headache, injected conjunctiva, pain in back and lower extremities, and a feeling of distress about the heart, almost amounting to agony, and giving the patient an idea of approaching death. To these symptoms were added the following, viz : a sense of fullness and tenderness in the epigastric and right and left hypochondriac regions; scarlet, tuniified gums, bleeding on the slightest pressure ; tongue red at the tip and edges, with a Whitish coating down its centre. The fever continued, with slight remissions, until forty-eight or seventy-two hours elapsed, when, if the case tended toward a fatal termination, especially if the tongue was dry and denuded of epithelium and the gums greatly disposed to bleed, black vomit might be looked for, although death was by no means always preceded by it, for many died by coma induced by ursemic poisoning, or from exhaustion, without any signs of black vomit. In most of the fatal cases petechias made their appearance, and after death the skin invariably became of a yellow color. Among the untoward symptoms, the following seemed the most important, viz : suppression of urine ; black vomit, accompanied by a red and glazed tongue; petechias, and congestion of the brain. Yellowness of the skin and conjunctiva, to a greater or less degree, made its appearance at some stage of the fever in every case; albuminous urine after the third day. I was placed in charge of the New Orleans post hospital, Greenville, La., September 4, 1867, and there had the opportunity of observing the disease in all shades of intensity. As a rule the severe cases of yellow fever occurred among the men of the gunboat "Mahaska," the "iron-clad fleet," the unacclimated "district headquarter band," a detachment of colored recruits (39th U. S. I.) recently arrived from the north, and those habitually using undue quantities of ardent spirits, indulging in venereal excesses, or suffering from great mental depression. The robust, when attacked, suffered more than the spare. Those cases that terminated favorably were mostly marked by a milder type of symptoms—the fever of less intensity, the conjunctiva less injected, the pain in back and limbs usually less severe, and the nervous depression and sleeplessness less marked, and usually in forty-eight hours the patient, although left in a debilitated condition, was devoid of fever, and, wth proper nursing, stimulation, and support, able to leave his bed on the eighth or ninth day from the beginning of the attack. The first cases that came under my charge were treated at the outset of the fever by the exhibition of a ten-grain dose of calomel, followed by castor oil or salts ; the calomel being given with the idea that it would aid in aborting the disease, or, at least, in lessening the severity of the symptoms; but I subsequently eame to the conclusion that in most cases calomel, if not positively hurtful, was at least useless, and castor oil alone was employed. Castor oil is the favorite purgative among the practitioners of New Orleans, and, it is thought, justly so, for it is far more reliable and prompt in its action than the sulphate of magnesia or Rochelle salt, without causing the irritation produced by them. After che exhibition of castor oil (one and a half to two fluid ounces) in porter, the patient was well covered with blankets, and sweating promoted by hot mustard foot-baths, applied until the desii'ed effect was obtained, great care being taken that the perspiration was not checked by the exposure of limb or body; on this last, too much stress can hardly be placed. If the bowels were not moved in the course of four or five hours from the exhibition of the oil, a clyster of soap-suds and castor oil would be resorted to, and this, in conjunction with the oil already taken by mouth, would hardly fail of soon producing several free, dark-colored stools. Ice to the head and sinapisms to the extremities relieved the tendency to congestion of the brain, and sinapisms to the back and epigastric region aided in relieving congestion of the abdominal organs. ■©> In case of vomiting, ice, iced champagne, lime water, bicarbonate of soda, etc., were exhibited in small often-repeated doses> and sinapisms applied to the epigastrium, but nothing seemed to quiet the stomach more certainly than demulcent injections. The patient does not bear purgatives till well advanced in convalescence, and simple injections will answer all purposes, especially as he is allowed no food that is solid until he is past the tenth or eleventh day of his disease. Nothing causes the practitioner inexperienced in the treatment of yellow fever more anxiety than the obstinate constipation of the bowels; but danger besets the pa*ient should irritating purgatives touch the tender epithelial coating of the gastro-enteric mucus membrane. Nervous depression, an inability to sleep, and constipation of the bowels, are the last syraj)toms to depart. Porter seems the remedy I specially fitted to combat these three symptoms. As a sequence, about one-third of all the yellow fever patients treated in this hospital were more or less afflicted with boils, or circumscribed phlegmonous abscesses, showing how thoroughly all the fhiids and solids of the body are influenced by the poison. The following case is one that strongly points to the conclusion that the poison of j'ellow fever, like that of cholera, is a specific one: Augustus Bertro, aged 21, private in Company " F," IGth U. S. Infantry, was admitted to this hospital November 6th, 1867, in the collapsed stage of cholera, from which he recovered, when, on the 23d of November, he was attacked by well-marked yellow fever, from which he also recovered. This man, when attacked by yellow fever, was still under the care of his medical