87 GALVESTON, TEXAS. of tlie Soxes was very greatly in favor of the females. The cases of these were, as a rule, more tractable, and greatly modified in severity A peculiar manifestation of the epidemic was that those of this class who were in parturition were among the most tractable cases. To have had yellow fever in a previous epidemic, I am quite well satisfied, proved a most reliable guarantee against infec- tion in this. I recall no secondary case, in my acquaintance with physicians of the city, of which there was undoubted proot'of its character; on the contrary, two of these gentlemen of high standing in their profession, and who individually possessed a very large city practice in the epidemic, saw no secondary case of yellow fever which they knew to be such. One of these gen- tlemen has been engaged in a general practice in the city much of the period since the epidemic of 18.53, and assures me that he has not known a recurrence of the disease. Entire immunity did not belong to persons who had supposed themselves to have been well acclimated by long residence in the city. In approaching the ground of the communicability of the disease, as evidenced by the epidemic, I do so with the more hesi- tation, because my observations include but a portion of the time under observation. On the 9th of September, while at the Austin station, 250 miles interior, a healthy limestone section with an altitude of 800 feet, Prisoner Higgings was admitted to the hospital under my charge. While waiting proper accommodation, he had, at one of the hospital tents occupied by other patients, the characteristic vomiting of yellow fever, and was quite yellow after death. No additional case resulted from this ; the proper local condition for the dissemination of the disease was not present. In proceeding to this city, in my change of station, I was obliged to pass through infected dis ricts in which the disease was very fatal; and, again, in my subsequent hospital service here and continuous residence in the city, I remained exempt from infection. I am also informed of other and similar cases. Of the Hebrews in the city, some twelve, I learn, escaped tlie disease. It is true that yellow fever is one of the most searching of epidemics, yet, while cases of exemption were few, no fact was more apparent tlian that weeks of almost daily exposure to the disease might transpire before the culmination of the exposure in attack. Again, the person who passed freely among cases of the disease was, perhaps, the one to be entirely or longest exempted. I must, therefore, regard the disease as communicable rather by atmospheric condition; by infection, in contradistinction to direct contagion. I am cognizant of no fact of interest occurring during the epidemic relating to the transportability of the disease. I may refer to one fact: the U. S. steam revenue cutter Delaware coaled at the city August 2d; further communication with the city was endeavored to be cut oif, i as tlie ship lay some three miles out in the inner roads,) other than to receive the marketing and mail by the cutter of the ship at a point well out from the city; the water used was condensed on shipboard. However, on or about the 24th of August, yellow fever appeared on the ship, a period of twenty-two days after arriving at the city. I think, however, the fact is an imperfect one, as it appears quite probable, allowing infection to have been escaped by other means, that the disease was introduced by the material taken up with the coal in the first part of the month. It is worthy of note that in the counties of Eefugio, Matagorda, Brazoria, and Wharton, lying within the coast range of the infection, the disease did not occur. Neither of these counties includes any very frequented route of travel at any period, and they are especially unfrequented during the epidemic season. At the town of Matagorda, the seaport and entrance of the county of Matagorda, strict quarantine was enforced, entirely excluding the disease. Quarantine was also enforced at Brazoria and Columbia, in Brazoria county, the inhabitants of the towns escaping infection. At Columbus, lying on one of the interior routes of travel from this city and directly within the line of the epidemic, an imperfect quarantine was established. The disease occurred in the town, but, I am informed, at so late a date as not to be alarming. On the other hand, at Bastrop, a healthy elevated interior town of considerable importance, the fever did not prevail as an epidemic, although cases occurred; yet it may be said that continuous communication was kept up with the contiguous town of La Grange, where the epidemic prevailed in an exceedingly malignant form. Again, I quote from an article on the epidemic by Dr. Welch, of this city: " It is worthy of mention, that among our large population resident in the open prairie beyond the limits of the city from two to eight miles, although there were a number of cases, not less than 15 or 20, contracted by persons visiting the city, not a single instance occurred in which the disease was communicated from the sick to the well." In neither of the last-mentioned instances were the proper local condi- tions for the dissemination of the disease present. I have noted above cases referring to the period preceding the development of the fever after entering the range of infection, and here give other instances: Sergeant James McArdle, Company " F," 17th Infantry, in charge of a detachment on dutv with the Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen, and Abandoned Lands at Matagorda, a place, as I have above stated, free from infection, returned to his company at Galveston on the morning of the 23d of September, having, off Saluria, boarded one of the Morgan line of steamers (plying between Indianola and this city) at noon on the preceding day; on the afternoon of the 1st of October he was prostrated with yellow fever. Private John Collins, of the same detachment, who returned at the same time with McArdle, was taken on the morning of the 27th of September; both were in good health at the time of their arrival in this city. Here was an interval preceding the development of the fever in the first case of nine days, in the second case of fi\ e days; or even allowing the first exposure to have been on board the steamer, it could only increase the length of time eighteen hours. Another case, which I have from Mr Bi iggs, one of the directors of the Howard Association, had been absent from the city on Chocolate bayou, (where, Mr. Briggs says, there certainly was no fever,) returned to the city, and in four days was prostrated with yellow fever. I think the period of incubation varies much in pro])ortion to the surrounding sanitary condition and healthy habits of life of the person exposed, and serious violations of hygienic principles are very likely to be visited by an early attack; indeed, tlie history of the ejiidemic in this city shows that the infection first displayed its force in those sections of the city where, from the filthy condition of the tenements, their foul location, and the presence of a high degree of heat, such a triple combination existed as would be expected, under any circumstances, to depress and destroy healthy action. The department is informed of the sanitary precautions and protective course pursued among the troops at Brenham, Texas, where tfie disease was very virulent. I may mention a somewhat similar protective course pursued successfully by some unaccliuiated persons in this city, which I have from the president of the Howard Association. These persons were in the city