85 GALVESTON, TEXAS. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel George Taylor, Surgeon, U. S. A., cliief mydical officer of tlie districtj was taken with yellow fever on the 31st of the month. Assistant Surgeon Charles H. Eowe, U. S. A., remarks, in a report of sick and wounded of the post hospital for the month, that the disease is witiiout doubt epidemic in the city, but has not as yet invaded the camp to any extent. The treatment of these cases was extremely mild for the most part. It will thus be seen that sporadic cases occiuTed early in the year, being nearly a month earlier than I find mentioned for any previous year, including and succeeding the epidemic year of 1853. The type of the disease, early in the epidemic under observation, was mild, not assuming a marked virulent character until toward the close of July, or the first of the ensuing month; toward the close of the month of July the spread of the disease had become quite alarming, while the history of the ensuing month shows the whole city stricken with the scourge. The entire number of troops in the city July 31st was, including those belonging to the post. Companies "E," "F," and "K," 17th U. S. Infantry, 134; 38th U. S. Infantry, colored, 1; prisoners, 18; and those belonging to District Headquai-ters, which I estimate approximately at 38; making a total of troops present of 191. On the 19th of August 35 recruits of the 41st U. S. Infantry, colored, were assigned to the post, and quartered, at first, in barrack accommodation; afterward in small tents, in an excellent location, out from and near the line of the barracks, and close upon the water line of the gulf. The regular troops of the post had excellent barrack accommodations. While the surface of the ground occupied by the barracks is low, and, with much of the surrounding locality, objectionable from this cause, yet the immediate viciiuty of the open gulf, and the prevalence of the winds from off the sea line the year through, renders the location a comparatively healthy one. The water used is condensed, and also from cisterns. The number of cases reported among the troops for the month of August was a very large increase over the number reported for .July. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel George Taylor, Surgeon, U. S. A., chief medical officer of the disti-ict, died on the 5th of the month. " With deep regret the Brevet Major General Commanding announces the death" of Colonel Taylor, since, in the preceding year, he had been a member of his staff. Succeeding Colonel Taylor's death, able medical assistance from the city was emplo3'ed for the care of the troops. The second death among the troops occurred on the 10th; the third on the 16th. William S. Abert, Captain, 7th U. S. Cavalry, and Brevet Lieutenant Colonel, U. S. A., of the staff of the commanding general, died August 25th, of yellow fever, having, almost immediately precedmg his final sickness, placed the remains of his wife in the cemetery ground. Mrs. Abert had died of the prevalent fever. Mrs. J. T. Kirkman, wife of Lieutenant Kirkman, of the staflF of the commanding general, died of the fever August 22d. Assistant Surgeon Charles H. Rowe, U. S. A., Surgeon in charge of the post, was taken with yellow fever August 24th. The city sexton's report of interments, which, I think, is not wholly reliable, but sufficiently so to be used as a general statement of deaths from yellow fever, for each third of the month, was, Is'^ third, 92; 2d third, 146; close of month, 262; additional to the deaths here mentioned are eight deaths marked "unknown;" the larger number of these probably died of the prevalent fever; total interments for the month, 508. This with a population which may be estimated to have decreased 9,000, all who could well do so, and who were unacclimated, having left the city. There remained a population of 15,000; of these, one-fourth may be estimated to have previously had the disease. Again, further deduction should properly be made of the colored portion of the population, who, as a class, were exempt from attack, or, occuning, as it did, in a small proportion of cases, was almost invariably of a mild character. The month of September records among the troops a large increase of the disease. The city sexton's report of interments for the month was, 1st third, 244 ; 2d third, 122 ; close of month, 63 ; unknown, 11. By the middle of the second part of the month the epidemic seems to have been very perceptibly declining, though the daily report of deaths was still large. Assistant Surgeon Charles H. Rowe, U. S. A., died on the 4th of the month. "His untiring fidelity during the present epidemic has won for him the esteem and praise of all his fellow-officers." These were the words of the general order announcing his death. To Assistant Surgeon Rowe's untiringly faithful service in the epidemic every one who knew the facts attests, while his success in the treatment of the disease is spoken of in the highest terms. Brevet Major and Assistant Surgeon Samuel Adams, U. S. A., attending Surgeon, died of the epidemic September 9th. The announcement of his death in general orders bears earnest testimony to his service, in "the decease of another of those heroes who have died at their posts manfully doing their duty. * * * * jjg leaves behind him a bright ex.miple of a christian gentleman and a faithful soldier." Succeeding Colonel Taylor's death, Dr. Adams had added to his duties those of the office of the chief medical officer of the district. Mrs. Potter, wife of Brevet Brigadier General Potter, of the staff of the commanding general, died on the 11th of the prevalent fever. Brevet Major General Charles Griffin, commanding district, died on Sunday, the 15th, of yellow fever, having been confined to his house but three days. General Griffin had declined removal to New Orleans, preferring to remain at his present place of duty. On the 6th of the month, As.sistant Surgeon H. M Cronkhite, U. S. A., arrived at the station from New Orleans. Twelve days subsequently my own arrival at the station dates, as above mentioned. The fever existing, at the date of my arrival, in Assistant Surgeon Cronkiiite's family, and his own subsequent prostration by the disease, required my presence at the military hospital for the epidemic. The month of October evidences among the troops the almost entire consumption of the material present. The following is the city sexton's report of interments for the month : 1st third, 28; 2d third, 16; close of the month, 13; imknown, 8. On the 3d of October a violent gale and rain storm occurred, inundating by water the entire lower portion of the city, and to a depth of from two to three feet along the strand and immediately receding streets, where, from the filth, the virus of the fever had found its choicest section. It was feared that the result of the storm would, in the presence of the epidemic, be disastrous; yet with this storm the fearful ordeal through which the city had been passing seems to have been well nigh stayed, the subsequent death reports were early lessened, and by the close of the month the history of the fever had been mostly written.