XXXVII REPORT ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA AND YELLOW FEVER. Surgeon C. A. Cowgill, U. S. Volunteers, in charge of the Foster general hospital, Newbern, contributes a report to accompany his monthly report of sick and wounded for November, 1864, which contains some interesting statements. It appears that 292 cases were admitted to that hospital during the epidemic; that 118 convalescents and attendants were attacked; making, in all, 410 cases and 181 deaths of white troops. Dr. Cowgill states, on the authority of Surgeon Mayer, of the 15th Connecticut Volunteers, that after a numl)er of cases of the fever had been brought to the hospital, the disease appeared among the inmates of the hospital, convalescents from malarious diseases being first attacked, then convalescents from other diseases, and finally the attendants. Dr. Cowgill further states, that during August and the early part of September remittent and intermittent fevers were the prevailing types of disease, but that tliese dis- appeared during the prevalence of the epidemic. Previously to the outbreak of yellow fever at Newbern, it had made its appearance, as already stated, at Charleston, South Carolina. The first case was that of Mr. Dallas, living on Calhoun street near the citadel; he was taken sick July 27th, and died nine days afterwards. Two weeks later the disease appeared in several parts of the city. It is known that the steamer Druid, blockade runner, came into port a few days after Mr. Dallas was attacked, with yellow fever on board ; but Dr. Hand could not learn of the arrival of any other blockade runner for several weeks before, and could obtain no evidence that any previous ones had fever on board. The disease spread extensively in Charleston, and Dr. Hand estimates the number of cases at 2,000, with a mortality of thirty-five per cent. At Wilmington, N. C, according to the inquiries of Dr. Hand, the fever of 1864 did not appearuntil October 10th. He statesthat aboutthelast of August the blockade runners Clyde and Coquette lay at the quarantine grounds, three miles below the city, with cases of yellow fever on board. This fact excited alarm, and the quarantine was removed from that point to Smithville, near the mouth of Cape Fear river. Here, on October 1st, fourteen blockade runners lay in quarantine, and on all of them the mortality from yellow fcA^er was great. At this time the fever spread from the ships to the shore, the first cases occurring in the houses nearest the quarantine fleet, and nearly one-half the citizens of Smithville died of it. Goods are known to have been smuggled on shore at Smithville, and it is quite probable that some of them were carried overland to Wilmington. During the summer and fall of 1864, a number of cases occurred, also, on the naval vessels lying before New Orleans. As usual, the disease has been said by some to have originated on the spot, and the bad hygienic condition of certain of the iron-clads has been indicated as furnishing the necessary conditions. But the Spanish ship Pizarro, with yellow fever on board, had been sent to the quarantine station July 4th, and it is believed that, if a full account of all the facts of the case could be obtained, it would be found that the naval epidemic of 1864 would prove no exception to the general rule. After the epidemic at Newbern, no considerable number of cases occurred in the army until the summer of 1867. During August, 1865, sixteen cases, none of them fatal, are reported in the District of Key West and Tortugas, without particulars. A few cases occurred, also, during 1866. One death is reported at Fort Jefferson during September; three deaths at New Orleans, one during September, one during October, and one during