57 FORT GIBSON, CHEROKEE NATION. Arkansas, sixty-five miles distant in a southeasterly direction, but did not assume an epidemic form, in the most liberal acceptation of the term. Cholera had prevailed at the latter place during the month of September, 1866, and a jiortion of the month of October, to an al^ming extent, considering the population, and yet did not make its appearance at tliis post, but sixty-five miles distant, as above stated, save in the instances mentioned, though communication by land an{l by tlie Arkansas river was constant and uninterrupted. This singular fact cannot be altogether explained by the lateness of the season, for frost had not yet set in, nor had the heat of summer been cooled to any appreciable extent by the advancing autumn. I can only solve the problem by supposing that the choleraic virus in its westward march had not yet reached this limit. It may have reached it, and been present all the while, but the atmospheric condition and telluric emanations may not have been such as to favor its evolution and develop its potency. Whatever may be our speculations on the subject, it did not prevail to any consid- erable extent, though it would be difficult to imagine more favorable circumstances for its prevalence, if we were to be visited at all by the disease, and the experience of the following summer (1837) showed that we were. During the last week of June, 1867, several reports wore brought to me by the natives of persons being seized suddenly with cramping, purging, and vomiting, followed by death in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours. It was not until July 1st that I had an opportunity of seeing one of these reported cases, in the person of a Cherokee Indian, which I unhesitatingly pronounced cholera. He was attacked at 10 a. m., and died at 4 p. m. of tfee same day. The rapid spread and great mortality of the disease among the Indians and negroes in the immediate vicinity of the post, many of whom I saw, convinced me of the correctness of my diagnosis in this case. The disease was confined almost exclusively to the native Indian and negro population, and civilians in the government employ, but chiefly to the former. Deeming it superfluous, I will not enter into a detailed description of the symptoms in those cases which came under my care or observation, especially as but two enlisted men were attacked; but will merely state that the disease very speedily, after its first appearance, assumed an unquestionably epidemic form of the more violent type, the average duration of life in tlie fatal cases not exceeding forty-eight hours from the onset of undoubted symptoms of the disease. In many it was even less than twelve hours; and in two cases the patients died within sLx hours. It was impossible at the time, and has been since, to obtain accurate accounts of the number of cases of the disease, or the number of deaths, as Dr. D. D. Hitchcock, the only civil practitioner at the post, succumbed to the epidemic on the 17th day of July; and as many Indians and negroes, especially of the former, had no medical attendance, or treated each other with Indian remedies, which, so far as I could learn, consisted chiefly of oak bark and other indigenous vegetable astringents. The post quartermaster was directed to furnish coffins to all who might apply for them, and he informs me that during the month of July, the period of the greatest prevalence of the epidemic, he supplied seventy-five coffins. This number, though it may be taken approximately, would not embrace all, though probably the majority, as it is the custom of some of the Indians in this vicinity to bury their dead in blankets, or at best in rude boxes of their own construction. An estimate, made from aU reliable sources of information within my reach, of the number of deaths occurring fi-om cholera at and in the immediate vicinity of this post, would probably reach seventy-five. Taking in the region of country that would be swept by a radius of fifteen miles from Fort Gibson as a centre, the number of deaths would probably be increased by fifty, making in all about one hundred and twenty-five deaths. The number of persons attacked by the disease I have no reliable means of estimating, and will not therefore venture an opinion. By far the larger proportion of those attacked were adults. In my limited experience in the treatment of children, I met with far greater success than in the treatment of adults. The attack is not apt to be so severe, for the reason that the former are not exposed to so many depressing infiuences, such as labor and exposure in the sun, and were not so completely under the dominion of fear. During the month of July, Fort Gibson and vicinity were visited by an unusual number of rains of unusual severity. It is a noticeable fact that these storms were generally unattended by thunder and lightning. Each fall of rain was followed by a warm sun that seemed to light afresh the smoldering fires of the epidemic and give it a new impetus in its work of destruction. The heat of July and of the preceding month was not unusual in point of intensitj'; in fact, it was far less intense than the heat of the corresponding months of the preceding year. The extensive bottom lands in the immediate vicinity of the fort, which are subject to annual overflows in the month of June, were not so completely submerged in the month of June, 1837, as in June, 1836. It is a fact, perhaps not unworthy of mention in this connection, that the lands about Fort Gibson, as one of the fruits of the war, constitute one grand Golgotha. Thousands of bodies of men and beasts, chiefly the former, were deposited therein during the war, few, if any, of whom were buried more than three feet below the surface, and probably the majority even less than that; and during the prevalence of small-pox in the fall of 1863, sepulture was so imperfectly performed as scarcely to merit the name of burial. This fact, conjoined with that of the heavy falls of rain in the summer of 1867, and the unusual dryness of the summer of 1866, may serve, in a measure, to clear up the mystery of the unusual and unexpected severity of the epidemic in 1867. The telluric emanations and e-xhalations engendered by an unusually wet season, combined with favoring atmospheric conditions, may account for the dormancy of the choleraic virus in 1866, and for its activity in 1867. The nidus of the disease was in a negro settlement less than one-fourth of a mile from the garrison. The settlement consisted of huts of an average dimension of ten by fifteen feet, each hut housing, on an average, six persons, with no sinks or out- houses, with a ventilation which amounted to stagnation, the huts in many cases adjoining, so as to cgnstitute rows. Here the disease engendered and radiated until the last of July, when, on my recommendation, and by order of the commanding officer of the post, they were burned and their filthy occupants moved four miles from the garrison. From this date the disease began to abate, and ceased to prevail as an epidemic. After August 1st, wherever cases occurred, they could be traced to some efficient cause, as errors in diet, prolonged exposure to the sun, or great physical exhaustion. Among the negroes moved from the vicinity of the garrison, I did not learn of a single case of cholera after their removal. Their hygienic conditions were greatly improved, their camp on the prairie aftbrding them an abundance of fresh air and pure 8