EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. 100 ill on the 18th, and died on the 21st of the same month.* There is so much in this case tliat is like yellow fever that it is still a matter of doubt in my mind whether it was not one of that disease. The prevalence of yellow fever at Indianola, Galveston, Corpus Christi, aud afterwards at New Orleans, Louisiana, from all which places there is direct communication to the valley of the Rio Grande, was a sufficient warning during the months of June, July, August, and September, that the epidemic might be expected to appear in this sub-district. With the comparatively few avenues of approach, viz : via the ports of Brazos Santiago, Texas, and Bagdad, Mexico, and tlie roads from Corpus Christi to Brownsville and to Rio Grande City, it was hoped that either the advent of the disease could be prevented by rigid quarantines, or that, by vigilant observation, the first cases of the disease could be noticed, and important and interesting facts ascertained as to the manner of its introduction from infected localities. To this end, very explicit instructions were given to the medical officer at Ringgold Barracks, from whom, as a result, the accompanying report has been received. It is to be regretted that the report is entitled to so little confidence, that such contradictory opinions regarding the epidemic in that vicinity are entertained by professional men, and that the statements of the only physician (Dr. Headley, of Camargo) personally cognizant of all the facts, are not quite credible. Under these cii'cumstances, it is thought best to forward the accompanying papers t as an appendix to Dr. Furley's report, to review them at length as I have done, and to give the results of a careful investigation of information received from all credible sources. The history of the recent epidemic in the vicinity of Ringgold Barracks may be summed up briefly in the following state- ments, which, I believe, contain all that can be relied upon as facts, and that can be accepted as quite well established by the evidence furnished: 1st. The prevalence of yellow fever, during the month of August, at Corpus Christi, the nearest infected locality, and the existence of rigid quarantine by land and sea, rendered it most likely that the disease, if introduced at all in the valley of the Rio Grande, would be so by the route from Corpus Christi to Rio Grande City, a distance of about 1.50 miles ; the roads between those places being the most travelled and most difficult to be effectually guarded, as they are quite widely separated and pass through an open country. 2d. The quarantines established upon these roads, and other measures adopted, were so far efifectual as to delay the intro- duction of the disease for at least a month after it might have been expected to make its appearance, if it did so, by importation fi'om Corpus Christi, had the roads from that place been unobstructed. 3d. Fevers of a malarial character were somewhat prevalent in all of the lower regions of the Rio Grande durhig the month of August, and became more general in September and October. 4th. Yellow fever was introduced by importation to the vicinity of Rio Grande City as early as the beginning of September; but while development of the disease by contagion cannot be traced and proven by such evidence as is furnished, still, at the same time, it cannot be denied that the disease may have been so developed. It also appears that it was not until the latter part of September that the diseases prevalent in the vicinity of Rio Grande City began generally to assume the type of yellow fever. 5th. Many of the cases commonly believed to have been yellow fever were not of that disease, but were purely pernicious or malarial fever ; many more were of a mixed character, complicating both types of the disease; and not a few were well- marked, uncomplicated cases of yellow fever. 6th. The mortality from these diseases during the months of September, October, and November, among a population of about seven hundred people residing at Rio Grande City and the adjacent ranches within ten Miles of that place, in the Rio Grande valley, was over one hundred deaths of persons whose burials were registered, and nearly or quite that number of those not registered, and who were buried at difl'erent places. Respectfully submitting the above-mentioned reports, together with my accompanying report for the post of Brownsville, I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your most obedient servant, EDWARD COWLES, Assistant Surgeon, and Brevet Captain, U. S. A. Brevet Major General J. K. B.\rnes, Surf/eon General. Fort Brown, Brownsville, Texas, January 20, 1868. General : I have the honor to forward herewith special rejiorts of yellow fever patients at this post during the months of October, November, and December, 1867. It will appear from these reports that in the military force at the post there have been but four cases of yellow fever, all officers, and that all happily resulted in recovery. During the months named the fever prevailed quite generally in Brownsville, and the history of the epidemic presents some points of considerable interest. Soon after the appearance of yellow fever at Indianola, quarantine stations were established—on the 8th of July—at the ports of Brazos Santiago and Brownsville, Texas; and at Bagdad, Mexico, by the co-operation of the Mexican authorities. The regions of the lower valley of the Rio Grande being, comp.aratively, so much isolated, by wide tracts of nearly unin- habited country, from all localities where yellow fever could be expected to prevail, and communication with such localities being held by sea via the above-named ports, and by land via the long roads from Corpus Christi to Brownsville and Rio Grande City, the distance in either case being about 160 miles, it was hoped that strict (juarantiue upon these routes of travel would prevent the introduction of the disease. At the same time all sanitary measures possible were adopted to improve the hygienic condition of the city of Brownsville, and in compliance with instructions from the Headquarters of the District of Texas, a health officer was appointed for the city, and freipient and thw'ough inspections were m.ade by him and myself. * Dr. CunynglKmie's letter of Novonibcr 23d, forwarded with this report, denies that Dr. S.ivapfo hud yellow fever, t These papers arc not puhlislicd for want of space; their suhst.ince is embraced in this report.