SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 46 with artificial limbs. In the forearm, the amputation by the double flap method has been generally preferred. Amputations at the Elbow.—The returns corroborate the conclusions of Du]3uy- tren, Malgaigne, and Legouest, who combat the disfavor into which this operation has fallen. It was done infrequently in the late war, but 19 cases having been reported. But in all of these the ultimate results have been ascertained, and were favorable in every instance. The success of Salleron and other French surgeons with this operation in the Crimea is well known. Whenever, then, it is impracticable to amputate the forearm, disarticulation at the elbow should be preferred to amputation of the arm. The oval method answers the purpose best in this locality. Amputations of the Arm.—Of 2774 cases of amputation of the arm that have been entered on the registers, the results are ascertained in 1949 cases: 1535 recov- ered, and 1014 of these patients have been furnished with artificial arms. Amputations at the Shoulder-Joint.—It is creditable to the surgery of the war that the number of cases of amputation at the shoulder-joint reported is less than the number of cases of excisions of the head of the humerus, and that the latter operation appears to have been adopted in nearly all the cases in which it was admissible. The reported cases of amputation at the shoulder-joint, for the entire period, number 458; of excisions of the head of the humerus, there were 575. Of the 237 terminated cases of amputation, 93 died, a ratio of mortality of 39'2, which is 6'7 per cent, greater than the mortality in excisions. The amputations of the upper extremity for gunshot injuries are illustrated at the Army Medical Museum by 89 examples of diseases of stumps, and by a large number of plaster casts and photographs, exhibiting the suc- cessful results of operations. Amputations of the Toes.—Of 784 cases that have been examined, 6 were fatal. Tetanus supervened in one case, and phlegmonous erysipelas invaded the leg in another. In the four remaining cases, the fatal termination was due to causes foreign to the operation. Partial Amputations of the Foot.—Of the 160 recorded cases, 119 were termin- ated, with a mortality of 9 24 per cent. The tarso-metatarsal operation of Hey or Lisfranc was performed 25 times; the medio-tarsal operation of Chopart 45 times. The remaining cases were ablations of toes with one or more of the metatarsals. There are several casts of stumps, made by Chopart's method, at the Army Medical Museum, which exhibit the drawing up of the heel which so frequently occurs after this operation. Amputations at the Ankle-Joint.—The record is far from complete. In the terminated cases, Syme's method was employed in 25 cases, Roux's method in 2 cases, and Pirogoflf's in 9 cases. Several casts and photographs of well-rounded stumps, obtained by the latter procedure, are deposited in the Army Medical Museum. But the operation appears to be regarded with little favor. Baron von Horronitz, Surgeon-in- Chicf of the Russian Marine, in his recent visit to this office, mentioned that Pirogoff had himself abandoned it, finding the segment of the os calcis likely to become necrosed. An abstract of a favorable case, with an illustration, is subjoined: