REPORT ON EPIDEMIC CHOLERA AND YELLOW FEVEIi. VII and trains during July carried the pestilence across the plains to every post on the Arkansas river and the Smoky Hill Fork, and three other notable instances of the transplantation of the disease occurred: one on the route between Forts Gibson and Arbuckle, one in the case of the posts in New York harbor, the third in that of certain recruits distributed from New York, by way of New Orleans, through Texas. At New Orleans, where cholera had prevailed extensively, during 1866. among both citizens and troops, continuing during the summer and fall, until January, 1867, it reap- peared among the citizens in June. The reports of the Board of Health record 4 deaths during June, and 571 during the following six months. During the same period only six cases and three deaths were reported among the white troops, and but four cases and two deaths among the colored troops. The first of these cases occurred at Jackson Barracks during August, and recovered; the second case, at the same barracks, during September, also recovered. After this, no cases occurred until November. During November and December there were a few cases both at Jackson Barracks and at Greenville,'making, in all, but ten cases and five deaths during the six months in a garrison of over a thousand men. Besides "these, one case, which recovered, was reported at Jackson Barracks during January, 1868, and two cases of cholera and nine of choleraic diarrhoea during the same month in Company "A," 33d Infantry, which had just arrived from Georgia. In view of the prevalence of the disease among the citizens of New Orleans, this com- parative immunity of the troops must be attributed, to a great extent, to the stringent hygienic measures adopted in view of the approach of yellow fever. These measures are fully recorded in the reports on the yellow fever epidemic. At Fort Jackson, Mississippi, below New Orleans, one case, a colored soldier who recovered, is reported during September. No particulars have been received During the month of June cholera also appeared among the freedmen on various plan- tations in the vicinity of Vidalia, Louisiana. The troops, however, escaped until October. During this month eight cases and three deaths are reported out of a strength of 61 officers and men. At Vicksburg, Mississippi, where cholera had prevailed among the troops during 1866, it reappeared among the citizens during the month of June. The first case among the troops occurred on the 29th of that month and died the same day. There were eight cases and two deaths among the troops during July ; one fatal case during September ; during October two cases, which recovered; in all, eleven cases and three deaths, not including the fatal case during June. The average strength of the command during the six months was 267 officers and men. At Madison, Arkansas, cholera appears to have been introduced by the body of a citizen dead of cholera who was brought from Linden for burial. Shortly afterwards the disease appeared among the troops. Eight cases and three deaths are reported during July; two cases and one death during August; in all, ten cases and four deaths; the average strength for the two months being 75 officers and men. At Newport Barracks, Kentucky, where cases had occurred during 1866, two mild cases are reported during June, both of which recovered. There was also one fatal case during August. The average strength of the command during the six months was 509. Oases are said to have occurred in both Cincinnati, Ohio, and Covington, Kentucky, a few days before the first of these cases.