GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 27 Virginia, June 3d, 1863, by a musket-ball, wbicli entered the right hypochondriac region, below the tenth rib, and passed out posteriorly an inch and a half to the right of the spine. He was admitted to Harewood Hospital, at Washington, on June 18th, in a very feeble state. There was a feecal discharge from the wound, mixed with bile. The ball had passed through the colon and the liver. There was great abdominal pain, an anxious countenance, nausea, and the other symptoms of traumatic peritonitis. A cold water-dressing was applied, and opium was admin- istered in full doses. On July 1st, the pain on pressure was circumscribed, and the general symptoms were less threatening. The discharge from the wound was unaltered. On September 1st, the wound of exit had healed, and the anterior wound discharged only a thin serum. On September 14th, the wound of entrance closed. The patient was furloughed on October 8th, 1863, and on the expiration of his furlough was returned to duty. Corporal "W. A. 0. Biles, Co. K, 25th North Carolina (Rebel) Regiment, was wounded at Gettysburg, July 3d, 1863, by a conoidal musket-ball, which passed through the lower portion of the right lobe of the liver. He was treated at one of the field hospitals at Gettysburg, and his case was carefully observed by Surgeon H. Janes, U. S. Vols. There was a free discharge of bile from both the wound of entry and of exit. There was circumscribed pain and tenderness on pressure, but apparently no extra-abdominal extravasation. The wounds continued to discharge bile until August 27th. On November 1st, the patient was transferred to West's Buildings Hospital, at Baltimore, and on November 12th, 1863, he was sent to City Point,- Virginia, for exchange, his wound being entirely healed. All the cases of gunshot wounds of the spleen that have been reported, were fatal. No symptoms are mentioned that particularly distinguished these from other gunshot injuries involving the abdominal cavity, and it is quite possible that the list of re- coveries may include cases in which this viscus was inj ured, though the diagnosis was not made out. A case is recorded of a lacerated wound of the abdominal walls, with lesion and protrusion of the pancreas, a portion of which is reported to have been excised. It appears probable that it was rather a portion of the omentum that was removed. Several cases are reported in which it was believed that recovery took place after gun- shot wounds of the kidney: Private Groff, Co. D, 61st Pennsylvania Vols., was admitted on June 8th, 1862, to Fifth Street Hospital, in Philadelphia, for wounds received at the battle of Fair Oaks, June 1st, 1862. He had a flesh wound of the left hip, another of the right thigh, and a wound in the left lumbar region, which was considered to be a penetrating wound of the abdomen. Immediately after he was struck, blood passed freely by the urethra. When he entered the hospital, he had htematuria. His wounds healed, however, kindly, and he left the hospital entirely well. Sergeant Galloway, Co. H, 8th Pennsj'lvania Reserves, was wounded at South Mountain, September 14th, 1862, by a musket-ball, which passed through the abdomen. He was treated at Satterlee Hospital, in Philadelphia. He had haematuria, and pain and tenderness in the region of the left kidney. He ultimately recovered. It can hardly be considered that the evidence of gunshot wound of the kidney was, in these cases, unequivocal. Gunshot wounds of the bladder, when the projectile entered above the pubes or through the pelvic bones, have proved fatal, so far as the records have been examined. There are many examples of recovery, however, from injuries of the parts of the blad- der uncovered by the peritonaeum. Several examples of recovery, after protrusions of the abdominal viscera through gunshot wounds, have been reported. In two cases in which loops of small intestine issued, they were immediately returned and retained by means of adhesive strips and bandages, and the patients recovered with ventral hernia. The escape of omentum, through wounds, would not appear to be a very serious complication, for in many cases portions of protruding omentum have been excised, and the patients have, nevertheless, recovered promptly. In relation to gunshot wounds of the great vessels of the abdomen, a few words will be said in treating of ligations. Penetrating wounds of the abdomen, complicated with fractures of the vertebrae.