EPIDEMIC MUMPS. 127 largest establishments of the kind, the Small-pox Hospital at St. Louis, Missouri, and that at Washington, D. C, the total number of cases of small-pox and varioloid treated during the two years was 2319; the number of deaths 597, or one in four (3-88) cases. A considerable amount of material is on file concerning the frequency and fatality of variolous disease among those who have been vaccinated, as compared with the un- protected, and on other matters of interest connected with this subject. Most of this material belongs, however, to a period subsequent to that referred to in this paper. I will only mention here the occurrence in many instances, especially in the Central re- gion, of foul or gangrenous ulcers as an accident attendant upon vaccination. The earliest cases of the sort referred to in the official reports occurred in the latter part of 1863 in the District of the Frontier, and are reported by Surgeon George H. Hubbard, U. S. Vols., Medical Director of the district. They were supposed to be caused by the accidental admixture of syphilitic matter with the virus employed. Other cases sub- sequently occurred in Missouri, the Northern Department, Kentucky, Tennessee, etc., and were made the subject of careful inquiry by Colonel C. S. Tripler, Medical Director of the Northern Department, and other surgeons. The opinion generally arrived at was, that they were the expression of scorbutic or other cachectic conditions of the patients, and not due to any poisonous admixture with the vaccine virus; and it was frequently observed that the same scab which had produced a number of successful vaccinations would, in other men vaccinated at the same time, produce the ulcers referred to. An exceedingly interesting paper which illustrates this point, as observed in a number of cases among citizens at Horicon, Wisconsin, has been contributed by Surgeon Howard Culbertson, U. S. Vols. The subject is one which deserves a full discussion hereafter. CAMP MEASLES. Epidemic measles was one of the characteristic affections of the war. It occurred chiefly in regiments recently raised, and among recruits, and appeared to be due wholly to the incidental exposure of men brought up in rural districts who had hitherto escaped the contagion: 21,676 cases and 551 deaths were reported during the first year of the war, 16,345 cases and 1313 deaths during the second; but there is reason to believe that the actual number of cases was considerably greater, since it is well known that the disease frequently prevailed epidemically in new regiments, after the men began to come together in the State to which they belonged, but before they were mustered into the service of the United States, and therefore before their medical officers began to report to the Surgeon General's Office. The disease resembled ordinary measles in adults, except when aggravated by the effects of crowd poisoning or other depressing influences. .The direct mortality was not great, being only one death to every twenty cases, but tedious catarrh, pneumonia, and pleuro-pneumonia were frequent sequelaB; and a part of the mortality from these affections was due indirectly to measles. EPIDEMIC MUMPS. Another affection, which prevailed extensively, was Epidemic Mumps (parotitis). It occurred both as an independent affection and as a complication of other diseases. It was seldom fatal. During the first year 11,216 cases and 9 deaths were reported; during