28 EXTRACTS FROM OFFICIAL REPORTS. Extract from Special Report of Cholera Patients at Fort Riley, Kansas, July, 1867. Brevet Lieutenant Colonel B. J. D. Irwin, SuTffeon, U. S. A. "* . Peter Kehoe, Irish, age 30; attacked July 11, 18f)7, and died the same day. This patient was an employe in the service of the Union Pacific Railroad Company, Eastern Division. Himself and wife lived on a construction train, keeping a mess for the other employes of that train. On the 9th they visited the vicinity of Fort Harker, Kansas, where cholera was then epidemic. The train returned on the morning of the 11th. I saw him at about 4 o'clock p. m., and found him rajiidly running into tlie collapsed stage of epidemic cholera, fi-om which he died in about an hour afterwards. * Extract from Case, Diet, and Prescription Boole, Fort Riley, Kansas. Brevet Major G. M. Sternberg, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. Henry Gorns, Recruit, 10th United States Cavalry, arrived at the post November 11th, from Vincennes, Indiana, via Saint Louis; was taken sick with diarrhoea at St. Louis; had no treatment until he was brought to the hospital on the morning of November 13th; had been purging and vomiting, and had cramps in his legs all night; no one took pains to inform the post surgeon of his condition. When first seen he was in a state of partial collapse, but still able to stand up; pulse very feeble; extremities cold; fingers shriveled in appearance; voice husky and weak, and tongue cold; had but one rice-water discharge atler being admitted to hospital; vomited several times, but the vomiting was no longer severe, and but little was ejected besides the water he drank. Administered ten grains of calomel, and applied tin warmers to abdomen and feet; gave brandy and water, each one fluid drachm every ten minutes. November 13th, 3 p. m: has rallied considerably; pulse stronger; tongue and extremities warmer; brandy has been well borne and reaction is fairly established; had several copious watery passages of a light greenish color during the day; vomited several times, ejecting nothing but a little water; had cramps in his legs. To have beef essence, a tablespoonf ul every half hour; during the night sinapisms to the calves of the legs and to abdomen; brandy continued during the night, about every half hour, in drachm doses. Novem))er 14th, 9 am: pidse quite full; surface warm ; had two or three passages during the day—not so copious, and containing some fcecal matter. Brandy discontinued; chicken broth ad libitum, there being no beef essence. November 14th, 1 p. m: since brandy was discontinued, pulse has become weaker; resume brandy every half hour. November 15th, 9 a. m: vomiting and diarrhoea has entirely ceased; continue treatment. November 16th, 9 a. m : continues to improve; beef essence ad libitum; to have sherry wine, an ounce and a half three times a day. November 17th, 9 a. m: still improving; continue treatment. November 18th, 9 a. m: still improving; no passage since the evening of the 16th; continue treatment, and to have castor oil, half an ounce, and 15 drops of tincture of opium; oil operated at 6.30 a. m. Returned to duty November 25th. FORT HARKER, KA1\SAS. Extract from Monthly Report of Sick and Wounded, Companies "A," " B," and " G," 33th Infantry, Fort Harker, Kansas, June, 1867. Brevet Major Geo. M. Sternberg, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. A. At 3 o'clock a. m., June 28th, Acting Assistant Surgeon Peri'y, U. S. A., was called in haste to see George W. Keeton, a citizen employed by the beef contractor as a herder and butcher. The man was found in a state of profound collapse, with all the symptoms of epidemic cholera, (cramps, rice-water discharges from stomach and bowels, shriveled appearance of the fingers, coldness of extremities, &c., &c.) The patient died at 3.30 p. m. the same day. He had been suffering from diar- rhoea for two days. At 7 p. m. the same day. Private George Groom, Company " H," 38th Infantry, was sent to hospital by Assistant Surgeon Ely McCiellan, U. S. A. (This soldier's company is temporarily at the post en route from Jefferson liarracks, Missouri, to New Mexico.) The patient had all the symptoms of cholera, and was in a state of collapse when admitted. He died at 11 a. m., June 29th. William Jackson, Company " G," 38th Infantry, was sent to hospital, by Assistant Surge(m McClelhui, at 9 a. m., June 30th, and died at noon, July Ist; an unmistakable case of cholera. Tony Powell, Company " B," 38th Infantry, was admitted at 6 p. m., .June 29th, in a state of collapse from <;holera. Treated with chloroform in drachm doses. July 2d, is considered out of danger. A child of George Irwin (quartermaster's employe) was taken sick with cholera at 2 p. m., June 29th. His wife was taken at 10 a. m. the same day, and himself at 2 p. m., Jun<^ 30th. The wife and child died at 5 p. m. on the 30th; the man is now (July 2d).in a fair way of recovery, but not yet out of danger. Wra. Edwards, quartermaster's employ^, taken sick ut (> p. m., June 30th; died at noon, July 1st. G. II. Arnold, taken sick at 3 p. m., June 30th; July 2d, is doing well.