THE LOWER LIMB. 262 From this it is reflected on to the neck of the femur, and it clothes the bone as far as the margin of the articular cartilage which covers the head. Along the line of reflection some fibres of the capsular ligament proceed upwards on the neck of the femur and raise the synovial membrane in the form of ridges. These fibres are termed retinacula} At the acetabular attachment of the capsular ligament the synovial membrane is reflected on to the cotyloid ligament and invests both its surfaces. It also covers the articular surface of the transverse ligament and the cushion of fat which occupies the bottom of the cavity. Lastly, it gives a tubular investment to the ligamentum teres. Removal of the Limb.—The limb may now be removed from the trunk by dividing the ligamentum teres. It should then be taken to one of the tables set aside for the dissection of separate parts. Before proceed- ing to the dissection of the leg it is advisable to study the attach- ments of the various muscles to the femur. The bulk of these may be removed, but a small portion of each should be left, so that their con- nections may again be revised, should it be found necessary to do so at a later period. THE LEG. Surface Anatomy.—The relation of the tibia and fibula to the surface should be carefully investigated. The sharp anterior border of the tibia or shin does not form a projec- tion visible to the eye, but nevertheless it is subcutaneous, and can be very distinctly felt when the finger is passed along it. It pursues a slightly sinuous course, and in its lower part becomes rounded-off and indistinct. The broad 1 These ligaments (cervical ligaments of Stanley) are of some surgical importance. In intracapsular fracture of the neck of the femur the}' may escape rupture, and they then form a sort of natural splint which retains the fragments in apposition. Hence examinations of this class of fracture must be gently conducted, lest by rupturing this ligamentous connection, the fragments be permanently displaced.