87 BACK OF THE ARM. in the axilla the three subscapular and the circumflex nerves. In the first instance, the musculo-spiral proceeds downwards behind the lower part of the axillary artery and the upper part of the brachial artery. It soon leaves the front of the arm, however, and, inclining backwards with the superior profunda artery, enters the interval between the long and the inner heads of the triceps, and reaches the musculo- spiral groove. In this it is conducted round the back of the shaft of the humerus, under cover of the outer head of the triceps, and on the outer side of the limb it pierces the external intermuscular septum and appears in the anterior compartment of the arm. Here it has already been exposed. It lies deeply in the interval between the brachialis anticus on the inside, and the supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior on the outside. It ends in front of the external condyle of the humerus by dividing into two terminal branches, viz., the radial and the posterior inter- osseous. The musculo-spiral nerve presents therefore very different relations as it is traced from its origin to its termination: (1) between the subscapularis, latissimus dorsi, teres major, and long head of the triceps which support it behind, and the axillary and brachial arteries which are placed in front of it; (2) between the long and inner heads of the triceps ; (3) in the musculo-spiral groove between the bone and the outer head of the triceps; (4) in the interval between the brachialis anticus on the inside, and the supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior on the outside. The branches which proceed from the musculo-spiral nerve are partly muscular and partly cutaneous. The cutatieous branches are three in number, and have already been traced. They are—(1) the internal cutaneous, which, as a rule, arises within the axilla, in common with the branch which supplies the long or scapular head of the triceps; (2) the upper external cutaneous ; and (3) the lower external cutaneous, which come off on the outer side of the