198 THE LOWER LIMB. fibularis arises from the external popliteal nerve in the popliteal space, and is continued downwards over the outer head of the gastrocnemius. It ultimately unites with the nervus communicans tibialis, to form the external saphenous nerve. The articular branches are three in number. They accompany the external articular branches of the popliteal artery, and the anterior recurrent tibial branch of the anterior tibial artery. They are of small size, and difficult to dissect. The recurrent articular nerve springs from the termination of the external popliteal nerve, and will be dissected at a later stage. Popliteal Artery.—The popliteal artery is the terminal part of the great arterial trunk of the lower limb. It begins at the opening in the adductor magnus, where it is continuous with the femoral artery, and it ends at the lower border of the popliteus muscle by dividing into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. This division is at present hidden from view by the upper border of the soleus muscle, but it will be exposed in the dissection of the leg. The course which the popliteal artery takes through the popliteal space is not straight. In the first instance it inclines obliquely downwards and outwards, so as to gain the middle of the space in the interval between the two condyles of the femur. From this point to its termination it takes a vertical course downwards. Throughout the greater part of its length it is placed deeply. In the upper part of the space it is covered by the semimembranosus, but when it- gains the interval between the two condyles it is simply covered by the integuments and fascial. This super- ficial part of the vessel is very short, however—not more than about an inch—because it at once passes onwards between the two heads of the gastrocnemius, is crossed by the plantaris, and finally at its termination sinks under cover of the upper border of the soleus. Throughout its whole course the popliteal artery rests upon the floor of the