HIP-JOINT. The Transverse Ligament is composed of some transverse fibres which bridge across the notch in the inferior part of the acetabulum, and are attached to its margins. The more superficial of these fibres are more or less directly connected with the deep surface of the cotyloid ligament as it stretches across the notch, but they do not fill up the entire gap; a narrow interval is left between the transverse ligament and the bone for the entrance of blood vessels and nerves into the joint. The Ligamentum Teres, or interarticular ligament, is not round, as its name might lead one to expect, but somewhat flattened and triangular in shape. Its narrow femoral ex- tremity is implanted into the upper margin of the pit which marks the head of the femur, whilst its flattened acetabular end is bifid, and is fixed to the margins of the notch in the lower part of the acetabulum, and also to the transverse ligament. This attachment can be defined by removing the synovial membrane and some areolar tissue. The liga- mentum teres is completely surrounded by synovial mem- brane, and a small artery runs along it to the head of the femur. It is difficult to understand the part which the ligamentum teres plays in the mechanism of the hip-joint. It presents very different degrees of strength in different individuals. It becomes very tense when the thigh is slightly flexed and then adducted. Synovial Membrane and Interior of the Joint.—A mass of soft fat occupies the non-articular bottom of the aceta- bular cavity. Upon this the ligamentum teres is placed, and blood vessels and nerves enter it by passing through the notch under cover of the transverse ligament. The vessels come from the internal circumflex and the obturator arteries, and the nerves come from the anterior division of the obturator nerve and from the accessory obturator, when it is present. A nerve-twig is also supplied to the back of the joint by the nerve to the quadratus femoris. The synovial membrane lines the interior of the capsule.