GLUTEAL REGION. iS5 outwards, and forwards. Its fibres rapidly converge, and end in a rounded tendon, which crosses the common tendon of the obturator internus and gemelli, and is inserted into a small impression on the highest part of the great trochanter of the femur. It is closely adherent to the obturator tendon for some distance. The obturator interims and gemelli together constitute a tricipital muscle with one intra-pelvic belly (obturator in- ternus), and two extra-pelvic bellies (gemellus superior and inferior). The common tendon of this tricipital muscle is inserted into an impression on the upper part of the great trochanter of the femur immediately in front of the insertion of the pyriformis. The gemellus superior arises from the spine of the ischium at the upper margin of the lesser sciatic notch. Its fibres pass outwards along the superior border of the tendon of the obturator internus, and are inserted obliquely into that tendon. The gemellus inferior arises from the tuberosity of the ischium at the lower margin of the lesser sciatic notch, and is inserted into the inferior border of the obturator tendon, in a similar manner to the gemellus superior. Close to their origins the gemelli meet under cover of the obturator tendon, and form a fleshy bed, on which it lies ; near the trochanter the fibres of the gemelli overlap the obturator tendon, and tend to cover its superficial surface. The tendon of the obturator internus should be freed from the gemelli for some little distance from its point of exit from the small sacro-sciatic foramen. It may then be divided and raised from the bed in which it lies. Its deep surface will be seen to consist of four or five rounded slips separated by deep grooves or furrows. The surface of the small sciatic notch on which this tendon glides is coated with smooth cartilage, which is raised into ridges correspond- ing to the grooves on the surface of the tendon. A large synovial bursa is interposed, which still further facilitates the play of the tendon round the notch.