FOREARM AND HAND. 101 takes origin close to the commencement of the radial artery, and in the first instance runs outwards between the supinator longus and the supinator brevis. Here it comes into relation with branches coming from the musculo-spiral nerve, and gives off several twigs for the supply of the muscles arising from the external condyle of the humerus. Somewhat reduced in size, it now turns upwards in the interval between the supinator longus and brachialis anticus, and ends in front of the external condyle of the humerus by anastomo- sing with the anterior terminal branch of the superior profunda artery. The superficialis voice artery is a small, variable branch, which arises a short distance above the wrist, and runs downwards to end in the muscles of the ball of the thumb. Sometimes, however, it attains a larger size and a special importance, from its being continued into the palm to complete the superficial palmar arch on the outer side. The anterior radial carpal is a minute twig which springs from the radial at the lower border of the pronator quadratus muscle. It runs inwards under cover of the flexor tendons, and joins the corresponding branch of the ulnar artery to form the anterior carpal arch. Radial and Posterior Interosseous Nerves.—The musculo- spiral nerve has already been observed to end in front of the elbow, under cover of the supinator longus muscle, in its two terminal branches, the radial and the posterior inter- osseous. These nerves may now be studied in so far as they lie on the front of the forearm. The posterior interosseous nerve soon disappears from view by passing backwards on the outer side of the radius through the fibres of the supinator brevis muscle. The radial nerve proceeds downwards under cover of the fleshy belly of the supinator longus. In the middle third of the forearm it lies along the outer side of the radial artery, and then leaves it by winding round the outer margin of the limb, under cover of the tendon of the supinator longus.