ABDOMEN. 564 enter the saw lower than the anterior inferior spine of the ilium. This is the point at which the cut should be commenced. In all probability it will be found necessary to complete this section in front by means of the bone pliers, as there are many cases in which it is impossible to bring the saw out at the two points indicated. The greatest care must be taken not to break the ascending ramus of the pubic bone. In carrying out the second or lower section, the dissector will meet with no difficulty whatever. The section of bone being successfully performed, the detached por- tion should be raised from the subjacent obturator internus. The fibres of this muscle take origin from the deep surface of the bone, and it will thus be necessary to use the knife in effecting the separation. Lastly, clean the obturator internus, and, grasping its tendon, draw it gently outwards and upwards, as in Fig. 126. The outer aspect of the parietal pelvic fascia comes into view. By this dissection the student is afforded a striking illustration of the three morphological planes, the bony, muscular, and the aponeurotic, referred to on p. 556, as entering into the composition of the pelvic wall. Description of the Pelvic Fascia.—The dissector has already taken note of a continuous fascia lining the interior of the abdomen proper, and placed between the muscles on the one hand, and the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue and peritoneum on the other. In relative position the pelvic fascia is identical with the abdominal fascia, and the visceral layer of the former, which passes inwards upon the upper surface of the pelvic diaphragm, may be compared with the thin cellular layer which clothes the under surface of the abdominothoracic diaphragm; the one completes the aponeurotic wall of the great abdominal cavity below, whilst the other completes it above. Byti_whjlst__dTas_j^ jt_^Jl^be_b^ne_in_ mind that the ^ajxjo^Lnal and pelvic fasjna^JiriLS)^ very limited part of the.ppjlgiiojL^ailion-OXthe jlig^ctineal line.. Parietal Pelvic Fascia.—The parietal or lining portion of the pelvic fascia must be examined from three different points of view, viz.—(1) posteriorly; (2) laterally; (3) anteriorly. On the posterior wall of the pelvis, the parietal pelvic fascia is of little importance. It is simply repre-