S88 ABDOMEN. numbers of fine nervous twigs from the pelvic plexus, and from the third and fourth sacral nerves. Preserve these as far as it is possible to do so. Upon the right side the blood vessels are more or less injured, and some of them severed, by the removal of the innominate bone; on the left side, however, they are intact. Pelvic Blood Vessels. — The pelvic arteries are the following:— 1. The internal iliac and its branches (upon each side). 2. The middle sacral 1 ,• , • , , , _,, , , ., , Mm the mesial plane). 3. The superior hemorrhoidal J The Internal Iliac Artery (arteria hypogastrica).—This is a short, wide vessel, which commences opposite the lumbo- sacral articulation, at the bifurcation of the common iliac. It proceeds downwards and backwards into the pelvis, and ends near the upper part of the great sciatic notch by dividing into an anterior and posterior division. In length it measures about one inch and a-half, and its calibre in the adult is considerably smaller than that of the external iliac. In front, it is clothed by the peritoneum, and crossed by the ureter ; whilst behind, it rests upon the inner border of the psoas muscle, the sacrum, the lumbo-sacral cord, and the internal iliac vein. The impervious hypogastric artery extends forwards from its extremity. Condition in the Foetus.—Very different is the condition of the internal iliac artery in the foetus. It is termed the hypogastric artery, and is twice as large as the external iliac. Instead of terminating at the sciatic notch, it extends forwards to the side of the bladder, upon which it ascends to reach the abdominal parietes. Continuing its course up- wards upon the posterior aspect of the anterior wall of the abdomen, it gains the umbilical orifice, through which it passes in company with its fellow of the opposite side and the umbilical vein. Outside the abdominal cavity the hypogastric arteries enter the umbilical cord, and, twining spirally around the umbilical vein, they reach the placenta, where the impure blood which they carry is brought into relation with the maternal blood. After birth, when the umbilical cord is divided and a ligature placed around it, the hypogastric arteries become filled with clot, which is gradually absorbed. At the same time the vessels shrivel, and after a