THE LEG. 269 can readily be distinguished on account of their greater density and thickness. The external annular ligament is short and narrow, and bridges over the hollow between the external malleolus and the posterior prominence of the os calcis. Intermuscular Septa.—As the deep fascia of the leg passes backwards over the fibular region, two strong intermuscular septa are given off from its deep surface. These are dis- tinguished as the anterior and posterior peroneal septa. The anterior peroneal septum intervenes between the per- oneal muscles and the extensor muscles, an^is__a^ta£hed_to thgn_ajtoior_Jwder of the Jfibula. The posterior peroneal septum is interposed between the peroneal muscles and the muscles on the back of the leg, and is attached to the external border of the fibula. The leg is thus subdivided into three osteo-fascial compartments, corresponding to the anterior tibio-fibular, peroneal, and posterior tibio- fibular regions. The anterior compartment is bounded by the investing deep fascia, the anterior peroneal septum, the anterior part of the inner surface of the fibula (that part which lies in front of the interosseous line), the inter- osseous membrane, and the external surface of the tibia. The outer compartment is bounded by the external surface of the fibula, the investing fascia, and the two peroneal septa. The posterior compartment is much the largest, and its walls are formed by the posterior surface of the tibia, the hinder part of the internal surface and the whole of the posterior surface of the fibula, the interosseous mem- brane, the posterior peroneal septum, and the investing deep fascia. This compartment is still further subdivided by two partitions ; but these will be studied later on. Dissection.—The anterior compartment of the leg should now be opened by removing the deep fascia. The two portions of the anterior annular ligament, however, must be retained, and their borders should be defined and separated artificially by the knife from the deep fascia, with which they are continuous. In the upper part of the leg it will be