229 FRONT OF THE THIGH. in a position of great danger, seeing that it is the base of Gimbernat's ligament against which the surgeon's knife is generally directed for the relief of strictured femoral hernia. Scarpa's Triangle.—This is the name which is given to the triangular hollow which lies in the upper part of the thigh below Poupart's ligament. To bring its boundaries into view the deep fascia must be removed from the anterior aspect of the upper third of the thigh. In the lower two- thirds, the fascia lata should be left undisturbed, so as to maintain as far as possible the natural position of parts. The outer boundary is formed by the sartorius as it runs downwards and inwards across the thigh from the anterior superior spine of the ilium; and the inner boundary is con- stituted by the prominent internal margin of the adductor longus. Clean these muscles down to the point where they meet to form the apex of the triangle. Poupart's ligament forms the base of the triangle. The contents of the space must now be displayed by removing the fatty areolar tissue which surrounds them. The femoral vessels should first be cleaned. Remove the remains of the femoral sheath and define the various branches which proceed from the vessels in so far as they are seen within the limits of the triangular space. Be careful not to injure the small twig which springs from the anterior crural nerve, and passes inwards behind the vessels, a short dis- tance below Poupart's ligament, to supply the pectineus muscle. In this part of its course the femoral artery gives off—(1) the three superficial inguinal vessels, which have already been observed ramifying in the superficial fascia of the groin ; (2) the deep external pudic, which runs inwards over the pectineus; (3) the large profunda femoris. The profunda femoris comes off from the outer side of the femoral artery about one and a-half inches below Poupart's ligament. It inclines downwards and inwards behind the femoral trunk, and soon leaves the space by passing under cover of the adductor longus. The external