93 SHO UL DEK-JOINT. specially thickened by the addition of fibres, which pass from the scapula to the humerus. Two of these thickened portions receive the names of the coraco-humeral and the gleno-humeral ligaments. A third is placed on the inferior aspect of the capsule, where it is not supported by muscles, viz., between the long head of the triceps and the sub- scapularis muscles. It is against this thickened portion of the capsule that the head of the humerus rests when the arm is abducted from the side, and it is sometimes spoken of as the inferior accessory ligament, or inferior gleno- humeral ligament. The Coraco-humeral Ligament is placed upon the upper aspect of the joint. It is a broad band of great strength, which is more or less completely incorporated with the capsule. Above, it is fixed to the root and outer border of the coracoid process of the scapula, and it passes from this obliquely downwards and outwards, to gain attachment to the two tuberosities of the humerus. It forms a strong arch over the upper part of the bicipital groove, under which the tendon of the biceps passes. The Gleno-humeral Ligament can only be seen when the joint is opened. The dissector should therefore, at this stage, remove the posterior part of the capsule, and, drawing the bones well apart from each other, look forwards into the cavity. The tendon of the biceps will be observed arching over the head of the humerus, to reach its insertion on the upper aspect of the glenoid cavity. Immediately internal to this, and parallel to it, will be noticed a ridge on the inner aspect of the capsule projecting into the joint. This band is the gleno-humeral ligament (of Mr. Flood). It is inserted into a faintly-marked pit on the anatomical neck of the humerus, close to the upper end of the bicipital groove. Dissection.—Complete the division of the capsular ligament, and drawing the tendon of the biceps through the intcrtubercular aperture in the capsule, separate the two bones from each other.