PEL VIS. urethral opening, formed by the approximation of the superior wall with the basal wall, is spoken of as the posterior limb, whilst that part formed by the approximation of the superior and inferior walls of the viscus in front of the urethral opening is called the anterior limb of the cavity. The anterior limb of the cavity is long and nearly horizontal. The posterior limb is short, and sometimes barely recognisable ; further, it is oblique or perhaps vertical, and joins the anterior limb at the urethral opening at an angle. Viewed, therefore, in mesial section, the lumen of the perfectly empty bladder usually forms a Y-snaped figure with the lumen of the upper part of the urethra. In other cases the empty bladder is firm and rounded, and when divided in the mesial plane its cavity is seen to present only the one limb or slit continuous with the lumen of the urethra. As the bladder becomes gradually filled by the entrance of urine into it through the ureters, the superior wall is raised from the inferior and basal walls, and gradually ascends in the cavity of the pelvis. The bladder now assumes the egg-shaped form, and the apex appears above the symphysis pubis. As the distension goes on, the organ rises higher and higher into the hypogastric region, and a greater extent of its wall becomes applied to the abdominal wall above the pubis. In connection with this relation it is important to note that the peritoneal reflection from the apex is raised along with the organ, so that now there is a considerable area of bladder wall applied directly to the anterior ab- dominal wall above the pubis without the intervention of peritoneum. When the bladder is excessively distended it assumes a spherical form, or perhaps an ovoid form with the enlarged end at the apex (Fig. 134). In the latter case the long axis is no longer horizontal, but very oblique, being directed from above downwards and backwards. The neck of the bladder is very firmly fixed in position. This is chiefly due to the manner in which it is grasped and held in place by the base of the prostate, and also to the connections which we have seen are established between it and the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia. The prostate is securely anchored in its place by the strong capsule which il derives from the pelvic fascia. As the bladder becomes distended tht neck therefore suffers very little change of position. This can readily be proved by drawing a straight line backwards from the lower border of the symphysis pubis through the urethral opening, and extending it onwards to the back wall of the pelvis. In the empty state of the bladder such a line strikes the second piece of the sacrum ; in the hyper- distended condition of the organ it strikes the lower border of the third, or perhaps the fourth sacral vertebra. The neck of the bladder therefore sinks slightly in the pelvic cavity when the viscus becomes greatly distended.