ABDOMEN. 432 this they are closely packed and are coiled and convoluted to an extraordinary degree. The dissector should now endeavour to unravel some of these tubuli seminiferi under water. It will be impossible to open them out in their whole length, but a sufficiently good demonstration may be obtained to make their general arrangement apparent. The length of these tubes is remarkable. They average two feet in length. Approaching the mediastinum testis the tubuli seminiferi join each other at acute angles and form a smaller number of tubes, which finally become straight and considerably reduced in diameter. These are called the tubuli recti. They enter the mediastinum and join the rete testis. Dissection.—The tubuli seminiferi should now be removed from the lower part of the gland. This can be done with the forceps under a stream of water. A good view is then obtained of the fibrous frame- work of the testicle. The strength of the tunica albuginea becomes evident, whilst the mediastinum testis and the lamellae which proceed from it are seen to great advantage. The dissector must next endeavour to ascertain the manner in which the secretion of the testicle passes from the rete testis into the epididymis. For this purpose the upper part of the testicle with the attached epididymis must be examined. Gently raise the globus major from the surface of the body of the testis by dividing the visceral part of the tunica vaginalis which binds them together, and carefully break down the intervening connective tissue. Under favourable circum- stances the vasa efferentia may be seen. Structure of the Epididymis.—The vasa effere>itia are fifteen to twenty delicate ducts which leave the upper part of the rete testis, pierce the tunica albuginea, and pass into the globus major. In this body the vasa efferentia become coiled and form a series of small conical masses, called the com vasculosi. Ultimately these ducts open into a single convoluted canal, termed the canal of the epididymis. The globus major is thus composed of the coni vasculosi and the coiled canal of the epididymis. The body and globus minor of the epididymis are formed of the continua-