5i8 ABDOMEN. fissure, extends upon the under surface of the right lobe from the anterior sharp border to a point close to the right extremity of the transverse fissure. In this the gall-bladder is lodged, and it varies in depth and extent with the condi- tion of that sac. By means of the transverse fissure and the fossa for the gall-bladder, the inferior surface of the right lobe of the liver is subdivided into three unequal portions. These are—(i) the lobulus quadratus; (2) the lobulus caudatus ; and (3) an extensive area which lies to the right of these, and forms the greater part of the under surface of the right lobe. The lobulus quadratus is an oblong quadrilateral area, cut off on all sides from the adjoining liver surface. It is bounded behind by the transverse fissure, in front by the anterior sharp margin of the organ, on the left by the umbilical fissure, and on the right by the gall-bladder and its fossa. The surface of the lobulus quadratus is usually somewhat depressed, and when the liver is in position and the stomach empty, it is in contact with the first portion of the duodenum. When the stomach is full the pylorus as well as the commencement of the duodenum are in apposi- tion with it. The lobulus caudatus is a narrow ridge of liver substance which lies behind the transverse fissure and connects the under part of the lobulus Spigelii with the inferior surface of the right lobe of the liver. It is placed immediately above the foramen of Winslow, of which it forms the upper boundary, and intervenes between the portal vein, which lies in front of it, and the inferior vena cava, which is placed behind it. The greater extent of the inferior surface of the right lobe of the liver lies to the right of the gall bladder and the lobulus caudatus. It presents three concave impressions or hollows, viz., an anterior, a posterior, and a small internal impression. The anterior impression is called the impressio coli'ca, because it corresponds to the summit of the hepatic