241 FRONT OF THE THIGH. vessels it comes to lie in front of the artery. At the lower end of the canal it emerges, by passing under cover of the thickened border of the fibrous expansion which stretches between the vastus internus and the adductor muscles, and, accompanied by the superficial branch of the anasto- motic artery, it escapes from under cover of the sartorius and pierces the deep fascia at the inner side of the knee. It gives off the patellar branch after it quits Hunter's canal. This branch pierces the sartorius and appears on the surface of the fascia lata on the inner side of the knee. Several large branches of the posterior part of the anterior crural nerve enter the four factors which compose the great quadriceps extensor muscle of the thigh. From certain of these articular filaments are given to the hip and knee-joints. The branch to the rectus femoris sinks into the deep surface of this muscle. It supplies an articular twig to the hip-joint. The large branch to the vastus internus accom- panies the long saphenous nerve, and enters with it the upper part of Hunter's canal. It can readily be distin- guished from its sinking into the inner aspect of the vastus internus about the middle of the thigh. In the substance of this muscle it extends downwards, and near the knee joins the deep branch of the anastomotic artery. It gives an articular nerve to the synovial membrane of the knee- joint. The nerve to the vastus externus is associated with the descending branch of the external circumflex artery. Very frequently it gives an articular twig to the knee-joint. The nerves to the crureus are two or three in number, and they sink into its anterior surface. The innermost of these is a long slender nerve, which can be traced downwards under the anterior border of the vastus internus to the subcrurcus. Its terminal twigs are given to the synovial membrane of the knee-joint. One filament then from the anterior crural goes to the hip-joint; two, and frequently three, filaments go to the knee-joint. vol. 1.—16