442 ABDOMEN. triangular ligament; traced forwards to the extremity of the penis, it is again found to expand into the glans penis, which fits like a cap upon the rounded ends of the corpora caver- nosa. The glans penis is somewhat conical in shape, and the projecting margin of its base is termed the corona glandis. The urethra opens at the extremity of the glans by a vertical fissure, called the meatus urinarius. The integument of the penis is remarkable for its great delicacy and elasticity, and the absence of hairs. It has a brownish tint, and is freely moveable over the organ. At the glans the skin leaves the body of the penis, and, passing for a variable distance over the glans, is folded back upon itself so as to form the prepuce. The deep layer of the prepuce reaches the penis again behind the corona glandis, and is then reflected forwards over the glans to become continuous with the mucous membrane of the urethra at the meatus urinarius. A slight fold will be observed on the under surface of the glans, extending from the lower angle of the urinary orifice to the prepuce; this is the frcemim preputii. Dissection.—-Reflect the integument from the surface of the penis by making a longitudinal incision along the middle line of the dorsum. The superficial fascia will then be seen to be composed of a quantity of loose areolar tissue. We never find fat in the meshes of this tissue. The suspensory ligament and the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis should now be dissected. Suspensory Ligament.—The suspensory ligament is a. strong fibro-elastic band of a triangular shape. By its posterior border it is attached to the symphysis pubis. Towards the penis it separates into two lamella?, which join the body of the organ, and between which are placed the dorsal vessels and nerves. Dorsal Vessels and Nerves.—On the dorsum of the penis, in the groove which extends along the middle line between the two corpora cavernosa, is the dorsal vein; on each side of this is the dorsal artery, and superficial and external to