449 ABDOMINAL CAVITY. slightly below the ribs, whilst opposite the ninth costal cartilage the fundus of the gall-bladder is seen peeping out from under cover of this organ, and projecting slightly beyond its anterior border. In the same zone to the left of the liver, a portion of the stomach is visible, whilst extend- ing downwards from the lower border of this viscus is a broad fold of peritoneal membrane, called the great o?nentnm. This usually contains a quantity of fat in its meshes, and is spread out like an apron, so as to hide from view the viscera which occupy the two lower zones. Sometimes, however, the great omentum is narrow and short; or, again, it may be turned more or less completely upwards or to the side. In either case some of the coils of the small intestine will be seen, and also, in all probability, those parts of the great intestine which occupy the right and left iliac fossae. That part lying in the right iliac fossa is called the ccecum, whilst the part situated in the left iliac fossa is the sigmoid flexure. It may also chance that the bladder is full, in which case its apex will be observed projecting above the pubes. Lastly, in pregnant females the gravid uterus will be visible, reaching a height in correspondence with the period of gestation. Raise the great omentum and turn it upwards over the lower margin of the thorax. By this proceeding the coils of the small intestine are fully exposed, and a part of the great intestine which extends across the cavity of the abdomen will be seen shining through the posterior layer of the great omentum. This is the transverse colon. The position and connections of the various viscera should now be studied. Liver.—The liver is the largest gland in the body. It is a solid pliant organ, the chief bulk of which lies in the epigastrium. It also occupies the right hypochondrium, and extends for a variable distance into the left hypochondrium. Further, the lower right margin crosses the subcostal plane, and enters for a short distance into the upper part of the right vol. i.—29