ABDOMINAL CAVITY. 463 great intestine. It is attached to the posterior abdominal wall by a wide peritoneal fold, called the transverse meso- colon. Its right extremity lies in front of the duodenum, whilst its left extremity is in close relation to the lower surface of the pancreas. The splenic flexure is the term applied to the bend which the colon takes in the left hypochondrium, before proceeding downwards as the descending colon. It is placed at a higher level and gains a deeper plane in the abdominal cavity than the hepatic flexure, and it receives its name from the fact that it lies in intimate relation with the lower extremity of the spleen. A fold of peritoneum, with a free, crescentic border, binds it to the diaphragm opposite the tenth or eleventh rib. This fold is called the phrenico- colic ligament or the sustentaculum Hem's. When the stomach is empty and the colon distended with gas, the splenic flexure may rise so high as to occupy a position against the vault of the diaphragm, beside the fundus of the stomach. In such a case it intervenes between the stomach and the thoracic wall, and would yield a tympanitic note upon percussion. The descending C0I071 takes a vertical course downwards through the left lumbar region, and, on gaining the crest of the ilium, becomes continuous with the sigmoid flexure. Its anterior surface and its sides are covered by peritoneum, but its posterior surface is usually bare, and rests upon the lower part of the kidney and the fascia over the quadratus lumborum muscle, to which it is connected by loose areolar tissue. It is into the lower part of this division of the colon that the surgeon opens in the operation of Lumbar Colotomy. The opening is made into the posterior aspect of the tube, so as to avoid wounding the peritoneum. It is therefore essential that the posterior relations of the descending colon should be laid clown with more than usual precision. At the level of the third lumbar vertebra, where the colon is in relation to the kidney, it lies along the outer border of the quadratus lumborum. Between the lower end of the kidney and the crest of the ilium (where the operation is performed) the quadratus lumborum is placed behind