THE LOWER LIMB. 196 Dissection.—The floor of the space must now be cleaned. Scrape the fatty tissue from the popliteal surface of the femur with the handle of the knife. It is during this stage of the dissection that the articular branches of the popliteal artery are most liable to injury, as they lie in close contact with the floor. Be especially careful not to injure the azygos articular artery which pierces the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, and the superior articular arteries which wind round the femur, immediately above the condyles. The fascia covering the popliteus muscle should be left in position. The Floor of the Space.—The floor is formed from above downwards by—(1) the popliteal surface of the femur; (2) the posterior ligament of the knee-joint; and (3) by the strong fascia which covers the popliteus muscle. The Small Sciatic Nerve enters the popliteal space at its upper angle, and proceeds downwards immediately sub- jacent to the popliteal fascia. It gives one or two twigs through the fascia to the skin, and finally pierces the fascia in the lower part of the space. Its terminal twigs are distributed to the skin over the upper part of the calf of the leg. The Internal Popliteal Nerve enters the popliteal space by emerging from under cover of the biceps muscle, and it runs vertically downwards so as to bisect the space longitudinally. It is one of the two terminal branches of the great sciatic nerve, and it arises a little below the middle of the thigh. At the lower border of the popliteus muscle it becomes continuous with the posterior tibial nerve. The superficial position of the internal popliteal nerve has already been referred to. At first upon the outer side of the popliteal vessels it crosses them superficially, and in the lower part of the space it is placed upon their inner side. Its branches may be classified into cutaneous, muscular, and articular. The nervus communicans tibialis is its cutaneous branch. It arises about the middle of the space, and proceeds down- wards in the furrow between the two heads of the gastroc-