218 THE LOWER LIMB. lata is so exceedingly delicate and thin that the subjacent muscular fibres shine through it, and it is very apt to be removed with the superficial fascia unless care be exercised in the dissection. Superiorly, around the root of the limb, the fascia lata is attached to Poupart's ligament and the bones of the pelvis. Behind, it is continuous with the gluteal aponeurosis, and through this it is fixed to the coccyx, sacrum, and crest of the ilium. On the outer side, it is attached to the crest of the ilium; and on the inner side, to the body of the pubis, the side of the pubic arch, and to the tuberosity of the ischium. In front, its upper attachment is complicated by the presence of the saphenous opening. This aperture separates the fascia lata into an outer or iliac portion and an inner or pubic portion. This subdivision only extends downwards to the lower border of the saphenous opening. The iliac portion is attached along the whole length of Poupart's ligament. Its inner crescentic margin bounds the saphenous opening externally and forms its falciform edge. The superior cornu of this edge blends with Gimber- nat's ligament, whilst its inferior cornu joins the pubic portion of the fascia lata. The pubicportio7i clothes the upper portions of the adductor longus and pectineus muscles. It recedes from the surface as it is traced out- wards and passes behind the femoral vessels. In this situation it forms the posterior wall of the femoral sheath and is continuous above with the fascia iliaca1 which covers the ilio-psoas muscle in the iliac fossa. To the inner side of the femoral vessels the pubic portion of the fascia lata is attached above to the ilio-pectineal line of the pubic bone. The cribriform fascia, as previously stated, is to be regarded as a thin piece of the fascia lata, stretched across the 1 The dissector must keep clearly before him the distinction between the fascia iliaca and the iliac portion of the fascia lata. The former is a part of the general aponeurotic lining of the abdominal cavity; the latter is a part of the aponeurotic investment of the thigh.