314 THE LOWER LIMB. lies under the head of the astragalus, the tendon of the tibialis posticus has developed within it a sesamoid nodule of fibro-cartilage, or perhaps a sesamoid bone. The tendon of the peronens longus turns round the outer margin of the foot, and runs inwards in the groove on the under surface of the cuboid bone across the sole, to reach the base of the first metatarsal bone. As it traverses the sole it is enclosed in a fibrous sheath. This sheath is mainly formed by fibres derived from the long plantar ligament. Open the sheath and its smooth, glistening, internal surface will be displayed. This appearance is due to the synovial membrane which lines it. The tendon is inserted into the inferior part of the base of the first meta- tarsal bone, and also to a slight degree into the adjacent part of the internal cuneiform bone. It likewise, in some cases, sends a slip to the base of the second metatarsal bone. As the tendon winds round the cuboid bone it is thickened, and contains a nodule of fibro-cartilage, or per- haps a sesamoid bone. Dissection.—The dissection of the sole of the foot is brought to an end by sawing through the first metatarsal bone close to its base, and removing its proximal extremity. A good view is thus obtained of the continuity between the dorsalis pedis artery and the plantar arch. Anastomosis around the Knee-joint.—The most im- portant of the anastomoses around the knee-joint are placed on the anterior aspect of the articulation, and take the form of three transverse arches. The uppermost of these arterial arcades passes through the superficial fibres of the quad- riceps extensor close to the upper border of the patella, and is formed by the union of a branch from the superior external articular artery with another from the deep branch of the anastomotica : the middle and lower are both placed under cover of the ligamentum patella?. The middle arch runs across in the fatty tissue close to the lower end of the patella. The inferior external articular artery, with a branch which results from the union of a twig from the anastomotica,