ABDOMINAL WALL. 389 margin gives rise to a curved line, the concavity of which is directed inwards. This line corresponds to the li?iea semi- lunaris—i.e., the line along which the aponeurotic tendon of the internal oblique muscle splits to enclose the rectus. The linea semilunaris is also frequently selected by the sur- geon as the site for incisions through the abdominal wall. The student should now place his finger upon the upper part of the symphysis pubis and carry it outwards, over the pubic crest, to the pubic spine; from this he should follow the line of Poupart's ligament to the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and, having identified these parts, let him next endeavour to determine the position of the external abdominal ring. This is easily done in a male subject. Immediately external to the spine of the os pubis the sper- matic cord can be felt as it passes over Poupart's ligament to reach the scrotum. Taking this as a guide, push the loose skin of the scrotum upwards before the finger. The tip of the finger enters the opening, the sharp margins of which can now be felt. The spermatic cord, as it passes downwards into the scrotum, should be taken between the finger and thumb. On pressure being applied the vas deferens can be easily distinguished at the back of the cord, by the hard whip- cord-like feel that it conveys to the fingers. The crest of the ilium, as it proceeds upwards and back- wards from the anterior superior spine, can be easily felt. Indeed, in most cases it is visible to the eye for a distance of about two and a-half inches. At the point where it disappears from view a prominent tubercle is developed on its outer lip, and it is here that the outline of the trunk joins the ilium. It is the highest point of the iliac crest, therefore, that can be seen from the front. As we shall see later on, use is made of this fact in subdividing the abdominal cavity into regions. In females who have borne children the skin over the lower part of the abdomen is wrinkled and scarred.