POPLITEAL SPACE. 197 nemius. It will afterwards be seen to unite with the nervus communicans fibularis, a little below the middle of the calf of the leg, to form the external saphenous nerve. The muscular branches supply both heads of the gastroc- nemius, the plantaris, the soleus, and the popliteus : they come off in the lower part of the space. The branch to the popliteus requires special notice. It arises lower down than the others, and crosses the superficial surface of the popliteal artery to reach the outer side of that vessel. It then runs downwards on the posterior surface of the popliteus muscle, and gains its deep or anterior surface by winding round its lower border. This will be better seen when the muscle itself is dissected. The articular branches are three in number. They are given off by the internal popliteal nerve in the upper part of the space, and they accompany the azygos and the two internal articular arteries. That which accompanies the internal inferior articular artery is larger than the other two, and can be easily discovered as it runs along the upper border of the popliteus muscle. The External Popliteal Nerve is the smaller of the two terminal branches of the great sciatic, and it ends on the outer side of the neck of the fibula by dividing into the anterior tibial and the musculo-cutaneous. It does not traverse the entire length of the popliteal space. It runs downwards and outwards along the inner side of the biceps, and leaves the space by following closely the tendon of this muscle. It now lies in the interval between the outer head of the gastrocnemius and the biceps, and finally turning for- wards round the neck of the fibula, it ends under cover of the upper part of the peroneus longus. It gives off cutaneous and articular branches. The cutaneous branches are two in number, viz., the nervus communicans fibularis, and one to the skin on the anterior and outer aspect of the leg in its upper part. They frequently take origin by a common trunk. The nervus communicans