325 AR TIC ULA TIONS. The muscles which operate upon the bones of the leg so as to produce flexion and extension of the limb at the knee-joint are :— (1) extensors, the four parts of the quadriceps extensor; (2) flexors, the biceps, popliteus, sartorius, gracilis, semitendinosus and semi- membranosus. Of these, only one is inserted on the outer side of the limb, viz., the biceps. The other five are inserted into the tibia on the inner side of the leg. Dissection.—In order to obtain a proper view of the attachments of the crucial ligaments the following dissection should be made :—The femur must be sawn across about two inches above the lower articular surface. When this is done the saw should be applied to the cut surface of the lower part of the bone, and a vertical cut made through it so as to divide it into a right and a left lateral portion. The saw-cut should be planned to end inferiorly in the intercondyloid fossa between the condyles and between the upper attachments of the two crucial ligaments. By this procedure the crucial ligaments can be studied singly, or together, and their relation to the lateral ligaments of the joint can be examined. It will be seen that the external lateral ligament and the anterior crucial ligament, constitute a pair of ligaments appropriated by the external condyle, to either side of which they are fixed ; while the internal lateral and the posterior crucial ligaments belong to the internal condyle of the femur, and are attached on either side of it. When this relationship is observed, the internal lateral ligament may be divided. This will, in a measure, set free the internal condyle, and give greater space for the study of the crucial ligaments. The Crucial Ligaments are well named, because they cross each other like the limbs of the letter X m tne interval between the two condyles of the femur. This crucial arrangement is seen whether they are viewed from the side, by the removal of the lower part of one condyle, or from the front or the back of the joint. The anterior crucial ligament is attached to the external condyle, whilst the posterior is fixed to the internal condyle of the femur. They are consequently sometimes termed external and internal. The anterior crucial ligament springs from the inter- mediate rough area on the upper surface of the tibia, im- mediately in front of the inner tubercle which surmounts the tibial spine. From this it proceeds upwards, backwards,