529 ABDOMINAL CAVITY. devoid of peritoneum, and bound to the kidney by areolar tissue. Lastly, the second part of the duodenum presents a varying relation to the outer surface of the right kidney {vide Fig. 109, p. 505). Briefly, then, the outer surface of the right kidney is related to—(1.) the liver; (2.) the hepatic flexure and the commencement of the transverse colon ; (3.) the second part of the duodenum. The posterior border of the right kidney presents a curved surface, which is directly continuous in an upward direction with the posterior surface of the liver. Relations Peculiar to the Left Kidney.—The organs in relation to the left kidney are the stomach, pancreas, spleen, and descending colon, and each of these gives rise to a distinct impression on its outer surface (Fig. 116). As a rule, the suprarenal capsule descends for a greater dis- tance on the outer surface of the left kidney than upon the corresponding surface of the right kidney, It may even shut out the stomach from immediate contact with the kidney. The Peritoneal Relations of the two kidneys are seen in the accompanying diagrams (Fig. 117). The student should never experience any difficulty in determining the side to which a given kidney belongs. Even allowing that the upper end cannot be distinguished from the lower end, or the outer surface from the inner surface, by differences in their appearance (which is generally the case in a dissecting-room kidney), the ureter alone is sufficient for the purpose. It shows the posterior surface from its position at the hilum, and the lower end from its curving downwards towards it. Kidney Capsule and Kidney Substance.—The kidney is invested by a strong fibrous coat, which can be easily stripped from its surface. Divide this capsule along the posterior margin of the organ and peel it off towards the hilum. Here it enters the sinus and becomes continuous with the sheaths of the vessels entering the gland, and also with the external coat of the ureter. Examine the manner in which the ureter or duct is con- vol. 1. —34