THE UPPER LIMB. 12 The superficial cervical artery which accompanies the spinal accessory nerve must be followed to the anterior border of the trapezius, where it will be seen to spring from the transversalis colli artery. Dissection.—-The posterior belly of the omo-hyoid and the supra- scapular artery and nerve can now be displayed by dissecting towards the upper margin of the scapula, and removing carefully the loose fatty tissue in this locality. The dissector of the head and neck must take part in this dissection, and it is well not to expose these structures for more than an inch from the upper margin of the scapula. Omo-hyoid.—Suprascapular Artery and Nerve.—The slender posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle will be seen to arise from the upper border of the scapula imme- diately behind the suprascapular notch. It also derives fibres from the ligament which bridges across this notch. The suprascapular artery will be noticed to enter the supra- spinous fossa of the scapula by passing over the suprascapular ligament, whilst the suprascapular nerve proceeds into the fossa under cover of the ligament. Dissection.—Draw the scapula well over the edge of the block which supports the chest of the subject. The two rhomboid muscles are thus rendered tense, and the cleaning of the fleshy fasciculi greatly facilitated. The nerve to the rhomboids should be secured at this stage, so that it may be preserved from injury in the further dissection of the region, It can best be detected by dissecting in the interval between the rhomboideus minor and the levator anguli scapulte about one inch to the inner side of the superior angle of the scapula. It is accompanied by the posterior scapular artery, and it will afterwards be traced upon the deep surface of the rhomboid muscles when they are reflected. The Rhomboid Muscles constitute a thin quadrangular sheet of muscular fibres, which proceeds from the spinous processes of the vertebrae to the base of the scapula. The rhomboideus minor is a narrow, ribbon-like fleshy band which runs parallel to the upper border of the greater rhomboid. It springs from the lower part of the ligamentum nuchas, the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra, and frequently also from the spine of the first dorsal vertebra.