242 THE LOWER LIMB. Ilio-tibial Band of Fascia Lata.—The thick band of fascia lata on the outer side of the thigh which receives this name should now be examined, and its connections ascer- tained. It has been preserved for this purpose. Inferiorly it is attached to the outer tuberosity of the tibia and to the head of the fibula. On tracing it upwards on the outer surface of the vastus externus it will be observed to split at the junction of the middle and upper thirds of the thigh into two lamellae—a superficial and a deep. The tensor fasciae femoris is enclosed between these layers, and when they are disengaged from its surfaces the muscle will be seen to be inserted into the fascia at the angle of splitting. The superficial lamina of the ilio-tibial band is attached above to the crest of the ilium, and is continuous posteriorly with the gluteal aponeurosis where this covers the gluteus medius. The deep lamina can be followed upwards on the outer surface of the rectus femoris to the capsule of the hip-joint, with the upper and outer part of which it blends. It is also con- nected with the reflected tendon of the rectus femoris. This layer is perforated by the ascending twigs of the external circumflex artery. Tensor Fasciae Femoris.—This is a small muscle which is placed on the outer and anterior aspect of the upper third of the thigh. It lies between the two lamellae of the ilio- tibial band of fascia, in the interval between the sartorius muscle in front and the gluteus medius muscle behind. On turning the muscle outwards so as to display its deep surface, a little dissection will bring into view its nerve of supply which comes from the superior gluteal nerve. This nerve, however, has in all probability been already exposed in the dissection of the gluteal region. A few arterial twigs from the external circumflex also sink into its deep surface. The tensor fascial femoris arises from a small portion of the anterior part of the crest of the ilium; from the upper part of the notch below the anterior superior spine of the ilium; and by some fibres from the aponeurosis covering