FRONT OF THE ARM. 71 The basilic vein runs upwards on the inner aspect of the upper arm in the slight furrow which marks the limb along the inner margin of the biceps. Half-way up the upper arm it disappears by piercing the fascia close to the spot where the internal cutaneous nerve emerges. At the lower border of the posterior wall of the armpit the basilic forms the axillary vein. The cephalic vein ascends in the groove along the outer margin of the biceps. Its further course has been pre- viously noted. It extends upwards in the interval between the deltoid and the clavicular part of the pectoralis major. It dips backwards through the costo-coracoid membrane, crosses the first part of the axillary artery, and finally opens into the axillary vein. Lymphatic Glands.—If the superficial fascia be searched upon the inner side of the limb, and immediately above the elbow, one or two minute lymphatic glands (Crookshank's glands) in relation to the basilic vein will be found. These are of interest to dissectors, as they are the first to enlarge and become painful in cases of dissection-wound.1 Brachial Aponeurosis.—The deep fascia should now be cleaned by the removal of the fatty superficial layer. It forms a continuous envelope around the upper arm, but at no point does it show a great density or strength. Above, it is continuous with the axillary fascia, and the fascia covering the pectoralis major and the deltoid. The tendons of these two muscles are closely connected with it—a certain proportion of their tendinous fibres running directly into it. Below, it is firmly fixed to the bony prominences around the elbow, and in front it receives an accession of fibres from the tendon of the biceps. These fibres constitute the bicipital or semilunar fascia, and form a very distinct band 1 It may be well to state here, however, that " dissection-wounds," obtained in the dissecting-room, are exceedingly uncommon. The subjects are so carefully preserved that the danger is reduced to a minimum.