THE UPPER LIMB. joints, and it effectually prevents excessive separation of the metacarpal bones from each other. Dissection.—To obtain a satisfactory view of the interosseous muscles the adductor transversus pollicis, if not previously reflected, should be detached from its origin, and thrown outwards towards its insertion intg the thumb. The transverse metacarpal ligament must also be divided in the intervals between the fingers. The Interosseous Muscles occupy the intervals between the metacarpal bones. They are seven in number; and are arranged in two groups, viz., a dorsal and a palmar. The dorsal inlerossei are four in number, and are more powerful than the palmar muscles. They are best seen on the dorsal aspect of the hand, but they are also visible in the palm. They act as abductors of the fingers from a line drawn through the middle digit, and their insertions are arranged in accordance with this action. Each muscle arises by two heads from the contiguous surfaces of the two metacarpal bones between which it lies, and the fibres converge in a pennate manner upon a delicate tendon. In the case of the first or outermost dorsal interosseous muscle, this tendon is inserted into the radial side of the base of the first phalanx, and also into the radial margin of the dorsal expansion of the extensor tendon of the index. The second and third dorsal interosseous muscles are inserted in a similar manner upon either side of the base of the first phalanx of the middle finger; whilst the fourth has a cor- responding insertion upon the ulnar aspect of the base of the first phalanx of the ring finger. The first dorsal interosseous muscle is frequently termed the abductor indicis, and between its two heads of origin the radial artery enters the palm. Between the heads of the other three muscles the small posterior perforating arteries pass. The three palmar interosseous muscles can only be seen on the palmar aspect of the hand. They act as adductors of the index, ring, and little fingers towards the middle digit,