171 GLUTEAL REGION. of this muscle ; (3) in tracing and defining the various nerves and blood- vessels which enter its deep surface. On the second day the parts which are exposed by the reflection of the gluteus maximus should be dissected. Surface Anatomy.—Before the skin is reflected, the sur- face markings of the gluteal region require examination. On each side, the prominence of the nates is seen to form a round, smooth elevation. Below, the nates are separated, in the middle line, by a deep fissure—the natal cleft. This cleft, if traced upwards, almost disappears over the pro- minence formed by the coccyx and lower part of the sacrum. The crest of the ilium can be felt along its whole length, and, in well-formed individuals, it appears as a groove—the iliac furrow. Traced forwards, the crest terminates in the anterior superior spine of the ilium; traced backwards, it ends in the posterior superior spine of the ilium. The position of the latter is indicated by a faint depression which lies on a level with the second spine of the sacrum, and corresponds with the middle of the sacro-iliac articulation. The prominence of the nates is chiefly formed by the gluteus maximus muscle, covered by a thick layer of fat. A deep transverse groove, produced by a fold of skin and fascia, limits the gluteal elevation below. This is called " the fold of the nates " (gluteal sulcus), and is sometimes said to correspond with the lower border of the gluteus maximus muscle. It can easily be shown that this is not the case. Its inner end lies below the lower margin of the muscle, but as it proceeds transversely outwards it crosses the muscle-border, and finally comes to lie on the surface of the muscle. In disease of the hip-joint, the buttock loses its prominence, whilst the fold of the nates becomes faint. The tuberosity of the ischium may be felt below the lower border of the gluteus maximus by placing the ringers in the inner part of the fold of the nates and pressing upwards. A line drawn from the most prominent part of this tuber- osity to the anterior superior spine of the ilium is called