ABDOMEN. 574 thoroughly by allowing water from the tap to run freely through it. and, in the case of the bladder, pass a staff into it through the urethra, and having placed a ligature around the penis, introduce the air through a blow-pipe thrust into one of the ureters. When the vesical layer of fascia is divided, a plexus of large veins will be discovered upon the bladder. These veins ramify over the entire organ, but are especially numerous towards the base and in the angle between the vesical and recto-vesical layers of pelvic fascia. These veins constitute what is termed the vesical plexus. The vesicuke seminales must be carefully defined, and the obliterated hypogastric artery and the vas deferens followed upon the side of the bladder. Pelvic Viscera. Rectum.—This is the terminal part of the great intestine. It begins at the left sacro-iliac articulation, where it is con- tinuous with the sigmoid flexure, and ends on the surface a short distance in front of the coccyx, in an orifice termed the amis. Its length is about eight inches, and it does not present a uniform diameter throughout. At first, its calibre corresponds with that of the lower part of the colon, but, as it descends, it gradually dilates. A short distance above its termination it again contracts to form a narrow passage which leads to the anus. In its course through the pelvis, the rectum is adapted to the concave anterior surface of the sacrum and coccyx, and is divided, from changes in its direction and connections, into three parts. This sub- division is purely arbitrary, and merely adopted for the purpose of rendering the description more exact. The first part of the rectum, about three and a-half inches long, extends from the left sacro-iliac articulation obliquely downwards, backwards, and to the right, and ends in the mesial plane upon the body of the third sacral vertebra. In its upper part this portion shows sacculations similar to those of the colon ; but, as it proceeds downwards in the pelvis, the three bands of longitudinal fibres begin to spread out upon its walls, and the gut assumes a more