FOREARM AND HAND. 129 which play upon the head of the metacarpal bone. Reaching the proximal phalanx, it enters a fibrous sheath constructed upon a similar plan to those of the fingers. When this is opened, the tendon will be observed to be inserted into the front of the base of the terminal phalanx of the thumb. The synovial sheath which surrounds the tendon during its passage through the carpal tunnel is continuous with the sheath which invests the tendon in front of the phalanges. Dissection.—Throw forwards the superficial palmar arch. Divide it on the inside below the origin of the profunda artery, and on the outside at the point where it is joined by the superficial volar artery. The median nerve may also be severed and its branches turned aside, but care should be taken to preserve the two branches which it gives to the lumbrical muscles, and also the stout branch which enters the muscles of the thenar eminence. Lastly, cut through the fleshy belly of the flexor sublimis in the forearm, and raising its tendons from the carpal hollow, throw them as far down as possible. The tendons of the flexor profundus and the attached lumbrical muscles are now fully displayed. The Lumbrical Muscles are four slender fleshy bellies which arise from the tendons of the flexor profundus digitorum as they traverse the palm. The first lumbrical arises from the outer side of the tendon for the index finger; the second lumbrical springs from the radial border of the tendon for the middle finger; whilst the third and fourth himbricals take origin from the adjacent sides of the tendons between which they lie (viz., the tendons for the medius, annularis, and minimus). The little muscles pass downwards and end in delicate tendons on the radial sides of the fingers. Each is inserted into the outer margin of the dorsal ex- pansion of the extensor tendon, which lies upon the posterior aspect of the proximal phalanx. Dissection.—The flexor profundus may be divided in the forearm and thrown downwards. Great care must be taken in raising the tendons and lumbrical muscles from the palm, because slender twigs from the deep branch of the ulnar nerve enter the two inner lumbrical muscles on their deep aspect. These can easily be secured if ordinary caution lie observed. The deep palmar arch and the deep branch of the ulnar VOL. I.—9