233 FRONT OF THE THIGH. downwards. In the upper part of the space it lies on the same plane and to the inner side of the artery, but lower down it becomes more deeply placed and gradually assumes a position posterior to the artery. The branches which the femoral artery gives off in Scarpa's triangle have already been enumerated (p. 229). One of these, viz., the deep external pudic, may now be traced to its destination. The Deep External Pudic Artery is a small twig which arises from the inner side of the femoral, a short distance below Poupart's ligament. It extends inwards upon the pectineus and adductor longus muscles, and, piercing the fascia lata, ends, according to the sex, in the integument of the scrotum or of the labium pudendi. Dissection.—The fascia lata may now be removed from the lower two-thirds of the thigh. This can best be effected by dividing it along the middle line of the limb, and throwing it outwards and inwards. Preserve undisturbed the thickened band of fascia on the outer side of the thigh. In cleaning the sartorius muscle several of the nerves of the thigh will be found intimately related to it, and must be carefully dissected. The middle cutaneous nerve frequently pierces its upper border, and then proceeds downwards in front of it'; the anterior branch of the internal cutaneous crosses it at a lower level, whilst the posterior branch of the same nerve is carried downwards along its posterior border. Near the knee it lies over the long saphenous nerve, which ultimately comes to the surface between it and the gracilis. A short distance above this it is pierced by the patellar branch of the long saphenous. Lastly, about the middle of the thigh, there is formed under cover of the sartorius an interlacement of fine nerve twigs derived from the posterior branch of the internal cutaneous, the long saphenous, and the obturator. On raising the sartorius from subjacent parts this must be looked for. The different portions of the quadriceps extensor muscle must also be cleaned, and the branches which the anterior crural nerve gives to them, as well as the descending branch of the external circumflex artery, traced to their terminations. Sartorius.- The sartorius is a long slender muscle, which arises from the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the