SHOULDER—SCAPULAR REGION. 57 It is formed by the coracoid process, the acromion process, and a ligament — the coraco-acromial — which stretches between them. The coraco-acromial ligament is a strong band of a some- what triangular shape. By its base it is attached to the outer border of the coracoid process, whilst by its apex it is attached to the extremity of the acromion. The coraco-acromial arch plays a very important part in the mechanism of the shoulder. It might almost be said to form a secondary socket for the humerus, and has been named the "voute protectatrice" by Blaudin. We have already noted the large bursa which intervenes between the acromion and the capsule of the shoulder-joint, to facilitate the movements. Dissection.—The supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor muscles, which arise from the dorsum scapulas, and the subscapularis, which takes origin from the venter scapulae, may now be examined. In order to obtain an uninterrupted view of the supraspinatus muscle, the acromion process must be divided with the saw close to its junction with the spine of the scapula (Fig. 13). Further, divide the fascia which covers the teres minor muscle, and reflect it towards the infraspinatus. By this means the septum from the fascia infraspinata, which dips in between the two muscles, will be demonstrated, and their separation rendered easy. Care must be taken not to injure the dorsalis scapula? artery which passes between the teres minor and the bone. The Supraspinatus Muscle arises from the inner two-thirds of the supraspinous fossa, and also to a slight degree from the fascia supraspinata which covers it. From this origin the fibres converge as they pass outwards, and, proceeding under the acromion process, they end in a short, stout tendon, which is inserted into the uppermost of the three impres- sions on the great tuberosity of the humerus. This tendon is closely adherent to the capsule of the shoulder-joint. The supraspinatus is covered by the trapezius, and in the loose fat which intervenes between this muscle and the fascia supra- spinata some twigs of the superficial cervical artery ramify.