392 ABDOMEN. ends immediately below Poupart's ligament by blending with the fascia lata of the thigh. These connections of the fascia of Scarpa are so important that it is necessary to undertake a special dissection, in order that they may be demonstrated. As this encroaches somewhat upon the region of the thigh, it must be done in conjunction with the dissector of the lower limb. A transverse incision should be made through the entire thick- ness of the superficial fascia on the front of the abdomen from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the middle line of the abdomen. On raising the lower edge of the divided fascia the two layers can be easily distinguished. Insinuate the fingers between the fascia of Scarpa and the subjacent pearly-looking tendon of the external oblique muscle. Little resistance will be met, as the fascia of Scarpa is only bound down by some lax areolar tissue. As the superficial fascia is thus raised from the aponeurosis of the external oblique, the hypogastric branch of the ilio-hypogastric nerve will be seen piercing the aponeurosis, a little way above the external abdominal ring, and then sinking into the deep sur- face of the superficial fascia. The fingers can be readily carried down- wards behind the fascia of Scarpa as far as Poupart's ligament. Here it will be found that they can force their way no further. The passage of the hand into the thigh is barred by the blending of the fascia of Scarpa with the fascia lata of the thigh. At this level it ceases to exist ; it loses its identity by becoming fused with the deep fascia of the thigh. A little manipulation will show that this attachment stretches almost horizontally across the front of the thigh ; that internally it coincides with Poupart's ligament, but that externally it falls below the line of this ligament. Towards the pubes the finger can be pushed downwards behind the fascia of Scarpa and along the spermatic cord into the perineum. No barrier opposes the passage of the finger in this direction. The continuity of the fascia of Scarpa and the fascia of Colles is thus demonstrated. If the dissector now recall the fact that in the urethral triangle of the perineum the fascia of Colles is attached laterally to the margins of the pubic arch, and posteriorly to the base of the triangular ligament, whilst anteriorly towards the abdomen it is free, he will have little difficulty in under- standing the course which urine takes when extravasated from a rupture of the urethra in front of the triangular ligament. The effused fluid is directed upwards over the scrotum and penis, and along the spermatic cords to the