THE LOWER LIMB. The quadratus femoris lies between the gemellus inferior and the adductor magnus. It is a flat oblong muscle which arises from the outer border of the tuber ischii, and proceeds horizontally outwards to gain insertion into the tubercle of the quadratus and into a line which extends downwards on the back of the femur for two inches below this. Dissection.—The nerve to the quadratus femoris should now be traced to its termination. This can be done by reflecting the two gemelli muscles under which it runs. When followed as far as the inferior gemellus, care should be taken to secure the little twig it gives to that muscle. Lastly, reflect the quadratus femoris by detaching it from the femur and throwing it towards the ischial tuberosity. By this dissection not only is the whole length of the nerve to the quadratus femoris exposed, but also a considerable portion of the posterior aspect of the capsule of the hip-joint is laid bare, and the obturator externus muscle and the termination of the internal circumflex artery are brought into view. The Nerve to the Quadratus Femoris runs vertically downwards on the innominate bone and passes successively under cover of the following structures: the great sciatic nerve, the gemellus superior, the tendon of the obturator intemus, the gemellus inferior. It gives the nerve of supply to the gemellus inferior and a twig to the hip-joint, and ends by sinking into the deep surface of the quadratus femoris. The Obturator Externus Muscle can now be observed winding round the neck of the femur and finally ending in a rounded tendon which is implanted into the digital fossa of the femur. Its origin will be seen at another time. The Internal Circumflex Artery comes to an end at the upper border of the adductor magnus by dividing into its ascending and transverse terminal branches. The ascending branch runs obliquely upwards and outwards under cover of the quadratus femoris and upon the surface of the obturator externus. Its terminal branches ramify in the neighbour- hood of the digital fossa, where they anastomose with twigs from the sciatic and gluteal arteries. The tra?isverse branch