7 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. cervical vertebra is the property of the dissector of the head and neck, and must be dissected by him. Let the two dissectors work in con- junction with each other ; and when the entire muscle is exposed, let each give the other an opportunity of studying it in its entirety. In cleaning the trapezius the limb must be placed in such a position as will render the fibres of the muscle tense. If the dissection is being made on the right side, the arm must be placed close to the trunk, and drawn downwards, whilst the scapula is dragged well forwards over the side of the block which supports the chest. A transverse cut is now to to be made through the superficial and deep fascire, from the seventh cervical spine outwards. This incision will be found to coincide with the direction of the fibres at this level. From this point gradually work downwards, raising both fasciee in a continuous layer from the surface of the muscle. The knife must always be carried in the direc- tion of the muscular fibres ; and care must be taken to leave none of the thin, filmy, deep fascia behind. If this rule be attended to, it will be found that, as the dissection progresses, the knife is not, as at first, carried transversely, but obliquely, in accordance with the alteration in the direction of the fibres of the lower portion of the muscle. When this stage is reached, a change in the position of the arm is required in order that the lower oblique fibres may be stretched to the full extent. The scapula must still be kept as far forwards as possible ; but the limb must be carried upwards, and placed parallel to the neck. In the case of the left trapezius, the student must make the incision through the fascia, along the lower margin of the muscle, and work upwards to the level of the seventh cervical vertebra. In the first instance the limb must be extended, and, at a later stage, placed by the side, as the transverse fibres of the muscle are reached. In removing the fascia from the trapezius, and indeed throughout the whole dissection of the back, the cutaneous nerves must be carefully preserved, in order that the dissector of the head and neck may have an opportunity of estab- lishing their continuity with the trunks from which they arise. The Trapezius is a flat, triangular muscle, which lies in its entire extent immediately subjacent to the deep fascia. It has a very wide origin, which extends along the mesial plane, from the occiput above to the level of the last dorsal vertebra below. It arises from—(i) the inner third or less of the superior curved line of the occipital bone and the external occipital protuberance; (2) the ligamentum nucha; and the sp!ne of the seventh cervical vertebra; (3) the tips of the spines of all the dorsal vertebra;, as well as the e