298 THE LOWER LIMB. resembles the superficial fascia which covers the tuber ischii. Traversing it are tough fibrous bands, which subdivide the fatty tissue into small lobules, and connect the thick skin of the sole with the plantar fascia. Dissection.—The internal cakanean nerve, which has already been found piercing the internal annular ligament, should be traced to its distribution. It supplies the skin of the sole in the neighbourhood of the heel. The superficial fascia may now be removed. Divide it along the middle line of the sole, and turn it outwards and inwards, cleaning at the same time the deep fascia. As the dissector approaches the outer and inner margins of the foot respectively, he will observe two furrows to extend forwards on each side of the central part of the deep fascia. Along the line of these a number of blood vessels and some nerves will be seen piercing the deep fascia in order to reach the skin. Towards the heads of the metatarsal bones the digital vessels and nerves are unprotected by the deep fascia, and here the dissector must proceed cautiously. The nerves and vessels which go to the tibial side of the hallux and to the fibular side of the little toe are especially liable to injury, as they perforate the fascia further back than the others. A band of transverse fibres, which crosses the roots of the toes and lies over the digital vessels and nerves, should be noticed. It is the superficial trans- verse ligament of the toes. It is closely connected with the skin, where it forms the cutaneous webs between the toes. By forcibly separating the toes its connections will become evident. When the relations of this ligament have been studied it may be removed. Plantar Fascia.—The plantar fascia, which is now brought into view, will be noticed to consist of three portions—(a) a central, and (b) two lateral parts. This subdivision is indi- cated by a difference in the density of the three parts and by two shallow furrows which traverse the foot in a longi- tudinal direction, one upon either side of the strong central portion of fascia. Each of the three portions of fascia is in relation to a subjacent muscle. The central portion covers the flexor brevis digitorum ; the external lateral part clothes the abductor minimi digiti; and the internal lateral part covers the abductor hallucis. The cetitral ftortioti of the plantar fascia stands out in marked contrast to the lateral portions in point of strength