THE UPPER LIMB. The muscles which are chiefly concerned in producing supination of the forearm are—the biceps, the supinator longus, and the supinator brevis. The biceps, from its insertion into the back part of the radial tubercle, is placed in a very favourable position, in so far as its supina- ting action is concerned. The muscles which act as pronators of the limb are—the pronator radii teres, the pronator quadratus, and, to a certain extent, the flexor carpi radialis. The pronator radii teres, from its insertion into the point of maximum outward curvature of radius, can exercise its pronating action to great advantage. The balance of power is in favour of the supinators, and this is due to the prepondera- ting influence of the biceps. Dissection.-—The ulna should be sawn through at the junction of its middle and lower thirds, and the interosseous membrane where it binds the lower portion of the bone to the radius divided in a downward direction. By drawing the lower fragment of the ulna inwards and opening the membrana sacciformis, the upper surface of the triangular fibro-cartilage of the wrist will be displayed and its attachments more fully appreciated. Carpal Joints.—In studying the articulations of the carpal bones we recognise— 1. A joint between the pisiform and cuneiform bones. 2. Two joints between the remaining bones of the first row, viz., the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform. 3. Three joints between the bones of the second row, viz., the trapezium, trapezoid, os magnum, and unciform. 4. A transverse carpal joint between the two rows of carpal bones. The pisiform joint is distinct and separate. All the others present a single joint-cavity. Further, this common cavity is continued into the articulations between the metacarpal bones of the four fingers and the carpus, and also into the intermetacarpal articulations. Pisiform Joint.—The pisiform bone is fixed to the cuneiform by a capsular ligament which surrounds the joint. There is a separate synovial membrane for this articulation. The dissector has previously noted that the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris is inserted into the upper aspect of the pisiform bone. The capsular ligament by itself would be