THE UPPER LIMB. attached to the limits of the fossa in which that muscle lies, and presents other very apparent connections. Thus a strong septum will be noticed to dip in between the infraspinatus and teres minor, and then as it proceeds forwards it gives a thin covering to the teres minor, teres major, and the deltoid. Indeed it may be said to split into two lamella;—a superficial and a deep—which as they pass forwards enclose between them the deltoid muscle. Dissection.—Depress the scapula and retain it in this position by means of hooks. The fibres of the deltoid are thus rendered tense, and the coarse fasciculi of the muscle may be cleaned. Deltoid Muscle.—The deltoid muscle, as its name implies, is triangular in form. It is composed of coarse fasciculi and covers the shoulder-joint. It arises from the anterior border of the outer third or half of the clavicle, from the outer border of the acromion process, and from the lower border of the spine of the scapula. Its origin closely corresponds with the insertion of the trapezius. The fasciculi of which the muscle is formed converge rapidly as they are traced down- wards, and finally they present a pointed tendinous insertion into the deltoid eminence on the middle of the outer surface of the shaft of the humerus. Quadrilateral and Triangular Spaces.—The limb should now be placed on its posterior aspect, and the posterior cir- cumflex artery and the circumflex nerve traced backwards through the quadrilateral space. The boundaries of the space at the same time should be defined and cleaned. The space in question is purely the result of dissection ; it has no real existence until the parts are artificially separated from each other. When viewed from the front, the boundaries will be seen to be formed by—(a) the upper part of the shaft of the humerus externally; (b) the long head of the triceps. internally ; (c) the lower margin of the subscapulars above ; (d) and the upper border of the teres major below. When viewed from behind, the tipper boundary of the quadrilateral