11 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. a part corresponding to the sixth intercostal space and the borders of the ribs which bound it above and below. It is well to note that this is the only part of the thoracic parietes which is uncovered by muscles. Further, between the last rib and the crest of the ilium the anterior border of the latissimus dorsi will generally be observed to overlap the posterior border of the external oblique muscle of the abdominal wall. Sometimes, however, a narrow triangular interval exists between the two muscles, in which is seen a small part of the internal oblique muscle. This space is termed the trigonum Petiti (Fig. 2). Reflection of the Trapezius.—On the second day the dissector should begin by reflecting the trapezius. This should be done, if possible, in conjunction with the dissector of the head and neck. Divide the muscle about two inches from the spines of the vertebras, and throw it outwards towards its insertion. The trapezius is very thin at its origin, and the greatest care must therefore be taken not to injure the subjacent rhomboid muscles. The small bursa between the tendon of insertion of the lower part of the trapezius and the triangular root of the spine of the scapula must not be overlooked. Nerves and Vessels of Supply to the Trapezius.—A dissection of the deep surface of the reflected muscle will reveal the following structures :— a. The spinal accessor)' nerve. b. Two or three nerves from the cervical plexus. c. The superficial cervical artery. These constitute the nervous and vascular supply of the trapezius. The nerves have already been displayed by the dissector of the head and neck, as they cross the posterior triangle of the neck. The branches from the cervical plexus come from the third and fourth cervical nerves. On the deep surface of the trapezius they join with branches of the spinal accessory to form the sul'trapezial plexus, from which twigs proceed into the substance of the muscle. The terminal twig of the spinal accessory nerve can be traced nearly to the lower margin of the trapezius.