572 ABDOMEN. sagittal section through the pelvis a short distance to the outer side of the mesial plane, the attachment of the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia to the back of the pubic bone, a short distance above the attachment of the parietal pelvic fascia (superior layer of the triangular ligament), is exhibited. The anterior true ligament of the bladder is seen passing backwards from the visceral layer in front of the prostate, whilst the recto-vesical layer is shown passing below the prostate, and then between it and the rectum. In the interval between this layer and the superior layer of the triangular ligament (parietal pelvic fascia) is placed the anterior border of the levator ani (not represented in the diagram), around which these two layers become continuous (v. Fig. 128). In this manner the capsule of the prostate is brought into anatomical continuity with the superior layer of the triangular ligament on either side of the urethra. Anal Fascia.—It is necessary, before leaving the pelvic fascia, to take notice of a layer which has already been studied in connection with the perineum—viz., the anal fascia. This is a thin and delicate aponeurosis which covers the perineal or lower surface of the levator ani, and which is connected with the pelvic fascia along the white line (Fig. 65). In consequence of this attachment, it is usually described as a distinct layer of the pelvic fascia, whereas it is merely the aponeurosis of the muscle. The levator ani is thus enclosed between two aponeurotic lamellae—viz., the visceral pelvic fascia and the rectal fascia above, and the anal fascia below. Relation of Blood Vessels and Nerves to the Pelvic Fascia.—The blood vessels of the pelvis are placed on the peritoneal aspect of the fascia. It follows, therefore, that the parietal branches of the internal iliac artery, in passing out from the pelvis, pierce the membrane, and they always carry with them a prolongation from it which blends with their sheaths. There is an exception to this rule—viz., the obturator artery. It has been observed to pass over the