383 THE FEMALE PERINEUM. pars intermedia, which in turn is continuous with the erectile tissue of the glans clitoridis. To obtain a proper idea of these connections, it is necessary to study specimens which have been specially injected and prepared. The arrangement of erectile tissue in the female corre- sponds more or less closely with the condition present in the male. The apparent dissimilarity is due to the presence of the uro-genital fissure and orifice of the vagina. Let us suppose for a moment that the latter is obliterated, and that the vestibule is closed in the form of a canal which carries the urethra forwards to the extremity of the clitoris. The two halves of the bulb would then be in contact with each other, and its entire surface would be covered by a muscular stratum, after the manner of the bulb and ejaculator urinse in the male. Further, the urethra would be surrounded by erectile tissue, and the pars intermedia would be seen to correspond in some extent to that portion of the corpus spongiosum which in the male lies in front of the bulb, and becomes continuous with the glans. Dissection.—If the stitches uniting the lips of the pudendal cleft have not been already removed they should now be taken away. The crura clitoridis have been exposed by the removal of the erector muscles. To obtain a good view of the entire organ, strip the mucous membrane from the body of the clitoris, and clear away the loose tissue which surrounds it. In doing this, however, remember that on its dorsal aspect certain vessels and nerves run forwards to reach the glans, and that suspending it to the front of the pubes there is the suspensory ligament. Clitoris.—The body of the clitoris is composed of two cylindrical erectile bodies called the corpora cavernosa, which correspond with the structures that bear the same name in the male. Along the middle line they are united by their inner surfaces, and the erectile tissue of the one is separated from that of the other by an imperfect pectiniform septum. The body of the clitoris is about an inch and a-half long. Anteriorly it terminates in a small rounded tubercle, which bears the name of the glans clitoridis. The glans, however,