316 THE LOWER LIMB. which spread over the bones in the form of a close mesh- work. During the dissection of the articulation these vessels will become apparent. The knee-joint is supplied on its posterior aspect by twigs derived from all the articular branches of the popliteal. These twigs are vari- able in their origin, and the anastomoses which are formed between them are unimportant and inconstant. They are sometimes supple- mented by another artery, the posterior recurrent tibial. This small vessel is a branch of the anterior tibial before it leaves the back of the leg. It ascends under cover of the popliteus muscle, ramifies over the lower part of the ligamentum posticum Winslowii, and inosculates with the two inferior articular branches of the popliteal. The azygcs articular artery is chiefly destined for the supply of the interior of the joint. It pierces the posterior ligament, passes forwards between the crucial ligaments, and ramifies in the fatty tissue in that situation. Its terminal twigs usually anastomose with the middle of the three arches in front of the knee-joint. It will be dissected at a later stage in the interior of the joint. Articular Nerves.—The knee-joint is richly supplied with nerves. No less than ten distinct branches may be traced to it. The anterior crural, the external popliteal, and the internal popliteal trunks, contribute three twigs apiece to this articulation, and the obturator furnishes a filament to its posterior aspect. The anterior crural supplies the joint through branches which proceed from the nerves to the vastus externus, vastus internus, and subcrureus. These nerves pierce the fibres of the quadriceps muscle, and are distributed to the upper and anterior part of the articulation. The articular branch from the nerve to the vastus internus is of larger size than the other two, and it accompanies the deep branch of the anastomotica artery. The external popliteal nerve gives off—(i) the superior and inferior external articular nerves: these accompany the arteries of the same name, and end in fine filaments, which pierce the capsule of the joint; and (2) the recurrent articular nerve which accompanies the anterior recurrent tibial artery. This nerve ends chiefly in the tibialis anticus muscle; but a fine twig may reach the lower part