322 THE LOWER LIMB. higher level upon the front of the femur. The synovial membrane covers both surfaces of the semilunar car- tilages, gives a partial investment to the crucial liga- ments, and contributes a pouch-like prolongation along the tendon of the popliteus. The synovial investment of the crucial ligaments is not complete, and is carried for- wards upon them from the posterior wall of the joint. The prolongation upon the tendon of the popliteus ex- tends downwards between the external semilunar cartilage and the back part of the upper end of the tibia. It faci- litates the play of the tendon over that bone, and comes very close to the upper part of the superior tibio-fibular joint. Indeed, the synovial membrane of this joint may, in some cases, be found continuous with it. Dissection.—Divide the ligamentum mucosum and remove the infra- patellar pad of fat. The bursa between the ligamentum patelke and the upper part of the anterior tubercle of the tibia may now be opened and examined. Next dissect away the posterior ligament of the joint and trace the azygos articular artery, which pierces it, forwards to the crucial ligaments. It will now be seen that the posterior surface of the posterior crucial ligament is not covered by synovial membrane, and that it is connected by areolar tissue to the deep surface of the posterior ligament. Define the attachments of the crucial ligaments by removing the synovial membrane which is wrapped round them and the areolar tissue in connection with them. The semilunar cartilages should also receive the attention of the dissector, and the manner in which their fibrous pointed extremities are fixed to the tibia must be studied. At this stage the changes produced in the degree of tension of the crucial ligaments, and the change brought about in the position of the semilunar cartilages by movements of the joint, should be examined. Movements at the Knee-joint.—The movements of the knee-joint are those of flexion and extension. The leg can be bent back until the prominence of the calf comes into contact with the posterior aspect of the thigh ; but in extension the movement is brought to a close when the leg comes into a line with the thigh. In this position the joint is firmly locked, and the anterior crucial, the lateral and the posterior ligaments being fully stretched, the leg and thigh are converted into a rigid column of support. In flexion, however, the lateral and posterior ligaments are relaxed, and a certain amount of rotation of the tibia upon the femur is allowed.