204 THE LOWER LIMB. to the fascia of the leg, whilst the anterior part gives off a slip (in some cases strong, but generally feeble) to the adjacent part of the outer tuberosity of the tibia. The Semitendinosus arises from the inner impression on the upper part of the tuberosity of the ischium by a tendon common to it and the long head of the biceps, and also by fleshy fibres directly from the bone. A narrow tendinous intersection appears on the posterior surface of the muscle about the middle of the thigh, and is directed obliquely downwards and outwards. The muscular belly ends in the lower third of the thigh, in a long cylindrical tendon which passes downwards on the semimembranosus muscle, then bends forwards, crosses the internal lateral ligament of the knee joint, and, becoming flattened, is inserted into the upper part of the internal surface of the shaft of the tibia, near the anterior border of that bone, and immediately below the tendon of the gracilis. From its lower border aponeurotic fibres pass into the deep fascia of the leg ; its upper border is adherent to the gracilis for about half an inch from its insertion, and both tendons are concealed by the expanded insertion of the sartorius. A synovial bursa lies between the three tendons and the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The Semimembranosus arises from the outer impression on the upper part of the tuberosity of the ischium, behind the quadratus femoris. The tendon of origin is broad at its attachment to the bone, and narrows as it passes inwards beneath the origin of the biceps ; it then expands again, assuming a remarkable shape, something like the blade of a razor, the outer border being thick and rounded, the inner thin and membranous. This tendon passes down- wards and inwards under cover of the semitendinosus, and is folded in such a manner as to form a groove, in which the latter muscle lies. The muscular fibres pass obliquely downwards and inwards from the tendon of origin to the tendon of insertion. The main mass of the latter tendon