ABDOMINAL WALL. 435 the obliterated hypogastric arteries, and the external abdominal ring or the outlet of the inguinal canal corresponds to its outer and deepest part. The middle inguinal fossa, very narrow but frequently very deep, is situated between the peritoneal folds which enclose the obliterated hypo- gastric artery and the deep epigastric arteries. The bottom of this fossa corresponds to the outer part of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal, or, in other words, to that part of the posterior wall which is formed by the fascia transversalis. The external inguinal fossa is placed to the outer side of the deep epigastric artery, and its lower, inner, and deepest part corresponds to the internal abdominal ring. The student has already seen, in the dissection of the abdominal wall, that the deep epigastric artery, together with Poupart's ligament and the outer border of the rectus, bound a triangular space termed Hesselbach's triangle. Recalling this fact, he will .understand that the obliterated hypogastric artery, which lies to the inner side of the deep epigastric, must ascend in relation to the posterior aspect of the floor of the triangle and cut the space into two. Having determined these points, the dissector can proceed as follows: —Divide the lower part of the abdominal wall in a vertical direction along the linea alba, from the umbilicus to the pubes. Make this incision a little on one side of the urachus, and, on nearing the pubis, be careful not to injure the bladder, which may project upwards beyond it. On throwing the left flap downwards and outwards, it may be possible to detect the position of the internal abdominal ring from the fact that in some cases the peritoneum is slightly dimpled into it. This dimple or depression is termed the digital fossa. Now strip the peritoneum from the flap as far down as Poupart's ligament. This can be easily done with the fingers, as its connection with the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue is very slight. Next separate the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue from the fascia transversalis with the handle of the knife, proceeding with great care as Poupart's ligament is approached. The internal abdominal ring, or the inlet of the inguinal canal, is now seen from within. From this point of view the opening is more like a vertical slit in the fascia transversalis than a ring. Its lower and external margin will be seen to be specially strong and thick. Note the deep epigastric artery passing upwards and inwards close to its inner margin. Further, observe the vas deferens and the spermatic vessels entering it, the former, as it disappears into the canal, hooking round the deep epigastric artery. Introduce the tip of the little finger into the opening and push it gently downwards in the direction of the inguinal canal. On raising the flap of the abdominal wall and looking at its front aspect, a very striking demonstration of the infundibuliform fascia can thus be obtained. There are two forms of Inguinal Hernia,—viz., oblique and direct.