THE LOWER LIMB. 320 upper margin of the intercondyloid notch, whilst on either side it becomes incorporated with the corresponding head of the gastrocnemius. Below, it is attached to the posterior border of the upper end of the tibia. A strong slip derived from the tendon of the semimembranosus strengthens the ligament on its posterior aspect. This band passes upwards and outwards towards the external condyle of the femur. Sometimes the term "posterior ligament" (ligamentum posticum Winslowii) is restricted to this oblique band from the semimembranosus, and the remainder of the ligament as described above is then regarded as a portion of the capsule. The posterior ligament presents a number of apertures for the entrance of blood vessels and nerves into the interior of the joint. The azygos artery is the most conspicuous of these vessels. An opening may like- wise sometimes be observed over the upper part of the internal condyle of the femur. Through this protrudes a pouch of synovial membrane which forms a bursa under the inner head of the gastrocnemius. As a rule, however, this bursa is independent of the knee-joint, and the aperture in the ligament is absent. Another opening is situated in the outer part of the ligament, and gives exit to the tendon of the popliteus. Dissection.—A vertical incision should be made into the joint on either side of the patella and ligamentum patella;, in order that the common extensor tendon and the patella may be thrown downwards over the upper end of the tibia. The joint is now opened from the front, and the parts in the interior may be observed. Interior of the Joint.—First note the great pad of soft fat which is placed on the deep surface of the ligamentum patellae. In vertical section this fatty mass is triangular in form (Fig. 61). It is termed the infrapatellar pad, and it fills up the interval between the patella, femur, and tibia, and adapts itself to the varied forms which this recess adopts in the different movements of the joint. Towards the interior of the joint it is covered by synovial membrane, and from its surface a band of this membrane extends backwards and upwards to the intercondyloid fossa of the femur, where it is attached. This band is termed the ligamentum mucosttm. As it approaches the femur it becomes narrow and slender; but, before it fairly rises from