331 TIB 10-FIBULAR JOINTS. the three parts of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The muscles must also be detached from both aspects of the interosseous membrane and the bones of the leg. The ligaments may now be defined. Interosseous Membrane.—This is a strong membrane which stretches across the interval between the two bones of the leg, and greatly extends the surface for the origin of muscles. It is attached on the one hand to the external border of the tibia, and on the other to the interosseous ridge which descends on the internal surface of the fibula. It is composed of strong oblique fibres, which take a direc- tion downwards and outwards from the tibia to the fibula. An oval opening in its upper part, immediately under the external tuberosity of the tibia, is present for the passage of the anterior tibial vessels, whilst a small aperture a short distance above the ankle-joint marks the point where the membrane is pierced by the anterior peroneal artery. Superior Tibio-fibular Joint.—At this joint the bones are held in apposition by an anterior and a posterior ligament, which pass from the outer tuberosity of the tibia downwards and outwards to be attached to the head of the fibula. The posterior ligament is the weaker of the two, and upon its upper part the tendon of the popliteus with its synovial investment rests. This investment is a prolongation from the synovial membrane of the knee-joint, and in some cases it will be found to be directly continuous with the synovial membrane which lines the superior tibio-fibular joint. The relation of the tendon of the biceps to this joint must not be lost sight of. Attached for the most part to the head of the fibula, its fibres stretch over the front of the joint. Some of its tendinous fibres also obtain inser- tion into the outer tuberosity of the tibia. Firm support is in this way contributed to the superior tibio-fibular joint. The Inferior Tibio-fibular Joint is constructed upon a stronger plan, because upon its security the strength of