ABDOMINAL WALL. 433 tion of the same canal coiled and convoluted upon itself to a remarkable degree. The intricacy of its flexuosities will be better understood by simply stating that if it were completely opened out it would be found to measure twenty feet or more. At the lower end of the globus minor the canal of the epididymis becomes continuous with the vas deferens. Dissection.—The dissector should endeavour to unravel a part of the canal of the epididymis. The coils are held together by areolar tissue and the dissection is very tedious. Surgical Anatomy.—To the surgeon the anatomy of the abdominal wall presents a very special interest from the bearing which it has upon Hernia or Rupture. Hernia abdominis may be defined as being the protrusion of any viscus or portion of a viscus, or the protrusion of any portion of a peritoneal fold (e.g., great omentum) through the wall of the abdomen. There are three localities in which, from natural weakness of the parietes, this protrusion is specially liable to occur—(i.) through the external abdominal ring, which gives passage to the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament of the uterus in the female ; (2.) through the crural canal or innermost compartment of the femoral sheath, within which certain lymphatic vessels ascend from the thigh into the abdominal cavity; (3.) through the umbilicus or the foramen in the linea alba of the fcetus, which transmits the constituents of the umbilical cord. These different forms of hernia are distinguished by the terms— inguinal, femoral, and umbilical. There are other situations at which hernial protrusions occur, but so rarely that it would be out of place to take notice of them here. Inguinal Hernia.—The inguinal canal is not so great a source of weakness to the abdominal wall as might, at first sight, be expected, and this chiefly on account of its obliquity of direction. The inlet or internal abdominal ring is situated a long way (fully an inch and a-half) to the outer side of the outlet or external abdominal ring. The canal is there- fore distinctly valvular ; the greater the force with which the viscera are pressed directly against the inguinal part of the abdominal parietes, the more firmly will the posterior wall of the canal be pressed against the spermatic cord and the anterior wall. On the left side of the body the parts related to inguinal hernia have been retained in position. The student should, therefore, make a dis- section of the inguinal region, with special reference to hernia. Begin by reflecting the aponeurosis of the external oblique. Make a vertical VOL. I.—28