THE UPPER LIMB. 164 Dissection.—To display the articular surfaces and interosseous liga- ments of the second row it is necessary to open the transverse carpal joint. This can be done by dividing the two lateral and the dorsal ligaments. The interosseous ligament between the scaphoid and os magnum, if present, will now come into view, and it must be cut, to allow the thorough separation of the two rows of carpal bones. Articular Surfaces.—The os magnum and unciform form a high convexity, which fits into the concavity of the upper row, whilst the convex lower surface of the scaphoid is received into a concavity formed by the trapezium and trapezoid. The two opposing surfaces, therefore, are con- cavo-convex from side to side, and adapted the one to the other. Movements at the Carpal Joints.—The movements at the carpal joints are complementary to those at the radio-carpal joint, and tend greatly to increase its range. Between the individual bones of each row the movement is of a gliding character, and very limited. At the trans- verse carpal joint forward and backward movement (flexion and extension) is alone allowed. By the multiplicity of joints in this part of the limb, strength and elasticity is contributed to the wrist. Dissection.—The interosseous muscles should now be removed from the metacarpal bones. At the same time the flexor tendons and lum- brical muscles may be detached from the fingers. The extensor tendons, however, should be left in position on the dorsal surface of the meta- carpo-phalangeal and interphalangeal joints. The ligaments which connect the carpus and metacarpus, and those which pass between the bases of the four inner metacarpal bones, should be cleaned and defined. Intermetacarpal Joints.—The four metacarpal bones of the fingers articulate with each other by their basal or proximal extremities, and are united together by strong ligaments. The metacarpal bone of the thumb stands aloof from its neighbours, and enjoys a much greater freedom of movement. The ligaments which bind the four inner metacarpal bones to each other are— 1. A series of palmar and dorsal bands which pass trans- versely, and connect their basal extremities.