613 PEL VIS. be able to make out the structure of the prostate in all its details. It is mainly composed of involuntary muscular tissue, which is so arranged that it exercises a powerful sphincter action on the first part of the urethra. This tissue forms a layer on the outside of the organ, and also gives a coating to the urethra as it traverses the prostate. The outside and inside fibres are continuous in front—indeed, the greater part of the anterior portion of the prostate is muscular. The fibres surrounding the urethra are also continuous behind with the circular fibres of the bladder, and in front with the circular fibres of the membranous part of the urethra; further, they radiate out transversely into each lateral lobe. The glandular substance is interspersed amidst the muscular tissue, but none is to be seen in front of the urethra. Structure of the Penis.—In the dissection of the urethra the corpora cavernosa penis have been separated from each other. Each will be seen to be enveloped in an exceedingly strong fibro-elastic sheath. In the mesial plane the sheaths become continuous with a strong septum, which intervenes between the two cylindrical masses. This septum receives the name of septum pectiniforme, because in front it is very imperfect, being broken up by vertical slits into a series of processes like the teeth of a comb. The two fibrous cases thus constructed are filled with erectile tissue. Fibrous lamellae and bands proceed from the deep surface of each sheath and join with each other to form a spongy framework. The interstices of this framework freely communicate with each other, and are filled with venous blood. By taking the penis to the tap and washing out the blood some idea of the trabecular may be obtained. The corpus spongiosum has a similar structure. The en- closing sheath, however, is very delicate, and the trabecular are much finer. Vesiculse Seminales.—If the dissector has not already unravelled the vesicular seminales, he should now do so,