THE FEMALE PERINEUM. 379 menstrual fluid. After it has been ruptured its position is marked by certain rounded elevations which have received the name of canmculce myrtiformes. Passage of Catheter and Examination of Os Uteri.—The dissector should now practise the passing of the female catheter, and afterwards introduce a speculum into the vagina, so as to obtain a view of the os uteri. The difficulty in passing the catheter arises from the fact that the operation must be conducted without any ex- posure of the person. Place the forefinger of the left hand in the orifice of the vagina, with its palmar surface directed upwards towards the pubes. If the instrument be now passed along this finger, and the point raised slightly when it reaches the entrance to the vagina, a little manipulation will cause it to enter the urethra. When the speculum is introduced into the vagina, the points to be noted in connection with the os uteri are:— (i) the small size of the opening ; (2) the two rounded and thick lips which bound this aperture. In the virgin the opening is circular, but in women who have borne children it is somewhat transverse and often scarred. Note further that the anterior lip is the thicker and shorter of the two, whilst the posterior lip is the longer. Reflection of Skin.—The rectum should he moderately filled with tow, and the vulva and anal orifice stitched up.—Incisions.—(1) A transverse incision should, in the first place, be carried from one ischial tuberosity to the other, in front of the anus ; (2) The uro-genital fissure and the orifice of the anus should next be closely encircled by incisions, and these joined by a cut along the middle line. (3) Lastly, carry an incision forwards from the second or third piece of the coccyx along the middle line to the cut which surrounds the anus. Four flaps are thus marked out ; the two anterior may be thrown forwards and outwards, and the two posterior backwards and outwards. Superficial Fascia.—The superficial fascia of the peri- neum is now laid bare. In the rectal triangle it agrees in every particular with the same portion of fascia in the male. In the anterior or urethral triangle, however, owing to the