THE UPPER LIMB. 148 end of the radius, and through it the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis passes obliquely. The fourth compartment is placed over the wide shallow groove which marks the inner part of the dorsal aspect of the lower end of the radius. It is traversed by five tendons, viz., the four tendons of the common extensor and the tendon of the extensor indicis. The fifth compartment is situated over the interval between the lower ends of the radius and ulna. It contains the slender tendon of the extensor minimi digiti. The sixth and innermost compartment, which corresponds with the groove on the back of the lower end of the ulna, encloses the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris. Extensor Tendons of the Fingers.—The four tendons of the extensor communis, when they emerge from their com- partment in the posterior annular ligament, diverge on the dorsum of the hand to reach the four fingers. The tendon of the ring finger will be seen to be connected by a tendinous slip with the tendon on either side of it. This explains the small degree of independent movement in a backward direction which the ring digit possesses. The arrangement of the tendons on the fingers is the same in each case. Upon the dorsal aspect of the first phalanx the tendon expands so as to cover it completely. Into the margins of this " dorsal expansion " the delicate tendons of the 'lumbrical and interosseous muscles are inserted. Near the first interphalangeal joint the expansion separates into three portions—a central and two lateral. The central part, which is the weakest, is inserted into the dorsal aspect of the base of the second phalanx. The stronger lateral portions unite into one piece beyond this, and gain an insertion with the base of the ungual phalanx. The tendon of the extensor ifidicis joins the expansion of the extensor tendon on the dorsal aspect of the first phalanx of the index finger. The tendon of the extensor minimi digiti splits into two parts. Of these the outer joins the tendon of the common