493 ABDOMINAL CAVITY. Lieberkiihn). The same glands are present in the mucous membrane of the small intestine, but they are not so large. Dissection.—-The coats of the large intestine must be dissected in the same manner as in the case of the small intestine. Coats of the Large Intestine.—In connection with the serous coat, the student has already taken notice of the appendices epiploic^. The externa/ longitudinal muscular fibres have also been observed to be disposed in three flat bands. These begin on the csecum at the base of the vermiform process. From this they diverge, so as to take up positions on different aspects of the gut. They are placed as follows:—(i) One in relation to the attached surface; (2) the second upon the anterior aspect; (3) and the third along the inner aspect of the gut, but, in the case of the transverse colon, this band is in relation to the inferior aspect of the tube. The internal circular muscular fibres are most distinct in the constrictions between the sacculi, but constitute a thin uniform layer over the entire extent of the gut. The submucous coat is in no respect different from the corresponding coat in the small intestine. Dissection.—When the distended caecum is dry, the ileo-caecal valve should be examined. This can best be done by removing the outer wall of the caecum with a pair of scissors. A window is thus made into the gut, through which the opening of the ileum into the caecum can be seen. Ileo-caecal Valve.—-The ileo-caecal aperture is a narrow transverse slit placed on the inner aspect of the gut. The aperture is narrow and pointed behind, but more open and wider in front. It is guarded by a valve which consists of two crescentic segments or folds. The upper and smaller segment is placed horizontally, whilst the lower one is perpendicular. At the extremities of the aperture these folds unite, and are prolonged round the inner surface of the wall of the great intestine in the form of two ridges, which are termed the frcena or retinacula of the valve. The ileo-caecal opening is placed in the lower part of the