THE LOWER LIMB. 246 to be perfectly bare. No muscular fibres arise from this bony surface. The fleshy mass of the vastus interims may now, with advantage, be divided transversely about two inches above the patella. The muscle can then be thrown inwards, and its origin studied. The vastus internus arises—(1) from the lower part of the anterior intertrochanteric line of the femur; (2) from the line leading from this, below the small trochanter, to the linea aspera; (3) from the inner lip of the linea aspera; (4) from the upper part of the internal supracondyloid line as low down as the opening in the adductor magnus; (5) from the rounded tendon of the adductor magnus. The fleshy fibres are directed downwards and forwards, and end in the common tendon of the quadriceps muscle. By this it is inserted into the patella, and becomes connected with the capsule of the knee-joint. The Crureus (femoralis) covers the anterior and outer aspects of the shaft of the femur, from both of which, as well as from the lower part of the external intermuscular septum, it takes origin. It is inserted into the patella through the medium of the common tendon. Common Tendon of the Quadriceps.—It should now be noticed that the comition tendon of the quadriceps muscle closes the knee-joint above the patella. It is inserted into the upper border of that bone, and is intimately connected with the capsule of the knee-joint. Some fibres are carried downwards into the ligamentum patellae upon the surface of the patella. A pouch of synovial membrane is prolonged upwards beyond the level of the patella, between the quadriceps and the bone. Into this some of the lower and deeper fasciculi of the crureus muscle are inserted. They constitute the subcrureus muscle (m. articularis genu). The crureus should be divided in a vertical direction, so as to bring this little muscle into view, and at the same time the long, slender nerve-filament which runs along the inner border of the crureus, may be traced to it and the synovial membrane of the knee-joint.