THE LOWER LIMB. 334 and solid, being formed by the os calcis alone; the anterior pillar, much longer, is composed of several bones, viz., the scaphoid, the cuboid, the three cuneiforms, and the meta- tarsus. Further, the anterior pillar may be considered as being formed of an inner column composed of the scaphoid, the three cuneiform, and the three inner meta- tarsal bones, and an outer column composed of the cuboid and the two outer metatarsal bones. The weight of the body is transmitted to the summit of the arch through the astragalus, and the most important ligaments con- cerned in the prevention of excessive flattening of the arch are the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid, the two plantar calcaneo-cuboid ligaments, and the various slips of the tendon of the tibialis posticus as they pass to find attach- ment to the different tarsal and metatarsal bones. The plantar fascia also acts powerfully in this way : connecting as it does the extremities of the two pillars of the plantar arch, it operates, as Professor Humphry has pointed out, in the same manner as the ' tie-beam' of a roof. The transverse arch of the foot is seen to best advantage across the line of the tarso-metatarsal articulations. Dissection.—The muscles and tendons which have hitherto been only partially detached from the bones of the foot should now be completely removed and the ligaments defined. Astragaloid Articulations.—The astragalus articulates by means of the large posterior facet on the under surface of its body with the corresponding posterior facet on the upper surface of the os calcis. Its head, on the other hand, is received into a large socket which is formed for it by the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis, the scaphoid, and two ligaments which pass between the os calcis and the scaphoid bone, viz., one below, the inferior calcaneo-sca- phoid, and another on the outer side, the external calcaneo- scaphoid ligament. These two astragaloid articulations are quite distinct, and each is provided with a separate synovial membrane.