ARTICULA T10NS. 323 But the movements of flexion and extension at the knee-joint are by no means so simple as at first sight they might appear to be, and to obtain some appreciation of them it is necessary to subject the opposed articular surfaces to a close scrutiny. Flex the joint acutely, and examine the cartilage-covered surface of the lower end of the femur. It consists of an anterior trochlear portion for the patella, and two condylar surfaces which move on the tibia. The trochlea is separated from the surface of the external condyle by a faintly marked groove, which takes a slightly curved course from the external border of the lower end of the femur inwards and backwards to the fore part of the intercondyloid fossa. At either extremity this groove widens out into a distinct depression. In full extension the outer depression rests upon the anterior part of the external semilunar cartilage, whilst the inner depression rests upon the anterior border of the external tubercle of the spine of the tibia (Bruce Young). The line of demarcation between the trochlea and the lower surface of the internal condyle of the femur is not so distinct. Close to the inner margin of the bone there is a depression which, in full extension, rests upon part of the anterior horn of the internal semilunar cartilage (Bruce Young) ; but external to this the trochlear surface is prolonged backwards for a certain distance along the anterior and inner margin of the intercondyloid fossa. A portion of the internal condyle is thus included in the trochlear surface, the portion skirting the inner border of the anterior part of the intercondyloid fossa, and this is termed the ' crescentic facet' of the internal condyle. The deep surface of the patella may next be examined, and its movements in connection with flexion and extension of the knee-joint studied. A high vertical ridge divides its deep surface into a large external and a smaller internal area. Each of these is still further sub- divided by faint ridges in the cartilage which coats the surface. A faint line upon the inner area of the patella descends in a vertical direction so as to mark off a narrow strip close to the inner border of the bone. This strip is called the internal perpendicular facet. Two horizontal lines extend outwards from the outer border of the internal perpendicular facet to the outer border of the bone, and subdivide the remainder of the inner area and the whole of the outer area into three facets each. In a well-marked patella, therefore, the deep cartilage- covered surface shows seven facets, viz., an upper pair, an intermediate pair, a lower pair, and an internal perpendicular facet (Goodsir). The facetted appearance of the deep surface of the patella indicates that in the movements of this bone upon the trochlear surface of the femur the entire articular surface is never in contact with the femur at the same time. In flexion and extension of the knee, the patella moves downwards and upwards in a curved path, the concavity of which looks