SHO ULDER-JOINT. 89 artery are chiefly distributed to the three heads of the tri- ceps muscle. One twig runs upwards between the long and outer heads of the muscle, and anastomoses with the posterior circumflex artery. In this way, a link is established between the axillary and brachial systems of branches: Dissection.—The ulnar nerve, with the inferior profunda artery, and the slender ulnar collateral nerve, can now be advantageously followed, as they proceed downwards upon the posterior aspect of the internal intermuscular septum. They are covered by a thin layer of fleshy fibres belonging to the internal head of the triceps. The posterior branch of the anastomotica magna, after it has pierced the internal septum, should also be dissected out. As a rule, a transverse branch passes between this vessel and the posterior terminal part of the superior profunda. It lies upon the back of the humerus, immediately above the elbow-joint, and can be exposed by dividing the triceps muscle a short distance above the olecranon. At the same time the fleshy fibres of the internal head of the triceps, which are inserted into the posterior ligament of the joint, and constitute the subanconeus muscle, should be examined. Lastly, raise the lower piece of the triceps from the elbow joint, and look for a small bursa between the deep surface of the triceps tendon and the upper aspect of the olecranon. SHOULDER-JOINT. Before proceeding to the dissection of the forearm it is advisable to study the shoulder-joint, because if this is deferred much longer the ligaments are apt to become dry. In no joint in the body is the movement so free, and so varied in its character, as in the shoulder-joint. This is rendered necessary by the many functions which are performed by the upper limb. Freedom of motion is provided for in two ways—(1) by the large size of the head of the humerus, in comparison with the small dimensions and shallow character of the glenoid fossa—the socket in which it moves ; (2) by the great laxity of the ligamentous structures which connect the humerus with the scapula. These provisions for allowing an extensive range of movement at this articulation might, at first sight, lead one to doubt the security of the joint. Its strength certainly does not lie in the adaptation of the bony surfaces to one another, nor in the power of its ligaments. It lies—(1) in the intimate manner in which the scapular