81 FRONT OF THE ARM. the forearm below. Observe now that it springs from the anterior margin of the tendon of the biceps, and that it likewise receives some muscular fibres from the short head of the muscle. The Brachialis Anticus (m. brachialis internus) arises from the entire width of the anterior surface of the lower half of the shaft of the humerus, from the internal inter- muscular septum, and from a small part of the external intermuscular septum above the supinator longus. The origin from the bone is prolonged upwards in two slips which partially embrace the insertion of the deltoid. The fibres converge to be inserted into the base of the coronoid process of the ulna by a short, thick tendon. The muscle lies partly under cover of the biceps, but projects beyond it on either side. It is overlapped on its inner side by the pronator radii teres, and on the outer side by the supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior. Its deep surface is closely connected to the anterior ligament of the elbow- joint. Its chief nerve of supply, from the musculocutaneous, has already been secured, but it also receives one or two small twigs from the musculo-spiral, which are given off under cover of the supinator longus. Dissection.—Separate the supinator longus muscle from the brachi- alis anticus, and dissect out the musculo-spiral nerve, and the anterior terminal branch of the superior profunda artery, which lie deeply in the interval between them. Here also the anastomosis between the superior profunda and the radial recurrent arteries may be made out, in a well injected subject ; and the twigs which are given by the musculo-spiral nerve to the brachialis anticus, supinator longus, and extensor carpi radialis longior, looked for. Triangular Space in front of the Elbow (anticubital fossa).—This is a slight hollow in front of the elbow- joint. It corresponds to the popliteal space of the lower limb, and within its area the brachial artery divides into its two terminal branches. In the first instance, let the dissector consider the structures which cover it. These vol. i.—6