451 ABDOMINAL CAVITY. can be fully examined. The right lateral surface forms an area of some extent, which passes vertically downwards in relation to the lateral portions of the seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh costal arches. It is separated from these, however, by the diaphragm and the thin basal margin of the right lung. It is convex from before backwards, and is adapted to the curvature of the ribs, under the shelter of which it lies. This surface passes insensibly by means of rounded borders into the superior, anterior, and posterior surfaces. It is impossible to say where the one begins and the others end. Inferiorly, however, the sharp margin of the liver marks it off in the most distinct manner from the inferior surface. This portion of the sharp margin con- stitutes the most dependent part of the liver, and extends for a variable distance below the subcostal plane into the right lumbar region. The superior surface is adapted accurately to the under surface of the diaphragm. Its right portion rises in the form of a high convexity, which occupies the right cupola of the diaphragm. Immediately to the left of this is a depressed slightly concave area, which corresponds to the heart and pericardium on the upper surface of the diaphragm ; whilst, still further to the left, the superior surface of the liver again shows a convexity, but not so pro- nounced as that on the right side, which fits into the left cupola of the diaphragm. Full rounded borders separate this surface from the right lateral, from the anterior, and from the posterior surfaces of the liver. At the left ex- tremity of the organ, the superior surface is separated from the inferior surface by the left portion of the sharp margin. The anterior surface of the liver, which looks directly forwards, presents a triangular outline. The base of the triangle is formed by the rounded border which separates this surface from the right lateral surface; the upper limit is formed by the rounded border which intervenes between the superior and anterior surfaces; and the lower limit by the