PEL VIS. 643 plexuses, and, accompanying the artery of the same name, is distributed to the ovary. Coccygeal Body.— Vide p. 601. Removal of Viscera.—The viscera should now be removed from the pelvic cavity. Begin by cutting the various nerves and vessels which enter them, the levator ani and the anterior true ligaments of the bladder. Then carefully divide the parts which hold the urethra and vagina to the arch of the pubis. Lastly, separate the rectum from its connections with the sacrum and coccyx. The obturator interims and pyriformis muscles should now be studied. They are described at page 601. The viscera should next be separated from each other, but the vagina must be left attached to the uterus, and the urethra to the bladder. Coats of the Rectum.—The coats of this portion of the intestinal canal are identical in both sexes. The student may, therefore, refer to p. 602, where the wall of the male rectum is described. Bladder.—Particulars regarding the coats of the bladder may be obtained by turning back to p. 605. In slitting open this viscus the urethra should be laid open along its upper surface at the same time. Urethra.—The external meatus is the narrowest part of this tube. As it is traced upwards, it will be seen to expand before joining the neck of the bladder, and close to the meatus its floor will be noticed to be somewhat depressed so as to form a slight hollow. Dissection.—The uterus with its appendages should now be laid upon its posterior surface on a block. The round ligaments and the ligaments of the ovaries should be isolated and their attachments defined, and then the uterus may be opened by a longitudinal mesial incision, extending from the fundus to the os uteri externum. A slight cut should also be made outwards from the upper end of this incision towards the entrance of each Fallopian tube. The cut edges may now be pared so as to extend the view of the interior of the uterus. Wall of the Uterus.—The round ligament will now be seen to be attached to the body of the uterus immediately in front of and a little below the entrance of the Fallopian