THE LOWER LIMB. 254 aspera, and has already been seen in the popliteal space lying upon the popliteal artery. The Gracilis is a long, strap-like muscle, which is situ- ated along the inner aspect of the thigh and knee. It springs by a thin tendon from the lower half of the body of the pubis, close to the symphysis, and also from the upper half of the pubic arch. It ends in a slender, rounded tendon, which inclines forwards below the knee, and then expands to find insertion into the upper part of the inner surface of the tibia, under cover of the tendon of the sar- torius, and at a higher level than the insertion of the semi- tendinosus. A synovial bursa separates the expanded tendon of the gracilis from the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, and is prolonged above it so as to intervene between it and the tendon of the sartorius. The Adductor Magnus is one of the most powerful muscles of the thigh. It forms a flat fleshy mass, which springs from the anterior surface of the entire length of the pubic arch, and from the lower part of the tuberosity of the ischium. The fibres which arise from the pubic arch spread out as they approach the back of the femur. The upper fibres are nearly horizontal in their direction ; below this they descend with increasing degrees of obliquity. They are inserted into the posterior surface of the femur, immediately internal to the gluteal ridge, into the linea aspera, and into a small portion of the upper part of the internal supracondyloid ridge. The fibres which take origin from the ischial tuberosity descend almost vertically and form the thick inner border of the muscle. In the lower third of the thigh they end in a strong, rounded tendon, which is inserted into the adductor tubercle on the inner tuberosity of the femur. This tendon is further attached to the femur by the internal intermuscular septum which stretches between it and the internal supracondyloid line. Close to the linea aspera the dissector will notice that fibrous arches are formed in connection with the