FRONT OF THE THIGH. 209 from the lower extremity of this vertical incision transversely out- wards, across the front of the thigh, to the outer aspect of the limb (Fig. 4, P- iS). The quadrilateral flap of skin thus traced out must be raised carefully from the subjacent superficial fascia and turned outwards. Superficial Fascia.—The fatty superficial fascia which is now exposed is continuous with the corresponding layer on the front of the abdomen, and it is regarded by some anatomists as being composed of two layers. This sub- division we consider needless and artificial. In the lower part of the abdominal wall, above Poupart's ligament, it is true the superficial fascia presents two distinct strata—one a fatty layer continuous over Poupart's ligament, with the superficial fascia on the front of the thigh, and sometimes termed the fascia of Camper; the other, a deeper layer, firm and membranous and devoid of fat, called the fascia of Scarpa. As this latter fascial stratum is attached to the fascia lata (deep fascia of the thigh), immediately below Poupart's ligament, it is necessary that it should receive some attention. To demonstrate the fascia of Scarpa the dissectors of the lower limb and abdomen should work in conjunction with each other. A transverse incision should be made through the entire thickness of the superficial fascia on the front of the abdomen, from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the middle line of the body. On raising the lower edge of the divided fascia the two layers can be easily distinguished. Insinuate the fingers between the fascia of Scarpa and the pearly-looking tendon of the external oblique. Little resistance will be encountered, as it is only bound down by some lax areolar tissue. The fingers can be readily carried downwards behind the fascia of Scarpa as far as Poupart's ligament. Here it will be found that they can force their way no farther. The passage of the hand into the thigh is barred by the blend- ing of the fascia of Scarpa with the fascia lata. At this vol. 1.—-14