ABDOMINAL CAVITY. Suprarenal Plexus.—The dissector will, no doubt, be struck with the large number of nerves .which supply the suprarenal body. The plexus seems altogether out of pro- portion to the small organ to which it is distributed. The nerves composing it are chiefly derived from the semilunar ganglion, but many come from the coeliac plexus. Below, it is directly continuous with the renal plexus, and above, it is connected with the diaphragmatic plexus. The smallest splanchnic nerve usually contributes a branch to this plexus, and the point at which it joins is marked by a small ganglion. Diaphragmatic Plexus.—The filaments composing this plexus take origin from the upper part of the semilunar ganglion, and are distributed with the phrenic artery to the under surface of the diaphragm, but they do not follow rigorously the branches of this vessel. At first they lie sub- jacent to the peritoneum, but soon they penetrate between the fleshy fibres and establish communications with the phrenic nerve. On the right side a small ganglion is formed on the under surface of the diaphragm at the point of junction between this plexus and the phrenic. In addition to its diaphragmatic branches, it contributes filaments to the suprarenal plexus, and, on the right side, to the hepatic plexus. Dissection.—Apply two ligatures to the oesophagus, where it enters the stomach, and divide it between them. The stomach, duodenum, pancreas, and spleen may now be removed by dividing the vessels, nerves, and peritoneal folds which still hold them in position. The Spleen.—Several important points in connection with the internal structure of this organ may be recognised in the dissecting-room. It is enveloped by two coats—(i.) serous ; (2.) nbro-elastic. The peritoneal ijivestment adheres so closely to the subjacent fibrous coat that it can only be removed with difficulty. With regard to the fibro-elastic tunic, it should be noted that processes proceed from its deep surface and dip into the substance of the organ. These