2l6 THE LOWER LIMB. lower down. It is the larger of the two, and has a wide area of distribution. It extends as low as the knee-joint. Previous to its division the. external cutaneous nerve lies in a prominent ridge of the fascia lata, which descends verti- cally from the anterior superior spine of the ilium. This may be split up to expose it. The viiddle cutatieous nerve pierces the fascia lata in the middle line of the thigh about three or four inches below Poupart's ligament. It usually appears as two nerves which perforate the fascia at two points a short distance apart from each other. Both branches extend downwards as low as the knee, which they reach on its inner aspect. The internal cutaneous nerve, following the example of the external cutaneous and the middle cutaneous, divides into two portions—an anterior and a posterior—which perforate the deep fascia on the inner aspect of the limb, and at some distance apart from each other. The anterior division makes its appearance through the fascia lata in the lower third of the thigh, a short distance in front of the internal saphenous vein. It descends towards the knee, and its terminal branches turn forwards and outwards in front of the patella. The posterior division reaches the surface on the inner side of the knee, behind the long saphenous nerve, and proceeds downwards to supply the integument on the inner side of the upper part of the leg. But the main stem of the internal cutaneous nerve, before it divides, likewise sends a few twigs through the fascia lata to reach the skin on the upper and inner aspect of the thigh. These make their appearance along the line of the internal saphenous vein. The lotig saphenous nerve becomes cutaneous on the inner side of the knee by perforating the fascia between the tendons of the sartorius and gracilis muscles. The guide to it is the superficial branch of the anastomotic artery which descends alongside of it. It follows the course of the internal saphenous vein into the leg. Before it pierces the fascia it gives off a patellar branch.