THE LOWER LIMB. 2S8 The Soleus is a flat, thick, and powerful muscle which arises from both bones of the leg, as well as from a strong fibrous arch which is thrown across the posterior tibial vessels. Its fibular origin is from the posterior surface of the head and the upper third of the posterior surface of the shaft of the bone: by its tibial origin it is attached to the oblique line of the tibia below the popliteal surface, and to the internal border of the bone below this as far down as the middle of the leg. The soleus ends in a strong stout tendon which joins with the tendon of the gastrocnemius to form the tendo Achillis. Branches from the internal popliteal nerve supply the soleus. The Tendo Achillis is the most powerful tendon in the body. It narrows as it descends, but near the heel it again expands slightly. It is inserted into the middle portion of the posterior surface of the os calcis. The fleshy fibres of the soleus are continued downwards on its deep surface to within a short distance of the heel. A synovial bursa intervenes between the tendo Achillis and the upper part of the posterior surface of the os calcis. Dissection.—Divide the soleus muscle transversely at the level at which it is joined by the gastrocnemius tendon, and turn downwards the tendo Achillis. Next make a vertical incision through the substance of the soleus in the middle line, so as to divide it into two lateral portions. By this dissection the tendinous arch which is thrown across the blood vessels is exposed in the upper part, and both the tibial and fibular origins with the blood vessels and nerves which enter them are preserved. The two portions of the fleshy belly of the muscle may now be turned outwards and inwards, and the branches which the muscle receives from the peroneal and posterior tibial arteries may be cleaned. The deep fascial septum which stretches across from the tibia to the fibula between the superficial and deep muscles on the back of the leg may now be removed. In doing this note the manner in which it becomes continuous below with the internal annular ligament. On no account interfere with this ligament. The posterior tibial vessels and nerve, with their branches, should be dissected with as little disturbance to the deep muscles as possible. The muscle which lies on the fibula is the flexor longus hallucis ; the muscle on the tibia is the flexor longus