ABDOMINAL WALL. 425 abdomen by a short fold of that membrane, which receives the name of the mesorchium. As development proceeds, the testicle gradually descends on the posterior wall of the abdomen. It retains its peritoneal investment, and in the seventh month it reaches the internal abdominal ring. Prior to its entrance into the inguinal canal, a test-tube-like process of peri- toneum, termed the processus vaginalis, is carried into the passage (Fig. 86, A.). The testicle with its peritoneal covering enters this tubular recess, and during the eighth month it traverses the inguinal canal. Finally, towards the end of the ninth month, it reaches the bottom of the scrotum (Fig. 86, B.). Throughout the whole journey it is pre- ceded by the processus vaginalis, which, as it were, prepares the way for it. The testicle, therefore, in its descent has a double relation to the peritoneum—viz. (1) it carries with it into the scrotum its own proper investment; (2) it is preceded in its passage into the inguinal canal and the scrotum by a tubular prolongation of the parietal peritoneum, which forms a diverticulum of the general peritoneal sac within the scrotum. In those quadrupeds in which the testicle reaches the scrotum, this diverticulum or processus vaginalis remains open, and freely communicates with the abdominal cavity. In man, the lower part of the diverticulum which holds the testicle is alone retained ; the upper part is obliterated, and no trace is left beyond, perhaps, the fibrous cord mentioned above. In this manner, then, the tunica vaginalis of the testicle is formed, the original peritoneal investment remaining as the visceral or testicular part, and the lower part of the processus vaginalis being retained as the parietal or scrotal part (see description of tunica vaginalis, p. 427). The orifice by which the abdominal peritoneal cavity communicates with the scrotal peritoneal diverticulum is usually closed before birth (Fig. 86, C), and the upper part of the processus vaginalis, from the internal abdominal ring to the upper end of the testicle is generally obliterated in the first month of extra-uterine life (Fig. 86, D.). The gubernaculum testis is the active agent in bringing about the descent of the testicle. This is a band of involuntary muscular fibres which traverses the inguinal canal, and establishes important connec- tions both within and without the abdominal cavity. Below, three main attachments of the gubernaculum may be recognised—viz. (a) to the abdominal wall ; (b) to the pubis ; (c) to the bottom of the scrotum. Above, the gubernacular fibres are chiefly connected with the testicle ; but many of them are also attached to the peritoneum on the posterior wall of the abdomen. By the traction which the gubernaculum exerts on the testicle the descent of that organ is brought about. By the