559 PEL VIS. ridges or folds by the obliterated hypogastric arteries. These folds extend forwards one on each side of the rectum, and they limit laterally a deep peritoneal pouch or recess between the rectum and bladder, which, from its position, is called the recto-vesicalpouch. False Ligaments of the Bladder.—Wherever the peri- toneum leaves the bladder, to reach the pelvic or abdominal wall, it is termed "a false ligament." Of these, five are described—viz, two posterior, two lateral, and one superior. The posterior false ligaments, or recto-vesical folds, are the two semilunar folds which limit the recto-vesical pouch laterally. They are produced, as we have seen, by the peritoneum being stretched over the obliterated hypogastric artery as it passes forwards to reach the bladder. Within each of these folds future dissection will reveal, in addition to the impervious hypogastric artery, the ureter and the superior vesical artery accompanied by some minute nerves. The lateral false ligament is the name given to the peri- toneum as it passes from each side of the bladder to the wall of the pelvis and the iliac fossa. This reflection has been seen to take place along the line of the obliterated hypogastric artery as it lies upon the lateral aspect of the bladder. The superior false ligament is the portion of peritoneum which is continued from the summit of the bladder on to the posterior aspect of the anterior abdominal wall. It is led away from the viscus by the urachus and the two obliterated hypogastric arteries. Hypogastric Nervous Plexus.—This is the lowest of the three great prevertebral plexuses, and is the main source from which the pelvic viscera are supplied with nerves. It is a dense flattened plexus, which lies in front of the body of the last lumbar vertebra in the interval between the two common iliac arteries. Superiorly, it is joined by numerous large filaments, which proceed downwards from the aortic plexus and the lumbar ganglia. Inferiority) it. ends by