THE LOWER LIMB. 300 Muscles and Tendons of the Sole.—It is customary to look upon the muscles and tendons which we find in the dissection of the sole as being disposed in four strata, viz. :— J Abductor hallucis. \ Flexor brevis digitorum. [ Abductor minimi digiti. (Tendon of flexor longus digitorum. Musculus accessorius. Lumbrical muscles. Tendon of flexor longus hallucis. Flexor brevis hallucis. Adductor obliquus hallucis. Adductor transversus hallucis. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. j Interosseous muscles. \ Tendon of the peroneus longus. I Tendon of the tibialis posticus. Dissection.—The lateral portions of the plantar fascia should be raised from the subjacent muscles. The three superficial muscles of the sole are then exposed to view and their connections can be studied. The flexor brevis digitorum is placed in the middle, the abductor minimi digiti extends along the outer margin of the sole, and the abductor hallucis along the inner margin of the sole. In the interval between the abductor hallucis and flexor brevis digitorum the internal plantar nerve and artery will be found. Follow the nerve toward the toes and dissect out its four digital branches. In doing so, care must be taken of the muscular twigs which are given to the flexor brevis hallucis and the innermost lumbrical muscle. Slender branches of the internal plantar artery accompany the digital nerves. Now trace the trunk of the internal plantar nerve backwards, by carefully separating the flexor brevis digitorum and the abductor hallucis along the line of the internal intermuscular septum. It will be found to give a branch of supply to each of these muscles. In the next place, separate the contiguous borders of the flexor brevis digitorum and abductor minimi digiti. The external plantar artery and nerve lie for a short portion of their course in the interval between these muscles. Approaching the prominent base of the fifth metatarsal bone, the artery disappears from view by turning inwards under cover of the flexor tendons. At the same point the external plantar nerve divides into its superficial and deep divisions. First layer. Second layer. Third layer. Fourth layer.