ABDOMEN. 53§ gangliated cord of the sympathetic which extends downwards on each side of the vertebral column. It is nece^saj^^toj^ear^ proceed outwards, oass behind thjg.. Separate the right crus of the diaphragm from the aorta, and dissect in the interval between them. Here the receptaaihun chyli and the vena azygos major will be found. A chain of lymphatic glands, termed the lumbar glands, will be noticed in relation to the aorta. The only branches of the aorta which are liable to injury are the spermatic arteries. These are two slender arteries which spring from the front of the vessel a short distance below the renal arteries. They are so small that they are apt to be overlooked. The Abdominal Aorta (aorta abdominalis).—The ab- dominal aorta is the direct continuation of the thoracic aorta, and enters the abdomen through the aortic opening of the diaphragm. It begins in the mesial plane in front of the last dorsal vertebra, and it ends upon the left side of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra by dividing into the two common Macs. It therefore pursues an oblique course —- slightly inclining to the' left as it proceeds downwards. A line dj^urajDehvj^ indicate the levelofthe bifurcation of the abdonunal aorta : '—— —w ^ ^—' —— *■ _ ^ -~ ~_—- >—— > ■ } it^taJcejyDjace^^ Most of the structures which lie in frotit of the abdominal aorta have been removed. In immediate relation to it from above downwards are:—(i) The solar plexus and the layer of peritoneum which forms the posterior wall of the lesser bag. (2) The pancreas and splenic vein. (3) The third part of the duodenum and the left renal vein. (4) The peritoneum and the aortic plexus of nerves. Superficial to these it is covered by the liver, the gastro - hepatic omentum and the stomach, the transverse colon and its mesentery, and by the great omentum and the coils of the small intestine. Behind, the abdominal aorta rests upon the bodies of the lumbar vertebne and the intervertebral discs, separated from them, however, by the anterior common ligament and the left lumbar veins. On each side it is related in its upper part to the crus of the diaphragm. On