454 ABDOMEN. Further, the full or empty condition of the neighbouring hollow viscera affects not only its form, but also its position. Displacement of the liver from artificial causes, such as tight-lacing in females, is by no means uncommon. A gravid uterus, also, as it gradually ascends in the abdominal cavity exercises a marked influence upon the shape of the liver. The Gall-Bladder.—The gall-bladder should be examined in connection with the liver. This small pyriform sac lies in the epigastric region close to the right mid-Poupart plane. Its fundus peeps out from under cover of the anterior margin of the liver, but in the rest of its extent it is bound down by a partial peritoneal investment to the under surface of the right lobe of that organ. The Spleen.—The spleen lies deeply in the left part of the costal zone, and is altogether out of sight in the undisturbed condition of the viscera. By drawing the stomach to the right, and thrusting the hand into the left hypochondrium, it can readily be discovered and pulled forwards for inspec- tion. It is a solid organ, oval in form, somewhat compressed laterally, and slightly curved upon itself. It lies very obliquely in the abdominal cavity, its upper end being much nearer the mesial plane than its lower end. Its long axis is directed from above downwards and outwards, and also slightly forwards. For the most part it lies in the left hypochondrium, but its upper end extends inwards beyond the left mid-Poupart plane, so that fully a third of the organ is situated in the epigastric region. The spleen presents an internal and an external surface, an anterior and a posterior border, and two extremities. The external surface is smooth and convex. It looks backwards as well as outwards, and it rests on the diaphragm, which separates it from the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs —to the curvature of which it is adapted. It is well to remember that the upper part of this surface is also separated from the chest-wall by the thin basal edge of the left lung, which intervenes at this level between the diaphragm and the ribs. The i?iter?ial surface looks forwards as well as