ABDOMEN. 488 carefully severing the blood vessels and peritoneal folds which hold it in position. In cutting through the two layers of the great omentum, which extend from the transverse colon to the stomach, keep the knife close to the gut so as to avoid injury to the vessels in relation to the greater curvature of the stomach. As soon as the intestines are detached they should be taken to the sink and the ligatures removed. The small intestine should be sepa- rated from the great intestine by dividing the ileum about six inches from the point where it enters the caecum, a'hd, the remains of the mesentery having been taken away from the small intestine by means of the scissors, both should be thoroughly cleaned out by allowing the water from the tap to run freely through them. The coats of the small intestine should be dissected under water. Take a few inches of the intestine from the upper end of the jejunum, and, having opened it up with the scissors along the mesenteric line of attach- ment, pin it out, with its mucous surface downwards, upon the bottom of a cork-lined tray, which has been previously filled with clean water. The jejunum is chosen because its wall is thicker than the ileum, and conse- quently more easily dissected. Carefully remove the thin serous coat in order that the subjacent layer of longitudinal muscular fibres may be studied. Then turn the specimen round and pin it down with its mucous surface uppermost. Now remove the mucous membrane with the subjacent flocculent submucous coat with the scissors in one layer. The circular muscular fasciculi will come into view. Coats of the Small Intestine.—The small intestine has five coats or strata entering into the formation of its walls, viz. :— The serous coating of the jejunum and ileum is complete, except along the line of the mesenteric attachment. It is exceedingly thin—much thinner than the layers of the mesentery, with which it is continuous. Unless great care be taken in stripping it off, some of the subjacent muscular fibres will be taken away with it. The subserous coat is a scarcely appreciable amount of areolar tissue which inter- venes between the peritoneum and the muscular coat. It need not be taken into account in this dissection. The muscular coat is composed of involuntary non-striated 1. Serous. 2. Subserous. 3. Muscular. 4. Submucous. 5. Mucous.