ABDOMEN. 474 abdomen by the obliterated umbilical vein, so as to form a distinct fold, called the falciform ligame?it of the liver. In the diagram which is given to illustrate the continuity of the peritoneum at this level (Fig. 99), the continuity of the lesser and greater bags of the peritoneum through the foramen of Winslow is seen. The gastro-splenic and the lieno-renal folds which connect the spleen to the stomach and to the left kidney are also exhibited. Opposite the umbilicus, at the level of the intervertebral disc, between the third and fourth lumbar vertebras, the peritoneum may be followed in the transverse direction with the greatest ease (Fig. 100). Turn the great omentum with the enclosed transverse colon upwards over the ribs, and, taking the mesentery proper as the starting-point, trace its two layers towards the small intestine. They will be ob- served to be continuous around it. Now follow them backwards to the spine, and here they will be observed to separate—the one turning to the right, and the other to the left over the posterior wall of the abdomen. In the lumbar regions they meet the ascending and descending portions of the colon. These they clothe anteriorly and laterally, as we have already seen, and then they are carried on to the anterior wall of the abdomen, where they become continuous.1 Peritoneal Ligaments. — In the abdomen proper, the student must specially examine—(1.) the gastro-phrenic liga- ment; (2.) the lieno-renal ligament; (3.) the phrenico-colic ligament; and (4.) the hepatic ligaments. The gastro-phrenic ligament is an insignificant fold which connects the fundus of the stomach with the under surface of the diaphragm. It is placed close to the oesophageal 1 As we have previously observed, the ascending and descending portions of the colon may be completely enveloped by peritoneum, and even connected by mesenteries to the posterior wall of the abdomen. Symington states, with good reason, that the frequency of these mesen- teries has been much exaggerated by recent writers.