FOREARM AND HAND. and each muscle is placed upon the metacarpal bone of the finger upon which it acts. The first palmar interosseous muscle therefore arises from the metacarpal bone of the index finger, and its delicate tendon is inserted upon the ulnar side of that digit, partly into the base of the first phalanx, and partly into the extensor expansion. The second palmar interosseous muscle springs from the metacarpal bone of the ring finger, and has a similar insertion into the radial side of that digit. The third palmar interosseous muscle takes origin from the metacarpal bone, and presents a corresponding insertion into the radial side of the first phalanx and extensor expansion of the little finger. The interosseous muscles are supplied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve. Deep Head of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis (interosseous primus volaris of Henle).—This minute muscle can best be displayed from the dorsal aspect of the hand by reflecting the radial head of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. It arises from the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and is inserted into the ulnar sesamoid bone of that digit. It is deeply placed, and is entirely covered from the front by the adductor obliquus pollicis. Tendon of the Flexor Carpi Radialis.—The tendon of this muscle should now be traced through the groove on the front of the trapezium to its insertion into the base of the metacarpal bone of the index. It presents also a minor attachment to the base of the middle metacarpal bone. Dissection,—All the muscles around the elbow-joint should be re- moved. In raising the brachialis anticus and the triceps from the front and back of the articulation, some care is required to avoid injury to the anterior and posterior ligaments. It is advisable to remove the supi- nator brevis last, because it is only when this muscle is completely isolated that a proper idea of its attachments and mode of action can be obtained. Supinator Radii Brevis.—The supinator brevis envelops the upper part of the shaft and the neck, of the radius,