578 ABDOMEN. The staff, which has been introduced into the bladder, being held in the middle line, the student should pass the forefinger of the right hand into the rectum, and endeavour to distinguish by touch the parts in relation to the anterior aspect of the gut. Passing beyond the bulb, the staff, as it lies in the membranous part of the urethra, will be felt very distinctly ; next, the prostate will be encountered ; and, immediately behind this, the finger, provided it is carried upwards exactly in the middle line, will rest upon the small triangular surface of the base of the bladder, which is in contact with the rectum—the recto-vesical layer of pelvic fascia alone intervening. The Bladder.—This is a hollow viscus, with strong muscular walls, which acts as a temporary reservoir for the urine, before it is emitted from the body by the process of micturition. As will be readily understood, its form, and in a great measure its position and relations, are influ- enced by the quantity of fluid which it contains. When moderately distended, it assumes an ovoid shape. In this condition it presents for examination an apex and base; a superior, inferior, and two lateral surfaces; and a neck. The long axis of the organ is nearly horizontal and is directed from before backwards, from the apex to the base. The apex or summit of the bladder is directed forwards, and rests upon the posterior aspect of the anterior ab- dominal wall immediately above the pubis. From its centre a strong fibrous cord, the urachus, proceeds upwards in the middle line to the umbilicus.1 The peritoneum gives a partial covering to the apex; it clothes it as far forwards as the urachus, which conducts it to the abdominal wall. The base of the bladder looks backwards towards the concavity 1 This is an interesting structure from a developmental point of view. It is the remains of that connection which exists between the bladder and the allantoidal sac of the embryo. At an early stage of develop- ment the sac of the allantois consists of an extra-abdominal and an intra-abdominal portion, which communicate with each other through the umbilicus. In course of time the extra-abdominal part disappears. The fate of the intra-abdominal part is different; its lower portion is developed into the bladder, whilst its upper portion shrivels and be- comes the urachus.