438 ABDOMEN. pouch, and pushes its way through the inner part of Hesselbach's triangle. It therefore acquires a covering from the conjoined tendon. The follow- ing are its investments:— 1. Skin and superficial fascia. 2. Intercolumnar or external spermatic fascia. 3. Conjoined tendon. 4. Transversalis fascia. 5. Extra-peritoneal fatly tissue. 6. Parietal peritoneum or hernial sac. When the conjoined tendon is feeble, or when a direct hernia takes place suddenly, the protrusion may burst through it, in which case it does not obtain a covering from this source. There are two special varieties of oblique inguinal hernia which it is necessary to mention—viz., congenital hernia and infantile hernia. Congenital Hernia.—We have seen that the passage of the testicle from the abdomen into the scrotum is accompanied by a protrusion of parietal peritoneum, which lines the inguinal canal and the scrotal sac. This diverticulum is called the processus vaginalis. Under ordinary circumstances the lower part persists as the tunica vaginalis, whilst the upper part becomes obliterated so as to completely shut off the com- munication between the general peritoneal cavity and the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. In certain cases this closure fails to take place, and an open pathway from the peritoneal cavity into the processus vaginalis is the result (Fig. 86, B.). Such a condition is favourable to the occurrence of a hernial protrusion into the open processus vaginalis, and a hernia of this nature is distinguished by the term congenital. Infantile Hernia.—The conditions favourable to the occurrence of an infantile hernia are also due to faults in the developmental process, by which the testicle acquires its serous investment. They may be said to owe their origin to an excess of zeal on the part of the gubernaculum. The processus vaginalis remains patent, or is only partially closed. The gubernacular tissue in relation to the parietal peritoneum draws down into the inguinal canal a second test-tube-like diverticulum of the mem- brane behind the true processus vaginalis (Fig. 90, S.). This is altogether an abnormal peritoneal recess which is thus produced, and it gives rise to a dangerous condition, because at any time an abdominal content may be forced into it. When this takes place an infantile hernia is the result. Four varieties are recognised according to the state of the true pro- cessus vaginalis. These are indicated in the diagram (Fig. 90). Femoral Hernia.—This consists in the protrusion of an abdominal content from the abdominal cavity into the region of the thigh. In its descent it passes behind Poupart's ligament along the cncral canal or