io6 THE UPPER LIMB. bursal sac previously mentioned, and also that as they pass behind the annular ligament they lie in pairs—the tendons to the ring and middle fingers being placed in front of those for the index and little fingers. Dissection.—The ulnar artery and at the same time the ulnar and median nerves should be followed in their course through the forearm. The artery in the upper part of its course lies very deeply, but its relations can be fully studied and its branches traced by simply slitting up the intermuscular septum between the flexor sublimis digitorum and the flexor carpi ulnaris. The Ulnar Artery is the larger of the two terminal branches of the brachial trunk, and it takes origin in the anticubital fossa opposite the neck of the radius. At first it inclines obliquely downwards and inwards, and having gained the front of the ulnar side of the forearm, it proceeds vertically downwards to the wrist. Here it enters the palm by passing in front of the anterior annular ligament. In the upper oblique portion of its course the vessel is deeply placed, and is crossed by both heads of the pronator radii teres, the flexor carpi radialis, the palmaris longus, and the flexor sublimis digitorum. In its lower vertical part it is overlapped on the inner side by the flexor carpi ulnaris, but a short distance above the wrist it becomes superficial, and lies in the interval between the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris on the inside and the tendons of the flexor sublimis on the outside. On the annular ligament it is placed close to the outer side of the pisiform bone, and is covered by a strong slip of fascia, which passes from that bone to the front of the ligament. Throughout its entire course it is accompanied by two vena comites. It likewise presents relationships with the median and ulnar nerves. The median nerve, which lies upon its inner side at its origin, soon crosses it, but as it does so it is separated from the artery by the deep head of the pronator radii teres. The ulnar nerve in the upper third of the forearm is separated from the vessel by a wide interval, but in the lower two