245 FRONT OF THE THIGH. medium of a common tendon finds insertion into the upper border of that bone. The Vastus Externus forms the prominent muscular mass on the outer side of the thigh. Its surface is covered by a glistening aponeurosis. The descending branch of the external circumflex artery constitutes the best guide to its anterior border, and when this is raised it will be seen that the muscle lies upon, and is partially blended with, the crureus. The vastus externus arises—(1) from the upper part of the anterior intertrochanteric line; (2) from the front of the great trochanter, anterior to the insertion of the gluteus minimus; (3) from the root of the great trochanter below the insertion of the gluteus medius; (4) from the outer part of the gluteal ridge in front of the insertion of the gluteus maximus; (5) from the upper part of the linea aspera ; and (6) from the external intermuscular septum. The fleshy fibres are for the most part directed downwards and forwards. By means of the common tendon of insertion the muscle gains insertion into the patella, and at the same time gives an expansion to the capsule of the knee-joint. The Vastus Internus is intimately connected with the crureus, but not to such an extent as might be inferred from a superficial inspection. In its upper part the anterior border, which is fleshy, is either contiguous to or blended with the crureus; below, the anterior border is tendinous and overlaps the crureus, but it is not fused with it. "A line drawn from the middle of the anterior intertrochanteric line downwards and slightly outwards to the middle of the upper border of the patella will define accurately the thick anterior border of the vastus internus."—(Williams.) Divide the rectus femoris about its middle, and pull the lower part forcibly downwards. The narrow interval between the tendons of the crureus and vastus internus will then become apparent, and may be followed upwards. A still further guide is the long, slender nerve of supply to the subcrureus, which runs along the inner edge of the crureus. When the anterior border of the vastus internus is raised from the crureus, the inner surface of the shaft of the femur will be seen