603 PEL VIS intervenes between the peritoneum and the muscular coat. In its lower part the rectum derives a sheath from the rectal layer of pelvic fascia. The muscular coat is composed of two strata of in- voluntary nonstriated muscular fibres—viz., an extertial longitudinal and an internal circular layer. The longitudinal fibres are continuous above with the three longitudinal bands of the colon. These bands are usually distinct over a greater or less part of the first portion of the rectum, but they always spread out so as to form a continuous and uniform covering before they reach the second part. They terminate near the anus. The circular fibres extend transversely around the gut, and near the anus they are collected into a distinct circular band which surrounds the anal canal, and is termed the sphincter ani intemus. The submucous coat differs in no respect from the same coat in the colon. To see the mucous membrane, it is necessary to slit open the rectum along its anterior wall. The gut may then be placed with advantage in the dissecting tray under water. The mucous membrane is somewhat thicker than that of the colon, and is more freely movable upon the muscular tunic. In consequence of this mobility, it is thrown into irregular folds or rugse when the gut is empty. Owing to the contraction of the two sphincter muscles, and the narrowing of the anal orifice, the folds in this part of the gut are longitudinal, and are termed the columns of Morgagni, or the columna recti. When the anal canal is distended, these rugae disappear. In addition to the effaceable ruga?, there are three permanent oblique folds which must be noticed. These folds contain some fibres from the circular layer of the muscular coat, and are usually named after Houston. The most constant fold is placed on the anterior wall of the rectum, opposite the base of the bladder, and about three inches above the anal orifice; another is situated near the upper end of the rectum in relation to its right lateral wall;