SOLE OF THE FOOT. 3°9 The Lumbrical Muscles of the foot are not so strong as the corresponding muscles in the palm of the hand. They are four in number, and arise from the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum. The outer three lumbricals spring from the adjacent sides of the tendons between which they lie; the first or innermost muscle takes origin from the tibial side of the tendon of the long flexor which goes to the second toe. The slender tendons of the lumbrical muscles proceed to the tibial sides of the four outer toes, and are inserted into the expansions of the extensor tendon on the dorsal aspect of the proximal phalanges. The first or inner- most lumbrical is supplied by the internal plantar nerve; the others by the external plantar nerve. Dissection.—To bring the third layer of muscles into view we require to make the following dissection :—Divide the two heads of the acces- sorius and draw the muscle forwards from under the external plantar vessels and nerve. Sever also the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum and the flexor longus hallucis at the point where they emerge from under cover of the internal annular ligament. Upon cutting the branch which is given by the external plantar nerve to the accessorius these structures can be thrown forwards towards the toes. On raising the lumbrical muscles, the twigs which are furnished to the second, third, and fourth by the deep division of the external plantar nerve must be looked for. That for the second lumbrical muscle will be seen to take a recurrent course around the adductor transversus hallucis muscle. Lastly, cut the internal plantar nerve close to its origin and turn it aside. Third Layer of Muscles.—The flexor brevis hallucis lies along the outer side of the abductor hallucis. The adductor obliquus hallucis has a very oblique position in the sole, and hides to a great extent the interosseous muscles. It lies to the outer side of the flexor brevis hallucis. The transversus pedis, or adductor transversus hallucis, is placed transversely across the heads of the metatarsal bones. The flexor brevis minimi digiti may be recognised from its lying upon the fifth metatarsal bone. The deep division of the external plantar nerve and the