373 MALE PERINEUM. layer of the pelvic fascia ; whilst inferiorly the dense integuments of the hip prevent it from pointing towards the surface. The inner wall of the space, however, offers a weak resistance. Here the gut is guarded, it is true, by the rectal layer of the pelvic fascia, but in the lower part of the rectum this is very thin, and soon gives way before the continued pressure of the pus. The wall of the rectum then becomes thinned, and ultimately perforated, and the pus is voided through the anal orifice, giving rise to fistula. The lesson to learn from this_ is^that_in^every case o£ inflammation of the jschio-rectal fat an early incision_shoukl be madej£toJLheJ^ its burrowing through the_wa.U oFthe rectum. In the lateral operation of lithotomy an accurate knowledge of the anatomy of the perineum is of great importance to the surgeon. He should know not only the structures which require to be divided, but also those which he must avoid, and how to avoid them. In the first incision, which begins in the middle line an inch and a-half in front of the anus, and extends backwards and outwards into the left ischio-rectal fossa midway between the anus and ischial tuberosity, the following parts are cut:—(i) skin and superficial fascia; (2) transversus perinei muscle and the transverse perineal artery ; (3) the lower or posterior edge of the triangular ligament ; (4) the inferior hemorrhoidal vessels. The forefinger of the left hand is introduced into the middle of the wound and pushed upwards behind the triangular ligament until the groove of the staff, as it lies in the membranous part of the urethra;, is felt. The point of the knife is now placed in the groove, and the blade lateralised. The knife is then carried steadily along the groove into the bladder. In this incision the structures divided are—(1) the membranous and prostatic portions of the urethra; (2) the deep layer of the triangular ligament ; (3) the compressor urethra? muscle ; (4) the anterior fibres of the levator ani muscle and the left lateral lobe of the prostate. The dangers of this operation may be considered to be three in number—(1) the artery to the bulb; (2) the pudic artery; (3) the rectum. Division of the artery to the bulb is an exceedingly awkward accident. The haemorrhage resulting is very profuse, and exceedingly difficult to check on account of the short course of the vessel, its depth, and also its close connection with the layers of the triangular ligament which prevent it from retracting freely when cut. When this_artcry is m^its^jiormjil^jjo^i^ —i.e., (roma_cruajj£r_Jo_Ji^^ base of the triangular ligament—there should be little difficulty in avoid- hig^ltT^In^tJie^rsT^Lrr of"the operation it is merely the lower or posterior edge of the triangular ligament which is cut. Again, when the finger is introduced, so as to feci the staff in the membranous part of the