ABDOMINAL WALL. 393 front of the abdomen. From the abdomen it cannot pass downwards to the front of the thighs, owing to the attach- ment of the superficial fascia to the fascia lata. Unless vent be given to it by early and free incisions, it will continue to ascend over the abdomen. Cutaneous Nerves.—A dissection must now be made of the cutaneous nerves of the abdomen. These are arranged on the same plan as the cutaneous nerves of the chest. We have therefore to look for an anterior and a lateral series. C I. Anterior cutaneous nerves. Anterior series. < 2. Hypogastric branch of the ilio-hypogastric nerve. I 3. The ilio-inguinal nerve. ( 1. Lateral cutaneous nerves. Lateral series. -! 2. Lateral or iliac branch of last dorsal nerve. I 3. Iliac branch of ilio-hypogastric nerve. The anterior cutaneous nerves are the small terminal twigs of the lower four or five intercostal nerves, and also of the last dorsal nerve. They pierce the aponeurotic sheath of the rectus muscle at variable points, some close to the middle line, and others a little distance from it. Entering the superficial fascia, they run for a short distance outwards. To find these nerves, the best plan to adopt is to divide the superficial fascia along the middle line, and reflect it cautiously outwards. The small arteries which accompany the nerves serve as guides. The hypogastric nerve is the terminal twig of the ilio- hypogastric, and it lies in series with the preceding. In the dissection of the superficial fascia it has been seen piercing the aponeurosis of the external oblique immediately above the external abdominal ring. The ilio-inguifial nerve comes out through the external abdominal ring, and is distributed to the integument of the scrotum and the inner aspect of the thigh. The lateral cutaneous nerves are branches of the five lower intercostal nerves. They become superficial between the digitations of the external oblique muscle, and then each divides into an anterior and posterior division. The posterior divisions are small, and are directed backwards