ABDOMEN. 422 intercostal space. It gives branches to the diaphragm and others (the anterior intercostals), which enter the lower in- tercostal spaces. Dissection.—When the transversalis fascia is reflected the only layers which intervene between the dissector and the abdominal cavity are the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue and the parietal peritoneum. If the subject be a male, now is the best time for the student to examine the constitution of the scrotum, spermatic cord, and testicle. This can only be done at present on the right side, as the parts on the opposite side must be kept in situ for the study of hernia. After this, however, the dissection can be repeated on the left side. The dissector works at a great disadvantage when he attempts to unfold the coverings of the cord and unravel its constituent parts while they are attached to the body. The cord and testicle of the right side should be removed by dividing the former with its coverings at the level of the external abdominal ring. The specimen should then be placed in a cork-lined tray and dissected under water. Having fastened the cord and testicle with pins to the bottom of the tray, little difficulty will be experienced in displaying and recognising the different layers, and a splendid demonstration will be afforded of the constituent parts of the cord. Scrotum.—This is a pendulous purse-like arrangement of the skin and superficial fascia for the lodgment of the testicles. The skin composing it is of a dark colour and rugose, and is traversed along the middle line by a median raphe or ridge, an indication of its bilateral character. When the skin is removed the superficial fascia is observed to possess certain characters peculiar to itself. It^has_a rudjiy^^ojpjirj^^ The ruddy tint is due to the presence of involuntary muscular fibres, which take the place of the fat, and constitute what is called the dartos muscle. The rugosity of the scrotal skin is maintained by these muscular fibres. But further, the superficial fascia forms in the interior of the scrotum an imperfect septum or partition, which divides it into two chambers—one for each testicle. These points in connection with the construction of the scrotum have all, to a certain degree, been noted in the dissection of the perineum.