248 THE LOWER LIMB. posterior division lies between the middle and deep layers. In other words, the two divisions of the nerve are separated from each other by the adductor brevis, which intervenes between them. At the lower border of the adductor longus, a fine branch from the anterior division of this nerve, makes its appearance to take part in the formation of the sartorial nerve-plexus already dissected. The profunda artery and its branches are also to be followed. For a part of its course this vessel is placed between the anterior and middle muscular strata. The Adductor Longus is placed on the inner side of the pectineus. It is somewhat triangular in shape, being narrow at its origin and expanded at its insertion. It arises by a short, but strong, tendon from the front of the body of the pubis, immediately below the crest, and it is inserted into the inner lip of the linea aspera of the femur by a thin, tendinous expansion. Dissection.—The adductor longus may now be reflected. Divide it close to the round tendon of origin, and throw it outwards. In doing this be careful of the anterior division of the obturator nerve, which lies under cover of it, and gives to it its nerve of supply. On approaching the linea aspera of the femur its aponeurotic tendon will be found intimately connected with the vastus intermis in front and with the adductor magnus behind. Separate it from these as far as possible, in order that the profunda femoris vessels may be fully displayed as they proceed behind it. Arteria Profunda Femoris.—This large vessel is the chief artery of supply to the muscles of the thigh. It arises in Scarpa's triangle from the outer and posterior aspect of the femoral artery, about an inch and a-half below Poupart's ligament. At first it is placed on the iliacus, but it inclines inwards as it proceeds downwards, and thus it crosses behind the femoral artery, and comes to lie on the pectineus. Reaching the upper border of the adductor longus, it passes behind that muscle, and is continued downwards close to the shaft of the femur upon the adductor brevis and ad-