38i THE FEMALE PERINEUM. Dissection.—The superficial perineal vessels and nerves should now be divided and thrown backwards, and the superficial perineal muscles cleaned. These are three in number, viz., the transversus perinei, the erector clitoridis, and the sphincter vagina;. The two first have a similar position to the corresponding muscles in the male; the sphincter vaginae lies upon the side of the vagina close to its orifice. To obtain a good view of these muscles the superficial fascia and the labia should be dissected away. In cleaning the muscles the dissector should look for the small nervous twigs which are given to each by the perineal division of the internal pudic nerve. Superficial Perineal Muscles.—The transversus perinei has the same disposition as in the male, but it is rare to find it so well marked in the female. In most subjects its fibres are pale, and it is very difficult to define. It is a slender fasciculus which takes origin from the inner surface of the ramus of the ischium close to the tuberosity, and passes obliquely forwards and inwards to its insertion into the central point of the perineum. In the female the central point of the perineum is placed behind the vaginal orifice. The erector clitoridis corresponds with the erector penis in the male. It is a small muscle which arises from the inner aspect of the ischial tuberosity, and is inserted by a ten- dinous expansion on the surface of the crus clitoridis. The sphi?icter vagina, is the representative of the ejaculator urin?e of the male. It is a true sphincter muscle, and con- sists of two halves, which are placed one on each side of the vaginal orifice and vestibule, and are closely adapted to the surfaces of the two halves of the vaginal bulb. Posteriorly the fibres of opposite sides unite behind the vaginal opening, and are attached to the central point of the perineum, some of the fibres intermixing with those of the sphincter ani. Anteriorly the two portions of the muscle become narrower, and, converging towards the middle line, are attached to the sides of the clitoris. In some cases a small fasciculus on each side may be observed to reach the dorsum of the