515 ABDOMINAL CAVITY. size of hemp-seed, in the submucous tissue (Fig. no). They are most numerous close to the pylorus and gradually disappear about two inches beyond this. Removal of the Liver.—The student has already examined the position and connections of the liver (p. 449). It should now be removed from the abdominal cavity, in order that its form and the manner in which the vessels are distributed in its substance may be studied. Begin by dividing the ligamentum teres and the falciform ligament. Then drawing it downwards, cut through the lateral ligament on each side and the upper layer of the coronary ligament. Having done this, the bare area on its posterior border can be separated from the diaphragm with the handle of the knife. Observe that this portion of the liver is merely connected to the diaphragm by areolar tissue. Soon the vena cava inferior will be exposed, emerging from the posterior surface of the liver, and then piercing the central tendon of the diaphragm. This must be severed. On dividing the lower layer of the coronary ligament, the liver will be free from all the surrounding parts, except the vena cava, at the point where it first comes in contact with the organ. The vena cava must, therefore, be cut a second time, and thus a portion of the vessel is taken away with the gland. The Liver.—In the adult male the weight of the liver will be found to vary from 50 to 60 ounces, and in the adult female from 40 to 50 ounces. It represents about I/_36th of the weight of . the whole, body. In infancy and childhood it is relatively larger than in later life. In form the liver has been seen to resemble, while in situ and supported by surrounding viscera, a right-angled triangular prism (Symington), and to present a basal or right lateral surface, a superior surface, an anterior surface, an inferior surface, and a posterior surface. When removed from the abdomen and placed on the table before the dissector, it in a great measure loses this shape. It becomes flattened, the distinction between the anterior and superior surfaces is lost, and the inferior and posterior surfaces also tend to run into each other. It is necessary, therefore, to correct the impressions which we receive from such a dis- figured organ by reference to a specimen which has been specially prepared. Longitudinal Fissure.—The inferior and posterior surfaces