FOREARM AND HAND. 137 therefore comprises one supinator, three extensors of the wrist, two extensors of the fingers, and a feeble extensor of the forearm at the elbow-joint, viz., the anconeus. In the lower part of the forearm the extensor communis digitorum is separated from the extensor carpi radialis brevior by a narrow interval, and in this appear two muscles belonging to the deep group. These turn round the outer border of the forearm upon the surface of the radial extensors of the wrist, and end in tendons which go to the thumb. The upper muscle is the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and the lower muscle the extensor primi internodii pollicis. They are placed in close contact, and so intimately are their tendons connected that in many cases they appear at first sight to be blended together by their margins. Four of the muscles arise by a common origin from the front of the external condyle of the humerus, and at the same time derive fibres from the investing fascia and the septa it sends in between them. These are the extensor carpi radialis brevior, the extensor communis digitorum, the extensor minimi digiti, and the extensor carpi ulnaris. The superficial muscles should be cleaned, and isolated as far as possible from each other. The Supinator Longus (brachio-radialis) lies more on the front than on the back of the forearm. It takes origin in the upper arm from the upper two-thirds of the external supra- condyloid ridge of the humerus and from the external intermuscular septum. Near the middle of the forearm a flat tendon emerges from its fleshy belly, and this proceeds downwards to gain insertion into the outer aspect of the expanded lower extremity of the radius close to the base of the styloid process. The Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior is placed behind the supinator longus. It arises from the lower third of the external supracondyloid ridge of the humerus, and from the external intermuscular septum. From the fleshy portion of the muscle a long tendon proceeds which passes under