462 ABDOMEN. has a diameter slightly greater than that of a goose quill, and a length which varies from three to five or six inches. It opens into the caecum upon its inner and back aspect below the termination of the ileum. It is held in position by a minute peritoneal fold, which constitutes its mesentery. The ascending colon extends vertically upwards through the right lumbar region, until it reaches the under surface of the right lobe of the liver. It is continuous below with the caecum, whilst above it becomes the hepatic flexure. It is usually clothed anteriorly and laterally by peritoneum, whilst posteriorly it is bare; and this bare surface rests upon the fascia covering the quadratus lumborum muscle and upon the lower end of the right kidney, with each of which it is connected by a little loose areolar tissue. In certain cases the peritoneum may surround the tube, and form behind it a short meso-colon. The hepatic flexure is the bend which connects the ascending colon with the transverse colon. When the colon reaches the inferior surface of the right lobe of the liver, it bends slightly forwards and then turns suddenly to the left, and this curvature constitutes the flexure. The summit of the curve lies in the right hypochondrium. It occupies a marked depression on the under surface of the liver to the right of the gall-bladder, and is placed in front of the lower part of the kidney. Like the ascending colon, it is only partially covered by peritoneum. Its posterior surface is more or less bare, and in direct contact with the kidney. The transverse colon, continuous on the one hand with the hepatic flexure, and on the other with the splenic flexure, stretches across the abdominal cavity. At first it descends into the umbilical region, and then ascends into the left hypochondrium. It takes an arched course, the summit of the arch being nearer the anterior wall of the abdomen, and at the same time at a lower level in the body, than its extremities. The transverse colon possesses greater freedom of movement than any other part of the