540 ABDOMEN. terminal branches of the internal mammary artery. Each phrenic artery, in addition to the branches which it supplies to the diaphragm, gives a twig, called the superior capsular artery, to the suprarenal body. On the left side it also sends a few minute branches to the oesophagus. The phrenic veins open into the inferior vena cava. The Middle Capsular Arteries (arterise suprarenales mediae) are two small vessels which arise one from each side of the aorta at the same level as the superior mesenteric. They run outwards and upwards in front of the crura of the diaphragm to the suprarenal bodies, into the substance of which they sink. On the right side, the middle capsular artery passes behind the inferior vena cava. They anastomose freely with the superior and inferior capsular arteries. The right capsular vein opens into the inferior vena cava, whilst the left vein ends in the renal or phrenic vein. The Renal Arteries (arteriae renales), when compared with the organs which they supply, are disproportionately large. Only a small part of the blood which they carry to the kidneys is used for the nourishing of the gland substance. The kidneys are the great excretory organs for the waste nitrogenous materials of the body, and it is necessary that the blood should pass to them in large quantity in order that it may be purified. The renal arteries take origin about a quarter of an inch below the superior mesenteric. Each artery proceeds out- wards at right angles to the aorta, and, approaching the kidney, breaks up into four or five branches, which enter the hilum, and pass deeply into the sinus before sinking into the kidney substance. It is overlapped by the accompanying vein. Seeing that the aorta lies a little to the left of the mesial plane, the right renal artery is the longer of the two ; the right artery is also placed at a slightly lower level, and passes behind the vena cava. Again examine the relation of parts at the hilum. From before backwards we find :— (i.) Veins; (2.) arteries; (3.) ureter.