ABDOMEN. 636 by an angular interval, which is occupied by the perineal body. Anteriorly, it is related to the base of the bladder and to the urethra—indeed, the latter may almost be said to be embedded in its wall. Upon each side of the vagina, the levator ani muscle descends and gives it support, whilst its lower end is embraced by the sphincter vaginae. Close to the neck of the uterus the ureter is in contact with the vagina on each side for a very limited part of its course. Ovaries.—The ovaries are two small solid bodies con- tained within the posterior secondary folds of the broad ligaments. Each ovary is oval or oblong in figure, slightly compressed from side to side, and having a size somewhat similar to that of a pigeon's egg. The ovary presents two flattened surfaces, two extremities or poles, and two borders. Its natural or typical position can only be studied in young women who have borne no children. When pregnancy occurs the ovaries become dis- placed, and it is questionable if they ever regain their original place within the pelvis. In the young virgin and in the erect posture of the body the ovary lies with its long axis vertical (Waldeyer and His). It occupies a peritoneal fossa on the posterior part of the side wall of the pelvis, immedi- ately below the external iliac vessels (Fig. 151). This recess is termed the fossa ovarii (Claudius). From the upper pole of the ovary the ovario-pelvic fold of peritoneum passes out- wards to the wall of the pelvis. To the same extremity the mouth of the Fallopian tube is attached by one of its fimbriae ; from the latter connection the term tubal pole is frequently applied to the upper end of the ovary. The lower extremity is connected with the uterus by a round cord-like structure, the ligament of the ovary, which is included between the two layers of the broad ligament. This end of the ovary is consequently sometimes called the uterine pole. The two surfaces of the ovary look outwards and inwards, and the two borders are directed forwards and backwards. The anterior border is thinner and straighter than the posterior