22 THE UPPER LIMB. away the fat from its deep surface, introduce a pad of tow underneath the gland ; then fasten the skin firmly with tacks to a small board, and place the board under water. Next reflect a small portion of skin, in the manner shown in the figure, remove the superficial fat, and proceed to unravel the glandular substance. By this means the milk-ducts can generally be demonstrated. A cork-lined tray is very useful for this purpose. Mammary Gland.—The mammary gland in the female is a smooth-rounded prominence, which extends in a horizontal direction from the side of the sternum to the axillary border of the pectoralis major muscle, and in a vertical direction from the third to the sixth or seventh costal arch. It should be clearly understood that it lies within the superficial fascia and that its smooth contour is largely due to the invasion of its substance by the fatty tissue of this layer. It is separated from the great pectoral muscle by the deep fascia, and also by a thin layer of the superficial fascia. A little below its mid-point, and at a level which usually corresponds to the fourth intercostal space, the mamma is surmounted by a conical elevation—the nipple or mammilla. This is surrounded by a circular patch of coloured integu- ment, which is termed the areola. In the nipple, and immediately subjacent to the areola, there is no fat. A curious change of colour occurs in this region during the second month of pregnancy. Of a delicate pink tint in the virgin, the nipple and areola become brown from the deposition of pigment at this time, and they never again resume their original appearance. Although the mammary gland is placed within the super- ficial fascia, it is nevertheless completely isolated by a dense fibrous capsule, which sends trabecular into its substance. These subdivide the organ into loculi, in which the glandular lobules are placed. From the lobules the ducts converge towards the nipple. Look for them particularly in the region of the areola. Here they become much dilated, and form pouches or ampullae which serve as temporary reservoirs for the milk (Fig. 5). At the base of the nipple the lacti-