630 ABDOMEN. exceedingly firm to the touch. In such cases, on mesial section, the bladder cavity forms a slit continuous with the lumen of the urethra. It has been suggested that this rounded form of bladder represents the organ in systole ; whilst the flattened form with the Y-shaped cavity represents it in diastole (Hart). The former condition is more common in the male; the latter, in the female. Ureters.—The pelvic portions of the ureters are longer in the female than in the male. They cross the internal iliac artery, and then extend forwards, one upon each side of the neck of the uterus. As the ureter approaches the base of the bladder, it lies for a very short part of its course in rela- tion to the upper part of the side wall of the vagina. As in the male, it pierces the bladder wall very obliquely. Urethra.—The urethra is the canal along which the urine escapes from the bladder. Its walls are always in close apposition, except when the passage is opened by the flow of urine through it. In length, it measures about one inch and a-half, and it takes a slightly curved course from the neck of the bladder downwards and forwards to the vestibule, where it opens on the surface by an aperture, called the meatus icrinarius. This has been examined in the dissection of the perineum (p. 379). The relation of the female urethra to the anterior wall of the bladder is so intimate that it may almost be said to be embedded in it. The Uterus.—The uterus is the organ into which the ovum is received, and in which it is retained until the foetus is fully developed. It is placed in the interval between the rectum and the bladder, below the general mass of the small intestine, and above the vagina. In shape, it is pyriform or flask-shaped, flattened from before backwards. In length, it is about three inches; in breadth, at the broadest point, two inches; and in thickness, nearly an inch. The broader upper end of the uterus is directed upwards and forwards, whilst its narrow lower end looks downwards and backwards, and forms, with the vagina, an obtuse angle, which is open towards the pubis. It is customary to describe the uterus as being composed