THE UPPER LIMB. 158 tributed by the carpal joints. Thus, flexion at the radio-carpal joint is in reality more limited than extension, although by the combined action of both carpal and radio-carpal joints the hand can be carried much more freely forwards than backwards. Adduction, or ulnar flexion, can be produced to a greater extent than abduction, or radial flexion. The styloid process of the radius interferes with abduction. The muscles which are chiefly concerned in producing these different movements of the hand at this joint are the following :—(a) flexors— the flexor carpi radialis, the palmaris longus, and the flexor carpi ulnaris ; (d) extensors—extensor carpi radialis longior, the extensor carpi radialis brevior, and the extensor carpi ulnaris ; (c) adductors, or radial flexors—flexor carpi radialis, extensor carpi radialis longior, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and the extensor primi internodii pollicis; {d) adductors, or ulnar flexors—extensor carpi ulnaris and flexor carpi ulnaris. Radio-ulnar Joints.—At the radioulnar joints the move- ments of pronation and supination take place. They are two in pumber, viz., a superior and an inferior. At the superior radio-ulnar articulation the inner part of the head of the radius fits into the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna; at the i?iferior radio-ulnar joint the small rounded extremity of the ulna is received into the sigmoid cavity on the inner side of the lower end of the radius. In connection with these joints there are special ligaments which retain the bones in apposition. These are—(i) for the superior radio- ulnar joint, the orbicular ligament; and (2) for the inferior radio-ulnar joint, (a) an anterior and posterior ligament, and (b) a connecting triangular fibro-cartilage. In addition there are other ligaments which pass between the shafts of the two bones of the forearm, and are there- fore common to the two articulations, viz., the oblique liga- ment and the interosseous membrane. To expose these the muscles on the front and back of the forearm must be completely removed. Orbicular Ligament. — This is a strong ligamentous collar which encircles the head of the radius, and retains it in the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. It forms four-fifths of a circle, and is attached by its extremities to the ulna, in