ABDOMEN. 440 toneal fatty tissue, which stretches over the crural ring, will be observed to be denser, stronger, and more fibrous than elsewhere. A special name is applied to this small portion of the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue. Seeing that it is applied to the ring in such a manner as to close the crural canal at its abdominal end, it is called the septum crurale. The extra-peritoneal fatty tissue should now be dissected back with the handle of the knife, to the same extent as the peritoneum. The fascia iliaca clothing the iliacus and psoas muscles is thus exposed, and the dissector should note that the external iliac vessels lie upon and not behind this fascia. The student is now in a position to study the manner in which the crural ritig is formed. Let him follow the fascia iliaca and the fascia transversalis towards Poupart's ligament. If the dissection has been carefully performed, he will observe that to the outer side of the ex- ternal iliac vessels these two fasciae become directly continuous with each other, and, further, that along the line of union they are both firmly attached to Poupart's ligament. It is evident, then, that no hernial protrusion could leave the abdominal cavity behind Poupart's ligament and external to the iliac vessels. Opposite the iliac vessels the arrangement of the fascia will be found to be very different. Here the fascia iliaca is carried downwards behind the vessels, whilst the fascia transversalis is prolonged downwards in front of the vessels and behind Poupart's ligament. In the region of the thigh they together constitute a funnel-shaped sheath for the femoral artery and vein, and for some lymphatics ascending to the abdomen. This sheath is divided into three compartments by two vertical partitions. The femoral artery occupies the outermost compartment, and the vein the middle compartment, whilst the innermost compartment, called the crural canal, is occupied by the lymphatics, and sometimes by a small lymphatic gland. An essential difference between these compartments is this—that whilst the two outer are completely filled up by the artery and vein, the crural canal is much wider than is necessary for the passage of its contents. Gauge the width of the crural ring by introducing the point of the little finger. It is readily admitted within the opening. Here, then, is a source of weakness to the abdominal wall, and one which is greater in the female than in the male, seeing that the distance between the iliac and pubic spines is proportionally greater, and, in consequence, the crural ring wider. When the finger is within the ring, mark the structures which surround it—in front, Poupart's ligament, with the spermatic cord or round ligament of the uterus ; behind, the ramus of the pubis, giving origin to the pectineus muscle, which is covered by the pubic portion of the fascia