ABDOMEN. 504 a mesentery (Fig. 108). Behind, it rests upon the vena cava and presents a variable relation to the renal vessels and the anterior border of the kidney. To the right is the hepatic flexure of the colon; and to the left is the head of the pancreas, upon which the inner side of this part of the duodenum is moulded. The common bile-duct and the pancreatic duct open into the inner and back aspect of the second part of the duodenum a little below its middle. The accompanying outline drawings exhibit the varying relations of the duodenum and kidney in different subjects (Fig. 109). The duodenum, moulded, as it is, on the front of the vertebral column, and around the head of the pancreas, is not subject to much variation in its position. The differences seen in the figures are probably chiefly due to variations in the position of the kidney. The third part of the duodenum is somewhat longer than the second part. It begins on the right side of the third lumbar vertebra, and extends obliquely across the spine from right to left. Gaining the left side of the body of the second lumbar vertebra, it changes its direction, and proceeds almost vertically upwards on the psoas muscle for about an inch before it bends forwards on itself to form the duodeno-jejunal flexure. At its commencement it is placed in the umbilical region, but it gradually crosses the sub- costal plane, and its terminal part is situated in the epigastric region. The third part of the duodenum is fixed in its position. It is covered by peritoneum on its anterior surface, and is crossed obliquely by the root of the mesentery proper. In front, it is crossed by the superior mesenteric vessels; above, it is in apposition with the under surface of the pancreas; behind, it is in relation to the vena cava, the aorta, and the left psoas muscle. Suspensory Muscle of the Duodenum and Mesentery Proper. (Lockwood.) The flexura duodeno-jejunalis and the root of the mesentery are held in position and prevented from slipping down on the posterior wall of the abdomen by a band of involuntary muscular fibres, which fixes them to