402 ABDOMEN. is fixed to the pubic spine; by one margifi it is attached to the inner part of Poupart's ligament; by its other margiji it is inserted for the distance of an inch into the ilio-pectineal line. Its base is sharp, crescentic, and free, and is directed outwards towards the femoral sheath. The dissector should thoroughly realise that Gimbernat's ligament is not an inde- pendent structure. It is merely the inner part of the folded back margin of Poupart's ligament which, in the vicinity of the pubic spine, obtains an attachment to bone. Gimbernat's ligament occupies an oblique plane, its lower femoral surface looking downwards and slightly forwards and outwards, whilst its upper abdominal surface looks upwards and slightly backwards and inwards. It is of importance that the student should note the precise relation which this ligament bears to the spermatic cord. Taken in conjunction with Poupart's ligament and the aponeurosis of the external oblique, it forms a gutter or groove in which the cord lies. The Triangular Fascia (Fig. 78) is a small triangular piece of fascia which springs from the attachment of Gim- bernat's ligament to the inner end of the ilio-pectineal line. It passes upwards and inwards under cover of the internal pillar of the external abdominal ring, and is inserted into the linea alba. If the fibres which compose it are followed through the linea alba, they will be found to be continuous with the fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the opposite side. It must, therefore, be con- sidered as an additional insertion of this muscle. It is frequently so poorly developed, that its true relations and connections are demonstrated with difficulty. Dissection.—The internal oblique muscle should now be cleaned. Towards its lower part it will be seen to be pierced by certain nerves, and these must be preserved. Close to the iliac crest the iliac branches of the ilio-hypogastric and last dorsal nerves will be noticed emerging from the midst of its fleshy fibres, whilst in front it is pierced by the hypogastric branch of the ilio-hypogastric and by the ilio-inguinal nerve. The former of these appears near the anterior superior iliac spine, and then