337 THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE FOOT. with the corresponding surface on the posterior aspect of the cuboid. It is a distinct joint, and is provided with a separate synovial membrane. The ligaments which bind the two bones together are :— 1. The inferior or plantar calcaneo-cuboid (long and short). 2. The dorsal calcaneo-cuboid. 3. The internal calcaneo-cuboid. In the maintenance of the longitudinal arch of the foot the plantar ligament has an importance which is surpassed only by the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. It is dis- posed in two layers which are respectively termed the long and the short plantar ligaments, and which are separated from each other by some fatty areolar tissue. The superficial or long plantar ligament springs from the under surface of the os calcis, in front of the internal and external tuberosities, and extends forwards to the inferior surface of the cuboid. Here it broadens out, and is for the most part attached to the prominent ridge on the under surface of that bone. Numerous strong fibres, however, are prolonged forwards over the tendon of the peroneus longus to find attachment to the bases of the three middle metatarsal bones. The long plantar ligament therefore extends over the greater part of the outer portion of the tarsus, and it constitutes the longest of the tarsal ligaments. Further, it forms the greater part of the sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle. The short plantar ligament is placed under cover of the long plantar ligament. Slip the knife in between them, and carry the cutting edge backwards so as to detach the long ligament from the under surface of the os calcis. On throwing the detached band forwards, the short plantar ligament comes into view, and little dissection is required to make its connections apparent. It is composed of short but strong fibres, not more than an inch in length. These spring from the anterior tubercle on the under surface of the os calcis, and are attached in front to the inferior aspect vol. 1.—22