453 ABDOMINAL CA VITY. contact with the diaphragm, and bound to it by the peritoneum which passes from the one to the other. The posterior and inferior surfaces of the liver can only be satisfactorily studied after the removal of the organ. Still, there are several very important points in connection with the inferior surface which can be best ascertained under the present conditions. This surface is very oblique; it slopes from the right inferior sharp margin upwards to the left extremity of the organ, so that it looks very nearly, as much to the left as downwards. It follows from this that the vertical depth of the liver diminishes rapidly as it extends to the left. In relation to this sloping inferior surface there are a number of important structures, all of which leave their imprint upon it in the shape of fossa? of greater or less depth. Thus the left lobe is moulded over the stomach, whilst in contact with the inferior surface of the right lobe are :—(i) the gall-bladder, which is bound down to it by peritoneum; (2) the pyloric end of the stomach and the duodenum or commencement of the small intestine; (3) the hepatic flexure of the colon ; and (4) the right kidney. The precise relations of these organs to the liver will be studied more fully at a later stage. The sharp margin of the liver forms a continuous attenuated border, although it is convenient to speak of it as consisting of a right inferior part intervening between the right lateral surface and the inferior surface; an anterior part, which separates the anterior surface from the inferior surface ; and a left portion, which turns round the left lobe and forms its left fine edge or extremity. The anterior part of the sharp margin presents a slight deficiency where it is adapted to the fundus of the gall-bladder, and a notch {the umbilical notch) of varying depth where the falciform ligament meets the ligamentum teres or obliterated umbilical vein. Even in health the position and shape of the liver is subject to consider- able variation. From its intimate connection with the diaphragm it is easy to understand how it must rise and fall with every respiratory act.