632 ABDOMEN. lip is the thicker of the two, whilst the posterior is the longer. Although the anterior lip is the shorter it should be noted that, on account of the oblique position of the uterus, it is placed at a lower level in the vagina. The greater length of the posterior lip is due to the wall of the vagina passing higher up on that aspect of the uterus. The part of the cervix which projects into the vagina is called theportio vaginalis (Fig. 145). As the mucous membrane which lines the vagina passes from its anterior wall on to the anterior lip of the os uteri, it forms a shallow angular recess between the two, called the anterior fornix. The same is seen behind in connection with the posterior lip of the os uteri, but, owing to the higher attachment of the posterior vaginal wall, the posterior fornix is very deep. A most important relation should be made out at this stage, viz., that when the finger is placed in the posterior fornix it is merely separated from the peritoneum lining the pelvic cavity by the posterior vaginal wall (Fig. 147). This is owing to the fact that the recto-vaginal ad-de- sac of peritoneum descends so as to cover the upper part of the posterior vaginal wall. The relations of the uterus should next be studied. Posteriorly, it is invested completely by peritoneum, and is separated from the rectum by the recto-vaginal cul-de-sac. Within this peritoneal pouch there are always more or less of the sigmoid flexure and a few coils of small intestine. Anteriorly, it is covered in its upper three-fourths by peritoneum, and is in apposition with the bladder. Position of the Uterus.—In women who have borne no children (nulliparae) and in whom the bladder and the rectum are both empty, the uterus is normally strongly anteflexed and anteverted (Waldeyer). When we say that the uterus is anteflexed, we mean that it is bent forwards upon itself at the isthmus, so that the body and the cervix meet at an angle which is open to the front. This forward flexion of the uterus depends upon two circumstances—viz.,