PEL VIS. 607 a-half apart from each other, and about the same distance from the luette or urethral orifice. Trigone of the Bladder.—The three orifices of the bladder constitute the angles of an equilateral triangle, which is termed the trigone, the boundaries of which are formed by lines drawn between the openings of the ureters and from each of these forwards to the luette. The mucous membrane over this area presents a marked contrast to the same membrane in other parts of the bladder. Here it is always smooth, in whatever condition the viscus may be, and this is due to its being tightly bound down to the subjacent muscular coat. It is also said to be more sensi- tive than in other parts of the bladder. It is important to note that the trigone in the interior of the bladder corresponds with the triangular area on the exterior of the base, which is bounded by the vasa deferentia, the vesiculae seminales, and the recto-vesical peritoneal reflection. Dissection.—The bladder should now be pinned out on the bottom of a cork-lined tray filled with water. When this is done the mucous membrane over the trigone may be carefully raised. A band of muscular fibres will be observed to take a curved course, at the base of the trigone, between the two ureters. In certain cases another band may be traced from the ureter along each side of the trigone towards the luette. These muscular bands form the slightly marked ridges which bound the trigone. Urethra.—The urethra is the canal through which the urine, the semen, and the secretions of the vesiculse seminales, the prostate, and Cowper's glands are emitted from the body. It commences at the neck of the bladder and ends on the glans penis, and its average length is somewhere about eight or nine inches. It is customary to divide the urethra into three parts, from the different character of the structures which it traverses. The first or prostatic portion is contained within the substance of the prostate gland; the second or membranous portion extends from the apex of the prostate to the bulb of the corpus