159 ARTICULATIONS. front and behind the lesser sigmoid cavity. It is somewhat narrower below than above, so that under no circumstances could the head of the radius be withdrawn from it in a downward direction, and it is braced tightly upwards towards the elbow, and greatly strengthened by certain ligaments of the elbow-joint which become incorporated with it along its upper border. These are, on the outer side, the external lateral ligament of the elbow, in front a portion of the anterior ligament, and behind a portion of the posterior ligament of the elbow-joint. Its lower border is free, and protruding downwards below this will be seen a reflection of the synovial membrane. Anterior and Posterior Inferior Radio-ulnar Liga- ments.—These are weak, imperfect bands which can have little influence in retaining the bones in apposition at the inferior radio-ulnar joint. They pass between the radius and ulna in front and behind the articulation, and close in the synovial membrane upon these aspects. The Triangular Fibro-cartilage is the true bond of union at the inferior radio-ulnar joint. It has already been noticed in connection with the radio-carpal joint, where it extends the radial articular surface in an inward direction, and is interposed between the lower end of the ulna and the semilunar bone. It is a thick, firm plate, attached by its base to the margin on the inner and lower end of the radius which intervenes between the sigmoid cavity for the ulna, and the facet on its lower surface for the semilunar bone. Its apex is directed inwards, and is fixed to the depression on the lower end of the ulna at the root of the styloid process. It intervenes between the inferior radio-ulnar joint and the radio-carpal joint. Synovial Membranes.—The synovial membrane of the superior radio-ulnar joint is continuous with that of the elbow-joint. It is prolonged downwards so as to line the orbicular ligament, and it protrudes beyond this for a short distance upon the neck of the radius.