ABDOMINAL CAVITY. 521 and lies in front of the tenth and eleventh dorsal vertebrae. Its posterior surface is consequently slightly depressed. The fissure for the inferior vena cava is a deep groove placed on the right side of the Spigelian lobe. It ascends almost perpendicularly, and sometimes it is converted into a tunnel by a bridge of liver substance which passes over the vein from the one side to the other. The bare area of the posterior surface of the liver is triangular in form, and lies to the right of the vena cava. It forms the greater part of the posterior surface of the right lobe, and is bounded above and below by the line of reflec- tion of the coronary ligament. For the most part, it is convex, and connected with the diaphragm by loose areolar tissue, but close to the lower end of the fissure for the vena cava there is a well marked depression which lodges the right suprarenal capsule. Gall-Bladder and Bile Ducts.—The gall-bladder is a pyriform membranous bag placed in a depression on the under surface of the right lobe of the liver. Its form and position can be seen to best advantage by inflating it with air through the bile duct. It lies somewhat obliquely, its great end or fundus, free and covered by peritoneum, being directed downwards, forwards, and to the right, so as to project slightly beyond the anterior border of the liver, whilst its narrow extremity or neck ends near the right end of the transverse fissure, by making a double bend like the letter S> and then becoming continuous with the cystic duct. The tipper surface is in contact with the liver, to which it is connected by areolar tissue. The under surface is clothed by peritoneum, and is in relation in front to the transverse colon, and behind to the first part of the duodenum. The cystic duct has already been observed to proceed downwards and to the left to join the hepatic duct, and thereby form the common bile duct. The right and left hepatic ducts issue from the extremities of the transverse fissure, and unite to form the hepatic duct. To see these