PECTORAL REGION AND AXILLARY SPACE. 19 Two triangular flaps of skin are marked out by these incisions, and these are now to be raised from the fatty superficial fascia. It is well to encircle the areola and nipple with the knife, and leave the skin covering them undisturbed. Superficial Fascia.—The superficial fascia presents here, as elsewhere, the usual characters, but, as a rule, the fat is not so plentiful. As it passes over the clavicle to the upper part of the chest and summit of the shoulder, it will be seen in most cases to present a faintly ruddy striated appearance. Should this not at first be apparent, the removal of some of the superficial fat will render it visible. This appearance is due to the presence of a number of sparse scattered muscular fibres which stream down over the clavicle, to obtain origin in the superficial fascia over the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles. In the neck they form a thin, cutaneous, fleshy stratum, called the platysma myoides. The superficial fascia in this region is also peculiar in so far as it has developed within it the mammary gland. It should now be dissected with the view of exposing the gland as well as the cutaneous vessels and nerves which make it their bed before entering the skin. Cutaneous Nerves and Arteries.—There are three dis- tinct groups of cutaneous nerves for the supply of the skin on the anterior and lateral aspects of the chest. These are:— 1. The descending cutaneous—from the cervical plexus. 2. The anterior cutaneous,) , . . . , ' -from the intercostal nerves. 3. The lateral cutaneous, J The descending cutaneoits fierves arise in the neck from the third and fourth cervical nerves, and, spreading out as they descend, they cross the clavicle under cover of the platysma myoides. They are classified according to their position into the suprasternal, the supraclavicular, and the supra-acromial branches. The suprasternal branch is the smallest of the series, and crosses the inner part of the clavicle to end in the skin immediately below. The supra-