THE LOWER LIMB. 286 muscles on the posterior aspect of the leg will be demonstrated. In this manner, then, the large posterior osteo-fascial compartment is formed, and, as the dissection goes on, two partitions will be noticed to stretch across it so as to subdivide it into three portions. The most superficial of these holds the superficial muscles of the calf; the inter- mediate portion contains the flexor muscles with the posterior tibial vessels and nerve ; whilst the deepest part encloses the tibialis posticus muscle (Figs. 50 and 51). One of these partitions may be exposed at the present moment by removing the fat which is usually accumulated under cover of the tendo Achillis. Subjacent to this tendon is the layer of fascia in question. It stretches between the tibia and fibula, and separates the superficial from the deep group of muscles. In this locality it will be seen to be very dense, and to be strengthened by numerous transverse fibres. It becomes continuous on the inner side of the ankle with the internal annular ligament—indeed, the dissector will not fail to observe that it takes a more prominent part in the formation of this ligament than the general aponeurosis of the limb. In the upper part of the leg it becomes very thin. Superficial Muscles. — The superficial muscles of the calf of the leg are three in number, viz., the gastrocnemius, the plantaris, and the soleus. The gastrocnemius is the most superficial; the soleus is placed under cover of the gastrocnemius; whilst the slender plantaris extends down- wards and inwards between them. The tendons of insertion of the gastrocnemius and soleus unite to form the tendo Achillis. The Gastrocnemius arises by two heads from the posterior aspect of the lower end of the femur. These heads have been already studied in connection with the popliteal space, which they bound in its lower part. The outer head springs from an impression on the outer surface of the external condyle of the femur, and also from a small portion of the posterior surface of the bone immediately above the condyle. The inner head takes origin from the upper part of the internal condyle, and likewise from the inferior portion of the internal supracondyloid ridge of the femur. The two fleshy bellies swell out as they descend, and end near the middle of the leg in a thin aponeurotic