FRONT OF THE THIGH. 231 and the pectineus; in some cases a small portion of the adductor brevis may be seen between these. To the outer side of the artery are the psoas and iliacus. The adductor longus is placed in an oblique plane, the inner border being nearer the surface than the outer border; and thus it is that this muscle not only forms the inner boundary of the triangle, but also takes part in the formation of the floor. These muscles should be cleaned in so far as they stand in relation to Scarpa's triangle. When a transverse section is made through the frozen thigh in the region of Scarpa's triangle, the space appears more in the shape of a deep intermuscular furrow, bounded on the inner side by the adductor longus and pectineus, and on the outer side by the sartorius and rectus femoris, whilst behind it is separated from the bone by the ilio-psoas. The femoral vessels and the anterior crural nerve pass downwards in this groove—the profunda femoris being placed very deeply, and the main trunk nearer the surface. Femoral Artery.—The femoral artery, the great arterial trunk of the lower limb, is the direct continuation of the external iliac. It begins at Poupart's ligament, behind which it enters the thigh, and it extends downwards to the opening in the adductor magnus, through which it gains the popliteal space and becomes the popliteal artery. This opening is situated on the inner aspect of the lower third of the thigh, and the course which the vessel pursues may be marked on the surface, when the thigh is slightly abducted and rotated outwards, by an oblique line drawn from a point midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the symphysis pubis to the internal condyle of the femur. The relations which the artery bears to the femur are im- portant. As it enters Scarpa's triangle it passes from the brim of the pelvis and comes to lie in front of the inner part of the head of the femur, from which it is separated by the psoas muscle. Although its relation to the bone is tolerably intimate, this situation should not be chosen for applying compression. On account of the mobility of the