2IO THE LOWER LIMB. level it ceases to exist; it loses its identity through its fusion with the deep fascia. The fatty superficial layer of Camper, however, as we have said, is continued onwards as the superficial fascia of the thigh. But it is necessary to study more closely the line along which the fascia of Scarpa unites with the fascia lata. Its direction does not correspond with that of Poupart's ligament; it is more nearly horizontal. Internally the union takes place along the line of Poupart's ligament; but as it is traced outwards, it will be seen to fall some- what below the ligament. When urine is effused under the superficial fascia of the anterior abdominal wall, this attachment of the fascia of Scarpa prevents its passage downwards in front of the thigh. Dissection.—In the superficial fascia blood-vessels, glands, lymphatic vessels, and nerves are embedded, and these must now be dissected out. First look for the large internal saphenous vein. It will be found extending up the thigh a little way internal to the middle line of the limb. Trace it upwards till it reaches a point about two inches from Poupart's ligament. At this point it dips through the deep fascia, and joins the femoral vein. It is not desirable to define the opening in the fascia lata through which it passes until a later stage of the dissection. Several tributaries join the internal saphenous vein at this point, and these should be dissected along with the small superficial arteries of the groin which accompany them. The large lymphatic glands of the groin must also be dissected out from the fatty tissue in which they lie. In doing this care must be taken to preserve as many of the minute thread-like lymphatic vessels which enter and leave the glands as possible. A small artery and vein should also be traced to each gland. Superficial Inguinal Vessels.—Three minute arteries, termed the superficial epigastric, the superficial external pudic, and the superficial circumflex iliac, pierce the deep fascia below Poupart's ligament, and radiate from each other for the supply of the glands and integument of the groin. They all spring from the femoral artery immediately after it enters the thigh. The superficial external pudic comes forward through the