531 ABDOMINAL CAVITY. face. The number of pyramids and renal papillae vary from eight to twenty. Usually there are more than twelve. A single calix of the ureter may surround one, two, or even three renal papillae, and receive the urine which issues from the papillary ducts which open on their surface. The cortical substance constitutes the peripheral part of the gland, and also sends prolongations inwards between the pyramids. These are called the columns of Bertin. The Ureter.—This is the duct which carries the urine from the kidney to the bladder. The relations of its expanded upper end or pelvis at the hilum of the kidney have already been noted. Leaving the gland, it turns downwards and becomes contracted, so that when it reaches the level of the lower end of the organ it has acquired the appearance of a cylindrical tube. The ureter extends downwards and inwards upon the psoas muscle, and, crossing the common or external iliac artery, it enters the pelvis, where it will be afterwards followed. In the abdomen proper it is placed immediately behind the peritoneum, and is crossed obliquely by the spermatic vessels. Before entering the pelvis it passes behind the ileum on the right side, and the sigmoid flexure of the colon on the left side. The Suprarenal Capsules are two small flattened tri- angular bodies, each of which is placed upon the upper end of the corresponding kidney. It surmounts the kidney after the fashion of a helmet, and is prolonged downwards for a short distance upon its anterior surface. The suprarenal body lies in the epigastric region, and rests upon the diaphragm. On the right side its anterior face is in relation to the posterior surface of the liver, and may receive a very slight covering in its lower or basal part from the peritoneum. On the left side its anterior surface is covered more or less completely with peritoneum, and is in relation to the stomach, the pancreas, and spleen. The student has already observed its abundant nerve supply from the solar plexus. Its blood supply is equally rich. No fewer than three