FOREARM AND HAND. 97 spring from the trunk of the radial nerve, but from that branch of it which goes to the outer margin of the thumb. It is joined by a twig from the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and proceeds downwards in front of the tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, to end in the skin covering the ball of the thumb. Dissection.—In tracing the nerves which appear on the back of the limb, it will be necessary to remove the skin from the dorsal aspect of the thumb and fingers. The great flap of skin which is still attached at the roots of the fingers may be detached, and an incision can then be made along the middle of the dorsal aspect of each digit. The skin should be carefully raised from each finger in two flaps and thrown out- wards and inwards. Dorsal Cutaneous Branches.—The dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve winds round the inner margin of the wrist to reach the dorsum of the hand. It will be found immediately below the prominence formed by the lower end of the ulna, and it at once divides into three main terminal branches. Of these, the innermost runs along the ulnar margin of the dorsum of the hand, and is continued onwards along the inner margin of the little finger. The second branch pro- ceeds towards the cleft between the little finger and the ring finger, and divides into two twigs which supply the contiguous sides of these digits. The third branch joins a twig from the radial, and the nerve thus formed runs towards the interval between the ring finger and the middle finger, and divides to supply their adjacent margins. Each of these three main branches gives several minute filaments to the integument on the dorsum of the hand (Fig. 18). The radial nerve will be found winding round the outer margin of the forearm, about two inches above the extremity of the styloid process of the radius. It at once gives off a long twig which proceeds along the radial margin of the hand and thumb. A little further on the radial nerve breaks up into four terminal branches, which are distributed vol. i.—7