ABDOMEN. 500 blood vessels. Two proceed from left to right—viz., the coronary along the lesser curvature, and the left gastro- epiploic along the greater curvature ; two, both branches of the hepatic, are directed from right to left—viz., the pyloric, in relation to the lesser curvature : and the right gastro- epiploic, in relation to the greater curvature. The arterial circle is completed on the left by the vasa brevia, which connect the coronary artery with the left gastro-epiploic. The Splenic Vein, formed by the union of the veins which issue from the spleen, runs from left to right behind the pancreas, and at a lower level than the artery of the same name. After crossing the aorta and the root of the superior mesenteric artery, it ends by joining the superior mesenteric vein to form the vena portse. In its course between the spleen and the vena porta? it receives the following tributaries :—(i.) veins corresponding to the vasa brevia; (2.) the left gastro-epiploic vein; (3.) pancreatic veins ; (4.) the inferior mesenteric vein. Vena Portae.—This is a remarkable vessel. It arises after the manner of a vein, by gathering, by means of its rootlets, the blood from the capillaries of the entire abdominal portion of the alimentary canal (with the excep- tion of the lower end of the rectum), the spleen, pancreas, and gall-bladder, whilst it ends in the liver after the manner of an artery, by pouring its blood into the hepatic capillaries. The blood which flows in the portal vein, therefore, passes through two series of capillaries before it is returned to the heart—viz.—(1.) the capillaries of the organs from which it is derived; (2.) the hepatic capillaries. The portal vein is formed behind the head of the pancreas, by the union of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins. From this it ascends, with an inclination to the right, and ends near the right extremity of the transverse fissure of the liver by dividing into a right and left branch, one for each lobe of this organ. After emerging from under cover of the pancreas, it lies first behind the first part of the