FOREARM AND HAND. 95 coats the head of the humerus, is thickest in the centre, and thins as it passes towards the edges. In the case of the glenoid cavity the reverse of this will be noticed. The cartilaginous coating is thinnest in the centre, and becomes thicker as it is traced towards the circumference. Movements at the Shoulder-joint.—The shoulder is a ball and socket joint, and consequently movement in every direction is per- mitted, viz.—(i) flexion, or forward movement ; (2) extension, or backward movement (checked in its extent by the coraco-humeral ligament); (3) abduction, or outward movement (checked by the coraco-acromial arch) ; (4) adduction, or inward movement (limited by the coraco-humeral ligament). In addition to these different forms of angular movement, rotation to the extent of a quarter of a circle and circumduction are permitted. The muscles chiefly concerned in producing these movements are— flexion, the pectoralis major and the anterior part of the deltoid ; extension, latissimus dorsi, posterior part of the deltoid, and the teres major ; abduction, the deltoid and supraspinatus ; adduction, pectoralis major, coraco-brachialis, teres major, and latissimus dorsi ; rotation inwards, subscapulars, pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, teres major ; rotation outwards, supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor ; cir- cumduction is produced by the action of different combinations of these muscles. FOREARM AND HAND. Dissection.—The skin has already been removed from the front and back of the forearm. It should now be raised from the dorsum of the hand by making incisions along the radial and ulnar borders. This is clone in order that the superficial structures in this region may be examined in connection with those of the forearm. Superficial Veins.—On the dorsum of the hand a plexus of superficial veins will be seen. In defining this, care must be taken of the fine cutaneous twigs from the radial nerve and the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. From the outer part of the venous plexus the large radial vein takes origin, whilst from its inner part springs the posterior ulnar vein. Both of these vessels have already been traced along