441 ABDOMINAL WALL. lata : internally, the sharp crescentic free border of Gimbernat's liga- ment ; and externally, the external iliac vein. It is still more necessary to note the relations of the blood vessels to the crural ring. The external iliac vein has been seen to lie to its outer side. The deep epigastric artery, as it ascends on the posterior aspect of the abdominal wall, is close to its upper and outer margin, and sends its pubic branch inwards in front of it. More important than any of these is the relation of the obturator artery, when it takes origin from the deep epigastric. This anomalous vessel may adopt one of three courses—(1.) It may follow the course of the pubic artery, an enlarged form of which it in reality is, and pass inwards in front of the ring, and then descend along its i7iner margin. In this case, the ring is sur- rounded on all sides, except posteriorly, by important vessels. (2.) It may pass downwards and backwards across the crural ring. (3.) It may run downwards between the ring and the external iliac vein (vide p. 228). Internal to the crural sheath the passage of a hernial protrusion behind Poupart's ligament is effectually prevented by Gimbernat's ligament. Femoral hernia is more common in females, and inguinal hernia in males ; and for the very evident reason, that in the female the crural canal is relatively larger, whilst in the male the passage of the spermatic cord weakens the inguinal region more than the passage of the small round ligament of the uterus. Umbilical Hernia.—This form of hernia consists in the protrusion of an abdominal content through the umbilical ring in the linea alba. When it occurs in the fcetus the hernia passes into the umbilical cord, and the three vessels are separated by it. More than one case has occurred in which the bowel has been cut in dividing the cord at the birth of the child. In the adult the fibrous cords in connection with the umbilicus are related to the lower border of the ring, and the hernia escapes through its upper part (Treves). The Penis.—The penis has already, to a certain extent, been studied in the dissection of the perineum (p. 359). It has been seen to be composed of the ttvo corpora cavernosa and the corpus spongiosum. Posteriorly, the corpora caver- nosa separate from each other, become tapered and are attached to the sides of the pubic arch under the name of the crura penis; anteriorly, they together form a blunt rounded extremity, which is covered by the glans penis. The corpus spongiosum, when traced backwards into the perineum, expands into the bulb of the penis, which is attached, in the mesial plane, to the anterior aspect of the