406 ABDOMEN. loops descend varies. Some reach the tunica vaginalis of the testicle, and the scrotum should now be opened up on the right side, in order that they may be traced downwards to this point; the majority of the fibres, however, do not reach so far down, some going no further than the external abdominal ring. Upon the posterior aspect of the cord the loops are directed upwards, and some reaching the os pubis, obtain a tendinous insertion into its spine and crest. It will be noticed that the cremasteric fleshy loops do not form a complete investment for the cord and testicle. The intervals between the fasciculi are occupied by areolar tissue, and this combination of muscular and areolar tissue is sometimes termed the cremasteric fascia. Reflection of Internal Oblique.—On the right side of the body the entire muscle may be reflected, but on the left side preserve the lower portion of it (i.e., that part which is still covered by the aponeurosis of the external oblique) in situ. Begin below by dividing the muscular fibres along the crest of the ilium. The depth to which the knife should be carried is indicated by the dense areolar tissue, which lies between it and the subjacent transversalis muscle. An ascending branch from the deep circumflex iliac artery will also serve as a guide. It emerges from the fibres of the transversalis close to the fore part of the iliac crest, and is then directed upwards upon its surface. Although this vessel has not attained the dignity of a name, it is a very constant branch. On the right side the fibres springing from Poupart's ligament should also be severed, but on the left side carry the knife horizontally inwards, from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the outer margin of the rectus. Now turn to the upper part of the muscle, and make an incision through it along the lower margin of the thorax, from the outer border of the rectus to the last rib. Lastly, carry the knife downwards, from the tip of the last rib to the crest of the ilium. The muscle freed in this manner can be thrown forwards towards the outer border of the rectus. In doing this the dissector must proceed with caution, because he has reached the plane of the main trunks of the nerves of the abdominal wall and the arteries which accompany them. These pass forwards between the internal oblique and trans- versalis, and, in raising the former muscle, they are apt to adhere to its deep surface and be cut. In all probability the student will experience considerable difficulty in separating the lower part of the internal oblique from the corre-