POSTERIOR TIBIO-FIBULAR REGION. 289 digitorum ; whilst the third muscle between and on a deeper plane than rhe other two is the tibialis posticus. Termination of the Popliteal Artery.—The termination of the popliteal artery lies under cover of the upper border of the soleus. It should now be cleaned, and it will be seen to end at the lower margin of the popliteus muscle by dividing into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. Further, the venae comites which accompany these vessels will be observed to join at this point to form the large popliteal vein. The Anterior Tibial Artery passes forwards between the two heads of the tibialis posticus muscle to the front of the leg, where it has already been dissected. In this part of its course the anterior tibial artery gives off the posterior recurrent tibial and the superior fibular branch. The pos- terior recurrent tibial is a small twig which is not always present. It runs upwards under cover of the popliteus muscle to the back of the knee-joint. The superior fibular runs outwards on the neck of the fibula, and is distributed to the muscles and integument in the neighbourhood. The Posterior Tibial Artery is the larger of the two terminal branches of the popliteal trunk. It takes origin at the lower border of the popliteus muscle and ends in the hollow on the inner side of the os calcis, under cover of the abductor hallucis, and at the level of the lower border of the internal annular ligament, by dividing into the external and internal plantar arteries. In the first instance the artery is placed between the two bones of the leg upon the tibialis posticus muscle; but as it descends it inclines gradually inwards, and at its termination it lies midway between the prominence of the os calcis and the internal malleolus. In its upper two-thirds the posterior tibial artery is situated very deeply, being covered by the superficial muscles of the calf. In the lower third of the leg it appears between the tendo Achillis and the inner border vol. 1.—19