THE LEG. 271 tibia, and from the upper half of the external surface of its shaft. It likewise derives many fibres from the deep fascia which covers it, from the fascial septum between it and the extensor longus digitorum and the portion of the interosseous membrane on which it rests. In other words, it springs from the structures which form the walls of the inner portion of the osteo-fascial compartment in which it lies.1 A strong tendon issues from its fleshy belly in the lower third of the leg, and this reaches the dorsum of the foot by passing through both portions of the anterior annular ligament. Here it inclines inwards, and, turning round the inner margin of the foot, gains insertion by two slips into the inner and lower part of the internal cuneiform bone, and into the adjoining part of the base of the first metatarsal bone. The tibialis anticus is supplied by the anterior tibial nerve. The Extensor Longus Digitorum arises, for the most part, from the structures which form the outer portion of the wall of the anterior tibio-fibular compartment. Thus it springs from the upper part of the outer tuberosity of the tibia, from the head of the fibula, and from the anterior part of the inner surface of the shaft of the fibula in its upper three-fourths. It also takes origin from a small portion of the upper part of the interosseous membrane, the deep fascia, the anterior peroneal septum, and the intermuscular septum, which dips backwards between it and the tibialis anticus. The tendon of the extensor longus 1 To understand the attachments of the muscles of the leg, it is necessary to bear in mind that the interosseous membrane, which stretches across the interval between the two bones of the leg, and thus extends the surface of origin for these muscles, is attached to the outer border of the tibia (i.e., between its outer and posterior surfaces) and to the interosseous line of the fibula. This interosseous line traverses the inner surface of the fibula, so as to divide it into an anterior and a posterior part. The anterior part gives origin to the extensor muscles and the posterior part to the flexor muscles.