3°7 SOLE OF THE FOOT. muscles, which arise from the flexor tendons, can now be distinguished. Note the position of the long plantar liga- ment between the two heads of origin of the accessorius. Fibrous Flexor Sheaths.—Before tracing the flexor tendons forwards on the toes, it is necessary to examine the sheaths which retain them upon the plantar aspect of the phalanges. In their construction these fibrous sheaths are precisely similar to the corresponding sheaths of the fingers. They are not so strongly marked, but they present the same thickenings over the shafts of the phalanges and the same want of strength opposite the interphalangeal joints. They may now be opened in order that the en- closed tendons may be examined. A synovial sheath is present in each to facilitate the play of the flexor tendons within them. Insertions of the Flexor Tendons.—Two tendons, one from the flexor brevis digitorum, and one from the flexor longus digitorum, enter the flexor sheath of each of the four outer toes. Of these, the tendon of the former muscle corresponds with a tendon of the flexor sublimis in the hand, whilst the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum corresponds with a tendon of the flexor profundus. Further, they are inserted in exactly the same manner. The tendon of the flexor brevis, which is the more superficial, divides into two slips, and between these the tendon of the flexor longus proceeds forwards to its insertion into the plantar aspect of the base of the ungual phalanx. The two slips of the tendon of the flexor brevis are joined by their margins on the deep surface of the long flexor tendon, and then separate again to obtain insertion into the sides of the shaft of the second phalanx about its middle. The Tendon of the Flexor Longus Hallucis, after giving its slip to the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, is pro- longed forwards to the great toe. On the plantar aspect of the hallux it is retained in place "by a flexor sheath, and finally it is inserted into the base of the terminal phalanx.