THE LOWER LIMB. plantar arterial arch are partially exposed, but they will be more fully displayed at a later stage. The Flexor Brevis Hallucis arises from the cuboid bone and from the slip from the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle, which goes to the middle and outer cuneiform bones. It is narrow and tendinous at its origin, but it soon divides into two separate fleshy bellies, which are ultimately inserted upon either side of the base of the proximal phalanx of the great toe. In the tendons of insertion two large sesamoid bones are developed. The inner head of the flexor brevis hallucis is closely connected with the tendon of the abductor hallucis, and is inserted in common with it. The flexor brevis hallucis is supplied by the internal plantar nerve. The Adductor Obliquus Hallucis arises from the sheath of the peroneus longus muscle and from the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. It tapers as it approaches the root of the hallux, and is inserted, with the outer head of the flexor brevis hallucis, into the fibular aspect of the base of the proximal phalanx of the great toe. It is supplied by the deep division of the external plantar nerve. The Transversus Pedis (adductor transversus hallucis) is a second special adductor of the great toe. It springs by a series of slips from the inferior metatarso-phalangeal liga- ments of the third, fourth, and fifth toes, and proceeds transversely inwards under cover of the flexor tendons to find insertion into the fibular side of the base of the proximal phalanx of the great toe in common with the adductor obliquus hallucis. Its nerve of supply comes from the deep division of the external plantar. The Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti is a single fleshy slip, which springs from the base of the fifth metatarsal bone and the sheath of the peroneus longus tendon. It is in- serted into the fibular side of the base of the proximal phalanx of the little toe. Its nerve-supply comes from the superficial division of the external plantar nerve.