ABDOMEN. 414 downwards to the pubes. It is called the semilunar fold of Douglas (linea Douglasii). The deep epigastric artery will be observed to enter the sheath by passing upwards in front of this free border. The semilunar fold of Douglas is often rendered indistinct by the presence of scattered tendinous bundles crossing behind the lower part of the rectus. Linea Alba.—The linea alba can now be studied to the best advantage. It is a dense fibrous cord or band which extends perpendicularly between the ensiform cartilage and the symphysis pubis. It is formed by the union and decus- sation of the fibres composing the aponeuroses of the two oblique and the transversales muscles of opposite sides. Above the umbilicus it is somewhat broader than in its lower part. A close examination will show that it is pierced by several small round openings for the transmission of blood vessels, and from some of these the dissector may even observe minute fatty masses protruding. A little below its middle is the umbilicus, but the foramen, of which this is the remains, is now completely closed; indeed, in the adult the linea alba is stronger at this point than elsewhere. Fascia Transversalis (fascia transversa).—This is a thin layer of fascia which is spread out upon the deep surface of the transversalis muscle. The fascia of one side is directly continuous with the fascia of the opposite side, and it forms a part of an extensive fascial stratum which lines the entire abdominal wall, and is placed between the abdominal muscles and their aponeuroses on the one hand, and the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue on the other. Traced upwards, the fascia transversalis becomes thin, and at the margin of the thorax it is directly continuous with the fascia which lines the lower surface of the diaphragm. Towards the inguinal region it plays an important part as a constituent of the abdominal wall. Here, then, it must be studied with great care. In the present state of the dissection (on the right side of