THE LOWER LIMB. 172 JVe/aton's line. This line passes over the top of the great trochanter and crosses the centre of the acetabulum. It is used by the surgeon in the diagnosis of dislocations and other injuries of the hip-joint. The great trochanter of the femur may be felt at a point about six inches below the highest part of the crest of the ilium. It can be seen in thin subjects, but it does not form so projecting a feature of this region as might be expected from an inspection of the skeleton, because the thick tendon of the gluteus medius is inserted into its outer surface, and it is moreover covered by the aponeurotic insertion of the gluteus maximus. Reflection of Skin.—Incisions.—(i) From the posterior superior spine of the ilium in a curved direction along the crest of the ilium, as far forwards as the position of the body will permit; (2) from the posterior extremity of this curved incision obliquely downwards and inwards to the middle line of the sacral region, and then perpendicularly downwards to the tip of the coccyx ; (3) from the tip of the coccyx obliquely downwards and outwards over the back of the thigh. When properly carried out, this incision intersects the fold of the nates at about its middle point, and terminates a little below the upper third of the thigh (Fig. 1, p. 3). A large flap of skin is thus marked out, and this must be raised from the subjacent superficial fascia and thrown outwards. On the right side of the body, the dissector begins at the crest of the ilium and works downwards and forwards; whilst on the left side he commences over the coccyx and works upwards and forwards. Superficial Fascia.—The superficial fascia is now exposed, and it is seen to partake of the same characters as the cor- responding layer of fascia in other parts of the body. Notice, however, its special peculiarities in this region. How it is much more heavily laden with fat—especially in the female; how it thickens over the lower and upper margins of the gluteus maximus, and how it becomes tough, elastic, and stringy over the ischial tuberosity, so as to form a most efficient cushion upon which this bony prominence rests while the body is in the sitting posture.