HIP-JOINT. 259 and almost vertical in direction, descends to find attachment into the lower end of the anterior intertrochanteric line. The interval between these two diverging parts of this ligament is occupied by a thinner portion of the capsule. The ilio-femoral band is sometimes called the Y-shaped ligament, but, in making use of this term, remember that the shape it presents is that of an inverted A. The pubo-femoral band is the name applied to several fasciculi of no great strength, which spring from the pubic bone and the thyroid membrane, and join the lower and anterior aspect of the capsule. In cases where the bursa under the ilio-psoas is continuous with the synovial mem- brane of the joint, the aperture of communication is placed between this band and the ilio-femoral band. The isclvio- capsular band is stronger. It takes origin from the ischium below the acetabulum, and passes into the lower and posterior aspect of the capsule. The zonular band is composed of circular fibres, and will be observed on the posterior aspect of the capsule. It encircles the neck of the femur behind and below, but is lost as it is traced forwards towards the upper part and the front of the capsule. The dissector has already observed the close connection which is exhibited between the capsule of the hip-joint and the tendons of the gluteus minimus, and the reflected head of the rectus. Reinforcing fibres are contributed to the capsule by both of these tendons. Movements permitted at the Hip-joint.—Before the capsule of the joint is opened the range of movement which is permitted at the hip- joint should be tested. Flexion, or forward movement, is very free, and is only checked by the anterior surface of the thigh coming into contact with the abdominal wall. Extension, or backward movement, is limited by the ilio-femoral band. This powerful ligament has a most important part to play in preserving the upright attitude with the least possible expenditure of muscular exertion. In the erect posture the line of gravity falls slightly behind the line joining the central points of the two hip-joints. In this position the ilio-femoral bands are tight, and prevent the pelvis from rolling backwards on the heads of the femora.