ABDOMINAL CAVITY. and has been called by His the tuber omentale. Immedi- ately above this part of the head of the pancreas the cceliac axis extends forwards from the aorta and breaks up into its three branches (Fig. 10S). The body of the pancreas is continuous with the upper part of the head, and extends to the left. It presents three surfaces, viz., (a) a?i anterior surface, covered by the layer of peritoneum which forms the posterior wall of the lesser sac, and in relation to the posterior surface of the stomach: (b) a posterior surface, moulded upon the anterior surface of the left kidney and suprarenal capsule, and con- nected with these by areolar tissue; and (c) a narrow inferior surface, which rests upon the summit of the flexura duodeno-jejunalis and the transverse colon, close to the splenic flexure. The transverse meso-colon is attached posteriorly to the pancreas along the border which separ- ates its anterior from its inferior surface. The splenic vessels present an intimate relationship to this part of the pancreas. The artery pursues its wavy course along its upper border; the vein takes a straight course under cover of the gland. The tail, or attenuated left extremity of the pancreas, is in contact with the inner surface of the spleen. The Duct of the Pancreas, called the ccuialjofJVij^u^, is embedded in the gland substance. It begins at the tail and runs towards the head, somewhat nearer the lower than the upper border. By dividing the gland, therefore, horizontally along this line, little difficulty will be experienced in discovering it. The extreme whiteness of its walls, and the fact that it is accompanied by the pancreatica magna artery, are a great help to the student in this dissection. As it approaches the head of the gland it will be observed to gain considerably in diameter, from its being joined by the small ducts which come from the various groups of lobules. A large tributary takes origin in that part of the lower ex- tremity of the head of the pancreas which is folded behind the mesenteric vessels (lesser pancreas). This passes upwards