THE LOWER LIMB. 192 skin rests is now brought into view, and the cutaneous nerves and vessels must be secured. First look for a small nerve—a branch of the small sciatic—which passes down- wards over the space near the middle line, and when this is found, dissect out the external saphenous vein. This vessel ascends in the middle line of the leg, and on tracing it upwards it will be found to disappear from view by piercing the deep fascia, and entering the lower part of the popliteal space. The terminal branch of the small sciatic nerve pierces the popliteal fascia at the lower part of the space, and here it will be seen lying close to the external saphenous vein. Popliteal Fascia.—Great care must be taken in remov- ing the superficial fascia from the deep popliteal fascia. Although thin, the deep fascia possesses considerable strength, owing to the transverse fibres which are interwoven amidst its proper aponeurotic fibres. In removing this fascia the dissector will notice that it is firmly attached on each side to the tendons of the muscles which bound the popliteal space. Above it is continuous with the fascia lata of the thigh. Dissection.—In cleaning the muscles which bound the popliteal space there are certain points to be attended to. In the case of the outer head of the gastrocnemius, care must be taken not to remove the nervus com- municansfbularis, which passes downwards and inwards upon its surface. In the groove between the heads of this muscle will be seen the nervus communicans tibialis. Further, the dissector must not overlook the synovial bursa which intervenes between the tendon of the semimem- branosus and the inner head of the gastrocnemius. This bursa some- times communicates with a second synovial sac, which will be brought into view by lifting the inner head of the gastrocnemius from the internal condyle of the femur. The dissection may be carried forwards on the inner aspect of the limb a little beyond the inner boundary of the space, in order to expose the superficial division of the anastomotica artery, the internal saphenous nerve and vein, and the posterior division of the internal cutaneous nerve. The internal saphenous nerve accompanied by the superficial part of the anastomotica artery will be found under cover of the sartorius.