250 THE LOWER LIMB. down, or perhaps by a common trunk, with the first per- forating. It pierces the same muscles, viz., the adductor brevis and adductor magnus. The third perforating springs from the profunda below the adductor brevis, and passes backwards through the adductor magnus. The fourth per- forating, as we have noted, is the terminal branch of the profunda femoris, and pierces the adductor magnus. The chief nutriefit artery to the femur may come from either the second or the third perforating branch. A second- nutrient tzvig is frequently derived from the fourth perforating artery. When the adductor magnus is more fully exposed, it will be seen that the perforating arteries, as they pierce its tendon, have a series of fibrous arches thrown over them. The Pectineus Muscle is placed between the adductor longus and the ilio-psoas. It is flat and somewhat broader at its origin from the brim of the pelvis than at its inser- tion into the femur. It has a fleshy origin, from the ilio-pectineal line, and from the surface of bone in front of it. Some fibres are likewise derived from Gimbernat's ligament. It descends obliquely outwards and backwards, and gains insertion into the femur behind the small tro- chanter, and to a certain extent also into the line which leads from this prominence down to the linea aspera. Dissection.—The pectineus may be detached from its origin, and thrown downwards and outwards. In separating the muscle from the pubis the dissector must bear in mind that in some cases an accessory obturator iierve descends into the thigh, over the brim of the pelvis, and under cover of its outer margin. Care must also be taken not to injure the anterior division of the obturator nerve which lies behind it, or the internal circumflex artery which passes backwards in contact with its outer border. The Accessory Obturator Nerve when present arises within the abdomen from the obturator trunk near its origin. In the thigh it gives a branch to the hip-joint and joins the anterior division of the obturator