SOLE OF THE FOOT. 299 and density. Behind, where it is attached to the internal tuberosity of the os calcis, it is narrow, but it expands as it passes forwards, and, near the heads of the metatarsal bones, splits into five processes, which are bound together by trans- verse fibres. In the intervals between the digital slips the digital vessels and nerves and the lumbrical muscles appear. Trace these processes forwards. One goes to the root of each toe, and there divides into two slips, which embrace the flexor tendons and become fixed to the flexor sheaths and to the transverse metatarsal ligament on either side of the toe. In its arrangement, therefore, this portion of the plantar fascia closely resembles the central part of the palmar fascia. The lateral parts of the plantar fascia are weak in com- parison with the central portion. They simply constitute aponeurotic coverings for the muscles which lie subjacent. A strong band is to be noted in connection with the outer part. It stretches between the prominence formed by the base of the fifth metatarsal bone and the external tuberosity of the os calcis. In connection with the plantar fascia two intermuscular septa have also to be studied. These pass upwards into the sole, along the line of the longitudinal furrows which mark off the central portion of the fascia from the lateral parts. They consequently lie one upon either side of the flexor brevis digitorum, and form partitions which separate it from the abductor hallucis on the one side, and the abductor minimi digiti on the other. Dissection.—To demonstrate these septa, make a transverse incision through the central portion of the plantar fascia about an inch in front of the internal tuberosity of the os calcis, and also a longitudinal cut through the same piece of fascia, extending from the first incision along the middle line of the foot. Now raise the divided fascia and throw it outwards and inwards. Some difficulty will be experienced in effecting this, owing to its affording a surface of origin in its upper part to the subjacent flexor brevis digitorum. As we approach the margins of this muscle the septa are brought into view.