ABDOMEN. 466 longs to a cavity which contains numerous viscera, the majority of which have undergone striking changes in position during development, and this is the reason why it is so very complicated. In opening the cavity of the abdomen, the peritoneal sac has been laid open, and the inner surface of the membrane is observed to present the usual smooth, polished, and glistening appearance. The part which lines the walls of the abdomen is termed the parietal peritoneum ; that which is reflected on to viscera is called the visceral peritoneum. Before tracing the peritoneum through its many windings, it is well that some terms which are applied to certain of its folds should be explained. The term omentum is employed to denote a fold of peritoneum which connects the stomach with neighbouring viscera. Thus we have the great or gastro-colic omentum connecting it with the transverse colon ; the small or gastro-hepatic omentum connecting it with the liver ; and the gastro-splenic omentum connecting it with the spleen. The term mesentery is applied to any fold of peritoneum which attaches the intestinal tube to the posterior wall of the abdomen, as, for example, the mesentery proper in connection with the small intestine, the tra?isverse meso-colofi, the sigmoid meso-colon, the mesentery of the vermiform appendix, and the mesenteries occasionally found in connection with the ascending and descending portions of the colon. The term ligament is given to folds which connect viscera which are not parts of the intestinal canal to the walls of the abdomen, or which bind viscera of any kind to the diaphragm. Examples of these are to be found jn the peritoneal ligaments of the liver, bladder, and uterus, and also in the lieno-renal, the phrenico-colic, and the gastro- phrenic ligaments. Let us now endeavour to follow the peritoneal membrane in the vertical direction (Fig. 98). The best point to start from is the great omentum, or large apron-like fold which hangs down from the stomach, and is spread out over the