ABDOMINAL WALL. 437 It is also essential that the student should determine the relation which these forms of hernia hold to the inguinal pouches of peritoneum. In oblique inguinal hernia the protrusion invariably leaves the abdominal cavity at the lower and inner part of the external inguinal pouch. It is here that the internal abdominal ring is situated. In the case of direct inguinal hernia the protrusion may leave the abdominal cavity either from the middle or from the ifitemal inguinal pouch, both of which are in relation to the floor of Hesselbach's triangle. In almost every case a hernial protrusion in passing to the surface carries before it a portion of the parietal peritoneum, which constitutes its immediate covering, and is termed by surgeons the sac of the hernia. In oblique inguinal hernia the other coverings which the protrusion acquires are identical with those of the spermatic cord. Entering the internal abdominal ring, it receives an investment from the infundibuli- form fascia; emerging from the lower border of the internal oblique, it acquires a cremasteric covering; and, coming out through the external abdominal ring, it obtains the external spermatic or intercolumnar fascia. From the surface, then, to the peritoneal sac, the following are the coverings of an oblique inguinal hernia:— 1. Skin and superficial fascia. 2. Intercolumnar or external spermatic fascia. 3. Cremasteric fascia. 4. Infundibuliform fascia. 5. Extra-peritoneal fatty tissue. 6. Parietal peritoneum, constituting the hernial sac. In direct inguinal hernia the coverings of the protrusion differ accord- ing to the part of Hesselbach's triangle through which it projects. If the student examine the floor of this triangular area, he will observe that the conjoined tendon does not stretch over its entire extent; that, towards the outer part of the space, the transversalis fascia alone forms the floor. When a direct hernia leaves the abdomen from the middle inguinal pouch, it is through this outer part of Hesselbach's triangle that it pro- trudes, and, in this case, the coverings are almost identical with those of oblique hernia. 1. Skin and superficial fascia. 2. Intercolumnar or external spermatic fascia. 3. Cremasteric fascia (as a general rule). 4. Transversalis fascia. 5. Extra-peritoneal fatty tissue. 6. Parietal peritoneum or sac. This form of direct hernia is comparatively rare. The more common form of direct hernia leaves the abdomen from the internal inguinal