448 ABDOMEN. 4. The two kidneys, the ureters, and the two suprarenal bodies. 5. Lymphatic glands, lymphatic vessels, the receptaculum chyli, and the commencement of the thoracic duct. 6. The abdominal aorta, with its various visceral and parietal branches. 7. The inferior vena cava and its tributaries, and the commence- ments of the venje azygos major and minor. S. The vena porta? and its tributaries. 9. The lumbar plexuses of nerves. 10. The abdominal portion of the sympathetic nervous system. 11. The peritoneal membrane which lines the cavity and invests the A mere glance is sufficient to distinguish between the three primary parts of the alimentary canal within the abdominal cavity. The stomach is the dilated bag-like portion which lies in the left part of the costal zone. The small intestine succeeds the stomach, and presents a striking contrast to the large intestine. The following are the lead- ing points of difference :—(1.) The calibre of the small intestine is usually considerably smaller than that of the large intestine. Sometimes, however, the large intestine is very much contracted, so this feature cannot be regarded as an infallible guide. (2.) The walls of the small intestine are smooth and uniform, whereas the walls of the great intestine are puckered and sacculated. (3.) The longitudi- nal muscular fibres in the wall of the great intestine are not disposed uniformly around the tube as in the small intestine, but are collected into three bands, which are separated from each other by intervals, and are distinctly visible to the naked eye. These bands are shorter than the tube itself, and this is the reason of its walls being puckered. (4.) Attached to the great intestine are appendices epiploiccc. TjT^sj^jmjjsmd from the gut and contain fat. On opening the abdominal cavity, the student obtains a very partial view of the contained viscera, so long as they are left undisturbed. On the right side of the costal zone the sharp margin of the liver may be observed projecting viscera.