ABDOMEN. 594 hemorrhoidal, which leads it to the internal iliac vein ; and the superior hemorrhoidal vein, which is one of the rootlets of the portal vein. The hemorrhoidal plexus may therefore be regarded as being the link between the systemic and portal system of veins. This has an important bearing upon the production of haemorrhoids, which consist in a varicose condition of the haemorrhoidal veins. As we have seen, the portal vein and its tributaries are devoid of valves ; consequently, anything retarding the flow of blood through the portal system will react upon the haemor- rhoidal plexus, cause its distension, and predispose to haemorrhoids. The internal iliac vein (vena hypogastrica) proceeds up- wards behind the artery of the same name, and joins the common iliac vein. With the exception of the ilio-lumbar vein, it receives tributaries corresponding to the branches of the artery. Dissection.—The diaphragm of the pelvis should next be examined. It is composed of two muscles upon each side—viz., the levator ani and the coccygens. Draw the viscera as far as possible to the right, and remove what remains of the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia upon the left side. This will expose the upper surface of the levator ani, the connections of which can now be studied. In cleaning the coccygeus, be careful not to injure the fifth sacral nerve and the coccygeal nerve, both of which pierce it near its insertion. Levator Ani.—The levator ani is a thin sheet of muscular fibres, and forms the anterior and greater part of the pelvic diaphragm. It has a triple origin. The anterior fibres spring from the back of the body of the pubic bone between the attachments of the visceral and parietal layers of pelvic fascia; the posterior fibres arise from the pelvic surface of the ischial spine; whilst the intermediate fibres, constituting the greater part of the muscle, take origin from the " white line " of the pelvic fascia, in the angle between the perineal portion of the parietal layer and the visceral layer.