ABDOMINAL CAVITY. 465 continuously into the meso-rectum, or the fold of peritoneum which binds the rectum, to the front of the sacrum. The sigmoid loop of intestine possesses considerable latitude of movement, owing to the length of its mesentery. It lies in the left iliac fossa, and in the true pelvis ; but a portion of it may also be found in the hypogastric region. The rectum will be described with the pelvic viscera. Adaptation of the Abdominal Walls to the Viscera, and of the Viscera to each other.—The abdomen is an air-tight cavity, and the atmospheric pressure acts upon its mobile walls so as to keep them constantly in accurate apposition with the viscera, and also the viscera in accurate contact with each other. During life, and in the undis- sected subject, no space of any kind is left vacant. The external configuration of the solid organs within the abdo- men is determined by this close adaptation of walls to con- tents, and of viscus to viscus. The liver is the best example of this—every structure with which it is in contact leaves its mark upon it, in the form of a depression, whilst its upper surface presents an exact mould of the under surface of the diaphragm. The Peritoneum.—The peritoneum is the serous mem- brane which lines the walls of the abdominal cavity, and gives more or less complete coverings to all the viscera within it. In the male it is a closed sac like other serous membranes. In the female, however, there is a small opening at the extremity of the Fallopian tube, by means of which the lumen of this tube communicates with the interior of the sac. It differs from other serous sacs in its great size, and also in its many complications. Take, for example, the pleura or the serous pericardium, or the tunica vaginalis ; in these cases the serous membrane lines a cavity which holds a single viscus, and the reflection of the membrane from the walls of the cavity on to the viscus, and from the viscus again on to the walls, can be followed with the greatest ease. The peritoneal sac, on the other hand, be- vol. 1.—30