167 AK TIC ULA TIONS. (4) outwards (abduction) ; (5) inwards across the palm towards the little finger (opposition). The muscles which operate upon the thumb are—(1) the three extensors (extensor ossis metacarpi, extensor primi internodii, and the extensor secundi internodii), producing extension ; (2) the flexor brevis pollicis and the opponens pollicis, proclucingyfetvoM and opposition, two movements which are similar in character ; (3) the abductor pollicis, which produces abduction ; (4) and the two adductors (adductor obliquus and the adductor transversus), which give rise to adduction. The metacarpal bones of the middle and index fingers possess very little power of independent movement. The metacarpal bone of the ring finger, and more especially the metacarpal bone of the little finger, are not so tightly bound to the carpus. In clenching the fist they both move forwards. The metacarpal bone of the little finger is provided with an opponens muscle, and has a feeble power of advancing forwards and outwards to meet the thumb. Metacarpophalangeal Articulations.—The slightly cupped base of the first phalanx of each digit articulates with the rounded head of the corresponding metacarpal bone, and is held in position by three ligaments, viz., a palmar and two lateral. The palmar ligament is a dense fibrous plate placed on the fore aspect of the joint. It is firmly attached to the base of the phalanx, but only slightly connected with the metacarpal bone. Occupying the interval between the two lateral ligaments, it is united to both by its margins, so that the three ligaments are more or less directly continuous. The palmar ligament also exhibits a close connection with the transverse metacarpal ligament which stretches transversely across the heads of the metacarpal bones, and its palmar surface is grooved for the flexor tendons as they proceed downwards over the joint. Further, the flexor sheath which bridges over the tendons is fixed to its borders. The lateral ligaments are placed one on either side of the joint. They are strong, thick, and short bands, which are attached on the one hand to the tubercle and depression on the lateral aspect of the head of the metacarpal bone, and on the other to the base of the phalanx.