GLUTEAL REGION. 179 the muscle. The second bursa lies immediately below this and in front of the part of the muscle which is inserted into the gluteal ridge of the femur. A slight touch of the knife is sufficient to open it, and then the glistening tendon of the vastus externus comes into view. The bursal sac inter- venes between this tendon and the aponeurotic insertion of the gluteus maximus. A third bursa is situated between the gluteus maximus and the tuber ischii. In all probability this has already been explored by the dissector of the perineum. It lies over the inferior aspect of the bony prominence and is interposed more between the tough superficial fascia and the bone, than between the muscle and the bone. Dissection.—On the second aay the dissector undertakes the dissection of the remaining structures which are displayed by the reflection of the gluteus maximus. The vessels and nerves which have been partially exposed in the previous day's dissection must now be followed up towards the pelvis, and the remaining vessels and nerves, together with the muscles, must be defined and cleaned by removing the loose areolar tissue which covers and passes between them. Parts under cover of the Gluteus Maximus.—As we proceed from the dorsum ilii downwards towards the tuber ischii and the back of the thigh, the following muscles may be recognised:—(1) The gluteus medius lying over the greater part of the dorsum ilii; (2) the pyriformis, issuing from the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen; (3) the tendon of the obturator internus coming through the small sacro-sciatic foramen, with the gemellus superior attached to its upper border and the gemellus inferior to its lower border; (4) the quadratus femoris passing from the tuber ischii to the upper end of the femur; (5) the upper border of the adductor magnus. By separating the contiguous margins of the gemellus inferior and quadratus femoris widely from each other, and looking into the interval between them, the tendon of the obturator externus will be revealed as it passes round the neck of the femur