SOLE OF THE FOOT. 301 The deep division of the external plantar nerve cannot be dissected at present, as it accompanies the external plantar artery. The stiperficial division, however, should be traced to its distribution. The Flexor Brevis Digitorum arises from the internal tubercle of the os calcis, from the deep surface of the central part of the plantar fascia, and from the intermuscular septum on either side of it. About the middle of the sole the fleshy belly divides into four slips, which end in slender tendons for the four outer toes. These enter the fibrous flexor sheaths of the toes, and will be afterwards studied. The Abductor Hallucis takes origin from the inner aspect of the internal tubercle of the os calcis, from the internal intermuscular septum, from the lower border of the internal annular ligament, and from the lateral part of the plantar fascia which covers it. A strong tendon issues from the fleshy belly. This is joined on its outer and deep surface by fibres of the internal head of the flexor brevis hallucis, and is inserted into the inner aspect of the base of the proximal phalanx of the great toe. Abductor Minimi Digiti.—The origin of this muscle ex- tends inwards under cover of the flexor brevis digitorum. The latter muscle must therefore be detached from the os calcis and turned forwards. The abductor minimi digiti is then seen to have a broad origin from both the inner and outer tubercles of the os calcis, from the external inter- muscular septum, and the lateral part of the plantar fascia which covers it. Its tendon is inserted into the outer aspect of the base of the proximal phalanx of the little toe. Dissection.—The origin of the abductor hallucis from the os calcis and from the internal annular ligament should be divided and the muscle turned inwards. With a little dissection the mode and place of origin of the plantar arteries and nerves will be made manifest. They are the terminal branches of the posterior tibial artery and nerve, and they arise in the hollow of the os calcis under cover of the origin of the abductor hallucis. But further, we are now in a position to trace the external plantar artery and nerve as they pass outwards upon the fnusculus accessorius to the point where they were first seen—viz., in the interval