426 ABDOMEN. portion attached to the abdominal wall the testicle is pulled down to the internal abdominal ring, the pubic portion drags it through the inguinal canal, whilst the scrotal.part finally leads it into the scrotum. The formation of the processus vaginalis is accounted for in the same way. Some of those gubernacular fibres which are inserted into the peritoneum drag down the peritoneal diverticulum which lines the inguinal canal and scrotum, and prepares the way for the testicle. It is but right to state that the active part we have ascribed to the gubernaculum in the process of testicular descent is not admitted by all anatomists. Some of our most eminent embryologists deny that it exerts any active traction upon the testicle. They consider that through the gubernaculum failing to keep pace with the general growth of sur- rounding parts, it anchors the testicle to a particular level, and by this means finally lands it in the scrotum. Dissection.—The coverings of the spermatic cord should now be removed, and the parts which enter into its formation isolated from each other. Constituent Parts of the Spermatic Cord.—The following are the structures which form the spermatic cord :— i. The vas deferens. These are all held together by loose areolar tissue, which intervenes between them, and also by the investments which are given to the cord by the abdominal wall. The cremasteric artery is a branch of the deep epigastric, and has already been seen entering the cremaster muscle. The genital branch of the genito-crural nerve has a similar destination. It has also been displayed in a previous stage of the dissection. The spermatic artery arises within the abdomen from the front of the aorta, and entering the cord at the internal abdominal ring, proceeds to the testicle, into the posterior 2. Blood vessels- Arteries. Veins. The spermatic. The cremasteric. The artery to the vas deferens. The spermatic plexus of veins. 3. Lymphatics. Genital branch of the genito-crural. Sympathetic twigs.