523 ABDOMINAL CAVITY. the alimentary canal (with the exception of the lower end of the rectum), from the spleen, pancreas, and gall-bladder. It reaches the under surface of the liver at the right extremity of the transverse fissure. Here it divides into its two terminal branches. The right branch is a short wide vessel, which immediately sinks into the liver; the left branch, much longer and considerably smaller, extends to the left along the bottom of the transverse fissure, and at the left extremity of this furrow it enters the liver sub- stance. Near this point the coats of the left branch of the portal vein are joined in front by the obliterated umbilical vein, whilst behind it has also attached to it the obliterated ductus venosus. The terminal part of the portal vein, just before it divides, is slightly expanded, forming the sinus of the portal vein. Note the relative position of the vein, artery, and duct at the transverse fissure. The duct is placed in front, the vein behind, whilst the artery is i?itermediate in position. They and their branches are all enveloped in a common fibrous sheath called Glisson's capsule. Trace them into the liver substance for a short distance. The portal vein branches like an artery, and, wherever it divides, there also will the hepatic artery and hepatic duct be found to divide. The branches of these three structures, therefore, traverse the liver substance in company, and Glisson's capsule is prolonged into the liver with them, and follows them in their ramifications. The student is now in a position to understand the meaning of the term "portal canal." It is employed to denote a channel in the liver substance lined by a prolongation of Glisson's capsule, and holding in its interior a branch of the portal vein, a branch of the hepatic artery, and a branch of the hepatic duct. The hepatic veins which lead the blood out of the liver have an arrangement altogether different from the vessels which inter at the transverse fissure. They converge towards the fossa for the vena cava on the posterior surface