412 ABDOMEN. and the pubes, on each side of the linea alba. Inferiorly it arises by two heads; of these, the external and larger is attached to the pubic crest, whilst the internal and smaller is fixed to the ligaments in front of the symphysis pubis. Towards the chest the muscle widens and becomes thinner, and its insertion is effected by three large slips into the anterior aspect of the costal cartilages of the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs'. The rectus muscle is broken up into portions by irregular tendinous intersections—the inscriptiones te?idinece or linea transversa. These are usually three in number, and are placed, one at the level of the umbilicus, another opposite the ensiform cartilage, and a third midway between. A fourth intersection is sometimes found below the umbilicus. We have seen that these tendinous intersections are closely adherent to the sheath of the rectus in front. Raise the muscle, and it will be apparent that they have no attachment to the sheath behind. Pyramidalis Muscle.—This is a small triangular muscle— not always present—which springs from the front of the pubes and the ligaments of the symphysis, and is inserted into the linea alba. It lies upon the lower part of the rectus, and is supposed to act as a tensor of the linea alba. The nerve of supply to the pyramidalis comes from the last dorsal nerve. To bring it into view the muscle must be carefully detached from the linea alba and turned downwards towards the pubes. The nerve will be exposed entering its deep surface. Sheath of the Rectus (vagina recti abdominis).—The dissector is now in a position to study the manner in which the rectal sheath is formed. An examination of the rela- tions which the aponeuroses of the three flat muscles of the abdomen bear to the rectus, will show that the sheath is incomplete, in so far as the rectus is concerned. It is deficient posteriorly, both above and below. From the lower margin of the thorax to a point midway between the umbilicus and pubes, it encloses the rectus