336 THE LOWER LIMB. corresponds with the upper surface of the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. In the recent state (and indeed usually also in the macerated condition of the bone) these three facets are very distinctly mapped off from each other by intervening ridges. Calcaneonavicular Ligaments.—Although the os calcis does not directly articulate with the scaphoid bone, it is connected with it by two powerful and important ligaments, viz., an inferior and an external. The inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament is brought into view by the removal of the astragalus. It fills up the angular gap between the sustentaculum tali and the scaphoid bone, and enters into the formation of the socket for the head of the astragalus. Its upper surface therefore is smooth and covered with synovial membrane; its lower surface is supported by the tendon of the tibialis posticus. This ligament has an important part to play in maintaining the integrity of the longitudinal arch of the foot. Pos- teriorly it is attached to the fore border of the sustentacu- lum tali, whilst in front it is fixed to the under surface of the scaphoid bone. The external calcaneo-scaphoid ligament also forms a small part of the socket for the head of the astragalus. It is placed deeply in the anterior part of the depression between the os calcis and the head of the astragalus. It is composed of short fibres which are attached in front to the outer side of the scaphoid bone, and behind to the upper aspect of the fore part of the os calcis, immediately to the outer side of the facet on the sustentaculum tali. An elongated narrow facet may sometimes be noticed in correspondence with this ligament, along the posterior and outer margin of the arti- cular surface of the head of the astragalus. In such cases four facets mark the head of the astragalus—one for each factor which enters into the formation of the socket in which it lies. Calcaneo-cuboid Articulation.—In this joint the concavo- convex surface on the fore aspect of the os calcis articulates