9 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. the muscle to the crest of the ilium, and its slips of origin from the lower ribs, must be carefully defined ; at the same time, the posterior and lower part of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen should be cleaned, so that its relation to the latissimus dorsi may be studied. As the latissimus dorsi sweeps over the inferior angle of the scapula it receives an accession of fibres from that bone. This fleshy slip may be brought into view when the muscle is cleaned by relieving the tension of the muscular fibres, and then turning the upper margin of the muscle outwards. It is apt to be mistaken for a piece of the teres major muscle upon which it lies. The Latissimus Dorsi is a wide, flat muscle, which covers the back from the level of the sixth dorsal vertebra down to the crest of the ilium. It arises—(i) from the tips of the spinous processes of the lower six dorsal vertebrae and the supraspinous ligaments in connection with them ; (2) from the superficial lamella of the lumbar fascia (Fig. 3) ; (3) by a thin tendinous origin from a small extent of the outer '/^ /^nJe^-t^ lip of the crest of the ilium in front of the lumbar fascia; (4) by three or four digitations from the lower three or four ribs ; and (5) by a fleshy slip from the dorsal aspect of the inferior angle of the scapula. By means of its origin from the posterior lamella of lumbar fascia, it receives an indirect attachment to the spines of the lumbar and upper sacral vertebras, and also to the posterior part of the crest of the ilium. The costal slips of origin inter- digitate with the lower digitations of the external oblique muscle of the abdominal wall. The fibres of the latissimus dorsi converge rapidly as they approach the lower part of the scapula. The highest fibres pass almost horizontally outwards towards this point; the lowest fibres ascend almost vertically ; whilst the intermediate fibres show varying degrees of obliquity. As a result of this convergence of fibres, the muscle is greatly reduced in width; and it sweeps over the inferior angle of the scapula in the form of a thick, fleshy band which winds round the lower margin of the teres major muscle, to gain insertion, by means of a narrow, flat