434 ABDOMEN. incision through it parallel to the outer border of the rectus, and carry it downwards on the inner side of the internal pillar of the external abdominal ring. The aponeurosis can thus be thrown downwards and outwards, and the external ring, at the same time, preserved. The internal oblique, cremaster, and conjoined tendon should now be cleaned, and their precise relations to the spermatic cord studied. Notice that the fleshy lower border of the internal oblique overlaps the upper part of the cord, whilst, towards the outlet of the inguinal canal, the conjoined tendon lies behind the cord. Next replace the aponeurosis of the external oblique, and, introducing the point of the forefinger into the external abdominal ring, press directly backwards. Observe that it rests upon the conjoined tendon ; that, in fact, this tendon and the fascia transversalis alone intervene between the finger and the extra- peritoneal fatty tissue and the.peritoneum. The lower part of the internal oblique muscle should now be separated from the transversalis by insinuating the handle of the knife between them. When this is done, divide the internal oblique close to Poupart's ligament, and throw it forwards. At the same time, make a longitudinal incision through the cremaster muscle, and turn it aside from the surface of the cord. All further dissection must be effected from the inside. Divide the abdominal wall horizontally, from side to side, at the level of the umbilicus. Raising the lower part of the abdominal wall, and examin- ing its posterior surface, the student will observe three peritoneal ridges or falciform folds radiating from the umbilicus as from a centre, and proceeding downwards towards the brim of the pelvis (Fig. 64). These are caused by the presence of three fibrous cords,—the urachus and the two obliterated hypogastric arteries,—in the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue. The tirachus occupies the middle line, and extends downwards to the apex of the bladder. The obliterated hypogastric artery proceeds down- wards and outwards on each side so as to gain the side of the bladder. It lies a short distance to the inner side of the internal abdominal ring. There is still another peritoneal ridge or fold on this aspect of the abdominal wall. It is formed by the deep epigastric artery as it passes upwards and inwards to reach the deep surface of the rectus abdominis muscle. It is placed a short distance to the outer side of the fold which corresponds to the obliterated hypogastric artery, and runs more or less parallel to it. By these three peritoneal folds three fossce, which vary greatly in depth in different subjects, are formed on either side of the middle line, close to Poupart's ligament. They are termed the external, middle, and internal inguinal pouches, and are very generally regarded as determin- ing, to a certain extent, hernial protrusions in this region. The internal inguinal fossa lies between the folds formed by the urachus and