FOREARM AND HAND. 99 placed, thickened band, the posterior annular ligament. On the dorsum of the hand the deep fascia is very thin. Front and Inner Border of the Forearm. In this dissection the following structures will be brought under the notice of the student:— 1. The radial and ulnar arteries and their branches. 2. The median and ulnar nerves and their branches. 3. The posterior interosseous and the radial nerves. 4. The group of pronator and flexor muscles. Dissection.—With the exception of the palmar cutaneous nerves, the superficial veins and nerves on the front of the forearm may now be turned aside. The deep fascia should also be removed, and on dissect- ing it inwards round the ulnar border of the forearm it will be found to be firmly attached to the posterior border of the ulna. Near the elbow, as already stated, it gives origin by its deep surface to the group of muscles which spring from the internal condyle of the humerus. Where this is the case it should be left in situ. Attempts to dissect it off will only result in laceration of the surface of the subjacent fleshy bellies. The radial artery should be followed out before the muscles are much disturbed, and at the same time the various muscles which lie upon the anterior surface of the radius, and upon which the vessel rests, should be cleaned. The Radial Artery is the smaller of the two terminal branches of the brachial artery, but the direction which it takes gives it the appearance of being the continuation of the parent trunk into the forearm. It takes origin in the anticubital fossa opposite the neck of the radius, and it proceeds downwards along the outer side of the front of the limb until it reaches the lower end of the bone. Here it turns round the outer aspect of the wrist and leaves the present dissection. At first it lies between the pronator radii teres and the supinator longus, and is overlapped to some extent on the outer side by the fleshy belly of the latter muscle (Fig. 25). Lower down it is placed between