MALE PERINEUM. 357 The superficial perineal artery, a branch of the pudic, first pierces the inner wall of Alcock's canal, and then the base of the triangular ligament, so as to gain the interior of the perineal pouch of fascia. It now crosses the transversus perinei muscle, and is continued forwards in the interval between the ejaculator urinse and erector penis to the scrotum, to the dartos muscle and integuments of which it is distributed in the form of numerous long, slender branches. Before it reaches the scrotum, it supplies twigs to the super- ficial perineal muscles. It is accompanied by the superficial perineal nerves. The transverse perineal artery is a small vessel which usually springs from the pudic by a common root of origin with the preceding. It pierces the base of the triangular ligament, and, gaining the surface of the transversus perinei muscle, proceeds transversely inwards to the interval between the rectum and the bulb, where it ends by supplying the parts in this locality, and by anastomosing with the corre- sponding vessel of the opposite side. The posterior superficial perineal nerve, a branch of the perineal division of the pudic nerve, has already been seen in the anterior part of the ischio-rectal fossa, where it effects a communication with the inferior hoemorrhoidal nerve. It leaves the fossa by piercing the base of the triangular liga- ment, and is continued forwards with the superficial perineal artery to the scrotum. The anterior superficial perineal nerve, also derived from the perineal part of the pudic nerve, supplies a few twigs to the levator ani, and, piercing the base of the triangular liga- ment, is prolonged forward with the posterior nerve to the scrotum. IllJ'^rne^mstajT^ of^theJrajT^vej^u^jje^ Dissection.—Instead of searching for the long pudendal nerve at the point where it becomes superficial, and then following it towards its distribution, it is much easier to find it after it has entered the perineal pouch of fascia. Here it will be discovered lying in close relation to the