PEL VIS. 573 upper border of the parietal pelvic fascia. The nerves, on the other hand, lie outside or behind the fascia, and do not require to pierce it in emerging from the pelvis. This difference in the relation of the nerves and blood vessels can be well studied by looking at the fascia as it passes over the great sacro-sciatic foramen. The arrangement of the pelvic blood vessels with reference to the lining fascia is a matter of some practical interest. The margins of the apertures in the fascia through which the vessels pass are usually strengthened by some encircling fibres. Sciatic hernia consists in the escape of a portion of gut through the sciatic notch. It makes its way through the parietal pelvic fascia by means of one of these apertures. It may be placed above or below the pyriformis muscle. In the former case, it escapes through the aperture of the gluteal artery ; in the latter case, it forces its way through the aperture of the sciatic or internal pudic artery. A hernia may also occur through the thyroid foramen (obturator hernia). In this case, the gut follows the obturator artery over the upper border of the parietal pelvic fascia through the canal that is formed between this and the under surface of the pubic bone. Dissection.—The right innominate bone should now be removed, in order that a side view of the pelvic viscera may be obtained. The first step to take is to divide the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia from behind forwards, about half-an-inch from the white line. Next, saw through the pubic bone, half-an-inch external to the symphysis, and divide the great sacro-sciatic ligament close to the sacrum. The further separation of the bone should be effected at the sacro-iliac articulation by means of the saw. In connection with the detached innominate bone, a good view may be obtained of the fascial origin of the levator ani (Fig. 127, p. 567), and also of the origin of the obturator internus. It is better, however, to defer the description of these muscles until the viscera are removed. The dissector should, in the next place, turn his attention to that portion of the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia which has been left attached to the viscera. Follow it as far as possible in its reflections upon them, but preserve intact the capsule of the prostate. When its connections have been recognised, remove what remains of the fascia on the right side, and clean the viscera, taking care not to injure the blood vessels and nerves which supply them. This dissection will be facilitated if the rectum be moderately stuffed with tow, and the bladder partially inflated with air. In the case of the rectum, first cleanse it