SHO UL DER-JOINT. spinatus and teres minor are applied to it; in front is the subscapu- laris. Below, the capsule is to a certain extent unsupported by muscles, and here it is prolonged downwards, in the form of a fold, in the ordi- nary easy dependent position of the limb (Fig. 24). When, however, the arm is abducted, this fold is obliterated, and the head of the bone rests upon the inferior part of the capsule, which now receives partial support from two muscles which are stretched under it, viz., the long head of the triceps and the teres major. Still, this must be regarded as the weakest part of the joint, and consequently dislocation of the head of the humerus, downwards into the axilla through the inferior part of the capsule, is an occurrence of considerable frequency. Dissection.—Begin by detaching the axillary vessels and brachial nerves from the coracoid process to which they have been tied, and throw them downwards. Then proceed to remove the muscles. Divide the conjoined origin of the short head of the biceps and the coraco- brachialis close to the coracoid process, the teres major about its middle, and the long head of the triceps about an inch or two below its origin, and turn them aside. Next deal with the muscles more immediately in relation to the joint, viz., the supraspinatus, the infraspinatus, the teres minor, and the subscapularis. These must be removed with great care and deliberation, because their tendons are closely connected with the subjacent ligamentous capsule. They are not incorporated with the capsule, however, although at first sight they appear to be so, and thus they can be dissected from it. In the case of the subscapularis a protrusion of the synovial membrane, forming a bursa, will be found near its upper border, close to the root of the coracoid process. The capsule of the shoulder-joint may now be cleaned, and its attachments defined. The Ligaments in connection with the shoulder-joint are :— 1. The capsular ligament. 3. The gleno-humeral. 2. The coraco-humeral. 4. The glenoid. The Capsular Ligament is a dense and strong ligamentous structure, which envelops the shoulder-joint on all sides. It is attached to the scapula around the glenoid cavity, but only above is it directly fixed to the bone. Elsewhere it springs from the fibrous ring or glenoid ligament, which serves to deepen the articular cavity ; indeed, in its lower part, it appears to be nearly continuous with the border of