PEL VIS. 591 mesenteric, and below with the inferior hemorrhoidal twigs from the internal pudic. The obturator artery (arteria obturatoria) proceeds for- wards upon the inner aspect of the pelvic wall to the upper part of the thyroid foramen. Here it comes into relation with the nerve of the same name, and both leave the cavity by passing above the pelvic fascia and below the groove upon the under surface of the ascending ramus of the pubic bone. Within the pelvis it lies in the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue, between the peritoneum and the parietal pelvic fascia; the obturator nerve is placed at a higher level, whilst the vein lies below it. In this part of its course the obturator artery furnishes a small iliac branch to the parts in the iliac fossa, and a minute pubic branch, which ramifies upon the back of the pubic bone and anastomoses with a similar branch from the deep epigastric artery. The pudic artery (arteria pudenda interna) is now seen in the pelvic part of its course. It proceeds downwards upon the pyriformis muscle and sacral nerves, and reaching the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, it leaves the pelvis by passing through it. In the gluteal region it appears between the pyriformis and the superior gemellus. The sciatic artery (arteria glutsea inferior) can be recog- nised from its being the largest of the branches which spring from the anterior division of the internal iliac, and also from its generally lying a little behind the pudic. It proceeds downwards upon the pyriformis muscle and sacral nerves, and quits the pelvis for the gluteal region through the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen. The ilio-lumbar artery (arteria ilio-lumbalis) is directed upwards, outwards, and backwards behind the obturator nerve, the external iliac vessels, and the psoas muscle, to the iliac fossa, where it divides into a lumbar and an iliac branch. The lumbar branch (ramus lumbalis) runs upwards and ramifies in the substance of the psoas and quadratus lumborum muscles, where it anastomoses with the lower