I ABDOMINAL WALL. 403 proceeds forwards under cover of the external oblique aponeurosis, which it soon pierces. The ilio-inguinal nerve will be found perforating the internal oblique a little way in front of the hypogastric nerve and at a lower level. It becomes superficial by passing through the external abdominal ring. Care must be taken in defining the lower margin of the muscle to preserve its relations to the spermatic cord, and not to injure the muscular fasciculi which it gives to the cremaster muscle. The Obliquus Abdominis Interims (Fig. 79) arises—(1.) from the abdominal grooved surface of Poupart's ligament in its outer half; (2.) from the middle lip of the anterior two- thirds of the iliac crest; (3.) from the lumbar aponeurosis. From this origin the muscular fibres radiate, but the general direction is from below upwards and forwards. The posterior fibres ascend, and are inserted into the lower borders of the cartilages of the lower three ribs. These fibres occupy the same plane as the internal intercostal muscles—indeed, they will be observed to be directly continuous with the fibres of the internal intercostal muscles of the two lower spaces. The lower fibres, or those springing from Poupart's ligament, arch downwards and inwards, and join with the lower fibres of the transversalis in a flat tendon, called the cottjoined tendon, which is inserted into the pubic crest, and into the ilio- pectineal line behind Gimbernat's ligament, for fully half-an- inch of its extent (Fig. 80). The intermediate fibres proceed upwards and forwards, and end in a strong aponeurosis, which extends from the lower margin of the chest to the pubis. By this aponeurosis they gain insertion into the lower borders of the seventh and eighth ribs and the ensi- form cartilage, and into the linea alba throughout its entire length. The manner, however, in which the aponeurosis reaches the middle line requires special description. At the outer margin of the rectus muscle the aponeurosis of the internal oblique splits into two layers—a superficial and a deep. The superficial aponeurotic layer passes in front of the rectus, and has already been seen to fuse with the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. The deep layer