THE LOWER LIMB. 3>S of the joint may be studied. The quadriceps extensor may be divided about three inches above the patella, and the lower part allowed to remain in position. Further, the various articular arteries which sur- round the joint should be followed to their terminations. The Capsule of the knee-joint, together with the internal and posterior ligaments, form a complete investment for the articulation. In the upper and front part of the joint it is deficient, but here its place is taken by the common tendon of the quadriceps extensor muscle. The capsule may be regarded as an aponeurotic expansion on the front of the articulation, which fills up the intervals between the two lateral and the anterior ligaments. The fascia lata and expansions from the surrounding tendons enter into its for- mation. Thus, on the outer aspect, it is largely composed of the ilio-tibial band of fascia lata as this proceeds downwards to its attachment to the tibia. Traced backwards, the cap- sule will be seen to be prolonged over, and to hide from view, the external lateral ligament. On the inner side of the limb it receives expansions from the sartorius and semi- membranosus, and fuses with the internal lateral ligament. The Ligamentum Patellae forms the anterior ligament of the knee-joint, and constitutes, at the same time, the tendon of insertion of the quadriceps extensor muscle. By the removal of the capsular expansion from its surface it may be fully exposed and its margins defined. The, ligamentum patella is a strong band, about two inches long, which is attached above to the apex and lower border of the patella, and below to the lower part of the anterior tubercle of the tibia. Its superficial fibres are directly continuous over the surface of the patella with the central part of the common tendon of the quadriceps extensor. Its deep surface rests upon the infrapatellar pad of synovial fat, and upon a small bursa which intervenes between it and the upper part of the anterior tubercle of the tibia. The two lower arterial anastomotic arches of the knee are placed under cover of it.