MALE PERINEUM. 347 Subdivision of the Space.—The perineal space has, therefore, a diamond-shaped form, and it is customary to subdivide it arbitrarily into two portions by drawing an imaginary transverse line between the anterior parts of the ischial tuberosities immediately in front of the anus. Two triangles are thus mapped out. The anterior of these may be appropriately called the urethral triangle, because the most important object which it contains is the urethra ; the posterior may be distinguished as the rectal triangle, from its containing the lower end of the rectum. Reflection of Skin.—Two incisions are required :—(Fig. 64) (1.) a transverse incision along the line which separates the rectal from the urethral triangle—i.e., in front of the tuberosities of the ischium ; (2.) an incision at right angles to this in the line of the median raphe. This incision should begin well forwards on the scrotum and be continued back a little beyond the point of the coccyx. At the anus the knife should be carried round it so as to encircle it. The four triangular flaps which are marked out should now be reflected close to the anal orifice. Some difficulty will be experienced in raising the skin. This is due to the presence of a number of fasciculi of involuntary muscle which radiate outwards from the opening. The term_jW77£og^w^ The superficial fascia and the external sphincter muscle are now exposed. Rectal Triangle. The dissection of this portion of the perineal space will disclose the following parts (Fig 66, p. 355) :— 1. The superficial fascia. 2. The external sphincter ani muscle. 3. The lower part of the rectum covered by the levator ani muscle and the anal fascia. 4. The parietal or obturator layer of pelvic fascia. 5. The lower border of the gluteus maximus muscle and the great sacro-sciatic ligament. 6. The coccygeus muscle. 7. The inferior hemorrhoidal vessels and nerves. 8. The perineal branch of the fourth sacral nerve. 9. The commencement of the two superficial perineal nerves. 10. The perforating cutaneous branch of the fourth sacral nerve.