575 PEL VIS. uniform appearance. The first part of the rectum is com- pletely clothed by peritoneum, and is connected to the anterior surface of the sacrum by a short peritoneal fold called the meso-rectum. Between the two layers of this fold, the superior hemorrhoidal artery will be observed descending to supply the gut. The first part of the rectum is in relation posteriorly to the sacrum, the left pyriformis muscle, and the left sacral plexus of nerves, separated from them, however, by the peritoneum. In relation to its left side are the left ureter and branches of the left internal iliac vessels. In frotit it is separated from the posterior surface of the bladder by the recto-vesical peritoneal pouch, and, it may be, by some coils of small intestine contained within this pouch. The second part of the rectum is usually the most dilated portion of this section of the gut, and measures about three inches in length. It occupies a median position and extends from the third piece of the sacrum to a point fully an inch beyond the tip of the coccyx. Here the rectum bends backwards upon itself and enters upon its third stage. In its upper two-thirds the second part of the rectum is adapted to the anterior surface of the sacrum and coccyx, and-is firmly fixed in position. It consequently describes a curve, the concavity of which is directed forwards. Beyond the coccyx the lower part of this portion of the rectum is supported behind by a dense mass of tissue, partly muscular and partly fibrous, which fills up the interval between the coccyx and the anus, and to which the term of ano-coccygeal body is applied (Symington). The relations which the peritoneum presents to the second part of the rectum are of high importance. It clothes the gut at first both on its anterior and lateral aspects, leaving its posterior surface bare ; soon, however, the peritoneum passes away from the sides of the gut, and finally, about one inch above the base of the prostate, it quits the rectum altogether and is reflected on to the bladder. This reflection forms the bottom of the recto-vesical pouch of peritoneum, and it is usually placed