485 ABDOMINAL CAVITY. Dissection.—The coils of the small intestine must now be pulled over to the right side of the body, and the peritoneum carefully removed by the fingers from the lower part of the aorta and the left side of the spine and psoas muscle. The inferior mesenteric artery is thus exposed, and its branches can be followed to their distribution. The ureter and the inferior mesenteric vein will be seen lying upon the psoas muscle. The Inferior Mesenteric Artery (arteria mesenterica in- ferior), considerably smaller than the superior mesenteric, springs from the left side of the abdominal aorta, about an inch and a-half above its bifurcation into the two common iliacs, and descends with a slight inclination to the left, towards the left iliac fossa. At first it is applied to the left side of the aorta, to which it is bound by peritoneum; it then crosses the left common iliac artery and enters the pelvis, where it receives the name of superior hemorrhoidal. Before leaving the abdomen proper it gives off the left colic and the sigmoid branches. The left colic artery (arteria colica sinistra) proceeds to the left, over the left kidney, and divides into two branches, of which one ascends in the transverse meso-colon to inos- culate with the middle colic, whilst the other descends behind the peritoneum lining the posterior wall of the abdomen to unite with the sigmoid. From the arches thus formed twigs are supplied to the colon. The sigmoid arteries (arterise sigmodea?) proceed obliquely downwards, and, entering the sigmoid meso-colon, break up into several branches. These form arches with each other, from which twigs are ultimately given to the sigmoid flexure of the colon. The upper arch is in connection with the lower branch of the left colic, whilst the lower arch inoscu- lates with the superior hemorrhoidal artery. The arcading of the sigmoid vessels resembles that of the vasa intestini tenuis of the small intestine, and the extent to which it is carried varies with the length of the sigmoid meso-colon. Most frequently in place of one there are two or three sigmoid arteries, each with an independent origin from the inferior mesenteric artery.