70 THE UPPER LIMB. through the deep fascia, and establishes a connection between the median and the deep veins of the forearm. This con- necting trunk is called the profunda vein. After receiving this tributary, the median at once divides into two branches, which diverge widely from each other, like the limbs of the letter V. The inner branch is called the median-basilic ; the outer the median-cephalic. The median-basilic is a short wide vessel which passes upwards and inwards, and as it approaches the front of the internal condyle of the humerus it is joined by the two ulnar veins. These may enter it separately; but more commonly the anterior ulnar vein joins the larger posterior ulnar vein in the upper part of the forearm, so as to form a common trunk, with a single opening into the median-basilic. The large vein, resulting from the union of the median-basilic and the two ulnar veins, is termed the basilic vein. The median-basilic is the vein which is commonly selected when the surgeon has recourse to venesection, and formerly, when the practice of bloodletting was much more common than it is now, the relations of this vein were a matter of very high importance.1 The dissector should observe the follow- ing points in regard to it:—(i) that it crosses a thickened piece of the deep fascia, termed the bicipital fascia; (2) that this fascia separates it from the brachial artery, which it also crosses; and (3) that the anterior part of the internal cutaneous nerve lies behind it, although in many cases it may cross in front of it. The mediati-cephalic vein is not so large as the median- basilic, and it generally ascends with a greater degree of obliquity. It crosses always in front of the cutaneous branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and is joined by the radial vein. The resulting trunk is called the cephalic vein. 1 Many surgeons prefer the median-cephalic vein for the purpose of venesection, because, although it is smaller than the median basilic, and does not yield so free a flow of blood, it may be opened with much less risk.