576 ABDOMEN. opposite the middle of the fifth piece of the sacrum. Below the reflection of the peritoneum, the anterior surface of the rectum is in relation to the base of the bladder and the posterior surface of the prostate. It must be borne in mind, however, that the recto-vesical layer of the pelvic fascia extends across the pelvis between the gut and these viscera, and that only a small triangular portion of the bladder is in close relation to the rectum. Interposed between the gut and the bladder there are on each side of this area the seminal vesical and the vas deferens. Lying, as it does, between the bladder and prostate in front, and the concavity of the sacrum and coccyx behind, the second part of the rectum when empty and collapsed has its anterior wall pressed against its posterior wall. In this condition, therefore, its lumen appears in transverse section in the form of a transverse slit. Behind the apex of the prostate, at the point where the gut bends so as to enter upon its third stage, the anterior wall in the distended condition of the rectum frequently shows a slight bulging or cul-de-sac which gains a lower level than the the prostate. The third part of the rectum is the narrow passage which leads from the second part of the gut to the anus. Except during the passage of faeces it is always tightly closed by the application of its lateral walls to each other. In coronal sections of the pelvis, therefore, it appears in the form of a longitudinal slit. It is very different in its surroundings and functions from the other parts of the rectum, and may appropriately be distinguished by the special term of anal canal (Symington). The anal canal begins at the apex of the prostate and proceeds downwards and backwards to the anal orifice. In length it measures from one to one and a-half inches. It is totally destitute of peritoneum, but it is supported and clothed by a prolongation from the rectal layer of the pelvic fascia. It is closely surrounded by strong muscles which keep constant guard over it, and only allow its lateral walls to separate from each other during defalcation. Thus, the internal sphincter encircles it in very nearly its whole length ;