ABDOMINAL CAVITY. 4S7 The Inferior Mesenteric Vein receives tributaries corre- sponding with the branches of the inferior mesenteric artery. It passes upwards upon the psoas muscle under cover of the peritoneum, to the left of, and at some distance from, the artery, and, disappearing behind the pancreas, it ends in the splenic vein. The Inferior Mesenteric Plexus of Nerves is an offshoot from the left side of the aortic plexus. It closely surrounds the artery, and sends twigs along the branches of the vessel to supply the left half of the great intestine. Dissection.—If the peritoneum has been carefully stripped off the lower part of the aorta, there will be little difficulty in recognising and following out the delicate nerves which form the aortic plexus. Raise the third part of the duodenum from the surface of the aorta, and trace these nervous twigs upwards. The Aortic Plexus of Nerves is placed upon the aorta between the origins of the two mesenteric arteries. It is more strongly marked upon the sides of the artery than in front of it. Superiorly it will be found to be continuous with the solar and renal plexuses, whilst inferiorly it sends numerous large branches downwards in front of the common iliac arteries to join the hypogastric plexus—a plexus which is situated in front of the fifth lumbar vertebra, and which will be afterwards dissected. Upon each side the aortic plexus will be observed to be reinforced by several small twigs from the gangliated cord of the sympathetic. The inferior mesenteric plexus accompanying the artery of that name, and the spermatic (or ovarian) plexus of nerves which accompanies the spermatic (or ovarian) artery, are offsets from it. Removal of the Intestines.—The jejunum, ileum, crecum, and colon may now be removed from the abdominal cavity. Apply two ligatures around the upper end of the jejunum, about an inch or so below the duodeno-jejunal flexure, and divide the gut between them ; then place two ligatures around the sigmoid flexure at the brim of the pelvis, and divide it in like manner. The entire intestinal canal, with the exception of the duodenum and rectum, can now be taken away by