ABDOMEN. 374 urethra, the artery should lie in front of and superficial to it. When the artery to the bulb arises further back, as it sometimes does, it will, in all probability, be cut; and there is no way of avoiding this, seeing that there are no means by which we can discover this abnormal origin beforehand. The pudic artery runs no danger until it has given off the artery to the bulb, and has left the shelter of the pubic arch to lie between the layers of the triangular ligament. The risk of wounding this vessel is very slight, and it could only occur in the careless withdrawal of the knife. The superficial perineal branch of the pudic is frequently cut in the early stages of the operation, but under ordinary circumstances there is little difficulty in securing it. It has been stated, however, that if it should happen to be divided close to its origin, it might retract within Alcock's canal. The accident would then be in every respect as awkward an occurrence as a wound of the main vessel itself. Although the rectum lies in close proximity to the membranous and prostatic parts of the urethra, it is very rarely injured. It is the invari- able practice of the surgeon to empty the rectum by an enema prior to the operation. A pad of tow, soaked in a mixture of spirit and carbolic acid, should be placed in the perineum, and the flaps of skin carefully stitched over it. On the second day, after the body has been brought into the Rooms, it is placed upon its face, and the dissectors of the abdomen stop work until the subject is turned, which is done four days later. THE FEMALE PERINEUM. The boundaries of the female perineum are identical with those in the male. The region, however, is wider and of greater extent. For purposes of description, it is subdivided by an imaginary transverse line drawn in front of the anus and the tuberosities of the ischium into a posterior recta/ triangle and an anterior urethral triangle. External Anatomy.—The rectal triangle presents the same points for consideration as in the male. The external anatomy of the urethral triangle demands the careful study