ABDOMEN. 344 foot is raised above the ground. The outer border of the foot is more or less in contact with the ground in its entire extent, whilst the tips of the toes rest lightly on the ground. In walking—(i) the heel is brought down ; (2) the sole and toes follow ; (3) the heel is raised, and the weight of the body is transferred to the heads of the metatarsal bones and the toes. In the second and third parts of this operation the arches of the foot are flattened to a certain extent, but more especially in the third part of the process is the transverse arch spread out. Great elasticity is thus given to the step. The muscles which are chiefly concerned in producing eversion of the foot are the three peroneal muscles ; those which operate as invertors of the foot are the tibialis anticus and the tibialis posticus. The extensors of the toes are the extensor longus hallucis, the extensor brevis cligitorum, and the extensor longus digitorum. The lumbrical muscles, and the interosseous muscles, through their insertions into the extensor tendons of the four outer toes, operate as extensors of the second and third phalanges. The flexors of the proximal phalanges are the lumbricales, interossei, flexor brevis hallucis, and flexor brevis minimi digiti. The flexor of the second phalanges is the flexor brevis digitorum; whilst the flexors of the distal phalanges are the flexor longus digitorum, the musculus accessorius, and the flexor longus hallucis. Abduction and adduction of the toes at the metatarso-phalangeal joints are produced by the interosseous muscles, the abductor hallucis, the adductor obliquus hallucis, the adductor transversus hallucis, and the abductor minimi digiti. The movements of abduction and adduction take place with reference to a line drawn through the second toe. ABDOMEN. When the body is brought into the dissecting-room, it is first placed in the lithotomy position (Fig. 64). A stout cord or bandage is doubled and passed in the form of a running noose over each hand of the subject, so as to grasp the wrist when tightened. The hands are then drawn down- wards and the feet upwards until the palm of each hand rests upon the outer aspect and dorsum of the corresponding foot. In this position they must be securely fixed by