THE LOWER LIMB. 206 be seen that they do not pierce the fleshy substance of the muscle. Prepared for each is a tendinous archway, and they reach the back of the thigh by passing between these and the linea aspera, to which the piers of the various arches are attached. These openings lie in the same line, and are in all re- spects analogous to the large opening in the adductor magnus muscle for the popliteal artery. The result obtained is the same in each case. When the muscle contracts, the vessels are protected from pressure. Emerging from the tendinous arches the perforating arteries wind round the back of the femur so as to gain its outer aspect, and reach the vastus externus in which they end. In this part of their course they pierce the short head of the biceps. The highest member of the series, which lies above the level of the femoral attachment of the biceps, pierces, as we have already seen, the insertion of the gluteus maximus. Dissection.—To bring the adductor magnus muscle more fully into view, and at the same time to facilitate the process of cleaning its radiating fibres, it is well to reflect the hamstring muscles from their origins. First divide the conjoined tendon of the biceps and semi- tendinosus. This displays the precise origin of the semimembranosus, and when the dissector has again examined this under the present more advantageous circumstances he should divide it also. Anastomosis on the Posterior Aspect of the Limb.—In a well-injected subject a chain of anastomoses, in which every link is complete, can be traced from the gluteal region down the back of the thigh to the popliteal space. The present is the best time to study this. Commencing above, we find the gluteal artery anastomosing with the sciatic, and the sciatic with the internal circumflex. In the back of the thigh this chain is carried downwards by the internal and external circumflex arteries anasto- mosing with the first perforating, each perforating artery inosculating with the one below it, and lastly, the lower