324 THE LOWER LIMB. upwards, backwards, and outwards. The different facets come into contact and break contact with the femur in regular succession. Let us suppose the knee-joint to be acutely flexed : in this condition of the limb the internal perpendicular facet of the patella rests upon the cres- centic facet of the internal condyle of the femur, while the outer of the two upper patellar facets is in contact with the outer lip of the trochlear surface of the femur. No part of the patella touches the inner lip of the trochlear surface. As the leg is moved from the fully flexed to the fully extended position, the two upper facets, then the two intermediate facets, and, lastly, the two lower facets, come succes- sively into contact with the trochlear surface of the femur (Goodsir). In Fig. 61 the position of the patella in the fully extended knee is exhibited. Now examine the condylar surfaces of the femur. The posterior two-thirds of the internal condyle will be seen to be of equal extent with, and parallel to, the external condyle. The anterior third of the internal condyle, however, turns obliquely outwards to join the troch- lear surface. The external condylar surface has no part corresponding with this, and its presence in connection with the internal condyle gives rise to the ' screw-home ' movement, which is so characteristic of the knee-joint when fully extended. At the commencement of flexion and at the completion of extension there is a screw movement, or a movement of rotation of the tibia and femur on each other. As the leg is moved forwards from the condition of acute flexion, the condyles of the femur roll and glide over the surfaces on the upper end of the tibia until the surface of the external condyle, and the corresponding part of the in- ternal condyle, are exhausted. This movement of the femoral condyles has been compared to that of ' a wheel partially restrained by a drag' (Goodsir). Any additional movement beyond this point must neces- sarily take place in connection with the anterior oblique third of the internal condyle. This produces a rotation or screw-like motion of the femur inwards. The internal condyle travels backwards round the spine of the tibia, and the anterior part of the intercondyloid notch comes into contact with the anterior crucial ligament and the internal tubercle of the tibial spine (Bruce Young). The joint is now * screwed home ' or locked. In the initial stage of flexion the reverse movement must be accomplished. The unlocking of the joint can only be brought about by a rotation inwards of the tibia, or a rotation outwards of the femur. When fully extended, as we have seen, the joint is locked, and the posterior, lateral, and anterior crucial ligaments are tense. The limb is converted into a rigid column, and the upright posture is thereby main- tained with the smallest possible degree of muscular exertion.