5i6 ABDOMEN. of the liver alone remain to be studied. Upon these the demarcation of the organ into a right and a left lobe is( effected by the longittcdinalfissure. This furrow pursues a course which corresponds with the line of attachment of the falciform ligament on the superior and anterior surfaces. The portion of the longitudinal fissure, which traverses the inferior surface, extends from the anterior border, where it begins in a notch, in a straight direction backwards to the left extremity of the transverse fissure. It lodges the obliterated umbilical vein or ligamentum teres, and is in consequence termed the umbilical fissure. Sometimes it is more or less completely bridged over by liver substance, so that a portion, or perhaps the whole of it, is converted into a tunnel or canal. In these cases, the overlying piece of liver substance constitutes a link between the right and left lobes, and receives the name of pons hepatis. The continuation of the longitudinal fissure on the posterior surface begins at the left extremity of the transverse fissure, and takes a vertical course upwards. It lodges the slender fibrous cord which represents in the adult the ductus venosus of the foetus. It is consequently called the fissure of the ductus venosus. Inferior Surface of the Liver.—Having recognised the boundary line between the two main lobes of the liver, the dissector should examine carefully the inferior and posterior surfaces. The inferior surface, when the liver was in situ, has been seen to be very oblique, and to look as much to the left as in a downward direction. It is to some extent also slightly hollowed out, or concave, and it bears upon itself the impress of the various organs with which it is in contact. Thus the left lobe presents a concavity of greater or less extent according to the degree of distension of the stomach upon which it is moulded. It also exhibits, in the neigh- bourhood of the longitudinal fissure, a smooth rounded boss or eminence, termed by His the tuber omentale. This pro- minence lies above and to the right of the lesser curvature of