GLUTEAL REGION. 177 curved line and the outer lip of the crest; from the sides of the lower two pieces of the sacrum and the upper three pieces of the coccyx; from the entire posterior surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament; and slightly from the posterior layer of the lumbar aponeurosis, at the attachment of the latter to the crest of the ilium. From this extensive origin the coarse fasciculi of the muscle proceed obliquely downwards and forwards towards the upper portion of the femur, but only a comparatively small proportion of them receive direct insertion into that bone. The greater part of the muscle is inserted into the fascia lata. To be more precise, we may say that the whole of the fibres belonging to the upper half of the muscle, and the superficial stratum of fibres of the lower half of the muscle, are inserted into the fascia lata. The deeper fibres of the lower half of the muscle, however, are directly attached to the " gluteal ridge" on the back of the femur (i.e., the ridge which extends from the great trochanter to the linea aspera). Reflection of the Gluteus Maximus.—This is by no means an easy dissection. It is best to detach the muscle from its origin and throw it downwards towards its insertion. It should be dissected completely away from the various surfaces from which it arises. By this means the general outline of the pelvis becomes more apparent, and the dissector obtains distinct bony landmarks which are most useful in enabling him to localise the various structures he is expected to expose. Let us suppose we are dealing with the left lower limb. As a preliminary step, the two borders of the muscle should be freed and the left hand gently insinuated under the fleshy mass. The muscle must, in the first in- stance, be detached from the ilium. When the surface on the dorsum ilii from which it springs is cleared, we reach the upper margin of the great sciatic notch. Here the dissector must proceed with caution, because through this pass the gluteal vessels, branches of which enter the deep surface of the gluteus maximus muscle. Having secured these we next detach the muscle from the side of the sacrum, and the pyriformis muscle emerging from under cover of the sacrum comes into sight. The muscular fibres may now be raised from the surface of the great sacro-sciatic liga- ment and separated from the side of the coccyx. In doing this, care should be taken to preserve the three sacral cutaneous nerves intact, in VOL. I. —12