139 FOREARM AND HAND. lower end of the ulna, between the head and styloid process, and passing under cover of the annular ligament is inserted into the tubercle on the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. The Anconeus is a short triangular muscle placed on the posterior aspect of the elbow-joint. It is frequently more or less directly continuous with the triceps, and this, together with the fact that it gets a special branch of supply from the musculo-spiral nerve, has led some anatomists to regard it as a piece of the triceps muscle. This is not the case, however; it belongs to, and is therefore properly classified with, the group of muscles on the extensor aspect of the forearm. The anconeus presents a narrow origin from the posterior aspect of the external condyle of the humerus. From this its fibres spread out—the upper fibres passing transversely inwards, whilst the others proceed inwards and downwards, with an increasing degree of obliquity as we approach its lower border. It is inserted into the outer surface of the olecranon process, and into the upper third of the posterior surface of the shaft of the ulna. The nerve of supply to the anconeus has already been dissected (p. 88). It is a long slender branch from the musculo-spiral, which de- scends to its destination in the substance of the internal head of the triceps. In addition to this, the lower part of the muscle usually receives a twig from the posterior interosseous nerve. Dissection.—Reflect the extensor communis digitorum and the extensor minimi digiti. Divide the fleshy belly of each about its middle, and throw them upwards and downwards. In doing this the utmost care must be taken to secure and preserve the nerve- twigs from the posterior interosseous nerve which enter these muscles on their deep surface. The posterior interosseous artery and nerve, together with the deep muscles, are now exposed, and may be fully dissected. In cleaning the muscles care must be taken of the terminal part of the posterior interosseous nerve, which in the lower part of the forearm dips, under cover of the extensor secundi internodii