30106 004064191 LIBRARY OF THE ^tfjool of f«ctiictnc» No. 1*0:—. Entered ^^/^/t^^ 18. Allowed for Reading Z^^^!^; Forfeiture per day for keeping it beyond the time, Id. If any book taken out of the Libra- ry be lost or injured, the person in whose name it is entered, shall pay the value of it, and if the book be one of a set, he shall take the remaining volumes, and pay for the whole, or otherwise make the set complete. 8T0B«2 AlfSWEES TO QUESTIONS 12 Muscles are composed of Fibres arranged parallel to each, other; towards their extremities, ■\\'hen in the form of a rounded Cord they are denominated Ten- dons, and when expanded as Membranes they are called Aponeuroses: e.g. the Abdominal Muscles. 13 Aj'eolar-tissue is most extensively diffused throughout the body, fonning as it were the basis or original sti'ucture. It consists of a net-work of minute Fibres intermixed with thin Lamina) or Plates of Membranes, so interwoven with each other as to leave numerous interstices, which during Ufe contain a Serous Fluid. 14 It serves to connect together the Muscles. It exists in large quantities between the Muscles and Skin. It forms Sheaths for the Blood Vessels and Nerves. It enters into the structure of all the organs contained in the Trimk, &c. 15 It is better supplied with "Vessels than the other Fibrous Tissues. 16 Vessels consist of three kinds: Ai'teries, Veias, and Lymphatics. 17 The Arteries are Cylindrical Tubes composed of three Coats or Layers, viz.: An external or Cellular Coat, a middle or Fibrous Coat, and an internal or Serous Coat. 18 The Veins invariably accompany the Arteries, with the exception of the Supei-ficial Veins; their Coats are the same as the Arteries, but much thinner, and the inner Coat is at certaia points reflected, forming "Valves." 19 The Lymphatics are small Vessels accompanying the Veins; their Coats are the same as those of the Arteries and Veins, and like the Veins ai-e provided with Valves. 20 The Nerves are white flattened Cords, composed of Filaments which ai-e connected with the Brain and Spinal Cord, possessing Motor, Sensory, and Sym- pathetic Functions, to be hereafter described. _ 21 Adipose-tissue is a Cellular substance witliin which the Fat is deposited. 22 Glands are distinct bodies composed of Blood Vessels, Nerves, and Absorbents, united by Cellular-tissue. 23 Blood, Urine, SaUva, Teai-s, Bile, Gastric-juice, Pan- creatic-juice, Milk, Chyle, Mucus, Aqueous Humoui-s of the Eye, &c. \3 Olf HXTJIAN AJfATOlIT. 24 Blood is the Fluid which, circulates thi-ou^hout the Cavities of the Ilcai't, Arteries, and Veins/\ '1 from -which all the other Fluids are secreted. ^' 25 Urine is the Fluid secreted by the Kidneys and con- veyed by the TJreters into the Cavity of the Bladder. 26 "Water, Urea, Lactic Acid, Lithic Acid, Lactate of Ammonia, Osmazome, Mucus of the Bladder, Sul- phates of Potass and Soda, Phosphates of Soda and Ammonia, Phosphates of Lime and Magnesia, Chloride of. Sodium, and Muriate of Ammonia. 27 Saliva is the Fluid secreted by the Salivary Glands into the Mouth. 28 The Parotid, Sub-maxiUary, and Sub-Kngual Glands. 29 A Fluid secreted by the Lachi'ymal Glands and flowing over the siu-face of the Eyes. 30 A Fluid secreted by the Liver. 31 Biliary matter, consists chiefly of Salts formed by the union of Potash, Soda, and Ammonia, with two fatty Acids ; Choleic and Choloidic. 32 A Fluid secreted by the minute Follicles imbedded in the Walls of the Stomach. 83 A Fluid, analogous to the Saliva, secreted by the Pancreas. 34 A Fluid secreted by Glands, whose structure is analogous to that of the Parotid Glands, viz.: the Mammary Glands. 35 A milk-like Fluid separated during Digestion from the Chyme, and is the Fluid from which the Blood is formed. 36 A transparent glutinous Fluid secreted by the Mucous Glands of the Nose, Mouth, &c. 37 A Fluid secreted in the Testes. 38 An unctuous Fluid secreted by certain Joints, as the Knee, Hip-joint, &c. 39 To lubricate the Cartilaginous surfaces of Joints, and facilitate their motion. 40 Osteology, Osteogeny, Syndesmology, Chondrology, Myology, Adenology, Splanchnology, Bursalogy, Angeology, and Neurology. 41 A description of the Bones. The formation and growth of Bones. 43 The doctrine of the ligaments. 44 The doctrine of the Cartilages. 45 The doctrine of the Muscles.4 AXSWEES TO QUESTIOyS 46 The doctiine of the Glands. 47 The doctrine of the Viscera. 48 The doctrine of the Burssc Mucosa). 49 A description of the Vessels of the hody. 50 The doctiine of the Nerves. 51 Bursse Mucosse, as their name expresses, are Mucous Bags or shut Sacs, analogous in structure to Synovial Membi-anes, and whose internal surfaces are lubri- cated by a Synovial Pluid; they exist in the Knee- joint, Elbow-joint, &c. Section II.—THE BOI^ES IN GENERAL. 1 The Membrane which invests the external surface of all the Bones, except the Crowns of the Teeth: it is called Pericranium, where it lines the Craniiun; Periorbita, in the Orbits; Perichondrium where it covers Cartilage, and Peridesmium when it covers Ligament. 2 To strengthen the union of Bones; to afford attach- ment to Ligaments and Muscles; to conduct and support Vessels in their course to Bones, &c. 3 Into three Classes : 1st, the long or Cylindrical Bones; 2nd, the broad or flat, and 3rd, the short mixed or irregular Bones. 4 The shaft or middle portion of the Bone, which first Ossifies, is called the Diaphysis, and the other por- tions which are last Ossified the Epiphysis. 5 A process or projection of Bone over a plain siuface as the Nasal Apoj)hysis of the Erontal Bone, &c. 6 Yes, more especially diu-ing Ossification. 7 By innumerable Eoramina over theii- external surface. 8 By the tinge which they receive, when young animals ai-e fed with madder, as accidentally discovered by Mr. Belchier. 9 The Oleaginous Eluid contained in the Medullary Cavi- ties or Cells of the long Cylindiical Bones. 10 Eoramina, Canals, Sinuses, Notches, Eossse, _ Cavities, Heads, Necks, Processes, Spines, Tuberosities, Tu- bercles, Eissvu'es, &c. 11 Little openings perforating the substance of Bones, e.g. Infra-orbital Eoramen, Stylo-mastoid Eoramen, &c. 12 Tracts or channels within the substance of Bones, e.g. Infra-orbital Canal. 13 Cavities or Depressions in Bones, e.g. Erontal and Sphenoidal Sinuses.5 Oir HTJMAN- AISTATOSIY. 14 Cavities or clqn-cssions in tlie margins of Bones, e.g. the greater and lesser Iscliiatic Notches of the Ossa Innominata, the Ethmoidal Notch, &c. 15 Depressions or Cavities on surfaces of Bones, e.g. Iliac- fossa, Zygomatic-fossa, &c. 16 Smooth shallow depressions on some Bones, e.g. the Glenoid Cavity of the Temporal Bone, Scapula, &c. 17 The round tops of Bones, as the head of the Humerus, Ulna, Kadius, &c. ' 18 The naiTow portions of Bones beneath their Heads, as the necks of the Humerus, Eadius, Femur, &c. 19 Projections or eminences of Bone, e.g. the Odontoid process of the 2nd Vertebra, the Olecranon, Coronoid, and Styloid processes of the IJlua, the Mastoid and Styloid processes of the Temporal Bone, &c. 20 Long projections of Bones, e.g. the anterior-superior and anteiior inferior Spines of the Ilium, also the posterior-superior and posterior-inferior Spines of the same Bone. 21 Large rough elevations or eminences of Bone, e.g. the greater and lesser Tuberosities of the Humerus, Tuberosity of the Ischiiun, &c. 22 Smaller elevations or eminences of Bone, e.g. Tubercle of the Kadius, Tubercle of a Eib, &c. 23 Deep and long depressions, e.g. the Sphenoidal or Orbital Fissure, the Glenoid Tissm-e of the Temporal Bone, &c. Section III.—AETICULATIONS IIST GENEEAL. 1 The adjustment or connection of Bones with each other, distinguished by Anatomists into tliree kinds or classes 2 Diarthrosis, Synarthrosis, and Symphysis. 3 A moveable connection or Articulation of Bones. 4 Enarthrosis,Amphiarthrosis, Arthrodia, Ginglymus, and Trochoides. 5 The Ball and Socket Joint, e.g. Head of the Os Eemoris with the Acetabulum of the Os Innominatiuu. 6 This kind of Articulation partakes both of Diartkrosis and Synartlu-osis. It is that adjustment or connection of Bones which admit of an obscure motion as on flat or plain surfaces, e.g. the Metacarpal and Metatarsal Bones, &c. V The reception of the Head of one Bone into the Super- ficial Cavity of another, e.g. the Head of the Humerus with the Glenoid Cavity of the Scapula.ANSWEES TO QTESTIOXS 6 8 The Hnge-likc Joint admitting of flexion and exten- sion, e.g. the Knee Joiat, the second and third rows of Phalanges, &c. 9 That moveable connection of Bones in which one Bone rotates upon another, e.g. the first Cervical Vertebra upon the Odontoid process of the second or Axis. 10 An immoveable connection of Bones. 11 Sutura, Harmonia, and Gomphosis. 12 The union of Bones by Dentiform margins, e.g. the two Parietal Bones, &c. 13 The union of Bones by rough margins, e.g. Js^asal, Superior Maxillary, and some other Bones of the Face. 14 That kind of union in which one Bone is fixed in another, e.g. the Teeth in the Alveoli of the Jaws. 15 The union of Bones by an intervening body or substance. 16 Synchondi'osis, Syssai'cosis, Syneurosis, and Syndesmosis. 17 The union of one Bone with another by an intervening Cartilage, e.g. the Vertebrte, Os Pubes, Ribs with the Stemimi, &c. 18 The union of one Bone with another by an intervening Muscle, e.g. the Os Hyoides with the Sternum. 19 The union of one Bone with another by an intervening Membrane, e.g. the Eadius with the Ulna. 20 The union of one Bone with another by Ligament, e.g. the moveable Joints. Section IV.—OSTEOGENY. 1 The formation and growth of Bones. 2 By the deposition of Ossrfic matter either in Membrane or Cartilage. 3 The Bones of the Skiill-cap, viz.: Frontal, Squamous, and Tympanic parts of the Temporal, the Parietal, &c., which were simply Membranous assuming the appear- ance of Eadii diverging fi'om a centre. 4 All the Bones of the Tympanum, and well developed, viz.: Malleus, Incus, Orbiculare, and Stapes. 5 The Epiphyses. 6 About the eighth year. 7 About the period of manhood. Secxiow v.—the skull AND ITS SUTURES. 1 Into those fonning the Cranium, and those forming the Skeleton of the Face. The Diploe is the intermediate cancellous structiire which exists between the two tables of the SkuU-cap.Olf HUMAN ANATOMY. 7 3 Some of the Cranial Bones consist of two Osseous Tables or Plates separated by the Diploc, tbe external of wbicb is the thickest. 4 Eight. 5 Occipital, Frontal, two Temporal, two Parietal, Sphenoid, and Ethmoid. 6 Eourteen. 7 Two superior llaxillary, two Malar, two Palate, two Lachi-ymal, two Nasal, two inferior Turbinated, the Vomer, and inferior Maxillary. 8 The two Temporal, two Parietal, and the Occipital. 9 The Erontal, Ethmoid, and Sphenoid. SUTTJXtES OP THE SKXTLL. 10 The union of the Bones by SeiTated or Dentiform margins. 11 Coronal, Sagittal, Erontal, Squamous, Lambdoidal, &c. 12 The Coronal Sutiu'e connects the two Parietal Bones with the Erontal, hence called Eronto-parietal Suture; it extends across the superior part of the Skull, from the great wing of the Sphenoid Bone on one side to its fellow on the opposite side. 13 The Sagittal or Inter-pai'ietal Suture extends from the centre of the Coronal Suture along the middle lino to the Occipital Bone. 14 The Erontal Suture extends from the centre of the Coronal Suture down the middle line of the Eorehead to the root of the Nose. 15 The Squamous Suture is placed laterally over each ex- ternal Meatus of the Ear; it connects the Squamous portion of the Temporal Bone with the Parietal; also the greater wing of the Sphenoid with the Temporal, by the Squamo-sphenoidal Sutiu'e. 16 The Lambdoidal or Occipito-parietal Suture unites the Occipital Bone to the two Parietal Bones. Section VI.—BONES OE THE SXULL. OCCIPITAL BONE. 1 The Occipital Bone contributes to form a part of the base and posterior part of the Cranium. 2 Trapezoid. 3 Into two surfaces: external or Occipital, and internal or Cerebral; four borders and four angles. 4 Convex. 5 The Occipital protuberance. 6 The superior curved line. 7 From the lateral Angle to the other.8 ANSWEES TO aTTESTIONS 8 The inferior curved line. 9 The Crest or Spine. 10 Oval, and transmits the Medulla Spinalis, or Spinal Cord and its Membranes; the two Vertebral Arteries, and the two Spinal Accessory !N"crres. 11 The Condyle. 12 The Atlas. 13 The anterior Condyloid Poramen. 14 The Hypo-glossal or great Motor Nerve of the Tongue. 15 The posterior Condyloid Eoramen. 16 A small Vein to the Lateral Sinus. 17 The Basilar process. 18 The insertion of the superior Constrictor of the Pharynx. 19 The Eectus Anticus Capitis Major et Minor. 20 The Jugular Eminence which gives insertion by its under rough surface to the Eectus Capitis Lateralis. 91 The Check Ligaments. 22 The Jugular Possa, which lodges the commencement of the internal Jugular Vein, and which with a corres- ponding part of the Occipital Bone forms the Poramen Lacerum Posterius. 23 Concave, and presents two thick ridges, one vertical the other transverse, and both marked by grooves. 24 The superior Longitudinal Sinus, above the crossing and the Basilar Sinus below it. 25 The Lateral Sinus on either side. 26 The Palx-cerebri above the crossing and the Palx Cerebelli below it. 27 The Tentorium CerebeUi. 28 The internal Occipital protuberance. 29 Six : the two Lateral, one and sometimes two Basilar, the superior Longitudinal, and the Straight. 30 Torcular Herophhili. 31 Into four Possaj: the two upper corresponding to the posterior Lobes of the Brain, and the two inferior to the lateral Lobes of the CerebeUiun. 32 Dentated, and assist to form the Lambdoidal Suture. 33 Eough and is divided on either side by the Jugular Eminence. 34 The superior, inferior, and two lateral. 35 In the inteiwal formed by the union of the posterior and superior angles of the two Pai'ietal Bones. 36 This is formed by the Articular exti'emity of the Basilar process.OjSr HUMAN ANATOMY. 9 37 They correspond on either side 'with the interval formed by the union of the posterior and inferior angle of the Paiietal Bone with the Mastoid part of the Temporal Bone. 38 Six: two Temporal, two Paiietal, Si^henoid, and Atlas. 39 Thu'teen paii's: Occipito-fi'ontalis, Trapezius, Stemo- mastoid, Splenius Capitis, Complexus, Eectus Pos- ticus Major et Minor, Obliquus superior, Eectus Lateralis, Eectus Anticus Major et Minor, and the superior and middle Constrictors of the Pharynx. 40 Poiu': two lateral or Condyloid portions, one for the Basilar process, and one for the posterior or expanded portion. 41 The origin of the Trapezius and Oceipito-frontalis Muscles. 42 The Sterno-cleido-mastoideus and Splenius Capitis. 43 The Complexus. 44 From within outwards the Eectus Capitis Posticus Minor et Major, and ObUquus Superior. FEONTAl HOJTE. 45 The Prontal Bone, as its name implies, is situated at the anterior pai't of the Cranium. 46 Into two parts : a Erontal and an Orbito-nasal. 47 At the anterior-superior part of the Skull, forming three-foiu'ths of the extent of the Bone. 48 Into surfaces, borders, and processes. 49 Convex, and presents on either side a projection called the Prontal Eminence. 50 The Superciliary ridges. 51 The inner. 52 The Supra-orbital ridges. 53 In processes, the external and internal angular processes. 54 The Supra-orbital ISTotch: it is sometimes converted into a Foramen, and called the Supra-orbital Poramen. 55 The Supra-orbital division of the Prontal Nerve, and the Supra-orbital Branch of the Ophthalmic Artery. 56 The IN'asal Spine or Tuberosity. 57 The Temporal Eidge. 58 The Temporal Fossa. 59 Concave, and marked by the Convolutions of the Brain; also grooved by the anterior and middle Meningeal Arteries. 60 The superior Longitudinal Sinus.10 AlfSWEES TO QTJESTIOKS 61 A small hole improperly called Foramen Ctecum, as it gives passage to a small Vein from the IS'asal Fossjb into the Longitudinal Sinus. 62 A Fold of the Dura Mater, the Falx Cerebri, which here divides the Hemispheres of the Brain. 63 The GlandulfB Pacchioni. 64 A wide exca^-ation called the Ethmoidal Xotch, which lodges within it the Cribriform Plate of the Ethmoid Bone. 65 These Plates, which extend horizontally backwards, are smooth and concave at their under sm-face forming the roof of the Orbit, whilst the upper or Cerebral surfaces are convex, and marked by elevations and depressions called Digital Fossas, which correspond with the Sulci and Convolutions of the anterior Lobes of the Brain. 66 By the external and internal Angular Processes. 67 To the Malar Bone. 68 To the Nasal Process of the superior Maxillary Bone, and the Nasal Bone; 69 Thick and serrated. 70 Thin, and iiTegular, and articulates with the Sphenoid Bone. 71 The Orbital Plates are the thinnest and the Nasal and external Angular Processes, the thickest. 72 That space or interval which exists in Adult age be- tween the tAvo Tables of the Frontal Bone and divided by a ridge of Bone into two Cellular Cavities. 73 The Lachrj-mal Gland. 74 The Cartilaginous Pulley of the superior Oblique Muscle. 75 Nine: the Optic, Spheno-maxillary, and Sphenoidal Fissiu-es, Supra and Infra-orbital Canals, anterior and posterior Ethmoidal Foramina, Temporo-Malar Foramina, and Nasal Duct. 76 Optic Nerve and Ophthalmic Artery. 77 Spheno-maxillary Nerve and Artery. 78 The thiixl, fourth, and sixth Nerves; the first Branch or Ophthalmic division of the fifth, and the Ophthal- mic Vein. 79 The Supra-orbital or Frontal Nerve and Ai-tery. 80 The Infra-orbital Nerve and Artery. 81 The Nasal Nerve and anterior Ethmoidal Artery. 82 The posterior Ethmoidal Artery and A'ein. 83 Filaments of the Orbital Branch of the superior Max- illary Nerve.ox HUMAN AXATOMY. 11 84 Above by the Orbital Plates of the Prontal Bone, and portion of the lesser "Wings of the Sphenoid; below by the Orbital Processes of the superior Maxillary and Palate Bones, externally by the Orbital Pro- cesses of the Malar and greater Wings of the Sphe- noid Bones and internally by the Lachrymal, Ossa Plana of the Ethmoid, and a portion of the body of the Sphenoid Bones. 85 Twelve : two Paiietal, two Malar, two jSTasal, two Ossa Unguis vel Lachrymal, the Sphenoid, Ethmoid, and the two superior Maxillary Bones. 86 Foiu' pairs: the Occipito-frontalis, Corrugator Super- cilli, a part of the Temporal and pai't of the Obicula- ris Palpabra3 vel Oculi on either side. 87 The inner part of the Superciliary ridge. 88 Two : corresponding to the Erontal Eminences. 89 Two TEMPOEAL BONES. 90 The Temporal Bone occupies the side and base of the SkuU. 91 Into three parts: a Squamous, Mastoid, and Petrous portion. 92 This portion forms part of the "Wall of the Temple. 93 Smooth and gives origin to the Temporal Muscle. 94 The Zygoma. 95 An Arch: the Zygomatic Arch. 96 Convex; the inner, concave. 97 Concave. 98 The Glenoid Cavity. 99 Two roots, an anterior and a posterior. 100 The Glenoid Cavity. 101 The anterior; its course is horizontally inwards, and foi-ms the front boundary of the Cavity, and from the circumstance of its forming a rounded eminence is called Eminentia Articularis. 102 This root, called also the Supra-mastoid ridge, forms the upper boundary of the cavity. 1,03 It terminates somewhat abruptly at a narrow fissure which separates the Squamous from the Mastoid por- tions of the Bone; this fissure is caUed Fissura Glasseri. 104 The Tendon of the Laxator Tympani Muscle. 105 The Temporal Fascia or Aponeui-osis. 106 The Massctcr Muscle.ANSTVEES TO QTJESTIONS 12 107 Celiind the ear, forming its posterior part, and by being prolonged downwai'ds forms the Mastoid Process. 108 The Meatus Auditorius Externus, which is sun-ounded by a rough surface called the Tympanic or Auditory Process. 109 The TjTupanum. 110 The middle part. 111 Unlike the Squamous portion it is rough and pierced by small Foramina, for the passage of Arteries and Veins. 112 The Mastoid Foramen; it gives passage to a Vein from the exterior of the Head which opens into the Lateral Sinus. 113 The Digastric Fossa which gives origin to part of the Digastiic Muscle. 114 The Occipital groove which lodges the Occipital Artery. 115 Serrated; corresponding to a portion of the Parietal and Occipital Bones. 116 This groove, which curves forwards and inwards, sup- ports part of the lateral Sinus. 117 The inner opening of the Mastoid Foramen. 118 The Petrous portion passes horizontally forwards and inwards into the base of the Skull, and contains the organ of hearing. 119 That of a three-sided pyramid with the apex directed forwards and inwards. 120 Into thi-ee surfaces (anterior, posterior, and inferior), a base and an apex. 121 Part of the Fossa for the lodgment of the middle Lobe of the Praiu. 122 By the superior or perpendicular semi-circular Canal. The Hiatus FaUopii which leads to the aqueduct of Fallopius. 124 The smaU superficial Petrosal Branch of the Tympanic Nerve or Nerve of Jacobson. 125 The large superficial Petrosal IS'erve. 126 The Gasserian Ganglion. 127 The Tensor Tympani Muscle. 128 The Eustachian Tube. 129 A thin partition or Lamella of Bone called Processus Cochleariformis. 130 Part of the posterior Fossa of the base of the Skull. 131 The large apertiu-e which leads to a short Canal, viz.: the Meatus Auditorius Internus, which passes liorizontally outwards.13 ON HUMAN ANATOMY. 132 The seventh paii' of Nerves. 133 A vertical ridge of Bone which divides it into two unequal pai-ts, a superior and inferior. 134 The comniencement of the Aqueduct of Fallopius. 135 The racial Nerve, (Portio Dui-a). 136 At the Stylo-mastoid Foramen, where the same Nerve makes its exit, and where a small Artery the Stylo- mastoid is admitted to the Tympanum. It (the Aqueduct of Tallopius) also receives the Vidian Nerve through the medium of the Hiatus Pallopii. 137 Several minute Eoramina through which the Filaments of the Auditory Nerve, (the Vestibular), reach the internal Ear. 138 Aquceductus Vestibuli vel CanaKs Cotuimii. 139 A small Artery and Vein, also a small portion of the Dura Mater. 140 A Conical Pit or Possa which forms a minute Canal, called Aquseductus Cochleae, for the passage of small Vessels. 141 Kough and irregular. 142 The Styloid process. 143 Downwards and forwards and about one inch in length, (the one before me is one inch and a-half,) it gives attachment to two Ligaments, (the Stylo-hyoid and Stylo-maxillary Ligaments), and the origins of three Muscles. 144 Stylo-pharyngeus, Stylo-hyoideus, and Stylo-glossus. 145 A rough sheath-like indentation or ridge, called the Vaginal process. 146 It is the continuation of the Lamella of Bone which forms the back part of the Glenoid Cavity. 147 The Stylo-mastoid Poramen. 148 The Jugular Possa. 149 The Poramen Lacerum Posterius. 150 The internal Jugular Vein. 151 The Carotid Canal, which transmits the internal Carotid Artery into the Skull. 152 At the Apex. 153 The origins of the Tensor Tympani and Levator Palati. 154 The Tympanic Branch of the Glosso-pharyngeal or Jacobson's Nerve. 155 A Branch of the Par-vagum, (Arnold's Nerve). 156 The Apex, and called Poramen Lacerum Medium. 157 The Tentorium CcrebeUi. BANSWEES TO QUESTIONS 14 158 The superior Petrosal Sinus which coniimmicates with the cavernous and lateral Sinuses. 159 Five: Parietal, Occipital, Sphenoid, Malar, and in- ferior MaxiUary. 160 Fourteen: Temporal, Occipito-frontalis, Stemo-mas- toid, Digastric, Retrahens-aurem, Trachelo-mastoid, Splenius Capitis, Stylo-pharyngcus, Stylo-hyoideus,. Stylo-glossus, Tensor Tympanic Levator Tympani, Stapedius, and the Masseter. 161 Five: the Squamous, Mastoid, Petrous, Styloid Pro- cess, and the Tympanic or Auditory Process. 162 Two TAHIETAL BONES. 16.3 At the superior and lateral parts of the Skull, forming with its fellow of the opposite side the principal pail of its roof. 164 Into two surfaces (external and internal), four herders and foiu' angles. 165 Convex, and presents near the centre of the Bone the Parietal Eminence. 166 The Temporal Eidge, which gives attachment to the Temporal Aponeiu-osis or Fascia. 167 Part of the Temporal Fossa, which gives origin to the Temporal Muscle. 168 Depressions corresponding to the convolutions of the Brain, also lines or grooves for the Branches or Eaniifications of the middle Meningeal Artery, also the Parietal Fossa. 169 Its fellow of the opposite side. 170 The Temporal Bone. 171 The Frontal Bone. 172 The Occipital Bone: also with the Sphenoid by the Spheno-parietal Suture. 173 Anterior-superior, anterior-inferior, posterior-superior, and posterior-inferior. 174 The Trunk of the Arteria Meningea Media. 175 The superior Longitudinal Sinus. 176 At the posterior part near to the Sagittal Sutiire. 177 A small Vein from the exterior of the SkuU into the Longitudinal Sinus. 178 Glandulse Paccliioni, they occur chiefly in SkuUs of advanced Hfe. 179 Five. 180 Only one: the Temporal.ON mcnVLllT ANATOMY. 15 181 Only one, corresponding with the Parietal Eminence. SPHENOID BONE. 183 It is placed horizontally at the base of the SkuU, being connected with all the Bones of the Cranium, and several of those of the Face. 183 Into a Body, "Wings and Processes. 184 That central part of the Bone from which are projected the Wings and Processes. 185 Into foiu- sm-faces: a superior or Cerebral, an inferior, an anterior and a posterior. 186 The Pituitary Possa or Sella-tiu'cica. 187 The Pituitary Gland and Cii'cular Sinus; the latter surroimding the former. 188 The Olivary Process. 189 To support the Commissure of the Optic E'erves. 190 Outwards and forwards. 191 The Optic Nerves and Ophthalmic Arteries. 192 The two anterior Clinoid Processes, which constitute the iamer terminations of the lesser Wings. 193 The posterior Clinoid Processes. 194 The internal Carotid Artery, Cavernous Sinus, also the Sixth Nerve. 195 Part of the inner Wall of the Orbit. 196 Two small fissures which are converted into Canals by the Vomer, and called the Pterygo-palatine Canals. 197 A very small Artery of the same name, derived from the internal Maxillary Artery. 198 The Yaginal Processes between which slide the thin edge of the Vomer. 199 A vertical Plate of Bone called the Eostrum. 200 Anteriorly with the perpendicular Plate of the Ethmoid Bone and below with the Vomer. 201 On either side the Eostrum. 202 Sphenoidal spongy Bones, (Comua Sphenoidalia). 203 Plat and rough, and connected in young subjects by Cartilage and in Adults by Bone with the Basilar Process of the Occipital Bone. 204 Two thin triangular Processes which project, one on either side, transversely from the upper part of the Body and terminating in an acute point. 205 Flat and smooth, and support the anterior Lobes of the Brain. 206 Overhang the Sphenoidal fissure, and form the back part of the roof of the Orbit, on either side.ANSWEES TO QUESTION'S 16 207 Tlie Optic Foramen. 208 Three surfaces: a superior or Cerebral, an anterior and an external surface. 209 This sm-face which is concave forms part of the middle Fossa of the base of the Skull. 210 This smooth surface forms about one half of the outer WaU of the Orbit. 211 This surface is divided into two parts by the Pterygoid Eidge; the superior and larger part forms part of the Temporal Fossa, and the inferior forms part of the Zygomatic Fossa. 212 Part of the origin of the Pterygoideus Extemus Muscle. 213 The Spinous Process. 214 Into the angle between the Squamous and Petrous portions of the Temporal Bone. 215 The external Muscle of the Malleus, viz.: Laxator Tympani. 216 The Sphenoidal Fissure. 217 This fissure sometimes called Foramen Lacerum Orbitale, transmits the third, fourth, and sixth Nerves, the Ophthalmic division of the fifth, and the Ophthalmic Vein. 218 Below the inner end of the Sphenoidal Fissure, and transmits the second division of the fifth pair, viz.: the superior Maxillary Nerve. 219 At the base of each Spinous Process, and transmits the last division of the fifth pair, viz.: the inferior Maxil- lary Nerve, it sometimes transmits theNervus Petrosus Superficialis Minor, and a small Meningeal Artery. 220 Near the apex of each Spinous Process, and transmits the middle Meningeal Artery. 221 Perpendicularly from the base of the greater Wings. 222 The lateral boundaries of the posterior Nares. 223 Into two plates, an external one and an internal one. 224 By its outer surface to part of the origin of the exter- nal Pteiygoid Muscle. 225 In a curved hook, termed the Hamiilar Process, which forms a Pulley around which the Tendon of the Cir- cumflexus vel Tensor Palati plays. 226 The Pterygoid Fossa. 227 The origin of the internal Pterygoid Muscle. 228 The Scaphoid Fossa. 229 The origin of the Tensor Palati Muscle. 230 An angular Notch called the Palatine Notch.OIT HUMAN" ANATOMY. 17 231 Because it receives the Tuberosity of the Palate Bone. 232 The Pterygoid or Vidian Canal. 233 The Vidian Nerve and Artery; the former derived from Meckel's Ganglion, and the latter from the in- ternal Maxillary Artery. 234 Twelve : viz. all the Bones of the Cranium, and five of the Face, the two Malar, two Palate, and theVomer. 235 Twelve pairs: the four Kecti, Obliquus Superior, Levator Palpebra3, Temporal, external and internal Pterygoid, superior Constrictor of the Pharynx, Ten- sor Palati, and Laxator Tympani. 236 Twelve: one for each Wing and Process, four for the Body, and two for the Sphenoidal Spongy Bones, (Comua Sphenoidalia). 33THMOID BONE. 237 In the space between the two Orbital Plates of the Frontal Bone at the root of the Nose. 238 Into a horizontal Plate, a central perpendicular Plate, and two lateral masses. 239 Part of the base of the Skull and supports the Bulb of the Olfactory Nerve. 240 Filaments of the Olfactory Nerve, also the Nasal Branch of the Ophthalmic Nerve by a slit or an Aperture at the front of the Cribriform Plate. 241 This Plate which descends fr-om the Cribriform Plate assists in forming the Septiim Nasi. 242 The Crista Galli which gives attachment to the Falx Cerebri. 243 The Pi-ostrum of the Sphenoid and the Vomer. 244 The Nasal Tuberosity of the Frontal and the Crest of the two Nasal Bones. 245 A number of iiTegidar cavities or Air Cells which are divided by a thin Lamella or partition into two sets; the anterior and posterior Ethmoidal Cells. 246 By a smooth Plate of Bone called the Os Planum. 247 They communicate with the Frontal Cells and open by means of a tubidar-shaped Canal, the Infundibukim, , into the middle Meatus. 248 Into the superior Meatus. 249 Part of the external "WaU of the corresponding Nasal Fossa, 250 Thirteen Bones: two Cranial, (Frontal &Sphenoid),'two Nasal, two Lachrymal, two Palate, two superior Maxil- lary, two inferior Turbinated Bones and the Vomer.18 AKSWEES TO QUESTIOITS 251 None. 252 Three : each lateral mass and the perpendiciQar Plate. nONES or THE FACE. 1 Two. Superior Maxillary Bones. 2 Anteriorly, forming the greater portion of the Face. 3 The upper Jaw and enters into the formation of the Orbit, Nose, Cheek, and Palate. 4 Into a Body and four Processes, Alveolar, Palatine, Nasal, and Malar. 5 Four: an external or Facial, an internal or Nasal, a superior or Orbital, and a posterior or Zygomatic surface. 6 The anterior Wall of the Antrum. 7 The Canine Fossa. 8 The origins of the Compressor Naris and Levator Anguli Oris. 9 The Infra-orbital Foramen which is the termination of the Infra-orbital Canal. 10 The Levator Labii Superioris. 11 The superior Maxillary Nerve, and the Infra-orbital Artery, the latter one of the terminal Branches of the internal Maxillary Arteiy. 12 The Orifice of the Antrum. 13 The upper part. 14 Almost triangular, (Antrum of Highmore). 15 The slanting floor of the Orbit. 16 A Notch or Groove indicating the commencement of the Infra-orbital Canal. 17 Below the edge of the Orbit. 18 This convex surface forms part of theZygomatic Fossa. 19 Canals (dental), for the transmission of the posterior Dental Nerves, and Branches of the posterior or superior Dental Artery, the former derived from the superior Maxillary Nerve, and the latter from the in- ternal Maxillary Artery. 20 The Alveolar, which is deeply excavated for the recep- tion of the Teeth. 21 Two Incisors, one Canine, two Bicuspid, and three Molars. 22 That which receives the Canine Tooth. 23 This strong process projects horizontally inwards. 24 Superiorly the Floor of the Nares, and inferiorly (its anterior two thirds), the Arch of the Palate. 25 A groove for the reception of the Vomer.ox HTTMAN' AlfATOMY. 19 26 The Incisive roramen. 27 The anterioi" or Naso-palatine Canal, which divides into four openings; two of which transmit the anterior Palatine Nen'es, which ai-e derived from Meckel's Ganglion, and the other two transmit the Palatine or Nasal Branches of the internal Maxillary Artery. 28 Immediately behind the middle Incisor Teeth. 29 This Process ascends almost perpendicularly, and forms the lateral boundary of the Nose, and partly the inner margia of the Orbit. 30 The Prontal and Nasal. 31 The Lachi'ymal groove. 32 By a corresponding groove in the Lachrymal Bone and a small portion of the inferior spongy Bone. 33 For the lodgment of the Lachrymal Sac and Nasal Duct which dii'cct the flow of Tears into the inferior Meatus. 34 About that of a goose-quill, its direction is downwards and a little backwards. 35 Near to the inner margin of the Orbit it gives origin to the Orbicularis Palpebrae, (also the Tendo Oculi or Tarsal Ligament), and immediately in front of the the last-named Muscle, to the origin of the Levator Labii Superioris Alaeque Nasi. 36 The inferior and middle spongy Bones. 37 Part of the inferior and middle Meatuses of the Nose. 38 By the union of the anterior crescent-shaped margins of the two Nasal Processes, these margins give attach- ment to the lateral Cartilages. 39 This irregular looking Process is situated on the outer side of the Antrum, over the first and second Molar Teeth. 40 The Malar Bone. 41 Nine: two Cranial Bones (Frontal and Ethmoid), Malar, Nasal, Lachrymal, Vomer, inferior Spongy, Palate, and its feUow of the opposite side. 42 Buccinator, Depressor Labii Superioris et Alae Nasi, Levator Anguli Oris, Compressor Nasi, Levator Labii Superioris, Orbicularis Palpebral, ObHquus inferior Oculi, Levator Labii Superioris ct Ala) Nasi, and the Masseter. 43 From several: one for the Body, one for the Malar, Nasal, and Palate Process, and one and sometimes two for the Alveolar Process.20 ANSWEES TO QrrESTIOXS 44 Two. MAXAE BONES. 45 This Bone, which forms the prominence of the Cheek, is divided into three sm-faces; anterior, posterior, and superior. 46 Smooth and convex, and gives origin to the Zygomaticus Major et Minor Muscles. 47 Several small Foramina, (one larger than the rest), which transmit Branches of the Temporo-Malar Nerve and minute Ai-teries. 48 Concave, and forms the anterior boundary of the Zygo- matic Fossa. 49 Part of the outer border or margin of the Orbit, and a small portion of its Orbital Floor. 50 Three. 51 The origin of the Masseter, (from the anterior two- thirds of the Arch). 52 Four; three Cranial, (Frontal, Temporal, and Sphen- oid), and the superior Maxillary Bone. 53 The Levator Labii Superioris, Zygomatici, (Major et Minor), Orbicularis Palpebrarum, Temporal and Masseter. 54 From only a single Ossific point. 55 Two LACHETMAL BONES. 56 At the anterior and inner WaU or angle of the Orbit. 57 Into two surfaces (external and internal), and four borders. 58 This surface which is smooth, is divided into two parts by a vertical ridge, the inner part assists to form a portion of the Wall of the Orbit, and the other or anterior part lodges the Lachi'ymal Sac. 59 The origin of the Tensor Tai'si. 60 This rough surface assists to form part of the middle Meatus anteriorly, and completes the anterior Eth- moidal Cells posteriorly. 61 Four Articulations: superior, inferior, anterior, and posterior. 62 Superiorly by Suture with the Orbital Process of the Frontal Bone, anteriorly with the superior Maxillary Bone, inferiorly with the inferior Tm-binated Bone, and posteriorly "with the Os Planum of the Ethmoid Bone. 63 Only one: the Tensor Tarsi. 64 From only one Ossific point.ON H1XMAN ANATOMY. 21 , „ NASAL BONES. 65 Two. 66 Below the Frontal Bone and between the Ascending or Nasal Processes of the superior MaxiUary Bones. 67 Into two surfaces (anterior and posterior), and foxu- borders. 6 8 Convex laterally and concave longitudinally, and presents two or three Vascular Foramina. 69 Concave, and marked by a groove for the passage of the Nasal Branch of the Ophthalmic. 70 Four articulations: superior, inferior, external, and internal. 71 Superiorly with the Frontal Bone, the perpendicular Plate of the Ethmoid, externally with the ascending or Nasal Process of the superior Maxillary Bone, and internally by the Nasal Sutiu'e with its fellow of the opposite side, and in the recent subject it is connected inferiorly with the Nasal Cartilages. 72 Superiorly by the Nasal Ethmoid and Sphenoid Bones, inferiorly by the Palatal Processes of the superior Maxillary and Palate Bones externally by the superior Maxillary, Palate, Lachrymal, inferior spongy, Eth- moid and internal Pterygoid Plate of the Sphenoid Bone, and internally by the same Bones as the external boundary. 73 The Vomer and perpendicular Plate of theEthmoidBone. 74 None: the Pyramidalis Nasi and Compressor Naris are merely in relation with it. 75 From only one Ossiflc point. 76 Two PALATE BONES. 77 At the posterior part of the Nares between the Pterygoid Processes of the Sphenoid and the superior Maxillary Bones. 78 Like the letter L, and divided into a horizontal Plate, a perpendicidar Plate, and a Tuberosity. 79 The horizontal Plate which assists to form its inferior surface. 80 A transverse Ridge to which is attached the Aponeurosis of the Circumflexus Palati. 81 The posterior Palatine Canal which transmits the pos- terior Palatine Nerve and Artery. 82 This Edge which is slightly Serrated, articulates with the Palatal Process of the superior Maxillary Bone. 83 This concave Edge gives attachment to the soft Palate.22 ANS"WEES TO QTHESTIONS 84 In an acute point which with its fellow of the oppo- site side, forms the posteiior Palatal Spine. 85 The origin of the Azygos UvulEe. 86 Part of the Floor of the Naris. 87 Part of the external Wall of the Nasal Fossa by its internal surface. 88 The inferior spongy Bone. 89 The inferior and middle Meatuses. 90 The Spheno-maxillary Fossa. 91 The posterior Palatine Canal. 92 By the Tuberosity of the superior Maxillary Bone. 93 The Anterior or Orbital and the posterior or Sphenoidal Processes. 94 The Spheno-palatine Foramen which leads fi-om the Spheno-maxillary Fossa into the Nasal Cavity. 95 The Spheno-palatine Nerves and Artery, the former derived from the superior Maxillary Nerve, and the latter from the internal Maxillaiy Ai'tery. 96 Air. 97 Five: three articular and two free, viz., superior, external, internal, posterior, and anterior. 98 Posterior, connected with the body of the Sphenoid Bone; anterior, with the superior Maxillary Bone, and the internal with the Ethmoid Bone. 99 The superior or Orbital, forms the back part of the Floor of the Orbit, and the external looks into the Spheno-maxillary Fossa. 100 This thin Lamella of Bone arches inwards, and forms part of the Eoof of the Nasal Fossa. 101 Thi-ee surfaces, a superior or convex surface, and two lateral surfaces. 102 The under part of the Body of the Sphenoid Bone. 103 The Spheno-maxillary Fossa. 104 The lateral boundary of the Nasal Fossa. 105 This thick strong Process is situated at the Angle formed by the horizontal and pei-pendicular Plates of the Bone, and is received into the angular Notch between the two Plates of the Pterygoid Process of the Sphenoid Bone. 106 Three; posterior, anterior, and inferior. 107 A smooth depression which completes the Pterygoid Fossa. 108 A rough surface which articulates with the Tuberosity of the superior Maxillary Bone.OK irUMAN ANATOMY. 23 109 Two or three Orifices for the transmission of some Palatine Branches to the soft Palate. 110 Six: two Cranial (Sphenoid and Ethmoid), superior Maxillaiy, inferior spongy Bone, the Vomer and its fellow of the opposite side. 111 Four: Azygos Uvuloe, internal and external Ptery- goid, and the Circumflcxus Palati. 112 Prom only a siagie Ossiflc point. INFEItlOK SPONGY BONES. 113 In the jSTasal Possa. 114 Into two surfaces (internal and external), and two bor- ders (superior and inferior). 115 The internal surface is convex and projects towards the Septum of the Nose. 116 The external siu'face is concave and bounds the inferior Meatus. 117 Pour articulations: the superior articulates with the ascending process of the superior Maxillary Bone, the Palate Bone, the Lachi-ymal Bone and the Ethmoid Bone, the inferior or lower border is free, 118 None. 119 Prom only one Ossific point. VOMEE. 120 The Vomer is the thin perpendicular Plate of Bone in the middle of the ISTares, and forms the posterior-in- ferior pai't of the Septum. 121 The perpendicular Plate of the Ethmoid. 122 Into two lateral surfaces and four borders. 123 Part of the inner "Wall of each Nasal Possa. 124 The Eostrum of the Sphenoid Bone. 125 It is received into the fissure or groove formed by the Palatal Processes of the superior Maxillary and Palate Bones. 126 This sharp border is free and unattached, and in the recent state forms a Septum which divides the Nares posteriorly. 127 I'his rough border presents a fissure forming two por- tions or Layers, one of which receives the sharp Edge of the perpendicular Plate of the Ethmoid Bone, and the other the Median Septxim or Nasal Cartilage. 128 Grooves for the passage of the Vessels and Nerves, and one especially for the Naso-palatine Nerve or Nerve of Cotunnius, which is derived from Meckel's Ganglion.24 ANSWEBS TO QUESTIOSS 129 None. 130 Six: Sphenoid, Ethmoid, two superior Maxillary, and two Palate Bones. 131 From only one Ossific point. INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. 132 A considerable portion of the sides and lower part of the Face. 133 Into two parts—a horizontal part, which is arched, called the Body, and a perpendicular part on either side called the liamus. 134 The Symphysis. 135 Vertical. 136 By a triangiflar process called the Mental process. 137 The Mental or Incisive Fossa. 138 The origin of the Levator Menti vel Labii Inferioris. 139 The terminal Branches of the inferior Dental Nerve and Artery. 140 The origin of the Depressor Anguli Oris and Depressor Lahii Inferioris, and just below them is the insertion of the Platysma Myoides. 141 The Buccinator. 142 Concave. 143 Four small Tubercles. 144 The origin of the Genio-hyo-glossus. 145 The origin of the Genio-hyoideus. 146 The anterior Belly of the Digastric Muscle. 147 The origin of the Mylo-hyoideus, and a little more pos- teriorly is the origin of part of the superior Constrictor Muscle. 148 The Sublingual Gland. 149 The Submaxillary Gland. 150 Sixteen. 151 Two; while the upper have three Fangs. 152 At that part where the Kamus and Body meet. 153 The Coronoid Process and the Condyle. 154 The Coronoid Process. 155 The Temporal Muscle. 156 The Sigmoid Notch. 157 The Masseteric Nerve and Arteiy, the former derived from the inferior Maxillary Nerve, and the latter from the internal MaxiUary Artery. 158 The Masseter Muscle. 159 The Dental Foramen. 160 The inferior Dental Nerve and Artery.ON" HTJKAlSr AITATOMY. 25 161 The Mylo-hyoid Branch of the inferior Dental Ferve. 162 The Pterygoideus Intemus. 163 Oblong and convex, with its long Asis directed horizontally inwards. 164 The Glenoid Cavity of the Temporal Bone. 165 The Pteiygoideus Externus. 166 Two: the Glenoid Cavities of the two Temporal Bones. 167 Twenty-eight: externally Levator Menti vel Labii Inferioris, Depressor Anguli Oris, Depressor Labii Inferioris, Platysma Myoides, Masseter and Buccina- tor; internally, Genio-hyo-glossus, Genio-hyoideus, Mylo-hyoideus, Digastricus, external and internal Pterygoid, superior Constrictor of the Pharynx and the Temporal. 168 Two ; one for each lateral half. THE TEETH. 169 Into two sets; the first called the Temporary or Deciduous Teeth, and the other the Permanent Teeth. 170 Twenty; viz. in each jaw—four Lncisors, two Canine, and four Molars. 171 Thirty-two; viz. in each jaw—four Incisors, two Canine, four Bicuspid, and six Molars. 172 Into a Crown, Neck, and Koot or Pang. 173 The whole exposed surface above the Gum. 174 The constricted portion at the base of the Crown. 175 The portion which is received into the Alveolus or Socket. 176 The Pang and the Alveolus. 177 The cutting Edge is sharp, the Crown is somewhat convex anteriorly, and concave posteriorly; the Neck much constricted, and the Eaug flattened laterally, which latter is just reverse to the Crown, which is flattened from before backwards. 178 A small opening for the transmission of the Artery and Nerve. 179 The Crown is larger than an Incisor, convex anteri- orly and concave posteriorly, and the Boot which is marked by a slight Groove is longer than the rest. 180 The Crown is flattened from before backwards, and surmounted by two Tubercles, the Neck is Oval, and the Koot which is flattened presents on either side a Deep Groove, which Bifurcates near the Apex, c26 AKSWEES TO QUESTIONS 181 The Crown is Cuboid form and surmounted by four Tubercles, tbe Neck is round and large, and the Root divided into two Tangs in the inferior Maxilla, whilst the superior MaxUlaiy Molar has three Fangs- 182 Dentes Sapientiaj. 183 The Root is single and tapering, and grooved indicat- ing a tendency to division; the Root of these Teeth in the superior Maxillaiy are often Bifid, 184 The base of the Crown which is hoUowed into a Cavity. 185 A soft and Yascular substance called the Pulp, ia which the Vessels and Nerves ramify. 186 Of three substances; the Ivory, the Enamel, and the Cortical substance. 187 All that exposed portion above the Gum. 188 A series of minute wavy Tubes which commence in the Pulpy or central Cavity, and radiate towards the surface of the Ivory part. 189 A series of six-sided or hexagonal columns, directed perpendicularly to the sm-face on which they He, so that one extremity rests on the surface of the Ivory part, whilst the other forms the free surface of the Crown. 190 Similar to that of Bones, Cellular and Tubular, the former aiTanged in Concentric Rings ai'ound the lat- ter, similar to the horizontal section of the stem of a tree. 191 This substance forms a thin coating around the Root, ex- tending from the tennination of the Enamel to the Apex. 192 About twenty-five per cent. 193 About two per cent. (BerzeHus). 194 About forty per cent. 195 Phosphate and Carbonate of Lime, the former by far the most abundant, 88^ -per cent. (Berzelius). OS HYOIDES. 196 This Bone so called from its resemblance to the Greek letter TJpsilon, is placed horizontally between the Base of the Tongue and upper pai-t of the Larynx. 197 Into a centi-al part or Body and four Comua, (two greater and two lesser). 198 Quadrilateral. 199 The anterior is convex and the posterior concave. 200 Muscles. 201 Each projects backwards from the body, about one inch and a-half on either side.ON HUMAN ANATOMY. 27 202 In a Tubercle which is tipped with Cartilage. 203 On either side from the Angle of union between the body and greater Cornu. 204 About the size of a barley-corn. 205 The Stylo-hyoid Ligament. 206 Ten pairs: Genio-hyo-glossus, Mylo-hyoideus, Genio- hyoideus, Omo-hyoideus, Sterno-hyoideus, Stylo- hyoideus, Digasfciicus, Hyo-glossus, Thyro-hyoideus, and the middle Constrictor of the Pharynx. 207 The anterior and posterior Thyro-hyoid Ligaments, and the Stylo-hyoid Ligament, also the Thyro-hyoid Membrane. 208 Five: one for the body, and one for each of its four Comua. Section VII.—BOOTES OF THE TRUNK. 1 The Vertebral Column, Thorax, and Pelvis. TEETEBB.AL COLUMN. 2 Along the Median line at the posterior part of the Trimlc. 3 Into true and false. 4 Twenty-four. 5 Into thi'cc : Cervical, Dorsal, and Lumbar. 6 Seven. 7 Twelve. 8 Pive. 9 Into a Body, a Ring or Vertebral Foramen, seven Pro- cesses, viz.: two Transverse processes, one Spinous process, and four Articular jirocesses (two superior and two inferior), and four Notches. 10 Anteriorly; convex before, slightly concave behind, and somewhat flattened on the ujDper and lower surfaces. 11 The Ring or Vertebral Poramen. 12 The Spinal Cord. 13 Por the passage of the JTutrient Vessels. 14 One on either side the Vertebral Poramen passing off almost horizontally. 15 At the union of the Laminae posteriorly, from which the Spinous Process arises. 16 The Laminae are two thick Plates or Lamella of Bone, which pass, one on either side of the Body, pos- teriorly, where they unite to form the Arch of the Vertebral Poramen. 17 Por the attachment of Muscles.ANSTVEES TO QTTESTIOITS 28 18 The two superior are directed upwards from the Lamuiae, and the two inferior downwards to ai-ticulatc with the corresponding Vertebra, ahove and below. 19 On either side between the body and commencement of the Arch; they are so adapted to each other that the imion of two Vertebrae on either side, forms a rounded opening called the Inter-vertebral Foramen, which gives exit to the Spinal Nerves and some Vessels. 20 By their bodies and articular sxu-faces. 21 Nine: so united as to constitute two Bones, viz. Sacrum and Coccyx. 22 Five. 23 Four. CEEVICAL VEETEBEiE. 24 The Body is smaller than a Dorsal Vertebrae with the greatest diameter placed tranversely, the anterior sur- face is more flattened. 95 In the Transverse process on either side is a Foramen (Vertebral), which transmits the Vertebral Artery, &c.; on the upper surface on either side is a Groove for the passage of the Spinal Nerves, this Groove Bifurcates near the summit, forming two Tubercles, (anterior and posterior), for the attachment of Muscles. S6 The Spinous processes are horizontal and short, especially the third, fourth, and fifth, all are Bifurcated except the last, and give attachment to Muscles. 27 The processes are obliquely inclined; the two superior are directed upwards and backwards, and the two inferior forwards and downwards. 28 The Atlas. 29 It has neither Body nor anatomically speaking Spinous process, being more like a Eing. 30 It is much larger. 31 To articulate with the Odontoid process of the second Cervical Vertebra or Axis. 32 One of the four slips of the Longus Colli Muscle, (its insertion). 33 Unlike the other Vertebrae they are situated behind the Articular Processes. 34 Oval, and concave, and directed inwards, so as to form two small cavities for the Condyles of the Os Occipitis. 35 Circular and almost horizontal.29 ON HUMAN ANATOMY. 36 The transverse Ligament which confines the Pivot or Odontoid process of the Axis in its proper sphere. 37 Ten pairs: Longus et Splenitis Colli, Eectus Anticus Minor, Rectus Posticus Minor, Eectus Lateralis, Obliquus Superior et Inferior, Levator Anguli Scapiilae, the fijrst Inter-transversalis, and the fijst Inter-spinous. AXIS. 88 So called from having a process on which the Head turns. 39 The Odontoid process. 40 Two; one coiTesponding with the articulating surface on the anterior surface or Arch of the Atlas, and the other or posterior for the transverse Ligament. 41 Plat, circular, and almost horizontal. 42 Oblique, and look downwards and outwards. 43 Very short, directed downwards, perforated obliquely, and neither grooved nor bifiu'cated. 44 Larger, broader, and more bifurcated. 45 Convex. 46 Eleven pairs: Longus et Splenius Colli, Eectus Posticus Major, Semi-spinalis Colli, Inter-spinalis, Multifidus Spinae, Inter-transversalis, Transversalis Colli, Obli- quus Inferior, Scalenus Posticus, and Levator Anguli Scapulae. 47 Vertebra Prominens, so called from its long Spinous Process. 48 Similar to the upper Dorsal Vertebra. 49 The Ligamentum Nuchae. 50 They are longer and broader, not invariably perforated, nor are they grooved. nOESAL VEETEBE.J:. 51 The body is most convex anteriorly, the vertical depth is greater behind than before, the upper and lower surfaces almost flat, and the two articular surfaces on either side correspond with those on the Heads of the Eibs, the lower of which are the largest, and the , Articular Cavity for the Head of the Eib is formed by the Articular Cups of two Vertebrae. 53 Thick, strong, and directed obliquely downwards; on either side anteriorly is an articulating surface, for a corresponding Eib. 63 Long and considerably inclined downwards, so as to overlap its fellow below.30 AWSTTEHS TO QtTESTIOXS 54 They arc almost vertical; the upper look directly back- ■wards, and the lower directly forwards. 55 Almost round, each decreasing in size from the first to the tenth. 56 The body of this Bone has an articular surface for the Head of the first Eib, and a smaller one for only half of that of the second Eib. 57 Each have only a single entire articulate surface for the last two llibs, as their transverse processes which are very small, have no articulating siu'faces for the Eibs. 58 From the circumstance of the inferior articulating siu'- faces looking outwards, like those of the Lumbar Vertebra). XTJMBAE VEKTEBItiE. 69 Large, oval, and broad; the greatest diameter being from side to side, unlike a Dorsal Vertebra, the ver- tical depth is greater before than behind, the edges are somewhat prominent. 60 These processes are long and slender, flattened anteriorly and posteriorly, increasing in length from first to third, and then diminish to the fifth. 61 This process is short, straight, and broad, on either side; naiTow above and below; the last is the shortest and sometimes divided like the one noAV before me. 63 These processes are vertical and sfrong, the superior concave and facing each other, the inferior somewhat convex and directed forwards and outwards. 63 Triangidar with rounded angles. 64 Generally fiity-two pairs. BONES OF THE THOEA.X. 65 By the Dorsal Vertebra) posteriorly, the Kibs laterally, and the Stemiun anteriorly. 66 Transversely on either side the Thorax. 67 Twenty-foiu-: twelve on either side. 68 Into two classes, true and false. 69 The upper seven on cither side constitute the true Eibs. 7 0 Because they are each tmited to the Sternum by Caiiilage. 71 Into two siu-faces (external and internal), two borders and two extremities. 72 Convex and smooth, and marked for the attachment of Muscles. 73 Flat and concave. 74 Hounded and smooth, and gives attachment to the Intercostal Muscles.31 ON HTTITAN' AjSTATOMT. 75 Sharj), and presents on its inner side a deep groove for the lodgment of the Intercostal Vessels and iSTerve, and the attachment of the Intercostal Muscles. 76 Two articular siu-faccs to coiTespond -wdth the articu- lating siu-faces on the bodies of the Vertebrae. 77 The Neck, and terminated posteriorly by an articu- lating Eminence called the Tubercle. 78 The transverse process of a con-esponding Vertebra . 79 Broad and slightly hoUowed for the reception of the Costal Cartilage. 80 The Angle. 81 Between the Tubercle and the most convex part of the Body. 82 The llibs. 83 The&st. 84 It is the most horizontal, the most curved and the shortest, broader and flatter, the two sxu-faces unlike the rest look upward and downward, nor does it present a groove for the Intercostal Artery. 85 Two slightly marked depressions for the passage of the Subclavian Artery and Vein. 86 A portion of the Scalenus Anticus Muscle. 87 Only a single articular sm-face which corresponds to that on the transverse process of the first Dorsal Vertebra. 88 They are shorter, have neither Neck, Tubercle, nor Groove, and theii- Heads or posterior extremities have each only a single articulating surface, corresponding "Nvith only one Vertebra. 89 The latter is rather longer. 90 The posterior extremity. 91 Ten : five on either side. 92 The two last, which by being free at the extremities, are called the Floating Eibs. 93 The eighth, ninth, and tenth. 94 They ai'c by far the smallest. 95 Yes, thirteen; but very rarely. COSTAL CARTILAGES. 96 Twelve on either side. 97 Seven. 98 Three. 99 The superior or true llibs, except the last. 100 The last true and fii-st false Eibs. 101 Porwards, inwards, and upwards.32 AKSWEES TO QUESXIOKS 102 Two; the floating Ribs. 103 Two; the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth, excepted. 104 The Intercostales, Scalenus Anticus et Posticus, Serra- tus Posticus superior et inferior, Sen-atus Magnus, the Obliqui, Pectoralis Minor, Latissimus Borsi, Ilio- costalis, Longissimus Dorsi, Levatores Costarum Transversalis Abdominis, Quadratus Lumboimn, and Diaj)hragm. 105 The Subclavius, Pectoralis Major, Stemo-Thyroid, Obliquus Internus, Intercostales, Transversalis Ab- dominis, Diaphragm, Triangularis Stemi et Ilectu3 Abdominis. 106 Three; one for the central part or Body, one for the Head, and one for the Tuberosity. 107 In fi'ont of the Chest, forming its anterior and middle part, and about six and a-half inches in length. 108 Plat; broad and thick superiorly, and flattened and somewhat pointed inferiorly. 109 Into three portions or pieces; superior, middle, and inferior. 110 Broad and thick above, and thinner and narrower below, almost resembling a triangle with the angles cut off. 111 An articular surface for the reception of the Sternal exti-emity of the Clavicle. 112 Two Notches corresponding to the Articular Cartilages of the first Eib, and one half of the second. 113 This Piece is the longest of the three, broader in the middle than at either extremity, and has six articular surfaces for the lower halves of the second, third, foui-th, fifth, sixth, and upper half of the seventh Eibs. 114 This Piece is elongated and somewhat pointed (in some cases Bifid), and presents on either side a l^otch for the Articulation of the lower half of Cartilage of the last true Rib. 115 The Ensiform or Xiphoid Cai'tilage CXi^Jios, a, sword; and Eidos, likeness). 116 The Aponeuroses of the Abdominal Muscles. 117 Sixteen; viz. two Clavicles and the fourteen true Ribs. 118 The Pectoralis Major, Stcrno-mastoid, Stcmo-thyroid, Stemo-hyoid, Triangularis Sterni, the Liaphi-agm, and by Aponeiu'osis with the external and internal Oblique, Transversalis, and Rectus Muscles.ON HXrilAH' ANATOMY. 33 119 From several, vai-ying from sis to twelve. BONES OF THE PELVIS. 120 Os Sacrum, Os Coccygis, and the two Ossa Innominata. OS SACETJM. 121 Triangiilar, and situated at the posterior part of the Pelvis, immediately below the last Lumbar Vertebra. 122 Into two surfaces (anterior and posterior), two sides, a base, and an apex. 123 Concave from above downwards, and from side to side. 124 Four; indicating originally five Vertebrce, (the Sacrum now before me presents only three lines). 125 The large anterior Sacral Foramina. 126 The four anterior primary Branxihes of the Sacral Nerves, the fifth excepted. 127 Convex, 128 A rough vertical Crest, forming the rudiments of four Spinous Processes, the last or fifth being undeveloped constitutes the Sacral Cornua, corresponding in Arti- culation with the Cornua of the Coccyx. 129 The large posterior Sacral Foramina. 130 The foiir posterior primary Branches of the Sacral Nerves, whilst the fifth issues through the small ISTotch or Foramen between the Sacrum and Coccyx. 131 The Tubercle. 132 The Erector Spinse. 133 The Ilium. 134 The greater and lesser Sacro-ischiatic Ligaments. 135 The inferior articular surface of the last Lumbar Vertebra. 136 The rounded or Sacro-vertebral angle which is formed by the union of the upper anterior Border of the base of the Sacrmn with the lower anterior Border of the last Lumbar Vertebra. 137 Triangular and formed by its Vertebral Arches. 138 The inferior articular surface of the last Liunbar Vertebra. 139 A Notch which gives passage to the last Lumbar Nerve. 140 That of the Coccyx. 141 By the Notch on either side corresponding with the Notch in the upper Border of the Coccyx. 142 Three. 143 Four; the last Lumbar, two Ossa Innominata, (the Iliac portions), and the Coccyx.34 ANSWERS TO QIJESTIOKS 144 The Gluteus Maximus, Saero-lumbalis, Latissimus Dorsi, Longissimus Dorsi, Multifidus Spina, Coccy- geus, and Pp-iformis. 145 Prom about thii'ty Ossiflc points. OS COCCTGIS. 146 Immediately below tbe Os Sacrum. 147 From its resemblance to a cuckoo's bill or beak, (Kohlcus, a cuckoo). 148 Pour and sometimes five pieces. 149 Concave. 150 Convex. 151 An oval articular surface which unites with the last Sacral Vertebra, also two smaller articular surfaces called Cornua. 152 The corresponding Cornua of the Sacrum. 153 One; the Sacrum. 154 The Gluteus Maximus, Coccygeus, external Sphiacter and Levator Ani. 155 Each piece has a separate Ossific point. 156 Two ^^^^ INNOMINATA. 157 Into three portions; Ilium, Ischium, and Pubis. ixroii. 158 The Ilium is the superior expanded portion which forms the prominence of the Hip. 159 Into two surfaces (internal and external), two Borders (anterior and posterior), and Crest. 160 Above by the Crest, below by the Linea-ilio-pectinea, and anteriorly and posteriorly by its Borders. 161 Concave and constitutes the Iliac Possa. 162 The origin of the Iliacus Internus. 163 The centre of the Iliac Possa. 164 The Brim, which corresponds with the prominent line, (Linea Ilio-Pectinea). 165 That portion behind the Iliac Fossa which corresponds with the articular surface of the Sacrum. 166 A groove wliich divides it into two pai'ts, the posterior part gives attachment to the sti'ong Interosseous Ligaments, and the anterior part which in the recent subject is coated with Cartilage. 167 Tes, for the transmission of the Nutrient Yessels. 168 Somewhat irregxilar, being concave on its posterior half and convex on its anterior half.ON HUMAN ANATOMY. 35 169 Above by the Crest, below by the projecting Arch, which constitutes the upper circle of the Acetabulum, and anteriorly and posteriorly by its Borders. 170 The superior and inferior curved lines. 171 From the anterior-superior Spine to the greater Ischiatic Notch. 172 From the anterior-inferior Spine to the greater Ischiatic I^otch. 173 The Gluteus Medius. 174 The Gluteus Minimus. 175 The posterior-superior Spine and the posterior-inferior Spine. 176 Part of the Gluteus Maximus. 177 The second Origin of the Eectus Eemoris. 178 The first origin of the Eectus Femoris. 179 Part of the Sartorius. 180 The great Sacro-ischiatic Notch. 181 Two processes; the anterior-superior and anterior-in- ferior Spinous processes. 182 The Notch which gives attachment to part of the Sar- torius, as just stated. 183 The anterior teiioination of the Crista Eii. 184 In the Lip of the Acetabulum. 185 Two processes, the posterior-superior and the posterior- inferior Spinous processes. 186 Ligaments. 187 The upper portion of the greater Sacro-ischiatic Notch. 188 The Crista forms the upper, thick, rough Border of the Os Ilii, and extends from the anterior-superior Spinoua process, to the posterior-superior Spinous process. 189 Three; external, middle, and internal. 190 The insertion of the Obliquus Extemus Abdominis to the anterior half of its outer edge, and the origin of the Latissimus Dorsi to the posterior half of its outer edge. lOl^The ObHquus Intemus, by its origin from the anterior two-thirds. 192 The origins of the Transversalis Abdominis, from its anterior two-thirds; the Quadratus Lumborum, and the Erector Spince, from its posterior fifth. 193 The base or inferior portion. 194 The Ischium. 195 The Acetabulum; about two-fifths.AJfSWEES TO QUESXIONS 36 ISCHIinH. ] 96 The Ischium forms the posterior and lowest part of the Os Innominatum. 197 Into a Body, Tuberosity, and Eamus which are usually described as presenting two surfaces (external and internal), and thi-ee borders—posterior, inferior, and superior. 198 The Acetabulum. 199 At the lower and posterior part of the Bone, and con- stitutes the part on which we sit. 200 The descending portion of the Ischium. 201 The Ilium and Ischium. 202 The Obturator Membrane, with one exception at the top, which gives passage to the Obturator Vessels and Nerve. 203 The Spine of the Ischium. 204 The origin of the Gemellus Superior. 205 Above is the origin of the Coccygeus, and below is the origin of a few Pibres of the Levator Ani. 206 The lesser Sacro-ischiatic Ligament. 207 The Pyriformis Muscle, the Gluteal Vessels and ]S"erves, the greater and lesser Ischiatic Nerves and Vessels, and exit to the Pudic Vessels and Nerve. 208 The greater Sacro-ischiatic Ligament, and transmits the Obturator Intemus from, and the Pudic Vessels and Nerve into, the Pelvis. 209 The posterior forms the Spine; the inferior, the Tuber- osity ; and the superior, the lower circumference of the Poramen Ovale. 210 Muscles. 211 Smooth, and partially encroached upon posteriorly by the Spine. 212 The origin of the Gemellus Inferior. 213 The origins of the Quadratus Pemoris, Semimembran- osus, Semitendinosus, and long head of the Biceps Pemoris, the two last forming a conjoined Tendon. 214 The greater Sacro-ischiatic Ligament. 215 The Erector Penis. 216 The Transversalis Perinaei. ACETAmXtrM. 217 This cup-shaped Cavity is formed by the junction of the Ilium, Ischium, and Pubis. 218 Two Notches. 219 Near the Ilio-pectineal Eminence.ox UtrJIAN" AITATOJIT. 87 220 At the lowest jjart of the brim. 221 The Inter-articiilar Ligament vel Ligamentum Teres, and the Transverse Ligament, which latter completes the margin. 222 The surface between the Notches is denuded of Cai-tilage. 223 A Cord of Fibro-cartilage attached around the-brim. 224 A deep pit, which lodges a mass of fat. PtTBIS. 225 At the anterior and inner part of the Pelvis. 226 Into tlu'ee portions; the upper thick portion is called the Body, and the other portions the horizontal and descending Kami. 227 Its fellow of the opposite side by Tibro-cartilage, the union of which is called the Symphysis Pubis. 228 The origin of the Pectineus. 229 The Crista. 230 The inner termination of the Crista. 231 The outer extremity of the Crista. 232 The Linea IHo-pectinea which runs outwards from the Spine of the Bone. 233 The conjoined Tendon of the Internal Oblique and Transversalis, the Eectus Abdominis (its outer process) and sometimes the Pyramidalis. 234 Outwards, backwards, and downwards from the Body of the Bone. 235 "With the Ascending Eamus of the Ischium. 236 Two surfaces and two borders. 237 Rough, for the attachment of Muscles. 238 The origins of the Adductor Longus et Brevis, and poi-tions of the Gracilis, Adductor Magnus, and Obtur- ator Extemus. 239 Smooth, and forms part of the lower "Wall of the true Pelvic Cavity. 240 The rough Border forms with its fellow the Arch of the Pubcs, and the other, which is thin and sharp, forms part of the Brim or boundary of the Obturator Poramen. 241 Por the attachment of the Cms Penis vel Clitoridis. 242 The origin of the Compressor vel Constrictor Urethra3. 243 Three; the Sacrum, Pemur, and its fellow of the opposite side, sS8 AlfSWEES TO QUESTrOSS 244 Seven; one for each of its divisions, and four secondary, viz.: one for the Crest, one for the anterior-inferior Spine, one for the Tuberosity of the Ischium, and one for the Acetabulum, and sometimes one for the angle of the Pubis. Section VIII.—BO^'ES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 1 Into four classes: the Shoulder, Arm, Forearm, and Hand. BOjSTES OE the SHOTJLnEE. 2 Into two Bones ; the Scapula and Clavicle. SCAPULA. 3 Triangular and placed at the upper and posterior aspect and side of the Thorax, extending from the first to the seventh rib. 4 Into two siu'faces (anterior and posterior), three borders, (superior, inferior, and posterior), three angles and processes. 5 The Sub-scapular Eossa. 6 Concave, and presents three or foiu' oblique ridges for the attachment of Tendinous Bands or Eibres. 7 The Sub-scapularis. 8 The insertion of the Serratus Magnus. 9 Convex. 10 A prominent ridge of Bone called the Spine. 11 The Supra-spinous Eossa. 12 The origin of the Supra-spinatus. 13 The Infra-sinnous Fossa. 14 The origin of the Infra-spinatus. 15 The origins of the Teres Major and Minor. ] 16 The Infra-spinous Fossa. 17 The Superior. 18 From the superior angle to that of the Coracoid process. 19 The Supra-scapular IS^otch. 20 The Supra-scapular Nerve which is derived from the Brachial Plexus. 21 The posterior, commonly called the base. 22 From the superior angle to the inferior angle. 23 The insertions of the Levator Anguli Scapulje, Bhom- boideus Minor et Major, and Serratus Magnus. 24 From the extremity or lower margin of the Glenoid Cavity to the iuferior angle below. 25 The ijiferior Border.OK nuMAIf, ANATOMY. 89' 26 DejDressions or Grooves, one of which, gives insertion to some of the Miiscular Fibres of the Siib-scapnlaris, another just below the Glenoid Cavity to the middle or long Head of the Ti-iceps Cubiti. 27 At the upper thii-d of the posteiior Border, and ter- minates in the Acromion Process. 28 The origin of a portion of the Deltoid, and the insertion of a portion of the Trapezius. 29 The broad, flat, and arch-like elongated process of the Spine which overhangs the Glenoid Cavity. 30 Its anterior Border. 31 The anterior, superior, and inferior. 32 This angle, the strongest part of the Bone forms the Head. 33 An oval and shallow articular surface called the Glenoid Cavity, which is broader below than above. 34 By a Eim of Eibro-cartilage. 35 By the junction of the posterior Border or base with the superior Border of the Scapula. 36 By the junction of the posterior Border or base with the inferior Border of the Scapiila. 37 The Latissimas Dorsi. 38 The Neck is the narrow constricted part at the conver- gence of the superior and infe.i-ior Borders, imme- diately behind the Glenoid Cavity. 39 The round, thick,, and cuiwed projection nearly two inches in length, which arises by a broad base from the upper pai t of the Neck of the Scapula, overhang- ing the Glenoid Cavity on the inner side. 40 The origins of the Coraco-brachialis and short Head of the Biceps. 41 The insertion of the Pectoralis Minor. 42 Two; with the Humerus by its Glenoid Cavity, audi with the Clavicle by its Acromion Process. 43 From the superior Border just behind the Supra-scapu-. lar Notch. 44 Six: one for the Body, two for the Acromion, one for ■ the Coracoid Process, one for the inferior angle, and one for the base. CLAVICLE. 45 This Bone, so called from its resemblance to an ancient key, is situated at the upper and anterior part of the. Thorax, extending horizontally from the Scapula to the Sternum.40 ANSWEES TO QTTESTIOJfS 46 Like an Italic S, and divided into a Shaft or Body and two extremities, an internal or Sternal, and an exter- nal or Scapular extremity. 47 The Acromial half is concave and the Sternal half is Convex. 48 The Sternal Curve. 49 The Pectoralis Major. 50 The outer Head of the Stemo-cleido-mastoidens. 51 A portion of the Deltoid. 52 A portion of the Trapezius. 53 The insertion of the Suhclavius Muscle. 54 The posterior or internal Fasciculus of the Coraco- Clavicular Ligament, called the Conoid Ligament. 55 The anterior or external Fasciculus of the Coraco-clavi- cular Ligament called the Trapezoid Ligament. 56 The Costo-clavicular or Bhomboid Ligament. 57 The ISTiitrieut Ai-tery. 58 This thick and strong extremity terminates in a broad and somewhat triangular surface. 59 By means of an Inter-articular Fibro-cartilage. 60 This extremity which is broad and compressed from above downwards, terminates by an oblong sui-face, which ai'ticulates with the Acromial Process of the Scapula; its inner border. 61 The Clavicle. 62 Two; the Sternum and Scapula, 63 Six. 64 From only one Ossiflc point; its body or shaft. HTTMEETTS. 65 Irregularly cylindiical and situated at the side of the Thorax, extending from under the Acromion to the Eadius and Ulna. 66 Into a shaft or body, and two extremities. 67 Eidges and depressions for the attachment of Muscles. 68 The Deltoid. 69 The Coraco-brachialis. 70 The Brachialis Anticus which commences by a fleshy Digitation on each side the insertion of the Deltoid. 71 On the inner smface of the Bone just below the Ridge, wliich gives insertion to the Coraco-brachialis Muscle. 72 The Musculo-spiral 'Nerve and superior Profunda Artery, the former derived from the Brachial Plexus, and the latter from the Brachial Artery.OIT HUMAN AKATOMT. 41 73 The second and third or internal and external Heads of origin of the Triceps Extensor Cubiti. 74 The ronnded Head and immediately around its Base a constriction called the Neck, also two Tuberosities. 75 Into the Glenoid Cavity of the Scapula. 76 A perpendicular Furrow called the Bicipital Groove. 77 The greater Tuberosity. 78 The long Tendon or Head of the Biceps Muscle. 79 The anterior and posterior Bicipital Eidges. 80 The insertion of the Pectoralis Major. 81 The insertion of the Teres Major. 82 The insertion of the Latissimiis Dorsi. 83 Supra-spinatus, Infra-spinatus, and the Teres Minor. 84 The insertion of the Sub-Dcapulaais. 85 Tlattened from behind forwards, its greatest diameter being transverse. 86 In an articular surface which is divided by a Eidge into two parts, external and internal, the former called the lesser Head, and the latter the Trochlea. 87 The shallow articular depression on the Head of the Eadius. 83 This concave or grooved-Kke pulley corresponds with the articular surface on the upper extremity of the LTna. 89 The external and internal Condyle. 90 The internal Condyle. 91 The Plexor Carpi Eadialis, Elexor Carpi TILnaris, Pal- maris Longus, and Plexor Sublimis Digitorum, and the Pronator Eadii Teres, it also gives attachment to the internal lateral Ligament of the Elbow-joint. 92 The Extensor Carpi Eadialis Longior et Brevior, Ex- tensor Conmiimis Digitorum, Extensor Carpi TJlnaris, and Extensor Minimi Digiti, the Supinator Eadii Longus, and more posteriorly to the Anconeus, also the external lateral Ligament of the Elbow-joint. 93 The external and internal Condyloid Eidges. 94 The Coronoid Possa which, during Plexion of the Pore- arm, receives the Coronoid Process of the Ulna. 95 The Olecranon Possa which during extension of the Pore-arm, receives the Olecranon Process of the Ulna. 96 The Head is directed inward and backwaj'd, the larger Tuberosity forward and outward, the Groove directly forward, the external Condyle forward and outward, and the internal Condyle backwai'd and inward. I) 242 AKSWEES TO QTJESTIOXS 97 Three; superiorly with the Glenoid Cavity of the Scapula, aud inferiorly with the Ulna and lladius. 98 Seven; the Head, the two Tuberosities, the two Con- dyles, the Trochlea, and the Shaft or Body. BONES OF THE FOBEABM. 99 Two; the Ulna and Eadius. 100 Cylindiical and in-egularly triangular, and situated at the inner side of the Forearm. 101 Into a Body or Shaft and two extremities. 102 Three surfaces (anterior, posterior, and internal), and three Borders. 103 The origin of the superior and middle portions of the Ulexor Profundus Digitorum vel Perforans. 104 The Pronator Quadratiis. 105 The Nutrient Artery of the Medulla. 106 Bidges and uneven surfaces for the attachments of Muscles. 107 The insertion of the Anconeus. 108 The origin of the Supinator Kadii Brevis. 109 Extensor Ossis Metacai-pi Pollicis, (vel Ahductor Longus Pollicis), Extensor Primi Intemodii PolUcis, Extensor Secundii Intemodii Pollicis, and the Exten- sor Indicis vel Indicator Muscle. 110 The Aponeurosis common to the Plexor Carpi Ulnaris, Extensor Carpi Ulnaris, and Plexor Profundus Digitorum. 111 The Interosseous Membrane. 112 The greater Sigmoid Notch which corresponds with the Trochlea of the Humeriis. 113 The lesser Sigmoid Notch which corresponds with the Head of the Eadius. 114 The Olecranon Process. 115 The insertions of the Triceps Extensor Cubiti and Anconeus, and origin of the Plexor Carpi Ulnaris. 116 The Coronoid Process. 117 The insertion of the Brachialis Anticus and origins of the Plexor Digitonun Sublimis ct Pronator Iladii Teres. 118 The Head. 119 The Styloid Process. 120 A Groove for the passage of the Extensor Carpi Ulnaris Tendon. 121 The oval articular surface at the side of the Eadius. 122 The Humerus and Eadius.43 02f HUJIAX ANATOMY. 123 Three; one for the shaft, one for the lower extremity, and one for the Olecranon Process. 124 CylincMcal and irregailarly triangular, and placed at the oiiter side of the Foreann. 12o Into a Shaft or Body and two extremities. 126 TheUkia. 127 Three surfaces (anterior, posterior, and external), bounded by thi'ee margins. 128 Its superior part is concave and its inferior is flat. 129 The origin of the Plexus Longus Pollicis. 130 The origin of the Pronator Quadratus. 131 About the middle of the anterior surface and directed ujDAvards. 132 Chiefly convex. 133 The Extensors of the Thumb already named in the description of the Uhia. 134 Eounded and convex. 135 The insertion of the Pronator Eadii Teres. 136 The insertion of the Supinator Eadii Brevis. 137 From the Tuberosity of the Eadius to its Styloid Process. 138 The Interosseous Ligament or Membrane. 139 The Eounded Head; its shallow articular Cavity cor- responding to the roxmd articular projection at the inferior extremity of the Humerus. 140 The lesser Sigmoid Notch of the Ulna. 141 Thels^eck. 142 The Bicipital Tuberosity. 143 The Tendon of the Biceps. 144 A Bxu'sa. 145 The inferior exti'emity. 146 This extremity which is broad and somewhat triangu- lar, presents two articular surfaces. 147 Concave and Semi-lunar, and articulates with the rounded Head of the Ulna. 148 This surface, which is divided by a smaU Eidge, articulates with the Scaphoid and Semi-lunar Bones of the Carpus. 149 The Styloid Process. 150 The Tendon of the Supiaator Eadii Longus. 151 The external lateral Ligament of the "Wrist-joint. 152 The Tendons of the Extensor Ossis Metacai-pi Pollicis, and the Extensor Primi Intemodii PoUicis.44 AXSWEES TO QUESTIONS 153 The Tendons of the Extensor Carpi Eadialis Longior et Brevior, and the Extensor Secundi Intcrnodii Pollicis, and a little behind these is an oblique Groove for the Tendons of the Extensor Indicis, and Extensor Com- munis Digitorum. 154 By the posterior Annular Ligament. 155 Pour; the Humerus (two articular surfaces of), the Ulna, and the (two Carpal Bones), Scaphoid and Semi-lunar. 156 Three; one for the Body and one for each extremity. BONES OF THE HAND. 157 Twenty-seven. 158 Into those of the Carpus, Metacarpus, and Phalanges or Eingers. „. „ 159 Dorsal surface convex, Palmar concave, and situated between the Bones of the Eorearm and those of the Metacarpus. 160 Eight; aiTanged transversely in two rows. 161 Os Scaphoides, Os Semilunai-e, Os Cimeiforme, et Os Pisiforme. 162 Os Trapezium, Os Trapezoides, Os Magnum et Os TJnciforme. os SCAPHOIDES. 163 This Bone which is the first and largest in the first row, is coiivex on one side and concave on the other. 164 Obliquely inwai'ds and forwards. 165 The origin of the Abductor Pollicis, and the anterior Annular Ligament. 166 A narrow Groove for the attachment of Ligaments. 167 Eive; Eadius, Os Magnum, Os Semilunare, Os Trape- zium, and Os Trapezoides. 168 The Radius. 169 The Os Magnum and Os Semilunare. 170 The Trapezium and Os Trapezoides. 171 Place the Bone horizontally with the large convex sur- face, looking towards yourself; and if the broad extremity be directed to the right hand, the Bone belongs to the same Hand; and vice versa. os SEMILUNAEE. 172 This is the second Bone in the first row, irregularly triangular, with its superior surface convex, and in- ferior concave. 173 Eour, and frequently five articular surfaces, and two extremities, viz. a Dorsal and Palmar extremity.Oy HUMAN AN-ATOJrr. 45 174 The Eadius. 175 The Os Magmim. 176 The Os Scaphoides, 177 The Os Cuneiforme, and by a"small Facet to the Os Unciforme. 178 Flat and slightly rough for the attachmeiit of Liga- ments. 179 Convex and rounded. 180 Five. 181 Place the Bone with the two Semi-lnnar surfaces (which correspond to the Os Magnum and Os Unciforme), downwards and the lai'gest non-articiilar surface for- wards; the larger Semi-lunar articular surface will then he directed to the side to which the Bone belongs. OS CUNEIFOEirE. 182 This is the third Bone in the fii'st row and somewhat wedge-shaped. 183 Three surfaces, a base, and an apex. 184 The Os Unciforme, to its concave surface. 185 The Os Semi-lunare, to its base. 186 The Os Pisiforme, to its circular-articular surface. 187 Thi-ee. 188 Place the base looking backwards and the circular or Pisiform surface upwards, and the concave or Unci- form sru'faee will be directed to the side to which the Bone belongs. ° OS PISIFOEME. 189 This Bone which is iiTegularly round is the fom'th and last Bone in the first row. 190 By presenting only one articular snrface. 191 The insertinn of the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris, and the origin of the Abductor of the Little Finger, also the Annular Ligament. 192 Only one, the Os Cimeiforme. 193 Place the Bone with the articular surface downwards and the extremity or projection which overhangs the articular surface towards yourself; the concave or . slightly grooved surface will then be directed to the hand to which it belongs. OS TEAPEZItrir. 194 This Bone which is irregularly square is the first Bone in the second row, and situated between the first Metacai-pal and Scaphoid Bones. 195 An oblong Eminence or Tubercle and a deep Groove.46 ANSWEES TO atTESIIOXS 196 The anterior Annular Ligament. 197 The Tendon of the Flexor Carpi Eadialis. 198 Poiir; superiorlj^ with the Scaphoid Bone, infcriorly with the fii-st Metacai-pal Eone, and on its Ulnar side with the Trapezoid Bone, and with a small portion of the second Metacarpal Bone. 199 Two; the origins of the Flexor Ossis Metacarpi vel Opponens Pollicis, and the outer Head of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis. 200 Place the Bone with the Groove looking upwards and its apex forwards; the Concavo-convex or saddle- shaped smface will then be dii-ected to the Hand to which it belongs. OS irtlPEZOIDES. 201 This oblong and somewhat quadiilateral Bone is the second in the second row. 202 Four; one is Concavo-convex, another concave, and the two others almost flat. 203 The second Metacarpal Bone. 204 The Scaphoid Bone. '*205 Os Trapezium. 206 The Os Magnum. 207 Four. 208 Only one, part of the origin of the inner Head of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis. 209 Place the Bone perpendicularly with the larger ex- tremity looking upwards, and the Concavo-convex or. inferior surface looking directly forwards; the angular concave or radial articular surface "will then be directed to the Hand to which it belongs. os ITAGNUjr. 210 The Os Magnnm, and divided into a Body, Head, and Extremity. 211 Bound in the greater portion of its extent, and forms the third Bone in the second row. 212 Foiu' siu'faces; a Dorsal, Palmar, and two articular surfaces. 213 Three; viz. the third Metacarpal Bone, and on either side with a small j)ortion of the second and fom-th Metacarpal Bones. 214 Two; viz. the Scaphoid and Semi-lunar Bones. 215 The Unciform Bono. 216 The Trapezoid Bone. 217 Seven.47 218 Only one; part of the origin of the inner Head of the riexor Brevis Pollicis. 219 Place the Bone perpendicularly with the broadest non- articular or Dorsal sui'face looking backwards (i.e. towards yourself,) and the inferior or articular ex- tremity looking upwards; the concave ai'ticular sur- face will then be dii-ected to the Hand to which it belongs. OS tWCIFOEME. 220 This Bone which possesses a curved or hook-like process on its Palmar surface is of a' triangular form^-* and is the last Bone of the second row. 221 Five; viz. three articular and two free. 222 Two; the fourth and fifth Metacarpal Bones. 223 The Os Semi-Lunare. -p- 224 The Os Magnum. 225 The Os Cuneiforme. 226 rive. 227 Two; the origins of the Plexor Brevis'Minimi Digi and the Adductor (vel Opponens) Minimi Digiti. 228 Place the Bone so that the curved process looks down- wards, and the base or Metacai-pal surfaces directly forwards; the convexity of the process will then be directed to the Hand to which it belongs. 229 Seven; Abductor Pollicis, Opponens Pollicis, Plexor Brevis Pollicis, Plexor Brevis Minimi Digiti, Adductor vel Opponens Minimi Digiti, and Abductor Minimi Digiti, by their origins; and the Plexor Carpi Ulnaris, by its insertion. 230 Each Bone presents only one Ossific point. 231 Pive. MEXACAEPTTS. 232 Between the Carpus and Phalanges. 233 Into a Body and two extremities. 234 The Base. 235 The Head. 236 Concave on the Palmar, and convex on the Dorsal surface. 237 Upwards. 238 Do^vnwards. 239 The Interosseous Muscles. 240 Hounded or convex and flattened laterally. 241 The first row of Phalanges. 242 The lateral Ligament.AXSTVEES TO QITESTIOXg 48 243 The second row of the Carpus, viz.: Trapezium, Trapezoides, Os Magnum, and Os Unciforme. 244 The Trapezium, 245 The Trapezium, Trapezoides, Os Magnum, and the third Metacai-pal Bone. 246 The Os Magnum and its fcllo-w on either side, viz.: the second and fourth. 247 The Os Magnum, Os TJncifonne and its fellow on either side, viz.: the third and last. Q48 The Os Unciforme and the fourth Metacarpal Bone. 249 The second. 250 Thefii-st. 251 By its peculiar Concavo-convex or saddle-shaped articu- lar sui'face at its upper exti'emity, con'esponding to the Concavo-convex or saddle-shaped STirface on the Trapezium, also by its shaft or body being shorter and broader than the others. 252 Place the Bone with its base looking towards yourself and the Dorsal aspect upwards; the articular suiface on the side of the base will be dii'ccted from the side to which the Bone belongs. 253 Three; the insertions of the Flexor Ossis Mctacarpi vel Opponens Pollicis, and Extensor Ossis Mctacarpi (vel Abductor Longus) Pollicis, and the origLa of one Head of the first Dorsal Interosseous Muscle. 254 By its base or upper extremity presenting an imeven sui'face, which corresponds to the articular surfaces of the Trapezium, Trapezoides, and Os Magnum, and by its presenting only one lateral Facet which corres- ponds with that on the thii'd Metacaqjal Bone. 855 Place the Bone with the Base looking towards yourself and the Dorsal aspect upwards; the lateral ai'ticular surface will then be on the side to which it belongs. 256 The insertions of the Flexor Cai-pi Eadialis, and Ex- tensor Carju Eadialis Longior, and the origins of Dorsal and Palmar Interossei. 257 By the angular pi-ocess on the radial side of its base or upper extTemity, which gives insertion to the Exten- sor Carpi Eadialis Brevior Muscle. 258 Place the Bone with the base looking towards yourself and the Dorsal aspect upwards; the comer of the base which has no projection will then be on the side to which it belongs.49 Olf HUIIAN' AKATOMT. 259 The insertions of the Extensor Carj^i Eadialis Brcvior, and the origins of the Adductor Pollicis (on its Palmar asi^ect), and the Interossei. 260 To its angular process. 261 By its base or upper exti'emity, being small and square, and by the absence of the angTilar projecting process. 26:3 Place the Bone with the base looking towards yourself and the Dorsal aspect upwards; the base will then be slightly inclined towards the side to which it belongs. 263 Palmar and Dorsal Interossei. 264 By its having only one lateral articular surface corres- pondihg with that on the Ulnar side of the Metacarpal Bone of the ring Pinger. 265 Place the Bone with the base looking towards yourself and the Dorsal aspect upwards; that side of the base which has no articular sm-face wiU be directed to the Hand to which it belongs. 266 To its base, the insertion of the Extensor Carpi TJlnaris, and by origin, to its Ulnar Border, the Adductor vel Opponens Minimi Digiti, and the Palmar and Dorsal Interossei. 267 Nine; five Phalangeal and four Carpal. 268 Three; one for the shaft and one for each extremity. PHALANGES. 269 Fourteen to each hand, viz.: three to each Finger and two to the Thumb. 270 pQto a shaft and two extremities, viz.: a Head and Base. 271 Convex posteriorly and flat anteriorly. 272 Eidges or margins for the attachments of the Fibrous Sheaths of the Tendons. 273 Oval and concave for the reception of the convex Head of the corresponding Metacarpal Bone. 274 The insertions of the Interossei. 275 By two small Condyles (separated by a slight Eidge), corresponding to the bases of the contiguous Bones of the Fingers. 276 By their greater length and by their upper or Meta- carpal extremities not strictly forming hinge-joints. 277 By their bases or upper extremities having two articu- late surfaces, separated by a small Eidge, correspond- ing with the Heads or lower extremities of the con- tiguous surfaces of the first Phalanges.50 ANSWEES TO QTJE6TI0KS 278 These Bones are the shortest, their Dorsal surfaces are smooth for the attachment of the IS ails, and tlieii- Palmar surfaces rough. 279 The Metacarpal Bones and the second row of Phalanges. 280 The first and thii-d rows. 281 Those of the second row. 282 The first Phalanges at their bases or upper Metacarpal extremities. 283 To the base or Metacai-pal extremity of the first Phalanx are the insertions of the Adductor Pollicis Plexor Brevis PoUicis, Abductor Pollicis and Exten- sor Primi Intemodii, to the second, third, and foui'th, the Palmar and Dorsal Interossei, and to the base of the last Phalanx of this row the insertions of Abductor Minimi Digiti, Plexor Brevis Minimi Digiti, and one Palmar Interosseous. 284 To the base or Metacaq^al extremity of the last Phalanx of the Thumb are the insertions of the Plexor Longus Pollicis, and Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis, to the other Phalanges, the insertions of the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum vel Perforatus, and Extensor Communis Digitorum; the Extensor Minimi Digiti joins the common Tendon in the two last Phalanges of the little Pinger. 285 The insertions of the Plexor Profimdus Digitorum vel Perforans, and the Extensor Commimis Digitorum. 286 Into the common Tendon of the Index Pinger. 287 Two : one for the body and one for the base. OSSA SESAMOIDEA. 288 Small Osseous masses developed in certain Tendinous extremities, e.g. in the uj^per extremity two exist in each inserted Tendon of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis at the articulation of the first Metacarpal Bone, with the first Phalanx in the lower extremity is the Patella developed in the common Tendon of the Quadiiceps Extensor Muscle, one exists in the Tendon of the Peroneus Longus Muscle, as it passes through the Groove or depression in the Os Cuboides, another exists in the Tendon of the Tibialis Posticus Muscle beneath the ai-ticulatiou of the Astragalus, two exist in the first Metatarso-phalangeal Articidation on its Palmar surface, developed in the Tendinous insertions of the Flexor Bre^-is PoUicis Pedis Muscle. 289 Flexor Longus Pollicis Pedis.51 OIT HtraiAN ANATOMY. Sectioit IX.—BOJS'ES of THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 1 Into the Thigh, Leg, and Foot. 2 The Os Femoris. ^^^^^^ 3 Into a Body and two extremities (superior and inferior). 4 Nearly cylindrical, being somewhat arched with its convexity dii'ected forwards. 5 Linea Aspera, which bifurcates above and below. 6 The upper Lips or Borders terminate: the inner one at the Root of the lesser Trochanter, and the outer one at the Root of the greater Trochanter. 7 At the Tuberosities of the Condyles, forming the internal and external Condyloid Ridges. 8 The Popliteal surface of the Femm' corresponding with the Popliteal Vessels. , 9 The Head, Xeck, and two Eminences called Trochanters. 10 Upwards and inwards, and presents a little behind and below its centre an oval depression for the attach- ment of the round Ligament. 11 TJpwai-ds and imvards from the shaft, and compressed jfrom before backwards. 12 Three; anterior, siiperior, and inferior. 13 The inferior surface. 14 Upwards, and somewhat concave. 15 Smooth and broad. 16 The larger outstanding process external to the Neck. 17 The insertion of the Gluteus Minimus and to its outer surface Gluteus Medius. 18 Part of the origin of the Vastus Extemus. 19 The Tendons of the Obturator Internus, Gemellus Superior et Inferior, and the Pyiiformis. 20 The Tendon of the Obturator Extemus. 21 The smaller outstanding process at the inner and back part of the shaft, immediately below the base of the Iseck. 22 The Tendons of insertion of the Psoas Magnus and . IHacus. 23 The Inter-trochanteric Ridges. 24 The inferior boundary of the Neck of the Femur. 25 The two Condyles. 26 The inner Condyle. 27 A deep Notch, the Inter-Condyloid Notch, in which are inserted the Crucial Ligaments.52 ANSWEES TO QUESTIONS 28 The external liitcral Ligament of the Knee-joint. 29 The origins of the outer Head of the Gastrocnemius and Plantai'is. 30 The internal lateral Ligaments, also to the insertion of a few Fibres of the Adductor Magnus. 31 The origin of the inner Head of the Gastrocnemius. 32 Three Muscles, viz.: the Vastus Extemus et Intemus, and the Crm-eus. 33 The origins of the Crureus and Suh-crureus. 34 The origin of the Vastus Intemus. 35 The origin of the Vastus Extemus. 36 The Crureus. 37 The insertions of the Adductor Longus, Magnus et Brevis, Glul eus Maximus, and Pectineus, and the origin of the short Head of the Biceps. 38 The insertion of the Quadi-atus Eemoris. 39 On the Linea Aspera immediately below the insertion of the Gluteus Maximus. 40 The PopHteus, 41 A Bursa. 42 Twenty-three. 43 Three; the Os Innominatum, Tibia, and Patella. 44 Eive; one for the body, one for each extremity, and two secondary deposits for the Trochanters. PATELLA. 45 A Sesamoid Bone developed in the Extensor Tendon of the Knee ; the Quadriceps Extensor. 46 Immediately above the I'ibia, and somewhat triangular or heart-shaped, with the broad portion directed upwards and the apex do^s^oiwards. 47 Into a base, apex, and two surfaces (anterior and pos- terior). 48 Convex, 49 Smooth, and divided by a vertical Eidge into two articu- lar surfaces, external and intemal, corresponding to the articular Condyloid sui-faces of the Eemur. 50 The external; this circumstance alone wiU indicate to which Leg the Bone belongs. 51 The iaisertion of the Quadriceps Extensor Tendon. 52 The Ligamentum PateUae. 53 One; the two Condyles of the Eemur. 54 Erom only one Ossific point. BONES or THE LEG. 55 Two; the Tibia and Eibula.53 ON mmAK ANATOMY. 56 The Tibia. ^^^^^^ 57 This Bone is placed on the inner side of the Leg. 58 Into a Shaft and two extremities. 59 Triangular. 60 Thi-ee; external, internal, and posterior. 61 This sm-face is Superficial and Sub-cutaneous. 62 This surface is somewhat hollowed and marked by a sharp Eidge, which gives attachment to the Inter- osseous Ligament. 63 The origin of the Tibialis Anticus. 64 This siuface is grooved for the attachment of Muscles, and presents along its upper third a rough line running obliquely from the outer towai-ds the iimer side, called the Popliteal line, which gives attachment to the Popliteal Pascia. 65 The insertion of the Popliteus. 66 The origins of the Soleus Plexor Longus Digitorum Pedis and part of the Tibialis Posticus. 67 The Medullary Canal which is the largest in the Cylin- diical Bones and runs obliqiiely downwards. 68 Two broad horizontal and slightly excavated articular Buifaces forming two Tuberosities, (external and internal). 69 Eoimd. 70 Oval. 71 A projection called the Spinous Process. 72 The anterior and posterior Cracial Ligaments and the Inter-articular or Semi-limar Cartilage. 73 The articular surface on the Head of the Pibula. 74 The Tibialis Anticus & Extensor Longus Digitorum Pedis. 75 The Semimembranosus, Sartorius, Gracilis, and Semi- tendinosus. 76 The Tubercle which gives attachment to the Ligamen- tum PateUse. 77 Somewhat quadrilateral. 78 The Malleolus Intemus. 79 The Tendons of insertion of the Tibialis Posticus and Flexor Longus Digitorum Pedis. 80 The Astragalus. 81 The Interosseous Membrane. 82 The articular surface of the Pibula. 83 "With one of the Tarsal Bones, the Astragalus. 84 A Synovial Biu'sa. b5 Three; the Pemur, Pibula, and Astragalus. E 2ANSWERS TO QTESTIONS 04 86 Ten. 87 Three; one for the Body, and two for the extremities, 88 The Fibula. rinuLA. 89 This Bone is placed on the outer side of the Leg. 90 Into a Body or Shaft and t-\vo extremities. 91 The lower tlrree-foiu-ths triangular, and the upper some- what rounded. 92 Three; internal, external, and posterior. 93 A longitudinal Ridge called the Interosseous Eidge. 94 The Interosseous Ligament which divides the anterior and posterior Muscles of the Leg. 95 Part of the origin of the Tibialis Posticus. 96 Part of the origins of the Extensor Longus Digitorum, Extensor Proprius Pollicis and Peroneus Tertius. 97 The external suirface. 98 Origins of the Peroneus Longus above, et Brevis below. 99 The Medullary Canal which is directed obliquely down- wards. 100 To its upper third or half is the Soleus, and to its lower half or two-thirds the Flexor Longus Pollicis. 101 Tlu-ee; internal, external, and posterior. 102 This Border commencing above in the Interosseous llidge, divides inferiorly into two lines which enclose the triangular Sub-cutaneous surface of the outer Malleolus. 103 At the base of the Styloid Process of the Fibula. 104 In the Interosseous llidge. 105 The Head. 106 Oval, and articulates with the corresponding part on the outer Tuberosity of the Tibia. 107 Styloid Process, called by Owen "FibeUa." 108 The Tendon of the Biceps Femoris vel Flexor Cruris. _ 109 The lower extremity flattened from without inwards is prolonged below the articular surface, and forms the outer Malleolus. 110 Somewhat convex, and articulates mth the side of the Astragalus. 111 The Interosseous Ligament. 112 The Tendons of the Peroneus Longus et Breyis. 113 The external lateral Ligament of the Anlde-joint. 114 Two ; at each extremity with the Tibia, and the outer Border of the Astragalus. 115 Nine. 116 Three; one for the Shaft and two for the extremities.55 ox HXJMAjr AKATOJir. BOXES OF THE TOOX. 117 Twenty-six. 118 Into tliree classes, viz.: Tarsus, Metatarsus, and Toes. TABSTJS. 119 The Tarsus forms tlie posterior part of the Foot. 120 Seven; Astragalus, Os Calcis, Os Scaphoides, Os Cuboides, and the three Ossa Cuneiformia (Internum, Medium, et Externum). 121 The Astragalus. ASTEAGALtrS. 122 This extremely irregular Bone presents six aspects, viz.: a superior and an inferior siu'face, an external and an internal Border, and an anterior and a pos- terior extremity. 123 A broad articidar surface, convex fi'om before back- vrards, -which articulates with the corresponding sur- face of the Tibia. 124 This surface presents two articular Pacettes, which ai-e divided by a deep transverse Groove for the lodgment of the Interosseous Ligament. 125 The anterior surface is flat and the posterior concave, both are directed obliquely downwards and forwards, and articulate with the Os Calcis. 126 A triangular articular surface (corresponding with the outer Malleolus), somewhat concave anteriorly, with its apex downwards. 127 A small articular surface of a Pyriform shape, corres- ponding with the inner Malleolus. 128 A rounded Head which corresponds to the Socket formed anteriorly by the Os Scaphoides, inferiorly by the Os Calcis, and completed by the inferior elastic Ligament, (the Calcaneo-scaphoid). 129 A Groove for the passage of the Tendon of the Flexor Longus Pollicis Pedis. 130 Place the Bone with the broad articular surface on its superior aspect, looking upwards, and the large con- vex Head on its anterior extremity directed forwards; the lateral triangular articular sui'face on the external Border will be directed to the Poot to which it belongs. 131 Pour; the Tibia and Pibula above, the Os Calcis below, and the Os Naviculare anteriorly. 132 None. 133 The Os Calcia vel Calcaneum.56 AirSWEES TO QTTESTIOIfS OS CALCIS. 134 At the posterior and inferior part of the Tarsus, 135 Into four surfaces (superior, inferior, internal, and ex- ternal), and two extremities (anterior and posterior). 136 Two ai-ticular surfaces; the posterior, which is the largest, is convex, and the anterior somewhat concave. 137 Those of the Astragalus. 138 The Interosseous Ligament. 189 By its union with the corresponding one ia the Astragalus, (Canalis Tarsi). 140 Eough and convex, and presents posteriorly two Tubercles, (an external and iatemal one, the latter the largest). 141 The origin of the superficial Plantar Muscles and the thick Plantar Pascia. 142 Deeply concave for the passage of the Plantar or Plexor Tendons, Vessels and Nerves. 143 Sustentaculum Tali, which assists to support the anterior articular siu'face or Head of the Astragalus. 144 The Calcaneo-scaphoid or inferior elastic Ligament. 145 The Tendons of the Plexor Longus PoUicis, and Plexor Longus Digitorum Pedis. 146 Broad, somewhat convex and sub-cutaneous, and marked near its middle by two small Grooves divided by a Tubercle. 147 The Tendons of the Peroneus Longus et Brevis. 148 A smooth articular sm'face which corresponds with the Os Cuboides. 149 The origin of the Extensor Brevis Digitorum. 150 This extremity, which forms the Heel, is convex and presents two surfaces, an upper and a lower; in the upper and smooth part is situated, between the Tendo Achillis and the Bone, a Bursa; and the lower or rough part indicates the insertion of the Tendo Achillis. 151 Two; the Astragalus and Os Cuboides. 152 Eight; the conjoined Tendon of the Soleus and Gas- trocnemius, conjointly with the Plantaris Tendon, Abductor PoUicis, Abductor Minimi Digiti, Plexor Brevis Digitomm, Plexor Accessorius, and the Ex- tensor Brevis Digitonim Pedis. OS SCAPHOIDES. 153 At the inner Border of the Tarsus between the Astragalus and Ossa Cunciformia.57 ON nUMAK ANATOMY. 154 Into two surfaces (anterior and posterior), two Borders (superior and inferior), and two extremities. 155 Convex, and presents three ai'ticulai' Tacettes, cor- responding with those of the three Cuneiform Bones. 156 Concave, its articulai- surface corresponding with the roimded Head of the Astragalus. 157 Convex. 158 Slightly concave. 159 A small articular surface corresponding with one on the Os Cuhoides. 160 A Tuhercle which projects on the inner side of theTarsus. 161 The inserted Tendon of the Tibialis Posticus. 162 A Sesamoid Bone. 163 Five; Astragalus, the three Ossa Cuneiformia, and the Os Cuboides. 164 Only one; the Tendon of the Tibialis Posticus. 165 The anterior Tibial Artery. 166 Place the Bone with the three articular surfaces look- ing forwards, and the superior convex Border up- wards ; the broad extremity will then be directed to the Poot to which it belongs. OS CITBOIDES. 167 At the external side of the Tarsus, between the Os Calcis and the two last Metatarsal Bones. 168 Into three articular and three non-articular surfaces. 169 Into posterior, anterior, and internal. 170 The posterior and of a Concavo-convex form. 171 The anterior articular surface of the Os Calcis. 172 Two smooth articiilar Pacettes corresponding with those on the bases of the fourth and fifth Metatarsal Bones. 173 Two articular Pacettes, corresponding with the outer Cuneiform Bone and the Os Scaphoides. 174 Into superior, inferior, and external. 175 Somewhat convex, and aids in the formation of the Dorsum of the Tarsus. 176 A deep Groove for the passage of the Peroneus Longus Tendon. 177 The Calcaneo-Cuboid Ligament. 178 The external, which is marked by a deep Notch, indicating the commencement of the Peroneal Groove. 179 Pive; Os Calcis, Os Cuneiforme Externum, Os Scaphoides, and the fourth and fifth Metatarsal Bones. 180 Two; the origins of the Plexor Brevis Pollicis and the Adductor Pollicis Pedis.58 ANSWEES TO QtTESTIONS 181 Place the Bone with the Peroneal Groove looking do-\vnwards, and the posterior or largest articular surface looking backwards; the smaller or external non-articular surface, which is marked by the deep Notch, will be directed to the Foot to which it belongs. OSSA CTJNEIFOIlMIA. 182 Three; internal, middle, and external. 183 The first or internal one. 184 Into four surfaces; anterior, inferior, external, and internal. 185 This surface, which is somewhat convex, articulates with the base of the first Metatarsal Bone. 186 The insertion of the Tibialis Anticus, and to one of the inserted processes of the Tibialis Posticus. 187 One of the three articular Facettes on the Scaphoid Bone. 188 This surface, which is somewhat concave, articulates with the middle Cuneiform Bone, and the second Metatarsal Bone. 189 This is convex and presents a smooth surface, over which the Tendon of the Tibialis Anticus passes to its insertion on the under surface. 190 Pour; Os Scaphoides, Os Cuneiforme Medium, and the two first Metatarsal Bones. 191 Two; the Tibialis Anticus et Posticus. 192 Place theBone with thebase downwards, and the anterior articular surface forwards; the concave siu-face will then be directed to the Foot to which the Bone belongs. 193 The Os Cuneiforme Medium. 194 "Wedge-shaped, Tvdth its base upwards, and situated between the fii'st and third Cuneiform Bones. 195 Into four articular surfaces (anterior, posterior, and lateral), and two extremities (base and apex). 196 The base of the second Metatarsal Bone. 197 The Scaphoid Bone. 198 The Os Cuneifonne Externum. 199 The Os Cuneiforme Internum. 200 Four; the second Bone of the Metatarsus, Scaphoid, and its fellow on either side. 201 One; pai't of the Tendon of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis Pedis. 202 Place the Bone with the narrowest side of the base directed forwards and the apex downwards; the smaU. vertical articular surface will be directed to the Foot to which it belongs.ox HUMAX AITATOMY. 59 203 Some what wedge-shaped witli its base upwards and apex downwards, and situated to the outer side of the middle Cuneiform Bone. 204 Into six articulai" siu^faces (anterior, posterior, and four lateral), and two extremities (base and apex). 205 The base of the thii-d Metatarsal Bone. 206 The Scaphoid Bone. 207 The Cuboid Bone, and by a small Eacette with the foiu'th Metatarsal Bone. 208 The middle Cimeifomi Bone, and by a small Facette with the second Metatarsal Bone. 209 Six; the second, thii-d, and foru'th Metatarsal Bones, Scaphoid, Cuboid, and the middle Cuneiform Bone. 210 One, pai't of the Tendon of the Plexor Brevis Pollicis Pedis to its apex or inferior extremity. 211 Place the Bone with the square extremity directed upwards, and the sharp edge or Eidge backwards; the bevelled siu'face will then be directed to the Foot to which it belongs. 212 Each Bone has only one Ossific point, except the Os Calcis which possesses two. 213 Twelve. METATAEStrS. 214 Between the Tarsus and Toes. 215 Pive. 216 The first. 217 The second. 218 Into a shaft and two extremities (posterior or base, and anterior or Head). 219 Triangular. 220 Almost square. 221 With the second row of Tarsal Bones, and laterally with each other. 222 With the first row of Phalanges. FrEST METATAESAL EOITE. 223 "With the first or internal CuneifoiTa Bone. 224 A small process for the insertion of the Peroneus . Longus Tendon. 225 Two small Pacettes corresponding to the two Sesamoid Bones. 226 Three; the internal Cuneiform Bone, the first Phalanx, and the second Metatarsal Bone. 227 Two; the Peroneus Longus and first Dorsal Inter- osseous.60 AJTSWEES TO QUESTIONS 228 Place the Bone in its natural position with its base directed towards yourself; the concave side of the articular surface at its base will be directed towards the Foot to which it belongs. SECOND METATAESAL BOITE. 229 rive; corresponding to the three Cuneiform Bones, and its fellow on either side. 230 Six; the three Cuneiform Bones, its fellow of either . side, and the second Phalanx of the first row. 231 The Transversus Pedis and two Dorsal Interossei. 232 Place the Bone in its natural position with the base or posterior extremity directed towards youi'self; the lateral Pacettes will then be directed to the Poot to which it belongs. THIRD METATARSAL BONE. 233 Pour; one for the outer Cuneiform Bone, one on the outer side of the base for the foui'th Metatarsal Bone, and two on the inner side of the base for the second Metatarsal Bone. 234 Pour; the external Cuneiform Bone, its fellow of either side, and the third Phalanx of the first row. 235 The Adductor PolHcis Pedis, Transversus Pedis, second and third Dorsal, and the first Plantar Interosseous. 236 Place the Bone in its natiu'al situation with its base or or posterior extremity towards yourself; the single lateral Pacette wiU be on the side to which it belongs. EOURTH METATARSAL BONE. 237 Four; corresponding to the Cuboid Bone, its fellow on cither side, and a small portion of the outer Cuneiform Bone. 238 Five; the Cuboid, its fellow on either side, to a small portion of the third Cuneifonn, and the fourth Phalanx of the first row. 239 Five; the Adductor Pollicis Pedis, Transversus Pedis, third and fourth Dorsal, and second Plantar Inter- osseous. 240 Place the Bone in its natural position, with the base directed towards yourself; and it will be observed that the base will be slightly inclined to the Foot to which it belongs. FIFTH METATARSAL BONE. 241 Two; corresponding to the Cuboid and fourth Meta- tarsal Bones. 242 A long projection.ON mrMAir anatomy. 61 243 The insertions of the Peroneus Tertius et Brevis. 244 Thi-ee; the Cuboid, the foui'th Metatarsal Bone, and the last Phalanx of the first row. 245 Six; Peroneus Tertius et Brevis, Plexor Brevis Minimi Digiti, Transversus Pedis, fourth Dorsal and thii-d Plantar Interosseous. 246 Place the Bone in its natural position with the base directed towards yourself; its process will then be on the side to which it belongs. PHALANGES OF THE TOES. 247 Fourteen; three to each of the four outer Toes, and two to the great Toe. 248 Into a shaft and two extremities. 249 Convex on the Dorsal and concave on the Palmar sur- face, and compressed laterally. 250 A concave articular surface corresponding with the Head of the Metatarsal Bone. 251 Two rounded Heads (divided by a pulley-like surface), corresponding to the second Phalanx. 252 Ten; viz., the Metatarsal Bones and the second row of Phalanges. 253 Two small concave articular surfaces corresponding with the Head of the fii'st Phalanx. 254 Two small Condyles corresponding with the base of the last Phalanx. 255 The third or last row of Phalanges. 256 "With the exception of that of the great Toe they articulate with the first and last rows of Phalanges. 257 The second row of Phalanges. 258 Eough and Scabrous. 259 To the great Toe the Extensor Brevis Digitorum, Adductor Pollicis, Plexor Brevis PoUicis, Abductor Pollicis, and Transversus Pedis; to the second, third, and fourth Toes, the first, second, and third Dorsal, the lumbricales Pedis, and to the third and fourth, the first and second Plantar Interossei, to the fifth Toe the fourth or last Dorsal, Lumbricalis Pedis, the third or last Plantar Interosseous, also the Ab- ductor Mitdmi Digiti, & the Plexor Brevis Minimi Digiti. 260 To the great Toe or Ungual Phalanx, the Extensor Proprius PoUicis, and Plexor Longus Pollicis Pedis, to the other Toes in this roAV the Tendons of the Plexor Brevis Digitorum, Extensor Longus Digitorum, and Extensor Brevis Digitorum.62 ANSWI5ES TO aiTESTIOIfS 261 The common Tendons of the Extensor Longus et Brevis. Digitorum, and Mexor Longus Digitorum. 262 Two; one for the shaft and one for the base. 263 The Sesamoid Bones. Section X.—CHOIsTDEOLOGY. CAKTILAGES. 1 Bone, Cartilage, Ligament, and Synovial ^Membrane. 2 Cartilages are the white, comi^act, elastic, and cellular substances, forming the thin laj^ers on the articulating extremities of Bones, varpng from half a line to two linos in thickness. 3 Four; Diarthroidal, Sj-narthroidal, Interarticular, and those which sujDply the place of Bone. 4 Cartilages which cover the extremities of Bones, having moveable Joints; see Articulations of Bones. 5 Cartilages placed between Bones which have no percep- tible motion on each other j see Articulations of Bones. 6 Inferior Maxillary Bone, Knee, Wrist-joint, &c. 7 Ligamenta Intervertebralia vel Intervertebral Substance. 8 Cai-tilages of the Larynx, Trachea, Nose, Ears, Costal- Cartilages, &c. Section XL—SYNDESMOLOGY. 1IGA3IENTS. 1 Ligaments are the strong flexible Sti-ata of Fibres con- necting those Bones together which form moveable Joints. 2 Into two kinds ; Capsular and Connecting. 3 Those of the Hip-joint, Shoulder-joint, &c. 4 From their position into anterior, posterior, internal and external lateral, round, crucial, &c. 5 Ligamenta Subflava. 6 The thin Membranous Layers which invest the ai-ticular Cartilages of the Bones, and thence reflected on the surfaces of the Ligaments which surround the Joint, they form one of the three orders of Serous Membranes, and like them are, with one exception in the Human Body, closed Sacs, viz. : the opening of the Fallopian Tubes into the Abdominal Cavity. 7 An Alkaline Albuminous Fluid, called Synovia, which. coagidates at 212 degrees Fahrenheit. aeticulations of the joints. 8 Into three classes; those of the Head and Trunk, Upper Extremity and Lower Extremity.ON HUMAN ANATOMY. 63 LIGAMENTS OF THE TRUNK. 9 Into seven groups; those of the Vertebral Column, of the Cranium, of the lower Jaw, of the Eibs with the VertebroD, of the Eibs with the Ste]mxm and with each other, of the Vertebral Column with the Pelvis, and of the Pelvis. ARTICULATIONS 01" THE SPINE. 10 The anterior and posterior common Ligament and the Inter-vertebral substance. 11 Prom the Atlas to the Sacrum. V2 This Ligament, situated within the Spinal Canal and attached to the posterior surfaces of the bodies of the Vertebrte, extends from the Atlas to the Sacrum. 13 These circular Discs ai'e situated between the contiguous surfaces of the bodies of the Vertebrte, connected with the anterior and posterior common Ligaments, and laterally with the Stellate or anterior Costo-vertebral Ligaments of the Heads of the Eibs. 14 Ligamenta Subflava, which extend from the Axis to the Sacrum. 15 Capsular Ligaments which enclose each a Synovial Membrane. 16 Supra-spinous and Inter-spinous Ligaments. 17 These strong Pibrous Bands are attached to the summits of the Spinous Processes, throughout the Dorsal and Lumbar Vertebrae. 18 The Ligamentum Nuchee. 19 These thin and Membranous-like Ligaments extend from the Eoot to the summit of each Spinous Process, con- necting the lower Border of one with the upper Bor- der of the next below it. 20 Inter-transverse Ligaments. S1 These thin and Membranous-like Ligaments exist chiefly in the Dorsal Vertebrae. AB,TICULATIONS OF THE CRANIUM:. 22 The anterior (Occipito-atloid) Ligament, the posterior (Occipito-atloid) Ligament, and two Capsular Liga- ments. 23 Prom the Basilar Process of the Os Occipitis, in front of the Foramen Magnum to the Body and anterior Tubercle of the Atlas. 24 Unlike the anterior it extends from the margin of the Os Occipitis, behind the Foramen Magnum to the ante- rior arch of the Atlas.64 ANSTVEES 10 QtTESTIOirS 25 The Vertebral Artery and posterior primary Branch of the first Spinal Nerve. 26 Between the Condyles of the Os Occipitis and the upper articular processes of the Atlas. 27 The Central or Occipito-Axoidean Ligament and the lateral Odontoid, Alar, or Check Ligaments. 28 This broad band extends from the Basilar Process of the Os Occipitis to the Body of the Axis. 29 These two short and strong Fasciculi (one on either side), are attached by one extremity to the apex of the Odontoid Process, and by the other to a depression on the kmer surface of the Condyles of the Os Occipitis. ATLAS WITH THE AXIS. ;}0 The anterior (Atlo-axoid) Ligament, the posterior (Atlo- axoid) Ligament, the Transverse Ligament, (within the Spinal Canal), and two Capsular Ligaments. .31 From the anterior Tubercle and ai-ch of the Atlas to the con-esponding portion of the Body of the Axis. 32 From the posterior arch of the Atlas to the corresponding portion of the arch of the Axis. 33 This strong Fibrous Band crosses the Atlas behind the Odontoid Process, extending from a small Tubercle on the inner surface of the Atlas, to a similar one on the opposite side of the same Bone. 34 To keep the Processus Dentatus or tooth-like process of the Axis in its proper sphere. TEMPOEO-MAXILLAIIY AKTICTJLATlOlf. 35 The external and internal lateral Ligaments, Capsular, Inter-articular Fibro-cartilage, a Stylo-maxillary Ligament, and two Synovial Membranes. 36 This short thick Band extends from the Tubercle at the Boot of the Zygoma to the outer surface of the Neck of the lower Jaw. 37 This thin Membranous Band has no connection with the Joint, it ex:tends from the apex of the Spinous Process of the Sphenoid Bone and Vaginal Process of the Temporal Bone to the Dental Foramen in the lower Jaw. 38 The Mylo-hyoid Branch of the inferior Dental Nerve. 39 The internal Maxillarj^ Artery and inferior Dental Artery and Nerve. 40 This thin Membranous Band extends from near the apex of the Stjdoid Process to the lower Border of the Eamus of the Jaw.65 ON HTJMAN AKATOMi'. 41 Between the Masseter and internal Pterygoid Muscles. 42 The Parotid and Sub-maxillary Glands. 43 This thin oval Plate, Concavo-convex superiorly and moulded inferiorly to the convexity of the Condj'le, is situated between the articular smfaces of the Bones. 44 Some Fibres from the external Pterygoid Muscle. ARTICULATIOJTS OF THE TRUNK. 45 The Costo-vertebral or Stellate Ligament, Interarticular Ligament, and two Synovial Membranes. 46 The first, eleventh, and twelfth. 47 The anterior, middle, and posterior Costo-transverse Ligaments. 48 The anterior Costo-transverse Ligaments. 49 Thefii-stEib. 50 The anterior and posterior Costo-sternal, the superior and inferior Costo-sternal and Synovial Membranes. 51 The Lumbo-sacral and the Lumbo-iliac Ligaments. 52 From the Transverse Process of the last Lumbar Vertebra to the lateral Border at the base of the Sacrum. 53 From the apex of the Transverse Process of the last Lumbar Vertebra to the posterior extremity of the Iliac Crest. AJITICTTLATIONS OF THE PELVIS. 54 The anterior and posterior Sacro-iHac Ligaments, another longer than the rest is described as the obHque or long posterior Sacro-iliac Ligament, which descends to the third division of the Sacrum. 55 The anterior or short and the posterior or long, Sacro- ischiatic Ligaments. 56 The greater Sacro-sciatic Foramen. 57 The lesser Sacro-sciatic Foramen. 58 By its broad extremity to the side of the Sacrum and Coccyx, from which it passes outwards to the Ischial Spine of the Hip-bone. 59 From the side of the Sacrum and Coccyx to the inner Border of the Ischial Tuberosity. 60 The anterior and posterior Sacro-Coccygeal Ligaments. 61 The anterior and superior Pubic Ligaments, the Sub- pubic Ligament, and an Inter-fibro-Cartilagq. 62 The upper boundary of the Pubic arch. 63 2^ot a Ligament of articulation, being merely a Tendino- fibrous Membrane, stretched across the Thyroid or Obturator Foramen. 64 The two Obturator Muscles, (internal and external). F 2AXSAVEES TO QUESXIOXS 66 65 Tlie Obturator Artery and l^erve. Section XII.—LIGAMENTS OF THE UPPEE EXTBEMITY. 1 The anterior and posterior Stcmo-clavicular, the Inter- clavicular Ligament, the Costo-clavicular or Ehomboid Ligament. 2 Above the Sternum, from the extremity of one Clavicle to that of the other. 3 From the Tubercle on the under surface of the Sternal end of the Clavicle to the CartUage of the first Eib. 4 The superior and inferior Acromio-clavicular Ligaments, the Coraco-clavicular Ligament, Interarticular-fibro- cartilage, and two Synovial Membranes. 5 Two parts, an anterior and a jDosterior, the fonner is called the Trapezoid Ligament, and the latter the Conoid Ligament. 6 The posterior or Coracoid Ligament, and the anterior or Coraco-acromial Ligament. 7 This round Ligament which crosses the ISTotch or Supra- spinal Fossa in the upper Border of the Scapula, and converts it into a Foramen, extends from the base of the Coracoid Process to the Costa, posterior to the Notch. 8 The Supra-scapular Nerve, which is derived from the Brachial Plexus. 9 This triangular Ligament is attached by its apex to the tip of the Acromion Process, and by its base to all the external Border of the Coracoid Process. 10 Because of their attachment from one portion to another portion of the Bone. 11 The Coraco-humeral or Accessory Ligament, the Capsular and Glenoid Ligament, and Synovial Membrane. 12 From the base of the Coracoid Process to the greater Tuberosity of the Os Humeri. 13 This Fibro-cartilaginous Band surrounds the margin of the Glenoid Fossa. 14 The internal and external lateral Ligaments, the anterior and posterior Ligaments. 15 This roundish Band extends from the outer Condyle of the Humenis to the Orbicular Ligament around the Head of the Eadius. 16 This triangular Layer extends from the inner Condyle of the Humeras to the Border of the greater Sigmoid Ca'S'ity of the Ulna. 17 The Ulnar Nerve is in contact "vsith it posteriorly.OIT HXTlTAIir AUTATOMY. 67 18 From the anterior surface of the upper part of the Humerus to the anterior part of the Coronoid Process of the Ulna and the Orbicular Ligament. 19 The Brachialis Anticus. 20 From the posterior surface of the Humerus aboYe the Olecranon Fossa to the anterior part of the base of the Olecranon. 21 The Triceps. 22 The Annular or Orbicular Ligament, SjmoTial Mem- brane, Interosseous Ligament, and roimd Ligament. 23 This sti'ong baud -vvhich sxu-rounds the Head of the Eadius is attached by each extremity to the anterior and pos- terior Borders of the lesser Sigmoid Cavity. 24 This broad, thin, fibrous layer, is attached to the con- tiguous margins of the Ulna and Eadius, forming a partial Septum between the anterior and posterior Muscles of the Forearm. 25 The anterior Interosseous which is derived from the Ulnar Artery. 26 This Ligament, sometimes called Oblique, extends from the base (in front) of the Coronoid Process of the Ulna to the Eadius below its Tubercle. 27 The anterior-inferior and posterior-iirferior Ligaments, the triangular Fibro-cartilage, and Sjoiovial Mem- brane called " Membrana Sacciformis." 28 This Cartilage, in place of a Ligament, is attached to the Eidge on the inner surface of the Styloid Process of the Ulna by its apex, and by its base to the edge of the Eadius. 29 The internal and external lateral Ligaments and the anterior and posterior Ligaments. 30 From the Styloid Process of the Ulna to the two inner Bones of the first row of the Carpus, (Os Cuneiforme et Pisiforme). 31 From the Styloid Process of the Eadius to the upper part of the Os Scaphoides. 32 This thin Membranous Layer extends from the lower part of the Eadius to the three outer Bones of the first row of the Carpus, (Os Scaphoides, Os Semi- limare, and Os Cuneiforme). 33 This thin Membranous Layer extends from the lower end of the Eadius to the first row of the Carpus. 34 Dorsal, Palmar, Interosseous, and the anterior Annular Ligament, also five Synovial Membranes.68 ANSWEES TO aiTESXIONS 35 This Ligament forms an arch, over the anterior surface of the Carpus, its Tibres intervening between the two rows, 36 One on either side the Eadial and Ubar Borders of the Carpus. 37 This Ligament connects the Trapezium with the Scaphoid Bone. 38 This Ligament connects the Cuneiform with the Unci- form Bone. 39 Dorsal, Palmar, and Interosseous, and two Synovial Membranes. 40 The lateral Ligaments, and the inferior or anterior Ligament, and Synovial Membrane. 41 The lateral and inferior or anterior Ligament and Synovial Membrane. Section XIII.—LIGAMENTS OE THE LOWEE EXTEEMITY. 1 Into those of the Hip, Knee, Ankle, and Eoot. 2 The Capsular, Ilio-femoral, Cotyloid, Transverse, Inter- articular, (vel Ligamentum Teres), and a Synovial Membrane. 3 A strong Band of Fibres in front of the Capsular Liga- ment, which extends from the anterior-inferior Iliac Spine to the anterior Intertrochanteric line of the Eemur. 4 A Band of Eibro-cartilage which surrounds the margin of the Acetabulum. 5 By the prolongation of the Eibres of the Cotyloid Liga- ment across the Notch of the Acetabulum, and which converts the Notch into a Foramen. 6 An articular Branch from the internal circumflex, also one from the Obturator Artery; the former derived from the Profunda, and the latter from the internal Iliac. 7 This somewhat triangular-shaped Ligament is attached by its apex to the pit in the Head of the Femur, and by its base to the two lips of the Notch in the Coty- loid Cavity. 8 The Capsular, external and internal lateral Ligament, posterior Ligament (or Ligament of Winslow), ante- rior Ligament, (vel Ligamentum Patellaj), the Crucial Ligaments, (one anterior or external, the other pos- terior or internal), two Inter-ai'ticular or Semi-lunarOlf HUMAN Al^ATOMT. 69 Fibro-Ccortilages (one internal, the other external), the Transverse Ligament, also a Synovial Membrane. 9 This strong cord-like Ligament extends from the outer Condyle of the Femur, behind the Tubercle, to the outer part of the Head of the Fibula, this Ligament is sometimes called the long external lateral Ligament, in contradistinction to one which sometimes exists behind it, and called the short external lateral Liga- ment. 10 This broad Ligamentous Layer extends from the Tubercle on the inner Condyle of the Femur to the inner Tu- berosity of the Tibia, on its liosterior Border. 11 Chiefly by the Tendinous Fibres of the Semimembranosus Muscle. 12 The Ligamentum PateUce of the Extensor Muscles of the Thigh, it is erroneously called a Ligament, being only a prolongation of the common Extensor Tendon. 13 A Bursa Mucosa. 14 From the depression in front of the Spine of the Tibia to the posterior part of the external Condyle of the Femur, on its inner siu-face. 15 From the depression behind the Spine of the Tibia to the inner Condyle of the Femur. 16 Oval. 17 Circular. 18 This narrow band is situated in front of the Joint between the two Interarticular Cartilages. 19 The anterior and posterior Ligaments and the Inter- osseous Ligament, 20 From the inner Tuberosity of the Tibia to the anterior pai't of the Head of the Fibula. 21 From the corresponding parts upon the posterior surface of the Joint. 22 This broad, thin, fibrous Layer is attached to the con- tiguous margins of the Tibia and Fibula, forming a partial Septiun between the anterior aad posterior Muscles of the Leg. 23 The anterior Tibial Artery, which forms one of the divi- sions of the Popliteal Artery. 24 The anterior Peroneal Branch, which according to some Anatomists is derived from the Peroneal or Fibular Artery. 25 The anterior and posterior Ligaments and the inferior or Transverse Ligament.70 AirSTIVEES TO aUESTIONS 26 This Ligament crosses tlie anterior Aspect of both. Bones, projecting a little below their extremities. 27 From the corresponding parts upon the posterior surface of the Joint. 28 This Ligament consists of Transverse yello-w Fibres, which pass posterior to the Joint between the two Malleoli. 29 The anterior or Tibio-tarsal Ligament, the posterior, and the internal and external lateral Ligaments. 30 This thin Membranous Layer extends from the margin of the Tibia to the upper part of the Astragalus. 31 This triangular Layer is attached by its apex or upper part to the inner Malleolus, and by its base to the Astragalus, Os Calcis, and Scaphoid Bone. 32 This strong Ligament, which consists of three Fasciculi, arises from the fore part and inner surface of the outer Malleolus, and inserted as follow: the anterior piece passes forward to the Astragalus, the middle piece to the outer surface of the Os Calcis, and the posterior piece to the posterior part of the Astragalus. AETICiriATIONS OP THE TAXtSUS. 33 The posterior, external, and Laterosseous Ligaments, also two Synovial Membranes. 34 The Dorsal vel Asti'agalo-scaphoid Ligament. 35 The inferior vel Calcaneo-scaphoid Ligament, and the external Calcaneo-scaphoid Ligament. 36 The Dorsal vel superior Calcaneo-cuboid, the inferior Calcaneo-cuboid Ligament, (which consists of two parts, superficial and deep), an Interosseous Ligament, and a Synovial Membrane. 37 The three Dorsal Ligaments, and the Tendinous processes of the Tibialis Posticus Muscle, also a Synovial Mem- brane. 38 A Dorsal, Plantar, and Interosseous Ligament. 89 Dorsal and Interosseous Ligaments, and a Plantar Liga- ment between the two inner Cuneiform Bones, also Synovial Membrane. 40 A Dorsal, Plantar, and Interosseous Ligament. AETICTJLATIOIfS OF THE METATABSAL BOXES. 41 The four outer. 42 Dorsal, Plantar, and Interosseous Ligaments. 43 The Transverse Metatarsal Ligaments. 44 Two lateral and an inferior or anterior Ligament to each Joint, also a Sjmovial Membrane to each.71 Olf HTIMAIT AKATOMT. AilTICTJLATIOKS OF THE rHALANGES. 45 Ttvo lateral and an inferior or anterior Ligament to each. Joint. 1 The doctiine of the Muscles. ^ 2 Muscles are the flesliy bodies composed of parallel Con- ti-actile Fibres with Tendinous extremities. 3 Those glistening, fibrous, finn, and compact Cords, by which the Muscles are attached to the surfaces of Bones. 4 If the Fibres nm longitudinally and terminate in Ten- don, they are said to be simple or Fusifonn in shape; if tliey diverge from a Tendinous centre, like a Fan, they are said to be Kadiated—e.ff., the Temporal, Pectoral, &c.; if fhej have a feathery arrangement and converge to one side of a Tendon, they are said to be Penniform, as the Peronei; and if they converge to both sides of a Tendon, they are said to be Bipen- nifoim, e.ff., Dorsales Interossei Manus. 5 The Abdominal Muscles. 6 Some ai'e named from their uses, as Flexors and Exten- sors, Levators, and Depressors, &c.; some fr'om their form, as Trapezius, Khomboideus, &c.; some from their dii'cction, as Pectus Transversalis, &c.; some from their points of attachment, as Sterno-cleido-mastoideus, Stemo-hyoid; some ft'om their situation as Occipito- frontalis, Pectoralis; others from their divisions, as Biceps, Triceps, &c. 7 The least moveable point of attachment is called its Origin. 8 The most moveable point of attachment is called the Insertion. MTTSCLES OF THE HEAD, FACE, AND IfECK. 9 Into six Eegions, viz. : the Cranial, Orbito-ocular, Xasal, superior and inferior Labial, Pterygo-maxil- lary, and Auricular. 10 Two; the Occipito-frontalis, on either side, i 11 This Musculo-tcndinous expansion or Layer, consists of two parts, with, an intervening Aponeurosis:—the Fibres at its anterior or Frontal portion arise in con- junction with those of the Orbicularis Palpebranim, and Comigator Supcrcilii, and passing upwards are CEANIAL HEGION.72 ANSWEES TO QITESTIOXS inserted in the Epicranial Aponeurosis, somewhat below the level of the Coronal Suture: the Fibres of the posterior or Occipital portion, arise from the outer half of the upper cun-ed line of the Occipital Bone and Mastoid portion of the Temporal Bone, and pass- ing upwards are inserted in the Cranial Aponeurosis : its action or use is to raise the Eyebrows, and wrinkle the Integmnent of the Forehead transversely. 13 Just above the Eoot of the Nose. OEBITO-OCULAB, EEGIOlf. 13 Ten; Orbicularis Palpebrarum, Corrugator SupercUii, Tensor Tarsi, Levator Palpebrae Superioris, Rectus superior, inferior, Intemus et Extemus, Obliquus Superior et Inferior. 14 Orbicularis Palpebrarum, Corrugator Supercilii, and Tensor Tarsi. 15 The Orbicularis Palpebrarum arises from the internal angular process of the Frontal Bone, the Nasal Pro- cess of the upper Maxillary Bone and from the Tendo Oculi, and is inserted into the same parts from which it arose : its action is to close the Eye-lid and assist in conveying the Tears towards the Puncta Lachrymalia. 16 The Corrugator Supercilii arises fi-om the inner extremity of the Superciliary Eidge of the Frontal Bone, and is inserted or becomes blended with the Fibres of the preceding Muscle, about the middle of the Orbital arch: its action is to draw the Eyebrows together, and wrinkle the Integument of the Forehead longitu- dinally. 17 The Tensor Tarsi arises fi-om the small Pidge on the Orbital Plate of the Os Unguis vel Lachrymale, and passing over the Lachrymal Sac divides into two slips which lie in the Lachrymal Canals and ai-e inserted in the Tarsal Cartilage. 18 The Levator Palpebra) Superioris arises from the upper margin of the Optic Foramen, and Fibrous Sheath of the Optic Nei-ve; and is inserted into the fore part and upper Border of the Tarsal Cartilage; its action is to raise the Eyelid. 19 The Pectus Superior arises like the preceding Muscle from the upper margin of the Optic Foramen and Fibrous Sheath of the Optic Nerve; and is inserted into the Sclerotic Coat at the upper surface of the Globe of the Eye.oil HTUMAN ANATOMY. 73 20 The Ecctus Inferior arises from the Tendon common to it, the internal and external Eectus and the Fibrous Sheath of the Optic Nerve, and is inserted into the Sclerotic Coat at the under surface of the Globe of the Eye, about a quaiier of an inch from the margin of the Cornea. 21 The Eectus Intemus arises from the common attach- ment and Fibrous Sheath of the Oj)tic Nerve, and is inserted into the Sclerotic Coat at the inner surface of the Globe of the Eye, about a quarter of an inch fi-om the margin of the Cornea. 2i2 The Eectus Externus aiises by two Heads (an upper and a lower), the upper (with the Eectus Superior), from the upper margin of the Optic Foramen, and the lower (with the Eectus Inferior) from the common Tendon, and from the lower margin of the Sphenoidal Fissure near to the inner end, and is inserted into the Sclerotic Coat on the outer surface of the Ball of the Eye, about a quarter of an inch fr'om the margin of the Cornea. 23 The Nasal Branch of the Ophthalmic Nerve, and the third and sixth Nerves; also the Ophthalmic Yein. 24 The Obliquus Superior arises fi'om the imier margin of the Optic Foramen and Fibrous Sheath of tlie Optic Nerve, and is inserted into the Sclerotic Coat behind the middle of the Eyeball, near the entrance of the Optic Nerve. 25 The Obliquus Inferior arises from the inner margin of the upper Maxillary Bone, external to the Lachrymal Groove, and is inserted into the Sclerotic Coat at the outer and posterior part of the Globe of the Eye, between the external Eectus and the superior Eectus. NASAL REGION. 26 Pyramidalis Nasi, Compressor Naris, Levator Alse Nasi, and Depressor Alaj N asi. 27 The Pyramidalis Nasi is a small slip of Muscular Fibres which appears as a prolongation of the Occipito- frontalis Muscle, and is inserted into the Aponeurosis common to the Compressor Naris. 28 Triangular, and arises by its apex or point fi'om the Canine Fossa of the upper Maxillary Bone, and is in- serted into the Aponeurosis common to its feEow of the opposite side.74 ANSWEES TO QTJESTIONS 29 This Muscle arises from the upper extremity of the Nasal Process of the upper Maxillary Bone, and divides into two Fasciculi, the inner is inserted into the Ala or Wing of the Nose, and the other prolonged into the upper Lip, becomes blended with the Orbicularis Oris. 30 This Muscle arises from the Incisive Fossa of the upper Maxillary Bone, anterior to the Hoots of the second Incisor and Canine Teeth, and is inserted into the Septum and posterior part of the Ala or Wing of the Nose and the upper Lip. STTPEEIOK AND IKFEEIOE LABIAL EEGIOX. 31 Orbicularis Oris, Levator Labii Superioris (Proprius), Levator Anguli Oris, Zygomaticus Major et Minor, the Buccinator, Depressor Labii Inferioris, Depressor Anguli Oris, and Levator Labii Inferioris. 32 This Muscle completely siurounds the external opening of the Mouth, its Concentric Fibres consist of two parts an inner and outer, the inner Fibres are fi'ee and un- attached to Bone, the outer are attached to the sub- jacent Bone and Muscles. 33 From the superior MaxiUary and Malar Bones, im- mediately above the Infra-orbital Foramen, and is inserted into the Integument of the upper Lip. 34 From the Canine Fossa of the upper Maxillaiy Bone, im- mediately below the Infra-orbital Foramen, and is inserted into the angle of the Mouth, its fibres becoming blended Avith those of the Depressor Anguli Oris, the Zygomatici and Orbicularis. 35 From the outer part of the Malar Bone at its union with the Temporal Bone, and is inserted into the angle of the Mouth. 36 From the anterior and inferior part of the Malar Bone, and is inserted into the angle of the Mouth, its fibres becoming blended with those of the proper elevator of the upper Lip. 37 The Buccinator arises fi'om the external surface of the Alveolar Borders of the MaxiUary Bones, extending on either side from the first Molar Tooth to the last, it is also attached in the intei-val between the MaxiUae to a Tendinous Band, caUed the Pteiygo Maxillary Ligament, the fibres of insertion then con- verge to the angle of the Mouth, where they become blended with the other Muscles, and tlie two parts, (inner and outer), of the Orbicularis.75 OK HUMAK AKATOMT. 38 From the depression or oblique line by the side of the Sj-mphj'-sis of the inferior Maxilla, and is inserted into the Integument of the lo-vver Lip with the Orbicularis Muscle. 39 By a broad surface from the external oblique line on the inferior MaxiUa, and is inserted by its apex into the angle of the Mouth, where it is blended with the fibres of the Elevator Muscles. 40 From the Incisive Fossa, a little below the Alveolar Border of the inferior Maxilla, (near its Symphysis), and is inserted into the Integument of the Chin. rTEETGO-MAXILLAEY EEGION. 41 The Masseter, Temporalis, Pterygoideus Extemus et Internus. 42 The Masseter consists of two portions, divided by an Aponeurosis, superficial and deep, the superficial arises fi'om the anterior two-thirds of the lower Bor- der of the Zygomatic Process of the Temporal Bone and Malar Bone, and is inserted into the angle and lower half of the outer surface of the Eamus of the inferior Maxilla. The deep portion arises from the remaining thii-d and posterior part of the Zygomatic Process, and is inserted into the upper half of the Bamus and external surface of the Coronoid Process of the inferior Maxilla. 43 The Parotid Gland, Stenon's Duct, the Transverse Facial Artery and Nerve. 44 The Temporalis arises from the whole surface of the Temporal Fossa and Temporal Fascia, and is inserted into the inner surface and apex of the Coronoid Process to near the last Molar Tooth. 45 This Muscle arises by two Heads, one from the Ptery- goid Bidge on the greater "VViug of the Sphenoid Bone, below its Crest; the other from the outer sur- face of the external Pterygoid Plate, and from the Tuberosity of the Palate Bone and that of the upper Maxilla, and are inserted into the hollow in the an- terior part of the Neck of the inferior Maxilla, and into the Inter-articular Fibro-cartilage. 46 One of the terminal Branches of the external Carotid, viz.: the internal Maxillary Artery. 47 From the Pterygoid Fossa & internal surface of the exter- nal Pterygoid Plate, and is inserted into the angle and internal surface of the Kamus of the inferior Maxilla.76 ANSWERS TO QTJESTIOIfS 48 The Masseter Muscle, and called by "Winslow the inter- nal Masseter. AURICnXAB EEGIOir. 49 Attollens Aurem (yel Superior Auris), Atti'ahens Aurem (vcl Anterior Auris), Iletrahens Aurem (vel Posterior Aims). 50 From the Tendon of the Occipito-frontalis, and is in- serted into the upper and anterior part of the Pinna or Cartilage of the Ear. 51 Prom the anterior part of the Tendon of the Occipito- frontalis, and is inserted into the anterior part of the Concha. 52 The Temporal Vessels, (anterior and posterior Arteries). 53 By two or three thhi Fasciculi fi-om the Eoot of the Mastoid Process, and are inserted into the posterior part of the Concha. 54 The posterior Amicular Artery and Nerve. Secxion XV.—muscles OF THE IS'ECE:. 1 Into eight Regions: the Superficial, Submaxillarr, Genio-hyoid, Sterno-hyoid, Vertebral (anterior and lateral). Laryngeal, Pharyngeal, & Palatal Eegions. STJPEEFICIAL REGION. 2 The Platysma Myoides & the Stemo-cleido-mastoideus. 3 The Platysma Myoides arises from the ClaTicle and Acromion of the Scapula, and the Integument covering the Pectoralis Major and Deltoid Muscles, and passing upvs^ards over the side of the Neck, is inserted into the external oblique Ridge and Symphysis of the inferior MaxiUa, the angle of the Mouth and Cellular Tissue of the Face. 4 Between the two layers of the deep Cervical Fascia, it arises by two Heads, the inner Head from the fore part of the upper piece of the Sternum, and the other or outer Head from the Sternal third of the Clavicle, and is inserted into the base of the Mastoid Process of the Temporal Bone, and into the outer part of the superior curved line of the Occipital Bone. 5 The Spinal Accessory Nerve. STJB-MAXILLART KE&IOIf. 6 The Digastricus, Stylo-hyoideus, Stylo-glossus, and Stylo-pharyngeus. 7 The Digastricus (Bis, twice; and Gador, beUy), arises by two Origins ; the posterior or longer Origin arises from the Digastric Fossa or Groove behind the Mastoido>T ntriirAif anatomy. 11 Process of the Temporal Bone, the anterior by a slight depression from the inner side of the base of the in- ferior Maxilla, close to its Sjonphysis, and is attached with its fellow to an Aponeurotic expansion which is inserted into the body and part of the great Cornu of the Os-hyoides. 8 The Mylo-hyoid Muscle immediately under the Skin. 9 The Sterno-cleido-mastoid Muscle, and crosses the Carotid Ai-teries and Jugular Vein. 10 Prom the external surface of the Styloid Process of the Temporal Bone, and is inserted into the Os-hyoides at the union of the body with the great Cornu. 11 No. 12 Prom near the apex of the Styloid Process and the Stylo-maxillary Ligament, and is inserted into the substance of the Tongue. 13 Prom the inner surface of the base of the Styloid Pro- cess, descending between the superior and middle con- strictors, and is inserted into the Pharynx; and upper Border of the ThjToid Cartilage. 14 The Carotid Arteries. GENIO-HTOID REGION'. 15 Mylo-hyoideus, Genio-hyoideus, Genio-hyo-glossus, Eyo-glossus, and Lingualis. 16 Prom the Mylo-hyoidean or Molar Pidge on the inner STirface of the body of the inferior Maxilla as far as the last Molar Tooth, and is inserted into the body of the Os Hyoides, and the Tendinous Eaphe of the two Muscles. 17 Prom the lower of the two lateral Tubercles (inferior Sub-mental Tubercle), on the inner side of the Sym- physis of the inferior Maxilla, and is inserted into the middle of the body of the Os Hyoides. 18 Prom the Tubercle above that of the last-named Muscle on the inner side of the Symphysis of the inferior Maxilla, and is inserted into the under surface of the Tongue, from the base to the apex, also into the body of the Hyoid Bone. 19 The Lingual or Hypo-glossal Nerve. 20 Prom the all length of the great Cornu and external sur- face of the body of the Hyoid Bone, and is inserted by two distinct parts into the back part and side of the Tongue, and by the third part into the upper sur- face of the Tongue, near its base.78 TO QITESTIOKS 21 The Basio-giossiis, tlie Cerato-glossus, and the Chondro- glossus. 22 The Stylo-glossus and Lingualis, 23 Prom the Os Hyoidcs and is inserted into the apex of the Tongue, (passing longitudinally from base to apex). 24 The Hyo-glossus, and Genio-hyo-glossus. STERXO-HYOin EEGIOX. 25 Stemo-hyoideus, Sterno-thyroideus, Thyro-hyoideus, and Omo-hyoideus. 26 From the posterior and tipper surface of the Sternum and Cartilage of the first Eih, and occasionally the inner extremity of the Clavicle, and is inserted in the lower Border of the body of the Hyoid Bone. 27 Prom the posterior and upper surface of the Sternum, the Cartilage of the first Rib, and sometimes from that of the second Eib, and is inserted into the oblique line on the Ala or side of the Thyi'oid Cartilage. 28 This is a continuation of the preceding Muscle arising from the oblique line on the side of the Thyroid Cartilage, and is inserted into the great Comu, and lower Border of the body of the Hyoid Bone. 29 This is a Digastric or double-beUied Muscle (an anterior and a posterior), arising from the upper Border of the Scapula and the Transverse Ligament, which con- verts the Notch into a Foramen (the Supra-scapular Notch), and is inserted into the lower Border of the body of the Os Hyoides close to the great Comu. PKiEVEETEBEAL HEGIOX. 30 The Scalenus Anticus, Scalenus Medius, Scalenus Posti- cus, Eectus Lateralis, Eectus Capitis Anticus Major et Minor, and the Longus CoUi. LATEEAL EEGION'. 31 Prom the Tubercle on the inner Border and upper sui-face of the fii-st Eib, and is inserted into the anterior Tubercles of the Transverse Processes of four Cervical Vertebrje : third, fourth, fifth, & sixth. 32 Prom the inner Border of the first Eila, and fi'om a Groove on its upper surface, and is inserted into the extremities of the posterior Transverse Processes of the six inferior Cervical Vertebrae. 33 Prom the upper Border of the second Eib, and is in- serted in conjimction with the preceding Muscle, into the three inferior Cervical Vertebrae.79 ON HTTirATT ANATOMY. ANTEEIOE EEGIOK, 34 From the Transverse Process of tlie Atlas, and is in- serted into the rough, surface of the Os Occipitis, ex- ternal to the Condjde. 35 From the anterior Tubercles of the Transverse Processes of four Cervical Vertebraj—third, fourth, fifth, & sixth, and is inserted into the Basilar Process of the Occipital Bone, anterior to the Poramen Magnum. 36 Prom the fore part of the lateral mass of the Atlas, and Koot of its Transverse Process, and is inserted into the Basilar Process. 37 This Muscle consists of two parts, internal and external, the internal or lower pai't arises fi-om the bodies of the two upper Dorsal and two lower Cervical Vertebrae; the external part arises from the upper Border of the Transverse Processes of four Cervical Vertebraj, thii'd, foiirth, fifth, and sixth, and ai-e inserted into the anterior Tubercle of the Atlas, and the lower Border of the bodies of the first four Cervical Vertebra. XAfiYNGEAL EEGION. LmyUX. 38 The Larynx is the chief organ for the production of the Voice: it forms a permanently open passage for res- piration, and gives attachment to Muscles. 39 At the upper and anterior part of the Neck, at the base of the Tongue, just below the Hyoid Bone. 40 Cartilages and Ligaments. CARTILAGES OP THE LAETNX. 41 Thyroid, Cricoid, and the two Aiytsenoid Cartilages. 42 Pomum Adami. 43 Epiglottis, on either side of which is the Cuneiform Cartilage. 44 This (somewhat triangular) Pibro-cartilage, is situated in front of the opening of the Larynx, which it closes during the act of Deglutition, assuming a horizontal position; and dming respiration it assumes a vertical position. 45 The opening into the Laryngeal Cavity. 46 These according to some Anatomists are divided into two groups, those which connect it to the Hyoid Bone and the Trachea, and those by which the several pieces are connected to each other. 47 The Crico-thp-oideus, Crico-aryta^noideus Posticus, Crico arytaenoideus Lateralis, Thyro-aryttenoideus, and the single one in the middle, the Aiytsenoideus.80 ANSTmiS TO QTTESTIONS 48 From tlie anterior and lateral part of the Cricoid Carti- lage, and is inserted into the lesser Comu, also the inferior and inner Border of the Thj-roid Cartilage. 49 From the depression on the posterior aspect of the Cricoid Cartilage, and is inserted into a small pro- jection at the outer part of the base of the Aryta^noid Cartilage. 50 This Muscle is placed in the posterior concave surface of the Aryttenoid Cartilages, it consists of tvro sets of Fibres, superficial and deep; the former extend from the base of one Cai'tilage to the apex of the other, and the latter are inserted into the outer and posterior surfaces of the Cartilages. 51 From the side of the upper Border of the Cricoid Car- tilage, and is inserted with the ThjTo-arytaenoideus, into the projection at the outer part of the base of the Arytaenoid Cartilage. 52 From the Thyroid Cartilage and Crico-thyroid Liga- ment, and is inserted ■with the fibres of the preceding Muscle into the base of the Arytagnoid Cartilage. 53 From the anterior and upper part of the Aryttenoid Car- tilage, and inner surface of the ThjToid Cartilage, and is inserted into the Border of the Epiglottis. 54 TheThyro-epiglottideuSjArytaeno-epiglottideus, superior et inferior. PHAEYNGEAL EEGION. Pharynx. 65 A Musculo-membranous Tube which extends from the centre of the base of the Skull, to a point opposite the fifth Cervical Vertebra, where it terminates in the CEsophagus. 56 Two posterior Nai-es, two Eustachian Tubes, Larynx, Mouth, and CEsophagus. 57 The inferior, middle, and superior Constrictors. 58 From the outer surface of the Cricoid Cartilage, from the oblique Eidge, and the upper and lower Borders of the great Ala of the Thyroid Cartilage, and is inserted with the fibres of its fellow in the Kaphe of the middle of the Phaiynx. 59 From the greater and lesser Comua of the Os Hyoides and the Stylo-hyoidean Ligament, and is inserted with the fibres of its fellow along the middle line of the Pharynx; also by a Tendinous Aponeurosis into the Basilar Process of the Os Occipitis.81 OIT HITMAI?' AlfATOMT. 60 From the IVIylo-hyoidean Eidge of the inferior Maxilla, the lovrer third of the inner surface of the internal Pterygoid Plate, and fi'ora the Pterygo-maxillary ligament, and is inserted into the Raphe along the middle line, also by the Tendinous Aponeurosis into the Basilar Process of the Os Occipitis. PALATAL EEGION-. 61 The Levator Palati, Tensor Palati, Palato-glossus, Palato-pharyngeus, and Azygos Tlyula^. 62 From the apex of the Petrous portion of the Temporal Pone, and the inner and under part of the Cartilage of the Eustachian Tube, and is inserted with its fellow of the opposite side along the middle line. 63 From the small depression, the Scaphoid or Navicular Fossa, at the base of the internal Pterygoid Plate of the Sphenoid Bone, the outer part of the Eustachian Tube, the Spinous Process of the Sphenoid, the Tym- panic or Yaginal Process of the Temporal, and is in- serted by its Tendinous Aponeru'osis into the slight Transverse Eidge on the inferior sui'face of the horizontal Plate of the Palate Bone and the Eaphe. 64 From the anterior sm-face of the soft Palate, and is in- serted into the side and Dorsum of the Tongue. 65 From the side of the soft Palate, and is inserted inferiorly into the posterior Border of the Thyroid Cartilage. 66 From the Spine at the posterior Border of the horizontal Plate of the Palate Bone, and is inserted in the tip of the TJvxda. 67 Uva, and by other ancient Anatomical writers, Columella. Sectioit XVL—muscles OF THE TEUI^K. h 1 Into four Eegions; those of the Back, Thorax, Abdomen, and Perineum. 2 Into six, and according to some Anatomists, five Layers. 3 The Trapezius and Latissimus Dorsi. 4 From the Spinous Processes of the last Cervical and aU the Dorsal Vertebrae, the Supra-spinous Ligament, the Ligamentum Nuchae, and from the inner third of the superior curved line of the Os Occipitis, and is in- serted into the posterior surface of the Scapular third of the Clavicle, the posterior Border of the Acromion Process of the Scapiila, and along the upper Border of the Spine of the Scapula. 5 The Deltoid Muscle.82 ANSWEBS TO GTTESTIOITS 6 rrom the Spinous Processes of the six inferior Dorsal Vertebrae, all the Lumbar and two upper Sacral Spinous Processes, the Supra-spinous Ligament, the outer Border of the posterior half of the Crest of the Ilium, and by fleshy Processes from three or four of the lower Ribs, and crossing the inferior angle of the Scapula, is inserted into the bottom of the Bicipital Groove of the Humerus. 7 Levator AnguU Scapulte, Ehomboideus Major et Minor. 8 From the posterior Tubercles or tips of the Transverse Processes of the three or fom- upper Cervical Verte- brae, and is inserted into the base of the Scapula be- tween the upper angle and Spine. 9 From the Spinous Processes of foui and sometimes five upper Dorsal Vertebrae and the Supra-spinous Liga- ment, and inserted into the base of the Scapula between its inferior angle and Spine. 10 Prom the Spinous Processes of the last Cervical and first Dorsal Vertebrae and the Ligamentum Nuchae, and is inserted into the base of the Scapula opposite the triangular surface on its posterior Border. 11 Serratus Posticus, Superior et Inferior, and Splenius. 12 From the Ligamentum Nuchse, the Spinous Processes of the last Cervical, and two and sometimes three upper Dorsal Vertebrae, and is inserted by thi'ee slips or Processes into the upper Border of the second, third, and fourth Bibs, external to their dngles. ] 3 From the Spinous Processes of the two last Dorsal and three upper Lumbar Vertebrae, and is inserted by foirr slips or Processes into the lower Border of the four last Bibs, anterior to their angles. 14 This Muscle consists of two parts, viz.: Splenius Colli et Splenius Capitis, the Splenius Colli arises from the Spinous Processes of the six upper Dorsal Vertebrae, and is inserted into the posterior Tubercles or rips of the Transverse Processes of the three upper Cervical Vertebrae; the Splenius Capitis arises from the Spinous Processes of the last Cervical, and two upper Dorsal Vertebrae and the Ligamentum Nuchae, and is inserted into the rough sui-face of the Os Occipitis be- tween the two curved lines; also the apex & external surface of the Mastoid Process of the Temporal Bone. 15 The Spinalis Dorsi, Erector Spinas (vel Sacro-lumbalis et Longissimus Dorsi), and Complexus.83 Oir mjJIAU" AN ATOM r. 16 From the Si^inous Processes of the two upper Lumbar and t-«^o lower Dorsal Vertebrae, and the adjoining Tendon of the Longissimus Dorsi, and is inserted into the Spinous Processes of the upper Dorsal Yer- tebrte, from the fii'st to eighth. 17 The Sacro-lumbalis vel Ilio-Costalis, and the Longissi- mus Dorsi. 18 From the posterior thii'd of the Crest of the Ilium, pos- terior siirface of the Sacrum, the Transverse Processes and Tubercles of the Lumbar Vertebras, and the Pascia Lumborum, external to those Processes, and is inserted by separate Tendons into the angles of the six inferior Ribs. 19 A prolongation of the preceding Muscle fi'om the angles of the six inferior Ribs, and is inserted into the angles of the six upper Ribs, and the Transverse Process of the last Cervical Vertebra. 20 A prolongation of the Musculus Accessorius into the jS'eck arising from the angles of the tliird, foiirth, fifth, and sixth Ribs, and inserted into the posterior Tubercles of the Transverse Processes of the three lower Cervical Vertebras. 21 Prom a common origin with the Sacro-lumbalis, and divides opposite the last Rib, and is inserted inter- nally into the tips of the Transverse Processes of all the Dorsal Vertebrae, and externally into all the Ribs except the two first; between their Tubercles and angles. 22 A prolongation into the Neck of the Longissimus Dorsi, arising fi-om the Transverse Processes of the upper six Dorsal Vertebrte, and is inserted into the posterior Tubercles of the Transverse Processes of all the Cer- vical Vertebrae, the first and last excepted. 23 A prolongation into the Neck of the Longissimus Dorsi, arising from the Transverse Processes of four or five upper Dorsal Vertebrae; also the Articular processes of the last four Cei-vical Vertebrae, and is inserted beneath the Splenius Capitis, into the posterior part of the Mastoid Process near the Digastric Fossa. 24 From the Transverse Processes of the last Cervical and six upper Dorsal Vertebrce, also the Articular pro- cesses of the four inferior Cervical Vertebras, and is inserted into the rough impression between the two curved lines of the Os Occipitis, near to its Spine.84 ANSWEES TO QUESTIOyS ?25 A portion of the ijreceding Muscle on its inner side, and so named from its having two fleshy Bellies with a central Tendon. 26 The Rectus Posticus Major et IMinor, Obliquus Inferior et Superior, and the Semi-spinalcs. 27 From the side of the Spinous Process of the Axis, and is inserted into the outer part of the inferior cm-ved line of the Os Occipitis. 28 From the Spinous Process or rather the posterior Tuber- cle of the Atlas, and is inserted into the inferior cui-ved line of the Os Occipitis, and between this ridge and the Foramen Magnum, 29 From the Spinous Process of the Axis, and is inserted into the extremity of the Transverse Process of the Atlas. 30 At the termination of the preceding Muscle, and is in- serted into the rough impression between the two curved lines of the Os Occipitis, near the Mastoid Process. 31 From the Transverse Processes of the sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth Dorsal Vertebrae, and is inserted into the Spinous Processes of the four upper Dorsal and two last Cervical Vertebrte. 32 From the Transverse Processes of four or five upper Dorsal Vertebrne and ai'tictilar processes of the fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh Cenical Vertebrae, and is inserted into the Spinous Processes of the second, third, fourth, and fifth Cei'vical Vertebrae. 3:3 TheInter-spinales, Multifidus Spinse, Inter-transversales, and Levatores Costarum. 34 These Muscles, as their name implies, are placed between the Spinous Processes of the adjoining paii's of "\^er- tebrse, they exist in the thi-ee Regions, viz.: the Cer- vical, Dorsal, and Lumbar, but not so distinct in the two last-named Regions, in the Cervical Region they are well observed, attached above and below to the Bifid extremities of the Spinous Processes, except between the first and second Cei-vical VertebriE. 35 These fleshy Fasciculi extend from the Sacrum to the second Vertebra; in the Lumbar Region each Fasci- culus ai-ises from the accessory and articular- processes of the Lumbal- VertebrfE; in the Dorsal fi-om the Transverse Processes of the coiTesponding Vertebrae, and in the Cervical from the articular processes ofOiSr injlkl-VN AKATOMY. 85 four or five inferior Cer-sical Vertebrfe, and are in- serted in tlie Spinous Processes of all the Vertebrte, bet-ween the Atlas and last Sacral Vertebra. 36 These Muscles are described as existing in the Cervical, Dorsal, and sometimes the Lumbar Regions; in the Cervical they occupy the intervals between the Trans- verse Processes, and composed of seven pairs; in the Dorsal they are single and occupy the intervals be- tween the Transverse Processes of the last four or five Dorsal Vertebrre. 37 These Muscles, twelve on either side, arise each, except the first, from the apex and lower Border of the Trans- verse Process of a Dorsal Vertebra, and is inserted into the rough impression along the upper Border of the Eib below; between the Tubercle and angle. 3 8 From the Transverse Process of the last Cervical Vertebra, and is inserted into the outer siu'face of the first Eib. irtFSCLES OP THE THOEAX. 39 The Intercostales Externi et Interna and the Triangularis Sterni. 40 Eleven on either side. 41 An external Intercostal Muscle is fixed to the outer mar- gin of each pair of Ribs; extending from the Tuber- cles to near the external extremity of their Cartilages. 42 Eleven on either side. 43 An internal Intercostal Muscle is fixed to the inner mar- gin or Border of each pair of Eibs; extending between the true Ribs from the Sternum, and in the rest from the anterior extremities of their Cartilages to the angles of the Ribs. 44 Within the cavity of the Thorax immediately behind the Costal Cartilages. 15 From the inner sui-face of the Xiphoid or Ensiform Car- tilage, lower third of the Sternum, and from the Sternal extremities of three or four Costal Cartilages, and is inserted, by fleshy Digitations, into the second, third, fourth, and fifth true Ribs, at the union of the Bone and Cartilage; also into the Aponeurosis in the Intercostal spaces. 46 The Transversalis Abdominis. MUSCLES OP THE ABDOMEX. 47 Obliquus Extemus et Internus, Cremaster, Transversalis, Rectus, Pyramidalis, Quadratus Lumborum, Psoas Parvus and Diaphragm.86 ANSWEES TO QTIESTIOIIS 48 By fleshy points from the. anterior surfaces of the eight lower Ribs, the upper five alternate vnth correspond- ing processes of the SciTatus Magnus, and the three lower with those of the Latissimus Dorsi, and is in- serted by a broad Aponem-osis into the anterior half of the outer Lip of the Crest of the Ilium, and the other insertion on the front of the Belly, corresi)onding to the anterior-superior Spinous Process of the Ilium, Pectineal line. Spine and front of Os Pubis, and Linea Alba. 49 This is the middle flat Muscle of the Abdomen, and reverse to the preceding Muscle, viz.: Aponeurotic above and fleshy below, it aiises fr'om the external half of Pon.part's Ligament, the anterior two-thfrds of the middle of the Crest of the Ilium and the Fascia Lumborum, and is inserted into the Crest of the Os Pubis, Pectineal Line, Linea Alba, and the lower Borders of the Cartilages of the four lower Eibs. 50 From the middle of Poiipart's Ligament, fr-om the lower Border of the internal Oblique, and by some Fibres from the Transversalis; the fibres from these origins pass downwards, and form a series of Loops on the Spermatic Cord, and become blended v,nth. the Timica Vaginalis Testis, whilst the rest are inserted with the conjoined Tendon into the Pectineal line of the Os Pubis. 51 From the outer third of Poupart's Ligament, the ante- rior two-thii*ds of the Crest of the IHiun, fr-om the Spinous and Transverse Processes of the Lumbar Yer- tebra3. In the Chest it takes origin by Tendon fr'om the two inferior Bibs, and by fleshy Digitations fi'om the under surfaces of the Cartilages of the seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth Eibs, and is inserted with the lower fibres of the internal Oblique into the Pec- tineal line, and forming the conjoined Tendon or Aponeurosis of these two Muscles; its Aponeurosis is also continued into the Crest of the Os Pubis and Linea Alba. 52 The Transversalis Abdominis. 53 By two Tendinous Processes, the internal or smaller one arises fr-om the fr-ont of the Symphysis Pubis, and the external one fr-om the Crest of the same Bone, and is inserted by three fleshy Digitations into the Gai'tilages of the fifth, sixth, and seventh Ribs.O:?^ HUMAir ANATOMY. 87 54 Linete Transversre vel Liscriptioues TciKliiiece. 55 One at the Umbilicus, one at tlie Xiplioid Cartilage, and the third bet«'een the two. 56 This central or Tendinous line forms the bond of union of the Ai^oneuroses of opposite sides of the front of the Abdomen, extending from the Xiphoid Cartilage to the Tubes. 57 This line extends from the eighth Rib to the external part of the Crest of the Pubis, and corresponds with the outer Border of either Eectus Muscle. 58 Anteriorly for tliree-fourths of its extent, by the Apon- eiirosis of the external oblique, and the anterior Aponeurosis of the internal oblique; and posteriorly by the posterior Aponeuroses of the internal oblique, and Transversalis Muscles. 59 By its base fi-om the Crest of the Os Pubis, anterior to the Eectus, and is inserted into the Linea Alba, mid- way between the Umbilicus and Pubes. 60 2^"o. 61 From the Crest of the IHum and the Ilio-Lumbar or Vertebral Ligament, and is inserted into the Trans- verse Processes of the foiu- upper Lirmbar Vertebrte, the body of the last Dorsal Vertebra, and the lower Border of the last Eib. Branches of the Lumbar Plexus and the last Dorsal Xerve. 62 From the bodies of the last Dorsal and first Lumbar Vertebrte, and Inter-vertebral substance (Fibro-carti- lage), and is inserted by a broad Tendon into the Pectineal line of the Os Pubis. 63 The Diaphragm. 64 Into two portions, the greater and lesser Muscle of the Diaphragm. 65 At the circumference from the posterior part of the Xiphoid Cartilage, from the inner surfaces of the six lower Eibs, indigitating with the Transversalis, and from the two Aponeru'otic or fibrous arches or bands, (Ligamentum Arcuatura Externimi et Internum), from these origins the fibres converge and are inserted into the central Tendon of the Muscle. 66 The upper Border of the anterior fibrous band or Lamella of the Aponeurosis of the Transversalis Mus- cle, extending on either side over the Quadratus Lum- boinim and Psoas Muscles, fr-om the e.xtremity of the88 Airs^VEES TO atTESTIOyS Transverse Process of the first or second Lumbar Ycr- tebrfB, to the apex and lower Border of the last Eib. 67 A fibrous Band or Arch crossing the Psoas Magnus Mus- cle, as it passes from the Pelvis, extending on either side from the Tendinous part of the Pillar of the Diaphi-agm, to the Transverse Process of the fii'st or second Lumbar Vertebra. 68 By fleshy Bands or Fasciculi. 69 The central Aponeurosis of the Diaphragm, in form com- pared by Winslow to a trefoil leaf, the right di^isi()n or process of which is the lai'gest and the left the smallest. 70 The right division. 71 By two Tendinous processes from the bodies of the Lujnbar Vertebrae. 72 This Process, which is the longest of the two, arises from the anterior surfaces of the bodies of the tlu'ce fii'st Lumbar VertebroB and Inter-vertebral substance. 73 From the sides of the first two Lumbar Vertebrte. 74 They foiTQ t-s^-o fleshy Bellies which ascend to their in- sertion in the central Tendon. 75 The Pillars or Crura. 76 The CEsophagus and Pneiunogastric Nerves. 77 In fi'ont of the Aorta between this Vessel and the Qisophageal opening; the right is the most anterior. 78 The opening of the Aorta, between the Crura and Ver- tebral column. 79 By the Tendinous arch thrown from the Tendon of one Crus, to the other across the Vertebral Colimm. 80 The Aorta, Thoracic Duet, and sometimes the Vena Azygos. PEPaNEAL EEGIOIf. 81 Into two groups, those connected with the Organs of Generation and Urethi'a, and those of the Anus. 82 Erector Penis, Accelerator IJrinfE, Transversalis Peiinei, Compressor XJrethrfB, the two Sphincters Ani, and the Levator Ani. 83 Erector Clitoridis, Constrictor vel Sphincter Vaginfe, Transversalis Perinei, Compressor vel Constrictor Drethi'a3, two Sphincters Ani, and Levator Ani. 84 From the internal surface of the Tuberosity of the Ischium and its Bamus, and is inserted into the fibrous Sheath of the Corpus Cavernosum. 85 From the common Tendon along the middle line, and89 OIT nrMAN AlfATOMT. the Tendinous point in tlie centre of tlic Perineum, and is inserted bj- its jjosterior fibres with the Eamus of the Pubis, the anterior iibres into the fibrous Sheath of the Corpus Cavernosum and Pascia of the Penis, and the middle or interyening fibres encircle the Canal of the Trethra (its spongy part), and meet on its upper siu-face where they luiite with those of its fellow. 86 From the imier surface of the arch of the Pubes, near the Tuberosity of the Ischium, and is inserted into the central Tendinous point of the Perineum. 87 This Muscle consists of two portions, the fibres of one portion are transverse and the other perpendicular; the ti'ansYerse portion arises by Tendinous fibres from the Sub-pubic arch, and di\ddes into two Pasciculi or Layers, which encircle the Membranous portion of the Urethra, and are inserted into the middle line by Tendon, upon the upper & lower surfaces of theUrethi'a. 88 Ey two Tendinous points from the inner surface of the Pubic Arch close to the Symphysis, and is inserted into the upper Layer of the transverse portion. MUSCLES OF THE ANUS. 89 Posteriorly by a fibrous Band from the Tip or apex of the Coccyx and the superficial Pascia around the same Bone, and is inserted in the superficial Pascia, and central Tendinous point of the Peiineiun. 90 This Muscle is nothing more than a circular Band of the involimtary fibres of the large intestine : the Eectimi. 91 From the oblique line on the inner surface of the Pubes, the inner sui'face of the Spine of the Ischiimi, and between those two points of Bone from the angle formed by the union of the Obturator and Pelvic Fasciae, and is inserted into the apex of the Coccyx and a fibrous Eaphe, along the middle line into the lower part of the Eectum and base of the Bladder, (Eecto-vesical Fascia). 92 Upper part of the Spine of the Ischium and inserted into the side of the Coccyx, and side and lower part of the Sacmm. 93 Into the Coccyx and Fibrous Eaphe, extremity of the Eectum and Vagina. 91 Laterally into the Constrictor "Vaginse. 95 Into the Fascia of the Corpus Clitoridis, and is analogous to the Erector Penis in the Male.90 ANSWERS TO arESTIOUS 96 This Muscle corresponds to the Accelerator vel Ejacu- lator Urinte in the Male, and aiiscs from the Tendinous centre of the Perineiim, and is inserted into the Coi-pus Clitoridis. ^ Section XVII.—MUSCLES OF THE UPPEE EXTEEMITY. 1 Into those of the Shoulder, Arm, Forearm, and Hand. 2 Into anterior and lateral Thoracic, anterior and posterior Scapular, and the Acromial Kegion. 3 Pectoralis Major et Minor, Sub-cla^dus and Serratus Magnus. 4 This triangular-shaped Muscle arises superiorly from the Sternal half of the Clavicle, anterior siu-face of the Sternum from the Cartilages of the true Eibs, except the firfst and last, and inferiorly from the Aponeurosis of the Obliquus Externus xibdominis, from this exten- sive origin the Muscle crosses the AxiUa, and is in- serted by a broad Tendon into the outer margin of the Bicipital Groove of the Humerus. 5 This triangular-shaped Muscle arises by fleshy digita- tions from the front and upper Border of the third, fourth, and fifth Kibs, external to their Cartilages, and is inserted into the anterior half of the uj)per surface of the Coracoid Process of the Scapula, near its extremity. 6 Short Head of the Biceps and Coraco-BrachiaUs. 7 By a rounded Tendon fr'om the vinion of the Osseous and Cartilaginous parts of the first Ilib, (anterior to the Ehomboid Ligament), and is inserted into a depression at the under surface of the Clavicle. 8 From the outer surface and lower Border of the eight superior Eibs, by 9 fleshy Serrations owing to two Pro- cesses being attached to the second Eib, and. is in- serted into the rough sm-face along the whole length of the posterior Border of the Scapula. 9 With similar Serrations of origin (four and sometimes five), from the Obliquus Externus Abdominis. 10 The Sub-scapularis, Supra and Infr-a Spinatus, Teres Major et Minor, and the Deltoid. 11 From the whole concave or under siu'face of the Scapula, except the Neck and angles, and is inserted into the inner or lesser Tuberosity of the Humerus. 12 From the whole surface of the Supra-spinous Fossa,ox ntJjirAN' AJfATOMT. 91 except the Cervical part, from the upper side of the Eidge or Spine of the Bone and Tendinous Fascia covering its surface, and is inserted into one of the three impressions (the upper), on the greater Tuber- osity of the Humerus. 13 From the -^'hole smi'ace of the InEra-spinous Fossa (ex- cept the Xeck, inferior Border and lower angle), also fi-om the lower side of the Eidge or Spine of the Bone, and the Tendinous Fascia covering its siuface, and is inserted into one of the three little impres- sions (the middle), on the greater Tuberosity of the Humenis. 14 The Supra Spinatus and Teres Minor. 15 From the rough and somewhat expanded surface on the Dorsum of the Scapula, also the lower tliii'd of its inferior Border, and the Tendinous Fascia covering the Teres Minor, and is inserted into the inner mar- gin of the Bicipital Groove. 16 From the outer siu-face of the Scapula, from the middle thu'd of the Axillary or inferior Border of the same Bone and the Tendinous Fascia, and is inserted into one of the three impressions (the lower or inferior), on the greater Tiiberosity of the Humerus. 17 This triangular-shaped Muscle arises from the lower Border of the Spine of the Scapula, the lower Border of the Acromion Process, and external third of the Clavicle, and is inserted into a rough impression (the Deltoid Eidge), above the Border of the outer aspect of the Humerus. 18 The Trapezius. 19 The Peetoralis Major. 20 Into the anterior and posterior Humeral Eegions. 21 The Biceps, Coraco-brachialis, and Brachialis Anticus. 22 This Muscle arises by two Tendons, the short Head arises conjointly with the Coraco-brachialis, from the extremity or apex of the Coracoid Process, and the external or long Head from the upper margin of the Glenoid Cavity, and is inserted by a rounded Ten- don into the inner part of the Tubercle of the Eadius. 23 From the extremity of the Coracoid Process, conjointly with the short Head of the Biceps, and is inserted into the rough Eidge about the middle of the inner Aspect of the Humerus. 24 From the anterior sm-face of the Humerus, below the9i2 ANSTVEES TO QrESTIOXS insertions of the Deltoid and Coraco-brachialis 3Ius- cles, and is inserted into the rough impression on the anterior part of the Coronoid Process of the Ulna. 25 Triceps Extensor Cubiti. 26 This Muscle arises by three Heads; the long, middle, or Scapular Head arises from the inferior I5order of the Scapu.la, near its Glenoid Cavity; the internal second, or short Head, extends from the imier Condyle along the kmer margin of the Humerus, to the lo-vver Border of the Tendon of insertion of the Teres Major, and the external or third Head extends fr'om the outer Condyle along the external Border and posterior sur- face of the HumeiTis, to the Tendon of insertion of the Teres Minor, and is inserted into the Olecranon Process of the Ulna and Aponeiurotic Tendon of the Porearm. 27 Pronator Eadii Teres, Plexor Carpi Radialis, Palmaris Longus, Flexor Carpi Ulnaiis, Plexor Digitorum Sub- limis vel Perforatus, Plexor Digitorum Profundus vel Perforans, Plexor Longus Pollicis, and Pronator Quadratus. 28 By two distinct Heads, one from the internal Condyle of the Humerus, Pascia of the Porearm, and Inter- muscular Septum, the other or second Head from the inner part of the Coronoid Process of the Ulna, and is inserted into a rough siurface on the outer and back part of the middle third of the Shaft of the Eadius. 29 The Median Kei-ve. 80 Prom the internal Condyle of the Humerus, Pascia of the Porearm and Inter-muscular Septum, and its Tendon is inserted, after passing through the Groove in the Os Trapeziiim, into the base of the Metacai-pal Bone of the Index Pinger. 31 Prom the internal Condyle of the Humerus, Pascia of the Porearm and Inter-muscular Septum, and is in- serted in the Palmar Pascia. 32 This Muscle arises by two Heads, one fi'om the internal Condyle of the Humerus, and the other from the inner side of the Olecranon Process and upper two-thii-ds of the posterior Eidge of the Ulna, and is inserted into the Pisiform Bone and base of the Metacai-pal Bone of the Little Pinger. 33 The Ulnar ISTerve and posterior Ulnar EccuiTent Ai'tery. 34 This Muscle arises by two Heads, one from the internalON iniMAN ATTATOMT. 98 Condyle of the Humerus, Inter-muscular Septum, and internal lateral Ligament; the other or second Head from the inner part of the Coronoid Process of the Ulna, and from the ohlique line leading from the Tubercle of the Eadius to^yards the outer side of that Bone and a little below the middle of the Porearm, and divides into fovu" Tendons which pa^ beneath the Annular Ligament, and are inserted in the base of the middle or second Phalanges of the Fingers, where they divide to give passage for the Tendons of the Flexor Digitoram Profundus. 35 The lEedian IS^erve and Ulnar Artery. 36 From the uj^pcr two-thirds of the anterior and inner sur- faces of the Ulna (as low as the Pronator Quadi'atus), and inner half of the Interosseous Membrane, from the depression on the inner part of the Olecranon and Aponciu'osis common to this Muscle and the Flexor Carpi ULnaiis, and divides beneath the Annular Liga- ment into foiu' Tendons, which ai'e inserted into the bases of the last Phalanges of the Fingers. 37 From the upper two-thirds of the Grooved siu'face on the anterior part of the Eadius, as low as the Pronator Quadratus, the outer part of the Interosseous Mem- brane, and by a small Fasciculus on either side of the Brachialis Anticus; and its Tendon, passing beneath the Ann^xlar Ligament, is inserted into the base of the last Phalanx of the Thumb. 88 From the lower foiuih of the anterior and inner parts of the Ulna, commencing just below the Flexor Digito- ram Profundus, and is inserted into the lower foiurth of the anterior part of the Eadius, commencing jast below the Flexor Longiis Pollicis. 39 Supinator Eadii Longus, Extensor Carpi Eadialis Longior et Bre^ior, Extensor Communis Digitorum, Extensor Minimi Digiti, Extensor Carpi Ulnaris, Anconeus, Supinator Brevis, Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis, Extensor Primi Intemodii PoUicis, Extensor Secimdi Intemodii PoUicis, and Extensor Indicis. 40 From the external Condyloid Eidge, nearly one third of the Bone in extent, from the external Liter-muscidar Septum, and is inserted into the lower exti-emity of the Eadius, a little above its Styloid Process. 41 From the external Condyloid Eidge, just below the pre- ceding Muscle, and Inter-muscular Septiun, and afterAXSWEES TO arESTIOXS 94 passing through, a Groove in the lower end of the liaclius, is inserted into the base of the iletacaqial Bone of the Index Eingcr. 42 From the external Condyle of the Humeiiis and the common Extensor Tendon, and after passing thi-ough the same Groove as the preceding !Muscle, is inserted into the base of the Metacai-pal Bone of the middle Finger. 43 From the external Condyle and common Tendon, and before it passes imder the Annular Ligament divides into three Tendons, and after it has passed thi-ough the most internal Tendon di-sides into two; all of "which are inserted into the bases of the second and third Phalanges of the Fingers. 44 This small Muscle placed between the last named Mus- cle and the Extensor Carpi ITlnaris, arises from the common Extensor Tendon, and is inserted into the base of the second and third Phalanx of the Little Finger. 45 The Aiu'icularis, from the circumstance of the Little Finger being inti'oduced into the Meatus of the Ear, as a means of removing any foreign body which may have been accidentally admitted into it, &c. 46 From the external Condyle, from the common Tendon and upper two-thirds of the posterior Border of the Ulna by Aponeurosis, and passing through a special Sheath in the Annular Ligament, is inserted into the base of the Metacarpal Bone of the Little Finger. 47 This small ti-iangular Muscle ai-ises from the external Condjie, and is inserted into the outer part of the Olecranon Process of the IQna, also the tiiangular surface at the upper thii'd of the posterior surface of the same Bone. DEEP LATEE. 48 From the Orbicular and external lateral Ligament, from the surface on the back part of the Tina below its lesser Sigmoid Cavity, and is inserted into the upper thii-d of the oblique line of the Kadius, as far as the insertion of the Pronator Kadii Teres Muscle. 49 From the posterior siu-face of the Radius immediately below the preceding Muscle, from a corresponding portion of the XJlna and fr-om the Interosseous Mem- brane, and is inserted into the base of the first Meta- carpal Bone. 50 From the Interosseous Membrane and Eadius just belowON HUMAJT AXATOJir. 95 the i^rcccding iluscle, also a little from the Ulna, and is inserted into the base of the first Phalanx of the Thumb. 51 From the Interosseous Membrane and jiosterior surface of the Ulna, and passing through a separate Cclnal in the Annular Ligament, is inserted into the base of the last Phalanx of the Thumb. 52 From the Interosseous Membrane and the Ulna, internal to and just beloAV the preceding Muscle, and is in- serted with the common Extensor Tendon into the base of the second Phalanx of the Index Finger. MUSCLES OP THE HAND. 53 Into those of the Thiunb, Little Finger, and Palm; or external, internal, and Palmar. 54 Abductor PoUicis, Flexor Ossis Metacarpi vel Opponens Pollicis, Flexor Brevis Pollicis and Adductor Pollicis. 55 From the Os Scaphoides and Aimular Ligament, and is inserted into the base of the first Phalanx of the Thumb. 56 From the Os Trapezivmi and Annular Ligament, and is inserted into the whole length of the anterior surface of the Metacarpal Bone. 57 This Muscle arises by two Heads, the outer or smaller Head from the Os Trapezium and Annular Ligament, and the inner Head from the Os Trapezoidcs, Os Magnum, & the bases of the second and third Meta- carpal Bones, and is inserted into the sides and base of the first Phalanx of the Thumb. 58 From two-thirds of the anterior surface of the Metacar- pal Bone of the Middle Finger, and is inserted into the inner side of the base of the fii'st Phalanx of the Thumb. Palmaris Brevis, Abductor Minimi Digiti, Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti, & Adductor vol Opponens Minimi Digiti. 59 From the Palmar Fascia and passing inwards is inserted into the Integument of the Hand ; its inner side. 60 From the Pisiform Bone where its Fibres are blended with those of the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris, and is inserted conjoiatly with the Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti into the base of the first Phalanx of the Little Finger. 61 From the Unciform Bone and Annular Ligament, and is inserted conjointly with the preceding Muscle. 62 From the Unciform Bone and Annular Ligament, and is inserted into the whole length of the Ulnar or inner side of the Metacarpal Bone of the Little Finger.96 AirSWERS TO Q,TJESTIONS 63 The Lumbricales and Intcrossei, (Palmar and Dorsal), 64 Four; and considered as accessories from the Tendons of the Flexor Digitorum Profundus. These small Mus- cles arise from the external or Eadial side of the Flexor Tendons and pass towards the coiTesponding sides of the Fingers, where thoj^ are inserted in the Aponeui'otic expansion on the Dorsal Aspect of the Fingers. 65 Three. 66 From the Aponeurotic expansion of the Metacarpal Pones on the Palmar surface, viz. : the Fore or Index Fin- ger, the lling Finger, and the Little Finger; and are inserted into the bases of the first Phalanges and Aponeurotic expansion of the Extensor Tendon of the same Fingers. 67 Four. 68 They arise by two Heads from the adjoining surfaces of the two Metacarpal Bones between which they are placed, and are inserted into the bases of the first Phalanges, and the Aponeurotic expansion on the Dorsal surface. 69 The Abductor Indicis, 70 From the greater part of the Metacarpal Bone of the Fore Finger and upper half of that of the Thumb, and is iaserted into the base of the first Phalanx of the Index Finger, its Eadial side. 71 The Radial Artery. Section XVIII.—MUSCLES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 1 Into those of the Hip, Thigh, Leg, and Foot. 2 Gluteus Maximus, Medius et Minimus, Pyiiformis, Gemellus Superior et Inferior, Obturator Internus et Externus, and Quadi'atus Femoris. 3 From the posterior fourth of the Crest of the Ilium, below with the posterior surface of the last piece of the Sacrum and side of the Coccyx, and from the pos- teiior or great Sacro-ischiatic Ligament, and is in- serted into the rough longitudinal line leading fi'om the great Trochanter to the Linea Aspera; also with the Fascia Lata on the outer part of the Thigh. 4 From the outer Lip of the Crest of the Ilium, (four- fifths of its length), from the outer siu-iace of that Bone between the Crest and superior cuiwed line, except where the preceding Muscle arises behind andOK HTJITAIJ' ANATOMY. 97 . from the Fascia Lata on its anterior part, and is in- serted into the upper and outer surface of the great Trochanter. 5 A Bursa. 6 From the outer surface of the Dorsum Ilii, between the superior and inferior curved lines, and is inserted into the anterior part of the great Trochanter, con- jointly with the preceding Muscle. 7 Ai'ises by three fleshy and Tendinous Fasciculi, from the second, third, and fourth pieces of the Sacrum ante- riorly, and passes out of the Pelvis through the great Sacro-ischiatic Jfotch, and is inserted into the upper Border of the great Trochanter, anterior to the Gluteus Medius. ) The Gluteal Vessels and Werve above, from the Sciatic and Pudic Vessels and Nerves which are below. ') From the upper and posterior Spine of the Ischium and inserted conjointly Avith the Tendon of the Ob- turator Intemus, into the superior Border of the great Trochanteric Fossa. 10 From the upper and posterior part of the Tuberosity of the Ischium, and is inserted conjointly with the Ten- don of the Obturator Intemus into the superior Bor- der of the great Trochanteric Fossa. 11 From the inner sui'face of the Pelvis and around the Obturator Foramen, and passing out of the Pelvis through the lesser Sacro-ischiatic Notch is inserted conjointly with the GemeUi into the superior Border of the great Trochanteric Fossa anterior to the Pyrifonnis. 12 From the anterior half of the outer surface of the Obtu- rator Membrane, and from that sui'face of the Bone internal to the Obturator Foramen, and is inserted into the Pit or Digital Fossa at the Boot of the great Trochanter. 13 From the outer Border of the Tuberosity of the Ischium and is inserted into the rough line (Liaea Quadrati), on the upper and posterior Border of the Femur just above the insertion of the Adductor Magnus. 14 Into the anterior, internal, & posterior Femoral Eegions. 15 The Sartorius, Tensor Vagina) Femoris, Ecctus, and Triceps Extensor, (vel Vastus Extcmus et Internus, and Crureus.) 16 The Sartorius.98 AKSWEES TO QTTESTIOys 17 EroTii the anterior-superior Spine of the Ilium, and one-half of the Notch between this and the anterior- inferior Spine of the same Bone, and. is inserted below the Knee into the inner surface of the Tibia, opposite the Tubercle just above the insertion of the Gracilis. 18 From the front of the Crest of the Ilium near to the anterior-superior Spine and part of the Notch below, as far as the origin of the preceding Muscle, and is inserted into the Fascia Lata, three, or' four inches below the great Trochanter. 19 This Muscle arises by two Heads or Tendons, one fi-om the anterior-inferior Spine of the Ilium, and the other from the upper Lip of the Acetabulum, and is inserted into the Patella conjointlj'^ with the common Extensor Tendon. 20 From the anterior part and outer sui'face of the base of the great Trochanter, the outer surface of the Linea' Aspera, extending downwards as far as the external Condyle, and from the extenaal Inter-muscular Sep- tum, and is inserted with the Rectus and Vastus In- temus into the common Tendon. 21 From the anterior Inter-trochanteric line, extending downwards to near the ai^ticulai' surface of the Femui-, externally to the Vastus Extemus, and internally to the inner Border of the Linea Aspera, and the line rumiing from it to the internal Condyle, and ai'e in- serted conjointly with the Vastus Extemus into the common Tendon. 22 Iliacus Internus, Psoas Magnus, Pectineus, Adductor Longus, Brevis, and Magnus, and the Gracilis. 23 From the internal concave surface of the Ilium, and is inserted conjointly with the Tendon of the Psoas Magnus into the lesser Trochanter of the Femur. 24 From the front of the Transverse Processes and bodies of the Lumbar Vertebras, the body of the last Dorsal Vertebra, and from a series of Tendinous Bands over the last Dorsal and foui' upper Lumbar VertebrfB and from the Inter-vertebral substances, and is inserted conjointly with the preceding Muscle into the lesser Trochanter of the Femur. 25 From the Ilio-pectineal line of the Os Pubis, and tii- angularsmoothsm-facc in front of this line, &isinserted into the upper pai-t of the line which leads fix»m the anterior Intcr-trochauteric llidge to. the Linea Aspera.02f OTMAK ANATOMY, 26 From the front of the Pubes near its angle and is in- serted into the middle third of the inner margin of the Linea Aspcra of the Femur. 27 From the descending Eamus of the Pubes, and is inserted into the line leading from the Linea Aspera towards the lesser Trochanter, beneath the two preceding- Muscles. 28 The Adductor Magnus. 29 From the Os Innominatum, commencing at the Sub- Pubic arch, extending fi-om the lower Eorder of the Symphysis to the lower part of the Tuberosity of the Ischium, and is inserted into the whole length of the Linea Aspera, and the line leading from it to the inner Condyle. 30 The Femoral Vessels into the Popliteal space. 31 From the lower edge or margin-of the Os Pubis, and is inserted a little below the inner Tuberosity of the Tibia, between the Sartorius&Semiteudinosus Muscles. 32 Biceps, Semitendinosus, and Semimembranosus. 33 This Musclci arises by two Heads, the long Head from the posterior part of the Tuberosity of the Iscliium by a common Tendon with the Semitendinosus, and the short Head from the lower two-thirds of the ex- ternal Border of the Linea Aspera, as far as the outer Condyle and from the Inter-muscular Septum, and is inserted into the Head of the Fibula. 34 The Biceps Femoris. 35 The Semitendinosus, Semimembranosus, Gracilis, and Sartorius. 36 From the Tuberosity of the Ischium conjointly with the long Head of the Biceps, and is inserted into the inner surface of the Tibia, just below the insertion of the Gracilis. 37 A Bursa. 38 From the posterior part of the Tuberosity of the Ischium, and is inserted into the posterior and inner part of the Tuberosity of the Tibia. 39 Into an anterior and a posterior Tibial Eegion, and a Fibular Ilegion. 40 Tibialis Anticus, Extensor Proprius PoUicis, Extensor Longus Digitorum, and the Peroncus Tertius. 41 From the outer Tuberosity and upper two-thirds of the Tibia, the Interosseous Membrane and deep Fascia, and is inserted into the under surface of the internal100 ANSWEES TO aTTESTIOlTS Cuneiform Bone, and the contiguons extremity of the first Metatarsal Bone (its base). 42 From the middle three-fourths of the anterior part of the inner surface of the Fibula and the Interosseous Membrane, and is inserted into the base of the last Phalanx of the great Toe. 43 From the outer Tuberosity of the Tibia, the Head and upper three-fourths of the inner surface of the Fibula, and the Interosseous Membrane and deep Fascia, and is inserted, after dividing into four Tendons, into the second and thii-d Phalanges of the four lesser Toes. 44 From the anterior Border and inner surface of the lower fourth of the Fibula and Interosseous Membrane, and is inserted into the Tarsal extremity of the Metatarsal Bone of the Little Toe. 45 The superficial Layers are the Gastrocnemius, Soleus and Plantaris; and the deep Layers are the Popliteus, Flexor Longus Pollicis, Flexor Longus Digitorum, and Tibialis Posticus. 46 This Muscle arises by two Heads, the inner Head from the posterior surface of the inner Condyle of the Femur, just behind the Adductor Magnus, the outer Head from the external surface of the outer Condyle, just aboTC the origin of the Popliteus, and is inserted conjointly with the Soleus into the common Tendon, the Tendo Achillis, into the lower part of the pos- terior Tuberosity of the Os Calais. 47 A Bursa. 48 The two Heads of the Gastrocnemius. 49 A Sesamoid Bone. 60 From the Head and upper third of the posterior surface of the Fibula, from the oblique line and middle third of the Tibia, and is inserted conjointly with the pre- ceding Muscle into the common Tendon. 51 Tendo Achillis. 52 About the middle of the back part of the Leg, and_ is inserted into the lower part of the posterior Tuberosity of the Os Calcis. 53 The Plantaris. 54 Between the two preceding Muscles, and arises fi-om the outer Condyle of the Femur and posterior Liga- ment of the Ivnee-joint, and is inserted into the inner side of the posterior Tuberosity of the Os Calcis, by the side of the Tendo Achillis.101 ON nUJTAN ASTATOMT. 55 From a depression on the outer snrfacc of the external Condyle of the Peinur below the external lateral Ligament, and is inserted into the posterior surface of the Tibia, above the oblique line and just above the origin of the Soleus. 56 Below the Soleus from the lower two-thirds of the pos- terior surface of the Fibula, Inter-muscular Septum, and is inserted, after passing the Groove in the Astragalus and crossing the Sole of the Foot, into the base of the last Phalanx of the Great Toe. 57 From one half of the posterior surface of the Tibia, i.e. fi'om the oblique line to within three or four inches of the lower end of the Bone, and is inserted, after dividing into four Tendons, into the base of the last Phalanx of the four lesser Toes. 58 From the adjacent sides of the Tibia and Fibula, for about three-fifths of the Bones also the Interosseous Membrane, and is inserted into the iimer surfaces of the Scaphoid and internal Cuneiform Bones, and some of the Fibres are occasionally prolonged to the second and third Metatarsal Bones. 59 The Interosseous Membrane. 60 The Peroneus Longus et Brevis. What is the origin and insertion of the Peroneus Longus ? From the Head and upper two-thirds of the outer sur- face of the Fibula, and is inserted (after passing be- hind the outer Malleolus and through a Groove in the outer border of the Os Cuboides), into the base of the Metatarsal Bone of the Great Toe, and by a few Fibres into the internal Cuneiform Bone. 61 From the middle two-thirds of the outer surface of the Fibula and Inter-muscular Septum, and is inserted into the base of the Metatarsal Bone of the Little Toe. 62 Into a Dorsal and Plantar Kegion. 63 The Extensor Brevis Digitorum, and four Interossei Dorsales. 64 From the outer surface of the Os Calcis (near its articu- lation with the Os Cuboides), and is inserted, after dividing into four Tendons, into the base of the first Phalanx of the Great Toe, and the others into the sides of the long Extensor Tendon of the second, third, and fourth Toes. 65 They arise each by two Heads from the lateral surfaces of the two Metatarsal Bones, between which they areANSWERS TO QUESTIONS 102 placed, and ai'e inserted into the inner and outer sides of the bases of the second, third, and foui-th Phalanges of the fli'st row, and into the Aijoneurotic expansion of the long Extensor Tendons. 66 Into four Laj^ers. 67 The Abductor PoUicis, Flexor Previs Digitorum vel Flexor Perforatus, and the Abductor Minimi Digiti. 68 This Muscle arises by two Heads, one from the internal Tubercle on the under surface of the Os Calcis, and the other from the internal Annular Ligament and Plantar Fascia, and is inserted into the inner side of the base of the first Phalanx of the Great Toe. 69 From the inner Tubercle on the under surface of the Os Calcis and the Plantar Fascia, and is inserted, after dividing into four Tendons, into the base of the second Phalanx of the four outer Toes. 70 From the external and internal Tuberosities of the Os Calcis, the Plantar Fascia and Inter-muscular Septum, and is inserted into the outer side of the base of the first Phalanx of the Little Toe. 71 The Lumbricales and Musciilus vel Flexor Accessorius. 72 Four. 73 From the Tibial side of the common Tendons of the Flexor Longus Digitoram, and are inserted into the base of the first Phalanx of the foiu' outer Toes, also into the Aponeurotic expansion of the common Ex- tensor Tendon. 74 This Muscle arises by two Heads, the outer or Tendinous slip from the outer and under sui'face of the Os Calcis the inner or fleshy slip from the inner and imder sur- face of the Os Calcis, and is inserted into the common Tendon of the Flexor Longus Digitorum. 75 The long Plantar Ligament. 76 The Flexor Brevis PoUicis, Adductor PoUicis, Trans- versalis Pedis, and Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti. 77 From the inner Border of the Cuboid Bone, and the second and third Cuneiform Bones, and is inserted by two Heads one on each side of the base of the first Phalanx of the Great Toe. 78 Two Sesamoid Bones. 79 From the Tendinous Sheath of the Peroneus Longus Muscle, the Cuboid Bone, and the bases of the third and fourth Metatarsal Bones, and is inserted into the base of the first Phalanx of the Great Toe.103 ON irUJIAN ANATOMY. 80 This Muscle arises by fleshy slips fi'om the Heads of the Metatarsal Bones of the four outer Toes, and is in- serted conjointly Avith the Adductor Pollicis into the base of the flrst Phalanx of the Great Toe. 81 From the base of the Metatarsal Bone of the Little Toe and the Tendinous Sheath of the Peroneus Longus Muscle, and is inserted into the base of the first Phalanx of the Little Toe. 82 The Literossei Plantares et Dorsales. 83 These Muscles arise from the imier and under surfaces of the three outer Metatarsal Bones, and are inserted into the bases of the Metatarsal Phalanges of the same Toes (viz. the thi-ee outer), and into the Aponeurotic expansion of the common Extensor Tendon. 84 They arise from the adjacent sides of the two Bones between which they aa'e placed, and are inserted as follow: the two inner are inserted one on either side the base of the second Metatarsal Phalanx, the third to the external side of the base of the third Metatar- sal Phalanx, and the fourth to the external side of the base of the foui'th Metatarsal Phalanx. Section XIX.—PASCIiE. 1 Fascise are Membranous investments distributed through the various Eegions of the body for the puipose of investing or protecting the Muscles and more delicate parts. 2 Into three classes; Cellular Fasciae, CeUulo-fibrous Fasciae, and Tendino-fibrous Fasciae. 3 The supei-ficial Fascia is a Cellular investment which exists throughout the Body, immediately beneath the Skin and fonns the connecting medium between it and the deeper parts of the body. 4 Similar to Cellular Fasciae, with the exception that it is free from Adipose Tissue in its structure. 5 Fasciaj of the Xeck, Thoracic Fasciae, also the Sheaths of Vessels. 6 The strongest, the most inelastic and unyielding of the three kinds of investing Membrane. 7 The Fasciae of the Pelvis, Knee, Elbow, "Wrist, &c, 8 Like the Muscles; into those of the Head and Neck, the Trunk, the upper extremity and the lower ex- tremity. 9 TheTcmporal Fasciae, Superficial & deep Cervical Fascia).ANSWERS TO QtJESTIOKS 104 10 The Temporal Fascia is that strong, white, Tendino- fihrous Membrane Avhich gives attachment to the Temporal Muscle, from the cui-ved line or Temporal Eidge above to the Zygomatic arch belovr. 11 Two; between which may be observed the Cutaneous Vessels and Nerves, e.g. the superficial Epigastric Artery and Vein, the Eadial & Ulnar Veins, Saphenous Veins; Cutaneous Muscles, as the Platysma Myoides, Orbicularis Palpebrarum, &c. 12 Processes of the Membrane, which are prolonged in- wards between the Muscles. In this locality it em- braces the Sterno-Mastoid Muscle, also the Omo-hyoid. 13 The Thoracic Pascia is a CeUulo-fibrous Membrane, which consists of two parts, an external or Sub-cutane- ous Layer and an internal or deep Layer; the former is analogous to that in other parts of the Body, and the internal or deeper one closely invests the Muscles. It is attached to the concave margin of the first Eib and inner aspect of the Sternum, where the large Vessels and Trachea pass through the Thoracic Pas- cia; it divides into two Layers, an ascending and des- cending Layer, the fomier is attached to the Trachea, and is continuous with the Sheath of the Carotid Vessels and deep Cervical Pascia, and the latter des- cends upon the Trachea to its Bifurcation, and con- tinuous with the Pibrous Layer of the Pericardium. 14 The Pascia Transversalis, the Pascia of the Iliacus and Psoas, and the Pascia of the Pelvis. 15 A CeUulo-fibrous Layer which lines the inner surface of the Transversalis Muscle, it is thick and dense in the Inguinal Eegion, and becomes thinner as it ascends to the Thorax. 16 The internal Abdominal Eing. 17 About midway between the Symphysis Pubis and the anterior-superior Spine of the Ilium, and half an inch above Poupart's Ligament. 18 Integument, superficial Pascia, Inter-columnar Fascia, Cremaster Muscle, Transversalis Pascia, and Pexitoneal Sac. 19 Integument, supei-ficial Fascia, Inter-columnar Fascia, conjoined Tendon (of internal oblique and Transver- salis Muscles), Transversalis Pascia, and Peritoneal Sac. 20 A Tcndino-fibrous Layer which covers the two Mus-105 Oir HTJMAN AINATOMr. cles, and like the rascia-transversalis is thick and dense below and becomes thinner as it ascends. 21 From the inner surface of the Pubic Bone, and along the margin of the Brim of the Pelvis, where it becomes continuous with the Fascia of the Iliacus and Psoas Muscles, it descends into the Pelvis and divides into two Lamellfe, the Pelvic and Obturator Fascia. 22 The anterior Vesical Ligaments. 23 That portion of the Fascia which has received its name from its situation, and the same "with the Recto-Vesi- cal Fascia, and the other Membranous linings of the Abdominal and Pelvic Parietes already referred to. PEEINEAL TASCIiE. 24 A thin Tendino-fibrous Membrane which covers in the Muscles of the Genital portion of the Perineum, and Boot of the Penis. 25 The thin firm Fibro-cellular Membrane which fills up the space between the Bami of the Ossa Pubis and Ischii of a triangular form, with its base below and apex above, inferiorly it divides into two Layers, one continued forwards with the superficial Perineal Fascia, and the other prolonged backwards to the Bectum, and uniting with the Fascia of the Anus. 26 The Membranous portion of the Urethra, Cowper's Glands, Compressor ITrethraD Muscle, internal Pudic Arteries, Nerves, and a Plexus of Veins. PASCIiE OF THE TIPPEE EXTREMITY. 27 The superficial Nerves, Veins and Lymphatics. 28 Thin over the Pectoralis Major and Deltoid Muscles, and in the Axillary Space, but dense and thick on the Dorsum Scapulae. 29 The Clavicle, Acromion Process and Spine of the Scapula above, and below to the Olecranon Process, the Ulna, and in front of the "Wrist is continuous with the anterior Araiular Ligament and posterior aspect of the Wrist, it forms the posterior Annular Ligament, the Dorsal aspect of the Hand is invested with this Fascia which is continuous with the posterior Annu- lar Ligament. 30 Three parts, a middle and two lateral portions, which latter are continuous with the Dorsal Fascia, whilst the middle portion is attached to the internal Annular Ligament, and divides into several Slips or Processt...106 AirSWEES TO QUESTIONS which are inserted into the sides of the bases of the Phalanges of the fingers. FASCIiE OF THE LOWEK EXTREMITY. 31 The superficial Nerves, Veins, and Lymphatics. 32 Tascia Lata, which surrounds the Thigh and sends processes or Septa between the Muscles. 33 To the prominent borders of the Pelvis externally, the Crest of the Ilium, the lower extremity of the Sacrum and Coccyx, Tuberosity of the Ischium, Eami of the Ischium and Pubes and body of the Pubis, and with Poupart's Ligament; and is inserted in the Linea Aspera of the Femur and prominent parts around the Knee Joint. 34 The Tensor Vaginse Femoris, and the Gluteus Maximus, 35 The Saphenous Opening for the transmission of the large Saphenous Vein and other Vessels. 36 The Iliac portion of the Fascia Lata from its attachment to the IHac Crest. 3 7 The Pubic portion of the Fascia Lata.from its attachment to the Pubes. 38 The Cribriform Fascia for the transmission of Lymphatic Vessels. 39 Integument, superficial Fascia, Cribriform Fascia, Fascia Propria, Septum Crurale, and Peritoneal Sac. 40 By its inner siu'face to the upj)er part of the Tibialis Anticus and Extensor Longus Digitorum Muscles. 41 The anterior Annular Ligament. 42 The external Annular Ligament. 43 The internal Annular Ligament. 44 From the lower border of the anterior Annular Ligament, and continuous on either side with the lateral portions of the Plantar Fascia. 45 Two Layers—superficial and deep—the former is con- tinuous with the posterior Fascia of the Thigh and is thicker on the outer side of the Leg, by an expansion derived from the Biceps Tendon and terminates in the external and internal Annular Ligaments : the deep Layer forms the Inter-muscular Septa or Fascia between the superficial and deep Muscles. 46 Three: a middle and two lateral portions. 47 The central portion. 48 Posteriorly to the inner Tiiberosity of the Os Calcis, and divides opposite the heads of the Metatarsal Bones into five Processes or Fasciculi, each of which dividesosr HtraiAiJ" anatomt. 107 into two Slips -which, are inserted on either side the bases of the first Phalanges of the Toes. 49 They are continuous with the internal and external Annular Ligaments; on the external side with the Dorsal Fascia, and on the inner side with the central portion. Sectiojt XX.—splanchnology. 1 The doctrine or structure of the Yiscera. 2 In the great cavities of the body. 3 Cranium, Thorax, and Abdomen. TnOEACIC TISCEEA. 4 Conical, with the apex above and base below and situ- ated at the upper part of the Trunli; of the body. 5 Anteriorly by the Sternum, superior Costal Cai'tilages, Eibs, and Inter-costal Muscles; jjosteriorly by the Vertebral Column, Eibs, and Inter-costal Muscles; laterally by the Eibs and Inter-costal Muscles; above by the Thoracic I ascia and the fii'st Eibs, and, below, by the Diaphragm. 6 The Heart, with its Pericardium and great Yessels, the Lungs and their Pleui'a3 or Serous Coverings, the ffisophagus, and ia the Foetus, the Thymus Gland. HEABT. 7 The hollow Muscular Organ which receives the Blood from, and transmits it to, all parts of the body. 8 Obliquely in the Chest, beneath the lower two-thirds of the Sternum, its base is directed backwards to the right side, and its apex forwards to the left side. 9 By Septa into four cavities or compartments,, viz.: tAvo Auricles and two Ventricles. 10 The right Auricle communicates with the right Ventricle, and the left Auricle with the left Ventricle. 11 To receive the Blood from the large Venous Trunks and transmit it to the Ventricles. 13 Each has a lai-ge Artery into which the Blood_^is propelled, as Avill be afterwards described. IIIGHT AXTEICLE. 13 The right. 14 Into two parts, one named the Sinus, and the other Appendix Auriciilse. 15 Five: the superior and inferior Cava, the Coronary Vein, the Foramina Thebesii, and that of the Ventricle. 16 In the front and upper part of the Auricle. 17 At the. West part of the Auxicle nem- its Septum.108 ANSTVEBS TO aUESTIOXS 18 Into the Auricle between the inferior Cava and the opening of the Ventricle. 19 To return the Venous Blood from the Heart's substance. 20 Minute Apertures leading from the Muscular structure of the Heart into the Auricles and Ventricles. 21 The opening of communication between the Auricle and Ventricle. 22 The Eustachian and Coronary Valves. 23 A Pold of the inner or Lining Membrane of this Cavity which is situated in front of the opening of the inferior Cava. 24 The Postal period, as in the adult it forms only a vestige or remnant of struetiu-e. 25 To direct the Elood of the Placenta fi'om the inferior Cava into the left Auricle through the Foramen Ovale. 26 A thin semi-lunar Fold of Lining Membrane over the the entrance of the Coronary Vein into the Auricle, and sometimes called the Valve of Thebesius. 27 To prevent the regurgitation of the Blood into the Coronary Vein dui'ing the contraction of the Auricle. 28 A band of Muscular Fibres situated on the Septum of of the Auricles opposite the termination of the inferior Cava. 29 Like the Annulus Ovalis a relict of Foetal structure on the posterior WaU of the right Amicle, it is an oval depression cori'esponding to the remains of an opening in the Foetus (the Foramen Ovale.) 30' No such stracture exists in it. 31 A smaU elevation or projection of the Auricle which exists between the superior and inferior Cavae. 32 SmaU fleshy bands which run in various directions, and situated in the Appendix Amiculce in the anterior Wall of the right Auricle. EIGHT VENTEICLE. 33 Triangular, with its base directed upwards towards the right Auricle. 34 The anterior is convex, and the inferior, which is flat, rests on the Diaphragm. 35 The Right. 36 The Auriculo-ventricular opening. 37 Opposite the centre of the Sternum, between the third Costal Cartilages. 38 Three Folds of Lining Membrane connected by their circumference to the Auriculo-ventricular Opening,OIT HUMAIT AlfATOMY. 109 and by their sides they give attachment to small Tendinous Cords called Chordee Tendinece. 39 The Tendons of the thick Muscular Bands or Fibres called Camea; Columnce. 40 The Musculai' or fleshy bands which cover the greater part of the internal sui-face of the right Ventricle except near the opening of the Pulmonary Artery, where the surface becomes smooth. 41 Into three sets: one set attached on one side only forming convexities in the cavity; a second set attached by both extremities, leaving the middle free, called Tra- beculas Camese, and the third set form rounded bundles (Columnse vel Musculi Papillares) which are attached by one extremity to the Walls of the Heart, and by the other, or free ends, to the slender Tendinous Cords—Chordae Tendineae. 42 The mouth or opening of the Pulmonary Artery. 43 To the left of the base, and above the Auriculo-ventri- cidar opening. 44 The Infundibulum vel Conus Arteriosus, which is fmuiel-shaped. 45 By the Semi-lunar Valves. 46 Three; and formed by a Pold of the Lining Membrane, which is strengthened by a Layer of Pibrous Tissue. 47 They are attached by their convex borders, whilst their concave borders are free and directed upwards. 48 A small Fibro-cartilaginous Papilla or Tubercle called Corpus Arantii. 49 To support the flow or column of Blood in the Artery, and prevent its regurgitation into the Ventricle. LEFT AUBICLE. 50 At the'upper & posterior part of the left side of the Heart. 51 Those of the four Pulmonary Veins and the Auriculo- ventricular opening. 52 Two from each Lung enter from opposite sides of the left Auricle. 53 2^0. 54 In the Appendix Auriculae. . 55 tes. LEFT VENTRICLE. 56 At the posterior and left side, and forms the apex of the Heart. 57 About seven lines, whilst those of its fellow (the right Ventricle) arc only two-and-a-half lines in thickness. 58 The Auriculo-ventricular and the Aortic Opening. JANSWEES TO atTESTIO'S 110 59 The right. 60 To the left side of the Aortic Opening. Gl By a Membranous Fold around the Orifice, which con- sists of two Segments or Processes called the Mitral Valve. 62 The Aorta. 63 The three Semi-lunar or Sigmoid Valves. 64 Similar to those of the Pulmonaiy Ai'terj-, viz. to prevent or arrest the reflux of the circulating fluid into the Ventricle. 65 Yes. 66 Strata of Muscular Fibres and Fibrous Eings. 67 Bands of Fibres, which are chiefly disposed in a spiral or circular direction. 68 Chiefly transverse. 69 In Layers, which run in a spiral direction. 70 In rings around the Ai-terial and Auriculo-ventricular Orifices, and also sends prolongations into the Valves which belong to these openings. 71 The Endocardium, which is continuous with the Linings of the Veins and Arteries. AETEEIES, VEINS, AND NEEVES OF THE HEAET. 72 The Coronary Ai'teries. 73 Two, right and left: they are the first Branches of the Aorta, and arise just above the Semi-lunar Valves. 74 The right or posterior Artery appears on the right side of the Pulmonary Artery, and runs La the Fun'ow between the right Aiuicle and Ventricle to the posterior aspect of the Heai't, where it inosculates with its fellow (the left Coronaiy), in this coui'se Branches are given off' to the right side of the Heart. 75 The left or anterior Coronary Artery passes between the Pulmonary Artery and the left Appendix Auric- vdse, in its coiu'se two or three Branches are given off to the substance of the Aui-icle and Ventiicle, one, in particular, passes in the Auriculo-ventiicular Groove towai'ds the apex, and inosculates with the descending Branch of the right Coronaiy: it supplies the left side. 76 Three : the Great Cardiac or Coronary Vein, the posterior Cardiac Veins, and the anterior Cai'diac Veins. 77 In the substance of the Ventiicles near the apex of the Heart, and passing in the Groove at the back of the Heart, between the Aiuicles and Ventricles, tenninates in the Coronary Sinus (in the right Amicle).111 ON HUMAN ANATOMY, 78 I^ear the apex of the Heart, and terminate in the Great Cardiac Vein in the right Auricle. 79 In the great Cardiac Vein. 80 A numerous set of minute Vessels in the substance of the Heart, which convey the Venous Blood into its fom Cavities. 81 From the Cardiac Plexus above the right Pulmonary Artery, and behind the Aortic Arch. 82 By the union or convergence of the middle and inferior Cardiac Kerves, and by Branches from the Par-vagum. PEEICAEDItTM. 83 The Fibro-serous Membrane which encloses the Heart. Somewhat conical, and situated in the middle of the Thorax in the interval between the Pleurce. 84 Two Layers: an external or Fibrous one and an internal or Serous one. 85 Above, to the large Vessels at the Boot of the Heart where it becomes continuous with the Thoracic Fascia; and below, to the central Tendon of the Diaphragm. 86 This Layer forms a shut Sac, thus the inner surface invests the Heart and commencement of the large Vessels, whilst the other is reflected on the inner surface of the Fibrous Layer. ! 87 By being lubricated with a Serous Fluid (Liquor Peri- cardii.) ; 88 From the Oesophageal, Bronchial, internal Mammary, and Phrenic Arteries. CIECULATION OF THE BLOOD. >89 By the alternate contraction of the Amides and Ventri- cles : the Diastole and Systole of the Heart. 90 The dilatation of the Ventricles, occasioned by the contraction of the Auricles on their contents. ^»91 The contraction of the Ventricles, by wliich the Blood they contain is propelled through the Arteries. ^92 The Heart, as previously described, consists of two Aui-icles and two Ventricles, which, from their position, are respectively named right and left: the right is the Venous side of the Heart, the Venous Blood from every part of the body is received by the superior and inferior Vena Cava and Coronary Vein into the right Axiricle, which contracts and discharges its contents into the right Ventiicle, which, when filled, contracts and discharges its contents through the Pulmonary Artery and its ramifications into the Lungs;112 ANSWEES TO atJESTIOirS tho Blood, having undergone the necessary changes, is returned as Arterial Blood by the four PuLmonarj- Yeias into the left Auricle, which being distended, now contracts and propels its contents into the left Ventricle, and from the left Ventricle it is propelled through the Aorta into the Capillaries, where it is distributed to eveiy pait of the body, and again returned to the Heart by the Veins into the right Auricle where it undergoes the same process again. 93 The Tricuspid Valve. 94 The Mitral Valve. 95 Each by the Semi-lunar Valves. TBACHEA. 96 The Air Tube extends from the Laryirs to the Lungs, it commences opposite the fifth Cervical Vertebra and ends opposite the thii'd, and sometimes as low as the fifth. Dorsal Vertebra, where it divides into the two Bronchi—one for each Limg. 97 About four-and-a-half inches long, and tubular, but flattened posteriorly, o^\ing to the non-existence of Cartilaginous Bands. 98 Anteriorly of a series of Fibro-cartilaginous Segments or Eings (from sixteen to twentj' in number), which extend for about two-thirds aroxmd the tube, and united by a yellow elastic Fibrous Tissue; the pos- terior part of the Tube is completed by Tibrous Membrane, Muscular Fibres, and Tracheal Glands. 99 By a Mucous Membrane with the subjacent yellow elastic Fibrous Tissue. 100 The divisions of the Trachea. LTJNGS. 101 In the Cavity of the Thorax on either side the Vertebral Column, and somewhat of a conical form. 102 At the lower border of the left Lung. 103 luto a base, an apex, two borders, two surfaces, and two lobes. 104 Broad and concave, and rests on the convex surface of the Diaphragm. 105 Form of a cone, and projects about an inch above the level of the first Eib. 106 Sharp and thin, and partly overlaps the Pericardium. 107 Thick and rounded, and corresponds to the hollow by the side of the Vertebral Column. 108 Convex, and in contact with the Wall of the Thorax.113 ox HUMAN ANATOMY. 109 Pai'tially concave, to receive the convex surface of the Heai't. 110 Incompletely into two Lobes by a long and oblique Fissure, ivhich extends from the posterior part near the apex to the anterior border near the base. 111 Its upper Lobe is sub-divided by a second Fissiu-e, which marks off a small triangular piece called the third Lobe of the same Lung; the right Lung is also larger and heavier than the left. 112 The left. 113 By their Eoots, which consist of the Pulmonary and Bronchial Vessels, the Bronchial Tubes, and Plexuses of Jferves. • 114 Midway between the base and apex. 115 Of a spongy texture, consisting of an immense number of minute Cells, in which the ultimate ramifications of the Air Tube terminate. 116 No; each is distinct, being provided with its own Air Tube, Vessels, and Nerves. 117 ThePleuree. 118 Two : one for each Lung. 119 The Pleiu-a CostaHs. 120 The Pleura Puhnonalis. 121 The Mediastinum. 122 The Heart. 123 No; it is only one Septum which extends from the Sternum to the Spine. 124 The divisions of the Air Tube or Trachea. 125 In structure similar to the Trachea. 126 The left, which is about two inches long. 127 ObHquely downwards and outwards beneath the Aortic Arch, entering the left Lung at about the middle of its root, where it first divides into two Branches, one for each Lobe, they then divide and sub-divide into their ultimate terminations, forming the minute Bronchial Cells. 128 About one inch in length, passing forwards and out- wards above the Arch of the right Pulmonary Artery, and entering the right Lung opposite the fourth Dorsal Vertebra. 129 From before backwards; the most anterior are the Pul- monary Veins; the most posterior, the Bronchus, and between the two is the Pulmonary Artery. J 2114 ANSWEES TO QTTESTIOJTS 130 The Bronchus is the most superior, the Veins the most inferior, and between the two is the Artery. 131 The only two Vessels which change places are the Bronchus and Artery; the Artery is the most superior. 132 From the circumstance of the left Bronchus being at a lower level than the right Bronchus. 133 By the collection of the minute Cells into bundles or groups called Lobuli. 134 By the aggregation of the Lobuli. 135 By a Serous Layer, derived from the Pleura, which is continued over the surface, and by a Sub-serous Layer which dips into its interior, which subdivides it into pieces; the latter Layer contains Fibres of elastic Tissue, and divides the small masses into Lobules. 136 Of a Polyhedrous fonn, and about the one hundred-and- fiftieth of an inch across. 'aeteeies, veins, and neeves of the lxtjtgs. 137 Pulmonary and Bronchial Vessels. 138 Two. 139 In the left Aui-icle. 140 The right. 141 From the right ventricle. 142 Three; one for each Lobe of the right Lung. 143 Two; 'one for each Lobe of the,left Lung. 144 From the anterior part of the Aorta. 145 The right one into the Vena Azygos Major, and the left into the superior Intercostal Vein. 146 From the Par-vagum and Sympathetic; forming the anterior and posterior Pulmonary Plexuses, whose Branches are distributed to the Bronchial Cells. 147 Chiefly at the bifurcation of the Trachea, and along the side of that Tube. 148 They are Lymphatic Glands connected with the Ab- sorbent Vessels of the Limgs. eespieation. 149 The inhaling and exhaling the atmospherical air to and from the Lungs; in other words, Inspiration and Expiration. 150 In a state of relaxation the Diaphragm is arched, and by contracting it descends and the Eibs are raised, thereby increasing the capacity of the Chest, which occasions the air to pass down the Trachea, and thus fiUs the Bronchial Cells. 151 The Diaphragm.ON inJMAN AKATOMT. 115 152 Pnncii)ally by the Intercostal Muscles, assisted by the Levatores Costarum, the ,Scaleni, Serratus Posticus Superior, and Thoracic Muscles generally. 153 By the relaxation and consequent ascent of the Dia- phi'agm, and descent of the Eibs, which diminish the capacity of the Chest; the air is then expelled from the Lmigs. 154 The Abdominal Muscles. 155 The ObHqui, Transversi and Eecti Abdominis, Quad- ratus Lumborum, Serratus Posticus Inferior, Longis- simus Dorsi, and Sacro-lumbaUs. Section XXL—CESOPHAGTJS. 1 This Muscular Canal extends from the Pharynx to the Stomach, it commences opposite to the fifth Cervical Vertebra, and terminates at the Cardiac Orifice of the Stomach opposite to the tenth Dorsal Vertebra. 2 About nine inches long, and its greatest diameter near its teiTaination at the Cardiac Orifice. 3 It is composed of a Muscular Pibrous and Mucous Coat. 4 Two; an external and an internal one. 5 Longitudinally. 6 Circularly. 7 Between the Muscular and Mucous Coats. 8 Of a Keddish Colour above, and pale below. 9 It is thrown into longitudinal Folds, which disappear when the Canal is distended. 10 A Layer of Epithelium. 11 CEsophageal Glands. Section XXIL—THYMUS GLAND. 1 Of an oblong form, and situated ia the anterior Medias- tiniun, between the fourth Eib and Thyroid Gland. 2 It is a conglomerate Gland, consisting of Lobules which are arranged in a spiral form around a central Cavity, and connected together by Cellular Tissue. 3 No. 4 About the third month. 5 Prom six to eight drachms. 6 About the period of puberty. 7 No, but consists of two lateral parts connected with each other by Cellular Tissue. 8 A Vascular Mucous Membrane. 9 The Secretory Cell. 10 A Pouch.116 ANSWEES TO auESTIONS 11 A milky-likc Fluid. 12 The Thoracic portion roceives its Arteries from the internal Mammary Arterj-, and the Cervical portion from the superior and inferior Thyroid ^Vrteries. 13 Chiefly in the left Vena Innominata. 14 Chiefly from the internal Mammary Plexus. 15 Yes, as proved by the late Sir Astley Cooper, who once succeeded in injecting them in the human subject. Section XXIII.—MAMM^. 1 Two Glandular Bodies destined to secrete the Milk for the purpose of nourishing the ofi'spriug. 2 At the anterior, superior, and lateral parts of the Chest. 3 Each consists of the Papilla or Mpple, the Areola, and the Glandular or Secretory substance. 4 A little to the inner side of the centre of each Mamma is a conical projection of the Integument called the the Nipple. 5 The Areola, the colour of which is influenced by the complexion of the body, also dui'ing pregnancy and lactation. 6 Several minute Orifices, which lead into the Sebaceous Follicles. 7 To secrete a fatty substance, which serves to protect the Jfipple and Areola from irritation. 8 This conglomerate Gland consists of a series of minute CsEcal Vesicles which form the Lobules and Lobes of the Gland, the whole of which are united together by dense firm Areolar Tissue. 9 The ultimate terminations of the Excretory Ducts (Tubuli Lactifeii) from fifteen to twenty in number, which finally converge to the Nipple, where they terminate by open mouths or small Apertures, whose sizes vary from that of a common bristle to that of a common pin. 10 Prom eighteen to twenty. 11 It is composed of an external Cellular, or Fibrous Coat, and an internal or Mucous Lining. 12 They are capable of erection from the circumstance of being surrounded by an elastic fibrous structure, analogous to the Dartoid Tissue of the Scrotum. 13 From the AxiUary Artery (its long Thoracic or external Mammary Branch), and fi'om the anterior Inter-costal and some of the Perforating Branches of the internal117 ON mUTAN' AlfATOMT. Mammary, which latter is derived from the Subclavian Artery. 14 Some foi-m a Plexus, which temiinates in the Axillary and internal Mammary Veins; others open into some of the Inter-costal Veins; others, again, into the Cervical Veins. 15 Those from the inner side of the Gland open into the Mediastinal Glands, whilst those from the outer side open into the Axillary Glands. 16 From the anterior and lateral Cutaneous Nerves of the Thorax, viz.: the third, fourth and fifth Inter-costal Nerves, which are the anterior primary Branches of tlie Dorsal JSTerves, as elsewhere described. SECTioif XXIV.—ABDOMINAL VISCEEA. / 1 This Cavity is the largest in the body, of an oval form, and situated between the Thorax and Pelvis. 2 Above, by the Diaphrag-m; below, by the Pelvis, or rather, the Levatores Ani and the parts which close the outlet of the Pelvis; anteriorly and laterally by Osseous and Muscular Sti'uctures, viz.: the lower Bibs and Abdominal Muscles; and behind, by the Vertebral Column and the adjacent Muscles, viz.: the Quadrati Lumborum and Iliaci. 3 Arbitrarily into two portions, viz: the Abdomen Proper and Pelvic portion. 4 This portion, which extends from the Diaphragm to the brim of the Pelvis, contains the Digestive and Secretory Organs. 5 Chiefly the Generative and Urinary Organs. 6 Into three primary regions—a superior or Epigastric, a middle or Umbilical, and an inferior or Hypogastric Begion. 7 Yes, each is subdivided into three roinor Regions, i.e. each primaiy Begion is divided into a central and two lateral ones. 8 The central one is the Epigastric, and the two lateral ones under the Cartilages of the Bibs are called the Hypochondriac Begions. 9 The central one is the Umbilical, and the two lateral the Lumbar Begions. 10 The central one is the Hypogastric vel Pubic Begion, and the two lateral ones the Iliac or Inguinal Begions. 11 AH that portion above a transverse lino which extends118 AKSWJJES TO ftX7E3TION8 from the most prominent point of the Cartilages of the Bibs on one side to the corresponding point on the opposite side, and, continuing the same line round the body, forms a circular line also. 12 The middle portion of the Stomach with its Pyloric Extremity the left Lobe and Lobulus Spigelii of the of the Liver, the Hepatic Vessels, Pancreas, Cajliac Axis, Semilunar Ganglia, part of the Aorta and Vena Cava, Vena Azygos, and Thoracic Duct. 13 The large extremity of the Stomach, the Spleen, the narrow extremity of the Pancreas, the Eenal Capsule, ujjper part of the left Kidney, and part of the Colon. 14 The right Lobe of the Liver, GaU-bladder, a portion of the Duodenum and of the Ascending Colon, the Renal Capsule, and part of the right Kidney. 15 If a line be can-ied from the highest point of the Crista of the Ilium on one side to a con'esponding point on the opposite side, and the same line continued round the body, it will indicate the middle Zone; this Zone, with the iipper one, forms the boundaries within which is situated the Umbilical and Liimbar Eegions. 16 A portion of the Omentum and Mesentery, the ti'ans- verse portions of the Colon and Duodenum, and some of the convolutions of the Jejunum. 17 The Ascending Colon, lower half of the Kidney, and a portion of the Jejunum. 18 The descending Colon, lower half of the Kidney, and a portion of the Jejxmum. 19 AH that portion below the line which extends from the highest point of the Crista of the Ilium on one side to the opposite one, and to the centre of Poupart's Ligament on each side. 20 Convolutions of the Ilium, the Bladder (if distended), and, in females, the Uterus. 21 The Caecum, Ilio-ctecal Valve, Ureter, and Spermatic Vessels. 22 The Sigmoid Plexure of the Colon, Ureter, and Sperm- atic Vessels. „ no rru T) PEEITONEUM. 23 The Peritoneum. 24 This Membrane is divided into two parts—a Paiietal and a Visceral Layer, the former lines the inner Wall of the Abdominal Cavity, wliilst the other is reflected over, invests and supports all the Viscera, except where the Vessels enter.119 ox HUMAIT ANATOMY. 25 In stiiictiu'e similar to tlie Pleurae. 26 "When detached from its natiu-al surface it is rough. 27 It has a smooth and polished appeai'ance. 28 By a Serous Fluid, secreted hy the Exhalant Vessels. 29 The Folds or Processes of this Membrane in connection with the Stomach are called Omenta, of which there ai'e three; one, attached to the upper curve, is called the small or Gastro-hepatic Omentum; another, attached to the gi'eater curve is called the Gasti'o- colic or great Omentum; and the thu-d, to the Cardiac exti'emity of the Stomach is called theSplenicOmentum-. 30 The great Omentum. 31 The Meso-c£ecum, the Ascending and Descending Meso- colon, and the Transverse Meso-colon. S2 The Mesentery. 33 The Suspensoiy or Palcifonn Ligament, the Coronary Ligament, the left lateral and rightlateral Ligaments. 34 The Hepatic Artery, the Ductus Communis Choledochus, the Hepatic Plexus of Nerves, the Portal Vein, and Lymphatics. ABD0MEK-. 35 It contains, besides the Peritoneum, the organs of Di- gestion and Chylification, viz: the Stomach, Intestines, Liver, Pancreas, and Spleen; also, the Kidneys, their Capsules, and Ureters. THE STOMACH. 36 The hollow Musculo-membranous Viscus, into which the food is received and digested. 37 It is of a somewhat conical fonn, and situated in the left Hypochondriac and Epigastric Eegions, and partly in the right Hj^ochondriac Eegion. 38 It is divided into a Splenic and Pyloric extremity, a greater and lesser Curvature, an anterior and posterior surface, and a Cardiac and Pyloric Orifice. 39 The left or Splenic extremity. 40 The Ctlsophagus. 41 It lies beneath the Eibs, and connected to the concave surface of the Spleen by a Fold of Peritoneum (the Splenic Omentum). 42 Into the Duodenum, at the under surface of the Liver. 43 The great Curvature, which is chiefly convex. 44 A Fold of the Peritoneum, called the Epiploon or greater Omentum, which floats over the Intestine. 45 The lesser Cxirvature, which is concave.ATTSWEES TO QTJESTIOIfS 120 46 A Fold of Peritoneum, called the lesser Omentum, which is connected with the inferior surface of the Li-ver. 47 Forwards and upwards, and in contact with the Dia- phragm, the Abdominal Parietes, and imder surface of the Liver. 48 Downwards and backwards, and is in relation with the Crura of the Diaphragm, the Pancreas, the Aorta, part of the Duodenum, the Ascending Layer of the Trans- verse Meso-colon, the right Kidney and its Capsule. 49 Two; the Cardiac and Pyloric Openings. 50 The Pyloric is situated lower, and directed more forward, than the Cardiac. 51 It consists of four Coats or Layers—a Peritoneal or Serous, a Muscular, a Fibrous, and a Mucous Coat. 52 It forms a complete covering to the Stomach, except at the margins, which give attachment to the greater and lesser Omentum. 53 The Vessels, Nei'ves, and Lymphatics. 54 Immediately beneath or within the Serous Coat. 55 Three : a longitudinal, circular, and oblique set. 56 Those of the Oesophagus, and continued to the Pylorus and small Intestine. 57 These foim the second Layer extending from the Cardiac to the Pyloric extremity of the Stomach. 58 A Eing or Constriction ai'ound the Orifice (the Sphincter of the Pylorus). 59 They are continuous with the circular Layer. 60 A Cellular or Connective Tissue, which gives strength to the Stomach, and forms a bed in which the larger Vessels and Nerves ramify, ere they are distii- buted to the Mucous or inner Coat. 61 It somewhat resembles a pile of velvet, being smooth and soft to the toiich, and extremely Vascular, and in its natural state of a pale rose coloiu'. 62 Long tubular Glands, existing in eveiy part of the Mucous Membrane. 63 The Mucous Coat (and, according to some anatomists, the two inner Coats) is thrown into Folds called Eugae. 64 Chiefly transverse. 65 The Pneumogastric and Symphathetic from the Solar Plexus. 66 From Branches derived from the Ci?eliac Axis, chiefly the Gaslric or Coronary, and the Hepatic; it also receives five or six Branches (the Vasa Brevia) from the Splenic Artery.121 ON HTTMASr ANATOMY. 67 Into the Splenic Vein, and from it into the Vena Portal, which is formed by the union of the supeiior Mesen- teric and Splenic Veins. INTESTINES. 68 From thirty to thirty-five feet long, extending from the Pylorus to the Anus. 69 Into the small and large Intestines. 70 The Duodenum, Jejunum, and Ilium. 71 Commences at the Pylorus and terminates in the Jeju- num on the left side of the second Lumbar Vertebra. 72 About the breadth of twelve fingers, as its name implies. 73 Obliquely upwards and backwards, perpendicularly downwai'ds, and then passes transversely across the third Lumbar Vertebra. 74 The common Biliary and Pancreatic Ducts. 75 A Pold of the Peritoneum called thetransverseMeso-colon. 76 At the Duodenum, and terminates in the Ilium. 77 About twenty feet. 78 It forms the upper two-fifths of the small Intestine. 79 At the Jejunimi, and terminates in the right Iliac Eossa into the Colon. 80 The Mesentery. 81 It foiTQs the lower three-fifths of the small Intestine. 82 The Mesenteiy. 83 The superior Mesenteric Vessels and Nerves, the Lymphatic Glands, and Lacteals. 84 Like the Stomach, it consists of four Coats—a Serous, Muscular, Pibrous, and Mucous. 85 Tes, except at the part where theVesselsenter at which place it is reflected off to form the Mesentery. 86 Two: a longitudinal and a circular set. 87 The Duodenal or Brunner's Glands. 88 Soft, and covered with miaute points called Villi. 89 The Valvulte Conniventes vel Valves of Kerkring. 90 Throughout the whole of the small Intestine of an irregular form, and about one-thirtieth of an inch long. 91 Extensions of the Mucous Coat, consisting of a Capillary net-work of Arteries, Veins, and Lymphatics. 92 Pour: the Duodenal, as just described; Glandulse Ag- gregatse vel Peyer's Glands; the Glands or Crypts of Lieberkiihn; and the Solitary Glands. 93 In the IHum, chiefly in that part which is opposite the attachment of the Mesentery. KANSWERS TO QUESTIOIfS 122 94 Oval, vaiying from half-an-inch to two inches in length, and from twenty to thirty in niunber. 95 Longitudinal. 96 Small Pouches or Tubes of the Mucous Membrane, analagous to those of the Stomach, existing in great numbers throughout the small Intestine. 9 7 About one-fiftieth of an inehlong, and one five-hundredth of an inch broad. 98 In the small Intestine, but chiefly found in the lower part of the lUum. 99 Each somewhat round, and about the size of a mustai'd seed. 100 The Crecum, Colon, and Eectum. 101 From five to six feet. 102 The Caecum or Blind-gut is the short roomy Pouch of a rounded form, which projects below the junction of the Ilium into which it opens. 103 In the right Iliac Possa, to which it is attached by a Fold of the Peritoneum called Meso-csecum, its length is about two-and-a-half inches. 104 A long worm-like projection or Tube called the Appendix Vermiformis. 105 Prom two to six inches long, and of the diameter of a goose-quill. 106 At its posterior and inner aspect, near the extremity of the Ilium by a Fold of Peritoneum. 107 The Colon forms the greater pai-t of the large Intestine, commencing at the Caecum and terminating at the Eecttxm. 108 It is described as consisting of thi'ee parts, viz: an ascending, a transverse, and a descending Colon; the right or ascending portion passes upwards from the Caecum out of the right Iliac Fossa through the right Lumbar Eegion to the under surface of the Liver, it then passes inwards and crosses the upper part of the Umbilical Eegion, along the gxeater cuiwature of the Stomach as far as the Spleen, this portion is called the transverse Colon; the third portion, which is called the descending Colon, commences \mder the the Spleen, descending through the left Lumbar Eegion to the left Iliac Fossa. 109 The Sigmoid Flexure. 110 By a Fold of Peritoneum—the Sigmoid Meso-colon— which attaches it to the left Iliac Fossa.123 OIT HUMAN ANATOMY. 111 Two limated Folds, forming the elliptic Aperture whicli leads from the Ilium into the C tecum and Colon at their junction. 113 Each Fold is formed hy the circular Muscular Fibres of the Gut with the Mucous Membrane. 113 The lower; by its convex margin at the junction of the Ilium and Cseeum. 114 The transverse Meso-colon. 115 Small processes of Peritoneum which contain fat, and situated in the large Intestine, especially the transverse Colon. 116 Crescentie. 117 From the superior and inferior Mesenteric Arteries. 118 From the superior and inferior Mesenteric and Hypo- gastric Plexuses. JlECTtTM. 119 About eight inches long, & extends from the left Sacro- iliac Symphysis in fr-ont of the Sacrum to the Anus. 120 Into three parts, an upper, a middle, and a lower part. 121 From the Sacro-iHac Sjonphysis to about the middle of the Sacrum. 122 By a Fold of Peritoneum—the Meso-rectum. 123 The Pyriformis, and Sacral Plexus of Nerves. 124 Branches of the internal Iliac Artery and the Ureter. 125 About four inches long. 126 About three inches long, and extends from about the middle of the Sacrum to the tip of the Coccyx. 127 By its lower part with the base or triangular part of the Bladder, with the Vesicula3 Seminales, Vasa Deferentia, the Prostate Gland, and, in the female, with the Vagina. 128 IN'early one-and-a-half inch long, and extends from opposite the Prostate Gland to the Anus. 129 The Bulb and Membranous part of the Urethra, also, the Prostate Gland. 130 The Band of the internal Sphincter Muscle. 131 The Sphincter Muscles. 132 Like the small Intestine it consists of four Coats—a Serous, Muscular, Fibrous, and Mucous. 133 The front and sides of the ascending and descending Colon, and fi'ont of the Caecum; whilst the posterior and inner border corresponds with the space between the Lamella; of the Meso-colon.ANSWEES TO aiTESTIOirS 124 134 Similar to tlie Stomach, having at the anterior and posterior borders, a space or interval which gives attachment to the transverse Meso-colon and the greater Omentum. 135 They are collected into three distinct bundles or bands, each of which are about half an inch wide, extending from the Cascum to the Eectum, where they cease. 136 It is free from Villi, and more Vascular at the lower portion. 137 From three sources; from the superior ira3morrhoidal Branches of the inferior Mesenteric; the middle Hae- morrhoidal from the internal Iliac and the inferior or external Haemorrhoidal from the internal Pudic. 138 From the Cerebro-spinal System and the Sympathetic; its extremity (the Sphincter) is supplied by the Coccy- geal Nerves. MESENTEET. 139 The large and strong Fold or Duplicature of Peritoneum which forms the medium of connection between the small Intestines and the posterior "Wall of the Abdo- men, attached by its narrow end to the Spine from the left side of the second Lumbar Vertebra to the right Iliac Fossa, and by its other end with the small Intestine. 140 The superior Mesenteric Arteries, Veins, IS'erves, and Lymphatics. LIVEE. 141 The Liver. 142 In the right Hj^TDOchondriac and Epigastric Eegions it also extends a little into the left Hypochondriac Region. 143 Somewhat square; about fom- pounds weight; and its longest diameter about twelve inches. 144 By four Folds of Peritoneum called Ligaments. 145 On the convex surface of the organ, 146 The Suspensory or Falciform Ligament, the Coronary and the two lateral Ligaments. 147 Between the upper or convex surface of the Liver and the Abdominal Parietes. 148 The rermiant of the Umbilical Vein called the Round Ligament. 149 The Falciform Ligament. 150 The Diaphragm. 151 Between the lateral Ligaments, and connects the post- erior part of the Liver to the Diaphragm.125 ON HUMAN ANATOMY. 152 Above the edge of the left Lobe. 153 Above the edge of the right Lobe. 154 Of a red-brown coloiu', and firm consistence. 155 Two : a superior and an inferior. 156 Convex. 157 Irregularly concave. 158 Three Fissures, five Lobes, and three Possce. 159 The transverse or Portal Tissm-e, the longitudinal Fis- sure, and the Fissure or Groove for the Vena Cava. 160 It occupies the middle third of the transverse diameter of the Liver. 161 The Vena Portae, Hepatic Artery, Hepatic Duct with the Nei'ves and Lymphatics. 162 This Fissiu-e or deep Groove extends from the front to the back of the Liver, between the right and left Lobes. 163 A part of the longitudinal Fissui'e which extends from the terminational junction of the transverse Fissure to the posterior border of the Liver; in the adult is an obliterated Fibrous Cord or Ligament, which is the renmant of the Ductus Venosus of the Foetus. 164 Posteriorly at the exti'emity of the last named Fissure (the longitudinal) between the great Lobe and the Lobulus Spigelu. 165 The right Lobe, the left Lobe, the square Lobe, the Spigelian Lobe, and Caudate Lobe. 166 The right Lobe. 167 By the longitudinal Fissure. 168 By the longitudinal or Falciform Ligament. 169 Projections from the right Lobe. 170 The GaU-bladder. 171 Convex. 172 Concave. 173 Between the Gall-bladder and longitudinal Fissure. 174 Anteriorly, by the free margin of the Liver; posteriorly, by the Portal Fissure; on the right side, by the Gall Bladder; and on the left, by the longitudinal Fissure. 175 Behind the Portal Fissure. 176 Anteriorly, by the Portal Fissure; on the right side, by the Vena Cava inferior; and, on the left, by the longitudinal Fissure. 177 A slightly elongated appendage to the Lobus Spigclii. 178 The Fossa for the Fundus of the Gall-bladder, another for the Colon, and the third for the Kidney. K 2J^-^t) ANSWERS TO QTTJESTIONS 179 On the under surface of the right Lobe of the Liver. 180 Parallel with the longitudinal Fissure to the right of the Lobus Q,uadi-atus. 181 Near the anterior part of the right Lobe. 182 Near the posterior part of the right Lobe; it is in relation with its anterior surface. 183 Two: an anterior and a posterior. 184 This border is fi^ee and thin, and presents two Notches, one indicating the connnencement of the longitudinal Pissure, and the other lodges the Fundus of the GaU Bladder as just stated. 185 The right. 186 The Diaphragm and right Kidney. 187 Hepatic Duct, Hepatic Artery, Portal Vein, Hepatic Veins and Lymphatics. 188 The Hepatic Duct, Hepatic Artery, and Portal Vein. 189 By the minute Eamusculi in the Lobules of the Liver, which ultimately form two Branches, one from each Lobe, which soon become united, and, by their union, form the common Hepatic or Biliary Duct. 190 At its transverse Pissure. 191 The Vaginal, Inter-lobular, and Lobular Branches. 192 The Vaginal Branches, forming the Vaginal-hepatic Plexus. 193 The Lobular and Inter-lobular Branches. 194 Direct from the Vaginal-hepatic Plexus, and some from the Biliary Duct itself. 195 Chiefly from the Inter-lobular, and some from the Vaginal-biliary Plexus. 196 In a sheath called the Capsule of GHsson. 197 A Layer of Cellular Tissue which encloses the Vessels (viz : the HepaticDuct, HepaticArtery&Portal Vein) which enter the Liver through the transverse Fissure. 198 They accompany the small Inter-lobular and Lobular Vessels, and fonn the Capsules of the Lobules. 199 Two : an external or Fibro-muscular and an internal or Mucous. 200 The substance of the Liver, consists of a collection of minute secreting bodies called Lobules vel Acini; a connecting medium called GHsson's Capsule; the rami- fications of the Hepatic Duct, Hepatic Artery, Portal Vein, Hepatic Veins, Lymphatics and Nerves; and the whole organ surrounded and retained in its situation by a Fibrous and a Peritoneal Coat.127 Olf HUMAN ANATOMY. 201 1^0, not at the points of reflection of the Falciform, Coronary, and lateral Ligaments, nor in the dejjressions occupied by the Vessels, nor the surface covered by the Gall-bladder. 202 Yes, and like Glisson's Capsule, accompanies the Ves- sels throughout their ramifications in the Hepatic substance. 203 From the Diaphragmatic and Pneumogastric Nerves and the Hepatic Plexus. 204 One of the thi-ee Branches derived from the Cteliac Axis and the nutritious Artery of the Liver. 205 The Hepatic Artery divides into two terminal Branches, which are distiibuted to the Liver, Stomach, first division of the small Intestine and the Pancreas. 206 Like the Branches of the Hepatic Duct, they are the Vaginal, Inter-lobular, and Lobular Branches. 207 By the union of the Splenic, and superior Mesenteric Veias. 208 At the transverse Pissure it divides into two Branches, and these again into innumerable secondary Branches which ramify through the Portal Canals, giving off Vaginal and Inter-lobular Veins, which end in the Lobular Venous Plexus of the Liver. 209 Prom three to four inches in length. 210 This Vessel acts both as a Vein and an Artery : as a Vein it receives the Blood from several of the Abdo- minal Viscera, viz: the Alimentary Canal, Pancreas, and Spleen; and as an Artery it ramifies through the Liver and secretes the Bile. 211 By the Hepatic Veins. 212 By Kadicles in the interior of the Lobules, which communicate with the terminations of the VenaPortse. 213 In the inferior Vena Cava, whilst this Vessel is situ- ated in the posterior border of the Liver. GALL-BLADDEE. 214 A reservoir or receptacle for the Bile. 215 In a Possa or Depression on the under surface of the right Lobe of the Liver. 216 Pyriform, and in infants often cylindrical. 217 Into a Body, Fundus, and Neck. 218 The Fundus, which is directed forwards and downwards. 219 Nearly four inches long and one inch in breadth at its widest part (the Fundus). 220 A little more than an ounce.128 ANSWEES TO QtrESTIONS 221 On one side to the Liver, and on the opposite to the Peritoneum. 222 Three : a Serous, Muscular, and a Mucous. 223 No, only a partial one, covering that side only which is unattached to the Liver. 224 Yes. 225 ISTumerous Eugae vs^ith intervening depressions giving it a reticulated or honey-comb appearance, it also forms at the N"eck of the Sac a Spiral Valve. 226 The common Excretory Duct of the Liver and Gall- bladder. 227 By the union of the Cystic and Hepatic Ducts. 228 About three iaches long, and terminates by opening into the small Intestine above the middle of the inner side of the Duodenum. 229 The Pancreatic Duct. 230 A little more than an inch in length. 231 A series of semicircular ridges (varying from ten to twenty) which are disposed obliquely around the Tube. 232 Prom a Branch of the Hepatic Artery—the Cystic. 233 Into the Yena Portse. 234 Prom the Hepatic Plexus. PANCREAS. 235 The long flattened Glandular body, of a greyish white colour. 236 It is situated behind the Stomach, extending across the Yertebral Column from the Spleen to the Duo- denum, and occupying the left Hypochondriac, the Umbilical and right Lumbar Eegions opposite to the second Lumbar Yertebra. 237 About seven inches long, and between three and four ounces in weight. 338 Anteriorly with the ascending Layer of the transverse Meso-colon, the Stomach, first division of the Duo- denum, and first part of the transverse Arch of the Colon; and posteriorly with the Aorta, Vena Portae, inferior Yena Cava, origin of the superior Mesenteric Artery, the Crura of the Diaphragm, left Eadney and Supra-Eenal Capsule, also the Splenic Vein. 239 Into a body and two extremities. 240 The body, a little to the right of the Spine. 241 Nearly two inches broad and three-quarters of an inch thick.129 ON HtTMAN ANATOMV. 242 The Head or right extremity, which is siirrouncled by the curve of the Duodenum. 243 This extremity is placed over the left Kidney, and in contact with the Spleen. 244 On the posterior part of the Head is a Lobular Fold of the Gland called the lesser Pancreas. 245 The Pancreas is a compound Gland, analogous to the Salivary Glands, of a soft and loose texture, and composed of reddish-yellow Lobules, which are united into larger masses by Cellular Tissue, Yessels and Ducts; which end in closed Vesicular or Ctecal Pouches surrounded by a Plexus of Vessels. 246 This Duct extends the whole length of the Gland, and commences at the smaller extremity. 247 la the Duodenum, conjointly with the Ductus Com- mnnis Choledochus, and sometimes it opens into the Duodenum by a separate Orifice. 248 Yes. 249 It is composed of two Coats, a Pibrous and a Mucous Coat. 250 "With a Layer of Epithelium. 251 From the Cseliac Axis; viz : Branches of the Hepatic and Splenic,also,Branches from the superiorMesenteric. 252 To the Splenic Vein into the Vena Portas. 253 From the Solar Plexus, i.e. Branches or Filaments from the Splenic Plexus, SPIEEN. 254 The Spleen is a soft and exceedingly Vascular spongy Organ. 255 It is situated deeply in the left Hypochondrixmi, between the Stomach and Eibs. 256 Nearly five inches long (although very variable) about three inches in breadth, nearly two inches in thickness, and from six to ten ounces in weight. 257 Into two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities. 258 Convex, and in relation with the Diaphragm, which separates it fi-om the ninth, tenth, and eleventh Eibs. 259 Concave, and in relation with the greater extremity of the Stomach, the smaller extremity of the Pancreas, with a Fold of Peritoneum called the Gastro-splenic Omentum and its Vessels, with the left Kidney and its Supra-renal Capsule, and with the left Pillar of the Diaphragm. 260 By Peritoneum.ANSWEES TO aiJESTIONS 130 261 The anterior border is tliiimer, and often marked by several Notches. 262 The lower extremity. 263 The upper, and somewhat roiinded. 264 Accessory Spleens (Splenculi). 265 From the size of a bean to that of a nutmeg, two and sometimes three in number. 966 Two; a Serous and a Fibrous Coat, the Tunica Propria which is composed of elastic Tissue. 367 Yes; except at the Hilus or Fissure, and the posterior border. 268 Yes; it also enters the interior of the Spleen at its Fissure, forming Sheaths for the Yessels in their rami- fications through the organ. 269 Its substance is composed of a net-work of Fibrous Tissue, containing within it the proper Splenic sub- stance, and the Corpuscules of Malpighi, throughout which the Blood-vessels and Nerves ramify. 270 From a division of the CaeUac Axis—^the Splenic. 271 To the Splenic Vein iato the Vena Portal, which latter it assists to form. 272 From the Splenic Plexus which is derived from the Solar Plexus. KIDNETS. 273 Two Glandular Bodies which secrete the Urine. 274 In the posterior part of the Abdomen, on either side the Yer^iebral Column, opposite the last Dorsal and two or three upper Lumbar Vertebrae. 275 About fom'-and-a-half inches in length, two inches in breadth, one inch in tliickness, and about four-and- a-half ounces in weight. 276 It somewhat resembles the form of a large bean, and of a deep red colour. 277 Into two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities. 278 Convex. 279 Flat. 280 The Peritoneum and Colon. 281 Enclosed in a quantity of fat, each rests on the Dia- phragm, also in relation with the QuadratusLumborum and Psoas Magnus Muscles, a Lamella of the Trans- versaUs Muscle intervening. 282 Convex. 283 Concave and excavated in the middle by a deep Fissure (for the transmission of the Vessels called the Hilum vel Hilus Eenalis.)131 OJT HUMAir ANATOMY. 284 The inferior, wHcli is in relation with the Crest of the Ilium. 985 The Supra-renal Capsule. 286 The right Kidney is a little lower than the left, owing to the position of the Liver. 287 The Duodenum (its descending portion). 288 The lower end of the Spleen. 289 The Vessels and Nerves of the Kidney. 290 Into a Sinus in the interior of the Kidney. 291 The Vessels and Duct. 292 The most anterior is the Eenal Vein, the most posterior the Ureter or Duct, and, between the two, the Eenal Artery. 293 It consists of a mass of minute Secretory Tubes, with Blood-vessels, Nerves, Lymphatics, and fine Cellular Tissue. 294 It consists of two substances, an external or Cortical, and an internal Tubular or Medullary substance (the latter named Pyramidal Masses vel Pyramids of Malpighi.) 295 This substance, which occupies the whole circumference of the organ, forms about three-fourths of the Kidney. 296 Of a red colour, and soft consistence. 297 The convoluted Urioiferous Tubuli and the Capillary terminations of the Blood-vessels. 298 Malpighian Bodies dispersed here and there tlirough its substance. 299 This portion consists of from ten to sixteen or eighteen pale reddish coloured Pyramidal or Conical Bodies, which converge to the Sinus of the Kidney. 300 In small, nipple-like projections called Papillae or Mamillary Processes. 301 By the expansion or dilatation of the Ureter. 302 Punnel-shaped. 303 Three : one corresponding with each extremity of the Kidney and the third with the middle of the organ. 304 They subdivide into smaller Tubes, varying fi'om eight to twelve in mmiber, which are called the Infundibuli. 305 In cup-like Pouches called Calices. 306 Two or more of the PapiUoD or Mamillary Processes already referred to. 307 They unite together to form two or three larger Tubes, which become blended in the Excretory Duct, as just stated.132 AUSWEES TO auESTioirs 308 The ultimate terminations of the Ureter. 309 Small Globular Bodies which exist in the dilated Sacs of the TJriniferous Tubes. 310 By the ramifications of the Capillary Vessels (the , • Afi'ereut and Efii'erent Branches of the Eenal Axtery. 311 One, fibrous. 3'12 From the Eenal Arteries, which are derived from the Aorta. 313 To the Eenal Yeins, which open into the inferior Vena Cava. 314 From the Eenal Plexus, which is foi-med by the Solar Plexus and lesser Splanchnic ITerve. TriiETEKS. 315 The Ureter; (the Pehis is nothing more than the dilated funnel-shaped part of the Ureter.) 316 Prom sixteen to eighteen inches in length, and its size about the diameter of a goose-quill. 317 It descends obliquely downwards and inwards along the posterior Wall of the Abdomen as far as the Pelvis (at the sides of the anterior part of the Os Sacrum) where it becomes horizontal in its course into the posterior false Ligament, entering the Bladder near its side and lower part about two inches from the Prostate Gland. 318 The Psoas Muscle and the common and external Iliac Arteries; and in the Pelvis, the Umbilical Artery and Vas Deferens in the Male, and the upper part of the Vagina in the Female. 319 It consists of two Coats, an external or Muscular, and an internal or Mucous Coat. 320 Into an external or longitudinal, and an internal or circular set. 321 It is thrown into longitudinal Folds. 322 About one inch-and-a-half on either side, and behind the Orifice of the Urethra. 323 About one-inch-and-a-half. 324 Obliquely. 325 Owing to their oblique course, which extends about half-an-inch, ere they open into the Bladder. STJPKA-KENAL CAPSULES. 326 Two small flattened and yellowish coloured bodies, which surmount the Kidneys. 327 Somewhat triangular. 328 Convex.ON UtTMAIT AKATOMT. 133 329 Excavated where it is in contact with the Kidney. 330 About one-and-a-half inch wide, and about a^^ai 333 The inferior Yena Cava. \ * ^ 334 The Solar Plexus. \ * U 335 The Aorta. \> 336 The Solar Plexus. ^ %^ 337 A vertical section shows it to consist of two part*-rrai?.,^^ external or Cortical, and an internal or Medullary part. 338 A yellowish colour,and consists of straightparallelfibres. 339 A dark brown colour, and of a soft texture. 340 The Supra-renal Vein. 341 Trom the Aorta and the Phrenio and Eenal Arteries. 342 Into the inferior Vena Cava on the right side, and the Eenal Vein on the left side. 343 Prom the Solar Plexus, viz: the Eenal and Phrenic Plexuses. 344 Yes. Section XXV.—CAVITY OP THE PELVIS. 1 All that part withia the Bones of the Pelvis below its brim or inlet. 2 Above by the margin or brim which extends from the Tuberosities of the OssaPubis outwards and backwards to the Promontory of the Sacrum, below towards the Perineum; the Cavity is formed by the Pelvic Eascia and the Levatores Ani et Coccygei Muscles, anteriorly and laterally by the Ossa Innominata and Obturator Muscles, and posteriorly by the Sacrum, Coccyx, and Sacro-ischiatic Ligaments. 3 In the Male, the Urinary Bladder and its Excretory Tube (Eectum already described) the Prostate Gland, the Seminal Vesicles and their Ducts, with the Vessels and Nerves: in the Eemale, the Bladder, Urethra, (Eectum already described), and the Generative Organs, viz: the Uterus (with its appendages), and the Vagina, with their Vessels and Nerves. 4 The large Membranous Viscus, which serves as a Ee- servoir for the Fluid secreted by the Kidneys. 5 Behind the Ossa Pubis and before the Eectum. 6 "When empty or contracted it is somewhat of a tiiangular and a half in weight. 331 The Liver. 332 The Pancreas and Spleen. PELVIC VISCERA. UBTNAET BLADDEE.ANSWEES TO aXTESTIOIfS 134 form, but when distended it is somewhat ovoid, with its larger part inclined towards the llcctum, and the apex or small part towards the Abdominal Wall. 7 Into a Body, Neck, Apex, and Base or Fundus. 8 The middle Zone of the Viscus. 9 With the posterior part of the Symphysis Pubis. 10 Peritoneum. 11 The narrow constricted portion of the Viscus that joins the Urethra. 12 By the Prostate Gland. 13 Three Ligamentous Cords which are prolonged to the Umbilicus. 14 The Urachus, which is formed by the obliteration of a Tubular Canal, which is present in the Embryo, extending from the Apex to the Umbilicus. 15 The Umbilical Ligaments, and formed by the obliterated Hypogastric Arteries of the Poetus, extending from the base on either side to the Umbilicus. 16 When full, the apex is above the Pubes; when contracted, it is below the Pubes. 11 This large portion rests on the middle part of theEectum. 18 The Vesiculte Seminales and Vasa Deferentia. 1,9 Triangular. 20 No. 21 Only Cellulai- Tissue. 22 By the sides being formed by the Yesiculae Seminales converging to the Prostate Gland, whilst the base corresponds with the interval between the Ureters. 23 By Ligaments, which are divided into true and false. 24 Seven: two anterior, two lateral, two Umbilical, and the Urachus (the three last have just been described.) 25 By the Pelvic Pascia, which is derived fi-om the Fascia Iliaca, it extends from the inner surface of the Os Pubis on either side its Symphysis to the front of the Bladder. 26 By the reflection of the Pelvic Fascia from the Levatores Ani Muscles upon the sides of the base of the Bladder. 27 Four-: two anterior and two posterior, formed by Folds of Peritoneum. 28 From the sides of the Bladder to the Hiac Fossae and Walls of the Pehds. 29 They con-espond with the course of the obliterated Hypogastric Arteries from the upper part of the Bladder to the Abdominal Wall.135 ON jnjMAIT ANATOMY. 30 Foiu-: an external or Serous, a Muscular, a Eibrous, and a Mucous Coat. 31 ITo; only a partial one, which covers the posterior sur- face and sides of the organ as far as the position of the obliterated Umbilical Arteries, where it becomes reflected from thence to the Pelvic and Abdominal Parietes. 33 All the anterior surface. 34 Two: longitudinally and circularly. 35 From the apex to the base of the organ. 36 The external or outer Layer of Muscular Fibres. 37 In a circular manner, and towards the ISTeck of the organ are collected into a thick bundle called the Sphincter Vesicae. 38 Yes, and then form projections on the inner surface of the organ constituting the Fasciculated Bladder. 39 Between the Muscular and Mucous Coats. 40 It is composed of elastic Tissue, in which the Blood Vessels ramify. 41 This Coat is thin and smooth, occupying the whole of the internal surface, it is continuous with that of the Ureters posteriorly, and anteriorly with that of the Urethra. 42 A thin Stratum or Layer called the Sub-mucous or Nervous Coat. 43 Smooth. 44 Corrugated or thrown into numerous Folds, except over a small triangular space behind the opening into the Urethra, which is smooth in all conditions of the oi'gan, and called Trigonum Vesicte. 45 The Trigone Vesicale. 46 On either side by a hue extending from the Urethra to the Ureter, and by a transverse Hne behind between the Ureters. 47 Triangular. 48 No; a thin Fibrous Membrane intervenes, called the Eecto-vesical Fascia. 49 On either side by the Vas Deferens and Vesicula Sem- inalis, which converge to a point at the base of the Prostate Gland; and behiad by a Fold of Peritoneum (the Eecto-vesical Fold.) •50 The Eecto-vesical operation for puncture of the Bladder. 51 Three at the lower part of the Bladder; the Openings of the Urethra and the two Ureters. 52 The Opening of the Urethra.136 ANSTVEES TO QTrESTIONS 53 By a thickening of the Sub-mucous Layer called Uvula Vesicse. 54 In front of the middle Lobe of the Prostate Gland. 55 TromBranches derived from the anteriorTrunk of the ia- temal Iliac Artery. 56 Into its Veins which jmss into the internal Iliac Veias. 57 From the Spinal and Sympathetic Nerves. XnEETHEA. 58 The long Membranous Canal which extends from the Neck of the Bladder to the extremity of the Penis. 59 From eight to nine inches in length, and Sigmoid in its course. 60 Two: a Mucous & a Sub-mucous or elastic Fibrous Coat. 61 Internally, with the Mucous Membrane of the Bladder and the Ducts leading into the Canal, e.ff. the Ducts of Cowper's Glands, the Prostate, VasaDeferentia, &c.; and externally with the Tegumentaiy Covering of the Glans Penis. 62 The Spongy and Membranous parts of it are thrown into longitudinal Folds. 63 Yes, with a Layer of Epithelium. 6 4 Longitudinally, & blended with elastic & Fibrous Tissues. 65 The Prostatic. 66 In the Membranous part, and in the Spongy part it is very thin. 67 Into three parts, according to the structures which sur- round them—the Prostatic, Membranous, and Spongy. 68 It is situated in the Prostate Gland, and nearly one inch and a half in length. 69 The Veru Montanum vel Caput GaUinaginis and Crest. 70 The Prostatic Sinus, into which the greater number of the Ducts of the Prostate, open. 71 At the anterior extremity of the Yeni Montanum. 72 The Sinus Pocularis vel Vesicula Prostatica. 73 A blind Pouch or Caecal Appendage to the Canal. 74 Downwards and backwards, into the Prostate Gland. 75 The Prostatic part. 76 Spindle-shaped, being larger in the middle than at either exti'emity. 7 7 The Membranous part, the Orifice of the Urethra excepted. 78 Nearly one inch long, and situated between the two Layers of the deep Perineal Fascia, intervening between the apex of the Prostate Gland posteriorly, and the spongy portion of the Canal anteriorly.137 ON HtrJIAK ANATOMZ. 79 The Membranous portion, whicli is Biipported by the Perineal Triangular Ligament. 80 Mucous Membrane, a Sub-mucous or elastic Fibrous Layer, the Compressor Urethrae Muscle, and a partial Covering from the deep Perineal Fascia, it is also in relation with the Rectum posteriorly. 81 Nearly five inches and a haJi' in length, extending from the Membranous part anteriorly to the extremity of the Penis or Meatus Urinarius. 82 In the Corpus Spongiosum Penis. 83 The middle Fibres of the Accelerator velEjaculator.TJrinae. 84 Into a body and two extremities. 85 The body. 86 A dilatation called the Sinus of the Bulb. 87 A dilatation called the Fossa Navicularis. 88 Throughout the internal surface of the spongy part of the Urethra, but chiefly along its floor. 89 On the upper surface or roof of the spongy division of the Urethra opposite to the Fossa Navicularis, and about one inch and a half from the Opening of the Meatus Urinarius. 90 Just below the Membranous part of the Urethi'a on either side the middle line behind the Bulb. 91 Numerous minute Lobules. 92 On the Floor of the Urethra just before the Bulb, and nearly an inch in length. 93 About the size of Peas, and two in number. 94 No; they diminish in size as age advances. PEOSTATE GLAND. 95 A firm Musculo-glandular body which secretes a whitish ropy Mucus. 96 Deeply in the Pelvis, behind the Perineal, Fascia and beneath the Pubic Arch; and enclosing part of the Neck of the Bladder and beginning of the Urethra. 97 That of a Spanish chesnut, with its base looking back- wards, its apex forwards, and its convex side towards the Eectum. 98 About one ounce. 99 Its upper and lower surfaces by the two superior and two inferior Ligaments of the Bladder, and by its apex to the Pelvic Fascia. 100 Three Lobes: two lateral and a middle Lobe. 101 By an indentation on the base or under surface, and by a slight depression on the upper surface. L 2138 AKTSWEES TO QUESTIONS 102 A small piece of the Gland, which extends transversely between the lateral Lobes at the base of the organ. 103 The middle Lobe. 104 The centre of the posterior paxt or base. 105 At the base and apex. 106 Obliquely. 107 A section of the Gland presents a reddish colour, and its substance is composed of Fibrous and Muscular Tissue interspersed with Glandidar structure; amicros- copic examination gives it a CcUular appearance, owing to the minute Duets ramifying in it, and which terminate in Lobules. 108 It forms about one thii'd of the Gland. 109 No, they vary in number from fifteen to twenty, which open in the Prostatic portion of the Urethra on either side the Veru Montanum. 110 Two: a Fibrous and Muscular Coat. 111 Circularly. 112 Yes, it obtains one from the Kecto-vesical Fascia. 113 From Branches derived from the anterior Trunk of the internal Iliac Artery, viz: the middle HEemorrhoidal and the lower Vesical. 114 A Plexus, which commimicates anteriorly with the Dorsal Vein of the Penis; and posteriorly with a Plexus at the base of the Bladder. VESICUL^ SEMINALES. 115 Two small Membranous Sacs situated at the under surface of the Bladder, between its base and the Rectum. 116 About two inches in length, and of a Pyramidal form. 117 The base of the Bladder. lis The Eectum; the Eecto-vesical Fascia intervening. 119 A triangular space. 120 By the divergence of the Vesicula3 fi'om each other posteriorly, and their convergence anteriorly at the Prostate Gland. 121 By the Eocto-vesical Fold of Peritoneum. 122 The Trigonum Vesicae on the inner sm-face of the Bladder. 123 Formed by the convolution of a single Tube, which gives off laterally several Csecal Branches or Pouches, which are united together by Fibrous Tissue. 124 Two: an external or Fibrous Coat, which is derived from the Pelvic Fascia; and an internal one, analogous to Mucous Membrane. 125 In a closed exti-emity.139 Olf HtnLiN AITATOMT. 126 In a narrow Tube, whicli uniting with, the Vas Deferens forms on either side the common Duct (Ductus Ejacu- latorius). 127 Beneath the middle Lobe of the Prostate. 128 Unknown; but, according to some, they secrete a fluid, according to others, they are supposed to actasEeser- voirs for the Seminal Secretion. liALE OUeANS OP GENEEATION. 129 The Penis and Testes with their Appendages. 130 The cylindrical body attached to the anterior part of the Pelvis, and suspended from it anteriorly to the Scrotum. 131 Into three paa'ts: a body, root, and extremity. 132 By the union of its two Coi-pora Cayemosa. 133 By a loose Tegumentary Investment, which is contin- uous vidth the Abdomen posteriorly, and anteriorly forms the Prepuce. 134 It is free from Adipose Tissue. 135 The posterior division, which is attached to the Rami of the Os Pubis et Ischii by its two Crura, and to the Symphysis by its Suspensory Ligament. 136 An obtuse cone. 137 The Corona Glandis. 138 By a circular Pold of Integument or covering called the Prepuce (Prseputium) which in the distended condition of the organ is effaced, but in the quiescent or loose state can be drawn over the Glans Penis. 139 The Praenum Prseputii. 140 Glandulce Tysoni vel Glandula3 Odoriferfe. 141 Mucous Membrane covered by the Cuticle. 142 At the base of the Glans, and on reaching the Meatus TJrinarius is continuous with its Mucous Lining. 143 By two firm, fibrous bodies called Corpora Cavernosa (one on either side called Corpus Cavemosum) and the Corpus Spongiosum. 144 The Corpus Cavemosum divides posteriorly into two Processes called Crura, which I are attached to the Eami of the Os Pubis and Ischii as just stated. 145 'Neax the union of the two Corpora Cavernosa posteriorly is a small swelling called the Bulb. 146 It forms a rounded extremity, which is received into a Fossa in the base of the Glans Penis.ANSWEES TO QTTESTIONS 140 147 Superiorly, by an imperfect Septum called Septum Pecteniformc, which, lodges the large Dorsal Vein; and inferiorly, by the Urethral Canal & Corpus Spongiosum. 148 It consists of a thick, fibrous and elastic Sheath, which encloses a Cavernous Trabecular or net-work structure, within which a Plexus of Yessels ramify, especially Veins. 149 The Fibres of the external Layer of this Sheath axe disposed longitudinally, and the inner circularly. 150 Numerous elongated or vertical Fissures which give it the appearance of a comb, hence called Septum Pecteni- forme. 151 By the circular Fibres of the Coi-pora Cavernosa. 152 Like the Corpus Cavernosum it is a Vascular and Erectile Tissue enclosed in a Fibrous Tissue. 153 It commences posteriorly by an enlargement called the Bulb, terminates anteriorly by another expansion, which forms the Glans Penis. 154 Almost cylindrical. 155 The deep Perineal Fascia or triangular Ligament, which is just behind, and attached to it by its anterior Layer. 156 The spongy part or division of the Urethra. 157 Circularly. 158 The vertical Fissure or Orifice of the Urethra. 159 At its posterior part which is marked by the prominent border or coUar called the Corona Glandis. 160 From Branches derived from the internal Pudic Artery external to the Pelvis, the Arteria Bulbosi, Arteria Corporis Cavemosi, and Arteria Dorsalis Penis. 161 The supei-ficial Veins return their Blood into the large Dorsal Vein, which terminates in the Prostatic and Vesical Plexuses, and the deep Veins terminate in the internal Pudic Vein. 162 From the Hypogastric Plexus and from the Pudic Nerve which is derived from the Sacral Plexus. TESTES. 163 Two Glandular Bodies suspended from the Abdomen by the Spermatic Cords and their Coverings, and lodged in an external Tegumentary Covering called the Scrotum. 164 Of an oval form with flattened sides, and secrete the Semen. 165 Situated obliquely, and the left is the lowest.141 Oir mJMAN" ANATOlir. 166 About one inch and a half in length; from side to side nearly an inch; and weighs from six to eight drachms. 167 Its substance consists of a gi'eat number of minute conical Tubes, whose bases are directed towards the surface, and the apices towards the Mediastinura; around which the Blood-vessels are aiTanged in Plexuses. 168 Each is invested by two Layers, one derived from the Tunica Vasculosa, and the other from the Tunica Albuginea. 169 Two: the Tunica Vaginalis, and the Tunica Albugip-ea. 170 A distinct Sac derived from the Peritoneum, which invests the Testis as the Pericardium does the Heart, &c., and therefore a shut Sac. 171 Into the Tuuica Vaginalis Propria and the Tunica Vaginalis Eeflexa. 172 Yes; except posteriorly, where the Vessels enter or leave it. 173 The reflected or Parietal portion, which Hnes the con- tiguous Layer of the Scrotum. 174 Between its two Layers the surface is smooth, and secretes a Pluid. 175 The Tunica Propria vel Dura Mater of the Testis. 176 It is of a bluish-white colom', analogous to the Sclerotic Coat of the Eye, dense and fibrous; its fibres present a net-work appearance, interlacing in all directions; from its unyielding nature it maintains the shape of the Testis. 177 Yes ; and one of them, larger than the rest, is called Mediastinum Testis vel Corpus Highmorianum. 178 It serves to lodge the Seminal Ducts and Blood-vessels in their passage into the substance of the Testis. 179 In a transverse section of the organ it will be observed that the Ducts are situated near to the fr'ee margin of the Mediastinum, whilst the Blood-vessels are situated near its posterior border. 180 This Layer (thePia Mater Testis) is situated immedi- ately within the Tunica Albuginea, and is the thin Vascular or Nutrient Layer of the Testis. 181 Yes; and lines the Eibrous Processes of the Tunica Albuginea. 182 By the ultimate ramifications of the Spermatic Blood- vessels, which are united by CcUular Tissue.142 AXSWEES TO QTTESTIONS 183 A pulpy, soft, and dark yellow substance, divided into Lobes. 184 A groat number of minute Tubes, whicli do not com- municate -with each other, but end in Loops or Ctecal Pouches (Tubuli Seminifcri). 185 They vary; some contain only one, others several. 186 According to Monro, between three and four hundred in each Testis, and their length about sixteen feet. 187 By a closed extremity, as just stated. 188 Sti-aight; hence called Tubuli Eecti vel Vasa Eecta, which, according to their, situation, constitute the the second order of Seminal Vessels, between twenty and thii'ty in number, 189 The anterior part. 190 The Blood-vessels. 191 The Kete-testis, from ten to fourteen in number. 192 Vasa Efferentia, which, from their convolutions, form conical masses called Coni Vasculosi. 193 From ten to thirty in number. 194 The common Excretory Duct vel Vas Deferens. 195 The Epididymis constitutes the first part of the Vas Deferens which is in contact with the Testis; it consists of a single tube much convoluted, its fii'st or larger extremity which is called the Head vel Globus Major is opposite to the upper part of the Testis, and the lower exti'emity which is called Cauda vel Globus Minor is opposite to the lower part of the Testis, the narrow intervening part is called the Body. 196 The Testis, by the Vasa Eiferentia which open into it. 197 Small Eibrous Bands derived from the Tunica Albuginea. 198 The Excretory Duct of the Testis which extends from the Testis to its termination in the Urethi'a. 199 The first part of it which is called Epididymis is tor- tuous, & the remainder which forms the Vas Deferens loses this flexuous appearance; it extends fi'om the ter- mination of the Globus Minor of the Epididymis as- cending on the inner side of the Testis along the posterior part of the Spermatic Cord and its canal, through the Abdominal Eing where it passes inwards by the side and under part of the Bladder to termi- nate at the base of the Prostate Gland where it forms with the Duct of the Vesicula Seminalis, the common Seminal or Ejaculatory Duct which opens in the Pros- tatic portion of the Urethra as already noticed.ON HTJMAir ANATOMY. 143 200 The Yas Aberrans of Haller. 201 About twelve inches. 202 IS'early two feet. 203 It is composed of a dense, thick, muscular coatwhich is lined internally by Mucoiis Membrane. 204 Longitudinally and circularly: the longitudinal foiTQs two Layers, an external and an internal Layer and between the two are placed the cii-cular Fibres. 205 In the sti'aight pai't of the Duct it forms longitudinal ridges, and in the other or Sacculated part they are veiy irregular. 206 The Vas Deferens. 207 Similar to the Vas Deferens. 208 From the Branches of the Spermatic Arteries, which latter ai'ise £i-om the front of the Aorta. 209 Into the Spermatic Veins. 210 Into the Inferior Vena Cava. 211 Into the Left Eenal Vein. 212 From the Sympathetic System (the Spermatic Plexus.)- SCEOTtrM. 213 The Scrotum is the purse-Hke investment which is devoid of Adipose Tissue and formed by tlie continu- ation of the Integuments. 214 Into two lateral halves, by a projecting line called the Eaphe, which is continued anteriorly along the under surface of the Penis, and posteriorly along the middle line of the Perineum to the Penis. 215 The left. 216 Two Layers: an external or Integumentary, and an internal or Dartoid (Timica Dartos.) 217 Very thin and transparent and thi'own into several EugjE or Folds, and furnished with several Sebaceous Follicles and scattered hairs, which latter issue ob- liquely from it. 218 A thin lamella of superficial Fascia which contains in- voluntary Muscular Fibres, and which causes the skin to corrugate. 219 The proper covering or Timic of the Scrotum sends inwards a Septum Avhich separates the two Cavities of the Testis called Septum Scroti. SPEEMATIC COED. 220 The medium of communication between the Testis and the interior of the Abdomen.144 ANSWEBS TO QTrESTIOITS 221 The Vessels (^iz: Arteries, Veins, Lymphatics, and Nerves) and the Efferent or Excretory Duct, united together hy the proper covei-ings. 222 At the internal Abdominal Ring and escaping at the external Abdominal Ring, descends through the Scro- tum to the posterior border of the Testis. 223 Like the Scrotum : the Left. 224 The Septum Crurale, the Fascia Propria, the Cremasteric . covering, the Inter-columnar or Spermatic Eascia, the superficial Fascia and Skin. 225 That portion of Sub-peritoneal Layer of Pat Tvhich stretches over the Crural Ring is caUed Septum Cru- rale from its position between the Thigh & Abdomen. 226 A prolongation of the Inter-columnar Fascia, -which is derived from the external oblique Muscle during the descent of the Testis in the Foetus. 227 A thin Muscular expansion derived from the Cremas- ter, which is also earned down by the Testis in the Foetus. 228 This covering is derived fi'om thelnfundibiliform pro- cess of the Transversalis Fascia, and also obtaiued diuing the descent of the Testis. 229 From the Spermatic Arteries. 230 Into the Spennatic Veins. 231 From the Spermatic Plexus of the Sympathetic. 232 The Cremasteric Rranches from the Epigastric. 233 The Genital Branch of the Genito-crural !Nerve which latter is derived from the Lumbar Plexus. PEMAXE ORGANS OP GENEILATIOK-. 234 From their position, into two classes external & internal. 233 The Vulva, or Pudendum consists of the Mens Veneris and external Labia, the Clitoris and internal Labia, together with the Vestibule and the Orifice of the Urethra. 236 The aperture of the Vagina, with the Hymen or some small rounded projections as the result of the rupture of the Hymen called Caruncidse Myi-tiformes. 237 On the front of the Os Pubis the Integument is elevated with Cellular and Adipose Tissue, this is the Mons Veneris, whose surface is covered with hair. 238 Two longitudinal folds of Integument extending from the Mons Veneris to within an inch-and-a-quai'tcr of the Anus, consisting of Cellular and Adipose Tissue, and studded externally with hair.145 OS UTTMAIf AN'4T0MT. 239 Two folds: enclosing an elliptical Fissure, the Rima, or TJiino-sesual Opening. 240 Two Commissures : the union of the Labia just below the Mons Veneris, is called the superior Commisure, and their points of junction before the Perineum the inferior Commissure. 241 The Pourchette, vel Frcenulum Labiorum. 242 The Fossa Navicularis. 243 The Perinseum. OKmCE OF THE YAGINA. 244 Immediately below the Meatus Urinarius. HTMEN. 245 The thin Semilunar Fold of MucousMembrane situated at the lateral & inferior parts of the entrance of the Vagina. 346 Obliquely upwards. S47 Small and somewhat rounded masses which are formed after the rupture or destruction of the Hymen, whether the result of coition or otherwise. 248 It is not. OLITOEIS. 249 A small elongated and Erectile Body, situated in front of the Os Pubis and just below the superior Commis- sure of the Labia Majora. 250 The Penis, and like it, consists of two Corpora Cavern- osa (divided by an incomplete or Pecteniform Septum) which are attached by its two Crura to the Eami of the Ossa Pubis et Ischii, and anteriorly forms a Corpus Spongiosum, which is limited to the Glans Clitoridis which it forms. 251 Its external Casing is analogous to that of the Penis, and the interior (like that of the Penis) is composed of Erectile Tissue, which is susceptible and capable of erection. LABIA MISrOEA VEL NTMPHiE. 252 Two Folds of Mucous Membrane which descend obliquely outwards on either side the Clitoris, and on each side the Orifice of the Vagina. 253 The Preputial Covering of the CHtoris (Praeputium Clitoridis). 254 Unlike their union superiorly, they are separated below, and lost on the sides of the Aperture of the Vagina. 255 Mucous Membrane, some Sebaceous Follicles, a small portion of Erectile Tissue, and covered by a thin Cuticular Epithelium.AjrsWEES TO QTTESTIOlrS 146 256 With that of tlio Vagina. 257 "With theCovcring of the external Labia (Labia Majora). VESTIBTJIE. 258 The triangular smooth intci-val situated within the Nymphae, between the Clitoris and the entrance to the Vagina. 259 About an inch-and-a-half deep. 260 The Meatus TJrinarius. 261 A small elevation or Tubercle, which readily iadicates the situation of the Urethral Orifice, for the introduc- tion of the Catheter. TOETHEA. 262 About one inch-and-a-half in length, and situated just above the Vagina, and about oneinchbelow the Clitoris. 263 Like that of the Male it consists of Mucous Membrane, Elastic and Cellular Tissue, and Muscular Pibres, with a Plexus of Blood-vessels. 264 In longitudinal Folds. 265 Internally with that of the Bladder, and externally with that of the Vulva. 266 From the Muscular Coat of the Bladder (the Detrusor Urinse). 267 It is in close proximity to the Mucous Membrane, and is the Tissue which admits of the great dilatability of the Female Urethi'al Canal. 268 The Vagina, with the Uterus and its Appendages, viz: the FaUopian Tubes and Ovaries. VAGINA. 269 The Membranous and Dilatable Tube, which extends from the Cervix Uteri to the Vulva. 270 Between four and five inches in length, and somewhat cylindrical in form. 271 Somewhat ctirved, as it foUows the bend of the Eectum, its Axis corresponding with that of the Outlet of the Pelvis. 272 The Urethra and base of the Bladder. 273 The Rectum. 274 The Recto-vesical Fascia. 275 The Cervix Uteri. 276 The ConstrictorvelSphincterVaginse (Perinseo Clitorius). 277 The upper or superior extremity. 278 No; the anterior is the shortest, between four and five inches; whilst the posterior is between five and six inches in length.ON HUMAN ANATOMr. 147 279 iSTo; the lower extremity or external Orifice is the most consti-ictecl; the middle, the most dilated; and the upper or snperior extremity, intermediate between the other two. 280 It is composed of Mucous Membrane, Erectile Tissue, and a Cellulo-fibrous or external Layer. 281 Several transverse Eugte, which are most numerous at its upper surface. 382 A slightly-elevated line (the Raphe) which extends fi-om before backwards, along the superior aJid inferior surfaces called the Columns of the Vagina. 383 From the lower or inferior Aperture (where it joins with the Labia Majora) to the interior of the Uterus. 284 Yes, with a thin Lamiuar or Cuticular Epithelium, which is continued from the Labia Majora, and ter- minates by a fringed extremity in the Cervix "Uteri. 285 Throughout the Tube, but is thicker and more abundant at its extremities, particularly at the lower extremity, than ia the middle. 286 That of the Dartos of the Scrotum. 287 Longitudinally. 288 Some are continued all along the Vagina; others only as far as the Eecto-vesical Eascia, to which they are attached. 289 Yes. 290 Because it is less closely connected with it. 291 Above, in the superficial Layer of the Uterus and in the Peritoneum; and below, in the Sub-dermic Tissue. 292 They are elongated masses of Plexiform Veins, and called by Taylor "Semi-bulbs." 293 Each about one inch in length, and enclosed in Fibrous- Membrane. 294 Above, with the Vessels of the Clitoris; and posteriorly, with the Venous Plexus of the Vagina. . - • • ,.' i ? ''- 295 Two small yellowish Glandular Bodies, which corres- pond with Cowper'g Glands in the Male. 296 One on either side the outer part of the Vagina, near its Aperture at the lower extremity. 297 About the size of a small bean. 298 Each is provided with a Duct, which opens on the inner surfaces of the Nymphse. 299 From the Vaginal, which are Branches of the internal Iliac. 300 They form Plexuses, which open into the internal IHac Vein.ANSWEES TO QtTESTIONS 148 301 From the Sympathetic and Cerebro-spinal Systems (the Sacral and Hypogastric Plexuses). UTEETJS. 302 The largest of the Genital Organs, destined for the reception, growth, and nourishment of the Foetus. 303 Of a Pyi-iform shape, and situated between the Bladder and Eectum, and above the Vagina. 304 Upwards and forwards. 305 Downwards and backwards. 306 Somewhat flattened. 307 Convex. 308 About three inches in length, two in breadth at its upper part, one inch in thickness, and at the period of Puberty weighs from ten to twelve drachms. 309 From two to three ounces. 310 From three to four pounds. 311 Into a Fundus or upper part, a 'Neck or lower part, and a Body or intervening part. 312 The Fundus and Body. 313 Convex. 314 The Broad Ligaments. 315 The Fallopian Tube, the Eound Ligament, and, behind these, the Ovary and its Ligament. 316 Bounded, and about half-an-inch in length. 317 The Os Uteri vel Os Tincae. 318 By two Labia. 319 The posterior Labium. 320 Triangular, with its base directed upwards. 321 Twominute Foramina, whichlead to theFallopianTubes. 322 Downwards. 323 The internal Cavity of the Cervix by a narrow circular part, called the Isthmus Uteri (vel OsUteri Internum). 324 Two or three longitudinal Folds, to which other oblique Folds or Ridges converge, presenting the idea of branches from the stem of a tree, hence called Arbor Vitse Uterina. 325 The Ovula of Naboth. 326 Three: two at the upper angles of the Cavity (one on either side), and one at its Cervix. 327 The Fallopian Tubes. 328 Very minute, scarcely admitting a bristle. 3?.9 The Vagina. 330 Orificium Uteri Externum.ON HUMAN ANATOMY. 149 831 Externally, of Peritoneum; internally, of Mucous Membrane; and, between the two, a Muscular Coat interimxed with Elastic Tissue and Blood-vessels. 332 The Broad Ligaments of the Uterus, which attach this Viscus to the Abdominal Wall and Pelvis. 333 The anterior Ligament of the "Uterus. 334 The Pelvis into two parts, an anterior and a posterior. 335 The Bladder, Urethra, and Vagina. 336 Upper part of the Eectum, and a portion of the small Intestines. 337 The middle or Muscular Coat. 388 Three : an external, internal, and middle. 339 In the impregnated state, particularly at the full period of Utero-gestation, or when the organ is enlarged from other causes, e.g. a Tumour. 340 Transversely, except at the Eundus and sides, where they are obUque. 341 Circularly, and form cones around the Openings of the Eallopian Tubes, and from thence spread out xmtil they meet on the middle of the organ. 342 They are more indistinct and irregular in their course. 343 This Coat lines the interior of the organ, and is contin- uous below with the Mucous Lining of the Vagina, and above with that of the Eallopian Tubes. 344 Several Mucous Eollicles or Glands (tubular) scattered over the surface, but most numerous in the Cervix, between the Eugae. 845 Two firm cord-like Easciculi of Eibres (one on either side) attached to the angle or upper part of the Uterus, just before the Eallopian Tubes. 846 Each between four and five inches in length, and formed of unstriated Muscular Eibres of the Uterus, from which they are derived together with Cellular Tissue and Blood-vessels. 347 Each partly in the Broad Ligament, and partly in the Inguinal Canal. 348 Erom the angles of the Uterus they pass upwards and outwards to the iatemal Inguinal Canals, through • which they pass to the anterior part of the Symphysis Pubis, where the Fibres expand and termiaate in the substance of the Labia and Mons Veneris. 349 Erom the Uterine and Ovarian Branches which are large and tortuous, the former derived from the iatemal Iliac and the Ovarian (which correspond to H 2150 AirSWEES TO atTESTIONS the Spennatic of the Male) from the front of the Aorta, just below the superior Mesenteric. 350 Into the Uterine Plexuses. 351 They are very large, and in the impregnated state of the organ are called Sinuses, consisting, within its substance, of Canals, and lined only by the internal Membrane of the Veins. 353 From the Sympathetic System (the Hypogastric and' Spermatic Plexuses), and from the Sacral Plexus by an interlacement of its Visceral Nerves with the Branches of the Hypogastric Plexus. TAILOPIAN TUBES. 353 Two small worm-like Tubes, which convey the Ova from the Ovaria to the "Uterus, and called by some the Excretory Ducts of the Ovaria. 354 Each is situated in the upper border of the Broad Ligament (Ligamentum Latum), extending from the upper angle of the Uterus to the lateral part of the Pelvis, where it terminates in abroad and free extrem- ity, which is divided into a number of irregular Processes or Fringes (Pimbrise), Kke the mouth of a Trumpet. 355 No; one of these Processes is longer than the rest, and it is to this Process that the corresponding Ovarium is attached. 356 It is supposed to guide or direct the Tube to the Ovarium, so that its expanded Fimbriated extremity shall embrace the surface of the Ovary when under the influence of impregnation. 357 A Fissure or Groove (Ostium Abdominale) into which the impregnated Ovum is received and conducted to the Orifice of the Fallopian Tube. 358 About four inches in length, and somewhat irregular in its coiu'se. 359 No; its Aperture into the Uterus (Ostium Uterinum) is the smallest part, and increases towards its outer extremity. 360 Similar to that of the Uterus, it is composed of a Mus- cular Coat, aMucous Coat, and an external or Peritoneal Investment. 361 Longitudinally and circularly. 362 The longitudinal, but both Layers of Fibres are con- tinuous vrith those of the Uterus. 363 Longitudinal Folds or Rugis.ON" HTJMAN ANATOMY. 151 364 At its inner extremity it is continuous with, that of the Uterus, and at the opposite or outer extremity with that of the Peritoneum. 365 Like the Uterus, a thin Cuticidar Layer of Epithelium. 366 From those which supply the Uterus and Ovary. OVARIES. 367 Two oblong flattened bodies in which the rudiments of the Fojtus are formed. 368 "Within the Broad Ligaments of the Uterus,—their posterior aspect. 369 Of a whitish coloiu', and about a quarter-of-an-ounce in weight; their size varies, but in the virgin con- dition of the organ each is about oue-a-half-inch in length, three-quai'ters of an inch wide, and a third in thickness. 370 By its anterior margin, where the Vessels pass. 371 To one of the Eimbrise (its lengthened process) at the outer extremity of the Fallopian Tube. 372 To the upper angles of the Uterus on either side, by means of a round Tibrous Cord, which is derived from the Muscular Fibres of the organ, and called the Ligament of the Ovary. 373 It is composed of a Fibro-vascular Parenchyma or Stroma enclosed within a Pibrous Capsule, which consists of three Layers—an internal or Yascular, a middle or Pibrous, and an external or Peritoneal Coat. 374 Yes; except at the attached margin where the Vessels enter. 375 Pirm, thick, of a whitish colour (hence called Tunica Albuginea), and very adherent to the Parenchymatous Stnicture within. 376 A yeUow spot or Pibrous Cicatrix is sometimes met with in some virgin Ovaries, which is nothing more nor less than a false Corpus Luteum. 377 After conception a yellow spot is found in one or both Ovaries, this isthe true Corj)usLuteum; it is a yellow globular substance, which is produced after the Ovum has escaped from the Ovisac, and as soon as the surface (previously occupied by the Ovum) has closed, it presents the appearance of a Cicatrix. 378 Small rounded transparent bodies, commonly called Graafian Vesicles, situated in the Cells of the Stroma. 379 In Pemales who have not had children, they vary from eight to twenty in number, they also vary in size from a pin's head to that of a pea.152 ANSWEES TO QUESTIONS 880 Sometimes, especially those situated near the circum- ference of the organ. 281 They consist of a thin Coat filled with a transparent Fluid. 382 The Ovi-capsule (Tunica Pibrosa). 883 Yes, with a Layer of Nucleated Cells—the Membrana Granulosa of Baer. 884 The minute Vesicular Ovum. 885 From the Ovarian Arteries (which correspond to the Spermatic in the Male). 386 Into the Ovarian Plexus which inosculates with the Uterine and Yaginal Plexuses. 387 From the Sympathetic (its Spermatic Plexus). Section XXVI.—OEGAJS'S OF SETOSE. 1 The Organs of Sense are parts so formed as to receive impressions fi'om all external objects. 2 The Sense of Sight (the Eyes), Sense of SmeU (the Nose), Sense of Hearing (the Ears), Sense of Taste (Mouth and Tongue), and Sense of Feeling (the Skin). OEGAN OF VISION. 3 TheEyebaUs. 4 In the Orbits; each surrounded by Muscles, which move them in various directions, and supported on a mass of Fat. 5 Two conical or funnel-like Cavities, whose bases are directed forwards and outwards, and their apices backwards and inwai'ds. 6 In the upper part of the Face; on either side the Nose, and just below the Os Frontis. 7 Parts of seven Bones. 8 The Frontal, Sphenoid, Malar, Superior Maxillary, Palate, Lachrymal, and Ethmoid. 9 Above, by the Orbital Plate of the Frontal Bone and part of the lesser Wing of the Sphenoid; below, by part of the Malar Bone and the Orbital Processes of the Superior Maxillary and Palate Bones; on the inner side, by the Lachrymal Bone, the Os Planimi of the Ethmoid Bone, and part of the body of the Sphenoid; and, on the outer side, by the Orbital Process of the Malar Bone and greater Wing of the Sphenoid. 10 Nine.153 ON HTUMAN ANATOMY. 11 The Optic, the Sphenoidal and Spheno-maxillary Fis- sures, the Infi.-a and Supra Orbital Foramina, the Temporo-malar Foramina, the anterior and posterior Ethmoidal Foramina, and the Opening of the Nasal Duct. 12 The Eyeballs, Lachrymal Glands, Muscles, Nerves, Blood-yessels, and Adipose Tissue. ETEBAILS. 13 Almost Spherical. 14 Into two parts, an anterior and a posterior, the latter fonning foiu'-fifths of the Globe, and the anterior the remaining fifth. 15 The transparent portion (Cornea). 16 The opaque portion. 17 Three: they are, commencing externally, the Sclerotic with the Cornea; the second or Vascular Coat is the Choroid, with the Iris, Ciliary Ligament, and Muscle; the most internal is the Eetina, with the Zonula Ciliaris. ITJNICA SCLEEOTICA. 18 The Sclerotic with the Cornea complete the external Timic of the Eyeball, and gives to it, from its density, its peculiar form. 19 The Optic Nerve. 20 Its posterior part, a little to its inner side. 21 From the entrance of the Optic Nerve, with whose Sheath it is continuous, to the Margin of the Cornea. 22 The Apertures for the transmission of the Nutrient Yessels. 23 Transversely, about half-an-inch. 24 Convex and smooth, except where the Muscles are attached to it. 25 Concave, and of a dark colour, and iu apposition with the middle Tunic of the Eyeball (the Choroid). 26 The posterior part; and becomes thinner and whiter as it approaches the Cornea, hence the common expression applied to it—the White of the Eye. 27 It consists of an interlacement of Fibrous and yellow elastic Tissues. 28 Their presence in it is doubtful. 29 A thin Cribriform Lamella or Plate, which is perforated by minute openings for the passage of the Nervous Filaments. 30 No; there is one larger than the rest called Porus Opticus.154 AKSWEES TO QXTESTIOITS 31 In tho centre of this Cribiiform Lamella, and transmits the Arteria Centralis Retinae to the Eye. COKNEA. 32 The firm transparent Layer which forms the anterior fifth of the EyebaU. 33 Convex, and in contact with the Conjunctiva. 34 Concave, and in contact with the Aqueous Humour. 35 It is received by its margin within the bevelled border of the Sclerotica, like a watch-glass fixed within the edge of its case. 36 Its transverse diameter, about the one-fifteenth of an inch. 37 The Sclerotic Tunic. 38 It transmits the rays of light into the organ. 39 It becomes flaccid and opaque from infiltration of the Aqueous Fluid. 40 It consists of a series of concentric Laminae—an outer one, which is strong and thick, called the Cornea Proper; another within, which is elastic, called the Cornea Elastica; and another still finer elastic Mem- brane, covered by an Epithelium. 41 The Conjunctiva. 42 The two elastic structures, which are named the Mem- brane of Demours. 43 A series of Layers, between fifty and sixty in number, which are fibrous and render the structure firm and tough. 44 In the healthy state of the Membrane they do not, but cease at its circumference. 45 It is well supplied with Nerves. THE CHOEOID (tTJNICA VASCTTLOSA). 46 The most Vascular Coat of the Eye, consisting principally of Blood-vessels and Pigment Cells. 47 A rich chocolate-brown. 48 A deep black. 49 Between the Sclerotica and Eetina, extending from the entrance of the Optic Nerve to the Ciliaiy Ligament. 50 A Foramen for the transmission of the Optic Nerve. 51 Thi-ee : an external, a middle, and an internal Layer. 52 Arteries and Veins, chiefly Veins, which pxu-sue a con- torted or flexuous course, hence called Venae Vorticosse. 53 The ramifications of the minute Arteries, which secrete the Pigmentum Nigrum. 54 The Pigmentaiy Membrane (Choroidal Epithelium), which presents on its surface hexagonal Cells with155 ON HUMAN ANATOMY. Granular contents (contaiaiing the Grannies of the Pigmentuni Nigmm) wHch. are so disposed as to resemble a mosaic appeai'ance. 55 The external Layer. 56 The middle or Arterial Layer (Tunica Euyschiana) which is reflected inwai-ds at its junction with the Ciliary Ligament. 57 A Professor of Anatomy at Amsterdam in 1665, who, previous to his death {cet. 98), came to the conclusion that the Body was entirely made up of Vessels. 58 No; hut replaced by a Layer of Fibrous Tissue of the Choroid of metallic brilliancy, called the Tapetum. 59 No; its absence gives the red colour to the Iris & Pupil. 60 To absorb the superabun'dant rays of light entering the Globe of the Eye. 61 These Processes or Folds are formed by the reflection of the anterior margins of the middle Coat of the Choroid, which is drawn up as it were into a series of delicate Folds or Plaits, whose aggregate forms a complete circle around the Lens, hence called by Anatomists Corpus Ciliare vel Corona Ciliaris. 62 About four score. 63 Triangular. 64 The Ciliary Ligament. 65 It is free, and rests against the circumference of the Lens. 66 With a Layer of Pigmentum ISTigmm. 67 Of a whitish colour. 68 ITo, they vary, consisting of larger and smaller Folds. 69 The Suspensory Ligament of the Lens on the front of the Vitreous Humour. 70 Into Grooves or HoUows between the Folds on the anterior aspect of the Hyaloid Membrane of the Vitreous Humour. 71 The narrow whitish circle (Annulus Albidus) which is attached to the inner surface of the Sclerotic at its junction with the Cornea. 72 The bond of Tinion between the external and middle Coats of the Eye. 73 The Choroid Coat. 74 The Iris. 75 The Ciliary Vessels and Nerves. 76 A minute Groove. 77 A minute Canal, called the Ciliary Canal or Canal of Fontana.ANSWEES TO QUESTIONS 156 78 An Anatomist of Tuscany, who discovered the Canal "wHch. is called after him in 1778. 79 This Muscle, which is composed of Unstriated Fibres, is situated on the surface of the Choroid Coat, close to the Ciliary Ligament. 80 In front of the Sclerotic Coat, and its Fibres passing backwards and inwards terminate on the Choroid Coat. 81 The E'erves of the Iris. lEIS. 82 The circular Membrane which forms an imperfect Septum between the anterior & posterior Chambers of the Eye. 83 A circular Opening for the transmission of the rays of light, called the Pupil. 84 No; it is placed somewhat nearer its Nasal side. 85 The posterior elastic Layer of the Cornea and the Ciliary Ligament. 86 The margin of the Pupil. 87 Both Vascular and Muscular, which latter consists of radiating and circular Fibres. 88 The anterior, whose Fibres converge towards the centre, and produce dilatation of the Pupil. 89 They surround the Pupil like a Sphincter, and, by their action, produce contraction of the Pupil. 90 This surface is covered with a Layer of Pigment, which, from its resemblance in colour to a ripe grape, has had the name of Uvea applied to it. 91 Towards the Cornea. 99 Towards the Lens and Ciliary Processes. 93 About one-thirtieth of an inch wide. 94 By the contraction of the radiating Fibres. 95 By the contraction of the circular Fibres. 96 In its substance they are ramified and very irregular as in the Choroid; on the anterior part they are ramified and somewhat oval; on the posterior part (the Uvea Iridis) the Cells are rounded and fiUed with Granules. 97 The colour and position of the Pigment. 98 Membrana PupiUaris. 99 Chiefly from the long and anterior Ciliary Branches, which arise from the Ophthalmic Artery. 100 To the Venae Vorticosoe of the Choroid, and end in the Ophthalmic Vein. 101 From the Ciliary Branches of the Nasal Nerve and the Lenticular Ganglion.ON HUMAN ANATOMY. 157 102 Their terminations have hitherto eluded the researches of the Anatomist. 103 They (two in number, one on either side the Eyeball,) form, by inosculation, an Arterial Circle around the circ\imference of the Iris (formerly called Zona Major), and from this Loop or Circle Branches are given off which pass to the Pupil, forming a second Arterial Cii'cle (formerly called Zona Minor) around its Pupillary Margin. HETINA. 104 The third or inner Tunic of the Eye. 105 Between the Choroid Coat and Vitreous Humour. 106 It coromences at the termination of the Optic ISTerve (of which it is an expansion) and ends near to the Cniary Ligament at the point where the Choroid Coat is reflected to form the Eolds of the Ciliary Processes. 107 Three: an external, middle, and an internal Layer. 108 Jacob's Membrane. 109 It is very thin, and presents a Elocculent appearance when the Eye is immersed in water, and composed (as shown by the aid of a microscope) to consist of minute Granules having a tesselated appearance. 110 This Layer, which is semitransparent and of a bluish white colour, is formed by the expansion of the Optic Nerve, and consists of an immense number of minute rounded Granules, which are collected into two sets, with an intervening portion of a Striated appearance. 111 The minute Fibres of MiiUer. 112 This Layer forms a Plexus of Blood-vessels being the ramifications of the Arteria Centi'alis Eetinae. 113 Through the Optic Nerve, through the Porus Opticus in the centre of the Cribriform Lamella. 114 A circular spot in the centre of the posterior part of the Ketina (Eovea Centralis vel Eoramen Centeale). 115 Limbus Luteus (of Soemmerring). 116 The internal and external Layers of the Eetina. ZONULA CIIIAEIS. 117 The thin Yascular Layer which connects the anterior margin of the Retina with the anterior surface of the Lens Capsule, near to its circumference. 118 The Suspensory Ligament of the Lens. 119 A number of small Plaits or Folds, which resemble the Ciliary Processes of the Choroid Coat, between which they are received. N158 ANSWEES TO QUESTIONS 120 lu the form of rays around the Capsule. 121 They are stained with the Pigraentum Ifigrum, which is derived from the middle Coat of the Choroid. 122 The Hyaloid Membrane of the Vitreous Humour. 123 The Canal of Petit. 124 Like the large Intestine it is Sacculated, presenting the appearance of a chain of minute Vesicles commimi- cating freely with each other. HTTMOTTES OP THE EYE. 125 The Aqueous, the Vitreous, & the Crystalline Humours. 126 The thin pellucid Fluid situated in the anterior and posterior Chambers of the Eye. 127 That space which intervenes between the Cornea anter- iorly, and the Iris and Pupil posteriorly. 128 That small space which intervenes between the Iris and Pupil anteriorly, and the Ciliary Processes, Suspensory Ligament and Lens posteriorly. 129 Through the Pupil. 130 A thin transparent Membrane which secretes this fluid. 131 It transmits the rays of light—it also allows the free motions of the Iris. VITEEOirS HtmOXTE. 132 A transparent jelly-like mass which occupies a large portion (four-fifths) of the Globe of the Eye. 133 The Hyaloid Membrane. 134 J^umerous Processes or Septa, which form Cells, and within which this Pluid is contained. 135 A Branch of the Arteria Centi'alis Eetinte. 136 A Process or Tubular Sheath of the Membrane. 137 The Lens and its Capsule. 138 Being extra-vascular they receive their nutrient pro- perties from the Vessels of the Eetina and Ciliary Processes. CRrSTAILINE LENS. 139 The CiystaUine Lens is situated behind the Pupil, surrounded by the Ciliaiy Processes, and embedded in the Vitreous Humour. 140 The Hyaloid Membrane. 141 Aqua vel Liquor Morgagni. 142 A transparent Layer of nucleated Cells. 143 A solid and transparent doubly-convex body. 144 The posterior. 145 Somewhat rounded.159 ON HUMAN ANATOMY. 146 A series of Concentric Laminae, of which, the most exter- nal are soft, the subjacent ones firmer, and the most internal or central ai-e fij-m and form a hard nucleus. 147 After the Lens has been immersed in boiling water or been hardened in Alcohol, they become detached from each other more readily. 148 From side to side nearly half-an-inch, and from before backwards about a quarter-of-an-inch. 149 Three triangular Segments, whose bases are directed towards the circumference, and their edges towards the centre. 150 Minute parallel Fibres, which are connected by their extremities to the opposite surfaces of the Lens; thus the scalloped convexity on one border of the Lens fitting the concave scalloped border on the other. 151 The one five-thousandth of an inch in diameter. 152 The Capsule. 153 The Canal of Petit. 154 Anteriorly, by the plaited Folds of the Zonula Ciliaris or Suspensory Ligament; posteriorly, by the Hyaloid Membrane; and within, by the margin of the Lens. 155 No Vessels exist in its texture. 156 Almost spherical, and of a reddish colour. 157 Soft, and not perfectly translucent. 158 Firm and transparent. 159 Dense, and of a yellowish colour. 160 This affection may arise from an increase of the refrac- tive power of the eye, or an elongation of its axis, as in over-convexity of the Cornea and Lens; so that in either case the rays of light are brought to a focus ere they reach the Nervous Membrane, or, in other words, they fall short of the Retina. 161 By the use of concave glasses, which tend to disperse the rays of light, and thus prevent their falling short of the Eetina, i.e. coming to a focus so soon. 162 This affection may arise from various causes, as from a diminished quantity and density of the Humours of the Eye, or from a flattened condition of the Lens, thereby diminishing its refi'active powers, the conse- ■ quence is the rays of light are thrown beyond the Betina. 163 By the use of convex glasses, adapting their power to the precise demand of the Eye, and thus correcting ithe transmission of the rays.160 ANSWEES TO aUESTIOlTS APPENDAGES OE THE EYE. 164 The Conjunctiva, the Eyebrow, Eyelids, Eyelashes, and the Lachrymal Apparatus. CONJUNCTIVA. 165 The Tunica Conjunctiva is the thin transparent Mucous Membrane of the Eye. 166 It covers the whole of the anterior surface of the Eve, and is then reflected upon the Lids, where it forms, their internal Layer. 167 The superior and inferior Palpebral Sinuses. 168 That portion which covers the Cornea. 169 That portion which covers the Sclerotica and the inner surface of the Eyelids, particularly the latter. 170 The Gastro-pulmonary Mucous Membrane. 171 By Uning the Puncta Lachrymalia, it forms a continuous surface with the Mucous Lining of the Lachrymal Passages and Nasal Ducts, which latter is continued into the Pharynx and Mouth, where it becomes the the Gastro-pulmonaiy. 172 Yes, consisting of three or four Layers of flattened Scales. 173 A small red and fleshy-looking body situated at the inner Commissure of each Eyelid. 174 A group of Mucous EoUicles embedded in a Eibro- cartilaginous Tissue. 175 A number of minute Hairs which may often be seen by the naked Eye. 176 It secretes a whitish Eluid, which may be frequently seen at the inner Canthus of the Eye. 177 A small Fold of the Conjunctiva, called Plica Semilun- aris, which contains a minute Lamella of Cartilage. 178 The rudiment of the third Lid, the MembranaMctitans of birds. STrPEECiLnnu: or etebeow. 179 The projecting Curve or Arch of Integument, which corresponds to the Superciliary Kidge or Orbital Arch of the Erontal Bone. 180 The subjacent Muscles, viz : the Orbicularis Palpebrae, Occipito-frontalis, and Corrugator Supercilii. 181 Long coai'se hairs, which are dii'ected outwards. 182 To protect the Eyes from a too powerful light, also from small particles or dust passing into them. PALPEBEiE OE EYELIDS. 183 Two semilunar Eolds placed in front of each Eye.161 OK mjHAK" ANATOMT. 184 The siiperior. 185-The Canthi. 186 The inner Canthus, from the circumstance of its being prolonged inwards towards the Nose; whilst the outer unites at an acute angle. 187 The rissura Palpebrarum. 188 Lacus Lachrymalis. 189 The Lachrymal Papilla or Tubercle. 190 Punctimi Lachrymale. 191 Integument, Orbicularis Palpebrarum, Tarsal Cartilages, Ciliary or Meibomian Glands and Conjunctiva. 192 This thin Plane of EUiptical Pibres is situated immed- iately under the skin of thei Eyelids. 193 A thin Stratum of Pibrous Tissue, which is continued from the margin, of the Orbit to join the free edge of of the Tarsal Cartilage. 194 The Broad Tarsal Ligament. 195 No, it is free from Adipose Tissue. 196 Two thin Plates of Pibro-cartilage, situated one in each EyeHd. 197 About one inch in length; the superior is of a semi- lunar form, and the inferior straight. 198 The Tendon of the Levator Palpebrae. 199 By the Tendon of Orbicularis Palpebrarum (sometimes called Ligamentum Tarsi Internum). 200 By a Pibrous Lamella,the Ligamentum Tarsi Externum. 201 In Grooves on the inner or Ocular surfaces of the Tarsal Cartilages. 202 Parallel with each other. 203 About thirty in the upper Lid, and about twenty in the lower Lid. 204 At the posterior edge of the loose border. 205 It consists of a small Tube, closed at the bottom extremity (a Cid-de-sac) of a yellowish colour, lined by a scaly Epithelium, and contains a Sebaceous Secretion. 206 They consist of two or more rows of long thick Hairs, which are situated in the anterior edge of the loose border of the Eyelids. 207 Those of the upper Lid, diminishing from the centre as they proceed to either side. 208 Upwards. 209 Downwards. 210 Prom Branches derived from the first group of the N 2ANSWEKS TO QUESTIONS 162 Ophthalmic Artery, viz: the Lachrymal and Palpebral Branches. 211 Into the Frontal and Angular Veins, which latter is formed by the union of the Frontal Vein with the Supra-orbital Vein. 212 From the Ophthalmic and Facial Nerves. 213 The Supra-trochlear and Supra-orbital Branches (which are derived from the Frontal Branch of the fifth), the Lachrymal, and the Infra-trochlear (which latter is derived from the Nasal Branch of the fifth). LACHHYMAL APPAEATUS. 214 The Lachrymal Gland with its Ducts—the Punctum Lachrymale, Lachrymal Canal, with the Lachrymal Sac and Nasal Duct. 215 In the depression on the inner side of the external Angular Process of the Os Frontis. 216 Into two parts: an Orbital and a Palpebral part. 217 Oval; about three-quarters of an inch in length; and situated in the Lachrymal Pit or Fossa in the Orbital Plate of the Os Frontis. 218 Periosteum, the Globe of the Eye, the superior and external Eecti Muscles, and the Palpebral or Broad Tai'sal Ligament. 219 In the upper Eyelid; it is a small piece which projects beneath the Lid. 220 A Coveiing of Fibrous Membrane. 221 In structiu-e analogous to the Salivary Glands. 222 These Ducts, from eight to ten in number, open in a curved line on the inner surface of the upper Eyelid, near the outer Canthus. 223 Two smaU Orifices, one for each Eyelid, situated at the commencement of the Lachrymal Canals. 224 About a quarter-of-an-inch. 225 Two small Tubes which extend from the Puncta Lachrymalia to the Lachrymal Sac. 226 The superior Canal. 227 A little above its middle. 228 Sometimes by two distinct Orifices, and sometimes by a common Duct. 229 The tipper extremity of the Nasal Duct. 230 In aBony Groove or Depression below the innerCanthus of the Eye. 231 The Os Lachrymale vel Unguis and the Nasal Process of the Os MaxiUare Superius.163 OK HUJIAN ANATOMY. 232 A semilunar Valve. 233 A fibrous cxpconsion or Aponeurosis derived from the Tendon of tlieEyelids (Tendo-orbicularis); theTensor Tai'si Muscle is also in relation ■with, it externally. 234 From the Lachrj^mal Sac to the front of the inferior Meatus of the Nose, where it terminates by an oblique Orifice. 235 About three-quarters of an inch in length, and its direction downwards, backwards, and outwards. 236 Mucous Membrane, which is continuous above with the Conjunctiva, and below with the Schneiderian or Pituitary Membrane. 237 Fistula Lachrymalis. 238 Trom the Lachrymal Branch of the Ophthalmic Artery. 239 From the Ophthalmic and superior Maxillary Nerves (theLachrymal and Orbital Branches.) 240 The Tears secreted by the Lachrymal Gland are con- veyed by its Excretory Ducts over the anterior sui-face of the Eye, the Puncta Lachrymalia absorb them, and are directed by the Lachrymal Canals to the Lachrymal Sacs, from whence they pass through the Nasal Ducts into the Nose. Sectioh XXYIL—ORGAN OF SMELL. 1 The Nose. 2 lato two parts: the external prominent part or Nose, and the internal or Nasal Fossae. 3 A triangular Pyramid, and situated just above the upper Lip. 4 By means of a narrow bridge. 5 Two Openings called the Nostrils. 6 A Septum called the Columna. 7 By a number of small Hairs (Vibrissse) which pass transversely across the Openings. 8 Integument, Muscles, Bones, Fibro-cartilages, Mucous Membrane, with the Vessels, Nerves, and Hairs. 9 The Tip (Lobulus) and the Wings (Alss) of the Nose. 10 A number of Sebaceous Glands, which secrete an oil-like Fluid. 11 Pyramidalis Nasi, Compressor Nasi, Levator Alte Nasi, and Depressor Alee Nasi. 12 Yes. 13 Five.164 ANSWEES TO QTTESTIONS 14 The middle one is the Septum Nasi; the two superior, lateral, and the two inferior Cartilages, which latter form the Tip and Arch of the anterior Nares. 15 Triangular, and situated vertically, and heing connected above with the ITasal Bones and Lateral Cartilages; below, with the Palate Processes of the superior Max- illary Bones; and behind, with the Vomer and Ethmoidal Septum. 16 No. 17 The Vomer and Ethmoid. 18 Triangular; and attached above with the Nasal Bones; below, with the inferior Cartilages; anteriorly, with the Cartilages of the Septum; and posteriorly, with the ascending or Nasal Processes of the superior Maxillary Bones. 19 Arched; and attached above with the lateral Cartilages; anteriorly with the Cartilage of the Septum; and to the outer side, indirectly with the superior Maxillary Bones. 20 By two or three small Cartilaginous Plaits as Appendages, and called Cartilagines Minores vel Sesamoidese. 21 Erom Branches of the Facial and Ophthalmic Arteries (the Lateralis Nasi and Nasal Branches). 22 Yes; a small Branch derived from the Coronary Arch of the Facial in the upper Lip, and called the Artery of the Septum. 23 Erom the Eacial, the Infra-orbital, and the Nasal Branch of the fifth. NASAL roSS^. 24 Two irregular Cavities, which extend from the Nose anteriorly, to the Pharynx posteriorly. 25 Their boundaries have been described. 26 The spongy or Turbinate Bones. 27 The two superior. 28 It is a separate Bone, and called the inferior spongy Bone. 29 Meatuses. 30 The superior, middle, and inferior Meatus. 31 The superior one is between the superior and middle Spongy Bones; the middle one, between the middle and inferior Spongy Bones; and the inferior one between the inferior Spongy Bone and the Eloor of its corresponding Eossa. 32 From before backwards.165 OK HTJMAIT ANATOMT. S3 The superior Meatus. 34 The Sphenoidal and posterior Ethmoidal Cells. 35 The Spheno-palatine Foramen through which the Vessels and IS^erves enter the 'Nose. 86 The anterior Ethmoidal Cells and Erontal Sinus, and near its middle, an oblique aperture which leads into the Antrimi Maxillare. 37 The Ductus ad !N"asem. 88 The anterior Palatine Eoramen, 39 Into the Meatuses. 40 The Pituitary or Schneiderian Membrane. 41 Externally, with the Skin or common Integument, and internally with the Gastro-pulmonary Mucous Mem- brane, through the Meatuses of the Nose, with the Sphenoidal, Ethmoidal, Frontal, and Maxillary Sinuses; through the Ductus ad Nasem, with the Conjunctiva of the Eye; through the Eustachian Tube, with the Tympanum and Mastoid Cells; and, lastly, through the Pharynx and Mouth into the Lungs and Alimentary Canal (the Gastro-pulmonary). 42 From the Ophthalmic and internal Maxillary Arteries, viz: the anterior and posterior Ethmoidal Branches, derived from the former, and the Spheno-palatine and Pterygo-palatine Branches from the Pterygo-maxillary portion derived from the latter. 43 From the Olfactory, the Nasal Branch of the fifth, and from one of the Cranial GangHa, Meckel's Ganglion. Section XXYIII.—OEGAN OF HEAEING. 1 The Ear. 2 The Temporal Bone. 3 According to some Anatomists, into two parts; according to others, into three parts. 4 The external Ear, the Tympanum or middle Ear, and the Labyrinth or internal Ear. 5 The Pinna or Auricle, & the Meatus Auditorius Externum. 6 Somewhat oval, with its largest end directed upwards. 7 Four eminences and three depressions. 8 The Helix {Mix, a fold.) 9 The Anti-helix (anti, opposite.) 10 Tragus {tragos, a goat.) 11 The Anti-tragus. 12 By a soft, pendulous part, called the Lobule. 13 The Fossa Innominata or Fossa of the Helix.166 ANSWEHS TO ftTTESTIONS 14 The JS'avicular or Scaphoid Possa, or the Fossa of the Anti-helix. 15 The Concha. 16 The common Integument, CartUage, Ligaments, and Muscles. 17 The common Integument. 18 Analogous to the Pinna itself. 19 Four Fissures. 20 An elongated Process—the Processus Caudatus. 21 One on the anterior part of the HelLx; one hetween the terminations of the Helix and Anti-helix; and two at theunderpartof the commencement oftheMeatus,these last are sometimes called the Pissures of Santorinus. 22 Three: one connects the Tragus with the Root of the Zygoma; another connects the CouTexity of the Concha to the Mastoid Process of the Temporal Bone; and the third connects the Temporal Aponeurosis with the upper part of the Concha. 23 AttoUens Aiu-em, Attrahens Aurem, and Eetrahens Aurem. 24 The AttoUens Aurem. 25 The AttoUens Aurem is triangular and arises from the Tendon of the Occipito-frontalis Muscle; it is inserted into the upper part of the Concha. 26 To elevate the Ear. 27 The Attrahens Aurem is triangular, and arises from the fore part of the Aponeurosis of the Occipito-frontaUs Muscle, and is inserted into the projection on the anterior border of the Helix. 28 To draw or puU the Ear forward. 29 The anterior and posterior Temporal Arteries. 30 The Eetrahens Aurem arises by three or four roundish Muscular Slips from the Eoot of the Mastoid Process of the Temporal Bone, and is iuserted by Aponeurotic Fibres into the posterior surface of the Concha. 31 To draw or pull the Ear backward. 32 The posterior Auricular Artery and l^erve. 33 Five Muscles: Heliicis Major,HeliicisMinor, Tragicus, Anti-tragicus, and Transversus Auriculae. 34 To the external Ear, and considered as rudimentary and not always present. MEATUS ATXDITOErUS EXTEKNTTS. 35 The Canal which extends from the Pinna (the bottom of its Concha) to the Membrane of the Tympanum.167 OK" inJMAir ANATOMY. 36 In-wards, forwards, and upwards, and slightly curved, its Concavity looking downwards. 37 About one inch, in length: and its form, that of an oval Cylinder. 38 The middle portion. 39 It is partly Cartilaginous (from the Pinna), and partly Osseous. 40 In the Adult, the Osseous portion; in the Foetus, the Meatus is entirely Cartilaginous. 41 By a continuation of the Integuments of the Concha. 42 Some short Hairs, which extend across the Tube. 43 The Ceruminous Follicles. 44 To secrete the Cerumen or "Wax, which is discharged through small Excretory Ducts into the Meatus. 45 From Branches derived from the Temporal and external Cai'otid, viz: the anterior and posterior Auricular. 46 From the Auriculo-temporal Branch of the fifth (its inferior Maxillary division), and from the CeiTical Plexus; the Auricularis Magnus Branch. ttmpajStjm ok middle eae. 47 An irregular Osseous Cavity situated in the substance of the Temporal Bone—its Petrous portion. 48 The Membrana Tympani. 49 An Osseous Groove around the circumference of the Auditory Passage, near its termination. 50 Oval, with its long diameter nearly vertical. 51 Concave. 52 Convex. 53 Three Lamellae: an external or Cuticular Stratum, a middle or Fibro-elastic Stratum, and an internal or Mucous Layer. 54 The Handle of the Malleus. 55 Externally, by the Meatus Extemus and Membrana Tympani; internally by the Labyrinth; posteriorly, by the Mastoid Cells; and anteriorly, by the Eus- tachian Tube. 66 An Osseous Projection situated in the inner boundary or "Wall of the Tympanum, about its centre. 57 By the Projection of the first turn of the Cochlea. 58 Three or four small Depressions which transmit the Tympanic Branches of the Glosso-pharyngeal nerve, (Jacobson's Nerve.) 59 The Bones in the Tympanum. 60 Three: Malleus, Incus, and Stapes-168 AITSWEES TO QTTESTIOHrS 61 A prolongation of the Incus. 62 The MaUeus. 63 Into a Head, jN'eck, Handle, and two Processes. 64 Convex. 65 With the Incus, by means of a small Depression at the back of the Malleus. 66 Between the Head and Processes. 67 An elongated Process which terminates in a small rounded Process, (Processus Brevis.) 68 The Membrana Tympani. 69 A thin flattened piece of Bone which extends from the Neck to a Groove near the Glasserian Pissure. 70 The Laxator Tympani. 71 Vertical, with the Head upwards. 72 A little behind and to the inner side of the MaUeus. 73 Into a Body and two Processes. 74 The Body. 75 No. 76 The Aperture of the Mastoid Cells. 77 It ends in a rounded Process or Nodule called the Os Orbiculare. 78 The Head of the Stapes. 79 "With the long Process vertical, and the short Process horizontal. 80 This Bone is placed horizontally extending from the extremity of the long Process of the Incus to the Fenestra Ovalis. 81 The Stapes: because if this Bone falls from its natural position the Perilymph escapes and dea&ess is the result. 82 Into a Base, Head, Neck, and two Crura or Processes. 83 Like that of the Fenestra Ovalis on which it rests, being convex on its upper border, and almost flat at its lower border. 84 A small Depression, which recives the Orbicular or long Process of the Incus. 85 The constricted part below the Head. 86 The Stapedius. 87 From the Base to the Neck. 88 No; the anterior is the shortest. 89 A Groove. 90 At the Neck. 91 Forwards and backwards. 92 A very thin Membrane.OIT HTJltAN AITATOMT. 169 93 It is attached to the Groove. 94 By articular Ligaments. 95 By three special Ligaments : thus one extends from the Head of the Malleus to the Boof or upper Wall of the Tympanum; another serves to connect the short Process of the Incus to the posterior part of the containing Cavity, viz: the Aperture of the Mastoid Cells; and the other or third Ligament (which is Orbicular or Cu'cular) serves to connect the base of the Stapes mth the circumference or margin of the Fenestra Ovalis. 96 Yes, by Mr. Tod, who calls them Superior Capitis Mallei, Obliquus Incudis Externus Posterior, et Musculus- Stapedius Inferior. 97 Tensor Tympani, Lasator Tympani, and Stapedius. 98 The Tensor Tympani (Musculus Internus Mallei). 99 This Muscle is contained in a bony Canal in the Petrous Bone, and arises from the surface of this Canal and from a small portion of the Eustachian Tube; and is inserted into the inner border of the Handle of the Malleus, just below the commencement of its long Process. 100 This Muscle arises from the Spinous Process of the Sphenoid Bone, and, passing through the Glenoidal or G-lasserian Eissure, is inserted into the I^eck of the Malleus, just above its long Process. 101 This Muscle arises from the circumference or margin of the Canal lodged in the interior of the Pyramid on the posterior side of the Tympanum; and is inserted into the posterior part of the Neck of the Stapes. 102 Ten: five large and five small. 103 The Meatus Auditorius Externus, Fenestra Ovalis, Fenestra Eotunda, Mastoid Cells, & Eustachian Tube. 104 At the upper part of the inner "Wall of the Tympanum. 105 Its long diameter is directed horizontally, with its convex borders upwards. 106 ThecommunicationbetweentheTympanum &Vestibule. 107 The base of the Stapes. 108 This somewhat triangular Opening is situated in the inner Wall of the Tympanum, a little below the Fenestra Ovalis. 109 The small rounded eminence or projection called the Promontory. 110 The communication between the Tympanum & Cochlea.170 ANSWEKS TO QUESTIONS 111 A delicate Membrane, the secondary Membrane of the Tympanum. 112 At the posterior and inner part of the Tympanum by one large Aperture. 113 Aii\ 114 A channel of communication between the Cavity of the Tympanum and the Fauces. 115 About one inch-and-a-half in length, and its direction do-wnwards and inwards to the Pharynx. 116 Like the Meatus Auditorius Extemus it is partly Cartilaginous and partly Osseous. 117 The Pharyngeal extremity. 118 That towards the Tympanimi. 119 Somewhat more than haK-an-inch. 120 About one inch ia. length. 121 From the Temporal Bone to the interior of the Pharynx. 122 "With Mucous Membrane, which is contiuuous with that of the Tympanum, and also with that of the Pharynx. 123 It is composed of three Layers, an external or Mucous Layer, which is derived from the Mucous Lining of the Tympanum; a middle or Fibrous Layer; and an internal or Serous Layer, which latter is continuous with that of the Cochlea. 124 A Ciliated Layer of Epithelium. 125 The entrance and exit of the Chorda Tympani iN'erve, the Openings of the Tensor Tympani, Laxator Tym- pani, and Stapedius. 126 At about the middle of the posterior Wall. 127 By a special Apertui-e in the anterior "Wall of the Tympanum, internal to the Glasserian Fissure. 128 In the inner Wall of the Tympanum, just above that of the Eustachian Tube. 129 In the Glasserian Fissiu-e, which is situated in the anterior Wall of the Tympanum. 130 In the Pyramid of the Tympanum. 131 A triangular Osseous Process. 132 In the posterior Wall of the Tympanum, a little below the large Aperture which leads into the Mastoid Cells. 133 A minute Opening. 134 The Stapedius Muscle, as already stated. 135 The Eidge of the Aqueduct of Fallopius. 136 FromBranches derived from the external Carotid Artery, viz : the internal Maxillary, posterior Auriciilar, and Ascending Pharyngeal, called the Tympanic, Auric- ular, and Phai-yngcal Branches.ON" HUMAN ANATOMY. 171 137 Yes, wHlst that Vessel is within the Temporal Bone. 138 Into the Meningeal and Pharyngeal Trunks, from thence to the internal Jugular Vein. 139 From several sources; its lining Membrane is supplied from the Tympanic Plexns, which is formed by the Tympanic Branch of the Glosso-phaiyngeal (or Jacob- son's jN'erve) with the Sympathetic Nerve; and the Muscles are supplied from the following sources, \iz: the Tensor Tympani is supplied with a Filament from one of the Cranial Granglia, called the Otic or Arnold's Ganglion; the Stapedius is supplied with Branches from the Facial; and the Laxator Tympani is supplied from a Branch of the Facial, viz. the Chorda Tympani Nerve. 140 The Chorda Tympani. lABTKINTH OR INTERNAL EAR. 141 In the Petrous portion of the Temporal Bone, between the Tympanum and the Meatus Auditorius Internus. 142 Two portions : a Membranous and an Osseous portion (the latter enclosing the former). 143 Into thi-ee parts, viz : the Vestibule, the semicircular Canals, and the Cochlea. 144 The triangular or oval Cavity of the Labyrinth. 145 Immediately within the inner Wall of the Tympanum. 146 Anteriorly, the Cochlea; and posteriorly, the Semi- circular Canals, i.e. the Vestibule occupies the middle of the Labyrinth. 147 Fenestra Ovalis, ScalaVestibuli, and the five Openings of the three semi-circular Canals. 148 The Opening of communication between the Tympanum and Vestibule, on its external "VVaU, as abeady adverted to in the descrij)tion of the Tympanimi. 149 The oval Aperture which leads into the Cochlea at the anterior and lower part of the Vestibule. 150 Thi-ee very small Osseous Tubes, which communicate with the Vestibule at both extremities. 151 According to their position, into superior vertical (CanaUs Semicircularis VerticaUs Superior), middle or posterior vertical (CanaHs Semicircularis Verticalis Posterior), and an inferior or horizontal Canal (Can- aUs Semicircularis Horizontalis). 1152 Ampidla. 1153 This Canal crosses the upper border of the Petrous Bone at right angles, and stands out or projects onAK'SWEBS TO aTTESTIOKS 172 the anterior sm-face of this portion of the Temporal Bone. 154 At the outer Orifice. 155 The middle or posterior vertical Canal. 156 This Canal runs parallel with the posterior surface of the Petrous Bone, and forms a little Projection im- mediately above the Aqueduct of the Vestibule. 157 At the lower Orifice. 158 The horizontal Canal. 159' In the substance of the Petrous Bone, nearly on a level with the Fenestra Ovalis. 160 At the outer Orifice. 161 Only five Openings. 162 From the circumstance of the narrow extremity of the superior vertical Canal forming, with the upper extremity of the posterior vertical Canal, only one common Opening. 163 The Aqueduct of the Vestibule, and the small Openings of the Vessels and Filaments of the Auditory jS^erve. 164 A small slit-like Opening (situated behind the Meatus Intemus) which leads into the Vestibule. 165 A small Vein; it also admits a small Process of Mem- brane, which is continuous internally with the lining Membrane of the Vestibule, and externally with the Dura Mater. COCHLEA. 166 Immediately before the Vestibule. 167 Pyramidal; with its base directed towards the Meatus Auditorius Internus, and its apex towards the upper and anterior part of the inner Wall of the T3Tnpanum opposite the Canal for the Tensor Tympani. 168 Nearly three Coils. 169 Left to right. 170 Right to left. 171 About one inch-and-a-half. 172 In a closed extremity, called the Cupola. 173 The first. 174 The Promontory on the inner WaU of the Tympanum. 175 Into two Passages (Scalae) by means of a thia Lamina or Septum of Bone, which, by being prolonged by a Membrane to the opposite "Wall of the Cochlea, con- stitutes a complete Septum (Lamina Spii-alis). 176 Osseous and Membranous ; the former consists of two thin Osseous Lamina), which are porous, transmittingON HXJMAK ANATOMr. 173 Filaments of the Cochlear Nerve to the Membrane of the CocUea. 177 The Hamulus. 178 The two i^assages into which the Canal of the Cochlea is divided by its Septum. 179 The Scala Vestibuli. 180 One into the front of the Vestibule (Scala Yestibuli), and the other (Scala Tympani) opens into the Tym- panum through the medium of the Fenestra Eotunda vel Fenestra Cochlese. 181 Over the Hamulus, by an Aperture common to both, called by Breschet " Helico-trema." 182 This minute Opening is situated near the commence- ment of the Scala Tympani, and terminates at the posterior part of the Petrous Bone, and gives passage to a small Vein. 183 From the edge of the Lamina Spiralis to the Grroove in the opposite "Wall of the Tube of the Cochlea, and continued upwards to the Hamulus. 184 Zona Mollis. 185 The Bony substance or central axis, around which the Spiral Tube coils. 186 Conical; with its base at the bottom of the Meatus Audi- torius Intemus, whilst its apex, which does not extend beyond the second Coil of the Cochlea, is bent and expanded after the manner of a funnel—hence called Infundibulum. 187 To the last half-turn for the transmission of Vessels and Nerves. 188 No; the central one is the largest. 189 By a Fibro-serous Membrane analogous to the Dura Mater (and originally part of the Fibro-serous lining of the Skull, according to Breschet); the external Layer is analogous to the Periosteum; and the internal Layer is Serous. 190 That of Secretion. 191 Aqua Labyrinthi, vel Liquor Cotunnii, vel Perilymph. 192 It lines the whole of the Osseous Labyrinth, viz : the Vestibule, semicircular Canals and Scaloe of the Coch- lea ; it also lines the Aqueducts of the Vestibule and Cochlea, and, by its extension, closes the two openings (Fenestra O'valis vel Vestibuli and Fenestra Rotunda vel Cochleee); (it must be understood that these two Apertures have other Layers which assist to close 0 2ANSWEES TO QtrESTIONS 174 them, viz : the Membrane of the Tympanum and an intermediate Layer). 193 The thin delicate Layer which takes the form of the Vestibule and the semicircular Canals, and consists of two distinct Sacs. 194 The Utricle and the Saccule (TJtriculus Communis et Sacculus Proprius). 195 The Utricle. 196 Oval, and situated at the upper and posterior part of the Vestibule. 197 Somewhat rounded, & situated anteriorly to the Utricle. 198 A limpid Fluid secreted by the internal or Serous Layer. 199 It is difficult to say, being at the present day undecided. 200 It is composed of an external or Serous Layer, a Vas- cular Layer, a Nervous Layer, and an internal or Serous Layer. 201 Endolymph vel Liquor Scarpae. 202 The Perilymph vel Aqua Labyrinthi. 203 Otoconites (Breschet.) 204 Carbonate and Phosphate of Lime, which are held together by animal matter. 205 Just at that part where the Nerves spread out upon them. 206 The Hiatus Pallopii, Meatus Intemus et AquEeductus Pallopii. 207 The posterior Branch of the Spheno-palatine (orMec- kel's) Ganglion, called the Pterygoid or Vidian Nerve. 208 This oblique Osseous Canal, situated in the posterior surface of the Petrous Bone, contains the Auditory and Facial Nerve, each separated by a sHghtEidge of Bone. 209 Into two Branches, an anterior and a posterior, 210 The Cochlear Nerve. 211 The Vestibular Nerve. 212 At the base of the Cochlea, its central Pillar or Modiolus being perforated by minute Foramina, to be distributed in the Tissue of the Lamina Spiralis, where they form, by numerous communications, a Nervous Layer or Membrane. 213 By dividing into three Branches, which supply the Labyrinth, viz; a superior,middle,and inferior Branch. 214 To the Utricle. 215 To the Saccule. 216 To the Ampullary Expansion of the middle or posterior vertical semicircular Canal, where they form Nervous Expansions.ON HUMAN ANATOMY. 175 217 The inferior Branch.. 218 Yes. 219 Lamina Cribrosa,—so called from its numerous perfor- ations. 220 A small Osseous Canal, which is lodged in the Petrous Bone. 221 At the upper and inner part of the Meatus Auditorius Internus, & tenninates in the Stylo-mastoid Foramen. 222 The Facial Nerve (Portio Dura). 223 From a Branch derived from the superior Cerebellar Artery, which accompanies the Auditory Nerve into the internal Meatus, and which divides into two Branches—the Vestibular and Cochlear, which sub- divide into smaller Branches. 224 Into the superior Petrosal Sinus in the base of the Skull. S25 A Nerve of Sensation. 226 A Nerve of Motion. USE OP THE PAETS OP THE EAE. 227 To collect the undidations or vibrations of the air (the soimd), and reflect them towards the external Meatus. 228 To concentrate and convey those sonorous vibrations to the Membrana Tympani. 229 To transmit the vibrations to the Bones within the Tympanum. 230 To regulate the tension of the Membrana Tympani. 231 By their motions they multiply the vibrations they receive from the Membrana Tympani, and transmit them to the Fluid in the Labyrinth. 232 This Fluid, being incompressible, transmits the undu- lations which it receives all over the fine Nervous Membrane which Hnes the Labyrinth. 233 The Auditory Nerve. 234 This Canal, admitting the free entrance of air into and from the Cavity of the Tympanum, preserves a due balance or equilibrium with the external air, and thus enables the Membrana Tympani to act in obedience to the slightest impressions. Section XXIX.—THE MOUTH AND OEGAN OF TASTE. 1 The irregular Cavity which is situated below that of the Nose, extending from the Lips in front to the Fauces behind.176 ANSWEES TO aXJESTIONS 2 The Organ of Taste, and the chief instruments for mas- tication. 3 Osseous and Muscular; anteriorly, by the Lips; poster- iorly, by the Fauces; laterally, by the inner surfaces of the Cheeks; above, by the Hard and Soft Palate (which are limited by the Teeth of the superior Max- illa) ; and below, by the Tongue (which is limited anteriorly by the Teeth of the inferior Maxilla). 4 The superior and inferior Maxillary Bones, the two Palate Bones, and the Teeth. 5 Into two parts : external and internal. EXTEElfAL PAETS OF THE MOUTH:. 6 The Lips and Cheeks. 7 Two fleshy Folds which surround the Opening of the Month. 8 Externally of the Integument, internally of Mucous Membrane, and between the two the Muscle of the Lips (Orbicularis Oris); also some Adipose Tissue and the Labial Glands, with the Vessels and !Nerves, corres- ponding with each Symphysis. 9 By two Folds of Mucous Membrane; the upper called Frsenum Labii Superioris; the lower, Fraenum Labii Inferioris. 10 A Groove or Furrow extending downwards from the Septum Nares; in some instances it is double. 11 The Commissure. 12 Extremely Vascular. 13 From the Commissure of the Lips to the Eamus of the Jaw. 14 The Buccinators. 15 Like the Lips, externally of Integument, internally of Mucous Membrane, and between the two of Muscles (Buccinators), Adipose Tissue, and Buccal Glands, with the Vessels and Nerves. 16 The Parotid or Stenon's Duct. 17 Anteriorly with the common IntegTiment, and posteriorly with that of the Pharynx. INTEKITAL PAETS OF THE MOUTH. 18 The Gums, the Hard and Soft Palate, the Tonsils, the Salivary Glands with their Excretory Ducts, Isthmus of the Fauces, and the Organ of Taste—the Tongue. 19 The Gums cover both surfaces of the Alveolar Processes, and surround the Necks of the Teeth.ON HUMAN ANATOMY. 177 20 Of a thick and dense Membrane, wMch. is very adherent to the Periosteum of the Alveolar Processes. 21 Hard and insensible. 22 Anteriorly and laterally by the Alveolar Processes and Gimis, and posteriorly by the Soft Palate. 23 By the superior Maxillary and Palate Pones. 24 An elevated Kaphe. 25 A munber of transverse Eidges and Grooves. 26 The termination of the Naso-palatine Canal. 27 A Fold of Mucous Membrane, which forms a partial and moveable curtain between the Mouth and Pharynx, 28 Mucous Membrane, Glands, and Muscles. 29 The posterior margin of the Hard Palate. 30 This border is fi.'ee and unattached, and has hanging from its middle a small conical Process, called the TJvula. 31 Two ciu-ved Polds called the Arches or Pillars of the Palate. 32 From their position into anterior and posterior. 33 It passes downwards to the side and base of the Tongue, and is formed by Mucous Membrane, and part of the Palato-glossus Muscle on either side. 34 The Isthmus of the Fauces. 35 It passes downwards and backwards into the Pharjmx, and is formed by Mucous Membrane and part of the Palato-pharyngeus Muscle on either side. 36 A triangular interval on either side. 37 The Tonsils (Amygdalae). 3 8 Two oval Glandular Bodies, sometimes called Amygdalae. 39 Cellular, and consist of an assemblage of Muciparous Follicles, which open on the surface. 40 The superior Constrictor Muscle and angle of the lower Jaw. SAlrVAET GLANDS. 41 The Parotid, Sub-maxiUary, and Sub-Hngual Glands. 42 The Parotid. 43 Between the external Ear and Eamus of the lower Jaw. 44 From the Zygoma above to a level with the angle of the lower Jaw andMastoid Processbelow, and laterally from the external Meatus and anterior margin of the Mastoid Process to the Eamus of the Jaw and Masseter Muscle. 45 Socia Parotidis. 46 The external Carotid Artery, Temporo-maxiLl.ary Vein, and Facial Nerve.ANSWERS TO QTJESTIOlfS 178 47 The Trunk of the Temporal Artery. 48 It is composed of small Lobules (connected together by Cellular Tissue) each of which is composed of the Caecal Pouches of the Excretory Duct, surrounded by a net-work of Capillary Vessels. 49 Stenon's Duct. 50 Obliquely, nearly opposite the second Molar Tooth of the upper Jaw. 51 By minute Ca3cal or Saccular extremities which issue from the Lobules of the Gland, and which uniting to form larger Tubes, finally terminate in one Duct, which opens as just stated. 52 About two-and-a-half inches in length. 53 It is composed of an external or Fibrous Coat and an internal or Mucous Coat. 54 Yes, with Epithelium. 55 From the external Carotid. 5 6 From the Sympathetic; the Auriculo-temporal is derived from the inferior Maxillaiy Nerve, the Facial and one of the superficial ascending Branches of the Cervical Plexus—the Amicularis Magnus. StTB-MAXILLAJlY GLANDS. 57 Behind and beneath the Eamus of the Jaw, in the anterior part of the Sub-maxillary triangular space limited by that Bone and the Digastric Muscle. 58 The Mylo-hyoideus. 59 The Digastric. 60 The Stylo-maxillary Ligament. 61 The Facial Ai-tery. 62 Integument, the Platysma Myoides, and deep Cervical Fascia. 63 "WTiarton's Duct. 64 By the side of the Fraenum Linguae. 65 The Mylo-hyoid. 66 Analogous to that of the Parotid Gland. 67 Three: an external or Fibrous, a middle or Muscular, and an internal or Mucous Coat. 68 About two inches in length. STJB-LINGTJAL GLANDS. 69 The Sub-lingual Glands. 70 Beneath the anterior part of the Tongue on either side the Symphysis of the lower Jaw, and close to the side of the Fraenum,179 OlSr HUMAN ANATOMY. 71 By seven or eight small Ducts, -wHcli open beneath, the Tongue on either side its Fr£Enum. 72 Analogous to the other Salivary Glands. 73 In having only two Coats, whilst the Sub-maxillary possesses also a middle or Muscular Coat (KoUiker). ISTHMUS OF THE FAUCES. 74 The space between the Mouth and Fauces or Throat. 75 Above, by the Soft Palate; below; by the Eoot of the Tongue; and on either side, by the Arches or PHlars of the Soft Palate. TONGUE. 76 The Organ of Taste. 77 Of an Ovoid shape, with its base or larger end directed backwards, and its apex or tip forwards; and occupies the Floor of the Mouth. 78 The Incisor Teeth. 79 The Os Hyoides, by Muscular attachment. 80 By three Folds of Mucous Membrane: a central and two lateral, called Frsena Epiglottidis. 81 By Mucous Membrane. 82 By a Fold of Mucous Membrane called Frtenxim Linguse. 83 Somewhat convex. 84 Into two symmetrical parts, by a slight Groove or Eaphe. 85 Four. 86 The Conical, the Filiform, the Fungiform, and the Calciform. 87 They exist throughout the whole surface of the Tongue, but most numerous on the anterior two-thirds. 88 Backwards. 89 These are less numerous than the two preceding, but larger and more rounded; they are scattered over the surface, but most abundant at the apex and sides of the Tongue. 90 These are still less numerous—from fifteen to twenty in number, and of larger size; they form a row on either side the Dorsum of the Tongue, and meet at the middle line, like the letter A. 91 Foramen Caecimi. 9 2 They consist of the ultimate terminations of the Gustatory Nerve and Capillary Vessels, united by fine Cellular Tissue. 93 A firm LameUa of Cellulo-fibrous Tissue. 94 From the base to the apex of the Tongue,180 ANSWEES TO QUESTIONS 95 Muscidar Fibres and Adipose Tissue, with the Lingual Yessels and Nerves. 96 By means of a special fibrous structure called the Hyo- glossal Membrane. 97 An Aponeurosis derived from the Genio-hyo-glossus Muscle on either side. 98 The Skin along the outer borders of the Lips; internally, with the Salivary Glands and their Ducts, with the Tonsils, and from thence into the Larynx and Pharynx, where it becomes continuous with the Gastro-pul- monary Mucous Membrane. 99 The Labial, Palatine, Buccal, Lingual Glands, &c. 100 Genio-hyo-glossus,Hyo-glossus,LinguaHs,Stylo-glossus, and Palato-glossus. 101 Yery irregular, some longitudinally, others obliquely, others again transversely. 102 From Branches of the Lingual Artery. 103 Into the Lingual Veins, which terminate in the internal Jugular Yein. 104 From three sources: the Gustatory, which is derived from the internal Trunk of the inferior Maxillary Nerve; the Lingual or Hypo-glossal Is erve; and the Glosso-pharyngeal Nerve, which latter forms one of the divisions of the eighth pair. 105 The GustatoryNerve,which is distributed tothePapillse. 106 The Lingual, which is distributed to the Muscles of the Tongue. 107 The Glosso-Pharyngeal Neiwe, which is distributed to the lining Membrane and Lingual Glands. 2 Three Layers: the Cuticle, the Rete-mucosum, and the Cutis Yera or true Skin. 3 The Cuticle is the external, the Eete-mucosum the middle, and the Cutis Yera the innermost. Layer. 4 The thin transparent Membrane which covers the Rete- mucosum and Cutis Yera. 5 Ln the Palms of the Hands and the Soles of the Feet. 6 A net-work of waving and uneven lines. 7 Perfectly smooth and uniform. 8 It is unorganised, being destitute of Yessels and Nerves. 9 It is composed of a great number of minute CeUs, which are disposed in Lamina3 on the outer surface of the Cutis Yera, and which are secreted by it. Section XXX.—OEGAN OF TOUCH.Olf HTJMAN AITATOKT. 181 10 The elevations of the Papillce. 11 The Orifices of the Perspiratory Ducts and the passage of the Hairs. 12 The Oiifices of the Sebaceous Glands, those of the Perspiratory Ducts, and those for the passage of the Haii's. EETE ivnjcosTJM:. 13 The soft, delicate, net-like substance, which is situated immediately under the Cuticle and on the Papillary surface of the Corium. 14 In the Eete-mucosnm, which in Europeans and Northern Asiatics is white, whilst in the Indians, Africans and Americans it is almost black or of a dark-brown colour. 15 Malpighi. 16 No. 17 Like the Cuticle, it is secreted by the Vascular surface of theCorium, and consists of the deeper or last-formed /''' «,,!Ws portion of the Cuticle. / 18 In the white or European races. ^ . ? .^^) 19 Chaussier and Bichat. ^ ^f"-^ CUTIS TEEA. ■ ,^ ; ^os^ 20 It invests the entire surface of the Body. 7^ 21 Two: the Corium and Papillary Layer. ^ ^^ \. f^-i. 22 It consists of an interlacement of dense Eilaments forming \ . ^' a net-work on the under surface, which encloses spaces "'^Vii.^ or Areolae, in which are lodged Granules or small "'^ " Masses of Eat. 23 They are more closely united and form- a smoother sur- face, on which is studded a ^'eat number of minute Processes called Papillae, and which constitute the second or Papillary Layer. 24 No; it is thickest in the Pahns of the Hands and the Soles of the Eeet, particularly on the Heel and Ball of the Great Toe, and very thin on the extremities of the Eingers, Lips, Eyelids, &c. 25 It is soft, and covers the whole suiface of the Corium. 26 It consists of the ultimate extremities of the Nerves and Capillary Vessels, united by a fine Connective Tissue. 27 In the Palms of the Hands and Soles of the Eeet. 28 They are disposed inEidges, separated by corresponding Furrows. 29 The Sense of Touch resides in the Papilla3, and is most acute at the Tips of the Eingers; it is also very acute in the Lips.3 82 ANSWERS TO QCTESTIOXS 80 The Skin of the Eyelids, Scrotum, and the Penis. 31 An Oleaginous Fluid which is supposed to be contained in distinct Vesicles having no direct communication with each other. 32 It serves as a reservoir of nomishment, fills up interstices or spaces; its chief seat in 3^outh is under the Skin— it also guards against pressure. APPENDAGES TO THE SKIN. 33 The Hairs, Nails, Sebaceous Pollicles, and Perspiratory Glands with their Ducts. 34 Slender Filaments developed chiefly in the Scalp, Axilla, Chin, and Pubes. 35 Into a Stem and Eoot. 36 Eeniform. 37 It consists of two parts : an external which is dense and firm, and an internal which is Cellular. 38 Free and unattached, and of various colours in different persons. 39 It expands and forms a Tube which is somewhat conical at the Eoots, and presents a soft gelatinous appearance at its margin. 40 A PapiUa of the Cutis, i.e. the Eoot or Bulb of each Hair is received into each Tubular Follicle of the Skin, and thus becomes implanted upon its corres- ponding PapiUa. NAILS. 41 Of the Cuticle, being composed of the same structure, and, like it, secreted by the true Skin. 42 "White and thinner than the other portions of the K'ail. 43 It is received into a Sulcus or Groove of the Corium. 44 Convex, and marked by longitudinal lines. 45 Lunula. SEBACEOUS EOIEICLES. 46 In the substance of the Skin, opening on its surface. 47 In the Nose, Cheeks, Ears, Armpits, Groins, &c. 48 They secrete an Unctuous Fluid which protects the Cuticle from the efi'ects of heat and friction. PEESPIEATOET GIANDS. ^ 49 In the Adipose Tissue of the Corium. ' 50 These small spiral Tubes open on the surface of the Cuticle or Epidermis. 51 After a good walk or other strong exercise of the body, when the Perspiratory Fluid, especially of the Hands and Forehead, is seen exuding through their Oiifices.183 OK HUJIAN ANAXoarr. THTUOID GLAND. 1 It is situated upon the upper part of the Trachea. 2 Two parts or Lobes, which are united to each other by a transverse piece called the Isthmus. 3 Opposite the upper Kings of the Trachea (corresponding to the second and third Rings) 4 Somewhat Ovoid, and about two inches in length. 5 The Sterno-thyroid, Sterno-hyoid, and Omo-hyoid. 6 A dark-brown, and weighs about twelve drachms. 7 Bronchocele or Goitre. 8 Levator Glandulae Thyroidese (Soemmerring). 9 The Hyoid Bone. 10 Its function is unknown. 11 From the superior and inferior Thyroid Arteries. 12 The superior and middle Thyroid Veins to the internal Jugular Vein, and the inferior Thp'oid Vein on either side to its corresponding Vena Innominata. 13 Erom the Par-vagum (its superior Laryngeal Branch) and the Sympathetic. Section XXXL—ANGEOLOGT. I 1 The Arteries are cylindrical Vessels which convey the Blood from the Ventricles of the Heart to all parts of the Body. 3 By being whiter, denser, firmer, and more elastic; their Apertures gape iu the living body; and by their Pulsation. 3 The Pulmonary Artery and the Aorta. 4 To the Lungs. 5 To every part of the Body. 6 In five different ways: firstly, in Veins by continuity of Canal; secondly, in Secreting extremities as Ex- halents, on the Skia and various internal Cavities; thirdly, in Glands, Secreting the various Fluids; fourthly, in Cellular Bodies, as the Spleen, Penis, &c. and fifthly, by Anastomosis. 7 They are composed of three Coats: an esternal, middle, and internal. 8 Firm, strong, and of a whitish aspect; it consists of Filaments interwoven with each other similar to Felt; and directed diagonally or obliquely; this Coat is sometimes called the Cellular Coat of Arteries. 9 This Coat is sometimes called the Fibrous or Elastic Coat. 10 Circularly.184 ANSTVEES TO QUESTIONS 11 Yellowish or tawny, 12 This Coat, which is continued into the Ventricles of the Heart, is a delicate and almost transparent Film; and consists of longitudinal Fibres lying across the transverse Fibres of the middle Coat. 13 By small nutritive Vessels called Vasa Vasorum. 14 To the external and middle Coats only. 15 The Sheath. PTJLMOKAKT A.ETEET. 16 From the base of the right Ventricle of the Heart, anterior to the Aortic origin. 17 It passes upwards towards the left side for about two inches, and, opposite the Arch of the Aorta, divides iato two Branches—the right and left Pulmonary Arteries. 18 That on the right side divides in the Eoot of the Lungs into three Branches, coiTosponding to the three Lobes of the right Lung, to which they are distributed; that on the left side divides iu the Eoot of the Liings into two Branches, corresponding to the two Lobes of the left Lung, to which they are distributed. 19 The right passes behind the Ascending Aorta, and superior Vena Cava, whilst the left passes ia front of the Descending Aorta. 20 The right. 91 They divide and subdivide ia the substance of the Lungs, and terminate aroimd the Bronchial Cells, in a net- work of Capillary Vessels which open in the minute Eadicles of the Pulmonary Veias. AOETA. 22 From the left Ventricle of the Heart, just below the junction of the third Costal Cartilage with the Sternum on the left side. 23 Into three parts: the ascending, transverse, and the descending portions. 24 Nearly two iaches-and-a-quarter in length. 25 The Pulmonary Artery, the Pericardium, and Cellular Tissue. 26 The right Branch of the Pulmonary Artery and right Pulmonary Veins. 27 The right Amicle and Descending Vena Cava. 28 The Pulmonary Ai'tery and left Amicle. 29 The left Pneumogastric, Phrenic, and Cardiac Nerves.ON HUMAK AKATOirr. 185 30 The Trachea, Oesophagus, Thoracic Duct, the Cardiac Plexus, and the Eecurrent Branch of the first Nerve. 31 The left Carotid and Arteria Innominata. 33 The relick of the Arterial Duct, the right Pulmonary Ai'tery, left Bronchus, and Eecurrent Nerve. 33 It divides into two great Branches: the Thoracic and Abdominal Aorta. 34 It is situated to the left side of the Vertebral Column above the Diaphragm. 85 Prom the upper border of the fourth Dorsal Vertebra of the left side to the front of the last Dorsal Vertebra. 36 The (Esophagus, the Eoot of the left Lung, the Peri- cardium, and right Pneumogastric Nerve. 37 The Vertebr£e and smaller Azygos Vein. 38 The Thoracic Duct and CEsophagus. 39 The Pleura throughout its whole length. •40 Itentersthe Abdomenbetweenthe Crura of the Diaphragm and descends towards the left side of the Vertebrae, extending from the front of the last Dorsal Vertebra to the left side of the fourth Ltimbar Vertebra, where it terminates in the common Iliac Arteries. 41 The Solar Plexus, the Pancreas, the Splenic Vein, the transverse portion of the Duodenum, the left Eenal Vein, a Pold of Peritoneum (Mesentery), and the Aortic Plexus. 42 The Lumbar Vertebrae, Lumbar Veins, and Thoracic Duct. 43 Vena Cava, Vena Azygos, and right semilunar Ganglion. 44 The Sympathetic Nerve and left semilunar Ganglion. 45 The Coeliac, two Mesenteric, and the Sacra Media. 46 The Coronary. 47 The Arteria Innominata (Brachio-cephalic, or common Trunk of the right Carotid and right Sub-clavian), the left Carotid, and the left Sub-clavian. 48 The Bronchial, Pericardial, (Esophageal,and Inter-costal. 49 Into two divisions: Visceral and Parietal. 50 The Caeliac Axis (which forms the Gastric, Hepatic, and Splenic Arteries), the superior and inferior Mesen- teric, the Eenal, the Supra-renal, and the Spermatic Arteries. 51 The Phrenic, Lumbar, and middle Sacral Arteries. 52 By dividing into the two common Iliac Arteries, opposite the left side of the body of the fourth Lumbar Vertebra, f 2ANSWERS TO QUESTION'S 186 ARTEEIES OF THE HEAET. 53 The Coronary Arteries. 54 Two. 55 From the Aortic Sinuses just ahove the semilunar Valves (its ascending division.) 56 and 57 Described with the Heart. Section XXXII.—AETEEIES OE THE AKCH OF THE AOKTA. 1 To the Head, Neck, and Upper Extremities. AUTEEIES OP THE HEAD. 2 Two. 3 The right arises from the bifurcation of the Arteria Innominata opposite the Sterno-elavicular Articula- tion, and the left from the Aortic Arch. 4 It ascends by the side of the Trachea from opposite the right Stemo-clavicular Articulation to a level with the Thyroid Cartilage (its upper border) where it divides into two Tnmks, viz: the external and in- ternal Carotid. 5 It ascends obliquely upwards and outwards from the Aortic Arch to a level with the Thyroid Cartilage (its upper border), where it also divides into two Trunks, viz : the external and internal Carotid. 6 The Integument, Platysma Myoides, Stemo-mastoid, Stemo-hyoid, Sterno-thyroid, and Omo-hyoid Muscles, and Descendens Kom Nerve. 7 The Longus Colli, Eectus Capitis Anticus Major, the Sympathetic Nerve and its Branches—the inferior Thyroid Artery and Eecurrent Nerve. 8 The internal Jugular Vein, the Par-vagum, and some Lymphatic Glands. 9 The Trachea, Larynx, GSsophagus, and the Thyroid Gland. 10 The left. EXTERNAL CABOTID AETEET. 11 It ascends from opposite the Thyroid Cartilage (its upper border) to the space between the Mastoid Process and Jaw, nearly opposite its Condyle, where it divides into the Temporal and internal MaxiUary Arteries (in the substance of the Pai-otid Gland). 12 Eleven. 13 Into three groups or sets: an anterior, posterior, and superior.187 ON HUMAN ANATOMY. 14 The superior Thyroid, Lingual, and Tacial. 15 The Occipital, posterior Auricular, and Mastoid. 16 The ascending Phai-yngeal, transverse Tacial, Parotidean, Temporal, and internal Maxillary. 17 From the inner side of the external Carotid Artery, just below the Cornu of the Os Hyoides; and is distributed to the Thyi-oid Gland. 18 The Hyoid, superior Laryngeal, inferior Laryngeal (or Crico-thyroid,) and Muscular (or Sterno-mastoid) Branches. 19 This is the second Branch of the external Carotid which is distiibuted to the Muscles of the Os Hyoides and Tongue, also the Sublingual Gland, and ultimately terminates in the Kanine Artery. 20 The Hyoid, DorsaHs Lingute, and Sub-lingual. 21 The inferior Palatine, the Glandular, Sub-mental, Ptery- goid, inferior Labial, the two Coronary, the Lateral Nasal, and the Terminal or angular Branch at the inner angle of the Orbit. 22 The posterior Meningeal to the Dura Mater, and the Kamus Princeps Cervicis. 23 The Foramen Lacerum Posterius. 24 Through the medium of the Eamus Princeps Cervicis. 25 The Stylo-mastoid, which enters the internal Ear through the Stylo-mastoid Foramen; another small Branch is given off to supply the Occipito-frontalis. 26 The Stemo-mastoid Muscle and Cervical Glands. 27 The ascending Pharyngeal. 28 The Meningeal, which enters the Skull through the Foramen Lacerum Posterius to be distributed to the Dura Mater; and the Pharyngeal Branch, which supplies the Muscular structure of the Pharynx, Ton- sils, Soft Palate, and Eustachian Tube. 29 The middle Temporal, Orbital, anterior Auricular, and Parotid Branches, each of which are distributed as their names imply. 30 One of the Terminal Branches of the external Carotid Artery. 31 In two Branches—an anterior and a posterior; the anterior or Frontal Branch supplies the Forehead and sides, and the posterior or Occipital Branch supplies the Occiput. 32 The anterior Branch, which inosculates with the Supra- orbital of the Ophthalmic.188 ANSTVEHS TO QUESTIONS 33 The Branches of tliis Artery are divided into three portions, according to their position; thus one portion arises beneath the Eamus of the Jaw, another portion beneath the Temporal Muscle, and the other portion in the Spheno-maxillary Fossa, and are respectively called the Maxillary, Pterygoid, and Ptergygo-max- illary portions. 34 The inferior Dental, which supplies the Teeth of the lower Jaw, enters its Ramus in conjunction with the Dental JS'erve through the Dental Foramen; the middle Meningeal Branch supplies the Dura Mater, entering the Cranium through the Foramen Spinosum in the Spinous Process of the Sphenoid Bone; the Tympanic Branch, which is distributed to the Cavity of the same name, enters the Tympanum through the FissuraGlasseri velGlenoidalis; and lastly, the small Meningeal Artery, which supplies the Dura Mater in the middle Fossa of the SkuU, passes through the Foramen Ovale of the Sphenoid Bone in conjunction with the inferior Maxillary Nerve. 35 The deep Temporal (two in number), the Masseteric, the two Pterygoid (internal and external), and the Buccal, are distributed, as their names imply, to their respective Muscles. 36 The superior (or posterior) Dental Branch, whose Branches enter numerous small Foramina in the superior Maxilla, to supply the upper Molares and Bicuspides, also its Antrum; the Nasal or Spheno- palatine Branch, which enters the Canal of the same name into the Nasal Cavity, to which it is distributed; the Pterygo-palatine Branch, which passes through the Pterygo-palatine Canal, to be dishibuted to the Pharynx and Eustachian Tube; the posterior Palatine Branch, which passes through the Canal of the same name, to be distributed to the Gums, Soft Palate, Tonsils, &c.; and the Vidian or Pterygoid Branch, which passes with the Vidian Nerve into the Canal of the same name to be distributed to the Eustachian Tube and upper part of the Pharynx; and lastly, the Infra-orbital Branch. 37 As their name implies, to the Parotid Gland, three and sometimes four in number; they opcasionaUy arise from the Temporal Artery.OK HTJirAN ANATOMr. 189 3 8 From the external Carotid, whilst that Vessel is embedded in the substance of the Parotid Gland. 39 No; it sometimes arises from the Temporal Artery, and is distributed to the Muscles and Integument of the Face. INTERNAL CAROTID AE.TEKT. 40 This Artery commencing at the Bifurcation of the com- mon Carotid, opposite the ThjT^oid Cartilage (its upper border) at fii'st inclines outwards, it then passes forwards and inwards, and ascends to the base of the Cranium, where it enters the Carotid Foramen in the Petrous portion of the Temporal Bone, it then passes through the Canal and Cavernous Sinus, forwards by the Sella Turcica, and upwards by the anterior Clinoid Process where it pierces the Dura Mater, and idti- mately divides into thj-ee Branches. 41 The anterior Cerebral, the middle Cerebral, and the posterior conununicating Branches. 42 This Artery arises opposite the inner termination of the the Sylvian Fissure, it then passes forwards to the longitudinal Fissure between the Cerebral Hemi- spheres, where it inosculates with its fellow by a short ti'ansverse Trunk called the anterior communi- cating Branch; each Yessel then passes forwards and turns round the anterior border of the Corpus Callosum, dividing into two or three Branches, which are distri- buted to the anterior and middle Lobes of the Brain. 43 This Artery, larger than the preceding, passes obliquely outwards along the Sylvian Fissure "vvithin which it divides into three or four Branches, which are distri- buted to the anterior and middle Lobes of the Brain. 44 The sides of the Circle of Willis, thus establishing a commimication between the internal Carotid and Basilar Arteries. 45 They inosculate with the terminal Branches of the Basilar Artery (the posterior cerebral) at the anterior edge of the Pons Yarolii. 46 The Choroid arises from the internal Carotid and some- times from one of its terminal Branches—the middle Cerebral. 47 The Ophthalmic Artery. 48 Through the Optic Foramen at first below, and external to, the Optic Nerve, it afterwards passes above and to its inner side along the inner Wall of the Orbit andANSWEES TO QUESTIONS 190 ultimately terminates in two Branches; the Frontal and Nasal. 49 These Branches are arranged, according to some Anato- mists, into three sets or groups, according to others, into two sets : they arc the Lachrjonal, Supra-orbital, the Centi-al Artery of the Eetina, the two Ciliary, the two Ethmoidal, the two Palpebral, the ifasal, the Frontal, and the Muscular Branches. 50 From the Ophthalmic, just before it enters the Optic Foramen, and is distiibuted to the Lachrymal Gland. 51 The deep Temporal Arteries, also the middle Meningeal. 52 The Supra-orbital Foramen, and supplies the Muscles and Integument of the Forehead. 53 By piercing obliquely the substance of the Optic Nerve. 54 Into three sets: the short or posterior, the long, and the anterior Ciliary Arteries. 55 To the Choroid and Ciliary Processes. 56 They vary from ten to fifteen. 57 To the Iiis, where they form a Vascular Zone. 58 Two. 59 From the Muscular Branches of the Ophthalmic Artery. 60 They Anastomose with the preceding around the cir- cumference of the Iris. 61 Two : an anterior and a posterior. 62 The anterior. 63 They pass through the Ethmoidal Foramina in the inner "Wall of the Orbit, and are distributed to the Ethmoidal Cells and Nasal Fossae, where they freely Anastomose with the Nasal Branches of the internal Maxillary. 64 Yes; they suj)ply small Meningeal Branches to the Dura Mater (the anterior Meningeal). 65 The anterior Ethmoidal Artery. 66 Two : one for each Eyelid, a superior and inferior. 67 The Orbitar Branch of the Temporal Ai-tery, also the Lachi'ymal. 68 The Lachrymal Artery. 69 To the Muscles of the Orbit. 70 From the Palpebral Branches. 71 It divides into two Branches; one communicates with the angular or Terminal Branch of the Facial Artery, and the other division runs along the side of the Nose, to which it is distributed. 72 To the Muscles, Integuments, and Pericranium..ON HTJMAK ANATOMT. 191 73 These Branclies, two or three in numher, are called Ai'terias Eeceptaculi. Section XXXIII.—AETEEIES OF THE UPPEE EXTEEMITIES. STTBCLATIAjST akteeies. 1 Two : one for each upper extremity. 2 The right arises from the Arteria Innominata, and the left from the posterior part of the Arch of the Aorta. 3 jSTo ; the course of this Vessel may for convenience he divided into three parts—the first part of the right differs fr-om that of the left, whilst the two other parts are alike, thus, the first part of the right Subclavian passes outwards to the inner margin of the Scalenus Anticus Muscle; whilst the first part of the left Sub- clavian passes peipendicularly upwards to the inner margin of the Scalenus Anticus. 4 It forms a curve which passes outwards behind the Scalenus Anticus Muscle. 5 It passes outwards and downwards beneath the Clavicle and Subclavius Muscle to the lower border of the fii'st Eib, where it terminates in the Axillary Artery. 6 The internal Jugular, Subclavian, and small Vertebral Veins; the Par-vagum, the Phrenic and Cardiac Branches of the Sympathetic Nerve; also, the common Integument, deep Fascia, Stemo-mastoid, Sterno- thyroid, and Stemo-hyoid Muscles. 7 The Eecurrent Branch of the Par-vagum, and the Sypathetic IS'erve; and, below, is the Pleura. 8 Pleura and upper part of the left Lung, the left Brachio- cephalic Vein (vel Vena Innominata), the Par-vagum, • also, the common Integument, deep Fascia, Stemo- mastoid, Thyroid and Hyoid Muscles. 9 The Longus Colli Muscle, Vertebral Column, and the inferior Cervical Ganglion. 10 CEsophagus and Thoracic Duct. 11 The Pleura. 12 The Scaleni. 13 Integument, Platysma Myoides, deep Fascia, Branches of the Cervical Plexus and internal Jugular Vein. 14 It rests on the surface of the first Eib. 15 The Subclavius Muscle and Vein, and the Supra-scapular Artery and Vein. 16 The Scdenus Posticus.ANSWEES TO QTOSTIOKS 192 17 The left. 18 The Vertebral, internal Mammary, Thyroid Axis, the superior Inter-costal, and the deep Cervical. 19 Its upper and posterior part. 20 It ascends through the Apertures in all the transverse Processes of the Cervical Vertebra}, except the last, it then passes upwards through the Opening of the Atlas, and piercing the Dura Mater enters the SkuU through the Foramen Magnum, and finally passes forward to unite with its feUow of the opposite side at the lower border of the Pons Varolii, where it forms the BasUar Artery. 21 The Thoracic Duct. 22 To the posterior Lobes of the Brain. 23 By the Vertebral Arteries and the internal Carotids. 24 The posterior and anterior Cerebral, and the posterior and anterior communicating Branches. 25 The Optic Commissure, Tuber Cinereum, Infundibulum, Corpora Albicantia vel Pisiformia, and the origins of the ]S"ervi Motores Oculorum. 26 The anterior and posterior Spinal, posterior Meningeal, and the inferior or posterior Cerebellar. 27 To the corresponding surfaces of the Spinal Cord. 28 Its fellow of the opposite side, also with the Spinal Branches of the Intercostal and Lumbar Arteries. 29 Its fellow of the opposite side, also the Spinal Branches of the Intercostal and Lumbar Arteries. 30 To the Dura Mater which lines the Cerebellar Fossaa. 31 To the under surface of the Cerebellum, by numerous ramifications. 32 Between the origins of the Hypo-glossal or Lingual Nerves. 33 Its anterior and lower part. 34 It enters the Thorax beneath the Cartilage of the first Rib, and descends behind the Cartilages of the true Ribs to the Diaphragm, whose Pibres it pierces; it then enters the Sheath of the Rectus Muscle, where it communicates "with the Epigastric Artery, a Branch of the external lUac. 35 The Comes Nervi Phi'enici, Mediastinal, two anterior Inter-costal, Pericardiac, Thymic, & Musculo-phrenic. 36 To the Diaphragm, accompanjdng the Phrenic Nerve. 37 The anterior Mediastinum, Thymus Gland, and Peri- cardium.193 OIT HTJMAlir ANATOMY. 38 The Intercostal Muscles on the anterior part of the Chest, and Anastomose with the Aortic Intercostal Ai'teries. 39 The first three or foiu- anterior Inter-costal Arteries. 40 The Thoracic Branches of the Axillary Artery. 41 The Diaphragm, the Abdominal Muscles, and the Inter- costal Spaces. 42 The Transverse, the superior Cerebellar, and the posterior Cerebral. 43 To the Pons Yarolii. 44 Two of the Terminal Branches of the Basilar Artery, and distributed to the upper surface of the Cerebellum. 45 In the inferior Cerebellar Arteries. 46 The other two terminal divisions of the Basilar Artery, and distributed to the posterior Lobes of the Brain. 47 The Motores Oculorum. 48 The Medulla Oblongata, Pons Yarolii, posterior Lobes of the Brain, and the Cerebellum. 49 The Basilar Ai-tery. THTHOID AXXS. 50 Trom the upper and fi'ont part of the Subclavian Artery, and immediately divides into three Branches: the inferior Thyroid, the Supra-scapular, and the posterior Scapular Branches. 51 The Thyroid Gland, CEsophagus, Trachea, and Larynx. 5'2 The Muscles on the Dorsum of the Scapula (Supra and Infra-spinal, Muscular, and Acromial Branches.) 53 The posterior Scapular and Dorsal Branch of the Sub- scapular. 54 The Transversalis Humeri. 55 The TransversaHs Colli and Transverse Cervical. 56 The Subscapular Artery and Profunda Cervicis. 5 7 The superficial Cervical (Cervicalis anterior) and posterior Scapular, which latter is the continuation of the Vessel, and terminates with the Dorsal Branch of the Subscapular. SXTPEEIOE, INTEECOSTAL AETEEY. 58 Prom the lower and posterior part of the Subclavian Artery, and terminates in the first Aortic Intercostal Artery. 59 To the two first Intercostal Spaces. 60 A Branch of the Subclavian arising, in common with the superior Intercostal, from the lower and posterior part of the Artery, and sometimes called CervicaUspoeterior. aANSWEES TO QUESTIONS 194 AXIILARY ARTEEIES. 61 Two : one for each upper extremity. 62 These Arteries form the continuation of the Subclavian Arteries through the Axillary Spaces to the upper Exti-emities, extending from the lower border of the first Rib to the lower borders of the Latissimus Dorsi and Teres Major Muscles. 63 Downwards, outwards, and backwards. 64 In the Brachial, on either side. 65 The Pectoral Muscles, and Costo-coracoid Ligament. 66 The first Intercostal Muscles, and first digitation of the Serratus Magnus, Axillary Vein, and the long Thoracic Nerve (external Eespiratory of Sir C. BeU). 67 The Coraco-brachialis and Brachial Plexus. 68 The superior Thoracic, Acromial Thoracic, inferior or long Thoracic (or external Mammary), Subscapular, the two Circumflex Branches (anterior and posterior), the inferior Acromial, and the Alar or Axillary Thoracic. 69 The Pectoral Muscles. 70 Its Branches inosculate with the Intercostal Branches. 71 To the Pectoral and Deltoid Muscles. 72 Its Branches inoscidate with the Intercostal Branches. 73 To the Pectoral and Serratus Muscles. 74 Its Branches inosculate with the Intercostal Branches. '75 It distributes Branches to the Mammary Gland. 76 J'rom the Axillary, near the lower border of the Sub- Bcapi^r cIkj^ ^ ^^.^ ] 77 To the Serraiais 3itag5as, Teres Major, and Latissimus Dorsi Muscles. 78 It gives ofi^ a Branch to the Dorsum Scapulae. 79 It inosculates with the Supra-scapular and posterior Scapular Arteries. 80 The posterior. 81 The Deltoid Muscle and Shoulder Joint. 82 Its Branches inosculate with the anterior Circumflex and Supra-scapular Arteries. 83 To the Deltoid Muscle and Shoulder Joint. 84 Its Branches inosculate with the posterior Circumflex. 85 It pierces the Deltoid Muscle and inosculates on the Acromion Process with one of the Supra-scapular Branches. 86 This Branch, which often arises from one of the other Thoracic Branches, is distributed to the Glands and Cellular Tissue in the AxiUary Space.OIT HTJMAH- ANATOMY. 195 BKACHIAL AKTEET. 87 Two: one for each upper extremity. 88 It forms the continuation of the Axillary Artery on either side, extending from the lower borders of the Latissimus Dorsi and Teres Major to a little below the bend of the Elbow, where it divides into the Eadial and Ulnar Arteries. 89 Downwards and forwards. 90 Integument, deep Fascia, Median Basilic Vein, and Tendon of the Biceps. 91 Long and short Heads of the Triceps, the Brachialis Anticus, and Coraco-brachialis. 92 The Ulnar Nerve. 93 The Coraco-brachialis and Biceps. 94 The superior Profunda, inferior Profunda, Anastomotica Magna, and the l^utritious and Muscular Branches. 95 A little below the Tendon of the Teres Major, and winds around the Humerus between this Bone and the Triceps, to which Muscle it is distributed. 96 The first Branch of the Eadial (the Eadial Eecurrent). 97 The largest Branch of the Brachial Plexus (the Mus- culo-spiral). 98 Muscular Branches. 99 Prom about the middle of the Brachial Artery, opposite the insertion of the Coraco-brachialis Muscle. 100 The Ulnar Nerve. 101 The posterior Ulnar Eecurrent. 102 About two inches above the Elbow Joint. 103 The inferior Profunda, and the anterior and posterior Ulnar Eecurrent Branches. 104 To the Biceps, Triceps, Deltoid, Coraco-brachialis, and Brachialis Anticus. 105 About the middle of the Arm near the inferior Profunda. EADIAL AETEEX. 106 One of the terminal divisions of the Brachial Artery. 107 It extends from the front of the division, as just stated, to the Wrist, (the anterior part of the Styloid Process of the Eadius). 108 The common Integument, deep Eascia, and Supinator Longiis Muscle. 109 The Supinator Brevis, Pronator Eadii Teres, Elcxor Sublimis Digitorum, Elexor Longus PoUicis, and Pronator Quadratus.196 ANSWEES TO QtJESTIOITS 110 Above, the Pronator Teres, and, below, tbe Plexor Carpi Eadialis. 111 The Supinator Longus and the Eadial Branch of the Muscnlo-spiral Nerve. 112 Between those of the Tlexor Carpi Eadialis and Sup- inator Eadii Longus. 113 Into three sets, viz : those of the rorearm, "Wrist, and Hand. 114 The Muscular and Eecurrent Eadial. 115 Its Branches inosculate \\ith the superior Profunda. 116 Superficial, Volar, anterior and posterior Carpal, Meta- cai-pal, and Dorsales Pollicis. 117 By the terminal Branches of the superficial Volar with those of the Ulnar Axtery. 118 The Eadial Artery, its terminal Branch—the Arcus Volae Profundus. 119 The Eecurrent, three Perforating, and two or three Palmar Interosseous Branches. 120 By inosculating with the anterior Carpal of the Ulnar Artery. 121 By inosculating with the posterior Carpal of the Ulnar Artery. 122 By inosculatitig with the Digital Artery of the super- ficial Palmar Arch. 123 The index and middle Pingers. 124 The Dorsal surface of the Thumb, corresponding in their course to its Eadial and Ulnar Borders. 125 The large Branch of the Thumb vel Arteria Piinceps Pollicis, the Digital Branch of the Index Finger vel Arteria Eadialis Indicis, the Interosseous and Perfor- ating Branches. 126 Between the Abductor Indicis andPlexorBrevis Pollicis, between the Heads of which last-named Muscle, it divides into two Digital Branches, which are distri- buted to the two .sides of the Palmar surface of the Thumb. TTLKAR AB.TEET. 127 The other terminal division of the Brachial Artery, 128 The Ulnar Artery. 129 This Artery ia the upper half of its course inclines obliquely inwards, it then crosses the Arm, running down the Ulnar side to the Wrist, where it passes over the Annular Ligament and forms, with the terminal Branches of the superficial Volar Artery, the superficial Palmar Arch.197 ON HtrMAN ANATOMr. 130 Its upper half is in relation with the superficial Muscles of the Forearm, viz: Pronator Radii Teres, Elexor Carpi Eadialis, Flexor Sublimis Digitorum, and Palm- aris Longus, and, below the Artery, hecomes superficial where it lies between the Tendons of the Flexor Carpi Ulaaris and Flexor Digitorum Sublimis, being coyered merely by the common Integument and Fascia of the Arm. 131 Above, the Brachialis Anticus and Flexor Profundus Digitorum; and below, the Pronator Quadratus and Annular Ligament. 132 Flexor Carpi Ulnaris, and the Ulnar 'Nevye at the middle of the Forearm accomj)anies the Ulnar Artery. 133 The Flexor Digitorum Sublimis. 134 The Venae Comites, one on either side the Artery. 135 To its inner side for about one inch is the Median Nerve, which is soon separated from it by the origin of the Pronator Eadii Teres, between the Heads of which Muscle it passes. 136 Like the Eadial, they may be arranged into three sets, viz: those of the Forearm, Wrist, and Hand. 137 The anterior and posterior Ulnar Recurrent, the anterior and posterior Interosseous and Muscular. 138 It inosculates beneath the Pronator Radii Teres with. the Anastomotica Magna of the Brachial. 139 It inosculates with the AnastomoticaMagna and inferior Profunda. 140 The anterior and posterior Interosseous Arteries. 141 It inosculates with the posterior Interosseous, also the Carpal Branches of the Radial and Ubiar. 142 Yes; several ofi'sets—one accompanies the Median Werve, called the Median Artery. 143 It inosculates with the anterior Interosseous and Carpal Branches. 144 Like the anterior Interosseous, it gives off several offsets—the chief of which is the Recurrent Branch, which inosculates with the superior Profunda of the Brachial. 145 The anterior and posterior Carpal Branches (or Palmar and Dorsal,) and the Digital Branches. 146 They inosculate with similar offsets from the Radial Artery. 147 Four; which arise from the convexity of the super- ficial Palmar Arch. a2 •198 A1TSWEE9 TO QTTESXIONS 148 The Ulnar side of the little Finger. 149 The contiguous borders of the ring and little Fingers. 150 The contiguous borders of the ring and middle Fingers. 151 The corresponding sides of the middle and index Fingers. 152 The Eadial Artery. 153 The Os Pisiforme. Section XXXIV.—THORACIC AETEEIES. THOEACXC AOKTA. 1 The Bronchial, Pericardial, CEsophageal, and Intercostal. S From the anterior part of the Thoracic Aorta. 3 The Nutrient Yessels of the Lungs. 4 Uncertain; sometimes three and sometimes four. 5 The substance of the Lungs; they also give some offsets to the Pericardium and (Esophagus. 6 Prom four to six in number, and arise from the anterior part of the Thoracic Aorta, towards the right side. 7 The OEsophagus, and communicate with each other; the superior anastomose also with Branches of the inferior Thyroid Artery (CEsophageal), and the inferior with Branches of the Coronary Artery of the Stomach (the Gastric). 8 These Arteries, nine or ten on either side, aaise in pairs from the posterior part of the Thoracic Aorta. 9 Those of the right side. 10 From the circumstance of the Aorta lying on the left side the Yertebral Column. 11 They divide in the Intercostal Spaces into an anterior and a posterior Branch; the former supplying the Intercostal Muscles, &c., and the latter, the Muscles of the Back. 13 By the superior Intercostal Artery, derived from the Subclavian Artery. Sectiok XXXV.—ABDOMmAL AORTA. 1 These Arteries are arranged into two divisions (Visceral and Parietal): the first consists of the Cseliac Axis, the superior and inferior Mesenteric, the Emulgent or Renal, the Supra-renal or Capsular, and the Spermatic Arteries. 2 From the anterior part of the Abdominal Aorta between the Crura of the Diaphi-agm, opposite the junction or union of the last Dorsal with the first Lumbar Vertebra. 3 The Coronary or Gastric, Hepatic, and the Splenic.199 OK HUMAN AKATOMY. 4 The Coronary (Coronaria Ventriculi). 5 It passes upwards between the two Layers of the lesser Omentum to the left or Cardiac Orifice of the Stomach, it then turns to the right, running along the upper or lesser ciu've of the Stomach to its Pyloric extremity, where it anastomoses with the Pyloric Branch of the Hepatic Artery. 6 (Esophageal, Splenic, and Gastric Branches. 7 This Artery, in its course to the Liver, pusses upwards along the right border of the little Omentum, and divides near the transverse Pissui'e into two terminal Branches—the right and left Hepatic Branches, which latter supply the substance of the Liver. 8 The Pyloric, the right Gastro-epiploic (Gastro-epiploica Dexti'a), and the tenninal or right and left Hepatic Branches. 9 It inosculates with the Coronary Artery. 10 The Pancreatico-diiodenal, superior and inferior Pyloric. 11 It inosculates with the left Gastro-epiploic Branch of the Splenic Artery. 12 It inosculates with a small Branch from the superior Mesenteric Artery (the inferior Pancreatico-duodenal Branch). 13 The Cystic Ai-tery. 14 From its origin to its division into the Pancreatico- duodenal Branch. 15 The Splenic. 16 It runs transversely along the upper border of the Pan- creas to the left side. 17 It divides into six or eight Terminal Branches, which enter the substance of the Spleen, to which they are dist-ributed; from the circumstance of the Splenic Tissue being so soft, it is extremely difficult to trace them to their terminations. 18 The Pancreatic, the left Gastro-epiploic (Arteria Gastro- epiploica Sinistra), and the Vasa Previa. 19 To the Pancreatic Gland, and one—the Arteria Pan- creatica Magna—accompanies the Duct through the substance of the Gland. 20 This Branch, larger than the rest, appears to be contin- uous with the Splenic Artery; it inosculates with the Gastro-epiploica Dextra of the Hepatic Artery, and supplies the anterior and posterior surfaces of the Stomach and Greater Omentum.200 AKSWEES TO QTTESTIONS 21 These Eranclies, five or six in number, ramify in the Coats of the Stomach, and inosculate with Branches of the Coronary and left Gastro-epiploic Arteries,— thus completing on the left side the Vascular Zone which surrounds the Stomach. 22 The Stomach. STJPEEIOE MESENTERIC AETEET. 23 From the anterior part of the Aorta just below the Celiac Axis (about a quarter-of-an-inch below). 24 It descends obliquely to the left, at first behind the Pancreas, and then enters between the two Laminte or Folds of the Mesentery, it then takes a sweep obliquely to the right, and terminates in the right Iliac Fossa; in this course it forms an arch, from which Arch or Cui-ve several small Branches arise. 25 The Kami Intestini Tenuis, the Pancreatico-duodenalis Inferior, Ileo-colica, Colica Dextra, and Colica Media. 26 These Branches, sixteen to eighteen in number, arise from the Convexity or Arch of the superior Mesenteric Artery, commimicating with each other, and are distributed to the Jejunum and Ilium. 27 The Arteria Ileo-colica, Colica Dextra et Colica Media. 28 From the Concavity on the right side of the superior Mesenteric Artery, it descends to the Caecum, and divides into Branches which supply this Pouch, also the last portion of the IHum and the first portion of the Colon. 29 It inosculates with the Terminal Intestinal Branches and the right Colic Branch of the superior Mesenteric Artery. 30 From the Concavity on the right side of the superior Mesenteric Artery, 31 To the right or ascending Colon; and terminates by inosculating with the Ileo-colic and middle Colic Branches. 32 From the Concavity on the right side of the superior Mesenteric Artery. 33 To the Transverse Colon; and terminates by inosculating with the Colicus Dexter of the superior Mesenteric Artery, and the Colicus Sinister or left Colic of the inferior Mesenteric Ai'tery. IlSrFEEIOE MESENTEEIC AETERT. 34 From the anterior part of the Abdominal portion of the descending Aorta, about one finger's breadth below the Spermatic Arteries.OS mXMAlT ANATOMY. 201 35 It descends at &st on the Aorta, and then crosses to the left Iliac Fossa, between the Folds of the left IVTeso-colon, where it terminates in three Branches : the left Colic (Eamus Colicus Sinister,) the Sigmoid (Eamns Sigmoideus), and the superior Haemorrhoidal (Eamus Hfemorrhoidalis Superior). 36 To the descending Colon; and inosculates with the middle Colic Branch of the superior Mesenteric Artery and the Sigmoid Branch. 3 7 To the Sigmoid Flexure of the Colon; and inosculates with the left Colic and superior Hsemon-hoidal Branches. 38 To the lower part of the Eectum, and forms the terminal Branch of the inferior Mesenteric Artery. 39 The middle and external or inferior Hfemorrhoidal Branches, the former derived from the anterior Trunk of the internal Ihac, and the latter from the internal Pudic, external to the Pelvis. EESTAL AETEEIES. 40 From the sides of the Abdominal Aorta just below the superior Mesenteric. 41 Transversely outwards, with a slight inclination back- wards and downwards. 42 The right. 43 On accoimt of the position of the Aorta, as it has to cross the Spinal Column. 44 The left. 45 They each divide into four or five Branches which enter the substance of the Kidney between its Vein and Ureter. STJPEA-EENAl AETEEIES. 46 They are some.what irregular in their origin; sometimes from the Aorta on a level with the superior Mesen- teric Artery, sometimes from the Phrenic; the right sometimes arises from the right Eenal. 47 They are distributed to the Supra-renal Bodies, inoscu- lating with the Phrenic and Eenal Arteries. SPEEMATIC AETEEIES. 48 From the anterior part of the Aorta a little below the Eenal Arteries (between them and the inferior Mesenteric Artery.) 49 Each descends obliquely outwards and downwards along the posterior WaU of the Abdomen on the Psoas Muscle, and beneath the Peritoneum to the internal Abdominal Eing through which it passes, accom-ANSTVEES TO aUESTIONS 202 panying the Spermatic Cord along the Canal to its termination in the Testis, to which it is distributed. 50 They descend into the Pelvis, passing between the two Folds of the broad Ligaments, and are distributed to the Ovaria and Uterus. 51 They anastomose with the Arteries of the TJterus. 52 The Phrenic, Lumbar, and middle Sacral Arteries. 53 Prom the fore part of the Aorta, close to the inferior surface of the Diaphragm. 54 Each passes outwards along the inferior surface of the Diaphragm, and terminate in Anastomotic Branches —an internal and an external Branch. 55 "With its fellow of the opposite side. 56 It anastomoses with the Intercostal Arteries. 57 With the Musculo-phrenic (derived fi-om the internal Mammary,) (Esophageal, Gastric, & Capsular Arteries. 58 To the Diaphragm, Pancreas, and Supra-renal Capsules; the left Phrenic supplies Branches to the Spleen and CEsophagus,the right, the Vena Cava at its termination. 59 These Arteries (four or five on either side) are analogous to the Intercostal Arteries in the Chest in theu* mode of origin, course, and size; they arise from the post- erior part of the Abdominal Aorta opposite the centre of the Lumbar Vertebrae. 60 In two Branches—Dorsal and Abdominal—between the Longissimus Dorsi and Multifidus Spince Muscles. 61 To the deep-seated Lumbar Muscles, e.g. Multifidus Spinae, Erector Spina3. 62 The Transverse Processes of the Lumbar Vertebrae. 63 A Spinal Branch. 64 The Abdominal Muscles. 65 They inosculate with the inferior Intercostal, the Ilio- lumbar (from the internal IHac), and the Circumflex Iliac (from the external Iliac) Arteries. 66 Prom the exti-emity of the Aorta—its Bifurcation; some- times from the posterior part, a little above its division. 67 It passes downwards along the middle line to the Coccyx, where it terminates on either side by anastomosing with the lateral Sacral Artpries ; these latter are derived from the posterior Trunk of the internal Iliac Artery. 68 To the Eectura, the anterior Sacral Nerves, the Sacrum, and Muscles attached to this Bone. 69 The Phrenic, Supra-renal, Eenal,Spermatic, and Lumbar.ox mjMAJT AXATOMT. 903 70 Cfeliac Axis, superior and inferior Mesenteric, and the middle Sacral. Section XXXYI.—PELVIC ARTEEIES. 1 The two common Iliac Arteries, also the middle Sacral, which latter has just been described. 2 Opposite the junction of the fourth and fifth Lumbar Vertebrte. 3 Each about two-and-a-half inches in length. 4 Downwards and outwards towards the base of the SaciTim (its Sacro-iliac junction) where they divide into two large Trunks—the internal and external Iliac Arteries. 5 The right. 6 From the circumstance of the Aorta being situated on the left side the Vertebral Column. 7 jS'o. 8 Peritoneum, Ureter, and latter portion of the Hiimi. 9 The two common Iliac Veins. 10 Peritoneum, Ureter, Eectum, and the Terminal Branch of the inferior Mesenteric Artery (the superior Hee- morrhoidal). 11 The left common Iliac Vein. INTEENAX ILIAC AKTEET. 12 One of the terminal divisions of the common IHac Artery. 13 About one-and-a-haK inches in length. 14 The internal IHac Artery, and vice-versa in the Adult. 15 It extends from the Sacro-iliac Junction to the gi'eat Sacro-ischiatic jSFotch, where it divides into two large or Primary Branches an anterior and a posterior Trunk. 16 Umbilical, Vesical, the middle Haemon'hoidal and the two Terminal Branches, viz: Sciatic and Pudic. XraiBILICAL AETEET. 17 The Umbilical or Hypogastric Artery forms an impervious Cord, with the exception of about one-inch-and-half, from which two or three superior Vesical Branches are given off to the body and upper part of the Urinary Bladder. 18 Erom the division of the common Iliac on either side it proceeds downwards and forwards to the Bladder, it then ascends to its upper part or Eundus along the Urachus to the Umbilicus, between the Peritoneum and Eecti Muscles; having escaped at this Abdominal Opening, it forms a part of the Umbilical Cord twining204 ANSTVEES TO QUESTIONS around its accompanying Vein, and on aniving at the Placenta, divides into numerous Brandies which, ramify throughout this vascular, spongy texture. 19 From their position into superior and inferior. 20 To the body and upper part of the Bladder. 21 The posterior part of the Bladder, Prostate, andVesiculaj Seminales. 22 To the Buttock. 23 Through the great Ischiatic ITotch between the Pyri- formis and Coccygeus Muscles. 24 The Coccygeal, one to the great Ischiatic Nerve called Comes Nervi Ischiatici, and some small Muscular Branches to the back of the Hip and Thigh. 25 The Coccygeus and Pyriformis Muscles. 26 To the Perineiun and Genital Organs, entering the Perinseal Space through the small Sacro-sciatic Notch. 27 It loasses downwards anterior to the Sciatic Artery to the great Sacro-sciatic Notch, where it escapes from the Pelvis, it then winds over the Spine of the Ischium, and re-enters the Pelvis through the small Sacro- sciatic Notch, and is distributed to the Perinseal Space. 28 The Branches within the Pelvis are very small, and are distributed to the posterior part of the Bladder, the Vesiculse Seminales, and Prostate Gland. 29 No; it is frequently supplied by the Pudic ere this Artery emerges from the Pelvis. 30 To the Eectum and Bladder, and in the Pemale to the Vagina. 31 It inosculates with the inferior and superior Hsemor- rhoidal Branches, the former derived from the Pudic, and the latter from the inferior Mesenteric Arteries. 32 The inferior or external Hsemorrhoidal, the superficial and transverse Perineasal, the Artery of the Bulb (Arteria Bulbosi), the Artery of the Cavernous |, Structure of the Penis (Arteria Corporis Cavernosi), and the Dorsal Artery of the Penis (Arteria Dorsalis Penis). 33 To the Muscles and parts around the Anus. ^ 34 By inosculating with the superior Hasmorrhoidal Branch (derived from the inferior Mesenteric), it also communi- cates with its feUow of the opposite side. 35 To the Perineum and Scrotum. 36 By inosculating with the superficial external Pudic Branch, which is derived from the Femoral Artery.205 ON HTIMAK AITATOMT. 37 To the Integuments and transverse Perinseal Muscles. 88 It inosculates with its fellow of the opposite side. 89 To the Corpus Spongiosum, or spongy structure of the Penis. 40 To the Cavernous stracture; it forms one of the ultimate or terminal Branches of the internal Pudic. 41 The other tei'roinal Branch of the internal Pudic. 42 In the Grlans Penis, distributing Branches in its course to the body of the Organ, also the Integument. 43 The Obturator, Ilio-lumbar, lateral Sacral, and Gluteal. 44 Through the upper part of the Obturator or Thyroid Poramen, where it divides into two Branches—an. internal or Pelvic portion, and an external or Pemoral portion. 45 To the Adductor Muscles, also the Pectineus and Gracilis. 46 To the Obtui'ator and Quadratus Muscles. 47 It divides in the Iliac Possa on either side into two Branches—an ascending or Lumbar Branch, and a txansverse or Iliac Branch. 48 The Psoas, Iliacus, and Quadratus Lumborum Muscles. 49 It inosculates with the last Lumbar Artery. 50 Yes, a small Spinal Branch to the Cord & its Membranes. 51 An Inter-vertebral Poramen, between the last Lumbar Vertebra and the Sacrum. 52 The Iliacus and Abdominal Muscles. 53 It inosculates with the Lumbar Artery, also with the Circumflex Iliac, a Branch derived from the external Iliac Artery. 54 Pour: two on each side, divided into superior and inferior. 55 The Pyriformis and Coccygeus Muscles. 56 They inosculate with each other, also with the Lumbar Arteries, and the middle Sacral Artery. 57 Yes; a small Spinal Branch, which passes into the Yertebral Canal through each Sacral Poramen. 58 The Gluteal Artery. 59 The Terminal Branch of the posterior division or Trunk of the internal Ihac Artery. 60 Through the Great Sacro-sciatic Notch above the Pyri- formis Muscle. 61 The superficial Branch and tho deep Branch, which latter divides into two—a superior and an inferior. 62 To the Gluteus Maximus and Integument. 63 The Gluteus Mcdius and Minimus Muscles. BANSWERS TO QtTESTIONS 206 64 It inosculates witli the ascending Branches of the external Circumiiex Artery, which latter is one of the Prof undal Branches of the Femoral Artery. 65 Like the preceding Branch it inosculates with the external Circumflex Arteiy. EXTEENAL ILIAC AETEEY. 66 The other Terminal division of the common Iliac Artery. 67 Within the Abdominal Cavity. 68 Obliquely downwards and outwards from its Bifurcation opposite the Sacro-iliac Junction to the Temoral Arch or lower border of Poupart's Ligament. 69 Peritoneum, the Spermatic Vessels, the Sub-peritoneal Layer, and the Ureter. 70 The external Iliac Vein. 71 The Psoas Muscle. 72 The Vas Deferens or Excretory Duct of the Testis. 73 The Epigastric and Circumflex Iliac. 74 From the external Iliac, about two lines above the mar- gin of Poupart's Ligament. 75 At flrst it passes downwards and inwards, it then passes obliquely upwards andinwardsbetweenthe Peritoneiim and Transversalis Fascia, imtil it arrives midway between the Umbilicus and Pubes where it perforates the Fascia Transversalis, and enters the Sheath of the Rectus, along which it passes, and then divides into Branches which are distributed to that Muscle, and which inosculate near the Xiphoid Cartilage with the Terminal Branches of the internal Mammary Artery (a Branch of the Subclavian.) 76 The internal Abdominal Eing. 77 The Cremasteric. 78 To the Coverings of the Cord, 79 It inosculates with the Spermatic Artery (a Branch of the Aorta.) 80 Tes; but require no particular description, they axe the Muscular, and the anterior and posterior Terminal Branches, also a small transverse Pubic Branch. 81 The Epigastric Artery. 82 From the outer side of the external Hiac, on a level with Poupart's Ligament. 83 It passes upwai'ds and outwards around the Crest of the Ilnim, and opposite its anterior-superior Spinous Process passes between the attachments of the internal207 OH" HnjMAN ATTATOMr. Oblique and Transversalis Muscles, wliere it is ulti- mately distributed. 84 The Ilio-lumbar (a Braneli of the internal Iliac), also the Epigastiic and Lumbar Arteries. Sectioi^ XXXVII.—ARTEEIES OE THE LOWER EXTREMITIES. FEMOKAL AETEEr, 1 Eemoral Artery is the name given to the external Iliac immediately after it has passed the lower border of Poupart's Ligament. 2 Erom the Crural Arch or lower border of Poupart's Liga- ment, midway between the anterior-superior spinous Process of the lUum & the Symphysis Pubis, to the open- ing in the Adductor Magnus Muscle, opposite the junc- tion of the middle with the inferior third of the Thigh. 3 It occupies the anterior and inner part of the Thigh in the first two-thirds of this extent, it then bends backwards till it reaches the Ham, where it becomes: Popliteal. 4 Integument, superficial and deep Easeia, and some Inguinal Glands. 5 The Sartorius Muscle. 6 Adductor Longus, Pectineus, and the Eemoral Yein at the Pubes. ^--</o r /7 ► f "- -i 7 The Psoas, Rectus and the Vastus Intemus Muscles, also the anterior Crural Nerve (a Branch from the Lumbar Plexus). 8 The Psoas, the Eemoral Vein, the Profunda Vein, and some Branches of the Profunda Artery, it then lies on the Adductor Longus, and, fijially, the conjoined Tendon. 9 Erom the upper or superficial part of its course. 10 The superficial Epigastric, superficial Circumflex Iliac, the external Pudic (superior and inferior), the Pro- funda, the Muscular, and the Anastomoticus Magnus. 11 To the Integument, superficial Eascia, Cellular Tissue, and Inguinal Glands. 12 Its Terminal Branches inosculate with the Epigastric and internal Mammary Arteries, the former derived from the external Iliac, and the latter from the Sub- clavian Arteries. 13 To the Integument.ANSWEES TO aHESTIOKS 208 14 Its Brandies inosculate witli the external Circumflex (a Branch of the Profunda), and Gluteal Branches. 15 Two : a superior and inferior one. 16 To the Integument of the Penis and Scrotum. 17 To the Integument of the Scrotum and Peiineum. 18 To the Labia Pudendi. 19 The Profunda, sometimes called the deep PemoraL 20 The Nutrient Vessel of the Thigh. 21 From the outer part of the Pemoral Artery about two inches below Poupart's Ligament. 22 Downwards and backwards beneath the Pemoral Artery and the Adductor Longus, and terminates at the lower third of the Thigh by piercing the Adductor Magnus Muscle, and distributing its Branches to the Plexors at the back of the Thigh. 23 The Adductor Longus and Profunda Veia. 24 The Pectineus, Adductor Brevis, and Magnus. 25 The external Circumflex, the internal Circumflex, and the Perforating Branches. 26 To the Extensors on the front of the Thigh. 27 It divides into three Branches : an ascending, transverse, and descending. 28 By inosculating with the Terminal Branches of the Gluteal Artery. 2 9 By inosculating with the Perforating and Sciatic Branches. 30 By inosculating with the external Articular Branches derived from the Popliteal Artery. 31 To the Muscles on the upper and inner side of the Thigh. 32 By inosculating with the Obturator Ai'tery (derived from the posterior division of the internal Iliac). 33 Three, and called from their position—superior, middle, and inferior. 34 To the Back and outer part of Thigh. 35 By inosculating with Branches of the intemallliac (the Sciatic). 36 By inosculating with the superior and inferior Perfor- ating Branches. 37 By iaosculating with the middle Perforating, also the Articular Branches of the Popliteal. 38 The second or middle Perforating Branch. 89 Through the medium of the Perforating Branches of the Profunda. 40 Prom the Pemoral, as the latter is about to pass through the Opening in the Adductor Magnus iato the Popli- teal Space.209 OIT HUMAN" AKATOJir. 41 It divides at the Opening into two Branches—a super- ficial and deep. 42 To the Integument. 43 By inoscnlating with the superior internal Articular Branch of the Popliteal Artery. 44 To the Vastus Internus and Crureus Muscles, also the Knee-joint. 45 By inosculating with the superior external Articular Branch of the Popliteal, also the external Circumflex derived from the Profunda. POPLITEAL AKTEET. 46 That portion of the Arterial Trunlc which extends from LfCi the Opening in the Adductor Magnus to the lower *\a / border of the Popliteus Muscle, where it Bifurcates ^yu*ufrfe*-j. into the anterior and posterior Tibial Arteries. (L't^tniA* 47 Downwards and somewhat outwards through the centre —'— of the Popliteal Space. 48 The Ham-string Muscles and inner Condyle. 49 The Ham-string Muscles, external Condyle, and Popli- teal Vein. 50 The body of the Semimembranosus Muscle, Popliteal iNerveand Vein, Adipose Tissue, PasciaLata, and the Integument. 51 The Pemur (the lower part of its posterior surface) -aad the posterior Ligament of the Knee-joint (Ligamentum Posticum of Winslow)/- iPrA/t./.'i^.,S^ 52 Two superior Articular (external and internal), two inferior Articular (external and internal), and a central or Azygos Articular Branch. 53 To the upper part of the Knee-joint and lower part of the Pemur, 54 By inosculating with its feUow of the opposite side, also the external Circumflex(derived from the deep Femoral) 55 By inosculating with its feUow of the opposite side, also the Anastomotica Magna (derived from the Pemoral Artery). 56 To the lower part of the Knee-joint, also the upper parts of the Tibia and Pibula. 67 By inosculating with its fellow of the opposite side and the superior Articular Branches, it also inosculates with the Becurrent Branch of the anterior Tibial Artery. 58 By inosculating with its feUow, also the superior Arti- cular Branches. e2210 AlfSWEES TO QOTSTIONS 59 Several; sometimes three or four. 60 To the Crucial Ligaments and Synovial Membrane "within the Knee-joint. 61 Yes: some Muscular Branches which supply the Gastroc- nemius and Ham-string Muscles, called Sural Branches. ANTEJilOE TIBIAL AETERT. 62 From the division of the Popliteal Artery to the anterior aspect of the Ankle-joint, where it assumes the name of the Dorsal Artery. 63 It passes forwards between the two Heads of the Tibialis Posticus Muscle, through the Aperture in the upper part of the Interosseous Ligament, it then descends along the fore-part of this Ligament and the Tibia to the Ankle-joint. 64 The deep Fascia, Extensor Proprius Pollicis, Extensor tv^» J LongTis Digitorum, and anterior Tibial Nerve. 65 The Interosseous Ligament (two-thirds of its extent), the Tibia (lower third), and the Ankle-joint. 66 The Tibialis Anticus (its upper part) and the Tendon of the Extensor Proprius Pollicis. 67 The Extensor Longus Digitorum (its upper part), Ex- tensor Proprius Pollicis, and the anterior Tibial Nerve at the lower end of the Artery. 68 The Kecun-ent, Muscular, and Malleolar (internal and external.) 69 As soon as the Artery has perforated the Interosseous Ligament. 70 To the Knee-joint. 71 It inosculates with the other Articular Branches. 72 To the Muscles on the anterior surface of the Leg, the Tibialis Anticus, Extensor Digitoinim Communis, and Extensor Proprius Pollicis, some Branches are also distributed to the Tibialis Posticus as it passes between the two Heads of this Muscle. 73 Into two sets : external and internal. 74 As their name implies, to the Ankle-joint. 75 They inosculate with Branches of the anterior Peroneal Artery, also Tarsal Branches of the Ai'teria Dorsalis Pedis. 76 They also inosculate with Branches derived from the posterior Tibial Artery (anterior Peroneal). DOESAL AETEEY. 77 The continuation of the anterior Tibial Artery. 78 From the anterior aspect of the Ankle-joint along theON mjMAN ANATOMT. 911 the Dorsal or convex surface of the Poot (its Tibial side) to the posterior extremity or base of the first Metatarsal Bone. 79 Integument, deep Fascia, and, near its extremity, the inner tendon of the Extensor Brevis Digitorum. 80 The inner row of TarsalBones, viz : Astragalus, Scaphoid, and fii'st Cuneiform Bone. 81 The Tendon of the Extensor Proprius PoUicis. 89 The inner Tendon of the Extensor Longus Digitorum Pedis, and Extensor Brevis Digitorum. 83 The Tarsal, Metatarsal, and Interosseous Branches—the latter including the first or Communicating Branch. 84 It inosculates with the external Malleolar, Metatarsal, and external Plantar Branches. 85 It forms a Curve across the Metatarsal Bones to the outer part of the Eoot. 86 By inosculating with the preceding Branch, also the external Plantar. 87 Prom the convexity of the cuiwe of the Metatarsal Branch the three Interosseous Branches arise. 88 To the three outer Interosseous Spaces, each resting on one of the Dorsal Interosseous Muscles, to which it is distributed. 89 They divide at the cleft between the Toes into two Kamusculi or Collateral Branches which sujDply the adjoining Toes. 90 Through the medium of the anterior and posterior Per- forating Branches ; the former derived fi-om the Digital Branches of the external Plantar, and the latter from the Plantar Arch. 91 The Eamus Dorsalis Pollicis Pedis, sometimes called the first Interosseous Branch. 92 Like the other Interosseous Branches it passes forwards in the Interosseous Space between the first and second Toes, and divides into two Branches, which are distributed to the corresponding Interosseous Muscle, also the inner surface of the gi-eat Toe. 93 The Communicating Branch of the Dorsal Artery of the Poot. POSTEKIOE TIBIAL AETEET. 94 Prom the division of the Popliteal Artery opposite the lower border of the Popliteus Muscle to the inner concave surface of the Os Calcis, where it divides into two Branches, which are distributed to the Sole212 ANSWEES TO QTTESTIONS of the Poot and Toes, internal and external Plantar Arteries. 95 At the commencement it is situated between the Tibia and Fibula; it then passes obliquely downwards and inwards, behind the inner Ankle to j^the concavity of the Os Calcis. 96 Tibialis Posticus, Plexor Longus Digitorum. 97 Its upper half is covered by the Soleus and Gastroc- nemius, and, lower down, only by the deep Fascia of the Leg and the Integument. 98 Its accompanying Veins (Venae Comites) and the post- erior Tibial Nerve. 99 The Peroneal, Muscular, and the nutritious Artery of the Tibia. 100 From the posterior Tibial Artery, nearly two inches below the origin of the latter Artery. 101 At first obliquely outwards to the Fibula, it then descends perpendicularly along the inner border of this Bone until it arrives at the lower part of the Inter- osseous Ligament, where it divides into two Branches —the anterior and posterior Peroneal Arteries. 102 "No; according to some, the anterior Peroneal is only a Branch of the Peroneal, whilst the latter is continued over the Joint to the external surface of the Os Calcis. 103 By piercing the Interosseous Ligament at the lower third of the Leg, running on the anterior surface of the Fibula, beneath the Peroneus Tertius Muscle to within about two inches of the outer Malleolus; it then divides into several Branches which pass beneath the Extensor Tendons. 104 To the Dorsum and outer part of the Foot. 105 It inosculates with the external Malleolar and Tarsal Branches; the former derived from the anterior Tibial, and the latter fi-om the Dorsal Arteiy. 106 It continues in its original course along the posterior aspect of the outer ankle to the outer surface of the Os Calcis, where it terminates in small Branches which inosculate with the Tarsal, anterior Peroneal, and external Plantar Branches. 107 To the Soleus and deep Flexors on the posterior aspect of the Leg, e.ff. Flexor Longus Digitorum, Flexor Pollicis Pedis. 108 It enters the posterior surface of the Bone obliquely from below upwards.OK HUMAK AKATOMT. 213 109 The Tibialis Posticus. riiANTAE ARTEEIES. 110 The Terminal cli^dsions of the posterior Tibial Artery. 111 Trom their position into external and internal. 112 The external, which appears to be the continuation of the posterior Tibial. 113 It first passes obliquely outwards across the Sole of the Foot to the base of the last Metatarsal Bone, it then turns transversely inwards to the first Metatarsal Space, where it terminates by inosculating with the Communicating Branch of the Dorsal Artery. 114 The horizontal, or that portion of the external Plantar Artery, which extends from the base of the last Meta- tarsal I3one to the interval or space between the first and second^Metatarsal Bones, where it joins the Com- municating Branch of the Dorsal Artery and forms the Plantar Ai-ch (called the Great Plantar Arch by Harrison) 115 Between the third and fourthLayers of Plantar Muscles. 116 The Muscular, Digital, and the three posterior Perfora- ting Branches. 117 Pour; which arise from the curve of the Plantar Arch. 118 This a single Branch, and supplies the outer border of the little Toe. 119 These Branches divide at the cleft between the three outer Metatarsal Spaces, and supply the adjacent sides of these three Spaces. 120 Each Digital Artery at its Bifurcation gives off a small Branch called the anterior Perforating Branch. 121 By inosculating with the Interosseous Branches of the Metatarsal (derived from the Dorsal) on the Dorsum of the Foot. 122 From the imder part of the Plantar Arch, 123 They pass upwards to theDorsum of the Foot between the Heads of the outer Dorsal Interosseous Muscles, through the three outer Inter-metatarsal Spaces. 124 By inosculating with the Curve formed by the Meta- tarsal Branch of the Dorsal Artery. 125 It passes forwards from its Bifurcation, along the inner border of the Foot, under cover of the Abductor Pol- licis Pedis to the Boot of the great Toe, to which it is distributed, it also supplies the inner border of the Foot. 126 By inosculating with the external Plantar Artery (so as to form a superficial Plantar Arch; Harrison).ANSWEES TO QXTESTIOKS 214 Sectioit XXXYIII.—veins m GEi^EEAL. 1 TheYeins are those Vessels by which the Elood is re- turned to the Auiicles of the Heart from the different parts of the Body. 2 By being more transparent, their Coats thinner, less elastic, collapse when di-vided, larger than Arteries, and have no pulsation. 8 They commence from the extreme Branches or'.Capillary terminations of the Arteries throughout the various Tissues of the Body, and converge so as to form larger Vessels which ultimately terminate in the large Venous Trunks which open into the Auricles of the Heart. 4 They invariably accompany the Arteries with the excep- tion of the superficial Veins. 5 The Veins. 6 Their structure resembles that of Arteries being com- posed of three Coats or Layers, an external or Cellular, a middle or Eibrous, and an internal or Serous Coat. 7 This Coat forms occasionally semilunar Eolds called Valves. 8 To prevent the regurgitation of the Blood into the part of the Vessel from which it had just been conveyed. 9 They are generally arranged inpau's, with their concave or free border directed towards the Heart and meet when the Vessel is distended, thus forming a com- plete Sej)tum. 10 No; they do not exist in the Head or Viscera. 11 Yes; the Vena Azygos, also the Coronary Vein of the Heart. 12 Six. 13 The four Pulmonary Veins and the superior and inferior Venae Cavae. 14 Vasa Vasorum. Sectioit XXXIX.—VEINS OE THE HEAD AND NECK. 1 Into four divisions, viz., those of the Head and Neck, those of the Trunk, those of the Upper Extremity, and those of the Lower Extremity. 2 Into two sets, external and internal. 8 The Facial, the Temporal, the internal Maxillary, Temporo-MaxiUary, postei-ior Auricular & Occipital. 4 It commences at the side of the Boot of the Nose by a small Vein called the Angular Vein, and terminatesON irCTMAlT ANATOMY. 215 (after passing under the Zygomatic Muscles and cross- ing the Lower Border of the Jaw) in the iatemal Jugular Vein. 5 By the conflux of Branches from the Vertex, Porehead, Eyebrow and 'Nose, the Frontal and Supra-orbital Veins are formed, and the union of these two Veins constitiites the Angular Vein of the Face. 6 Infra and Supra-orbital, Buccal, Masseteric, Labial, ia- ferior Palpebral, Ophthalmic and Nasal. 7 By minute ramifications forming Plexuses upon the Vertex or Arch of the Skidl, which converging to- gether foi-m an anterior and posterior Branch, these then unite and pierce the Temporal Fascia just above the Zygoma and thus form the Temporal Vein. 8 By uniting with the internal Maxillary Vein. 9 Chiefly from the Pterygoid Plexus, which is formed from Branches corresponding to those of the Artery in the Zygomatic and Pterygoid Fossae. 10 By uniting behind the Neck of the inferior Maxilla with the Temporal Vein. 11 Temporo-maxillary Vein. IS The external Jugular Vein. 13 The anterior Auricular, Articiilar, Masseteric, transverse Facial, and Parotid Veins. 14 In the Plexus on the Arch of the Skull and terminates in the Temporo-maxUlary just before this Vessel assumes the name of the External Jugular Vein. 15 Those from the external Ear, also the Stylo-mastoid which passes through the Foramen of the same name in the Mastoid portion of the Temporal Bone. 16 In the Plexus at the back of the Head. 17 In the internal Jugular Vein, and occasionally in the external Jugular Vein. 18 The Lateral Sinus, through the medium of the Mastoid Foramen (the Mastoid Vein,) also with the Veins of the Diploe. 19 Externally in the Pericranial Veins, and internally in the Veins and Sinuses of the Dura Mater. CEJIEBEAL AND CEEEBELLAB. VEINS. 20 Into superficial and deep. 21 On the Cerebral surface placed in the Sulci or Furrows formed by the convolutions of the Hemispheres. 22 ISTo; some run over the convexity of the convolutions. 23 In the superior longitudinal Sinus.216 ANSWEES TO QTTESTI0K3 24 In the Lateral Sinus on cither side, 25 "Within the Ventricles of the Brain by the convergence of two Veins which fonn the Vena) Galeni, 26 On the surface of the Corpus Striatum are observed several minute Veins which unite and form one Vein, called Vena Corporis Striati, which communicates with one of the Veins of the Choroid Plexus, and these on either side form together the two Verne Galeni. 27 In the straight Sinus. 28 Like the Cerebral into a superficial and deep set. 29 In the straight Sinus, also the Vente Galeni. 30 In the lateral and superior Petrosal Sinuses. CEEEBEAX SINUSES. 31 By the inner or Serous Lining of the Veias, and the Fibrous Layer of the Dura Mater, which latter does not extend beyond the base of the SkuU. 32 Into two sets—those situated within the prominent Folds of the Dura Mater, and those situated at the base of the Skull. 33 The superior and inferior Longitudinal Sinuses, the Straight Sinus, the Occipital Sinus, and the Lateral Sinuses. 34 From the Crista GaUi of the Ethmoid Bone to the inner Tuberosity of the Occipital Bone, where it terminates in a dilatation called Torcular HerophiH, which forms the Conflux of five or six Sinuses. 35 Triangular, with its apex towards the front. 36 The superficial Cerebral Veins, also numerous small Veins from the substance and exterior of the SkuH (the Diploe, &c.) 37 Chordse WilUsii. 38 Glandulse Pacchioni. 39 In the lower concave border of the Falx Cerebri. 40 From near the Crista Galli of the Ethmoid Bone to the edge of the Tentorium, where it opens in the Straight Sinus. 41 Along the middle of the Tentorium, and appears to be the continuation of the inferior Longitudinal Sinus. 42 Like the superior Longitudinal it is triangular. 43 The Venae Galeni and the superficial Cerebellar Veins. 44 Along the attached border of the Falx CerebcUi. 45 From the Foramen Magnum to the Conflux vel Torcular Herophili, into which it opens.217 OK HXTMAN ANATOMY. 46 Yes. 47 From tlie Confliix at the internal Occipital Protuberance to the Foramina Lacei'a Posteriora, where they open one on either side into the internal Jugular Veia. 48 Those from the under surface of Cerehrum and Cere- bellum, also the Occipital Vein, through the medium of the Mastoid Foramen (Mastoid Veiu). 49 The superior and inferior Longitudinal Sinuses, the Straight and Occipital Sinuses, and the superior and inferior Petrosal Sinuses. 50 The Cu'cular Sinus, Cavernous Sinus, superior Petrosal Sinus, inferior Petrosal Sinus, and the Transyerse or Basilar Sinus. 51 Around the Pituitary Body, in the Sella Turcica. 52 The Cavernous Sinus on either side, and receives the Blood of the Pituitary Body through the mediimi of smaU Veins. 53 On either side of the Sella Turcica, by the side of the Body of the Sphenoid Bone. 54 The Ophthalmic Vein, which leaves the Orbit through the Sphenoidal Fissure, also some small Branches from the Pterygoid Veins exterior to the Skull, and some minute Veins from the under sxu'face of the Cerebrum. 55 Through the medium of the Circular and Occipital or Transverse Sinuses. 5 6 Through the medium of the superior and inferior Petrosal Sinuses. 57 The internal Carotid Arterv. 58 The third and fourth JSTerves, and the Ophthalmic or Orbital division of the fifth. 59 From the Sphenoidal Fissure to the Tip of the Petrous Bone. 60 They present a Eeticular or Cellular appearance, hence called Cavernous. 61 In a Depression or Groove in the upper border of the Petrous portion of the Temporal Bone. 62 The Cavernous and Lateral Sinus on either side. 63 One or two from the under sui-faces of the Cerebrum and Cerebellum. 64 In a Groove or Depression formed by the Petrous portion of the Temporal Bone (its posterior border) with the Basilar Process of the Occipital Bone. 8218 ANSWEES TO QtrESTIONS 65 It foi'ms the continuation backwards on either side of the Cavernous Sinus, and opens into the Lateral Sinus near its termination. 66 The Poramen Laceinina Medium. 67 This Sinus is situated at the anterior part of the Basilar Process, and establishes a communication between the inferior Petrosal and Cavernous Sinuses on either side. Section XL.—YEINS OF THE NECK. 1 By the union of the Temporal and internal Maxillary- Veins in the substance of the Parotid Gland. 2 It descends between the Sterno-mastoid and Platysma to the lower part of the Neck, where it pierces the deep Eascia to terminate in the Subclavian Vein, its course is best described by a line extending from the angle of the inferior Maxilla to a point midway between the Clavicle on either side. 3 Some superficial Branches (Venae Cutaneas), also two large Veins—the Supra-scapular and the posterior Scapular. 4 By the convergence of small Veins from the Integument below the Chin on the anterior part of the Neck. 5 In the Subclavian Vein, near its union with the external Jugular. 6 By means of a Transverse Branch. 7 This Vein is continuous on either side with the Lateral Sinus. 8 Erom the Eoramen Laceinim Posterius on either side the base of the Skull to the Stemo-clavicular Articulation. 9 In the Subclavian Vein at the Eoot of the Neck. 10 The Vena Innominata vel Brachio-cephalic Vein. 11 The Facial, Lingual, Occipital, the superior and middle Thyroid Veins, and Ascending Pharyngeal. 12 It is formed by small Eadicles in the Pericranium and deep Muscles in the back of the Neck, and passes through the Aperture in the Atlas, also through the Apertures or Foramina in the Transverse Processes of the Cervical Vertebras, where it emerges at the Eoot of the Neck, to terminate in the Subclavian Vein. 13 Superficial and deep Cervical Veins, internal and external Spinal Veias. Sectiok XLL—VEINS OF THE TEUNK. 1 The superior Vena Cava, the inferior Vena Cava, the Spinal Veins, the Azygos Veins, the Cardiac Veias, the Pulmonary Veins, and the Vena Portae.OK HTTMAIT ANATOMY. 219 VENA CAVA SUPEEIOK. 2 By the imion of the two Venaa Innominatse. 3 To convey to the Heart the Blood from the Head, Neck, Upper Extremities, and Thorax. 4 It extends almost vertically opposite the space between the Cartilages of the two first Ribs on the right side to the Pericardium, the Tibrons Coat of which it pierces, to terminate in the upper part of the right Auricle. 5 The Thoracic Fascia. 6 The Boot of the right Lung. 7 The ascending portion of the Aortic Arch. 8 The right Pleiira and right Phi^enic I^erve. 9 Some small Veins from the Pericardium and the Medi- astinum, and, just before it pierces the Pericardium, it receives the larger Azygos Vein. 10 By the union of the internal Jugular & Subclavian Veins. 11 From the inner ends of the Clavicles to beneath the Cartilage of the first Rib on the right side. 12 Almost vertical, and nearly one-and-a-half inches in length. 13 Almost transverse, and nearly three inches in length. 14 The three large Vessels which arise from the Arch of the Aorta are anterior to it, viz : the Arteria Innom- inata, left Carotid, and left Subclavian Branches. 15 The inferior Thyroid, internal Mammary, and superior Intercostal. 16 Tes, some Thymic and Mediastinal Branches. 17 They are not provided with Valves. VENA CAVA INPEEIOE. 18 By the union or confiux of the two common Iliac Veins. 19 To convey to the Heart the Blood from the lower half of the Body, i.e. the Blood wliich has been circulated by the Abdominal Aorta. 20 From opposite the junction on the right side of the fourth and fifth Lumbar Vertebrae, ascending along the right side of the Aorta, it passes through the Groove in the posterior border of the Liver, and pierces the Dia- phragm to reach the right Axiricle of the Heart, in which it terminates. 21 These are Parietal and Visceral; the Parietal are—the Lumbar and middle Sacral; and the Visceral are— the right Spermatic, Renal, right Capsular, and the Hepatic.220 ANSWEES TO QUESTIOITS 22 Ko; they frequently open into the common Iliac Vein. 23 Yes; they arise from the Ramueculi on the under sur- face of the Diaphragm. 24 Just below the Renal Vein. 25 Into the left Eenal Vein. 26 The Ovarian. 27 The left. 28 Because it crosses the Aorta, owing to the position of the Vena Cava Inferior. 29 The right into the inferior Cava, and the left into the Eenal Vein. 30 Into the inferior Cava, whilst this Vessel is lodged in the Fissure appropriated to it in the posterior border of the Liver. 31 They commence by a Plexus within each Lobule, which forms an Intralobular Vein, these unite and fonn the larger Veins, Sublobular; and these latter by their convergence ultimately form the Hepatic Veins, which terminate in the inferior Cava. SPINAl VEINS. 32 Into Spinal and Intra-spinal—that is, those situated upon, and those within, the Spinal Column. 33 Into the Petrosal Sinuses. 34 Into three sets, viz: Meningo-rachidian, which form two anterior Longitudinal Vessels, which pass behind the bodies of the Vertebrae, on either side the posterior common Ligament, throughout the whole length of the Spinal Column, and communicate with the Ver- tebral Veins in the Neck, also those of the Dorsal Lumbar and Sacral Veins; a second set—Dorsi-spinal —form a Plexus between the outer Covering of the Cord and the Arches of the Vertebrte, this set opens into the anterior Longitudinal, Vertebral, Intercostal, Lumbar and Sacral Veins; and the third set—MeduUi- spinal—form a Plexus which ultimately open into one Trunk, which divides into two Branches, wliich open one on either side into the lai'ge Longitudinal or Spiaal Veins. THE AZTGOS VEINS. 35 Two, and sometimes three, viz: one on the right side, called Vena Azygos Major; and one, and sometimes two, on the left side. Vena Azygos Minor vel Inferior and Vena Azygos Superior.221 Olf HUMAN ANATOMT. 36 Generally from the Lumbar Yeins on the right side of the Vertebral Column, opposite the second Lumbar Vertebra; sometimes it arises from the Eenal Vein, or even the inferior Cava. 37 It enters the Thorax through the Aortic Opening of the Diaphragm, and ascends on the right side of the bodies of the Dorsal Vertebrae to opposite the third Dorsal Vertebra, where it passes forwards over the right Eronchus to terminate in the superior Vena Cava, just before thisVessel perforates the Pericardium. 88 The Thoracic Duct and Aorta. 39 The Intercostal Veins of the right side, the left Azygos Veins, some (Esophageal and Vertebral Veins, and the Bronchial Vein from the right Lung. 40 from one or more of the Lumbar Veins, sometimes from the left Eenal Vein. 41 It passes with the Aorta into the Thorax, and ascends on the left side of the Spine as high as the sixth or seventh Dorsal Vertebra, where it crosses over to terminate in the larger Azygos Vein. 42 Pive or six of the lower Intercostal Veins of the left side, and some CEsophageal Branches. 43 By small Branches derived from the superior Intercostal Vein and the upper Branch of theVena Azygos Minor. 44 Sometimes in the Vena Azygos Major, and sometimes in the Vena Azygos Minor. PTJLMONAEY VEIKS. 45 To return the Arterial Blood fr-om the Lungs to the left Amicle. 46 They commence on the Bronchial Cells by minute Eadicles, which are continuous with the minute Capillaries of the Arteries. 47 They pass behind the superior Vena Cava. 48 They pass behind the Pulmonary Artery. 49 Both sides pierce the Pericardium, ■ 50 The Bronchial Tubes are placed before the Veins. 51 The Bronchial Tubes are the most posterior. 52 The Veins are the most anterior, the Bronchi most post- erior, and, between the two, are the Arteries. 53 No. CAKMAC VEINS. 54 The Great Cardiac or Coronary Vein, the anterior and posterior Cardiac Veins, and the Vena3 Minimm vel Venae Thebesii. s 2222 AITS"WEES TO QTnESTIOirs 55 In the substance of the Ventricles, near the Heart's apex. 56 In the Coronary Sinus. 57 Into the right Auricle. 58 Into the Coronary Vein. 59 From the substance of the anterior part of the right Ventiicle. 60 From the substance of the posterior part of the Ventricles. 61 These minute Veins are situated over the surface of the organ. 62 Into the Auricles and Ventricles. POETAI, TEIN. 63 By the junction of the Splenic and superior Mesenteric Veins. 64 It ascends from its point of union a little toTvards the right to reach the Transverse Fissure of the Liver, where it terminates by dividing into two Branches, one for either lateral Lobe, each of which ramifies through the Liver like an Artery. 65 The Excretory Duct and Hepatic Artery. 66 The Cystic Vein, and sometimes the Coronary Vein. 67 Superior Mesenteric, inferior Mesenteric, Splenic, and Coronary Veins. 68 By minute Badicles which receive the Venous Blood from the minute Badicles or Capillaries of the superior Mesenteric Arteiy. 69 By minute Badicles which receive the Venous Blood from the Capillaries of the inferior Mesenteric Artery. 70 It is formed by the union of five or six Branches which issue from the Fissure of the Spleen, and which ultimately form one Vein (the Splenic). 71 The Gastric Veins vel Vasa Brevia, the Pancreatic, Duodenal, and inferior Mesenteric. 72 In the Splenic Vein, and sometimes in the Trunk of the Portal Vein. 73 At the Pyloric Extremity. 74 By the Capillaries of the Hepatic Ai'tery, within the substance of the Liver. Section XLIL—VEIN'S OF THE TJPPEE EXTREMITY. 1 Into two sets—the superficial and deep-seated. 2 They are Cutaneous, being situated beneath the Skin. 3 The Badial, Ulnar, Median, Median Basilic, Median Cephalic, the Basilic, and Cephalic Veins.OIT iniMAN' ANATOMT. 4 By Kamiisculi on the Dorsal and OTiter Aspect of tho Thumb and Index Finger. 5 It ascends along the outer border of the "Wrist and Eadial Border of the Forearm to the bend of the Elbow, ■where it gives rise to the Cephalic Vein, ia which it terminates. 6 No; but from the external Branch of the Median Vein (Median Cephalic). 7 Two : an anterior and a posterior. 8 By Eamusculi on the anterior siu-face of the Wrist. 9 It ascends on the inner side of the Forearm to the bend of the Elbow, where it unites mth the inner Branch of the Median (Median-basilic) to fonn the BasUic Vein. 10 By small Eadicles or Eamusculi on the back of the Hand which unite to form a lai'ge Branch called Vena Sal- vatella. 11 From the fourth Metacarpal Space it ascends along the inner or Ulnar border and posterior Aspect of the of the Forearm to the bend of the Elbow, where it bends forward to terminate in the anterior Ulnar Vein. 12 By the union of several small Branches on the anterior and lower part of the Forearm. 13 It proceeds along the middle of the Forearm to near the Elbow, where it divides into two Branches—an in- ternal and an external Branch, the former is called the Median Basilic Vein, and the latter the Median Cephalic Vein. 14 Tes; a Communicating [Branch from one of the deep Veins beneath the Fascia. 15 From the point of division of the Median Vein its internal Branch passes obliquely inwards, across the Brachial Ai'tery, between the Biceps and Pronator Eadii Teres Muscles, and unites with the posterior Ulnar Vein to form the BasOic Vein on the inner border of the Arm. 16 From the point of division of the Median Vein its ex- ternal Branch passes obliqely outwards, between the Biceps and Supinator Eadii Longus, and unites with the Eadial Vein to form the Cephalic Vein of the Arm. 17 This Vein is continuous with the common Ulnar Vein at the bend of the Elbow. 18 It ascends along the inner border of the Biceps Muscle to the middle of the Arm, and pierces the deep Fascia to reach the ilxilla, where it terminates in the Axil- lary Vein.ANSTVEES TO QUESTIOITS 224 19 The Brachial Artery, 20 Chiefly fi-om the external division of the Median Vein, viz. the Median Cephalic. 21 It ascends to the Shoulder along the outer border of the Biceps Muscle, passing between the Pectoralis Major and Deltoid Muscles, and, beneath the Clavicle, terminates in the Axillary Vein. 29 The internal divisionof theMedianVein(MedianBasilic), DEEP-SEATED VEINS OF THE TJPPEE EXTEEMITT. 23 The deep Ulnar Veins, the deep Eadial Veins, the anterior and posteiior Interosseous Veins, the Axillary and Subclavian Vein. 24 By the minute Eadicles or KamuscuU of the deep Ulnar and Badial Veins. 25 They accompany the Brachial, Eadial, and Ulnar Arteries in their Sheaths, also their several divisions. 26 In the deep Ulnar and Eadial Veins; they also com- municate with each other, and the posterior with the Ulnar Cutaneous Veins. AXILLARY VEIN. 2 7 This Vein is continuous with the Basilic Vein of the Arm. 28 Yes; Thoracic, Subscapular, and opposite the Subscap- ularis Muscle, a Vein, formed by the Vente Comites, opens into it (Brachial). 29 At the lower border of the first Eib, where it is contin- uous with the Subclavian Vein. SmBCLAVTAlT VEIN. 30 This Vein is continuous with the Axillary Vein. 31 From the lower border of the first Eib to the inner ex- tremity of the Clavicle (its Sterno-clavicular Ai'ticu- lation.) 32 The internal Jugular Vein. 33 The Vena Innominata vel Brachio-cei)halic. 34 The superior Vena Cava which hasbeenakeadydescribed. 85 The external and anterior Jugular above the Clavicle, and external to the Scalenus Muscle, sometimes the Cephalic opens into it below the Clavicle, and the Vertebral Vein terminates in the Subclavian on the inner side the Scalenus Muscle. 36 The right Lymphatic Duct. 87 The large or common Thoracic Duct. 88 The anterior Scalenus Muscle. 39 The Phrenic and Par-vagum.225 OK HTJMASr AJTATOMT. Sectioi^ XLIII.—veins OF THE LOWER EXTEEMITT. 1 Into two sets; superficial and deep-seated. 2 The external Saphenous Vein and the internal Saphe- nous Vein. 3 The internal Saphenous. 4 Superficial, and extends from the Dorsum of the Foot to the upper part of the Thigh (to within one inch-and- a-half of Poupart's Ligament.) 5 By a series of small Veins on the Dorsimi and inner border of the Foot which form one large Trunk, viz., the internal Saphenous Vein. 6 It passes upwards in front of the inner AnMe and cor- responding border of the Tibia, and at the Knee it ascends behind the inner Condyle and along the inner and anterior surface of the Thigh to the Fascia Lata or Saphenous oj^ening, which it piex'ces to terminate in the Femoral or Crural Vein. 7 Several Cutaneous Branches, and near its termination the superficial Epigastric, Pudic, Circumflex Iliac, and deep communicating. 8 By a series of small Veins which form a Plexus on the Dorsum and outer border of the Foot. 9 It passes behind the outer Malleolus to the back of the Leg along which it ascends between the two heads of the Gastrocnemius Muscle to the Popliteal Eegion, where it pierces the Fascia to terminate in the Popli- teal Vein. 10 Yes; several Cutaneous Branches. 11 The external Saphenous l^erve. DEEP-SEATED VEINS OF THE LOWES EXTEEITITT. POPLITEAL VEIK. 12 By the union of the Venae Comites which accompany the Arteries of the Leg viz., tho anterior and posterior Tibial and Peroneal Arteries. 13 From the lower border of the Popliteus Muscle it passes upwards between the two heads of the Gastrocnemius to the Popliteal Eegion, and enters the Aperture in the Adductor Magnus where it terminates in the Femoral Vein. 14 Yes; some Branches from the Articular and Muscular Vessels, also the external or short Saphenous Vein. 15 The Vein is the most external.226 ANSWEUS TO atTESTIONS FEMOEAL VEIN, 16 THs Yein is continuous with the Popliteal Vein. 17 Trom the Aperture in the Adductor Magnus Muscle to the Poupart's Ligament, where it terminates in the external Iliac Vein. 18 The Vein is situated on the inner side. 19 The Vein is situated on the outer side. 20 Yes; in the lower part it receives the Venous Branches which correspond to the ramifications of the Arteries, in the upper pai't the Profunda Vein, and near its ter- mination it receives through its Saphenous opening the internal or long Saphenous Vein. 21 Pour, and sometimes five. PKOFDNDA TEm. 22 By the union of the numerous Venous Branches which accompany those of the Profunda Artery. 23 Into the Femoral Vein about one inch-and-a-half below its termination. EXTEEJTAL ILIAC VEIN. 24 This Vein is continuous with the Femoral Vein. 25 Opposite the Sacro-iliac Symphysis where it unites with the internal Iliac Vein to form the common Iliac Veia. 26 Yes; near its commencement it receives the Epigastric and circumflex Iliac Veins. INTERNAL ILIAC VEIN. 27 By the union of the Vessels which correspond to, and accompany, the Venous Branches of the internal Iliac Artery. 28 It lies in front of the Sacro-iliac Junction and passes upwards to the mai-gin of the Pelvis where it termi- nates in the external Iliac Vein. 29 Yesj external to the Pelvis it receives the Gluteal, Sciatic, Pudic, Dorsalis Penis, and Obtui-ator Veins, and within the Pelvis the Vesical, Prostatic, Uterine and Vaginal Plexuses. 30 Into the Dorsal Vein of the Penis. COMMON ILIAC VEIN. 81 By the union or conflux of the internal and external Iliac Vein on either side of the Pelvis. 32 From the point of union it passes upwards to the right side to unite with its fellow at the junction of the fourth and fifth Lumbal'Vertebrae where it terminates in the Vena Cava inferior. 33 The left.227 ON HUMAN AJTATOMT. 34 Yes; the Yenous Branches which correspond to the Ilio-himbar and Lateral Sacral Arteries. 35 The middle Sacral Yein. Section XLIY.—ABSOEBENT SYSTEM. 1 The Absorhents or Lymphatics are a numerous set of small transparent Vessels which coUect the nutritive parts or products of oiu- food, also the various fluids and solids of the Body (so as to allow a fresh deposit *. e. to be replaced by that which is newly formed) and convey them into the Venous Current of the circulation. 2 These small delicate Vessels present a nodular or knotted appearance. 3 To every part of our Erame. 4 Glands vel Ganglia. 5 Lito two sets, viz., Lacteals and Lymphatics. lACl'EALS. 6 The Absorbents of the small Intestines. 7 The only distinction arises from the colour of their con- tents, the Lacteals convey a milk-Hke fluid, the pro- duct of digestion, called Chyle, to the Eeceptaculum Chyli or Lacteal Sac. 8 Between the two Layers of the Mesentery near the lower part of the Spinal Column. 9 The Mesenteric Glands. LYMPHATICS. 10 They commence by minute open mouths forming a reticular appearance throughout the whole cutaneous surface of the Body, from all the vaiious siofaces of Organs and their internal structui'e, as the Lungs, Heart, Stomach, Liver, Gall-bladder, Intestines, &c., also the Cellular Tissue, Ducts, &c., &c. 11 From this Plexiform aiTangement they proceed towards the Boot of the Neck where they ultimately terminate by two Trunks which open into the angle of ujiion formed by the Subclavian and internal Jugular Veins. 12 The Thoracic Duct and the right Lymphatic Duct. 13 Into two sets, a superficial and deep set; each following the arrangement or course of the Veias. THOEACIC DUCT. 14 The great Tube through which the Lymphatic and Chyliferous Eluid from the lower half of the Body, and that of the left side of the upper half of the Body is conveyed into the Venous current of the circulation.228 AiTSWEns to qttestioks 15 It commences in the Abdomen by a triangular enlarge- ment (Receptaculum Chyli) and termijiates in the angle of union formed by the left Subclavian and left internal Jugular Veins. 16 About 18 inches in length, and extends from opposite the Body of the second Lumbar Vertebra through the Aortic opening in the Diaphragm between the Aorta and Vena Azygos, when opposite the second Dorsal Vertebra it passes beneath the Aortic Arch to the left side of (Esophagus along which it ascends to the Boot or lower part of the l^eck, corresponding to the seventh or sixth Cervical Vertebra. 17 At its upper part. 18 Yes; but extremely rare. 19 No, it often Bifurcates opposite the seventh or eighth Dorsal Vertebra, but soon re-unites. 20 By two Semilunar Valves. 21 At its commencement it receives four or five Lymphatic Vessels which unite into one Cavity the Receptaculum Chyli, it also receives the Chyliferous Trunks, and in the Thorax it receives the Lymphatic Vessels of its Parietes {i.e. those from the Sternal and Intercostal Glands), and those of its Viscera, as the Lungs, the Heart; lastly, it receives the Lymphatics from the left side of the Head and 'Neck, left Upper Extremity, Trachea, and (Esophagus. 22 It is situated on the right of the Aorta. BIGHT LYMPHATIC DXTCT. 23 By the union of the Lymphatic Vessels from the right Upper Extremity, and the corresponding side of the Head and Thorax. 24 About three-quai-ters of an inch in length, and opens in the angle of union of the right Subclavian and the right internal Jugular Veins. 25 By two Senulimar Valves. XTJIPHATIC GLAITDS. 26 Small oval or somewhat rounded bodies, thi'ough which the Absorbent Vessels convey their contents, ere they terminate in the common Tninks. 27 In various parts of the Body, e.ff. below the Occiput, behind the Ears, below the Maxilla, side of the Neck, beloind the Clavicle, in the AxiUa, near the Elbow, in the Thorax, in the Abdomen, in the Inguinal Eegion, Pelvis, Popliteal Kegion, &c., &c.229 OK HUMAN ANATOMY. 28 Vasa Inferentia. 29 Vasa Efferentia. 30 The Yasa Inferentia. 31 They appear to be composed of convoluted Lymphatic Eamuscidi forming, with the Blood-vessels ramifying in the midst of these convolutions, a Plexus, which is enclosed in a Cellular Structure. 32 They are composed of two Coats: an external, analogous to that of the Blood-vessels; and an internal or Serous Coat, which is continuous with that of the Veins. 33 Valves. 34 Like the Veins, into four sets or groups, viz: those of the Head and jSTeck, those of the Trunk, those of the Upper Extremity, and those of the Lower Extremity. Section XLV.—LYMPHATICS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 1 Into two sets: a superficial and a deep. 2 The Occipital, Temporal, and Eaeial. 3 The Meningeal and Cerebral; those of the Face pass from the Nasal Fossse, Mouth, and Pharynx. 4 Occipital, posterior Auricular, Parotid, Submaxillary. 5 In the Thoracic and right Lymphatic Ducts. 6 Some accompany the external Jugular Vein, others are situated along the base of the inferior Maxilla on either side. 7 They accompany the internal Jugular Vein, Carotid Aitery, Pharynx, CEsophagus, and Trachea. Section XLVI.—LYMPHATICS OF THE THORAX, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS; OR TRUNK. 1 Yes. 2 Into two sets—superficial and deep, which are distri- buted throughout the surface and texture of these Organs. 3 They accompany the Coronary Vessels. 4 In the Thoracic and right Lymphatic Ducts. 5 The Sternal, Intercostal, Oesophageal, Cardiac, Bronchial. 6 Yes. 7 In the Renal Lymphatics. 8 Into the Inguinal Glands. 9 Through the special Aperture in the Fascia Lata of the Thigh, the Saphenous opening, (Foramen Saphenum) 10 Into the Mesenteric Glands. TANSWERS TO QT7ESTI0NS 230 11 Into the Lumbar Lymphatic Glands. 12 Into the Lumbar Lymphatic Glands. 13 Those of the lower extremity, Viscera and Parietes of the Abdomen, (through the Inguinal Glands) those of the Genital Organs. 14 Whilst diminishing in nxmiber they increase in size, until they ultimately form three or four large Lym- phatic Vessels which form the central receptacle of the common Thoracic Duct (Eeceptaculum Chyli.) Sectiok XLVIL—lymphatics OP THE TJPPEE EXTEEMITY. 1 Into two sets, superficial and deep. 2 They accompany the large Cutaneous Yeins. 8 They follow the course of the deep Vessels, viz., Eadial, Ulnar, and Brachial Arteries. 4 In the Axillary and Subclavian Glands. 5 Like the preceding, in the Axillaiy and Subclavian Glands. 6 In the Thoracic and right Lymphatic Ducts. 7 Into two sets, siiperfieial and deep. 8 These Glands four or five in number, are situated about the bend of the Elbow near the Cephalic and Median Basilic Veins. 9 Near the Eadial and Ulnar Vessels, and in the upper Ann several accompany the Brachial Artery. 10 In the lower and posterior parts of the Axilla, varying from eight to ten or twelve in number. 11 The Lymphatics of the Arm, anterior part of the Thorax from the Integuments on the posterior part of the Back, and some of the Mammary Lymphatics. 12 A Trunk which opens into the corresponding Duet of the same side. Sectiok XLVIIL—LYMPHATICS OF THE LOWEE EXTEEMITY. 1 Into two sets, superficial and deep-seated. 2 These Vessels are divided iato two sets, an internal and an external, the former are the most numerous, com- mencing on the Dorsum and inner border of the Eoot, accompanyhig the long Saphenous Vein, and termi- nate in the superficial Inginual Glands; the latter accompany the external or short Saphenous Vein, and terminate m the Lymphatic Glands of the Popliteal space.231 OIT nUMAN ANATOMY. 3 They accompany the deep Vessels of the lower extremity, and join the various Lymphatic Glands in their course, 4 Into two sets, an upper and a lower, the former situated over the line of Poupart's Ligament, and the latter about the Saphenous opening of the Fascia Lata. 5 Lymphatics from the Abdomen and superficial parts of the Genital Organs, and superficial Lymphatics of the lower extremity. 6 The anterior and posterior Tibial, Peroneal, Popliteal, Gluteal, &c. Sectioit XLIX.—the NEEYOTJS SYSTEM. 1 Into two parts, the Cerebro-Spinal and the Sympathetic. THE BRAIN AKD ITS COVEEINGS. 2 The Cerebrum, Cerebellum, Pons Varolii, Medulla Ob- longata and Membranes together constitute the En- cephalon. 3 The largest part of the Encephalon, and consists of two Hemispheres which are partly separated by the great longitudinal Eissirre. 4 Its upper surface is convex and its lower irregular, the latter divided into three Lobes. 5 Into an anterior, a middle, and a posterior Lobe. 6 Triangular, and rests on the Orbital Plate of the Os Erontis. n The first Cranial Nerve, (Olfactory). 8 It is situated in the middle Fossa of the base of the Skull. 9 A portion of the Dura Mater called Tentorium CerebeUi. 10 This surface is marked by Tortuous Eminences, called Convolutions vel Gyri. 11 The Sulci or Airactuosities of the Brain. 12 Two substances; an external, called the grey, Cortical, or Cineritious substance; and an internal, called the white, or Medullary substance. 13 This substance forms the thin Lamella over the Convo- lutions and dips down into the Afractuosities. 14 Of a milk-white hue, and constitutes the internal Cerebral mass. 15 Into two sets, according to some Anatomists, Diverging and Converging; and into three according to others. Diverging, Transverse, and Longitudinal. 16 They proceed from the three divisions of the MeduUa-ob- longata to every part of the Cerebral surface. 17 The anterior Pyramid, the lateral Tract or Column, and the Eestiform Body.232 ANSWEE8 TO QTTESTIONS 18 Upon the Periphery or surface of each Hemisphere, and pass inwards towards the centre so as to unite the Diverging Fibres of each Cerebral mass. BASE OF THE OEEEBEirM:. 19 Longitudinal Fissure, firstpair of Cerebral Kerves, Fissure of Sylvius, part of the Transverse Fissure, Optic Commissure, Tuber Cinereum, Infundibulum,CoriJora MammiUaria, Locus Perforatus vel Pons 'Tarini, Peduncles of the Brain, Pons Varolii, Peduncles of the Cerebellum and the Medulla Oblongata. 20 The 'space which separates the two Hemispheres of the Brain. 21 The Olfactory I^'erve, which will be described with the Cerebral Nerves. 22 On the Olivary process of the Sphenoid Bone, anterior to the Tuber Cinereum. 23 It forms the medium of commimication between the second pair of Cerebral Nerves. FISSUEE OP STLVIT7S. 24 The anterior from the middle Lobe. 25 The middle Cerebral Artery, which is one of the ter- minal Branches of the internal Carotid Artery. 26 Outwards, and divides externally into two parts. 27 A cluster of five or six small Convolutions called the Island of Eeil. 28 Substantia Perforata vel Lamina Cribrosa. 29 Because it is pierced by several Foramina for the trans- mission of small Vessels. 30 This mass of Grey Matter is situated behind the Optic Commissure and forms, by its superior surface, part of the floor of the third Ventricle. 31 A funnel-shaped process of Grey Matter which projects from the centre of the inferior surface of the Tuber Cinereum. 32 The Pituitary Gland. 33 In the depression in the centre of the Sphenoid Bone, called Sella Turcica—its use is unknown. 34 Two Lobes, an anterior and a posterior, of which the former is the largest, each contains a peculiar sub- stance which is neither Cerebral nor Glandular. 35 Two small whitish Bodies, about the size of peas, sit- uated just behind the Tuber Cinereum. 36 The anterior Pillars or Crura of the Fornix. 37 Locus Perforatus vel Pons Tarini; a thin triangular233 OK HUMAN ANATOMY. Lamella of whitish grey Matter situated behind the Coi-pora Albicantia and between the Pedxmcles or Cnu-a of the Cerebrum. 38 Part of the floor of the third Vcntiicle. 39 Two large white Cords situated near the centre of the base of the Brain, extending forwards and upwards from the Pons Varolii to the under sui-face of the Cerebral Hemisphere of the corresponding side, where they appear as if inserted. 40 Locus Perforatus, Tuber Cinereum, and Corpora Pisi- formia. The Motor Oculi. PONS YAIlOLn. 41 That large Band of white Fibres which is situated across the upper part of the Medulla Oblongata, and between the Hemispheres of the Cerebellum. 42 The Basilar Artery. 43 The sixth and seventh Cranial Nerves. 44 The Pons Varolii. 45 It consists of alternate strata of transverse and longitu- dinal Fibres. 46 Those of the Crura Cerebelli, which they form. 47 Those of the Medulla Oblongata. 48 Square, and nearly two inches in width. MEDtTLLA OBLONGATA. 49 The upper enlarged part of the Spinal Cord within the Cranium. 50 Prom the lower border of the Pons Varolii to the level of the upper border of the Atlas. 51 Pyramidal; nearly one inch-and-a-half in length; about three-quarters of an inch in breadth ; and half-an- inch in thickness. 52 The Median Sulcus (anterior and posterior Sulcus). 53 Base and apex. 54 The base, and united to the Pons Varolii. 55 The former is convex and rounded, and the latter slightly hollowed. 56 The Basilar Process of the Os Occipitis. 57 The Floor of the foiirth Ventricle. 58 Three segments or divisions of the Spinal Cord, viz: anterior Pyramid, lateral Tract or Column, and the Eostifbrm Body. ANTETIIOR PYRAMID. 59 The anterior Pyramid is situated at the middle line of T 2ANSWEES TO QUESTIONS 234 the anterior surface of the Medulla Oblongata. 60 The anterior Sulcus or Median Fissure. 61 The Decussating Fibres from either side. 62 From the lower border of the Pons Varolii to the Fora- men Magnum. ,63 The Olivary Body (Corpus Olivare.) 64 A shallow Groove. 65 An arborescent appearance. 6 6 The posterior Pyramid at either side forms at the posterior Median Sulcus the continuation of the Spinal Cord. COEPOKA EESTIFOEMIA. 67 The Corpus Eestiformeon either side forms the posterior segment or Column of the MeduUa Oblongata. 68 Above, with the Pons Varolii; and below, with the posterior Column of the Spinal Cord. 69 The Cavity of the foirrth Ventricle. 70 In a Sulcus between 'the Corpus Olivare et Eestiforme on either side the Medulla Oblongata, and called the Eespiratory Tract. 71 Pathetic, Facial, and Glosso-pharjnigeal. coEPus callosttm:. 72 Commissures. 73 The Great Commissiu'e of theiwo Hemispheres (Commis- sura Magna Cerebri). 74 This somewhat oblong white body forms the middle portion of the Centrum Ovale Majus, which is best seen after both Hemispheres have been sliced to the level of the Corpus Callosum. 75 The Koofs of the lateral Ventricles. 76 About three inches and a half, and approaches nearer the anterior than the posterior part of the Brain. 77 In a rounded border, which is prolonged downwards and backwards to the base of the Brain. 78 It is continuous with the Fornix. 79 The Raphe. CEJfTETm OVALE MAOTTS ET MUTtTS. 80 By slicing a portion of either Hemisphere a little above the level of the Corpus Callosum, a white central substance of an oval form wiU present itseK (sur- rounded by a margin of grey matter), this is the Centrum Ovale Minus; this di-sdded suiiace, in a fresh subject, will be studded with numerous dots or spots of Blood, arising fr-om the division of the minute Vessels.ON HTBIAIT ANATOMY. 235 81 By slicing a portion of either Hemisphere to the level of the Corpus Callosiim, a larger white central sub- stance will present itself (also surrounded by a margin of grey matter), this is the Centrum Ovale Majus. FOENIX, 82 The thin triangular and horizontal LameUa of white matter situated beneath the Corpus Callosiim. 83 Part of the Floor of the lateral Ventricles. 84 In two Crura or Pillars, which arch downwards at the forepart of the lateral Ventricle, to terminate in the Corpora Pisiformia. 86 Each forms a narrow white or Medullary Baud, called Corpus Pimbriatiim (Taenia Hippocampi). 86 Pascia Dentata. 87 Hippocampus Major et Minor. 88 Lp-a. 89 Poramen of Munro. sEPTTJiu: LTrciDtnu:. 90 The thin semi-transparent partition between the lateral Ventricles. 91 Two thin Layers of white Cerebral Matter. 92 The fifth Ventricle. 9 3 This white cord-like Pasciculus, which passes through the Corpus Striatum on either side, connects the two Hemispheres (the anterior and middle Lobes.) 94 This layer of Grey Matter connects the corresponding sides of the two Optic Thalami. 95 This white cord-like Pasciculus connects the two Optic Thalami posteriorly. 96 Poramen Commune Anterins. 97 Iter ad Infundibulum. 98 Poramen Commune Posterius. 99 Iter a Tertio ad Quartum Ventriculum. Section L.—VEJTTKICLES OF THE BEAIJT, &c. 1 The Lateral, third, fourth, and fifth Ventricles. 2 Beneath the Corpus CaUosum, one in each Hemisphere. 3 Prom one extTcmity of the Hemisphere to the other, in the three Lobes of each. 4 Into a Central part and three smaller, called Comua; anterior, posterior, and inferior. 5 Somewhat triangular. 6 Forward and outward into the anterior Lobe of the Brain. 7 Backward and inward to the posterior Lobe, convergingANSWERS TO QUESTIONS 236 towards the one of the opposite Hemisphere. - 8 It descends in a cm-ved manner into the middle Lobe. 9 By the Corpus Callosum which forfns its Hoof. 10 By the Septum Lucidum. 11 By the Corpus Striatum, Ttenia Semicircularis, Optic Thalamus,-aad part of the Eornix,4- Ct^,"^ CORPUS striatum:. * 12 At the bottom of the anterior part of each Lateral Yen- tricle. 13 Pyriform. 14 Grey. 15 Because grey and white Fibres are so intermingled in the interior as to produce this Striated appearance. 16 The Corpora Striata. t(enia semicircularis. 17 A thin Fasciculus of white longitudinal'Fibres which lie between the Optic Thalamus and Corpus Striatum. 18 The Crus of the Fornix. 19 The Eoof of the middle or descending Cornu of the Lateral Ventricle. OPTIC thalamus. 20 Behind and between the posterior extremities of the Corpora Striata. 21 The Koot of the Optic Nerve. 22 By the middle or soft Commissure. 23 Two rounded Papillae ; Corpus Geniculatum externum et internum. 94 The external. 25 The Thalami Optici. HIPPOCAMPUS MAJOR. 26 The Medullary protuberance situated in the floor of the middle or descending Cornu of each Lateral Ventricle. 27 It is curved, with its Corvex Border directed outwards following the course of the cavity in which it lies. 28 This extremity has been likened to the fQot of a car- niverous animal from the circumstance of its present- ing three or four elevations separated by corresponding depressions, hence its designation, Pes Hippocampi. 29 A small white elevation situated on the outer waU of the Cornu. HIPPOCAMPUS MINOR. 30 A small Medullary elevation situated in the floor of the Digital Cavity or posterior Cornu of each Lateral Ventricle.237 ON HrMAN ANATOmr. TBANSVEESE FISSTJEE OP THE CEEEBETJM. 31 Beneath the rornix. 32 Passing domiwards between the Hemispheres and Pe- duncles of the Brain, it extends from the transyeree Pissure of Sylvius on one side to that on the opposite side. 33 The Pia Mater. 34 The Velum Interpositum and Choroid Plexus. TELT7M IKTEEPOSITTJM. 35 A Pold or reflection of the Pia Mater. 3 6 Triangular and the same extent as the Body of the Fornix. 37 The Choroid Plexus. 38 Two large Veins, Vente Galeni. 39 They unite posteriorly into one, -which opens into the sliaight Siaus. CHOEOID PLEXUS. 40 The fringed margin of the Pia Mater, which extends across the floor of each Lateral Ventricle. 41 Through the Poramen of Munro. THIED TENTEICLE. 42 The third Ventricle is the space between the Thalami Nervorum Opticorum in the middle line of the Cerebrum. 43 By the under surface of the Velum Interpositum. 44 By parts of the base of the Brain situated between the anterior longitudinal Fissure and Peduncles of the Brain, viz., the Optic Commissure, Locus Perforatus, Corpora Pisiformia, and Tuber Cinereum, 45 By the Optic Thalami. 46 By the anterior Commissure of the Brain and descending Pillars of the Fornix. 47 By the posterior Commissure of the Brain. 48 All the other Ventricles of the Brain. 49 Through the Foramen of Munro on either side. 50 Through the Aqueduct of Sylvius vel Iter a Tertio ad Quartum Ventriculum. 51 In the Adult it is closed. 52 Inferiorly, between the Crura of the Fornix. COEPOKA QUADEIGEMINA. 53 Four whitish rounded bodies arranged in pairs, situated behind the third Ventricle and upon the posterior surface of the Pons Varolii. 54 The upper or anterior, which are the largest, are called Nates; and the lower or posterior. Testes.ANSWEB8 TO Q,TJESTIONS 238 55 The third and fourth Ventricles, and called the Aque- duct of Sylvius. 56 The Pineal Oland. PINEAL GLAlfD. 57 A BmaU reddish-hrown coloured conical hody, about two lines in length, with its base directed forward. 58 Several light-brown coloured Granules, which contain Calcareous matter (Carbonate and Phosphate of Lime). 59 By means of two white or Medullary Cords, called the Peduncles of the Pineal Body. 60 The posterior Commissure of the Cerebrum, which is connected with the base of the Gland by transverse Medullary Fibres. FOXTETH VEHTEICLE, 61 Beneath the Cerebellum, on the dorsal or posterior surfaces of the Medulla Oblongata and Pons Varolii, which form its Floor. 62 By the Valve of Vieussens and under pai"t of the Pro- cessus Vermiformis. 63 By Lobes of the Cerebellum (its superior and inferior Peduncles). 64 Calamus Scriptorius, Choroid Plexus, and the Liiieae Transversae. 65 The Groove on the anterior or lower half of the Floor of the fourth Ventricle, of a somewhat tiiangular form. 66 From its resemblance to a pen. 67 Yes; but smaller. 68 By a Fold of the Pia Mater. 69 From the inferior Cerebellar Artery. 70 These irregular transverse liaes, which somewhat re- semble the plume of a feather, are situated on the anterior Floor of the fourth Ventricle. FIFTH VENTEICLE. 71 Between the two thin Lamellae of which the Septum Lucidum is composed. 72 In the anterior pai't. LINING IIEMBEANE OF THE TENTEICLES. 73 Serous. 74 No communication exists between them. Section LI.—CEREBELLUM. 1 In the inferior Cavity of the Cranium, i.e. in the post- erior Fosses, beneath the Tentorium CerebeUi, 2 About four inches in width, broader laterally thanON HintfAN ANATOMY. P39 before or behind, and flattened from above downwards. 3 Like the Cerebiiim, into two Hemispheres. 4 This surface is not marked with Convolutions, but by- parallel Laminae, which are separated by Sulci or Fissures. 5 Convex. 6 Like the Cerebrum, it consists of two substances—an external or Cortical, and an internal or Medullary substance. 7 By making a vertical section of the Cerebellum, the Medullaiy or white substance within the Cortical would present the appearance of a tree with numerous Branches, hence the designation "Arbor Yitae." 8 By a Fissure or Sulcus, wliich lodges the Falx CerebelH. 9 By two Projections, fonned by the Yenniform Processes. ] 0 The superior Yermiform Process. 11 Along the middle line, and acting as the superior Com- missure, serves to connect the two Hemispheres. 12 The inferior Yermiform Process, which serves to con- nect the two Hemispheres on the under surface. 13 The Uvula, Nodule, Tonsil, and Pyramid or Flocculus. 14 By three pairs or Peduncles of Medullary Fasciculi. 15 Processus e CerebcUo ad Testes, Corpora Eestiformia, and Crura Cerebelli. PEOCESSTJS E CEEEBELLO AD TESTES. 16 The superior Peduncles of the Cerebellum. 17 Each is continuous with the inferior Yermiform Process behind, and terminate in the Optic Thalamus and Crus Cerebri of each Hemisphere. 18 The Yalve of Yieussens. 19 Pai-t of the lateral boundaries of the fourth Yentricle. COEPOEA EESTIFOEMIA. 20 The inferior Peduncles of the Cerebellum, and form here only part of the Corpora Bestiformia. 21 The Medulla Oblongata with the Cerebellum. CETTEA CEEEBELLI. 22 The middle Peduncles of the Cerebellum. 23 The terminal transverse Fibres of the Pons Varolii or Great Commissure of the Cerebellum. 24 In the lateral parts of the Cerebellum, and pass forwards to the Pons Yarolii, where they form the Transverse Fibres.ANSWEES TO QTTESTIOITS 240 Section LII.—COVERINGS OF THE BRAIK 1 Dura Mater, Pia Mater, and Aradmoid Membrane. 2 The Dura Mater. DTJEA MATEE. 3 The strong fibrous Membrane which lines the inside of the Skull and Spinal Column, and separates and supports various portions of the Brain by means of Duplicatures or Processes. 4 It consists of two Lamina3: an external white Fibrous Layer, and an internal Special or Serous Layer. 5 Eough, and corresponds with the inner surface of the Cranium, to which it is very adherent. 6 Smooth, polished, and lubricated. 7 Small whitish granular bodies. 8 Along the middle line on the internal surface of the Dura Mater. 9 Yes. 10 The Venous Channels of the Brain, which have been already described in the Section on the Veins. 11 Falx Cerebri, Tentorium Cerebelli, and Falx CerebeUi. 12 This Process forms a partition along the upper and middle line, extending from the edge or Process of the Crista GaUi of the Ethmoid Bone ia front to the Tentorium Cerebelli behind, to both of which it is attached. 13 That of a sickle, with the broadest part or basis turned backwards. 14 It passes between the Hemispheres, and supports either in the various positions of the Head. 15 The superior and inferior Longitudinal and Straight Sinuses. TENTOEIirat CEEEBELLI. 16 That portion of the Dura Mater which is stretched across the posterior part of the Cavity of the Cranimn, between the posterior under surface of the Cerebrum and upper surface of the Cerebellum. 17 On either side to the angles of the Petrous Bone; behind, to the transverse ridge of the Os Occipitis; and in front, to the Clinoid Processes of the Sphenoid Bone. 18 The Straight Sinus. 19 The lateral and superior Petrosal Sinuses. 20 Its middle, which joins the Falx Cerebri. 21 The Cerebrum from the Cerebellum, and supports the posterior Lobes of the former.OK UtrMAN ANATOMY. 241 22 Oval. 23 Parts wliicli join tTie Cerebrum and Cerebellum, e.<j. Crura Cerebri, Processus e Cerebello ad Testes. FALX CEEEBELLI. 24 Between the Lobes of the Cerebellum. 25 It descends from the middle of the under surface of the Tentorium, along the vertical ridge of the Os Occipitis to the Foramen Magnum. 26 The Hemispheres or Lobes of the Cerebellum. 27 Triangulai-, with its base dii-ected to the Tentorium Cerebelli and its apex downwards. 28 The Occipital Sinuses. AETERIES AND NEEVES OP THE DTJEA MATER. 29 Into anterior, middle and posterior Meningeal. 30 Trom the Ethmoidal Branches of the Ophthalmic, which last-named Artery is derived from the internal Carotid. 31 The Dura Mater at the base of the Skull, near the Eth- moid Bone. 32 Two of these Branches are derived from the internal Maxillary, which last-named Artery is derived from the external Carotid, and the third is derived from the ascending Pharyngeal, also a Branch of the ex- ternal Carotid. 33 The last of these three Branches supplies the Dura Mater in the middle Eossa, and the Dura Mater on the upper surface and sides are also supplied by the larger of these middle Meningeal Branches. 34 Erom the Occipital and Vertebral Arteries; the former derived from the external Carotid, and the latter from the Subcla-vian Artery. 35 The Dura Mater in the posterior Fosste of the Os Occipitis. 36 Their source is somewhat irregular; Branches are derived from the Sympathetic, also from some of the Cranial j^ierves, viz : the Ophthalmic or fifth, and sometimes from the Pathetic or fourth Nerve. PIA IkLATEE. 37 The Vascular Membrane which surrounds and closely invests the Cerebral Mass, passing into its Fissures and Depressions. 38 Yes; forming the Velum Interpositum and Choroid Plexuses. 39 It presents, from its extreme Vascularity, a net-work of Blood-vessels, which are held together by a thin Layer of Cellular Tissue. VANSWEES TO QTTESTIONS 24S 40 By the Eamusculi of the Cerebral Aiteries and Veins. 41 By the Pia-mater; the inner or Visceral Surface giving off the minute Nutritive Vessels. 42 Erom the two internal Carotid and twoVertehral Arteries. 43 From the minute Offsets of the Sympathetic; and it is conjectured by one or two Anatomists that some Cranial Nerves furnish minute Filaments to it. AEACHNOID MEMBEANE. 44 The fine Serous Membrane which not only lines the Brain, but is also reflected over the inner surface of the Dura Mater. 45 Into two parts : an external or Parietal and an internal or Visceral. 46 The Dura Mater and its Processes, to which it is insepar- ably connected. 47 The Encephalon, to which it is loosely connected by Cellular Tissue. 48 The Sub-arachnoidean Space. 49 No; but passes over them. 50 It is closely united posteriorly with the Pons Varolii and inferior surface of the Cerebellum. 51 The Sub-arachnoidean Fluid. 52 It is almost extra-vascular. 53 If present they have hitherto eluded, by the aid of the Microscope, the researches of the Anatomist. Section LIIL—SPINAL CORD. 1 That portion of the Cerebro-spinal Mass which is enclosed in the Vertebral Canal. 2 From the lower border of the Pons Varolii, opposite the level of the Atlas, to the upper border of the second Lumbar Vertebra. 3 From sixteen to eighteen inches in length, and somewhat cylindrical. 4 No; but presents in its extent two enlargements, corres- ponding to the origin of the Spinal Nerves; the first or upper one opposite the last three or four Cervical Vertebrae, and the other opposite the last two Dorsal Vertebrae. 5 Yes; in the upper, the Cord is wider firom side to side than before backwards, and vice-versa with the lower enlargement. 6 A Median Longitudinal Fissure, which divides each surface into two lateral halves.ON nuMAN ANATOMY. 243 7 The anterior Longitudinal Fissure. 8 About one-third of the thickness of the Cord. 9 By transverse Fibres of Medullary Matter, -which con- stitute the anterior Commissure. 10 The posterior. 11 By Fibres of Grey Matter which pass into the interior of the Cord. 12 By the transverse Fibres of White Matter which consti- tute the anterior Commissure. 13 Two lateral Fissures (anterior and posterior). 14 The attachment of the Fibrils of the anterior and post- erior Eoots of the Spinal Nerves. 15 The posterior lateral Fissure. i 16 In the Grey Matter in the interior of the Cord. 17 Four: the anterior, lateral, posterior, and posterior Median Columns. 18 The Motor Columns, which give origin to the anterior Roots of the Spinal Nerves. 19 Corpora Pyramidalia. 20 The Sensory Colunms which give origin to the posterior Eoots of the Spinal Nerves. 21 Corpora Restiformia. 22 Yes (EUis) and gives attachment to the anterior or Motor Roots. 23 In the Medulla Oblongata. 24 Unknown. 25 At the upper part. 26 The Median posterior Column. 27 Variously: sometimes in a rounded point a few lines below the Lumbar Enlargement, sometimes in a small Bulb slightly constricted at its centre (Gall and Spurzheim), but its termination is only a secondary consideration, as it does not give attachment to any Nerve. 28 By the continuation of the tliree Membranes which invest the Brain. DUKA ITATEK. 29 It is only loosely attached to the Cord. 30 It forms a Sheath to the upper part of the Sacrum, and from thence it is continued as an impervious Cord to the Coccyx, under the old name of Cauda Equina. 31 That in the Neck and Loins. 32 Some Vessels, also Adipose Tissue. 33 Yes; and very adherent.ANSWERS TO aUESTIONS 244 34 The Araclinoid, which, gives to it a smooth and polished appearance. AEACHNOIB MEITBEANE. 35 The Serous Investment of the Spinal Cord. 36 It is only loosely connected to the Cord. 37 Yes. 38 Like that of the Brain, it is inseparably united to it. 39 Yes; and called the Sub-arachnoideal Space. 40 Yes; by means of an Aperture in the lower boundary of the fourth Ventricle (Magendie). PIA MATEK. 41 The inner Investment of the Cord, which is derived from that of the Brain. 42 Chiefly Fibrous, aad less Vascular than that of the Brain. 43 Closely. 44 Prolongations or Folds. 45 Yes. 46 Ligamentum Dentatum. 47 A Serration, hence called Ligamentum Denticulatum. 48 About twenty. 49 The fii'st to the Dura Mater, opposite the margin of the Foramen Magnum; and the last, opposite the first Lumbar Vertebra. 50 To maintain the position of the Spinal Cord. VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE SPINAL MEMBRANES. 51 Yes; but not so numerous as that in the Cranium. 52 Yes; but sparingly. 53 No traces of their existence to the present period. 54 Yes; the latter are supposed to be derived from the posterior Boots of the Spinal Nerves (Kcmak). 55 Like the Brain, it is composed of Cortical and Medullary Matter, and unlike the Brain, the Grey or Cortical is surrounded by the White or Medullary Matter. 56 Two hollow Tubes of "White or MeduUaiy Matter placed side by side, and united by Transverse Fibres of White Matter forming the Commissui'e. 57 The Grey Matter, which is connected together by a Commissui'e of the same structure. 58 Crescentic, with the ends of the crescent directed towards the Eoots of the anterior and posterior Roots of the Nerves, and the convexity towards the middle of the Cord. 59 Transverse Fibres derived from the opposite halves of the Medulla and the posterior Roots of the Nerves.ON HITMAN ANATOMT. »46 60 Of parallel jSTerve Fibres, wliicli are disposed (longitudi- nally) in bundles, throughout the whole length of the Cord. 61 From the anterior and two posterior Spinal (Branches of the Vertebral Arteries). 62 These small Vessels are remarkable for their length, tortu- osity, and frequent inosculations with each other and with Branches from various parts of the Arterial System in the Cervical, Dorsal, and Lumbar Eegions. 63 They open into the Petrosal Sinuses. 64 From the Ascending Cervical (which is a Branch of the Thyroid), Vertebral, Intercostal, Lumbar, and Lat- eral Sacral Arteries. 65 Through the Inter-vertebral Foramina. Section LIV.—NErEOLOGY. {Neuron, a nerve; and loffos, a discourse.) 1 Into two classes—the Cerebro-Spinalandthe Sympathetic. 2 The ISTerves are the long, white, flattened Cords, which arise from the Brain and Spinal Cord, and which, like the Blood-vessels, are distributed to all parts of the body; communicating to it both sensation and motion. 3 They in general follow the course and distribution of the Arteries,arising in pairs anddividinginto Branches. 4 They anastomose; in some parts they form a Plexus, in others, a knot or Ganglion from which niimerous Branches are given off. 5 It is composed of Fasciculi or bundles of Longitudinal Fibres, closely united by Cellular Tissue, and enclosed in a Neurilemma, which is continuous with that which envelopes the Cord. 6 They are well suppKed with Blood-vessels. 7 Through various Foramina situated in the base. 8 Nine pairs. 9 The Olfactory, Optic, Motores Oculorum, Pathetic^ Trifacial, Abducentes, Auditory, Pneumogastric, and Lingual or Hypoglossal. 10 It lies in a Longitudinal Groove on the under Aspect of the anterior Lobe of the Brain, about four lines exterior to the Longitudinal Fissure. 11 The Olfactory Nerve arises by three Eoots—an external, a middle, and an internal Eoot; the external or long Eoot arises by a long Fasciculus which passes along the Fissure of Sylvius from the middle Lobe of the V 2246 ANSWEES TO QUESTIONS Brain; the second or middle Eoot arises by a small Papilla of Grey Matter at the posterior extremity of the Groove which lodges the Nerve; and the internal or short Eoot arises from the Substantia Perforata at the inner extremity of the Fissure of Sylvius. 12 By the convergence of the three Boots the Kerve is foi-med, which passes forwards on either side of the Crista Galli, where it fonns an enlargement on the Cribriform Plate of the Ethmoid Bone, called the Olfactory Bulb. 13 About twenty. 14 Thi'ough numerous Foramina in the Cribriform Plate. 15 Into three sets: an internal, middle, and external set. 16 To the Pituitary Membrane, lining the Septum I^arium. 17 To the Roof of the jS'ai'es. 18 To the Lining Membrane of the two superior Turbinated or Spongy Bones, and the plain surface of the Ethmoid Bone before them. 19 The external and internal are Medullary, and the middle Eoot is Cineritious. 20 Its Branches are deficient in the White Matter. 21 Yes; they receive a Neurilemmar Sheath from the Dura Mater and Pia Mater. SECOND PAXE. 22 The Optic Nerve arises from the Optic Thalamus, Corpus Geniculatum Externum, and anterior pair- of the Cor- pora Quadrigemina (Nates) on either side. 23 It fij'st rests on the Cms Cerebri, it then passes forwards towards its fellow of thQ opposite side, and unites ■with it before the SeUa Turcica, where it forms the Optic Commissui-e; the two Nerves then diverge and leave the Cranium through the the Optic Foramen on either side to enter the Orbit, where each pierces the Sclerotic and Choroid Coats, to terminate in the Eetinal Expansion of the Eye. 24 "Within the Circle of Willis, on the Olivary Process of the Sphenoid Bone. 25 The Tuber Cinereum, from which it receives Fibres. 26 Yes, partially; it is only the innermost Fibres which cross each other, whilst the outer Fibres of each pass directly onwards to the Eyeball of the same side. 27 The innermost. 28 That part of the Nerve anterior to the Commissure, 29 The external Coat of the Eyeball (the Sclerotic).247 ON HUMAN ANATOMT. 30 That part which is posterior to the Commissure, called the Optic Tract. 31 The Ramus Centralis Retina), a Branch of the Ophthalmic. 32 The Ophthalmic Artery. THIRD PAIR. 33 The Motor Oculi arises from the inner surface of the Crus Cerebri, just before the anterior border of the Pons Varolii. 34 It enters the Canal appropriated to it in the Dura Mater, close by the posterior Clinoid Process, it then passes forwards along the outer Wall of the Cayernous Sinus above the other Nerves (viz : the Pathetic, the Frontal, and Lachrymal Branches of the Ophthalmic), but as it approaches the Sphenoidal Pissure it lies below these N^erves, and there divides into two Branches, which enter the Orbit between the two Heads of the outer Pectus. -1 35 The Muscular Nerve of the Eyeball. J 36 The superior Pectus, inferior Pectus, j'citemal- Eectas, 'f internal Pectus, Levator Palpebrte, and ObHquus Inferior. _x 37 The lower or inferior Branch. 38 The superior Pectus and Levator Palpebrae. 39 The lower Branch, which forms its inferior Poot. POUETH PAIR. i 40 The fourth; Nervus Patheticus vel Trochlearis. ^ 41 Prom the Valve of Vieussens and Testis. '} 42 It passes along the Crus Cerebri to the margin of the | Tentorium Cerebelli, where it enters an Aperture in § this Process of the Dura Mater, near to the posterior J Clinoid Process; it then passes in the Cavernous Sinus -^i- along its outerWaU to the Sphenoidal Pissure, through ^ ; " which it enters the Orbit. i 4 ^ 43 It lies below the Motor Oculi. , ^ § s^' 44 It is situated higher than the other three Orbital Nerves. ^ i2 ^ 45 To the superior Oblique Muscle. / PIFTH PAIR. 46- The fifth; Trifecial vel Nervus Trigeminus. ~^ 47 Prom the middle of the Crus CerebeUi, close to its junction with the Pons Varolii, by numerous PUa- ments varying from eighty to one hundred. 48 Two distinct parts, one of which is continuous with the Pibrcs of the anterior Column of the Spinal Cord, communicating motion j the other, continuous withANSWERS TO QUESTIONS 248 the Fibres of the posterior Column, communicating sensation. 49 The two Roots pass into the middle Fossa of the base of the Cranium through an Aperture in the Dura Mater, near the extremity of the Petrous Bone, the larger or posterior of these Eoots then forms a Plexus of a semilunar shape, called the Gasserian Ganglion, whilst the smaller or anterior Eoot passes beneath the Gang- lion and unites with one of the three Branches which this Ganglion gives ofp, viz, the inferior Maxillary Nerve. 50 In a small Depression on the extremity of the Petrous Bone. 51 The Ophthalmic, superior Maxillary, and inferior Max- illary. OPHTHALMIC NERVE. 52 It enters the Orbit through the Sphenoidal Fissure. 53 The Frontal, Lachrymal, and Nasal. 54 The Frontal Branch. 55 The Supra-orbital Foramen. 56 Yes; the Supra-trochlear Branch and the Supra-orbital Branch, which latter is the continuation of the Frontal Nerve. 57 The Lachrymal. 58 Between the two Heads of the outer Rectus Muscle. 59 The anterior Ethmoidal Foramen. 60 On reaching the side of the Crista Galli it passes on the Cribriform Plate, where it descends into the Nose through an Aperture in the front of the last-named Bone, and divides into two Branches—an internal and an external Branch, the former ramifying in the Pitu- itary Membrane, and the latter distributed to the Integuments of the "Wing and extremity of the Nose. 61 The Ganglionic, long Ciliary, and Infi-a-trochlear. 62 By the Ganglionic Branch of the Nasal. 63 Two and sometimes three, which are given off by the Nasal as it crosses the Optic Nerve. 64 After piercing the posterior part of the Sclerotic Coat they pass between it and the Choroid to the Iris, to which they are distributed. 65 From the Nasal, just before this Nerve leaves the Orbit through the anterior Ethmoidal Foramen. 66 A Filament from the Supra-trochlear Nerve. 67 To the upper Eyelid, Lachrymal Sac, Caruncula Lachry- malis, Conjunctiva and Root of the Nose. 68 A Sensory Nerve.249 OK HTJMAN" AKATOMT. STJPEEIOE MAXILLARY NEETE. 69 In the Gasserion Ganglion. 70 It passes forwards, leaving tlie Cranixim through, the Foramen Eotundum of the Sphenoid Bone, it then crosses the Spheno-maxillary Fossa to the Infra Orhital Foramen, through which it passes, to be dis- tributed to the Eyelid, Nose, Face, Upper Lip, &c. 71 These, according to some Anatomists, (Wilson), are arranged in three sets, viz., those given off in the Spheno-maxillary Fossa, those in the Infra-orbital Canal, and those on the Face. 72 The Orbital; two to Meckel's Ganglion, and the posterior Dental. 73 The Spheno-maxillary Fissure. 74 Two Branches, Malar and Temporal, the former sup- plying the Integument of the Cheek, and the latter, the side of the Head. 75 The Facial, Temporal and anterior Auricular. 76 The middle and anterior Dental Branches. 77 The Muscular and Cutaneous Branches 78 Branches of the Facial Nerve which form an intricate Plexus, called the Infra-orbital Plexus. 79 A small Branch to the lower Eyelid, (Palpebral.) 80 The Muscular and Cutaneous Branches supply the Muscles and Integuments of the Cheek, Nose, and Upper Lip. 81 A Sensory Nerve. INPEEIOE MAXILLAET NEEVE. 82 The inferior MaxiUary, which is the last of its three divisions. 83 From the Gasserion Ganglion. 84 Through the Foramen Ovale of the Sphenoid Bone. 85 Into two Primary Branches; an anterior or Motory, and a posterior or Sensory. 86 The external Pterygoid Muscle. 87 The anterior and posterior Temporal, Masseteric, inter- nal Pterygoid and Buccal Branches. 88 To the Temporo-maxillary Eegion. 89 The Auriculo-Temporal, inferior Dental and Gustatory. 90 Two to the Meatus Auditorius, the anterior Auricular Branch, Parotid, and one or two Branches which communicate with the Facial and Sympathetic. 91 It first descends between the internal and external Pterygoid Muscles, it then passes between the former250 ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS Muscle and the llamus of the inferior Maxilla over the internal Lateral Ligament to the inferior Dental Foramen, and runs along its Canal to the Mental Foramen in the side of the Jaw, where it terminates hy dividing into two Branches, an Incisive and Mental (or Labial ?) Branch. 92 The Mylo-hyoid. 93 It descends between the internal and external Pterygoid Muscles to the side of the Tongue, where it divides into numerous Filaments which are distributed to the Mucous Membrane and to the two smallest kinds of Papillae, viz : Papillae Conicae et Fungiformes. 94 A connecting Branch of the Facial, viz: the Chorda Tympani, which accompanies the Gustatory to the Submaxillary Gland (where it furnishes an offset to the Submaxillary Ganglion) and to the Tongue. 95 PriucipaUy the Papillae of the Tongue. 96 A compound Nerve, possessing both Motory and Sensory Functions; analogous to the anterior and posterior Eoots of the Spinal ISTerves. SIXTH PAIfi. 97 The ISTervus Abducens arises from the upper part of the Pyramidal Body where it joins the Pons Varolii. 98 Advancing to the Dura Mater, which it perforates on the Basilar Process of the Sphenoid Bone, it ascends to the Cavenous Sinus, along the inner Wall of which it runs in company with the internal Carotid Artery, it then passes forwards to the Sphenoidal Fissiire where it enters the Orbit, between the two heads of the outer Eectus Muscle. 99 The external Rectus, by its two or three terminal Branches. 100 The Ophthalmic Vein lies immediately below it. 101 One or two Filaments from the Sympathetic Nerve (the Carotid Plexus) and a Filament sometimes from the Ophthalmic Nerve. 102 A Motor Nerve. SEVENTH PAIK. 103 It commences in the lowest part of the Pons Varolii, near to the Corpus Restiforme. 104 Tes; consisting of two portions, viz., Portio Mollis, vel Auditory and Portio Dura vel Facial. 105 From Lineae Transversae in the Floor of the fourth Ventricle and the Corpus Restiforme.OTX HITMAN AXATOMT. 251 106 To the internal Ear. 107 The Cochlear and Vestibular. 108 The Special JTerve of Hearing. 109 The Facial. 110 Trom the Lateral Tract of the Spinal Cord, between the Olivary and Kestiform Bodies, close to the lower border of the Pons Varolii. 111 The Aqueduct of Fallopius. 112 The Stylo-Mastoid Toramen. 113 It passes forwards within the Parotid Gland and crosses the external Carotid Artery and external Jiigular Vein to the Eamus of the Lower Jaw. 114 The posterior Auricular, the Digastric, and the Stylo- hyoid. 115 The Temporo-facial and the Cervico-facial. 116 Temporal, Malar, and Infra-orbital Branches. 117 To the side of the Head and upper haK of the Face. 118 By the Infra-orbital or Facial Branches of the superior Maxillary Nerve, communicating with the terminal Branches of the Infra-orbital Branch of the Facial. 119 The Buccal, Supra Maxillary and Infra Maxillary. 120 To the lower half of the Face and upper part of the Neck. 121 Sympatheticus Minor. 122 Auditory, Glosso-Pharyngeal and two Branches from the fifth. 123 The Auditory,- Petrosal Branch of the Vidian, and a Filament from the Otic Ganglion. 124 Glosso-Pharyngeal and Par-Vagum. 125 A small Filament from the ascending Branch of the anterior Auricular, also terminal Branches from the Auricularis Magnus and Occipitalis Minor. 126 The Supra and Infra Orbital, one of the terminal divisions of the Orbital, viz., the Tempore Malar, also the Buccal and Labial from the inferior Maxillary and the Supei-ficialis CoUi from the Cervical Plexus. EIGHTH PAIE. 127 Three portions, viz., the Glosso-pharyngeal, Pneumo- gastric and Spinal Accessory. 128 The Glosso-pharyngcal. 129 It arises by three or four Filaments from the Sulcus or Respiratory Tract between the Corpus Olivare et Hestiforme and close to the Facial Nerve. 130 The Jugular Foramen.252 ANSWEES TO QTTESTIOKS 131 To the Tonsils, Pharynx and Tongue. 132 The upper is called the Jugular Ganglion (Ganglion Superius vel Jugulare of MiiUer), and the lower, the Petrosal Ganglion (Ganglion Inferius vel Petrosum of Andersch). 133 The Petrosal Ganglion. 134 The Sympathetic, a Filament to the Auricular Branch of the Pneumogastric, and the Facial. 135 The Tympanic (or Nerve of Jacohson), Pharyngeal, Lingual, TonsiUitic, and Muscular. 136 The Pneumogastric Nerve. 137 It arises hy eight or nine Filaments from the Sulcus or Eespiratory Tract, just below the Glosso-pharyngeal Nerve. 138 The Jugular Foramen, in a distinct Sheath of the Dura Mater. 139 The Ganglion of the Eoot (Ganglion Superius), 140 The Ganglion of the Trunk (Ganglion Inferius). 141 To the Spinal Accessory, Sympathetic, one to the Ganglion Inferius of the Glosso-pharjoigeal, and the Auricular Branch. 142 The Hypo-glossal, also Branches to the upper Ganglion of the Sympathetic and to the two fli'stCervicalNerves. 143 The superior Laryngeal, and its external Branch—the Pharyngeal, the inferior Laryngeal or Becurrent Branch, Cardiac Branches, Muscular, (Esophageal, Pulmonary (anterior and posterior), and the Terminal Filaments of the Vagus, viz : the Gastric. 144 The Pharyngeal Plexus, by Communicative Branches from the Glosso-phaiyngeal, superior Laryngeal, and Sympathetic. 145 To the Muscles, and the Pharyngeal Mucous Membrane between the Tongue and Os Hyoides. 146 Some Cardiac and Musculal' Branches. 147 By Communicative Branches from the Sympathetic (its Great Cardiac Plexus.) 148 By Communicative Branches from the Sympathetic (its Great Cardiac Plexus.) 149 Plexus Gulae. 150 To the Stomach, Omentum, Pancreas, Spleen, Liver, and Gall-bladder. 151 Yes; especially the right Vagus Nerve. 152 This Nerve consists of two parts—Accessory and Spinal; the Accessory portion arises by a few Filaments253 Olf HUMAIf AKATOMr. from the side of the Spinal Cord, as low as the first Cervical Nerve; the Spinal portion arises by several Filaments fi-om the lateral surface also of the Spinal Cord commencing opposite the fourth CervicalVertehra. 153 It unites with the Vagus just below its superior Ganglion, or Ganglion of the Koot, in the Jugular Fossa by one or two Filaments, but the greater part of it becomes blended with the Vagus outside the Jugular Foramen, below the inferior Ganglion, or Ganglion of the Trunk. 154 Some small Filaments to the Pharyngeal and superior Laryngeal Branches of the Vagus. 155 It passes, external to the Foramen, backwards behind the internal Jugular Vein, and perforates the Stemo- mastoid Muscle; it then crosses the Neck obliquely to the Trapezius Muscle, to which and to the Sterno- mastoid it is distributed. NIJTTH PAIR. 156 The Motor Nerve of the Tongue, supplying its Muscular Structure. 157 By eight or nine Filaments from the Sulcus between the Corpus Pyramidale and Corpus Olivare. 158 Two Bvmdles or Fasciculi which pierce the Dura Mater separately, and unite into one Nerve as soon as it has escaped from the Cranium through the anterior Con- dyloid Foramen. 159 It passes forwards between the internal Carotid Artery and internal Jugular Vein, it then descends the Neck into the anterior triangular space, where it passes inwards to be distributed to the Muscles of the Tongue. 160 The Vagus, Sympathetic, Spinal Accessory, and the first two Spinal or Cervical Nerves. 161 Descendens Noni, and a small Filament to the Thyro- hyoideus Muscle. 162 The former lies in the centre of the Tongue, whilst the Gustatory lies near its border. 163 Chiefly in its PapillfE. 164- Into four Sets or Groups : Sensory, Motor, Pi.espiratory, and Spinal. 165 Olfactory, Optic, and Auditory. 166 Motor Oculi, Abducens, and Lingual. 167 Pathetic vel Trochlear, Facial, and Glosso-pharyngeal (which are the Kespiratory Nerves of Sir C. Bell), and the Vagus and Spinal Accessory.254 ANSWEES TO QUESTIONS 168 The_Trifacial vel Trigeminus, which is analogous to a Spinal Nerve, possessing both Motory and Sensory- functions, and the existence of a Ganglion (the Gas- serion) on the larger or posterior Root. Section LV.—SPINAL NERYES. 1 Thirty-one pairs. 2 By two Roots: an anterior or Motor, and a posterior or Sensory Root. 3 From the White or Medullary portion on the anterior Columns. 4 From the Grey or Cineritious portion on the posterior aspect of the Cord. 5 A Ganglion. 6 External to the Ganglia. 7 A Spinal Nerve. 8 Through the Intervertebral Foramina, the first and last excepted. 9 They each divide into two Branches—anterior and post- erior ; the former distributed to the front part of the body, and the latter to the posterior part of the body. 10 Into four Sets or Groups: Cervical, Dorsal, Lumbar, and Sacral. CERVICAL NEETES. 11 Eight pairs. 12 Horizontally. 13 Between the Occipital Bone and Atlas or first Vertebra (the Sub-occipital). 14 Between the last Cervical and first Dorsal Vertebra. 15 It forms a loop by luiiting with an Ascending Branch from the second Cervical Nerve. 16 Some to the Vagus, Lingual, and Sympathetic. 17 To the Complexus, Rectus Anticus Major et Minor, Obliquus Superior et Inferior. CERVICAL PLEXTTS. 18 By the anterior Primary Branches of the four upper Cervical Nerves. 19 At the upper part of the Neck on the middle Scalenus, Levator Anguli Scapulas, and Splenius Muscles, and beneath the Stemo-mastoid and Platysma Muscles. 20 Into two Sets : Superficial and Deep. 21 Into Ascending and Descending Branches. 22 Superficial Cervical (or Superficiahs CoUi), great Auric- ular, and smaller Occipital Branch.OBT HUMAK ANATOMY. 255 3 It divides beneath the Platysma Myoides into a Descending and an Ascending Branch, which are distributed to the Platysma and to the Integument on the side and front of the Neck, towards the Chin, also the lower part of the Eace. 24 By Branches from the second and third Nerves of the Cervical Plexus. 25 It divides into Auricular, Mastoid, and Facial Branches. 26 Prom the second Cervical Nerve of the Plexus. 27 Acromial and Clavicular. 28 Prom the third and fourth Nerves of the Cervical Plexus. 29 To the Integuments on the upper and anterior part of the Chest from the Sternum to the Shoulder. 30 These are the Phrenic, Muscular, and Communicating Branches. 31 By the third and fourth Branches of the Cervical Plexus, and sometimes joined by a Branch from the fifth Cervical Nerve. 32 To the Diaphragm (its under surface). 33 No; the left is the longest, owing to the position of the Heart. 34 Two; one derived from the second, and the other from the third. Nerve of the Plexus. 35 These Branches, derived from the Loop between the two first Nerves of the Plexus are distributed to the Trapezius, Levator Anguli ScapulaB, Ehomboidei, and Rectus Anticus Major Muscles. 36 The Sympathetic and contiguous Abdominal Plexuses. POSTEEIOE CEEVICAL PLEXUS. 3 7 By the frequent communications of the posterior Primary Branches of the first or Sub-occipital Nerve with the second and third Cervical Nerves. 38 Between the Complexus and Semispinalis Colli Muscles. 39 Muscular, Cutaneous, and the greater Occipital Nerve. 40 To the Sterno-mastoid, Levator Anguli Scapulae, Tra- pezius, and middle Scalenus Muscles. 41 To the Neck and Scalp (on their posterior Aspect). 42 The largest Cutaneous Nerve at the back of the Head, ' to which it is distributed by numerous Offsets, and forms the continuation of the second Cervical Nerve. 43 To the Muscles and Integument in the posterior part of the Neck (Cervical) and upper Dorsal Eegion.256 ANSWEES TO aXTESTIONS Section LVI.—BEACHIAL OR AXILLARY PLEXUS. 1 By the union of the anterior Primary Branches of the four lower Cervical Nerves with the first anterior Primary Dorsal Nerve. 2 From the lowest part of the Neck to the Axilla. 3 Three; the first is fomed by the union of the fifth and sixth Nerves near the Vertebrce; the second by the seventh Nerve; and the thu-d, by the union of the last Cervical and first Dorsal Nerve, beneath the anterior Scalenus Muscle. 4 By the union of the seventh Nerve or second portion with that formed by the fifth and sixth Nerves. 5 One is formed by the union of the fifth, sixth and seventh Nerves; and the other, as just stated, by the last Cervical and first Dorsal Nerves. 6 Between the two Scaleni Muscles. 7 It is placed at first to the outer side, and afterwards behmd the Artery. 8 According to one class of Auatomists, into those situated above the Clavicle and those below it; according to another class, into Humeral and Descending Branches 9 The Nerves of this Set which terminate chiefiy in the Muscles of the lower part of the Neck, and in those of the Chest and Shoulder ai'e—a Branch to the Phrenic, one to the Subclavian Muscle, one to the Rhomboid Muscle, one to the Serratus, viz : the long posterior Thoracic, vel Expiratory of Sir C. Bell; Branches to the Scaleni and Longus CoUi Muscles, and a Supra-scapular Branch to the Dorsum of the Scapula. 10 Prom the fifth Cervical Nerve. 11 From the Trunk or Cord formed by the fifth and sixth Cervical Nerves. 12 The two short or anterior Thoracic, the Median, Mus- culo-cutaneous (vel external Cutaneous), the internal Cutaneous, the lesser internal Cutaneous vel Nerve of "Wrisberg, the Ulnar, Subscapular, Circumflex, and Musculo-spiral Branches. 13 One of the the anterior Thoracic Nerves (the external), the external Cutaneous, and the outer Head of the Median Nei-ve. 14 The inner anterior Thoracic, internal Cutaneous, the lesser internal Cutaneous, the inner Head of the Median, and the Ulnar Nerve.257 ON nUMAIf AKATOMT. 15 The Subscapular, Circumflex, and Musculo-spiral. 16 To the Muscles on the front of the Chest, to some of the Scapular Muscles, the Latissimus Dorsi, and to those of the Upper Extremity. 17 Yes; with one exception—the first Intercosto-humeral, which is derived from the second Intercostal Nerve, and which supplies the inner and posterior surfaces of the upper half of the Arm. 18 The Median Nerve. 19 Muscular Branches of the TJlnar Nerve. 20 By two Boots from the Brachial Plexus; one from the outer and the other from the inner Cord. 21 The Axillary Artery. 22 It Hes at first to the outer side of the Brachial Artery as low as the insertion of the Coraco-brachialis, it then crosses over the Vessel about the middle of the Arm, and descends along its inner side to within two inches of the Elbow-joint, it then passes between the two Heads of the Pronator Eadii Teres and Elexor Sub- limis Digitorum, down the Eorearm, between the Flexor Sublimis and Profundus, and as it emerges from under the Annular Ligament, it divides into two parts (which again subdivide), one part supplying the Muscles of the Thumb, and the other part two Eingers aud a half, viz : the Radial side of the Index Einger, the adjoining sides of the Index and Middle Eingers, and the adjoining sides of the Middle and Ring Eingers. 23 The Abductor and Opponens PoUicis. 24 Eive. 25 Muscular, anterior Interosseous, and Cutaneous Branches. 36 It leaves the outer Cord of the Plexus in common with the outer Head of the Median Nerve, opposite the lower border of the Pectoralis Minor Muscle, and pierces the Coraco-brachialis; it then passes between the Biceps and Brachialis Anticus to the outer side of the Limb, near to the Elbow; it then pierces the Fascia of the Arm and divides into two Branches, which are distributed to the outer part of the Eorearm and to the anterior and posterior surfaces of the Wrist. 27 Yes, to Muscles in front of the Humerus, viz: Coraco- brachialis, Biceps, and Brachialis Anticus. 28 This Nerve arises from the inner Cord of the Plexus in common with the Ulnar and inner Head of the Median, and is the smallest of its Branches; it passes super-258 ANSWERS TO QTTE8TI0KS ficially down the inner side , in company with the BasUic Vein to about the middle of the Forearm, where it perforates the Fascia, and divides into two Branches, these again subdivide, to be distributed to the Integuments at the inner and forepart of the Fore- arm to the Wrist. 29 The Vein lies over it. 30 They communicate with the Musculo-cutaneous and IJlnar Nerves. 31 This long and delicate Nerve which arises just below the preceding Nerve, descends upon its inner side to the space between the Olecranon Process and inner Condyle of the Humerus, where it pierces the Fascia and is distributed to the Integument on the posterior Aspect of the Joint; some few of its Twigs are also distributed to the Integument on the inner and anterior surface of the Arm. 32 This Nerve also arises from the inner Cord of the Plexus; it descends along the inner side of the Arm, and passes in the Groove between the inner Condyle of the Hu- merus and the Olecranon Process, and enters the Forearm between the two Heads of the Flexor Carpi Ukiaris; it then descends along the inner side of the Forearm, over the Annular Ligament to the Pakn of the Hand, where it divides into two Branches—a Superficial and Deep Palmar Branch; the Superficial first supplies some small Filaments to the Palmaris Longus, and then terminates in three Branches—one to the Ulnar side of the Little Finger, one to the adjoining sides of the Little and Ring Fingers, and a Connecting Branch to the Median Nerve; the Deep^ Palmar Branch is distributed to the Muscles of the Little Finger, and to the Lumbricales and Interossei on the Palmar surface. 33 It lies to the inner side of the Artery. 34 None. 35 Muscular, Articular, Cutaneous, and Dorsal Branches. 36 Three. 37 From the posterior Cord of the Plexus; the first or upper Branch supplies the Subscapularis Muscle; the second or lower also supplies the Subscapularis, and terminates in the Teres Major; and the third or long Branch terminates in the Latissimus Dorsi. 38 In the Circumflex and Musculo-spii'al Nerves.Olf HUMAN ANATOMY. 39 It passes round the border of the Subseapularis Muscle, and behind the Neck of the Humerus, where it divides into numerous Branches which supply the Muscles particularly the Deltoid, Teres Major et Minor, and Latissimus Dorsi, also the Integument; it also supplies an Ai-ticular Branch to the under surface of the Shoulder Joint. 40 It descends from its origin in front of the Tendons of the Teres Major and Latissimus Dorsi Muscles, it then winds with the superior Profunda Artery around the Humerus to the outer part of the Arm, beneath the the Triceps Muscle; it then descends between the BrachiaHs Anticus and Supinator Longus Muscles to the outer Condyle of the Humerus, in fi'ont of which it divides into two Branches—the Eadial and posterior Interosseous Jfei'ves. 41 Muscular and Cutaneous Branches. 42 To the Triceps, Supinator Longus, Extensor Carpi Eadialis Lougior, and Anconeus Muscles. 43 This Nerve, the lai-gest of the two Divisional Branches into which the Musculo-spiral divides, passes in front of the outer Condyle of the Humerus along the outer or Radial side of the Forearm to its lower third, under cover of the Supinator Radii Longus, and divides about two inches above the Wrist (where it becomes Cutaneous) into two Branches—an external and an internal; the former supplying the outer border of the Hand and that of the Thumb; and the latter the opposite or Ulnar Border of the Thumb, the Radial side of the Index Finger, and the adjoining sides of the Index and Middle Fingers. 44 The Musculo-cutaneous and Dorsal Branch of the Ulnar Nerve. 45 It lies to the outer side of the Artery. 46 The Tendon of the Supinator Radii Longus. 47 This Nerve, the other Divisional Branch of the Musculo- spiral, separates from the Radial Nerve in front of the outer Condyle, and winds backwards through the Supinator Radii Brevis, and lies between the Super- ficial and Deep Layers of Muscles on the posterior Aspect of the Forearm, as far as its middle part, where it divides into Branches for their supply. 48 The Dorsal Aspect of the Carpus, where it forms an enlargement, from which munerous Filaments areANSWEES TO QUESTIOXS 260 distributed to the Wrist Joiat, viz: to the-Ligaments and Articulations of the Carpus. 49 Yes; with three exceptions in the Superficial Layer— the Anconeus, Supinator Radii Longus, and the long Extensor of the Wrist, viz : Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior. Sectiok LVII.—DOESAL NERVES. 1 Twelve pairs. 2 The Intervertebral Foramina. 3 The first between the first and second Dorsal Vertebrae, and the last between the last Dorsal and first Lumbar. 4 Yes; one is called a Dorsal, and the other an Intercostal, Nerve. 5 Directly backwards, between the Transverse Processes and divide each into aMuscular and Musculo-cutaneous which are distributed to the Dorsal Muscles and Integuments. 6 The anterior Primary Branches of the Dorsal Nerves. Y Twelve. 8 Horizontally forwards in the Intercostal spaces (except the last which is below the last Rib), and accompany the Intercostal Vessels, each lying below the Vein and Artery. 9 Some Sympathetic Eilaments from the adjoining Ganglia. 10 Its distribution is the same, but difi'ers from them from the circumstance of its not being situated in an Inter- costal Space, being below the last Rib. 11 A Muscular and a Cutaneous Branch. 12 Into two : a Lateral and an anterior Cutaneous Branch; the former divides into anterior and posterior Fila- ments for the supply of the Integuments of the antero-lateral and lateral parts of the Trunk. 13 About midway between the Vertebral Column and the Sternum. 14 Each Intercostal Nerve is continued onwards to the side of the Sternum, where it terminates as the anterior Cutaneous Nerve of the Thorax. No such Plexus exists. 15 No. 16 Each gives off an Intercosto-humeral Branch. 17 It perforates the outer Intercostal Muscle of the second Intercostal Space, and divides into two Branches— an external and internal; the former communicates261 OK HTJMAN ANATOMY. ■witli tlie lesser internal Cutaneous Nerve, and ends in Filaments, which, are distributed to the inner and posterior surface of the Arm to the Elbow; and the latter, to the Integument of the Armpit and inner side of the Arm. 18 It perforates the outer Intercostal Muscle of the third Intercostal Space, between the Indigitations of the Serratus Magnus, and divides into Filaments which supply the Integument of the Shoidder. 19 Larger, and does not divide lilce the others, it perforates the external Oblique Muscle, crosses over the Iliac Crest, and supplies the Integument over the Gluteal Kegion. Section LVIII.—LIIMBAE NERYES. 1 Eive pairs. 2 The first, between the first and second Lumbar Vertebrae; and the last, between the last Lumbar and base of the Sacrum. 3 To the Muscles of the Lumbar Region and Integument over the Sacrum, forming frequent communications with each other., 4 Like the posterior Dorsal, into Muscular and Musculo- cutaneous, and distributed as just described. 5 By loops of communication between the anterior Primary Branches of the four upper Lumbar Spinal Nerves. 6 In the substance of the Psoas Magnus Muscle. 7 The Musculo-cutaneous, external Cutaneous, Genito- crural vel external Pudic, anterior Crural vel Eemoral, and Obturator. 8 Two Branches—superior and inferior; the former is called the lUo-scrotal vel Inguinal Branch, and the latter the Ilio-hypogastric Branch. 9 This Branch arises from the first Lumbar Nerve and passes between the posterior Fibres of the outer bor- der of the Psoas Magnus Muscle, its upper part; it is then directed across the Quadratus Lumborum to the front of the Crest of the Ilium where it perforates the Transversalis Abdominis Muscle and divides into two Branches, an Abdomiaal and Scrotal Branch, the former is distributed to Rectus and internal Oblique, also the Integument of the Abdomen, the latter escaping at the external Abdominal Ring, is distributed in the Male to the Scrotum, and in the Female to the262 ANSWERS TO aTTESTIONS external Labia, also to the upper and inner part of the Thigh. 10 This Branch also arises from the first Lumbar !N"erve, and like the preceding, is directed over the Quadratus Lumborum to the crest of the Ilium, where it enters the Wall of the Abdomen, by perforating the Trans- yersalis Abdominis Muscle, and gives off two Branches an Iliac and Hypogasb'ic Branch; the former sup- plying the Integument of the Grluteal Region, and the latter (which sometimes escapes through the external Abdominal Hing) supplying the Integument (as its name implies) of the Abdominal Parietes of the lower Region. 11 This Branch arises from the second JTerve of the Lumbar Plexus; it perforates the middle of the outer border of the Psoas Muscle, and passes obliquely over the Iliacus Muscle to the space between the anterior Iliac Spinous Processes, and quits the Abdomen into the Thigh beneath Poupart's Ligament, it then pierces the Fascia Lata, and divides into two Branches— anterior and posterior, which are distributed to the corresponding surfaces on the outer Aspect of the Limb. 12 This Branch also arises from the second Nerve of the Lumbar Plexus, also from the communicating loop between this Nerve and the first, it then pierces the Psoas Magnus, and running down its anterior surface to near Poupart's Ligament divides into two Branches, a Genital and Crural, the former supplying the Cord and Cremastcr in the Male, and round Ligament in the Female, and the latter or Cnu-al Branch escapes below Poupart's Ligament and supplies the Integu- ment on the anterior aspect of the Thigh, its upper half. 13 This Branch, the largest of the Lumbar Plexus, aiises from the second, thii'd and fourth Nerves, appears from beneath the Psoas Muscle, and passing downwards between it and the Iliacus, escapes from the Abdomen into the Thigh beneath Poupai-t's Ligament and divides into several Branches. 14 Yes, some Muscular Twigs to the Psoas and Iliacus Muscles. 15 These are superficial and deep; the superficial consists of three Branches viz: the internal and middle Cuta- neous and the long or internal Saphenous Nerve; the263 ON HUMAN ANATOMY. deep or Muscular set supplies all the Muscles on the front of the Thigh, the Tensor Vaginae Pemoris ex- cepted. 16 To the Integument along the inner side of the Thigh. 17 To the Integument in front of the Thigh as far as the Knee. 18 From its origin to the middle of the inner border of the Foot, and suppHes Branches to the Integument on the inner side of the Leg and Foot to the Great Toe. 19 In the Thigh it takes the course of the Femoral Vessels, thus entering the Sheath of the Femoral Artery it accompanies that Vessel along its outer side to the Aperture in the Adductor Magnus Muscle, it then leaves the Artery, passing between the Tendons of the Sartorius and Gracilis Muscles to the upper part of Leg where it becomes Cutaneous, it then descends along the inner side of the Leg in company with the internal Saphenous Vein to the Foot. 20 Yes, two; one communicating Branch to the internal Cutaneous and Obturator in the Plexus, and the other an Articular Branch to the Ejiee Joint; it also supplies a Patellar Branch. 21 The inner Branch which supplies the inner surface of the Foot and Great Toe. 22 This Nerve arises from the third and fourth Nerves of the Lumbar Plexus, it passes downwards beneath the Psoas Muscle to the inner border of the Pelvis along which it passes to the upper part of the Obturator or Thyroid Foramen where it joins the Obtui'ator Artery, having escaped through this Aperture into the Thigh it divides into four Branches, three of which supply the Adductor Brevis, Adductor Longus, Pectineus and Gracilis, and the posterior Branch, the Adductor Magnus. 23 By the union of the fifth or last Lumbar Nerve with a connecting Branch from the fourth Nerve of the Lum- bar Plexus. 24 The Sacral Plexus. Section LIX.—SACEAL NEEVES. 1 Five and sometimes Six Pairs. 2 Like the other Spinal Nerves into anterior and posterior Branches. 3 Through the Apertures in front of the Sacrum, with the exception of the fifth Nerve which escapes between the Sacrum and Coccyx.264 ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS 4 Througli the Apertures in the back of the Sacnim, with exception of the fifth Nerve which issues between the Sacrum and Coccyx. 5 No; the first two are large and the last two small. 6 The posterior. 7 They form fi-equent communications with each other, and supply the Muscles and Integument in the Sacral and Gluteal Regions. 8 They receive short Filaments from the GangHonated Cord of the Sympathetic. 9 Into two parts. 10 The Hypogastric and Sacral Plexuses. 11 The Yiscera and smTounding Muscles, and joins the fifth Sacral Nerve. 12 The Bladder and Vagina. 13 These Branches, three in number, supply the Levator Ani and Coccygeus, also the Integument around the Anus. 14 No; they are chiefly distributed to the Muscles in this Eegion, viz: the Sphincter Ani and Coccygeus. 15 The Sacral Plexus. 16 The Pudic Nerve. SACKAL PLEXUS. 17 By the union of the Sacro-Lumbalis Nerve with the first three anterior Primary Sacral Nerves and part of the fourth anterior Primaiy Sacral Nerve. 18 Triangular, and situated on the Pjaiformis Muscle. 19 The Pelvic Fascia. 20 Into two sets, internal and external; the former are Visceral and Muscular. 21 To the Eectum and Bladder, and in the Female to the Vagina also. 22 They supply within the Pelvis, the Pyriformis, and Obturator Intemus, they also supply an Haemorrhoidal Branch to the Sphiacter Ani and Integument. 23 Muscular, superior Gluteal, Pudic, and the small and great Sciatic. 24 To the two GemeUi, Pyramidalis, Quadratus Femoris and Capsule of the Hip Joint. 25 From the Sacro-Lumbalis Nerve. 26 It passes out of the Pelvis through the great Ischiatic Foramen with the Gluteal Artery, where it divides into two Branches for the supply of the two smaller Gluteal Muscles (Gluteus Medius et Minimus) and the Tensor Vaginse Femoris.ON' HUMAN AKATOMY. 265 27 This Nerve ai'ises from the lower pai't of the Sacral Plexus as it is about to pass from the Pelvis through the great Ischiatic Foramen below the Pyiiformis Muscle, it then takes the course of the internal Pudic Ai'tery, through the small Ischiatic Foramen, where it ^ves off the inferior Ha3moiThoi(ial and a large Per- inteal Branch, the former suppljdng the Sphincter Ani and Integument and the latter the Perinaeum; the internal Pudic then passes forward along the Perraaeum, pierces the tiiangular Ligament of the Urethra to reach the Dorsiun of the Penis in company with the Dorsal Branch of the Pudic Artery, where it termin- ates in niimerous Branches which supply the Corpus Cavernosmn, Integuments of the Dorsum, the sides and Prepuce of the Penis, 28 Yes; superficial Perineal Branches (anterior and pos- terior) also some Muscular Branches to the under surface of the Erector Penis, the transverse Perinei, Accelerator Urinte; it also gives off a long dcUcate Filament whicb ramifies in the Corpus Spongiosum Penis. 29 The CHtoris, also tbe parts about the Perineum and the Vulva. 30 From the lower part of the Sacral Plexus. 31 It leaves the Pelvis through the great Ischiatic Foramen below the Pyrifoi-mis Muscle, and follows the course of the Sciatic Artery as far as the lower border of the Gluteus Maximus Muscle, it then passes down the posterior part of the Thigh and Popliteal Eegion beneath the Fascia, and terminates in the Integument in the posterior part of the Leg (the middle of the Calf.) 32 Into Muscular and Cutaneous. 33 These Branches, (sometimes called the inferior Gluteal) supply the Gluteus Maximus. 34 To the superficial Fascia of the lower part of the Gluteus Maximus and the Integunaent of the inner side and posterior aspect of the Thigh. 35 This Cutaneous Branch, which is derived from the lesser Ischiatic Nerve, is distributed to the Genital Organs. 36 The Labium. 37 This Ner\-e, the largest in the Body, is formed by the Sacral Plexus, in fact, it appears to be a continuation of the Sacral Plexus. 38 After escaping from thePelvis through the great Ischiatic266 ATTSWEES TO QtrESTIONS Poramen beneath the lower border of the Pyriformis Muscle, it descends into the hollow between the Great Trochanter and Tuberosity of the Ischium to about the middle of the posterior part of the Thigh, where it divides into its two Terminal Branches—the internal and external Popliteal. 39 Yes, Muscular and Articular; the former supplying the Biceps, Semimembranosxis, Semitendinosus, and Ad- ductor Magnus Muscles, and the latter, the Knee-joint. 40 This Nerve passes from the division of the Greater Ischiatic Nerve, through the middle of the Popliteal Space at the back of the Leg, to the lower border of the Popliteus Muscle, where it becomes the posterior Tibial Nerve. 41 Yes; some Articular Offsets to the Knee-joiat, some Muscular Branches to the two Heads of the Gastroc- nemius, to the Soleus, Plantaris, and Popliteus Muscles, and a large Cutaneous Branches to the Leg and Poot —the external Saphenous Nerve, which is sometimes called the Communicating Tibial; this Nerve supplies the outer side of the Poot and Little Toe, and some- times the adjoining side of the fourth Toe. 42 This Nerve lies along the outer boundary of the Ham; it descends by the side of the Biceps Tendon, crossing the inner Head of the Gastrocnemius and origin of the Soleus Muscle, to the Head of the Fibula, just below which it perforates the Fibres of the Peroneus Longus Muscle, and divides into two Branches—anterior Tibial and Muscido-cutaneous. 43 Yes; Cutaneous, Muscular, and Articular Branches. 44 To the Integument in the upper half of the outer side of the Leg. 45 Yes; this Branch communicates with the external Saphenous or Communicating Tibial of the internal Popliteal Nei-ve. 46 To the upper part of the Tibialis Anticus. 47 This Nei've, which is a continuation of the internal Popliteal, proceeds from the lower border of the Pop- liteus Muscle along the posterior aspect of the Leg to the space between the Os Calcis and inner Anhle, where it divides beneath the Aimular Ligament into the internal and external Plantar Branches of the Foot. 48 It lies to the outer side of the Artery. 49 Yes; some Muscular and Cutaneous Branches.267 OK HUMAN AKATOMY. 50 To tlie deep Plexors on the posterior Aspect of the Leg. 51 To the Integument on the inner and under part of the Heel. 52 The internal. 53 That of its Artery, between the Flexor Brevis Digitorum and Abductor Pollicis, and divides opposite the bases of the Metatarsal Bones into four Digital Branches, which supply both sides of the three inner Toes and the inner side of the fourth Toe, similar to the Digital Branches of the Median Nerve. 54 No; the inner Branch to the Great Toe is undivided, whilst the others Bifurcate at the Clefts. 55 Yes; Muscular, Cutaneous, and Articular. 56 Like the internal Plantar Nerve, it follows the course of its Artery, and supplies the two remaining Digital Branches—one of which is undivided and supplies the outer border of the Little Toe, and the other, which Bifiu'cates at the Cleft, supplies the adjoixdng sides of the two outer Toes, similar to the Digital Branches of the Ulnar Nerve. 57 In the Deep Layer of Muscles of the Sole of the Poot. 58 According to some Anatomists, into two Sets—a Super- ficial and Deep; the former supplying the Digital Branches, and the latter accompanying the Arch of the external Plantar Artery, supplies most of the Interossei, the Transversalis Pedis, and the two outer Lumbricales Muscles, and terminates internally in the Adductor Pollicis Muscle. 59 Yes; to the Integument of the Sole and outer border of the Foot. 60 The last Digital Branch of the internal Plantar Nerve. 61 This Nerve, which commences at the Bifurcation of the external Popliteal or Peroneal Nerve just below the Head of the Fibula, courses inwards beneath the Ex- tensor Longus Digitorum to reach the outer side of the anterior Tibial Ai'tery near the middle of the Leg, and follows the course of this Vessel along the Foot . (Dorsalis Pedis Artery) to the first Interosseous Space, where it terminates on the surface by distributing Branches to the adjoining sides of the great and second Toes. 62 Yes, Muscular and Articular; the former supplying in the Leg the Tibialis Anticus and Extensor Longus Digitorum, and, on the Dorsum of the Foot, a Tarsal268 ANSWEES TO QtrESTIONS Branch to the Extensor Bre-sds Digitorum, also the Interossei. 6 3 This Nerve, which forms the other division of the external Popliteal or Peroneal Nerve, commences just belo-w the Head of the Fibula, descends between the Extensor Longus Digitorum and Peronei Muscles to the lower third of the Leg, where it perforates the Eascia, and divides into two Peroneal Branches—inner and outer; the former supplying the inner side of the Eoot and the Great Toe; and the latter, which divides into three Branches, and these again subdivide to supply the adjoining sides of the four outer Toes. 64 The internal Saphenous (from the anterior Crural) and anterior Tibial. 65 The external Saphenous or Communicans Tibialis of the internal Popliteal. 66 Yes; some Muscular Twigs to the Peronei Muscles. Section LX.—SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM. 1 This Nerve, which consists of a series of Ganglia on each side the Vertebral Column, extends from the Head to the Coccyx. 2 It communicates with all the other Nei'ves of the Body. 3 All the internal Organs and Viscera of our Fabric. 4 From the fourth and sixth Nerves in the Cavernous Sinus. 5 As soon as they have escaped from the Cranium and Spinal Canal, the fourth and sixth excepted. 6 At their terminations or final expansions. 7 They accompany them' to the various Organs and form around them, from their frequent commimications, Plexuses, e.g. Carotid, Cervical, Pharyngeal, Lumbar Plexus, &c. 8 To facilitate their description they may be divided into three parts : superior, middle, and inferior; the first comprising the Cervical and Cranial; the second, the Thoracic; and the third, the Abdominal Region. 9 The Ophthalmic, Ciliary or Lenticular Ganglion, the Spheno-palatine or Meckel's Ganglion, the Ganglion of Ribes, and the Otic or Aimold's Ganglion. 10 This Ganglion, formed by the luiion of Branches _ from the Sympathetic, is situated Avithin the Orbit, its posterior part, between the Optic Nerve and outer Rectus Muscle, and external to the Ophthalmic Artery.ON mjMAN- ANATOMY. »69 11 These are Distributive and Communicative; the former or Ciliary Branches proceed from the anterior part of the Ganglion, and are di\dded into two Fasciculi— an upper and a lower; the former composed of about foiu' Filaments, and the latter of five or six Filaments, they accompany the Ciliary Arteries, and divide into numerous Branches which perforate the Sclerotic Coat around the Optic Iferve, and are distributed to the Coats of the Eyeball. 12 These, three in number, are—a long Ciliary Filament from the Nasal Branch of the Ophthalmic Nerve; a short Filament to the inferior division of the third or Motor Nerve; and a long Filament to the Cavernous Plexus. 13 Somewhat roundish and flattened, of a reddish-brown colour, and about the size of a pin's head. 14 Sensory, Motor, and Sympathetic; the Sensory derived from the Nasal Branch of the fifth, the Motor from the inferior division of the third, and the Sympathetic from the Cavernous Plexus. 15 The Spheno-palatine or Meckel's Ganglion. 16 In the Spheno or Pterygo-maxillary Fossa. 17 Into ascending, descending, anterior and posterior, or inwards and backwards. 18 These two, and sometimes three, small Filaments ascend through the Spheno-maxiUary Fissure into the Orbit, and communicate with the Optic Nerve. 19 These Filaments, three in number,—large, smaU, and external—descend through the posterior Palatine Foramen, and are distributed as follows: the large or anterior Palatine Branch to the Mucous Membrane and Glands of the Eoof of the Mouth, that of the Nose (its middle and lower Spongy Bones) and Soft Palate; the smaU or posterior Palatine Branch to the Soft Palate, Uvula, and Tonsil; and the external or smaller Palatine Branch to the Velum Palati and Tonsil. 20 These Branches, four or five in number, pass through the Spheno-palatine Foramen, and supply the Mucous Membrane of the Narcs, viz: the superior Nasal ^ Branch and the Naso-palatine or Nerve of Cotunnius. 21 These Branches, two in number, are the Pharyngeal and the Vidian; the Pharyngeal Branch passes through the Pterygo-palatine Canal, and supplies the Lining Membrane of the Pharynx, w 2270 AKSWEES TO aUESTIONS 22 This Nerve passes backwards from Meckel's Ganglion, through the Pterygoid or Vidian Canal to the Foramen Lacerum Basis Cranii, and divides into two Branches —the Carotid and Petrosal; the former enters the Carotid Canal to join the Plexus of the same name ; and the latter passes into the Cranium through the Foramen Lacerum Basis Cranii, and backwards in a Groove on the anterior surface of the Petrous part of the Temporal Bone to the Hiatus Fallopii, where it unites with the Gangliform expansion on the Facial Nerve, the Petrosal Branch then enters the Tym- pamim, which it crosses and assumes the name of the Chorda Tympani. 23 From the circumstance of its joining the Facial it is a Compound Nerve—Motor and Sympathetic. 24 A Branch from the Tympanic Nerve. 25 Through the medium of the Petrosal Branch of the Vidian. 26 Sensory, Motor, and Sympathetic; the Sensory derived from the fifth Nerve; the Motor, fi-om the Facial, through the Vidian; and the Sympathetic proceed from the Carotid Plexus. 27 On the inner sm-face of the inferior Maxillary Nerve or third Branch of the Ophthalmic, between it and the Eustachian Tube, and just below the Foramen Ovale. 28 These are Distributive and Communicative; the former supplying the Tensor Tjnnpani and Tensor vel Cir- cuniflexus Palati Muscles and the latter are Filaments to the Motor Eoot of the third Branch of the Oph- thalmic, to the Auricular, to the Facial, the Petrosal Branch of the Vidian, and to the Sympathetic Plexus on the middle Meningeal Artery. 29 Motor, Sensory, and Sympathetic, as described in the preceding answer. 30 On the anterior Communicating Artery (which imites the two anterior Cerebral Ai-teries.) 31 By the union of the Sympathetic Filaments which accompany the ramifications of the two anterior Cere- bral Arteries. 32 The Ganglion of Eibes. 33 In the anterior or Naso-palatine Canal; its existence as a Ganglion has been doubted. 34 These are Distributive and Communicative; the former supplying the anterior pai't of the Palate; the latterOIT HUMAI^ AlfATOMr. 271 are two Pilaments wliicli tenninate on either side in Meckel's Ganglion. 35 This small Ganglion is situated in the Submaxillary Gland. 36 Of a reddish-brown colour, and about the size of a pin's head. 37 These are Distributive and Communicative ; the former supplying the Gland and its Ducts, also the Mucous Membrane of the Mouth; and the latter by Filaments to the Gustatory, the Chorda Tympani of the Facial through its Petrosal Branch, and the Sympathetic Filaments on the Facial Artery, 38 The Carotid and Cavernous Plexuses. 39 On the outer side of the Carotid Ai'tery at its entrance into the Cavernous Sinus. 40 The sixth JTerve. 41 The continuation of the Carotid Plexus onwards by the side of the Pituitary Fossa of the Sphenoid Bone, constitutes by its frequent loops of communication the Cavernous Plexus. 42 The third, fourth, and fifth Nerves. 43 The Carotid Plexus. 44 The third, fifth, seventh, and eighth. CEEVICAL GANGLIA. 45 On either side the Spinal Column. 46 Three : superior, middle, and inferior. 47 The superior Cervical Ganglion. 48 Fusiform, of a reddish-grey colour, and extends from between three and four lines beneath the base of the Skull to opposite the lower border of the third Cervical Vertebra. 49 Into Distributive and Communicative. 50 To the Blood-vessels (Branches of the external and internal Carotid Arteries, Nervi Molles), the Pharynx, Larynx, and the superior or superficial Cardiac Nerve, sometimes called Superficialis Cordis. 51 These are both Spinal and Cerebral; three, and some- times four upper Spinal Nerves communicate with the Ganglion; and the Cranial Nerves, the Pneumogastric, Hypo-glossal, and Glosso-pharyngeal communicate by Filaments with this Ganglion. 52 Three on either side—superior, middle, and inferior. 53 This GangHon, sometimes called Thyroid GangHon, is272 ANSWERS TO QTJESTIOlfS situated opposite tlie fiftli Cervical Vertebra; this Ganglion is not always present. 54 Into Distributive and Communicative. 55 To the Thyroid Gland or Body, and the Heart. 56 The external Branch of the superior Larjmgeal and the inferior or Recurrent Laryngeal i^erves. 57 The middle or Great Cardiac Nerve. 58 The superior Cardiac and the inferior Laryngeal Nerves. 59 The fifth and sixth Cervical Nerves. 60 This Ganglion, sometimes called the Vertebral Ganglion, from its situation, is placed upon the Eoot or base of the Transverse Process of the last Cervical Vertebra, and internal to the superior Intercostal Artery. 61 Only one—the inferior Cardiac Nerve. 62 It unites with the inferior Laryngeal Nerve, and termin- ates in the deep Cardiac Plexus, behind the Aortic Arch. 63 To the last two or three Cervical Nerves; other Branches accompany the Vertebral Artery in its Canal, and form a Plexus on this Artery—the Vertebral Plexus. CAJiDIAC PLEXUSES. 64 By the union of the middle and inferior Cardiac Nerves, and by Branches from the Vagus Nerve. 65 On the Bifurcation of the Trachea, behind the Aortic Arch. 66 Yes. 67 By PUaments from the superior Cardiac Nerves, the Cardiac Ganglion, and the Great Cardiac Plexus. 68 By numerous PHaments (which accompany the right Coronary Artery to the Heart) derived from the anterior Cardiac Plexus. 69 By numerous Filaments (which accompany the left Coronary Artery to the Heart) derived from the Great Cardiac Plexus. THOBACIC GANGLIA. 70 Twelve on either side. 71 On the Heads of the Eibs in the Intercostal Spaces. 72 The first. 73 The Pleurae Costales. 74 Branches to the Spinal Nerves and to the Viscera. 75 Generally two; these are called the external Branches, and communicate with each Spinal or IntercostalNerve. 76 Into two Sets; the Branches of the upper five or six, which are very small, are distributed to the Aorta,273 Oir HtTMAN ANATOMY. YertebrsB, and their Ligaments; and the lower Ganglia, wliich are larger, unite to form the two Visceral Nerves of the Abdomen, viz : the Splanchnic jS^erves. 77 Erom the Branches of four or live Dorsal Ganglia, sixth to the tenth. 78 It descends in front of the bodies of the Vertebrae, and pierces the outer border of each Crus or Pillar of the Diaphi'agm to terminate in the Semilunar Ganglion of the Abdomen. 79 By Filaments from the tenth and eleventh Dorsal Ganglia, and pierces each Crus of the Diaphragm, to terminate in the Cajliac Plexus ; a Branch from the last Ganglion, called the smaller Splanchnic Nerve, perforates the Diaphragm and terminates in the Renal Plexus; this Nerve is not always present. ABDOMINAL GANGLIA. 80 The Semilunar Ganglia. 81 One on either side the CajliacAxis close to the Eenal Capsule. 82 By its union it forms a Ganglionic Circle, from which Branches issue in all directions. 83 The Epigastric or Solar Plexus. SOLAK PLEXUS. 84 The Great Splanchnic Nerves, some Filaments from the small Splanchnic Nerves, and some Terminal Twigs from the right Par Vagum. 85 To all the Viscera of the Abdomen above the Pelvis. 86 Plexus. 87 The Phrenic, Hepatic, Casliac, Mesenteric, Eenal, Supra-renal, and Spermatic. 88 The Gastric, Hepatic, and Splenic. 89 From the Aortic and Renal Plexuses. 90 From the left part of the Aortic Plexus. LUMBAE, GANGLIA. 91 Four, and sometimes five. 92 Along the inner border of the Psoas Muscle, and in front of the bodies of the Lumbar Vertebrte. 93 Into Distributive and Communicative. 94 Indirectly to the Viscera. 95 Two Plexuses—the Aortic and the Hypogastric. 96 Some from the Solar and superior Mesenteric Plexuses. 97 In the Hypogastric Plexus. 98 In front of the upper part or Promontory of the Sacrum, between the two common Iliac Arteries. 99 It divides into two parts, which are distributed to theANSWEBS TO QTJESTIOKS 274 Branches of the internal Iliac Artery, and to all the Pelvic Viscera. 100 These Branches, two in number from each Ganglion, communicate with the Ganglion above and below. SACRAL GANGLIA, 101 Four, and sometimes five. 102 On the front of the Sacrum on the inner side of its Sacral Foramina. 103 The Lumbar Ganglionated Cord. 104 Inferiorly the two Cords unite by means of a Loop anterior to the Coccyx. 105 A small Ganglion, called Ganglion Impar vel Azygos. 106 Like the Ganglion of Eibes, which connects the Sjm- pathetic Cord superiorly, this Ganglion forms the bond of union of the Sympathetic Cord on either side inferiorly. 107 Like the Lumbar, into Distributive and Communicative; the former are distributed to the Pelvic Viscera, they also communicate with the lateral prolongations of the Hypogastric Plexus. 108 Liferior HiBmorrhoidal, Vesical, and Prostatic; and in the Female, Ovarian, Vaginal, and Uterine. 109 These Branches, two in number from each Ganglion, communicate with the Ganglion above and below. 110 The former System is that by which sensations are received and spontaneous motions performed; hence called the Nervous System of Animal life, whilst the Nerves of the latter (the Sympathetic) are closely connected with the Nutritive Processes—being distri- buted to the Digestive and Secretory Organs, and to the Heart and Blood-vessels, hence called the Nervous System of Organic life (Carpenter). COEEIGENDA. Page 28, Answer 24—/or " Vertebrre" read " Vertebra." „ 42, „ 109—/or " Secundii" read •' Secundi." „ 43, „ 129—/or " Flexus" read " Flexor." „ 151, „ 369—read " One-and-a-half inch." „ 165, „ 37—for " Nasem" read " Nasum." VOL. I.*- „ 141, Question HQ—omit " which are derived from" and read " called the Ovarian Arteries." „ 149, „ 14—is omitted: " What is the name given to the Nutrient Vessels of the Veins ?"Vol. 1 — 2 Abdomen 83110 Absorbents 158 227 Abcloniiual Viscera .... 81117 Acetabulum .. ; 2fl 30 Adipose Tissue 1 2 Ail- CeUs 79113 Adenology 2 4 Albino 108155 Aire Nasi 114103 Amphiarthrosis 4 5 AmpuUa 120171 Amygdala 124 177 Anatomy 1 1 Annulus Ovalis 70 108 Angeology 2 4 Antihelix 110 105 Antitragiis 110 105 Anti'um of Higbmore .. 15 18 Anus 85123 Aorta Abdominal 130 185 „ Arch 130184 „ Ascending 129 184 „ Thoracic 130 185 Aortic Opening 77 109 Aponeurosis 1 2 Apophysis 3 4 Appendages of the Eye. Ill 100 Apioendices Epiploicce.. 85123 Appendix Auriculae .... 75 107 „ Vermiformis.. 85 122 Aquaeductus Cocblese .. 10 13 „ Fallopii .. 10 13 Sylvii 100 237 VestibuK .. 10 13 Aqueous Humour 110158 Arachnoid Membrane ., 109 242 Arbor YitaeCerebeUi 107 239 „ Uteri 104148 Areola Mammae 81110 Arch Palmar, Deep .... 137 190 „ „ Superficial 137190 „ Plantar 148 213 „ Soft Palate 124 177 Areola Tissue 1 2 ARTERIES: Arteries 1 2 Acromialis Inferior 130 104 Anastomotica Brachialis. 137105 „ Magna .. 145 207 Angularis Faciei 131 187 Aorta 120 184 ArticularisGenQ 140 209 „ Azygos 140 200 Arteries—Con. _ Vol. 1 — 2 Auncularis anterior .... 132 187 ,, posterior .... 131187 Axillai-is 130 194 „ Thoracica 130 194 Basilaris 135192 Brachialis 130195 Brachio-CephaUCjVel In- nominata 130185 Broncbiales 139198 Buccales 132188 Bulbosi 143 205 Capsulares 141201 CarotisCommunisDextra 131180 „ „ Sinistra 131186 „ Externa 131186 „ Interna 132189 Carpi Ulnaris 138106 „ EadiaUs 137 195 CentraHs Eetinre 133190 CerebeUi, anterior or su- perior 135 193 CerebeUi, inferior or pos- terior 135 192 Cerebri, Anterior 132 189 Middle 132189 „ Posterior 135 193 Cervicalis deep, or Cei-vi- caHs posterior 130 193 Cervicalis supei-ficiaHs, or Cei-vicalis anterior 135 193 Choroidea Cerebri 132 189 Ciliares 133190 Cii-cumflexa anterior... 130 194 „ posterior... 130 104 Ilii 144 206 Ilii super- ficiaUs. 145 207 Externa.. 145 208 „ Interna .. 145 208 Coccygea 142 204 CffiUaca 139198 Cochlearis 123 175 Colica Dextra 140 200 „ Media... 140 200 Sinistra 140 201 Comes Nervi Ischiatici. 142 204 „ Phrenici 135 192 Communicans Cerebri an- terior. 132 189 Communicans Cerebri posterior. 132 189 Coronaria Dextra 139 199 » Labii 131187Arteries—Con. Coronaria Sinistra 13!) 1 !)9 Corporis Bulbosi ]4.'t205 „ Cavernosi 143 205 Cremasterica 144 200 Crico-thyroidea, or in- ferior Laryngeal. 131187 Cystica 139 109 DentaUs, Anterior „ Inferior 132 188 Superior 132 188 Digitales Manus 138 197 Pedis 148 213 Dorsales PolUcis 138100 Dorsalis LingusE 131187 Pedis 147 210 Pollicis Pedis.. 147 211 Penis 143 204 Scapula} 135193 Epigastrica 144 200 „ Super ficialis 145 207 Ethmoidales 133100 Facial or external Max- illary 131187 F em oralis 144 207 Frontalis 133 190 Gastricse 139199 Gastro-duodenalis . - ■ ■ 140 199 Gastro-Epiploica Dextra 139 199 Sinistra 140190 Glutea 144 205 Hsemorrhoidales external or inferior 143 204 Hsemorrhoidales middle 143 203 „ superior 140 201 Hepatica 130109 Hyoidea Lingualis 131187 Hypogastrica 142 203 lUaca Communis 142 203 „ Externa 144 200 „ Interna 142 203 Ilio-Colica 140 200 Lumbalis 143 205 lufra-orbitalis 132188 Innominata 130180 Intestini Tenuis 140 200 Intercostales, Anterior.. 135102 , „ Posterior 130108 Superior. 130 193 Interossece Manus .... 138197 Pedis 147 211 Intestini Tenuis 140 200 Intestinales 140200 Ischiatica 142 204 LabiaUs Inferior 131187 Lachrymal 132 190 Laryngealis, superior.... 131187 IKDEX. Vol. 1 — 2 Arteries-Con Vol. 1 — 2 Laryngealis, inferior or- , Crico-thyroid 13ri87 Lingualis 13i|l87 Lumbales 141202 Malleolares 147 Mammaria Interna ^ 135 Masseterica 132 Mastoidea 131 Maxillaris Interna .... 132 Mediastina 135 Meningea, Anterior .... 133 „ Posterior.... 131 ,, Media 132 210 192 188 187 188 192 190 187 188 188 200 200 190 190 211 192 190 187 205 187 198 189 202 187 188 190 190 199 Parva 132 Mesenterica Inferior .. 140 „ Superior .. 140 Metacarpi Eadialis .... 137 Ulnaris 138 Metatarsea 147 Musculo-phrenica . 135 Nasalis 133 „ Lateralis 131 Obturatoria 143 Occipitalis 131 QSsophageales 139 Ophthalmica 132 Ovariana 141 Palatina Inferior 131 „ Superior 132 Palpebree Inferior .... 133 „ Superior .... 133 Pancreaticre 140 Pancreatico - duodenalis Superior 139199 „ Inferior. 140 200 Parotidianre 132187 3 Perforantes, Femorales 145 208 Manus .. 138196 Pedis 148 218 PericardiacfE 135 192 Peiinaei SuperficiaUs .. 143 204 „ Transversus .. 143 204 Peronea 148 212 Pharyngea Ascendens .. 132 187 PhreniciT; 141202 Plantares ...- 148 213 PopUtea; 140 209 Princeps Cenicis 131187 Pollicis 138 196 Profunda Ccrricis 130193 „ Femoris 145 207 Inferior 137 195 „ Superior 137 105 Pterj'goidpffi 132188 Pterygo-palatinaj 132 188 Pudicaj Externffi , 143 204Arteries—Con. V — 3 - a ol. 1 - Arteries—Con. Vol. 1 143 204 12!) 184 1:10 190 137 195 138 190 131 187 KecuiTens laterossea posterior. 138 197 }j XVULLLll-llo • • • • 137 196 Tihifili<5 147 210 T T111 n vc> u )j UliililCO • * ■ • 138 197 133 191 "R ATI rt 1 PQ 140 201 143 205 Snpi'fi ATpMin 141 202 SpiTmilnvisi nnc+oTir^v 135 193 Si^'iuoidea .... •. • 140 201 S11 li ATI n-h fil Ji hi n fi"* 132 188 141 201 134 192 [Postei'ior .... 134 192 Splenica. 140 199 Sterno-mRstoid ,. •. 131 187 Sn npl n\n nnfp ] 33 191 Sublin'^ualis • • • . 131 187 Subm axillaris • 131 187 S n bm PTi t all ^ 131 187 R11 li f n mi 1 rtH Q 13G 194 SiiTiPi*fipin.li9 OpT*vifi<? 135 193 ,, Perinsei ., 143 204 Volse 137 100 Supra-Orbitalis 132 190 , Scapulaos 135 193 , Spinalis 135 193 TJpn nlit? 141 201 147 211 187 T'omnAVfi Hg A n fain nr* AO/* 187 MidJIp 132 187 "Postpnnr 132 187 X'JU 194 „ Longa vel In- ferior .. 130 194 „ Supoiior .... 130 194 Thyroidea Inferior .... 135 19.S „ Superior .... 131 187 Thymici 135 192 140 210 147 211 Tonsillaris 132 187 Transversalis Colli or posterior Scapular 135 193 Transversalis Faciei .. 132 187 ,) Pernitei.. 143 204 „ Pubis.... 144 206 139 188 13S 196 Umbilical 142 203 143 204 14-J 204 134 192 143 204 123 175 132 188 Articulationes , j«r.... 3 5 4 5 Ai'cuata ligomenta Dia- phragmatis 66 88 Auricle of the Ear .... 110 165 75 107 Auriculo-ventricular Op- eniasr.. 76 108 Axis CfeUac 139 198 Thvroif] 135 193 Bile 2 3 88 126 „ Structure of 88 126 93 113 Blood 3 BONES • JJUi-lCDjV.^JJ.t/U-U.L'CH Xi.llViiy Olo of 1 Astragalus , *.. 46 55 22 28 23 29 47 56 37 44 Claviculffi 32 39 27 34 47 57 Cuneiformia Cai-pi .... 38 58 r.TtpvnnTYi T'n vci J_J A.li(_'X Li LlLLl X ILL oX. 4.0 58 „ Internum .... 49 49 58 14 17 Femui' d.0 rt<« 51 Fibula... 45 7 9 33 40 21 26 27 34 27 34 Ischium 28 36 ]fl 20 38 46 10 20 Maxillare Inferius .... 19 24 „ Superius . .. 15 18 X234 „ Cerebrum,. 164 Biu'sa2 Mucosoe 3 4 Bones—Con. Vol. 1 Metacai-pus 38 Metatarsus 50 Nasi 17 Occipitale 5 Palati 17 Pai'ietale 11 Patella 44 Pelvis 26 Phalanges Manus 40 „ Pedis 46 Planum 14 Pisiforme 38 Pubis 30 Eadius 35 Sacrum 26 Scaphoides Carpi 37 „ Tarsi 47 Scapulffi 31 Semiluuare 3 Sesamoidea Manus .... 42 Pedis 42 Shoulder 30 Sphenoides 12 Sternum 25 Tarsus 46 Temporale 8 Tibia 44 Thorax 24 Trapezoides 38 Trapezium 38 Turbinatum Inferius .. 18 Ukia 34 Uncifonne' 38 Vertebrce 22 „ Cervicales .. 22 „ Dorsales .... 23 „ Lumbales.... 24 Vomer 18 - 2 47 59 21 7 21 14 52 33 49 55 17 45 37 43 33 44 56 38 44 50 50 38 15 32 55 11 53 30 46 45 23 42 47 27 28 29 30 22 Vol. 1 — 2 Brain 101 231 Brain, Membranes of .. 168 240 Bronchi 79113 Bronchial Cells 70113 Tubes 79113 Structure 79113 Bursalogy 2 4 Cfficum CoU 85 122 Calamus Scriptorius .. 167 238 CaUces Renis 91131 Canals of Bones 3 4 Canal of Fontana 108155 , Petit Ill 159 „ Cotunnius .. 10 13 Canthi 1131161 Capsule of Glisson .... 88 „ Supra-renal ,. 92 „ of the Lens..., Ill Caput Coli or Coecum .. 85 „ GalUnaginis vel Vera Montanum 95 Cameffi Columna; 70 Cartilages 1 „ Costal 25 „ of the Nose.. 114 „ „ Lai^nx.. 02 „ „ Trachea 78 Caruncula Lachrymahs.. 112 Caruncula; Myrtiformes 101 Cavities of Bones 3 Cauda Equina 171 Centrum Ovale Majus .. lO-'i „ Minus.. lO.'i Cei-ebellum 107 „ Structure .. 167 Cerebrum 101 101 110 „ Structure.. Chambers of the Eye Cheeks 123 .. 2 76 126 132 159 122 130 109 1 31 164 79 112 160 145 5 243 234 234 238 239 231 231 158 176 3 109 79 216 154 3 155 155 192 111 145 145 172 122 81 Chondrology Chordae Tendineffi .. „ Vocales 62 „ Willisii 150 Choroid Coat 108 Chyle Ciliai-y Processes 108 Ciliary Ligament 108 Circle of WilUs 134 Cii'culation of the Blood 78 Clitoris 101 „ Structure 101 Cochlea 121 Colon 85 Columella vel Uvula.... 63 Columns of the Spinal Cord 170 Columns of the Vagina.. 102jl47 Commissures 104 234 „ of the Cere- beUum 108 Conarium or Pineal Gland 167 238 Concha 116166 Coni Vasculosi Testis .. 99142 Conjunctiva Ill 160 Conjoined Tendon .... 05 86 Corium 127 181 Cornea 107 154 „ Structure .. 107154, 243 239INDEX. 228 Foramen of Munro .... 164 235 „ Lymphaticus .. 158 Vol. 1 — 2 Cornua of Lateral Vent- ricle 104 235 „ Sphenoidalia.... 13 15 Corona Cxlandis 97 139 Coronary Valve 70 108 Corpora Albicantia, Pisi- Ibrmia vel Mammalia 162 Corpora Ai-andi 70 Vol. 1 — a Cavernosa Malpighiana 98 91 OHvaria 103 „ PyramidaUa .. 103 „ Quadi'igemina.. 100 „ Eestiformia.... 103 „ Striata 165 Corpus CaUosum 103 „ Fimbriatum vel Taenia Hippocampi 101 Coi-pusFimbriatumUteri 105 „ Geniculntum Ex- ternum 105 „ ,, Internum 105 „ Highmorivel Me- diastinum Testis. 99 „ Luteum 100 „ Spongiosum XJre- thra3 98 „ Thyi-oideum 128 Corpuscules of Malpighi 91 Cortical Substance or Ce- mentum of the Teeth 21 Costal Cartilages 25 Crista Galli 14 Crui-a Cerebelli 108 „ Cerebri 102 „ J^enis 98 „ of the Fornix .... 104 „ „ Diaphragm.. 60 Crypts of Lieberkiiln .. 85 CrystaUine Lens Ill „ Capsule .... Ill Cupola Cochleae 121 Cutis 127 Cuticle 12 Dartos 100 Diaphragm 65 Diaphysis 3 Diarthrosis 3 Ductus adNasum 114 Communis Chol- edochus 89 „ Cysticus 89 „ Ejaculatorius .. 100 „ Hepaticus 88 332 109 139 131 234 234 237 234 230 234 235 150 230 230 141 151 140 183 131 26 31 17 239 233 139 235 88 122 159 159 172 180 180 143 87 4 5 103 128 128 142 120 Ductus Pancreaticus .. 89 „ Perspii-atory .. 128 „ Stenonis 125 „ Thoracicus .... 158 „ Venosus 87 ,, Whartonii .... 125 Duodenum 84 Dui-a Mater 108 of the Cord.. 171 Ear 115 Enamel of the Teeth .. 21 Enarthrosis 3 Eminentia CoUateralis | vel Pes Accessorius Encephalon 101 Endocardium 7 Endolymph vel Liquor Scarpee 122 Ensiform Cartilage 25 Epidermis 127 Epididymis 100 Epiglottis 62' Epiphysis , 3 Epiploon 83 Erectile Tissue 98 Eustachian Tube 119 „ Valve 75 Eye 100 „ ball 100 „ brows 112 „ lashes 11 „ lids 112 Falciform Process 74 Fallopian Tubes 105 Falx Cerebelli 109 „ Cerebri 108 Fasciae 73 Fenestra OvaUs 119 „ Rotunda 119 Fibres of Miiller 109, „ the Cerebrum.. 161 Fibro-cartilage ........ 1 Fimbrife, Fallopian .... 105 Fissure Glasseri 9 of Sylvius 161 of Liver „ Transverse of Liver „ pro Vena Cava., Fistula Lachrymahs 114 Follicles of Lieberkiiln.. 85 Foramen Magnum .... 5 Foramina of Bones .... 3 Longitudinal 129 182 178 227 125 178 121 240 243 105 26 5 165236 231 110 174 32 180 142 79 4 119 140 170 101 152 153 100 161 160 106 150 341 240 103 169 169 157 231 1 150 11 232 87 87 87 125 125 125 103 122 8 4Vol. 1 — 2 Foramen Ovale 76 108 „ Ccecum of the Tongue 136 179 „ of Soemmering 110 157 „ Saphenum.... 74 106 „ Commune An- terius 1Q4 1235 ), „ Posteiius lOJ = 235 Foramina Thebesii .... 75 108 164 335 c 5 Fossa Navicularis Ure tlu-ae 9C 137 ■ i lir<^ lie* 7t 108 Fossse of the Liver ... 87 125 T7 nt- lip lib 165 101 1 ) p. liO Xldyjua -HipiglOLllCLlS . . . . 179 Freenum Linguae 126 „ Preputii 98 1 on 139 Fungiform Papillse .... 120 1/ J GaU-bladder 88 1 4) T GangUa Abdominal .... 189 il6 188 371 190 2/3 190 374 „ Semilunar .... 189 „ Thoracic 189 GANGLIONS: 177 404 174 348 190 274 Jugulare of Miiller .... 177 Lenticular or Ciliaiy ,. 187 187 270 Naso-palatine or Clo- quet's 188 187 188 070 Petrosal of Andersch .. 177 252 188 270 Spheno - Palatine or - Meckel's 187 270 188 271 Thyroid or Middle Cer- Yical 189 271 2 3 4 6 2 2 113 162 124 177 167; J38 12 15 96 ] L37 Vol. 1 - -2 1115 12& 183 12.5 178 „ Su bin axillary .... 125 178 GLANDS : lOfJ 330 159 339 84 131 90 137 103 147 329 159 339 100 339 159 339 KiO 330 159 328 81 116 Meibomian or Ciliary . 113 101 16U 339 Odoriferous vel Tysoni. . 98 139 159 239 85 121 Perspiratory 128 182 12 14. 159 239 85 122 159 229 159 229 101 148 97 139 Glasserian Fissure .... 9 11 88 126 Globus Major Epididy- mis 100 142 „ Minor „ 100 142 Glottis vel RimaGlottidis 62 79 4 6 106 151 83 119 123 176 128 182 121 173 4 6 3 5 75 107 121 173 116 165 122 174 Hippocampus Major .. 165 236 „ Minor .. 165 iOU 90 130 91 131 Humours of the Eye .. 110 158 Hyaloid Membrane .... no: L582 Vol. 1 — 2 Vol. 1 - MucuB 2 3 231 Hymen 101| Hei-nia, Dii-ect Inguinal. 73 „ Oblique Inguinal 73 Ilio-caecal Valve 85 Ileum... 84 Incus 118 Infundibulum Cerebri.. 10:J „ Cochlese.. 121 Intestines 8J Ms.... lOD „ Structure ol 100 Island of EeH 161 Isthmus of the Fauces.. 125 „ Uterus.. 104 „ Prostate. 90 Iter ad Infundibulum .. 104 ,, a Tertio ad Quartum Ventriculum 164 Ivory portion of theTeeth 21 Jacob's Membi'ane .... 100 Jejunum 84 Elidney 90 ,, Structure 91 Labia Majora 101 „ Minora 101 LabjTinth 120 Lachrymal Canal 113 „ Duct 113 ,, Joints' 113 „ Sac 113 Papilla 112 Lacus Lachrymalis .... 112 Lacteals 158 Lacunae 96 Lacuna Magna 96 Lamina Cribrosa 107 „ Spiralis Cochleae 121 Lai-ynx 62 Lateral Sinus 151 Lateral Ventricles 164 Ligaments 52 Ligaments Limbus Luteus.,., Linea Alba , „ Semilunaris Lineae Transversee Lips • 110 . 65 . 05 . 05 . 121 Liquor Cotunnii vel Peri- lymph 121 Liquor Morgagni' Ill „ Scarpse . 122 Liver 80 „ Structure of 88 Lobes of the Cerebellum 107 „ Cerebrum,. 161 IJTDEX. 145 Lobules of the Testis ,. 99 142 „ Liver .. 88 126 Lobulus Auris 110 165 „ Caudatus .... 87125 104 104 123 121 108 232 173 121 150 150 232 179 148 138 235 235 20 157 121 130 31 144 145 171 102 162 102 102 161 161 227 137 137 153 172 79 217 235 62 1 157 87 87 87 176 173 158 174 124 126 239 Quadratus 87 125 125 Locus Spigelii 87 Perforatus vel Pons Tarini 102 232 Lunula 128 Lungs 78 Lymphatics , 1 Lymphatic Duct 158 „ right .. 158 Lymphatics,Head& Neck 150 „ Thorax, Ab- domen, &c. 159 „ Extremities. 100 Lyra 104 Malleus 118 Mammas 81 Mammary Gland 81 ,, Structure .. 81 Mastoid Cells 119 Meatus Auditorius Ex- ternus.. 117 „ „ Internus 10 ,, Urinarius .... 102 Meatuses of the Nose .. 115 Mediastinum of theThor- ax 70 „ Testis 99 Medulla of Bones 3 „ Oblongata .... 162 „ Spinalis 170 Membrana Pigmenti .. 108 „ Nictitans .. 112 „ Granulosa of Baer 106 „ PupiUaris .. 109 „ Sacciformis.. 56 „ Tympani „ Labyrinthi Memljranous Urethra .. Mesentery 86 Meso-Colon, Right „ „ Left 85 „ „ Transverse. 85 „ Caecum 85 „ Rectum 85 Milk 2 Mitral Valve 77 Modiolus Cochlere .... 121 Mons Veneris 101 Mouth 123 117 121 95 182 112 2 228 228 229 229 230 235 168 116 116 116 170 106 12, 146 164 113 141 4 233 242 154 16a 152 156 67 167 173. 137 124 85 123; 123:. 121 122 12a 3 110 173 144 176INDEX. Minimus 70 Deltoidea C7l 91 Vol. 1 — 3 Musculus 1 MUSCLES: Abductor Minimi Digiti. 69 „ „ „ Pedis. 72; „ Indicis 70 „ Pollicis 09 „ „ Pedis... 72 „ Oculivel Eect- us Externus. 59 Accelerator Ui-inaj .... 00 Accessorius Pedis .... 72 „ ad Sacro- Lumbalem 64 Adductor Bre.vis 71 Longus 71 .. 71 „ Magnus.. „ OcuU vel Op- ponens Minimi Digiti 69 Adductor Pollicis Man us 69 „ Pedis.. 73 Anconeus 69 Anti-tragicus 117 Arytnenoideus 02 ArytfEno - epiglottideus superior et inferior 02 Attollens Aurem 00 Attrahens Aurem GO Azjfgos UvuliB 03 Biceps Flexor Femoris.. 71 „ „ Cubiti .. 68 Biventer Cervicis 64 Bracbialis Amicus .... 68 Buccinator 59 Circumflexus Palati.... 63 CervicaUs Ascendens .. 64 CiUaris I08 Coccygeus 07 Complexus 64 Compressor Nasi 59 „ Uretbrai .. 66 Constrictor Inferior.... 63 ,, Istbmi Fauc- ium 63 „ Medius 63 „ Superior.... 63 „ Vaginse .... 67 Coraco-brachialis 68 Corrugator Supercilii .. 58 Cremastericus 65 Crico-aiytoenoideusLater- alis 62 „ „ Posticus 62 „ Thyroideus 02 Crureus 71 95 102 9(! 95 102 73 88 102 83 99 99 99 95 95 102 94 106 80 80 76 70 81 99 91 84 91 74 81 83 156 89 83 73 89 80 81 80 80 90 91 72 86 80 80 80 98 oc 75 60 75 59 74 05 87 01 76 07 89 66 88 64 83 09 94 69 93 69 94 69 94 72 101 69 94 71 100 Muscles—Cox. Vol. 1 — 8 Depressor Anguli Oris.. „ Labii Infcrioris „ Labii Superoris Alteque Nasi Diaphragma Digastricus Erector CUtoridis „ Penis „ Spinaj Extensor Carpi Radialis B re nor Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior „ Carpi Ulnaris.. „ Digiti Minimi. „ Digitorum Bre- vis Pedis „ DigitorumCom- raunis „ DigitorumLong- us Pedis „ Indicis 69 „ Ossis Meta- cai-pi Pollicis 69 „ PoUicis Propri- us Pedis 71 „ Primi Inter- nodii PolUcis 69 „ Secundi Inter- nodii Pollicis 09 Flexor Accessorius .... 72 „ Brevis Minimi Di- giti 69 »» II >» I^i" giti Pedis 73 „ Carpi Ulnai-is .. 68 „ Digitorum Breris Pedis 72 „ „ Profundus 68 „ „ Sublimis.. 68 „ „ LongusPe- dis 72 „ Longus Pollicis Manus 68 „ „ Pollicis Pedis 72 „ Pollicis Brevis .. 69 Gastrocnemius 71 Gemellus Inferior 70 „ Superior .... 70 Genio Hyo-glossus .... 61 „ Hyoideus 61 Gluteus Maximus .... 70 „ Medius 70Muscles—Con. Vol. 1 - -2 -2 Musolea—Con. Vol. 1 - 71 99 117 160 117 160 CI 77 71 98 llio-costolis vel Sacro- Lumbalis 04 83 67 91 05 85 70 96 72 101 04 84 Intertrausversales .... 04 85 63 82 110 169 Levator Anguli Oris 59 74 „ „ Scapulae. 03 82 Ani 67 89 „ Labii Inferioris vel Menti 60 75 „ „ Sup: vel Pro- piius 59 74 „ „ „ Alffique Nasi 59 74 03 81 59 72 Levatores Co star um .. 64 85 Levator Glandulae Thy- roideae 128 183 61 78 Longissimus Dorsi .... 04 83 02 79 Lumbricales Manus.... 70 96 „ Pedis .... 72 102 119 169 119 109 00 75 64 85 61 77 Obliquus Abdominis Ex- tern us 65 80 „ „ Internus 65 86 „ Capitis Inferior 04 84 „ „ Superior 64 84 „ Oculi Inferior.. 59 73 „ „ Superior. 59 73 Obturator Externus.... 70 97 „ Internus .... 70 97 58 71 61 78 09 95 Orbicularis Oris 50 74 „ Palpebrarum 58 72 63 81 „ Pharyngeus .... 63 81 69 95 68 92 71 98 67 00 07 00 72 101 101 „ Tertius 71 100 72 100 Platysma Myoides .... 00 70 72 101 Pronator Quadratus.... 68 93 „ RacUi Tei-es ., 08 92 71 98 65 87 Pterygoideus Externus.. 60 75 ,, Internus.. 60 75 Pyramidalis Abdominis. 05 87 59 73 Pyriformis 70 97 Quadratus Femoris .... 70 97 „ Lumborum.. 65 87 Rectus Abdominis .... 65 80 „ Capitis Anticus Major 62 79 „ „ Anticus Minor 02 79 „ Lateralis 02 79 „ „ Posticus Major 04 84 „ „ Posticus Minor 04 84 70 98 „ OcuLi Externus vel Abductor Oculi 59 73 „ OcuU Internus vel Adductor OcuU 59 73 „ Oculi Inferior vel Depressor OcuU 59 73 „ Oculi Superior vel Attollens OcuU 59 73 Retrahens Aurem .... 00 70 Rhomboideus Major..., 63 82 „ Minor 03 82 64 83 Sartorius 70 98 61 78 01 78 „ Posticus .... 6] 78 Semi-spinaUs ColU 64 84 „ Dorsi 64 84 Semimembranosus .... 71 99 71 09 67 90 „ Posticuslnferior 64 8aINDEX. Muscles—Con. Vol. 1 S«rratus Posticus Super- ior 03 Soleus 72 Sphincter Ani Externus 0(3 „ „ Internus 07 Spinalis Dorsi Oi Splenius Capitis 6i „ _ Colli Gi Stapedius 11!) Sterno-cleiclo-mastoideus 00 „ Hyoid 01 „ Thyroid 01 Stylo-glossus 61 „ Hyoideus 61 „ Phai'yngeus 61 Subclavius 67 Subscapulaiis 67 Supinator Eadii Brevis.. 69 „ „ Longus 08 Supra- Spinatus 67 Temporahs 00 Tensor Palati 63 „ Tarsi 59 „ Tympani 119 „ Vagin£E Femoris. 70 Teres Major 67 „ Minor 67 Thyro-Arytasnoideus .. 62 „ Epiglottideus .. 02 „ Hyoideus 01 Tihiahs Anticus ...... 71 „ Posticus 72 Ti'aehelo-mastoideus .. 04 Tragieus 117 TransversalisAbdominis 65 Coin 64 „ Perinffii .. CO Transversus Auris .... 11 „ Pedis ., „ Perinffii Trapezius 03 Triangulai-is Sterni .... 65 Triceps Extensor Cruris 71 Cubiti 08 Vastus Internus 71 „ Externus 71 Zygomaticus Major .... 59 „ Minor 59 MuscuK Pectinati 76 Myopia Ill Myology 2 Naboth, Ovula of 104 Nails 128 Nares 11-i — 2 73 00 82 100 89 89 83 82 82 109 70 78 78 77 77 77 90 90 94: 93 90 75 81 72 109 98 91 91 80 80 78 99 101 83 100 86 83 89 166 103 89 81 85 98 92 98 98 74 74 108 159 3 148 182 163 Vol. 1 — 3 Nasal Duct 114163 „ Fossaj 115|164 Necks of Bones 3 5 Nerves 1 NERVES: Abducens 176 Aecessorius 178 Acromialcs 180 Auditorius 176 Aui-icularis Anterior .. 175 „ Posterior .. 170 „ Magnus 180 Auriculo-temporaUs 175 Buccahs 177 Cardiacus, Inferior .... 189 „ Magnus 189 „ Medius .... 189 „ Minor 189 „ Sui)erior .... 188 Cervical 179 Cervicales Anterior Prim- ary 179 „ Posterior „ 179 Cervico-facial 176 Chorda Tympani 187 Cihares . <. 187 „ Long, of Nose.. 174 Circumflexus 182 Claviculares 180 Coccygeus 185 Cochlearis 176 Communicans Peroneus vel Fibularis 186 Cranial 173 CruraUs, Anterior or Femoral 184 Cutaneus Externus Bracliiahs 181 „ Internus Bra- chialis Major 181 „ Internus Bra- chiaUs Minor 181 „ Internus Fem- oris 184 „ ExternusLnm- baHs 183 „ Medius Fem- oris 184 Dentales Anterior 175 „ Inferior 175 „ Middle 175 „ Posterior .... 175 Descendcns Noni 178 Digastricus 170 Digitales Median 181 2 253 252 255 250 249 251 254 249 251 272 273 272 272 272 254 254 255 251 270 209 248 258 255 204 251 245 262 256 256 250 203 261 263 249 249 249 249 253 251 257INDEX. Nerves—Cos. Vol. 1 — 3 Nerves—CON. Vol. 1 ■ Digitales Plantar 186 267 „ Kadial 182 259 „ Ulnar 182 258 Dorsales Anterior .... 183 260 „ Posterior .... 183 260 „ Penis 185 265 Eighth Pair ,177 251 Facialis 176 250 First Pair 173 245 Fourth Pair 174 247 FrontaUs 174 248 Gastricus 178 252 Genito-crural vel Ex- ternal Pudic 184 262 Glosso-pharyngeal .... 177 251 Gluteus Inferior 185 265 „ Superior .... 185 264 Gustatorius 175 249 Hfemorrhoidaleslnferior 185 265 „ Superior 185 264 Hepatici 190 273 H}T?o-glossus 178 253 Hio-hypogastriras .... 183 261 „ InguinaUs 183 261 Incisorius 175 250 Infra-Maxillares Faciei... 177 251 „ Orbitales „ 176 251 „ Trochlearis 174 248 Intercostales 183 260 Intercosto-cutaneus An- terior 183 260 „ „ Laterahs 183 260 Humerales .. 183 260 Interossei Antici 181 257 Postici 182 259 Ischiatici Majores 185 264 „ aiinores 185 264 Labiahs 175 249 Lachrymalis 174 248 Laryngeus Extemus .. 178 252 Inferior 178 252 Superior 178 252 Lumbales ■ 183 261 Lumbo-Sacrales 184 263 Malares 175 249 Massetericus 175 240 Maxillaris Inferior . „ Superior.... 175 Medianus 181 Meninges 169 Molles 188 Motores Oculorum .... 173 Musculo-cutaneus Bra- chialis 181 1, „ Cruris 186 175 249 249 256 241 271 247 256 266 Musculo-Spiralis 182 256 Mylo-hyoideus 175 250 NasaUs 174 248 Naso-palatine 187 269 Obturatorius 183 261 Occipitalis Major 180 255 Minor 180 254 Olfactorius 173 245 Ophthalmicus 174 248 Opticus 173 246 OrbitaUs 175 249 PalatinusMagnus velant: 187 269 „ Medius „ post: 187 269 Minor „ ext: 187 269 Palpebrarum 175 249 Palmaris SuperficiaUs .. 182 258 Profundus.... 182 258 Parotidea 175 249 Pathetici 174 247 PateUaris 184 263 Perforans Casseiii vel Musculo-cutaneus Brach: 181 256 Peiinseales 185 265 „ Superficiales. 185 265 PeronealisCommunicans 186 266 Peti-osus 187 270 Pharyngei 178 252 Phrenicus 180 255 Plantaris External 186 266 Internal 186 266 „ External Deep 186 267 Pneumogastricus 177 251 Popliteus Internus .... 186 266 „ Ext: or Peroneal 186 266 Portio Dura 176 250 „ MolUs 176 250 Pterygoidei 175 249 Pudendus Inferior .... 185 265 Pudicus Internal 185265 External 184 264 Pulmonales, anterior and posterior 178 252 EadiaUs 182 259 Kecurrens vel Inferior Laryngeal 178 252 Eenales 190 273 Piespiratory External or Posterior Thoracic 181 256 Sacrales 184 263 Saphenus External .... 180 266 „ Internal 184 202 Second Pair 173 246 Sixth Pair 176 250 Spermaticus 190 273 TNerves—Con. Vol. 1 — - 2 Spinales, ant: and post: 179 254 178 252 187 269 Splanchnicus Major.... 189 273 „ Minor.... 189 273 176 251 179 254 182 258 Superlicialis Colli or Superficial Cervical 180 254 Superficialis Cordis vel Cardiacus Superior loo 272 Supra-MaxiUans iaeiei 177 251 174 248 181 250 „ Trochlearis .... 174 248 Sympatheticus Abdom:.. 1 on ioU 273 „ Cervicalis 188 271 „ Pelvis ,. 190 273 „ Thoracic. 189 272 „ Minor .. 177 251 Temporales, ant: & post: 175 249 170 251 1 ryo 17(1 247 181 256 182 260 „ Posterior, to Serratus 181 256 I/O 253 186 266 180 260 174 247 174 247 177 252 182 258 1 / i 251 liJU 274 170 251 187 270 Q o 4 Oi 116 114 iOo Q o 5 178 20ti lUl 145 80 115 „ structure of.. oU 115 17d /^m on film CrVf^ttiPT AT* Epiploon 83 HQ 83 120 83 119 Optic Commissure .... 173 246 165 236 Vol. 1 - 2 Optic Tract 173 347 100 152 104 148 117 167 Ostium Abdominale.... 105 150 21 26 14 17 104 148 „ Uteri Externum .... 104 148 „ „ Internum .... 104 148 2 3 4 6 122 174 105 151 100 152 100 151 100 151 104 148 Ovum| 100 151 Palate, Hard and Soft.. 124 177 137 196 112 160 Palpebral Ligaments .. 112 161 „ Sinuses .... 111 160 89 128 89 129 2 3 Papillte, Calciform .... 120 179 120 179 126 179 „ Fungiform .... 126 179 „ Mammarum .. 81 117 1 1 26 33 93 133 93 133 97 139 98 139 77 111 3 4 3 4 122 174 3 4 66 88 102 146 82 118 Perspiratory Ducts .... 128 18a Pes Accessorius vel Em- inentia Collateralis 165 236 165 236 62 80 1 1 169 241 „ of the Cord .. 171 244 Pigmentum Nigrum .. 108 154INDEX. Vol. 1 — 2 Pigment Cells of Choroid 108 154 Ms..., 100 156 PiUars of Fornix 164 235 Palate 124177 Pinna of the Ear 116 165 Pituitary Membrane .. 115 165 „ Fossa 12 15 Plenraj 70 113 PLEXUSES: GulEe ; 178 353 Aortic 100 373 Axillary or Brachial.... ISO 356 Cardiac 180 373 Carotid 188 371 Cavernous 188 371 Cervical Anterior 170 354 „ Posterior 180 255 Choroid Cerebri 150 316 Cerebelli 150 316 CffiUac 100 373 Coronai-y Anterior .... 180 372 Posterior 180 372 Gastric 100 373 Hajmorrhoidal 100 374 Hepatic 100 273 Hypogastric 100 373 Lumbar 183 201 Mesenteric Inferior .... 100 273 „ Superior.... 100 273 (Esophageal 178 352 Ovarian 100 274 Pharyngeal 178 252 Phi-enic 100 373 Prostatic 190 374 Puhnonaiy 178 252 Eenal 100 273 Sacral 185 264 Solar 100 373 Spermatic 190 273 Splenic ; 100 273 Supra-renal 100 273 Tympanic 120171 Uterine 190 374 Vaginal 100 274 Vertebral 189 272 Vesical 190 274 Visceral 190 273 Plicffi Semilunares .... 112 160 Pomum Adami 62 79 Pons Tarini 162 232 „ Varohi 102 233 Porus Opticus 107 153 Prepuce 97 139 Presbyopia 111159 Vol. 1 — 2 Processes Processus 10 Cochleoii- formis „ e Cerebello ad Testes 168 „ Vermiformis Supeiior 167 „ „ Inferior 108 Promontory of Tympan- um 117 Prostatic Urethra 95 Pubic Symphysis 30 Puncta Lachrymalia .. 113 Pupil 100 Pylorus 83 Pyramid of Tympanum . 120 Pyramids, Anterior .... 103, „ Posterior.... 163 Kaphe of Corpus Cal losum 163 Eeceptaculum Chyli 158 Rectum 85 Regions, Epigastric 82 „ Hypochondriac left right „ Hypogastric .. „ Ihac, left .... „ „ right „ Lumbar-, left.. right.. ,, Umbilical .... 12 239 239 239 82 82 82 82 82 82 82 82 Respii'ation 80 Respiratory Tract .... 163 Rete Mucosum 127 „ Testis 00 Retina 100 Rima Glottidis 62 Ring Abdominal Ext: .. 100 „ „ Int: .. 73 Root of Lung 70 Rostrum 13 Rugae of Stomach 84 „ Bladder 04 GaU-bladder .. 80 „ Vagina 102 Sacculus VestibuH .... 121 Saliva 2 Saphenous Opening.... 74 Scala Tympani 121 „ Vestibuli 120 Sclerotic Coat 107 Scrotum 100 Sebaceous Glands 128 Segments of Cord 170 167 136 37 162 156 120 170 233 234 234 238 123 117 117 117 117 117 117 118 118 118 114 234 181 142 157 79 144 104 113 15 120 135 128 147 174 3 106 173 171 153 143 182 243INDEX. 76 108 Vol. 1 — 2 2 3 Semicii'cular Capals.... 120 171 Semilunar Cartilages .. 56 68 •76 108 100 142 Seminil'erous Tubes.... 99 142 Septum Anricularum .. 76 108 121 172 101 144 164 235 114 164 „ Pecteniforme .. 98 140 100 143 Serous Membrane .... 82 118 42 50 30 38 85 122 SINUSES : 3 4 130 186 151 218 151 217 151 217 150 216 151 217 Longitudinal Inferior .. 150 216 „. Superior .. 150 216 151 216 151 217 „ Superior ..». 151 217 95 136 95 136 Straight or Fourth .... 150 216 150 216 Transverse or Basilar .. 151 218 127 180 5 7 4 6 124 177 124 177 100 143 3 5 170 242 Spiral Tube of Cochlea.. 121 173 2 4 90 129 ,, Structure of .... 90 130 Splenculi or Accessory 90 130 Spleens 18 23 118 168 25 32 83 119 Tol. 1 — 2 StoTTifl-oh Strnptnrp of* 83 120 Snii-n.rflf'hnniflpn.n 1^1 n id 170 242 „ Space 170 242 Substantia Perforata ,. 162 232 Sulcus of Spinal Cord . • 170 243 Anterior 170 243 170 243 PosteHor 170 243 87 125 112 160 73 103 92 132 SiisTiPTifiorv T.io'ftTTient ot Liver 80 124 110 157 Sustentaculum Tali.,. • 47 56 4 0 5 7 Svirrnlivsis . 4 6 4 6 2 3 Synovia 2 3 4 6 4 6 SvnelpsTnnsi^ . .... 4 6 Slv^snrposis . .. 4 6 Tasnia Hippocampi .... 1 A 1 loo „ Semicirculaiis ., 11)0 -5*30 108 155 T'nvQol r^fivtilnorpQ 112 161 46 55 2 3 Tppth 20 25 TpmrtnTnl Anonpiirosis .. A CJLLI IJUX ill xi. 1Ji-iv.-vaa oJ.u 9 11 nPpTifin- A fill His 72 100 113 101 1 2 J. tJU LiUl ILU-U VjCACUCiJU. • • 169 240 98 140 T'ViQlomnQ Ontirn^ X XlciiciJ-LlUo WIJUlUllo • • . • 165 236 158 227 75 107 Boundaries of .. 75 107 75 107 75 107 135 193 62 79 125 179 124 177 Torcular HerophUi 150 216 Trachea 78 112 78 112 110 165 94 135Vol. 1 - Vol. 1 — 2 _ 2 Veins—Con. 4 6 Tuberosities and Tuber- cles 3 5 121 173 162 232 Tuberculura Loweri 70 108 81 110 90 142 91 132 Tunica Albuginea Oculi. 107 153 Testis 90 141 „ Paiyschiani 108 155 90 141 „ Vasculosa Testis 09 141 111 100 Tvnrnn.Tmtn . . 117 107 93 134 92 132 95 136 102 146 2 3 93 133 103 148 „ Ligaments of.... 103 148 „ Structure ot .. . 104 149 121 174 100 150 177 94 130 Vaginal Processes .... 13 15 102 140 „ Structure of .... 102 147 70 108 „ Eustachian 75 108 77 110 „ Semilunar .... 76 109 77 110 „ of Thebesius .. 76 108 76 108 ,, ofVieussens .. 108 237 Valvulffi Conniventes .. 84 121 100 143 100 142 159 229 159 229 155 222 158 227 T .vm Ti n n ti p.fi 158 227 99 142 140 214 VEINS: 108 154 1 2 149 214 149 214 Ascending Pharyngeal . 152 218 „ Lumbar .. .. 153 219 Auricular, Anteiior .. ., 149 215 ' „ Posterior.. . 150 215 150 224 153 220 153 220 „ Left Upper .. .. 154 221 155 223 150 224 80 114 80 114 149 215 154 221 154 221 „ Posterior .. .. 154 221 Cava Inferior .. 153 310 152 219 155 224 150 215 150 215 .. 150 216 150 225 Coronarj' of the Heart.. 154 221 Corpus Cavernosum.. .. 157 226 „ Spongiosum.. .. 157 226 150 216 , 154 222 152 218 157 226 163 220 155 222 157 220 ,, Superficial .. 156 225 214 157 220 , 149 215 150 216 155 222 220 , 86 124 153 219 226 , 157 226 157 226 152 218 149 215 153 221 , 153 221 „ Superior . 152 219 Interosseous Anterior .. 156 224 „ Posterior .. 156 224 .. 153 220 . 153 220 . 151 218INDEX. Zygoma 9 11 Temporal 149 214: Veins—Con. Jugular, External .... 151 „ Internal 152 Labial 14 o Lingual 152 Lumbar I5;t Mastoid 150 llasseteric 14!) Mammary, Internal 152 Maxillary, Internal ..... 149 Median 155 „ Basilic 155 CephaUc 155 Mediastinal 152 Medulli-spinal 15.*) Meningo-rachidean .... 153 Mesenteric, Inferior.... 155 „ Supeiior .. 155 Obturator 157 Occipital 150 'Oesophageal 15!) ■Ovarian 153 Ophthalmic 149 Palpebral Infeiior .... 149 Pancreatic 155 Parotid 149 Pharyngeal 152 Phrenic, Infeiior 153 PopUteal 157 Portal 154 Profunda Femoris .... 157 Prostatic 157 Pudic 150 „ Internal 98 Pulmonary 154 Eadial 155 „ Deep 15(i Eenal 153 Sacral, Middle 153 Salvatella 155 .Saphenous, External .. 157 „ Internal .. 156 Scapular, Posterior .... 151 Spei-matic 153 Spinal 153 Splenic 155 Subclavian 15G Sub-lobular 153 Subscapular 156 Supra-orbital 149 Supra-renal or Capsular. 153 Supra-scapular 151 Vol. 1 — 2 218 218 215 218 219 215 215 219 214 223 223 223 219 220 220 222 222 226 214 221 220 215 215 222 215 218 220 225 222 220 220 225 UO 221 223 224 219 219 223 225 225 218 219 220 222 224 220 224 215 220 218 Veins—Con. Vol. 1 — 2 Temporo-maxillary .... 149 214 Thebesii 154 221 Thoracic 150 224 Thymic 152 219 Thyroid, Inferior ..... 152 219 Middle 152 218 „ Superior 162 218 Tibial, Anterior 157 225 „ Posterior 157 225 Transverse Facial 149 2l5 Tympanic 120171 Uhiar 155 223 „ Deep 150 224 „ Anterior 155 223 „ Posterior 155 223 Umbilical 80124 Uterine 157 226 Vertebral 152 218 Vaginal 157 220 Vesical 157 220 Vorticosse of the Choroid 108 154 Velum Intei-positum .. 106 237 „ Pendulum Palati 124 177 Vertebral Column 22 27 Ventricles of the Brain.. 104 235 Tliii-d - IGO 237 „ Fourth 107 238 Fifth 107 238 „ Lateral 104 235 „ of the Heart .. 70 108 Vermifoi-m Appendix .. 85 122 „ Processes .. 168 239 Veru Montanum 95 136 Vesicula Prostatica .... 95 136 Vessels 1 2 VesiculsB Seminales .... 97 138 Vestibule of the Ear .. 120 171 „ „ Vagina.. 102140 Villi of SmaU Intestine.. 85 121 Vibrissee 114163 Vision 106 152 Vitreous Humour 110 158 Vulva' 101144 Wrisberg, Nen'e of .... 182 258 Wrist 37 44 Zona Major 109 157 „ Minor 109 157 „ Mollis Cochleffi .. 121 173 Zonula CiHaris or Zonu- la of Zinn 110 157I I i I