41 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 109—To make Brine for Salting Meat and Tongues. One pound salt, ^ lb. of coarse brown sugar, ^ oz. salt- petre, I pint of water. When the meat or tongue is ready lay it in the pan, rub in the salt and sugar, and the powdered saltpetre, put over the ^ pint of water, press it down and put a heavy weight on it. It must be turned every day. I only use the brine twice. This quantity is only for 1 tongue, 5 or 6 lbs. of meat., and a small shoulder of mutton, if you wish to put beef, tongue, and mutton at the same time, you must double the quantity, it will then be ready in a week. I prefer the salting of meat and tongues at home. No. no.—Vegetable Marrows filled with Forced Meat. Scrape lightly the vegetable marrows, wash them well, put them on in a saucepan with boiling water and a little salt, feel them with a fork, and when tender take them out carefully, lay them on your pasteboard, divide them in halves lengthways, scoop out the inside, let it drain well from the water. During the time you are preparing this slice in a deep pie dish an onion, with two tablespoonfuls of oil, a little salt and pepper, put it in the oven to fry; if you have some tomatoes slice 2 or 3, and put with the onion. Take some cold meat, if you have any in your larder. Mince it like for the forcemeat balls, with the same seasoning, put in a dish, mix it up with two eggs, then take the dish from the oven, lay the vegetable marrows in, do not put them too close, it spoils the shape, fill them with the mixture you have just made, then beat in a plate two more eggs with the juice of a lemon, or two tablespoonfuls of good vinegar. (Lemons sometimes are very scarce and dear.) Put it over the vegetable marrow, with a spoon, put them in a rather brisk oven to bake, they will be a nice light brown colour, dish them up carefully. The eggs and lemon, or vinegar, makes like a custard, put that round them and garnish with parsley. This is a very pretty dish, and a good way to use up any cold meat that may be left.