24 DOMESTIC COOKERY. beef broth if you have it. Put in the brains with a little marjoram, and a little saffron to colour. Let it cook gently for half and hour. Beat in a basin 2 eggs, the juice of a lemon, a teaspoonful of flour, a little chopped parsley; when it is rubbed smooth, stir it into the saucepan, basting it backwards and forwards to mix the sauce well. In making Egg Sauce you must be very particular not to let it curdle, you can prevent it by beating up all the ingredients for your sauce, and putting the lemon juice the last. No. 65.—Brain Fritters. Prepare the brains as before, then put them in a sauce- pan to boil; when cold chop them with a little parsley, a little onion, put in a little fine marjoram, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and a little of the rind of a fresh lemon chopped fine, a few crumbs of bread, about an ounce, or one boiled potato mashed. Mix with 3 eggs, fry them in dripping or oil, serve them very hot, with lemon juice, and garnish with parsley. No. 66-—Spanish Onions filled with Forced Meat. Boil 3 Spanish onions in water with some salt. When they have boiled for three-quarters of an hour; take them out, put them to drain in a colander, when cold make a slit down with a knife to enable you to strip each leaf without breaking them ; place each onion on a separate plate, as you have to make them up again. Prepare | lb. of forced meat as for balls, season it well, divide it in three, form them into balls, begin with the smallest leaf, not the heart, so go on replacing the leaves till you will make up the three onions again, they should look as though they had not been touched. Have in a stew- pan the hearts of the onions, some salt, pepper, a little marjoram, grated nutmeg, J pint of stock, put in the onions and let them stew for an hour. Rub in a basin one spoonful of flour, the juice of a lemon, and a little browning to colour lightly. They eat very nicely, and look very pretty; for a change you can use for them egg sauce, or tomato sauce.