DOMESTIC COOKERY. ^3 3 No. 89.—A la Mode Beef. Have a pair of ribs, boned and rolled, or a piece of the round. Put it in a stewpan with ^ pint of vinegar, \ pint of water, season with onion, salt, pepper, allspice, 3 or 4 bay leaves, a cup of raspings from the baker. Let it stew gently for 3 or 4 hours, according to the weight of the beef. This dish is excellent when cold. A steak can be stewed in the same way. Remember that the gravy must be strained before sending up to table, and not thickened. No. 90.—Savoury Jelly. Take a knuckle of veal, with a calf’s foot or a cow heel, put it into a saucepan with a thick slice of smoked beef, a few dried herbs, marjoram, and lemon thyme, a blade of mace, salt, pepper, a little of the fresh rind of a lemon, 2 quarts of water, a tooth of garlic. When it boils skim it well. This must simmer for 6 or 7 hours. The next day skim off the fat, and if not clear boil it for a few minutes with the white of an egg, beat to a snow and the shell, pass it through a jelly bag with the juice of 3 lemons and a little saffron. Oil a mould, cut some hard eggs and slices of sausage, some sprigs of parsley. Have a couple of salted sheep’s tongues, well skinned, pour in the mould some of the jelly, about a quarter full. Lay in a few pieces of the sausage, egg, parsley, and beetroot, tastefully arranged. Let that get cold. Then put on the tongues gracefully with some more of the egg, sausage, parsley, and beetroot, then fill the mould up. Of course the jelly must be very stiff, if not very cold weather set it on ice. When ready to serve it pass a cloth dipped in boiling water round the mould. It is a very pretty dish for cold collations. You can make it with slices of tongue, pieces of truffles, boiled chestnuts, and some balls. I have made it in many different ways. When you want to ornament any dish with savoury jelly you run some of it into flat tins, then you can turn it out and can cut any pattern you like with little cutters. This is the jelly you will have to use to make galantine of fowls, pigeons, or turkeys.