109 DOMESTIC COOKERY. flour; beat well 4 eggs and stir them into the paste of milk and flour. Have some teacups, grease them with butter, drop in a spoonful of the mixture, put them on a baking sheet, put them in a quick oven, they will rise over the top of the cup. Clarify | lb of sugar flavoured with lemon, orange-flower water, or vanilla. Serve the puffs hot or cold, with the sugar in a sauce tureen. You can if you like when you take them out of the oven put jaqi on the top. For meat use melted fat and water. Ho. 314.—Bola d’Amour. Clarify 2 lb. of loaf sugar to a thick syrup. Take the yolks of 20 eggs, mix them up quickly and pass them through a sieve; have ready a funnel, the hole must be the size of a vermicelli, hold the funnel over syrup while it HDoils over a charcoal fire, pass the egg through stirring the sugar at the same time, and take care to hold the funnel such a distance from the sugar to admit of the eggs drop- ping into it. When the eggs have been in a few minutes it will become hard enough to take out with a silver fork, must be placed on a drainer; continue adding the eggs to the boiling sugar until you have used up the whole of them. There should be previously prepared 1 lb. of ground sweet almonds, boiled in ^ lb. of clarified sugar flavoured with orange-flower water. Place a layer of this paste in a dish, then a layer of candied citron cut thin, then a thick layer of the eggs prepared as above. Continue in alternate layers of almond paste, citron, and the eggs until it is high enough to look handsome. It should be piled in the shape of a cone, and the eggs should be the last layer, put it then in a slow oven for it to set a little, and the last layer a little crisp. A few minutes will effect this, it must be served in the dish it is'baked in ; it is generally garnished with gold, silver, and myrtle leaves. It is very expensive, and, like the sister cake, should only be made for particular occasions. When making these cakes all attention must be given to them.