127 DOMESTIC COOKERY. the milk, add 2 oz. of well pounded, almonds, flavour either with vanille or orange-flower water; to this quantity you must add h lb. of castor sugar. When it is well boiled to a custard, turn it out to get cold. Now we will begin to make the ice pudding. Firstly, you must have a proper ice pudding mould; secondly, you must have ready a little angelica cut in strips, some dried cherries, or any kind of dried candied fruits. Prepare them all ready cut as you like, separating each kind for you to work them in properly, a few small rataflas is an improvement. When all this is ready, rinse the mould with cold water. Then take the custard; when cold stir it up well, put some' of the prettiest of the garnishing you have arranged at the bottom of the mould, then mix the remainder well with the custard. Remember to have a very little of each (do not forget a little preserved ginger), turn it all into a freezer, work it the same as if you were making the ordinary ice, do not let it get hard; take the mixture out of the freezers and fill your mould, pressing it down tightly. Then put over the white paper, cover it over, and put it in a bed of ice in one of the ice tubs for ^ an hour. Ice puddings must not be frozen too hard. The moulds generally open at both sides to enable you to get it out easily; if any diflBculty, put a hot cloth over, it will then slip out; some- times a little of the custard is left out to put over the pudding before it is sent to table. You must bear in mind this is an expensive dish, and therefore you should try with a small quantity before you make one for company. The flavour can be changed as you like. Now I must impress upon you that these puddings are just as well made with almond milk as with cream or milk, the only difference when made with almond milk you must add 4 oz. of ground almonds instead of 2. You can also make it during the 9 days. No. 368.—To make a Fruit Charlotte Russe. Oil a pretty ielly mould with the oil of almonds, sift over some powderea sugar, take ‘some fine fresh strawberries,