7 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 15.—Mutton Broth. Three pounds of the best end neck of mutton, put in. your soup saucepan with a quart of water, 3 or 4 turnips cut in good size pieces, a little celery cut thin, a little salt, pepper, |-lb. of rice, well washed. Let it boil well. A large onion (Spanish) boiled whole, let it boil, skim it well, then let it simmer for two hours. Serve the mutton with the boiled onions in the dish with caper or tomato sauce. Kemember always to skim all the fat off of whatever kind of soup you make; as these family soups are always made for the day, it requires great care: soups made for the next day give no trouble in that way. Do not forget with mutton soup always to have parsley and grated nutmeg in the tureen. I think I shall close my list of soups with Mock Turtle Soup made easy. Many persons of small means think it too expensive, and never make it. Now, suppose you would like to have it for your Sabbath dinner. On Thursday have in a bullock’s foot, it is ready for putting on the fire as soon as the butcher brings or you fetch it from market. No. 16.—Mock Turtle Soup Made Easy. Put it in a good size saucepan with two quarts of water salt, pepper, 2 cloves, 2 allspice, a few sticks of marjoram, thyme, parsley, a large carrot, a tooth of garlic, 2 good sized onions, only wash them, do not peel them, any dry crumbs of bread you may have. Put it on the fire for a quick boil, then let it simmer for 4 hours, take out the foot, strip off all the flesh, put it in a plate, return the bones to the saucepan, let the whole of it simmer till the last thing at night, strain it in a nice clean pan, put it by till the morning. On Friday skim off all the fat, put the stock in the saucepan, cut in pieces the flesh of the foot, make a few meal balls, let them boil in the soup, have ready a few egg balls, boiling ten minutes. Puo in a basin a tablespoonful of flour, a little browning, the juice of a lemon, a little cayenne. Let it all boil up, turn it into your pan, and on Saturday you will have