DOMESTIC COOKERY. IG Leave it for four or five days, turning it each day. Put over it pint of vinegar. When you are ready to cook it put it in a stewpan with the vinegar and all the other ingredients. Let it simmer, it will only take an hour-and- a-half. As the meat becomes tender by being soaked in the vinegar take it out of the saucepan, then strain the liquor through a sieve. Put the meat back in the saucepan, throw over what you strained. Rub in a basin a spoonful of flour, 2 of brown sugar, a little browning to colour; mix it all well with the liquor in the saucepan. If new potatoes are in season have some ready boiled and put them into the liquor before you dish it up ; if not, you can cut some old ones into small ones. This is an excellent dish for a family. Dish it up with the potatoes round. A bay leaf gives it a nice flavour put with it in the pickle. No. 43.—Rolled Beef. Four or 5-lb. of the thin flank, free from bone. Lay it on a chopping board, beat it quite flat. Have a pound of chopped meat well seasoned with marjoram, chopped onion, parsley, pepper, salt, grated nutmeg. Spread this flat on the beef, put a few slices of sausage cut thin, lay them on top of the forced meat, a couple of hard-boiled eggs cut in slices. Commence rolling it carefully, then sew it with a coarse needle and thread; roll it in a coarse cloth, tie the ends tight with string. If you have a long stock pot put it in that, let it boil for 4 hours gently. Take it out of the saucepan, unroll it from the cloth carefully. If to eat hot you must have a nice liquor made and seasoned well, and coloured with a little browning, to put it in, and have some meat balls to garnish it. If cold you must press it flat between two chopping boards by putting two heavy weights upon it. Cut the rough ends off and garnish it with parsley and slices of beetroot. The gravy for it if you have it hot: You must boil a pound of gravy beef in a pint of water till it reduces, with onion, marjoram, a tooth of garlic, salt, pepper, grated