DOMESTIC COOKERY. 103 No. 295.—Plum Puddingy. Half lb. flour, ^ lb. soaked bread, 1 lb. well washed and dried currants, 1 lb. well stoned raisins, lb. citron, orange, and lemon peel, h oz. of mixed spice, 1 lb. of finely chopped suet, 2 oz. of almonds blanched and cut in long strips, the rind of a fresh lemon chopped finely, | lb. of moist sugar, 6 eggs well beat, ^ glass of good ale; beat all well together for an hour, grease a mould or basin well, and sift some sugar over it, tie it in a cloth (if a mould it will have a cover), let it boil for 6 or 7 hours. Although old fashioned, the boiling of a plum pudding in a cloth is superior to moulds or basins. Serve with a good wine or brandy sauee (see sauces), have some almonds blanched and cut in equal sizes to stick it like a porcupine, or whip some whites of eggs to a snow with a little castor sugar, and flavoured with lemon, or put some rum or brandy in the dish, and light it at the door of the dining-room before it goes in. No. 296.—Pudding a la Reyuah. 2 oz. of savoy biseuits, 2 oz. of almond cakes, 1 oz, ‘ of ratafias, ^ lb. of loaf sugar, ^ a tumbler of sherry, 1 wine- glass of rum, 6 eggs, ^ pint of almond milk, 1 oz. of isinglass; boil the isinglass in a little water to dissolve, then strain it into the milk, beat up the eggs, stir in the wine and rum, stir it into the almond milk in which you have boiled the sugar, let it all boil to a custard, turn it out to cool; then crumble up the whole of the cakes, grease the mould with oil of almonds, dust it well with sifted sugar, cut up 1 oz. of orange and lemon peel, 1 oz. of angelica, all cut in nice strips; ornament the mould well with them, then put a layer of the crumbled cake and one of custard till the mould is filled, then put it in the ice to set, turn out just before it is wanted, if for supper you can use milk instead of almond milk. No. 297.—The Original Almond Pudding. 16 eggs, leave out 8 whites, 1 lb. of ground almonds (2 oz. of bitter are included in the 1 lb. of almonds), 1 lb. of sifted