DOMESTIC COOKERY. 66 . Remember that you put no water to this dish. A young beginner might fancy that I had forgotten it. The tomatoes will give sufficient liquor, as it requires to be rather thick. This is an excellent dish. No. 186.—Sole a la Normande. Take a fine large thick sole, wash it well and dry it, open it carefully, draw the bone as though you were going to cut off the fillets, slip the knife lightly not to cut the flesh, loosen the bone down the centre, get it out; chop very fine 6 mush- rooms, a little parsley ; put this into a small stewpan with 2 ounces of fresh butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg; stir it on the fire for 5 minutes till the mushrooms are cooked. Then beat 2 eggs and stir them in and put it over the fire till the eggs are set; then turn it all on a plate to cool. When cold put the mixture inside the sole in the place of the bone taken out. Then lay the sole on a baking dish covered over with paper buttered, first sprinkle over the fish salt and pepper, then put the paper, lay 2 oz. of butter in the dish, with the juice of a lemon. Be careful not to leave the sole too long in the oven ; have a few button mushrooms boiled in a little milk to keep them white, drain them dry when done ; cut 2 hard boiled eggs in slices, ready for gar- nishing, also a little chopped parsley. Lay the sole, take off the paper, in a very hot dish, turn the liquor into a small saucepan, mix a spoonful of flour with a glass of white wine, stir it into the liquor, let it boil to get thick like another sauce, pour it over the sole, and garnish one slice of egg with a little chopped parsley on and one button mush- room all round the dish. This is a very choice dish if well made. It will require practice for a young cook to accom- plish this, but with attention it is not at all difficult. No. 187.—Broiled Soles. Take a fine pair of soles, wash and dry them well, season them with salt and pepper; then dredge them lightly with flour, rub the gridiron with butter or oil, put them in before a very clear and bright fire, keep turning them, you must