DOMESTIC COOKERY, 177 To Make Bride’s Cake. 3 lb. of raisins well stoned, 3 lb. of cnrrants well washed and dried, 1 lb. of good fresh citron cut in slices, 1 lb. of orange and lemon peel cut also in slices, ^ lb. of Valencia almonds blanched, and cut in strips and laid in the oven to crisp before mixing with the ingredients for the cake, 2 lb. of moist sugar, 2 oz. of ground cloves, cinnamon, and nut- meg mixed together, an equal proportion of each, 3 lb. of fresh butter, ^ pint of rum or brandy, the grated rind of 3 fresh lemons, 3 lb. of flour, 36 eggs. Have a very large pan, one lined with white, put in the fruit, stir raisins and currants well together, put in the peel, do the same, the almond, also spice, sugar, the same, grated lemon peel, stir this well with a large wooden spoon, add a teaspoonful of salt, keep stir- ring it till you see that it is well mixed, warm the butter, beat it to a cream, add that, stir again for a good half hour, then beat up the eggs well till they froth, crack each one separately for fear any one should be at all stale, mix this all well together, then stir the flour by degrees till it is all mixed, add the brandy before you put in the flour. To be well mixed it must look like a rich plum pudding; the mixing of it will take about 3 hours. Your baker will lend you a proper tin to bake it in, if you tell him the weight you have made. You must grease it well, and after the tin is greased, you must grease some large sheets of writing paper to line the tin with, and put about six thick at the bottom to prevent the cake burning. If you have a good oven, bake it at home, if not, send it to the baker’s. A cake of this weight will take 4 or 5 hours to bake; the oven must be well regulated, not too quick nor yet too slow, and when it is well done it must be left to soak for nearly an hour in a very moderate oven; it must not be turned out of the tin till the next day, and must be kept in a very dry place. A bride’s cake should be made 3 or 4 weeks before it is wanted. The almond and sugar icing should only be put on a week before the wedding. You should have a round of thin wood cut the size of the bottom of the cake, cover 12