20 DOMESTIC COOKEEY. No. 54.—Veal Cutlets with Tomatoes. Slice 4 or 5 large red tomatoes in a stewpan with a sliced Spanish onion, salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Lay on top 3 or 4 veal cutlets with | pint of water. Let it simmer for an hour. Take out the cutlets, rub the tomatoes and onion through a sieve. Place the cutlets back into the stewpan, pour over what you have pulped, then serve it upon a hot dish. Put the cutlets first, then throw over the tomato sauce. It must be perfectly red, add the juice of ^ a lemon to the pulp. This makes a nice entree dish. To make it look pretty you may chop a little parsley over it. No. 65.—Collared Veal. Order 4 or 5-lb. of breast of veal to be boned for collaring. When it is ready for cooking lay it flat upon your paste board, beat it down with the rolling pin. Have a pound of chopped meat, well seasoned, as for the rolled beef Ho. 43. Lay it on the veal, put some slices of boiled beet- root, and slice of smoked beef, 3 or 4 gherkins, 2 hard boiled eggs cut in slices, boil a small quantity of spinach, drain it from the water, put that in a boiled carrot cut in halves, sprinkle a little salt and pepper. Eoll it up and sew it, put it in a cloth, tie the ends tight with string, put in a long stock pot. Let it boil for 3 hours. Take it out, untie the cloth, if you have napkin press lay a coarse cloth on it, mind that is very clean. Press it down to the thickness of 4 inches. Let it remain till cold, then take it out, cut off the rough ends, glaze the top, and when served at table it is cut in very thin slices. Looks very pretty for supper or lunch, as it is always served cold garnished with a meat jelly according to the receipt you will find and parsley and strips of beetroot. It will keep in a cool place for three or four days. No. 56-—Savoury Jelly for Garnishing Collared Veal, EoUed Beef, Fowls, in Galantine, &c. Take a call’s foot, put in a saucepan with some salt and pepper, a little saffron, a little marjoram, grated nut-