22 DOMESTIC COOKERY. the veal on top, the halls all round. Cut a hard-boiled egg^ in quarters, place it in the four sides of the dish. Make a nice crust according to the receipt yon will find for pastry. Cover your dish with it, trim it all round nicely, shape it to rise in the centre, cut a piece of pastry in 4 leaves, shape them on the dish, wash it all over with the yolk of an egg well beat. No. 60.—Stewed Sheep’s Tongues. Boil 4 sheep’s tongues, boil them till tender enough to skin. Have ready in a stewpan J pint of clear stock, pepper, salt, an onion chopped, a tooth of garlic, 3 cloves, 3 allspice. Put in the tongues when skinned, and as soon as it boils put in a few meat balls (according to receipt for meat balls), boil a carrot with. When quite done put a sieve over a deep dish or basin, lay the tongues and balls in the under dish, strain and rub the liquor through the sieve over them. Put back the tongues and balls, and turn the gravy over them, cut the carrot in strips 2 inches long and 1 wide. Rub in a basin a dessert-spoonful of flour, one of brown sugar, one of vinegar, and a little browning to colour, not too deep. Stir it in the liquor quite smooth. Dish it up very nicely, arranging the balls and carrots. This is a very pretty entree dish for company. A large fresh tongue dressed in the same manner looks well: instead of the balls cut some large carrots and turnips to the size of new ones and boil them. Dish them round the tongue. As soon as it comes from table put the tongue on a clean plate and the sauce in a basin. It is very nice cold the next day. Put it in a clean dish, take the fat off the gravy which will be a jelly, turn it over the tongue and garnish it with cold carrot and parsley. We have now some very pretty cutters for vegetables for garnishing. A good cook will try to please the eye as well as the taste. No. 61.—Sausage and Rice, in Spanish Choriza, German Worsht. Slice an onion in a small stewpan with 2 tablespoonfuls of oil, let it fry, put in a i pint of boiling water, a little salt