37 DOMESTIC COOKERY. No. 99.—Cutlets with. Gherkin Sauce. Take 4 plump chops, take out the bones, cut each chop into 3 small chops, flatten them very nicely, mind you do not lose the shape of the chops. Have some bread crumbs in one plate and 2 eggs beat up in another plate, put with the eggs some chopped parsley, a little powdered marjoram, pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Beat it all well, have your frying-pan on the fire with some boiling fat, dip the little cutlets fi.rst in the bread crumbs, then into the egg. Fry them a light brown, have ready for them the following sauce. Chop an onion, put it in a small saucepan with a small piece of dripping, fry it, put some salt, pepper, the juice of a lemon, cut up small two green gherkins pickled. Do not let the gherkins boil. Mix a teaspoonful of flour with the juice of the lemon, and | a teaspoonful of brown sugar. Stir all this well together, it must be ready by the time the cutlets are fried. Place cutlets in a graceful pile in the centre of the dish, and pour the sauce round. No. 100.—For the arrangement of Cutlets. Cutlets can be arranged in a dozen different ways. Cut them just the same as for the last, but do not put them in bread or eggs. Have a nice tomato sauce, according to recipe, ready at the side. Fry your cutlets, arrange them prettily in the dish, put round the sauce; and if for com- pany, as cutlet, form a pretty entree, blanch a few button mushrooms, boil them in a little flour and water to keep them white. Place them prettily round on the red sauce. You can also have some spinach nicely stewed, but keep it very green. Put that in the middle of the dish, and arrange the cutlets round with the narrow end up. Mashed potatoes done in the same manner in the middle of the dish with cutlets all round look well, but for the potatoes fry them in bread and eggs. Peas well stewed, with mint and sugar, and meat gravy with cutlets also look well; in fact, if the cook has a little taste, and short of a dish, she can arrange one of cutlets very quickly. Supposing the master of the