168 DOMESTIC COOKERY. is more art in making a sandwich than many will allow ; unless they are well made they are not worth eating. For lunch, a few meat or fish sandwiches, with a glass of wine, is as much as can be desired. The bread must be cut very even, some only like the crumb, then you must cut off the crust after you have made them. If for fish or eggs, you would butter the bread first, lay on the fish or eggs, then cover them over with another slice of bread and butter. See that it all lays even (a slice of boiled beetroot on the fish tastes very nice) then cut in four, each two slices, lay them on a plate garnished with some very clean and dry parsley. Sandwiches made from the recipe for anchovy paste are excellent: cut a nice fresh loaf in thin slices, trim the edges, lay on the paste, not too thick, cover it over with another slice of bread and butter, cut them in long strips. When you make the meat sandwiches, see if you have some good dripping from roast beef, that has a relishing flavour, cut the.bread nice and thin, spread it with the dripping, then lay on the meat; or if you have any cold tongue or poultry in the summer, a little well washed cress salad, dried well, and lay a little on. Be sure in meat sandwiches always to remember mustard and salt; with fish or eggs pepper and salt; in regular families there should always be ready a good luncheon cake or a few biscuits. See recipes 387, 391. DINNERS. For ordinary dinners I shall only refer you to the recipes for same. There are plenty to select from, to suit the tastes and means of all classes. I shall arrange a few for particular occasions, to assist the young and inex- perienced. When you expect company, make out your bill of fare by selecting from the different recipes. You begin with soup,—refer to the list of soups. Fish the same, for the second course you do the same; be sure that the roasts do not resemble each other. In the summer time you have no difficulty with the vegetables. They can also be procured