32 DOMESTIC COOKERY. mixed with parsley chopped, some marjoram, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg. Mix this all well together, have in another plate 2 eggs well beaten, put in the fryingpan some fat. When boiling dip the slices well in the eggs and then in the crumb mixture, put them into the boiling fat. Have some potatoes boiled and mashed, with a little salt and pepper, made a bed of them in the dish you have ready for the slices of the heart, then lay the heart upon the mashed pota- toes. Strain the fat from the fryingpan into a basin, then pour on to the pan a little walnut liquor or ketchup. Set it over the fire, when it boils pour it over the heart and potatoes. If careful with all the pieces of fat you cut off mutton and beef, and melt it down, and then clarity it, you will always have plenty of fat for frying purposes. And all these little things make relishing dishes, a cabbage or Brussels sprouts boiled and put under instead of potatoes make a nice change. Cutlets are very much liked, they require a great deal of fat to fry them nicely. No. 87.—Ragout Beef- Take a nice piece of beef, well cut, lard it with the fat of smoked beef. Place it in a stewpan, with | pint of beef gravy, highly seasoned, with allspice, cloves, pepper, salt, and garlic. When the beef is cooked remove it from the gra%7, which skim carefully and remove from it every par- ticle of fat. Add to it a glass of port-wine, the juice of a lemon, a pinch of cayenne, and a little mushroom ketchup. The beef should be glazed when you wish to cook extra nice. A few small forced-meat balls made be put round the dish. This is a savory and pretty dish, eats well cold. No. 88.—Kinunel Beef. Place a piece of round of beef in a deep baking pan, with a pint of water, 2 ounces of carraway seeds tied in a piece of muslin, salt, pepper, and a few cloves and allspice, cover the pan down tight with the lid, and tie brown paper over it. Put it in a moderate oven for 3 or 4 hours. This is a good relish for luncheon.