121 DOMESTIC COOKERY. off all the fat and wipe the top with a clean cloth. The liquor will have reduced to a quart; put it in a clean saucepan with the rind of a lemon, cut very thin, not a particle of the white or it will taste bitter ; a small piece of whole cinnamon, 2 cloves, a pinch of salt, a little dried saffron, ^ lb. of loaf sugar. Beat the whites of 2 eggs with the shells, stir it in well. Set it on to boil, keep stirring all the time ; when the whites of the eggs set on the top thick move the saucepan from the fire, pour in ^ pint of sherry and 2 wine-glasses of rum, with the juice of a large lemon well strained; let it stand at the side of the fire well covered over, so that the strength of the wine and spirit does not evaporate. I never boil wine or spirit in the jelly, it is only wasting it. Then have your jelly bag ready, rinse it well in boiling water; before yon strain the jelly have it as near as you can to the fire, it soon cools, rinse the mould with cold water, fill it; set it in a very cold place, if for company you must stand it in ice an hour before you are ready to turn it out. I will now tell you what is preferable to a jelly bag, and much cleaner. Have a yard of flannel, wash it well in boiling water, turn one of the kitchen chairs upon another bottom upwards, place this flannel across, tie each corner to one of the legs tight with string, let it sink a little in the centre, have a large white basin underneath, pour the boiling jelly in, place the chairs close to the fire, when it runs through quickly, if not clear enough pour it again through the flannel into another basin; if you find it sets when it is nearly done running, fill a pie dish with boiling water and place on the flannel, that will cause it to run through to the last drop. You then wash well your flannel in hot water, rinse it in cold, dry it, and put it away with the four pieces of string for another time. You will find one bullock’s foot will give you a much stronger jelly than 2 calf’s feet, and tastes quite as delicate. When you make jelly, if you find the stock is not quite as strong as you require, you must put in ^ an oz. of isinglass. The feet do not always boil alike, rum and lemon alone