83 DOMESTIC COOKERY. little of the rind of lemon chopped fine, parsley, and mar- joram, a little soaked bread, with the water drained from it. Mix well together with an egg, make them into nice-sized balls the size of an apple. Slice in the stewpan a large onion, 3 tablespoonfuls of salad oil, let it fry, add a teacup- ful of boiling water, let it boil up, put in the balls. When done beat in a basin 3 eggs, strain the juice of 2 large lemons, with a little dried saffron and a little chopped parsley. Stir and mix it all well together, dish them up by first taking out the balls, then strain the sauce over them. Garnish with parsley ; 3 or 4 tomatoes added to the balls is a great improvement and makes it a pretty dish. No. 253—Salmon Pie. Cut 2 lbs. of fine fresh salmon in slices, about f of an inch thick, wash and clean 5 or 6 anchovies and halve them, chop a dozen button mushrooms, a little parsley, a little lemon thyme, a couple of shalots very fine, put them into a very clean stewpan with 3 oz. of butter, some pepper, salt, nutmeg, the juice of a lemon, a teacup of water ; put in the salmon. Let it simmer gently, not the anchovies. Boil hard 4 eggs, when done put them in cold water, cut them in slices. Grease a pie dish with butter, put layers of the slices of salmon with some of the anchovies, and the slices of hard egg. When you have used it all throw over the gravy it was cooked in, have ready a good puff paste, make your pie as ornamental as you can, wash it over with yellow of eggs, with the paste brush. No. 254.—To Cook Sole with Vermicelli. Chop an onion and put it in a stewpan with a teacup of water, salt, and pepper, a little grated nutmeg. Let it boil till the onion is quite tender, add a pint of milk. Wash a large sole well, let it cook in the milk, then add a ;^-lb. of vermicelli; when done put the sole in a dish, and the vermicelli round, throw over a little chopped parsley. This is an exquisite and delicate dish for an invalid. Whiting may be cooked in the same manner.