Book No 0930269Glasgow University Library j5 mmTHE SYDENHAM SOCIETY INSTITUTED MDCCCXLIII LONDON MDCCCXLVI.THE SEVEN BOOKS OF PAULus j:gineta. TRANSLATED PROM THE GREEK. WITH A COMMENTARY EMBRACING A COMPLETE VIEW OF THE KNOWLEDGE POSSESSED BY THE GREEKS, ROMANS, AND ARABIANS ON LL SUBJECTS CONNECTED WITH MEDICINE AND SURGERY. BY FKANCIS ADAMS. IN THREE VOLUMES. VOL. II. LONDON PRINTED FOR THE SYDENHAM SOCIETY MUOOCXLVl." MULTUM EOBKUNT QUI ANTE N03 IfOEaDNT, SED NON PBREOER.UNT. SUSPJCIENDl TAMEN SUNT, ET KITU DEOJIUM COLENDJ." (SENECA, ,EPIST. LXIV.) PRINTED BY C. AND J. ADLARD, BAKniOE.OMKW CLOSE.SECOND VOLUME. THE CONTENTS OP FOURTH BOOK. SECT. 1. On Elephantiasis 2. On Leprosy and Psora 3. On Lichen 4. On Pruritus, or Prurigo 5. On Leuce 6. On white and black Alphi 7. On Stigmata, from the works of Archigenes 8. On Exanthemata 9. On Epinyetides 10. On Phlyctaena;, or Bulla; 11. On Burns 12. For those beaten with Scourges 13. To make Hairs grow on a part that has been burnt 14. For Excoriations . . _ . 15. For Myrniecia and Acrochordon 16. On Ganglion 17. On Phlegmon 18. On external Abscesses 1.9. On Gangrene and Sphacelus 20. On Herpes 21. For Erysipelas 22. On Phyma, Bubo, and Phygethlon 23. On Furunculus 24. On Terminthus 25. On Carbuncle, or Anthrax 26. On Cancers 27. On (Edema 28> On Emphysema II.CONTENTS. vi SECT. 29. For Sprains and Contusions 30. On Contusions of the Flesh and Ecchyinosis 31. On Rupture and tearing of the flesh 32. On Scirrhus 33. On StinuiEe, or Scrofula 34. On Steatoma, Atheroma, and Meliceris 35. Of Favi . . ' . 36. On the simple Ulcer 37. On Agglutinants 38. On painful and inflammatory Sores 39. On unconcocted Ulcers, and such as have not suppurated 40. On hollow Ulcers .... 41. Medicines for cleansing foul Ulcers 42. For Worms in Ulcers 43. On fungous Ulcers 44. On spreading Ulcers, putrid Ulcers, and Phagedena 45. On Ulcers requiring Cicatrization 46. On the malignant Ulcers called Chironiau and Telephian 47. For black Cicatrices 48. On sinuous Ulcers .... 49. On FistiUa .... 50. For Sores which break out again 51. On Ulcers iu the Joints 52. Those things which extract Shafts, Javelins, Thorns, and the like 53. On Hemorrhage from Veins and Arteries 54. On Wounds of the Nerves .... 55. On Ancylosis ..... 56. On Relaxation of the Joints .... 57. On Worms . . . . . - 58. On Ascarides ..... 59. On Dracunculus, or the Guinea-Worm FIFTH BOOK. 1. On the Preservatives from venomous animals in general . . 155 2. The general treatment of all persons bitten or stung by any venomous animal 157 3. On persons bitten by mad Dogs, and on Hydrophobia . . 1C2 4. For the Bites of Dogs that are not mad . . .108 5. On Wasps and Bees . . ji,. 6. On the Phalangia, or venomous Spiders . . .169 7. On the Bite of the Spider . . . . 171 8. On the Sting of the Scorpion .... ih-CONTENTS. ■SECT. 9 10 11, 12. 13. 14. " 15. IG. 17. il8. 19. .20. .21. S22. :23. .24. 225. 226. 227. 228 229. 530^ 33L 552. U3. tu. !15. 166. 1:7. IS8. I^9. HO. il. 12. J3. 44, i5. 56, 7. M. ). ). ■I. J. I. . On the Land and Sea Scolopendra On the Stellio, or spotted lizard On the Mus araneus, or shrew-mouse On Vipers and Echidnaj Ou the Amphisbaeua and Scytala On the Dryiuus, The Introduction from Galen On the Haemorrhus, Prester, or Dipsas . On the Hydros, or water serpent On the Cenchrinus On the Cerastes and Asp On the Basilisk On the Sea Pastinaca and Murjena On the Sea-Dragon On the Sea-Scorpion The preparation of the blood of the Sea-tortoise On persons bitten by Crocodiles On persons bitten by a Man On Poisons On the preservatives from Poisons The general treatment of those who have taken any sort of delete- rious substance A Catalogue of simple deleterious substances On Cantharides On the Buprestis On the Salamander On the Pityocampa, or pine-caterpillar On the Sea-hare On the Red Toad or marsh frog On Leeches On the Chamacleon On Henbane On Coriander On Psyllium, or Fleawort On Conium, or Hemlock On the juice of the Poppy On the juice of the Carpcsia On Mandragora, or Mandrake On Aconitum, or Wolfsbane On Ixia On Epheraeron, or Meadow Saffron On the Smilax, or Yew On the Strychnos Furiosa, called Dorycnium, by some On the Sardonian llcrl) On the homed Poi)py On Pharicum On Toxicum On Musln'ooins Vll PAGE' 174 175 ib. 177 180 181 182 185 186 187 189 191 ib. 192 ib. 193 il). 194 195 196 200 201 203 204 205 ib. 206 207 208 209 210 211 ■ il). 213 218 ib. 220 221 222 223 224 225 226 ib. 227 228CONTENTS. viii SECT. 55. On Bulls' Blood 56. On coagulated Milk , ; 57. On Heraclean Honey 58. On Gypsum . ■ 59. On Ceruse . ' •' 60. On Lime, Sandarach, and Arsenic 61. ,0n Litharge 62. On Lead . 63. On Mercury 64. On white Hellehore, Thapsia, Elaterium Gith, and the Down of the Cactos 65. On domestic articles, such as Wine and cold Water black Agaric, wild Rue, PACK 230 231 232 233 234 235 236 237 238 239 243 APPENDIX TO THE FIFTH BOOK. On fejgned Diseases, and the Detection of them On professional Impostors 244 245 SIXTH BOOK. 1. Preface to the Siu-gical part .... 2. On burning of the Head for Ophthalmia, Dyspnoea, and Elephantiasis 3. On Hydrocephalus 4. On Arteriotomy 5. On Angiology, or section of the temporal vessels, and on burning the same . . • • 6. On Hypospathismus 7. On Periscyphismus 8. On suture of the upper Eyelid, and other modes of operating for Trichiasis . . ■ • 9. On biurning of the Eyelids by medicines 10. On Lagophthalmos, or Hare-eye 11. On the suture of the under Eyelid, and the burning of it by medicines 12. On Ectropion, or eversion of the lower Eyelid 13. On Anabrochismus and burning with iron 14. On Hydatids 15. On adhesion of the Eyelids 16. On Chalazia, or tumours resembling hailstones . 17. On Acrochordion and Encanthis 18. On Pterygia . • • • 19. On Staphyloma . • • • 20. On Hypopyon of the eyeCONTENTS. •SECT. 21. On Cataracts . . ... 22. On iEgilops, or fist\ila lachrymalis . . . 23. Ou imperforate Meatus Auditorius . . 24. On substances that have fallen into the meatus auditorius On Polypus . . . . ; On Maimed Parts On Epulis and Parulis . On the Extraction of Teeth On constriction of the Tongue, or tongue-tied persons On Antiades, or indurated tonsils On the Uva On thorny substances fixed in the pharynx On Laryngotomy On Abscess On Strumas, or scrofidous glands On Steatoma, Atheroma, and Meliceris On Aneurism On Bronchocele On Ganglion On Venesection On Cupping On burning the Armpit On preternatural fingers, and on persons having six fingers On the operation of burning for Empyema On Cancer . On male breasts resembling the female On burning over the Liver On burning over the Spleen On burning over the Stomach On Dropsies On Exomphalos, or Prolapsus of the Navel On Wounds of the Peritoneum, and on falling down of the Intestine or Omentum, where Gastroraphe also is described: from the Works of Galen On Deficiency of the Prepuce On Hypospadiseum, or imperforate Glans Penis On Phimus, or Phimosis On Adhesion of the Prepuce to the Glans ■' 57. On Circumcision . , 58. Of Thymi on the Penis . 59. On Catheterism, and Injection of the Bladder 60. On Calculus 61. On the Parts about the Testicles • 62. On Hydrocele 63. On Sarcocele and Tophi of the Testicles ' 64. On Cirsocele and Pneumatocele * 65. On Enterocele, or Intestinal HerniaCONTENTS. SKCT. 66. On Bubonocele, or Inguinal Hernia . • • 377 67. On Rhacosis, or Relaxation of the Scrotum . • • 379 68. On Castration . • • • • . 69. On Hertuapliroclites ■ ■ . . 381 70. On Extirpation of the Nympha and Cauda Pudcndi . . f'- 71. On Thymi, Condylomata, and Hemorrhoids about the Female Parts of Generation. . . . . • 382 72. On Imperforate Pudendum and Phimus . . • • 383 73. - On Abscess of the Womb .... 385 74. On Embryulcia and Embryotomy . . . . 387 75. On Retention of the Secundines . . . • 392 76. On burning the Hips . . • • • 394 77. On Fistulas and Favi ..... 396 78. On Fistula; in Ano . . • • • 399 79. On Hemorrhoids, or Piles . . • • ' 403 80. On Condylomata, or Excrescences, and Fissures . • • 405 81. On Imperforate Anus . . . . . ib. 82. On the Excision of Varices . . . • • 406 83. On the Dracunculi, or Guinea-Worms . . • 409 84. On Amputation of the Extremities ... . • • i^J- 85. On Pterygia about the Nails . . . • • 414 86. On a bruised Nail . . ,. • • • 415 87. On Clavl, Myrmecia, and Acrochordones . • 416 88. On the Extraction of Weapons . . ' . . 418 89. On Fractiu-es and their Differences . . • • • 427 90. On Fractures of the Bones of the Head . . " . . 429 91. On Fracture and Contusion of the Nose . • • 443 92. On Fracture of the Lower Jaw, and Contusion of the Ear . . 445 93. On Fracture of the Clavicle . ' . . .447 94. On Fracture of the Scapula . . ... 450 95. On Fracture of the Breast-Bone . . • ■ • 451' 96. On Fracture of the Ribs . . . . . 452 97. On Fi-actui-e of the Bones of the Loins and Pubes . • 454 98. On Fracture of the Vertebrae, Spine of the Back, and Os Sacrum . 455 V 99. On Fi-acture of the Arm . . . • .464 100. On Fractm-e of the Ulna and Radius . . . • 464 101. On Fracture of the Hand and its Fingers . • ■ 465 102. On Fractiu-e of the Thigh . . • . . 466 103. On Fracture of the Patella . • . • .468 104. On Fracture of the Leg . . • . . 469 105. On Fracture of the Foot . . . . .470 106. On the Arrangement of the Limb . . ' • • 107. On Fractures complicated with a Woimd . . • 472 108. On the redundant Callus of Fractures *. . • • 476 109. On Distortion from the Union by Callus . • • i^'- 110. On Bones wliich have not united by Callus • • • 4// 111. On Luxations 478CONTENTS. Xl 112. On Dislocations of the Lower Jaw 113. On Dislocations of the Clavicle and Acromion 114. On Dislocation at the Shoulder 115. On Dislocation of the Elbow . • 116. On Dislocations at the Wrist and Fingers 117. On Dislocations of the Vertebrm of the Spine 118. .On Dislocation at the Hip-Joint 119. On Dislocation at the Knee 120. On Dislocation at the Ankle, and also of the Toes 121. On Dislocations with a Wound 122. On Dislocation complicated with Fracture PAGE 479 482 484 489 492 493 498 505 506 509 510u. ^ 1 PAULUS iEGINETA. BOOK FOURTH. SECT. I. ON ELEPHANTIASIS. Well, in my opinion, did Aretseus the Cappadocian say, tliat the power of remedies ought to be greater than those of dis- ases; and that for this reason elephantiasis is incurable, be- ■ mse it is impossible to find a medicine more powerful than it. I 'or if cancer, which is, as it were, an elephantiasis in a parti- •ular part, is ranked among the incurable diseases by Hi^jpocrates iiimself, how much more is not elephantiasis incurable, wloich S as it were, a cancer of the whole body ? But the black jile from which this affection is formed, having a double origin, for it arises either from the melancholic and feculent part, and, IS it were, dregs of the blood, or from yellow bile, both being n erheated); the first variety of the black bile produces the eddish elephantiasis, which is the more mild, or to speak more ruly, less malignant variety; the others which are more ma- ignant, being accompanied with ulceration of the whole body iiid falling off of the extremities, are produced by the latter uriety, or that from yellow bile overheated. Wherefore, those vho are already overpowered by the disease, must be aban- loncd; but when the affection is in its commencement, so as hat none of the extremities has fallen off, nor the siu-face of lie body become ulcerated, nor the hard swellings appeared, md the face merely appears foul, but not altogether unseemly, vc must attempt the cure. For not a few, by merely biu-ning2 ELEPHANTIASIS. [book iv. tlie head, have prevented many -who were l^eginning to be affected from being overpowered by this disease. Wherefore, at the commencement of the disorder, we must have recom-se to venesection repeatedly, more especiaUy if m spring when the complaint is most apt to occur, and has its exacerbations. After an interval of a few days, say nine or ten, we may purge them with the pottage of colocynth, not once only but fre- quently, proportioning the dose of the medicine to its sti-ength. Purging with hiera also suits well with them. After the inter- val of about ten days again, we must give them the ^dnegai' of divided milk, not in less quantity than thi-ee heminse, nor m greater than five, and on the following days they are to be sup- ported with milk that is not divided into parts, or new-drawn milk; by which means, if the affection yield, the same food may he continued; but if it remains in the same state, after eating acrid things, they must be made to vomit with radishes and frumentaceous articles of food. After these things, purging with white hellebore is proper, twice if possible when in spring, but once only if in autumn. Those, however, who ai-e tho- roughly overpowered by the complaint, must be neither bled nor put on a course of hellebore. Por neither can a transla- tion of the disease from the superficies to the inner pai-ts, nor a diminution of the offending matter, be any longer accom- plished by these means; but the matter is to be determined to the stomach and bowels, and alteratives (metasyncritica), used to dry and constrict the skin. Dry-cupping is also to be applied over the mouth of the stomach and to the hypochondria, and dropaces used to the same places; but after a short inten^al, the same process is to be repeated, beginning by purging with hiera, and omitting the venesection, which would prove rather deleterious than beneficial. This process is to be repeated three or four times in a year, more especiaUy in the seasons of spring and autumn. The draughts before meals, most suitable for them, are a cyathus of vinegar, with a cyathus of cedria, and two cyathi of the juice of unripe cabbage—they are given mixed together, morning and evening; or, the dried leaves of the herb ironwort, to the amoimt of a di-achm in one cyathus of wine; or, a drachm of hartshorn and a cyathus of the vinegar of squills, is given after the morning walk every day; and other things are to be administered at the same season, suchsEOT.-i.] ELEPHANTIASIS. as cbs. V of washed squiUs in honied water, or in honey, as a Hnctns; or Cj^enaic juice, to the amount of a bitter vetch, mixed with honey and butter; or, dr. ss of the shavings of hartshorn, Avith two cyathi of wine; or, drs. iij of ^Ethiopian cumin, ^ith honey, as a linctus. But a more suitable remedy IS a drachm of the theriac trochisk, ti'iturated in a cyathus of fine wine, and drunk; and a drachm of the trochisk of squiUs may in like manner be taken in a draught. And they praise the juice of calamint as a most effectual remedy when drunk, and say that the dose to commence with is three cyathi, which may be increased to six. But of aU others the theriac of vipers IS the most effectual remedy, both in a draught and when rubbed m externally. But where plenty of these animals can be pro- cured, nothing answers so well as eating the flesh of the vipers boded m white broth, with much water, salts, leeks, and dill to the separation of theii- back-bones, their head and tail being first cut off to the extent of four fingers^ breadth, and their entrails and skm taken away. And theriac salts are in the same celebrity when taken with other food. By using them thus it happens that the scales, or, as it were, the bark, falls oil from the skin. The regimen is to be as foUows : After sleep, having been first rubbed, and the bowels evacuated, let the patient have recourse to gestation and vociferation, then to friction and gym- nastic exercises of aU kinds, partly by leaping, but more espe- cially by usmg the halcteres and leather bag. Having wiped off the sweat, let him be rubbed with the grease of a boar, of a wolf, of a goat, or of some winged animal, or with fresh but- ter; and after a short interval let him bathe, having his body anointed with the juice of fenugreek, of ptisan, or with a little ammomac dissolved in vinegar. After the bath, having got his body wiped, let him anoint with the oil of lentisk, of wild vme, or of myrtles; and with a little wine, containing alum and ammomac, so as to be of the thickness of the sordes of )aths. Having had his body rubbed again with soft rags let am rest for half an hour, after which, having drunk water et him make himself vomit by putting his fingers or a feathe^ ^lown his throat. Having vomited, let him drink the wine of » ormwood or of marjoram. The food should be barley bread >r- a cake of dried barley flour, and of potherbs, the beet the4 ELEPHANTIASIS. [book iv. lettuce, the radish, leeks, and cabbage sweetened in Wo waters, and capers. Of sea animals, he may take oysters pelondes, ui'chin, all shell fishes, hmpets boiled with beets, and old pickle in place of medicine. But let him abstain from wine dui-mg the whole continuance of the complaint, and from vencY; only be may take a httle thin watery wine at the time of his re- covery from the purging, at which season all acrid substances must be abstained fi'om, except condiments. Give him ptisan, eggs and chondrus, milk and honey, with bread, maUows, dock sSret, and fishes with tender flesh; and of fowls, those which containwholesome juices; and of fruits, the fig,grape,and raisms: but of sweetmeats, those which are prepared from pme kernels, toasted almonds, or bastard saffron. He may take food twice a day, as it is injurious to subsist upon one meal. After takmg care of the internal parts, let him use detergent omtments (smegmata) in the bath, from the decoction of beet, or ot fenugreek with aphronitrum, soap, or myrobolan, and sometunes apply depilatories. Purslain triturated with vinegar is detergent and also the slender houseleek, and the roots of dock boiled m vinegar, and alum with salts, and red ai'senic in equal propor- tions with wine and oH of lentisk. Also the composition for alphos, consisting of alcyonium, nitre, myrtle, sulphur, and the dried leaves of the wild fig, being rubbed in dry with vinegar; and that from the bui-nt shell of the cuttle-fish, and pumice, nitre, and burnt Cimohan earth, gum, unripe gaUs in equal quantity, sprinkled dry, or rubbed in with vinegar. And this one is admirable : Of the roots of dock a bunch to the amount of a handful, of natron, dr. xl; of frankincense, dr. xxv; of sul- phur, dr. xxv; it is rubbed in with Egyptian vinegar. And this one is efiacacious: Of arsenic, dr. x; of sulphur vivum, dr. viu; of costus,dr.xii; of quickhme, dr. iv; of wax, dr. iv; of dried bay berries, dr. xii; these things are mixed with the juice of white poplar leaves, or with a thick decoction, and they ai-e rubbed in, having the consistence of honey.—Another: Two fasciculi of the roots of dock are to be boiled in vinegar, pounded in a mortar and tritmvated, then of alcyonium, lb. j; of aphro- nitrum, oz. viij; of sulphur vivum, lb. j; of the bui-nt sheUs of cockles, oz. iv; of chamseleon with its roots, oz. iv; these things are pounded together until they are of the consistence of the Bordes of the baths, and are then rubbed in often in the sim,ELEPHANTIASIS. 5 SECT. I.] if summer, but if winter, in the bath, until it occasions sweating. And the dry smegma of Jjlsculapius would agree excellently with these cases, and all the smegmata about to be described, even unto those for alphos, and also those now mentioned, are appHcable for those complaints. And the tumid excrescences, whether inflammatory or ulcerous, are to be rubbed with Indian buckthorn: or horned poppy, or aloe, or the Andronian trochisk, or that of Polyides ; and let cataplasms be applied of chondnis with the juice of knot-grass or plantain; or of pellitory of the wall, tiiturated; and the leaves of the green Melisian herb, when pounded with axunge and applied, are wonderfully effi- cacious, for they redden the parts, but the redness is easily re- pressed by the application of bread; or of the cerate made from almond oil. By this means their natiaral coloTir is restored. When the parts are ulcerated, plasters are suitable : that from diphryges, and the apple one with wine, that called coracium, that made from oxymel, the Andronian trochisk, pompholyx and calamine. It is a symptom that the whole disease is becoming more moderate when the first ulcers are cicatrized. For the dyspnoea of persons labouring under elephantiasis give a draught of five or six slaters in three cyathi of honied water. And some of the general remedies described for dyspnoea will be ap- pHcable for them. Of the natnral baths we must select, as being most particularly useful, the aluminous and chalybeate, and if possible, such as are cold. It is also particularly ser- viceable to drink them. And the use of the sand of the sea- shore has the same effect, and so have all the sudorifics. But since this affection is one of those which are easily communi- cable, no less so than the plague, they are to be removed as far as possible from cities, and lodged in inland and cold situations, where there are few inhabitants, if this can be accomplished; for so they may descend from thence to surrounding places. This is proper partly on their own account and also on accoiuit of those whom they might come in contact with. For they themselves will thus enjoy the use of a more commodious aii-, and they will not communicate the evil to others. Commentary. Consult Lucretius (vi, 1112); Celsus (iii, 25); Co Phny (Hist. Nat. xxvi, 5); Scribonius Largus (102); Cfelius ^ Aurelianus (Pass. Tard. iv, 1); Marcellus (De Med. xix);ELEPHANTIASIS. [book IV. 6 Serenus Samonicus (11); Octavius Horatianus (i, 32); Isidorus ' (Orig. iv, 8); Vegetius (Mulom. i, 9); Aretseus (Curat. Morh. Clu-on. ii, 13); Plutarch (Symp. viii, Quest. 9); Galen (ad Glauc. ii, 10; de Causis Morb. 7); Oribasius (Morb. Curat, iii, 62; Synops. vii, 5); Pseudo Dioscorides (Euporist. i, 105); AStius (xiii, 120); Actuarius (Metb. Med. ii, 11, and iv, 15); Nonnus (Epit. 233) ; Psellus (op. medicum) ; Leo (vn) ; Myrepsus (DeMed. comp.); Avicenna (iv, 3, 3, 1) ; Serapion (v, 14); Avenzoar (ii, 7, 12, 26); Albucasis (Cbirurg. i, 49) ; Haly Abbas (Tbeor. viii, 15, Pract. iv, 3, ix, 69) ; Alsahara^ius (Pract. xxxi, 2) j Rbases (ad Mansor, v, 35, ix, 93, Contin. XXXV, 26.) We owe the earliest notice which we have of this disease to the poet Lucretius, who briefly mentions it in the following lines: " Est elephas morbus qui propter flumina Nili Gignitur jEgypto in media neque prseterea usquam." Celsus says that elephantiasis is a chronic disease, almost unknown in Italy, but very common in certain countries. He calls it an affection of the whole body, even of the bones. The upper part of the body is covered with frequent spots and tu- mours, the redness gradually changes to black, the skin is thickened, and covered with hard asperities like scales; the body wastes, but the face, legs, and feet swell; and when the disease is protracted, the fingers and toes become buried in the swelling, and a shght fever comes on, which finishes the patient's sufferings. Such is his description of the disease. His treatment consists in bleeding at the commencement, ab- stinence, then supporting the strength, purging, exercise, sudo- rifics, and friction. Baths are to be rarely used; fatty, gluti- nous, and flatulent articles of food are to be avoided, but wine is to be allowed, except at the beginning. The body is to be rubbed with pounded plantain. According to PHny, elephantiasis was never known in Italy / until the days of Pompey the Great, when it was imported from Egypt, and raged for a time, but soon became extinct. He describes it as affecting the face in particular with hard, rough, black maculse, which sometimes spread to the bones, the toes and fingers being swelled.SECT. I.] ELEPHANTIASIS. 7 Serenus SamonicuSj who is said to have flourished about the Comm. beginning of the third century, thus describes the disease : ' ' ' " Est elephas morbus tristi quoque nomine dirus, Non solum turpans infandis ora papillis, Sed cito prsecipitans fimesto fata venino." His remedies are the juice of the bark of the juniper, the ashes and blood of the weasel, mint, and various external appli- cations, consisting of ceruse, Egyptian paper, roses, &c. Scribonius Lai'gus recommends sulphur with common oil for lepra, " et quam elephantiam dicunt," but he gives no descrip- tion of the latter. It is greatly to be lamented that Caelius Aurelianus' account of elephantiasis has come down to us in an imperfect state. His description is entirely lost, and his detail of the treatment is in a mutilated state. It appears, however, that his views were similar to those of Celsus, and that he considered it to be a malignant disease, affecting principally the skin. He approves of rubbing stimulant ointments into the skin, and of using me- dicinal baths, especially the aluminous and chalybeate. When the applications produce ulceration of the skin, he directs us to treat it upon general principles. He makes mention of vomiting by radishes, and latterly by means of the white helle- bore. He approves of a sea voyage and change of scene. He says the first author who described elephantiasis was Themison, the same person that is damned to everlasting fame in one of the lines of Juvenal : " Quot Themison agros autumno occiderit uno." (Sat. X, 221.) If this statement be correct, it is clear that Celsus cannot be of so early a date as is generally believed, that is to say, the Augustan age, for Themison flourished to- wards the end of the first century, p. c. He was the founder of the Methodical sect. Cselius also blames Themison for re- commending bleeding and vomiting unseasonably, and disap- proves of his directions respecting the applications to the skin. It appears that he also disapproved of the theriac of vipers, and of giving to drink water in which red-hot iron had been extin- guished. There can be no doubt, from the circumstances which he mentions, that the disease was thought contagious in his time. OctaviusHoratianus,who lived under the emperor Valentinian, gives a pretty full detail of the treatment, but his description of8 ELEPHANTIASIS. [book iv. COMM. the symptoms is defective. He makes mention l^ow^ver of ^ ^«c.L, which aifect principally the face; he e-^ends that th whole system is attacked Mdth the disease, and that «ie flesh is cormpted. His remedies are much the same as those le- commendedby the other authorities, namely, bleeding, purgmg, vomiting, the thexiac of vipers, and rnbbing wxth t^e -nal ap- phcations for scabies. He also speaks favorably of the natural and the sea-water baths. • i, j ;„ MarceUus the Emperic,who is supposed to have flourished in the reign of Theodosius, recommends, like Serenus, mmt, iuniper, and mezereon, for elephantiasis. He describes it as being attended with hai'd excrescences of the extremities, erup- tions on the face, and disease of the bones. He speaks ot its being endemic in ^gypt. . The disease, elephantiasis, according to Isidorus, is so callea from its resemblance to the elephant. The skin m it is hard and rough, from which it gets its appellation, because the sur- face of the patient's body resembles that of an elephant; or be- cause it is a mighty afi-ection, as the elephant is one of the largest of animals. Vegetius, the great ancient authority on veterinary surgery, describes elephantiasis as it afi-ects cattle. The symptoms are hai'dness and roughness of the skin, squamae, eruptions on the feet and head, and a fetid discharge from the nose. He ap- proves of bleeding, and the other means recommended by the regular surgeons. _ . We shall next give the descriptions of the Greek authorities. Aretseus gives a most elaborate but surely somewhat over- strained description of elephas, which he paints in colour's the most hideous and disgusting. We shaU endeavour to convey to the reader an idea of his sketch, stripping his picture of its flowery ornaments, and contracting its bulk. The disease is called elephas, he says, from its magnitude, leontium or morbus I leoninus, from the supposed resemblance of the eyebrows to those of the lion; and satyriasis, from the venereal desires with which it is attended. The disease is described as esca,ping no- tice at first, being deep-seated and preying upon the vitals, but afterwards it is determined to the superficies, commenciag some- times with the face, and at other times mth the extremities. The belly is dry, because, as he ingeniously remarks, the dis-9 ELEPHANTIASIS. SECT. I.] tribution of the food is performed regularly, and the vitiated Comm. pai-ts strongly attract the chyle to them as a pabulum to the disease. There ai-e large callous eminences on the skin, and the veins appear enlarged, owing to a thickening of the vessels and not to a plethora of blood. The hairs of the head, pubes, and other parts of the body, drop off. The face in particular is af- fected with callous tubercles or warts, and it is not uncommon for the tongue, and most parts of the body, to be also covered with them. The eyebrows are thickened, stripped of their hair, and hang down Hke those of the lion. The general ap- pearance of the skin, covered as it is with hard tubercles, and intersected with deep fissures, is said to bear some resemblance to that of the elephant. Sometimes particular members, such as the nose, feet, fingers, the whole hand, or the pudenda, will die and drop off; and it is not uncommon for incurable ulcers to break forth on different parts of the body. Dyspnoea, and a sense of suffocation, are occasionaUy present. He says, it is dangerous to have any intercourse with persons labouring under the dis- ease, no less so than in the case of the plague, as both are readily communicated by respiration. He directs us, at the commencement, to abstract blood freely, because blood is the pabulum morbi. He recommends us to purge with hiera, and to procure vomiting by radishes, but more particularly by the white hellebore, upon which he bestows a glowing and eloquent eulogy. Like our author, he approves of the theriac of vipers. He makes mention of many external applications of a detergent nature, and in particular praises a soap used by the Celts for cleaning their clothes. He also commends natron, alcyonium, sulphur, alum, ammoniac with vinegar, and the hke, for the same purpose. When the flesh is livid, he directs us previously to make deep incisions in it. The diet is to be plain and di- gestible ; sulphureous baths are to be used: the patient is to swim frequently in sea-water, to take a sea voyage, and other- wise not neglect suitable exercise. Plutarch informs us that it was disputed in his time whether or not elephantiasis was a new complaint. ' Galen, as far as we can recollect, has nowhere treated very par- ticularly of elephantiasis, but in his work 'De Causis Morborum' he has briefly mentioned that in this disease the nose becomes flattened, the lips thick, and the ears extenuated, the whole ap-[book IV. 10 ELEPHANTIASIS. Comm. pearance resembling that of a satyr : and in his work entitled 'DeCuratione ad Glauconem'he ranks elephantiasis with cancerous swellings, and says that the disease is common about Alexandria, owing to the heat of the place and the food of the inhabitants, which consists principally of lentils, snails, pickles, the flesh of asses, and the hke, all which things have a tendency to engender the melancholic humoui-. The temperature of the place like- wise, he shrewdly remarks, determines the superfluities of the system to the skin. He recommends the treatment which we have already had occasion to mention, namely, bleeding, purging, and the theriac of vipers. In the 'Isagoge,' the black and white hellebores are particularly commended. Galen elsewhere calls it contagious. (Lib. ii, Simpl. de carne viperiB.) Oribasius gives no description of the disease, but briefly re- commends the theriac of vipers, and in certain cases purging and bleeding for the cure of it. The account given by Aetius is principally taken from Ar- chigenes, and is very circumstantial. The disease, he remarks, has been called by the several names of elephantiasis, leontiasis, and satyriasis. Suspicions, he says, have been entertained of its being contagious, and he is of opinion that it is unsafe to hold intercourse with those who are ill of the disease, as the air becomes contaminated by the effluvia from their sores, and by their respiration. The disease, he says, is insidious, for it be- gins in a concealed manner internally, and does not make its appearance on the skin until it is confirmed. Men are more subject to it than women, and intemperate climates predispose to it. The first symptoms of the disease are torpor, slow re- spiration, constipated bowels, urine like that of cattle, continued eructations, and strong venereal appetites; and when it is deter- mined to the skin, the cheeks and chin become thickened and of a livid colour, the veins below the tongue are varicose, and eminences are formed all over the body, but especially on the forehead and chin. The body becomes increased in bulk, and is borne down by an intolerable sense of heaviness. Those af- fected with it become pusillanimous, and shun the haunts of men. Though the disease, when confirmed, is of the most hopeless description, he forbids us to abandon the sick at the commencement. His treatment is almost the same as our author's : venesection at the beginning, purging with colocjoithSECT. I.] ELEPHANTIASIS. 11 or hiera, and vomiting with radishes or white hellebore. Some, he says, having remarked that eunuchs escaped taking this com- plaint, have castrated themselves as a preventive. He makes mention of all the medicinal substances recommended by our author, namely, iron-wort, Cyrenaic juice, the theriac of vipers, &c. For the cutaneous affections he recommends a great many external apphcations, containing white hellebore, sulphur, rue, natron, aloes, and even arsenic. He also speaks of cataplasms' depilatories, and detergent ointments. He is very particular in directing that the diet be light and wholesome. Actuarius calls elephantiasis a cancer of the whole body, which preys upon all the flesh, and derives its origin from black bile corroding everything like fire. The first symptoms of it are a faUing ofi" of the hairs of the eyebrows and chin, tumours on the face, an alteration of the appearance of the eyes, a change of the voice, turgidity of the sublingual veins, and afterwards cutaneous eruptions of an intractable nature. He then states that elephantiasis, lepra, psora, and impetigo are diseases of difi-erent gradations of mahgnity. In another place he has given the treatment, which is exactly the same as that recom- mended by Aretseus, namely, bleeding, purging with heUebore, aetergent and desiccative applications to the skin, &c. Some apphcations, seemingly of little efficacy, are recom- mended for elephantiasis in the ' Euporista' of the Pseudo- Dioscorides. Nonnus, as usual, abridges our author's detail of the treat- ment, and omits the description. He says it arises from a raelanchoKc humour, which corrodes the extremities. Accord- ing to Psellus, the disease is produced by melancholy adust and the lees of putrid blood. The account of elephantiasis given by Leo is brief and im- orfect. The disease, he says, is produced by a melancholic l umour, which has become putrid, and corrodes the extremi- les. It IS, he adds, almost incurable, but may be benefited )y purging with the dodder of thyme, by the theriac, andburn- ng the head at the bregma. The aflfection, he says, is also '.illed satyriasmus. Myrepsus merely mentions some of the common remedies 'u- elephantiasis, such as arsenic, turpentine, litharge, &c. He ^ives no description of the disease.[book IV. ELEPHANTIASIS. 12 Comm. We now proceed to the Arabians. Avicenna gives a very circumstantial account of elephanti- asis, under the name of juzam or judam, which his translator renders by lepra. He caUs it a cancer of the whole body, wHch arises from black bUe, and is sometimes attended with ulceration, and is sometimes without it. The disease, he says, is contagious : it is produced by Hving upon the flesh of asses, lentils, &c., and is endemic in Alexandi-ia. It is sometimes csRed leonina, because the face assumes the stern appeai-ance of the lion's. He states that, although it begins internally, its first symptoms are manifested on the extremities. He then describes minutely the symptoms, namely, redness of the face, inclining to Hvidity; falling off of the hairs, enlargement of the veins, affection of the breathing, thickening, and discoloration of the lips; and afterwards ulceration of different parts of the body, corrosion of the cartilages of the nose, then falling off of the nose and extremities, loss of voice, &c. The treatment he gives with great minuteness, but as it is little different from that of the Greeks, we need scarcely enter upon it. Sufl&ce it to say that he mentions early bleeding, purging with hellebore, colo- cynth, scammony, &c.; the theriac of vipers, the application of the cautery to the head, and so forth. Enough has been said to show that this description apphes to the elephantiasis of the Greeks. Considerable confusion, however, has arisen in consequence of his translator applying the term elephantia to a very different disease, namely, to an enlargement of the leg with varicose veins, now generally known by the name of the Barbadoes leg. This complaint he directs to be treated at first with local bleeding and astringents; but when ulceration takes place, it is to be remedied only by amputation. Serapion, in hke manner, describes the elephantiasis of the \ Greeks by the name of lepra. The face, he says, is swelled, livid, and covered with hard pustules, the hairs of the eyebrows fall off, the whole aspect becomes hideous, the voice is changed, the perspiration becomes vitiated, and ulceration seizes different parts of the body. The disease, he says, takes its origin from the liver, in which the office of sanguification is improperly per- formed. His remedies are bleeding, hellebore, the theriac, &c. Avenzoar describes the lepra as a cancer arising from contact ■with other lepers, or from unwholesome food. He recommendsSECT. T.] ELEPHANTIASIS. 13 to purge away the melancliolic humour with scammony, colo- cjTith, black hellebore, &c. The elephantia he describes as a disease in Avhich the leg is swelled like the leg of an elephant. He considers it almost incurable. Albucasis gives an account of the operation of burning the head for lepra, i. e. the elephantiasis of the Greeks. The translator of Haly Abbas, namely, Stephanus Antio- chensis, who says he wrote about the year 1127, describes the disease which we have been treating of by the name of elephan- tia. Like the others, Haly represents it to be a general cancer arising from black bile. He says it proves contagious by re- spiration. Among the symptoms, he mentions falling off of the ciliary and superciliary hairs, dryness of the nose, which some- times falls in; in short, he enumerates the same symptoms as the preceding authorities. For the cure he directs us to bleed from the arteries behind the ears, those of the temples, or from a vein in the arm; to give emetics, such as hellebore; to avoid cold; to apply cupping-instruments to the scrobiculus cordis; to administer the theriac, &c. He recommends externally decoctions of beans and vetches at first; and afterwards stimu- lant lotions, containing arsenic, sulphur, quicklime, and so forth. He also applies the term elephantia, and sometimes elephas, to the swelled leg, which he considers to be a species of varix. Alsaharavius describes four varieties of lepra, namely, the leonina, elephantia, serpentina, and vulpina. The disease, he says, may be contracted, 1st, by an hereditary taint; 2d, by the use of corrupted food, such as the flesh of buck-goats, cows, &c.; 3d, by contagion, thi'ough the medium of the re- spiration. He describes all the gradations of the disease with greater minuteness than any other ancient author. In its last stage, he says, the nose falls in, the hairs drop oflF, the voice is lost, ulcers break out on the skin, the extremities mortify and fall away, and the breath is fetid. His treatment varies ac- cording to the circumstances of the case, but, upon the whole, it is scarcely at all different from that of the others. By the name of elephantia he also describes the swelled leg, which he pronounces to be a very intractable disease. He directs us, however, to have recourse to bleeding, melanogogues, abstmence from gross food, emetics, and various external appli-[book IV. ELEPHANTIASIS. 14 Comm. cations of a stimulant nature, among whicli lie mentions buiy- ■""^^—' ing the leg in liot sand. The translator of Rhases also applies the term lepra to the elephantiasis of the Greeks. The colour of the eye, he says, is changed, the voice becomes rough, the face is swelled, hke a bladder, and red with nodes, the hairs fall off, and the extre- mities at last become sweUed and ulcerated. There is nothing peculiar in his treatment. He describes, likewise, the swelled leg by the name of elephantia or elephas. He says that, when tubercles arise on it, it is utterly incurable; but that when simply enlai'ged, it may be remedied by bleeding in the arm, cupping, emetics, attenuant food, and the like. In his ' Continens,' he calls the lepra (elephantiasis) hereditary and contagious. He says, it is a general cancer, arising fi-om black bile. For the swelled leg he recommends, as in his other work, bloodletting and emetics, with stimulant apphcations, contain- ing pearlashes, sulphur, &c., and also tight bandages. Such is the history of elephantiasis given by ancient authors. The earlier of om* modern writers on medicine, describe elephantiasis as a species of lepra, of which they enumerate foiu- varieties, namely, elephantia, leonina, alopecia, and tyi-ia. This arrangement is evidently taken from Alsaharavius. Such is the accoimt which Platiarius gives of these diseases. In like manner, the Pseudo-Macer ranks elephantiasis with lepra: " Est leprfE species elephantiasisque vocatiir," &c. Upon this passage Cornarius makes the following annotation: " Vulgus medicorum Arabas in hoc secuti lepram cum elephantiasi con- fundimt. Immo lepram pro elephantiasi accipiunt." Guido de Cauliaco's account of the disease is also nearly the same as that of Alsaharavius. He states decidedly that the disease is contagious, and recommends bleeding, purging, the actual cautery, the theriac of vipers, (vi, 1.) Rogerius remarks that the disease is contracted per coitum. (i, 15.) And here, by the way, we may be permitted to state that we have long been convinced that the syphilis of modern times is a modified form of the ancient elephantiasis. This opinion is maintamed by several of the writers of the Aphrodisiacus, and also by the learned Sprengel, who gives a very interestiag disqmsition on Syphilis in his ' History of Medicine.'SECT. II.] LEPROSY AND PSORA. 15 It appears that the disease in its ancient form is still preva- Comm. lent in certain parts of the world; as, for example, in the Sar- dinian States, where it is still looked upon as being both con- tagious and hereditary. It is also endemic in Norway: nay, it is reported to have broken forth with all its ancient character in the province of New Brunswick. In the East, elephantiasis and leontiasis are still considered as aggravated forms of leprosy. (See Heber's Travels, ii, 50; and Niebuhr's Travels, xxvii, 11.) We may be allowed to add, in conclusion, that a great mass of misapprehension has prevailed in modern times regarding the elephantiasis of the Greeks and Arabians. We trust the above sketch will remove the difficulties which formerly beset this subject. SECT. II. ON LEPROSY AND PSORA. Both these affections consist of an asperity of the skin, with pruritus or wasting of the body, having theii- origin from a me- lanchoHc humour. But leprosy spreads over the skin more deeply in a cii-cular form, throwing out scales which resemble those of fishes. But psora is more superficial and vai-iously figured, and throws out furfuraceous bodies. In these cases M-e must premise venesection when the body appears inore than usuaUy plethoric; but, if not, we must by aU means purge with those things which evacuate black bile. Externally we may use in common either of the heUebores; and have washed Hrae dned, and, when going to use it, we may dilute it in water until It attain the thickness of the wrestler's sordes, and anoint. —Another : Of sage, of the tears of Ethiopian olive, of each, fh-. viij; of the bark of capper's root, of gum, of each, dr. xiij ; momt with vinegar, in the sun. Anemone, when applied, and :he root of the white vine particularly, remove psora. But the oUowmg are compound remedies: Of the flour of darnel, one ■hoenix; of the white cardamom, dr. iv ; of the scum of natron, Ir. j; of copperas, dr. viij; of the middle roots of asphodel, dr. iv; 'Jmng triturated them in vinegar, and made of the thickness 'f a cerate, anoint, having first applied nitre to the part; and laving removed it, (which do about the third day,) and washed ■ ith cold water, again anoint.—Another : Of the juice of kings'LEPROSY AND PSORA. [book iv. Comm. spears' roots, oz. vj ; of sulphur vivum, of manna, of ' of natron, d . viij anoint, mixing with vinegar. The followmg Iple remedies'are particularly applicable for psora: Staves- acre bitter lupins, cardamom with vinegar, the root of hly with ron;y t^pentine^osin, sulphur, chick peas, goat s dung ; and these'^compound ones-mix equal parts of chalcitis and misy with wine, and anoint the more humid kinds of psora.— Another: Boil the tender leaves of rose-bay m a sextanus of oil until they are dried, and, throwing away the leaves, add to the on oz. iij of white wax, and, after it is dissolved, cool and sprinkle upon it oz. j of sulphur vivum, and anomt m the sun or in the bath. Some boU also squiUs with the rose-bay.— Another : Of diachylon, oz. iy, of wax, oz. ij; of oil of roses, oz. 3; oflitharge,oz.ii3J of ceruse, oz. iij; of Uquid pitch, oz vj; of the dross of silver, oz. ij; of siricum, oz. ij; of vinegar, what will be sufficient for the trituration of the dry thrngs.—Another : Ot ceruse, oz. ss; of starch, oz. ss; of lead, oz.j; of red lotuses, or ofalkanet, oz.ij ; of wax, oz. vj ; of oil of roses, oz. ix; boil the alkanet properly with the oH of roses, and then add the other thiugs.—Another: Take ten eggs, or as many as are reqmred and having macerated in the most acrid vinegar until their shell become tender; boil in the vinegar the yelks of them; ha^ang tritiirated with rose-oH and what remains of the vmegai- a moderate quantity of litharge, anoint, when of the consistence of the sordes of oil in hRths.—Another: Three yelks of eggs out of vinegar; of rose-oil, oz.vj; of sulphur vivum, oz.uj; having triturated the yelks of the eggs and the sulphur with the vine- gar add the cerate. And Htharge triturated with vinegar and rose oil, until it be of the consistence of a plaster, cleanses the most acrid kinds of psora; and the detergent ointments from dock, and the most of those for elephantiasis, answer weU m general with leprosy and psora. See Hippocrates (de Usu Humidorum, Epidem. ii); Galen. (Meth. Med. xiv; de Causis Sympt. iii, 6; et alibi); Oribasius (Morb. Curat, iii, 58); Aetius (xiii, 134); Actuaiius (Meth. Med. ii, 11); Nonnus (Epit. 334); Pseudo-Dioscor. (Euponst. i, 138); Leo(vii,15,18); PoUux (Onomasticon,iv,9); ^scliylus (Choeph. 374) ; Alexander Aplii'odisiensis (Prob. i, 146, and ii, 43); Cclsus (v, 38); Scribonius Largus; Octavius HoratiauusSECT. II.] LEPROSY AND PSORA. 17 (i, 31); Seremis Samonicus; Marcellus (de Med. xix); Isidorus (Orig. iv, 8); PseUus (op. Medicum); Vegetius (Mulom. iii, 71) • Geopon. (xviii, 15); Serapion (v, 2); Avicenna (iv. 7,2 9) • Avenzoar (ii, 7, 4) ■ Haly Abbas (Theor. viii, 16; Pract. iv' 4) • Alsaliaravius (xxxi, 1, 2, 3, 4) j Rhases (ad Manser, v, 31 et seq.j Divis. 117, et seq.); Contin. (xxxvi.) As in the preceding chapter, we shall here give a separate account of the views of the Greeks, Latins, and Arabians, be- ginning, in this instance, with the Greeks. Hippocrates makes only casual mention of these diseases, and has nowhere marked theii- distinguishing characters. In one place he caUs leprosy a blemish rather than a disease; and m another he remarks that some varieties of it itch before rain. He speaks of ^dnegar, and of lime and water as remedies for it." It IS proper to apprize the reader that the two works quoted nbove from the Hippocratic Collection are, most probably, not uenuine, Galen also is very deficient on the subject of lepra, having uowhere given a complete description of it, although he notices It incidentally m many parts of his works. In one place he calls elephas, leuce, and alphos cognate affections. Alphos he says, is much more superficial than leuce. In another, he attributes these complaints to the melancholic humour which becomes fixed in the skin. In the ^sagogue,^ which, however ^^eems not to be a genuine work of his, it is said that lepra is an attection of the skin, which becomes whiter and rougher than natural, the roughness resembbng that from prominent psy- |b-acia. Psora is said to partake more of the nature of ulcera- ' ion. Both are represented as arising from a saltish phlegm ' ud as bemg cured by phlegmagogues, and ointments rubbed into the skm. It is also stated that leuce is distinguished from ' lepra by there being no roughness of the skin in the former ;iisease. In another place he mentions psora as a disease most inveterate to cure. (Facult. Natur. i, 13.) Oribasius thus distinguishes leuce, alphos, melas, lepra, and ora from one another. Leuce is occasioned by a pituitous nd viscid blood, which, in process of time, renders the colour hite. Alphos arises in Hke manner, but the superficial skin '•'ly IS aflected, and not the whole flesh. When a pituitous 'umour IS the cause of the complaint, it puts on the appearance 218 LEPROSY AND PSORA. [book iv. Comm. of alphos, and when the melancholic, of melas. Lepra affects mostly the deep-seated parts, and psora the superficial, i or all these complaints he recommends a mixture of lime and water and some other such things. In the 'Euporista/ generally ascribed to Dioscondes, theic is given a long list of medicinal articles for lepra, such as the flour of darnel mth sulphur, heUebore with vinegar, verdigris, cantharides, &c. , vxr „ Aetius, copying from Archigenes, thus marks the difference between lepra and its cognate diseases. Lepra differs trom leuce and alphos, inasmuch as lepra is distingmshed by roughness and a sense of itching, and yet the skin only is affected, and when it is removed, the flesh below is discovered to be sound ■ but in leuce, the flesh below assumes an unnatui-al degree ot whiteness, while the surface of the part is very smooth, and when rubbed it soon becomes red, especially in those who are readily cured; and alphos is altogether superficial, having the appearance of a scale fastened to the skin. Lepra differs fi-om psora, inasmuch as in psora the substances which appear on the skin ai-e of a furfm-aceous nature, while in lepra they resemble the scales of a large fish. He omits the constitutional treat- ment so judiciously stated by om- author, but his local apphca- tions ai-e little different. They contain hellebore, sulphur, misy, verdigris, liquid pitch, cantharides, natron, copperas, myrrh, galls, vinegar, &c., mixed in various proportions. Actuarius states that lepra is next to elephantia in malignity, and that it is distinguished from psora by spreading deeper and having scales of a circidar shape like those of fishes; whereas, psora is more superficial, and its scales are farfuraceous and of no determinate shape. Both are attended with asperity of the skin, and itching. Leuce holds the same place to alphos that lepra does to psora, that is to say, leuce is more deep-seated, and affects the colour of the hair, while alphos is more super- ficial, aud the hair is in general unchanged. For all these affections he recommends an application containing copperas, black hellebore, arsenic, and cantharides, mixed with oil, cedar resin, or rose oil. Psellus states correctly that the scales in leprosy assume a circular shape. Nonnus marks the distinction between these diseases verySECT. II.] LEPROSY AND PSORA. 19 accurately. Lepra arises from a corroding humour, and hence scales fall from the surface of the skin, and it is attended with pruritus. But lepra is more deep-seated, and affects the skin cu-culai-ly; whereas psora is more superficial and variously figm-ed. Leuce and alphos albus and niger, he says, are allied j but leuce is deeper seated, so as to change the colour of the hairs, whereas the alphi are more superficial affections. Pollux, like most of the others, states that in leuce, when the skin is pricked, it does not bleed, and that the disease is chfficult to cure. Alphos and melas, he says, are easily cured. Although Mp-epsus has not described these diseases, he gives prescriptions for various compositions to remove them. The most active ingi-edients in them are heUebore, natron, sulphur, quicksHver, sal ammoniac, quicklime, bay-berries, &c. _ Alexander Aphrodisiensis mentions psora among the conta- gious diseases, but says that lepra and leuce are not contagious. Chiysostom aUudes to the common opinion that psora is a contagious disease. The poet ^schylus gives a short description of leprosy m his 'Choepher^^ by the name of lichenes. (1. 277.) Celsus nowhere uses the terms lepra and psora, and therefore there is considerable difficulty in comparing his account of these cutaneous affections with the descriptions of the Greeks. Alphos, melas, and leuce, he describes very intelligibly, connecting them together by the generic term of vitiligo. We shall give his own characteristic description of these diseases :—""AX.^oe vo- catur ubi color albus est, fere subasper, et non continuus, et qusedam quasi guttse dispersse esse videantur: interdum etiam latius, et cum quibusdum intermissionibus serpit. MiXag colore ab hoc differt quia niger est et umbr^ simiHs: cetera eadem sunt. Leuce habet quiddam simile alpho, sed magis l lnda est et altius descendit; in efique albi pili sunt, et lanugini Mmiles. Pnora curationem non deficiUimam recipiunt: ultimum MX unquam sanescit.^^ Another class of cutaneous affections he connects by the generic term of impetigo, and it is to be re- niJirked that they are all squamous diseases, and not pustulai-, like the complaints to which Drs. Willan and Bateman have ■ipphed the term. His second species of impetigo (as Bateman l omarks,) appears to be the psora of the Greeks Alteram '^enus pejus est, simile papulae feraj, sed asperius rubicandiusque, (iguras varias habens: squamulte ex summa cute disccdunt.20 LEPROSY AND PSORA. [book iv. CoMM.rosio major est, celerius et latius procedit, certioribusque etiam quam prior temporibus et fit et desinit. Tlubra cognommatur. His tWrd species bears some resemblance to the lepra nigncans of WiUan and B ataman Tertia etiamnum detenor est: nam et crassior est et durior, et magis tumet, in snmma cute fin- ditnr, et vehementius rodit, ipsa quoque squamosa sed nigra, &c. Nigr^ cognomen est." His account of the fourth species seems to refer to the lepra vulgaris " Quartum genus est quod cura- tionem omnino non recipit distans colore : nam sub-albidum est \ et recenti cicatrici simile: squamulas habet pallidas, quasdam sub- albidas, quasdam lenticulge simUes: quibus demptis nonun- quamprofluit sanguis." For all these diseases he recommends a composition containing sulphur, natron, and rosm. Scribonius Largus describes several compositions, "adlepram, quje quasi impetigo est cum prurigine cutis," and for scabies. They contain sulphur, JSthiopian cumin, vinegar, frankincense. Serenus Samonicus makes mention of a few popular reme- dies for scabies, prurigo, and papula, but he gives no descrip- tion of these complaints. Octavius Horatianus recommends for scabies (meaning, we suppose, the psora of the Greeks,) bleeding, purging, frequent baths, and external applications containing natron, frankincense, and sulphur. He does not mention lepra by name, nor does he seem to allude to it at all. Marcellus recommends for lepra a composition containing equal parts of natron, frankincense, litharge, and sulphui- pounded with vinegar. Vegetius says that the scabies of cattle " contagiosa est et ■'! transit in plures." Probably Virgil alludes to the scab of sheep in this line: " Nec mala vicini pecoris contagia Isedant." (Eel. i.) He mentions, as remedies for it, sulphur, litharge, pitch, helle- bore, &c. (Georg. iii, 449.) See also Geopon. (xvi, 18, sviii, 15); Columella (viii, 5); and Gratius (Cyneget. 413). Isidores gives the folloAving definitions of the complaints we have been treating of: " Lepra vero cutis asperitas squammosa lepidi similis unde nomen accepit: cujus color nunc m nign- dinem vertitur, nunc in alborem, nunc in ruborem. Scabies tenuis asperitas et squammata est. Impetigo est sicca scabies; prominens a corpore cum asperitate et rotunditate formte. Hanc valgus sarnam appellat."SECT. 11.] LEPROSY AND PSORA. 21 Justin applies the terms vitiligo and scabies to the diseases treated of in this chapter. See Hist, (xxxvi, 2.) We now tiu'n to the Arabians. In the Latin translation of Serapion, lepra and psora are de- scribed under the generic term of "impetigines in quibus ex- conatur et scinditui- cutis;" but they are further distinguished from one another by the specific titles of albaras nigra and pruritus. The former is characterized as arising from the me- lancholic humour, and as casting off round scales. The latter is said to consist of pustules, which appear on different parts of the body, are variously figured, and cast off furfuraceous scales. The leuce is described by the name of baras, as arising from viscid, pituitous blood, and being produced by a defect of the assimilative faculty. In it the flesh itself is said to be changed to a white colour. If, when pricked with the head of a needle It bleeds, there is a probability of cure; but if it does not bleed It IS incurable. The two alphi are described by the names of morphea alba and nigra. The morphea alba resembles the white albaras (leuce) only that in the latter the affection of the skm IS more deep-seated, and the hairs in it are turned to a white colour; but in morphea the only change is in the external appearance of the skin. The morphea nigra (melas?) is said to resemble the albaras nigra (lepra nigricans ?) only that it is more superficial. In the Latin translation of Avicenna by BuUonensis, alphos albus and niger are distinguished by the names oi morphea alba (or alguada), and morphea nigra; leuce by that of albaras; and lepra by those of albaras nigra and impetigo excorticativa The specific differences between them are stated with gi-eat precision, ihe morpheme are superficial affections of the skin, but the albaras affects also the flesh, penetrating sometimes down to the 'Jone. All these diseases are said to arise from a weakness of ■ he assimilative faculty. In the albaras nigra, or leprosy, the ^.km is said to be covered with scales, Hke those of a fish. Like he authorities formerly quoted, Avicenna states that in alguada alphos albus) the hairs do not change their colour, but that hey do so in albaras. The puncture of a needle likewise ex- tracts blood from the guada, but not from the baras. Avenzoar makes mention of the morphea alba and nigra but I'as not described them particularly. These authors seem to22 LEPROSY AND PSORA. [book iv. Comm. have treated lepra and psora Uke the Greeks, by Weeding, me- lanogognes, and abstergent applications to the skm, such as the two hellebores, lime, lupines, &c. In the translation of Haly Abbas, leuce is correctly described by the name of lepra. It is represented as a whiteness some- thnes affecting the whole body, and it is said to be occasioned by debihty of the assimilative faculty. When the hairs are white and the skin does not bleed when pricked with a lancet or needle the disease is incurable. Alphos albus is described by the name of morphea alba, and is distinguished from the former by the whiteness being more superficial, and the colour of the hairs remaining unchanged. In the morphea nigra, that is to say the alphos niger, the colour is said to be black, owing to the prevalence of black bHe, and if rubbed a fm-fui-aceous scale falls off, and it becomes red. The lepra nigricans is described by the names of impetigo and sarpedo, as an asperity of the skin, inchning to blackness or redness, and terminating m round scales, like those of fishes. Eor the cure of lepra, he directs us to abstain from all articles of food which engender phlegm, to take hiera of colocynth, with pepper, &c., and also the theriac of vipers, and various other internal medicines. He recommends various external applications, containing sulphur, arsenic, hellebore, spurge, &c. Alsaharavius describes three varieties of morphea. 1st. The morphea terrestris, which is attended with farfuraceous scales on the skin, and tingling. This is evidently the psora of the Greeks. 3d. The morphea alba, which consists of a more super- ficial whiteness of the skin than the albaras (leuce) : this is the alphos albus. 3d. The morphea nigra, is lilce the former, only that the colour is black. This must be the alphos niger. AU these affections he treats upon much the same principles as the Greeks, namely, by evacuants, and stimulant applications to the skin, such as sulphur, heUebore, &c. Albaras he describes as a deep-seated whiteness of the skin, and dii-ects us to prick the ' skin with a needle, and if it does not bleed the disease is to be set down as incurable. This, of course, is the leuce of the Greeks. He treats it upon much the same principles as the morphefc. He appears not to make any distinction between the leuce and the lepra. Ehases describes the lepra of the Greeks by the term impetiffo;SECT. 11.] LEPROSY AND PSORA. 23 alphos albus by that of morphea alba; alphos niger by that of ■morphea nigra; and leuce by that of albaras. There is nothing very particular in his treatment of leprosy. It may be worth Avhile to mention, however, that he strongly recommends leeches to the affected part, at the commencement. Scabies, he says, is formed by a salt diet, old wine, and neglect of the bath. For the cure of it, he recommends bleeding, purging, and various external apphcations, some of which contain quicksilver, nitre, vinegar, and the like. In his 'Continens' he gives a full account of these diseases, upon the authority of preceding writers. He gives the names of baras to lepra, and morphea alba to alphos He recommends stimulant apphcations containing cantharides nitre, with vinegar, &c. He says that he had found a mixture of sal ammoniac and oU of eggs an excellent application. It will be remarked that the leuce of the Greeks, the leuce and fourth species of impetigo of Celsus, and the albaras of most of the Arabians, are the same as the lepra vulgaris of Drs. Willan and Bateman; that the alphos of most of the Greek authonties and of Celsus, and the morphea alba of most of the Ai-abians, correspond to the lepra alphoides of our English no- mologists j that the melas, alphos niger, and common lepra of the Greeks, Celsus^ third species of impetigo and his melas and the morphea mgra and impetigo of most of the Arabian translators, apply to the lepra niyricans of our modern arrange- ment; and that the psora of the Greeks, Celsus^ second species ot impetigo, and the scabies of Octavius Horatianus, and of most ot the Arabian translators, comprehend both the psoriasis and scabies of WHlan and Bateman. Since many of the ancient authorities speak of scabies as 'Jemg infectious, they must have applied the term to the true 1 ch, ^vlth which it is not likely, as Eayer maintains, that they were wholly unacquainted. The earlier modem writers, such as those of the Schola "J?^ Guy of Cauliac, and Lanfrancus, jumble together he Latm and Arabian names, so as to produce no unary degree of confusion. , Guy of Cauliac, indeed, main- rains that there is Httle necessity for distinguishing lepra, alphos 'ueJas impetigo, gutta rosacea, and such like cutaneous com- I' aints fi-om one another, as they are all varieties of the same «easc. Lanfrancus, however, is of a different opinion, (i, 3, 6.)LICHEN. 24 [book IV. SECT. III. ON LICHEN. Licten is formed by tte mixture of a thin and acrid iclior with otlier gross humours, and passes readily into leprosy and psora; wherefore it requires to be treated by the most desicca- tive applications. After general depletion, if necessaiy, the fol- lowing simple medicines will be proper : cliict-peas, hellebore, the urchin which dwells among rocks, pitch mixed with cerate and rosin, the dung of the land crocodile, that of starhngs fed solely upon rice. And many have cured the complamt when occurring on the chin, or other parts of the body, by this appli- cation alone : take several grains of wheat and place upon a stithy red-hot, and taking the fluid which flows from them while yet warm, anoint the part afi-ected with Hchen. The lichen of childi-en is to be rubbed frequently with human sahva. Ibe gum of the plum tree, when rubbed in, is beneficial m these cases. When the complaint is protracted, the leaves of the chaste tree, triturated with vinegar, are to be apphed, or the leaves of capers in hke manner. The following are compound applications : Dissolve sulphur with rosemary in ^anegar, or with ammoniac, and anoint. A trochisk for lichen: Of artificers glue, di'. iv; of frankincense, dr. iij ; of vinegai'half a cyathusj dissolve in vinegar, and &riomt.—Another: Of chalcitis, of gum • of each, dr. viij; of sulphur vivum, of misy, of each, di'. vj ; of the flakes of copper, of acacia, of each, dr. ij; anoint with vinegar.—Another: Of sulphur ^dvum, of spuma nitn, ot each, dr. iv; of the seeds of rosemary, Ix; triturate with vmegax, and anoint only the part which is afi'ected, not touching the sound skin. When diy, wash it away with cold water. Another : Of white heUebore, dr. viij ; of the flom- of lupuies, of burnt shell-fishes called buccina, of natron, of each, one choBnix; rub with it diy. They call that variety of hchen agrius which is nowise remedied by moderately desiccative ap- phcations, and is exacerbated by more acrid ones. These cases are therefore to be treated by apphcations which ai-e sufficiently strong, without being pungent, such as this : of horned poppy, of frankincense, of alcyonium, of bitumen, of sulphur, of gum, of each, oz. j; anoint with vinegar. Boil African pitch with vinegar, and, when dissolved, anoint.—Another, for Hchen andLICHEN. SECT. III.] 25 prurigo : Of copperas, of sulphur vivum, of natron, of frank- incense, equal parts; use for lichen with vinegar, and for pru- rigo with wine.—Another, for lichen : Of ammoniac perfume, of the flour of bitter vetch, of the flour of lupines, equal parts • add to vinegar. Commentary. See Hippocrates (de Humor., de Aff'ect.); Comm. Galen. (Isagoge, de Med. sec. loc. v); Oribasius (Morb. Curat. iii, 59); Aetius (viii, 16); Actuarius (Meth. Med. ii, 11) ; Marcellus (19); Nonnus (236); Celsus (v, 28); Pliny (H. n! xxvi, 2); Serapion (v, 2); Avicenna (iv, 7, 3, 3); Alsaharavius (Pract. xxxi, 7); Ehases (Divis. 117); Haly Abbas (Pract. iv, 10.) Dr. Bateman states, that the exact acceptation of the term lichen cannot well be ascertained from the writings of Hippocrates; but Dr. Willan affirms that he restricted it to a papular eruption on the skin. In the ' Isagoge,^ usually ascribed to Galen, two varieties are described, the lichen mitis, and the lichen agrius, in both of which scales axe formed upon the skin, which appear almost ulcerated when they are removed. They are to be cured by cholagogues internally, and liniments externally. Galen remarks the tendency of the disease to pass into lepra and scabies. To prevent this, he directs desiccative and deter- gent applications, for the preparation of which he gives various prescriptions. One of these, which bears the name of Pamphilus, is a powerful escharotic, composed of orpiment, realgar, burnt copper, and cantharides. (Med. sec. loc. v.) He says it affects pnncipally the chin, but is apt to spread over the face. Oribasius, Aetius, Actuarius, and Nonnus, treat of the com- plamt in nearly the same terms as our author. Their trans- lators improperly render it by impetigo. Leo ascribes the origin of the disease to hot and coiTupted blood. Celsus describes the lichen of the Greeks by the name of papula, of winch he mentions two varieties. In the first, he' says, the skin is merely roughened by small pustules, is reddened j and sbghtly corroded; the middle is somewhat smoother, and It spreads slowly, generally in a round shape. Tliis description would seem to apply to the lichen circumscripius of Drs. Bateman and Willan, although the latter author thinks that it possessed a wider signification. The second variety, he says, is called26 LICHEN. [BOOK iv. COMM. aypla by the Greeks, and ia it the skin is more rough, red, and corroded. The more it departs from the circular form the less tractable is it, and, unless removed, it is said to pass into im- petigo. From this account it is clear that the lichen ot the Greeks, in its original form, was different from impetigo. Celsus recommends friction with the saliva of a fasting person, and also mentions a composition containing natron, frankincense, sulphur, &c. The translator of Serapion improperly renders the name ot this affection by the term impetigo. His remedies are nearly the same as our author's, namely, the saliva of a person fasting, compositions containing hellebore, natron, the ashes of star- lings, &c. In the translation of Avicenna it is likewise described by the name of impetigo. It is called a species of dry achor, by which is no doubt meant papula. It is stated that it has a tendency to pass into lepra or psora. The remedies which are recom- mended are human saliva, the chaste tree, capers, leeches (which are not mentioned by the Greeks), likewise gum arable dissolved in vinegar, mustard and vinegar, salt water, the roots of king's spear, &c. Haly Abbas recommends stimulant hni- ments of a similar kind. Ehases briefly recommends lotions of vinegar and ammoniac, and, when it becomes inveterate, leeches, strong friction, &c. His translator also misapplies the term impetigo to it. The hchen appears to be the cutaneous complaint which Alsaharavius describes by the name of alcoab. He represents it as a superficial ulceration, and mentions four species of it. Dr. Willan confirms the statement of the ancient authorities, that the disease has a tendency to pass into lepra and psora. The species called lichen tropicus by Dr. Willan, seems to be the hidroa of Hippocrates (Aph. iii, 21); the sudamen of Pliny (xxiii, 45); one of the essere of Haly Abbas (Theor. viii, 17); one of the alsara of Alsaharavius (Pract. xxx, 8); and the hascf of Avicenna (iv, 7, 3, 8). See also Galen's 'Commentary' (v, 261); ed. BasH. Galen says it is attended with prm-itus, asperity, and ulceration. A^dcenna and Ehases particularly commend bleeding, cleansing the skin, and the cold bath. Most of Rhases' authorities in his ' Continens,' recommend for the asuf, or sudamen, coohng and astringent applications, con-27 PRURITUS. SECT. IV.] taining roses, myrtles, galls, sandals, camphor, and the Hlce. Comm. They attiibute the complaint to profuse perspiration. In certain '""^^—' cases, Khases directs us to allay the pruritus or tingling, with hot water and the flesh of melons. He also approves of purging with tamarinds and myrobalans. (Cont. xxxvi.) See also ad Mansor. (v, 30). Mercurialis is of opinion that Virgil alludes to the sudamina in the following lines : " Verum etiam invisos si quis tentarat amictus, Ardentes papulae atque immundus olentia sudor Membra sequebatur." (Georg. iii, 565.) We shall briefly notice in this place the singular disease of the face which prevailed in the Eoman empire during the reign of Tiberius, called mentagra by PHny, in his curious description of it, but which he says was named lichenes by some. He re- presents it as a contagious disease, which was readily propagated by kissing. It attacked principally the higher class, the lower and middle ranks and women having generaUy escaped it. The seat of it was commonly the chin, but it sometimes spread over ^e whole face, and afi^ected even the neck, breast, and hands. The only means of cure was burning with caustics down to the bone. (H. N. xxxvii; see also MarceUus, 19.) We are inclined to think that it must have been some variety of elephantiasis. Modem authorities have ranked it under sycosis, but it would appear to have been a much more intractable disease. The sycosis is distinctly described by Celsus, among the diseases of the han-y parts. He recommends for it elaterium, Hnseed, or ngs boiled in water, &c. (vi, 3.) SECT. IV. ON PRTOITUS, OR PRURIGO. occurring in old age is not to be thoroughly cured but may be alleviated by the remedies mentioned below: buc that which anses from a cacochymy in other ages, is to be i Zl ^VTr''?^ ^''^^ ^ °r pituitous humoui- that has become putrid, or by a saltish one. It is ■ Known by attending to the age, temperament, diet, season of prevail in the blood contained in the veins, we must begin withPRURITUS. [BOOK IV. 28 venesection; but if it offend rather by its quality, we must evacuate it by corresponding medicines, and turn our attention to external applications. Wherefore we must use tbe bath at aU times before a meal; and sometimes, after eating a Mtle it may be used a second time, for tbe affection is of difficult bu- mectation. Tbey are to be rubbed with the decoction of fenu- greek, or of beet, or of barley-meal, or of wild or of garden mallows, or of ptisan; and along with these may be joined the flour of beans, or of lupines, or of myi'obalan (ben), or of the detergent ointment caUed peponaton. If it is protracted, we may use the bath in like manner, and foment with the decoc- tion of sage, of tamarisk, of the herb mercury, of marjoram of pennyroyal, of bay berries, of the root of the wild cucumber, of capers, of strained ley, of vinegar and brine; and then the parts are to be sprinkled with dried natron, or with the lees of vinegar, or with the composition containing of spuma nitri one sextarius, of rosemary, of sulphur vi^nm, of each, lb. 3, of cimoHan earth, Ib.ss; or this: of aphroniti'um, of sulphui- vivum, of burnt alcyonium, equal parts; to be used dry, or with some of the decoctions abeady mentioned; and, if you please, sprinkle some dried heUebore, without grease. But rub in with vinegar and oH, stavesacre pulverized, or sulphui-, or red arsenic, or all together; or mustard, with the refuse of expressed myrobalan, and vinegar and oil; or with snails burnt and tri- tm-ated with honey or the roots of dock, or the detergent omt- ments prepared from them, as described under the head of Elephantiasis; or with some of the applications for scabies. If the parts become ulcerated, use the plaster caUed paiygron, or that prepared from pompholyx; or melt oz. j of wax m a cyathus of oH of privet, and sprinkle upon it of sulphur vivum oz. j . Another appHcation for prurigo: Of large nuts m a rancid state, oz. j; of sulphur, oz. 3 ; triturate with the juice of parsley, and use in the bath with much friction. This alone has proved sufficient for the cure of many cases of scabies and priu-igo; and green parsley by itself, when pounded and rubbed m while the patient is in the bath, has been of great service: and m like manner, pellitory of the wall and maple rosm dissolved with rose oil, and rubbed m..—Another : Bruise three ounces of pure and very white rice, and, baring strained, triturate >ntli strong rinegar until it become of the tliickness of the sordesSECT. IV.] PRURITUS. 29 of the oil in baths; and adding separately of sulphur vivum pulverized, oz. y, and mixing properly, use in the bath with much friction. Wlien tbere is a greater redundance of hu- moui-s, it will be better to mix the ingredients in equal pro- portions. Commentary. See Hippocrates (Aphor. iii, 31) ; Galen Comm. (Comment, et aKbi); Oribasius (Morb. Curat, iii, 22); Aetius (xiv, 20); Actuarius (Meth. Med. ii, 11); Nonnus (237); Alexander Aphrodisiensis (Probl. i, 24); Myrepsus (pluries) • Pliny (xxviii, 5); Octavius Horatianus (i, 31); MarceUus (de Med. 4); Isidorus (Orig. iv, 8); Serapion (v, 6); Avicenna (iv, 7, 3, 6); Haly Abbas (Theor. viii, 17, and Pract. iv, 6) • Alsaharavius (Pract. xxxi, 5); Rhases (Divis. 121); Avenzoar (ii, 7, 2.) The prui-igo of Dr. Willan is here distinctly described, and a suitable method of treatment recommended. Hippocrates remarks that prurigo is common in old age. The reason which Galen assigns for tbis is, that the superfluities of the system are then not properly discharged by the skin. He says in another place, that pruritus may either be produced by external substances, such as nettles, squills, &c., or it may arise from indigestion and the neglect of cleanliness. Onbasius gives an account of the disease not very different from our author^s. Among other applications, he recommends one consisting of opium mixed with Hquid cerate. Aetius speaks highly of the sulphureous bath for the cure of this disease. Actuarius characterizes the disease very well, when he says that It IS allied to lichen, and that when rubbed either nothing runs from the place, or some slight humidity of various colour and consistence. He assigns, as a reason for its frequency in old age, that the pores of the skin then get constricted. Alexander Aphrodisiensis assigns, as the reason why the ' waa-m bath proves useful in cases of pruritus, that it dispels the ' phlegm, which is the cause of the complaint. Celsus gives a particular account of scabies, but says nothing of prurigo. Octavius Horatianus recommends us, when the patient is young, to bleed, purge, and use baths medicated with frank-30 PRURITUS. [BOOK iv. COMM. incense, natron and snlphnr. He also says that the cold bath, and ^ friction with the oil of roses, myrtles, &c., will do much good Isidorus uses the term prui-igo : " Prurigo vocatur perurendo et ardendo." MarceUus also uses this term, and recommends much the same substances as the others. This affection is clearly described by the Arabians, and is rendered prui-itus by most of their translators. Serapion re- commends us, if there is a sanguineous plethora to b eed, and then to purge with myrobalans, colocynth, and black hellebore, and along with these the warm bath is to be used, and the liniments for removing the pruritus, containing Aanegar, roses, nitre &c. The prurigo senilis he pronounces to be incurable. Ehases and Avicenna recommend similar remedies. They treat of prurigo and scabies together, and there is no doubt of their aUiance. Hence Bateman says that prurigo, when neglected, terminates in scabies. Haly Abbas says that scabies and prurigo aiise from a saltish phlegm. Scabies, he says, consists of reddish pustules, which appear most frequently between the fingers and upon the arms. Prurigo, he adds, is apt to run into scabies He recommends, as a lotion, vinegar with rose-oil, the use ot the warm-bath, and other remedies like those of our author. Alsaharavius says that the disease arises from debility of the expulsive faculty of the body or constriction of the pores. He praises highly the hot bath. Avenzoar states that pruritus arises from bile or a sharpness of the blood. Our author has omitted to treat of phthiriasis, for an account of which see in particular CteHus Aurelianus (de Tard. Pass.iv, 2); also, Aristot. (Hist. An. v, 32); Galen (de Comp. Med. sec. loc. i, 8); Phny (Hist. Nat. xxvi, 86); Haly Abbas (Pract. iv, 7); Plutarchus (in Vit^ SyUffi.) The authorities quoted by Bhases recommend compositions consisting of stavesacre, white hellebore, arsenic, nitre, sulphur, subhmed mercury, and the like. (Contin. xxxvi.) Antiochus, Herod of Judtea, Phihp 11 of Spain, and many other celebrated personages, are said to have died of phthii-iasis. Virey accounts for the disease m the foUowing manner : " II est, en effet, tel temperament muqueux, teUe degeneration des humeurs lymphatiques, dans le phthinasis ou la maladie pediculaire, que ces insectes y trouyent une pature inepuisable, qu'ils se propageut avec une extreme exu- berance sous le peau, penetrent dans le tissu cellulaire, etLEUCE. SECT, v.] 31 etablissent d'enormes coloniesparmilesulceres quails y forment." (Hist, des Moeurs des Anim. ii, 207.) Aldrovaudi gives a very full history of phtliiriasis. (De Insectis, v.) SECT. V. ON LETJCE. Leuce is a change of the skin to a white colour, occasioned by a viscid and glutinous phlegm. Since all the kinds of leuce are not cui-able, you may form a diagnosis of it in this manner. Pierce the leuce superficially, not deeper than the skin, with a needle, and if blood flow, the complaint may be cured j but if a milky moistiu'e be discharged, it is incurable. Or, rub it with a rough wooUen rag, and if the part become red, the complaint maybe cured; but if it remain of the same colour, it cannot be ciu-ed. And those kinds which attack a great part of the body are to be supposed more difficult to cure than those which are confined to a small space, and old cases than recent. Some, therefore, in leuce, have approved of burning by iron, consisting simply of the application of heat. Others, dreading the pain of bxuTiing, and the scar arising from it, as being no less un- seemly than leuce itself, have had recourse to escharotic medi- ciaes, such as they say wiU produce a scar of the natural colour. Others rejecting all these things on account of the difficulty of their application, have used dyes (paying more consideration to the deception than the utiHty which they produce,) which are, of all others, the most to be rejected, owing to the speedy re- newal of the afi-ection. We must use, then, the under-mentioned remedial powers : Of adarce, of rosemary seed, of sulphur vivum, of each, equal parts; bruise and strain singly, and then, having tnturated together for a sufficient number of days, anoint in the sun, but not in great quantity, lest the skin be ulcerated; and, after some time, a little hellebore and galls maybe added •n like m^xmQv.—Another: Macerate the tops of the black fig m vmegar, and having triturated, mix equal parts of aphro- :iitrum, sulphur ^'i^mm, and the fruit of tamarisk, and having rubbed natron into the part, anoint and expose to the sun, ^akmg care lest an ulcer be produced. But Archigenes ha^dng •mxed a sufficiency of quicklime with fig-leaves, used them in like manner or, he says, having rubbed the leuce with white1 Comm. 32 LEUCE. [BOOK IV. heUebore until tlie part perspire and become of tbe same colour as the rest of tbe body, anoint witb sinopis or meban eartli; or bavins perforated them witb needles until tbey bleed anomt witb sinopis in vinegar; or, baving first rubbed tbem as formeriy said, anoint witb tbe fresb juice of figs, or rub m so mucbmtb tbe leaves of it. Commentary. In tbe second Section we bave stated so fully tbe nature of tbe leuce, and tbe difference between it and its cognate aff-ections, tbat it will be unnecessary for us now to resume tbe subject. It is tbere mentioned tbat leuce is Celsus' tbird species of vitiligo, and tbe baras of all tbe Ai'abian translators, mtb tbe exception of Stepbanus Antiocbensis, tfie translator of Haly Abbas, wbo appbes tbe term lepra to it. it was tberefore tbe wbite species of leprosy. All tbe medical autborities represent it as an intractable disease, not only tbe cuticle being altered in structure, but also tbeflesb below, and even tbe bairs, baving undergone a cbange of coIoot. All direct us to prick tbe skin witb a needle, and, if it bleed, tbe cure is to be attempted; but if a sbgbt colourless fluid issue from it, tbe case is to be abandoned as bopeless. Tbey con- sider it as arising from debibty of tbe assimUative facidty of tbe part wbicb can no longer convert tbe nutritive juices mto tbeir proper consistence. All recommend nearly tbe same treatment. Tbe diet is to be regulated witb a strict abstinence from gross food ] if tbere be pletbora, venesection is to be pre- mised; tben di-astic purgatives and emetics are to be given, and tbe parts affected are to be rubbed witb stimulant and caustic appHcations, contaming bellebore, nitre, sulpbiu-, misy, red arsenic, &c., or even tbe actual cautery may be appbed. In sbort, all treat tbe disease in nearly tbe same manner as om- autbor. (See in particular Serapion and Avicenna.) Aristotle, we believe, is tbe first Greek writer wbo makes mention of leuce. He calls it a disease in wbicb aU tbe bairs of tbe body turn wbite. (Hist. Nat. iii, 11.) " Tbe snow-wbite leprosy" of tbe ancient Jews was tbe leuce of tbe Greeks. Moses describes very correctly tbe metbod of distinguisbing it from tbe alpbos and melas; (Le-\dticus, c. xni.) Tbe symptoms of leuce are given in tbe 3d verse; of tbe alpbos in tbe 4tb; of tbe melas in tbe 6tb. He calls it contagious.SECT. VI.] ALPHI. 33 which might lead us to suspect that elephantiasis was mixed up with the leprosy of the Jews. This opinion is further con- firmed from what is mentioned by Josephus of its being said that his countrymen were diiven out of Egypt because they were affected with leprosy. (See also Justin, xxxvi, 20, and Tacit. Hist. V, 3.) Now we know that elephantiasis was endemial m that country. (See chap, i.) The EngHsh translation of this chapter is very inaccurate, the translators having evidently failed to recognize the nice distinction between cognate diseases, laid down by the Jewish legislator. Leuce is stiU common in tropical cHmates. Neo-roes af fected with it are called Albinos. It is merely an aggravated variety of the Lepra vulgaris. SECT. VI. ON WHITE AND BLACK ALPHI. The formation of alphos is similar to that of leuce, but the latter produces a deep change of the skin, so that the hairs grow of a similar colour, whHst the alphi affect the skin super- nciaUy, except that when continued, they extend more deeply « so that the haii-s grow white, owing to the humour wliich causes J It. From the pituitous humour then they are produced white ■ but black from the melanchoHc. Wherefore, a common applica- t tion for both is washed lime dissolved in water, or, the root of ■ dracunculus applied with vinegar; in like manner, either species of hellebore, the decoction of bitter lupines poured on the part, and then- flour when applied as a cataplasm with vinegar or oxymel, the bark of the root of capers with vinegar, the root of lily with honey, onions with vinegar rubbed into the part ' m the sun, the dung of the land crocodile, and in like man- i> ^er, that of starlings, when they are fed solely upon rice, and the burnt sheUs of the cuttle-fish. The following is a com- > pound application: of alcyonium, of natron, of each, oz. ij ; of •white hellebore, of sulphur vivum, of each, oz. j; and some also add the burnt lees of ^^me.—Another: Of sulphur vivum, ■01 the spuma nitri, of each, dr. iv; rosemaiy seeds, vij; tri- turate with vinegar. But rub only the part affected witli alphos, not touching the unaffected parts, and when dry, wash n. 3[book IV. ALPHI. 34 with cold yi&tQr.—Another; Of tlie flour of lupines, of huc- cina, and natron, of eacli, a cli£enix; of white hellebore, dr. viij; rub with it in a dry 'siv^te.—Another: Of the flour of bitter vetches, lb. ij; of the seeds of rocket, of bitter almonds, of the root of the wild cucumber, of each, lb. j ; triturate with wine and honey and anoint, and after an interval of an hour wipe it away with a sponge. It applies also for freckles, warts, and other spots on the skin. A tried remedy for white alphos : of sulphur vivum, ii sex- tarii, of quicklime whitened, oz. iv ; five whites of eggs, of nard-oil and vinegar, a small quantity. The sulphur is first pounded, then we add to it the oil of nard, and again tritu- rate ; then the vinegar is poiired in, and the mixture is again triturated. But the quicklime is to be washed separately, once, tvdce, and thrice, and then we add it to the sulphur with the white of the eggs and triturate; and we pour out the collected fluid; but leaving a small quantity so that the ointment may admit of anointing, we use it thus.—Another tried remedy : Take sulphur vivum, dried fig leaves, aphronitrum, alcyonium, Cimolian earth, and myrtle, use with vinegar.—Another of Archigenes : Rub in equal parts of fig leaves dried in the shade, of sulphur, and of alum with vinegar, or of fig leaves, dr. iv; of nitre, dr. ij; of burnt alcyonium, dr. ij ; anoint with vinegar in the bath. But red arsenic with one half of sulphur is excellent for removing the black alphos; thus having cleansed the pai't with natron, anoint with it in the sun. For white alphos : of copperas, of verdigris equal parts, of natron the double, rub without fat: or, of rosemary seeds, of sulphur vivum, of adarce, equal parts; triturate with vinegar, rub, and anoint; but when it is dry, bathe by rubbing. This applies also to the white species. Comm. Commentaky. We have again to refer the reader to the ' ' ' second chapter for an account of these complaints, and an ex- position of the difi'erences between them and the afi"ections to which they are allied. It will be seen that they are varieties of the genus vitiligo of Celsus, and that they bear a near re- semblance to leuce, from which they are chiefly distinguished as being mere superficial aft'ections of the skin. The ArabiansSECT. vr.J ALPHI. 35 treat of them under the names of morphea alba and nigra Dr. Willan makes them to be varieties of lepra, in which opinion we fiilly coincide -nith him. The description of the two diseases by Actuarius is so precise that we shaU give it in Keu of aU the others. The alphi, he says, are superficial, but sometimes extend in depth, so that the hairs appear of the same colour. The white species is tried as to the depth it has spread, by being pricked moderately with a needle; when blood flows though the needle has only pene- trated the skin, the disease is curable, but if the dischar-e be milky It IS mcurable, inasmuch as the flesh is converted" into the disease. Others, he adds, rub the part with rough towels and if It become red they have good hopes, but if it remain of the same colour they abandon aU hopes of recovery. They are of a more aggravated nature when they affect different parts of the body and are inveterate. The alphi, he says, are generally milder than leuce, and can be cured by gentler means, but wheu they become inveterate they require similar treatment. The difference between the white and the black alphos is produced oy the colour of the prevailing humour. There is scarcely any difference of opinion among the au- 1 thorities respecting the general plan of treatment. Haly Abbas i has correctly remarked, that the alphi are to be cured by the *8ame sort of remedies as lepra (leuce?) only that they do not r require so strong applications. The Arabians greatly commend tneir myrobalans with ginger, mastich, parsley, &c. Their in- terna applications are powerful detergents and escharotics, such as hellebore, natron, sulphur, vinegar, arsenic, copperas, &c. Lelsus says nothing of internal remedies, but recommends ex- <ternal apphcations of a stimulant nature, containing sulphur, alum, nitre, frankincense, alcyonium, &c. In the 'Isagoge' •t is said that all these complaints are to be cured by phlegma- Wes, and by abstergent apphcations externally. .lescZ'fi?^'^'"'"'^ "^^'^^^^l authorities of that age, r^ tl Z "^"^^ ^1^- -'I mgra They recommend applications containing sulphur, ^um, natron, arsenic, and the like. As usual they are the •nere copyists of the Arabians.[book TV. 36 STIGMATA. COMM SECT. VVl. ON STIGMATA, PROM THE WORKS OP ARCHIGENES. You may remove stigmata by rubbing in that which sticks to a chamber-pot, along witli the most acrid vinegar,, or rub of quicklime, p. j ; of red natron toasted, p. ss; with water, in the sun : but when it ulcerates let it be healed like an ulcer. But Crito says, for stigmata, having first scrubbed the part with nitre (soda), cover it with an application of turpentme ; then having bound it, let it remain for six days, and on the seventh perforate the stigma with a needle, and having wiped away the blood with a sponge, after a little time nib vdth some powdered salt. Then, having apphed the medicine, aUow it to remain for five days. It is this: of frankincense, of nati-on, of the lye of quicklime, of wax, of each, di-. iv j of honey, dr. viij; having loosed it, you wiU find the blackness upon the apphcation.—Another ointment: Of pepper, dr. ij ; of rue, dr. iv ; of realgar, dr. iv; of orpiment, dr. j; of honey, q. s. Anoint with it, have previously scrubbed the part with natron, and done otherwise in like manner as for the former. Taking it away after three days, and cleaning away the black- ness, anoint with it again; for, he says, it removes the com- plaint in twenty days, without ulceration or cicatrix.—Another caUed Criticum: Of frankincense, dr. iv; of nitre, di-. ij; of copperas, dr. iv; of wax, dr. vj; of pepper, dr. iij ; of lime, dr. iij ; of thapsia, di-. iij ; of orpiment, dr. iss ; of realgai", dr. iij; of honey, q. s; use as the former. Oribasius says, that crowfoot (ranunculus) if applied, or the leaves of capers, take away the marks. But if they be deep seated upon only a small extent of skin, form an eschar by a cold cautery, and thus remove them. Commentary. Consult Aetius (viii, 12); Actuarius (Meth. Med. vi, 8); Scribonius Largus (§ 331); Avicenna (iv, 7, 2, 7): Pseudo-Dioscor. (Eupor. i, 116.) _ ' Aetius explains that by stigmata are meant the marks of in- juries on the face or any part of the body. To eradicate them he recommends compositions containing quicklime, natron, arsenic, &c.SECT, viii.] EXANTHEMATA. 37 The Pseudo-Dioscorides recommends the ranunculus, the Comm. juice of the leaves of capers, or that of mandragora, &c. Actuarius copies from our author. Scribonius Largus mentions a composition containing gai-lic, cantharides, sulphui-, chalcitis, &c. Avicenna recommends friction with natron and the other substances mentioned by our author. Dr. WUlan defines the stigma, « a small speck on the skin occasioning no elevation of the cuticle." The ancient authori- ties, It wiU be perceived, apply the term in a wider sense. SECT. VIII. ON EXANTHEMATA. Exanthemata are formed by thick humoiu-s impacted in the skin, and more especially if the cuticle be thick. In these cases, then, even if the humours are deep-seated, they must be fii-st purged away; for unless you do this in the first place, before attempting to dispel them, you will only impact them the more firmly, instead of evacuating them by the skin. But if the deep-seated parts be free from crudities, you may eva- cuate the humours by the skin, and not produce revulsion of them to a distance, which is the case, if you attempt to evacuate them by the beUy or emetics. But the cure of humours fixed m the skin, is to be accomplished by fomentations and calefa- cients, more especially when the exanthemata happen to be broad, for these are formed by a cold and thick humour. Wherefore, take of the tender leaves of bay, of manna, and of rue equal parts, triturate together, and dissolving frankincense m honey, anoint with it; or, having boiled and pounded ten- der beet, apply as a cataplasm ; or, take of wax, dr. viij • of sulphur the same quantity; of salt, dr. vj; triturate tlicm dry, »and having poured on them half a cyathus of oil, boil all to- igether, and use the plaster that is formed. But one must at- tentively sit by while the boiling is going on. It is a very excellent medicine. CoMMKNTARY. See Hippocratcs (Epidem. ct alibi); Galen C, (Meth. Med. v); Alexander (i, 5); Oribasius (Synops. vii, 7); ^ Morb. Curat, (iii, 21); Aetius (v, 129); Actuarius (Meth. Med.38 EXANTHEMATA. [book iv. Comm. ii, H ; i, 23); Celsus (v, 28) ; Pseudo-Dioscor. (Euporist. i, 106; Haly Abbas (Theor. viii, 17; Pract. iv, 8). As stated in another place, the Greeks used the arm exan- thema in a much laxer signification than it is applied m Dr. WilWs ' System of Cntaneons Diseases.^ Hippocrates m par- *' . -. 1 _• 44- i-n -ircimrvllH P nSSRS OI vviiian s • oysLtjm ui x^u.i-""'-""- . „„ ticular may be mentioned as applying it to yanons classes of these affections. Alexander describes the exanthemata of the head as superficial ulcerations, which are red and rough. Does he allude to porrigo? He recommends for the cure of them a composition of litharge, ceruse, alum, the green leayes of rue, vinegar: and mjnrtle oil. t i i „ t-^ Galen says that exanthemata is a term apphed by some to all ulceratiye and rough aftections of the skin, which, according to Archigenes, stand in need of desiccatiye apphcations. in another place he mentions the exanthemata as a common symptom of the plague. Aetius in like manner giyes from Herodotus an interesting account of feyers which are accom- panied with exanthemata. Both haye been supposed to aUude to the smallpox, but we agree with Dr. WHlan, that this mter- pretation of their descriptions is altogether fanciful. Our author follows Oribasius closely. According to Actuarius exanthemata, properly speaking, axe produced by thick humours either formed in the skm or in the Ihole body; and being detained by the density of the epidermis. Celsus describes the exanthemata under the generic tei-m pustule. His words are : "Earum plura genera sunt ^Jam modo circa totum corpus partemye asperitudo qusedam fit, similis iis pustulis, qu^ ex urtic^, yel ex sudore nascuntur : tl.av^wara Gr^ci yocant. Eeeque modo rubent, modo colorem cutis non excedunt " Eor pustules of aU kinds he recommends exercise, restricted diet, and abstinence from all things of an acrid and attenuant nature, which regimen is Hkemse to be enforced upon the nurse, if the chHd be at the breast. If the patient be strong, he is also to be put into the hot bath, and rubbed with natron and a mixture of wine and oil. If this treatment does not succeed lentils are to be applied, especially if the pustules be large; and after the outer skin has been removed they are to be treated with gentle applications. Such is the plan oi cure recommended by the great Roman authority. His direc- tions respecting the diet are particularly important, and appearEPINYCTIDES. 39 SECT. IX.] to be quite in accordance with the practice of the modern phy- Comm. sicians, who recommend the half-starving system in all such ""^^—' complaints. For red exanthemata the Pseudo-Dioscorides recommends ceruse with oil of bays and sulphur, pure bark with wax, &c. The exanthemata are described by the name of pustulee parvee in most of the translations of the Arabians. The exanthemata is, we think, the first species of Serie described by Haly Abbas. For the opinions of Alsaharavius and Haly Abbas about the exanthemata of infancy, see Book i, 6. Dr. Willan thinks that the nettle-rash was comprehended under the term exanthemata. He is also of opinion that the benat metis of Avicenna is the nettle-rash. It would appear, however, that the benat noctis was the same as the sera or epinyctis. See Rhases (Cont. xxxvi, 2). The symptoms of it axe said to be itching, roughness of the skin, and small erup- tions attacking the patient during the night. Thucydides, Hippocrates, and Galen mention exanthemata as a common symptom of the plague. We may take the present occasion to mention that none of the Greek or Latin authorities has given any distinct account purpura. Avicenna has briefly described it in its chronic form, (iv, 3, 1, 8). SECT. IX. ON EPINYCTIDES. Epinyctides are smaU ulcers breaking out spontaneously ou the skin, in the form of buU«, reddish, and when broken, dis- charging a bloody ichor. These are not very troublesome during the day, but at night, they are more painful than the smaUness of the ulcer would bespeak. Wherefore, having dis- solved the juice of laserwort in water, apply it ; for it is desic- cative witliout being pungent; or, having levigated hemlock, apply It; or crude cabbage with water, or triturate parsley with polenta, and apply • or, triturate the leaves of henbane with honey, and apply ; or, strychnos by itself, and with the green coriander; or, use the leaves of olives boiled with water ; or, having triturated raisins deprived of their stones, and spread them upon a splenium or oblong pledget, apply; or triturate40 EPINYCTIDES. [book iv. maiden-hair with honey. They must avoid aU acrid, acid, and saltish things, also fomentations, baths, and insolation. Comm. COMMENTARY. Cclsus (v, 28); Aetius (xiv, 61); Oribasius (Morb. Curat, iii, 54); Actuarius (Meth. Med. ii, 11; vi, 8); Pollux (Onomasticon iv, 34); Avicenna (iv, 3, 1, 13); Sera- pion (v, 8); Haly Abbas (Theor. viii, 17); Pract. (iv, 8); Rhases (Divis. i, 132.) Celsus describes the epinyctis as a bad species of pustule, somewhat Uvid or red, about the size of a bean, very pamful and inflamed, and coming on principaUy at night, whence it derives its name. Persons of all ages, even infants at the breast, are subject to it, and in treating them he directs the regimen of the nurse to be properly attended to. In laying down the rules of treatment he puts particular stress upon the hot bath. Aetius, Oribasius, and Actuarius treat of it as our author. Pollux defines it to be a vesicle of a palish colour, somewhat humid and bloody, and forming about the legs and feet m the night. . The Arabians give a similar account of epinyctis, under the names of Sare, Serie, and Essere. Thus Serapion recommends bleeding if required by the general symptoms, purging with myrobalans and prunes; and external appHcations, contammg sumach, savin, &c. Haly Abbas, who describes it as one of his serie, approves of much the same treatment. A^^cenna and Rhases in like manner recommend bleeding, gentle pur- gatives, cooling lotions, and the tepid bath. Rhases, in his ' Continens,' applies the directions given in this chapter by Paulus to the treatment of the cutaneous disease, which he calls sera. This establishes their identity (xxxvi, 6.) As stated in the preceding chapter, the epinyctis is also the " benat noctis," i. e. "filianoctis" of the Arabians. Marcus Aurelius Severinus, therefore, is mistaken in distinguishing between the epinyctis and the benat noctis. Ingrassius admits their identity. Pracastorius gives the foUowing account of tHs affection: " Si inflammata et accensa sit cholera, pustulam illam facit, quee Iitiwktiq vocatur, quod stepissime noctu uascatur, Arabes Esscrc appellant." (De Morb. Cout. ii, 15.) Both Lorry and Rayer confess themselves unable to determine what41 SECT. X.] PHLYCTiENiE. the epinyctis of the ancients was. It would appear to have been some peculiar species of eczema, now extinct. It must have been a more formidable disease than the nettle-rash, which certain modern authorities have taken for the epinyctis of the ancients. SECT. X. ON PHLYCTiEN^ OR BULL^. As Bullae when they burst spontaneously are attended with acute pain, it is proper to perforate at their under part with a sharp needle, and then to squeeze out the humour gently, suffering the skin which covers it to remain. And if the wound should close up and the buUse fill up, it is to be evacu- ated again in like manner, and pressed out; and the incum- bent skin is to be kept pressed down until the ulcer below be healed. Before the bullae break, apply boiled lentils triturated with water; or, the shoots of pomegranate, having been warmed upon hot coals, are to be applied, so as to burn the parts. But if they burst and form an ulcer, having melted axunge, and mixed levigated litharge, put into a linen cloth, and apply • or, having boiled the root of lily in water, triturate it with cerate, and apply. For epinyctis andphhjctcBna. Having triturated equal portions of litharge and sulphur vivum with vinegar and myrtle-oil, until It become of the thickness of the sordes of baths, rub with oH and wine. For hot eruptions, warm papulcc, achores, incipient mmnculus, and burns, the composition of plumbago, and that from eggs is applicable. Commentary. See Aetius (xiv, 63); Oribasius (Morb. C( < C!urat.m,23)jActuarius(Meth.Med.vi,8); Avicenna(iii, 3,1,11 ) ^ ITiis appears to be the pompholyx of Drs. Willau and «ateman. Aetms remarks, that the disease principally attacks * women whose menses are obstructed. (Bateman says, "it ' seems to affect only women.'') He recommends emmenagogues, ! laxatives, and diuretics, and forbids all acrid things. Our author copies the whole from Oribasius. Actuarius recommends nearly the same applications. Celsus describes the ^)hlyctacuaj as a variety of the pustulaj.[book IV. BURNS. 42 Comm. There is nothing particular in the treatment recommended by ' * ' Avicenna. Thucydides mentions small ijhlyctfense and ulcers among the symptoms of the plague of Athens. (De Bello Pelopon. ii.) Hippocrates gives the name oi pemphyx to the cutaneous ei-up- tion, by which the plague of Athens was distinguished. (Epidem. vi.) ' See Galenas Comment, (v, 453, ed. Basil.) Procopius also takes notice of black phlyct^n^ among the symptoms of the great plague which raged in the reign of Justinian (Pers. u.) See also Diodorus Siculus (Biblioth. xiv.) Some suppose, however, that by phlyctsense were meant petechie. See Prselect. Marc. p. 301. SECT. XI. ON BURNS. Burnt parts require applications which are moderately de- tergent, without being decidedly heating or cooling. Where- fore, Chian, Cimolian, Cretan, and every Hght earth, when rubbed in with vinegar not very acrid, or mixed with water, are excellent applications, and prevent blisters from forming; also a whole raw egg immediately appHed upon soft wool, for it cools moderately, and dries without being stimulant. And anoint the part with black ink, or with frankincense dissolved in water, or use a cataplasm of boiled lentils, or of tares, lor burning with hot water, before bhsters arise, pour frequently on the part the brine of pickled olives, or apply olives them- selves triturated with polenta; or, triturate stone-alum with vinegar, and rub it in; or, anoint with bull's gall dissolved with much water ; or, pour on the part strained ley with sauce of pickles, or brine; or, triturate the bulbous roots of hhes, hyacinths, or narcissi with rose-oil, and having made it of the consistence of the sordes of oil in baths, anoint with it. But Marcellus gives the following composition : havmg smeared a rag with honey, and wrapped it around barley, burn it, and mix of the ashes, di-. viij; of ceruse, dr. iv; of butter, dr. viii; of wax, dr. xvj ; of goat's fat, dr. xvj; of rose-oil, dr. x^^. For burnt parts already blistered, ha.dng triturated sumach and polenta with vinegar, apply it; or, mix qmckhme with cerate, put it on a rag, and apply. And the medicnie calledSECT. XI.] BURNS. 43 Sphjeria is applicable in such cases. The parts which are ulcerated, may be covered with pounded leeks; or, triturate purslain with polenta, and apply; or, put pigeon's dung into a rag of hnen, burn it, and mix the ashes with oil, and use; (this is an excellent application:) also the bark of pine and of spruce fir, or dried maiden-hair levigated, or the burnt leaves of myrtle, are to be triturated and sprinkled upon the part. Each of these things answers well, when applied with cerate. But a good application is formed by triturating together of the dried roots of the red alkanet, oz. iv; of white wax, oz. ix; of rose-oil, oz. xviij; and also that made of ceruse, with a small quantity of stag's marrow. Commentary. See Hippocrates (de Ulceribus.) Celsus Comm. (v, 27); Galen (de Simpl. Med. et alibi.) Aetius (xiv, 64); Pseudo-Dioscor. (Euporist. i, 178) ; Actuarius (Meth. Med! vi, 6, 8); Nonnus (240); Serapion (v, 11); Avicenna (iv, 4, 2, 12); Haly Abbas (Pract. 4, 25); Alsaharavius (xxix, 2, 8); Rhases (Antid. i, 27); (ad Mansor. vii, 18); (Div. i, 136.) The author of the Hippocratic treatise referred to above, re- commends various appHcations to burns, such as old axunge rubbed into the part, and the root of squills applied above; or a mixture of old axunge, rosin, and bitumen, spread upon a rag and heated at the fire; or the roots of the ilex boiled in white wine at a gentle fire until it be of the consistence of a liniment. Dioscorides, Avicenna, and Galen, agree in praising Cimolian earth as an application to recent burns. Galen says that cop- peras, especiaUy when dissolved in vinegar, forms an excellent apphcation for the ulcers occasioned by burning. Aetius treats bums upon nearly the same principles as our author. When blisters rise he forbids an early opening to be made m them. As an application to them he recommends a um with water and the white of an egg. Some of his ap- phcations can only be supposed proper for the foul ulcers left by burmng. Such is that consisting of verdigris and litharge, pounded with wine and oil. For healing ulcers he recom- mends a composition containing ceruse, litharge, toasted barlev pounded, wax, and rose or myrtle oil.44 BURNS. [«ooK IV. In tlie ' Etiporista' Cimolian earth, litharge and oil, and many other applications are recommended. Actuarius recommends a composition of Htharge, ceruse, wax, turpentine, and some other articles of less importance. We need scarcely mention how much the oil of turpentme has been used of late in such cases. He praises such things as are moderately astringent, such as alum dissolved in vinegar, &c. Celsus recommends at first such things as are, " mediocriter exedentia reprimentiaque," and afterwards articles of a soothing nature. To the former class belong the farina of lentUs and honey ; myrrh with urine, or the Cimolian chalk, with the baxk of frankincense; and to the latter belong all fatty apphcations, and such things as contain the dross of lead and the yelks of eggs. He also mentions turpentine rosin, as an application to foul ulcers from burning. Serapion, Uke our author, recommends appHcations which are moderately detergent, and neither very calefacient nor re- frigerant. He gives the following directions for making a preparation from lime. Take of Ume, seven times washed in sweet water and dried, oz. viij; of wax, oz. ij; of oil of roses, oz.A-j : let the wax be melted along with the oil, and well mixed with lime. This is to be rubbed into the part. He also gives a prescrintion for preparing a mixture of lime-water and oil, exactly simdar to that which is nowused in cases of burns, (vu, 28.) Avicenna, with his usual accuracy, lays down very particular rules for the treatment of bm-ns. To prevent bhsters from rising he recommends cooling tHngs; when the burning is oc- casioned by hot water, he dii-ects us to apply sandals, rose- water, and camphor: or a cloth dipped in congealed water is to be kept constantly applied, and it wiU prevent blisters from rising. Most of the applications recommended by oui' author are also mentioned by him. Haly Abbas directs us to apply a cloth cooled in rose-water. He also speaks of the ointment of lime and rose-oil, mentioned above. When the bui-mng is not severe, Alsaharavius directs us in the first place to wash the part with vinegar and salt, and then to sprinkle upon it the flour of barley or of oats. Then if blisters do not rise, but there is a sensation of burniug in the part, he recommends us to apply cloths dipped in cold water, rose-water, or snow-water,SCOURGES. SECT. XII.] 45 which ai-e to be changed frequently. Afterwards some emol- Comm. lieut applications, such as the white of an egg, with gum arabic """^—' is to be used. When the bixrning is more severe, he recom- mends us to bleed and use a cooling application, such as the brain of a sheep, the white of an egg mixed with rose-oil, or an ointment made of white wax and rose-oil. He also makes mention of the apphcation from lime. Ehases recommends an ointment containing ceruse, camphor, opium, &c. LikeAvicenna, he directs us to apply at first a cloth wetted in cold water, or in rose-water, which has been cooled with snow. If the burning be extensive he recommends venesection, with a cooling and attenuant diet. When the pain is great he directs us to apply the yelks of eggs mixed with rose-oil. When a large ulcer is formed, he directs us to dress it with the ointment of lime, de- scribed above. He also approves of a white ointment, con- sisting of ceruse, oil of roses, and wax. In his ' Continens,' he relates a case of severe burning, which he treated with li- niments composed of sandals, camphor, and roses; a cloth wetted in snow-water being applied externally to it. He ap- proves of opening the blisters. To prevent them from forming, he recommends strongly an astringent coUyrium of galls. Like many of the other authorities, he recommends Cimolian earth very much. The apphcations recommended by Haly Abbas are of a refi-igerant and cooling nature, such as Armenian earth in vinegar, the white of an egg, ceruse, &c. The earlier modern authors treat bumsupon the plan laid down by the ancients, more especially the Arabians. Thus Guy, of Cau- liac, recommends us in cases of extensive burning to have re- course to venesection, along with a cooling and attenuant regimen. As a local application, he recommends a cloth wetted in rose-oil congealed in snow, and aftenvards cooling ointments containing ceruse, litharge, and the like. He approves of opening the blis- ters, of afterwards dressing the part with desiccative remedies, such as the ointment of lime, seven times slaked. (Tr.vi,Doct.C.6.) SECT. xri. FOR THOSE BEATEN WITH SCOURGES. Take of ceruse and litharge equal parts, of wax four parts, E as a plaster with the oleum susinum, or rose-oil; but on46 [book IV. HAIRS. the first day use the susinvun separately; or, of saffron, dr. j ; of tragacantli, dr. j; unite with them a whole egg, without the shell, and use. For those who have been scourged, the skin of a sheep newly taken oflF, when apphed Avhile yet warm, of all remedies cures the soonest, effecting this purpose in a day and a night. Comm. COMMENTARY. See Aetius (xiv, 62); Avicenna (iv, 4, S, 7); Haly Abbas (Pract. iv, 26) ; Alsaharavius (Pract. xxxi, 2, 1); Ehases (Contin. xxviii.) Aetius gives similar directions. The following is said to be an excellent apphcation for the stripes of a whip : mix washed lime with raw eggs, and add some rose cerate. Aetius, Galen, Nonnus, Avicenna, Rhases, Haly Abbas, and Alsaharavius join our author in recommending the fresh skin of a newly-killed sheep as an application in such cases. Alsaharavius recom- mends an ointment containing white wax, rose-oil, and ceruse, when the wounds are deep ; when there is any apprehension of heat and inflammation, and more especially if the patient be plethoric, he approves of venesection. When on the other hand the patient is weak, and is in danger of falling into a state of syncope, he recommends musk and wine to be admi- nistered. When there is much appearance of ecchymosis he speaks of scarifying the part after the heat is gone. Rhases recommends a composition of ceruse, litharge, wax, and rose- oil, as a general application. Most of the applications recommended by Bertapaha contain litharge, cerase, tutty, wax, and oil. (De Ulceribus, 16.) The other earlier medical authors of modern times likewise follow the ancients in this case. SECT. XIII. TO MAKE HAIRS GROW ON A PART THAT HAS BEEN BURNT. Hairs grow on a burnt part if you apply fig leaves boiled in a pot with cerate, in the form of a plaster; or, of dried fig, dr. viij ; of marjoram. Si: j; triturate with oil to the thickness of a cerate, and use; or, of gypsum, dr. c; of squama Jiens,SECT. XIV.] EXCORIATIONS. 47 dr. j ; fonn trochisks with water, and keep, men going to use, mix one part with eight parts of cerate. Commentary. The Arabians mention various things which C were supposed to be possessed of the property of making hairs ^ grow; such as turpentine, spikenard, thapsia, &c. SECT. XIV. FOR EXCORIATIONS. For excoriated surfaces and superficial ulcers, at first use astringents, such as wine, or vinegar and brine, and afterwards such plasters as contain fat and promote cicatrization, and the most deHcate of the white plasters. This is particularly appli- cable: of ceruse, p. j ; of ammoniac, p. ss; of myrtle-oil, q. s; havmg triturated the ammoniac in water, mix the ceruse, adding the myrtle-oil, and use in an oUy state : or, mix the squama lens with gypsum, and having triturated with myrtle-oil, use: or, having triturated Cimohan earth and Htharge with'wine^ and the oleum ricini, or myrtle-oil, use. For excoriations, intertrigo, chronic ulcers, and old and tender shn. Of golden-coloured litharge, dr. Ix; of wax, dr. xx; of dned pitch rosin, dr. xij ; of oil, iss cyathus : having boiled the htharge and the oil, add the other things, and having agitated it with a spatula, or softened it in a mortar, use. Skin which has been torn away, ought not to be cut from the sores, but It ought to be laid on, and the medicine apphed; for thus they coalesce, even if it is black. When stripped of the skin, the cicatrization is difficult, the ulcer being irritated and ren- dered foul. Excoriated parts are preserved from inflammation by the apphcation of red sumach, triturated with honey, or with the hair of sweet flag burnt and apphed with honey. ' An anodyne for excoriations, sores from stripes, and contusions of the Joints. Of Htharge, of ceruse, of each, oz. j ; of wax, oz. V); of pure oil or rose-oil, lb. iss; of starch, oz. ij. The composition called pelarium, from the dross of silver, produces the same effects, and that from eggs in hke manner. Commentary. See Oribasius (Morb. Curat, iii, 18); Aetius Comm. (xiv, 66, 67) ; Scribonius Largus (88); Marccllus (De Med.);MYRMECIA. [book IV. 48 Comm. Avicenna (iv, 4, 2, 9); Haly Abbas (Pract. iv, 10); Elhases " ' ' (ad Mansor. vi, 18,) Our author copies closely from Oribasius. Aetius recommends as a good application for intertrigo oc- casioned by the friction of shoes, the warm liver of a pig or lamb, or unwashed wool. Here he foUows Dioscorides (u, 37.) He also makes mention of several coohng apphcations, contain- ing ceruse, litharge, the dross of lead, &c. _ _ Scribonius Largus recommends an ointment contaimng litharge, ceruse, the flour of frankincense, alum, axunge, old austere wine, roses, and sour oil. Marcellus also recommends litharge for intertrigo. The Arabians treat these cases simUarly. Thus Avicenna agrees with Aetius in recommending the liver, and the oint- ment containing ceruse, &c. For bruised parts he recommends astringents; such as galls, acacia, &c. To relieve the heat and irritation occasioned by riding, or any such cause, Rhases directs us to apply a cloth dipped m rose-water properly cooled, he means, perhaps, with ice. After the heat and pain have been removed, an ointment of ceruse, or litharge is to be applied. BHsters produced by walkmg are to be opened and then washed with rose-water ; and afterwards they are to be dressed with an astringent application, contain- ing Armenian bole, galls, pomegranate flowers, or the like- SECT. XV. FOR MYRMECIA AND ACROCHORDON. Each of these is a smaU rising of the skin, of a caUous nature, and for the most part circular ; but the myrmecia have a broad base, and when rubbed, convey a sensation like the bites of ants. But the acrochordon has a narrow base so as to seem to hang, resembhng the extremity of a cord. Where- fore, elaterium with salts, when applied, removes these swel- lings; and frankincense with vinegar, green figs with vinegar, flour and natron, the juice of the fig rubbed in, and m hke manner, that of the spurge, the pickled head of picarel bui-nt verdigris burnt with sulphur vivum, the leaves of basil witn copperas; that which flows from green vine shoots when burn- ing, sheep's dung with vinegar, a buck-goat's gall when rubbed«ECT. XV.] MYRMECIA. 49 in, the fruit of the large sun-flower, when applied with wine rue with natron and pepper, natron with the urine of a youth not come to pubertj, the dung of an ox of the herd in vinegar. 7m W Curat, iii, 55); Actuarius (Meth Med. vi, 8); Pollux (Onomast. iv); Avicenna (iv, 3, 1 6); Rhases (Divis i, 131, et seq. ■ ad Mansor. vii, 15, 16) Celsus defines these tumours in the following terms ; " A'/cpo- Xop^o.a Gr^ci vocant, nbi sub cute coit aHquid dnrius, et in- terdum paulo asperius, coloris ejusdem : infra tenue, ad cutem latius : idque modicum est qnia raro fabjE magnitudinem exce- annt. Vix unum tantum eodem tempore nascitur; sed fere plura, maximeque in pueris; eaque nonnunquam subito desi- nunt; nonnnnquammediocreminflammationem excitant; sub qua etiam m pus convertuntur." He then describes the iimov to be about the size of an Egyptian bean, and of the .olour of thyme. He adds : "Mv^^^^^.a autem vocantnr hu- nnhora thymio durioraque : qu^e radices altius exigunt, maio- remquedolorem movent: infra lata, supra autem tenuia; minus sangmnis mittunt; magnitudine vix unquam lupini modum exceclunt. Nascuntiu- ea qnoque aut in palmis aut in inferioribus partibus pedum." The acrochordon, he says, if cut out, leaves no roots, and does not grow again. This is not the case with the myrmecaa. For it he recommends an application consist- ing ot alum and red arsenic. Galen describes minutely the method of extracting these ■ rium^lTl'"''' '"^^'^f^^ arsenic, chalcitis, quicklime, elate- iDioscorides " '^^P^^^^*^' P--do- The myrmecia is generally rendered formicaria by the La- aW. bTtht" f "^^^^^ and/J. the m™.T .f.."'?^^^"" ^^^^^--^ t« -"found tne myrmecia with the herpes. abouf r/'^^'' ^^^"''^'^ °' thymium, to be an excrescence roul b, 1 "1"' ''^"'^^^ ^"Sers, or face, of a red colour, rough, bloody, and not difficult to remove. The acrochordon50 [uOOK IV. GANGLION. Comm. lie says, is white at the root, and it gets enlarged at the ex- ^ tremity. The myrmecia he defines to be a hard^ rough excres- cence of a callous nature, hut bloody at its extremity. The acrochordon is thus described by an intelligent modem author : " Est verruca subcutanea durior et asperior, callosa, atque plerumque teres, cute concolor, in basi tenuis, summitatis vero latioris, fabse magnitudinem raro excedens, juniores maxime infestans." (Mangeti Bibl. Chii'urg. i, 73.) The tenns, thy- mus, myrmecia, and acrochordon, have now fallen into disuse. SECT. XVI. ON GANGLION. GangUon is a round tumour of a nerve (tendon ?) ai-isiug from a blow or pressure, in many parts of the body, but par- ticularly in those parts which are moved, such as the extremi- ties of the hands and feet. In this case, says Archigenes, apply quick lime with the grease of geese and tui-pentine. But Poles uses the medicine from agate stone, and Oribasius the following : of ceruse, of pine rosin, of old oil, of each, oz. j; of ammoniac perfume, of galbanum, of each, oz. j ; of wax, oz. iv ; or, he says, apply a thick plate of lead, hke the vertebrte, and larger than the ganghon, and bind it on; for by its weight this dissolves it in process of time. This we have used. Comm. COMMENTARY. See Hippocratcs (Dc Ai-tic. xxvi); Galen (Comment., de Med. Simpl. ix); Celus (vii, 6); Oribasius (De Virt. simpl. ii, in voce Plumbum) ; Aetius (xv, 9); Actuanus (Meth. Med. ii, 11); Avicenna (iv, 3, 3, 6) ; Albucasis (Chirurg. ii^ 50); Ehases (ad Mansor. vii, 15 : Contin. xxviii.) ' Hippocrates points out the danger of opening these tumours indiscriminately. They consist, as Galen remarks, of a viscid and mucous fluid. Galen and Oribasius agi-ee with our author in dii-ecting a piece of lead to be bound upon the ganglion. Nearly the same plan of treatment is recommended by Aetius, who directs us to bind a piece of lead upon the tumoui-, and after some days to remove it, when the ganghon wiU be found much softened; it is then to be squeezed firmly between the thumb and the fingers, by which means it .viU be speedily dis. solved. Albucasis approves of extirpating the tumour, unless itSECT. XVII.] PHLEGIHON. be seated near a joint. Ehases as usual coUects the opinions Comm. of all preceding authorities. Antyllus, he says, directed the surgeon to break the sack, or to bind a heavy plate over it or to extract it by the knife. When an operation is attempted he recommends that the surgeon be sure that he has removed the whole sac. He relates a case in which the sweUing was dissolved by an application containing mustard. SECT. XVH. ON PHELGMON. In general, we caU aU those swellings phlegmons which are red and painful, and accompanied with heat; some diversity of their nature arising from the canse which occasions them ^ or when good blood and of moderate consistence mshes abun- dantly to a part and from its quantity becomes seated in it the disease is that which is properly called phlegmon; but when yellow bile is seated in a part, it is called herpes; and when blood and yeUow bile together are collected in a part, eysipelas is formed; but when in this case the blood is Hot and thick. It usually gives rise to carbuncle. Wherefore we shall begin with what is properly called phlegmon, which occurs in many cases, being a swelling which is red, painful elastic, and hot, deriving its origin, as I said, from good blood which IS sometimes collected from the whole body, and some- ^nies IS formed abundantly in the part itself, so that it cannot be contamed m the vessels, but escapes from them in the form ot vapour into the surrounding cavities. And this affection supervenes upon ^uds, fractures, ulcers, and many other causes. When therefore a part becomes inflamed without any obnous cause preceding it, the whole body sending a defluxion to the part, we must evacuate the general system by venesec- tion and apply to the part embrocations and cataplasms, not such as are of a heating and moistening nature, but such as are calculated to repel the fluid, which is flowing to the part, and evacuate that which is already contained in it. Apply therefore, a cataplasm of house-leek, and of the bark of the pomegranate tree boiled in wine, with sumach and polenta • When the pain is not vioknt, this or such like applications are to be used; but when there is a defluxion to the part with52 PHLEGMON. [book iv. greater pain, then cataplasms of hot water and oil, or of po- lenta, must not be applied (for all these are inimical to such defluxions) ; hut the vehemence of the pain is to be allayed by that which is composed from musk, rose-oil, and a little wax, with unwashed wool containing much grease: these things are to be prepared and apphed cold in summer, but tepid if in wm- ter, so that the parts above the affected places be covered with a sponge soaked in austere wine or cold oxycrate. But we must add to the cataplasms such herbs as are proper for the purpose required. PeUitory of the waU, therefore, is applica- ble to eveiy phlegmon at the commencement, and while on the increase; and in like manner, homed poppy, orach, mallows, lettuce, and gourd, when applied on hot parts. Both kinds of caltrops (ti-ibuli) are applicable to inflammatory defluxions, and the cabbage to such as are hard. When a change is thereby effected, and no pus falls into the part, you may accomplish the cure by means of the plaster from chalcitis, or some of those plasters of a similar natm-e, which apply to defluxions ; but clean wool soaked in austere wine is to be put externaUy to the medicine. In this manner you may cure phlegmons from defluxion. But such as are occasioned by any external cause will not be injured by moistening and heating applica- tions, and if necessity require, you may scarify them Avith ad- vantage. But in phlegmons arising from defluxion, scarifica- tion, more especially at the commencement, may become the cause of much mischief to the patient. Comm. Commentaey. See Galen (ad Glauc. ii); de Difi"erent. Morb. (12); Meth. Med. (xiii, 2); Celsus (iii, 10); Oribasius (Morb. Curat, iii. 41) ; Aetius (xiv. 31); Leo (vii, 4); Actuarius (Meth. Med. ii, 12) ; Avicenna (iv, 3, 1, 2); Serapion (v, 22); Haly Abbas (Theor. viii, 9; Pract. iii, 27); Alsaharavius (Pract. xxix, 2) ; Ehases (Divis. 126, and Contin. xxvii.) Galen explains that the term plilegmone is used either to signify inflammations in general, or a red, resisting, and pam- ful tumour in particular. It is here used in the latter accepta- tion. He says, when a defluxion of blood of good quality and of moderate consistence takes place to a part, and from its quantity becomes fixed in it, the person is seized with a violent pain, unless the part be very insensible; it is also accompamedSECT. xvii.J PHLEGMON. 53 with a deep-seated throbbing; it seems stretched and broken • there is a sensation of increased heat, so that the pai-t feels as if It were bui-nt and desires cooling; there is a florid redness as m those who have been in the bath, or have been warmed at the fire, and by other means. This affection, he says, gets the generic appellation of phlegmone, or inflammation. He enu- merates many causes of it, such as bruises, fractures, and dis- locations; but even without these, he adds, it may arise from the veins being immoderately distended with humours, and the superfluity being cast off upon a part fitted to receive them at the time. Such a part, from some Cciuse or other, hap- pens to be weaker, or more lax, or more calculated to attract or is more inactive than the other parts of the body. He lays It down as a general principle, that the cure of such affec- tions is to be accomplished by evacuation. Reason and expe- rience, he adds, teach us that the general system is to be evacuated by the suitable means, and the inflamed part by em- brocations and cataplasms of a repeUent nature, and such as are calculated to give tone and strength to it. Such are his general principles of treatment. His particular remedies we need not mention, as in fact our author's are entirely borrowed from him. Oribasius, Aetius, Actnarius, and Nonnus, in like manner, borrow from him everything which they advance upon this subject. Celsus does not treat of phlegmon in particular, but he has given an excellent account of inflammation in general. His definition of inflammation is singularly appropriate: "Notce mflammationis sunt quatuor, rubor, et tumor, cnm calore et cioiore. Isidorus attempts the same not so successfully ; i-hlegmone est fervor cum extensione et dolore; sive est in- quietudo cum rubore, et dolore, et extensione, et duritie, et vastitate : quae quum caeperit fieri, inquietudo et febris inse- qmtur." Avicenna gives a clear and comprehensive exposition of the aoctrines of the Greeks, but supplies no new information. He • 18 at pains to explain that the term phlegmon appUes generaUy to every inflamed part; and also to a hot aposteme in particu- • ar- He joins Galen in recommending a free incision when it IS apprehended that the member in wliicli it is seated will bc- ^come cornipted. Serapion's treatment is nowise dissimilarABSCESSES. [book IV. 54 M. A plilegmon, says Haly Abbas, is a sanguineous collection, arising either from an external cause, sucb as a bruise, a blow, a wound, or tlie like, or from an internal cause, namely, a de- fluxion upon the part. He attributes the collection which takes place in a part to its debihty, which makes it unable to cast ofl" the load which is thrown upon it. When seated in a vascular part, phlegmon, he says, is attended with a throbbing pain. He approves of fi-ee and bold incisions. Alsahara^ius treats of phlegmon at great length, but there is nothing original in his views. Uhases recommends at first bleeding, purging, and applications of a cooling and astringent nature. But when suppuration has commenced he properly forbids depletion, lest it only protract this process. He remarks that phlegmons are often occasioned by disorder of the stomach, and the use of too much food and drink. He recommends in general matui-ative apphcations, to which, if ^accessary, narcotics may be added. SECT. XVIII. ON EXTERNAL ABSCESSES. If it appear to you impossible to prevent suppuration, boil bread in water and oil, and apply it as a catasplasm; or apply barley flour prepared in hke manner; and bathe the pai-t with an infusion of marshmallows. But when the sweUing is difficult, either to convert into pus or to dissipate, you may use a cataplasm of dried figs. But sweet and fat figs are to be dissolved by boiling in water, and made like thin honey, and barley flour added to it. And if the swelling is resolved but imperfectly, you may boU with the figs hyssop or mar- joram ; or, if you wish to increase its strength, add sahs to the decoction. But you must attend that the part be not dried too much, for thus wiH it be rendered hard. If you perceive any such thing, you must boil with the water the root of wild cucumber, or of marshmallows, or of bryony. But the root of the dracunculus is stronger than these and more discutient; and the medicine formed from the di-acunculus itself is very discutient. Sometimes, therefore, you may apply de- coctions of these things alone; but at other times you may add dried figs, and mix polenta with fat. And the oil of dill is dis- cutient, and adapted for concocting crude humours, and uncon-SECT. XVIII.] 55 ABSCESSES. cocted swellings. And pitch, more especially the liquid, con- cocts all hard and unconcocted swellings, when added to the cataplasms. A compound medicine for j)rocuring the dischai-ge of the concocted matter of abscesses, so that often the pus is found on the pledget; and for thoroughly discussing what is not concocted: of pyrites, of levigated ammoniac, of each, dr. xij ; of the flour of beans, dr. vj; add to liquid pitch, and spread upon skin, and apply. But do not take away the pledget until it fall off spontaneously. The medicine must not be prepared long beforehand, as it soon becomes dry. When the tumour is no wise dissipated by these means, and matter falls into it, it is to be opened, and the matter evacu- ated, taking care not to apply to it water or oil; or, if it be necessaiy to clean the sore, it must be done with honied water, oxycrate, wine, and wine and honey; and if it become in- flamed, the cataplasm of lentils is to be applied; but if it is not inflamed, we may use some of the plasters to such open- ings, more especially that from chalcitis; but apply to them sponge or wool soaked in austere wine. But to the wound Itself, do not apply any of the oily ointments, such as the tetrapharmacon, for it stands much in need of being dried. Those things which open abscesses. Since some persons will not endure to have abscesses opened with iron, we must en- deavour to have recourse to epispastic medicines. Having triturated the root of narcissus in honied water, boil it with oil of iris, and apply; or, having triturated the tender root of calamus, and if it be hard, boil it in honied water, and apply; or, use a cataplasm of birthwort and honey. But equal parts of dry pitch and Cretan bee-glue, produce the rupture of ab- scesses and promote cicatrization. The Dionysian plaster, a ivonderful epis^mstic application for abscesses, to the breasts and to buboes, dissipating by the insen- stblepores. Of old oil, of water, of each, lb. j ; having boHed the oil and water for a little time, add of aphronitrum, oz. vj ; of misy, oz. j or ij; and boH until it does not stain the finger; then add of the manna of frankincense, of wax, of turpentine, of each, oz. vj. For abscesses of the nervous parts. Of wax, of colophonian rosm, of butter, of each, lb. j ; of dry pitch, of honey, of each, lb. ij, oz. rj; of verdigris, oz. iij ; of bird lime, q. s.—Another,56 ABSCESSES. [book iv. au epispastic : Of ammoniac perfume, oz. vj ; of ^ wax, of tur- pentine, of eacli, oz. iv; of sulphur vivum, oz. iij; of natron, oz. iij; and tlie appHcation caUed smilium, and that from gar- lic are strongly calculated to promote tlie breaking of abscesses abeady formed. But that wbicb consists of the juice of lin- seed dissipates, changes, and bursts abscesses most aptly. For the mHder sorts of abscesses, those also which were mentioned for parotis will apply. These observations apply to an abscess following phlegmon. But, Galen says, that an abscess will sometimes take place without being preceded by inflammation, in which case, it has its origin from good blood. For at the commencement, he says, owing to some humoui-, excoriation takes place, and in process of time, the containing pai-ts are separated from those below. And, therefore, when opened, they appear to contain within them all kinds of fluid and solid bodies. For, bodies resembling dung, urine, thrombus, a honey or mucus-like humour, bones, nails, and hairs, have been found in abscesses. And even animals have been found very like to those which derive their origin from putrefaction. Nay, they afiirm that, more particularly in chronic abscesses from metastasis, bodies have been formed resembling stones, sand, shells, wood, coals, clay, the sordes of the oil of baths, the lees of oil, and the lees of wine. Wherefore, we shaU now give a succinct account of abscesses, more especially such as are seated in the external parts of the body, and those which do not admit of resolution by medicines. An abscess, then, is a cor- ruption and change of the flesh or fleshy parts, such as muscles, veins, and arteries. Of them, some are contained in a cyst, as atheroma, steatoma, and mehceris, and others are formed without a cyst, and are properly called by the generic name, and of them we have now to treat. The formation of an ab- scess then is most commonly preceded by inflammation, as we have stated, but sometimes it arises at once originally, as we have just now mentioned. An abscess, then, is attended with strong heat of the place, the swelling becomes greater and more red than formerly, and is hard, with a pungent pain, throbbing, and weight, so that it seems as if something were suspended from the part. And if the part be a vital one, fever supervenes with irregular rigors, and the pain and fever are greatest at night. Sometimes too a bubo is formed in theSECT, xvm.] iiBSCESSES. 57 neighbouring glands. When the abscess is fairly formed, the most of these symptoms are diminished, the pungent pain be- comes itchy and somewhat dull, the sweUing is more sharpened into an acute point, is soft and yielding to the touch, and the skm at the top is separated ; I speak with regard to those that burst externaUy. If therefore, it has burst spontaneously, or from medicines, it is to be cured by means of pledgets spread with ointment, the pus being evacuated by degrees ; but if not It IS to be opened in the manner to be described in the surgical part of the work. Commentary. All the writers referred to in the last Chap- Comm ter may be consulted on the treatment of abscesses. See espe- ciaUy Aetius. He recommends when suppuration is not taking place properly to apply barley meal, or bread boiled in the Ae- coction of figs, to which if necessary may be added nitre, tur- pentme, or the like. When suppuration takes place, the abscess IS to be opened where the skin is thinnest. (See Book 6 ) The mcision is to be made long and narrow, and if any putrid substance appear it is to be cut out. The opening is to be spnnkled with frankincense and suitable pledgets applied. When the neighbouring parts are inflamed a cataplasm wiU be the most proper appHcation. When the ulcer is foul, turpentine and honey will serve for cleaning it; or applications containing verdigris may be used for the same purpose. After the nice? IS c eaned, first mcarnants and afterwards incrassants are to be apphed. For producing rupture of the abscess, he recommends vanous applications, such as ammoniac, and niti-e triturated with W Galen ^"^"""^''^ ^^^^^ in !^7"*^7^*/^^o^^ended by Celsus is nearly the same ration^? I f f"' '''' recommends appli- cat ons of a repellent and cooling nature : but if it is hard he directs us to use apphcationswhich digest and produce resolution, su h as dried figs pounded. To such applications may be added W ammoniac, galbanum, bees-glue, and bird- ^me, wi h somewhat less than one half of myrrh. The plasters ^cl malagmata for this purpose arc likewise to be applied, wnen these apphcations do not produce resolution, we must conclude, he says, that the abscess will ripen. The symptomsABSCESSES. 58 [book IV. Comm. of an imripe abscess are strong motion of the arteries, weight, ——' distension, pain, redness, and hardness; to which are to be added horror and fever if the abscess be large. When there is a remission of these symptoms, and the part becomes itchy, and somewhat livid or white, the suppuration is ripe, and the matter is to be let out by medicines or iron. Unless the opening be large he properly forbids tents or pledgets to be put into it. When these are used, however, lentils and honey, or pomegranate rind boiled in wine are to be apphed over them. Whatever is applied must not be tightly bound. The Arabians mention a variety of applications for producing the rupture of abscesses. (See in particular Avicenna and Rhases.) Thus, they recommend a plaster consisting of can- tharides and old oU. Some of their applications contain nitre, quicklime, and arsenic. Such a composition, by producing a slough, would no doubt effect the purpose for which it was in- tended. Haly Abbas recommends a poultice made of leaven, boiled figs, and the seeds of rosemaiy. He speaks of onions as an application to indolent abscesses. Alsaharavius treats of abscesses at great length. By abscesses of the nervous parts it will be readily under- stood that our author does not mean that they are seated in what are now properly called nerves, but in tendinous and membranous parts, for all these were comprehended under the name of nerves by the older writers, namely, Hippocrates, Plato, and Aristotle. Galen pointed out cleai-ly the distinction be- tween these parts, but the term is often used in its old and popular acceptation by the writers subsequent to him. The account which our author gives of deep-seated abscesses is highly interesting, but is mostly borrowed from Galen (ad Glauc. ii.) Rhases, in his ' Continens' (xxvii), gives an interesting outline of the opinions of all preceding authorities, with some ingenious observations of his own. When there is any hope of producing resolution he approves of scarifications. When the pain is violent he recommends hot and humid applications with the addition of narcotics. After the abscess has been opened with the knife, he says that desiccative apphcations are indicated, and not ointments containing Avax or oil. He de- scribes the leaven cataplasm, and others of a similar nature. He gives Antyllus' directions for opening abscesses. Abscesses inSECT. XTX.] 59 GANGRENE. the limbs are to be opened by a straight incision, but those Comm. about the ancles by a circular, as they are apt to terminate in ^ fistulie. He recommends it to be made at the lower part of the abscess, but mentions that Galen prefers the thinnest part. SECT. XIX. ON GANGRENE AND SPHACELUS. When the inflammation is neither resolved nor converted into pus, it often passes into gangrene and sphacelus, of which we shall now treat. Wherefore, we give the name of gangrene to mortifications arising from the violence of the inflammation, when they are not yet formed but forming; and if such a state is not speedily cured, the afi'ected part readily dies, and the disease seizing upon the sui-rounding parts, kills the person. But when the parts thus afi'ected become totally insensible, the affection is no longer called gangrene, but sphacelus. This affection happens also to the bones when the fiesh that sur- rounds them engendering noxious humours impregnates the bones therewith, and causes them to putrefy. When, there- fore, the part is completely mortified, it must be speedily cut away, where it joins the sound part. Gangrene is to be cured by evacuating as much as possible of the blood in the affected part; and we may either procure the discharge of the corrupted blood by opening a vein, when the vein of the part is large, or we may divide the whole skin by many and deep incisions, so that the blood may be permitted to escape; and we may apply some of the medicines suitable to mortifications. These are, the flour of tares, or of darnels, or of beans with oxymeL When wishing to apply stronger ones we may add salts, or use the trochisk of Andi-on, or the like. Old walnuts are good applications for gangrene. The nettle also cleans them, and the juice of spurge, when applied in season and in proper quantity. The decoction of bitter lupines, poured on the part, IS also beneficial. Some after the incision, for the sake of security, apply the cautery, in which cases we must use salt with leeks : afterwards, in order to remove the eschar, we may apply a cataplasm of bread, or of barley, or of wheaten flour boiled in water and oil; or the diy cephalic powder with honey, and the tetrapharmacon; and that called the Macedonian may60 GANGRENE. [book IV, be used. The eschars may be properly removed by bread tri- turated with parsley^ or basil, or by iris, panacea, or birthwort, or by the sweet-flag with honey, or by frankincense. And the medicine of Machajrion takes away the eschars in a proper manner, and the iris spread upon pledgets with honey; but in soft bodies the flour of tares, with honey, is sufficient. From the works of Oribasius, for gangrene. Of scraped verdigris, of vermihon, of stone alum, equal parts; triturate in water and anoint. The flour of darnel, with radish and salts, and sometimes with vinegar, will, when apphed as a cataplasm, be proper for the scarified parts; also dried grapes deprived of their stones with the bark, and with salts and oxymel; the inner parts of walnuts, and myrtle leaves boiled in wine and tritxirated with honey. Radish, with vinegar, breaks the eschars even to the bone. Comm. COMMENTARY. See the authors referred to ia the 17th Section. Paulus copies freely from Oribasius (Synops. vii, 27.) -Upon comparing Oribasius with our author we have ventured to give an interpretation of the last sentence not justified by the text as it now stands, and at variance with the translation of Cornarius. Oribasius does not say that the flour of darnel will scarify the parts (how could he ?) but that it wUl be a proper application after the parts are scarified. Galen (ad Glauc. and Comment, in Hippocr. App. vii. 50,) is the great ancient authority on mortification, and from him Oribasius, Aetius, Paulus, and all the subsequent writers on this subject have copied. He lays it down as the great rule of treatment, to evacuate the blood which is impacted in the part and prevents the diastole of the arteries. To accomphsh this end he directs free incisions to be made, after which the actual cautery is to be applied, at the line of separation between the sound and diseased parts. Celsus is a strong advocate for this practice, which has been revived lately and is much used in France. (See Encyclopedic Methodique, art. Gangrene, and Cross's Sketches of the Medical Schools in Paris.) He states, however, that when the disease goes on spreading, amputation of the mortified limb is the "auxilium unicum." At the commencement he approves ofSECT. XX.] 61 HERPES. venesection, if the strength permit, and of a restricted diet; and, afterwards, astringent food and drink are to be given. He also recommends, for gangrene, applications containing arsenic, quicklime, chalcitis, and the like (v, 22.) The practice of the Arabians is little or nothing different from that of the Greeks. Avicenna at the commencement approves of Armenian bole and terra sigillata with vinegar; but if these have not the effect he directs us to empty the part by scai-ifications, leeches, or opening the veins which lead to it. He then recommends us to apply the flour of beans and the other remedies mentioned by the Greeks. When the disease proceeds, free incisions and the actual cautery must be had recourse to. Alsaharavius recommends us to bleed at first, if the strength permit; then to use powerful caustics and escha- rotics such as arsenic, quicklime, and subHmed quicksilver; or if these do not succeed, the actual cautery. He approves of early incisions, and of amputation, if the mortification spread. He describes a species of gangrene which seizes the hand and spreads upwards; and relates a case of it in which he refused to amputate for fear of hemorrhage. The same case is related by Albucasis, which certainly amounts to a strong presumptive proof that Alsaharavius was the same person as Albucasis. Rhases inculcates in the strongest terms that when an infiam- mation threatens to terminate in mortification, it is to be treated by scarifications, stimulant apphcations, and the cautery. The earher modem surgeons foUowed the ancient practice of applying the cautery in cases of gangrene. SECT. XX. ON HERPES. When yellow bile, unmixed with any other humour is fixed m a part, the affection is called herpes : but if it is thicker and rather acnd it ulcerates the whole skin as far as the subjacent flesh, and is called herpes exedens; but if it is thin, less acrid and hot. It raises small blisters on the surface of the skin like millet-seeds, and hence has been called herpes miliaris. Accord- ing to Oribasius, a mixture of phlegm, with yellow bile, produces the herpes miliaris. Wherefore we may evacuate the whole body with cholagogue medicines, and apply cooling and de-HERPES. 62 [book IV. siccant things to the alfected part. At the commeacemeut, therefore, we may apply cataplasms from vine shoots, bramhle, and plantain; but afterwards we may add lentil to them, some- times with honey and polenta. And the cataplasm recom- mended for phlegmons from defluxion may be applied without the house-leek. But ulcerated parts are to be rubbed with trochisks dissolved in must, or in a thin and austere wine, not very old, or in a watery oxycrate. Administer also horned poppy, and similar tilings in water; and when these do not prove effectual, vinegar may be added. But wine diluted with the juice of plantain or strychnos is of great service, or linseed bruised and boiled in wine and oil may be appHedj or Cimolian earth, mixed with the juice of strychnos may be applied by anointing : and take of litharge, oz. iv; of the juice of leeks, vij cyathi, and of the juice of beet an equal quantity, tritm-ate and anoint. But when these iilcers have become chronic, the trochisk of Musa and that of Andron will be convenient applications.— Another : For herpes phlyctsenodes : having triturated the dross of lead in austere wine and anointed with it, apply above it beet leaves boiled in wine, or of wax, oz. iv; of myrtle oil, oz. xvj; of the dross of lead, oz. iv; anoint with one half of Avine. When it has stopped from spreading, use the cerate from the dross; or apply boiled lentil with honey. For herpes, under the skin, mix the dross of lead with the juice of levigated rue, or myrtle cerate, instead of the rue.—Another: Of old unwashed wool wrapped round a dead pine and burnt, dr. xij ss; of wax, dr. xxv; of the dross of lead half an acetabulum; of goat's tallow cured and washed in water, dr. xxxj ; of myrtle oil, oz. V.—Another : To those which spread rapidly : of the ' rind of the sweet pomegranate, dr. vj ; of litharge, dr. vj; of unwashed wool about a dead pine and burnt, dr. iij; of wax, 1 dr. xij ; of ceruse, dr. viij ; of fissile alum, dr. j; add to wine j and myrtle oil. | Commentary. The writers on phlegmon treat immediately ' afterwards of herpes and erysipelas. Fabricius ab Aquapen- dente. Dr. Bateraan, and most of our modern authorities on this subject, are of opinion that the ignis sacer of Celsus and the other Latin authors was herpes. Scrilionius Largus, how- ever, distinguishes the ignis sacer from zona, which, he says, wasSECT. XX.] HERPES. 63 caUed lierpes by the Greeks. The ignis sacer of Octavius Comm. Horatiairas likewise appears to be erysipelas. And Isidorus states decidedly that the ignis sacer was erysipelas : " Ery- sipelas est quam Latini saa-um ignem appellant, id est, ecce- crandum, per antiphrasin. Siquidem in superficie rubore flammeo cutes rubescunt. Tunc mutuo rubore quasi ab igne vicina invaduntm- loca ita est etiam febris excitatur.'' (See a learned dissertation on the ignus sacer in Bui-man's edition of Serenus Samonicus, 'Poet. Latini Minores.' ii, 335.) Having thus stated the doubts which prevaH respecting the ignis sacer of the ancients, we shall return to Celsus\s account of it, which / certainly, as already mentioned, seems to apply to herpes He ' describes two varieties of it. The first is reddish, or a mixture of redness and paleness, and in it the skin is covered with a great number of smaU pustules. The disease spreads, the part first affected either healing, or becomingulcerated fi-om the rupture of the pustules and discharging a humour intermediate between sa- nies and pus. The breast and sides are mentioned as being fre- quently the seat of this complaint, and hence Bateman concludes that It IS the herpes zoster. The second variety is described as consistmg of a superficial ulceration of the skin, broad somewhat Hvid, but unequal; the middle part healing as the extremities spread, and the part about to become affected be- commg swelled, hard, and of a colour compounded of black and red. It afl-ects principally old and cachectic persons, especially theu^ legs. We cannot understand what could have led Dr Bateman to think that this is the same as the herpes eircinatus 01 his arrangement. Bayer rather supposes it to be the dartre squameuse centrifuge Ahbert. His general treatment consists of abstmence, opening the beUy, food intermediate between the glutinous and saltish, and if there is no fever, exercise, austere wine aijd the like. The ulcers (vesicles?) are to be washed with hot water, or, if they spread, with hot wine; they are then to be opened with a needle, and dressed with applications for eating away putrid flesh. When the sore is cleaned, gentle apphcations are to be used. For the zona or herpes, Scribonius Largus recommends applications containing alum, galls, chalcitis, misy, quicklime, Pollux defines herpes to be inflammatory and pungent pus-64 [book IV. HERPES. Comm. tiiles, wliich Spread most commonly about the neck, but some- '—*—' times affect also tbe bands and feet. Galen gives a very full account of tbe nature and treatment of berpes. According to bim tbe complaint arises from yellow bile separated from tbe blood and fixed in a part. Wben it is tbickisb it ulcerates tbe skin down to tbe bone, and forms tbe disease called by Hippocrates heri^es exedens. But if tbinner, it only burns as it were tbe surface, wben it is called by tbe generic term of berpes. Of tbe otber two varieties, tbe one, as bas been said, is called exedens, and tbe otber miliaris, because it is attended witb many small buUse (pblyctjense) Hke millet- seeds. As our autbor's treatment is entirely derived from bim we sball not enter into any detailed exposition of bis practice. We may mention, bowever, tbat be decidedly recommends pur- gatives for proper berpes. Wben tbe ulceration is of a maUg- nant nature and attended witb putridity it requires tbe most acrid medicines, and sucb as in power resemble fire, namely, misy, cbalcitis, arsenic, quickUme, and sandaracb. For, be adds, tbese medicines burn like fire, and often wben tbey fail, we must have recourse to fire itself. Aetius gives an accurate account of berpes, but it is pro- fessedly borrowed from Galen. Like bim be divides tbe disease into tbree varieties, tbe berpes proprius, tbe berpes exedens, and tbe berpes mibai-is, tbe last being cbaracterized by an erup- tion of vesicles (pblyctsenae). We sball bere notice wbat Dr. Bateman says respecting tins division of berpes :—" The ancient division of berpes into tbree varieties, mibary [Kty^piaq), vesicular (^Xuktoii^wS^jc), and eroding [kaQioiitvoq), maybe pro- perly discarded, for there appears to be no essential difference between tbe first two, which differ only in respect to tbe size of the vesicles." This is evidently an incorrect account of the ancient division, in which no distinction was made between the berpes mibaris and tbe herpes pblyctamodes. Palladius makes mention of only two varieties of tbe disease, namely, tbe proper, and tbe eroding berpes. (De Febribus 3.) Leo briefly refers to Galen's account of tbe disease (vii, 3.) Actuarius mentions only tbe proper berpes, and tbe herpes mibaris. This is, perhaps tbe best division of any, as the herpes exedens is evidently a disease of a very different nature from tho other varieties.s^^T. XXI.] ERYSIPELAS. The Pseudo-Dioscorides recommends strong stimulant appli- cations containing son, misy, sulphur, onions, &c Avicenna seems to confound herpes with mp^mecia, which detracts from the value of his account of it. (iv, 3 17) Rhases describes separately the formica miliaris or herpes miharis, and the herpes estiomenos or exedens. For the former he recommends astringent applications, for the latter strong caustics In his^Continens' he directs the herpes miliaris to be treated with cholagogues and astringent applications berapion m Hke manner describes two varieties of the disease but his account of it contains nothing particularly interesting! Haly Abbas adopts the division laid down by Galen (Theor vui W.) His treatment also is quite similar (Pract. iii 29 ) Alsaharavius the three varieti'es are described by the names of formica or erysipelas muscina, for- mica corrosiva (herpes exedens?), and formica miliaris He describes the formica corrosiva as being a dangerous complaint spreading deeper and deeper. His treatment, although amp^ detailed, contains nothing remarkable (Pract xxix 9 ) The earner modern writers on medicine being the servile copyists of the Arabians, describe herpes by the name of formica as a disease nearly allied to erysipelas, and like it ansing from corrupted bile. See Guy of CauHae (ii, 1), and- Theoderic (in 16). For the herpes esthiomenos or lupus thev recommend the application of arsenic or the actual cautery. ' SECT. XXI. Fon ERYSIPELAS. Galen giving the name of erysipelas, more especially to the rboST' 1 ^ 'r'r' ^^^^^^ ^^^^ -^^^ ^'^^^-^^ vaihil h "^^ ^/^^'.^^ ^PPli-« appellation from the pre- vaihng humour, caUmg it erysipelatous inflammation when blood -^-P^^- -^en yenow bile prevails 'f^L b^V ' r^^^^ ^"'^^'^ bile is ^called by him erysipelas. Whatever division we adopt, it will make no great difference as to the treatment. But it is proper 0 know that erysipelas is a most dangerous disease, more par- 'ticidarly about the head; so that if active treatment be not •^esorted to, it will sometimes prove fatal to the patients by •mffocation. At its first appearance then we must open a veinERYSIPELAS. [book IV. 06 at the elbow, especially the humeral, or, if it cannot be seen, any one that appears. But if any thing prohibit venesection ■we must have recourse to purging by cholagogue medicines. The same treatment may be applied to erysipelas of other parts, or we may administer strong clysters. And we are to rub the parts affected by erysipelas with cooling things, in order to repel the defluxion, and with moderately heating and moist- ening things so as to dissipate that which is collected, before the parts become livid or black; but the parts which are anointed are to be kept constantly in a wet state, by frequently changing the apphcations, which may be done by cleansing them with soaked sponges: for the heat of the part by converting them into vapour soon renders it dry. As I have said, erysipelas at the beginning requires such things as are cooling and moist- ening, without astringency; such as house-leek, purslain, and fleawort; the marsh lentil, endive, and gourd; the nightshade, henbane, lettuce, and horned poppy. And parsley, and the leaves of rhamnus by themselves, and made into a cataplasm with bread, are proper applications ; also cerates used vdth very cold water; but we may mix with them some opium, the juice of poppy, cicuta, and mandragora, and thus form them into compound applications. And a cerate may be made of white wax mixed with four parts of rose-oil, prepared from the oil of unripe olives without salts, the ingredients being pounded in a mortar, and as much cold water poured in as it can receive. But if you add a little thin and transparent vinegar, you will render the medicine stiU better : but polenta, with some of the aforementioned cooling herbs, cool very properly, and fat dates with any of them. And the part may be anointed with ceruse, CimoHan, or potter's earth, with the juice of strychnos, or Htharge with rose-oU, or chalcitis with oil and must; or ceruse, ■with vinegar and buckthorn; or acacia, with vinegar. yf\xe\\ the effervescence subsides we may use these simple applications, native sulphur and mint, with vinegar and rose-oil; or rue with worm-wood; vinegar and oil, or Htharge with the juice of leeks and beet; or compoimd ones, as this trochisk, more especially to the head : of htharge, of ceruse, of saffi-on, of native sulphui', of opium with must; and in common, for aU parts, of Smopic. vermiHon, of chalcitis, of roasted misy, of verdigris, of cop- peras, of fissile alum equal parts, use with vinegar.—Another :SECT, xxr.] ERYSIPELAS. Of native sulphur, of ceruse, of opium, of acacia equal parts • use with vinegar. A cataplasm for erysipelas, herpes, abscess! parotis, and burmng : of the tender leaves of fresh marsh-mal- lows, lb. j; having boiled in water and oil, triturate properly and adding of rose-oil, oz. iv; of litharge, of ceruse, of each oz uss; tnturate again with the juice of coriander, or of house- leek, or of strychnos, then adding crumbs of bread so as to foi-m a plaster, apply it. And use this plaster : of oleum cicinum 1. e. castor-oil, lb. j; of oil of myrrh, lb. j; of wax, oz. v: of hthai-ge, oz. iv; of scraped verdigris, oz. ij; the verdigris and litharge are to be triturated with vinegar. A cerate for ery- sipelas and bums : of white wax, oz. iv; of rose-oH, oz. iii: six eggs, of pelhtory of the wall, oz. iv. When the inflammation ceases or becomes chronic, before the part becomes livid, apply a cataplasm of raw barley-meal; but if it has abeady become hvid, mci^ions must be made in the part, and cataplasms more- over applied, and hot sweet water pom-ed on it, and sometimes STd wJ^r^. '""V '""^''^^"^ ingredients are to be mixed with the cataplasm, and then we must use the aforesaid compound medicines with caution: for should these symptoms continue, a transition to suppuration or mortification takes place. t theZZTn^' ' Prognostics' has stated Com.. the danger of an erysipelas being translated to an internal part ^ We also states that gangrene supervening upon erysipelas is : CO SThe d""^r ^^^^ ^ TuWe7T " "''"^^^'^^ P^^j-dicial when Z ^^'^f^^^^^'i- His commentators, Theophilus and Damascius ^confirm this statement. (Scholia in Hip. et Galen, ii, 4^6 ' Celsus recommends bleeding if the strength permit and then lient and refrigerant applications, especially cerTse m llT' i f refrigerants fail to produce ^vd^e !rd\ f T/T' VO-nL with and apphed. If the part become putrid he directs us to me corrosive apphcations or the actual cautery. Afterwards Mpon general principles. We have stated in the preceding Section that the ignis sacer68 [book IV. ERYSIPELAS. of Scribonius Largus is not herpes. That it was erysipelas seems probable from the similarity between bis applications for it and those which Celsus and the other authorities recommend for erysipelas. Thus for ignis sacer he recommends Cimoliau chalk, diluted with the juice of solanum, or the solanum by itself, or with bread; or a mixture of sulphur vivum, ceruse, and litharge. We may remai-k further in this place that the iffnis sacer, or St. Anthony's fire of the middle ages, would appear to have been some variety of eiysipelas. Galen's account of erysipelas is particularly deserving of attention. In the 14th Book of his ' Meth. Med.,' he is at pains to state the nature of the disease, and the difference be- tween it and phlegmon. The common symptoms of both are heat and swelling. But they differ, first and principally in colour, which is red in phlegmon, but pale or yelloAv, or a com- pound of both, in erysipelas. Thi'obbing is also a character- istic symptom of a great phlegmon, for it is deep-seated, whereas erysipelas is rather in the skin. Erysipelas, he pointedly in- culcates, is occasioned by a bilious humour. This humour being thin, readily passes the fleshy and rare parts, and flows to the skin, where, unless it be particularly watery, it is unable to pass the pores, and, consequently, is retained. When things, indeed, are in theii' natiu-al state, this bitter bile passes through the pores of the skin by the insensible perspiration, but when it is either too abundant or thicker than usual, it is retained by the skin, which it inflames and causes to swell: hence the reason why erysipelas chiefly affects the skin or the prolonga- tion of it which lines the internal cavities. He states that the great indication of cure is refrigeration or cooling, but that there is danger of carrying this plan too far, lest the humoiu- should be driven to some vital part: wherefore cooling appli- cations are to be used until the part change its colour, but are not to be continued until it become black or livid. It is ne- cessary, therefore, as soon as a change of colour in the affected part is remarked, to exchange them for those of a contraiy nature. His cooling appHcations consist of strychnos (solanum?) and the other articles mentioned by our author. When the part becomes livid, he directs us to make incisions, and after- wards to apply cataplasms and fomentations with hot water, toSECT. XXI.] ERYSIPELAS. C9 which salt or vinegar may sometimes be added. It is only at this time that quicklime may safely be added to the applica- tions; for it would prove highly prejudicial at first. With respect to the general treatment, he approves strongly of chola- gogues, but does not think bleeding necessary in ordinary cases. When erysipelas arises from ulcers or any obvious causes, he recommends scarifications and cataplasms of barley flour. He recommends much the same plan of treatment in his 'Therapeut. ad Glauc' ii. Pie speaks highly of early incisions. Aetius, as he professes, merely copies from Galen. Oribasius recommends, at first, such things as are cooling without astringency; namely, henbane, nightshade, &c. When themflammation subsides, he directs us, before the part becomes hvid, to apply a cataplasm of barley flour; but when it does become Hvid, he recommends free incisions, and afterwards cataplasms and fomentations with fresh water, or water with salt and brine. Actuarius states the danger of carrying refrigerant and re- peHent appHcations too far, and recommends something discu- tient to be added to them. Octavius Horatianus approves of bleeding (unless contra-indi- cated by the want of strength), and of cholagogues, with free mcisions and fomentations. Avicenna states that bleeding in general does no good, un- less the humour be seated between the two skins. He approves most of cholagogues and of applications strongly refrigerant • only he cautions us not to carry this plan too far, lest the disease be determined to an internal part, or terminate in gangrene Serapion treats of the disease very accurately by the name ot al massive, but in nearly the same terms as Galen He approves decidedly of cooUng and repeUent applications at the commencement. Serapion and Avicenna notice the eruption 01 bullae in erysipelas. Haly Abbas directs us, when eiysipelas is not attended with swelling, to use cooling and repellent applications to the part, and to administer gentle cholagogues, such as myrobalans, ta- mannds, and prunes. But if sweUing be present, and if there IS nothing to contra-indicate venesection, he recommends us to Diced and apply cataplasms. Alsaharavius describes three varieties of erysipelas; namely.ERYSIPELAS. 70 [book IV. Comm. the erysipelas properly so called^ the ignis Persicus, and the '—"—' erysipelas inflativa. The first variety, he says, is attended solely with redness of the cuticle. It is to be treated by bleed- ing, purging, and local applications of a cooling and humid nature. In the ignis Persicus, the heat and redness are strong, and black bhsters rise on the part. It is to be treated by bleeding at the commencement, and scarifications. The erj^si- pelas inflativa arises with a sudden swelling, and bhsters, hke those produced by fire. It is to be treated by bleeding and cooUng appHcations, containing ceruse, lithai'ge, &c. The ignis Persicus would appear to have been some variety of anthi-ax, or the mahgnant pustule. None of the ancient authorities express themselves so deci- dedly favorable to bleeding as Rhases. Like the others, he attributes it to heated bile. He, and most of the authors quoted by him in his ' Continens,' approve of cooling applica- tions, but he cautions against carrying this practice too far. He remarks that vesicles like those from burning often arise on the part. Pabricius ab Aquapendente is a strong advocate for the ancient theory, of which he gives a fuU explanation. The sys- tem, he says, being loaded with vitiated bile, the more important organs cast it off: it is, therefore, sent outwardly, and is de- tained by the cuticle when its pores are obstructed. He at- tempts to reconcile the contrary opinions of the ancients with regai'd to venesection. He himself approves decidedly of bleed- ing when the disease is seated in the head or neck. None of the ancient authorities seem to have entertained the same apprehensions as most of the moderns do against liquid applications in cases of erysipelas. When this prejudice became general we do not exactly know, Heister mentions that, in his days, some surgeons disapproved of Hquid appHcations, but, as he thought, without any good reason. He himself re- commends camphorated spirit of wine. The earher modern surgeons, as, for example, Brunus and Theodoricus, decidedly recommend cold applications at the commencement. "NVlien the disease is not thereby resolved, they direct us to have recoiu-se to leeches and scarifications. They approve much of chola- gogue purgatives, but do not recommend bleeding unless in- flammatory symptoms run high.SECT. XXII.] 71 PHYMA. SECT. XXII. ON PHYMA, BUBO, AND PHYGETHLON. According to Galen, phyma, bubo, and pbygethlon, are affec- tions of tbe glands : bubo being an inflammation of a gland; pliygetUon, an inflammatory erysipelas, or an erysipelatous in- flammation of a gland; and pbyma, an inflammation of a gland passing rapidly into suppuration. But, according to others, all tumours of the nature of apostemes, which arise in any part of the body, are caUed phymata. For Hippocrates says, ''Those in whose urethra phymata form are relieved when they suppurate and burst." Wherefore those buboes which are occasioned by accidents, either ulcers or pains, are not dan- gerous ; but those which occur in fevers, more especially in the pestHential, are of a very bad description, whether they are formed in the groins, the armpits, or neck. But those of the fii-st kind, as is the case in every other inflammation, we must endeavour to put back with cooling and astringent applications, either applying a sponge out of oxycrate, or wool out of wine and raw oil, or oil of roses, or oil of apples, or oU of lentisk, or oil of myi-tles; and then we are to apply diaphoretics. But if the whole body is plethoric, it is to be evacuated. If free from supei-fluities, we must manage the ulcer arising from it in the manner to be described when treating of ulcers. When the gland is in a state of inflammation, it is to be mitigated by wool soaked in some of the emoUient oils, and the whole limb IS to be wrapped therewith. When the tumour has suppurated, we must not be in haste to open it, but endeavour to dissipate It by the medicines in the form of cerates, such as that pre- pared from apyranon, and that from herbs called botanica, VVhen resolution is not thereby accomplished, we must forward the rupture as in the other abscesses, and cure it in like man- ner as them. In those buboes which arise in fevers or from a collection of humours, we must abstain from all repellents, lest the matter should be repelled and regm-gitate to the deep- seated parts; but we must begin at once with discuticnts. When nothing prohibits, such as the age or strength of the patient, venesection from the arm is to be had recourse to, and toraentations applied to the part, either from the decoction of camomile, or of dill, or of some such; but the materials of the[book IV. 72 PHYMA. otlier applications may be transferred from om' account, in tlie Third Book, concerning parotis, and from what has been lately delivered, more especially respecting phlegmons. And in like manner the cure of phygethlon may be learned from what has been stated respecting them and erysipelas. But the herb aster atticus, which, on this account, they call bubonium, not only in the form of a cataplasm, but also when bound round the part as an amulet, is believed to be of use for buboes. Phymata may be discussed by the following applications in par- ticular : maiden-hair; orache; pellitory of the wall; the root of marsh-mallows, boiled in wine; ammoniac, softened with honey, and applied; birdlime, with the rosin cerate. But bee- glue, bitter lupins appHed with vinegar, the root of the wild cucumber added to turpentine, and in hke manner root of capers, and nitre with leaven, or figs, promote the rupture of these tumours. Comm. COMMENTARY. The account here given of these glandular ' ' inflammations is taken from Galen (ad Glauc. ii.) See also * de Tumoribus' and ' Comment, in Hippocrat. Epid.^ vi. Celsus describes phyma as resembUng furuncvdus, but as being larger, and turning to pus. According to Eayer, his description of phyma applies better to the boil than his account of anthrax. (Malad. de la Peau, p. 339.) The phygethlon, he says, is a tumour not high, but broad, and containing something resembling a pustule. It occurs mostly in the armpits, neck, or groins. He proposes appHcations of a repellent and refri- gerant nature; but if the swelling is hard, digestives must be had recourse to, such as dried figs bruised, &c. He also re- commends a composition of sal ammoniac, galbanum, bee-glue, and mistletoe, with a small proportion of myrrh. His treatment is considerably difi'erent from our author's. "When matter is formed, he directs us to let it out by medicines or the lancet, but he decidedly forbids the use of cerates. In another place, how- ever, he recommends an apphcation containing lime, spuma nitri, round pepper, galbanum, and salt mixed with rose cerate. Scribonius Largus recommends a malagma containing pitch, aphronitum, pine-rosin, wax, bay-berries, axunge, ammoniac, Illyrian iris, galbanum, and white pepper, for discussing phy- gethlon.73 SECT. XXIII.] FURUNCULUS. Oribasius and Aetuarius mark the distinction between these affections in the same terms as Galen, and direct us to treat them with emollient, concoctive, and discutient applications. For concocting phymata, the Pseudo-Dioscorides recommends southernwood, boiled with raw barley flour; figs, boiled with yeast, &c.; and for breaking them, the juice of thapsia, with sulphur; cantharides, mixed with turpentine, &c. (Euporist i 156.) Nonnus' account is mostly abridged from our author's. Thus, he recommends at first venesection, and sponges squeezed out of oxycrate and the like; then digestives are to be applied; and aftei-wards cataplasms and such things as will favour the rupture of the abscess, namely, compositions containing bee-glue, bitter lupins, vinegar, nitre, yeast, or figs and pitch. Avicenna describes these affections by the name of althaum. It is remarked by his translator that the Arabian recommends the same medicines as Paulus, but neglects the distinction which the latter properly makes between the bubo when attended with pestilential fever and when without it. The phyma seems to have been merely an acute inflamma- tion of a gland, terminating in suppuration. The phygethlon was an erysipelatous inflammation of a gland. These complaints are well defined and described by Fabricius ab Aquapendente (1, i, 23.) Dr. WiUan uses the term phyma in a different sense from that of our author. The term occurs in Marcus Antoninus (n, 16), where see the note of Gataker. Comm. SECT. XXIII. ON FURUNCULUS. Purunculus is an apostematous swelUng, formed of thick humours in the fleshy parts of the body most especially; being mUd when it is formed in the skin only, but of a malignant cha- racter when it rises up from a deep-seated part. Fm-unculus may be discussed and concocted by wheat, chewed and applied ; 0.Y Egyptian mastic; by raisins, deprived of their stones, and tnturated with salts, and applied—(this either discusses or breaks the swelling); or apply dried figs boiled in hydromel; or rosin may be mixed with the figs and applied; or the figs themselves, when they are fat, may be split open and applied; or[book IV. FURUNCULUS. 74 leaven with nitre; or linseed with honey; or the leaves of henbane, triturated with butter : of compound applications, that which is prepared from leaven and fine flour, and that which is particularly named Dothienicon, are very applicable. Foment with soft sponges frequently dipped in hot water, and then apply the medicines. MM- Commentary. In this and the two following Sections, see the authorities on phlegmon. The furuncidus, according to Galen, is an inflammatory affection which is of a malignant nature when deep-seated, and differs from phyma only in hardness. (De Tumoribus.) Furunculus, says Celsus, is an acute tubercle, attended with inflammation and pain, more especially when converted into pus. After it has been opened, and the pus discharged, there appears part of the flesh below converted into pus and part cor- rupted, of a whitish or reddish coloiu-, which they call the ven- tricle or belly of the furunculus. He says that the disease is not attended with danger, and that medicines are necessary solely for removing it the more expeditiously. For this purpose he particularly commends galbanum. If repellent apphcations do not siicceed, suppurative ones may be used; and, failing these, rosin or leaven. When pus is formed, no further treat- ment is required. According to Rayer, Celsus' description of furunctdus apphes to the mahgnant pustule and not to the boil. (Malad. de le Peau, 233.) The simple remedies recommended by our author are bor- rowed from Oribasius. It is to be remarked that Galen, Celsus, Pliny (Nat. Hist, xxiii, 7), Octavius Horatianus, and Avicenna concur in recom- mending figs for furunculus or the boil. It was with a lump of figs that the prophet Isaiah cm-ed HezekiaVs boil. Avicenna and Ehases treat furunculus judiciously by bleeding and purging, which prevent the formation of a large abscess. When there is throbbing in the tumour, they dii-ect us to use maturative applications. When it is ripe, and does not break readily, they recommend ns to open it. Haly Abbas says, that boils arise from gross and depraved humoui-s. (Theor. ^iii, 11.) Alsaharavius also ascribes them to a full and unwholesome diet. He mentions that he often succeeded in stopping the formationSECT. XXV.] ANTHRAX. 75 of the furunculus by cauterizing it with a piece of myrtle or any G other wood. When the pain is violent^ he recommends an application of the leaves of henbane and poppies with the yelk of an egg. When the boil is indolent, he approves of a sti- mulant plaster. (Pract. xxix, 4.) SECT. XXIV. ON TERMINTHUS. Oribasius says, that terminthus is a species of phyma, but that a dark bulla Hes over it, which having burst, the part below appears as if excoriated, and when it is divided, the pus is found. But Dioscorides of Alexandria says, "Terminthi are eminences formed in the skin, round, of a dark green colour, like the fruit of turpentine.^' These, therefore, are to be cured like other phymatous swellings, by applying the remedies there described. Commentary. Aetius gives the same account of terminthus, Comm. which is a species of phyma. See Hippocrat. (Epidem. ii, 11; ""^^—' de Humor, xi, 1); Galen (Comment, in Epidem.); Oribasius (Synops. vii, 136.) Avicenna describes these affections by the name of albothin (iv, 7, 3, 1.) He says that they are ulcers produced by black bile; that they appear upon the leg, and are of the same nature as varices. The terminthus would appear to have been the cutaneous disease to which Willan applied the name of ecthyma. SECT. XXV. ON CARBUNCLE OR ANTHRAX. When the blood having become more melancholic than na- tui-al, ferments and fixes in a part, the diseases called carbuncles are formed, which are sloughy ulcers, for the most part begin- ning with biUl£e, like burnt paj-ts, but sometimes without them ; and the patients at first rub the part for its itchiness, whethei- one bulla is formed or several small ones, like millets, which, having burst, a sloughy ulcer takes place, resembling those occasioned by cauteries, the eschar being sometimes of a cmcritious colour and sometimes black, along with its being[book IV. 76 ANTHRAX. fixed to the base, and in a certain manner nailed to it, and it spreads at the same time, the surroimding flesh is in a fiery state, black in the colour, and shining like bitumen and pitch. Such is the true black bile. But carbuncles that form in the flesh are speedily circumscribed; whereas those which take place in membranes or nerves remain long, and affect sym- pathetically the parts below, so as to give origin to erysipelatous inflammations. Not a few terminate in suppuration, and most cases are attended with fever. Carbuncles also sometimes arise from epidemic causes. We must treat them, unless they are very small, by venesection, car- rying evacuation as far as to occasion dehquium animi; and after venesection it will not be improper to make deep scarifications in the part, on account of the tliickness of the humour. To the afi"ected part we may apply such things as ai-e moderately repellent and discutient, as the cataplasm of plantain and boiled lentil, receiving the tender part of bread baked in an earthern pan, neither very fine nor foul; and above the ulcer we must put some of the strong applications, such as those of Andron, of Poly ides, and of Pasion, mixing them with must, until they are of the consistence of the sordes of oil in baths. And so also the dry Massaleotic powder, which may be diluted in like manner. And the root of dracunculus, or of birthwort, or the juice of laserwort, or the Cyrenaic juice may be properly rub- bed in, each of these with vinegar. Cases of an erysipelatous nature may be anointed with the applications for eiysipelas ; but those parts which are suspected of being sympathetically affected are to be wrapped in unwashed wool, out of wine and oil. When the inflammation abates, we must apply to the carbimcles the cephalic cerates spread upon pledgets. That from herbs is an excellent one, and that from natron, and the dry application for spreading ulcers, separately and with rose- oil. When the hardness remains, we must use the one from apples ascribed to Serapion. But we must hasten the suppu- ration of the carbuncles as much as possible, by changing the cataplasms and medicines. twice during the day, and once during the night. In order to root out the carbuncles, and free them from their attachments to the surrounding parts, having divided sour pomegranates, boil in vinegar, and when softened, tritvirate, put into a huen rag, and apply. WhenSECT. XXV.] ANTHRAX. dried, let them be moistened with vinegar. The carbuncle is made to suppurate and burst, by the inner part of old walniits, or even of that which is not old, and by the leaves and shoots of cypress, or by its young and tender balls (pilulai), with barley-flour; by raisins deprived of their stones; by dried figs boiled in wine; by the flowers of horned poppy; by the juice of lasei-wort, with rue and some honey; by liquid pitch with raisins and axunge. An excellent application for carbuncles. Of litharge, II3. j ; of old oil, lb. j; of arsenic, oz. j ; boil the oil and litharge until they do not stain, and taking them off" the fire, add the arsenic, and then boil it until it become black, and having levigated it in a mortar, use upon pledgets. For gangrene, old ulcers, those called chironia, strumous ulcers, and the gout: it is a most admirable application for carbuncle, particularhj in the eijelids. Of opium, of acacia, of toasted misy, of flakes of copper, of each, dr. ij ; of cop' peras, dr. j ; of the seed of henbane, dr. j ; triturate in water, and use. They say also that the ointment caUed tetrapharmacon, having a fifth part of frankincense, is an excellent application. But for carbuncles in the pudenda, take of chalcitis, of cop- peras, of each, dr. viij; of aphronitrum, dr. ij ; triturate with water, and use. Sheep's dung roasted with honey is also a good remedy. In Alexandria they use the green serapias, which is also called orchis and triorchis, with crumbs of bread, as a cataplasm for carbuncles and all sloughy ulcers; and when the eschai- falls off", they cure them as a common ulcer. Commentary. The carbuncle is briefly treated of by Hip- Co pocrates (Epidem. ii, 1), and is frequently mentioned by him ^ as a symptom of the pestilential fever. (Epidem. iii.) Celsus gives a very minute description of carbuncle. With regard to the treatment, nothing, he says, answers so weU as immediate burning, which produces no pain, as the flesh is dead. The soreis to be treated like other burnt parts. Under the use of eroding appUcations a crust is formed, which, being removed from the Hving flesh, carries all the corrupted parts along with it, and leaves a clean cavity, which is to be filled up by incarnants. When the disease is superficial, corrosive or caustic substances may be substituted, of such a degree of78 [book IV. ANTHRAX. strengtli as to produce a separation between the dead and sound flesh. But if these applications fail, recourse must be had to burning. He recommends abstinence from food and wine at the commencement^ and directs water to be given freely, especially if fever be present. Pliny gives an indistinct account of an epidemical anthrax, which, he says, prevailed in the province of Narbonne. (Nat. Hist, xxvi, 4.) Galen ascribes the carbuncle to a defluxion of hot, black, and thick blood, which gives rise to blisters, ulcers, and eschai's. He directs us to apply to the eschars those medicines the pro- perties of which resemble fire, such as misy, chalcitis, arsenic, quicklime, and sandarach. His particular remedies are quite similar to our author's. (Meth. Med. xiv), and (ad Glauc. ii.) He mentions the carbuncle as a very unfavorable symptom of the plague. (Epidem. iii, and de Diff. Febr. i, 6.) The account of the carbuncle given by Aetius is full and accurate, but is entirely derived from Galen. Oribasius, Actuai-ius, and Nonnus also repeat his docti-ines. Actuarius says that the disease is occasioned by melancholic blood over- heated. This is much the same as Galen's theory. Octavius Horatianus recommends bleeding at the commence- ment, and external applications of an acrid and caustic nature, or the actual cautery itself. When danger is apprehended from a hot cautery, he directs us to use a cold one. In the Latin translation of Avicenna the carbuncle is de- scribed by the names of pruna and ignis Persicus. It was called pruna from a black slough which is formed in it, resembling a burnt coal. His account of the disease is am- ple, but mostly copied from Galen and his successors. Rhases approves of venesection at the beginning, and of the actual cautery. He also recommends an appHcation containing mus- tard and figs. Alsaharavius describes the varieties of anthrax by the names of alcubam and alcoasat. (Pract. xxix, 12.) At the commencement, he approves of general bleeding and leeches, and afterwards of refi'igerant and analeptic medicines, to obviate the tendency to sinking. When these things do not succeed, he directs us to use powerful caustics or the actual cautery. Serapion, like Avicenna, describes it under the name of the ignis Persicus.CANCERS. SECT, xxvr.] 79 Procopius mentions the anthrax as one of the symptoms of Com the great plague which he describes. (Persica, ii.) For the carbunculus or anthrax, Brunus and the other winters of that age recommend, at first, bleeding and restricted diet, with maturative applications, such as figs and mustard, or the yeast cataplasm, with oil and salt. When the part becomes black, Theodoricus directs us to have recourse to the actual cautery! (m, 12.) Municks rather disapproves both of purging and bleeding, but strongly commends the actual cautery, which he gi-eatly prefers to the potential. (Chirurg. i.) Vigierius, how- ever, prefers a paste made from quicklime and soap. V. Manget. (Bibl. Chirurg. i, 374.) The learned Schelhammer spetks favorably both of the potential and the actual cautery. (De Humoribus.) SECT. XXVI. ON CANCERS, Cancer occurs in every part of the body; for it takes place m the eyes and uterus (as we have stated when treating of those parts), and in most other parts of the body; but it is more particularly frequent in the breasts of women, because owing to their laxity, they readUy admit the thick humours which occasion it. For cancers are formed by black bile over- heated ; and if particularly acrid, it is attended with ulceration. On this account, they are darker than phlegmons, without bemg attended with the same degree of heat. The veins are filled and stretched around Hke the feet of the animal called cancer (crab), and hence the disease has got its appeUation. But some say that it is so called because it adheres to any part which it seizes upon in an obstinate manner like the crab. Owing to the thickness of the humour which occasions It, cancer is an incurable disease, for it can neither be repelled nor discussed; not yielding to purging of the whole body, re- sisting the milder appHcations, and being exasperated by the stronger ones. It may be possible, however, to prevent inci- pient cancers from increasing, by evacuating the melancholic humour before it becomes fixed in the part. We may eva- cuate, first, if nothing prohibit, by veusection, and afterwards by purging at the commencement, with the simpler purgatives.80 [book IV. CANCERS. such as giving dodder of thyme to the amount of oz. ivss ; in whey or honied water, and afterwards hiera, containing the black hellebore. The juice of strychnos may be applied to the tdcerated parts without exciting pain, a linen rag being folded and wetted in it, aad laid on ; but externally to this, we must apply soft wool, which also has been soaked in the juice, and care must be taken that they do not become dry, by frequently pouring on some of the juice. In all carcinomatous ulcers of a chronic nature, one may use the preparation from pompholyx; and those remedies which were mentioned in the Third Book for cancers in the womb may be appHed with advantage. For carcinomatous and malignant ulcers, for rugose ulcers on the fundament, and for inflammations on the pudenda, testicles, and breasts. In a leaden mortar, and with a leaden pestle, having triturated the Lemnian earth with oxycrate and honied water or milk, so that it become black, or having triturated rose-oil, or the oil of unripe olives, or the juice of house-leek, or that of wall-pennywort, or of lettuce, or of fleawort, or of unripe grapes in like manner, anoint with them. The pa- tient's diet should consist principally of the juice of ptisan and the whey of milk, and from among pot herbs, of maUows, orache, blite, and gourd, of the fishes which live among rocks, and of all kinds of fowls, except those that live in marshes. From Archigenes, for carcinomatous and malignant ulcers. Levigate equal parts of burnt river crabs and calamine, and sprinkle or apply the ashes of crabs with cerate; or apply the seed of hedge mustard triturated with honey. Commentary. See Hippocrates (Epidem. v); Galen (de Tumoribus ; Meth. Med. xiv ; Therap. ad Glauc. ii); Celsus (v, 28); Scribonius Largus; Aetius (xvi, 43); Oribasius (Morb. Curat, iii, 28); Actuarius (Meth. Med. iv, 16) ; Avicenna (iv, 3, 2, 15) ; Serapion (v, 24); Alsaharavius (Pract. xxix, 1, 16); Avenzoar (ii, 7, 27); Haly Abbas (Pract. iii, 32); Rhases (ad Mansor. vii, 9; Contin. xxvii.) Hippocrates relates a fatal case of cancer in the breast, at- tended with a sanious discharge, but he does not explain the nature of the treatment. Our author's description of cancer is abridged from GalenSECT. XXVT.] CANCERS, gi (de Tumor. 1. c.). The treatment is derived from the 14th r Book of the ^Meth. Med.^ He recommends melanogoguest remove the material cause of the disease. In external appHca tions he places httle confidence/but prefers those prepared from metalhc substances which have been burnt and washed The only chance of a radical cure consists, he says, in making a complete excision of the pai-tj but in doing this he forbids us to secure the arteries with bgatures, as they will occasion a recurrence of the disease. The part, he says, is loaded with a thick, black, or recrementitious blood. When the cancer is ulcerated, he disapproves of cutting and bm-ning. - Celsus describes carcinoma as an immovable and unequal tumoui', attended .vith sweUing of the veins, which are pale or hvid. His account of the treatment is so important that it deserves to be given in his own words : « Quidam usi sunt me- dicamentis adurentibus; quidam ferro adusserunt; quidam scalpeUoexciderimt: neque uUa unquam medicina profuit; sed adusta, protmus concitata sunt, et increverunt donee occiderent- excisa, etiam post inductam cicatricem, tameh reverterunt, et causam mortis attulerunt: cum interim pleriqne nuUam vim adhabendo, qua toUere id malum tentent, sed imponendo tantum lenia medicamenta qu^ quasi blandiantur, quo minus ad ulti- mam senectutem perveniant, non prohibeantur." In another place, however, he recommends compositions containing arsenic copperas, canthaiides, gaUs, &c. (v, 22.) He makes a distinction between the cacoethes, or malignant tnmour, and the true carcino- ma, but says that the difference between them is to be recognized only tempore etexperimento.- He marks the gradations of ma- lignant disease with singular precision : first, there is cacoethes : then carcmoma without ulceration; and last, there is the fun- gated ulcer. (The reading in the edition of MiUigan is a great improvement.) In doubtful cases he directs us, first to apply caustics or heating medicines, and, if the disease is alleviated, to proceed to the scalpel or burning, according to circumstances but If It IS exacerbated, we are to conclude that it is of a carci- nomatous nature, and must abstain from all acrid and vehement applications. Scribonius Largus recommends for all malignant ulcers, even Bucli as are cancerous, an application consisting of arsenic, p. vj ; ot squama eeris, p. iij; of elaterium, p. j; of burnt paper, p. iij.[book IV. 82 CANCERS. Comm. Aetius gives from Arcliigenes and Leonidas an interesting ^ account of the disease, which he divides into ulcerated cancer, and cancer without ulceration. He describes the disease in the female breast as consisting of a large tumour which is un- equal and resisting, extending its roots far, and being attended with varicose veins: its colour is either cineritious, verging to redness or livid; it appears soft, but is in reality very hard; is accompanied with a pungent pain, and gives rise to malignant phlegmons in the armpits. The pains shoot to the clavicle and scapula. An ulcerated cancer, he says, goes on corroding and spreading deeper, nor can it be stopped; it discharges a sanies of an abominable smell, and is aggravated by medicines and handling. The disease he considers as generally incm-able. His sui'gical treatment will be stated in the Sixth Book. He recommends purging with hiera and the theric, Mithridatic antidote, &c. Apparently, in order to mitigate the ^^olence of the pains, he directs us to make an application containing equal portions of plantain, poppy heads, the seed of the wort, and other things of the like kind. For ulcerated cancer he recommends emollient epithemes, such as the one containing litharge, axunge, white wax, oil, and the yelks of eggs. Oribasius and Actuarius supply nothing of importance that is not to be found in our author. Nonnus, according to Sprengel, is the only ancient author who attributes cancerous ulcerations to acrimony of the bHe. But Nonnus merely copies the words of our author. The Arabians agree with the Greeks in representing the disease as being produced by black bHe. They were, no doubt, led to form this opinion from remarking that the blood in the part is thick and black, which they considered owing to its not being properly purged of its recrementitious sediment. The moderns deride this theory, but they have substituted nothing satisfactory in its stead. Van Swieten thinks more favorably of the ancient docti-ines. (Comment. § 485.) Avicenna speaks highly of a milk diet. Serapion Hkewise approves of milk de- prived of its butter, and of a vegetable diet. He speaks of no other treatment as being likely to prove remediable, with the exception of excision and the cautery. Haly Abbas rather ap- proves of excision when the disease is seated in a part which admits of this operation. However, like Galen, he disapprovesSECT. xxYii.] (EDEMA. 83 of t}diig the arteries. The characteristic sytoptoms of the dis- Comm. ease, he says, are a stony hardness and distension. The ac- count given by Alsaharavius is nothing different. Ehases has little confidence in excision. After ulceration has taken place he approves of using a cooling application, containing ceruse, tutty, rose-oil, the juice of nightshade, and some other such things of a cold natui-e. He mentions a case of cancer of the breast, in which the whole mamma was extii-pated, but the dis- ease returned on the other side. One of his authorities, AntyUus, describes the cancerous sore as having a tendency to spread inwards, its edges being thick, large, and everted, and the dischai-ge thin and acrid. When the disease cannot be got completely extii-pated, he forbids us to meddle with it. Theodoricus and all the earlier modern writers on medicine, call the cancer by the name of apostema melanchoHcum, and recommend the same treatment for it as the Greeks and Arabians, SECT. XXVII. ON CEDEMA. Having treated of swelhngs formed by hot humours, we shall now treat of those from the opposite, beginning with the oedema. For as erysipelas is formed by a bihous humour, so IS oedema by a pituitous, being a loose swelling devoid of pain. We are aware also, that oedematous swellings occur in the feet, in di-opsical affections, in phthisis, and in cachexia, but m them the oedema is a symptom of the complaint under which the person is labouring, and requires no very pai'ticular treat- ment; for it will be sufficient in general to rub the limbs sometimes with vinegar and rose-oil, and sometimes with oil and salts, or the salts may be added to the vinegar and rose- oil. When the oedema is occasioned by a pituitous humour bemg determined to the part, a sponge soaked in oxycrate may be properly applied with a bandage loosely put on, be- ginmng below and terminating above. The sponge ought to be new, but if such a one is not at hand, that which IS may be cleaned with natron, or more especiaUy with what IS called strained lye. If the swelling do not thereby subside, may mix some alum. And a very convenient application84 [book IV. EMPHYSEMA. is a tender wick of a lamp, soaked in sucla a fluid, and applied. A good remedy also is horned poppy. When the oedema has become chronic, having first anointed the part with oil, and then applied a sponge out of lye, bind it firmly, and you will effect a cure. Every kind of earth discusses and represses oedematous sweUings, more especially the Egyptian, and also the matured woad. Comm. COMMENTARY. See Galen (ad Glanc. ii; de Tumoribus) Aetius (xv, 1); Oribasius (Morb. Curat, iii, 51); Leo. (vu, 5) Actuarius (Meth. Med. iv, 16); Nonnus (251); Serapion (v, 23) Avicenna (iv, 3, 2); Haly Abbas (Theor. viii, 11; Pract. iii, 30) Alsaharavius (xxix, 13); Rhases (ad Mansor. vii, 12.) Our author's account of this disease is taken from Galen, Oribasius, Aetius, and, in fact, aU the Greek, Latin, and Arabian authorities adopt his views, without any material alter- ation. They all concur in recommending cooling and astrm- gent applications, with suitable bandages; and, in certain cases, friction. Rhases recommends that the limb should be buried in heated sand. He also approves of vaiious cooling and astringent applications with bandages. In the translation of Alsaharavius, the oedema is described by the name oiapostema flegmaticum; in those of Avicenna, Haly Abbas, and Serapion, by that of undemia. The celebrated Paracelsus used the term undemia for oedema. In some late works we have seen it stated that the undemia was a species of erysipelas, but this is evidently a mistake. SECT. XXVIIT. ON EMPHYSEMA. Emphysema is formed by a flatulent spirit, collected some- times under the skin, sometimes under the periosteum, or the membranes which surround the muscles. And it is also sometimes collected in the stomach and intestines, or between them and the peritoneum, in those kinds of dropsy which are called tympanitic; and it differs from oedema in tHs, that the parts do not pit upon pressure Hke it, and that it sounds hke a drum The density of the body co-operates in preventing the flatus from being dissipated, at the same time that theEMPHYSEMA. SECT. XXVIII.] 85 flatus also is of a tliiclc nature. Wherefore, the indicatiou of cure is to rarefy the body, and attenuate the thick air; which is to be accomplished by means of attenuant and heating remedies. When the complaint is seated in the stomach and intestines, this is to be brought about by a fine oil, having rue, cumin, or parsley seed boiled in it. And sometimes a large cupping instrument without scarificators, appHed two or three times to the navel, will discuss it. When the muscles from contusion are inflated, so as to sound like an emphysema, the parts will not bear very heating and acrid applications. Where- fore, at the commencement, we must use paregorics liberally, and, when the disease is on the decline, discutients. Thus we may use sodden must with a small quantity of oil, applying them warm upon unwashed wool, or mixing the cerate of un- washed wool. And we must take care that the heat be pre- served, for it is not expedient that the part be cooled. When the patient has been soothed, we are to mix vinegar and nitre or aphronitrum, and afterwards some lye; and lastly, we may use discutient plasters, for the removal of the complaint such as the following : having boiled the sordes of the oil used in baths, strain it first, so that it may become pure, and again throw it into the pot, and having triturated slaked lime like flour, sprinkle until it become of the consistence of clay, and use. A still more eff'ectual application is the compound medi- cine from sycomores. Commentary. See Galen (Meth. Med. xiv); (Therap. ad Comm. Glauc. ii); Aetius (xv, 2); Oribasius (Synop. vii); Actuarius (Meth. Med. ii, 12); Nonnus (252); Scribonius Largus (§ 119); Avicenna (iv, 3, 2, 20); Serapion (v, 23); Alsaharavius (Pract. xxix, § 1, 14); Rhases (Divis. 127, Cont. XX vii.) Our author has copied closely from Galen. The great in- dications of cure, as laid down by him and acknowledged by all subsequent authorities, are to rarefy the containing parts and attenuate the spirit. By spirit, as we stated in another place, the ancients meant a thick air or gas. The indications which we have mentioned are best fulfilled by friction with oils, in which calefacient medicines, such as cumin, parsley, anise, and the like, have been boiled. When, however, any inflam- mation is suspected, he properly forbids us to use acrid orSPRAINS. [book IV. 86 Comm. heating medicines. When the pain of the bowels is violent '—*—■ in cases of tympanites^ he allows medicines containing opium, which are to be given by the month if the small intestines be affected, but are to be administered in a clyster if the large in- testines be the seat of the disease. When the disease is in a muscular part, he directs us to use a combiaation of attenuants and emollients. In certain cases he recommends dry-cupping. Oribasius, Aetius, Actuarius, and Nonnus, adopt the views of Galen, without any alteration. For tympanites, Scribonius recommends cumin internally, Avicenna, like oiu' author, in ordinary cases recommends combiaations of attenuants and calefacients, diy-cupping and the like, for dispelling the spirit; but when the disease arises from contusion of the muscles, he directs us to use resolvents and paregorics. Serapion approves of similar treatment, Alsaharavius recommends attenuant and calefacient remedies externally and internally. In the translation of his works, the disease is called uiflatio. Ehases recommends friction with calefacient oils; he remarks that the disease occurs most commonly in the stomach and intestines. He calls it by the name of apostema inflatum. SECT. XXIX. FOE SPRAINS AND CONTUSIONS. Sprains of the joints and contusions are remedied by un- washed wool, or a sponge soaked in vinegar and oil, and ap- plied ; by the tender parts of boiled bulbous roots mth honey, by the leaves of the chaste tree, salts, and roasted nitre, tritu- rated with cerate. The affusion of sweet water, or of hot sea water, mav be used. But after the inflammation and pains have subsided, apply rubbing to the sin-ained parts. Comm. Commentaby. SecAetius (xiv,71); Oribasius(Synops.vii,14); Actuarius (Meth. Med. ii, 35) • Scribonius Largus (§ 209); Rhases (Divis. i, 140.) Aetius makes mention of all the remedies recommended by our author, with the exception of the affusion of water; which, however, is a method of ti-eatment desendng of attention. Oribasius mentions particularly the affusion of hot sea water.ECCHYMOSIS. SECT. XXX.] 87 Scriboiiius Largus recommends a plaster containing litharge^ Co alum, terugo, ammoniac, &c. Rhases directs us to iise attenuant "~ ointments, sedative plasters, and loose bandages, witli rest. SECT, XXX. ON CONTUSIONS OF THE FLESH AND ECCHYMOSIS. The flesh being bruised by some weight falling upon it, and the small veins in it being ruptured, blood is poured out from them by exhalation, and collecting under the skin, is called ecchjnnoma. When the skin is not divided, a soft yielding tumour is the consequence; it is pale, and for the most part unattended with pain. Our object, therefore, is to discuss the contained blood, and that quickly, before it become black j and at first, astringents are to be mixed with the dis- cutients, because the bruised coats of the veins stand in need of condensation. After these things, we must use those ap- plications which are merely discutient without astringency. And by scarifying the ecchymomata at the commencement, we may thus apply the subsequent treatment. For chronic cases of ecchymoma, radish in the form of a cataplasm is a suitable remedy, but it must be taken away when it becomes pungent; or a cataplasm of the juice of radish with crumbs of bread, may be applied. The diseases called hypopion and hyposphagma, are species of ecchymosis, and also the eflFusion of blood below the nail from a blow; of these, the first two are treated of in their proper places in the Third Book; and the affection of the nail will be handled in the Surgical part of the work. Commentary. This is taken almost word for word from Comm. Oribasius (Synops. vii, 14); Aetius directs us to scarify the ' part affected with ecchymosis, and then to apply to it the in- side of citrons (xiv, 68.) A\'icenna approves of scarifications, provided the exti-avasated blood cannot be got otherwise removed, (iv, 4, 3, 3.)88 SCIRRHUS. [book IV. SECT. XXXI. ON RUPTURE AND TEARING OF THE FLESH. Rupture is altogether attended with ecchymosis. It is cured by medicines whicli are moderately heating, as the acopon from black poplars, and such as resemble it. But when the rupture is deep-seated, we must have recourse to such remedies as are more acrid and cutting. The use of the cupping instrument is likewise beneficial to them. Should therefore the whole ecchymosis be discussed, the separated flesh readily unites ; but if it continue a long time, and sordes form under it, the ruptured flesh can no longer unite; and we must only apply the lips together, so that a small occasion may readily separate them, and that the intermediate space may be filled with some moisture, and in a certain manner an ecchymosis may be formed as at the commencement, except that it is sooner discussed, as containing a thin humour, whereas that at the commencement was formed of blood. Vulsion takes place when certain fibres are torn asunder, and it only requires soothing applications until the pain is removed j for they cannot be made to coalesce. Wherefore, the round birthwort, if any, is a convenient application to ruptured and torn parts; and in like manner, the root of the large centaury, and the juice of it, rhubarb, costus, and bdellium, drunk with oxymel. Comm. COMMENTARY. These remarks are taken from Aetius (xiv, —-—' 69, 70); or Oribasius (Synops. vii, 14); and they are copied by Nonnus (Epit. 254); and Actuarius (Meth. Med. ,iv, 16.) The Arabians treat these accidents upon exactly the same principles. See in particular Avicenna, as quoted in the pre- ceding section. SECT. XXXII.^—ON SCIRRHUS. Genuine scirrhus is a preternatural swelling, hard and devoid of sensibihty; but that which is not genuine is only attended with diminished sensibility. That which is wholly insensible, then, is utterly incurable; but that which is attended onlySECT. XXXII.] SCIRRHUS. gg with diminished sensibility is not incurable, and yet it is not easily cured, for it is occasioned by a viscid and thick humour which IS fixed in the hardened parts, so as to be difficult to get dischai-ged. Sometimes, then, the scirrhus is the original complamt, and goes on to increase; but for the most part it IS occasioned by the physicians applying too cooling and as- tnngent remedies to erysipelas and phlegmon. If one, therefore, apply strongly discutient medicines to mdurations of the body, one will indeed produce a visible diminution of the scirrhus in a short time, but will leave the remamder of the complaint in an incurable state; for the thin moisture being dissipated, what remains is rendered dry and hard as a stone. The discutient application, then, ought to be m a certain degree emolHent, without possessing manifestly heating and desiccant qualities. Such are all kinds of marrow more especially that of a stag or of a calf, and the grease of a hon, of a panther, or of bears, or of a buU, and among birds that of geese, of domestic fowls, or of pheasants : but that of bucks and he-goats is drier. And to these may be added ammoniac perfume, bdellium, more especially the Scythian' the humid and fatty storax, and the Egyptian mastich. To aU other parts of the body, when in a scirrhous state, these thmgs may be apphed singly, and in composition; but for tendons and ligaments, we are to dissolve in the strongest vinegar some stone that has been heated in the fire. If pos- sible, the one to be used should be pyrites, or if not it the lapis molaris or miUstone. In this, therefore, the aff-ected part IS to be moved, so that it may receive the vapour which arises Irom It; and afterwards, an emoUient medicine is to be ap- plied. A thin oil then, and not water, is to be poured on the part, by aU means once a day, and sometimes one may boH in the oU the root of marshmaUows, or of wM cucumber. The patients ought to abstain from the use of the bath, at least trom the frequent use of it. But when the scirrhus is mode- rately softened, the softest ammoniac is to be dissolved in very strong vinegar, and the part rubbed with it for several days in succession; after which, we must again have recourse to an emolhent appHcation, having the fattest galbanum and opo- ponax added to it. Such are that from bacon, that ascribed to Amythaon, and those which we are about to describe for scrofula.[book IV. 90 SCIRRHUS. Comm. Cgmmentahy. See Galen (De Tumoribus; Metli. Med. ""^^—' xiv; Tlierap. ad Glauc. ii); Oribasius (Synops. vii, 34); Aetius (xv, 3, 4) ; Leo (vii, 4); Actuarius (Metb. Med. iv, 16); Serapion (v, 23); Avicenna (iv, 3, 3, 12); Haly Abbas (Pract. iii, 31); Alsabaravius (xxix, 1, 15); Rbases (Antid. i, Cont. xxvii, Antidot. i.) Tbis section is entirely taken from Galen (Tber. ad Glauc. 1. c.) Galen's account, bowever, is somewbat fuller tban oiu' autbor's, aud contains a case treated upon tbe principles wbicb be lays down. It was a case of bard swelling in tbe tbigb, arising from an erysipelas wbicb bad been improperly treated by astringent and cooling applications. Galen informs us tbat lie began by pouring upon tbe limb an attenuaut oil, namely, tbe Sabine; after wbicb be caused it to be rubbed witb maiTows and fats medicated witb bdellium, masticb, ammoniac perfume, and tbe like. After tbis be batbed tbe wbole limb witli a solution of ammoniac in very acrid vinegar. Wben tbe swelling bad been lessened, but not completely removed by tbese means, be afterwards applied one of tbe pitch medicines, and at lengtb effected a cure. In anotber place be states tbat scirrbus is sometimes allied to cancer. Oribasius likewise recommends a combination of emoUients witb discutients; and Actuarius approves of tbe same prac- tice. Aetius bas a valuable cbapter upon tbis subject. Besides tbe articles mentioned by our autbor, be recommends various rosins, turpentine, frankincense, and tbe like. He forbids tbe use of aluminous, sulphureous, and chalybeate baths. For indurations of tendons he recommends things possessed of at- tenuaut and cutting properties combined with emoUients, such as ammoniac dissolved in vinegar witb melons. The Arabians treat of scirrbus in much the same terms as tbe Greeks. Avicenna properly directs us to bleed wben there is congestion of black blood in the part, and afterwai'ds to use applications of a solvent and emollient natiu-e. He and Serapion mention tbe same identical remedies as those of Paulus. For dissolving bard tumours be recommends an oil containing fenugreek, cyperus, and aromatic reed. Haly Abbas ascriljes tbe formation of scirrbus to tfic same causes as om- author, and recommends relaxant aud emollient apphcatious.STRUMA. SECT. XXXIII.] 91 Alsahai-avius directs us to procure evacuations of black bile. Comm. and gives prescriptions for various emolKent and discutient applications. When the usual remedies do not succeed, he advises recourse to be had to the operation. Ehases di\ddes scirrhus into two varieties, that accompanied with sensibility, and that which is insensible. He mentions that Antyllus approved of extii-pation and the actual cautery when the disease is of a coiToding and cancerous nature. XXXIII. ON STRUMA OR SCROFULA. Stmmse are indurated glands forming principally in the neck, armpits, and groins. Their general treatment therefore is the same as that for scirrhus, but in particular the flour of bitter lupines is to be boiled in oxymel and applied (this also answers with phyma;) or apply cows' dung boiled in vinegar. THs discusses all indurated swellings. But struma may be properly discussed by means of quicklime mixed with honey, the sordes of baths, oil, or axunge; or, equal parts of quick- lime and natron, and four times the quantity of cardamom and fenugreek may be boiled with honey for an emollient ointment and appHed. This one discusses hard strumiB, and produces the rupture of suppui^ated swellings; the flour of darnel boUed with pigeon's dung, or linseed and wine : or, green oHves, either wild or cultivated; or, the white cardamus tritui-ated with liquid pitch and made into an emolHent oint- ment may be appKed; or, the ashes of the dried root of the wild cucumber, and the burnt dried leaves of the bay, may be mixed with turpentine and applied; or, equal parts of staves- acre and of nati-on, with double the quantity of rocket may be apphed, with rosin; or, goats' or cows' dung boiled in vinegar; or, the flour of bitter vetches soaked in the urine of a young person not come to manhood, and added to melted pitch, wax and oil; or, a dead snake may be thrown into a pot, and being covered over with gypsum, it is to be put into a furnace, ithe ashes of it mixed with equal parts of fenugreek, and then wadded to honey and used. And the composition from asps is an admirable one, also that from fidlcrs' lierb, tliat from the •wild cucumber and that from cedar rosin. The following oneSTRUMA. [book IV. 92 produces suppuration, or resolution of strumse; Of myrrh, dr. x; of ammoniac perfume, dr. ij; of tbe mistletoe of oaks, dr. viij; of galbanum, dr. iv; of bee-glue, dr. j; pound in a mortar. For strumcB and hardness of the breasts. Of wrought bird- lime, of dry rosin, of wax, of each lb. j; of galbanum, oz. iij. For strumce ulcerated and not ulcerated. Of wax, of pine rosin, of axunge not salted, of boreliound, of scraped birdlime, of each oz. vj. An application for struma. Of old oil, lb. ij ; of wax, lb. j; of colophonian rosin, oz. iv; of natron, oz. iv; the heads of garlic xij. Take away the cloves (nuclei) of the garHc, mace- rate in on for three days, then having boUed until they are softened, throw them away, and melt in the oil those ingre- dients which are soluble, and after they are taken off the fire sprinkle on it levigated natron. It also breaks apostemes.— Another: Of the ashes of figs, oz. ij; of fissile alum, oz. j ; of aphronitrum, oz. j ; of liquid pitch, oz. vij. A septic application for scrofula. Of fissile alum, of realgar, of each, dr. iv; of the flakes of copper, dr. j ; of orpi- ment, dr. j; sprinkle the strumse with it in a dry state; but if they are of a cancerous nature, mix with rose oil and use twice a day. Commentary. See Hippocrates (De Glandulis); Galen ' (Meth. Med. xiv, 11); Oribasius (Synops. vii, 39) ; Aetius xv, 5) ; Actuarius (Meth. Med. iv, 16); Nonnus (Epit. 124); Celsus (v, 18); Scribonius Largus (153); Myrepsus (56) ; Marcellus (36) ; Serapion (v, 25); Avicenna (iv, 3, 2, 10); Albucasis (Chirurg. ii, 42); Alsaharavius (Pract. xxix, 1, 23) ; Haly Abbas (Pract. iii, 33); Rhases (ad Mansor. vii. 8 ; Cout. xxvii); Avenzoar (i, 10, 10.) Hippocrates mentions struma as being one of the worst diseases of the neck, originating in inflammation, and being produced by a pituitous and indolent defluxion. Galen directs us when scrofulous glands are not situated near large vessels to extract them with the knife, or consume them with septic applications. In another place he relates a case in which an imprudent surgeon, while remo^ang a scrofu- lous gland of the neck, cut the recurrent nerves, and thereby93 STRUMA. SECT. XXXIII,] occasioned loss of speech. (De Loc. Aff. i, 6.) For an account Comm. of the operation see the Sixth Book. "—'—' Part only of our author's applications are derived from Oribasius. A very minute account of these complaints is given by Aetius. He divides strumas into the mild and the malignant. The mild are without inflammation or pain, and are attended with a moderate degree of hardness; the malignant are accom- panied with inflammation, and a throbbing pain, feel unequal, have enlarged veins, and are exacerbated by handhng or medi- cines. The latter are said to be incurable. He mentions, upon the authority of Leonidas, the accident related by Galen' He approves, however, of the operation in general. Incipient strumas, he states, may be discussed like scirrhi, by a combi- nation of emollients with discutients. He gives a long list of prescriptions for removing scrofulous tumours. One of them contains arsenic mixed with the fat of a goat or ox. With regard to the general treatment, he recommends laxatives, re- stricted diet, emetics, and the theriac. Actuarius and Nonnus, as usual, borrow from our author. Celsus remarks that strumas occur most frequently in the neck, armpits, groins, sides, and the female breasts. He re- presents them as indolent aflfections of the glands, which come slowly to maturity and prove very troublesome to the physi- cian. Some, he says, give white hellebore in these cases, and use applications for bringing them forward or for discussing them. Others have recourse to caustics, and when the eschar IS removed, they heal the ulcer upon general principles. When the sore becomes clean he recommends exercise and a nourish- ing diet. Scribonius Largus, Marcellus, and Myrepsus give nearly the same prescriptions as our author. Arsenic is an ingredient in the septic applications of Myrepsus. Avicenna recommends emetics, phlegmagogues, bleeding in the arm, attenuant food, and avoiding aU gross things and repletion. As a discutient he and Serapion commend the diachylon plaster. Haly Abbas likewise mentions this appli- cation, and also directs the swellings to be burnt with caustics. Alsaharavius briefly recommends excision or burning. Serapion erldently copies from our author. Avenzoar gives a very full94 [book IV. STEATOMA. Comm. account of scrofiilous swellings^ wliicli, lie says, are formed in ' general of a gross and viscid plilcgm. Except in very particu- lar cases he disapproves of bleeding. He approves in general of discutient applications; but when the swelling tends to suppuration, he dii'ects us to promote it; and when pus is faii'ly formed he recommends us to let it out, but cautions the surgeon not to attempt this operation unless he has a practical acquaintance with anatomy, lest he wound any of the veins, arteries, or nerves. Rhases forbids the knife when the scrofula is in the neck or deep seated. In certain cases he approves of destroying the tunic with septic applications. Brunus, and the other surgical writers of that age, in imita- tion of the Arabian authorities, direct scrofulous tumom's to be treated with discutients, excision, or septics. A discutient ointment recommended by Brunus consists of litharge, common oil, and the juice of melons and fenugreek. His septic medi- cine is a mixture of arsenic and quicklime, which is to be ap- phed with honey. (Chirurg. Minor. 19.) XXXIV. ON STEATOMA, ATHEllOMA, AND MELICEB.IS. These things belong to the class of apostemes, as we said when treating of them, and each receives its peculiar appella- tion from the substance contained in the tumour. Thus one of them is like fat, another hke honey, and the thii'd hke pap. The indication of cure in them all is to discuss the contents, produce the putrefaction of them, or to cut them out. Some tumours fall under all these three indications of cure, namely, those which contain a thin fluid, as the mehceris; others come under two of them only, as the atheroma, for it can only be cured by excision or putrefaction. But the steotoma admits of no cure except by a surgical operation, for it can neither be discussed nor made to putrefy. The diagnosis of each of these may be found in the Surgical part of the work, while the materials of which the discutients are formed are mentioned under the head of scrofula. This application is peculiarly adapted for discuss- ing mehceris : Twenty raisins without theii' stones; of squama £eris, dr. iij; having first fomented, apply. — Another: OfSECT. XXXIV.] STEATOMA. 95 Cretan cistus, of bdellium, of galbanum, of ammonije perfume of bee-glue, of tui-pentine, equal parts; to be pounded together in a mortal-. It applies to scrofula, parotis, furimculus, and phyma. But Arcbigenes applies to meliceris apbronitrum, and double the quantity of hellebore, with hard cerate. But sep- tics cannot be applied while the skin remains entire; we must therefore in the first place lay bare the meliceris, atheroma, or strumse, with caustic medicines, of which the most simple is that consisting of quickhme (calx viva,) soap, and strained lye. The following one is more complex, and admits of being kept : Of calx viva, dr. ivj of red natron toasted, of burnt lees of wine, of each, dr. ij; of vermiHon, dr. j; triturate in lye; and haAong- made it of the consistence of liquid honey, boil three times, until it is of the proper thickness, and lay it iip in a leaden vessel, pouring in some lye, so that it may not quickly become dry. It applies to acrochordon, myi^mecia, pteiygium, cla^Tis, callus, and excrescences of the gums. The lees of wine should not be older than two months. Anoint the skin with this, and when it begins to dry clean it away with a sponge, and anoint again; and when the skin becomes black, wash away again, and use escharotics. When the eschars fall ofi", apply the septic medicines. A septic appHcation which is not irritating: Of squama seris, dr. iv; of realgar, dr. ij ; of black heUebore, dr. ij; use with rose oH.—Another: Of squama seris, of realgar, of nettle seeds toasted, equal parts; use with rose oil.—AnotherOf burnt sea-urchins, of the shell of the cuttle fish, of arsenic, equal parts; use with rose oil, but rub aU the parts around with cerate and oil. This also is a good appHcation: Of quickUme, p. ij ; of chalcitis, p. j ; of arsenic, P- j- CoMMENTAEY. See most of the authorities referred to in Com ithe preceding section. ■ y- Our author's definitions seem to be taken from Galen. (De 'Tumoribus and Meth. Med. xiv.) Galen states that the stea- ttoma IS to be cured solely by a surgical operation; that the 1 meliceris may be treated by discutients, septics, or excision 'With the knife; and that the atheroma admits only of excision, or the application of septics. Aetius may be referred to as an interesting authority upon[book IV. 96 STEATOMA. Comm. this Subject. The steatoma, he says, is a preternatural tumour, ' • ' free from discoloration, and soft to the touch. He recom- mends excision for it. The contents of the atheroma consist of a pultaceous substance surrounded by a membranous tunic, within which are also sometimes found hairs ; nay, Philoxenus affirms that he had found animals like gnats and flies. The meliceris also has a membranous coat, and its contents resem- ble honey. He approves also of the surgical operation for the meliceris and atheroma, but permits to attempt their reduction by means of discutients consisting of such ingredients as am- moniac, ceruse, turpentine, galbanum, vinegar. Sec. He makes no mention of septics; indeed arsenic does not enter into any of his compositions. Oribasius and Actuarius lay down the same rules of treat- ment as our author. Nonnus as usual epitomises liim with some shght alterations. The active ingredients in one of his septic applications are sandarach and hellebore. Leo is brief and indistinct. Celsus marks the differences of these tumours with his cha- racteristic terseness and precision : " Atheromati subest quasi te- nuis pulticula : meliceridiliquidior humor ; ideoque pressus fluit: steatomati pingue quiddam." He recommends excision. (vii,6.) Avicenna's plan of treatment is so like our author's, that we need not give it in detail. The steatoma is to be removed solely by an operation. For the two others he permits the use of septic applications, such as arsenic, quicklime, hellebore, the lees of wine, &c. Hal/s definitions are similar to those of our author, and he recommends either excision or the use of septics, such as vitriol. The treatment laid down by Alsahai-avius is quite the same. In the barbarous translation of his works they are called by the names of alsahamia, asalia, and accida. (Pract. xxix, 1, 33.) Vegetius, the veterinary surgeon, describes these tumours as they appear in cattle. He directs them to be treated by exci- sion. (Mulom. ii, 30.) It will be remarked from the text, that the ancients were well acquainted with the caustic powers of the calx cum kali. In fact, our author in this section has given a prescription for the paste now commonly used for forming issues. It appears from the works of Fabricius of Aquapendente,SECT. XXXV.] FAVI. that the practice of treating atheroma and meliceris by septic applications was sufficiently common in his time. Andreas Laurentius approves of removing scrofulous tumours in this way when they are deep-seated and have a broad base. He thus enumerates the septics used in his age: - Secundo extrahi potest struma caustico, nunc affixo in ejus medio candente terro, nunc admotis erodentibus et putrefacientibus ut sanda- raca, arsenico, argento liquido usto, oleo quod ex atramento sutono igne ebcitur, calce non extincta cum sapone, axungia porcma cum argenti subHmati portiuncula, pulvere mercurii ermaceorum cumbustorum, test^ s^pise, auripigmenti" He also recommends us to tie the base of the tumour with a thread wet in a solution of arsenic (De strum, nat.) The treatment of atheroma by caustics is well described in the ^Bibliotheca Chirurgica' of Manget. SECT. XXXV. OF FAVI. thr^^'/Tif' «kin, having perforations through which a honey-like fluid is discharged Wherefore leaves of the fig tree with honey; or, cresses with Hnseed in honey; or, the root of the garden cucumber with honey or sulphur vivuxa with cerate or turpentine. You may va^; the SdT\ ''"r'^ ^^^^^^ - -icl in th Ihird Book regarding achores. Commentary. Alexander states that the favus resembles r Z^^:::^^^^^^^^ 'r ^^^^ ^^^^^^ ^ magnitude rrt" combs of T"' '^^^'^ fl^d escapes resemble the Tcanfot see t^^^^ '1 ^ but in achores we cannot see the pores by which the fluid issues. hetavrirt? M'l^''" description of the complaint, which, ^ theZ; T '\ ^^^^^^^ P^^^«' '-^^ li^bs, soles of men It attacks the head, he says, it sometimes spreads to the IT' 1 "^^""^^ ^« t« treat it with acrid appU- cal^ons, and even the actual cautery. For incipient favus heFAVI. 98 [book IV. Comm. recommends an application consisting of sulphur, barley flom- ^ ""^ and meal. Nonnus recommends the following application : of litharge, dr. ij ; of alum, dr. iij; of the leaves of rue, dr. ij ; of wine and rose-oil, q. s. Celsus's description is so important, that we shall give a considerable part of it in his own language. He mentions two species of the favus, or Kvpiov. " Altervun est subalbidum, fu- runculo simile; sed majus, et cum dolore majore : quod ubi maturescit, habet foramina, per quee fertur humor glutinosus et purulentus; nec tamen ad justam maturitatem pervenit. Si divisum est, multo plus intus corrupti, quam in furunculo, ap- paret, altiusque descendit. Raro fit nisi in capillis. Alterum est minus, super corpus eminens, durum, latum, subviride, sub- pallidum, magis exulceratum; siquidem ad singulorum pilorum radices foramina sunt, per qufe fertur humor glutinosus, subpal- lidus, crassitudinem melUs, aut visci referens, interdum olei: si inciditur, viridis intra caro apparet. Dolor autem, et in- flammatio ingens est, adeo ut acutam quoque febrem movere consuerint." For the second species he recommends as external applications a dried fig, linseed boiled in mulse, and emolhent plasters. To the other he also directs us to make apphcations containing figs, turpentine, rosin, &c. But when these have not the effect, he recommends us to cut the fungous excrescences down to the sound flesh, and then to dress the sore upon general principles, (v. 28.) The above account of an affection of the scalp, which we have often met with in practice, is the most accurate to be found in any author ancient or modem. We are even in doubt whether the complaint be at all noticed in modern works on surgery. It is not to be confounded with the Porrigo favosa, or PoiTigo scuttdata, of Dr. Bateman. Avicenna's description of the achor and faTOS is far from distinct, (iv, 7, 3, 1.) The favi appear to be the pustulse capi- tis quEe dicuntur alsahafa of Alsaharavius. (Pract. i, 11.) His description, however, is by no means distinct. He approves of general evacuants, and local applications of a stimulant nature, such as sulphur, mercury, birthwort, &c. Serapion has not described the favus very accurately, but he has given a full account of the treatment. He properly forbids strongSECT. XXXVI.] ULCERS. gg applications at first, (i, 3.) Rhases recommends much the same Comm apphcations as Serapion. (Ad Mansor. v, 16.) v—- SECT. XXXVI. ON THE SIMPLE ULCER. Since a simple ulcer is merely a division, if one will brin- together the parts which are separated, and apply a circular bandage around, the divided parts will adhere together without more ado. It is necessary, however, when at one of its Hps the ulcer is everted obliquely, to begin the bandaging there and turn it to the opposite side. When it is deranged both ways It will be proper to use a double-headed bandage, and thus to bnng the lips together; for when nothing has fallen between the lips, such as a hair, or a sand, or oil, or filth, or the hke, the ulcer wiU adhere completely. When the ulcer is large so that the separated parts cannot be completely brouo-ht together by the aforesaid bandaging, they are to be first united with sutures, and then bandages are to be thus applied, and those remedies used which are caUed agglutinants, which have tue power of drying and consuming the coHected moisture, and prevent more from flowing to the part. Commentary. On ulcers the foUowing. ancient authors may Comm be consulted: Hippocrates (De Ulceribus); Galen (Meth. (Sy^ops. vii); Aetius (xiv); Actuarius ^eth^Med.iv 16); Nonnus (Epit. 259); Pliny (H. N. xxxii, t^J Z ^"^l' Horatianus (i, 19, 20); Scribonius Averrhoes (CoUig. vii, 32); Haly Abbas (Pract. iv 18 m^^TisH ^^^^^^ (^'i 3 urns. 1, LdH ■ Contin. xxviii.) The author of the Hippocratic treatise quoted above parti- ta. f!;«^«J"^e as a lotion for ulcers; and we may men- tion that Dr. Hosack, an intelligent American writer, states it ^ his opinion, that the surgeons of the present day might learn trom him an important lesson upon its utility in such 11 condemns the use of oils and fat. Ut all authors, ancient or modern, Galen has laid down the ■pnnciples upon which ulcers ought to be treated with the[liOOK IV. ULCERS. 100 Comm. greatest precision. He defines an ulcer to be, " a solution of ' " ' continuity," a definition evidently very comprehensive, and including wounds as well as cases of spontaneous ulceration. His directions for the treatment of a simple ulcer or fresh wound are similar to those of our author; that is to say, he directs us to bring the lips of it together, and secm-e them with a bandage, or, if that is not sufiicient, by sutures or clasps. Wine he pronounces to be the best of all applications to ulcers, in as far as they are tdcers. Our author copies very closely from Oribasius. In applying the bandage, Aetius directs us to begin above the sore if only one simple bandage is to be used, but if two are necessary, as in fractures, he recommends us to begin at the idcer and proceed upwards, and in like manner to begin again at the ulcer and roll downwards. He forbids us to loose the bandages oftener than every alternate day; and directs us not to apply water to the ulcer, but to remove the sanies with a soft, dry linen cloth. Celsus describes very accurately the treatment of a recent wound or simple ulcer. He approves, according to circum- stances, of bandages, clasps, or sutures, and his directions respect- ing the api)hcation of them are highly important, but too long for our limits. After the sore is dressed he directs us to apply over it a sponge soaked in vinegar, or, if that cannot be borne, in wine or cold water. This practice is deser\dng of imitation. He says afterwards : " Optimum etiam medicamen- tum quies est : moveri et ambulare nisi sanis ahenum." Octavius Horatianus directs us to avoid the bath, the fire, the sun, cold air, loud cries, intoxication, venery, and passion, lest these should occasion a rupture of the parts which had adhered. Avicenna with his usual good sense gives judicious direc- tions for the treatment of simple ulcers, but his principles are nearly the same as those laid down by Galen. He defines an ulcer to be " a solution of continuity, attended with a discharge of sanies or pus." This seems to be an unexceptionable defi- nition. He forbids all oily and watery applications, and re- commends us to observe that no body intervene between the lips of the wound when the bandage is applied. Rhases gives similar directions. He condemns the practice of those whoSECT, xxxvir.] AGGLUTINANTS. 101 put oil into a wound and who aUow the patient to take wine Comm and heating food. Averrhoes lays down similar rules with con- "--^ siderable precision. Haly Abbas and Alsaharavius follow the practice of Galen without the slightest alteration. Considerable difference of opinion has prevailed respecting the nature of the clasps (Fibula ayKrvpsg) recommended by Celsus and other ancient authorities. Rhodius and Le Clerc maintain that no more was meant than a simple interrupted ^ture,hut to this opinion we cannot subscribe. (See Le Clerc Hist, de la Med. iv, 2, 5, and Fabricius of Aquapendente CEm^es Chirurg. ii, 108.) They would appear to have been metallic clasps of a peculiar construction. SECT. XXXVII.—ON AGGLUTINANTS. .1. i ""P^^^^^^ ''''^ ^"o^ and cabbage: the frmt, leaves, and bark of the mezereon, and the juice of the more austere plantain, papyrus soaked in oxycrate or wine and wrapped round in a circular manner. The foUo>vin- are agglutinants of fresh wounds: the leaves of the pine'' and spruce fir, and their fresh bark wrapped round like a bandage with water, oxycrate, or wine; and new cheese pounded. But we must apply externally the leaves of dock, or of vine, or of teet or of lettuce. But cheese made of acid milk cures even the larger sores; and the wild pears repress the discharge. Ihe horse-tail (Hippuris) may be applied with advantage, even It the tendons are divided asunder; and the matured woad may be used to indurated bodies even when they occur in the heads of muscles. The leaves and shoots of cypress, and its recent and soft baUs (pibl^) may be applied to indurated parts, but we must mix with it some of the fine dust taken i""'"' I ^^''^ "^^^'^ ^^'-^ter, or frank- incense and earth worms, agglutinate even the divisions of tendons ; also, cmquefoil leaves with honey, and garlic burnt ana applied. Old ulcers again are remedied by barley burnt with cerate, and by ceruse with a quadruple quantity of myrtle cerate. For ulcers on the head sprinkle cb-ied myrrh, and do not moisten it, for it will speedily produce adhesion. Or navmg tnturatcd dried aloes or birthwort, and having boiled itINFLAMED SOEES. [book IV. 102 ■with honey in wine until it is of a proper consistence, spread upon a pledget and apply it. Of the compound aggluti- nants are those called the Barbarous, the Golden, that ascribed to Nicolaus, that from willows and dittany, and others of a similar nature, wliich can produce the adhesion even of very large sores. Comm. COMMENTARY. Celsus gives the following list: glutinant ' • ' vulnus, myrrha,thus, gummi, prsecipueque acanthinum,psyUium, tragacantha, cardamomum, bulbi, lini semen, nasturtium, ovi album, gluten, ichthyocoUa, vitis alba, contusse cum testis suis cochlese, mel coctum, spongia, vel ex aqua frigid^, vel ex vino, vel ex aceto expressa, ex iisdem lana succida : si levis plaga est etiam aranea. Our author's list is copied from Oribasius. Aetius has a long chapter on the composition of applications for agglutinat- ing fresh wounds. The ingredients of them are most various : sumach, litharge, wax, galbanum, bee-glue, turpentine, alum, chalcitis, Sec. Actuarius merely extracts a few articles from our author's Hst. Avicenna's list scarcely differs in any one particular from \. our author's, and nearly the same may be said of Haly's. Isaac (ap. Rhasis Contin. xxviii) particularly comanends bdellium and myrrh, with honey and wine. Galen has explained at considerable length the principles upon which these applications should be used. Agglutinants, he remarks, are austere and astringent medicines, being such as occasion a contraction and condensation of the fleshy fibres; and they must not possess detergent properties. They are principally applicable in the case of plane ulcers, that is to say, ulcers without loss of substance. (See Meth. Med. iii.) SECT. XXXVIII. ON PAINFUL AND INFLAMMATORY SORES. To painful and inflamed wounds desiccant and anti-inflam- matory remedies must be apphed. Of hquid remedies the best is wine, but oxycrate is also a good remedy. But if the ulcer is foul as well as inflamed, much diluted hydromel may be used. Of dry medicines, those in general will apply which axe103 SECT. XXXIX.] UNCONCOCTED ULCERS. mentioned for phlegmons, except such as are oily and acrid. This is a particularly excellent one : Having boiled the sweet pomegranate in wine and pounded, apply it. This is an admi- rable application and much used, for it applies to ulcers of the head, and those of the privy parts, and to very painful sores on all parts of the body, and to inflammations of the eyes. But if the erysipelas or the like attack an ulcer, we must have recourse to the remedies described for them. Commentary. Hippocrates gives a long list of applications for inflamed sores. We have mentioned above that wine was one of his favorite remedies. If erysipelas come on, he directs us to purge either upwards or downwards. Galen explains general principles. Our author copies closely fi'om Oribasius. Avicenna and Rhases agree with Paulus in approving of cooling or desiccative applications, such as a decoction of sweet pomegranate in Pontic wine. This application is recommended by Haly Abbas, who also mentions a cataplasm containing opium. SECT. XXXIX. ON UNCONCOCTED ULCERS, AND SUCH AS HAVE NOT SUPPURATED. Recent ulcers, and such as being in an inflammatory state have not suppurated, may be digested and made to suppui-ate by these things : of simple things, tepid water poured on them, wheat flour, or chondrus, or bread, or glue for books, appHed with turpentine, wax, saffron, frankincense, pitch, rose oil, axunge, or the fat of calves; but the compound application caUed tetrapharmacon may be applied upon a pledget mixed with rose oil. Old and caUous ulcers are concocted by these simple medicines: the dried grape, storax, galbanum, myrrh, Cretan cistus, pitch, rosin, butter, Egyptian mastich and unwashed wool; and by these compound ones: Galenas plaster Avithout wax, dissolved in oil of ricinus, and applied upon a pledget with old oU, or oleum ricini; and in like manner those called dichromos and basilicon, and the like.[book IV. 104 HOLLOM^ ULCERS. Comm. COMMENTARY. Celsus's list is not very different from oiir ' * ' author's : Concoquunt et movent pus, nardum, myrrha, costum, balsamum, galbanum, propolis, styrax, tliuris et fuligo et cortex, bitumen, pix, sulpbur, resina, sevum, adeps, oleum. These articles furnish the ingredients of most of our modern appli- cations. For further information respecting each article, the reader is referred to Dioscorides, Galen, and Serapion. SECT. XL. ON HOLLOW ULCERS. The hollow ulcer requires the fiUing up of the deficient flesh, the maieriel of which is a moderate quantity of good blood. Wherefore we procure a moderate supply of it by a sufficiency of food, and produce a proper temperament of the sore by food of wholesome juices, and a suitable temperament of the part in which the sore is seated. With regard to the discharge, that which is thin renders the sore more humid, and that which is thicker makes the sordes adhere to it; on that account it requires applications that are moderately desiccant and deter- gent ; such as frankincense, the flour of barley, that of beans and tares, iris, birthwort, calamine, panax, and pompholyx. When one incarnative remedy does not answer another must be tried. But if the sordes of the ulcer appear gi-eater, and the ulcer more humid, it is to be understood that the medicine has not dried properly, and its powers are to be increased by a mixture of honey. If it is clean, but with less moisture than natural, the medicine has dried more than was proper, and we must apply a cerate mixed with more oil. It some- times happens when the application is too strong, that the flesh is melted down, so that the ulcer appears foul and moist, like those which have been imperfectly dried; but that from the melting of the flesh becomes more hoUow, its lips are callous, and it is red and inflamed; and sometimes the patient has very acute pain. But the other, which arises from the applications being less desiccant than proper, is attended with none of these characters. Wherefore the cai'ies of wood, more especially of such as is possessed of a moderate degree of astringent and detergent qualities, as that of the elm, purges and incarnates clean ulcers; or anemone may be applied for the same purpose. Having shaven down the bark of the pineSECT. XL.] HOLLOW ULCERS. IO5 and poimded it with cerate, and rubbed it upon pledgets, apply It to hollow ulcers, more especially to such as are recent, for it wiU mi them. The compound medicines for ulcers which are clean, are, that fi-om snails, that ascribed to Manetho from the lees of wine, that from aloes, the dry powder caUed meletera, that contamng equal parts of starch, of manna, of hahca, and of tares; and in hke manner, the composition from frankin- cense and that caUed aphroditarium. .But when the ulcers are fouler the powders called cephahc are to be appHed, and of those appHcations that are made upon pledgets, that caUed trophos, the isis and the athena, and that from distaff-thistle (atractyhs,) and moreover that called Italicum, and any others of tried efficacy. Commentary. The resemblance here pointed out between Comm. an ulcer too strongly stimulated and one too bttle is highly deservmg of attention. Our author appears to have borrowed his description from Oribasius, who however abridges it from tralen. Galen and Aetius give a somewhat fuller account than our author, but their principles of treatment are the same They remark that frankincense in humid intemperaments en- genders flesh, but in dry ones only pus. Pompholyx burnt and washed; calamine and the shells of oysters are said to be mcarnant and dissiccant without pungency. Galen inculcates that the greatest difficulty in treating these ulcers, is to find out the nature of the intemperament of the part, and correct it. Celsus gives the foUowing list of incarnants : Carnem aHt et ulcus impact resina pinea, ochra attice, vel asterace, cera, butyrum. He recommends the use of hot water; an appHca- tion consistmg of butter, roses, and a smaU portion of honey; or the tetrapharmacum with roses. He approves of giving wholesome and nutritious food, such as fowls, venison, pork! Z Jri °f Pseudo-Dioscorides conLns nearly the same articles as that of Celsus. (Euporist. i, 186.) Octavius Horatianus recommends a composition of equal parts of honey turpentine, rosin, and wax, melted in a vessel; or a mixture of powdered rosin, wax, and fat. Scnbomus Largus recommends basilicoii, and a composition consistmg of calPs marrow, the fat of geese, butter, stag's mar- row, wax, turpcntiuc, lionev, and roses.FOUL ULCERS. [book IV. 106 M. Avicenna remarks, that in treating hollow ulcers we must not use very desiccative applications, as they dry up the fluids wliich are necessary for forming flesh; nor for the same rea- son, very astringent applications, nor abstergents of any greater strength than to remove the sordes. Rhases recommends a mixture of equal parts of olibanum, aloes, sarcocolla, and dra- gon's blood. Camphor is an ingredient in one of his incarna- tive applications. Alsaharavius makes mention of an applica- tion from olibanum, like that of Rhases. All the ancient authors say that round ulcers are more diffi- cult to heal than those of any other shape; and Cassiiis Medi- cus and Alexander Aphrodisiensis assign various reasons for this, the most probable of which seems to be, that in this case the sound parts are further removed than in any other. ApoUonius Dyscolus states that ulcers are prevented from healing by pregnancy, by disease of the spleen, and by varicose veins. (Histor. Mirab. 42.) SECT. XLI. MEDICINES FOR CLEANSING FOUL ULCERS. Foul ulcers, whether hollow or level with the surface, may be properly cleansed by birthwort in honey, turpentine with an equal portion of rose oil and honey, or instead of rose oil butter may be substituted, with Illyrian iris and honey; and by pickled olives appHed. To nervous parts, turpentine melted with butter may be applied. When the sores are very foul and spreading, horehound with honey is a good application, which removes the eschars. The following are compound appHca- tions : Of boiled lees of oil, of scummed honey, of the species of alum called phormion, equal parts.—Another : Of the dried serapias, called also triorchis, of Illyrian iris, of diied hore- hound, of birthwort, of each, dr. viij; of the flour of tai*es, dr. X; use in a powder and with honey. And for foul ulcers the Egyptian cerate is useful, also those from salts when melted, the Indian, that called athena, the green plasters diluted, the powder of dried pumice stone, those from tares, the trochisk called melanchlorus, and in like manner that called criogenes.WORMS IN ULCERS. SECT. XLII.] 107 Commentary. The following are the most important arti- cles in Celsus's long list of substances for cleansing ulcers : Pur- gant, aerugo, auripigmentum, quod dpaeviKou a Grsecis nomina- tur; (huic autem et sandarachse in omnia eadem vis, sed validior est) squama seris, thus, resina, et pinea, et terebinthina liquida, misy, chalcitis, galla, sulphur, pix, oleum, ruta, ammoniacum, &c. Hippocrates makes mention of many of these, namely, arsenic, verdigris, flowers of copper, frankincense, myrrh, helle- bore, &c. Scribonius Largus recommends honey, lUyrian iris, and a compound application containing arsenic, scales of copper, ela- terium, and burnt paper. One may find in Galen and Aetius many compound appli- cations, but as they are aU formed from much the same ingre- dients as those of our author, it will be unnecessary to take further notice of them. Aetius commends a combination of turpentine and honey. Avicenna ajid Haly Abbas recommend the same appHcations as our author. They make no mention of arsenic. Alsaharavius gives very particular directions for treating these ulcers; when the edges are hard, he directs us to rub them untH they be- come red, or to cut them off and apply to the sore the green ointment; and when the ulcer is covered with much sordes, he recommends us to dress it with the Egyptian ointment. Jihases mentions antimony as an excellent appKcation for cleansing foul ulcers. He properly recommends us to consider whether the foulness of the ulcer be the effect of too much or too httle stimulation. He relates a case of the former descrip- tion, m which the sore got worse under the appUcation of the green ointment. (Cont. xxviii.) SECT. XLII. FOR WORMS IN ULCERS. For worms which form in ulcers, the first thing to be done 18 to stop the humidity and the putrefaction which occasion them Worms may be kiUcd by all the things in general which are described for those in the ear. But for those whicli torm m ulcers Archigencs says, mix equal parts of ceruse and poley with liquid pitch, and anoint with it.FUNGOUS ULCERS. [book IV. 108 Commentary. Aetius recommends dried plantain, the ashes of the wood of figs, and the juice of calamint. Galen and Avicenna also mention calamint. Pliny mentions the gall of frogs. SECT. XLIIl. ON FUNGOUS ULCERS. The fungous flesh of ulcers is to be removed by medicines which are powerfully desiccant, such as diphryges sprinkled upon it, the squama seris, all the testacea burnt, both the echini (the hedgehog and sea-urchin,) burnt entire. But the following things are moderately cleansing, and repress the fungous flesh: the flower of the Asian stone, and still more powerful than it, the son and chrysocoUa, chalcitis and misy (when burnt they are less caustic,) and the flos sens in like manner; but verdigris is the most powerful of all. Salts, when burnt, consume the foul flesh, and in like manner charpie that has been soaked in strong brine and dried, con- sumes fungous flesh that is moderately large. But verdigris with the squama seris is powerfully repressing. Of the com- pound applications the powder called rhodium, and the psarum, and that named yellow, repress fungous growth without being pungent. But the trochisks called phaustiani, when levigated and sprinkled on the sore, and the dry medicine (or powder) called heliocaes, make fungous flesh slough ofi" to the bottom. But the application consisting of equal parts of calx viva, squama seris and manna, answers with, fungous flesh; with honey it cleanses such as resemble a mushroom, and with cerate it proves incarnating. A powder for keeping down fungous flesh: Of litharge, of chalcitis, of verdigris, of plumbago, equal parts.—Another, which represses strongly without being pungent, and applies also to spreading ulcers, and more especially the epulis of the gums, and whitens the teeth : Of quicklime, lb. j ; of arsenic, oz. vj; having triturated the dried arsenic with water, add the Hme washed like calamine, and, having rubbed them together dry and use. And of the trochisks, that called pantolmios, and those described for polypus, are excellent for repressing fungus in ulcers. But the green plasters, more especially theSECT. XLTV.] ULCERS. 10!) one from Cnppadocian salts, and in like manner the isis, are most effectual in preventing fungous flesh in ulcers. CoMMENTABY. The powerful applications mentioned by our Comm. author will be found amply sufficient to fulfil every intention in conducting the treatment of these ulcers. Many of them are mentioned by Hippocrates. Galen lays it down as a rule that these fungous excrescences are to be repres^^ed by powerfully desiccative substances, such as misy, chalcitis, or more especially verdigris; when burnt and washed they become mild detergents. (Meth. Med. iii.) Aetius gives many useful prescriptions for such preparations, but they are entirely formed of the ingredients which enter into those of om' author. Celsus gives a long list of caustics highly applicable in such cases : Adui'unt, auripigmentum, atramentum sutorium, chal- citis, misy^ aerugo, calx, charta combusta, sal, squama ^ris, veratrum et album et nigrum, cantharides, sandaracha, alumen scissile, &c. PHny speaks of a composition of unwashed wool, with barley flour, and verdigris. Octavius Horatianus recommends the Phrygian stone pulver- ized, and a powder consisting of the recrementum plumbi, ver- digris, aloe, and quicklime. Rhases and Avicenna copy from our author. Haly Abbas speaks of removing the superfluous flesh with an instrument. SECT. XLIV. ON SPREADING ULCERS, PUTRID ULCERS, AND PHAGEDENA. Spreading and putrid ulcers are to be bathed with vinegar and oxycrate, an astringent wine, cold water, sea-water, or the decoction of lentU, of pomegranate rind, of the flowers of the wild pomegranate, of lentisk, of myrtles, of Egyptian thorn, or some other astringent and desiccant medicine. Cataplasms are to be applied to them of the flower of tares and Hquid alum, the inner part of bread made of similago, an old goby fish, or some other old pickle, unwashed flesh, and liquid tur- pentme; these things are to be all pounded together in equal proportions. Or the parts may be anointed with equal pro-110 ULCERS. [book TV. portions of birthwort, and the juice of the leaves of the Pahna Christi, and half the quantity of verdigris, made with water to the tliickness of honey; but if the eschar is not removed an equal proportion of elaterium is to be mixed with the verdigris. For putrid ulcers sori levigated and sprinkled on them is an effectual remedy, and above is to be put dried charpie; or the round birthwort and galls in equal quantities may be rubbed in with oil; or the root of the wild cucumber, or of cabbage, or of beet, or the leaves of dock are to be bound in a piece of Hnen, and put into ashes; when they are softened triturate with salt and apply; they will cleanse powerfully. Or apply green olive leaves boiled in wine with honey; or apply chal- citis, or parsley seed levigated, or apply linseed triturated with copperas, or use an application of thyme, dried grapes and boiled figs, or of fig leaves triturated with honey; or of nitre, cumin, and fine flour with honey; or of the root of the wild cucumber, or of squill boUed with honey ; or of sori, dr. xij ; of chalcitis, dr. x; of misy, dr. iv; triturate with half an hemina of the strongest vinegar untU it is dried, and taking it off use by dipping a specillum in it, and rubbing it over the ulcer, and placing above it a double pledget out of wine and oil. But if it is inflamed apply henbane with polenta, or cabbage with honey. For putrid and spreading ulcers on all parts of the body.— Of quicklime, of chalcitis, of each dr. ij ; of arsenic, dr. j. This may be used for pterygia of the fingers, for phagedsena and car- buncle, with honey if on the genital organs, but dry if on any other part of the body. Above apply an oblong pledget with rosin. An universally applicable powder for all spreading sores, and those of the mouth, for hemorrhages, and for represhing fungous flesh. Of chalcitis, of misy, of both in a crude state, dr. xx; of squama ferri, dr. vj ; of immature galls, dr. viij. For spreading and putrid sores. Of salts, doc. ij; of any species of alum which has been burnt, dr. j ; of squama aeris, of burnt pumice stone, equal quantities. Scraped verdigris, with burnt misy mixed with liquid pitch; and the flakes of iron with oil also answer well. For spreading ulcers of the pudendum. These things wiU apply to them, and also the composition called meliterium, theSECT. XLIV.] ULCERS. 11 powder of the wild myrtle, and thcit from paper; also the com- position from oxymel called coracion, the trochisk of Andron and the like, will answer with all spreading ulcers. The same things also apply with phagedsena; for phagedtena is an ulcer that spreads by eating. For fold and fetid idcers. The Lemnium sigillum (Lemnian eai-th) mixed with vinegar, oxymel, oxycrate, or wine, until it is of the consistence of clay, may be rubbed on them with advantage; or the leaves of cypress, its shoots, and tender balls (pilulje), or the ashes of diied gourd bm-nt, or of the burnt bai-k of the plane tree, or of burnt diU in like manner, or of foul wool burnt, or of plaintain; also woad by itself or with polenta, or the dried root of hog^s fennel. Commentary. It will be remarked that the milder appli- ^ cations mentioned in this section are all powerful desiccants and astringents. Most of them are mentioned by Dioscorides as possessing these properties. Galen recommends the compound appHcations mentioned by our author, containing verdigris, squama teris, &c. For these spreading and putrid sores Aetius, among other prescriptions, gives one which would no doubt be appHcable in the worst cases : " Of crude misy, of crude chalcitis, a dr. viij ; of ochi-e, dr. iij ; of sandarach, dr. ivj of quicklime, dr. ij ; of the scales of copper, of alum, a dr. ij; of diphryges di-. iij ; m.'' These caustic and escharotic medicines enter into the compo- sition of many of his appHcations. Some of them contain as- tringents and desiccants, such as sumach, galls, alum, fossil salts frankincense, calamine, birthwort, pomegranate rind &c In short the mgredients in his appHcations correspond with Celsuss Hst of corrosive substances: Rodunt, alumen Hqui- dum, sed magis rotundum, aerugo, chalcitis, misy, squama ^ris, sed magis rubri, «s combustum, sandaracha, galla, thus, auri- pigmentum, calx, nitrum et spuma ejus, alcyonium, resina, squama fern, athrumentum sutorium, veratrum, &c. Ihe other authorities give only combinations of these sub- stances; for a full account of which preparations we refer the reader to Galen. (Med. sec. gen. iv.) Octa^dus Horatianus recommends lentils boiled and mixed with honey; the leaves of cabbage, coriander, or ivy, aU mixed with honey.[book IV. 112 ULCERS. Comm. The Arabians, although they supply nothing new, add their * ' authority in confirmation of the remedial virtues which the Greeks assigned to the substances mentioned above. Avicenna and Rhases recommend arsenic, copperas, misy, sori, chalcitis, flos ceris, quicklime, alum^ galls, ammoniac, the trochisk of Andron, &c. When a part becomes black and putrid, Haly Abbas directs us to open a vein leading to it, if the age and state of the patient permit, and afterwards to apply odoriferous things, such as camphor, &c. SECT. XLV. ON ULCERS REQUIRING CICATRIZATION. By drying and constringing the flesh of ulcers requiiing cicatrization to such a degree as not only to dissipate the pre- ternatural superfluity, but also to touch upon that which is in its natural state, we may render the surface of the sore like skin, and make the ulcer cicatrize. This is promoted by im- mature gaUs, the moderately desiccant bark of pomegranate, and whatever else is desiccant without being possessed of pun- gent astringency. And such things as these promote cicatri- zation : myrrh, litharge, and oysters if burnt, for they must be sprinkled on the sore dry. And these things often produce cicatrization: pine bark with myrtle cerate, ivy flowers with cerate, the root of the lily with rose-oil, dried pine-rosin, burnt pumice stone, the flakes of copper; they are to be used in equal proportions dry. The following also repress: mix a small quantity of manna and of diphryges with levigated pumice, and use; or of litharge p. j ; of diphryges p. ss, apply on a pledget with cerate. Birdlime with frankincense cica- trizes old ulcers, also verdigris with an equal portion of diph- ryges and with myrtle cerate, or the small centaury applied fresh. To the more humid apply the root of cypress. To those about the anus and pudendum, more particulai-ly if in- flamed, use levigated aloes, either in a diy state or with water, or squama seris ; or soften chrysocolla in the sun with wax, and apply. A dry application for producing cicatrization. Of oysters, dr. xij ; of manna, dr. vj ; of calamine, dr. iv. It applies also to spreading sores.—Another ; Of birthwort, dr. vj; of pine8 SECT. ILVJ ULCERS. ,13 brt, dr vj; of manna, dr. rj; of pumice, dr. iv; of Colopho- man r„™, dr. iv ; of iris, dr. U.-Another: oi hart's horn burnt, dr. ,v; of pme-bark, oz. ^ : of ceruse, oz. iv ; of scraped verigns o.. ix; of calamine, dr. xviij.-I^^o,/,;., of tte ^ Tf dried f °/ °" ™j ' "-^^ of of gaus, oi dried myrrh, of each, dr. iv. A cicatnzing application. Take of flssQe alum, oz. i: and dSSfel'I^f " " ~» of .'ater themi;';" "^'^ ^'^"8* » »d having dried dr.lif:?hth^;"'rxiT. ^ dT °^ oil, half a hemint' Th^^ter cS^T' ' ' °' calamir,o «,„ ■ , P"^'er caUed phtEniciuum, that from ^^.e-oU, of each:^ I^^T^T^. ^Z' oi Of calammp dr. J- '^^ are ol difficult cicatnzatioH : )pine-roin dT, f , °f "oPPer, of each, dr. i; of ~f^n:;-::?;^^^^^ ■erude ehalcitis, oz. iij ; of myrtle oil ' s vr"'. '''' °^ •the ehalcitis are tn hj ' ^''O calamine and of the del t" use ft f ™' tl'o season .t a pledget:i;dTp lgT:ufo7t-""^T'r''''Pf'^^''"'^ -PPer, oz. ij; of fis'sile' oz iT of"^f ° - ■ °' Of wax, oz VI . nf rr.^ i • ' ^ ammoniac, dr. ii; for twenty d^ys and ll ^^^^^^^ ^^^^ honey, haviL Ste^^ consistence ine from pumfee stone tl' medi- able in suehIses ' ^« -PPH- II.[book IV. ULCERS. 114 Comm. ■ COMMENTARY. Celsus gives the following list of the more ""^^ active articles of this class: Crustas ulceribus tanquam igne adustis inducunt, prsecipue, chalcitis, utique si cocta est, flos ffiris, ssmgo, auripigmentum, misy, et id quoque magis coc- tum. For a variety of applications suitable to this class of ulcers, we refer the reader to Galen's 4th book of ' De Med. sec. gen.' The ingredients of them are powerfally desiccative, astringent, and escharotic. Many of our author's prescriptions will be recognized in it. For an account of the isis, and the other compound medicines mentioned towards the end of this section, we refer the reader to Galen (1. c.) and to the Seventh Book of this work. Galen, in another place, and after him Aetius, give the following important directions for the use of these applications. The ulcers to which this mode of treatment is applicable, being very foul and filled with a vitiated discharge, are first to be wiped clean with a soft linen cloth, and then the cavity of them is to be filled with the medicine, and a splenium (oblong compress) applied externally. Then having put a piece of linen above the splenium and bound it on, we are to place over it a sponge squeezed out of cold water or wine, endea- vouring to keep the sponge cold during the whole time of the treatment, which may easily be done by pouiing cold water upon it without loosing the bandages. They are not be re- moved until the third day. Galen states that the articles which answer best in such apphcations are galls, pomegranate- rind, alum, chalcitis, misy, and the like. A simdar mode of treatment, without any material altera- tion, is described by the Arabians. Haly Abbas remarks, that cicatrizing medicines are powerfully desiccative with some astiingency, such as galls, alum, and the like. SECT. XliVI. ON THE MALIGNANT ULCERS CALLED CHIRONIAN AND TELEPHIAN. ' Old ulcers which axe difl&cult to get cicatrized are called chironian, as if requiring Chiron himself to cure them ; and telephian, from Telephus having long laboured under such aSECT. XLVI.] ULCERS. sore. We must attend then whether the whole body heins m a state of cacochymy, seads such defluxions to the ulcei and the prevailing humour is to be evacuated by appropriate remed.es. Or if it is a varix which sends these' hZoHo the legs the ulcer being in it, it is to be cured as wiU be described m the Sm-gical part of this work; or the humours are to be evacuated by venesection, taking away blood fre- quently^ and then using topical applications which have the property of extirpating the disease without being pungent. These therefore are simple appHcations ; those from pumice and ""''^'S'^'' ^^^^ lime moderately washed; sprmkle fissile alum levigated, or of unwashed wooL dr. IV; of dried grapes, dr. iv; of natron, dr. ij; having pre- viously anointed with honey, sprinkle of flakes of copper, d^ xj of alum dr. ij; and ha.dng softened in the sun with dr x of wax, apply. vvitii ui. A These are compound mecHcines. A plaster for chironia Of dr. IJ, of sal ammomac, of frankincense, of scraped verd gris of pomegranate rind, of each, oz. ij ; of quicklime, oz. jf of mne At first it removes caUus; and it is laid by and kept : aad at last when used, being softened with myrtle-oil it cica ^^zes.--Anotker: Of Htharge, lb. j; of oil, lb. ij; of blaek . e^i'oJf ' ^^^"^^'^ P^^^"^^^ «f frankincense, o^ each, oz. IJ ; prepare, stirring with the roots of green reeds legsZdtlaftT ''"'""^ "^^^^'^^^^ ^^^^ lb iii nf 7 ^ yb, struma, and parotis. Of the fat of an ox [• aU d;al*Xh^^/ r = «f earth 0?rx 0 . r^^^^^^ use.-^..,A., of Archigenes : cense, of dipWe, of fl^'' f'"^ °' °' :ing triturated thT^owdL wftht "'^^ ^ i-aess of hnr^P.. .V * vinegar, and made of the thick- t n of s^^^ of otlLptrsons oentine of K . i' i ""^^^ '^^^ ' bulls' fat, of tur- . led "et wfth r^^^ '.°f P^PP-' i ^ on a "cu^et witti rose-oil or myrtle-oil.[book IV. ULCERS. IIG Comm. COMMENTARY. Celsus describes the chironian ulcer as being —' large, and having bard, callous, and swelled edges, with a copious discbarge of thin sanies. It is attended with no inflam- mation, the pain is moderate, it does not spread, and therefore it is not dangerous, although not readily cured. Sometimes, he says, it becomes covered with a thin cicatrix, and then again the ulcer breaks out. It occurs mostly in the feet and legs. From this description it is evident that by the chironian ulcer Celsus meant merely an ill-conditioned ulcer, and that he dis- tinguished between it and the cacoethes, or raahgnant ulcer, which last he held to be nearly allied to the carcinoma. How- ever, most of the Greek authors apply the term mahgnant to the chironian ulcer. For the cure of it Celsus recommends an application consisting of squama seris, lead burnt and washed, calamine, wax, and a small quantity of roses. Galen furnishes us with an account of the manner in which Thessalus the Methodist proposed to cure all chironian and malignant ulcers. Thessalus lays it down as a rule for the treatment of all sores which are difficult to cure, or which break out again when healed, to remove the exciting cause, whether local or constitutional, by means of proper alteratives. He adds: " In cases of chronic ulcers which cannot be got healed, we must remove the parts which prevent adhesion, and convert the sore into the state of a recent ulcer; and then having allayed the inflammation proceed accordingly. Those sores which heal up and break out again during their exacer- bations, and when ulcerated, are to be cured like recent in- flammations by soothing apphcations until the irritation sub- side, after which cicatrizing applications are to be used, and then the surrounding parts are to be covered with a malagma of mustard, or some other rubefacient and alterative, to remove the indolence. If this is not sufficient, we must attend to the general health, attempting to effect a change of the system by repeated exercise, gestation, a diet increased or diminished according to circumstances, and at the commencement by ad- ministering an emetic of radishes, or even the white hellebore." (Galen, Meth. Med. iv.) Although Galen, who all along dis- plays a strong hostility to the Thessalian asses, (so he calls the Methodists,) has animadverted in severe terms upon the rules here laid down, they would appear to be highly proper and inrSECT. XLVi.] ULCERS. genious. Galen in another place (Med. sec. gen. iv) gives Com from Asclepiades, Andromachus, and others, a g?eat collection ^ of apphcatmns for chironian, malignant, and indolent nlcers One by Asclepiades consists of the scales of copper, scraped ver- digiis, wax, and larch rosin. Others by Andromachus con- tain son, misy, chalcitis, verdigris, alum, turpentine-rosin, and the hke,-mixed with wax. Hippocrates directs us to treat a caHous ulcer by applying to it septic medicines to maJce the hard parts slough off, after which the edges are to be brought together. (De locis in homine.) The directions of Aetius, more especiaUy respecting the con- stitutional treatment, are highly important. In cases where there is a redundance of blood he recommends venesection, in others both purging and bleeding; and in certain cases he dn-ects us to pay attention to the state of the liver and spleen He relates a case of an ulcer on the hand, which he cured by opemng a vein leading to it. He also directs us to scarify or cut off the caUous edges of the ulcer. He gives various pre- scriptions for sores of this description, containing verdigris son, chalcitis, burnt copper, alum, &c. veroigns, Octavius Horatianus recommends a plaster consisting of equd parts of chalcitis, wax, and alum. For phaged^n^ Pliny .mentions an old shad-fish triturated with sandarach. (H N jxxxn, 44.) I, • x^. , .Jt%^^^-^'"' ^^"'^^ ^''y f^^"^ ^^cenna in particular gives very proper directions for the constitutional reatment. When the state of the ulcer is occasioned by an .mtemperament, it is to be corrected, and if the blood is defi- cient m quantity or quaUty, this is to be remedied by a proper ^diet; and when on the contrary it is connected with plethora rr^r ^ veins'leldrg to It are varicose, it may be proper to open them. When the ZntT '^-^"^^ ' ^P^^^"- «f bone, we Ze Z u !Z.r . ''T' '-applications consist of the same ZZtT " --^13^^ the flower of ^opper, copperas, alum, ceruse, lime, arsenic, &c., mixed with .vax and oil The directions given by Ehases are less cii-cum- tantual, but to the same purpose. He particularly dii-ects us to lemove he callous edges by friction, scarifications, and septics le speaks of turpentine as an excellent addition to other oint-I I 118 CICATRICES. [book iv. Comm. ment. (Contin. xxviii.) He mentions tliat in case of nialig- '—'—' nant nicer on the leg connected witli varix, Galen opened the enlarged vein. The cacoethes of Celsus was evidently the disease called noli me tangere hy Theodoricus; a very absurd appellation, which however has been retained to the present day. Celsus has pointed out its resemblance to carcinoma, and recommended the only mode of treatment which ever does any good in these cases, namely, the application of septics, such as arsenic, quick- lime, &c., or the actual cautery. As our limits will not permit us to enlarge further on this subject at present, we must be con- tent with referring to No. 108 of the ' Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal,' where we have given a full exposition of the ancient principles of treatment. (See also the Commentary on s. xxvi of this Book.) SECT. XLVII. FOR BLACK CICATRICES. Let the root of the white and black bryony be boiled in oU un- til they are reduced to the state of juice, and the oil appHed will take away black scars; and so in like manner calamint boiled in wine, and litharge washed with white rose-oil. But the scars from lichen, and all other kinds are made like the other skia by anointing them with the fat of asses; or the seed of rocket triturated with the gall of a goat, of an ox, and of a sheep may be rubbed in with litharge ; or a lamb's foot burnt may be tri- turated with austere wine for the same purpose ; or, ammoniac perfume may be rubbed in with swines' gall. These are com- pound appbcations : Of litharge, of mint, of frankincense, equal parts with honey.—Another : of natron, of ammoniac perfume, of sulphur vivum, of myrrh, equal parts; having triturated with vinegar, white wine, or water, rub in but a very little, so as not to produce an ulcer.—Another : Of Cimohan earth, of pigeons' dung, of soap, of frankincense, equal parts with vinegar. A detergent ointment for black scars : Of Cimohan earth, dr. xuj; of aphronitrum, di-. v; of white heUebore, dr. v; of the greasy dregs of nut-ben, dr. iv j scrub with it while in the bath.ULCERS. SECT. XLVIII.] 119 Commentary. Avicenna condenses all the information Comm. contained in the authors who preceded him. He sets out with stating that the class of medicines which are applicable in such cases are the abstergents; of which he enumerates verdigris, stavesacre, the scales of copper, and even arsenic. Among the less active ingredients he mentions, Hke our author, the fat of asses. We need not give extracts from the other authorities, as no one has treated of this case so fully as Avicenna. SECT. XLVIII. ON SINUOUS ULCERS. When the skin adjacent to an ulcer is not united with the parts below, we caU such a complaint a sinus. When, there- fore, the sinus extends upwards, the ichor readily flows out from the sore, and adhesion easily takes place; but when it extends downwards the ichor by remaining within corrodes the continuous parts, and unless you first make an incision for its discharge, you will be able to effect nothing; for the sores can neither be mcarnated nor the parts made to unite. But if the smus is in any of thfc limbs, as the arms or legs, one may pro- duce adhesion without a counter-division by putting the limb m a declining position. Thus when the sinus is in the arm and the mouth of the sore is near the elbow, by placing the hand m an elevated position, you will render the discharge from > the ulcer below easy. And when the sinus is in the thigh : and has its outlet near the knee, you must make the position declming by putting a soft pillow below the back part of the Knee, so that the groin may be in a lower position than the Knee; and if the smus does not require incarnation, forthwith by means of a straight and hollow pipe having a bladder attached to it synnge it with honey so diluted with water that one could nTn;.; 1 *° '''^^y ^^"^ tiie sinus. For or .^np""^ 11'°'' ''^'^ *° Pl^^^^ do it with wine, dl n. . ^"""^ ^^'^ P^^'^^^'l agglutinating me- fi^f • ^ r . ''''''' ^'^^^g requires incarnation, ^first inject a little of the composition from dried paper with much rose-oil, then plug up the mouth of it with charpie, and aftenvards the plaster of iris, or of Macheerion, or of some such ^ay be melted with liquid rose-cerate, and injected in like120 ULCERS. [book IV. manner. If tlie sinus is moderately incarnated you may apply some of the agglutinating medicines, as if you were curing a case of recent bloody wound. Sucli are tliose called the barbarous, dicbromos, and gilvus; and more especially tbat prepared from tbe oil of palma Christi and tbe metals witbout wax whicb is called tbe dun plaster of Galen, is applicable. After tbe appU- cation of tbe medicine, a recent sponge out of wine and boney, or wine alone, is to be put on particularly in a soft manner, and tbe bandaging is to commence at tbe bottom of tbe sinus and end at its orifice. Tbe folds of tbe bandage sbould bind tbe bottom of tbe sinus firmly, yet so as not to occasion pain, but ougbt to be gradually relaxed towards its orifice; and tbe plaster wbicb is put on sbould be so cut as to leave an opening at tbe orifice for tbe escape of tbe matter, but anotber small plaster of tbe same materials sbould be appbed to it in a loose state, so as to favour tbe discbarge. Tbis is to be left on till tbe bandages are loosed, wbicb is to be done on tbe tbird day, wben tbey are to be taken off" and cbanged, but tbe appHca- tion along tbe sinus is to be left. You may judge wbetber tbe bottom of tbe sinus bas adbered, from observing if tbe matter be small and well concocted, or if tbere be no discbarge at all; and moreover if tbere be no sensible pain along tbe sinus nor swelling, but tbe wbole part is contracted, dry, and free from pain. But if you see a bttle well concocted pus at tbe orifice, you may still more confidently entertain good bopes. If on tbe second or tbird day a tbin icbor be discbarged ft-om tbe sinus, you need not despair tbat adbesion bas taken place, for often tbe strength of tbe medicine squeezes out from tbe parts below a tbin fluid, wbicb being discbarged tbe parts become dry and adhere. But if on tbe tbird or fourth day from the commencement the matter appear unconcocted as it runs from the opening, you may be sure tbat the sinus has not adhered, and you must persevere with the same appUcation. Wben owing to tbe moisture of tbe part it falls off, as is not unbkely, it wiU not be improper to make some change in the medicine itself. On sinuous ulcers with a thin covering of skin. When the abscess is too long opened, owing either to the unskilfulness of the surgeon, or the timidity of the patient, the skin which lies over it becomes tbin and ragged, and it cannot be removed,SECT. XLVIII.] ULCERS. 121 then after the syringing which has been described, we must have recourse to an agglutinating application of a humid con- sistence, but of desiccative properties, such as that from chalcitis caUed phoenicinum, diluted with old oO, so as neither to be very hai-d nor of such a consistence as not to stain the finger; and afterwards it is to be mixed with moderately old wine, and ap- plied in a circular form with corresponding bandaging. To skin in this ragged state honey, as was said, is not one of the least proper applications when boHed to the consistence of a plaster and appHed. It will be better, however, if after spread- ing it on the rag you sprinkle over it from a sieve some myrrh finely pulverized, or aloes, or frankincense, or all of these to- gether. I have also found the lesser centaury a wonderful ap- pKcation for the same purpose; next to it is comfrey, after which is the root of the lUyrian iris, and after these is" the flour of tares. Sometimes during the process of boiling we sprinkle these upon the honey when the vessel is about to be taken ofi" from the fire. It is better, however, to do so after it is taken off, and then it is to be stirred about, and when it becomes tepid applied to the sinus, and bandaged as aforesaid. Commentary. Similar directions are given by Galen and Comm Aetius, but upon the whole those of our author are superior; and as those of the other two supply no additional information,' It will be unnecessary to multiply extracts from them. (See Galen, Therap. ad Glauc. ii.) Actuarius, in Hke manner, briefly directs that unless the smus open downwards, it shall be cut open and dressed with an agglutinative appHcation. You may think weU of the case, he adds, when the part is dry and free from pain, or when only a little well-concocted pus is discharged from it. In the translations of the Arabians, the sinus is described by the names of absconsio and caverna. Avicenna states that the sinus differs from the fistula in having a larger cavity, and Its edges not being indurated. He lays down very correct t rules of treatment, but they are all copied from Galen. TJius Ihe directs, when the orifice of the sore is above the cavity of fthc sinus, that it should be cut open; or, if this cannot be ccoriveniently accomplished, he recommends us to introduce a •tent smeared with some incarnant or detergent application.{book IV. FISTULA. 122 Comm. Upon the authority of Dioscorides he recommends the lesser ' * ' centaury in such cases. His directions for the application of the bandages are similar to those of our author. Celsus, and other of the ancient authorities, do not treat of the sinus separately from the fistula. SECT. XLIX. ON FISTULA. Fistula is a callous sinus formed for the most part from ab- scesses, and deriving its appellation from the pipes of reeds (fistulaj). If, therefore, it terminate vi^ith a bone, it cannot be cured veithout a surgical operation, unless in process of time a scale of the bone come off spontaneously. But if it does not terminate with a bone, it is to be cured by the applications for removing callosities, and the agglutinative medicines. The applications for removing callosities are such as these : the root of spondylium scraped around and applied removes the callus of fistulse. And in like manner black hellebore applied removes the callus in two or three days; also lees of oil boiled and in- jected; sori in a crude state, or burnt and injected with some diluted wine, or sori and crocomagma with hydromel. Or make collyria by mixing elaterium with tui-pentiue, and apply. Or syringe with the juice of the root of laserwort. This melts down the callus: of verdigris, dr. xij; of ammoniac, dr. ij; mix with vinegar, and form into an oblong coUyrium. A collyrium which I use for removing the callosities of jisttilci:. Mix with vinegar equal parts of ammoniac perfume, of copperas, of verdigris, of misy, of chalcitis, and of gum.—Another, from the surgical works of Heliodorus : Of calamine, of misy, of cop- peras, of burnt copper, of gum, of each, dr. iv; of crude chal- citis, dr. iij; mix with the urine of a young person not come to manhood, and form collyria. Put this collyrium into the fistula, and apply externally the inner part of bread soaked in water, changing it until the inflammation subside, and the eschar fall off.—Another, which I received in Alexandria : Of the roots of alkanet, of toasted misy, of chalcitis, of verdigris, of fissile alum, of copperas, of aloes, of each, oz. j; tritxu-ate along with fine cauthai'ides in vinegar, and make collyria.— Another : Of copperas, dr. ij ; of chalcitis, of verdigris, of each. iSECT. XLIX.] FISTULA. 123 dr. j; mix with ammoniac and use, and when the callus is throAvn off, cleanse with verdigris and eight times the quantity of the purest honied water; but after the discharge of the callus, incarnants must be used. An incarnative collyrium: of aloes, of myrrh, of ammoniac, of the cinders of egg shells, equal parts; having triturated with water form collyria, and apply-—Another .• Of myrrh, of aloes, of frankincense, of pome- granate rind, equal parts, mix with water; but some use bull's gall. The oil of unripe olives is incarnative when injected. I knew a person who injected cedar-rosin into fistula, and suc- ceeded surprisingly. After it is incarnated we must have re- course to the agglutinative medicine, according to the plan described for other sinuses. " When the fistula is narrow and long," says Galen, "and does not appear to me to contain caDus internaUy, but only sordes, I first inject lye into it, and then allowing it to remain in the fistula until I expect that the sordes has faUen completely off, I afterwards apply the medi- cine." It was the one from the oil of palma Christi, mentioned above. Commentary. We shall have occasion to refer to the comm Hippocratic treatise ' De Fistuhs,' in the Sixth Book. Celsus treats of fistulse with more than his wonted mi- nuteness. This is his definition : " Id nomen est ulceri alto, angusto, caUoso." He has described aU the complications of it with great accuracy. He directs us to commence by making an inspection with a probe or sound, so as to ascertain the state of the parts and of the discharge. If a soft body is felt at the bottom, we conclude that the fistula terminates in the flesh, but if a hard one is felt, we know that it ends with a bone. If the probe slide readily over the bone, it is free from caries, but if it does not so, and yet no inequalities are felt on It, caries has taken place, but it is still smooth: if it feel unequal and rough, the bone is eaten with caries. For a sim- ple and recent fistula, not deep-seated or in a joint, the plaster for recent wounds will be sufficient, provided salt, or alum, or • the scales of copper, or verdigris, or any of the other metals, be added to it. The application is to be made upon a piece ' of hnen, and a sponge soaked in vinegar is to be put over it, ! and is to be removed on the fifth day. The patient must liveFISTULA. 124 [book IV. Comm. upoii nutritious food. If the fistula is at a distance from the " ' ' prsecordia, emetics with radishes are said by him to be proper. When the fistula is old it becomes callous, and requires stronger applications, containing such ingredients as calamine, atramen- tum sutorium, verdigris, galls, lime, orpiment, or realgur. lie mentions as a very ready application a solution of ammoniac in vinegar, with some verdigris added to it. However, he re- marks, any other caustic will accomplish the same purpose. If the fistula is long and transverse, an incision is to be made at its commencement, after which the collyrium may be applied. When the fistula is double, or consists of stiU more passages, he recommends us to blow in with a writing pen the medicines in the form of powder, or to apply them dissolved in wine, mulse, or vinegar. But whatever the internal dressing be, he recommends us to apply on the outside of it something of a refrigerant and repressing nature, as the parts around are gene- rally afi"ected with inflammation. When the dressings are re- moved the fistula is to be syringed with wine if the discharge of the pus is copious, with vinegar if its edges are callous, but with mulse, or a decoction of tares, if the passage be clean. By the means we have been describing it wUl generally happen, he says, that the inner coat of the fistula will slough ofi", and leave the ulcer in a clean state. Agglutinants are then to be applied, especially a sponge smeared with boiled honey. When the sides of the fistula are clean there need be no apprehension lest they do not adhere, since, he remarks, we often see in ulcerations of the fingers that without great care one finger is apt to adhere to another. In the ' Euporista' of the Pseudo-Dioscorides, it is recom- mended first to dilate the fistula with a piece of sponge, and then to use a stimulant application containing verdigris, am- moniac, &c. Aetius gives an excellent account of fistula, but it is mostly borrowed from Galen. We can afford room only for a few extracts. When a fistula extends obliquely, nothing can be done without making a free incision, for which pm'pose he directs us to introduce a sound and cut along it. His direc- tions for examining into the nature of a fistula are such as ample experience alone could have dictated. He seems to be decidedly of opinion that, except in cases of a recent fistula, orSECT, L.] SORES. 125 when It IS not deep-seated, an incision ought always to be made Comm at first; after which applications for removing the caUus may be used. When, however, the patient refuses to submit to an operation, and the case is recent, the cure may be attempted by means of escharotics and incarnants, such as verdigris, misy, alum, &c., mixed with frankincense, aloes, and myrrh. Oribasius briefly recommends white heUebore, a mixture of equal parts of verdigris and ammoniac, and a few other such articles, as apphcations for fistulje. Scribonius Largus mentions several compound applications contammg misy, chalcitis, verdigris, alum, &c. MarceUus gives one consisting of ceruse, ammoniac, and oU. Actuarius gives a brief but distinct account of the nature and treatment of fistula, but it is taken almost entire from our author. Avicenna inculcates that a fistula is only to be cured by a free incision, or by removing the callous sides of it by burning with fire or caustic medicines, such as arsenic, ammoniac, sul- phur, the flour of copper, or mercury. This in fact is the sum of the medical practice in such cases. There is nothing parti- cularly interesting in Haly Abbas. Alsaharavius truly states that a diseased bone is the common cause of fistulous ulcers not heahng, and inculcates that in this case there can be no hope of recovery untU the carious portion be removed, Rhases, upon the authority of the celebrated AntyDus, directs us to use corrosive apphcations when a fistula cannot be operated upon ^vith the scalpel. He intimates that this is particularly the case when the disease is seated in the groins. The earher modern surgeons, such as Guhelmus de Saliceto, Amoldus, Rogerius, Rolandus, and Guy of Cauliac, in imita- tion of the Arabians, dii-ect fistula to be treated by the apph- cation of septics, the actual cautery, or incision. Rogerius recommends a tent spread with quicklime and soap, or with arsenic. Guy of CauUac, Hke Avicenna, speaks favorably of subhmed quicksilver or corrosive sublimate. SECT. L. FOR SORES WHICH BREAK OUT AGAIN. Some sores which have become cicatrized, often after no long time become inflamed and break out again; for a bone being126 [book IV. THORNS, diseased, sometimes the flesh which covers it heals up readily and appears sound, but in a short time a strong defluxion tak- ing place from the corrupted bone below, inflammation super- venes, and pus is formed which corrodes the cicatrix. What then is the cure of such ulcers ? Dry the diseased bone to such a degree that it may exfoliate. But the diseased part of the bone may easily be brought up if you apply a cataplasm, consisting of fig leaves triturated with fine dried barley flour and wine. Or you may apply equal parts of the reed of hen- bane and of copperas triturated together. The root of hog's- fennel speedily removes the lamiuse of bones. Comm. COMMENTARY. This chapter is copied from Aetius, who ' • ' gives some additional prescriptions, such as one consisting of the scales of copper, frankincense, alum, sal ammoniac, pome- granate rind, and ceruse, with or without cerate; and another consisting of red arsenic finely triturated with bear's fat. Avicenna recommends strong attractive applications, such as a plaster of the leaves of the black poppy with fig leaves; and another containing the atramentum sutorium (sulphate of copper.) SECT. LI. ON tTLCERS IN THE JOINTS. The joints being drier than the fleshy parts, they therefore require when ulcerated more desiccative applications. Wtere- fore the trochisk of Polyides, when rubbed with wine until of the consistence of the sordes of baths, is an excellent applica- tion ; and in like manner all equally desiccative medicines. And we have seen them benefited by bathing with sea-water and brine frequently. Wherefore we must use the most desic- cative applications to the joints. Comm. COMMENTARY. This is Copied from Oribasius. (Synops. vii, 19.) SECT. LII. THOSE THINGS WHICH EXTRACT SHAFTS, JAVELINS, THORNS, AND THE LIKE. Javelins, reeds, and shafts, and thorns, are extracted by the two pimpernels, the round birthwort, ammoniac with honey,S13CT. LTir.] HEMORRPIAGE. 127 the fruit of henbane triturated and sprinkled upon the part Mix the pounded root of calamus with honey, put it into a piece of linen, and use in great quantity; it will speedily extract them. Commentary. This subject wiU be more fuUy treated of in the Sixth Book. Our author copies from Oribasius. (Synops. vii, 17.) Most of the articles here enumerated are mentioned by Dios- condes as possessing strongly attractive properties. Avicenna Rhases, and Haly Abbas, speak of similar articles, without any new remedies of consequence. See in particular Haly. (Pract IV, 24.) '' ^ The applications mentioned by PHny are ridiculous (H N XXX, 42, and xxxii, 43.) SECT. LIII. ON HEMORRHAGE FROM VEINS AND ARTERIES. In cases of hemorrhage from parts, the contrary position to that for sinuses wiU be the proper one, that is to say, the up- right, but that must not be in too great a degree, for there is danger of pain being excited, and of the blood bursting forth from the vessel again; for nothing produces hemorrhage and mcreases mflammation more than pain. Wherefore apply your finger immediately to the part from which the blood flows put- tmg It gently upon the orifice of the opening in the vessel, and pressing it so as not to excite pain, for by this means you wiU restrain the bleeding, and block up the opening with a throm- bus, and should the bleeding vessel be deep-seated you will thereby ascertain most correctly its situation and magnitude and whether it be an artery or a vein. After this, if the ves' sel be small we must use some of the styptics. The best of these are the obstruents, composed of roasted rosin, of fine flour ot wheat, and of gypsum, and such like, mixed up with the white of an egg and applied upon the down of a hare. When t the vessel is large seize it with a hook, stretch and twist it 1 moderately. When the bleeding is stopped, endeavour if it is ' a vein to restrain the blood without a ligature, by the same medicines. But if it is an artery, one of two things must beHEMORRHAGE. 128 [book IV. done, either apply a ligature around it, or cut the vessel asunder, by which means you will restrain the blood. Sometimes, too, we are obliged to apply a ligature to large veins, and also occa- sionally to cut them asunder transversely. We are sometimes driven to this necessity with regard to veins which arise from a deep-seated place, more especially when they run through a narrow passage or important parts, for thus the portions will be retracted on either side, and the wound will be blocked up and covered by the parts above it. But the safer practice is to do both these things, applying a ligature to the root of the vessel and then dividing it. Having done these things, the wound is to be incarnated as quickly as possible, before the ligature slip from the vessel. For if it is not speedily incar- nated, but the emptied portion is dilated, the disease called aneurism is formed. You may know whether it is a vein or an artery that pours forth the blood, from this, that the blood of an artery is brighter and thinner, and is evacuated by pulsations, whereas that of the vein is blacker and without pulsation. The most excellent of all the incarnative medicines which we know, is that used with safety for hemorrhages from the menin- ges of the brain, and which may be used in wounds of the neck, even for those of the jugular veins; for it will restrain the bleeding from them without a ligature. It contains of the fat- test frankincense, p. j; and of aloes, when apphed to soft bodies, p. ss; but when too hard, an equal quantity, and instead of the frankincense manna is to be substituted. These are to be mixed with the white of an egg until they become of the con- sistence of honey, when it is to be applied iipon the soft down of a hare to the vessel and the whole wound; and a bandage is to be put on externally, the first four or five turns of which we are to make upon the bleeding vessel, and from thence ex- tend to the root of it. Then having loosed it on the third day, if the medicine should still be properly applied to the wound, we are to put on another one all around, soaking it, as it were, and then bandaging. JBut if the first pledget come away of itself, the finger is to be pressed gently upon the root of the vessel, so as to prevent all discharge, and it is to be removed softly and another pledget apphed. Thus it is to be treated until the vessel heal up, the upright posture being still pre- JSECT. LIII.] HEMORRHAGE. 129 served, but so as not to excite pain. Those things which form sloughs render the part more exposed than it was naturally owing to the faUing off of the sloughs; for in many cases a hemon-hage which can hardly be restrained supervenes upon the falHng off of the slonghs. And yet we must have recourse to them when a great necessity compels us. A great necessity for usmg escharotics, or cauteries with fire, occurs when the bleed- ing proceeds from the vessels being corroded by mortification ; and indeed, when in such affections we cut off the whole mor- tified part, it is safer to burn, as it were, its root, or to use escharotic medicines. This happens more especially upon the pudendum and fundament. The object of escharotics is to pro- duce heat with astringency, as in chalcitis, misy, and copperas. Ihose from quicklime are stronger indeed, but owing to the want of astrmgency in the lime, the eschars from them faU sooner away; but it is better that they should remain longer for thus will flesh have time to form previously at their root' and become as it were a cover to the vessels. In such cases ol hemorrhage matured woad (isatis sativa) when sprinkled upon the part is excellent for restraining the bleeding, or burnt galls but they must first be heated in the fire, and extinguished in vinegar or wine. The following Simples stop hemorrhages : Aloes, frankincense, manna, Samian earth, the rust of iron, the ashes of btu-nt wool finely powdered, the dung of an ass or of a horse, a smaU quantity of bitumen, pomegranate-rind, diphryges, galls, dried myrtle, all kinds of alum whether crude or burnt, roasted rosin, the bark or green leaves of the vine, and the down ot the peels of the plane tree, more especially when the vessels throw off then: crusts. In particular, hemorrhage from the nostnl IS to be restrained by the application of the fruit of the • sharp rush, the juice of nettle leaves, chalcitis, burnt anthylHs, ' the down of a hare, the middle part of a ferule when burnt • with vinegar, an ass's dung diy or moist, the juice of leeks ^ with frankincense applied upon lamp-wick. The following are ■ compositions for restraining all kinds of hemorrhage : Having soaked a fresh sponge in liquid pitch, and smeared it with bitu- Dinen, bum it in a new pot. Mix together of the ashes of it, p. ij ; «ot lead, p. j; of antimony, p. ^.—Another : Sprinkle on the l>art equalquantitiesof the manna of frankincense, and sulphur rnyyxm.—Another : Of chalcitis, dr. viij ; of frankincense, or of 9HEMORRHAGE. 130 [book IV. its mannaj dr. xvj; of roasted rosin^ dr. viij ; of burnt gypsum, dr. viij.—Another, an escliarotic styptic : Of chalcitis, of burnt copper, of copperas, of roasted naisy, equal parts. And the medicine called the Rhodian, and that called the yellow, are excellent styptics. Comm. COMMENTARY. See Cclsus (v, 26); Galen (Meth. Med. v, et alibi); Oribasius (Med. Collect, x, 23; Morb. Curat, iii, 36; Synops. vii, 20); Aetius (xiv, 51); Actuarius (Meth. Med. vi, 4); Palladius (Comment, in Hippocr. Epidem. ed Dietz. ii, 189) ; Albucasis (Cliirurg. i, 58); Avicenna (iv, 4, 2,16); Averrhoes (in Avicennte Cantic. ii, 2, and CoUig. vii, 23) ; Serapion (v, 16); Haly Abbas (Pract. iv, 21); Rhases (Divis. i, 139; Contin. xxviii. Contrary to what is often stated in modem works on sm*- gery, the ancients appear to have been very well acquainted Avith the proper treatment of hemorrhage. Celsus directs us when a dangerous hemorrhage is apprehended from a wound, to fill it up with dry pledgets, then to apply a sponge squeezed out of cold water, and to make pressure with the hand. If the bleeding does not stop, he directs us to change the pledgets often, and if dry ones do not answer to soak them in vinegar. For fear of inflammation he recommends us not to use caustics and escharotics except in urgent cases. When all other means fail, he directs us to seize upon the vessels (venae) which pour forth the blood, and having tied them in two places about the wound, to cut them asunder, so that they may conti'act and still have their mouths shut up. If circumstances prevent this from being done, they are to be burnt with a red-hot iron. He also speaks of stopping bleeding by re\Tilsion, as for exam- ple, by applying a cupping-instrument to the hindhead for bleeding in the forehead. Galen has treated of this subject at great length in the Fifth Book of the ' Meth. Med.' When blood is discharged from a wounded artery, he directs us to apply a finger to the orifice of the vessel firmly, yet so as not to occasion pain, and thus a thrombus will be formed that will stop the flow of blood. When the vessel is deep-seated he advises us to examine accm-ately into its situation and size, and to ascertain whether it be an artery or vein; after which it is to be seized with a hook andSECT. LIII.] HEMORRHAGE. I3j twisted moderately. If the flow of blood is not stopped thereby Comm he recommends us, if the yessel is a vein, to endeayour to '-^ restrain it without a ligature by means of styptics, or things of an obstruent natui-e, such as roasted rosin, the fine down of wheaten flour, gypsum, and the like. But if the vessel is an artery, he says, one of two things must be done,—either a liga- ture must be applied to it, or it must be cut across. He adds, we are even obliged sometimes to apply a ligature to large veins and cut them across. From this extract of Galen's practice, it will be readily perceived how much our author is indebted to Him. He makes mention of the ligature in many other pai-ts of his works. He also recommends the actual cautery. To stop bleeding, Oribasius directs, in the first place, cooling and astringent applications to be used, and if these do not succeed, caustics, such as misy, chalcitis, copperas, or the actual cautery. Upon the whole, his account of hemorrhage is nearly the same as our author's, only he says nothing of the ligature Aetius treats of this subject in the same terms as Galen re- commending the ligature under the circumstances mentioned by him. Some of his styptics are powerful escharotics and astringents, such as copperas, chalcitis, alum, galls, quicklime rosm, and frankincense. He informs us that Ammonius the famous Alexandrian lithomist, used a composition of arsenic sandarach, chalcitis, and quicklime. ' Actuarius recommends a composition containing burnt cop- per, chalcitis, galls, frankincense, &c. PaDadius, in his Commentary on the ' Epidemics' of Hippo- crates, treatmg of hemorrhage says, we often stop the bleeding by applying a ligature to the divided vessel Albuca^is mentions four methods of stopping the discharge of blood from an artery: 1, by the cautery; 2, by dividing the ar eiy across; 3, by using the ligature; 4, by styptics apphed upon a bolster or compress, and tightly bandaged Averrhoes recommends to stop bleeding by ;typtics, the cau- terj^ or the hgature. He says distinctly, that when the bleed- ing cannot be stopped, the artery or vein is to be secured with a thread. Avicenna treats of all the modes of stopping hemorrhage with singular accuracy, but at so great length that we can only aff-ord •132 [book IV. WOUNDS OF NERVES. Comm. room for a few remarks. He recommends stupefying things, ' '' ' cold water, exposure to cold, escliarotics, and the actual cau- tery. He also directs in extreme cases the vessel to be cut across, or a ligature to be applied, namely, a flaxen thread. His description of the process of taking up and tying an artery has quite a modern complexion. He also recommends the application of a compress with tight bandaging when the ligature cannot be apphed. Rhases makes mention of the cautery, of the application of snow, of the ligature, of styptics, and of cutting the vessel across. He mentions that Galen in certain cases approved of two ligatures, as it sometimes happens that the inferior por- tion will pour forth blood. He further speaks of his having occasionally used two or three ligatures for the sake of greater security. He also mentions torsion of the artery. Haly Abbas gives an interesting account of hemorrhage, and makes mention of bandages and the ligature. He and Serapion agree in recommending strongly as a styptic a mixture of one part of frankincense, with a half part of aloes, apphed upon the down of a hare. This is the application called the plaster of Galen, and is much recommended by Zacutus Lusitanus (Pract. Admin, i, 85), by Scultet (Arsinal de Chirurg. Tab. 33), by Brunus (Chirurg. Maj. i, 12), and Lanfrancus (Cliir. parva. 5.) The early modern writers on surgery make mention of all the ancient methods of stopping hemorrhage. Guy of CauHac recommends the hgature upon the authority of Galen and Avicenna. (iii, 1, 3.) It is also recommended by Brunus (i, 12), Theodoricus (i, 13), Rolandus (ii, 1), and Lanfrancus (iii, 1, 9.) It appears, therefore, that the use of the ligature for stopping hemorrhages was well understood by the ancients, and had never been lost sight of even in the darkest ages. SECT. LIV. ON WOUNDS OF THE NERVES. When the nerves are wounded or pricked, they experience great inflammation and pain owing to their great sensibihty; and therefore fever and convulsions supervene upon them, and in some cases delii'itmi, owing to the continuity of the nerves with the brain. And sometimes phlegmons and abscesses formSECT. iiv.J WOUNDS OF NERVES. I33 in the other parts adjacent to the wound, arising from the wounded nerve, owing to their continuity with it. Wherefore we must preserve the wound of the skin from adhering that the ichor may escape by it. And in punctm-es, if they appear bhnd, the part must be divided by two incisions intersecting one another. With regard to the treatment, if the body is plethonc, and the inflammation strong, it wHl be proper to begin with venesection; and when the body appears to be in a state ot cacochymy, purging must also be had recourse to. We must apply to the wound medicines for aUaying pain, and for increas- ing the discharge, more especiaUy if the cross incisions have not been practised. It is necessary to know that warm water, which IS most applicable to other inflammations, is inimical in these eases, and it is better to bathe the part with a thin oil which has no astnngency and is warm to the feeling; for nothing either very cold or very hot can be applied without detriment Ot medicines turpentine-rosin is beneficial by itself in the case of children, women, and persons of tender flesh, but softened with euphorbium for those of a firmer fibre; and if it become too hard It IS to be mixed with some of the thinner oils. To nerves in a state of mflammation and mortifications, we may use ca- taplasms consisting of the flour of barley or of beans, or by boihng that of tares in trained lye with oxymel. But with- out boiling we may use the following cerate for punctures • of wax oz. iij; of euphorbium, oz. j ; or of pigeon^s dung; for harder parts, of oil, oz. ij; and sometimes of turpentine, oz i When you wish to give the medicine the form of a plaster, you ^ay add to the preparation from euphorbium, of wax, of boiled TbeVftt oz. vj; but you will make anulvin. V ^'"^^^y punctured nerves, Sriuf of fl7?ri^''"'^"^' ^'-^^^^ Of vinegarone Lt melt dT.'"'! r ""^^^^ hav. Puncrures n - ^PPli^^ble to punc ures of the nerves not aUowing the moiith of the puncture to close up, as in the case of persons bitten by rabid animals it does not permit the wound to cicatrize. But answers only with hard bodies, and when you wish to apply It to the punctures of children, or of persons of soft skin, you134 WOUNDS OF NERVES. [book iv. must melt it in some discutient article such as the oil of mar- joram, of opobalsam, or old oU.—Another stiitable application is basilicon with the addition of natron, or quicklime, or euphor- bium, or sulphur vivum, or wild pigeon's dung, or opoponax, or sagapene, or Cyrenaic juice, or castor, adding to a pound of the ointment an ounce of one of these medicines. It answers well for wounds of nerves, and more especially punctures. And in the country when one is not supplied with any other medi- cines, one may apply fresh and fat bee-glue to the wound, or leaven more especially if old, by itself or mixed with bee-glue, or with the juice of tithymal. But cataplasms may be apphed made of oxymel, or of strained lye, with the flour of beans, or of tares, or of chick-peas, or of bitter lupines, or of barley, or of the flour of polenta, not only when ia a state of inflamma- tion, but they may be used from the commencement. But re- laxing cataplasms are to be entirely rejected for wounds of nerves. If the nerve is not cut, but laid bare by a wound, the surrounding skin being divided so that the nerve appears naked, and is wounded longitudingly and not transversely, we must use none of the afore-mentioned from euphorbium, nor any thus acrid, fo}- the nerve being bare will not bear their power which is strong, but one may use lime that has been washed often in the warm season mixed with much honey. The pre- paration from pompholyx, and that from honey melted with much rose-oH, are also exceUent ones. But these things must not touch the wound, for the nerve is sensitive, of a cold tem- perament, and continuous with the most important part. And neither is it proper to bathe such an ulcer with oil, for it will make it become foul, and we must only wipe away the ichor with soft wool wrapped about a probe. When all things succeed agreeably to our wish, there will be no danger in fomenting with must. For stronger persons the trochisk of Polyides with sodden must may be used upon a warm pledget. After the exposed nerve has been covered over, we must apply externaUy pledgets, with some of those things wHch are fitting for narrow wounds, such as that from euphorbium, or that from pigeon's dung, taking in also much of the sound parts. When the wound is transverse there is greater danger of convulsions, but everything relating to the cure is in this case the same, except that while the wound is recent some have used suturesSECT. LIV.] WOUNDS OF NERVES. I35 and certain of the agglutinative applications; but the sutures must not be applied very superficially lest the part below remain ununited, but more deeply, taking care however that the nerve be not punctured by the needle. It is to be known once for all, that m wounds of the nei-ves the medicine which cures pmictures being of a bitter nature, it is not possible to cure with It the division of the nerve, as the parts cannot endure pungency and inflammation. And neither does the medicine which cures incisions answer with punctures. For its strength does not reach the bottom of it, the incision of the skm being narrow. A spare diet is to be allowed, and a soft couch • and warm oil is to be applied to the armpits, head, and neck : but when the wound is in the leg, the medicine is to be applied to the groms, pubes, and the parts there. Baths, until the in- flammation IS on the decline, are to be abstained from, water not agreemg with these wounds, as we have said. But since some from habit cannot bear to want the bath, if the wounded part be the hand it must not, if possible, be wet in hot water, and stdl less m cold J but when the wound is in the foot, since it IS unpossible to preserve it from being wet, when about to go into the bath apply to the wounded part some of the plasters, !• and externally a compress consisting of many folds and moist- e encd with od ; and again external to that a linen bandage; and R after havmg done these things when the person afi-ectedis about to take his seat in the bath pour oil once more upon the band- aage. When he comes out of the bath take away aU those ap- :phcations, and have recourse to the treatment described above When there is only contusion of the nerve, if along with it there .be contusion of the skin and ulceration, the cataplasm of the ■flour of beans and of oxymel will be a fit one, but you may add ■ ometimes the flour of tares, and some iris; and when the'^con- wS^V If « ^'^y ^^'^ ^ little liquid pitch mth It. If there be no contusion of the skin, it will be more ^ZTl : ^^^'^ - «^ -^-ting nature I mean that of dill, of rue, of iris; or of marjoram. When .he whole nerve is cut asunder no danger will result from t, but the part wdl be mutilated; and the treatment is to be jnducted as in the case of other ulcers. The treatment of ^he wounds of nerves by «i,nples is sufficient for accomplishing ' he whole cure, but some are in the practice of using compound[book IV. WOUNDS OF NERVES. 136 applications in such cases, as the plaster from metals, those called barbarous, and the cissinum, that from groundsel, the me- lanchlorum, the indicum, harmonica, and athena, the composi- tion of "which, and the manner of using them you will find described in the Seventh Book. And since some very wealthy people are fond of using expensive applications to wounds of the nerves, Galen has described the following for punctures of the nerves : Of cinnamon, oz. j ; of dittany, oz. 3 ; of marum, oz. j ; of amaracus, dr.ij ; of wax, oz. viij ; of opobalsam, oz. x ; of turpentine, oz. x.—Another: of cyrenaic juice, oz. j; of wax, oz. iij ; of opobalsam, oz. xij. This is an application for exposed nerves : Of wax used for ointments, oz. iij ; of the oint- ment called spicatum, or foUatum, or that of nard, oz. xij ; of washed pompholyx, oz. j ; of spikenard, oz. j ; of amomum, oz. j ; of the leaf (malabathrum), oz. j. And these, Galen says, are superlatively excellent. Comm. COMMENTARY. Galen has devoted a whole book of his work ' ' ' ' De Med. sec. genera' to the consideration of wounds of ten- dons, membranes, ligaments, and nerves properly called, and he also treats of them more generally in the sixth book of his work 'Meth. Med.' He professes to have had ample expe- rience in the treatment of these cases while attending wounded gladiators. As our author has given a very comprehensive abstract of Galen's piinciples of cure, it will be unnecessary for us to enter into any minute detail of them. He states very decidedly that cold applications, especially cold water, are highly dangerous, and inculcates that calefacient oils are the most pro« per appHcations. He particularly praises oils medicated with spurge, or sagapene, or turpentine-rosin. They are to be ap- plied upon soft wool. In certain cases, he says, I have mixed the powerfully desiccant substances, such as quicklime, misy, chalcitis, pompholyx, arsenic, and sandarach, with the oils or cerates. "When tendons are cut across he directs us to unite the ends together by sutures. Wounds of membranes and ligaments are said to be less dangerous than those of tendons. In general he further recommends either bloodletting or purging. Oribasius, Aetius, and, in short, all the subsequent authori- ties, like our author, copy everything from Galen. As a spe-tions. Wherefore, m general, those things recommended for SECT, LV.] ANCYLOSIS. 237 cimen we shaU give an^ abstract of the method of treatment Comm recommended by Octavius Horatianus, who, it is probable, be- ^-v—' longed to the Methodical sect. He commences with stating that wounds of nervous parts are in general very dangerous, and recommends applications of a digestive nature to avert the violent symptoms and pains. In such cases he directs us to bleed and purge, forbids aU fomentations of warm water, but approves of those made with tepid oU, after which dressings composed of turpentine-rosin, either by itself or with some sponge, are to be appKed. But for women and children of a delicate frame he recommends turpentine alone; for others, however, he recommends turpentine with spurge and oil to wMch occasionally maybe added bee-glue, sagapene, assafoetida, and opoponas. He also from personal experience speaks favor- ably of an appHcation prepared from Hme washed in water spurge, sulphur, turpentine, wax, and pitch. He mentions other preparations from rosin, spurge, with oil and sea water. The Arabians copy from Galen very closely. Thus Aviceuna condemns cold appHcations, and recommends calefacient ones He approves of sutures when the tendons are cut asunder Haly Abbas cautions against cold water, and particularly com- mends wool dipped in hot oU of violets. When spasm (tetanus) supervenes owing to the wound of a nerve, he directs us to divide It asunder lest the affection of it spread to the brain and prove fatal. Rhases also forbids all relaxing applications. He commends hot stimulant oils, and basiHcon mixed with spurge natron, lime, assafoetida, castor, &c. ' Gulielmus de Saliceto, Guide de Cauliaco, Severinus, and Lanfrancus m laying down the treatment of wounded nerves and tendons, follow closely the principles deHvered by their Arabian masters. They approved of sutures when the tendon us cut across. SECT. LV. ON ANCYLOSIS. Contractions of joints arising from impacted humours, or «ome nervous tension, we are accustomed to call ancylcc and ^cylosis, which cases require emollient and relaxing applica-[book IV. 138 ANCYLOSIS. scirrlious parts, but still more particularly the applications to paralysed members will be proper, and more especially pouring upon tbe part water and oil, in wbich. linseed, fenugreek, marsh- mallows, bay, the root of the wild cucumber, and the Sicyonian oil itself, have been boUed. After bathing we may apply first the more simple acopa, such as that from poplar, that from fir, the one called bromium, that ascribed to Basilius, and the pyxis; and after these the Aristophanian, and that ascribed to Azanites. But the strongest are those called lysoponium and varium. Of plasters, that ascribed to Amathaon, and the anicetum. This is a most excellent one : Of bdeUium, of . calves' fat, of ammoniac perfume, of Illyrian iris, of each, dr. xvj; of opoponax, of galbanum, of the seeds of rosemary, of storax, of frankincense, of each, dr. viij ; of pepper, clx grains; of wax, lb. ss.; of tiirpentine-rosin, lb. ss.; of the lees of the oil of iris, q. s.; of wine, q. s.; the medicine is pounded. It forms a good acopum when diluted with oil of iris, of privet, or of bay. Intermediate between the acopa and plasters is the preparation from bacon called polymigmaton. The acopa are to be used with soft and continued friction, along Avith gentle attempts to bend and stretch the affected joint. Comm. COMMENTARY. The principles of treatment here laid down '—'—' are the same as those inculcated by all the other authorities. For a complete account of the formation of malagmata, we refer the reader to Galen (Med. sec. gen. vii), and to Aetius (xii, 42.) Actuarius recommends an acopum composed of old oU, the oils of bay, iris, and storax, with turpentine, spurge, castor, ammoniac, pepper, opoponax, galbanum, and stag's marrow. He remarks that emollient and relaxing medicines are indicated, (iv, 16.) Celsus recommends, " ad recenti vulnere contractos articulos, quas ay/cuXac Grseci nominant," a malagma consisting of frank- incense, rosin, galbanum, ammoniac, and bdeUium, with wax. ■ (v, 18.) Avicenna makes mention of a similar one. Scribonius Largus gives a prescription for ancylosis consisting ot bdellium, opoponax, ammoniac, galbanum, calves' fat, &c. (civ.)WORMS. S£CT. LVII.] 139 SECT. LVI. ON RELAXATION OF THE JOINTS. The joints often become relaxed from protracted febrile com- plaints, and from colic, and paralytic affections, especially when a hot and humid intemperament seizes them; and hence the motion of the joint is impeded. In these cases the juice of acacia mixed with water may be poured upon the part • or a decoction of bramble, of myrtle, of lentisk, or of the blrk of elm roots wiU answer well; or the rind of pomegranate maybe formed into a cataplasm, or myrtle leaves with myrtle ointment may be applied. For the ligaments require to be strengthened by astringent and desiccative powers; and such applications axe therefore to be made to the joints, as that from willows that caUed oxyrum, and the phoenicinum, with the addition of an astringent wine or vinegar. Some imagining that the weak- mess of the joints proceeds from cold, and having had recourse tto more heating remedies, have only increased the mischief. Commentary. Our author has correctly stated that relax- Comm «ation of the joints is to be cured by astringent desiccant appli- ccations. Aetius makes mention of the simple articles enume- rrated here (xiv, 73), and Oribasius recommends a few of the jsame. (Synops. vii, 23.) Our author is much fuller than lOribasius on this head. (Ibid.) SECT. LVII. ON WORMS. There are three different sorts of worms, the round, the broad *nd thirdly, those called ascarides. They are all the offspring ;l>f crude and thick pituitons matters with a suitable putiefac- Mon such matters collect in chikb-en, and others who take too much food. But they do not grow from hot, acrid, or melan- bhohc humours; for these being too strong for nutrition, are >aapt for the generation of worms; and, on the contrary, bilious aiperfluities are particularly destructive of them. Or if at any lime yellow bUe be discharged along with worms, either down- wards or by vomiting, you may be sure that they have been •ormed in the intestines, whereas the bilious humour had been140 [book IV. WORMS. collected at the mouth of the stomach, or in some other part. We shall now describe the form, generation, situation, diagno- sis, and cure of each variety, beginning veith the round. Of the round worms. The form of the round worms must be known to everybody, because they are more common thain any of the others. They are generated principally in the small intestines, and are very prevalent in the stomach; wherefore they are often discharged by the mouth, and sometimes by the nose. They are most common in children, more especially in fever. For they are formed about the commencement of fevers from a corruption of the matters; at their acme from the ma- lignant nature of the disease; and dui'ing the decline from a change of the whole system to a better state. Wherefore Hippocrates says, " it is a good symptom when round worms are evacuated at the crisis of the disease, and these speedily die." Those who have round worms experience pain of the intestines and stomach, small dry tickling cough, and in some cases hiccough, sleep with palpitations and irregular startings ; and some start from their sleep with a scream, and again fall over asleep. The pulse is unequal, and the fever has irregular exacerbations, making its attacks with coldness of the joints, and coming on three and sometimes four times in the day or night without any stated form. Children have mastication and projection of the tongue without cause, and grinding of the teeth; they shut their eyes and wish to remain silent, and are offended when disturbed. Their eyes appear bloody, their cheeks red, and again change to pale. But these things occur at intervals in a short time. Sometimes the worms crawUng up to the stomach occasion nausea, gnawing pain, and anorexia to the patients. When forced to take food they can scarcely swallow for nausea, or they vomit what they have taken, or their bowels are loose with corruption of the food, or are inflated like a bladder; but the rest of the body is wasted in an unac- countable manner, there being neither famine nor any extra- ordinary evacuation. But one must not expect to find all these symptoms in all cases, but certain ones, according to pre- vailing circumstances, and occasionally the most of them. These symptoms occur from the animals tui-ning themselves about in the intestines and biting them, aud the febrile heat raising noxious vapours to the brain from putrid humours col-SECT. LVII.] WORMS. 141 lected in the beUy,in which case we must sometimes pay atten- tion alike both to the fever and the worms, and sometimes we must bestow httle attention to the fever, and direct our efforts to remove the worms from the body. Many having neglected them have been eaten through by them, and have died con- j-ulsed And others say that they have seen them come out fn>m the groins of the patient. You may remove them from the body by kiUmg them, and you may kill them principally by using bitter remedies. When both the treatment of the fever and of the worms is common, the simple remedies wiU be pro- per. Wherefore the patients must first drink a decoction of camomile and of the fruit of the sebesten plum, or these me- dicines themse ves may be given boHed. We may also give rhe jmce of endive, or coriander seed, triturated with hot water or with oxycrate; or a decoction of the herb mouse-ear, or the shavings of hart^s horn, or sinopic vermiHon finely le^gated And they may swallow by degrees two spoonfuls of the oil of bitter unnpe oHves, for by its bitterness it kills them, and by ^^'^ "^"^^ ^^^«^^tes them with the . a^ces. When inflammation and distension of the intestines are ot the flower of lupmes, and of wormwood, and of the roots of bryony m hydromel, or pour upon the hypochondi-ia the oil of camomile, wme, and the infrisions of the fruit of wormwood n IX w th the sebesten plums some mint, and give them: and hen there is no fever we may administer the more drastic .edianes, such as the decoction of seriphum, or of calan^^f r fern, or the seed of cardamon, or a decoction of the roo of c.d pomegranate reduced to one third, or of toasted cumin .nd of tawny-coloured natron, of each, scr. iij; or wormseed 'r southernwood, or both made into piUs with Wy, or Tcr l ' bitter lupines or the levigated seed of cabbage or of rocke" ' -o^^ood which is often sufficient alone. We may Tve of .-•unwashed. Andl^ ^e^Ur^^^^^^ cup, they are to be secured upon their back, and their mouth mg forced open by a spoon, we are to inject in spite of them <' aloes by means of a syringe having a strong pipe, throwing (■1WORMS. 142 [book IV. it in as far as possible. This is an admirable method with children who can hardly be prevailed upon to take medicines, and in this way we may often inject soup in cases of anorexia. And cyphi and masuaphium may be properly administered, and burnt hart's horn with pepper in honey or oxymel; and we may also endeavour to give tlie other medicines in oxymel. But the vinegar of squills will be still better, especially when given to adults. Or mustard with oil and vinegar may be given to the amount of a spoonful. Those whose bowels are troubled with a flux owing to worms may take a potion of the juice of plantain, or the plaintain itself may be given in a dry state, for it is of use both for the flux and the worms. We may apply to them cataplasms of crude barley flour, of fern, of wormwood, of the flower of lupines, of wormseed, and of south- ernwood, and likewise pomegranate rind, acacia, galls, and the flowers of the wild pomegranate are to be mixed with them. And since many people often loathe bitter draughts, we may give of those we have mentioned, such as are not decidedly bitter, and in addition, ground pine and horehound, elecam- pane, bay berries, cassia, thyme, pennyroyal, carpesium, cyperus, polypody, iris, bastard-saffron, madder, Egyptian thorn, with an equal quantity of pepper, to the amount of scr. vj, to a decoction of mint, the juice of the root of mulberry, or the de- coction of stone parsley, or of other aromatic seeds. Externally we may use aloes with the oil of apples and wine. This also whets the appetite, which is a thing to be much attended to. With the aloes we may often mix wormwood; or the navel may be filled with bull's gall along with some of the bitters formerly mentioned; or the oU of rose-bay may be constantly rubbed in, or cedar-pitch may be applied alone and along with cerate to'the whole belly; or dried pitch may be levigated and sprinkled on it; or it may be anointed with mint and gith in rose-oil; or we' may mix with them the decoction of seriphum; or we may triturate peach leaves and apply. We may use stag's marrow in the form of an ointment to the navel, pubes, and loins; and, if necessary, we may apply the cerate of aloes, of wormwood, of the flour of lupines, of seriphum, of gith, of each, scr vj ■ of wax, oz. jss; of oil of camomile q. s.; triturate the powders with bull's gall. We may give them frequent injections of honied water, that the worms may be attiv-icted downwardsSECT. LVIT.] WORMS. ' m honey to the patient after he has previously eaten of garlic by the sweetness of the honey. But if they putrefy ia the deep- .eated pai-ts, and are not discharged, hut on the Contrary raife effluna, we must evacuate them by giving aloes, or the medi- cme called picra, prepared from it. In certain cases a moderate evacuatxon by means of a suppository, is not unusefulto them the broad xoorm {Ma). The broad worm is (if I may say so a conversion of the membrane which lines the inside of the mtestme mto a living body, which is often either discharged whole when its size appears incredible to be seen; or it is eva- cuated m parts; but when loosed from its attachment it does not form agam. It occurs most frequently without fever but sometimes m fever after a protracted disease, when it brings on constant gnawing pains of the stomach, and an insatiable desire 117.11 1 ^""""^^^ ""^^'^ ^^testines seize the food lying there, so that another supply is straightway re- boTet ""t "^'Y' bitTthe bowels. It IS accompamed with emaciation of the body and OSS of strength, with anomalous symptoms : but the mos^t un- erring symptom is when certain substances, like the seed of cofThe r tT' resembles that of the former kind; taking the bitter draughts, eating garlic cahmrnf 7^^' ' ^'T'^'' «^ centaufy,'or of cca ammt, of dittany, or of pennyroyal. And we mav akn -ject brine. The patient may also drink this poTLrich jao^^unserviceable to those who are troubled with oth™ f they happen to have fever : Of red natron, of pepper, of car 7.!^;''" l-'f ^ '^^^ oAot water. 'Zt^n J' T^- ""'P^PP^^^ ofpure bay berries, ofEthiopian jpoonful taken m the morning and at bedtime. But if you mtnofheVfo^ltTC^^^^ «^P^PP-' Tum n a T ''"^'^ 'l-^^-^ «f -Pbor. Zn di- ii ^ ^^^^^ acetabulum ; of ! btH? ■ ' " ^""^^^^ °f ^^^^r^ l^^t it better lae ron 'T"'''''^ ^^^^ed to it-Another : Of the bark of ae roots of sour pomegranate stripped of its rind above, dr. iv pepper, dr. ly; of cardamom, dr. vj; of horehound, dr. ij; give[book IV. 144 WORMS. until the affection is completely removed. Give also of theriac, when not prevented by strong fever. LVIII. ON ASCARIDES. Ascarides, as we formerly mentioned, are a kind of intestinal worms resembling earth-worms, being formed about the ex- tremity of the rectum and the beginning of the sphincter aui, and occasioning a great itching of the paxts. This species is formed by bad diet, cold, and indigestion of the food. Where- fore they are to be discharged, in children, by suppositories of honey with a moderate quantity of salts or natron; but in adults by acrid brine, or a decoction of centaury with natron and honey, or of colocynth, or of wormwood, or of chamseleon, or . of alkanet, or of bastard saffron, or of hyssop, or of pennyroyal, or of calamint, or of lupines. After the injections we may anoint the rectum with these simples : Acacia, or hypocistis with natron, or Syriac sumach ^vith liquid alum; and in those which are bound, with Lemnian earth in wine, and with these com- pound medicines, the trochisk of Andron and the like. And we may -ive them an injection of cedar-rosin with a syringe having many perforations, such as those used for the uterus; or salted flesh is to be adapted to the part and secured with a bandage, as long as it can be allowed to remain, and changed often. In general aU those infested with worms derive benefit from fumi- gations with the hairs of ichneumon. The food should contain wholesome juices, and such as are easily distributed over the system, neither increasing the cause which engenders the worms, nor allowing the strength to sink; and on that account we may give some dHuted wine. And we must give food frequently on that account, and in order that the worms may not bite the in- testines for want of their food. The best time for takmg food is when the worms are full. If there be a defluxion of the beUy you may be sure that the worms are on the increase, the food not being properly distributed, and we are to give soups with a mixture of astringents, such as pears, apples, and pomegranates, more especially such as are acid; and we may apply to the beUy, externally, astringent remedies as mentioned above.SECT. Lvir, LVIII.] WORMS. 145 Commentary. On this curious subject consult Hippocrates (Aphor. iii, 26; De Morbis, iv, 27); Aristotle (H. A. v, 9) • Celsus (iv, 17); Caelius Aurelianus (Pass. Tard. iv, 8); Scribonius Largus (36); Serenus Samonicus; Marcellus (31) ; Octavius Horatianus (ii, 30); Dioscorides (pluries); Galen (Meth. Med XIV; Isagoge;) Aetius (ix, 39); Oribasius (Morb. Curat, iv' 90) ; Actuarius (Metb. Med. i, 21); Nonnus (172) ; Myrepsus (8); Avicenna (iii, 16, 5); Serapion (iii, 30); Averrhoes (CoUig. vn, 37); Avenzoar (ii, 7, 22); Haly Abbas (Theor. viii, 28; Pract. vii, 29); Alsaharavius (Pract. xvii, 2, 9) ; Rbases (Divis! 169; Contm. xxvi) ; Alexandri Tralliani Epistola ap. Alb Fa- bricii Bibl. Grsec. xii, 602, and ed. Ideler, 1842. Hippocrates states that the. round and broad lumbrici are often passed with the first discharges from the bowels of chil- dren. This is a fact very difficult to account for. When, and how did the seed of the worm get access to the beUy of the child ? He rejects the opinion that the rings of the broad lum- bncus (taenia) which are passed from the bowels are its offspring. He says it does not occasion death, but continues to live as long as the man lives. Aristotle divides intestinal worms into the lumbrici teretes, the 1. lati, and ascarides. He remarks that the broad pro- iduce something resembhng the seeds of the gourd. He beHeved lm spontaneous generation. The pomegranate seems to have been a popular remedy for rntestmal worms. Cato the Censor gives directions for medi- x'ating wine by the addition of pomegranate and fennel, of •yhich, he says, " Id vinum tinias perpurgat et lumbricos, si MC concinnes.-"' (De re rust. 127.) Celsus treats of the lumbrici lati and teretes. For the cure the former he recommends a draught containing lupine and lihe bark of mulberry, with the addition of hyssop, pepper, or :cammony. He also recommends emetics with garlic, or pome- rranate nnd with some nitre. For the teretes he recommends ae same, and also the seed of nettle, or of cabbage, or mint, rr wormwood, or hyssop with mead, or the seed of cresses with inegar. He advises, Hkewise, to eat gai-lic, and use clysters of oil. Scnbonius Largus directs first garlic and old soft cheese to eaten, and then Macedonian fern to be taken with honey, mer four hours a mixture of aloes and scamraony with honied 10146 WORMS. [book IV. Comm. water is to be given, and a clyster of warm water administered. —' He also recommends wormseed and the shavings of hart's horn. Marcellus mentions the same remedies. Serenus Sainonicus recommends hartshorn, calamint, garlic, southernwood, coriander, pennyroyal, horehound, &c. The beginning of the chai^ter of Cselins Am-eHanus on lum-T^ bici unfortunately is lost. He mentions the usual symptoms which accompany them, namely, occasional dehquium, agita- tion, grinding of the teeth, change of colour, convulsions, &c. Worms are discharged by the mouth or anus, sometimes sin- gle, and at other times in great numbers rolled up in a ball; sometimes dead, and at other times alive; and they are of various colours. For ascarides .he recommends when there is inflammation of the rectum an injection of oil, to wliich may sometimes be joined a decoction of wormwood and centaury. But if bloody scrapings of the bowels are discharged, he directs us to give a decoction of pomegranate-rind, and, if the com- plaint continue, equal parts of burnt paper and of arsenic, to the amount of six drs., with the infusion of plantain. Surely there must be some mistake as to the amount of the dose, for so great a quantity could not be injected with safety. When there is putrefaction he recommends an injection of salt water, with other suitable remedies. When comphcated with any other disorder he properly directs us to pay attention to it; after which the animals may readily be discharged by drinking oil, or a decoction of sebesten plums (myxfe), or of Hquorice : these things, he says, will obviate constriction and sweUing, while by lubricating the bowels they will promote the discharge of the worms. When complicated with relaxation he recommends astringents externally and internally, such as vinegar with honey, lupine, the sha^dngs of hart's horn, &c. Sometimes, he says, in order to expel them we must have recourse to acrid substances, such as onions, garhc, mustard, cresses, cai-damus, assafoetida dissolved in -sdnegar, wormwood, &c. In stating the detail of the treatment he mentions various other anthelmin- tics, such as the hiera of aloes, gentian, mulberries, squills, spui-ge, alkanet, colocynth, and scammony. All these things may be given bv the mouth or in injections, with a considera- ble admixture of oil. For the lumbricus latus he directs, first, an emetic of oil, and next day a clyster with nitre or salt.SECT. Lvn, Lvm.] WORMS. Saltish things are also to be given in drink, with liquorice or Cn. a scammony, or polypody, &c. When the animals are discWed ^ . prevent a renewal of the complaint, he recommends frictL' anrtSe ^^^^^^^^^^ Pl^^ters, sinapisms, paroptesis; Pliny recommends the ashes of hart^s horn for t^nia. (H N vxviu, 59.) ^ Dioscorides ascribes anthelminthic properties to varions acrid nd bitter substances, such as garlic, cresses, fern, gith mul- herry,_ pomegranate rind, lupine, cabbage, nettle, hyssop, mint calammt, wormwood, wormseed, rue, coriander, thyme, &c Simd^ remeches are recommended in the 'Euporista,^ which i> falsely ascribed to him. Galen mentions thaf bitters in general are destructive of in- hil w"^- '''''' ''^^^''^ the absin- luum; but the latus and ascaris require stronger medicines uch as the fiHx. The author of the ' Isagoge,'a work gene: aUy ascnbed to Galen, divides intestinal worms into theb^oad Ije round, and the ascarides. The round are about the length - t a span or somewhat more, especially such as are formed about he stomach. The ascarides are short, and form in the rectum tape, are said to be sometimes the length of the intestines he round are most common in childi'en, the ascarides before ^mhood; and these are difficult to remove except by bitters (ecampane, and acrid food. ^ ' Oribasius treats briefly of lumbrici, recommending for the . rotundus, southernwood, wormwood, calamint, gith, L taken .temaUy or applied outwardly; for ascarides, the ju ce of cala ^t, and cedar rosin, in like manner; and forke tLia the baric" . he root of mulberry, and the roots of fern in honied water .ad a so the root of the white chameleon and costus. ' o^ authtJ^^^^^ " ^'"^'^^^ -^^^ --e Hp ' 1 ^ ^^^^«^««'-ry to deHver any account of He remarks, that anthelminthics either kill worms by ^ acrimony, or remove them by their bitterness, or irritate tem so as to expel them, or by lubricating the parts facUitate ee expulsion of them. o . Actuarius gives a sensible account of the formation of worms,WORMS. M8 [book IV. Comm. which he ascribes to putrefaction or indigestion. White worms, he says, are the product of indigestion, but the red, and those of any other colour, arise from putrefaction. Nonnus merely abridges our author's account of this subject. The ingredients in the compositions recommended by Myrepsus, are such as aloes, scammony, southernwood, and bitter almonds. Octavius Horatianua gives a good account of worms, but it contains scarcely anything that is not to be found in our au- thor's. He says, that from long experience he had great con- fidence in a pui-gative draught consisting of scammony, the ashes of burnt peas, euphorbium, and nitre, given in sweet wine. But garlic, and other acrid things, are to be first eaten. The Epistle of Alexander TraUian on worms, first pubHshed by Hieronymus Mercurialis, and afterwards by Albertus Fabricius, and again lately by Ideler, contains an interesting exposition of the ancient views on this subject. He divides intestinal worms into thi-ee genera: the ascaris, the strongylus or round, and the latus or broad. He remarks that the small worms (ascarides) are generally found in the large intestines, the round in the small intestines, and hence they are often vomited up; while the broad worms (taenia) are sometimes as long as the intestines, some having been discharged sixteen feet m length. He states that they are engendered by cori-uption of the food, and putrefaction of crude humoui's. He lays down at great length the plan of treatment, which he varies accord- ing as they are with or without fever. His remedies consist of cathai'tic, acrid, oily, acid, and bitter substances. Of purga- tives he mentions aloes, scammony, and hellebore; of acrid articles, garhc, cresses, and the like; of oily medicines, the oil of roses, castor oil (oleum ricini), and common oil boiled with rue ; of acids, salt and nitre (soda); and of bitters, southern- wood, wormwood, hyssop, fennel, and the like. For the expul- sion of the strongylus he speaks favorably of a decoction of gagate stone (jet). For ascarides and lumbrici he recommends a lavement prepared j&'om juniper. He concludes his treatise by stating that "ten thousand" other things had been recom- mended as anthelminthics by the ancients. Avicenna in his account of worms condenses aUthe informa- tion contained in the Greek authors, but we do not find that heSECT. LVII, LVIII.] WORMS. J^9 suppUes anything new. He in particular copies freely from Comm Aetius and our author. The same may be said of Serapion ^^ ho recommends wormwood, bitter lupines, calamint, peach leaves, cabbage, onions, thyme, colocynth, &c. Averrhoes says tliat the lumbnci in general are removed by bitters, such as ormwood or wormseed, but that the cucurbitini (t^ni^) require strong medicines. Of the pinese nuces he says, "Occidunt vermes qui sunt in ventre.- (ColHg. v, 42.) Probably this lunt may have led to the use of turpentines for the cure of t;enia. Avenzoar attributes the formation of worms to ill- ligested food in the stomach, and recommends much the same emedies as the Greeks. Haly Abbas describes the three spe- •les of worms, and details the symptoms of them. He remarks hat these animaJs are to be kiUed by medicines of a hot and Iry nature, such as bitters. He recommends wormwood, fern nd the like, pounded with honey, vinegar, &c. The remedies aentioned by Alsaharavius are oils, bitters, and drastic pm-ga- n-es. He treats of lumbrici very fully. Rhases recommends general terms bitters j for the round, wormwood, for the 'ad, (taeniae, caUed by him semina cucurbita) seriphium bitter ipmes, narcissus, &c. And for the ascarides he directs us to l)ply a suppositoiy of wool dipped in the gall of a bull He ■marks that they occur most frequently in autumn, being en- >udered by fruit. He states correctly that they often bring ' epilepsy, and looseness of the bowels. He much commends le oil of unripe oHves. Vegetius recommends nearly the same medicines for remov- g the vermes of cattle as those already mentioned, namely, ^rmwood cresses, coriander, fenugreek, and the like, boiled in 1. and administered by the mouth and in clysters. (Mulom M.; see also Columella vi, 25.) According to Michaelis and Sprengel the ancient Brahmins n acquamted with the anthelminthic properties of the doH- s prunens, We have stated above that the most celebrated of the ancient believed in the spontaneous generation of animals. This • rrme, although generally rejected at the present time, has n advocated by many modern naturalists of great eminence, ^ti as Baron BuflFon and Professor Rudolphi. Virey gives a y impartial statement of the argiiments for and against this JiWORMS. 150 [book IV. Comm. physiological doctrine. (See Hist, des Moeurs et de V Instinct des Animaux, ii, 131.) Mr. Madden, the traveller, relates that the bark of the pomegranate is still considered in the east as a specific, not only for ascarides, but also for the tape-worm. He says, " I have rarely seen it fail in the cure of ttenia. They make a decoction of two oz. of the fresh bark in a pint of watei", this they drink daily till the worm is expelled, which it gene- rally is the third day." (Travels in Egypt, ii, 371.) SECT. LIX. ON DRACUNCULDS, OR THE GUINEA-WORM. In India and the upper parts of Egypt a class of worms called dracunculi, resembling the intestinal, are formed in the muscular parts of the body, such as the arms, thighs, legs, and in the sides of children, under the skin ; and they move in a perceptible manner. Then in process of time at the extremity of the dracunculus matter is formed in the part, and the skin being opened the head of the dracunculus comes forth. But if the worm be dragged it occasions pains, and particularly when it breaks. Wherefore some say that it is proper to fix a piece of lead to the worm in order that its discharge may not take place at once, but gradually with the weight of the lead. Some disappro%ang of this practice, inasmuch as the worm is apt to break with the weight of the lead and occasion violent pains, direct the part to be put into hot water, in order that the dracunculus being warmed may come forward, when it is to be seized with the fingers and dragged forth by degrees. But Soranus is of opinion that the dracunculus is not an animal originally, but a nervous concretion, which has only the ap- pearance of moving. Whether this or the former be the true account of the matter, it appears to Soranus, Leonides, and others, that they are to be treated with the affusion of wai-m water, and digestive cataplasms made of honied water and the flour of wheat or barley; and they approve of sometimes using a plaster possessed of similar properties. "VSlierefore that from bay-berries, and the one from honey are proper. For by the use of these the dracunculus or concretion dies and falls out. But when suppuration takes place, if it does not fall out, the skin is to be divided, and the part being laid open, that whichSJ5CT. LIX.] WORMS. J51 is contained in it is to be taken out, when a tent is to be put into the skin, and then the treatment for suppurations is to be applied. Commentary. The foUowing authors treat of the vena Comm. medinensis, or dracuncidus, now generaUy called the Guinea worm : Galen (De Loc. Affect, vi, 3; Isagoge;) Aetius xiv, 85); Pollux (Onomast. iv) ■ Plutarch (Symp. viii, 9); Theophi-astus (H. P. ix); Actuarius (iMeth. Med. vi, 8; iv, 16); Avicenna (iv, 3, 2, 21); Avenzoar (ii, 3, 20); Haly Abbas (Theor. viii, 18) • Alsaharavius (Pr. xxviii, 12); Ehases (ad Mansor. vii, 24 ; Cont! xxvi.) Galen admits that he had never seen the dracunculus, and that therefore he could not be positive respecting its origin and nature. He had known many persons, however, who had seen it, and was inclined to beHeve that it is of a nervous na- tui-e, and resembles lumbrici only in coloui- and thickness. The author of the Isagoge states that dracunculi resemble varices, and that when they project or move about they occasion great pain, and are to be removed by making an incision of the skin as for varices. Plutarch briefly mentions the dracunculus as being a disease which had newly attacked the inhabitants of the countrv ad- joining the Red Sea. Aetius professes to derive his account of the dracunculus from Leonides. He says, like our author, that it is formed most commonly m the legs and muscular parts of the arms in India and Ethiopia, and that the generation of it is not dissimilar to that of intestinal worms. He adds, that in process of time suppuration takes place at the end of the worm, when an open- ing is made m the flesh, and the head of the dracunculus pro- trudes. If dragged out considerable disturbance is produced especially if the worm should be broken, for what remains occa- . sions the most excruciating pains. He directs us, therefore, to put a ligature round the arm, and to tighten it every day so that the dracunculus may come forth by degrees Avithout break- ing. The part is to be washed with honied water, with oil in which wormwood or southernwood has been boiled, or >vith some such anthelminthic decoction ; but all acrid things are to be avoided for fear of inflammation. He recommends us to forward152 WORMS. [book IV. Comm. suppuration by means of maturative cataplasms^ and the other means mentioned by oxir author. Pollux calls the dracunculus a piece of corrupted nerve which sometimes comes from the sores of Ethiopians, but seldom troubles other people. Actuarius, like our author, mentions that the dracuuculi occur most commonly in the region above Egypt, being gene- rally formed in the muscular parts, and that in process of time the part becomes livid and suppurates. They are killed, he adds, by bitter and acrid things. Avicenna comprehends in his account whatever information could be gleaned from preceding writers. He says the di-a- cunculus is called vena medine, from Medine, the name of the country where it is most prevalent. It occasions a blister in the part which bursts, when a red and somewhat blackish sub- stance protrudes and gradually increases in length. He directs us to coiTect the habit which gives rise to it by baths, humid food, and the like. His treatment is similar to that of Aetius and our author, namely, binding a Hgature round the arm, fastening a piece of lead to the worm, using fomentations of warm water, and the Uke. Haly Abbas mentions the vena as being a worm which forms principally in the legs of the inhabitants of wai-m countries, such as India, Egypt, Ethiopia, and Lybia. Avenzoar says that the complaint most commonly attacks negroes, being formed by gross humours, for dispelling which he recommends internally various sharp and acrid medicines, such as squills, nettles, colocynth, &c. He further directs a piece of lead to be bound firmly over the worm so that it may be made to crawl out gradually, which, however, he says, will not be accomplished in less time than a year. Alsaharavius states the danger of breaking the worm (vena). He recommends the same treatment as Avicenna. The con- clusion of his chapter on the dracunculus decides him to be the same person as Albucasis. Albucasis recommends us to fasten to the end of the animal a piece of lead from one to two drs. in weight, and thereby to extract it gradually. He says that in some cases the animal is as long as fifteen palms, nay, that he had seen one twenty palms longjSECT. LIX.] WORMS. J53 Rhases says that the dracunculus takes place in hot and squaHd bodies, and is formed by the use of potherbs and fruits He recommends gradually increased doses of aloes, and when the animal protrudes it is to be wrapped round a leaden reed one di-. m weight, so that it may be dragged out graduaUy He cautions us not to leave any part of it in the body He also approves of incision as described by our author In his ' Contmens^ he collects the opinions of Galen, Paulus, and others. He says that it forms most commonly in the bodies of persons who bathe frequently, and drink much wine He says that he had seen it extracted by making free incisions See an mterestmg account of the guinea-worm in No 66 of the ^Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal,' by Mr Scott, surgeon, Madras. Bertapaha, Guy of Cauliac, and aU the early modern writers on medicme, repeat the ancient accounts of the vena civihs vel medine They direct us to extract it by attaching a smaU piece of lead to its extremity. Ambrose Pare adopted Galen's notion, that it is corrupted animal matter; but Andry held that It IS a real animal. It appears, however, from some state- iments which we have seen in the periodicals of the day that .some of our English surgeons in the East Indies stiU advocate tthe doctrine of Galen; but we are inclined to think that the dother opmion is the more correct one.BOOK V. SECT. I. ON THE PRESERVATIVES FROM VENOMOUS ANIMALS IN GENERAL, In giving an account of animals which emit poisons we shall begin with some general remarks upon them, treating of the preservatives from them in the first place. If therefore a per- son be compeUed to sleep in places infested by venomous ani- mals, especially in such as salamanders, phalangia, or reptiles abound, it will be proper to shut up their holes under ground with garHc pounded in water, or some of the herbs about to be mentioned; and to fumigate with hartshorn, the hoofs or hairs of goats, gagate stone, bitumen, bdelUum, galbanum, the shav- ings of the cypress or cedar, gith, hog's fennel, the leaves of the chaste tree, calamint, sagapene, castor, the root of rosemary, fleabane, or some of the strong-scented things. Gnats in par- ticular are driven away by fumigations with copperas, the seed of wild gith, and of cumin in equal proportions, and by cows' dung. In addition to these, frequent fires should be lighted, for reptiles commonly flee from the light. A couch should be prepared by strewing asphodel, calamint, chaste tree, penny- royal, poley, fleabane, and southernwood; or if it is not possi- ble to make a couch entirely of these, they should at least be laid around the bed. Attention should be paid to such things as are to be boiled, to the water, and wine vessels that they be properly covered up. Fires for the pvu-pose of cooking should not be hghted under particular trees, more especially pitch trees or pines, for salamanders and deadly caterpillars abound on them, which being warmed by the heat of the fire fall upon tlie victuals, or any other vessels which happen to be uncovered. Those who wish to be particularly guarded, anoint their bodies with a liquid cerate composed of wax, rose-oil, and a little gal-[book v. VENOMOUS ANIMALS. 156 banum, and with a little of the shavings of hart's horn, or Ethiopian cumin. The leaves of mallows triturated with oil when rubbed on the skin protect in an especial manner from bees and wasps. Comm. COMMENTARY. The following is a list of the ancient au- " ' ' thorities on Toxicology : Nicander (Theriaca et Alexipharmaca); Dioscorides (Liber de Venenis); Celsus (v); Scribonius Largus (47, et seq.); Galen (Ther. ad Pison.; Meth. Med., De Antid.); Aetius (xiii); Pliny (Hist. Nat. pluries) ; Oribasius (de Morb. Curat, iii); Solinus (Polyhist. 40) ; Serenus Samonicus; Nonnus; Simeon Seth (de Alimentis pluries); Actuarius (Meth. Med. v); Vegetius (de Mulo-medicina, iii, 77); Avicenna (iv, 6); Rhases (ad Mansor. vui, and Cont. xxxv); Haly Abbas (Pract. iv, Theor. viii); Alsaharavius (Pract. xxx); Serapion (pluries); Anonymi Fragmentum apud Bernardi Reliq.) The work of ^lius Promotus on Venomous Animals and Poisonous substances, which exists in MS. in the BibUotheca Vaticana, has never been published as far as we know. It is quoted by Hiero- nymus Mercurialis (Var. lect), and is noticed by Albertus Fabricius (Bibl. Gr^c. xiii, 780.) Fabricius supposes it to be the production of ^schrion Empiricus. It is proper to state that whenever we quote the work, it is from the extracts given in Schneider's Annotations on Nicander. It is to be borne m mind that the work on Poisons, usually pubHshed as the production of Dioscorides, is not held to be genuine by his latest editor, Sprengel; stiU, however, it is acknowledged by all to be a work of considerable antiquity and of great authority on the subject of ancient Toxicology. The work ' Euporiston,' wliich is also pubHshed with the works of Dioscorides, is generaUy admitted not to be genuine. It con- tains, however, some valuable matter on Toxicology and other medical subjects. These directions of our author for driving away reptiles are mostly taken from Nicander, who recommends fumigations with hartshorn, gagate-stones, sulphur, bitumen, galbanum, juniper, and other such articles. (Ther. 35.) See also Diosco- rides (M. M.); Orpheus (de Lapidibus); Geopou. (xui, 8) ; andSECT. II.] VENOMOUS ANIMALS. I5; Nonnus (Epit. 261) ; also Aristot. (H. N. iy, 8); and Pliny Comm. (H. N. X, 90). >—V—' Virgil makes mention of this practice : " Disce et odoratam stabulis accendere cedrum, Galbaneoque agitare graves nidore chelydros."~Georff. iii, 314. See a long Hst of substances used in fiimigations for driving away serpents in Lucan. (Pharsal. ix, 916.) It is different from that of Nicander and our author. For example : it contains tamanx, costus, thapsos, &c. Arsenic occurs among the articles mentioned by Ehases. (Cont. xxxv.) It is also mentioned in the (jreoponics (1. c.) Nicander affirms, and it has been generaUy beHeved, that human sahva proves destructive to serpents. Galen says that It wiU kill the scorpion. Aristotle states, that it is destructive to most venomous reptUes. (H. A. viii, 28.) Redi maintains that this IS an ancient en-or; but Andreas Laurentius declares that he knew from experience that the human saliva is de- structive to serpents. Nicander recommends a composition containing cedar-ber- ries, fleabane, sage, and other such articles for preserving the body from venomous reptUes. Paxamus directs us to smear the face with a composition made of the roasted flour of fenu greek, with the juice of the wild maUows and oU. (Geopon XV, 6.) He says it preserves the face from the stings of bees m particular. The Ku,poJ^p, here translated ffnat, as it is in the EngHsh version of the scriptures, (Matt, xxiii, 24,) is proved by Bochart Hierozoon iii, 442); and by Harris (Nat. Hist, of the Bible), from Anstotle, Plutarch, and others, to mean pro- perly a kind of insect that is bred in the lees of wine SECT. n.—THE GENERAL TREATMENT OF ALL PERSONS BITTEN OR STUNG BY ANY VENOMOUS ANIMAL. If a person happen to be bitten or stung by any venomous animal he ought immediately to get the part sucked. The per- son who sucks it should not be fasting, and he ought first to nnse his mouth with wine and retain oil in it; and then if the pari; admits, it should be cupped with much heat, scarify.VENOMOUS ANIMALS. [book v. 15S ing also the surrounding parts ; for the poison is forced back out of the body along with the spirits and blood -which are drawn out. The part in which the wound is situated ought also to be burnt and eschars formed on it, and amputation of the extremities may then be seasonably practised if the animal that inflicted the bite be of a deadly nature, such as the asp, the cerastes, the viper, and the like: as Galen relates that a certain vine-dresser being bitten by a viper, and knowing the animal, immediately cut off the finger that was bitten with his pruning hook, and was entirely freed from the danger. But if the poison be abeady distributed over the body, venesection ought to be had recourse to immediately, especially if the per- son bitten be plethoric; and pepper and garUc given to eat with the food, and strong wine to drink, whereby the system will be filled with fresh vapom-s and a suitable heat. After- wards cataplasms are to be applied that can warm and stimu- late the bite, such as a mixture of the ashes of cabbage or of fig with vinegar, or with the strained lye, or with the sauce of pickle. Likewise onions may be mixed with polenta or bread, and strong leeks with salts, or wai-m Hquid pitch with salts, or cedar-rosin, or goat's dung. It will also be proper to pour upon the parts hot vinegar in which calamint has been boiled, or with vinegar and sea water, or with brine. We are to apply to the part fowls, more especially hens, cut up and still warm, or other such animals, for they absorb the poison and soothe the pains. And we must have recourse to plasters, such as that formed from salts, that from rosemary and adarce, and on the whole such things as are of an acrid nature. And in ge- neral all persons bitten or stung by any venomous animal ought, unless the deep-seated parts are wholly unhurt, to take in the first place potions containing endive, heath, or astraga- lus with vinegar, or bitumen and Christ's thorn in like manner, or a decoction of Christ's thorn; or two drachms of dried weasel with wine, which is a cried-up remedy; or the blood of the sea-tortoise, or a di-achm of castor with diluted wine, or a drachm of frankincense, or of Sicyonian root, or the juice of leeks, or ground pine, or alsander, or cinnamon, or birthwort, or the seed of the chaste tree, or cypress balls, or seseli, or pepper, or the seed of trefoU, or bay berries, or river crabs roasted or boiled. Use the following compound theriac.SECT. II.] VENOMOUS ANIMALS. 159 A theriac for venomous animals, and deleterious substances, and for persons bitten by vipers and scorpions. Of bryony, of opoponax, of Illyi-ian iris, of the root of rosemary, of gingei^ of each, dr. iv ; of birthwort, dr. v ; of frankincense, of wild rue, of each, dr. iij; of the flour of tares, dr. ij; form trochisks with wine, and give three oboli with wine. Purging will also be proper for them, with sudorifics, and taking the theriac of vipers. Commentary. These general directions are mostly taken from Dioscorides, who is greatly indebted to Nicander. Nei- ther of them, however, makes mention of venesection among his remedies. The remedial means recommended by Dioscorides are scari- fication, cupping, sucking, excision; and in extreme cases, amputation; clysters, and acrid applications to the part in order to clear out the venom; pure wine, must, or acrid sub- stances to extinguish it and counteract its effects; and finally as adjuvants of these means, purging of the bowels, sweating, and some other particular remedies as stated under their proper heads. The general remedies mentioned by Nicander ai-e, sucking the wound, applying cupping instruments to it, and afterwards strong stimulants, hot irons, and leeches. He directs that the person who sucks it should not be fasting; from which it may be inferred that he had a correct idea that the vessels absorb most readily when in an empty state. This physiological doctrine was lately announced as a new discovery; but frequent : allusions to it are to be met with in the works of Galen, our 'author, Avicenna, Avenzoar, Averrhoes, and Haly Abbas. The dangers resulting from an empty state of the vessels, iwhether produced by fasting or venesection, is well expressed by (GorrjEus in his Preliminary Dissertation on the Alexipharmics cof Nicander: ''Nec vero id tantum incommodi habet fames, ssed in multo majus periculum adducit hominem, quando et Tvenae plurimum exinanit£e et cibum vehementer appetentes, wenenura avidius ad se pertrahunt et in intima viscera, cor- ddisque arcem immittunt.^' "Quod si quis etiam abundare rvideatur, et nihil eorum repugnet quee sunt in venjEsectione observanda, sanguinem audacter mittamus, non quidem per[book v. 160 VENOMOUS ANIMALS. Comm. initia (sic enim in venas deleteria traherentur, a quibus omni ^"^^—' studio atque industri^ excludi debent) sed post vomitus alvique dejectiones," &c. Serapion, contrary to most of tbe authorities, recommends that the person who sucks a poisoned woimd, should be in a fasting state j but as he is a servile copyist from his prede- cessors, it might be suspected that the text is in fault, if the same directions were not given by Rabbi Moyses, with this explanation : that a fasting person will perform this office with more risk to himself, but with greater advantage to the patient, than one who had taken food immediately beforehand. (De Venenis, i, 1.) All this shows how well the ancient savans were acquainted with the physiological fact, that the absorbent powers of the vessels is in the inverse ratio of their state of repletion. Celsus recommends nearly the same general remedies as Nicander. Thus he directs us in the first place to apply a ligature round the limb, but not too tightly, for fear of occa- sioning torpor; and then to extract the poison by sucking, or by a cupping instrument along with scarifications. His local apphcations are of a hot stimulant nature. As internal remedies he recommends emetics, which may be supposed to expel the poison from the system by the concussion which they produce, and various articles of a calefacient nature, such as wine and pepper; because, says he, "maxima pars venenorum frigore interimit." Isidorus states in still more general terms that the poisons act by oppressing the vital heat. He says, " Omne autem ve- nenum frigidum est, et ideo anima quae ignea est, fugit vene- num frigidum." He states, likewise, that poisons do not act upon the system unless mixed with the blood: " Venenum autem dictum eo quod per venas vadit. Infusa enim pestis ejus per venas vegetatione aucta discurrit et animam extiu- guit. Unde nou potest venenum nocere nisi hominis tetigerit sanguinem." Lucanus : " Noxia serpentum est admixto san- guine pestis." This, however, is an imperfect account of the action of poi- sons, whether such as act by being introduced into the stomach, or those that prove deleterious when applied to a wound. Perhaps the classification given by Avicenna may be mentionedSJ^CT. II.] VENOMOUS ANIMALS. 1 g i 11 as the most complete of any proposed by the ancient authori- c ties He states that poisons act either by some certain quality ^^^^ or by their whole substance. Of the former class some ale con-osive and putrefactive, like the lepus marinus; some in! an^uoT^" rf''"""'^ '"^^ euphorbium; som; frigorific and stupefying, like opium ; some prove obstruent of the respi- te Ttb^''^ 1^^^ litharge; some act with their whole sub- s ance as the wolFs bane, and these are the most deleterious of aU Of these some act upon one member in particular as eanthande3 upon the bladder, or the lepus marinus upon ke lung, and some upon the whole body as opium, (iv, 6 1) Schulze, in his ^Toxicologia Veterum/ has stated th Inc en tbink what authors he has followed. He says, the ancients ™gedpoisons according to their properties in'; the M^o^ Ihe tngorific, he properly remarks, are those substances now ;^op:tTnbr^ t-^^^ class, as Galen mentions, the conium, TSics tr\ T"'^"'^' On the action of laarcotics, see section xlni. Galen remarks that the human •Lmes without injuiy. He mentions the case of an old Attic -Oman who by little and Httle had accustomed herself totke hemlock in any quantity. (De Simpl. iii) Avicenna states that the great indications of cure in all cases ff poisoning are to comfort and rouse the vital heat and to t^^but^r^^^^^^^^ • ^p^^^-- 1 "n «rand thrr. T'"^' remedies are venesection, purg- y and the hke. He states decidedly that the proper time «r venesection is either when the poison is distribulcWr th I poLTisl'T'/' "'^^ ^ P^^^^-- state oT .t poison IS a substance not hkely to be absorbed. His other Te:-fanTs^dt^^^^^^^^^^ ^"^^ ^ ''''' ^^^^ i^atirortLT^^^^ ^^^^^-^ ^^-^^^^''^ Xeer/th^^^^^^ ^^'"^^ '^^^ --^--s liedipf, / l"""^ ^P*^^- Upon the whole the genera ^edies recommended by him and the other Arabians afe littleMAD DOGS. [book v. 1(52 Comm. difPerent from those of tlie Greeks, especially of Dioscorides, "—'—' who is the great authority upon theriacs. Haly Abbas allows bleeding when the poison is distributed over the body, and like the others also, makes mention of cup- ping with heat and of amputation. He also joins in the gene- ral praise of the theriac. Alsaharavius recommends strong ligatures, cupping, and, in urgent cases, amputation. He also approves of applying the bodies of hens still warm. Serapion approves of bleeding under the same circumstances as the others, and of the same general treatment that they recommend. Rhases recommends sucking and cupping the wound, and the application of stimulant di-essings, such as a plaster consisting of mustard, lime, and pitch. He, and most of the ancient authorities on toxicology, recom- mend salt as an appUcation to the wound. Most of them also join Dioscorides in recommending the application of caustic leys. They also in general direct us to prevent sleep. The ligature to prevent absorption is recommended by Rhases, as it is in fact by most of the ancient authorities. As a matter of course all of them speak highly of the theriac, and acquiesce in Galen's celebrated eulogy upon its vu-tues. (Ad Pison. u, 457, ed. Basil.) . The Arabian authorities notice cursorily the treatment ot poi- soned weapons of war, more especiaUy of the Armenian arrows Galbanum and assafoetida administered internally, and apphed to the wounds in various forms, are the two articles which are most generally approved of by them. They also recommeml sucking th? wound, as in other cases of poisoning by a wound. (See further, B. vi, 88.) SECT. 111. ON PERSONS BITTEN BY MAD DOGS, AND ON HYDROPHOBIA. We have placed the account of persons bitten by mad^ogs before all the others because these animals are numerous and domestic, and are frequently seized with madness ; because the complaint is difficult to guard against, and the danger mevita, ble unless one have recourse to many and suitable remedies.SECT. III.] MAD DOGS. 163 Dogs for the most part become mad during violent heat, but also, as Lycus says, sometimes in extreme cold. When mad they shun drink and food, for they are thirsty but do not drink, and for the most part they pant, hang their ears, and emit much frothy saliva. GeneraUy they utter no sounds, and ai-e as it were delirious, so that they do not recognize persons with whom they are familiar. Wherefore they attack equaUy without bai'king aU animals, whether wild beasts or men, and bite them. Their bite at first occasions nothing disagreeable except the pain of the wound; but afterwards it brings on the affection called hydrophobia, which makes its attack with con- vulsions, redness of the whole body, but especially of the coun- tenance, sweatmg, and anxiety; and those affected shun water when they see it, and some every fluid that is presented to them. Some bark like dogs and bite those who approach them and so domg they occasion the same affection. The cause of the other symptoms is obvious, being occasioned by the poison affecting aU the parts, but as to the dread of water some have said that It IS occasioned by inordinate dryness, as if the whole ! fluids of the body had undergone a change. But Ruffus has ) pronounced it to be a species of melancholy which affects them ithe poison putting on the nature of that humour in like man- mer as we know other melancholic persons dreading some one <tlung and some another; which reason accords also with those ^who say that they think they see the image of the dog that bit them m the water. Of persons falling into this affection we Iknow none who has been saved, except that we have learned tthe histones of one or two cases, and these were of persons who ^ad been bitten, not by a mad dog, but by some person who ttiad been bitten and imparted the disease to them. But before the affection has made its attack many, even of those who have toeen bitten by a dog, have been saved. Wherefore we must begin Jhe treatment from thence. And since often from the attack of rfxydrophobia having not yet come on (for most commonly it comes .on about the fortieth day, and in some cases after six months, nay, instances are related of its coming on after seven years,) some iiipposmg that the dog who inflicted the bite was not mad, and making haste to heal up the wound have thereby given rise to Ihe complaint. By the foUowing experiment you may ascer- »ain whether the bite was inflicted by a mad dog or not: Pound164 MAD DOGS. [book v. walnuts carefully and apply them to the wound, and next day take and present them for food to a cock or hen. At first indeed he will not touch them, but if he is compelled by hun- ger to eat of them, observe, for if the dog that inflicted the bite was not mad, then the fowl will live, but if mad he will die next day; and then you must hasten to open the wound, and after a few days repeat the same experiment; and when the fowl does not die you may bring the wound to cicatrization, inasmuch as the patient is then freed from danger. Oribasius recommends this experiment: If from the symptoms which we have mentioned we know for certain that the dog is mad, we must have recourse to medicines for lajdng open the sore, the principal of which is that from pitch, very acrid vinegai', and opoponax, which is described accurately in the section on the wounds of nervous parts. But if the person who has been bitten has a tender skin, it is to be diluted with oil of iris, of balsam, or the like ; or having first fomented the sores, apply a cataplasm of garhc. This also forms eschars. A dry escha- rotic for persons bitten by mad dogs : Of fossile salts, dr. viij ; of chalcitis, dr. xvj; of squills, dr. xvj ; of green rue, dr. iv; of scraped verdigris, di-. iv; of the seed of horehound, dr. j ; use it at first di-y that it may form an eschar, and then with rose-oil that the eschars may fall off. Keep the parts from cicatrizing for forty-two days at least. A cataplasm for persons bitten by mad dogs, which keeps the mouth of the wound open : Apply a cataplasm of onions with salts and rue, or of laser- wort with salts, or of old pickle, or of the cinders of burnt wood with oil, or of garlic, or apply the leaves of the elder tree, or mint, or baum, each with salts, or walnuts with onions, salts and honey, or the ashes of figs mixed with cerate. Wash the sore with a decoction of camomile in water, and the root of the wild dock. But some burn the sore with heated irons. They ought in the first place to get draughts of simple things, sucli as buckthorn, wormwood, the juice of laserwort, germander, the water germander, and poley. These are compound apphca- tions • Of river crabs, of the shoots of the white vine burnt m a vessel of copper or bronze two spoonfuls, of gentian root tri- turated one spoonful, give to drink fox- forty days with two cyathi of old undiluted wine. Some add two spoonfuls of t e blood of the partridge. The crabs are to be taken when tlie III'^^"f- MAD DOGS. ' jg^ moon is on the increase before sun-rising. But to those who do not drmk it every day give a double doze, and sometimes a triple. And the theriac from vipers maybe given with advan- tage. The patient is to be purged with the preparation from the wild cucumber, which is to be given every day with the de- coction of sage, or with the Heraclean ironwort, which is also caUed alysson. Some also give the hver of the dog that inflicted the bite to eat. Such a diet is to be given as blunts and ex- itinguishes the power of the poison, and at the same time pre- vents It from being carried deeper into the system. Both these ends m^y be accomplished by drinking old sweet wine that is both undiluted and strong, or milk, and in like manner by eat- ing garhc, onions, and leeks. But if from some hinderance at the commencement the remedies which we have described have Ibeen neglected, scarification, cupping, or burning the wound, rnmst not be had recourse to, because the poison has alread; ^been carried to the deep-seated parts; but we must use the rremedies called metasyncritica, that is to say, when the attack l^T^T-" 1 ' ""f '""^^ ^^'S^S ^ith hiera and .divided milk IS also to be had recourse to, with sudorifics; and •.calefacient plasters, and sinapisms are to be applied to ;very «art of the body. But the most effectual of all remedies is a *<3om-se of hellebore frequently repeated. CoMMEXTAKY. Aristotle is the first author who mentions Comm. lydrophobia, but his account of it is remarkably incorrect, if ^ he text be not connipted. He says, all animals that are bit- Z ll ! If r ^ '''^^ ^^'^^'^ '^oept man; that the disease proves fatal to all animals but man. (H A m Z^.) But see the Annotations of Schneider. (1. c.) Ovid iserse": '''"'' ""'^ hydrophobia among the incurable " Tollere nodosam nescit medicina podagrani, Nec formidatis auxiliatur aquis."-^*. Ponto, i, 3, 24. Celsus, also, was well aware of the fatal nature of tlie disease, npl 1"^ '"^^^^ tlie patient un^ ^pectedly into the cold bath, after which, to prevent convul- 'ons, he 18 to be put into warm oil. He also approves of I iI ICG MAD DOGS. L^ook v. Comm. giving undiluted wine. As a preventive of the disease he directs ^ the wound to be cauterized, (v, 27.) Pliny in lilce manner reckons the disease dangerous, and mentions heUebore as a remedy for it. (H.N. viii, 63 ; xxix, 32.) But without doubt the best account of hydrophobia con- tained in any ancient author is that given by Cselius AureUanus. We shall now give a short abstract of it. He says the disease may be produced not only by the bite, but likewise by the breath of a rabid dog. This fact is mentioned by other au- thorities, such as Aret^us (Morb. Acut. vii), and Vegetms (Mulo Med. iii, 84); and it is confirmed by modern wiiters, as Gokel, Lister, Rhazouz, and others. He also relates the case of a sempstress who fell into the disease from having sewed a robe which had been torn by a mad dog. Similar cases are related by Hildanus and Heister. He hkewise states, what is confirmed by the Arabian authorities, and also by modern experience, that the disease may be brought on by the bite ot wolves, bears, leopards, horses, and asses. He mentions the case of a person in whom it was occasioned by a wound inflicted with the spurs of a cock while fighting. Sometimes, too, he adds, it arises in the human subject without any manifest cause, which also is confirmed by modern experience. We once saw the horror of water in a case of Phrenitis He mentions a siii- gtilar case of hydrophobia in a child which was affected with a horror of its mother's breast. His description of the symp- toms, if compared with modern descriptions for example tha ™n by Dr Goden in Hufeland's ' JournaV Jan. 1B16), will be found in every respect complete and accurate. Thus C^hus savs that the pulse is densus, parvus, inordmatus, and Godeu found it intermittent and ii-regular. C^elius says there is a frequent desire of making water, which Goden ^und to be a constant attendant of the disease. Ca^lius thought that th stomach is more deranged than any other part, and Goden is of opinion that the splanchnic nerves are pai-ticul«i'ly aflected. In short, C^lius maintained that it is an incendium nervom.^ and it appears from him that some of the ancient authorities beUeved S an inflammatory affection, and treated it by blecd- Lg He treats it upon much the same principles as Tetanu. that is to say, his great object seems to have been to remove illiSECT. III.] MAD DOGS. 167 constriction, and with this view he recommends friction with tepid oil, venesection, and all remedies of a relaxant natui-e. He also directs us to administer clysters of tepid water and oU • and proposes to quench the thirst by forcing a cooling injec- tion up to the stomach; for which purpose pressure with the hands is to be applied externally. He makes mention of the internal administration of heUebore, but disapproves of it. The use of white hellebore, however, is favorably mentioned by Aetius (vi, 24), by Actuarius (Meth. Med. vi, 11), by Theom- nestus (Geopon. xix, 3), by Dioscorides (ii, 3), by Alexander IraUian (i, 15), and by Avicenna (iv, 6, 9.) Galen, in his work on 'Antidotes,' gives prescriptions for several compositions of this sort for the prevention and cure of hydi-ophobia; and mentions the disease incidentally in several parts of his works, but has nowhere given any description of It. Dioscorides' account of the symptoms, and his plan of treatment ai-e nearly the same as our author's. He strongly recommends the cautery. The external application of the cautery is also commended by Celsus, Galen, PHny, Scribonius Largus, Aetius, Actuarius, JNonnus, Avicenna, Rhases, and Alsaharavius. See a good account of hydrophobia in Haly Abbas (Theor. viu, 20); and in Alsaharavius (Pract. xxx, 2, 30.) None of the ancient authorities insists with so much earnestness as Haly Abbas on the necessity of applying strong stimulants to the wound, namely, the most acrid vinegar, copperas, and the hke so as to keep up a discharge from it for a considerable time! Rhases is a strong advocate for bleeding when the poison is distributed over the system. (Cont. xxxv.) Perhaps Alexander Aphrodisiensis is correct in stating that 1 the disease m the dog is a species of fever. (Problem.) There is a sensible account of hydrophobia in a ' Fragment' of an anonymous Greek author, published in Bernard's 'Re- lliquiie. The complaint is said to arise either from the bite of «a dog, or from humours engendered in the body. It is cor- irectly stated that persons affected with it dread all liquids, so tthat at the bare mention of them they start up with a scream, ttrembhng, cold sweats, and chattering of the teeth. Among rather things cold applications over the stomach and chest are nrecommendcd.[book v. WASPS AND BEES. 168 SECT. IV. FOE THE BITES OF DOGS THAT ARE NOT MAI). On tlie bites of dogs that are not rabid, as even in this case they possess some poisonous quality, immediately sprinkle some vinegar, and strike the bite with your hand spread out, and then having rubbed nitre with vinegar, pour it from above upon the part. Afterwards, having soaked a new piece of sponge in vinegar or in the vinegar and nitre, apply it for three days, and moisten it; for it will effect a complete cui'e. Or apply the flour of tares mixed with oil, or new sponge, or unwashed wool soaked in vinegar and oil may be apphed; or triturate the leaves of bram- ble with vinegar, and apply; or onions triturated with honey, or equal parts of the hair of marjoram, of salt, and of onions with honey ; or black horehound, which they also call ballotes, with salts. When the bites have already suppurated, apply the flour of tares mixed with honey, for it is particularly apph- cable. When they are inflamed anoint with litharge triturated with water. Comm. COMMENTARY. See Rhases (ad Mansor. viii, 9; Cont. xxxv); Haly Abbas (Pract. iv, 28) j Alsaharavius (Pract. xxx, 3, 31). Haly adopts the treatment laid down by our author. Alsaharavius recommends a composition of fat, wax, pitch, and galbanum. SECT. V. ON WASPS AND BEES. Those who have been stung by bees experience pain, red- ness, and swelling in the wound, the surrounding parts become tumefied, and the sting remains in the wound ; and those stung by wasps experience all the other symptoms, and that in an aggravated degree, only the sting does not remain. Both cases are remedied by rubbing the parts with clay, or cow's dung, or with the juice of figs, or with the tritiu-ated leaves of sycamore, or of mallows ; or by applying a cataplasm of barley flour mixed with vinegar. Foment also with brine or sea- water.^'i-] PHALANGIA. Igg Commentary. See a similar plan of treatment recom- mended by Aetius, Dioscorides, Nonnus, and Eliases. Simeon Seth recommends the decoction of mallows, which appears to have been a domestic remedy generally used in such cases. See also Geopon. (xii, 12); and Pliny (H. N. xx). Virgil alludes to this practice ma passage which has been often misunderstood (Georg. IV, 230.) Haly Abbas recommends cold water or snow' also Ai-meman earth with vinegar, and other appHcations of the same nature. (Pract. iv, 34.) Alsaharavius mentions the same remedies as Haly, but expresses himself sceptical as to their efficacy. (Pract. xxx, 2, 29.) Rhases, among other applications mentions a composition of camphor and vinegar; and another contaimng- opmm, henbane, and camphor, to be used along with a cloth moistened in snow-water. The Arabian winters on hus- bandly also recommend the composition from maJlows and oil as a preservative of the face and hands from the stings of bees and wasps. (Casiri, Bibl. Arab. Hisp. 335.) SECT. VI.—ON THE PHALANGIA, OR VENOMOUS SPIDERS. When a person has been bitten by a phalangion the part -Itself appears red, and as if pricked by a sharp-pointed instru- .ment, but it does not swell, nor is it very wai^m, but it is mo- . derately red, cold, and itchy. Those who have been stung ex- ipenence a great sense of cold, trembling, heaviness of the body B-a cold sweat, constant pain, paleness, and a perpetual desire to rmake waterj m some cases there are dysuria, erection of the .?emtal member, humid eyes, and spasmodic distension about :he groms and thighs, a violent gnawing pain of the stomach, .OSS of taste m the tongue, vomiting of water, or of substances tesemblmg webs, and sometimes these substances are discharged ny the urine or bowels. By going into hot water they are .reed rom pam, but the pain returns again with violence. They relieved by the application of the ashes of figs mixed with .alts tnturated m wine, or of the pounded root of the wild 'omegranate. or of birthwort with barley flour mixed .vith wiegar. Bathe the ulcers with hot sea-water, or with the eecoct.on of baum, the leaves of which may also be applied recourse must also be had frequently to baths, and potionsPHALANGIA. 170 [book v. composed of these things^ the seed of southernwood, dill, birth- wort, wild chick-peas, Ethiopian cumin, pounded cedar-berries, the bark of the plane tree, the seed of the herb trefoil, the fruit of tamarisk; give two drachms of each of these with one hemina of wine, or a decoction of the green parts of cypress, or of its balls mixed with wine. Some say that the river crab when reduced to juice, with milk, and the seed of parsley, and given, removes the mischief. Comm. COMMENTARY. Nicander describes several species of pha- '-^'^—' langia, whose bites occasion a variety of symptoms, such as a cold horror, tremblings of the limbs, and in some instances tension of the genital members. On the phalangia, see Aris- totle (Hist. Anim. ix, 39); Xenophon (Memorab. i, 3); Pliny (H. N. xix, 9, and xxix, 27); ^han (H. A. xvii, 11); Soliuus (Polyhist. xvii); Phile. (66). The distinction between the phalangia and common spiders is thus stated by Humelbergius: "Araneorum prim^ divisione duo genera simt, unum eorum qui innoxii sunt quos Grseci arachnas, Latini araneos dicunt, quorum etiam a Dioscoride duo genera recensentur, unum quod holcon et lycon vocat, alterum vero dicit esse quod Candidas, tenues et densas telas operetur. Alterum genus est eorum qui noxii sunt, quos et Grseci et Latini phalangia vocant." (Ap^^d Apuleium.) Similar modes of treatment to that of our author are re- commended by Dioscorides (vi, 42); Celsus (v, 27); Nonnus (270); Aetius (xiii, 16); Actuarius (Meth. Med. vi, 10); Haly Abbas (Theor. viii, 22); and Alsaharavius (Pract. xxx, 2, 26). Sprengel allows that there is considerable difficulty in determining the nature of the ancient phalangia. He attempts, however, to refer the different species described by Nicander to their proper names in the Linnsean classification. (Comment, in Dioscoridem.) Many modem authorities, for example, Gesner, Baglivi, and Andreas Laurentius, have held that the Tarantula, so famous in the annals of the Dancing Mania, was a species of the phalan- gium. See farther Hecker's Epidem. 113. This seems to be confirmed by Rhases calUng a species of the phalangium by the name of tarantula (Contin. xx and xxii); and, indeed,SECT. VIII.] THE SPIDER. I7I Ai-dyen seems to settle the question that the tarantula is a Comm. species of the phalangia. (De Venen. viii, 5.) >—' SECT. VII. ON THE BITE OF THE SPIDER. There is also a kind of spider, the sting of which occasions intense pains about the middle of the hypochondrium, diffi- culty of making water, erythema, and sometimes convulsions. Those who are stung by such animals, are relieved by the Theban wild cumin, the seed of the chaste-tree, and by draughts from the leaves of the white poplar, or by applying garhc alone, and taking full draughts of undiluted wine. Commentary. For the sting of the spider, Celsus recom- Comm. mends garlic mixed with rue and pounded in oil (vi 27 ) See also PHny (H. N. xxix, 27); Haly Abbas (Pract. iv' 35)'- Alsaharavius (Pract. xxx, 2, 24). SECT. VIII. ON THE STING OF THE SCORPION. When one has been stung by a scorpion, the part imme- , diately begins to inflame, becoming hard, red, tense, and painful, bemg seized at one time with heat, and at another with cold; and when pain is an attendant symptom, it has remissions and exacerbations. These symptoms are followed by sweatmg, a sense of shivering, trembling, coldness of the extremities, tumour of the groins, and erection of the genital member: sometimes there is a discharge of flatus by the anus with a loud noise, and horripHation, and a painful discoloration on the skin, the pain resembhng the prick of a needle. These are immediately relieved by having the juice of the fig poured mto the wounds, and the scorpion which stung the person may be pounded and appUed to the bite; afterwards salts triturated with hnseed and the seed of marshmaUows may be appHed. Native sulphur, mixed with rosin or turpentine, is also of ser- ^vice; and in like manner, galbanum, spread out into the 'Shape of an oblong pledget and applied, or calamint pounded »and apphed; and crude barley-flour prepared in ^nne and the172 THE SCORPION. [book v. decoction of rue ; and in like manner the pounded seed of tlio herb trefoil may be applied with advantage. They may also take propomata containing two drachms of birthwort, more particularly of its bark with wine; or gentian pounded, or pennyroyal properly boiled, and ten bay-berries bruised, and calamint long boiled with oxycrate, and cyperus with wine; and in hke manner, rue, the juice of the fig, and laserwort, if at hand; but otherwise we must use the Parthian juice. The fruit of trefoil and the seed of basil-royal may be taken in a draught with advantage. Silver immediately applied to the wound has a wonderful effect. The benefit of all these may be increased by the frequent use of the bath, copious perspira- tions, and drinking strong or dduted wine. The following compound propomata may be taken : Of sulphur vivum to the size of an Egyptian bean, with eight grains of pepper in half a hemina of wine, or the juice of laserwort triturated with crabs in wine, or equal parts of gith, Ethiopian cumin, and the seeds of the chaste-tree in wine. For severe stings of scorpions and j)halangia. Of the lees of wine, dr. xvi; of pellitory, dr. iv; of the seed of wild rue, dr. iij ; of castor, of the seeds of rocket, of each, dr. ij; let them be mixed with the blood of the sea-tortoise. The dose is four oboli with wine, or three cyathi of unmixed vinegar.—Another: Of pellitory, of birthwort, of each, oz. iv; of pepper, dr. ij; of the juice of the laserwort, dr. j. The dose is the size of an Egyptian bean. Commentary. Nicander describes several species of the ' scorpion. The white, he says, is innoxious. The red occa- sions a fiery heat with restlessness and great thirst. The black brings on inquietude, delirium, and laughter. The green occasions chilliness with horror. The symptoms superinduced bv the other species are also detailed. (See Theriac. 775.) iElius Promotus gives a very circumstantial description of the effects produced by the sting of the different species of scorpions, but it would appear to be mostly taken from Galen aud other Greek authorities. On the nature of the scorpion, see further, Pliny (H. N. xi, 25); and ^lian (vi, 20.) On the medical treatment, see in parti culai' Dioscorides (vi, 44) ; Aetius (xiii, 19) ; Nonnus (269); Actuarius (Meth. Med.SECT, vm.] THE SCORPION. J73 vi 10); Celsus (v,27); Rhases (ad Mansor. yiii, 3); Haly Abbas (Iheor. vm, 22, and Pract. iv, 33); Alsabaravius (Pract. xxx 2, 20); Avicenna (iv, vi, 5.) Galen ^ves a vai-iety of prescriptions for the composition of anhdotes for the cui-e of persons stung by scorpions. The following one may be taken as a specimen of them- Of birth wort, dr iv; of pepper, dr. ij; of opinm, dr. j; of pellitory, di. iv; form mto trochisks of the size of an Egyptian bean and give to swallow along with two cyathi of undiluted wine! (Ue Antidot. 11.) Rhases gives another receipt of Galenas for the stmg of the scorpion, viz. equal parts of opium and of the seed of henbane given with honey. (Contin. xx 24) On the use of venesection for the cure of the sting of the scorpion Celsus says, Cognovi tamen medicos qui ab scorpione ictis nihil ahud quam ex brachis sanguinem miserunt." Rhases has pointed out the proper time and circumstances which require venesection: "When you have administered the theriac,'and the pain has subsided, if fever supervene, bleed the patieit on the following day in the morning, and give him barley-water aand diluent food.^^ The symptoms as detailed by HatyAbba .are pam, swelhng, hardness, and inflammation, which occa ^onaUy snperinduce asphyxy and epUepsy. He direct a J^gature to be put immediately around the member, and a ^raised scorpion to be applied to the wound. He abo men! tos cataplasms with oHve oil, and recommends the internal Mse of wine either alone or with garhc. The treatment as given frr" • ' ^''^ Dioscorides, Aetius, Haly Ittt'cw'^^^™^ ^"^^^^^ ^--^^ ^0 mention^ The veterinaiy surgeons recommend bleedin'g, scarifications S,er .-L™ (H-'- de la Med.) Coruad .«ner gives a very elaborate dissertation on them. The T:!^:7"-'' ™' -"™ous. The AMean, howev " a very dangerous reptile. The inhabitants of Moroeeo a^ :f *'"^ '-S"'--. caute^and ! y""'^'"! '""■y °f " '^^'^i scorpion to the wound. See .ckson's Morocco (108). The AraMan authorities describe I174 [book v. SCOLOPENDRA. Comm. higUy venomous species of scorpion, whicli they call scorpius >—' rastellans, carrareti, and algreta. See in particular Khases, Haly Abbas, and Alsaharavius, SECT. IX. ON THE LAND AND SEA SCOLOPENDRA. When one is bitten by a scolopendra the general symptoms are lividity of the parts around tlie bite, and swelling; some- times it is of a feculent appearance, and sometimes, though rarely, red; and a painful and ill-conditioned ulcer takes place, beginning with the part that is bitten; and in addition to these, there is a sensation of pruritus over the whole body. Those bitten by the sea scolopendra in particular have a watery and transparent swelling, whereas that occasioned by the land scolopendra is red. It is proper therefore to apply to the wound pounded salts, or levigated rue, or ashes mixed with vinegar, or squills. Bathe the part with vinegar and brine; but Archigenes directs it to be done with much hot oil, and thus to apply the things formerly mentioned; and to administer potions containing birthwort with wine, or wild thyme, or calamint, or wild rue, or trefoil, or the juice of the root of asphodel to the amount of half a hemina with wine. CoMM Commentary. Nicander says, that the scolopendi-a has two heads, and walks in both directions upon its many feet. Avicenna admits that he was wholly unacquainted with it. See in particular ^han (H. A. iv, 23; and vii, 35.) Our author and Actuarius copy almost every word fi-om Diosco- rides. See also Aetius (xiii,15); Nonnus (273); Alsahai-aAaus (Pract. XXX, 2, 23); Avicenna (iv, vi, 3.) Avicenna caUs them, saculufudurni; and Alsaharavius, alhatrabay. Alsaharavius approves of wine with birthwort, rue, mint, &c., internally; and of salt, with honey, vinegar, &c., externaUy. The Pseudo- Dioscorides recommends salt with vernix, pitch, and honey. (Euporist. ii, 131 •) We need have no hesitation in deciding with Sprengel and the other authorites on this subject, that the land scolopendra is the scolopendra morsitans, and the sea, the aphrodite oculeata, L.SECT. XI.] SPOTTED LIZARD. 175 SECT. X. ON THE STELLIO OR SPOTTED LIZARD. Those bitten by the spotted lizard experience intense pain and Hvidity of the part, but are reKeved by the immediate appHcation of cataplasms consisting of onions and garHc to the wound; and some by eating these things and drinking undi- luted wine have been cured. Commentary. That the galeotes and ascalabotes are but different names for the same animal is evident from Aristophanes (Nubes, 170, et seq.); and from the SchoKast's note on Mean- der (Ther. 484.) PHny says of the steUio: «Hunc Gr^ci coloten vocant et ascalaboten." (H. N. xxix, 28) On the stelho, see further Bochart (Hieroz. ii, 510); Harris (Nat. Hist ot the Bible, m the word spider); and Dr. Martya on Virgil (Georg. IV, 244.) AU agree that it was a kind of lizard In short It IS the lacerta stellio, L. A learned modern authority says It IS venomous in Greece, but innocuous in Sicily He describes it as resembling the lizard in shape, and the chams- leon m nature. (Agricola de Anim. Subterran.) Dioscorides does not treat of the stelHo. Aetius recommends veiy nearly the same treatment as our author, (xiii 12) A^^cenna and Rhases direct us to get the wound sucked, to I put the patient into a warm bath and administer the theriac. Ihe barbae of Avicenna is probably only a species of the stellio. Alsahaya and alvesghe of Alsaharavius seem to have been ttwo species of steUio. (Pract. xxx, 2, 27.) He approves of the .same treatment as that recommended by Avicenna and Rhases. sect. XI.-—on the mus araneus or shrew-mouse. fcn«Z^'° shrew-mouse, throbbing pains supervene, eiythema of evexy part pierced iy a tooth! .blisters along the skin filled with an ichorous fluid, and all the jurroundmg parts are Hvid; and if the skin be stripped off from the bhster, the ulcer appears white, owing to the skin being com into nervous membranes. In addition to these symptoms! khe mortified parts drop off, the disease extending like a176 SHREW-MOUSE. [book v. spreading ulcer; and besides tormina supervene, with dysuria and the discharge of a cold fluid. They are relieved by the application of galbanum in the form of an oblong pledget, by itself, or triturated with vinegar, or of barley-flour mixed up with oxymel. And the shrew-mouse itself which inflicted the bite may be torn in pieces and applied, and pelhtory may be applied, or the boiled rind of the sweet pomegranate, or wild mallows, or pounded garlic, or mustard triturated with vinegar; and the parts may be bathed with warm brine, and then a cataplasm of burnt barley with vinegar may be apphed. They may take propomata of southernwood boiled in wine, or sisym- brium, or wild thjTue, or rocket, or galbanum, or sage, or the tender balls of cypress mth oxymel, or pelhtory with wine, or the root of chameleon, or the rennet of a kid or of a lamb, or gentian root, or vervain. These things may also be adminis- tered in the form of a cataplasm. But some give in a potion the shrew-mouse itself that inflicted the bite, having triturated it with wine. This one also is effectual: Of myrrh, di\ vj; of the bark of birthwort, dr. iv. To the bites of the shrew-mouse and of the scolopendra apply salts with hquid pitch, or cedar- rosin with honey, or garlic with the leaves of the fig-tree and cumin, or the leaves of calamint, or barley with vinegar. CoMMENTAEY. Nicaudcr says that the bite of the blind Mns araneus is mortal. Our author's plan of treatment is taken from Dioscorides. Oribasius recommends garlic and cumin, mixed with oil. (De Morb. Curat, iii, 70.) Aetius says that the Mus araneus is an animal resembling the weasel. His plan of treatment is similar to our author's, (xiii, 14.) Isodorus says of it: "Mus araneus, cujus morsu aranea moritur, est in Sardinia animal perexiguum, araneee formd, quae solifuga dicitur, eo quod diem fngiat." (Orig. xii, 3.) Vegetius, the veterinary surgeon, recommends garlic pounded with nitre, or with salt and cumin. (Mulom. iii, 82.) See also ColumeUa (vi, 17); and ^lian (H. A. ii, 37.) Most of the Arabians treat of this case in the same terms as the Greeks. ■ Without doubt it is the sorix araneus, L. The accounts ^ which the ancients give of its venomous qualities are said ' " Buffon and Sprengel to be exaggerated. Probably Agrv^^CT. xii.] VIPERS. J 77 states the matter correctly when he says, that the mus araneus Comm IS venomous in wai'm cHmates, but innocent in cold. In size ^"-"^ he says, it is nearly equal to a small weasel. (De Anim Subter) SECT. XII. ON VIPERS AND ECHIDNA. When persons have been bitten by the viper or echidna, or some such venomous animal, pain supervenes, at first of the part wluch has been bitten, but afterwards of the whole body In the bite there appear two perforations at a little distance from one another, from which there is a discharge of blood and ichorous fluid, and afterwards of an oily one, but in aU cases of a poisonous fluid, which they affirm to be the poison of the reptiles SweUing comes on around the wound, which is reddish and hvid; there is paleness of the whole body, vertigo and resolution of the stomach, deHquium animi, and in some ceases bihous vomitings and dysuria. Around the bite blisters aanse, as from burning with fire, the disease spreads by extend- r!bl r'^'^f P""'"' ^'^^Se blood. ITrembhng, heavy sleep, and a cold perspiration succeed these .pnptoms. Those bitten by the echidna appear to escape S eless danger than those by the viper, and of these they run^he "'^ I . r '^^'^ food. In treating them ^he most effectual remedy is eating garlic and drinking wine, so ■hat If one can endure this course he wiU not stand in need of any I cie""s?- ''''' ^^^^^^ «^ -rid lie follo^ P^^P^^^d to eat. lie foUowmg things are effectual, each of which may be taken nth wme : the dned blood of the sea tortoise with wHd cum^ T^^l f '.^"^ ' ~t of three oboH a Z^TrlL «^ - «tag, a whole alkanet Z '-""^'f «ome apply as an amulet. la like aanner the jmce of leeks, to the amount of half a hemina in ZelrS leaves, wild rue, tht b^l; of «^shc fowls, the root of panacea boiled in wine, one drachm ^, the seed of the chaste tree, two drachms of dried weasel, ae root and juice of vipers' bugloss, river and sea crabs alone with stavesacre, salts and poley, the root of birthwort with 12178 VIPERS. [boost. equal parts of myrrh, gentian, and bay-berries mixed with honey. The following is an admirable remedy of Oribasius for persons bitten by vipers : Of anise, an acetabulum; of pepper, dr. iv; of the bark of birthwort, of opium, of castor, and of myrrh, of each, dr. y, triturate with must, and form to the size of a Grecian bean, and give according to the patient's strength in three cyathi of diluted wine.—Another, from the works of Lycus, a medicine for the bites of vipers : Of myrrh, of castor, of pepper, of purslain, of each, dr. j; of the seed of dill, an acetabulum; triturate in must, and give.—Another, from the works of Archigenes: Pound carefully twenty crabs with a sufficient quantity of wheaten flour in a mortar, and having mixed some calamint and salt with it, form trochisks of it, and dry. Use in a cataplasm with milk, and give one in a draught with honied water. But, says he, if you have not river-crabs, use sea-crabs. Goat's dung appHed externally to the wound with wine is a powerful remedy; or bay-leaves boiled with oil, or bay-berries, or calamint, heath, rue, parsley, southernwood, galbauum on a pledget, green marjoram pounded; also young fowls torn in pieces, and applied warm and frequently changed, the flour of tares mixed with wine, the pounded bark of radish, boiled squHls, raw barley-flour in oxymel, the leaves of the wild cucumber with fine polenta, the lees of wine in hke manner with fine polenta, rue with salts and honey, bran boiled m vinegar, ashes with vinegar, cedar-pitch with salts, liquid pitch with salts Bathe also with the decoction of trefoU, or of penny- royal or with vinegar and brine. When the blisters become bloody let out their contents without taking off the skin, then bathe with much water, and apply a cataplasm of boiled lentils with honey tiU the cure is completed. The antidote of vipers is particularly efficacious, both when taken in a draught and appHed externally. CoMM Commentary. Most of the ancient authorities appear to have considered the echidna the female viper; but, as mil be seen below, there is reason to suppose that it was a different species altogether. It is the colubra of Celsus. (y, 27, 6.) Our author's description of the symptoms is closely copied from Nicander, who also recommends similax treatment. Dioscorides in like manner directs us to give wine, and variousSECT, xn.] VIPERS. articles of an acrid and calefacient nature, such as garKc Comm onions, pepper, squills, &c. Archigenes (ap. Aetium, xifi, ^ affirms that eating garlic and drinking undiluted wine con- stitute the most effectual part of the treatment. Of course these things were given upon general principles with the view of supporting the strength and vital heat. Hence it may be miderstood whythe ancients reposed so much confidence in the thenac of Andi-omachus, most of the ingredients of which were stimulant, acnd, and calefacient substances. The body of the viper, which entered into this famous composition, is said by a modern authority on the Materia Medica, Moses Charras to .contain a certain volatile oil. (See Book VII, sec. ii, of ihis ^ A^cenna delivers his plan of treatment at great length, enu- mow be easily determmed. His general principles, however sseem to have been much the same as those of our author He r^ecommends in the first place the ligature, and cupping with scarifications. Wine and the theriac are to be given unless CO be bled. (IV, 6.) In another place he praises the juice of Khe citron as a remedy against the sting of the viper. Haly ^Vbbas recommends immediate amputation of the part when this ss practicable, and otherwise directs us to apply a ligature around ^, to make scarifications, and use stimulant applications, such ^ onions, leeks, &c. Like most of the other authorities, he ^ommends the theriac, and wine, with other stimulants, such - pepper, birthwort, bay-bemes, &c. In certain cas s he U.0 approves of bleeding. (Pract. iv, 32.) Alsaharavius re ommends cuppmg, the ligature, and in short nearly the same Uan of treatment as Haly. (Pract. xxx, 2 18) Garhc was used in common cases as a substitute for the ^h^'er ad pZ^' Z ^) ' ™^ (^0); Galen , e m^lP J^r*Iw^' f^t^l copulation of d .per, are probably fabulous. (See De Pauw, apud Phile.) .ae latter story is told by Aristotle (H. A. v, 10); iEHan (i 50) • .pp.an (Hal.i, 554); Pliny (ix, 23 , Athe'n Js'(vii); aSsAMPHISBJilNA. [book v. 180 Tatius i.) One of Atlieuseus's authorities, however, questions the truth of it. (Deipn. 1. c.) According to Sprengel, the Asiatic iy^'i^va is the coluber ^gyptius; the t^iq, probably the Cr ammodyfes; and-the European iy(l^va, the C. berus. (Gomment. in Dioscor.). It is clear, however, from Nicander's description of the viper, that the term 'iy^ig was apphed to a considerable variety of ve- nomous snakes. It must not then be supposed to apply in aU cases to the coluber ammodytes. It is also certain, as will be seen under their proper heads, that other serpents, to which specific names were given, such as the cerastes, the hsemorrhus, and the asp, were merely varieties of the vipera. The seps is not treated of by the Greek authorities on Tox- icology, except Nicander, but is briefly noticed by the Arabian under the name of famusus. Avicenna states that the treat- ment of the viper apphes to it. (iv. 6, 3, 48.) From the de- scription of it given by Nicander, it would appear to have been a variety of the hfemorrhus. (See Theriac, 320, with the Com- mentary of Eutecnius.) SECT. XIII. ON THE AMPHISBiENA AND SCYTALA. The same symptoms follow their bites, and the same reme- dies are applicable to them; therefore it is unnecessary to treat of them particularly. Commentary. Nicander says that the amphisbsena is a smaU serpent with two heads, and smaU eyes. The scytala, he says is like the amphisbsna, but thicker and larger towai-ds the 'tail Avicenna doubts whether the amphisbsena moves both ways. He says it is a serpent of equal thickness at both extremities, which probably gave rise to the supposition that it had two heads. He calls it a snake of the fragile nature which description evidently points to the blind-worm. (See fm-thev Matthiolus, Comment, in Dioscor.) We suppose tte altahban and alhnidia of Alsaharavius are the amphisbaena and scytala. rPvaPt XXX 2 19.) He recommends general treatment, namely, L I gatur;. 'cupping, scarifications, with cold -ter to drlni Sprengel inclines to think that the scytala was the181 ; SECT, xrv.] •• DRYINUS. eryx. He makes the amphisbsena to be the anguis fragilis, L.; Comm. Ihe questions, however, this accuracy of the ancient accounts irespecting its venomous qualities. (Notte in Dioscor.) But, lindeed, Aetius states distinctly that these serpents are not ve- momous,. and that their sting merely occasions inflammation like tthat of wasps and bees. (1; -c.) Meander also merely describes tthese serpents, and says nothing about their being venomous. SECT. XIV. ON THE DRYINUS. THE INTRODUCTION FROM GALEN, The dryinus, that lives at the roots of oaks, is so pernicious tnd destructive an animal, that if one tread on him he will ijxcoriate one's foot, and great sweUingwiU seize upon the whole limbs; and, what is more wonderful, they say that if one at- eempt to dress the wound, one's hands wiU be excoriated; and bhat if any person attempts in defence to kill the animal, he nmits such a stench as overpowers all other smells. When one aas been stung by the di-yinus, tumefaction of the part takes lilace with redness, and blisters on the surrounding parts, along nth a discharge of a watery ichor. These symptoms are fol- vwed by cardialgia and tormina. Birthwort given as a draught nth wme is serviceable in these cases, and the herb trefoH, and lie root of asphodel, taken in like manner, and the fruit of all 1 ads of oak triturated and taken in a draught. In like man- -r the roots of the ilex pounded and applied to the part are use. ' Commentary. Nicander says it is also called chelydros and Comm ^dros. He makes a distinction between the chelydros and ;3 chersydros,but subsequent authorities confound them toge- !er. (See below.) He says it inhabits lakes and marshy grounds, o^g upon locusts and frogs. Its back is black, and its 11 11- symptoms occasioned by its sting are livid •Jlimg, delirium, cutaneous pustules, dimness of vision, sup- hST l .T""^' ''°'^''' singultus, and vomiting of blood or bile. Ulaly Abbas calls it adresa, and says that it emits a fetid »ill, and brings on inflammatory redness with an aqueous dis- Tge from the wound. (Thcor. viii, 21.) Avicenna calls it[book v. 182 H^MORRHUS. Comm. kedusu duvus. {iv, 6, 3.) Isidorus says, " Chelydros serpens ' • ' qui et chersydros dicitur quia et in terris et in aquis moratur." (Origines.) VirgU translates Nicander's account of this serpent into verses of inimitable spirit and elegance. It will be remarked by the curious reader that be mixes up together circumstances col- lected from Nicander's separate descriptions of the chelydros and dryinus. (Georg. iii, 435.) Though critical emendation of the text of ancient authors be foreign to the design of this work, we cannot omit the present opportunity of stating that, from a comparison of the descriptions given by the Greek and Latin poets, we are inclined to think that the 434th line of Virgil should run thus : Saevit agris asperque siti atque extenitus oestro. This is founded upon the 417th line of Nicander's Theriacs. It seems to be the chersydros which Dante alludes to in the following verses: " Come le rane innanzi alia nemica Biscia per 1' acqua si dileguan tutte, Finch' alia terra ciascuna s' abbica." Inferno, canto ix. For an account of the hydrus, see the sixteenth section. According to Sprengel, the dryinus is the coluber lebetinus. (Not£e in Dios.) Agricola finds fault with Lucan for distinguishing the cher- sydros fi-om the hydms or natrix. He remarks that the boa is a species of hydrus. (De Anim. sub.) They are now gene- rally held to be different. See, however, our commentary on the sixteenth section. SECT. XV. ON THE HjEMORRHUS, PRESTER, OR DIPSAS. Those bitten by the hsemorrhus experience violent pains, and both longitudinal and lateral contractions of the porous parts of the body, occasioned by the persistence of the pains. From the bite there is a copious discharge of blood, and if there happen to be a sore on any part of the body it bursts out and discharges blood. The alvine evacuations likewise are bloody, and the; blood which is evacuated is thrombous. When they cough they5ECT. XT.] H.EMORRHUS. 183 bring up blood from the lungs, and they die at last vomiting blood irremediably. Those bitten by the dipsas experience intolerable heat and intense thirst which is insatiable and un- ceasing, so that they swallow copious draughts, and yet they feel as if they had never di-unk; and the whole system is affected, as in dropsy, owing to constant ingestion of drink. Hence the animal has been called prester, causon, and dipsas. By most of the ancients those bitten by the hsemorrhus and dipsas were given over as incurable. But if we have no particular remedies for this reptile we ought to make trial of the general applications, and immediately have recourse to scarifications and burning, and, if the part permit, to amputation of the ex- tremities. Then acrid cataplasms may be applied. All kinds of acrid food are also useful, especially that from pickles, drinking undiluted wine, and using baths. These things are to be appUed perseveringly, and repeated at short intervals, before the complaints make their attacks; for after they make their appearance no advantage can be derived from medical aid. We find these topical remedies described for their bites, namely, for those of the dipsas, the powdered leaves of purslain with vinegar, polenta, and bramble leaves powdered with honey, plan- tain, hyssop, white garhc, leeks, rue, and nettle; and for those of the hsemorrhus the same things, and, in addition, boiled vine leaves triturated with honey. By the mouth the burnt head of the animal itself may be taken in a draught, or garlic with ' oil of iris. They may likewise eat dried grapes. Commentary. According to Nicander,the hEemorrhus is Comm about a foot m length, of a black or fiery colour, with two horns on its head, and eyes like those of locusts. The symp- :toms brought on by its bite, as described by Nicander, appear |to have been very similar to those of the disease called purpura Ih^morrhagica, namely, a discharge of blood from the gums, mose, ears, bladder, bowels, or any open sore. iElian gives eexactly the same account of it. (H. A. xv, 13.) It appears from Dioscorides that the dipsas was also some- ftimes called prester and causon. (vi.) See also ^lian (H. A. m, 51.) Lucian and Isidorus, however, make a distinction be- tween the dipsas and prester. Lucian says that it resembles the viper de dipsadibus. In fact the dipsas seems to have[book v. 184 H^MOilRHUS. Comm. belonged to the viper kind. (See Bochart, Hieroz. ii, 367.) ■"-^^—' Galen states that he was informed by the Marsi, who made a living in Rome by dealing in serpents, that the dipsades were not a peculiar species of serpents, but a variety of the Aiper found on the sea-shores of Africa. (De Simpl. x.) Isidorus thus defines them: "Haemorrhois aspis nuncupatur,eo quod san- guinem sudet qui ab eo morsus fuerit: ita ut dissolutis venis, quicquid vitse est per sanguinem evocat." " Dipsas genus est aspidis quse Latine siiula quia quern memorderit siti perit." (Orig. xii, 4.) The effects produced upon the system by the sting of the dipsas seem to have been of a highly inflammatory nature. According to Nicander, it kindles a flame in the heart, the lips become paxched, and the person is seized with an un- quenchable thirst. These symptoms are strongly portrayed by Lucan: " Ecce subit virus taciturn, carpitque medullas Ignis edax, calidaque accendit viscera tabe. Ebibit humorem circum vitalia fusum Pestis, et in sicco linguam torrere palato Cacpit. .... Ille vel in Tanaim missus, Rhodanumque, Padumque, Arderet, Nilumque bibens per rura yagantem. Accessit morti Libye,/ac/zV** minorem Famam Dipsas habet terris adjuta perastis." Pharsal. ix, 754. The Arabians give a similar description of its effects. Haly Abbas says, that it occasions great heat and burning. Dioscorides treats the wounds of the dipsas and ha;morrhus upon general principles, namely, by the external application of cauteries and cataplasms; and the internal administration of wine and acrid food. Actuarius, in like manner, recommends undiluted wine and acrid food, and also directs us to amputate the part, or apply acrid cataplasms according to the degree of .danger. Most of the ancient authorities concur in recommending the theriac; for an account of the modus operandi of which in this case, see Alexander Aphrodisiensis (Prob. i, 152.) We may mention that, after considering the descriptions.; given by Nicander, his commentator Eutecnius, Galen, Actu- arius, and Avicenna, we are disposed to think that the text of * Sic lege non facdq.SECT. XVI.] HYDRUS. 185 oiir author at the beginning of this section must be corrupt • Comm but we have not ventured to deviate from it, as we could not hit upon a conjectural emendation to satisfy us. None of the others mention contractions of the interstices or porous parts of the body, and all state that there is a discharge of blood from the pores of the skin. Now it is not probable that our author should have omitted a symptom so striking as this cuta- neous hemoiThage, and substituted one which the others take uo notice of. Sprengel makes the dipsas to be the coluber prester and the luemorrhus the C. cerastes. That they were both vipers is (imte obvious from the ancient descriptions of them, and more especiaUy from the account of them given by Galen. (1. c.) SECT. XVI. ON THE HYDRUS, OR WATER SERPENT. When a person has been bitten by a water serpent, the rvound becomes broad, large, and pale, and a black, copious, L'lnd fetid discharge, as from a spreading ulcer, takes place, and I he cure of the mischief is accompHshed only after a length of lime and with difficulty. Wherefore powdered marjoram mxed with water is to be applied to their bites, or oak ashes nixed with oil, or barley-flour with melted honey is given to ;nnk, and birthwort to the amount of two drachms in diluted me or two cyathi of oxycrate; and afterwards the juice of .orehound, or its decoction with wine, or wild cresses, or the ^■uit of asphodel, or the flour or the seed of hog's fennel, with ine. A fresh honeycomb may also be eaten with vinegar. Commentary. This section is taken almost word for word Comm com Dioscorides. The chersydros, says Nicander, is like the ^ !P, and Its bite is followed by mahgnant symptoms. The iin about the wound becomes parched and putrid, along with «at and pams aU over the body. Isidorus says of it: <' Hy- cos aquatihs serpens a quo icti obturgescunt." (Orig. xii, I.) .e also Pbny (H. N. xxix, 22.) Haly Abbas says, it occa- 'ms Imdity of the part, from which a black fetid discharge cos place. (Theor. viii, 21.) liochart makes this to have been the serpent which so[book v. 186 CENCHRINUS. Comm. annoyed the children of Israel in the wUderness. (Hier. ii, 421.) According to Sprengel, it is the coluber natrix. (Notse in Dioscor.) Gesner and Dr. MiUigan make it to have been the coluber lutrix vel chersea, Tj. It is now generally held not to be venomous. We have alluded in our commentary on the fourteenth section to the confusion of the hydrus with the dryinus. Schneider has a learned annotation on this subject in his ' Curse posteriores' to Nicander's Theriacs, (1. 432.) SECT. XVII. ON THE CENCHRINITS. COMM When a person is bitten by the cenchrinus, the bite is like that of the echidna, mortification supervenes, and the flesh melts away, having been previously swelled as in dropsy, and he becomes lethargic and comatose. Erasistratus says that the liver, bladder, and colon are affected; for upon dissection these parts were found corrupted. Wherefore they are remedied by a cataplasm composed of the fruit of lettuce with linseed, and by pounded savory, and by wild rue, and by wild thyme tri- turated with asphodel; and two drachms of the root of cen- taury should be immediately given in a draught with three cyathi of wine, or the root of bii'thwort in like manner, and so also cresses and gentian. Commentary. According to Nicander, the cenchrinus, called also the Hon, has a body of varied size, and marked with punc- tated squamae. Dioscorides and Actuarius give exactly the same account of this serpent as our author. Haly Abbas in like manner de- scribes it as occasioning mortification and putridity of the part. (Theor. viii, 31.) Isidorus says of it, "Cenchris serpens in flexuosis qui semper iter rectum efladt. De quo Lucanus : Et semper recto lapsurus limite cenchris." Sprengel conjectures that it is a variety of the coluber berus, or viper, which is highly probable. According to Belon, it is three palms long, of the thickness of the little finger ; of a cme- reous colour, with black spots. Aetius makes it to be the same as the acontias, which there can be no doubt was the same asSECT. XVIII.] CERASTES. 187 the jaculus of Lucan. Yet Lucan treats of the jaculus and Co cenchris separately. (Phars. ix.) «— SECT. XVIII, ON THE CERASTES AND ASP. According to Galen, there are three kinds of asps: that called the land asp, the cheHdonian, and the third the ptyas, which is the most pernicious of all; for, stretching its neck, and mea- sunng a convenient distance/with great sagacity, it disgorges the poison into the body. This is said to be the kind of asp which Queen Cleopatra, when Augustus, having vanquished Antony, wished to seize on her, took and applied to her left breast, and being bitten by it she died very quickly. When a person is bitten by the cerastes the part becomes tumefied, with hardness and bKsters, and from the bite there flows an ichor which is sometimes black and sometimes pale, and Hke leeks • the whole system becomes of a dark pale colour, with erection ot the pnvy member, and mental aUenation; then dimness of si^ht comes on, and they die at last convulsed, as in tetanus When a person is bitten by an asp, the bite resembles the prick ot a needle, bemg very smaU in appearance, and without tume- taction, and it discharges blood not copiously but in smaU quantity, and of a black colour. Straightway dimness of the eyes seizes them, and various pains aU over the body, which are altogether slight, and not without enjoyment, supervene; where- tore Nicander has properly said, - and without suflFering dies the man. The colour is changed and becomes as green as grass, there is a gnawing pain at the orifice of the stomach, the forehead is constantly drawn upwards, the eyeUds are moved insensibly as m sleep, and with these symptoms death cuts off the man before the third part of a day has passed over. In both these cases speedy amputation of the extremities averts the «evil. Wherefore the bitten part is to be amputated without < delay, if possible, or the flesh is to be cut off immediately down to the bone, m order that the poison may not pass through the .parts which are bitten and the adjacent ones. Then what .■remains is to be seared by cauteries. For the poison of these, ,like hat of the basihsk and bulFs blood, quickly coagulates 'the blood and spirits in the arteries188 [book v. CERASTES. CoMMENTAKY. According to Nicander, the most pestiferous asp is about an ell in length, its colour squalid, its eyes of a drowsy appearance, and when it bites a person it leaves a very small wound; neither swelling nor inflammation is perceived, " and the man without pain sinks into a profound sleep." This is the serpent which Cleopatra despatched herself with. See some curious remarks upon this event, and the nature of the serpent in Galen (Ther. ad Pison.), from which our author borrows his account of it. Nicander says of the cerastes that it resembles the male viper, only that the latter has no horns, whereas the former has either two or four. Isidorus says of them, " Aspis vocata quod morsu venena immittat et aspergat: toe enim Grseci venenum dicunt, et inde aspis quod morsu venenato interimat" (Orig. xii, iv) ; and of the cerastes, " Cerastes serpens dictus eo quod in capite cornua habeat simiHa arietum : sunt autem quadri- gemina cornicula, quorum ostentatione, veluti esca iUiciehs solhcitata animaUa perimit." (Ibid.) Harris says, " The she- phephon (Gen. xlix. 17) is probably the cerastes, a serpent of the viper kind." (Nat. Hist, of the Bible.) Bochart, however, has proved that the shephephon signifies both the cerastes and the heemorrhus, which are very much alike, being both vipers. (Hier. ii, 416.) Sprengel, in fact, makes the hsemon-hus to be the same as the cerastes. Our author's treatment is principally taken from Dioscorides. Aetius, however, gives the fullest account of them. He says the sting of the most fatal species of asp proves fatal in three hours; and that those wounded by the cerastes generally Hve nine days. He represents the asp as occasioning great cold- ness, torpor, and at last convulsions. Besides the local reme- dies applicable in all such cases, he recommends in an especial manner vinegar, which is to be administered in great quantities. Celsus thus explains the way in which vinegar proves effica- cious for counteracting the effect of a fi-igorific poison : " Credo quoniam id (acetum) quamvis refrigerandi vim habet, tamen habet etiam dissipandi. Quo fit ut terra respersa eo spumat. Eadem ergo vi verisimile est spissescentem quoque iutus humo- rem hominis ab eo discuti, et sic dari sanitatem." The author of the work ' Euporiston,' usually published with those of Dioscorides, recommends, in the case of a person stimgSECT. XIX.] BASILISK. 189 by the asp, constant shaking, beating, and movement of the Comm. whole body, with the affusion of hot salt water. (Euporist ii, 120.) ^ ^ Pliny says the poison of an asp proves immediately fatal ^vhen mtroduced into a fresh wound, more slowly when the sore IS old, and that it is perfectly innoxious when swaUowed by the mouth. (N. H. xxix, 18.) The account which Avicenna gives of these serpents is mostly taken from Aetius and our author. Agricola describes the asp to be four feet long, and of the thickness of a spear. The cerastes, he says, in other respects resemb es a viper, except that it has two or four substances on its head hke horns. Madden, a late traveUer in the East, gives a different account ot the horned serpent (coluber cerastes) ; he says that of two which he purchased from the Psylli one was a foot long, and the other a foot and a half A lancet smeared with the venom of one of them killed a dog in three hours. The French na- turalists who attended the expedition to Egypt found a viper caUed by the inhabitants, which they held to be identical with the asp of the ancients. We need have no hesitation thenm deciding that the coluber ^gyptiacus is the celebrated iasp of antiquity. That the cerastes was a variety of the asp .seems highly probable from the description which Nicander pves of both (Theriac 177 and 259.) See also Wilkinson^s ineoes, p. 378. In fine, the asp and cerastes were merely ^vaneties of the common viper of Egypt. SECT. XIX. ON THE BASILISK. Erasistratus says, when the basiHsk bites one the wound becomes M r^r e^.colou^, and he also says that three drachms castor taken m a draught proves a remedy in such cases, S^ o^f^hteXnr^ '''''' '''''' '^^^ Commentary. The basilisk, according to Nicander, has a Comm. tarp body about three palms in length, of a bright yellow ^ I[book v. BASILISK. 190 Comm. colour, and is called the king of reptiles^ because all the others ' ' ' flee from his hiss. Pliny, Solinus, and most of the ancient authorities seem to copy Nicander's description of the basUisk. The symptoiris produced by his sting are said to be inflamma- tion of the whole body, lividity and putrefaction of the flesh. (Theriac. 1. c.) See also Galen (Ther. ad Pison.) Avicenna states that the basilisk stupefies birds and other ani- mals which approach him. He relates the case of a soldier who transfixed a basilisk with his spear, and the poison proved fatal both to him and his horse, whose lip was accidentally wounded with the spear. Lucan relates the case of a soldier in the army of Cato, who having wounded a basilisk with a spear, and having felt his hand afi'ected with the poison, saved his hfe by immediately cutting it off with his sword. (Phars. ix, 830.) Similar histories are given by Pliny, Dioscorides, Actuarius, and Isidorus. Sohnus affirms that it proves fatal to all beasts, birds, and vegetables. For an explanation of the passages of scripture wherein mention is made of the basilisk, see Bochart (Hier. ii, 339.) Sprengel says : " Linnseus omnem fabulam (de Basilisco) ad Lacert^ genus, capite cristato, Iguance. proximum, reduxit." (Comment, in Dioscor.) M. TAbbe Bonneterre also affirms that the basiUsk is not poisonous. (Encyc. Method.) It may be doubted, however, if we be now acquainted with the basihsk of the ancients. It would appear to us almost certain that the ancient basiUsk must have been either the cohra di capello, or one of the serpents described by an intelligent traveller under the names of buskah and el effah as being still found in Morocco. (Jackson's Account of Morocco, 109.) The former of these, indeed, judging of it from the drawing which he gives must be a variety of the cobra or coluber naja, L. We may add that a very intelligent modern authority on the toxicology of the ancients, Ardoyn, gives such a description of the basilisk as applies very well to the cobra. The crown (corona) on the head can refer to no other serpent than the hooded snake. (De venenis, vi.) It is now well ascertained that the cobra is indigenous in Africa.SECT. XX.] SEA PASTINACA. 191 SECT. XX. ON THE SEA PASTINACA AND MUR^NA. In the case of sea animals, such as the fire-flair^, and mnrene the diagnosis is obvious, for these fishes are weU kA'own. Those who are bitten by them are remedied by four drops of the . juice of figs, or a little more, with three or four smaU branches . of wild thyme m a draught, and those things used for echidna. Commentary. Nicander says that the sting of the pasti- Comm maca occasions putridity in the flesh of a man who is wounded I by It, and that it proves fatal to a tree in like manner The ssame thing is asserted by Aetius, Oppian, PhUe, and ^lian. (Uur author and Actuarius copy from Dioscorides. Avicenna recommends an embrocation of hot vinegar and comtments composed of bay-leaves, oil of peDitoiy, and so forth- aand m like manner recommends various calefacient medicines umtemally. The murene of the ancients was that elegant species of eel to which the scientific name of murcBna helena is now appHed It IS rarely found on the British coasts but is common in the ^Mediterranean. The pastinaca marina of the ancients, was the raia pasttnaca, L, i. q., trygonpastinaca, Cuvier, namely the litmg-ray or fire-flaire. Sprengel affirms that its sting is not -venomous, as the ancients represent j but there can be no doubt I hat It is capable of producing inflammation. See Yarrel (British Ws, 11, 588.) We may mention in this place that the account '.t the copulation between the viper and the murene which is ::iven by Nicander, Oppian and other ancient authors, is held o be fabulous by Andreas, the physician, as quoted by the cchohast on Nicander. (Ad Theriac, 822.) SECT. XXI. ON THE SEA-DRAGON. Rnb the wound inflicted by the sea-dragon with lead, or oply a cataplasm of pounded wild thyme, or of boiled lentil, I - of sulphur with vinegar, or the dragon itself may be torn in - cs and applied. Wash the part with human urine, and vc potions of wormwood with diluted wine, or of sage, or of192 SEA-SCORPION. [book v. fig iDraiiclies steeped in sweet wine, or of the brains of the fish itself. Comm. CoMMENTiSUY. A great variety of remedies for the wound ^ of the sea-dragon are described by Nicander. For an account of the dracoj see Dioscorides (vi, 45)|; Aristotle (H. A. viii, 13); ^lian (H. A. xiv, 12); Nonnus (276); Pliny (H. N. xxix, 20); Aetius (xiii, 39); Phile (80); Avicenna (iv, 6, 3.) We need have no hesitation in referring the sea-dragon of the ancients to the trachinus draco, L., Angl., the great weever or sting-ball. This is agreed upon by all the best commen- tators, as Rondelet, Artedi, Coray, and Sprengel. Fishermen are stdl very apprehensive of its sting. See Yarrel (Brit. Fishes, i, 25.) SECT. XXII.-r-ON THE SEA-SCORPION. The wound of the sea-scorpion is cured by a surmullet torn in pieces and applied, by sulphur vivum rubbed with vinegar, or by three bay-berries pounded and drunk. CoMM Commentary. See Dioscor. (vi, 45); Nonnus (277); Aetius (xiii, 40); Atheufeus (353, ed. Casaubon.); Avicenna (iv, 6, 3, 33 ) Bochart says of the sea scorpion: "Is cum terrestri nihil habet commune prater venenatos aculeos, non in cauda sed m capite et toto corpore sparsos." (Hierob. ii, 635.) According to Sprengel, it is either the scorpcena scrofa or the cottus scorpius Bloch. (Comment, in Dios.) It is a fish still very much dreaded on account of its sharp spmes. See Yarrel (Br. Fishes, i, 76.) SECT. XXIII. THE PREPARATION OF THE BLOOD OF THE SEA- TORTOISE. The blood of the sea-tortoise is to be prepared for keeping in this way. Having stretched the tortoise with its beUy upwards on a wooden or earthen vessel, cut ofi" its head qmckly,SECT. XXIV.] CROCODILES. I93 and when its blood is coagulated, divide it into many parts with a reed, put a sieve upon the vessel in place of a lid and lay it up in the sun. When dried take it and use for bites of vipers, as aforesaid; two drachms with one cyathus of vinegar, on the second day four drachms with two cyathi of vinegar,' and on the third eight drachms with three cyathi of vinegar! Commentary. This section is copied from Aetius (xiii, 24.) Comm. In our translation we have followed the text of Aetius, that ' of our author being manifestly corrupt. sect. XXIV. ON PERSONS BITTEN BY CROCODILES. For the bites of the crocodile apply levigated natron until tthe ulcer be cleansed, then fiU it with honev, butter, sta-'s imarrow, or the fat of geese. But Galen says, that he has WcnoAvn persons bitten by crocodiles manifestly relieved by the lappHcation of the fat of the crocodiles themselves to the wounds. Commentary. This case is more fully treated of by Aetius Comm •.xm, b.j His remedies are mostly of an acrid stimulant nature ^"-^ iBUch as misy, pickle, salts, myrrh, verdigris, &c. The appH teation recommended by our author upon the authority of -alen is ascribed by Aetius to Apollonius. SECT. XXV. ON PERSONS BITTEN BY A MAN. It wiU not be foreign to my subject along with venomous numals also to treat of persons bitten by men, since the bites Itiflicted by men are much more malignant than other nlcers aore especially If the person who bit happens to be fasting,' t^^tf ^'Tr^ ^ ''"^^ P"^'"' particularly dried lentil Hierefore the general remedies for poisonous animals may b^ ^phed externally to the bite with advantage at the com fiencement, with the exception of such as are very acrid and ttustic; m particular having first rubbed the bite with oil pply a cataplasm of the roots of hog's fennel with honey or pply the flour of beans with oxycrate, and vinegar and rose 13ON POISONS. 194 [book v. oil, sponging it frequently. And use the following plaster: Of squama ^ris, of galbanum, of verdigris, of each, oz. j; of wax, lb. j; of molybdtena, lb. ij; of oil, one sextarius. The molybdsena being first boiled in the oil receives the verdigris and squama seris, and when it thickens it receives the soluble substances. When the inflammation subsides treat it as a common ulcer. Commentary. Similar treatment is recommended by Aetius ' (xiii, 1); Apuleius (9, 2); Serenus (45); Pliny (H. N. xxviii, 4); Oribasius (de Morb. Curat, iii, 71); Avicenna (iv, 6, 4); and Haly Abbas (Pract. iv, 28.) It may be proper to mention in this place that instances have not been wanting in modern times to confirm the accounts given by ancient authorities, of fatal eflfects being occasioned by the bite of a man. See Hildanus (Chinu-g. i); Forestus (xxx, 12) ; Hofi"man (Diss, de saliv. et op. morb. 5); Zacutns Lusitanus (Prax. adm. iii, 84, 89.) SECT. XXVI. ON POISONS. Comm. Having given a compendious account of venomous animals, we shall next treat of deleterious substances, giving an exposi- tion of the simple ones, and detaihng the symptoms of them with their' general and particular remedies. As to the com- pound ones we leave them to be treated of by any person who chooses; for some have described the compositions of certam deadly medicines which are more liltely to prove injuiious than beneficial to the reader. For neither are the exact symptoms which occurred in those who took them described, by which a suitable remedy might be found out; for the symptoms varying according to the natm-e of the prevaUmg ingredient, one might, from conjectiu-e, vary the remedies accordmgly. Wherefore here again we must begin with the prophylactics. Commentary. We now enter upon the consideration of the second and most important division of toxicology; namely, alexipharmics, which treats of poisonous substances taken in- wardly All the writers on theriacs treat also of alexipharmics, and of these the most ancient, and one of the most interesting,SECT. XXVII.] PRESERVATIVES PROM POISON. 195 is the Colophonian poet Nicander. Of the subsequent authors Dioscorides and Aetius among the Greeks, and Avicenna and Alsaharavius among the Arabians, are most particularly de- serving of notice. SECT. XXVII. ON THE PRESERVATIVES FROM POISONS. Of the doctnne of poisonous substances, the most difficult part IS the prophylactic; because those who administer poisons ^H-lf I'^^'^l Tr""''' P^'P^"" '^'"^ deceive the most skilful. Thus they take away the bitterness of deleterious and the fetid meU by a mixtm-e with aromatics. Sometimes in diseases, .hile appearing to administer such things as wormwood outhernwood, opoponax, and castor, for a beneficial purpose they mix poisons with them; or they give them in the food^ namely, m the harder and more complex articles, mixing the poisons with tbem. Wherefore a person who entertainsMs IHCions, ought to avoid all prepared dishes and every intense iuahty, sucli as sweetness, saltness, and acidity; and in parti- ■u ar to take plenty of water, for when the appekte is satfated he particular quahties are afterwards easUy detected. There s likewise another efficacious mode of prophylaxis: for they vho suspect anything of this kind should take such things as -11 blunt and take away the effect of the poisons, as Led ;mpes with walnuts, rue, a lump of salt, and citrons. Let the ; 7""^' ~ ^ drachm in wit the leaves of calammt, or Lemnian earth, and twenty leave nlidotes taken with wine every day to the amount of an oi-son ; and bemg captVd^ TheVoL^^ d adly poison and not being able to despatch himself thereby lulled himself with his sword. And since people are some^ |ncs exposed to deleterious things accidentall/in desert hout design, If they happen to take up their abode unde 'tain trees, such as pines or firs, they ought to be on the"TREATMENT. 19G [book v. 1 guard against deadly animals, whicli fall from them and the roofs of houses, and keep the vessels in which their wine is contained, and in which they boil victuals, well covered up, as has been stated when treating of the preservatives from veno- mous animals. Comm. Commentauy. Nearly the whole contents of this section ' " ' are taken from Dioscorides. (Preef.) The account of the treatment given by Aetius is somewhat fuller than our author's, but not materially different. Avicenna makes mention of the same medicines as Diosco- rides, and says nothing of any other remedies. Of the substances mentioned by our author, and the others as preservatives from poisons, some are demulcents, and may be supposed to act by obtunding the aciimony of poisons, such as figs, walnuts, and rape-seed; some are simple absorbents, buch as Lemnian earth, which probably resembled red ochre, and was also emetic : some are stimulants, such as rue, cala- mint, and wine; and some are refrigerant acids, such as citrons, which may be supposed to act as analeptics and restoratives. Virgil mentions this property of the citron : " Media fert tristes succos tavdumque saporein Fclicis mali: quo non prresentius ullura, Pocula si quando saeva; infeceie novercae Miscueruntque herbas, et non innoxia verba, Auxilium venit, ac membris agit atra veuena." Georg. ii. See in particular Simeon Seth (in voce Kirpa); and Athen. (Deip. ii.) Dr. Paris states that when a narcotic poison has been ejected from the stomach, citrons or any fruit containing a vegetable acid will produce the best effects. (See Pharma- cologia i, 254.) SECT. XXVIII. THE GENERAL TREATMENT OF THOSE WHO HAVE TAKEN ANY SORT OF DELETERIOUS SUBSTANCE. If any persons have already taken some deadly poison with the intention of despatching themselves, such as often happens in life or from the wicked design of others, if it be obvious toSECT. XXVIII.J TREATMENT. 19; us what substance has been taken, we can straightway apply the suitable remedy, as will be described in the account of them. But if the medicine is unknown to us, we must have recourse immediately to such things as are generally applicable to those ^vho have taken any poison whatever; for to wait uutil the consequent symptoms have come on, is to render the case hopeless, since owing to the remedies being too long of being applied such symptoms can hardly be removed: wherefore, M'ithout delay, we must give warm oil by itself or with water' and force them to vomit, or if oil is not at hand, butter with hot water may be given, or a decoction of maUows, or of linseed, or of spelt, or of fenugreek, or of nettle seed. For these things M ill not only evacuate by vomiting, but will loosen the belly and counteract the bad effects of the poisons, by blunting their acrimony; and more especially oil will do this, as you may ascertain clearly from the following consideration. For if you ^^4sh to produce ulceration of the skin by means of cantharides, eiuicklime, or some such acrid substance, and the body has been previously rubbed with oil, no ulcers will take place, and neither also can you astringe the body if previously rubbed with oil. Besides, vomiting is not only useful by evacuating the offending matter, but by showing the poison which had been taken from its smeU, particles, or colour. For by its smell and bitterness poppy-juice is known; by their colour,ceruse and gypsum; by their coagula, milk and fresh blood; bv their heavy smell and quality, the sea-hare and toad: so that by these means we are enabled to have recourse to the remedies which are suitable to each. With the oil may be mixed the decoction of maUows, or the grease of geese, or broth prepared rom fat flesh or fowls, or the cinders of wood. Natron also tnturated with hydromel, much old wine, and those tilings .which are prepared from fat or butter are efficacious. Having ■evacuated the contents of the stomach by emetics, we must onng away whatever had passed into the intestines by a sti- mulant clyster. After these things, we are to give milk to dnnk, for whatever is noxious and deleterious will be readily fehanged by it. We must also give those medicines which are .generally apphcable to all such cases, among which are the ..emnian vermilion, southernwood, agaric, hedge-mustard, the root of cryngo, the seed of parsnip or of calamint, the Celtic[book v. 1!)8 TREATMENT. nard, castor, the inner part of green fennel-giant, the flowers of nerium (called also rhododendron and rhododaphon), the juice of leeks, laserwort or the juice thereof, sagapene, opo- ponax, the juice and root of hog's fennel, the long birth wort, the seed of wild rue, the leaves of that species of cestrum, called betony; of each of these a drachm may be taken in wine. The decoction of poley and .liquid pitch in a linctus is also efiicacious, and the aforesaid antidotes are excellent remedies, especially the theriac from vipers. But they have not the same power when taken after as before the poisonous substances, for a dose which woivld have been sufficient, if administered beforehand, to prevent any bad consequences, must be given in a fourfold or fivefold quantity, in order to prove effectual when administered afterwards, and that too not once, but twice a day. For such is the opinion of the celebrated Galen. Commentary. Except the last two sentences the whole of ' this section is copied from Dioscorides. Celsus' directions, so far as they go, are excellent: " Commodissimum est tamen, ubi primum sensit ahquis, protinus oleo multo epoto vomere: deinde, ubi prsecordia exhausit, bibere antidotum; si id non est, vel merum vinum." The directions given by Aetius are to the same purpose as our author's, but somewhat fuller. He ifi particularly to be commended for the precision with which he lays down the rules of treatment, when any organ happens to be afi'ected in an especial manner. Thus, if the poison attack the bladder, he dii-ects us to put the patient into a hip- bath of oil or water, in which fenugreek, linseed, mallows, or some such emollient herbs have been, boiled and to give him to drink the decoction of some vegetable diiu-etic, such as parsley, fennel, or spikenard. If the bladder be corroded he directs us to give the seed of cucumber in diluted sweet wine. In the same manner when the intestines are corroded the same seed is to be given, and all heating articles are to be abstained from. "When the poison is determined to the skin, he recom- mends the hip-bath of oil or water, friction with warm oil, and the like, evidently with the intention of evacuating it from the pores of the skin. Food of easy digestion, soups witli honey, tender fishes, and the like are to be given. When theSKCT. XXVIII.] TREATMENT. 199 liead is pai-ticularly affected he directs us to evacuate the Comm. bowels with a clyster of linseed, marshmallows, and a decoc- tion of the root of the wild cucumber, after which sternu- tatories and odoriferous things are to be applied to the nose. Like our author, he strongly commends Lemnian earth with wine as an excellent and speedy emetic. This remedy is also mentioned by Avicenna. Galen assures us that he found it an excellent emetic in various cases of poisoning. (Simpl. ix.) It consists principally of siHca, alumina, and oxyde of iron. Avicenna directs us to give immediately as an emetic, oil of sesame or oHve oil, impregnated if possible with the virtues of dill, and afterwards to use demulcents, such as the decoction of hnseed, melted butter and milk. These emetics are to be foUowed by clysters, provided the mischief has spread down- wards. If the disorder continue, another emetic is to be given, and draughts of milk repeated. When, after the emetic' inflammation supervenes, he directs us to give snow-water, or oil of roses, and to promote vomiting with them. When the poison is ascertained to be of an inflammatory nature the parts affected ai-e to be cooled with camphor, rose-water, or that of coriander; or these things are to be congealed in snow and applied over the vital organs. If the poison is ascertained to be of a shai-p penetrating nature, medicines are to be given to blunt its acrimony, such as milk, almond oil, melted butter, . &c. Bloodletting, if indicated, is to be performed. When the poison is known to be of a stupefying nature, garlic is to be given, or the theriac and assafoetida in undiluted wine. When It IS particularly deleterious, the cure is to be effected by imeans of the mithridate, theriac, musk, and other aromatics. He inculcates the necessity of preventing sleep and of rousing by every possible means. The patient is to be covered with .aromatic cloths, the pit of his stomach is to be rubbed, his Iface IS to be fanned, his hair puUed, and in short, everything OS to be done to prevent him from sinking into a state of (Stupor. Haly Abbas recommends the same plan of treatment. When Ithe poison is discharged he recommends citrons, plums and tthe like, as restoratives. Rhases gives the following directions • ^rst, he says, produce vomiting with oil and water; then give food of a nauseating nature to continue this operation ; if the ibowels arc inflamed give snow-water and rose-oil, and after[book v. 200 DELETERIOUS SUBSTANCES. Comm. wai'ds provoke vomiting once more : administer the theriac, ' ' ' rub tlie liands and feet, and wlien tlie poison appears to have descended to the intestines give clysters. (Contin. 1. c.) Rhases and other of the Arabian authorities recommend the bezoar stone as an antidote for poisons. SECT. XXIX. A CATALOGUE OP SIMPLE DELETERIOUS SUBSTANCES. Of deleterious substances, the following animals are destruc- tive : cantharis, buprestis, salamander, pine-caterpillar, the sea-hare, the toad, the mute marsh frog, and leeches when swal- lowed ; and, of seeds, the henbane, coriander, fleawort, hem- lock, and gith ; of juices, meconium, opocai^pasum, thapsia, elaterium, and mandragora; of roots, chamaeleon, wolfsbane, thapsia, ixia, hellebore, black agaric, ephemeron, which some call colchicum, because it grows in Colchis ; of trees and pot- herbs, smilax, which some callthymium, but the Romans called taxus, the strychnus furiosa, which is called dorycnium, the Sardoan herb, which is a species of ranunculus, horned poppy, pharicum, toxicum, wild rue, and mushrooms ; of animal pro- ductions, fresh buU's blood, coagulated milk, Heraclean honey 3 of metals, gypsum, ceruse, lime, arsenic, sandarach, litharge, adarce, lead, and that which is called mercmy; and of domestic articles, much wine taken at a draught after the bath, or must, or cold water in like manner. t. Commentary. Nicander, in his Alexipharmics, treats of the following deleterious substances :—1, Aconitum, or wolfs- bane ; 2, Argenti spuma, or litharge; 3, Buprestis; 4, Cantha- rides; 5, Ceruse, or whitelead; 6, Conium, or hemlock ; 7, Co- riander ; 8, Dorycnium (see below); 9, Ephemeron, or meadow saflFron; 10, Fungi, or poisonous mushrooms; 11, Hirudines, or leeches; 13, Hyoscyamus, or henbane; 13, Ixias, probably a species of chamaeleon; 14, Coagulated milk ; 15, The sea-hare; 16, Papaver, or poppy; 17, Pharicum, probably a composition from agaric (see Schneider's note); 18, the red toad and marsh frog; 19, the salamander; 20, Bulls' blood; 21, Taxus, or the yew-tree; 22, Toxicum, not ascertained. See Avicenua. The lists of poisonous substances treated of by Dioscondes, Aetius, and Actuarius are nearly the same as our author s.SECT. XXX.] CANTIIARIDES. 201 Those of Nonnus and Scribonius Largus are less niimerous. Comm. The Arabians treat of several substances, the nature of which it is now difficult to determine. The catalogues of Avicenna and Khases are the fullest; those of Haly Abbas and Alsaha- ravius scarcely contain so many articles; all of them, however, contain several substances which are not treated of by the Greek wi-iters on toxicology. Among these we may just men- tion that they treat of the gall of the viper, of the leopard, of an animal caUed leunza (lefena?), of the shark, and also of the extremity of the stag's tail, and bad castor. The sweat of different animals is also included in their lists. SECT. XXX. ON CANTHARIDES. The most grievous symptoms follow the administration of cantharides, for almost from the mouth to the bladder the parts are tormented with a gnawing pain. The taste resembles pitch or cedar rosm, and the patients have inflammation of the right hypochondiium, with dysuria, and frequently they pass blood by urme, and sometimes it is discharged by the intestines, as m dysentery: they fall into deliquium animi, nausea, and ver- tigo, and at last they become deliinous. The proper remedies are vomiting with water and oil, drinking milk, taking four .drachms of Cimolian earth with honied water, pine kernels, the ■ seeds of cucumber, fat beef soup, or soup of geese or of mutton; the flesh of fowls, lambs, sheep, or pigs, being tender and fat, when boiled with hnseed; much must; dr. iv of the bark of rrosemay; and after the food inject by clyster the juice of rice, | Orof chondrus, or of spelt, or of ptisan, or of maUows, or of hnseed, or of marshmaUows, or of fenugreek. And sometimes leaving cleared out the intestine with honied water and nitre, me may then inject these things, and afterwards allay the in- Iflammation with cataplasms of linseed and barley; for at first these things are pernicious. Then we may have recourse to .baths of sweet water, and give the ointments of iris and of sroses m a draught. Commentary. The symptoms occasioned by taking can- r khandcs, according to Nicander, are erosion of the whole intcs- -T'202 [book v. CANTHARIDES. M. tinal canal, ulceration of tlie bladder, affection of the cliest, and wild delirium. His remedies are emetics, sucb as fat, the oil of iris with rue, or Samian aster, laxatives, milk in clysters or taken by the mouth, and the decoction of vine-shoots Avith honey. Dioscorides describes the symptoms in the same terras as our author, and Uke him recommends emetics of oil and emollient clysters, such as the decoction of linseed or of mal- lows. Like our author, he disapproves of Avarm applications, such as cataplasms and the hot bath at the commencement, because by their heat they promote the distribution of the poison over the system; but after a time they are useful, he says, by allaying the pains and promoting the discharge of the poison by the cutaneous perspiration. His other remedies being the same as our author's, we need not enumerate them. Galen states that the wings and feet of cantharides prove useful for removing the deleterious effects occasioned by taking their bodies. His treatment otherwise, which is borrowed from Asclepiades, is very similar to that of Dioscorides. He in par- ticular recommends the Lemnian earth, or terra sigHlata, as an emetic in this case. (De simpl. ix.) He also speaks favorably of milk. (lb. and de antidot. ii.) He approves very much of animal and vegetable oils given in sweet wine or tepid water to produce vomiting. Galen states decidedly that the viscus upon which the action of cantharides is exerted is the bladder. (Ad Pison.) The treatment recommended by Scribonius Largus is Httle different. Aetius, Oribasius, and Actuarius only copy from Dioscorides, without suggesting any improvement. Avi- cenna and Rhases mention that cantharides occasion inflamma- tion of the penis and erections. They agree with the Greeks in recommending oily emetics, clysters of the same, and, what we believe is an improvement which we owe to the Ai-abiaus, injections of rose-oil into the bladder by means of a waxen tube (flexible catheter). Rhases approves of bleeding, provided it be lono- since the patient was bled, and violent pain be felt m the region of the thighs, that is to say, if the urinary organs ai-e much affected. Haly Abbas mentions ardor urmse, strangury, and bloody urine among the symptoms, and recommends oil by the mouth as an emetic and pui-gative, and by injection^ Alsaharavius mentions swelhng of the penis, bloody urine, and suppression tliereof, and remarks tliat the same effects haveSECT. XXXI.] BUPRESTIS. 203 been sometimes brought on by the external apphcation of can- Comm. thandes, in which case he recommends the tepid bath and emoUient fomentations. His treatment is Hke that of his other countiymen; for example, he joins them in approving of inject- ing rose-oil into the bladder. It would appear that cantharides were sometimes used by the ancients for the purpose of committing suicide. Accord- ing to Cicero, it was by this means that C. Carbo destroyed him- self. (Ad Famihar, ix, 31.) Ambrose Pare, Matthiolus, and aU the earlier modern writers on toxicology, follow the treatment laid down by the ancients. Notwithstanding the concurrent testimonies of all these autho- rities. Professor Orfila, in the last edition of his ' Toxicologic' and Dr. Chiistison, in his late work on ' Poisons,^ affirm " that oil IS the reverse of an antidote." Yet, in a case lately pub- hshed, the free administration of oHve-oil was foUowed by copious discharges, both upwards and downwards, of cantha- ndes mixed with the oH. (Edinb. Med. and Surg. Joum No. 104, p. 214.) And surely, if laxatives are to be adminis- tered at aU, oHy ones are to be preferred, as producing least irritation, and not being Hkely to be absorbed. It can scarcely admit of dispute, that the mi/labris cichorei lis the same as the ancient cantharis. It is still used in Turkey :and India for the composition of blistering plasters, being pos- ssessed of much the same properties as the Spanish fly SECT. XXXI. ON THE BUPKESTlS. Those who have drunk of the buprestis experience a taste rresembhng fetid natron, which is followed by violent pain of t.he stomach and bowels; there is swelHng of the abdomen, re- sembling dropsy and the skin of the whole body is distended, the unne also bemg suppressed. They are reheved by the «arne remedies as are given to those who have taken cantha- ndes; but they derive benefit in particular after evacuations by vomiting and by the bowels, from taking dried figs, and drink- mg the decoction of them with wine or milk, or a mixture of mvme and honey, and they may eat all kinds of pears, and take204 SALAMANDER. [book v. a woman's milk. When the violence of the disease has sub- sided they may eat with advantage Theban palm-nuts boiled in wine. Comm. COMMENTARY. Isidorus says of the buprestis, " animal est '—'—' in Italia parvura, simillimum scarabBeo longipedi.'' (Orig. xii, 8.) See also iElian (H. A. vi, 35); Pliny (H.N. xxx. 10.) The symptoms and treatment, as described by the other authorities, are nearly the same as in our author's description. Among the remedies recommended by Nicander, the most efficacious are milk and emetics of tepid oil. (Alex. 360.) The Arabians do not treat of this article separately from cantha- rides, unless it be the stuphe of Alsaharavius. (Pract. xxx, 2, 8.) We can have no hesitation in holding that the buprestis of the ancients was the lytia vesicaioria, or Spanish fly. See Sprengel (Comment, in Dioscor.) and Schneider (ad Nicand.) SECT. XXXII. ON THE SALAMANDER. When a person has taken of salamander, inflammation of the tongue supervenes, with difficulty of speech, trembhng, torpor, and ulceration. Certain parts of the body aU around become Hvid, so that often, if the medicine remain, they mor- tify and drop off. In this case we should do the same things as for cantharides; but more particularly we must administer to them piue-rosin, or that of the pitch tree, or galbanum with honey, or pine-kernels with a decoction of ground-pine, or nettle-leaves boHed along with lilies in oil, the boiled eggs of land or sea tortoise, soup of frogs, having the root of eryngo boiled with them. Comm. COMMENTARY. The principal symptoms, as detailed by Nicander, are inflammation of the tongue, torpor, trembhngs, aberration of mind, vibices, &c. He treats it Hke narcotic poisons, with stimulants and attenuants, such as pme-rosm, the leaves of ground-pine, nettle-seed mixed with the flour of tares, &c Dioscorides, Avicenna, and most of the authorities direct to treat this case of poisoning like that of cantharides; us4 SECT. XXXIV.] SEA-HARE. 205 Alsahcoravius recommends emetics, draughts containing pine- seed, honey, vinegai-, wine, &c., with fat flesh. Oil and milk ai-e recommended by most of the authorities. Avicenna says the salamander is a species of lizard. Aristotle mentions the fabulous story of its being proof against fire as a circumstance which was related. Pliny (H. N. x, 67), ^Han (H. A. ii, 31), and Phile (c. 17) repeat it confidently. On the other hand, Dioscorides affirms that the story is entirely without foundation (ii, 56.) It is the salamandra terrestris. Sprengel says it emits a cold mucus, which may extinguish a small fire. (Not* in Dios 1. c.) SECT. XXXIII. ON THE PITYOCAMPA, OR PINE-CATERPILLAR. When pine-catei-piUar is drunk, there is straightway pain of the mouth and palate, strong inflammation of the tongue, pain of the stomach and intestines, with a prurient sensation of ten- >sion; and there is a fiery heat of the whole body, and anxiety .^Such cases are to be relieved in like manner as those who have • drunk cantharides ; but in their case, instead of plain oil we imay substitute the ointment of apples. Commentary. Our author, and indeed aU the others, only Comm copy from Dioscorides. Sprengel mentions several species of eructe which infest pme-trees, such as the leparis monacha, lasiocampa pini, &c vNot* in Dioscor.) Virey remarks, that among the Eomans :here was an express law forbidding the administration of the -lany caterpiUar of the pine, as it produces the most serious .ymptoms,^and even loss of life, by its hairs. (Hist, des Moeurs XXXIV. ON THE SEA-HARE. ^wTT. f^'lT'^'' ^''^ -'^^ ill-savoured taste, like .hat of a fetid fish, supervenes, and after a time the bowels are rained and the unne becomes obstructed, or if any is discharged206 [book v. RED TOAD. it is of a purple colour. They loathe and detest all kinds of fishes, and have fetid perspirations mixed with blood. We must give them therefore asses' milk or must frequently, or a decoction of the root and leaves of mallows, or the root of hogs- fennel triturated with wine, or dr. j. of black hellebore, or of the juice of scammony in honied water, and the warm blood of a newly-killed goose, and river-crabs alone, if they can be borne, may be given. It is a symptom of recovery when they can eat fish. Comm. COMMENTARY. Nicander's description of the symptoms is ' ' ' like our author's, and his remedies are hellebore, and scammony, asses' milk, &c. Haly Abbas recommends only emetics at first, and afterwards milk. When there is continued oppression of breathing he directs us to bleed and give the syrup of poppies. (Pract. iv. 49.) Alsaharavius, hke Nicander, depends princi- pally upon drastic purgatives, such as scammony and hellebore. (See also Nonnus, 279.) Galen says it produces ulceration of the lungs. (See Ther. ad Pison. and de Med. sec. gen. i.) For an account of the lepus marinus, see ^lian (H. A. ii, 45 ; ix, 51; xvi, 19); PHny (H. N. ix, 48; xxxii, 1); Dioscorides (ii, 20; vi, 34,); Philostratus (vi, 32); Phile (93). Ac- cording to Schneider, it is called chat marin in France. Gorrseus says it is a species of lizard, and resembles the land hare only in colour. Sprengel inclines to think that it is the aplysia depilans. See also Paris and Fonblanque (Med. Jurisprud. ii, 141.) Rondelet refers it to the class mollusca, and gives a drawing of it. (De Piscibus, xvii.) Bellonius and Gesner give the same account of it, and all agree respecting its poisonous qualities. They describe it as being a mass of neaa-ly unorganized flesh. Virey says it has long appendages like the ears of the hai'e, but which are its eyes. SECT. XXXV. ON THE RED TOAD OR MARSH FROG. Wben the red toad or marsh frog is taken, it brings on swelling of the body, with intense paleness resembling the colour of the box-tree; and dyspnoea supervenes with fcetor of the mouth, hiccough, and sometimes an involuntary emissionSECT, x.xxvi.] LEECHES. 207 of semen. They are easily remedied, however, after vomiting, by taking a large draught of undiluted wine, and two drachms of the root of sweet cane, or the same dose of cyperus. We must also compel them to exercise themselves strenuously in walking and running, on account of the torpor which is upon them; and they ought to take the bath every day. CoMMENTAUY. Nicaudcr says the bufo apricans super- Comm. induces upon the body difficulty of breathing, fetid breath, and colour like that of the thapsus; he means probably jaundice. His remedies are, the flesh of frogs boiled or roasted, pitch mixed with sweet wine and the spleen of a marsh frog. Phny says a decoction of marsh frogs in vinegar is an effectual remedy in this case and against salamanders. (H. N. xxxii, 5.) Dioscorides recommends emetics, wine, and active exercise. Avicenna, Rhases, and Haly Abbas recommend nearly the same treatment. Haly approves of friction, especiaUy over the stomach. (Pract. iv. 49.) See a learned dissertation on the Poi- sonous Rankin Schneider's Notes on Nicander (Alexipharm.); see also Gorrseus^ Commentary on the same. Schneider inclines to think that it must have been the bufo cormitus. ^lian states that when the blood of the phrynus is given with wine, it proves a very fatal poison. (H. A. xvii, 13.) It ^woukl appear from two passages in the Satires of Juvenal that iin his time criminal acts of poisoning were generally performed 'by means of this substance. (See Sat. i, 510, and vi, 659.) Pans and Fonblanque, however, deny that any species of toad vB poisonous. See also Pennant, (B. Z. iii, 17.) He calls the IRana rubeta the natter-jack. SECT. XXXVI. ON LEECHES. If leeches have been swallowed with water, and have stuck tto a part m deglutition, you may ascertain that this has happened rrom the mouth of the stomach being, as it were, sucked and iitten, which 18 a symptom of the leeches having been swallowed sometimes florid blood is spit up by hawking when the leeches lave fixed to the windpipe. They may be rejected by swallowing '. ine, or the leaves of beet with vinegar, or by di'inking snow208 CHAMiELEON. [book v. ■with oxycrate. Let gargles of nitre [soda) with water be used, and of copperas with vinegar. When they have stuck to the throat, put the patient into a warm hip-bath and give him cold water to hold in his mouth, and they will readily come to the cold. Some give bugs to those who have swallowed leeches. I, says Galen, by using garlic in such cases, have not stood in need of bugs. Comm. COMMENTARY. Nicandcr judiciously recommends when ' ' ' leeches have been swallowed to drink vinegar, to take ice or snow, sea-water, fossil salt (sal gemmae?), or salt prepared from sea-water. Dioscorides treats the case like our author. Celsus merely says, " acetum cum sale bibendum est." Bugs are recommended by Anatolius. (Geopon. xiii 17.) Aaron, one of the authorities quoted by Rhases, directs us to lay the patient in the sunshine and examine his throat care- fully ; and if the leech can be detected to extract it with a forceps. If this cannot be effected he recommends him to gargle the throat with some bitter decoction or to swallow the same, if the leech has descended to the stomach. He also du-ects him to hold snow in the mouth. (Contin. vii.) Avicenna recommends nearly the same plan of treatment, and, like our author, mentions the following device in order to get a leech extracted that is fixed in the gullet. The patient is to go into a hot bath and hold cold water in his mouth, which will have the effect of attracting the leech towards it. (iii, 9, 5.) "When a leech has fastened in the throat of a beast of burden and cannot be got at by the hand, Columella directs hot oil to be poured in by means of a pipe, or if it has passed into the stomach, it is to be killed with hot vinegar, (vi, 18.) The va- pour from pounded bugs was also a popular remedy in such cases. (Ibid, and Geopon. xiii, 17.) SECT. XXXVIl. ON THE CHAMELEON. When one has taken the black chamseleon intense gnawing and pain supervene, and tremors with disturbance of the whole body; then convulsions attack, with pituitous and frothy vomit- ing, and in some cases hiccough with loss of speech, and distortionSECT, xxxviii.] HENBANE. 209 of the countenance. A fatty decoction of wheat taken hot will be appHcable in such cases, and a sweet watery wine also hot, vomits, drinking of milk, emollient clysters, and fomenta- tions by cataplasms. To that kind which occasions suffocation and hvidity, a draught of wormwood or of natron with oxymel or of radishes will be proper, and also fomentations to the * nypocliondnum. Commentary. Dioscorides and Aetius give a similar account Comm. of the treatment and symptoms. On the chama^leon, see Apuleius ^ (de Herb. 109.) The black chameleon treated of in this section •IS the carthamus corymbosus. It is quite a different plant from ■ the white chamaeleon which is treated of in the 46th section. SECT. XXXVIII. ON HENBANE. Hyoscyamos when drunk or eaten brings on disorder of mind Ike that of persons in intoxication; but is easily cured, being .•emedied by copious draughts of honied water and milk, es- j)ecially that of asses or, if not, of that of goats or cows, and l.f the decoction of dried figs. Pine kernels are also serviceable m such cases, and the seed of cucumber taken with must, and .alt wme with fresh axunge and must, and nettle-seed in like ■aanner, or natron with water will be proper, also succory, mus- aid cresses, radishes, onions, and garlic, each of these being tate of rest m order that, hke those who have drunk wine bey may cbgest what they have taken. ae';Xmics'l" .''^^^T?*.-^ Nicander's Comm. .lexiphaimics is imperfect owing to an hiatus in the text His ^ 3medies are milk, fenugreek, nettle-seed, succoiy cresse lustard, the Iieads of garhc, &c ' ot^wir*'? ''u''^'^ ^'"^ Dioscorides. Celsus recommends ot water and miUc, especially that of asses The description of the symptoms, as given by Aetius ^^ ^mewhat fuller than our author^s, but not'otherwL dfw < and Scribonius Largus mention lividity of tlie members' Naharavius says, it induces sleep, stupor, and coldness of the 14CORIANDER. 210 [book v. Comm. extremities. Avicenna and Haly Abbas recommend the theriac and antidote of Mitliridates. Rliases speaks highly of milk. (Contin. ult.) The general remedies which they all recommend are emetics, vinegar, milk, sweet wine, and at last, vegetable stimulants, such as mustard and onions, and the theriac. See an account of the different varieties of henbane known to the ancients in Dioscor. (iv, 64.) ; Galen (Med. Simpl. ; Phny (H. N. xxv, 4); and in Schulze (Toxicol, vet. 20.) See also the Seventh Book of this work. The Arabians, in this place, treat of another narcotic to which they give the name of Demfitum or Barfion. See Avicenna (iv, 6, 1, 4); Rhases (xxxix.) f SECT. XXXIX. ON CORIANDER. Coriander from its smell cannot be mistaken. When dinink it renders the voice thick, and brings on madness like that from intoxication. Wherefore those who have taken it talk obscenely, and the smell of the coriander is perceptible from the whole body. They are reheved after the removal of the poison by common oil or that of iris (as mentioned above), by undiluted wine with wormwood and drank by itself; by eggs emptied into one vessel and triturated with brine and swallowed; and brine also may be drunk, and salt broth from a hen or <a goose, and sweet wine taken with lye. Comm. COMMENTARY. According to Nicander, the symptoms are ' Adolent dehrium, and great derangement of the mind, as in m- toxication. His remedies are principally emetics and ynne, the intention of giving which is quite obvious. Dioscondes gives nearly the same account of the symptoms and treatment. Galen (de Simp. Med. viii) attacks Dioscorides in the most unmeasured terms for saying that the action of coriander is frigorific,while, on thecontrarj',hemaintains that itis calefacient. Avicenna combats the reasoning of Galen and agrees with Dioscorides ; as do Apuleius among the Latins, and Alsaharavius and Rhases among the Arabians. Pseudo-Macer calls it a cold austere medicine.SECT. XLI.] HEMLOCK. 211 With regard to the treatment, the Arabians recommend oily Comm. emetics, Avith soda, pepper, salt, strong wine, &c. Avicenna (iii, 6, 2, 8); Rhases (Cont. xxi); Alsaharavius (Pract. xxx. 2.) Schulze is satisfied that the corion or coriandrum of the ancients was the same as our coriander. He appears, however, to have rather overrated its deleterious properties. It is only . in particular states of the body that it proves at all injurious. (Toxicol, vet. vii.) Sprengel also is satisfied as to the identity of the ancient and modern coriander. (Comment, in Dios.) SECT. XL. ON PSYLLIUM OR FLEAWORT. Fleawort when drunk occasions coldness of the whole body sand torpor, with relaxation and lowness of spirits, which arere- ' lieved by the same remedies as those given to persons who have drunk coriander. Commentary. All the authorities agree in representing its Comm. f effects as being similar to those produced by coriander. They t treat the case then upon general principles with wine, pepper, a and other such stimulants. Schulze finds some difficulty in acknowledging that the tplantago psyllium, L. is the true psylHum of the ancients, and ryet he admits that no other plant has so good a claim to be identified with it. We see no grounds for scepticism on this point. sect. XLI. ON CONIUM OR HEMLOCK. Hemlock, when drunk, brings on vertigo and dimness of vision, so that the person can no longer see even to a small distance ; there is hiccough, disorder of the mind, and cold- ness of the extremities, and at last he is suffocated in convul- sions, the breath in the arteria aspera being stopped. At first itherefore, as in other cases of poisoning, we must bring it up *y vomiting, and afterAvards, by means of an injection, evacuate whatever part had passed into the intestines; and then, as our -reat remedy, we have recourse to undiluted wine, giving it at ■ntervals, dming which we must administer the milk of cows I 1212 HEMLOCK. [book v. or of asses, or wormwood witli pepper, wine, and castor; aud rue and mint, with wine, and a dram of cardamom or of storax; or of pepper, with nettle-seeds in wine; or the tender leaves of bay tree; and in like manner laserwort, or the juice thereof, with common wine or must; and sweet wine drunk alone answers well. Commentary. Theophrastus seems to have been acquainted with the sedative properties of hemlock, for he recommends pepper and rosemary as antidotes to it. (H. P. ix, 24); and Athen. (Deip. ii, 73.) The operation of this poison m the case of Socrates is weU described by Plato in his ' ^h^do Socrates, after swallowing the poisoned cup, walked about for a short time as he was directed by the executioner: when he felt a sense of heaviness in his limbs he lay down on his back; his feet and legs first lost their sensibility, and became stiff and cold; and this state gradually extended upwards to the heart, when he died convulsed. . ■ The symptoms, according to Nicander, are dimness of sight, vertigo, a sense of suffocation, coldness of the extremities, im- peded respiration, and death. His remedies are emetics of oil or undiluted wine, clysters of the same, --^/-f^;!"*^^ ™ taken by the mouth, with pepper, nettle, assafoetida, and the like. Dioscorides, and all the other authorities, recommend much the same treatment. Pliny and Aetius mention Imdity, after death, as a symptom of poisoning ^7 cicuta. Theophrastus (H. P. vi, 3) and Phny (H. N. xxv 95) have described the conium. Schul^e is satisfied that it is the — ,naculatum, L., and in this opinion we fully agree with h ' He adds, that the ancients have made no mention ot tne "tiwSes and most of the others enumerate convulsions among the symptoms. It will be remarked, that m the ab- Tact given above of the symptoms of poisoning ^7 ^^-^ f). tZ rase of Socrates, we have stated that the great philosopl^e bed con^allsed. Tbis we think the true interpretation of the m u eTby Plato although it has not been so un- HoTd by'niost of Ws interpreters place, states somnolency, coma stertor, lividi| « P^^^ ness, stupor, insensibility, and prxmtus of the whole .>JUICE OF THE POPPY. ■ CT. XLII.] 213 as the common symptoms of poisoning by opium, mandragora. Comm. or conium. >—^— Schulze rauks, among ancient mistakes, the assertion of Galen, :that nai-cotic substances may, in some instances, become di- gested and prove nutritive. But Dr. Christison says, that both vegetable and animal poisons may become digested, of which lihe gives an interesting example with regard to opium (On FPoisons, p. 53.) SECT. XLII. ON THE JUICE OP THE POPPY. When one has cbunk of the juice of the poppy drowsiness 3omes on, with coldness and intense itching, so that often .vhen the medicine takes effect such an itching comes on that ;he person is roused from sleep thereby. The smell of the medicine too is emitted from the whole body. The remedies in such cases, after rejecting the substance taken by vomiting •vith oil, and evacuating downwards by a stimulant clyster, are «xyinel drank with salts, or honey with warm rose-oil, and much undiluted wine with wormwood and cinnamon, and warm i/inegar by itself, and natron with water, and marjoram with ■ye, the seed of rue and pepper given with castor, and oxymel, avory, or the decoction of marjoram with wine. We must >ho rouse by aromatics, put the person into a hot bath, and oment on account of the pruritus which supervenes; and after ^ne bath we may use fat broths, with wine or must. Marrow Iso drunk with oil is useful. Commentary. According to Nicander, the symptoms of poi- Comm. omng by poppy-juice are coldness of the extremities, eyes fixed .eavmess of the eyelids, profuse and fetid perspiration, pale' -ess, swelhng of the hp, relaxation of the under jaw, slow re. ;nration cold breath, and the usual precursors of dissolution, . amely, distortion of the nostrils, hvidity of the nails, and hol- hw eyes. His remedies are emetics, such as the oil of iris or f roses, wine and honey; hot drink and rousing the patient .y ones, stnkmg his body in different places, and wrapping it I cloths smeared with oil and hot wine, and the hot bath as ^- restorative, 'I 214 JUICE OF THE POPPY. [book v. Comm. The Symptoms mentioned by Dioscorides are lethargy, violent "—" ' pruritus, and the perspiration smelling of opium. His remedies are the same as those of our author, namely, emetics at first, then clysters, and afterwards wine and vinegar, with various stimtdant and strong-scented things; such as pepper, cinnamon, castor, marjoram, &c. The patient is to be roused as directed by Nicander; and baths and fomentations axe to be used to relieve the pruritus. Galen relates the case of a person reduced to the last stage of coldness, whom he saved by administering freely a strong, light-coloured, and fragrant wine. Yet, he remarks correctly, 1 a small quantity of weak wine operates unfavorably by pro- moting the distribution of the poison over the system. He, in particular, recommends vomiting at first with wine and oil, and afterwards strong clysters. Aetius mentions, among the symptoms, violent prm-itus and convulsions. None of the other Greek writers mention con- vulsions, but among the Arabians, Avicenna, Rhases, and Alsaharavius, have mentioned them. Modem experience has determined that they are an occasional, but not a frequent symptom produced by the immoderate administration of opium. Scribonius Largus directs us, after repeated vomiting, to apply embrocations of vinegar and roses to the head, to rub the feet, and to put sinapisms to them and the thighs. Simeon Seth strongly recommends vinegar. Haly Abbas and Alsaharavius, and, in short, aU the Arabians recommend nearly the same treatment; namely, emetics of oil and water, or oil and wine, hot clysters, acrid and strong- scented things, such as castor, assafoetida, savin, &c., and the warm bath, friction, sternutatories, and every means calcu- lated to arouse, and to prevent sleep. Serapion, Ehases, Avicenna, Haly Abbas, and Alsaharavius, agree in stating that the smaUest dose of opium which will |J prove destructive to human life is two drachms. Modern au- thors are not agreed as to the smallest quantity which may prove fatal, but surely, as Dr. Christison remarks. Dr. Paris has fixed the minimum dose too low, when he aflirms that four grains may be sufficient to produce this efi'ect. On the other hand, we should think that a smaller dose than that mentioned by the Arabians might be sufficient to destroy Ufa.JUICE OF THE POPPY. 215 SECT. XLII.] Perhaps the ancient opium may have been weaker than that Comm. no^y in use. '—v—' It is worthy of remark, that most of the ancient authorities recommend vinegar in cases of poisoning by opium, but we are inclined to think that none of them administered it at the commencement, nor until the poison had been removed from the 1 bowels. This practice agrees very well with the rule of treat- iment laid down by Orfila, Paris, and Christison, who state I that vinegar is prejudicial, if given at first, by favouring the 1 solution of the poison, but proves useful afterwards by acting as a restorative to the system. None of the ancient authorities recommend venesection. In another work we have thus explained the ancient theory (of the action of opium upon the human frame. " In order to lunderstand properly the ideas entertained by the ancients re- sspecting the modus operandi of opium, it will be necessary to ssay a few words in explanation of their opinions upon certain fpoints of physiology. Aristotle taught that the prime cause of aaU the operations of life is mind, and that the prime instrument Iby which it performs them is heat, which, therefore, he deno- Dminates the co-cause {(jwacnov). He illustrates his meaning by ceomparing the mind to the artificer, and heat to the wimble or ssaw by which he performs his work. Having remarked, no idoubt, that the heart is the warmest part of the body, he appears t to have considered it as the spring which turns the whole ma- chinery of the animal frame, the brain and nerves deriving their ^origin and influence from it. (I need scarcely mention how »well these ideas accord with the ingenious hypothesis lately ad- vanced by M. Serres.) Many facts, indeed, seem to point out the supreme importance of the heart. It is, as the ancients remarked, the primum movens et ultimum moriens; and, along rwith its accessory organ, the lungs, it is evidently the part •which, in the higher classes of animals, renders them indepen- ident of the many variations of heat and cold to which they are isubjected. It is this wonderfiil organ which, under the guid- ance of the principle of life, preserves the heat of the body unaltered in all the different gradations of temperature, from tmorc tlian 100 degrees above the boiling, to as many below the rfrecKing point of the thei-raometer. It seems, in fact, a real *Proraethcus that steals the fire from heaven. The connexion216 [book v. JUICE OF THE POPPY. Comm. between heat and the vital actions is very a^jparent also in the ' ' ' inferior animals^ who are not provided with such an apparatus for preserving an equability of temperatuj-e. Thus the zoophyta, insecta, et vermes, with the loss of heat, lose also sensibility and muscular energy, which they recover again when their heat is restored. In this case it is evident that heat is the cause (or at least the co-cause) of the vital actions, and not the vital actions of heat. It has always appeared to me a striking fact, illustrative of the great influence of heat over the vital actions, that the strength of all animals is, bulk to bulk, proportionate to the degree of their animal heat. " This doctrine of the supreme authority of the heart, as being the focus of heat, thus maintained by Aristotle, was eagerly defended by the great Arabian commentator, Averrhoes, and by his countryman, Avenzoar, who keenly attacked Galen for having questioned its truth, and taught, as they represent, that the brain is the leading organ in the animal frame. After ha\ing, however, carefully ransacked every part of Galenas works, in which I could suppose it likely to meet with any allusion to this doctrine, I am led to beheve that these Arabians, in the heat of controversy, have misrepresented the real opinion of their master's rival. Galen appears decidedly to have mam- tained with Hippocrates—' that there is in the body no, one beginning, but that all parts are aUke, beginning and end: for a circle has no beginning.' Agreeably to this idea, Galen re- marks, that the brain cannot properly be said to derive its powers from the heart, since an animal will run, breathe, and cry after its heart has been taken out; nor can the heart be said pro- perly to derive its powers from the brain, since it will palpitate and contract, after aU communication with the brain is cut off, nay, after it has been removed from the body. In so far, then, the functions of the brain and the heart are independent of one another. But the brain is dependent upon the heart and its appendages for vital heat, without which it would be unable to continue its functions; and the heart, on the other liand, is dependent upon the brain for imparting nervous in- fluence to the respiratory organs, without which it could not preserve its vital heat unaltered. Hence the mutual con- nexion and sympathy of important organs—a doctrine much insisted upon by ancient authors, and which beai-s some resem-^ECT. XLii.] JUICE OF THE POPPY. ' 217 blance to the theory Lately advanced by Mr. Morgan and Dr. Addison. "We shall now have no diflficulty in understanding the ideas of the ancients regarding the operation of opium. Galen and Avicenna believed that the poison exerts its primary influence upon the heai-t, and impairs its vital heat. Of course they con- ^ sidered its operation on the brain as secondary. They called the action of narcotics frigorific or congealing, no doubt because I they remarked that it was attended with a diminution of vital heat, and to this they attributed the loss of sensibility and i muscular energy. I leave it to the reader to judge whether I this theory or the modification of it lately proposed by Messrs .Morgan and Addison be the more plausible." (Edinburgh : Medical and Surgical Journal, No. 103.) But although the ancient physiologists maintained that the ipnme organs of the animal frame suffer sympathetically in cases cot poisoning, they did not hold, it will be remarked, that aU 1 poisons exert their primary action on the nervous system. This lis the hypothesis lately advocated by Messrs. Morgan and Ad(hson, but which is, in fact, only a revival of that maintained t by Schulze m his ' Toxicologia Veterum.' He thus states Hs r theory of the action of poisons,—" Omnia symptomata et le- tliales venenorum effectus hoc unum quam luculentissime demon- ^trant, ab omnibus venenis nervos ipsos graviter affligi. Nervea igitur vis sen vitalis, a veneni stimulis commota, aut majori impetu agit, aut prsevalente veneni vehementia prorsus silet nexusque omnes sensorii communis cum reliquis nervis tur- T^^l' f^""^^^" ^""^ ^^'^^^"^ periclitante, aut prorsus n t ntura/^ (Toxic. Vet. vii.) Dr. Mead also, in his last edition of his work on Poisons, advocates this hypothesis. It appears to us, however, that this theory, although very 'imp e and p ausible, is somewhat too exclusive. And that there ire other modes by which poisons operate than through the brain irid nerves appears to be demonstrated by the fact now clearly .stabhshed that poisons act upon vegetables as well as upon unmals. (V. Annales de Chimie, t. xxix.) Now as vegetables .re possessed of neither sensibility nor motion, it seems pre- -osterous to suppose that they have any nervous system Perhaps then, we cannot do better than revert to the old octnne delivered by Alsaharavius. Sometimes, he says, poisons218 MANDRAKE. [kook v. Comm. act upon the heart, and thereby prove instantly fatal; some- times upon the liver, producing jaundice and phthisis; some- times upon the brain, when they occasion delirium; and some- times their action is local, giving rise to corruption and Hvidity of the part. (Pract. xxx. 2, 18.) That the primary action of narcotics is upon the heart appears to us, upon the whole, the most probable theory hitherto ad- vanced upon the subject. COMM SECT. XLIII ON THE JUICE OF THE CARPESIA. When the juice of carpesia is drunk it brings on heavy sleep and acute suffocation. These are relieved by the same remedies as those given to persons who have drunk hemlock. Commentary. This section is taken, almost word for word, '■ from Dioscorides. Matthiolus confesses that he was quite un- able to determine what substance it was. (Comment inDioscor. vi 13 ) It is doubtful whether the KapTrrjaioK of Galen and the JpJaov of Dioscorides be the same substance, and whether Ser be the same as the 6.oKclp.a.ov. Sprengel can arrive It no certain conclusion respecting it. Valenus Cordus sup- posed it to be the piper longum. SECT XLIV. ON MANDRAGORA OR MANDRAKE. When mandragora has been di^ink, stupor immediate y comes on, with loss of strength, and a strong mcbnation to lei so hat the affection differs in nothing from that which • palled lethargy. Before any of these symptoms come on vom^^g "proper in thL case ; and afterwards homed TaTe or natron and wormwood with must, or taken m a dulc> Id W embrocations to the head with rose-oil and vinegai-, TlZX^^^"^^-^ the body, and by strong-smelling thmg^ pepper mustard, castor, and rue pounded with -eg-, hqm the wicks of lamps lighted and extmgmshed, will be ptch, -^^^l lej are difficult to rouse we may also app y SatorraSTiave recourse to the gener^ remedies in such cases.219 SECT. XLIV.] MANDRAKE. CoMJiENTARY. Our author, as usual, follows Dioscorides, Matthiolus, by the way, in his commentary, questions the pro- priety of applying rose-oil and vinegar to the head, as these things are of a cold nature, whereas stimulants and calefacients are indicated. Perhaps these things, when poured from a height upon the head, might prove restorative and stimulant. The other Greek authorities however, as, for example, Aetius and Actuaiius, approve of the practice. Alsaharavius recommends emetics, and also directs us to pour vinegar and rose-oU on the head, and to take vinegar in which hyssop and the like have been boiled. Rhases recommends vomiting by means of water, honey, and fossil salt; after which sweet wine is to be given, and vinegar : and rose-oQ poured upon the head; castor, pepper, and rue are 1 to be administered, along with sternutatories. He mentions, I however, that he knew an old medical man who cured a young I woman, who had fallen into a state of syncope, with flushing of 1 the face, after swallowing the apples of mandragora, by the I aflpQsion of snow-water on her head. Avicenna properly directs everything to be done to prevent sleep. Schulze is satisfied that it is the atropa mandragora of Lin- inaeus. There seems no doubt, however, that the mandragora (Of Theophrastus is the atropa belladonna; while the mandragora I mas of Dioscorides is the mandragora vernalis, Bertol.; and the IM. femina of the same, the mandragora autumnalis. Theophrastus, Dioscorides, Galen, Athensus, Aetius, Suidas, mesychms, Apuleius, Pollux, and Frontinus, have made men- ^tion of the hypnotic property of mandragora. It is singular ithat It should now have faUen into neglect. It appears to «have been used as a medicine in the days of Shakespeare. iJlago says : " Not poppy nor mandragora Nor all the drowsy syrups of the world, Shdl ever medicine thee to that sweet sleep Which thou owed'st yesterday." Othello. me will have occasion to treat of it in the Seventh Book.[book v. WOLFSBANE. 220 SECT. XLV. ON ACONITUM OB WOLFSBANE. Wolfsbane immediately after being drunk occasions a sen- sation of sweetness on the tongue, with a little astringency ; vertigo supervenes, more especially when the person attempts to rise up, and it brings on a watering of the eyes; there is heaviness of the chest and abdomen, with eructation of much flatus. In these cases the medicine must be brought up by vomits, and the contents of the bowels evacuated by a clyster. We must also give draughts from marjoram and rue, or from horehound with wine, or from wormwood, or from rocket, or from southernwood, or mezereon, or ground-pine. Opobalsam, too, taken to the amount of one drachm, with wine, wiU Ukewise answer with them; also the rennet of a kid, or of a hare, or of a fawn, with vinegar, and the dross of iron, or iron itself, or gold, or silver, may be dissolved in wine, and the hquid taken, and lye with wine, and the broth of a boiled cock, or the broth of fat flesh taken with wine. The ground-pine, wliich is said to be a specific in Heraclea of Pontus, where wolfsbane grows, is caUed holocleron, but ionia in Athens, and sideritis in Eubcea. CoMMENTAUY. The symptoms, as described by Meander, ' are astringency of the lips, palate, and gums, gnawing pains at the stomach, singultus, flatulence, running from the eyes, double vision, as from intoxication. His remedies seem to have been principally emetics and calefacients. Thus he recommends a handful of quickhme to be drunk with a hemina of wne, also southernwood, spurge, ground-pine, marjoram, opobalsam, the metallic preparations mentioned by our author, aud the like. The accounts of the treatment given by Dioscorides, Aetius, and Actuarius agree exactly with our author's. Avicenna, Rhases, and Haly Abbas, in like manner, recommend emetics, clysters, and calefacient medicines internally. Diogenes Laertius states, upon the authority of Eumelus the historian, that Aristotle the philosopher despatched himself with a draught of aconite. (Vita Aristot.) PUny relates that this poison proves fatal when applied to the genital organs ot women. (H. N. xxvii, 3.) ... The ancients have described several varieties of aconite.IXIA. 221 SECT. XLVI.] See Theophrastus (H. P. ix, 19); Pliny (H. N. xxv, 75); Schulze (Toxicol, vet.); Schneider (in Nicand. Alexiphar.); and Sprengel (Rei. Herb, Hist.) These modern authors in general are dis- posed to think that it was the iris tuberosa. Sprengel, how- ever, in the notes to his edition of Dioscorides, is decided that the second species of Dioscorides (Mat. Med. iv, 78) is the aconitum nwpellus; but respecting the first species, he is in ; great doubts. All agree tbat the aconitum of Theophrastus is different from the A. of Dioscorides and the other toxicologists. We may be permitted to add; that the symptoms of poisoning . by aconitum, as given by Nicander, agree so weU with those I reported lately of cases of poisoning by the aconitum napellus, ■ that we cannot doubt their identity. SECT. XLVI. ON IXIA. 1)1 0 Ixia, which is also called ulophonon, when drunk has some rresemblance both in taste and smell to basil-royal. It brings ■ on strong inflammation of the tongue, and disorder of the mind; It suppresses all the secretions, occasioning borborygmi and 1 umbHng, with deliquium animi; but there are no alvine eva- • nations. After the greater part of the poison has been )rought up by vomiting, or evacuated by tlie bowels, they will •xpenence relief from drinking the decoction of wormwood, i A ith much Avine, ^dnegar, or oxymel, or the seed of wild rue' ' jr the root of laserwort, and in the like manner the decoction of tragonganum with some of the aforementioned, or with milk • or of turpentme, of nard, of castor, of laserwort, of each an obolus u wme. The fruit also of the wabiut triturated with wine will )c proper; or of rosin, of castor, and of rue, of each dr. i • ! md m hke manner of mezereon, dr. ij ; of the juice of thapsia, : Ir. ij, with honied water; and hot vinegar may be cbunk by tself. ^ ; Commentary. Nicander's description of the symptoms is Co I ery similar to that given by our author, and his treatment ^ ! oems to have been conducted upon the same principles • ; lamcly, by administering emetics and purgatives at first and' rtcnvards, discuticnt and detergent medicines, to overcomeMEADOW SAFFRON. [book V, ?22 the viscid nature of the poison. Our author's plan of treat- ment differs in no material respect from that recommended hy Dioscorides, Aetius, Actuarius, Avicenna, and Alsaharavius. Avicenna described it by the name of aldabach; Alsaharavius, by those of alfos, aldolia, i. e. arbor risi. Apuleius make ixias, ulophonon, chamseleon, ocymoides, and various cardui synonymes (109.) The ixias, according to GorrEeus, is a species of chamseleon, but what species cannot be determined. (See, also, Schneider's note on Nicander.) Mat- thiolus calls it a glutinous substance, found iu the root of the chameleon, or carline thistle. Schulze is decided that it was a species of carlina (Toxicol, vet., 23.) See Harduin's note on PUny (H. N. xxii, 21.) After mature consideration, we have no difficulty in referring it to the carlina acaulis, or car- line thistle. SECT. XI-VII. ON EP.HEMERON, OR MEADOW SAFFRON. When one swallows ephemeron (which some call colchicum, because it grows in Colchis, or bulbus silvestris), pruritus takes place over the whole body, as if stung by nettle or squill; there is a gnawing pam within, and great heat of the stomach, with considerable heaviness; but when the affection gams strength, blood is discharged from the bowels, mixed with the scrapmgs thereof. The same remedies are to be applied as to those who have dmnk salamander, in vomits and clysters. But before the medicine gain ground we must give a decoction of oak- leaves, or of acorns, or of the rind of pomegranate, or of wild thyme with milk, or the juice of bloodwort, or af vme- tops or of brambles, or of the meduUa of fennel-giant, or of myrtle berries, with wine; and when levigated myrtles themselves are pounded and macerated in water, the hquor thereof may be taken with advantage. And, in Hke manner, the middle pellicle of the chesnuts, caUed Sajrdian, may be taken with the aforesaid juices, and maijoram may be drunk with lye Those affected are manifestly relieved by drmkiug hot cow's mUk, and retaining it in the mouth, so that they who have plenty of it do not stand in need of any othei remedy.SECT. XLViir.] THE YEW. 2:^3 Commentary. Our author's detail of the symptoms is taken Comm. entirely from Nicander, and his treatment also is mostly derived ' ' ' from the same source. They seem to have depended principally upon vegetable astringents, such as oak-bark, pomegranate- rind, and chesnuts, for checking the hypercatharsis. Pliny, like our author, sti-ongly commends milk (H. N. xxvii, 33.) Dioscorides recommends emetics, clysters, vegetable astringents, and demulcents. Alsaharavius says, that hermodactylus occa- sions pnu-itus of the whole body, swelling of the palate, pains of the stomach, and the like. He recommends emetics, clys- ters, cows' milk, and vegetable astringents, such as acorns with wine. This, it will be remarked, is similar to the account which the Greeks give of the symptoms and treatment of ephemeron, which is undoubtedly the colchicum autumnale; and this circumstance tends strongly to prove the identity of the ephemeron and the hermodactylus. We agree with Schiilze, Prosper Alpinus, and Humelbergius, that they were unques- tionably the same plant, notwithstanding that Sprengel, Mat- thiolus, and Dr. Murray are of a different opinion. Dr. Paris considers that there is no doubt of their identity. (See a learned dissertation on the Ephemeron in a note by Schneider, on Nicander's Alexipharmics.) We shall only further add, in this place, that the learned Ardoyn, in his elaborate work on Poisons, contends, that there is no doubt of the identity of the colchicum and the hermodactylus. We, in fact, are surprised that this should have been ever questioned. SECT. XLVIIl.' ON THE SMILAX OR YEW. The tree called smilax is named thymium by some, and taxus by the Romans. When drunk it brings on coldness of the whole ! body, suffocation, and speedy death; the remedies for which »are all those things which are given to those who have drunk »of hemlock. Commentary. The description of the symptoms and the Comm. I plan of treatment are borrowed from Nicander, or, rather, ^""^—' < copied direct from Dioscorides. Different opinions have been entertained respecting the I poisonous nature of the yew. Haller, Bulliard, and others, < deny that it is poisonous; while Berkley, Ray, Matthiolus, andSTRYCHNOS FURIOSA. [book v. 224 Comm. others, affirm that it is. Orfila holds it to be a narcotic poison ^"^^—' (chap, iv, cl. 4.) We have known instances of its proving fatal to cattle. The newspapers lately contained a melancholy case of a boy poisoned by yew-berries at Winchester. Mat- thiolus is not pleased with Dioscorides for making it to be a frigorific medicine; but Orfila, it appears, gives it the same character; that is to say, he holds it to be narcotic. Virgil alludes to its poisonous qualities : Sic tua Cyrnseas fugiant examina taxes. See, also, Theophrastus (H. P. i, 5, and iii, 9) ; and Schulze (Tox. vet. 17). SECT. XLIX. ON THE STRYCHNOS FURIOSA, CALLED DORYCNIUM, BY SOME. When one drinks of dorycnium, which some call strychnos furiosa, there follows a sensation, as it were, of milk to the taste; constant hiccough, watering of the tongue, and frequent ejection of blood; and there are mucous discharges by the bowels, as in dysenterical cases. They are to be remedied before any of these symptoms supervene, by those things which are taken for ephemeron, I mean emetics and clysters, and whatever else can evacuate the substance which had been taken. Honied water is a particularly good remedy ; or the milk of asses or of goats and sweet wine, in a tepid state, may be drunk with a small quantity of anise. Bitter almonds also are proper, the boiled breasts of fowls, all the shell-fish eaten raw and boUed, crabs and crawfish, and the broth of them when drank. Commentary. Our author's detail of symptoms is taken mostly from Nicander, or, perhaps, direct from Dioscorides. The poet's plan of treatment seems to have been much the same as that of Paulus. He omits, indeed, to make mention of emetics and purgatives as being general remedies in all cases of poisoning; but he recommends milk, must, and the Crusta- cea such as the pinna, echinus, &c. The other authorities supply nothing additional. Avicenna treats of it under the name of nva vnlpis stupefactiva mala; he copies from Dioscorides ^%here L'lonsiderable difficulty about the nature of the do-ECT. L.] SARDONIAN HERB. 225 vcnium. Oiir author, Aetius and Apuleius, make it to be LC same as the strychuos furiosa, which is generally held to e either the solanum sodomeum, or the atropa belladonna. ;u this subject, see Galen (de Med. sec. loc. x, 3); Pliny jitl. N. xxi, 105); Apuleius (de Herb., 32). Schulze affirms, |ihat none of the ancient poisons is so little known as the do- rcnium. He is undecided as to its nature, except that it longed to the diadelphous or leguminous plants, and he is ichned to think that it was an astragalus. (Toxicol. Veterum, .) Sprengel inclines either to the convolvulus cneorus, L., rr the con. dorycnium, L. But as far as we can see, the most wobable conjecture that can be made regarding it is, that it jras either the solanum sodomeum, or atropa belladonna. SECT. L. ON THE SAKDONIAN HERB. The herb called the Sardonian is a species of ranunculus, bhen drunk, or eaten, it brings on disorder of the intellect, and Dnvulsions with contraction of the lips, so as to exhibit the ap- »arance of laughter. From this affection that iU-omened ex- ression, the Sardonian laugh, took its rise. In these cases, aerefore, after vomiting, it will be proper to give honied water id milk, with embrocations and lubrications of the whole )dy, by calefacient remedies; and to have recourse to hot- iths of hot oil and water, and to anoint properly and rub cm after the baths; and, upon the whole, to conduct the eatment as for convulsions. Commentary. Dioscorides and our author are perfectly c :veed as to the symptoms and treatment. Aetius recom- cnds, likewise, castor with sweet wine. Solinus, like our ithor, says that it brings on contractions of the muscles and e nsus Sardonicus. Avicenna acknowledges his ignorance the nature and proper treatment of this herb, but supposes ;it it belongs to the class of acute poisons. There seems, )\vever, no reason to doubt that it was a species of ranun- lus. Schulze makes it the ranunculus sceleratus, L., which i'3 the English name of celery-leaved crowfoot; and'we are arly of the same opinion, although Avicenna seems to make 15PIIARICUM. [book v. 22G Comm. a distinction between tlie Sardonian herb and the Icebekengi, " ' ' or apium risus, whicb is tbe ^uT^afiov of Dioscorides. See Alsaharavius (Pract. xxx, i, 39.) SECT. LI. ON THE HORNED POPPY. Seeing that the species of poppy called the horned, when eaten or drunk, brings on the same symptoms as the juice of poppy, it is to be treated by the same remedies. Comm. COMMENTARY. Miller says that the glaucium is called horned poppy because it is a species of poppy having husks resembling horns. See some account of it in Apuleius (53.) Schulze remarks that Dioscorides has described several varieties of the poppy. 1, Papaver hortense; 2, P. opiiferum ; 3, P. agreste; 4, P. rhjBas; 5, P. ceratites sive corniculatum; 6, Hypecoum. The fifth of these, or horned poppy, is the glaucium luteum, Scop. Dioscorides gives a distinct description, but treats of it as a medicine rather than as a poison. (M. M. iv, 66.) None of the Arabians treat of it separate from opium. SECT. LII. ON PHARICUM. The substance called pharicum in taste completely resem- bles nard, and when drunk it brings on paralysis, with dis- order of the mind and convulsion. After evacuation by vomit- ing, we must give the patient to diink, along with wine, some wormwood, cinnamon, myrrh, or Celtic nard (which some call saliunca), or of spikenard, dr. ij, or two oboU of myrrh mixed witt must or iris, and the flower of saffron with wine. The head is to be shaven, and a cataplasm consisting of barley-flour, with levigated rue and vinegar, is to be applied. CoMM Commentary. Nicander, Hke our author, compares its taste to that of spikenard, and says that it proves fatal m one day, inducing delirium. He recommends the same in- ternal medicines, and also makes mention of applying a stimu- lant cataplasm to the head, evidently with a view of rehenngSECT. LiiT.] TOXICUM. 227 the phrenitis. The other authorities recommend similar treat- Comm. raent. . \ . There is great disagreement among the ancient writers on toxicology respecting the nature of the pharicum. (See the notes oi Gorrseus and Schneider on Nicander.) The former remarks tliat many suppose it a species of nard. Dioscorides (Prsef. vi) :uid Galen (Antidot. ii) make it to be a herb. Scribonius Largus, and Hesychius consider it to have been a compound medicme. After balancing aU the statements Schneider comes to the conclusion, that most probably it was a composition from agaric. Schulze is wholly undecided as to its nature. (Toxic. ^ et. 21.) Sprengel, in like manner, can come to no certain conclusion respecting it. (Notse in Dioscor. 1. c.) SECT. LIII. ON TOXICUM. The toxicum seems to be so called because the barbarians yaointed their darts {ro^e^^ara) with it. When a person has Irunk of It, inflammation of the lips and tongue comes on, also iresti-amable madness leading to various fantasies, so that in he treatment of them they are difficult to cure, and it is rare hat any of those who have drunk of it can be saved. How- ■ver, they are to be forcibly bound with hgatures, and com- celled to drink sweet wine with rose-oil, and to vomit. Turnip eed. also, drunk with wine wiU be proper for them, and the cot of cmquefoil, the blood of a he or she-goat when taken, ak bark, that of the beech or ilex triturated with milk; also uinces when eaten, or triturated with pennyroyal and drunk 1 water; and ammomum, and the fruit of balsam with wine. Hit if any escape the danger they remain for a long time con- ned to bed, and when they get out of it they spend the rest t their hves m a state of timidity. Commentary. The symptoms detailed by Nicander are much Comm c same as hose enumerated by our author, namely, swelling ^ t tJie mouth and throat, with violent internal pains. His medies hkewise are much the same, namely, forcingthe patient or he is well secured, to drink wine until he vomit, and mak- 'K' hirn take bruised apples, rose-oil, oil of iris, &c. He says uMUSHROOMS. 228 [book v. tliat certain savage nations upon the" Euphrates poisoned their arrows with it, which rendered their wounds immedicable, occa- sioning lividity and putrefaction. Dioscorides, Aetius, Actuarius, and, in short, all the ancient authorities, copy his account. It is very difEcult to determine the nature of the toxicum. Theophrastus describes a species of calamus by the name of toxicus. (H. P. iii, 13.) Avicenna, however, admits that he was whoUy unacquainted with its nature, (iv, 6; i, 29.) Some have supposed, with considerable probabihty, that it was a prepara- tion from the rhus toxicodendron. Schulze is only decided that it was a vegetable poison. (Tox. Vet. 19.) But it even seems doubtful whether it was a simple or compound medicme, and whether of an animal or vegetable nature. (See Schneider's note on Nicander's Alexiph. 248.) Sprengel incHnes to the opinion that it was collected from the venom of serpents. (Notse in Dioscor.) All, however, is mere conjecture on this subject. SECT. LIV. ON MUSHROOMS. Of mushrooms, some prove deleterious from their general nature, and some by the quantity tahen. They aU bnng on I suffocation resembling choking. The general remedy which is to be instantly apphed is to compel the persons affected to vomit by means of oil. They axe also wonderfully reheved by drinking of the lye from vine-shoots, or from the wood of the wild peax with oxycrate, salts, or natron. And wild pears or their leaves, if boHed with mushrooms, take away then: sutto- cative quality, and if eaten they prove beneficial. Hen's dung, drunk in oxycrate, proves beneficial to them; hkewise a drachm of birthwort, or of wormwood with wine, and honey when hcked or drunk with water; and baum with natron, or the root and fruit of aU-heal with wine, the burnt lees of wine with water, and copperas with vinegar, radish, mustard, or cresses when eaten And since certain mushrooms having been tasted ol by venomous animals occasion not only suffocation but also ulceration of the intestines, we must give in such cases plenty |. of wormwood, and the decoction of figs, and of marjoram, and honied water. Emetics, the hot liip-bath, and raw bai-lcy- flour when apphed to the hypochondiia, wiU also be proper.SECT. Liv.] MUSHROOMS. 229 Commentary. Nicander mentions suffocation as the com- mon effect of taking mushrooms. His remedies are radishes, rue, the flowers of copper, natron, mustard, lixivial ashes, &c! Om- author copies from Aetius. Simeon Seth recommends honey with tepid water, and a moderate quantity of natron. Ruffus (ap. Oribas. Med. CoUect. vHi, 24) recommends clysters of natron, wormwood, the juice of radish, and the decoction of •ue. Dioscorides recommends emetics of oH, natron, &c., and ifterwards ^dnegar and stimulant decoctions. Avicenna's reme- dies are nearly the same as those of our author. Alsaharavius du-ects us to give at first emetics, and then calefacients, such as pepper, cumin, wine, and, if necessary, the theriac. Haly Abbas, lu like manner, recommends emetics, and then wine with honey^ the theriac, &c. The symptoms, he says, are cold sweats, faint- mgs, and embai-rassment of breathing. All the ancient authors affirm that mushrooms act upon the organs of respiration, and Ave remark that a sense of suffocation is generally mentioned in the cases reported by modern writers. For a fuU report of fungi, or mushrooms, see Dioscor. (iv 53) Plmy (H. N. xxii, 46); Schulze (Tox. Vet. 14); Sprengel' (Comment, m Dioscor.); Schweighaeuser (in Athen. Deipnos ii 59); Schneider (ad Nicand. Alex. 521). Diphilus, as quoted l)y Athenseus, states that all mushrooms which are black, Hvid dnd hard, or which grow hard after being boiled, are of a dele- terious nature. He recommends us to give mulse, oxymel, uatron, and vinegar, so as to produce vomiting. Dioscorides gives the following characters of poisonous fungi • Mich as grow near rusty nails, or putrid rags of cloth, or near [he lodgmg-place of reptiles, or by trees which have bad fruits, are deleterious; such have a glutinous coagulum (membrane ulhenng to the cap?) and when gathered soon become putrid uid melt away. (M. M. iv, 83). According to Sprengel, these .uaracters are not universaUy applicable (1. c.); but considering he experience which the ancients had in the use of these arti" ; cs, they are no doubt generally so. The amanita muscaria, he uffarzcus necator, and many other species, may be set down IS belonging to the ancient list of poisonous mushrooms.— r-hulze, who appears to have.paid great attention to the sub- ct, enumerates the poisonous mushrooms of the ancients as Hows:—!, Agaricus muscarius; 2, Agaricus piperatus; o[book v. BULLS' BLOOD. 230 Comm. 3, Agaricus emeticus; 4>, Boletus versicolor; 5, Boletus laricis. ' ' ' (Toxic. Vet. xiii, 5.) SECT. LV. ON bulls' BLOOD. The blood of a newly-lolled bull brings on dyspnoea and suffocation^ obstructing tlie passages about tbe tonsils and the parts concerned in deglutition with violent spasms; the tongue, in such cases, is also found red; the teeth are staLued, and there are clots between them. In this case we must avoid giving a vomit, because the grumous blood will be more firmly fastened in the stomach by being raised upwards with the contractions. We must give those things which are calculated to dissolve the coagulated blood and loosen the belly; green figs, therefore, are to be administered when filled with juice, along with oxycrate and natron. All kinds of rennet are also proper with vinegar, and the root of laserwort, with its juice in like manner; also cabbage seed, the lye of figs, and the leaves of fleabane with pepper, and the juice of bramble with vinegar. The bowels are also to be evacuated. Those who are going to recover have fetid and bloody discharges by the anus. Cataplasms, made of barley-flour with honey, are also to be applied to the regions of the stomach and bowels. Comm. COMMENTARY. Bulls' blood being exceedingly viscid and indigestible might prove deleterious by becoming quickly co- agulated in the stomach : w^e do not find any mention of it, however, in modern works on toxicology. Themistocles is said to have despatched himself with it. Nicander makes no men- tion of emetics, and Dioscorides, like our author, condemns the use of them. Nicander recommends almost the same identical remedies as our author. It will be remarked that they ai-e all of a penetrating, attenuant, and solvent nature, such as wild figs, natron, laserwort, the rennets of certain animals, &c. Galen mentions the pernicious effects of coagulated blood m the stomach, and recommends hot vinegar for it. (De Al. bom ct mali succi.) Ruffus (ap. Oribas. Med. Collect, viii, 24) recom- mends clysters composed of natron, vinegar, the decoction ot cabbage, and of its seed, with vinegar.SECT. Lvi.j COAGULATED MILK. 231 The Arabians treat the case in a simibir manner. Alsaha- Comm. ravius directs us to give vinegar^ natron, wine, and the like, '—'— i also diuretics, but he forbids the use of emetics. Sprengel inclines to believe that bulls' blood may prove de- Ueteiious, if allowed to remain long in the stomach, by evolving i azotic gas. He therefore approves of the hot vinegar recom- imended by Galen. (Comment, in Dios. 25.) Ardoyn states tthat a large quantity of bulls' blood taken into the stomach tmay produce suffocation by stopping the action of the dia- rphragm. (De Venen. iv, 23.) SECT. LVr. ON COAGULATED MILK. Those who take a large draught of milk containing rennet, JBxperience a great feeling of suffocation from its becoming co- i^gulated. In treating them, we may give as an antidote rennet [with vinegar, compelling them often to drink of it; also the lined leaves of calamint, and its juice in like manner, or the roots of laserwort, or its juice with oxycrate, thyme with wine, iind the lye used by bonnet-makers; but nothing saltish must m given, for thereby the milk becomes more firmly coagulated and is converted into cheese. Neither must we make them t'omit, for thereby the coagula being lodged in the stomach will nroduce suffocation. • Commentary. Gorrseus, in his notes on Nicander, remarks Comm. iihat milk only proves prejudicial when taken in great quantity, immediately after the rennet has been added to it, and before t has curdled. See also Matthiolus and Ardoyn (de Venenis). v^icander recommends the same remedies as our author, namely, mch as are of a cutting and attenuant nature, as rennet, vine- tar, wme, lasewort, &c. Dioscorides forbids all saltish things. »luffus (ap. Oribas. Med. Col. viii, 24) recommends a clyster of unegar and natron, or asses' milk with much salt. Celsus says tnth his accustomed brevity, " Si lacintus coit, aut passum, aut oagulum, aut cum aceto laser." See also Galen (1. c.) Haly ■».bbas, Rhases, Avicenna and Alsaharavius also recommend tonet with pepper, assafostida, vinegar, &c. For bad milk Dhich has spoded on the stomach, all the Arabian authoritiesI 232 HERACLEAN HONEY. [book v. Comm. concur in recommending first an emetic of hydromel, and after- ' ^ ' wards wine with pepper. Sprengel accounts for tlie deleterious effects of curdled milk in the same manner as he does for those of bulls' blood, and re- marks, that the acid contained in the rennet of certain animals especially of hares, is well calculated for dissolving and evacu- ating the coagulum (Comment, in Dioscor. 1. c.) The Arabian authorities treat, among the deleterious sub- stances, of flesh and fish which have been cooked and hung up in a wet place until they have become unwholesome. When eaten in this state, Rhases says they bring on violent vomiting and purging, and may prove fatal unless the proper remedies are applied. For these symptoms he recommends repeated emetics and then purgatives; after which wine and pepper is to be given; and, in the end, the remedies for poisonous mush- rooms. (Ad Mansor. viii, 27, 28.) See also Alsaharavius (Pract. XXX, 2, 15) ; Haly Abbas (Pract. iv.) Haly Abbas recommends vomiting by means of tepid water, oxymel, and salt. They treat, in like manner, of rancid fruits; which they state act as poisons when eaten in large quantity. For the cure of these they recommend emetics, the rob of bitter grapes, and medicines to whet the appetite. Rhases (ad Mansor. vii^ 30); Avicenna (iv. 6; i, 30.) Avenzoar relates, at considerable length, the history of a case in which delirium and other bad symptoms had been brought on and kept up by drinking out of a cup which had been poi- soned with some putrid meat, (i, 9, 9.) SECT. LVII. ON HERACLEAN HONEY. Those who eat or drink the honey formed in Heraclea, of Pontus, experience the same symptoms as they who have drunk of wolfsbane, and the same remedies will be applicable. They are readily relieved by drinking frequently of mulse, having the leaves of rue mixed with it. Comm. COMMENTARY. This section is taken from Dioscorides. —' Avicenna makes mention of a poisonous kind of honey pro- duced in Arabia, for which he applies much the same remedies as those recommended by oxir author, (iv, 6; i, 32.)233 SECT. LVIII.] GYPSUM. The effects of Pontic honey in occasioning madness is men- Comm. tioned in the ' Anabasis' of Xenophon (iv, 8.) The same cha- ^"^^ racter of it is given by Aristotle, Pliny, Diodorus Siculus, and iElian. Tournefort confirms the ancient accounts of its inebri- ating effects. See Sprengel (ad Dioscor. ii, 103.) SECT. LVIII. ON GYPSUM. Gypsum^ when dinink, produces suffocation, by being converted into stone; hence we must transfer the remedies appHcable to those who have taken mushrooms, giving them in this case, and substituting the decoction of mallows for oil; for being of a fatty natiu-e it lubricates the parts, and prevents them from being injured by the stony hardness of the gypsum. Oil, also, in honied water is proper; and the decoction of figs, and the lye of figs, or of the ashes of vine-shoots with much wine, and marjoram, or thyme with lye or vinegar. Clysters are also to be administered, consisting of must and the decoction of mallows. Commentary. Our author copies closely from Dioscorides. Comm Khases and Avicenna treat this case upon much the same""--^ principles as the Greeks, only they give scammony freely at first, and if dysentery supervene they recommend the remedies suitable for it. Aetius, Dioscorides, and the other Greek an- thors, although they approve of clysters, say nothing about drastic purgatives. Avicenna says, gypsum in its action resem- bles ceruse, but is even more powerful than it in inducing strangulation. Haly Abbas says, gypsum occasions coHc and ileus with dryness of the mouth, suffocation, difficulty of making .u.ne, and so forth. He directs clysters at first, and afterwards an electuary of pepper and mustard to be given. Alsaharavius forbids emetics, recommends water mixed with honey, and ohve- oil lor dnnk, also emolUent clysters, and sweet wine For an account of gypsum, see Pliny (H. N. xxxvi, 59) and Tlieophrastus (de Lapidibus.) Isidorus gives the foHowinff de " scnption of it:-" Gypsi plura genera: omnium autem opti- mum, lapis specularis : est enim signis redificiorum, et coronis gratissimus.- (Orig. xvi, 3.) The gypsum speculare was evi-234 CERUSE. [book v. Comm. dently selenite, or crystallized sulphate of Hme, See Mattlii- ' " ' olus (Com. in Dioscor.) Dr. Kidd gives the following account of the varieties of the ancient gypsum :—" It was, by the general description of it, an earthy compound of lime; but the ancient naturalists seem to apply it to sulphate of lime, the gypsum of the present day, and sometimes to a calcined carbonate of lime, or quickhme, which they called calx." (Mineral, b. i, p. 70). Sir John Hill gives a full account of the ancient gypsums in his notes on Theophrastus (de Lapidibus.) " Gypsum," he says, "is nothing more than a selenite less elegant than the rhomboidal or plated kinds." There can be no doubt that the yvipog Sta^aVrjc of Philoponus (Com. in Aristot. de Anima. ii) was pure selenite. It is singular that our recent authorities on toxicology have not included gypsum in the list of poisonous substances which they treat of, although there is good reason to believe that the powder, if given in any great quantity, is highly deleterious. We know for certain that gypsum, or stucco, is often used for poisoning rats and mice. It is further deser\dng of remark that all the earlier modern authorities on medicine, down at least to the middle of the 16th century, treat of gyp- sum as an active poison. All the ancient authorities, it will be seen, represent it in this light. Pliny makes mention of a case of suicide committed by means of gypsum (H.N. xxxvi, 34.) SECT. LIX. ON CERUSE. Ceruse, owing to its colour, cannot be mistaken, and Avheu taken voluntarily it whitens the palate, tongue, and the intervals between the teeth. It also brings on hiccup and cough, dry- ness of the tongue, and coldness of the extremities, with dis- order of the intellect and diflBculty of moving. In this case it will be ]3roper to give honied water or the decoction of figs, or of mallows, or hot milk, or sesame triturated with wine, or the lye of vine-shoots, or the oil of marjoram, or of iris; also the bones of peaches, with a decoction of barley or frankincense, or the gum of prunes, or the juice of the elm which is contained in its follicles, along with tepid water ; but let them immedi- ately vomit. The juice of thapsia Avill also be proper for them,SECT. LX.] ARSENIC. 235 or three oboli of the juice of scammony, when drunk with horded water. Commentary. Nicander compares the colour of ceruse to Comm. frothy milk. The symptoms of poisoning by it are constriction """^—' of the palate and gums, asperity of the tongue, singultus, a dry cough, nausea, heaviness of the head, unnatural vision, and torpor. His remedies are emetics of oil, thin milk, decoctions of maEows, sesame triturated with wine, prunes or elms, which are to be given partly as emetics, and partly with the intention of their being digested; for which purpose the patient is to be put into the warm bath. See the Paraphrase of Eutecnius; also Dioscorides, Aetius, Avicenna, and Rhases, who recommend similar treatment. Aetius, like our author, directs us to give scammony, evidently to counteract its astringency. Alsahara- vius recommends emetics of the decoction of figs with mead or common oil, the infusion of wormwood as a diuretic, scammony with hydromel, and hot milk. Rhases recommends emetics of the decoctions of figs and oil, with drastic purgatives and diu- retics. (Ad Mansor. viii, and Contin. xx, 2.) Avicenna^s prin- ciples of treatment are quite similar, that is to say, he trusts to emetics, diuretics, and clysters, and prevents the patient from sleeping, (iv, 6,1.) Haly Abbas recommends an emetic consisting of honey with hot water, vinegar and salt; he also gives diu- retics, such as the infusion of parsley, fennel, anise, and southern- wood. (Pract. iv.) Dr. Alston says, " our white lead is certainly the ^PifxvQiov of Dioscondes and the cerussa of PlinyIt was prepared by exposmg the carbonate of lead to the vapours of vinegar See Milligan (Ad Cels. p. 112.) SECT. LX. ON LIME, SANDARACH, AND ARSENIC. Lime, sandarach, and arsenic, when taken in a draught, bring fm pams of the stomach and bowels, with violent corrosion WTierefore we must administer all things of a diluent and solvent nature, such things as wiU produce ready vomiting and lubricate the bowels, as the juice of the marsh or common mallows and a decoction of linseed, or of spelt, or of rice, copious draughtsLITHARGE. [book V, 236 of milk and honied water, brotlis wliicli are fatty and contain wholesome juices. Comm. COMMENTARY. Nicander has not treated of poisoning by these '-^^ substances, Dioscorides, Aetius, and Actuarius give almost the same account of the symptoms and treatment as our author. Their remedies are emetics, lubricants, and laxatives. The Arabians copy their descriptions and follow their treatment. Thus Alsaharavius directs these cases to be treated by giving emetics of oily and fatty things, emollient clysters, and unctuous articles, to prevent tdceration of the intestines, Avicenna orders, in the first place, an emetic of warm Avater and oU, then emollient decoctions, such as those of linseed and mallows, and fat broths and milk. The cough is to be soothed by demul- cents, (iv, 6, 1.) Ehases states that quicklime and arsenic occasion putrefaction of the intestines. (Cont. xxxvii. tr. 1.) Galen, however, has stated that arsenic is not, properly speak- ing, a septic, but a strong caustic. (De Simp. 1.) However meagre this account of these important medicines may appear, it will be seen, upon reference to the standard works on toxicology, that the treatment at the present day scarcely differs, in any one point, from the ancient mode of practice. Emetics, demulcents, consisting of decoctions of emollient herbs, or copious draughts of milk, laxatives and clysters, form the present practice. The ancient arsenicum, or auripigmentum, was orpiment; the sandarach was realgar, or the orange-red sulphuret. Our oxide of arsenic is a factitious substance, prepared by subhmation from cobalt: it is much more deleterious than auripigmentum or orpiment. Servitor and Avicenna have described the facti- tious arsenic, or oxide of arsenic of the moderns. The Ai-a- bian chemist Geber treats largely and ingeniously of orpiment, which he holds to be closely allied to sulphur. He also speaks of sublimed arsenic, (iii. 39.) SECT. I-XI. ON LITHARGE. Litharge, when drunk, brings on heaviness of the stomach and bowels, with intense tormina; sometimes by its weight itLEAD. SECT. LXII.] 237 wounds the intestines, occasions retention of urine and swelling of the body, which becomes of a leaden hue, and assumes an unseemly appearance. In such cases it will be proper, after vomiting, to give the seed of the wild clary (horminum) to drink with wine, three oboli of myrrh, wormwood, parsley-seed, pepper, the flower of privet with wine, and the dried dung of wild pi- geons, with nard and wine. Commentary. The symptoms which Nicander mentions as Comm. being superinduced by litharge are borborygmi, pains resem- """^^—' bling those of ileus, retention of urine, and discoloration of the skin. His remedies are carminatives, warm stimulants, and diuretics, such as myrrh, clary, St. John's-wort, hyssop, pepper, hedge mustard taken in wine, the green shoots of privet, and the finit of pomegranate. Scribonius Largus re- commends emetics and calefacient medicines, such as pepper, myrrh, parsley. The Arabians, namely, Ehases, Avicenna, and Alsaharavius, concur in recommending emetics, drastic purga- tives, and calefacient medicines. The ancient litharge was prepared like the modern. It is a semi-vitrified peroxide of lead. SECT. LXIl. ON LEAD. When a person has drunk the shavings of lead or its soil, Ihe experiences the same symptoms as those from litharge, and is to be treated in the same manner. Commentary. We need scarcely say that litharge is now ascer- ttained to be a preparation of lead. (See the preceding section.) :Most of the ancient authorities state, like our author, that the > symptoms and treatment of poisoning by lead and litharge are ex- aactly the same. It appears singular that it should be asserted in «ome modern works on the materia medica that the ancients were ranacquainted with the deleterious properties of lead. Galen -even mentions that water conveyed in leaden pipes sometimes proves deleterious by occasioning dysentery. (Med. sec. loc. vii.) IA.etius makes the same observation, (xi, 45.) Palladius* the writer on agriculture, speaks of it in the following terms:[book v. 238 MERCURY. Comm. " Ultima ratio est, plumbeis fistulis ducere, quse aquas noxias ' ' reddunt; nam cerusa plumbo creatur attrito, qu£e corporibus nocet bumanis." (ix, 11.) Vitruvius also mentions that water impregnated with lead is deleterious. (Arch, viii.) Pliny notices the deleterious eJffects of the exhalations from lead mines. (H. N. xxxiv, 50.) The Greek writers on toxicology do not treat of copper as a poison; but the Arabians have done so in brief terms, all agreeing in recommending the same treatment as.in cases of poisoning with arsenic. (See Avicenna, Rhases, Haly AbbaSj and Alsahara\ius.) These authorities, likewise, lay down in very succinct terms the treatment of poisoning by iron, which they direct to be conducted upon general prin- ciples. They in particular recommend laxative and demul- cent medicines. (See Avicenna iv, 6, 18.) As a shght novelty in their practice we may mention that he recommends the affusioir of vinegar with oil of roses, violets, &c., upon the head. Averrhoes recommends from i to 1 dr. of balsam. (CoU. V.) SECT. LXIIT. ON MERCURY. Mercury, when swallowed, brings on the same symptoms as litharge, and the same remedies are to be used in this case. A copious draught of milk seems to be beneficialj and vomiting ought to be produced. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dioscorides, Galcu, and Aetius give the """" ' same imperfect account of this important medicine, and poison as our author gives, and supply no additional information of any importance. The Arabians were better acquainted with its properties, having ascertained that it might be taken in its metallic state with impunity. Rhases says, " I do not think that any great harm will result from drinking mercury when it is pure, unless it be pains in the stomach and intestines. It afterwards passes out in its natural state, especially if the per- son who swallowed it moves about. I gave a draught of it to an ape, nor did I perceive any inconvenience arise from it, ex- cept, as I have mentioned, that it appeared to be pained in itsSECT. LXIV.} HELLEBORE, ETC. 239 belly, for it often bit it with its mouth, and grasped it with its Comm hands." (Ad Mansor. viii, 42.) ■—^ Haly Abbas gives a similar account. Mercurj^, he says, in its natural state, is not poisonous, and merely occasions some tormina in the belly; but when kiUed (oxydised ?) it is dele- terious, and is to be remedied by giving emetics of oH and dill and afterwards oily clysters, &c. (Pract. iv, 53.) See a similar account in Avicenna (iv, 6,1, 2.) Mercury that has been killed, or sublimed, that is to say attenuated, produces, he says, grave symptoms, such as pain of the bowels, a bloody flux, reten- tion of mine, and so forth. He recommends, after vomiting, myrrh in wine, with honied water, &c. Serapion mentions that fumigations with mercury are very prejudicial by superinducing nervous affections and paralysis (De Simpl. 385.) Alsaharavius is, we beheve, the only ancient author who has mentioned that rubbing the body with mercury occasions swelHng of the mouth, tongue, and throat, with ero- sion of those parts. He directs us to wash or gargle with the decoction of diU, camomHe, or mint. (Pract. xxx, 3.) Pliny mentions milk as a remedy against gypsum, ceruse, sulphur, and mercury. (H. N. xxviii.) Not having access to the unpubHshed mss. of the ancient bcnptores Chemici,' we cannot pretend to determine whether or not they had acquired any considerable skill in analysing and detecting poisonous substances. See an interesting account of these MSS. in Pabricii 'BibHotheca Graca,^ xiii, p 747 •Consult also Vossius ' De Natur^ Artium,' v. 9; Sir Wnham Drummond^s Papers in the ' Classical Journal' on the Literature of the Ancient Egyptians; and Doutens 'Dec. de Modern.^ ip. 176 The only original work on the chemistry of the . ancients which we have read with any attention is the ' Chemia' . of Geber which contams much curious information regarding tthe metals, although nothmg that suits our present p4ose. »8ECT. LXIV.-ON WHITE HELLEBOEE, THAPSIA, ELATEKITJM, BLACK AGARIC, WILD RUE, GITH, AND THE DOWN OF THE CACTOS. _ We must be guarded in the administration of certain medi- ;einal substances, which often occasion as great danger as poisonsHELLEBORE, ETC. [book v. 240 themselves. Sucli are tlie following, namely, white hellebore, thapsia, elaterium, and the black agaric, for these bring on either suffocation or hypercatharsis, in which cases we may cure the suffocation in the way described for mushrooms, and such like substances, and stop the hypercatharsis by such things are as calculated to suppress immoderate discharges. Likewise certain substances which might seem not injurious to any considerable degree, will sometimes occasion dangerous symptoms, and shotJd not be neglected. Such are the wild rue, gith, and the fresh poppy, which are the flowers of the thorn called cactos. In such cases the administration of a vomit alone relieves those who have taken them. Commentary. This section is taken from Dioscorides. Of the pappus Actuarius says, like our author, that it is the flo\\ er of the thorn called cactos, and that vomiting reheves those who have taken it. (Meth. Med. v, 12.) See Avicenna (iv, 6, 1); and Rhases (ad Mansor. viii, 49.) Alsaharavius directs us in the case of hellebore to clear the stomach by emetics, and to apply cooling plasters of citrons, apples, and roses. For the wild rue he recommends emetics of oil^ emollient clysters, and the ashes of vine tops taken with water and vinegar. In the Seventh Book we shall have occasion to state the opinions which have been entertained respecting the heUeborus albus of the ancients. Schulze is very undecided. (Toxic, vet. iv.) The thapsia he makes to be the same as the T. foetida of Linnjeus. Theophrastus has described it (H. P. ix, 23). Pliny says it occasions swelling of the body, with erysipelas. (N. H. xiii, 43.) We shall treat of the elaterium also in the Seventh Book. Hippocrates uses the word as a general term for all drastic purgatives, but by Dioscorides, and the subsequent writers on the materia medica, it is api^lied to the fsecula of the momor- dica elaterium. The agaricus muscarius is a well-known poisonous mush- room. Schulze properly remarks that its effects are narcotic; and Dr. Christison places it in the class of narcotico-acrid poisons. See sec. liv. ^ ^ Schulze is much inclined to believe that the irvyavov aypiov here treated of is the peganum harmala of Linnaeus, a plantSECT. LXIV.] HELLEBORE, ETC. 211 intermediate between the nita and melanthium. He is also Comm. disposed to think that the melanthium of the ancients was the ^ niyella saliva, L. We are inclined to adopt this opinion from the text of Avicenna. (iv, 6, 1, 16.) Sprengel agrees with Anguillai-a and Dalechampius in opinion that the cactos was the ctjnara cardunculus, L., or cardoon artichoke, a variety of the C. scolymus. (Comment, in Dioscor.) Schweighaeuser inclines to the opinion of VUlebrun, the French translator of Athenseus, who makes it to be the C. sylvestris latifoHa, which he says grows commonly in Sicily at the present day. (In Deipnos ii, 83.) ^ ■ Under this head we may notice the treatment of poisoning by gum euphorbium, and the spurges, of which no mention is made by the Greek authorities on toxicology. For the Arabians, see Avicenna (iv, 6, 1, 4, 5); Rhases (Contin. xx, 2 ; ad Mansor! vm, 48); Alsaharavius (Pract. xxx, 1, 19.) The symptoms as given by them aU are, violent pain and heat in the primffi viae, with bloody discharges, and death, unless timely relief be given. Theii- remedies are immediate vomiting with hot water and oil, then administering demulcents, barley-water, and in the end, the theriac. Galen and Haly Abbas, in their treatises on the Theriac, recommend it in this case of poisoning. The mezereon is not noticed by the Greeks or Romans either as a poison nor as a medicinal substance. The Arabians treat of it under both these heads. See Avicenna (iv 6 1) ■ Rhases (ad Mansor. viii, 53.) The symptoms as given by them are violent vomiting and purging, for which they recommend sweet milk, butter, juleps, in the first place, and in extreme cases the theriac and sealed earth. The Arabian authorities confound their mezereon with the chameleon of the Greeks treated of in the thirty-seventh section of this book The <?mrfe of Avicenna and Serapion was the strychnos colubrinus according to Sprengel. (R. H. H. i, 250.) Rhases classes the nux vomica along with the articles treated of m this section. He recommends us in aU these cases to give warm water to promote the vomiting and render it easier, and if violent convulsions come on, he directs the patient to be put into a warm bath, and anointed with hot oils. (Ad Mansor. viii, 49.) Serapion treats of it in his Materia Medica (163.) The Arabians also treat of the methcl-nnt 16242 HELLEBORE, ETC. [book v. We are unable to determine satisfactorily tlie natui-e of the condisi, which is treated of by the Arabians, under the pre- sent head. See Ehases (ad Mansor. viii, 49); Avicenna (iv, 6, 1, 16.) Alsaharavius calls it cundes. The symptoms, he says, are dryness of the nose, throat, and palate, sneezing, muttering delirium, pain of the stomach, and, unless speedy rehef be brought, death. (Pract. xxx, 1, 24.) Ardoyn men- tions that some referred it to the struthium; but the above characters do not at aU apply to the soapwort {saponaria offici- nalis, L.),which is the ar^ovQiov of Theophrastus andDioscorides. See further Sprengel (Comment, in Dioscor. i, 192.) The sow-bread {cyclamen Europceum) is also treated of by the Arabians under this head. See Avicenna (iv, 6, 1,16); Rhases (ad Mansor. viii, 59) ; Alsaharavius (Pract. xxx, 1, 24.) The symptoms, according to Alsaharavius, are swelhng of the throat, and strong pain of the bowels. The sow-bread is treated of as an article of the Materia Medica by Dioscovides (ii, 193.) Dioscorides (M. M. iv, 82) does not reckon the oleander {nerium oleander, L.) destructive to man, but the Arabians rank it among the deleterious substances, of a heating and desiccant nature; and recommend for it emetics, with the decoction of fenugreek, figs with honey, and the like. See Aiiceuna (iv, 6, 18); Alsahararius (Pract. xxx, 1, 27) ; Rhases (ad Mansor. viii, 36.) ^ ^ The anacardium, or Malacca bean, is treated of as a poison Iw Bhases (Contin. xx, 2; ad Mansor. viii, 35) ; Avicenna (iv, 6, 1, 9); Alsaharavius (Pract. xxx, 1, 42); Haly Abbas (Pract. iv, 50.) They all describe it as an irritant poison, and recom- mend emetics of animal and vegetable oils, with demulcents, to obviate the bad effects of it. The apocynum, althougli not treated of by the ancient au- thorities on toxicology, is described as a deleterious substance by Dioscorides (Mat. Med. iv, 81); by Galen (De Simpl.); and by Pliny (H. N. xxv, 83.) It appears to be the periploca GrcBca, L. Dioscorides and PHny likewise reckon saffron, or the cro- cus sativus, a deleterious plant. Its deleterious action is very ^^?he atramentum sutorium, which was a solution of vitriol, was used as a poison. See Cicero (ad Familiar, ix, 21.)COLD WATEE. SECT. LXV.J kfVvicenna (iv, 6, 1, 31.) 243 SECT. LXV. —ON DOMESTIC ARTICLES, SUCH AS WINE AND COLD WATER. Cold water when drunk in a great quantity, and much undHuted sweet wine, more especially after the bath, running, or violent exercises, bring on suflFocation and pains. In such cases, venesection quickly had recourse to, and evacuation by clysters, remove the impending danger. Commentary. Galen says, " Some by taking an immode- rate draught of cold water have been instantly seized with dyspnoea, convulsions, and tremors; in a word, their whole nervous system has become affected." (Meth. Med. ix, 5.) Dioscorides, Aetius, and Actuarius concur in recommending • the same mode of treatment as oui- author. The Arabians however, treat those who have taken a draught of cold water : unseasonably in a very different manner from the Greeks. Thus Khases and Avicenna recommend undiluted wine inter- 1 naUy, and the application of a plaster over the liver. The dif Iference between the practice of the Greeks and Arabians may 1 be thus accounted for. A large draught of cold drink may f either threaten to prove fatal at once by producing a violent im- ipression upon the nerves of the stomach, or it may superinduce ^symptoms resembling those of gastritis. In the former case :the practice of the Arabians may seem most proper in order to ^ support the heat and powers of the system, whereas that of the Greeks will be indicated when inflammatory symptoms have come on; and, indeed, even the Arabians bled under these cir- f ^umstances. (Avicenna, iv, 61, 31.) For an immoderate draught pure wme which has been taken unseasonably, the Arabian luthonties concur with the Greek in recommending immediate evacuation of the stomach and venesection, to which they add fjold water or whey, with troches of camphor. See in particularAPPENDIX TO BOOK V. As no better opportunity is Kkely to occur, we shall in this place give a short notice of two subjects connected with medical practice, which are entirely omitted by our author. ON FEIGNED DISEASES, AND THE DETECTION OF THEM. Galen, we believe, is the only ancient author who has treated professedly of the detection of simulated diseases. He begins his short treatise on this head with remarking, that persons feign diseases from various motives, and that it is expected the physicians should detect such impostures. That, for example, inflammation, erysipelas, and oedema, when produced ai'tificially, ought to be distinguished from the same diseases when they ori- ginate in constitutional causes. He adds, that hemoptysis, hsematemesis, and bloody discharges from the bowels, ai-e often simulated. Ha;moptysis is simulated by opening a vein m the gums, and sucking blood from it while one affects to cough. Others, he says, affect dementia, fatuity, and insanity, aU which cases the vulgar expect that the physician should detect. In- ward pain, such as that of coHc, he had often known to be simulated, and relates briefly an interesting case in point. He remarks that experience and natural sagacity wiU enable a man to expose aU impositions of this nature. He gives a very interesting account of the manner in which he detected tueAPPENDIX.] PROFESSIONAL IMPOSTORS. 245 nature of a swelling at the knee, that had been produced inten- tionally by the juice of thapsia {thapsia garganica, deadly car- rot ?) Feigned inward pains, he remarks, may often be dis- tinguished from the real by the aversion which the malingerer discovers to swallow medicines, which he would be anxious to : have given him if he were actuaUy in acute pain; and adds, 1 that the state of the pulse, and the other symptoms of intes- I tinal diseases, Avill assist in making the detection. (Quomodo I coai-g. sint qui fing. se ^grot. t. iii, 388, ed. Basil.) ON PBOFESSIONAL IMPOSTORS. Rhases has an interesting chapter on this head. The frauds of impostors, he says, are more numerous than could be con- tained in his whole work. Some of them, he adds, pretend to be able to cure epilepsy, and having made a crucial incision in the back part of the head, they extract from the wound some- thing which they hold in their hands, and thus impose upon people. Others, in Hke manner, cause it to be believed that tthey extract a smaU lizard by the nostrils. Some of these :characters, he says, make it be beHeved that they remove films jfrom the eye, by secretly introducing a smaQ membrane into !the eye, and taking it out again. Others manage to create a 'behef that they suck water from the ear with a reed. Others also make it be beHeved that they extract worms from the ears or teeth Others practice a trick by which they obtain the credit of extracting the ranula below the tongue. Why should I mention those, he adds, who introduce pieces of bone into wounds and ulcers, and afterwards extract them? He says it IS not uncommon for these impostors to sound a man for the .tone, pretend to find one, perform the operation, and exhibit I calculus which they themselves had introduced secretly into .he incision. Others pretend to cure piles, make incisions about the anus, and form ulcers there which did not exist before t^ertain of them affect by scarifications and other means to .ruck the vitreous humour from the hip-joint, while they exhibit something of the kind which they themselves have introduced IPhere are some who undertake to collect aU the infirmities of[book v. PROFESSIONAL IMPOSTORS. 246 tlie body into one spot, and then extract them 3 for this pre- tended object they raise an itching and violent heat in some place by means of alkekengi (winter cherry); and having accom- plished this they exact a fee for removing the uneasiness from the spot, which they do by anointing it with oil. There are others who will make a man believe that he has swallowed hairs, glass, or the like -, and then tickling his throat with a feather, and making him vomit, they exhibit the substance in question as if it had been brought up. Thus, he adds, they often do much mischief, and sometimes are guilty of culpable homicide. He concludes by warning sensible people to be upon their guard against such wretches. (Ad Mansor. vii. 27.)BOOK VI. SECT. I. PREFACE TO THE SURGICAL PART. Having divided the treatise on the surgical matters into what relates to manual operations on the flesh, and the account of fractures and dislocations of bones, we shall begin with what relates to the flesh, observing there om- accustomed brevity. Beginning therefore, again with the upper parts, we shall first give an account of the operations on the head, more particu- larly of the burning of the vertex. Commentary. This book contains the most complete sys- tem of operative surgery which has come down to us from ancient times. We shall have occasion also to refer frequently to Celsus, who, in the last two books of his work, has treated of surgical operations with considerable accuracy. Our author appears to have been wholly unacquainted with him; but when did a Greek writer ever acknowledge himself under obligations to a Roman ? Haly Abbas, in the 9th book of his ' Practica,' copies almost everything from Paulus. Albucasis gives more original matter on surgery than any other Arabian author, and yet, as will be seen from oiu? commentary, he is indebted for whole chapters to Paulus. In the ' Continens' of Ehases, that precious repository of ancient opinions on medical subjects, if there be any surgical information not to be found in our author, it is mostly derived from Antyllus and Archigenes. As to the other authorities, although we will occasionally have to explain their opinions upon particular suljjects, no one has treated of surgery in a systematical manner; for even Avicenna, who treats • so fully of everything else connected with medicine, is defective[book VI. 248 OPHTHALMIA, ETC. Comm. in Lis account of surgical operations; and the descriptions whicli ' " ' lie does give of them are almost aU borrowed from our author. The accoiint of fractures and dislocations given by Hippocrates and his commentator Galen may be pronoixnced almost com- plete ; but the information which they supply upon most other surgical subjects is scanty. SECT. TI. ON BURNING OF THE HEAD FOR OPHTHALMIA, DYSPNCEA, AND ELEPHANTIASIS. In ophthalmia, occasioned by a defluxion from above, and in dyspnoea, produced by a redundance of a recrementitious humour which is sent from the head down to the chest, and by lodging there proves injurious to the parts contained in it, they burn the middle of the head in this manner. Having first shaven the parts about the vertex, they apply cauteries shaped like olive-kernels and biu-n the skin down to the bone, scraping the bone after the falling off of the eschar. Some by burning even the bone itself make a small scale exfohate from it, in order to allow the humours of the head to perspire and be evacuated the more readily; and for this purpose they keep the ulcer open for some time and then allow it to cicatrize. In treating ele- phantiasis some burn five eschars in the head, one anteriorly above the part called the bregma; another, below this, a httle above the forehead, at the extremity of the hairs; another, at the part called the occiput; two others at the parts called the squamous plates, above the ears, one on the right side and another on the left; and thus, by the removal of several scales, they procure the evaporation and discharge of the collection of thick humours in the deep-seated parts of the head, and pre- vent the sight from being injured. They also apply another cautery on the spleen, in order to remedy the prime organ in the formation of the melancholic humom- by the eschar formed in the skin. Commentary. See Hippocrates (de Visu) ; Aretseus (de ' curat. Morb. Chron. i, 1); Celsus (iii, 23, and vi, 6); Csehus Aui-elianus (Morb. Acut. i, i, and Morb. Chron. i, 4) ; Aetius (vi, 50); Actuarius (Meth. Med. iii, 2); Rhases (Cont. xxvii, 1,SECT. II.] OPHTHALMIA, ETC. 249 24); Albucasis (Chirurg. i) j Mesue (de ^Egr. Capitis) j Avi- Comm. cenna (iii, 1); Haly Abbas (Pract. ix, 69); Avenzoar fl 9 17). ^ ' ' The use of the actual cautery in surgical practice is often aUuded to by the classical authors. See a coUection of these passages m Dr. Blomfield^s edition of the 'Agamemnon^ of ^schylus (822.) Consult also Gataker's 'Marcus Antoninus' (v. 193); and Boissonade's ' Anecdota Grsca' (vol. ii, p 311 ) A very elaborate and sensible account of the use of the cautery m the practice of surgeiy is given by Vegetius. (Malomed. i, Hippocrates, or whoever was the author of the work referred to above, appHed the cautery to the head very freely in diseases ot the eyes and other complaints. Aretffiu^ directs us, in cases of cephal^a and epilepsy, to l^erforate the bone as far as the diploe, and afterwards to bum It until the dura mater is separated from the bone. Readmits however, that it is a harsh remedy. ' Celsus directs us, as an ultimum remedium in epileptic cases, to fonn issues with a burning iron upon the occiput and at the juncture of the first vertebra with the head Aetius speaks of burning the head in nearly the same terms as our author. He directs us to avoid the muscular parts. Actuanus does the same. C^lius Aurelianus however, disapproves of this practice in cases of cephatea and epilepsy. The Arabians were even more partial than the Greeks to burning he head m these and other complaints. See in par'' tacular Albucasis, whose description is very minute. In cases of cephal^a he recommends the cautery to be applied to the occiput, but cautions against touching the bone S it prod^c violent pam. He directs us to be careful to avoid muscles . nerves, and ^teries. Avicenna, Rhases, Mesue, and Haly Ibta: .recommend the operation, in the most unqualified terms as" Itpowerful remedy in the cases mentioned by our author, iven! ^zoar, however, condemns the unguarded appHcation of the I burning iron to the head, Guido de Cauhaco recommends the cautery in cases of hvdro .ephalus (u, 2, 10). Brunus also applied it for hydrocephats" 17.) But see in particular Lanfrancus (III, xli, ig.) ^250 [book VI. HYDROCEPHALUS. Comm. Fabricius ab Aquapendcnte states tliat from the most ample '—^—' experience he bad ascertained the good effects of applying the cautery over the sutures of the skull in various complaints, especially asthma, consumption, and all cold defluxions from the head to the chest. He gives a full account of the opera- tion. (CEuvres Chirurg. ii, 1.) But see De Haen. (Rat. Med. t. iii, p. vi, c. 6.) SECT. 111. ON HYDROCEPHALUS. The hydrocephalic affection is so named from the pecuharity of the fluid, it being of a watery consistence. It occurs iu infants, owing to their heads being improperly squeezed by midwives during parturition, or from some other obscure cause; or from the rupture of a vessel or vessels, and the exti-avasated blood being converted into an inert fluid; or from rarefaction, the matter exuding and lodging between the skin and the peri- cranium. For the fluid is formed either between the pericra- nium and the skin, or between the pericranium and the bone, or between the bone and the meninx. In those cases, there- fore, in which the fluid is formed between the skin and the pericranium, there is a soft tiunour, all of one coloiu-, and with- out pain, accompanied with an elevated swelling, having only a thin substance intervening between it and the fingers, readily yielding and again resuming its form. When it is seated between the pericranium and the bone, all the other appear- ances are the same, but the swelHng is harder, yields more slowly, seems to be felt through thicker substances, and is more painful. When the fluid is seated between the meninx and the bone, there will still be a swelHng, but not of so yield- ing a nature, nor so easily felt, only it yields to the apphcation of sti-ong pressure; for the bones of infants, being recently formed, are of a more yielding nature; and this is more espe- cially the case when, owing to enlargement of the sutures, the fluid escapes outwards. This is readily ascertained from the circumstance, that by pressui-e of the fluid it retreats to the deep-seated parts. In such cases the pain is greater, the whole head is distended, the forehead projects outwai-ds, the eyes are fixed and shed tears frequently. In these cases wcSECT. III.] HYDROCEPHALUS. 251 reprobate any surgical interference, although some remove a piece of the bone by trepanning, as will be described in the section on fractures of the bones of the head. But if the fluid be formed between the skin and the pericranium, and the swelling be small, we may make one transverse incision through the middle. But if the fluid is seated between the pericranium and the bone, and the tumour is large, we make tAvo incisions intersecting one another in the middle; or if it is still larger we may make three imitating the form' of the Greek letter H. After the operation, having evacuated the fluid and applied suitable compresses, we bind it up, and soak it with wine and oil until the third day; after which, having loosed the band- ages, we may cure it by the application of pledgets; or, if the bone is long of incarnating we may scrape it Hghtly. Commentary. See Hippocrates (de Morbis, ii, 15); Celsus Comm (IV, 2) ■ Aetms (vi, 1); Galeni (ut aiunt) Isagoge; Antyllus (apud Nicetam); Avicenna (iii, 1; iv, 2) Avenzoar (I, 9, 17)- Albucasis (Chirurg. ii, 1); Haly Abbas (Pract. ix, 16); Ehases (Contin. xxvii; and ad Mansor. ii, 25.) Hippocrates gives an interesting account of water in the brain, the symptoms of which, as described by him, are pain in the opening of the head and temples, rigor, fever, double vision, impatience of sounds, vomiting of phlegm, &c. He recommends emetics, caputpurgia, and afterwards purgatives. He also makes mention of heUebore and sternutatories, and « even directs us to perforate the skull, or, in other words, to t trephme it. Celsus describes only the hydrocephalus externus. He re- ^ commends us to use stimulant appUcations to the head, such as sinapisms, and if this treatment does not succeed, he directs .us to use the scalpel. The case, otherwise, is to be treated ihke dropsy with sudorifics, exercise, friction, and diuretics. Our author's description is mostly abridged from Aetius, who igives an extract from Leonidas. Even when the fluid is col- lected withm the skull he directs us to let it out, provided it is TO such quantity as to occasion a separation of the suture. ^ The account of the disease, given by Antyllus, in the Collec- »tion of Nicetas is nearly the same as our author's. He speaks252 HYDROCEPHALUS. [book vi. Comm. favorably of the operation only in cases in which the water is "—*—' collected externally to the bone. In the ' Isagoge/ generally ascribed to Galen, it is directed, when the water is collected below the skin on the pericranium, to evacuate it by making two or three straight incisions; and when immediately below the bone, to perforate it; but the case in which the fluid is seated between the membrane and the brain is pronounced to be utterly incurable. Rhases borrows his account mostly from AntyUus and om- author. Upon his own authority, however, he recommends bandages with compresses. He also approves of applying the actual cautery over the sutui-es. He further recommends fric- tion and burning the temporal veins. Avicenna borrows freely from Aetius and our author, and supplies no new views of practice. When water is collected in the anterior ventricles of the brain, Avenzoar, although in general no advocate for the actual cautery, directs us to apply it over the sutures. Albucasis says that he had only known hydrocephalus in- ternus in infancy, and in every case it had proved fatal. How- ever, he describes the operation of evacuating the collection in much the same terms as the Greeks. He warns the operator to avoid wounding an artery, lest the evacuation of blood should occasion immediate death. Alsaharavius mentions the frequent occurence of the disease in sheep. Haly's treatment is the same as our author's. The hydrocephalus externus is now scarcely mentioned, and the existence of such a case has been even questioned. Van Swieten aUows the reality of it, but says that it is of rare oc- currence. (Comment. 1317.) We are disposed to think that the cases described by our author must have been collections of lymph, or pus occasioned by external injuries forming be- tween the integuments and the bone. Modern pathologists admit the reahty of collections of serum and pus between the bone and the dura mater. We may further mention that the earlier modern authorities approve of the cautery in the present case. See Guido de Cauhaco (ii, 2, 10.) The late Baron Larrey was a decided advocate for the application of moxa in this complaint. Henricus Regius di- rects us to evacuate the water slowly by making a small m-SECT. IT.] ARTERIOTOMY. 253 cision and introducing a silver canula. (Animad. Medic. 13.) Though recent experience does not give much encouragement to the operation, it sometimes happens that it is attended with success. Fabricius gives the same account of these cases as the ancients. (CEuv. Chir. ii. 32.) SECT. IV. ON ARTERIOTOMY. In chronic defluxions of the eyes, and in the affection of vertigo, we are in the practice of dividing the arteries behind the ears. Having, therefore, shaven the hind part of the head and marked with the fingers the position of the artery, which IS easily discovered by its pulsation, and then having marked out the line of an incision two fingers in length with black ink ^e cut down to the bone. When this does not succeed we must measure a distance of three fingers^ breadth from the ears and then operate by making a transverse division of the artery until blood flow per saltum, and the instrument strike the bone After a moderate evacuation of blood, the pericranium is to be divided, lest It become inflamed from the distension; and hav- ing scraped the bone we apply a wedge-like tent of linen to the wounds, and accompHsh the cure by pledgets. But if after ail, the bone remain bare, we must have recourse to scraping It in like manner. ^ Commentary. Our author^s description is mostly abridged c from Aetms (vi, 90), who copies from Severus - This operation is minutely described by Albucasis. (Chirurg. n. 2.) He directs us to shave the head, and rub the parts 1 - 1 ,T_ . , — aixu. ruu tne paxes n the ears with a rough cloth until the arteries become sible. The course of the vessels is to be marked with ink, d they are to be divided with a sharp scalpel, the incision netrating down to the bone. He says, howev;r, that if the urgeon choose he may introduce the scalpel below the vessel u.d cut upwards^ The length of the incision is to be two fin- ((■rs breadth. Blood, he remarks, springs from an artery per aitum. About six ounces, more or less, may be taken. The operation ishkewise mentioned byAvicenna (Cantic iv VIS 111[book VI. ANGIOLOGY. 254 Comm. and Avcrrhoes (in Cantic.) ; by Rbases (ad Mansor. vii, 21) • ^ and is described in exactly tlie same terms as our author's by Haly Abbas. (Pract. ix, 4.) SECT. V. ON ANGIOLOGY, OB, SECTION OF THE TEMPORAL VESSELS, AND ON BURNING THE SAME. In hemicrania and in chronic or acute defluxions, when the eyes are affected with a hot and acrid defluxion, so as to occa- sion heat of the temporal muscles with swelling, every one approves of angiology for the cure of them. Having, therefore, first shaven the hairs of the temples, and noted the part with our fingers, we must use warm fomentations, and apply a ban- dage round the neck; and, when the vessels become visible, having marked their course with ink, we must draw the skin aside with our left hand or the fingers of an assistant, and make a superficial incision along the vessel; then cutting quite through, and stretching the parts with hooks, and exposing the vessel by means of the instruments used in operations on membranous parts, we must raise it up when it is separated aU around. If it be small, having stretched and twisted it with a bhnd hook, we may di\dde it through, so as to be able to seize upon part of it. But if it be large, we must apply a double hgature under it with a needle, either a piece of raw flax, or some other strong thing; and, in the first place, making a straight opening into the vessel with a scalpel used in venesection, and taking away a moderate quantity of blood, we must tie the ligatures at both extremities of the exposed vessel, and cutting the intermediate part we may remove it either immediately, or at the time of loosing the dressings. Some, without dividing the vessels at all burn them to a suflacient depth with burning-nrons shaped Hke oHve-kernels. After the operation we must use pledgets of dry charpie, and put on an oblong compress {splenium) wath a bandage. After the removal of these dressings, we must ac- complish the cure by incarnating powders, apphcations on pledgets, and cicatrizing remedies; the threads and Hgatures having previously dropped out from putrefaction. Comm. COMMENTARY. The author of the Hippocratic treatise^ECT. v.] ANGIOLOGY. 255 (de Morbis in Homine, c. 49) recommends us to open the tem- poral veins for obstinate headaches; and, if this does not effect a cure, he directs us to burn them. Celsus describes both operations very distinctly. He directs IS to apply a ligature round the neck, so as to make the vessels sweU, and then, having marked the course of the vessels with mk, to remove the ligature, and open the veins. When a sufficient quantity of blood is discharged, the part is to be burnt \\-ith slender irons cautiously about the temples, for fear of u-ounding the temporal muscles, but more boldly between the forehead and the vertex, so as to produce exfoliation of a scale of the bone. He also speaks favorably of cutting the vessels n the temples and upper part of the head, (vii, 7.) Aetius gives nearly the same description as our author The part which relates to the burning is taken from Leonidas vii, 93.) Angiology is briefly described in the ' Isagoge' of Galen ^ minute description is given by Albucasis. He recommends he operation as a remedy for inveterate cases of hemicrania atarrh, and cephalsea. He du-ects us to shave the hairs about he temples, and to continue to do so untH the artery appears t IS known, he remarks, by its pulsation. When it does not ^adiiy make its appearance, he recommends us to apply a cloth nmd the patient's head, and to rub the place with a rou-h 1 Then, he says, take a scalpel, and make an incision so ^ to lay bare the arteiy, which seize with a hook, and separate .mthe surroundmg parts, and if the vessel is small, cut out a roper piece of it, and allow from three to six ounces of blood . flow. But If the vessel is large, bind it in two places with :ong silk threads or strips of raw cloth {alhohod), so that it ay not drop out before the wound is consolidated.^ Then cu .t the part between the Uvo ligatures. He directs us to dress >c wound as recommended by our author. He also mentions . operation of burning the temporal veins as being one tha less senous than angiology. (Chirurg ii 3 ) Jcsu Haly's account of the operations o'f tying and burning c temporal arteries is very distinct, (iii, 25 ) Haly Abbas describes the operations ^f cutting out and '^^^^T^^'"^ "^'^^^^ - our256 [book VI. IIYPOSPATHISMUS. Comm. Rliases mentions that the celebrated Archigenes recom- """"^—' mended the temporal veins to be burnt for epile^jsy. (Contin. i.) The veterinary surgeons burnt the temporal veins in diseases of cattle. See Vegetius (Mulomed. ii, 16.) We are inclined to think that it was the temporal veins and not the arteries which were cut out and burnt by the Greek surgeons in this operation. It will be seen, however, that the Arabians direct us to cut out a portion of the artery; at least this is suflBciently clear in the description of Albucasis, for he states decidedly that the vessel to be secured will be recognized by its pulsation, and he further recommends us to apply beforehand a Hgature about the head, and not about the neck as directed by our author, whereby it is obvious that the arteries and not the veins would become distended; these observations apply also to Jesu Haly's description. As Celsus, like our author, directs the ligature to be applied round the neck (cervix ante modice deliganda est), we may suppose that his operation re- lated to the veins. From his using the word vense indeed no inference can be drawn, as he applies it indiscriminately to arteries and veins. We are at a loss what to determine re- specting the description given by Haly Abbas, for although the vessel that is secured be caUed arteria, the Hgature or strip of cloth is directed to be appUed round the coUum. Where the mis- take lies in this case we cannot venture to conjecture, and leave it to be found out by some person who has access to the MS. of the original. For our part we may exclaim with a celebrated German scholar,—" FeUces ssepe pr^dicavimus Bochartum, Plempium, Celsium, Hydium, Casirium, quibus usus codicum Arabicorum concessus erat." (Sprengel, Rei Herbaria Historia, i, 239.) Fabricius ab Aquapendente describes the operation as relatmg to the veins (CEuv. Chir. ii, 3.) Tagliacozzi, however, seems to refer it to the arteries. It thus appears that there is a good deal of uncertainty regarding this ancient operation. SECT. VI.— ON HYPOSPATHISMTJS. This surgical operation derived its name from the kind of instrument used in it. We have recom-se to it when a copiousSECT. VI.] HYPOSPATHISMUS. 257 and hot defluxion is determined to the eyes. The face is ruddy and about the forehead there is a sensation as of worms or mts passing along it. Having therefore first shaven the hairs iboiit the forehead, we must permit the lower jaw to move, and -voiding the place where the temporal muscles are seen to ict we are to make three straight and parallel incisions on the orehead each having the length of two fingers, and descending ' the bone, and being at the distance of about three fingeiV H-eadth from one another. After the incision we apply the instru- nent called hypospathister, and extend the division from the ett temple to the middle incision, dividing all the intermediate ubstance along with the pericranium; then we push a spatula j om the middle one to the rest, and applying the point of a harp-pomted knife to the first division, so that its sharp side lay be tm-ned to the flesh within the skin, and the blunt one ^ the bone, we push it as far as the middle division, cutting irough aU the vessels which descend from the head to the ^es, but not comprehending the external skin. And again e push It from the middle to the last incision, cutting through .e vessels in Hke manner. After a moderate evacuation blood, having squeezed out the coagula, and made three listed tents, we are to put one into each division, and applv- g a compress soaked in water, we must secure it with a tudage. Next day we bathe not only the ulcers, but Hke- the temporal muscles, and the ears with wine and oil, on count of the inflammation; and on the third day having aoved the dressings, we must have recourse to copious affu- .n, and aftei-wards complete the cure suitably with tents out basihcon dissolved in rose-oil. CoMME^TAKY^ See Aetius (vii, 93); Albucasis (Chirurg. Comm i ed b ^'^^^P^^^: This operation is better df- ^ t)ed by our author than by any of the others. Celsus -ugh he describes several grave operations for the reref of des to It in general terms. It must have been a very fol able operation, and for that reason perhaps, has been en- ly abandoned m moderate times. Even Albucasis speaks > as benig an operation which was performed by the an- its; from which language we may suppose that it had been 17PERISCYPHISMUS. 258 [book VI. Comm. given up in his time. His description of it is evidently taken '—from our author. Haly Abbas describes the operation very distinctly. Three longitudinal incisions at the distance of three fingers' breadth from one another are to be made in the forehead down to the bone, then a knife, or some such instru- ment, is to be introduced so as to divide the parts between the longitudinal incisions, sparing only the outer skin. SECT. VII. ON PERISCYPHISMUS. When many deep-seated vessels send a copious defluxion to the eyes, we have recourse to the operation called periscyphismus. These cases are attended with such symptoms as these: in the first place you will find the patient's eyes atrophied and small, weak of sight, the canthi corroded, and the eyelids ulcerated, the hairs falling off, with a discharge of veiy thin, acrid, and hot tears; there is a deep-seated pain in the head of an acute and violent character, and there is frequent sneezing. Having first shaved the head as aforesaid, and avoiding the place where the temporal muscles play, we make a transverse incision, be- ginning at the left temple and ending at the other. The in- cision must have its terminations where there are no muscles, its direction being a little above the forehead, and we must avoid the coronal suture. Leonidas directs the incision to be made along the middle of the forehead. When the bone is laid bare we may keep the parts asunder with tents and plenty of pledgets, and bind the extremities of the division; and, as we formerly stated, bathe with wine and oil. After loosing them, if the inflammation is on the decline, we may scrape the bone until it begin to incarnate, and accomplish the cure by a mode of practice calculated to promote incarnation, using the incar- native powders; among which is that containing of wheaten flour, p. ij ; of colophonian rosin, p. j; and that called the cephalic, and those incarnatives prepared from pumice-stone. Tor, when the skin is thickened by a dense cicatrix, and the mouths of the vessels constricted, the defluxion is prevented from being determined to the eyes as before. Comm. COMMENTARY. See Aetius (vii, 93); Pseudo Galen (Isagoge); Albucasis (Chirurg. ii, 5); Haly Abbas (Pract. ix, 18.)KCT. VIII.] TRICHIASIS. 259 It is evident that this operation is neither more nor less than a complete division of the integuments of the head from temple to temple; of course it must even have been more dangerous tlian the operation treated of in the last section. Aetius, Haly Abbas, and Albucasis describe it in the same terms as our au- thor. The periscyphismus and hypospathismus are briefly noticed in the ' Isagoge.' Fabricius ab Aquapendente treats of these operations among tliose of the ancients, qui ne sont plus en usage (CE. C. ii, iv); oven Tagliacozzi speaks of them as being cruel and dangerous! However, a sm-gical operation, similar in principle, caUed the "long issue of the scalp,^' is still practised in certain hospitals of Great Britain. See the 'Transactions of the Provincial Association,' (vol. xi.) SECT. VIII. ON SUTURE OP THE UPPER EYELID, AND OTHER MODES OF OPERATING FOR TRICHIASIS. Distichiasis is a preternatural growth of hairs, superadded ito the natural order of hairs of the eyehds; and derives its ►origin from a defluxion, when there happens to be a flow upon Irhepart of a humour which is not pungent or acrid; for that which IS more acrid, saltish, or otherwise pungent, when it rtodges m these parts, consumes the natural series of hairs. For l^his state then we sometimes have recourse to the suture of the Supper eyehd, and sometimes also for phalangosis when the eyeUd r,.nclines inward, the phalanx or row of the hairs being inverted • and sometimes for relaxation of the eyelid, when the natural B'ow of hairs hui-ts the ball of the eye. Having placed the patient ran a seat, either before us or on the left hand, we turn the pipper eyehd outwards, and, if it has long hairs, we take hold ^t them between the index-finger and thumb of the left hand • mt If they are very short we push a needle having a thread! ^rough the middle of the tarsus from within outwards; then rtretching the eyelid with the left hand by means of his thread »nth the point of a scalpel held in the right hand, having folded mt the eyehd and everted it, behind the thread we make the mder-incision within the hairs which irritate the eye, extending the larger canthus to the smaller, along the tarsus. After'260 TRICHIASIS. [book vi, this subsection, having extracted the thread, and putting a small compress under the thumb of the left hand, we stretch the eye- brow upwards. Then arranging other small compresses on the canthi at the extremities, we direct the assistant who stands behind to stretch the eyelid by means of them. Then by means of the scalpel used for sutures we make the first incision, caUed the veruted (shaped like a verutum or short dart) a little above the hairs, which are in their natural state, extending from canthus to canthus, and penetrating only the depth of the skin ■ and afterwards we perform the incision called the lunated, beginning at the same place as the former, and carrying it up- wards to such a height as to comprehend the whole redundant skin, and ending in like manner as it did. Thus the whole skin comprehended ^dthin the incisions wdl have the shape ot a myrtle leaf, of which portion, having perforated the angle on the right hand with a hook (tenaculum), we dissect away the whole skin: then washing away the clots with a sponge, we unite the hps of the incision by thi-ee or four sutui-es, beginnmg at the middle, and passing the needle itself through the .undcr- section The thread should be made of wool; and having cut away the superfluity of the thread, not close to the sutures, but so as to leave a superfluity of three fingers' breadth, we stretch this remainder along the forehead and fasten it ^^^^^ f any of the agglutinative plasters. But the hairs of the eyehd are to be freed from the sutures with the point of a needle Such is the common and safe mode of performing this sm-gical operation. Some avoid the dissection of the skin, and there- fore after the under-incision, having stretched the redund^t skin by means of the forceps used in operations on the eyelids, they cut it off with a scalpel, and apply sutures as described above But if the iiTitation from the hairs is produced only by a part of the eyelid, it will be proper to confine the operation to that part. Then soaking the compresses m oxycrate, ana laving them on the part, we secure them with bandages con- tinning to moisten the dressings with diluted oxycrate until the third day; after which we remove them, and Jetting away the superfluous parts of the threads, we anoint the eyelids eith« Xaffron,'gla— or some of the anti^nflam-tory ^c^^^ such as that formed of saffron and roses. But if tbe^^^^^f'J inflam" we apply some one of the softening plasters, and sootheSECT. VIII.] TRICHIASIS. 261 the eye by an injection of eggs mixed with milk. When the ligatures slacken we cut and extract them. I know a certain person who having made the dissection of the skin of the eye- lid, as mentioned above, did not have recourse to sutures, but effected the cure with a healing ointment. For when the wound cicatrised, the eyelid being somewhat contracted, forced the hairs to incline outwards. In like manner, another person not practising the dissection of the eyelid, nor the two external in- cisions, but only making the under-incision, stretched with his fingers or by a hook the fold of the eyelid, two reeds or plates of the same length as the eyelid, and as broad as for venesection, he twisted a hgature round it at both its extremities; and thus the whole skin behind not being nourished, and on that account being deprived of hfe, feU off within ten, or at most fifteen days along with the reeds or plates, so as to leave scarcely any scar. Commentary. On suture of the upper eyelid, and other Comm. methods of operating for distichiasis, see Hippocrates (de Victu acut 66) ; Aetius (vii, 71, 72); Celsus (vii, 7); Albucasis (Chir. 11); Rhases (Divis.i,30; adMansor. ix, 26; Contin. ii 3) • Avicenna (iii, iii, 3, 32); Avenzoar (i, 8, 6); Serapion (ii,' 7) • -Vesue (11, 18); Jesu Hah (ii, 10); Canamusali (vi, 26); Haly -Ibbas (Pract. ix, 19); Vegetius (Mulom. ii, 15.) The description of the operation given by Aetius fromLeonidas being nearly the same as that described by our author, we shall confine ourselves to an abridged account of it, and merely make I few remarks to illustrate the description of Paulus. In order :o facilitate the operation, he recommends the operator to have :wo assistants instead of one, as directed by om- author He ilso recommends him, in the first place, to mark with ink the 'ortion of skin which requires to be cut out. He then directs ■ m to make the under-incision, by which he seems to have aeant an incision within the ciUary hairs along the tarsus, and Ucndmg from canthus to canthus. He recommends it to be aade pretty deep, and even in certain cases suggests the pro- u-.oty of makmg two under-incisions, one as above described vithin the ciiary hairs, in order to relax the tarsus; and the ■ther upon the preternatural hairs. He next directs first a ransverse incision to be made along the eyehd above the cHiarv airs, and then a lunated one beginning and ending like theTRICHIASIS. 262 [book VI. Comm. Other, after wliich the skin, thus separated, is to be dissected —' out. He recommends the edges to be united by means of five sutures, one in the middle and two at each extremity of the in- cisions. The other steps of the operation are exactly the same as those described by our author, and cannot be misunder- stood. Hippocrates describes an operation for trichiasis, which Heister thought the same as that recommended by Aetius, but the description is so obscure that we must confess our inability to explain it. Celsus describes three methods of ciu-e for trichiasis. 1. By burning the roots of the hairs. 3. The anabrochismus, which will be explained in the 13th section. 3. The anarrhaphe or suture, as described by Aetius and our author. As the steps of the operation described by him are almost exactly the same as those of Aetius, we need not dwell upon the explanation of them. Lest, however, there should be any misapprehension about the under-incision, we shall give his directions about it in his own language : " prseter hoc, in superiore palpebra sub piHs ipsis incidenda linea est ut ab inferiore parte diducti pih sursum spec- tant; idque si levis inclinatio est, solum satis est." Instead of five sutures, as directed by Aetius, he recommends only three. Albucasis states that there are four modes of curing trichiasis. 1. By the acttial cautery. 3. By the potential cautery. 3. By incision and the suture, which operation he describes at great length. He directs us in the first place to evert the eyehd, either by taking hold of the cihary hairs, or by passing a needle, armed with a hair, through the tarsus, and raising the eyelid with it. He then, Uke the others, directs us to make the under- incision within the cihary hau-s, from the greater canthus to the smaller, to cut out the redundant skin of the eyehd, and unite the surfaces with sutiires. In short, his operation is exactly the same as our author's. He mentions, however, another me- thod of making the incision by elevating the redundant fold of the skin with hooks or a trident, and cutting it off with a pair of scissors. 4. The fourth method consists of making the un- der-incision, as in the last operation, and then twisting the redundant skin firmly about reeds or small pieces of wood until it mortifies: after wliich the wound is to be cured upon general principles. Serapion's account of the operation is defective, and needSECT. VIII.] TRICHIASIS. 2C3 uot be particularly noticed. Canamasuli directs us to cut out Comm. the hairs and bum the part with a cautery of gold. '—"—' AAicenna merely mentions, in very general terms, that the cure may be accomplished by agglutinative applications, by the cautery, or by excision. Mesue briefly describes four modes of cure : 1. By means of agglutinants. 3. By passing a needle, armed with a hair, through the tarsus, as will be explained in the 13th section. 3. By plucking out the hairs and cauterising the part. 4. By applying medicines calculated to prevent the renewal of the hairs after they have been plucked out. Jesu Hali's description of these operations is very circum- stantial ; he speaks of cutting out the piece of skin with a fine pau" of scissors. Rhases states that th.e cure of trichiasis may be effected by burning the roots of the hairs with a red-hot needle, or by making the excision of the superfluous skin of the eyelid. He also makes mention of the treatment by agglutinants. In his great work, the ' Continens,' he briefly notices the four ope- rations described by Albucasis. He appears to have approved very much of the burning. He also describes the operation mth the reeds or pieces of wood. Avenzoar mentions four methods of curing inversion of the ciliary haii-s. 1. By everting the upper eyelid and securing it with agglutinants until the roots of the hairs have been cau- terised with a rod of gold. This method he does not approve of. 2. By extirpating the offending hairs and applying the blood of a bat to the places from which they were torn. 3. By making an excision of the superfluous skin of the eyelid, and afterwards applying sutures. He alludes, we suppose, to the operation of Aetius. 4. By twisting the skin about small reeds or tubes, in the manner described by our author and Albucasis. Haly Abbas accm-ately describes the fom- following operations : I. By excision and the suture. He directs the under-iucision not to be made deep. 2. By twisting the hairs into the fold of a silk thread and flattening it to the forehead. 3, By the actual cautery. 4. By the potential cautery. We will give the description of the veterinary surgeon, V'cgetius, in his own words: " Non longe a pilis ab interiorl )iu-tc scalpello plagam dabis in cute palpebrje, post forficibusBURNING THE EYELIDS. 264 [book VI, per longum ad mensuram oculi fasciolam praecides, et impositis fibulis consucs palpebram foris versus, ut oculus sine deformitate recipiat visum et gratiam naturalem." It is to be remarked tbat Albucasia, Jesu Hali, and Vegetius speak of cutting out tbe superfluous skin of the eye- lid witb a pair of scissors, as was done by Scarpa. All tbe ancient operations for trichiasis are described by Guido de Cauliaco (vi, 2.) The mode of cure by twisting the skin about small reeds until the parts slough is still generally practised in China. The Chinese surgeons grasp the fold between two slips of bamboo, which being tightly fastened at their ends perform the office of a ligature. SECT. IX. ON BURNING OF THE EYELIDS BY MEDICINES. The burning of the eyelids with caustic medicines was re- probated, in a word, by all the ancients, lest the acrimony of the application should prove injurious to the eyes; and because when the burning was carried to too great an extent the affection called lagophthalmos was produced, in which case the eyelids cannot be shut, and the vision is apt to be injured by everything that comes in the way. But since many who suffer from the irritation of the ciliary hairs are not able to endure even the name of the operation by suture, we are com- pelled from necessity, against our will, to have recourse to burning by medicine. The following is a composition of that kind: of quicklime, p. ij ; of Gallic or common soap, p. ij; and some add of aphronitrum, p. iv. These things being pounded with strained ley, or soap ley, or some other ley, as that of figs or of oaks, and being mixed with the urine of a young man not come to maturity, we apply to the eyelid, upon the knob of a specillum, the part touched having the shape of a myrtle leaf; and we burn to the extent comprehended in the operation by suture. The skin being burnt at the first application, we remove so much of it with a sponge, and apply the medicine a second time, allowing it to remain until the part blacken ; and if it does not blacken we apply it a third time. When the skin is blackened and the eschar also formed, we must clean away the medicine and have recourse to bathmgSECT, X.] LAGOPHTHALMOS. 265 and washing until the eschar drop off; after which it wiU be proper to complete the cure by means of pledgets of charpie and emollient collyria. CoMMENTAKY. Nouc of the Other authorities describe this method of cure so minutely as our author, except Haly Abbas, who evidently copies from him, (Pract. ix, 71.) Rhases andAlbu- casis, however, also mention the operation. They direct us to bum the part with a preparation of quicklime and soap, with the addition of some caustic lixivia, or leys. These aicient leys, or lixivian ashes, appear to have been preparations of potass more or less pure. We need scarcely remark that these appUcations must have resembled the caustic paste, now used for forming issues. The method of treatment here described IS, m principle, much the same as that performed by Quadri with sulphuric acid. A caustic paste very similar to that now used IS described by Guy of Caulico. (vii, 1.) The strained ley, of which mention is made by Paulus was probably the same as the calx colata of C^lius Aurelianus (Tard. Pass, v, 1.) It appears to have been an impure pre- paration of potass with the addition of some lime. It is the same, we suppose, as the TrpwrdaraKrov mentioned in the Third Book of this work. The calx colata would seem to have been identical with the Vienna paste now used in the treat ment of varix. A composition for burning the eyelids, men- tioned by Jesu Hali, contains Hme, prepared beans, nitre, and -sal ammoniac, formed into a paste with the water of soap and pure myrrh. Jesu, however, does not much approve of this method of treatment. SECT. X.—ON LAGOPHTHALMOS OR HAEE-EYE. Those persons are said to have hare-eyes who have the eye- Uds drawn upwards. This complaint arises either naturally or from the cicatrix of a wound, and this may have occurred spontaneously, or from the operations of the suture or burning as just mentioned) having been improperly performed • ^ ^ hich case even a moderate relief can only be accomplished vhcn the eyehd is sufficiently thick. For we must divfde theLAGOPHTHALMOS. 266 [SOOK VI. cicatrix, and having separated tlie lips witli a tent, use bandages until the cure is completed, avoiding such things as are very desiccative, and having recourse to those which are fatty and relaxing, such as the juice of fenugreek poured on the pai-t, and the ointment prepared with four ingredients called basiU- con, applied on a tent. Comm. COMMENTARY. See Celsus (vii, 7) ; Aetius (vii, 71); Albu- casis (Chirurg. ii, 13); Avicenna (iii, 3, 3, 13); Haly Abbas (Pract. ix, 20); Rhases (Cont. ii, 4.) Celsus directs us to make a lunated incision below the eye- brows, the horns of the incision being turned downwards, and care being taken not to wound the muscles. A tent or pledget of lint is to be put into this incision to prevent the edges of it from uniting. This simple operation is described in nearly the same terms by Aetius, Albucasis, Avicenna, Haly Abbas, and Rhases. Fabricius ab Aquapendente informs us that the operation had fallen into disuse in his time. It is now sometimes prac- tised. See Scultet, (Arsen. de Chii-ui-g. Tab. xxxiv, 8.) SECT. XI. ON THE SUTURE OF THE UNDER EYELID, AND THE BURNING OF IT BY MEDICINES. The under eyelid is subject to the same complaints from the ciliary hairs as the upper; for, when larger than natural, it is everted; and it is subject likewise to phalangosis and distichiasis. We must, therefore, perform the operation of the suture in the same manner as for the upper eyelid, but in an inverted order, beginning vfith the lunated incision on account of the obstruction occasioned by the blood, and then making the veruted. But the under-incision is to be omitted altogether, because the lower eyehd, by its natural weight, is readay everted. The rest of the treatment to be completed as in the suture of the upper eyelid, except that the extremities of the ligatures are not to be glued to the forehead. If in this case the patient is averse to an operation, and prefers burning by medicines, you have abeady got a description of this process. Comm. COMMENTARY. This scction requires no commentary.ECTROPION. SECT. XTI.] 267 SECT. XII. ON ECTROPION^ OR EVERSION OF THE LOWER EYELID. Ectropion of the under lid is occasioned by the same causes as lagophthalmos of the upper, only that it does not occur naturally, but arises sometimes from relaxation produced by medicines possessed of this property, which have been applied for inflammation; and sometimes the eversion is occasioned by the suture or burning having been improperly performed. Takmg, therefore, a needle, armed with a double thread, we perforate the fleshy mass, pushing it through from the left canthus to the right, and then by means of the thread fastened to both of its extremities, we stretch the skin with the needle, and cut down upon it with a scalpel, removing the needle at the same time. Then, if the eyehd resume its proper shape and IS turned inwards, this operation will be suflacient. But if the eversion continue after the removal of the flesh, we apply the back of the speciUum to'the divided eyelid; and on the inside of the eyeUd, having made two incisions, beginning at the two angles of the incision formerly made, and terminating in an acute point, and meeting together like the Greek A, we remove this substance, so that its acute point may be below at the eye, and the broad above at what is caUed the tarsus Afterwards we unite the separated parts with a needle con- tainmg a woollen thread, being satisfied with two sutures liut It the ectropion be occasioned by the operation of the suture or burning we make a simple incision along the first cicatrix below the hairs of the tarsi, and having separated its hps we fiU up the wound with pledgets, using the same methods as for lagophthahnos (except fomentations) until the parts which have been stitched unite. Commentary See Aetius (vii, 74); Celsus (vii, 7); Albu- Comm casis (Chirurg. li, 14); Haly Abbas (Pract. ix, 20 ) ^ Aetius gives a full account of the treatment of ectropion from Demosthenes and Antyllus. When the disease is occa >ioned by fungous flesh on the inner membrane of the eyelid lie recommends us to bum it down with escharotics, such as -uisy, chalcitis, &c. (See the Third Book.) He describes the268 ECTROPION. [book vi. Comm. surgical operation in the following terms :—when the fleshy " • ' excrescences are very large they are to be dissected out with a scalpel, and the part touched with burnt copper or the like. When the aversion is greater, he directs us to perform an operation upon the inner part of the eyelid, making two in- cisions, which unite below like the Greek letter A, and after- wards dissecting out this lambdoid or triangular piece, and along with it the flesh below, which, he remarks, is not car- tilaginous like the upper eyehd, but taking care to preserve the skin untouched. The edges of the incisions are then to be united by one suture at the eyelids. When the ectropion is occasioned by an external cicatrix, we are to operate upon the inner surface of the eyelid in the manner just now described, only avoiding to make deep incisions, and uniting the edges of the incisions as before directed. Then stretching the cicatrix with a hook, and pushing a needle armed with a double thread, under the thickened flesh from the smaller canthus to the larger, we are to cut down upon the needle and divide the thickened flesh. A pledget of lint is then to be put into the external incision, and a compress, moistened with cold water, applied with a bandage. He directs us to avoid warm fomentations until the ligatures drop out. When ectropion arises from the excrescence called encan- this, he recommends us to dissect it out. When the disease is occasioned by paralysis, or arises from too large a portion of the eyelid having been cut out in the operation for entropion, he pronounces it to be incurable. It is also said to be in- curable when occasioned by the sloughing of carbuncles. Celsus says that ectropion arises either from an operation for inversion improperly performed or from old age. In the i former case he directs us to make an incision like that for '| lagophthalmos, only with this difference, that the horns of it are to be turned to the jaws (maxillas) and not to the eye. When it arises from old age he recommends us to burn the ex- crescence with a slender piece of iron, and then to anoint it with honey. Albucasis describes the operation in nearly the same terms as Aetius. Thus, he directs us to pass a needle armed with a double thread, below the fleshy excrescence from the left canthus to the right, and stretching it by means of the threads269 SECT. XIII.] ANABROCHISMUS. to cut it out with a broad scalpel. If this incision does not Comm. relieve the eyelid, he directs us to take the specillum (radius) """^^ and applying it to the incision, to evert the eyelid with it, and then to make two incisions in the inner surface of the eyelid so that they may meet at an angle below, like the Greek letter A. Then this triangular portion is to be dissected out, and the edges united by a suture with a woollen thread. When the disease arises from a cicatrix he directs us to divide it, and ! then to keep the lips of the wound separate by the application ' of a pledget. He concludes with the remark that, as the I disease puts on various forms, a prudent surgeon will show his t skill by restoring the parts to their natural state. Haly Abbas evidently borrows his description from Aetius (or our author. The operation here described is very similar to the one I practised by the late Sir William Adams. In the days of i Fabricius this operation was condemned as cruel and trouble- I some. It will be remarked that the V operation of modern t times is a modification of the operation now described. SECT. XIII. ON ANABROCHISMUS AND BURNING WITH IKON. When the hairs which irritate the eye are not numerous, kbut only one, two, or at most, three, close to one another, we approve of the operation called anabrochismus. Taking, there- fore, a very slender needle, we pass through its ear (eye ?) a woman^s hair or a fine flaxen thread, and unite the two extre- mities together in such a manner that the thread or hair which 18 passed through may have a double loop ; and we pass another such thread or hair through the loop, and pushing the needle through the tarsus where the preternatural hairs appear we introduce the hair or hairs into the loop by means of an ear- specillum, and draw it upwards. And if the hair of the eye- lash be fixed in it, we draw up the loop; but if one or more all out, we again, by means of the one at first introduced draw own the loop, and once more introducing a hair or hairs -aw them upwards. But if there is only one slender hai? hat irritates the eye we draw up another of the ciliary hairs long with It, anointing them with gum or some other gluti ous substance, and bending them until thcv unite to the skin270 [book VI. ANABROCHISMUS. Some preferring burning to the operation of anabrocliismus, turn the eyelid outwardsj and with a hair-forceps dragging out the oflfending hair, if there is but one, or two, or thi-ee; if there be as many, they apply a double-headed specillum, or an ear-specillum, or some such small instrument heated, to the place whence the hair or hairs were removed. For the skin being thus constricted, no other hair is produced. Comm. COMMENTARY. We will givc Celsus's description of this ' '' ' operation in his own words : " Quidam aiunt, acu transui juxta pilos exteriorem partem palpebrae debere, eamque trans- mitti duplicem capUlum muliebrem ducentem, atque ubi acus transiit, in ipsius capilli sinum, qua duplicatur, pHum esse conjiciendum, et per eum in superiorem palpebrse partem attrahendum, ibique corpori agglutinandum, et imponendum medicamentum quo foramen glutinetur; sic enim fore, ut is pilus in exteriorem partem postea spectet." However, he does not much approve of the operation. He also describes the operation of cauterising the roots of the hairs, (vii, 7.) Albucasis, Haly Abbas, and Rhases describe the operation in much the same terms as Celsus and our author. Most of the Arabian authorities, likewise, describe the operation of burning the roots of the hairs by means of a specillum or any such instrument. Canamusali gives a short account of both operations, that is to say, the anabrochismus and burning the roots of the hairs. This operation is described by the earlier of the modem writers on sm-gery. The agglutinative composition recom- mended for this purpose by Guido de Cauliaco consists of mastich, frankincense, aloes, sarcocol, and tragacanth, dis- solved in the white of an egg. (vi, ii.) SECT. XIV. ON HYDATIDS. The hydatid is a fatty substance, naturally lodged under the skin of the eyelid, which, in some persons, more especially in children of a more humid temperament, increases until it be- come the cause of disagreeable symptoms by encumbering the eye, and thereby occasioning defluxions. The eyehds, therefore, under the brows appear watery and cannot be raised in a becoming manner; and if, when we press upon theraSECT. XIV.] HYDATIDS, 271 with our fingers, we separate the fingers, the intermediate space sAveUs up. They are most troubled with defluxions about day- I)reak, and cannot look direct against the rays of the sun, but shed tears and are subject to continued ophthalmies. Where- fore, having placed the patient in a proper position, we com- press the eyelid with the index and middle fingers a little separated from one another, so as to form a . collection of the srateiy contents between the fingers, and direct the assistant, who stands behind and holds the head, to stretch the eyelid moderately at the middle of the brow; then taking a lancet used for bleeding, we make a transverse incision through the middle, not longer than that made in venesection, and of such a depth as to divide the skin or even to touch the hydatid itself; but this is to be done with due circumspection. For many plunging the instrument too deep, have either divided the cornea or wounded some muscle of the eyelid. If the hydatid immediately appear, we draw it out, or if not, we again make a slight incision. When it comes in sight we seize on it by the fingers, with a soft cloth, and moving it hither and thither and round about, we di-aw it out. After the removal of it we soak a double compress in oxycrate, and bind it on the part Some apply levigated salts, upon the knob of a specillum to he incision, m order that if any part of the hydatid remain t may be dissolved. After the removal, should there be no nflammation, we accomplish the cure with coUyria in the form Imiments, or with lycium, horned poppy, or safi-ron. But .hen there IS inflammation we treat it with suitable cataplasms md the other remedies. CoMMENTAEv. Celsus describes them by the name of vesicae Comm ungues gravesque. It is clear that they are different from ^ he tumours to which modern surgeons apply the name. They .ppear to have been encysted tumours, or perhaps enlargements .f the sebaceous glands. Celsus directs us to apply pressure uth two fingers, and the skin being stretched to make a ransverse incison, taking care not to wound the bladder or rs . The tumour is then to be seized with the fingers and ulled out He remarks that when the cyst is opened, and s contents evacuated, it renders the operation more difficult V hen such a thing liappens he recommends us to encourage ippuration. ""vgoADHESION OF EYELIDS. [book vr. 272 Comm. To tMs class of tumours we may perhaps refer the white ' ' ' rough bodies resembling chalk-stones, on the inner surface of the eyelid, which are described by Aetius. He directs us to evert the eyelid, and, making an incision along the vertex of the tumour, to scoop it out with an earpick, and apply burnt copper, finely triturated, to the part. When extracted out- wardly he recommends a dressing with tetrapharmacura. (vii, 82.) See Albucasis (Chirurg. ii, 10); Avicenna (iii, 3, 3, 18); ^ and Haly Abbas (Pract. ix, 21.) They evidently copy from ' our author. Ehases professes to borrow his description of the operation from Antyllus and Paulus. (Cont. ii, 3, 2.) Fabricius ab Aquapendente, describes tmder the name of hydatid, two kinds of encysted tumours, the contents of the one being of a thick and heavy nature, and the other, an atheroma. He approves of the ancient modes of operating. (O. L. ii, 9.) Heister incorrectly calls them vesiculse aqua plense. (Ch. ii, 2, 9.) Tumours similar to those which we have here treated of are described by Scarpa, in the third chapter of his work on the Eye, and every practical surgeon must be familiar with them. Comm. SECT. XV. ON ADHESION OP THE EYELIDS. The upper eyelid undergoes adhesion sometimes to the lower tarsus, sometimes to the tunica adnata, and sometimes to the cornea itself. This disease obstructs the motions of the eye. Wherefore, applying an ear-specillum to the broad mar- gin" of the eyelid, or stretching it with a hook-like instrument, we free the adhesion with the scalpel used in the operation for pterygia, taking care that the cornea be not wounded, lest we give rise to procidentia. After the incision, having bathed the eye, we separate the eyelids with tents, lest adhesion again take place, and applying wool, soaked in an egg, after the third day we have recourse to attenuant and healing coUjTia. Commentary. See Aetius (vii, 66); Celsus (vii, 7); Albu- casis (Chirurg. ii, 15); Avenzoar (i, 8, 5); Avicenna (m, 3, 8,10) ; Haly Abbas (Pract. ix, 23); Alsaharavius (Pract. iv, 5j; Rhases (Cont. ii) ; Jesu HaU (ii, 7.) The description given by Aetius is exactly the same as our author's.SECT. XVI.] CHALAZIA. 273 r Celsus correctly remfirks that the disease is the consequence Comm. )f neglected ulcers. He describes the operation in the follow- —' ag terms :—" Igitur aversum specillum inserendum deducen- lajque eo palpebrse sunt: delude exigua penicilla interponenda, lonec exulceratio ejus loci finiatur.'' He mentions that Meraclides of Tarentum directed the eyelid to be dissected •om the white of the eye when there is adhesion between lem; but recommends us to do it cautiously with an averted iccillum (dos de la spathule, Pabr. d'Aquapen.), taking care o wound the eyelid rather than the ball of the eye. Suitable 'iutmeuts are afterwards to be apphed. Yet he says that he lever saw a case thus cured; and states, that Meges likewise bought the disease incurable. In order to understand the above description of Celsus it lay be useful to give from Fabricius some account of the ncient speciUum. " 11 nous suffit s9auvoir que specillum (qui st le mot Latin de Celse) est un instrument long et rond, de uivre, d'argent, ou de plomb, duquel on sonde les fistules, yant un de ses bouts plus large, et 1'autre plus etroit, en vul- aire Italien stilo." (CEuv. Chir. ii.) It was, therefore, a )rt of sound. Avenzoar directs us to make the separation by means of a jlden rod or probe, and then to apply the white of an egg -oken with oH of roses and oH of almonds. Wlien the eyeHd Iheres to the white of the eye he advises us in like manner ' make the separation gently with a golden spatula, and then - apply the oil of roses and of almonds. But the latter case, 3 says, is difficult to cure. Of the other Arabians, Albucasis and Haly Abbas evidently py the descnption of the operation given by Paulus ; and liases and Avicenna supply no additional information. Jesu ■.di's description is accurate, but similar to that of Celsus. r. XVI.—CHALAZIA OR TUMOURS RESEMBLING HAIL-STONES. The chalazion is a concretion of inert fluid in the eyelid. It occur on the external side of the eyelid, having divided ■ outer part of the eyelid transversely with a scalpel, we ract the chalazion with an ear-pick, or some such instru- 18[book VI. ACllOGHORDON. 274 Comm. ment, and when the incision is large and the lips thereof se- ' " ' parated, we unite them with a suture, and have recourse to some plaster. But if it be small we omit the suture and effect the cm'e in the same manner otherwise. But if the chalazion be internal, so as to appear through the cartilage, having turned the eyelid outwards, and divided it transversely within, we ex- tract it and use an injection of salt water. CoMMENTAEY. Actius says that the contents of the chala- zia, in some cases, resemble the white of an egg. These he directs us to open, and, having evacuated their fluid contents, to touch the part with a powder consisting of verdigris, burnt copper, and other such escharotics. When the contents are harder he recommends complete excision, like our author, (vii, 83.) Celsus describes the mode of operating with his usual terse- yiess :—" HfEC incidi debent, si sub cute sunt, ab extei-iore parte, si sub cartilagine, ab interiore, dein scalpelli manubrio deducenda ab integris partibus sunt." (vii, 7.) The descriptions of the operation given by Albucasis and Haly Abbas, if not literally copied ft'om our author, are al- together to the same effect. Ehases and Avicenna approve most of the treatment by me- dicines. See Book Third. Jesu Hah directs us to avert the eye- lid and extract the tumour. Fabricius ab Aquapendente says that the fluid contained in the chalazion (gresle) is " blanche et transparente, en quelque fa9on comme de la gresle." He repeats the directions given by Celsus. (CEuv. Chir. ii, 11.) The chalazion is evidently an encysted tumour of a soft nature, and is not identical with the hordeolum, as Scarpa makes it to be. The treatment here recommended is such as admits of no improvement. SECT. XVII. ON ACROCHORDON AND ENCANTHIS. Acrochordon of the eyehd and that tumour at the greater canthus called encanthis we seize with a flesh forceps, and cutting them out with a scalpel, apply levigated chalcitis.275 SECT. XVIII.] PTERYGIA. Commentary. The nature of the acrochordon is explained Comm. in the Fourth Book. '—'—' Celsus, like our author, directs us to seize the encanthis with a hook, and cut it out, taking care not to interfere with the angle of the eyelid. He then recommends us to apply a pledget sprinkled with calamine or atramentum sutorium (sul- phate of copper ?) between the eyelids, (vii, 7.) Aetius recommends us either to use a forceps, or if the tumour is large, to transfix it with a needle armed with a thread, and to tie it at its base, and to twist the thread round it. Albucasis and Haly Abbas evidently copy from our author. Avenzoar prefers reducing the fleshy tumourwith septics. Rhases mentions that some recommend septics in cases of encanthis, but he prefers excision. After the operation he recommends squama seris to the part. (Cont. ii.) Jesu Hali directs us to remove it with septics. (ii, 33.) It will be remarked that our author's operation is the same as that recommended by modern authorities. SECT. XVIII. ON PTERYGIA. This disease is occasioned by a nervous (tendinous) mem- brane beginning for the most part at the great canthus, and -radually spreading inwards. It proves injurious to the eye Ijoth by obstructing the motion of the ball, owing to the con- tractions it produces, and because when it advances forwards it covers the pupil. Those therefore which are thin and of a ^vhlte colour being easiest to cure, we operate upon in this manner: having separated the eyehds, and seized upon the pter}^gia with a hook-Uke instrument, having a small curva- ture, we stretch it, and taking a needle having a horse-hair and a strong flaxen thread in its ear (eye ?), and a little bent at the extremity, we transfix it through the middle of the ptery- ^num, and with the thread we bind the pterygium and raise It upwards, whUe with the hair we separate and saw as it were tlie part at the pupU away unto its extremity; but the remain- rler of it at the great canthus we cut oft' from the base with he scalpel used for the operation by suture, but leaving the latural flesh of the canthus, lest there be a running of the eye vhen it is taken away. Some stretching as aforesaid with a276 PTERYGIA. [book vi. thread, dissect away the whole pterygium with the instrument called pterygotomos, taking care not to touch the coraea. After the operation, having applied some levigated salts to the part, we bind on it some wool dipped in an egg. After the removal of this we inject into the eye salt water for a long time. But if inflammation supervene we have recourse to the remedies described for it. Comm. COMMENTARY. Cclsus gives an excellent account of the """^ pterygium. He correctly states that the membrane generally begins at the inner angle of the eye. His description of the operation is very precise. The patient being properly seated, the surgeon is to raise the membrane with a sharp hook some- what bent at the extremity, and is then to pass below it a needle armed with a thread, the two ends of which he is to lay hold of and separate the membi anes everywhere from the ball of the eye. The membrane is then to be cut out with a scal- pel, care being taken not to hurt the angle of the eye-lid. He directs us to apply to the part a piece of sponge, or some wool, or a pledget spread with honey, (vii, 7.) Aetius also describes the operation very correctly, but in the same terms as our author; that is to say, he directs us to use the needle armed with a flaxen thread and a horse-hau-, and afterwards to cut out the membrane, using the precautions here mentioned, (vii, 60.) Albucasis recommends the same mode of procedure as Aetius (Chirurg. ii, 16.) Haly gives similar dii'ections. (Pract. ix, 35.) Both caution us not to carry the incision too near the inner canthus. Haly Abbas recommends the use of the scis- sors, and not of the scalpel (in the translation read forficibus and not forcipibus.) a o 9'i\ Avicenna hkewise recommends the scissors, (ni, 6, Z, m.) Ehases gives directions for passing a needle below the mem- brane, and for cutting it off. He speaks of using a pair o scissors. He mentions that he had seen a surgeon perform it with a pen. (Divis. 35, and Cont. ii, 3.) Jesu Hali directs us to operate either with a scalpel or pair of scissors. (De Ocuhs ii, 38.) The modern methods of treatment do not appear to ditter m principle from the ancient. Scarpa operates with a pair of scis-277 SECT. XIX.] STAPHYLOMA. sors; but Beer prefers the scalpel. Scarpa seems to approve of Comm. the dii'ection given by the ancient authors, not to carry the "—'—' incision too far towards the inner angle of the eye. See also Fabricius ab Aquapendente (ffiuv. Chir. ii, 18), and Brunus (Chir. Mag. ii, 4.) SECT. XIX. ON STAPHYLOMA. Staphyloma is an incurvation of the cornea, and of the tu- nica choroides, arising from debility, and being produced some- times by a defluxion, and sometimes by ulceration. We operate upon it not in order to restore the eyesight^ for that is impos- sible, but to moderate the patient^s deformity. Wherefore having passed a needle from below upwards through the base of the staphyloma, we are to push another needle, having a double thread, from the canthus next the hand to the other, through the base of the staphyloma; and the first needle re- maining, we cut the double of the thread, and tie part of the staphyloma upwards and part downwards with the threads, and then removing the needle we apply wool dipped in eggs. After the removal of the dressings we soothe the eyes with emolHent injections until the ligatures fall oflp along with the staphyloma. Commentary. Celsus thus describes the disease : " In ipso Comm. autem oculo nonnunquam summa attolitur tunica^ sive ruptis '—'—' lutus membranis ahquibus^ sive laxatis : et similes figura acino tit: unde id aTa(f>v\(ofxa Grseci vocant." He describes two me- thods of cure : the first of which is by ligatures, as recom- mended by our author; and the other consists in cutting from the apex a circular portion equal in size to a lentil. Scarpa and Guthrie concur in recommending the latter ope- l ations, the merits of which, as they state, have not been gene- rally appreciated properly. Aetius directs us to introduce the cross threads, as recom- mended by our author, and then to cut out the apex of the tumour. He is at great pains in directing us to introduce the threads obhquely, and not at right angles to one another. He 'Iso recommends general bleeding and emollient fomentations, vii, 37.)HYPOPYON. [book VI. '278 Comm. The Operation with the ligatures is briefly described in the " " ' ' Isagoge/ generally ascribed to Galen. Haly Abbas and Albucasis describe the operation with the cross threads in nearly the same terms as our author. The latter, however, makes mention of puncturing the apex of the tumour after the application of the ligatures. Jesu Hali gives nearly the same account of the operation. Although Scarpa condemns in strong terms the use of the needle and ligatures, this method of treatment is sanctioned by the authority of Mr. Travers. This operation was approved of by William of Saliceto. Scultet explains the descriptions given by Celsus and Paulus, but they are sufladently plain of themselves. (Arsen. de Chirurg. tab. 32.) It will be perceived that the ancients applied the name sta- phyloma to two distinct, or at least considerably different dis- eases, namely, to enlargement with protrusion of the cornea, and to prolapsus of the iris connected with ulceration of the cornea. Heister, Wenzel, and other continental writers, use it in the same sense as the ancients. Scarpa and our English ocu- Hsts apply it only to protrusion of the cornea, without ulceration. SECT. XX. ON HYPOPYON OF THE EYE. Regarding hj^jopyon of the eyes it will be sufficient to de- liver Galen's account, which is to this effect:—" A certain oculist of our time, named Justus, cured many cases of hypo- pyon by shaking the head. Placing them, therefore, erect upon a chair, and grasping their head on both sides obliquely, he shook them so that we could see clearly the pus descending downwards; and, owing to the weight of the substance, it remained below, although cataracts will not remain unless fixed carefully." And again, he says below, " oftentimes we evacuate the pus freely by dividing the cornea a little above the place where all the coats of the eye unite. This place is called by some the iris, and by others the corona.'' These are the words of Galen in his work, ' On the Method of Cure.' After the discharge of the pus, we clean the ulcer with injections of honied water, or of the juice of fenugreek Avith the addition of some honey, and then apply the other treatment conformably.^KCT. XXI.] 279 CATARACTS. Commentary. Galen recommends three methods of treat- Comm. ment for the cure of hypopyon; namely, by discutients, shak- —' iug, and incision. (Meth. Med. xiv.) Aetius, Albucasis, and Haly Abbas, like our author, ai-e advocates for shaking and incision. Neither of these methods IS now much in use, but both have had their advocates in modem times. SECT. XXI. ON CATARACTS. The cataract is a collection of inert fluids upon the cornea lit the pupil, obstmcting vision, or preventing distinct vision, ft arises most commonly from a congelation and weakness of I he visual spirit, and on that account the disease rather attacks >ld persons, and those who are debilitated by protracted ill- ;ess. It is occasioned also by violent vomiting, a blow, and aany other causes. Those kinds of cataract which are but •ommencing, as not being proper objects of surgery, have been reated of in the Third Book We shall now give the charac- rs of those which are fairly formed and have acquired con- istence. AU those, therefore, who have cataract see the light aore or less, and by this we distinguish cataract from amau- •sis and glaucoma j for persons affected with these complaints o not perceive the light at all. Wherefore, again, Galen well iistructs us as to the consistence and difference of cataracts and hich kinds ought to be operated upon. Having shut the eye fleeted with the cataract, and with the large finger pressing he eyelid to the eye, and moving it with pressure to this side ud that, then opening the eyelids and observing the cataract II the eye; if it has not yet acquired consistence, a certain ow takes place from the pressure of the finger, and at first it ppears broader, but straightway resumes its former figure and lagmtude. But in those which have acquii-ed consistence no liange takes place as to breadth or figure from the pressure. 5 lit since this appearance is common to those which are of loderate consistence, and those which are over-compacted, we istinguish these cases from one another by their colour. For lose which are of an iron, coerulean, or leaden colour, are of loderatc consistence, and fit for couching; but those which[book VI. CATARACTS. 280 resemble gypstini and liailstones are over-compacted. After ascertaining these circumstances^ as directed by Galen, having placed the patient opposite the light, but not in the sun, we bind up carefully the sound eye, and having separated the lids of the other, at the distance from the part called the iris to- wards the small canthus, of about the size of the knob of the specillum, we then with the point of the perforator mark the place about to be perforated ; and if it is the left eye we ope- rate with the right hand, or if the right eye with the left; and turning round the point of the perforator, which is bent at its extremity, we push it strongly through the part which was marked out, until we come to an empty place. The depth of the perforation should be as great as the distance of the pupil from the iris. Wherefore, raising the perforator to the apex of the cataract, (for the copper of it is seen through the transparency of the cornea,) we push down the cataract to the parts below, and if it is immediately carried downwards, we rest for a little, but if it reascends we press it back again. After the depression of the cataract we turn round the perfo- rator and extract it gently. After this, bathing with water and injecting into the eye a little Cappadocian salts, we apply externally some wool soaked in the white of an egg with rose- oil, and bind it up, and at the same time bind up the sound eye, that it may not move. Then lodging the patient in an apartment below ground, we order him to remain in a state of perfect rest, and upon a spare diet; and the bandages are to be kept on, if nothing prevent, until the seventh day, after which we, loose them, and make trial of the sight by presenting him with some object : but this we disapprove of during the operation and immediately after it, lest by the intense exertion the cataract reascend. If the inflammation become urgent we loose the dressing before the seventh day, and must direct oiu" attention to it. r. CoMMENTAEY. See Cclsus (vii, 7); Galen (Ars Medica, 35 ; Isagoge); Aetius (vii, 53); Albucasis (Chirurg. ii, 23), Caiamusah (vi); Avenzoar (i, 8, 19); Mesne (de ^gr. Ocuh; 15); Haly Abbas (Pract. ix, 28); Jesu Mali (Tract, de Ocuhs, 68)Avicenna (iii, 3, 4, 20) ; Rhases (ad Mansor. ix, 27, and Cont. ii); Vegetius (Mulom. ii, 17.)SECT. XXI.] CATARACTS. 281 This disease is called sufusio by the Latins, and aqua by the Comm. Arabians. '—»— We have stated in our commentary on affections of the eye, in the Thii-d Book, that the ancients were aware that the crys- talline lens is the seat of one of the species of cataract. This opinion is cleai-ly delivered by Galen, Aetius, Oribasius, Haly Abbas, and some of the others. As a proof that this notion prevailed generally, we will give the words of Psellus literally translated: " Glaucoma is a grievous and incurable affec- tion, being a certain change of the crystalline humour, and transmutation of its colour to a sea-green. The suffusion is a concretion of the fluid between the cornea and crystalline hu- mour." (Opus Medicum.) The other species then, as PseUus states, was held to be a concretion between the crystalline lens and the cornea. That such a disease, although of compara- tively rare occurrence, is sometimes met with seems undeni- able. Celsus lays it down as a rule, that when the suffusion is small, immovable, and of the colour of sea-water, or of shin- ing iron, and if a small degree of light can be perceived at the side, there is reason to hope well of the case. He forbids us to operate until the disease has attained a proper consistence. He directs us to place the patient opposite the operator, who is to sit on a higher seat, while the patient's head is firmly held by an assistant. The sound eye is to be previously covered up with wool. If the left eye is afl'ected the operator must use his right hand, and vice versa. A needle which is sharp and not too slender is to be passed direct through the two coats at a place intermediate between the temporal angle and the black of the eye, and towards the middle of the cataract. When the needle has perforated far enough, which is readily known by the absence of resistance, it is to be gently turned so as gradu- ally to remove the cataract below the region of the pupil, and this object bemg attained it is to be strongly pressed to the lower part. If it remain there the operation is completed; but if It return it is to be cut and torn by the needle into many pieces, m which state they are ea.sier depressed, and prove less troublesome. The needle is then to be drawn out direct, and soft wool smeared with the white of an egg, and other anti- inflammatory applications are to be used. Quiet, restricted diet, and soothing treatment will be proper.[book VI. CATARACTS. 282 Galen, in his ' Ars Medica/ alludes to the operation, ljut does not describe it. Paulus is the only Greek author who describes the opera- tion. Sextus Platonicus, however, just mentions that the dis- eased part is sometimes to be depressed with a specUlum. (De Medic, ex Animalibus.) Mesne describes the operation of couching briefly, but nearly in the same terms as our author. He directs us to put the patient upon a spare diet, and to bleed him before the opera- tion. He recommends us to be careful to depress the cataract (aqua) properly. Albucasis describes the operation of Paulus very minutely, and gives drawings of the couching-needles, called by him alraagda. The instrument is to be passed down into the eye to as great a space as the pupil of the eye is distant from the end of the black part called the corona. He says nothing of tearing the cataract into pieces when it proves difficult to de- press. He mentions that he had heard of a certain oculist who, it was said, sucked out the cataract through a small tube. He adds, however, that he had never seen any person who per- formed this operation, nor had read anything about it in the works of the ancients. Avenzoar briefly mentions that when a cataract cannot be got discussed it must be depressed. He gives directions to press it well down, but says nothing about teai'ing it into pieces. He recommends retirement, abstinence, and rest afterwards. Avicenna's description is evidently copied from our author. He also mentions tliat some surgeons open the lower part of the cornea, and extract by it. However, he does not approve much of this procedure. Canamusah briefly mentions that cataract must sometimes be removed by a surgical operation. When comoilsions come on after the operation he directs us to apply castor to the nose. Rhases describes accurately the operations of couching, ex- tracting, and sucking out the cataract. He is the only ancient author, except Celsus, who recommends the cataract to be torn in pieces when it cannot be got properly depressed. He mentions that the famous surgeon AntyUus practised extrac- tion by opening the lower part of the cornea. He also speaks of a certain surgeon who sucked it out through a glass tube. Haly Abbas describes distinctly the operation of couching,SECT. XXI.] 283 CATARACTS. l)ut evidently copies from Pauliis. He makes no mention, how- Comm. ever, of extraction, as far as we can discover, in any part of his """"—' works. The operation of couching the cataract is minutely descrihed hy Jesu Haly, but he makes no mention of extraction. He was the son of Haly Abbas. Sprengel, in his ' History of Medicine,' refers to Haly Abbas as one of the ancient autliorities who make mention of the operation of extracting the cataract; but if tliis be the case the edition from which they quote (Venetiis, 149.2) must be considerably different from the one with which we are acquainted. (Lyon, 1523.) Haly forbids examinations of the eye after the operation, to ascertain whether or not the patient has recovered his sight. We will give the description of Vegetius in his own language: " Jumentum igitur pridie temperabis a cibo vel potu maxime prohibebis, in loco molli elides caputque ejus et ceiwicem apte coUocabis : ita patentem oculum facies ut claudere non possit: deinde ab ipsa fronte paracenterium inter tunicas oculares sub- jicito, nepupiUam tangas, aut aliquid Isedas interius. sed ipsum album de superiori parte ubi hypochysis posita est, capitello pa- racenterii deorsum deprimis ad palpebram inferiorem subtiliter. Quod si depositum fuerit, non prius paracenterium eximas, nisi ^lausum oculum penicello caUdo diutissime vaporaveris. solet :nim resilire. Quod si evenerit, reprimito, donee ita compo- latur ut resihre non possit. Cum itaque intellexeris claritatem upillse sine illo obstaculo hypochysis, tunc eximes ferrum, et nvenies animal videre." Sprengel affirms, but not quite correctly, as will be perceived lom the account of the ancient opinions given above, that it .va.s towards the beginning of the 18th century that it was first liscovered that the crystalline lens is the seat of the cataract )therwise he gives an admirable history of the operation, in vhich he does ample justice to the ingenuity and inventive ,'enms of the ancients. (Hist, de la Med. xviii. 2.) Fabricius's description is altogether borrowed from the an- ient authors. (CE. C. ii, 16.) Guv of CauHac, and the other urgical writers of that age, describe the operation in the same onus as the ancients. Guy mentions the operation of sucking I It the cataract through a cannula, but does not approve of it VI, 2.)FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. [book vr. 284 SECT. XXII.—'ON jEGILOPS, OR FISTULA LACHKYMALIS. The segilops is an apostematous swelling between tlie great canthus and the nose ; and it is an affection difficult to cure, owing to the thinness of the bodies, and the fear of injuring the eye by sympathy. If, therefore, the abscess burst at the surface, we remove the whole protruberance as far as the bone ; and if the fistulous sore incHne towards the cheek, we must lay it all open, and if the bone be sound, we must scrape it; but if diseased, we must burn it with cauteries, applying to the eye a sponge soaked in cold water. Some, after the ex- cision of the flesh, use a perforator, and make a passage for the fluid or matter to the nose; but we are contented with burning alone, using the cauteries for ^gilops, and burning down until a lamina of bone drop off; and after the burning we have re- course to lentils and honey, or to the application consisting of pomegranate-rind with honey, and other such desiccative remedies. If the jegilops incUne to the canthus, and do not tend at all towards the surface, then, with a lancet for the operation on ptrygium, or one for bleeding, we may dissect out the body between the canthiis as far as the abscess, and remove the deep-seated flesh, and have recourse to moderately desiccative apphcations. Glass reduced to a fine powder is wonderfully desiccative, and aloes with manna, in like manner. The rest of the treatment of fistula lachrymahs we have de- livered in the Third Book. Comm. COMMENTARY. Cclsus remarks that the segilops is some- """^ times of a carcinomatous nature, in which case he recommends us not to interfere with it. He refers here, no doubt, to lupus, which is of not uncommon occurrence near the inner angle of the eye. In recent cases which ai-e not of this kind, he directs us to proceed in the following manner : the whole cavity of the abscess, as in fistulse, is to be laid open down to the bone, which is to be burned with a red-hot iron, more especially if the bone be carious. Others, he says, instead of the cautery, use caustics, such as atramentum sutorium, chalcitis, or verdigns; but these things, he adds, are more slow in their operatiou, aud less effectual, (vii, 7.) When the bone is diseased the celebrated Archigencs recom-SECT. xxTT.] FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. 285 mends it to be pierced with a slender perforator, or a hole is to Comm. l)c burnt in it with a red-hot iron. He mentions that others '—'— biu-ned it by means of a funnel and melted lead. (Apud Galen, sec. loc. V; and Rhases Contin. ii, 4.) Aetius gives a full and lengthy account of segilops. He re- commends us to attempt the cure first with medicines (see Book Thii-d),; and if these do not succeed, he directs us to open the abscess freely, and apply to the fungous flesh medicines possessed of strong stypticity, such as powdered glass, stone alum, and the like. A pledget of lint is to be placed over the medicines. When this method of practice does not succeed, he recommends burning, and for this purpose directs us to make a triangular incision in the flesh, and then to touch the bone with a heated iron, so as to produce exfoliation. Alum with turpentine is then to be applied to the bottom of the sore, (vii, 77.) When the disease does not yield to medicines, Albucasis directs us to open the abscess freely, so as to make an outlet for the matter, and expose the bone. If it is found to be diseased, he recommends us to scrape it with an iron instru- ment, and then to apply styptic and desiccative medicines to it. When this treatment does not succeed, he directs us to perfo- rate the bone with a triangular instrument of iron. When air issues from the nose by the opening we know, he says, that the operation is completed. For the cure of segilops. Mesne recommends the removal of all the diseased flesh by means of strong caustics, such as arsenic, sal ammoniac, chalcitis, alum, &c. When the bone is carious, he directs us to scrape off the carious part. Some, he adds, perforate the bone; but the operation had not succeeded well in his hands. He makes mention of the cautery in the same terms as the others. (De ^gr. Oculi, 12.) Jcsu Hali approves decidedly of perforating the bone with a specillum, or any suitable instrument. He also speaks favor- ably of the actual cautery. (De OcuHs, ii, 32.) Haly Abbas directs us to lay open the swelling, and apply the cautery. We have mentioned in another place that he was acquamted with the lachrymal duct. (Pract. ix, 29, and ix, 72.) It will be unnecessary to give a particular account of the treatment recommended by Avicenna, as it does not differ from t hat of Albucasis. According to circumstances he approves of i286 [book VI. MEATUS AUDITORIUS. Comm. perforating the bone, and of applying the actual cautery to it. """'^—' He also speaks of introducing a thread into the lachrymal passages and of using injections, (iii, 3, 2, 14.) Avenzoar recommends compression and injections, but does not describe the operation. He speaks of the matter passing into the nose, from which it may be inferred that he also was acquainted with the lachrymal duct, (i, 8, 10.) Rhases Hkewise makes mention of the lachrymal duct. He recommends us very particularly to make incisions down to the bone, to perforate it, or to apply the actual cautery to it. He makes mention also of escharotic apphcations containing arsenic, quicklime, and vitriol. He relates a case of apostema lachry- male in which he effected a cure by the hgature and friction. (Contin. ii, 2.) The practice of perforating the bone as recommended by Albucasis, was approved of by Pott, and the use of the cautery for this purpose is also supported by the high authority of Scarpa. M. A. Severinus, Hildanus, and Garengoit, were like- wise advocates for the actual cautery. Fabricius seems to have understood the disease very well, and treated it in the way re- commended by the ancients. (CEuv. Chirurg. ii, 21.) Guy of CauHac, Theodoricus, and Lanfrancus describe and appear to have performed the ancient operations for the cure of fistula lachrymahs. SECT. XXIII. ON IMPERFORATE MEATUS AUDITORIUS. This affection is sometimes congenital, being occasioned by a membrane which blocks up the entrance into the ear; and it is sometimes superficial and sometimes deep-seated. And it is formed in after life by a preceding ulceration in the meatus; for a growth of fungous flesh taking place blocks up the pas- sage. If, therefore, the membrane which obstructs the open- ing be deep-seated, the attempt at cure is hazardous; and yet we may try with some slender instrument to divide it, but if it is superficial we divide it with a shai'p knife, and if necessary cut it out. If there be a fleshy excrescence it may be dissected out with the scalpel used for the operation in ptery- gium, or that used for polypus; then making a twisted tent of the size of the meatus from a linen rag, we soak it in water, and sprinkling it with levigated chalcitis, or some such powder.SECT. XXIV.] MEATUS AUDITORIUS, 28/ we introduce it into the meatus to prevent the flesh from growing again. Should inflammation come on we must soon take it out. If there be a discharge of blood from the meatus we may soak a sponge in cold water, and apply it along with other appropriate remedies. Commentary. Celsus describes this case with his usual terseness: " Solet tamen evenire vel a primo natali die proti- nus, vel postea facta exulceratione, deinde per cicatricem aure repleta ut foramen in eo nullum sit, ideoque audiendi sensu careat." He directs us to make an examination with a sound (specillum) in order to ascertain whether the membrane be super- ficial or deep-seated, and in the latter case recommends us not to interfere with it, but in the former, directs us to make an open- ing by means of caustics, burning iron, or scalpel, (vii, 8.) Albucasis describes the nature of the case and the operation in nearly the same terms as Celsus and our author. If the obstruction is occasioned by a superficial membrane he directs lis to perforate it with a slender instrument. If a fleshy ex- •rescence obstruct the passage he approves of seizing it with a liook, and dissecting it out. If the obstruction be more deeply eated he directs the membrane to be opened by means of a leated iron, taking care not to hurt the nerves. It is to be ^ept open with a tent. (Chirurg. ii, 7.) ^ A^dcenna mostly borrows his account of the case from Paulus. Wlien the obstruction is occasioned by a fleshy ex- •rescence he dii-ects it to be burnt down with arsenic or some ^ther escharotic. He also approves of perforating the mem- brane, (iii, 4, 1, 17.) The account given by Haly Abbas accords very well with )nr author's. (Pract. ix, 30.) Fabricius ab Aquapendente describes correctly the treatment ecommended by the ancients. He admits that he had never t tempted to perforate the membrane when deep-seated. (CEuv. liirurg, li, 41.) ^ rXT. XXIV.—ON SUBSTANCES THAT HAVE FALLEN INTO THE MEATUS AUDITORIUS. Not only do stones fall into the meatus, but also glass, cans, and the stones of carob nuts. Of these the stones and288 MEATUS AUDITORIUS. [book vi. i glass retain their original magnitude, but the beans and stones of carobs being swelled with the natural moisture of the body, occasion very severe pains. They must therefore be extracted by an earpick, a hook, or tweezers, or by using powerful shak- ing of the head, while the ear is placed upon some circular board. In like manner we extract bodies frequently by suck- ing them through a reed; and do the like with water when it falls into the ear, covering up the outside of the reed with wax when it is applied to the ear in order that there may be no outlet to the breath. Stones and such like bodies we extract by wrapping wool around an earpick, and smearing it with turpen- | tine-rosin, or some glutinous substance and introducing it | gently into the meatus auditorius. If it does not yield we in- | troduce a sternutatory into the nose and close the mouth and | nostrils. If it yield to none of these, before inflammation, | convulsions, and dangerous symptoms supervene, we must bring it away by a surgical operation. Wherefore, having placed the patient in a proper position with his ear turned upwards, at the base of the ear, behind what is called the lobe, we make a small lunated incision, and with the circular part of an earpick we extract the body which is lodged there. After the extraction the wound is to be sewed up, and the cure completed by the treatment applicable in cases of recent wounds. Comm. COMMENTARY. See Celsus (vi, 7); Aetius (vi, 87); Alexander TraUianus (iii, 6); Oribasius (Loc. Affect, iv, 36, 39); Galen (de Med. sec. loc. iii); Avicenna (iii, 5, 1, 33) ; Mesne (ii, 7, 8); Serapion (ii, 12); Ehases (ad Mansor. ix, 36; Contm. m); Haly Abbas (Pract.ix, 31.) Celsus gives nearly the same directions as our author, re- commending us to use wool wrapped round a specUlum, and smeared with turpentine-rosin, or a hook shghtly bent, or an ear-syringe, or sternutatories, or shaking the patient s lieaa. The last-mentioned operation he directs us to execute m tHe following manner : "Tabula quoque collocatur, media adhserens capitibus utrinque pendentibus, superque earn homo dehgati^ in idlatus versus, cujus auris eo modo l^^^J^^'f tabulam non emineat: turn maUeo caput tabula, quod pedibus est, feritur: atque ita concussa aui-e, id quod mes excidet."^ECT. XXV.] POLYPUS. 289 The ti-eatment recommended by Aetius is exactly the same Co as om- author's. Alexander and Oribasius also deKver similai- lirections. However, Aetius, Oribasius, Alexander, and our aithoi-, copy from Galen, who in his turn acknowledges his 'bhgations to Ai-chigenes and Appollonius. (De Comp. Med. ~ec. loc. iii.) Albucasis's directions are so judicious that we regret our units do not allow of our giving them fuUy. For the extrac- ion of a piece of stone he recommends us among other means o use a slender forceps, of which he gives a drawing. It re- embles the modern dissecting forceps. He also gives a draw- ng of a hook slightly bent, which he commends; and also of brazen tube to be used for sucking out bodies. When other leans do not succeed, he directs us to make an incision at lie under part of the ear, having previously let blood in order ) avert inflammation and convulsions. Animals are to be icked out with a tube narrow below and wider externally, or ley are to be extracted with a forceps or hook. When these leans do not succeed, an oil, to which some substance destruc- ve of these animals has been added, is to be injected with an istrmnent, of which he gives a drawing. The reader may likewise consult Mesue with advantage, erapion also recommends the same remedies as the Greeks. \ icenna supphes no new views. Haly recommends incision hen other means have failed. Ehases directs us to pour tepid oil into the ear, and to put • e patient into a warm bath in order to lubricate and produce laxation. His translator, however, remarks that if the sub- ance lodged in the ear be a bean or a pea there may be mger of the water occasioning a swelling of it. SECT. XXV. ON POLYPUS. The polypus is a preternatural tumour forming in the nose; caUed from its resemblance to a sea polypus, because it re- ables Its flesh, and because, as the animal with its fibrils ists those who would seize on it by catching at their hands, does this afi-ection, in like manner, block up the nostrils, asionmg inconvenience both in breathing and speaking.POLYPUS. 290 [book VI. Wherefore those kinds of polypi which are hard, unyielding, somewhat livid and mahgnant, inasmuch as they partake of a carcinomatous nature, are not to be meddled with; but such as are more friable, spongy, insensible, and not malignant, are to be subjected to a surgical operation. Having placed the person on a seat exposed to the rays of the sun, and opened the nostrils with the left hand, and holding in the right hand a polypus scalpel, having its extremity shaped hke a myrtle-leaf, we cut around the polypus or sarcomatous tumour, applying the extre- mity of the instrument to the parts where it adheres to the nose. Afterwards, turning round the instrument, we bring out the separated fleshy body with its concave part. And if we see that the nasal passage is perfectly cleared, we proceed to the cure; but if any part of the polypus be left behind, we take another instrument for eradicating polypi, and, with the extremity thereof, we bring away what remains by stretching, twisting, and scraping it strongly. Malignant polypi we burn with cau- teries, knob-shaped ; and, after the burning, we have recourse to the treatment for burnt parts. After the operation, having sponged the parts carefuUy, we inject oxycrate or wine into the nose, and, if the fluid descend by the roof of the mouth to the pharynx, the operation will have been rightly done; but if it does not descend, it is clear that about the ethmoid bones, or the upper parts of the nose, there are fleshy bodies which have not been reached with the polypus instruments. Taking, then, a thread moderately thick, hke a cord, and having tied knots upon it at the distance of two or three fingers' breadths, we introduce it into the opening of a double-headed specillum, and we push the other extremity of the specUlum upwards to the ethmoid openings, passing it by the palate and mouth, and then drawing it with both hands, we saw away, as it were, with the knots the fleshy bodies. After the operation, we keep the opening separate by means of a tent resembhng the wick of a lamp; and after the third day we consume whatever is left behind by the trochisk of Musa or the like, and at the same time use desicca- tive apphcations to the part. Afterwards, we have recourse to epulotic trochisks, and, if necessary, dui'ing the whole treat- ment we keep leaden tubes in the nose.SKCT. XXV.] POLYPUS. 291 Commentary. For an account of the treatment by medi- Comm. cines we refer to section xxiv of tlie Third Book. —' The author of one of the Hippocratic treatises, according to circumstances, recommends sawing it out, consuming it with septics, tying it with a ligatui-e, and burning it with a red-hot iron. (De Morbis, ii.) In the ' Isagoge' of Galen, it is merely recommended to cut out the tumour, and to scrape its roots. Celsus, hke our author, recommends excision with a sharp instrument of iron, and dii-ects us to apply afterwards to the pai't a tent smeared with some styptic. A proper dressing is then to be apphed for cleansing the sore, (vii, 10.) Oribasius briefly mentions excision as a proper remedy when medicines fail. Albucasis describes minutely the operations of excision and rawing out the tumour. Like our author, he directs us to seize the tumour with a hook, to pull it down, and cut it out. If any part remain, he recommends us to scrape it out with a slender instrument, and then to apply styptics, such as vinegar, water, or snow. The operation of sawing it out with a thick knotted lu-ead is minutely described by him. He also speaks of cau- terizing the part from which the tumour has been removed. Mesne describes the process of sawing out the tumour, with ome slight differences. He recommends us to use three horse- lau's, which, being tied together with knots, are to be introduced uto the nose with a leaden needle, and ouc end conveyed out jy the openings of the palate; and then, by pulUng at both ends, he tumour is to be sawed out. Avicenna, Haly Abbas, and Rhases make mention of excision md the process of sawing out the tumour. Rhases relates the iistory of a case of polypus, unusually large, which he had seen ■xtracted m an hospital. He and Albucasis recommend the part o be dressed with green ointment. The veterinary surgeons appear to have depended principaUy ipon the actual cautery. See Vegetius (Mulom. ii, 38.) The method of curing polypi of the nose, by sawing them out, ems to have now faUen completely into disuse, whether de- rvedly or not we cannot, from our own experience, venture to ';cide. Fabricius ab Aquapendente disapproved of it; but he was \-idently much prejudiced in favour of the operation with a new292 EPULIS AND PARULIS. [book VI. Comm. forceps of his own invention. (CEuv. Chir. ii, 24.) Sprengel in- forms us that this method was practised by the sni-geons of the middle ages. It is described by Brunus (Chir. Mag. ii.) Sprengel thus explains the other operation described by our author: " II se servait d'^xx^ instrument particulier auquel il donnait le nom de airaOiov ttoXvitikov, et qui etait garni h Tune de ses extremites d'un ciseau, kvkX'ktkoq." (Hist, de la Med. viii, 4.) Why does he substitute KVKXlaKOQ for Kva0i'(TKoc? That the instrument had a chisel (ciseau) at its extremity is altogether improbable, and this supposition is unwarranted by the context. KvaOicjKo^ means the cup-like or concave end of the instrument. SECT. Xj;VI. ON MAIMED PAETS. When the ears or the lips have been mutilated, we restore them by first dissecting the skin below, and afterwards bringing together the lips of the wounds; then removing the callous parts, and afterwards sewing and glueing them together. Comm. COMMENTARY. This section is taken from Galen. (Meth. Med. xiv.) See, also, the ' Isagoge.' Celsus's observations are too minute and lengthy for our limits. Suflace it to say, that he directs the edges to be pared, and then united with sutures, (vii, 9.) Bhases' directions for the treatment of mutilated eai-s and noses are to the same effect as our author's. (Cont. xiv.) Similar ones are given by Albucasis. He directs us to make the suture either with needles, as in gastroraphe, or with a thi'ead. (Chi- rurg. ii, 26.) , . -, . .i Celsus has been supposed, but, as we thmk, mcorrectly, to touch on the operation for the hare-lip. (vii, 10, 6.) See Sprengel (Hist, de la Med.) SECT. XXVII. ON EPULIS AND PARULIS. Epulis is a fleshy excrescence which forms upon the gums beside one of the teeth; but paruHs is an abscess which forms293 SECT. XXVII.] EPULIS AND PARULIS. near the gums. The epulis, then, we raise with a flesh forceps or a hook, and cut out; but the parulis we divide circularly and fill the incision with tents. I am aware that often when opened only with the common lancet used for venesection and the matter evacuated, the disease has ceased. After the opera- tion we give orders to gargle with wine, then with honied water, and afterwai'ds apply to the wound the Flowery'powder, imtil the cui-e is completed. But if mortification attack the gums, and do not yield to the suitable applications, we must burn the part with knob-shaped cauteries. Commentary. Parulis is the gum-boU. Epulis is a soft Comm. fleshy tumour which forms on the gums. Aetius. treats fully of them. To the former he directs us to apply at first such things as promote suppuration, after which it may either be allowed to break of itself or may be opened with a lancet. Styptic appUcations wiU then be proper. For the epuHs he recom- mends us at first to apply alum, verdigris, &c., and if these have not the desired effect he directs us to cut it off with a scalpel, (viii, 24, 25.) Celsus treats of both at considerable length by the name of parulides. For that species which corresponds to the gum- boil, among other remedies, he recommends us to hold in the mouth a decoction of figs, and directs to open it before it is i ipe, lest the matter should hurt the bone. Larger tumours are to be cut out entire, (vi, 13.) Haly Abbas recommends excision for the epulis, and to open a lancet. (Pract. ix, 33.) It appears to us that of all the ancient authorities Albucasis lays down the best rules for treating the epulis. He directs us o cut It out with a forceps and scalpel, and then to apply .tj-ptic powders to the part, or if the tumour grow again, the ictual cautery. For our own part, we have generally found hat no permanent cure could be effected without the cautery. >ee Chirurg. (ii, 28, and i, 22.) It is unnecessaiy to detail the treatment recommended by lie other authorities.EXTRACTION OF TEETH. 294 [book VI. SECT. XXVIII. ON THE EXTRACTION OF TEETH. Having scarified around the tootli down to tlie socket, we must by degrees shake the teeth with a tooth-extractor, and draw it out. But if it is carious we must first plug up the hole with a small tent, that it may not break when comjjressed by the instrument. After the extraction we may consume the flesh that is left by sprinkling it with finely levigated salts, and afterwards gargles of wine or oxycrate may be used untU the completion of the cure. And since sometimes supernumerary teeth are formed, those that are fixed in the socket we must scrape down with a graving-tool, but those that are not so fixed we must extract with a tooth-extractor. If any tooth grow to an unnatural size, or is broken, we may scrape away the projecting or redundant part of it with a file. The laminas which unite to them we may remove as may appear proper, with the concave part of a specillum, a raspatory, or a file. Comm. COMMENTARY. Cselius Aurelianus disapproves of extracting teeth, except in cases of extreme necessity. HerophUus and Heraclides Ponticus, he says, have related cases in which the operation had proved fatal; and in modern times we hear some- times of such occurrences. (Pass. Tard. ii, 4.) Celsus directs us, when the pains of toothache cannot be got otherwise alleviated, to separate the gums from the tooth by free scarifications, and then to shake it until it is loosened, and forbids us to proceed rashly to perform extraction, for fear of occasioning dislocation of the jaw-bone, or, if the tooth belong to'the upper jaw, of hurting the temples or eyes. If loose, it is to be taken out with the hand, but othenvise with a forceps, and, if eaten, the hole is to be filled with a tent, or with lead, to prevent it from breaking during extraction. The instrument is to be pulled direct, lest the spongy bone to winch the tooth is fixed should be broken. Of this accident occur- ring there is, he adds, considerable danger; and not unfre- quently when the tooth is short and its roots long, the instru- ment takes hold of a piece of bone and breaks it; in which case he directs us to extract the broken piece with a pincers. When the teeth are carious he directs us to scrape them, andCONSTRICTION OF TONGUE. 295 SECT. XXIX.] apply to them a mixture of the flowers of roses, galls, and Com myrrh, and to hold undiluted wine in the mouth. When the '—^ teeth are slackened by any accident, he directs us to fasten them to the surrounding ones with a golden thread, and then to hold some stringent decoction in the mouth. When in young persons a second tooth appears before the first has fallen out, he recommends us to scarify around the latter and pull it out, and to endeavour to force the other gradually into its proper place. Stumps of teeth are to be taken out with a stump-extractor, (vii, 12.) Scribonius Largus makes some ingenious observations on the extraction of teeth, but disapproves of the operation, except m extreme cases. (De Comp. Med. i, 10.) Galen, and the medical authorities subsequent to him, direct us to file down teeth when they are diseased and project, but disapprove in general of extraction. Albucasis is particularly full in treating of the operations on ^he teeth. Like our author, he recommends us to perform extraction by first making free scarifications, and then pulling lie tooth direct with a forceps, the patient's head being held between the knees of the operator. When the tooth is hollow le directs us to stuff" it beforehand with a tent of cloth. When piece of the alveolar process has been broken, he properly ecommends that it be taken out. He gives suitable directions or filing down the teeth, and for fastening them with gold lireads. He gives drawings of instruments for extracting oots. (Chir. ii, 30.) The other Arabians describe the operation, but less precisely lian Albucasis. Haly's directions are judicious. He recom- iiends the operator to use a forceps, and to stuff the tooth hen it is hollow. (Pract. ix, 31.) SECT. XXIX. ON CONSTRICTION OF TnE TONGUE, Oil TONGUE-TIED PERSONS. The affection called ancyloglossus is sometimes congenital, 10 membrane which fastens the tongue being originally harder id more constricted than ordinary; but sometimes is acquired om some hard cicatrix formed under it by ulceration. Those296 CONSTRICTION OF TONGUE. [book VI. therefore who have this affection naturally are distinguished hy being slow in beginning to sjieak, and by having the frajnum linguje larger than its moderate size, and that -without any previous ulceration. When the complaint is occasioned by a cicatrix it is easily recognised. Wherefore the patient is to be placed on a proper seat, the tongue raised to the roof of the mouth, and the membranous frsenum cut transversely. But if the curvature is occasioned by a cicatrix, we transfix the callus with a hook and draw it upwards, and making a cross incision free the bent part, taking care not to make deep inci- sions of the parts; for hemorrhages which have been found difficult to stop have thereby been occasioned. After the ope- ration the part is to be washed with cold water or oxycrate; and after all these things the cure is to be completed with relaxing and incarnative applications. Commentary. Celsus thus describes the treatment in con- genital affections : " Horum extrema lingua vulsella prehen- denda est, sub eS,que membrana incidenda, magna cwck habita, ne venae quae juxta sunt, violentur et profusione sanguinis noceant." (vii, 12, 4.) Aetius's plan of treatment is quite similar to oui' author's, (viii, 38.) Albucasis gives a similar account of the operation. He cautions against opening the artery below the tongue, for fear of hemorrhage. Should this accident occur he dii'ects the surgeon to use the actual cautery. (Chirurg. ii, 34.) Rhases recommends when the frsenum extends to the tip of the tongue that it be divided, so as to allow freedom of motion. However, one of the authorities quoted by him directs us to pass through the frEenum a needle armed with a thread, which is to be tightened so as to divide the intermediate space. He recommends this method in order to obviate the fear of he- morrhage from the incision. Rhases himself states that a dangerous hemorrhage will result from opening the green veins below the tongue. (Cont. vii, 1.) Avicenna also recommends the operation with the ligature. (iii, vi, 11.) . f r • Halv Abbas describes very distinctly the operation ot ani- ding the frsenum. (Pract. ix, 35 )297 SECT. XXX.] ANTIADES. Alsaharavius mentions that the operation is sometimes ne- Comm. cessaiy. (Pract. ix, 35.) "—'—' SECT. XXX. ON ANTIADES, OR INDURATED TONSILS. As indurated glands are called strumse, so the almonds of the ears when inflamed, swelled, and as it were, dried, occa- sioning difficulty of deglutition and of breathing, are called antiades, from theii- being placed opposite one another. When therefore they are inflamed we must not meddle with them; but when the inflammation is considerably abated, we may operate, more especially upon such as are white, contracted, and have a narrow base. But those which are spongy, red, and have a broad base, are apt to bleed. Wherefore, seating the person in the light of the sun, and directing him to open his mouth, while one assistant holds his head, and another presses down the tongue to the lower jaw with a tongue spatula, we take a hook (tenaculum) and perforate the tonsil with it, and drag it outwards as much as we can without drawing its membranes along with it; and then we cut it out by the root with the scalpel suited to that hand, called ancylotomus, for there are two such instruments, having opposite curvatures. After the incision of one we may operate upon the other in- versely in the same manner. After the operation the patient must gargle with cold water or oxycrate; and if any hemor- rhage come on he may use a tepid decoction of brambles, roses, and myrtle-leaves; or if the blood flows copiously we must give for a gargle the juice of plantain and comfrey, and the trochisk from amber and the Lemnian earth, dissolved in oxy- crate. When the hemorrhage stops, the parts on the next day may be anointed with the flower of roses, safi-ron, and starch with mHk, or with water, the white of an egg, or hydrorosatum. When sordes coUect about the ulcers, we may use injections and Hnctuses made from honey. Commentary. Celsus directs us when the tonsils are indu- Comm rated to scrape the membrane with the finger, and tear it out; or, if this does not succeed, to seize' the tumour with a hook or tenaculum, and cut it out; then the wound is to be washed Mith vinegar, and a styptic medicine applied to it. (vii, 12.)[book VI. 298 UVA. Comm. Aetius directs us to seize the tonsil with, a hook and cut it ' ' ' out at the middle. When cut out at the base, he remarks there is danger of hemorrhage, (viii, 57.) Albucasis directs us to make the patient sit with his head on the operator's bosom, and, while an assistant presses down his tongue, the operator is to seize the indurated tonsil with a hook, and drawing it out, to cut it off with a sharp instrument resembling a forceps, or, in other words, with a pair of scissors. He likewise gives a drawing of another instrument which con- sists of a lunated piece of iron fixed to a handle. He relates an interesting case in which he performed the operation, (ii, 36.) Rhases, upon the authority of a surgeon called Ancilisius, in the barbarous translation of his works, which probably is a corruption of Antyllus, briefly describes this operation. He directs us to open the mouth and take hold of the tonsils, the fourth part of which may be cut off. He recommends us to make the patient gargle with vinegar. He forbids the opera- tion when the tonsils are enlarged and red. (Contin. vii, 3.) Haly Abbas (Pract. ix, 36,) and Mesne (de ^gr. Gutturis, 4,) describe the operation, but not so minutely as Albucasis. Guido de Cauliaco copies the descriptions of Albucasis and Haly Abbas, (c. vi, 3.) SECT. XXXI. ON THE TTVA. The uvula being, as it were, the quill or plectrum of the organ of speech is often the seat of defluxion from the head, and becom- ing preternatui-ally enlarged, of a lengthened'form and slender shape, it is called columella; but when thick below and round it is named uva, from its resemblance to a grape, as the other is so called from its resemblance to a column. If, therefore, it cannot be made to yield to general treatment,—I mean evacua- tions by bleeding and pm-ging,—nor to topical, such as astrm- gents, repellents, and discutients,—we must proceed to the operation, lest, by its constant iiTitation, it bring on coughs, sleeplessness, and even suffocation. Such, therefore, as are contracted, round, not of a lengthened shape, bloody, or some- what black, we must decline operating upon ; but those that are slender, long, small at the extremity, loose, not very bloody.SECT. XXXI.] 299 UVA. but whitish, we must operate upon; for the inflammation of them soon subsides. We must only take away as much of the uva as exceeded its natural size; for the complete ex- tii'pation of it proves greatly injurious to the parts about the chest, and occasions the loss of voice. Wherefore, having placed the patient on a seat in the rays of the sun, and directed him to gape wide, we seize with the forceps adapted for this inirpose, or a common tenaculum, upon the redundant part and drag it downward, and cut it out with the instrument called staphylotomus, or the scalpel used in the operation for the suture of the upper eyelid. After the operation the same things are to be done as are recommended for angiology. But since often, from the timidity of the patient, or the fear of the hemon'hage,or the success attending the treatment by medicines, lie declines the operation by instruments, we may rather con- sume it by means of a caustic medicine. Wherefore, taking the caustic used for burning the eyeUds, or some such, we are to fill with it the hollows of the instrument called staphylo- caustos, and directing the patient to gape wide, and getting the tongue pressed down with a tongue spattxla, we open the instrument sufficiently and grasp with it as much of the uva as we cut ofi" in the other operation. The medicine must neither be of too liquid a consistence, lest it run down from the uva improperly, and burn the adjoining parts (and, there- fore, we direct the patient not to swallow during the whole jperation of burning), nor very hard, that it may soon act upon he uva. And if from one application the extremity of the iva become black, this wiU be sufficient, but if not we must ise it again. During the whole time of its action the patient nust sit with his head bent forwards, in order that the saliva ■vhich is melted down with the portions of the medicine may low from the mouth. The part becomes dead in one hour, md faUs off about the third or fourth day. After the burning' laving wrapped the index-finger round with soft wool or tow' ve wipe the parts about the uvula, or direct the patient to rargle with water. But after this operation, and also that on he tonsils, soothing fomentations from the oil of camomile are o be applied around the neck, and in like manner we may use irgles and liniments.[book VI. 300 PHARYNX. Comm. COMMENTARY. It appears from tlie Hippocratic treatises that * excision of the uvula was sometimes performed in early times. (Prognost. de Morbis, ii; De affect.) Celsus recommends us not to meddle with the operation when the uvula is red and enlarged, for fear of hemorrhage; but when it is slender, sharp, and white, or when it is pale and thick below, but slender above, it may be extirpated with- out danger. For this purpose he merely directs us to seize upon it with a forceps and cut it out. (vii, 12.) Galen describes fully the operation by medicines, but says nothing of excision. (De Med. sec. loc. vi.) Aetius describes the operation in nearly the same terms as our author. He directs us to grasp the enlarged uvula with a forceps and cut it off, using afterwards some astringent gargle, (viii, 44.) Oribasius briefly mentions the operation, which he directs to be performed with extreme circumspection. (Med. Collect, xxiv, 10.) Albucasis describes the operation similarly to the Greeks. He dii-ects the operator to get the patient's tongue pressed down by an assistant; when the operator is to seize upon the uvula and cut off as much as is proper of it. He gives a drawing of an instrument for the operation with caustic medi- cines. (Chirurg. ii, 37.) Avicenna's desci-iption is to the same effect, but not so cir- cumstantial, (iii, 9, 15.) Mesne directs us to perform the operation with a heated scalpel of gold. (De Mgr. Gutturis, 3.) Rhases states that when the uvula is enlarged, but is not red, the operation may be performed without danger. He men- tions that some preferred the actual or potential cautery, but that he preferred excision. He describes, but not distinctly, an instrument for applying the caustic medicines. He states that loss of the entire uvula impairs the voice and exposes the lungs to danger from cold. (Contin. vii; and Divis. i, 49.) SECT. XXXII. ON THORNY SUBSTANCES FIXED IN THE PHARYNX. Thorns, or the bones of fishes, or other substances, are often swallowed in eating, and fix in different places. Wherefore, such as can be seen we are to extract with the forceps for that301 LARYNGOTOMY. SECT. XXXIXI.] piu'pose; but those which are lower down in the gullet we must manage differently. Some are of opinion that the patient ought to be made to swallow large morsels, such as the stalk of lettuces, or pieces of bread; but others direct us to bind a thread about a small piece of clean soft sponge and give it to the patient to swallow, and then taking hold of the thread to draw it up, and to do this frequently in order that the thorn may get fixed in the sponge and be brought up. Leonidas orders suppm-ative cataplasms to be applied, such as those from raw bai-ley-flour, in order that the part may be converted into pus and the thorn faU out of its own accord. If we see the patient at the time of swallowing, before digestion has taken place ia the stomach, and cannot perceive the substance which is fixed, we may order him to vomit by pushing the fingers or feathers down the throat, for sometimes the thing which is fixed wiU be brought up with the matters that are vomited. Commentary. Our author's directions axe mostly taken Comm. from Aetius. (viii, 50.) '—»—' Albucasis repeats our author's directions, and further re- commends us, when they fail, to introduce an instrument made of lead, which he gives a drawing of, and either to ex- tract the substance or push it downwards. (Chirurg, ii, 38.) A. similar plan of treatment is recommended by Mesne (de Egr. Gutturis); by Avicenna (iii, 9, 43); and by Alsaharavius (Pract. xii.) When a morsel of food sticks to the oesophagus, Alsaharavius directs that the person should be struck on the back, which will facilitate the descent of it. (6.) SECT. XXXIir. ON LARYNGOTOMY. The most famous surgeons have also described this operation. Antyllus, therefore, says, " In cases of cynanche (as we will < xplain under the head of Dietetics) we entirely disapprove of this operation, because the incision is utterly unavailing when ill the arteries (the whole of the trachea ?) and the lungs are iffected; but in inflammations about the mouth and palate nul in cases of indurated tonsils which obstruct the mouth of[book VI. LARYNGOTOMY. 302 tlie windpipe as the trachea is unaffected, it will be proper to have recourse to pharyngotomy, in order to avoid the risk of suf- focation. When, therefore, we engage in the operation we slit open a part of the arteria aspera (for it is dangerous to divide the whole) below the top of the windpipe, about the third or fourth ring. For this is a convenient situation, as being free of flesh, and because the vessels are placed at a distance from the part which is divided. Wherefore, bending the patient's head backwards, so as to bring the windpipe better into view, we are to make a transverse incision between two of the rings, so as that it may not be the cartilage which is divided, but the membrane connecting the cartilages. If one be more timid in operating, one may first stretch the skin with a hook and divide it, and then, removing the vessels aside, if they come in the way, make the incision.^' These are the words of Antyllus. We judge that the windpipe has been opened from the air rushing thi'ough it with a whizzing noise, and from the voice being lost. After the urgency of the suffocation has passed over, we pare the lips of the incision so as to make them raw surfaces again, and then have recom'se to sutures, but sew the skin only, without the cartilage. Then we use the apphcations proper for bloody or fresh wounds, but if it does not unite we must treat it with incarnants. We must follow the same plan of treatment if we should meet with the case of a person who had cut his own throat from a wish to commit suicide. Commentary. Aretseus makes mention of this operation in such terms as proves that it must have been practised oc- casionally in his time. He, however, does not approve of it, at least in cases of angina. (De Curat. Morb. Acut. i, 7.) CebHus AureHanus says that Asclepiades performed the operation in cases of cynanche; but he himself disapproves of it. (De Morb. Acut. i, 7.) We may mention further in this place that Avicenna, Avenzoar, Haly Abbas, Mesne, and Ehases express themselves rather favorably of the operation in urgent cases of cynanche. From the circumstance mentioned by Pollux of cynanche, that it mostly attacks children, we are incHued to think that the ancients meant the croup by it. None of the Greek authorities, except our author, have left a description of the operation. Psellus, however, mentions it>ECT. xxxrv.] ABSCESS. 303 ill such a manner as would lead us to infer that the operation Comm. had not been lost sight of in his time, i. e. " Laryngotomy is a 'crtain surgical operation." Avicenna and Albucasis merely copy our author's descrip- lon, and appear to have never seen the operation performed. To show, however, that the windpipe may be opened without occasioning death, Albucasis relates the case of a female who ;ut her trachea while attempting to commit suicide; in which •ase, by scAving up the wound, he effected a cure without diffi- Hilty. (Chirui-g. ii, 13.) Rhases mentions that, in cases of cynanche which threaten ustant death, a certain physician, Ancilisius (Antyllus ?) re- •ommends the surgeon to open the windpipe. His description of he operation is as foUows : The patient's head being kept back he skin is to be divided, and the sides of it separated by means f threads, so as to expose the windpipe, which is to be opened y making an incision in the membrane which connects two f the rings together. After the abcess bursts the wound is 3 be sewed up. (Cont. vii, 2.) Haly Abbas likewise describes the operation accurately, fe directs us to make an incision in the skin, and to separate le edges with hooks so as to expose the windpipe which is to e opened between two cartilages. (Pract. ix, 38.) The modern history of the operation is given in Van weiten's Comment. (814); Me'moires de TAcad. Royale (ii) • id Cooper's Surgical Dictionary. See a complete history of le operation by Sprengel. (Hist, de la Med. 18, 6.) He says .at Anthony Benivieni, a surgeon of Florence, is the first after ntyUus who is known for certain to have performed the aeration. SECT. XXXIV.—ON ABSCESS. That the abscess is a corniption and transmutation of the h or fleshy parts, and what are its modes of formation and a- many kinds of abcesses there are, we have sufficiently ex- med in the Fourth Book. Now we have only to treat of operation upon it. If it be completely changed to pus ich we ascertain from the pains, fever (if any was formerly[book VI. ABSCESS. 304 present), redness, pulsation, and the other symptoms of in- flammation being diminished, from the swelling assuming a sharp point, and from pus being felt under the fingers upon pressure, more especially if the abscess be superficial, in that case we may proceed to the operation. But if it is not felt to the touch, nor is elevated to a point, owing to its being deep- seated, we must attend to the other symptoms before operating. It is to be imderstood, however, that before the conversion to pus is completed, we sometimes open abscesses when they are unripe, on account of their being near joints or -sital parts, lest, by their continued putrefaction, a ligament or some neces- sary part should be corrupted by it. And Hippocrates directs us to open abscesses about the anus before they are completely ripened, for fear of their perforating the intestine. In opening them we must not, in all cases, make the incisions in the same manner, but observe the natural lines—as on the face; and the growth of the hairs—as on the head, and talcing as much care as possible not to occasion deformity. Straight incisions are to be made in the legs, as in the muscles and tendons; and nerves, arteries, and vital parts are to be avoided, taking care of their safety by sometimes making a straight incision and sometimes a transverse one into the abscess, according to the circumstances of each case. When the abscesses are small we make one incision, but when they are larger we make more, always dividing the thinner parts, and those which are most convenient for the escape of the matter. When the swelling is much raised up to a point, unconcocted, thin, and devoid of vitality, we must cut out a piece either like a triangle, or hke a mjTtle leaf, or of some other angular figure, because the circidar is unfavorable to cicatrization. Those which ai-e not pointed we open by a simple incision, and. when we find a sinus, if the part is fleshy and the skin proper for uniting, we only make such incisions into the part as will allow the mat- ter to be discharged ; but if it be thin and very devoid of flesh we make a simple incision along its whole length; and after this simple incision, if the parts on each side appear thin and not fleshy we must pare them ofi". After the operation, having first sponged the part, if the abscess be small, and if only one incision has been made, we may use a simple pledget, but if it be large, and there be many incisions, we draw through them305 SECT. XXXIV.] ABSCESS. a fiUet which can be easily extracted; and when the part has been cut out we fiU it in hke manner with lint. If a hemor- rhage take place we must use cold water or oxycrate, and if the bleeding continue we may sprinkle upon the part finely powdered chalcitis, which we may also have recom-se to often when the part is gangrenous and flaccid. In winter, and when the parts are nei-vous, we may soak oblong pledgets in wine and oil and apply them; and in summer, when the parts are fleshy, we may soak these appHcations in water and oil, or in the same cold wine and oil, and binding them, on the following day we may bathe with the same fluids ; but on the third day haying loosed the dressings and sponged the parts, we may use the application called tetrapharmacon on a pledget, and if there be no inflammation present we may apply the same wash for the preservation of the pledget; but if there be in- flammation, we must apply a digestive cataplasm, having first pomed water on the parts. When the inflammation abates we may effect the cm-e by promoting suppuration and incar- nation. Sinuses are to be cm-ed by agglutinative remedies, as lias been said, in the Fourth Book, on sinuses. Commentary. AU the authors quoted under this head in Comm. the fourth Book may be consulted. Celsus is more than usuaUy prolix in laying down the rules for the surgical treatment of abcesses. Before the abscess liardeu, he directs us to make incisions in the skin, and apply a cupping mstrument, in order to remove any symptoms of in- flammation which may have been present, or, in other words o procure resolution Sometimes, however, as he explains,' he matter is coUected in a cyst (tunica), in which case it is not to be supposed that the contents of the abscess can be re- moved by a cupping instrument. When the pus ripens it is seldom proper to let it out if seated in the armpits, or groins • >or when the coDection is superficial, or in the flesi; and it i^ setter, as he prudently directs, to apply cataplasms until the .us make an opemng for itself. When it is judged necessary o open an abscess, he recommends us, if not seated in a .ervous part, to perform the operation with a red-hot iron >ccause a small opening made in this manner wiU remain onger open. Abscesses in nervous parts are to be opened 20ABSCESS. 306 [book VI. Comm. witli a scalpel. In making an incision, the foim and size of it are to be considered. In general the openings are to be made as small as possible; but large sinuses require larger incisions, and sometimes two or three are necessary : when the skin is livid or diseased it sometimes must be cut off to further the cure. In this case an opening is to be made of the shape of a myrtle-leaf. When the pus is evacuated, if in the arm- pit or groins, no pledget is to be used, but a sponge out of \vine is to be applied. In other places, a little honey is first to be used; then agglutinative medicines; and above these likewise, if necessary, a sponge squeezed out of wine, (vii, 3.) The treatment of abscesses is fully explained by Galen. (Therap. ad Glauc. ii.) He dii-ects us, when an abscess is slow of ripening, to make superficial scarifications in it, and after- wards to apply a cataplasm of bai-ley-meal. Aetius's directions are, upon the whole, similar to our author^s, but not quite so minute and precise. Like our author, he directs us to make the incision long and naiTow, like a myrtle-leaf. The ancients were well aware that cir- cular sores are slow of healing ; and the causes of this fact are fully explained by Cassius and Alexander Aphrodisiensis. Little additional information is to be obtained from the other authorities. Albucasis directs us, when the abscess is large, not to evacuate all its contents at once, lest it produce dangerous prostration, especially if the patient be weak; for, he remarks, the animal spirits wiU escape along with the pus. Like our author, he forbids us to open abscesses until they are ripe, unless seated neai' the anus, or some vital part. (Chirurg. ii. 40.) , ^ , Haly Abbas justly remarks that if an abscess be opened prematm-ely, the hps of it remain in an indurated state, and prevent the sore from heahng. But when seated near nei-ves or ho-aments, he advises not to wait until it is ripe. His treatment upon the whole does not differ from our author's. (Pract, ix, 8.) The method of opening abscesses, by means of caustic ap- plications, is described in the Fourth Book, 18.SECT. XXXV.] STRUMA. 307 SECT. XXXV. ON STEUMiEj OR SCROFULOUS GLANDS. The chceras, or scrofula, is an indurated gland, mostly form- ing in the neck, armpits, and groins, deriving its name either from a Greek word, signifying a species of rock, or from swine, because they ai-e fruitful animals, or because swine have swell- ings of the neck. The strumas are formed either on the anterior pai-t of the neck, or on either side of it, or on both, and they consist of one, two, or more, all contained in their proper mem- branes, like the steatoma, atheroma, and meliceris. Those, there- fore, which are painful to the touch, and on the application of medicine, ai'e of a malignant nature, are to be considered as carcinomatous and it is obvious that they do not readily yield to a surgical operation. But such as are mild to the touch and the seasonable application of medicines, may be operated upon in this manner. To such as are superficial and incline to- wards the skin we use a simple section, and free them from the surrounding bodies, and stretching the skin with hooks we flay the hps of the incision, as we said in describing the operation of angiology, and by degrees remove them entirely. But such IS are larger, having transfixed them with hooks, we raise up, md dissecting away the skin from them in like manner, we must ree them entirely from the surrounding bodies, avoiding in )articular the carotid arteries and recurrent nerves. If any livided vessel obscui-e the operation, we may include it in a igature, or cut it asunder, if not large. And when the base )f the scrofulous tumour runs out into a narrow point, we nay cut it away readily, and introducing the index finger search f there be any other strumse lying there, and remove them in he same manner. But if we suspect that a large vessel or essels are situated at the bottom of the scrofulous tumotir, we leed not cut it out from the base, but include it in a ligature, 0 that it may fall off spontaneously in pieces without danger, V lien we may effect the cure by the application of lint; but f cut away at once we may unite tlie lips of the incisions. The ncisions are to be made direct, and if there be nothing re- lundant we may immediately sew them up. But, if owing to he size of the scrofulous swelling there be a redundancy of kin, having cut away a part of it like a myrtle-leaf, we may308 [book vt. have recourse to sutures, and use the applications for recent wounds. M. Commentary, See all the authors referred to in the 34tli section of the Fourth Book. Galen briefly recommends incision or septic applications. He relates an unfortunate case in which an ignorant surgeon, by cutting the recurrent nerve, occasioned loss of speech. (See Meth. Med. xvi; and Loc. Affect, i, 6.) Aetius gives a long extract from Leonidas on the treatment of scrofula. His directions for dissecting out the tumours in the neck are such as experience alone could have dictated. In operating on the neck, he cautions us to avoid the jugular veins, carotid arteries, and the nerves of speech, and with this intention he recommends us rather to make the incisions lon- gitudinal than transverse. "When the tumour is small a simple incision, he says, will be sufficient; but if large, the skin is to be cut in the form of a myrtle-leaf, and the lips of the incision being stretched with hooks, the skin is to be separated from the struma with the fingers and a scalpel; but the base of the tumour is to be cut with great caution. He does not, like oiu' author, make any mention of the ligature. When there is a discharge of blood he recommends styptics, (xv, 5.) Celsus says nothing of the treatment by a surgical operation, (v. 28.) Haly Abbas, Avicenna, and most of the Arabian authorities approve of excision, and describe the operation in much the same terms as our author. Albucasis directs us when there is a large vein at the bottom of the tumour to apply a ligature roimd its root, and allow it to drop out by putrefaction. When the contents of the tumour are fluid, he recommends us to open it, and apply an ointrjient to consume the corrupted flesh; after which incarnants and detergents are to be used. When scro- fulous tumours resist the ordinary treatment, he dii-ects us to burn them with a red-hot iron.SECT. XXXVI.] STEATOMA, ETC. 309 SECT. XXXVI. ON STEATOMA, ATHEROMA, AND MELICERIS. These also belong to the class of abscesses, but differ from diem in this respect, that those which are properly called ab- scesses are of an inflammatory nature, painful, and contain an acrid and corroding fluid; neither are they surrounded by a ^iroper membrane or tunic. They differ from one another, in as much as that which is contained in the steatoma is, as its lame implies, like suet; that which is in the atheroma is like pap made from corn; while the fluid in the meliceris is like honey. You may distinguish them from one another thus. The steatoma is harder than the others, is unyielding to the touch, and has a narrower base. The meliceris conveys to the touch the sensation of a soft body, is slowly diffused, and soon returns again to its shape. We operate upon them as upon -crofulous tumours, by incision, dissection, sutures, and the rest f the treatment, only avoiding to wound the membrane, lest its fluid contents be poured out and obstnict the operation, and lest a part of it should be left behind, which often occasions a renewal of the complaint at the wrists, ankles, and the move- able parts about joints, as a scrofulous tumour does in like iianner, if the whole or a part of it be left behind. If any -uch thing be left it will be better not to sew up the wound, ut to consume the remainder with septic apphcations. Commentary. We have given an explanation of the nature Comm. )f these tumours in the Fourth Book. >—' Galen states that the indications of cure in all these cases ire to discuss their contents, produce putrefaction of them, to cut them out. The steatoma, he remarks, being of a solid ature, can be remedied only by an operation. (Meth. Med. xiv.) Celsus directs us, in extii-pating steatomatous tumours, to iien the cyst and evacuate its contents; but recommends not o wound the cyst of the others. Should the whole or part of lie cyst be unavoidably left liehind, he directs suppurative ap- •hcations to be used. After the operation he directs us to ■riite the hps of the wound by a clasp (fibula) and an agglu- inative medicine, (vii, 6.) The surgical treatment of these tumours is very fully laid310 [book T1. ANEURISM. Comm. down by Aetius, in an extract from Leonidas; but his descrip- ' ' tion is so long that we cannot do justice to it within our narrow limits. Like Celsus^ he directs us to avoid wounding the tunics which surround the atheroma and mehceris; but states that this may be done in the case of the steatoma. He judiciously directs the skin to be cut in the form of a myrtle-leaf, (xv, 7, 8.) Albucasis directs us, in the first place, to prick the tumour, in order to ascertain the nature of its contents. When they are found to be fatty, he recommends us to cut it out by making a crucial incision, and removing it with its cyst if possible. When the cyst is wounded he directs us to dissect it out in pieces, and to endeavour to leave no part of it behind. He gives drawings of various instruments, namely, scalpels, tenacula, and perforators, for dissecting out these tumoiu's. (ii, 45, 46.) Ehases and Avicenna give very judicious directions for the treatment of these tumours, but they scarcely differ at all from those of Aetius and our author. They recommend us to avoid opening the cysts of the atheroma and meliceris, if possible; but if any part remain they direct us to destroy it by septics. (Coutin. xxvii.) SECT. XXXVII. ON ANEURISM. Aneurism is a tiimour soft to the touch and yielding to the fingers, having its origin from blood and spirits. Galen says " an artery having become anastomosed (i. e. dilated) the affec- tion is called an aneurism; it arises also fr'om a wound of the same, when the skin that lies over it is cicatrized, but the wound in the artery remains, and neither unites nor is blocked up by flesh. Such affections are recognised by the pulsation of arte- ries ; but, if compressed, the tumour disappears in so far, the substance which forms it returning back into the arteries." Thus Galen.—But we distingiiish them from one another in this way: That formed from anastomosis of an artery appears longer, is deep seated, and when pressed upon by the fingers, a sort of sound is heard; whereas no noise is heard in the cases ai'ising from rupture, and these, moreover, are more rounded, and feel superficial. Those therefore which form in the armpits, groin,ANEURISM. SECT. XXXVII.] 311 and neck, and those in other parts of the body, which are very large, we must decline operating upon, on account of the large- ness of the vessels. But those which occur in the extremities, the limbs, or the head, we operate upon thus. We make a straight longitudinal incision in the skin, and then having se- parated the lips with hooks, as we mentioned in the operation of angiology, and having dissected away the skin, and sepa- rated it with the instruments used for operations on membranes, we lay bare the artery, and passing a needle under it, and tying it with two ligatures, and having first divided the intermediate part of the artery with a lancet used for bleeding, and evacuated its contents, we have recourse to the suppurative treatment until the falling off of the ligatures. If the aneurism be occasioned by rupture of the artery, we must seize in the fingers along with the skin as much as possible of the aneurism, and then below what we hold in our hand we push a needle having a double thi'ead, and after it has passed through we cut the double, and thus with the two threads we bind the tumour on this side and on that, as we mentioned for staphyloma. If any appre- hension be entertained from the falling off of the hgatures, we must push another needle entirely through, in the course of the first, having in like manner a double thread, and, cutting the noose into four pieces, we may bind the tumour. Or, having opened the tumour in the middle, after the evacuation of its contents, we cut away what is redimdant of the skin, leaving what is secured Avith the ligatures, and applying an oblong compress soaked in wine and oil, we have recourse to the treatment by lint. Commentary. Galen, we beHeve, is the first author who c treats of aneurism. He states that he had known cases in which an aneurism had been occasioned by a wound of the artery at the bend of the arm in performing venesection. He relates the case of a cure having been accomplished by the ap- plication of a sponge with bandages. (Meth. Med.v, 7.) The pas- sage quoted by our author is from his work De Tumoribus (11.) Aetius gives a most interesting account of aneurism. He states that it arises most frequently in women during labour, owing to the breath being violently retained, but that it may take place in any part of the body from a wound, as when anANEURISM. [book vr. 312 Comm. unskilful slu'geon in opening a vein at the bend of the arm, opens an artery at the same time. It proceeds, he says, either from rupture or dilatation, and its contents are blood and spirits. The symptoms of an aneurism are a swelling of a smaller or larger size, without change of colour, free from pain, of a spongy softness, disappearing upon the pressure with the fingers, and returning again when they are removed; this last symptom being particularly characteristic of aneurism from dilatation. But when it arises from a wound the tumour is not equally soft, as the blood becomes coagulated. With regard to the treatment, he declares that aneurisms in the neck and head ought not to be interfered with; but when the disease arises at the bend of the arm he directs us to proceed in the following manner. In the first place having marked the course of the artery from the armpit to the fore-arm, we are to make a simple incision, three or four fingers' breadth below the armpit along the inside of the arm, where the artery is most superficial; and having laid it bare and separated it from the surrounding parts, to seize the artery with a blunt hook and bind it with two ligatm-es; after which it is to be divided between them, and the wound filled with fine frankincense, and a suitable pledget of hnt bound over it. The swelling at the bend of the arm may then be opened without any fear of hemorrhage. "V^Tien the coagula have been cleared away the artery from which the blood was discharged is to be seized with a hook, seciu'ed and divided like the former; after which the wound is to be filled with fine frankincense, and suppuration promoted, (xv^ 10.) Albucasis treats of aneurism in the following terms. 'When an artery is diwded, and the skin heals over it, a tumour fre- quently is the consequence, and the same thing sometimes happens from the wound of a vein. Aneurism of an ai'tery is characterized by a deep-seated tumour in the situation of an artery, the swelling subsiding when pressed upon by the fingers, and being attended with a hissing sound. When it arises from the wound of a vein it is round and exposed. He adds, to open such tumours, especially if seated in the armpits, groins, and neck would be a fatal mistake. When the aneurism ai'ises from dilatation of the artery^ we are to make a longitudinal in- cision, and having dissected away the artery from the sur- rounding parts, to pass beloAv it a needle armed with a double313 SECT. XXXVII.] ANEURISM. tliread, and to tie the threads in two places as recommended in augiology. The part between the two ligatures is then to be divided and the blood evacuated. Suppurative applications ai-e then to be made, until the ligatures fall out; after which suitable ointments are to be apphed. If the disease arise from the opening of a vein, we are to grasp as much as possible of the tumour in the hand, to push a needle through it armed with a double thread, when the aneurism is to be firmly bound with the threads in the manner described in the operation for sta- phyloma. When danger is apprehended from the falling out of the tkreads, we are to introduce another needle armed with another thread under the whole tumour at the opening made by the first needle, and to tie the threads in four places. The aneurism is then to be cut in its middle, and its contents evacu- ated, when the superfluous skin is to be removed, and a com- press dipped in wine and oil applied. (Chirurg. ii, 49.) The threads which he speaks of are meant to decussate one another like the letter X. This part of his description is somewhat obscure. We need scarcely remark that the operation of Albucasis is exactly the same as our authoi-'s. Rhases boiTows his account of aneurism from Antyllus and Paulus. The operation of Antyllus consisted of tying the artery above^and below the tumour, and then evacuating its contents, (xui, 7.) He states that when the disease occm-s in .the hams, groins, or neck, it is dangerous to meddle with it, but that ^vhen seated in the extremities it is easily cured. AU the cases ui wHch he had known the artery to be opened during the [)erformance of venesection had terminated in aneurism, except one m which a cure was effected by compression. (Cont. xxviii.) I-Ialy Abbas directs us when an artery has been wounded in l,Iecding to dissect away the parts about it, and having applied a silk thread on each side of the wound, to divide the artery i n the middle. When an aneurism takes place he recommends :i plan of treatment similar to that recommended by Albucasis. iPract. IX, 45.) Avicenna and Alsaharavius do not describe the operation. Alsaharavms directs us when an artery has been opened in :»lceding at the arm, to attempt a cure by means of compresses aad tight bandages. (Pract. xxix, II.)314 BRONCHOCELE. [book VI. Comm. It will be perceived from tlie foregoing account of the prac- ' ' ' tice recommended by Aetius^ tbat the ancient surgeons were aware of the advantages of securing the artery above the seat of the aneurism, as practised by the late Mr. John Hunter, and that they actually had recourse to two ligatures in the manner directed by Mr. Abernethy; but that they afterwards opened the tiunour and evacuated its contents, not having yet learned from experience to tnist to the absorbent powers of the system. It will likewise be remarked that ca- rotid, axillary, and inguinal anem-isms were in ancient times abandoned as incurable; so that modern surgery may rmdoubt- edly boast of having so far improved upon the practice of the Greeks and Arabians. Sprengel gives an interesting history of the operation for anem'ism. (Hist, de la Med. xviii, 3.) According to him, John de Vigo was the first who conceived the idea of curing aneurism by compresses and styptics. This, however, is not exactly true, for, as mentioned above, Galen, Rhases, and Alsaharavius recommended compresses and bandages to prevent aneiirism after the accident which most commonly gives rise to it. SECT. XXXVIII. ON BRONCHOCELE. A large round tumour forms on the neck from the inner parts, whence it obtains the appellation of bronchocele, of which there are two varieties, the steatomatous and the aneuris- matical. The aneurismatical we judge of from the symptoms of aneurism, and abandon as hopeless, like all other aneurisms which it is dangerous to meddle with, as is the case most espe- cially with those of the neck, owing to the size of the arteries. The steatomatous we operate upon like steatomes in general, distinguishing and avoiding the vessels, in the same manner as we described for strumse. Comm. COMMENTARY. The surgical operation for bronchocele is '—'—' described by Celsus. He says that its contents may be evacu- ated bv caustics, but that the knife is a more expeditious process of cure. For this piu-pose he directs us to make a single mci-SECT. XXXIX.] 315 GANGLION. sion down to the cyst, and to dissect it from the surrounding Comm. parts with the fingers. When its cyst cannot be removed he ——' recommends us to destroy it with caustic medicines, (vii, 13.) Aetius and Albucasis give exactly the same account of bron- chocele as our author. The poet Juvenal alludes to the prevalence of bronchocele among the people at the foot of the Alps. (Sat. xiii, 162.) Phny attributes it to the corruption of the water, (xi, 37.) Rolandus, Guy of Cauliac, and other of the earlier modem authorities, direct us to remove the tumour by means of two cross setons. SECT. XXXIX. ON GANGLION. A ganglion is a round tumour of a tendon, arising from a blow or violent exercise, being formed most frequently about the wrists, ankles, and the parts about a joint which are much moved, but likewise in the other parts. It is attended with a swelling, which is free from discoloration, unyielding, and without pain, but if strongly pressed upon it has a dull feeling. It is not deep-seated, but takes its origin under the skin, and may be moved laterally, but cannot by any means be forced forwards or backwards. Those then which form in the legs, arms, and extremities it is not safe to cut out, for there is danger lest the part be mutilated. But those about the head or forehead we operate upon by dividing the skin with a scal- pel, and if the tumours be smaU, seizing them with a flesh forceps and cutting them out by the roots. But if they are larger, we transfix them with hooks, and remove them by dis- secting them from the skin, and uniting the lips with sutures, complete the cure by the treatment applicable to fresh wounds. Commentary. We have treated of ganglion in the Fourth Comm. Book, and mentioned the principal authorities on the subject. Hippocrates and most of the others forbid ganglia to be opened. The hard tumour on the bead, to which likewise he applies the name, may safely be removed in the manner described by our author. Albucasis repeats his directions. (Chirurg. ii, 50.) Haly Abbas recommends discutients at first, and if theseVENESECTION. [book VI. 316 Comm. have not tlie desired effect we are to strike the tumoui- with a ' ' hard body so as to break its cyst, (ix^ 10.) Ehases recommends striking the tumour with a hammer, binding a piece of lead on it, and excision. When excision is practiced he directs us to take pains to extirpate the cyst or tunic which surrounds it. (Cont. xxviii.) SECT. XL. ON VENESECTION. Although the mode of performing venesection be known to everybody, yet, in order that no part of surgery may be omitted, and for the sake of its technical distinctions, it must not be overlooked by us. The fii'st object then iu venesection is the evacuation of a fulness of blood. It has been shown that fulness of blood is of a twofold nature': first, with regard to the strength, although the veins do not appear full, in which case those affected soon become weak and enervated, nature not being able to support, as it were, the load; and second, with regard to the containing vessels, as is seen in the paren- chymatous parts, in which case, although the strength seems able to support the fulness without stress, the vessels some- times burst, and a spitting of blood or some other discharge takes place. Plethora then as regards the strength may be ascertained from the heaviness upon the body; and plethora of the veins from their distension and from their appearing full. In both cases evacuation is indicated; and, therefore, if necessity require, you must bleed on the first attack of the disease, waiting only for the digestion of the food in the stomach, or the complete sanguification thereof in the liver. But if on any account venesection has not been had recom-se to in the beginning, and has been postponed until after the seventh day, there will be no impropriety of bleeding even then when necessity requires it, and the strength does not contra-indicate. But when about to let blood it is necessaiy to ascertain that there be not a great obstruction of faeces in the intestines, and, if there be, the bowels ought first to be evacuated by an emollient clyster, lest the veins of the intes- tines suck in the putrid matter of the excrements. Those re- quiring the abstraction of blood from the presence of a diseaseSECT. XL.] VENESECTION. 317 we may bleed at any season, avoiding only the acme of par- ticular paroxysms in fevers. But if it be a continual fevei', the morning is by all means the fittest season for the operation. Those who reqmre the evacuation of blood, not from the pre- sence of any disease, but as a preventive, will find the spring the fittest season of the year. With regard to age, bleeding must not be practised before the fourteenth, nor after the seventieth year, unless some urgent necessity compel us. And npon the whole we must avoid bleeding those persons whose strength is reduced. In recent inflammations we must make the evacuation from the opposite parts, but in chronic from the adjoining. We abstract blood from many parts of the body, but more especially from the inner part of the elbow. But it is to be recollected that in general the artery lies below the inner vein called the alar j that below the middle one (median) there is a nerve; whereas the upper one, called also the humeral, is free from all risk. In diseases of the head we open the humeral, but in those below the neck, the alar. The median is applicable in both cases. Wherefore we must tie a narrow band around some muscular part of the arm, and having by friction of the hands upon one another produced the necessary fulness of the vein, we divide it transversely, but only along its breadth; for larger incisions than this are difficult to heal, whilst those which are very narrow occasion inflammations by obstructing the passage of the thicker fluids. When we expect to have to abstract blood again on the second, third, and some- times the fourth day, we must divide the vein more obliquely, in order that by bending the arm the incision may be kept open and not heal speedily. Such is the opinion of Antyllus. The quantity of the evacuation must be determined by the strength of the patient and the magnitude of the disease. When, therefore, there is a humeral plethora, and the matter is in a state of inflammation, we are to make our evacuations to deliquium animi, provided the strength be firm, and the patient does not swoon from an overflow of the humour upon the stomach. Wherefore many at the commencement fall into deliquium animi before a sufficient evacuation has taken place, and, therefore, the dehquium must be judged of from the mea- siu-e of the evacuation. If there is a necessity for much evacu- ation, and the strength is weak, we must husband the evacua-318 VENESECTION. [book VI. tion, and making the first abstraction in small quantity, bleed again, or even a third time, if required. We have recourse to general evacuation not only when the body is in a plethoric state (as Galen says), but on account of the magnitude of the affection, when the general system is in a moderate state with regard to the humours, as we do also in hemorrhage from the nose or elsewhere, when although the discharge do not pro- ceed from plethora, we bleed from the opposite parts in order to produce revulsion j and so also in violent inflammations, as in colics and affections of the kidneys from calculi, ophthalmies, and other such acute and urgent attacks; for the heat and pain of the inflamed parts occasion a defluxion upon it, al- though the general system be free from superfluities. In such cases we must bleed more sparingly, proportioning the evacu- ation particularly to the age and constitution of the patient, and also taking into accoimt the season, country, and habits of the person affected. When there is a strong inflammation near the vein which is opened, as in pleurisy and hepatitis, it will be most proper to wait the change of the blood in colour and consistence. Blood in inflammation is different from the natural, since being excessively heated, if it was formerly cinide, - it becomes ruddier and brighter; or if it was such before, it turns black from being over-heated. Yet we must not in every case wait for the change, but sometimes give over before this takes place; for two reasons, either from the weakness of the patient's powers, which you may ascertain to have sirnk by feeling the pulse (for you will find it either unequal as to strength and magnitude, or indistinct, the stream of the blood failing also indicates that the strength is sunk), or from the malignity of the inflammation ; for sometimes it will not remit, but the con- striction continues strong. But if none of these circumstances contra-indicate, and if the patient be in the vigour of age, we may wait until a change takes place, especially if the atmosphere be mild. But if the flow of blood stop before a sufiicient evacua- tion has taken place (this happens from fear, dehquium animi, and coagulum, or too tight an apphcation of the bandage), we must attend to each of these causes, rousing from dehquium with strong-scented things, slackening the bandage when too tight, and a coagulum may be dissolved by pouring in oU, or by rubbing it with the fingers. The rest of the apparatus forSECT. XL.] VENESECTION. 319 phlebotomy is known to everybody. But these things apply to venesection at the bend of the arm. When we would ab- stract blood from the forehead as for headache, having first used fomentations, we apply a bandage round the neck, placing a finger over the windpipe to prevent suffocation, and when the fi'ontal vein is properly filled we divide it with the point of a lancet or scalpel. In the same manner we may open the external jugulars for chronic ophthalmy, producing a discharge of blood Avith the concave part of the scalpel. The vessels also below the tongue we open transversely for angina, but without the application of any bandage. Some also open in like man- ner the veins which appear in the great canthi, as for chronic affections of the head or eyes, in which cases they also some- times rupture the vessels within the nostrils either by rubbing them with the extremity of a specillum, or by tickling them with rough substances. They also open those behind the ears for the affections about the head; and those about the top of the thighs, as in affections of the kidneys ; and those in the extremities they also open, after by the appKcation of the liga- tui-es to the pai-ts above, by friction in the case of the hands, and walking in that of the feet, the vessels having become dis- tended with blood J in affections of the spleen opening the ves- sel in particular between the small and middle finger of the left hand, and in affections of the liver those of the right hand; for the evacuation of the extremities, being from a distance, occasions a more powerful revulsion. In ischiatic diseases, and those of the uterus, they open the vein in the foot above the inner toe. Commentary. We have to regret that our limits prevent Comm. us from doing more ample justice to the sound and enlarged V lews of the ancient physicians on this subject, and we must be content with making a few desultory observations and giving a few extracts. We have had occasion frequently to remark that Hippocrates I)ractised venesection freely in various diseases. He has left no treatise, however, expressly on the subject. Celsus skys, that to let blood was no new discovery in his (lay; but that blood might be let with advantage in almost '.very disease was a discovery. He states it also as a recentVENESECTION. [book VI. 320 Comm. discovery that cliildren, old men, and pregnant women might ' ' ' be safely bled, tlie operation having been anciently proscribed in all these cases. Yet, notwithstanding the authority of Celsus, the prejudice against bleeding young and old persons seems to have generally prevailed, for it will be perceived, that our author, copying from Galen, forbids persons to be bled before fourteen and after seventy, except in urgent cases. However, Averrhoes mentions that his countryman Avenzoar had bled a child only three years old with great success; and relates further that he had known certain persons who had been bled at the age of eighty. Celsus properly directs us to judge of a patient's ability to endiu'e venesection from his strength, and not from his tender or advanced age. He also acutely remarks that there is a difference between a strong body and a fat, and between a lean and a weak ; for that a lean body contains most blood, and a fat most flesh. (See also Arist. H. A. iii, 19.) Those, therefore, who are lean bear depletion best, and the corpulent suffer most from it. The strength of the body, therefore, is to be estimated from the veins rather than from the general appear- ance. When the nature of the disease indicates evacuation, and the strength appears ill fitted to bear it, he advises us first to give warning of the danger, and then to abstract blood ; for, he adds, " satius est remedium anceps experiri quam nullum.'' In general he forbids venesection when the stomach is loaded with impui-ities; and upon this rule of practice all the ancient authorities, we beheve, agree with him. Thus, to give an ex- ample from the Arabians, Averrhoes says, our famous physician, Abumeron Avenzoar, states that venesection ought not to be had recourse to until the body is purged, for the veins being emptied of blood attract the crude superfluities. (Collig. vii, 1.) This rule of practice is now too little attended to. In general Celsus holds that the second or thu-d day of a disease is the fittest time for abstracting blood. He forbids bleeding upon j the very onset of a fever, which he says is enough to kill a i man outright. Upon the whole he approves of letting blood ; as near as possible to the affected part. He admits, however, that venesection may sometimes act by producing revision. The operation, he remarks, although easy to a skilful person | may prove dangerous when performed by an unskilful one, as ! a nerve or artery may be wounded. In securing the arm afterSECT. XL.] VENESECTION. 321 the operation he directs us to bind on the wound a compress Comm. ■soaked in cold water, (ii, 10.) "—,—> Galen wrote three treatises on venesection^ to which opera- tion he was veiy partial. They are : De venesectione adversus Erasistratum; de venesectione adversus Erasistrateos in Romd ; and de curatione per vena sectionem. These works are deserving of great attention as containing many judicious observations and rules of practice, but which are delivered at so great length that we can scarcely venture even upon an abstract of them. His principles of treatment, however, are nearly the same as those of our author. He appears to have abstracted blood in great quantities. Thus he mentions having seen six lib. taken away in the course of a fever, and six hemiuce at once in a case of haemoptysis. Now the hemina being somewhat more than a half a pint, the quantity abstracted must have ex- ceeded three pints. He strenuously inculcates that venesection proves useful by occasioning revulsion, and as a proof of this ;ic instances the beneficial eflFects produced by opening a vein jf the arm in cases of epistaxis. He practised bloodletting >ccasionaUy in cases of dropsy, as we have mentioned under hat head. Bleeding from the arm he thinks prejudicial in ■ases of amenorrhoea, as it causes a determination of blood to lie upper parts of the body, and, therefore, he directs us ■ather to bleed at the ankle. He agrees with Celsus that lean .ersons bear depletion better than such as are fat; and that cnesection is not to be performed when there are undigested latters in the stomach. He states that persons in extreme ■at or cold do not bear bleeding. He mentions that in bleed- ng from the basilic vein there is danger of wounding the • tery, that a nerve Ues under the median j but that the phahc may be opened without danger. Oribasius gives an interesting dissertation on venesection, nncipaUy condensed from the works of Herodotus, AntvUus, ud Galen (Med. Collect, vii.) Antyllus directs us Uen mng to b eed at the elbow to apply a ligature two fingers road round the arm, so as to produce a swelling of the veins : nd remarks that they are mistaken who affirm that the same cct may be produced by applying the ligature below, for that .= veins wdl not then swell, even when the arm is fomented. lien going to bleed at the ankle he directs us to apply the 21322 VENESECTION. [book VI. Comm. ligatiwe above the knee ; to put the limb into hot water, and " ' make the person walk about. When the blood does not flow readily, he advises us to slacken the bandage if too tight; or if the opening in the vein be covered with the skin, to turn the arm into all positions until the opening of the vein and of the skin correspond; and if it be too small, to enlarge it. When fear retards the flow of the blood it will be of advantage, he says, not to allow the patient to hear the sound of it. When it stops from deliquium animi he advises us to lay the patient in a reclining posture on a couch; to promote vomiting, and to rouse by tight ligatures to the extremities, and by aromatics. When a clot of blood obstructs the vein he directs us to squeeze it out, or to dissolve it with oil or vinegar. When coldness of the body, occasioned whether by the temperature of the air, or the nature of the disease, prevents the flow of blood, he recom- mends fomentations and frictions. When a piece of fat or flesh blocks up the opening of the vein, he says there is no remedy for it but to cut it out or push it aside. When the ob- ject is to produce a sudden depletion he directs us to make a large incision in the vein, but a small one when it is intended to procure reAoilsion. According to Drs. Freind and Milward, Alexander Trallian is the first authority who recommends bleeding by opening the jugulars. As far'as we know this statement is correct. Aetius's account of this subject is similar to oui- author's, but less copious, (iii, 10.) Actuarius in like manner has many judicious remarks on venesection, which our hmits prevent us from giving to the reader. lie forbids venesection when any natural secretion is increased, and this is in general a very proper rule, although, as Galen and Avicenna remark, profuse sweatings are some- times remedied by bleeding. Bloodletting, he says, is contra- indicated by crudities in the stomach, and a loose state of the bowels. (Meth.Med. iii, 1.) Little additional information is to be gleaned from the Arabians. We have mentioned, however, that Averrhoes and Avenzoar approved of venesection at a later and earlier period of life than the Greeks permitted it. , . f Avicenna with his customary accuracy collects everythmg ot importance which had previously been written on the subject,SECT. LX.] VENESECTION. 323 but makes hardly any addition to the ancient stock of infor- Comm. mation. We can scarcely venture upon an abstract of his im-" " ' portant chapter on phlebotomy. We may just mention that as a general rule he approves of bleeding after any accident. He disapproves of bleeding both at the onset and the crisis of a disease. In constitutions requiring bloodletting he holds that spring is the best season for it. Even in cases in which there is a deficiency of blood, but there is congestion in some partictdar part, he permits blood to be abstracted, in order to produce revulsion, the patient's strength being recrxiited after- wards by a nourishing diet. When the colour of the blood is dark, and it is thick in consistence, a larger amount is to be abstracted than when it is thin and of a light coloiir. He makes the important remark, that bleeding sometimes kindles up a fever. He forbids the bath immediately before the operation, and food or exercise immediately afterwards. Wlien a piece of fat obstructs thd flow of blood, he directs that it should be gently pushed aiside, but not cut out. (i, 4, 20.) No author, ancient or modern, has described the modes of performing venesection in all parts of the body more accurately than Albucasis. Bleeding from the jugular vein he describes in much the same way that it is now practised by veterinary surgeons, namely, by placing a sort of scalpel, bent at the point, ■ which he calls fossorium, upon the vein, and striking the instru- ment with a hammer, or some such body. He gives drawings of variously-shaped lancets for opening the veins of the arm. (Chirurg. ii, 97.) The reader is also referred to Haly Abbas for a copious ac- count of the operation, and the circumstances under which it may be performed. It is contra-indicated, he says, when the bowels are loaded with vitiated faeces. He allows it to be per- formed even after seventy years of age, provided the patient be of a vigorous constitution. (Pract. ix, 3.) Rhases, with admirable judgment, condenses all the informa- tion supplied by preceding authorities, and mixes it up with his own personal observations. He forbids us to give food imme- diately after bleeding, as the empty veins will absorb the chyle before it is properly digested, which will prove a pabulum of disease. For the same reason, he, like the others, forbids bleed- ing when the stomach is loaded with crudities, lest they should324 CUPPING. [book VI, be absorbed, and carried over the system. In retention of the menses he directs us to open the saphena, or to apply a cupping instrument to the ankle. When the disease is an acute attack of inflammation, he recommends us to abstract blood fully from an opposite part, so as to procure revulsion; but when it is a chronic aff'ection, he advises to take it from the part afi'ected. (Contin. xxviii.) He enjoins, as a prudent precaution in bleeding a person who is intoxicated, to apply two bandages about the arm, and to have proper attendants to restrain the bleeding, which is often difiicult to stop in such cases. (Ad Manser, vii, 21.) The veterinary surgeons practised bleeding freely in the treat- ment of the diseases of cattle. Vegetius, the great authority on this subject, mentions that many persons bled their cattle every year, in the spring. He adds, however, that the ancient and more prudent authorities disapproved of indiscriminate depletion. (Mulom. i^ 22.) SECT. XLI. ON CUPPING. We must not have recourse to cupping at the commence- ment of complaints, nor when the body is in a plethoric state, but when the general system has been evacuated, and when there is no defluxion any longer to the part, and especially when there is a necessity of removing, dislodging, and deter- mining something outwardly. Dry cupping then dissipates flatulence, stops defluxions to the stomach, attracts blood to a part, and stops it again, when determined to a part, if applied to the opposite parts; and it also occasions a translation from the deep-seated parts to the surface, and on the whole produces a metasta-sis of the fluids, and an evacuation of the spirits. But cupping with scarifications faciUtates the evacuation of the off'ending causes, which it manifestly brings from the deep- seated parts; for it produces the discharge not only of blood but of the other humours, and especially if applied with much heat. And if we wish to make the abstraction fe'om parts that are fleshy, we must first scarify and then apply the cupping instrument; but if the part is not fleshy, "we must first have recourse to dry cupping, and when the parts becomes swelledCUPPING. SECT. XLI.] 325 up, we scarify and apply the cupping instrument again. If we wish to make but a small evacuation we must be satisfied with one incision, but if we wish much we must make several. And if we apprehend that the contained blood is of a thinner con- sistence we will make superficial scarifications, but if of a thicker, deep-seated. When we wish to evacuate coagulated blood, occasioned by a blow, we must be regulated as to the depth of the incisions by the thickness of the skin above. Some have devised an instrument for this purpose, by joining three equal lancets together, so that by one application it may pro- duce three incisions, but we consider it inconvenient, and use a simple lancet. Others have used cupping instruments of glass, in order that the quantity of blood which is evacuated may be seen; but those made of copper have a more powerful attraction, as being able to endure a stronger fire, whereas those of glass are apt to break. But such as draw out the blood by sucking with the mouth through horns, evacuate less, but do not dry, like those applied with fire. [f necessary, when we are about to apply the cupping instrument, having placed the limb in an erect posture, we fasten it to the side; for if we apply the lamp above when lying, the wick falling upon the skin with the flame burns in a painful manner, whereas there is no necessity for this. Sometimes the size of the instrument is proportioned to the part on Avhich it is applied; and on that account there is a great variety of cup- ping instruments with regard to smallness and greatness of size. For the same reason, those which are made with longer necks and broader bellies are possessed of a stronger power of attraction. We must avoid applying the cupping instrument near the breasts, for sometimes they fall into it, and swelling greatly, render the removal difficult, and in that case sponges out of hot water are to be applied round the cupping instru- ment, which make it relax. But if even with this it do not fall off we must perforate it. Commentary. On this mode of abstracting blood, and of Com altering its determination, the records of ancient surgery are ^ so full of information that our only difficulty lies in selection. It appears that the father of medicine and his successors practised cupping. (De Articulis, 49, and de Medico, 6.)CUPPING. [book VI. 326 Comm. Celsus mentions two kinds of cupping instruments^ the one ' • ' being made of horn, and the other of copper. Those of copper were open at one end and shut at the other. Those of horn had a larger opening at one end and a smaller at the other. A piece of cloth was set on fire and thrown into the copper one, and its mouth was then fitted to the body and pressed on until it fast- ened. In applying the one made of horn, the air was exhausted by sucking at the smaller end, which was then covered up with wax, and in this state it would fasten to the part. He remarks that when the part to which the instrument is applied had been previously scarified, blood is discharged, but otherwise nothing but spirits. He states that the principal use of the cupping instrument is to remove any local affection when the general constitution is sound. Upon the whole, he considers it to be a safer but less efficacious remedy than venesection. Cupping, he adds, is to be had recourse to in chronic diseases, in order to remove any corrupted matter which may be seated in a part; and in acute, when the strength will not aUow of venesection. According to Galen, cupping is useful after evacuation, but does not answer when there is plethora.. In inflammation of the braia and its membranes, therefore, he forbids cupping at the commencement, and also in inflammation of other parts, until the defluxion is stopped and the general system has been evacuated; and states that the object of cupping in such dis- eases is to move and determine the inflammatory particles out- wards. In general, he advises us not to apply the instrument to the part affected, but to the adjacent part, with the view of producing revulsion, de hirud. revuls. cumrb., &c. He like- wise gives an interesting account of leeches. He recommends their tails to be clipped off when it is wished to abstract much blood by means of a few leeches. (Ibid.) Oribasius is the ancient author who discusses this subject at the greatest length, and to him Paulus is principally indebted. He mentions that cupping instruments are made of glass, horn, or copper Those of silver, he says, are to be rejected; those of copper are in most general use ; those of glass answer best when we wish to see the quantity of blood that flows into the instrument; and those of horn are to be applied to the head because copper ones are difficult to remove ; and besides, tmnd327 CUPPING. SECT. XLI.] persons are afraid of the flame in such cases. Those which are Comm. made deep attract more strongly than such as are shallow; in-' * ' struments of the latter description are to be applied to the head. Before using them he recommends us to warm the part viith fomentations and cataplasms. Upon the authority of Herodotus he enumerates the beneficial effects which may be derived from cupping; such as evacuating the matters fixed in the part, diminishing inflammation, recalling the appetite, strengthening the stomach, determining to the surface, provok- ing menstruation, and so forth. (Med. Coll. vii.) Aetius gives a similar but less copious account of this sub- ject, (iii.) Actuarius forbids us to apply cupping instruments until after general evacuation, when, he says, they will be useful by pro- ducing revulsion of the noxious humours. He also approves of cupping for strengthening the stomach when it has lost its tone, and to discuss flatulence in the bowels. (Meth. Med. iii, 4.) Albucasis gives a most circumstantial and interesting account of the methods of cupping every part of the body. He parti- cularly recommends cupping the nape of the neck in affections of the brain and eyes. He gives a full account of dry cupping. He recommends it to be applied when the disease is seated in places which do not bear cupping with scarifications, such as the region of the liver and spleen, the kidneys, the bowels, and the joints affected with gout. In applying the instrument he directs us either to create a flame in it, or to fill it with hot water. He gives drawings of various instruments for cupping. (Chiriu'g. ii, 98.) He also treats fully of leeching, which, however, he recommends only in cases in which the cupping instrument cannot be applied. When the bleeding continues longer than is desired, he directs a piece of cloth soaked in cold water to be apphed to the place, or if that does not prove effectual, styptics, such as galls, beans without their skins, and the Hke. When the leeches will not take, the place is to be smeared with fresh blood. When it is desired to make them drop off, poAvdered aloes, salts, or ashes are to be sprinkled upon them, (ii. 99.) Haly Abbas gives an ample enumeration of the cases in which cupping is applicable. He recommends it particularly in such cases as do not admit of general bleeding, for ophthal-BURNING THE ARMPIT. 328 [book VI. Comm. mies, cynanche, and in an especial manner for amenorrlioeaj " * ' when it is applied to the breasts. The other Arabians, although some of them treat fully of this subject, especially Avicenna and Rhases, yet give little ad- ditional information. Rhases speaks of applying a glass or a cupping instrument to draw oflP the blood after leeching. He gives a full account of the diflferent kinds of leeches. Before applying them, some, he says, smear the part with blood and some with milk. When they are too long of falling off he directs us to sprinkle salt upon their mouths. He recommends them to be kept in a vessel containing water herbs. (Cent. xx-\dii.) When it is wished to abstract more blood after the leeches have fallen off, Albucasis directs us to foment the part with hot water, to rub it, and apply a cupping instrument to it. When, on the contrary, it is wished to stop the discharge, AAdcenna recommends us to apply galls, lime, or other astrin- gents, to the part. For this purpose Albucasis likewise directs us to apply a mass of beans deprived of their skins. SECT. Xm. ON BUllNING THE AKMPIT. In dislocation at the joint of the shoulder, it sometimes hap- pens that the head of the arm falls out over and over again, either from the prevalence of too much humidity, or because the way is paved to it by its frequent occurrence. In this case then we have recourse to burning. Wherefore, the patient being laid on his back, or on the sound side, the skin at the inner part of the armpit, where the dislocation mostly takes place, is to be stretched between two fingers of the left hand, or with hooks, and burnt with heated cauteries, of a slender and oblong shape, uutil the cautery, being pushed through to the other side, occasion the formation of two eschars at one application. Aijxi if the distance between them is considerable, having passed the head of a specillum through them, we make another eschar in the middle by burning down until the cau- tery reach the specillum. And Hippocrates wishes two other eschars to be formed on each side of the middle one at the same distance as they, so as to form a quadrangular figure. We must not burn deeper than the skin, because nerves, glands, and otherPRETERNATURAL FINGERS. 329 SECT. XLIII.] substances, which may give rise to inflammation and dis- turbance, lie below. The treatment may be conducted by means of leeks applied with pounded saltSj and the rest of the treatment of eschars. Afterwards we may use the hand cautiously. Commentary. Hippocrates (as stated by our author) re- Comm. commends this operation for preventing the recurrence of dis- '—•—' location at the shoulder-joint: it is minutely described by him. (De Artie, xi.) Albucasis describes the operation, but it will be readily understood from our author's account of it. (Chirurg. i. 27.) It is described in like manner by Haly Abbas. (Pract. ix. 73.) SECT. XLIII. ON PRETERNATURAL FINGERS, AND ON PERSONS HAVING SIX FINGERS. Preternatural fingers are formed in the hand sometimes near the thumbs, and sometimes near the little finger, but rarely beside any of the others. Of preternatural fingers, some are wholly fleshy, and others have bones in them, and sometimes they have likewise nails. Of those having bones, some derive their origin from a joint, having a common articu- lation with some other finger; and some arise from the phalanx, and these have no motion. The others sometimes have motion. Now the excision of those which are fleshy is easy, for we cut with a scalpel the preternatural finger all through. But on those which have their origin from a joint the attempt is more difiBcult. Of those which arise from the phalanx we must first cut away the flesh all around to the bone, and as to the bone itself we either chop it through with a chisel, or remove it by saAving; and in the treatment we scrape and cicatrize them as mentioned by us with regard to the wounds of bones. Commentary. Gaien (de Dift'. Morb. 4,) and Avicenna Comm. (Cant, i, 2,) allude to the preternatural growth of fingers, Haly Abbas describes the operation in the same terms as our author. (Pract. ix, 39.) llhascs repeats our author's de-EMPYEMA. 330 [book VI. Comm. scription of tlae metiiod of treatment^ and also mentions that of " * ' Antyllus, which, however, is little or nothing different from our author's. Thus, he directs us first to make an incision of the soft parts down to the hone, which is to he sawn across; the skin is then to he united, and the part treated with agglu- tinants. "When the supernumerary finger grows from a joint he directs us to make the separation cautiously; and if it grows between two fingers, or contains a bone, he forbids it to be amputated, (Cont. xxiv.) Albucasis's account of preternatural fingers is e\idetitly taken from our author. (Chirurg. ii, 91.) When there is a preternatural adhesion of two fingers to one another, he du'ects us to divide it with a scalpel, and introduce a pledget wetted in the oil of roses, or a thin plate of lead between them, until the parts heal. (Ibid.) , SECT. XLIV. ON THE OPERATION OF BURNING FOR EMPYEMA. The most effectual remedy which has been discovered for empyema is burning. Wherefore, the parts are to be bmnit by applying the root of the long birthwort soaked in oil, so as to form eschars, one of which we must make between the junction of the clavicles, having stretched the skin upwards; and two small ones a little distance from the chin and remote from the carotids; two of considerable size below the mammae, between the third and fourth ribs; two others between the fifth and sixth, inclining a little backwards; another at the middle of the sternum, and another above the mouth of the stomach, and three behind, one at the middle of the back, and two on each side of the spine, higher up than the eschar in the back, and not very superficial. Others, as Leonidas says, having passed a knobbed cautery, heated in the fire, through the interstice between the ribs to the absQpss, have carried the burning down to the pus. Some have dared to operate upon them by making a transverse incision, or one a httle obliquely in the skin, between the fifth and sixth ribs, then perforating with a knife the membrane Hning the ribs, and thus evacuating the pus; but they and those who burn with iron to a considerable depth either occasion immediate death,331 EMPYEMA. SECT. XLIV.] tlie vital spirit being evacuated with the pus^ or occasion in- curable fistulae. Commentary, Galen mentions the operation of burning Comm. the chest for phthisis. (De Morb. Vulg.) ' ' ' In phthisical complaints, which do not yield to ordinary treatment, Celsus recommends the cautery to be applied in this manner : One eschar is to be burnt with a redhot iron under the chin, another on the throat, two upon each breast, and two imder the scapulae. They are to be kept open until the cough is removed, (iii, 23.) Aetius directs us to burn the chest and neck much in the same manner as recommended by our author, (viii, 73.) This operation is described by Albucasis, who gives a draw- ing of an instrument for performing it expeditiously. (Chirurg. i, 26.) See also Rhases (Cont. ix.) Haly Abbas recommends such an operation as that described by Celsus and our author. He directs us to do it, not with iron, but with the root of the long birthwort smeared with oil. (Pract. is, 74.) The use of the root of the birthwort (aristo- lochia) as a cautery is also mentioned by Aetius. (xii, 3.) Cor- narius, by the way, seems not to have been aware of this cir- cumstance, which has led him into a mistake in translating the sentence where it is mentioned. The practice of burning the chest in chronic diseases of the lungs is strongly advocated by Caillot. (Elemens de Phy- siologic, i.) It was tried by Dr. Mudge in his own person with great success. (See Dr. M. Good's ' Study of Medicine,' ii, 786.) Our author, it will be remarked, disapproves of paracentesis thoracis. This operation is recommended and described in one of the Hippocratic treatises. (De Morbis, i, and ii.) It is also mentioned in the ' Isagoge' of Galen. Rhases likewise mentions it in brief terms. (Cont. iv, 3, and x.) Rhases directs us to open the chest by a small orifice, that the matter may be slowly evacuated. He mentions that Galen recom- mends burning the chest, and also the operation of paracen- tesis in such cases.[nooK VI. 332 CANCER. SECT. XLV. ON CANCER. • Cancer is an uneven swelling, rough, unseemlj'-, darkish, painful, and sometimes without ulceration (which Hippocrates called also concealed cancer), and if operated upon, it becomes worse, and sometimes with ulceration, for it derives its origin from black bile, and spreads by erosion; forming in most parts of the body, but more especially in the female uterus and breasts. It has the veins stretched on all sides as the animal the crab (cancer) has its feet, whence it derives its name. Wherefore, the treatment of it by medicine has been suffici- ently delivered by us in the Fourth Book; and cancer of the womb has been treated of in the Third. But since putrid parts and such as are simply altered from theii' natural state require amputation, cancers in the womb, indeed, it is neither possible nor expedient to operate upon; but of those of the external parts, and especially of the breasts, we have now to explain the surgical treatment. Some, then, have consumed' the whole redundant matter by cauteries; but others first make an excision of the whole breast, and then burn the place. But Galen approves only of the excision, writing thus of the oper- ation : " If ever you attempt to cure cancer by an operation, begin your evacuations by purging the melancholic humom-, and having cut away the whole affected part, so that not a root of it be left, permit the blood to be discharged, and do not speedily restrain it, but squeeze the surrounding Veins so as to force out the thick part of the blood, and then cure the wound like other ulcers.^^ Such are the words of Galen. And other mahgnant and "putrid ulcers, such as phagedena, gangrene, and the like, must be treated in the same manner. Comm. Commentaby. Hippocratcs forbids the surgeon from inter- ^""^ ' fering with occult cancers, that is to say, with such as have not ulcerated, remarking that if healed the patient soon dies, whereas, if let alone, he may live a long time. (Apli. vi, 38.) Upon this his commentator, Theophilus, remarks that even if the disease is eradicated by cutting or burning, many untoAvard symptoms follow, and the strength of the patient does not stand out. (Ed. Dietz. ii, 506.)CANCER. 333 ^ECT, XLV.] Celsus describes, we fear but too truly, the general result Comm. of every known method of treating cancer. He says, some '—"—' use coiTOsive applications, some burning irons, and others ut it out with the scalpel; but medicines are of no avail, )urning only exasperates the disease, and excision only re- moves the part affected, for the disease immediately returns. V, 28.) Galenas sentiments are partly explained by our author. He -tates, that the disease is curable only at its commencement. U hen it has attained any considerable magnitude, he says, it admits of no remedy without a surgical operation; and when lie tumour is cut out all around there is danger of hemorrhage, >vhich, if restrained by ligatures, may give rise to the disease u the neighbouring parts, whereas, if cauteries be used to omn the roots of the vessels no inconsiderable danger may ■esult from their appHcation so near to the vital parts. Therap. ad Glauc. ii; Meth. Med. xiv ; (Isagoge.) Aetius gives from Leonidas the following description of the )peration on cancerous mammae. Laying the patient in a upine position, he says, I make an incision into the mammee ibove the cancer, and immediately apply a cautery until an ■schar be produced to stop the bleeding. I then make another acision deep into the substance of the mamma, and again im-n the parts, and so proceed—first cutting and then bum- iig alternately, in order to restrain the bleeding. In this way liere is no danger of hemorrhage. After the amputation is ompleted I again burn the parts until they are quite dry. 'he first burnings are for the sake of the bleedings, and the ist with the intention of eradicating the disease, (xvi, 45.) 'his operation, described in nearly the same words, occurs in L)ranus. (61.) He says, when the disease is scrofulous the liming may be omitted. (Ibid.) Avicenna mentions that after the excision of a cancerous art the actual cautery may be required. And yet, he adds, liere may be danger from the burning provided the part ffected be near any vital organ, (iv, 3, 3.) Rhases says, that they who make an incision into a cance- ls part merely produce ulceration thereof, unless it be so atcd tliat the disease can be completely removed and the ifts afterwards burned. (Ad Mansor. vii, 9.) In another334 [book VI. MALE BREASTS. Comm. work he expresses himself rather favorably of excision and " * ' burning. (Contin. xiii.) Haly Abbas approves of the operation when the cancer is seated in the mammse or extremities. He recommends us to allow the part to bleed until all the melancholic humour is evacuated, and says nothing of the cautery or ligatui-e. (Pract. ix, 12.) Albucasis says that he never saw a case of cancer cured unless the tumour was small and recently formed. He directs us, when the operation is attempted, to cut out the tumour by the roots, and if the hemorrhage from any vein be profuse to stop it by the cautery. (Chirurg. ii, 53.) Serapion expresses himself rather diflfidently of excision, (v, 24.) Soranus gives a full account of scirrhous breast distinct from the cancerous. He states that when the whole breast is scirrhous and adlieres to the chest, the excision of the sound parts from the diseased ought not to be attempted; but when only the extremity of the breast, or only the half of it is hardened, he approves of amputation without burning, there being no danger of bleeding in this case as in cancer. (66.) SECT. XLVI. ON MALE BREASTS KESEMBLING THE FEMALE. As at the season of puberty the breasts of females swell up, so in like manner those of the males also swell to a certain extent; but for the most part they subside again. In some cases, however, having acquired a beginning they go on in- creasing, owing to the formation of fat below. Wherefore, as this deformity has the reproach of effeminacy, it is proper to operate iipon it. Having, therefore, made a lunated incision below the breast, and dissected away the skin, we unite the parts by sutures. But if, as in women, the breast incline downward, owing perhaps to its magnitude, we make in it two lunated incisions, meeting together at the extremities, so that the smaller may be comprehended by the larger, and dissecting away the intermediate skin, and removing the fat, we use sutures in like manner. But if; through mistake, we should cut away too little, we must again remove what is redundant, and apply the remedies for fresh wounds.335 SECT. XLvii.] BURNING OVER THE LIVER. Commentary. The description given by Albucasis is so Comm. like oui' author^s that there can be no doubt of its being ' ' ' borrowed from him. When there is a great redundance of fat and flesh, he dii'ects us to make two lunated incisions, the larger comprehending the smaller, and having dissected away the intermediate skin to unite the edges by sutures. (Chirurg. ii, 47.) Haly Abbas repeats the same description in almost the same words. (Pract. ix, 40.) E-hases recommends the operation upon the authority of Antyllus and our author. (Contin. xiv.) SECT. XLVII. ON BURNING OVER THE LIVER. If the pain be attended with weight in those who have abscess in the liver, it is an indication that the fleshy part of the liver is affected; but if the pain be acute the matter is rather in the coats, and "we must burn the part thus :—Having strongly heated slender, knobbed cauteries, we apply them a little above the loins at the extremity of the liver, making an eschar. But having burnt the whole skin and reached the coat we must evacuate the pus : after the discharge of which, having used lentils and honey, with the applications from honied water, and things of an incarnative nature, we have afterwards recoiirse to epulotics. Commentary. In cases of hepatitis, which do not yield to Comm. the usual remedies, the author of one of the Hippocratic' ' ' treatises advises us to burn the side with spindles of boxwood dipped in oil, or with fungi. (De Morbis Internis.) Aretseus directs us to open abscesses of the liver with red-hot irons. (Morb. Chron. i, 13.) Celsus mentions that some open abscesses of the liver with a scalpel, and some burn the vomica, (iv, 8.) Cselius Aurelianus, however, disapproves of this practice. (Pass. Tard. iii, 4.) Albucasis describes the operation like our author, and gives a drawing of a spear-shaped instrunient for opening the vomica. (Chirurg. ii, 30.) Haly's description is quite similar. (Pract. ix, 75.)336 BURNING OVER THE STOMACH. [book vi. SECT. XLVIIl. ON BURNING OVER THE SPLEEN, Having stretclied the skin wliicli lies over tlie spleen with liooksj we burn it through by one application of a long ignited cautery so as to form two eschars; and this we do three times so that there may be six eschars formed altogether. But Marcellus by using a trident or trident-shaped cautery formed six eschars at one application. Comm. COMMENTARY. In cases of diseased spleen the Coan surgeons " ' ' burned eschars on the side affected. (Hippocr. de Affect, intern. and de Affect. 5.) Aetius directs us to burn the eschar either with the actual cautery or with caustics, (x, 12.) The ancients used an issue paste, very like the modern, prepared from potass. See above (s. 9.) Avicenna recommends the same practice as the Greeks (iii, 15, 1); and so in like manner Haly Abbas (Pract. ix, 76); Albucasis (Chii'urg. i, 33); and Rhases (Contin. xx.) Guido de Cauliaco repeats Albucasis's description of the process of burning the side in cases of scirrhous spleen, (ii, 2.) XLIX. ON BURNING OVER THE STOMACH. In chronic defluxions of the stomach the modems have re- course to burning,—some with knobbed cauteries, forming three eschars, one at the ensiform cartilage, and the other two below, so as to make a triangle, the depth of the burning being the thickness of the skin. Some form only one large eschar at the mouth of the stomach. But others do not bm-n with ii'on but with the substances called iscse. The iscse are spongy bodies forming on oaks and walnuts, being mostly in use with the barbarians. They allow the ulcers to remain for some time without cicatrizing, and rather stimulate them in order that by the great diaphoresis thereby occasioned, the mouth of the stomach may be freed from the defluxions. Comm. COMMENTARY. Hippocrates, Galen, and Celsus say nothingSECT. L.] DROPSIES. 337 about burning over the stomach in afFections of it. Aetius's Com account is similai* to our author's. He calls tlie iscae the '—^ medullaiy part of the wood of walnuts, (vii, 91.) They are mentioned likewise by Haly Abbas, who says they are called ducamwi in the Persian language. (Pract. ix, 77.) Albucasis directs us to burn with iron. (Chirurg. i, 28.) SECT. L. ON DROPSIES. The formation of dropsical swellings, their varieties and causes, how they are to be distinguished from one another, and their treatment by medicine, having been explained in the Third Book, and it having been there shown that ascites alone falls under the province of surgery, we are now going to give an account of it. Wberefore we must make tbe patient stand erect; or if that cannot be done, we must cause him to be seated; or if h.e be so weak that this cannot be done, we must abandon the operation entirely. If then the man be standing erect we give orders to the assistants standing behind to press with their hands and push downwards the swelling to the pubes. Then taking a sharp-pointed knife or lancet, if the' dropsy is among the intestines, in the perpendicular line of the navel, and about three fingers^ breadth distance from it we divide the hypogas- tiium as far as the peritoneum. But if the liver be primarily affected we must make our incision on the left side of the navel; or if the spleen, on the right, for we must not make an in- cision in that part on which the patient is disposed to lie. And having dissected with the point of the instrument the skin that lies over it, we divide the peritoneum a little above the first in- cision until the insti-ument comes to an empty space. After tliis we introduce through the incision of the abdomen and pe- ritoneum a copper tube, having an opening like those of writing- pens, and by this we must abstract the fluid in proportion to the strength; fcehng the pulse, and then removing the tube, Nve stop the flow of the fluid, (for it will stop immediately from the alteration of the incision,) and, for the sake of security, we introduce a twisted tent into the incision of the abdominal pa- l ietes alone; and having placed the man in a recumbent posture and recruited him, we may next day again evacuate through the338 DROPSIES. [book VI. tube a small quantity of fluid proportionate to his strength; and thus, in like manner, until very little be left, avoiding, by all means, a sudden evacuation. For some ignorant persons ha^dng evacuated the vital spirit with the fluid have immediately killed the patient. Some for the sake of greater security ha^dng evacuated a small quantity of the fluid by the operation so as to relieve the powers of the system from its great load, procure the discharge of the remainder by hydragogue medicines, by burying the patient in heated sand, by insolation, abstinence from liquids, giving desiccative food; and they have recourse likewise to burning over the stomach, liver, spleen, and hypo- gastrium ; and make five eschars about the navel, some by slender cauteries of iron, and others by those substances called iscae, or some other such like material. And many have been rather cured by this method alone, sometimes without paracentesis having been had recourse to at all. Comm. COMMENTARY. Hippocratcs declares in one of his Aphorisms, ' ' ' that the sudden evacuation of the matter in empyema, or of the water in dropsy, proves fatal. He speaks of evacuating the fluid with an instrument called rpuTrai'rpw-yXnrjj'piov, which Camper thinks must have been a kind of trochar. Galen, in his Commentary on the Aphorisms of Hippocrates, (vi, 7) remarks, that in his time the operation of paracentesis was in general use, instead of burning. He states, however, that he had seldom seen recovery take place after the operation. (See in particular Meth. Med. xiv.) Aristotle alludes to paracentesis near the conclusion of his work on the ' Generation of Animals.' Cjelius Aurelianus mentions that Erasistratus, Evenor, and Thessalus were advocates for paracentesis, but that Asclepiades, Themison, and Soranus disapproved of it. He himself approves very much of the operation, and answers all the objections which had been made to it. He says, it relieves the fulness and difficulty of breathing, and prepares the parts for the action of the remedies. He agrees, however, with the other autho- rities, that a sudden evacuation of the water is attended with danger. (Pass. Tard. iii, 8.) Celsus gives a good description of the operation. Some, he says, perform it at a spot four fingers' breadth below the navelSECT. L.] DROPSIES. 339 in the left side; some do it at tlie navel; and some bm-n the Comm. skin and then perforate the abdominal parietes. He directs '—'—' the operator to be careful not to wound a vessel. The size of the point of the perforator, he says, should be the third part of a finger's breadth. After the perforation has been made, a tube (canula) of lead or copper is to be introduced and the water drawn oflP gradually. The whole is not to be removed at one time, but a tent is to be introduced into the opening, unless it was made with fire, to prevent it from healing too soon. He speaks faA^orably of the operation, unless the patient be much debilitated, (vii, 15; also ii, 10.) Aetitis and most of the medical authors subsequent to Galen, mention the operation of pai-acentesis, and approve of it. Vegetius, the veterinary surgeon, recommends paracentesis for the dropsy of cattle, when the swelling is not removed by purging. (Mulom. iii, 25.) Avicenna expresses himself rather unfavorably of paracentesis. He says, it ought never to be attempted until every other re- medy has proved ineffectual, and unless the strength of the patient be good, and he can endure exercise, abstinence from drink, and restricted diet. His description of the operation is taken from Paulus, (iii, 14; iv, 13.) Serapion mentions the operation in very brief terms, (iv, 7.) Albucasis's description is very minute; but, upon the whole, little different from our author's as to the place of the incision or the instruments with which it is to be performed. After the perforation has been made in the manner directed by our author, he recommends the introduction of a canula made of silver, copper, or brass, and having a small hole at the bottom and three in its sides; he advises us to evacuate only half the water at first. He adds, that when the canula is removed the skm will cover the opening in the abdominal muscles, and thereby stop the discharge. The remaining part of the water IS to be removed afterwards, according to the strength of the latient. (Chirurg. ii, 54.) Haly Abbas does not in general approve of the operation, [le mentions, that he never saw it performed but once, and then t did not save the patient. He adds, that Galen relates that le only knew of one case in which it had proved successful, le directs the incision to be made three fingers' breadth, straight[book VI. EXOMPHALOS. 340 below tlie navel, that is to say, in the liiiea alba; but if the liver is diseased he recommends it to be made in the left side, or if the spleen, in the right. (Pract. ix, 41. Ehases gives Antyllus's description of the operation, which, however, is scarcely at all different from that of our author. He directs us to mal^e the assistants stand behind and compress the sides of the abdomen, and, if possible, recommends to make the patient sit on a bench. He directs us to make the incision with a large needle below the navel, when the collection is con- nected with disease of the intestines ; but if from the liver, on the left side; or if from the spleen, oh the right. Like the other authorities noticed above, he directs us to make the opening of the peritoneum higher up than that of the skin. A canula, made of copper, is then to be introduced into the open- ing. If the pulse sink during the operation he advises us to stop the discharge of'the water. (Cont. xix.) We have mentioned in our notes on Book Third, section 48, that Hippocrates and Aetius approved of scarifications at the ankles. It appears that Archigenes also was an advocate for this practice in dropsical cases. Dropsy of the womb and hydatids thereof are correctly de- scribed by Soranus. It seems to be now agreed that the di-opsy in this case is a species of large hydatid. (120.) SECT. LI. ON EXOMPHALOS, OR PROLAPSUS OF THE NAVEL. Protrusion of the navel takes place when the peritoneum there is ruptured and prolapsed; or from the omentum, intestine, and sometimes an inert fluid falling down upon the navel, some- times from hypertrophy of the flesh, and sometimes from a col- lection of blood there, i^roceeding from the rupture of a vein or artery, as in aneurisms; and sometimes the collection consists not of blood, but of spirits only. If, then, the omentiim be protruded, there appears a swelling at the navel, which is free from discoloration, soft to the touch, without pain, and uneven; but if it is intestine in addition to the afore-mentioned symptoms, there is greater inequality,—the tumour, when pressed by the fingers, disappears, sometimes with borborygmi; and it is increased by baths and straining. If its contents be a fluia,EXOMPHALOS. SECT. LI.] 341 the tumour is equally soft, uot jdelding to pressure, and is neither dimiiiislicd nor increased by it. If it consist of blood, in ad- dition to the afore-meutioned symptoms, the swelling is more livid; but if it arise from hypertrophy of flesh, the tumour will he harder, elastic, and will continue of the same size. Those occa- sioned by flatulence are attended with softness, a certain sound when tapped, and disappearance upon pressure. We must operate then in this manner. Having placed the man in an erect posture, we order him to press down at the same time that he retains his breath; then, having marked the whole promi- nence of the navel with black ink, we are to lay him on his back, and dissect around the tumour "vvith a scalpel, agreeably to the marking; then, stretching the middle with a hook, we must apply a thread or string around the part which is dissected, for thus it will be prevented from falling down, when secured with a knot. Then, at the top, having opened the constricted tumotu", we must introduce the index-finger, and search carefully lest any fold of the intestine, or part of the omentum, be included in the ligature; and if intestine be included, we must loosen the fold of the thread, and push it inwards, but if it is omentum we may draw it out, and cut off what is redundant of it, securing, as is proper, with a thread, any vessel that may come in the way; and then taking two needles, containing a plain thread, we pass them through the scarified part in the form of the Greek letter X, and cutting the doubles of the threads, as we mentioned for aneimsm, we make constriction with the four heads. After the bodies secured by the ligatures have become putrid and dropped off, we complete the cure by dressing the part with pledgets, and strive to make the cicatrix particularly hollow. Such is the operation when the part concerned is the intestine or omentum. But if flesh, or fluid, or blood occasions the com- plaint, having divided the middle of the tumour circularly, and then removed whatever lies external to the peritoneum at the navel, we perform the cure by incarnative applications. But exomphalos arising from aneurism, or the presence of flatus, we must abandon as hopeless, like other cases of aneurism. Commentary. Celsus gives an interesting abstract of the C ancient opinions upon this subject, but as it differs but little from our author's description, wc shall not dwell very particularly[book VI. 342 GASTRORAPIIE. Comm. npon it. He directs us to cure the disease either by passing ' * ' through the tumour a needle armed with two threads, in the manner described for staphyloma, or to produce mortification of the part by pressure between two rules. Some, he says, first make an incision in the tumour, so as to be enabled to remove with the greater facility whatever is protruded, but this he thinks unnecessary, as it will be sufficient merely to return the pro- lapsed substance, and apply a ligature round its base; after which the outer part is to be destroyed by medicines or the cautery. This operation, he adds, will be sufficient, whether the contents of the hernial tumour be intestine, omentum, or water. He intimates, however, that the operation is attended with some danger, and that it is only to be performed between the ages of seven and fourteen, and when the body is in a healthy state. He forbids to interfere with scirrhous tumours, (vii, 14.) The description of the operation given by Albucasis is very minute, but is to the same effect as our author's. (Chii'urg. ii, 52.) Ehases, in like manner, recommends us to pass a needle, armed with two threads, through the tumour, and to secure it by a crucial knot. He, Avicenna, and Haly Abbas evidently copy our author's description. The operation with the ligature, as first described by Celsus, was revived, with very shght modifications, by the celebrated Desault, of Paris, but is now seldom practised. SECT. LII. ON WOUNDS OF THE PERITONEUM, AND ON FALLING DOWN OF THE INTESTINE OB, OMENTUM, WHERE GASTRORAPHB ALSO IS DESCRIBED : FROM THE WORKS OF GALEN. How wounds of the peritoneum are to be treated is next to be considered. If then the wound be small, so that the pro- lapsed intestine being distended with air, cannot be restored to its place, it will be necessary either to evacuate the flatus or enlarge the wound. The former measure is the better, pro- vided one can accomplish it. But how may this be most pro- bably done? By removing the cause which occasions the inflation of the intestine. But what is this ? Congelation of the surrounding air; so that the cure is to be performed by heating. Wherefore, having soaked a soft sponge in hotGASTRORAPHE. ^ECT. LIT.] 343 water, and then squeezed it out, foment the intestine there- with. In the meantime let hot austere wine be prepared, for it is more heating than water, and communicates strength to the intestine. If, after having had recourse to all these things, the intestine remain inflated, we must divide as much of the peritoneum as the prolapsed intestine requires. The straight instruments called syringotoma, used for operating upon fistulse, are very proper for this incision. A recumbent position of the patient is the best when the wound is in the lower part; and when in the right side, he may lie on the left, and when in the left, on the right; and this is common both to great and small wounds. But the replacement of the intestine into its proper place when the wound is large, requires a skilful assistant. For lie must take hold of the wound externally with his hands, and contract and compress it a little, so as to expose always a small portion to the sewer, and also must compress moderately what is sewed until the whole is sewed. What is the most proper mode of performing the operation called gastroraphe, we must uext explain. Since the abdomen must be united with the peritoneum, we have to begin by passing a needle through the kin from without inwards; but when it has transfixed the skin and the whole rectus muscle, passing by the adjacent perito- neum, we must push the needle from within through the other l)cirt of the peritoneum, and so hence from within outwards, through the rest of the abdomen ; and when it has passed out Ave must push the needle again from without inwards through this part of the abdomen, and, passing by the adjacent portion the peritoneum, and beginning again from the opposite side of this membrane, perforate it from within outwards, and at the ^ame time all the other parts of the abdomen; then beginning :rain from this, sew it with the opposite membrane, and after- A ards transmit it from the neighbouring skin outwards ; and do this repeatedly until the whole wound be sewed up. The pace between the sutures required to keep the under parts 1 ogether must be very small, but the interval between those required to keep the skin fi-om falling asunder need not be so small. Excess in either respects must be avoided, and a me- dium chosen between the two extremes. And a medium is likewise to be observed as to the consistence of the thread, for rliat which is too hard breaks the soft skin, and what is too344 [book VI. GASTR0RAPH15. soft is itself first broken. In the same manner, passing the needle too near the lips of the wound, occasions often a rupture of the remainder which is too narrow. But if too much is taken in, much of the skin remains ununited. These obser- vations apply to the treatment of all ulcers, but are more especially to be observed in gastroraphe; and, as aforesaid, we must act, forming a conjecture as to the adhesion of the peri- toneum with the abdomen, from the circumstance that the latter being membraneous seldom adheres ; or, as some do, by bringing together the parts of the same kind; that is to say, peritoneum to peritoneum, and abdomen to abdomen. Or, it may be done thus : in the same manner as above, we must pass a needle from the side of the abdomen nearest us, from without inwards, and through it above; then passing both lips of the perito- neum, we must again turn the needle from without inwards tlirough both lips of the peritoneimi, and again turning it from within outwards, pass it through the opposite part of the abdo- men. This mode differs from the common and vulgar one, inasmuch as the needle is passed through the four lips at one perforation, and exactly conceals the peritoneum within the abdomen. The proper applications are those formed of the same materials as the applications for recent wounds; but in order that no vital part may be affected sympathetically, some tender wool is to be dipped in moderately hot oil, and the whole space between the groins and ai'mpits wrapped in it. It will be better, also, to evacuate the bowels by a clyster of warm oil. But if any of the intestines be wounded, dai'k austere wine, iu a tepid state, should be injected, more especially if it be per- forated quite through. The large intestines are easily cured, but the small ones with difficulty, and the jejunum is utterly incurable, from the multitude of its convolutions and the mag- nitude of its vessels, and owing to its coats being thin and nervous; besides, it receives all the bile in an undiluted state, and is nearest to the liver. The under and fleshy parts of the stomach we may attempt to cure, for we may succeed, not only because these parts are thicker, but because curative medicines are more readily applied to them, owing to their situation. The parts, however, about the mouth of the stomach and oesophagus are affected by the medicines only in passiug down ; and the exquisite sensibiUty of the mouth of the stomach is au obstacleSECT. LII.] 345 GASTRORAPHfe. to the cure of wounds of it. When, from a rupture of the peritoneum, the omentum is prolapsed, and either becomes livid or black, the part anterior to the black portion may be included in a ligature, for fear of hemoiThage, and then the part behind the ligature is to be cut off, and the extremities of the ligature allowed to hang from the under part of the sewed wound of the abdomen, in order that they may readily escape when cast off by the suppuration of the wound. Commentary. The description of gastroraphe here given will Com be suflBciently intelligible upon an attentive perusal. It is taken ' ^ from Galen. (Meth. Med. vi, 4.) By abdomen, in this place, is to be understood the abdominal parietes, namely, the skin and muscles. Galen explains that sTnyaarpiov is used in this sense. Celsus gives a long description of a somewhat different method of performing gastroraphe. He uses two needles, (vii, 16.) Several modes of performing the operation are minutely de- scribed by Albucasis. He relates the history of a case in which he practised gastroraphe. (ii, 87.) Haly Abbas recommends the warm bath, to facilitate reduc- tion. The method of performing gastroraphe which he directs, is similar to the suture now practised upon dead bodies after dissections. (Pract. ix, 43.) Ehases describes various modes of gastroraphe. He speaks of performing the operation with the string of a harp. (Cont. xxviii.) That the strings of the ancient harp were made of the guts of a sheep is clearly proved from the following passage in the Odyssey of Homer : . b)Q OT dvrjp ipopn'iyyoQ iiriaTafiivoQ (cat doi5rjc pri'iS'iuiQ iravvaat v'tif) kni koWotti xopSs^v, dipag dfKpOTspui^cv IvarpeiplQ ivrtpov oibg. OStig- (p ' The modes of gastroraphe described by Galen and Celsus ai'e explained and commented upon by Van Swieten (Comment, cccxi), and by Fabricius ab Aquapendente. (Q5uv. Chir. ii, 53.) A complete history of the operation is given by Sprengel. (Hist, de la Med. xviii, 21.) Ambrose Pare performed the operation exactly like Galen.[book vr. 346 DEFICIENCY OF PREPUCE. SECT. LIII. ON DEFICIENCY OF THE PREPUCE. ■When there is a small deficiency in the skin of the penis, some, in order to repair the deformity, have attempted a double surgical operation; sometimes cutting the skin all round above at the commencement of the penis, in order that by this solu- tion of continuity the skin may be drawn downwards untU the glans (as it is called) be covered; and sometimes with a scalpel dissecting its inner siu'face from the root of the glans, and then drawing it downwards, and surrounding the glans with a soft ligature; but a piece of cloth must be interposed at the inci- sion, in order to prevent an adhesion of the prepuce to the glans. Antyllus approves most of this method, of which he gives a full description, but we have been content with a brief outline, because it is rare that this surgical operation is required, as the complaint neither occasions any defect of the functional office, nor such deformity that one would choose to submit to the hazard of an operation on account of it. Commentary. Celsus describes the operation as follows : " Cutis circa glandem prehenditur et extenditur, donee illam ipsam condat; ibique dehgatur : deinde, juxta pubem, in orbem tergus inciditur, donee coles nudatur; magnaque cura cavetur, ne vel urinse iter, vel venae quae ibi sunt, incidantur. Eo facto, cutis ad vinculum inclinatur, nudatiu'que circa pubem velut circulus; eoque hnamenta dantui', ut caro increscat, et id im- pleat: satisque velamenti supra latitude plagse praestat. Sed, donee cicatrix sit, cinctum esse id debet: in medio tantum re- licto exiguo urinse itinere.^' (vii, 35.) Rhases directs us to put a proper piece of lead upon the glans, then to draw the prepuce over it, and secure it with a ligature, having previously dissected it from the parts below, if necessary. (Cont. xiv.) This is much the same as our author^s operation for phimosis. See section Iv. The reader will find the ancient operation described by Fabricius ab Aquapendente. (CEuv. Chirurg. ii, 61.)PHIMOSIS. SECT. LV.] 347 SECT. LIV. ON HYPOSPADIiEUMj OR IMPERFORATE GLANS PENIS. In many children tlie glans is not perforated at birth, but the meatus is situated under the part called canis, at the ter- mination of the glans. Hence they can neither make water forwards unless they draw up the member to the pubes, nor procreate, as the semen cannot be injected direct into the uterus. In addition to these defects, the complaint occasions no ordinary deformity. "Wherefore, the simplest and least dangerous mode of operation is that by amputation. Having then placed the patient in a supine posture, we have to stretch the glans forcibly with the fingers of the left hand, and then with the point of a scalpel we are to amputate the glans at the corona, not making the amputation obliquely, but carving it, as it were, all round, so that an eminence may appear in the middle resembling the glans. And since a hemorrhage frequently takes place, we may stop it by styptics if possible, but if not, we must have recourse to burning with slender cauteries. Commentary. Galen makes mention of this deformity. (De Comm. usu Partium.) See also Theophilus. (De Fab. Hom. v, 22.) ' ' ' Albucasis evidently transcribes our author's description. The part named canis {kvwv) by our author is called Jinis capitis virgce in the translation of Albucasis, and Jinis coronm in the translation of Haly Abbas. (Pract. ix. 44.) We do not remem- ber to have seen the term kvwv applied by any other medical author to a part of membrum virile. Perhaps the proper word is 'Iq gent. \voq, which is applied by Galen to a part of the genital member. (Meth. Med, xiv. 16.) Guide de Cauliaco directs us to make an opening with a suitable instrument and introduce a canula of lead or wood, (iv, 2.) SECT. LV. ON PHIMUS, OR PHIMOSIS. There are two causes of phimosis; for sometimes the prepuce SO covers the glans that it cannot be retracted; and some-348 PHIMOSIS. [book vr. times when drawn behind, it cannot be brought forward, M'liich last species is properly called paraphimosis. The first variety is occasioned either from a cicatrix formed in the prepuce, or from an adhesion by flesh. But the second variety takes place in inflammations of the genital organs when the skin being broiight back, the glans swells, and it cannot longer allow of being drawn forward. If it is the first species of phi- mosis we may operate upon it in this manner. After having placed the patient properly, and drawn the prepuce forwards, and having fastened three or four hooks into its extremity and giving them to assistants to hold, we direct them to stretch and open it; and then if the external adhesion be from a cicatrix, we divide the prepuce from the internal parts with a lancet or sharp knife in three or four places, making the divisions at the inner parts direct and equally distant from one another. The prepuce at the glans is double, wherefore we divide the mouth of the inner part} for having thus opened the contraction formed by the cicatrix, we are enabled to re- tract the prepnce. But if a preternatural adhesion of the flesh of the internal parts occasion the phimosis we may make scarifications in all the flesh, drawing back the prepuce and scraping away the fleshy prominences between the incisions, and afterwards apply a tube of lead to the whole glans, having wrapped it in dried paper (papyrus), the tube ha^ing its open- ing the same everywhere ; for thus, by the application of the tube, the prepuce, when brought forwards again, is prevented from forming adhesions, being kept separate by the lead and the paper wrapped round it; for by getting swelled with the moisture it separates the skin still more. This we may do whether we operate upon a phimosis occasioned by a cicatrix, or one from a preternatural adhesion of flesh. But if the com- plaint called paraphimosis take place, and become chronic, ad- hesions take place, and the complaint is incurable, unless one choose to submit to the operation for deficiency of prepuce. But if it has not yet formed adhesions, we may make three, four, or more direct incisions circularly, and having bathed with much tepid oil, draw the prepuce outwards. Comm. Commentary. Celsus describes the operation as follows : ' * ' " Subter a summil ora, cutis inciditiu' recta linea usque ad349 CIRCUMCISION. SF.CT. LVII.] frajnurn; atque ita superius tergus rclaxatura, cedere retro Comm. potest. Quod si parum sic profectum est, ant propter angustias,' * ' aut propter dm-itiem tergoris, protinus triangiila forma cutis ab inferiore parte excidenda est, sic ut vertex ejus ad frsenum, basis in tergo extreino sit. Turn superdanda linamenta sunt alia que medicamenta quae ad sanitatem perdncant. Necessarium antem est, donee cicatrix sit, conquiescere: nam ambulatio, atterendo ulcus sordidum reddit." (vii, 25.) Oiu' author's description of tbe operation for keeping the pre- puce separated from the glans, by means of a leaden tube, is mostly taken from Galen. (Meth. Med. xiv, 16.) SECT. LVI. ON ADHESION OF THE PREPUCE TO THE GLANS. When there has been a previous ulceration about the glans, or prepuce, an adhesion of the one part to the other takes place. We must, therefore, dissect around, as far as may be, en- deavouring to separate the adhesion with the point of a scalpel, or of a polypus knife, and more especially to free the glans com- pletely from the prepuce, to which it adheres; but, if this be found difficult, we must rather add of the glans to the prepuce with which it is united, than contrariwise; for the prepuce, being thin, is readily perforated. After the disengagement of the adhesion, a thin cloth, dipped in cold water, is to be placed between the glans and the prepuce, that no adhesion may again take place, and the parts are to be healed with some astringent wine. Commentary. Albucasis describes the operation in exactly Comm. the same terms. (Chirurg. ii, 56.) ' * ' SECT. LVII. ON CIRCUMCISION. We do not treat at present of those who are circumcised in conformity to a heathen rite, but of those in whom the prepuce has become black from some affection of the privy part. In such cases, it becomes necessary to cut off the blackened portion all around ; and afterwards we must have recourse to the squama[book vj. 350 TIIYMI. aeris, with lioney, or to pomegranate-rind and tare, in the form of those applications which are made upon a pledget. And if there be a hemorrhage, we must use lunated caiiterieSj which contribute to two good purposes: I mean the stoppage of the bleeding, and of the spreading sore.. But if the whole glans be consumed, having introduced a leaden tube into the' urethra, we direct the patients to make water through it. Comm. Gommentary. See a similar description in Albucasis. ■ (Chirurg, ii, 57.) Albucasis describes the mode of performing the operation on boys, as a rite of the Jewish religion. He directs the prepuce to be cut with a pair of scissors, and the part allowed to bleed freely. From the manner in which he ex- presses himself respecting the operation, there can be no doubt that he was a Jew, and it is equally clear that our author was a Pagan. Fabricius ab Aquapendente describes a similar operation. (CEuv. Chirurg. ii, .64.) Guide de Gauliaco directs us to draw the prepuce forwards, and cut it off; after which the bleeding is to be stopped with powders, or the cautery, (vi, 2.) SECT. LVIII. OF THYMI ON THE PENIS. Thymi are fleshy excrescences, forming sometimes upon the glans, and sometimes upon the prepuce; and some of them ai'e malignant, and some are not. Those which are of a mild nature it will be proper to pare away with the edge of a scalpel, and sprinkle the part with chalcitis; but when malignant, the part must be burned after they are removed. If there be thyiui on both sides of the prepuce, some internal and others external, we must not attempt all at the same time, lest by mistake we should cut off the prepuce, which is thin; but we must first cut off the internal, and, when they are healed, we may next attempt the external. Some of the modems effect a cure by cutting them off with a pair of scissors, and by binding them with a horse- hair ; as, in like manner, some burn them with the cold cautery. Comm. Gommentary. AlbucRsis copies our author's description. * ' (Ghirurg. ii, 56.) When the tumour is of a malignant nature.CATHETERISM. 351 SECT. LIX.] he particularly approves of using the actual cautery. These CokM. intractable tumours on the genital member are now frequently ' met with. SECT. LIX; ON CATHETERISM^ AND INJECTION OF THE BLADDER; When the urine is suppressed in the bladder, owing to some obstruction, such as a coagulum, or stones, or from any other cause, we have recourse to catheterism for the removal of it. Wherefore, taking a catheter proportionate to the age and sex we prepare the instrument for use. The mode of preparation is this: having bound a little wool round with a thread, and in- troduced the thread with a sharp rush into the pipe of the catheter, we adapt the wool to the opening at the head of the catheter, and having cut off the projecting parts of the wool with a pair of scissors, we put the catheter into oil. Having then placed the patient on a convenient seat, and used fomen- tations, if nothing prohibit, we take the catheter and introduce it at first direct down to the base of the penis, then we must draw the privy parts upwards to the umbihcus, (for at this place there is a curvature of the passage,) and thus push the instrument forwards. When in the perineum it approaches the anus, we must bend the member with the instrument in it down to its natural position, for from the perineum to the bladder the passage is upwards ; and we must push the instrament forwards until it reach the cavity of the bladder. We afterwards take out the thread fastened into the opening of the catheter, in order that the urine being attracted by the wool may follow, as hap- pens in syphons. Such is the method of introducing the ca- tlieter. But since we have often occasion to wash an ulcerated bladder, if an ear-syringe be sufficient to tlirow in the injection it may be used, and is to be introduced in the manner described above. But if we cannot succeed with it we may fix a skin or the bladder of an ox to the catheter, and throw in the injection through its opening. Commentary. Although we have treated succinctly of stran- Comm. gury and retention of urine in the Third Book, it may be proper, before explaining the ancient methods of introducing352 [book VI. CATHETERISM. Comm. tlie Catheter, to give some further account of the causes of these ' ' complaints, and the opinions entertained by the physiologists with regard to the functional offices of the urinary organs. Galen states that the bladder is possessed of two faculties, a retentive and an expulsive, both of which arise from muscular power; that the retentive resides in the neck of the bladder, and is of the voluntary kind of powers; but that the expulsive belongs to the class of natural or involuntary powers, being of the same kind as the peristaltic faculty of the intestines. When a person, then, makes water voluntarily, it is by suspending the voluntaiy action of the sphincter vesicae, that is to say, of the retentive faculty of the bladder, "whereby the expulsive or peri- staltic powers are brought into action,, and the contents of the bladder are thereby evacuated. He properly adds, however, that this involuntary or expulsive faculty may be assisted by the action of the voluntary muscles which surround the bladder, especially the recti muscles of the abdomen. Retention of urine, therefore, may arise from the loss of either of these faculties. The expulsive faculty is most commonly lost, either from over- distension of the bladder, as when its contents have been allowed to accumulate too far, or from injury of the spinal marrow which supphes it with nerves. Bhases remarks that when retention of urine proceeds from debihty of the expulsive faculty, the bladder may be evacuated by merely making pressure above the pubes. According to Rhases, retention of urine arising from derange- ment of the retentive faculty, that is to say, from its no longer being under the control of the will, may be occasioned by in- flammation, by some swelling, such as a fleshy tumom' forming in the meatus urinarius, or by the presence of some foreign body, such as a stone, a clot of blood, or the like. He alludes several times to this fleshy tumour in the passage, by which he probably means either an enlargement of the prostate gland, or stricture of the urethra. He calls it a very intractable case. For a fidler exposition of the ingenious speculations and opinions stated above, see Galen (De Locis Affectis, iv, 4); Rhases (Contin. i and xxiii.) Celsus describes very accurately the operation of catheterisra. The tube or catheter, he says, should be made of copper, and the male catheter ought to be somewhat bent, smooth, and neither tooSECT. LIX.] CATHETERISM. 353 large nor too small for the passage. The length of the largest male catheter should be 15 inches^ of the middle-sized 12, and of the smallest 9; the largest female catheter should be 9, and the smallest 6 inches. The patient is to be laid on his back, and the surgeon standing by his right side, and holding the penis in his left hand, is to introduce with his right the catheter into the urinary passage; and when it reaches the neck of the bladder, the instrument along with the penis is to be bent downwards and introduced into the bladder. When the water is evacuated the catheter is to be extracted. The female passage, he remarks, is shorter, and is discovered by a sort of mammary protuberance above the vagina, by which he evidently means to describe the chtoris. The operation, he adds, in this case is less difficult, (vii, 26.) The operation is mentioned by Aetius and other of the Greek authorities, but none of them describe it fully but Paulus. Albucasis recommends a catheter made of silver. His ac- count of the operation is evidently borrowed from our author. He describes and gives a drawing of an instrument for throw- ing injections of oil and water into the bladder when inflamed. It is a tube of silver or copper having the bladder of a ram attached to it. (Chirurg. ii, 59.) Avicenna and Serapion mention the operation but do not describe it minutely. Haly Abbas directs us to make the pa- tient sit and to pour warm water and oil upon the penis. This IS evidently recommended with a view of producing relaxation. The ordinary steps of the operation are very properly described by him. (Pract. ix, 45.) Rhases gives a fuller account of catheterism, and all the cir- cumstances connected therewith, than any other ancient author. He very properly forbids the catheter to be introduced when the retention arises from inflammation at the neck of the bladder. Ad Mansor. ix, 73.) He first gives Antyllus's description of the (jperation, which is very accurate, but similar to our author's. He recommends us, before attempting the introduction of the instrument, to put the patient into a warm bath, or to apply liot fomentations to the parts. He then directs us to lubricate 1 he instrument with oil or thick mucilage, and to introduce it into the passage until it arrives at the under extremity of the licnis, when it is to be gently pushed upwards in the dii-cction 23[book VI, CALCULUS. Comm. of tlie navel, turning it to one side or another according as it " " ' encounters obstruction. He states that it is best to have the openings of the catheter in its sides as they are less likely to be obstructed by clots than when in the extremity. He also men- tions that he was sometimes in the practice of using a ductile instrument of lead which accommodated itself to the passage. Both Serapion and Rhases mention the operation of punc- turing the bladder. Rhases says that when there is retention of the urine and the bladder is inflamed, if the case be urgent, and there be reason to apprehend that the introduction of the catheter would aggravate the symptoms, it may be proper to make an incision in the perineum into the side of the bladder, and to di-aw off the urine with a canula. Both add, however, that there is danger of the wound not closing. (Cent, xxiii, 2.) The ancients seem to have fancied that it M'as necessary to fill up the internal cavity of the catheter with wool, or some such substance, in order to produce a vacuum when drawna out, believing that the catheter in this case acted upon the princi- ple of the syphon. See Alexander Aphrodisiensis (Prob. ii, 59.) It is singular that they should have fallen into this mistake, when Galen, as we have mentioned above, had so clearly ex- plained that the evacuation of the bladder is accomplished by the action of its expulsive powers whenever its retentive faculty is suspended or overcome. The earher writers on surgery like- wise adopt the notion that the cavity of the instrument requires to be filled up with wool. See Guido de Cauliaco (vi, 2.) They describe stricture of the urethra under the names of hypersar- cosis and caruncula in meatu urinario. See Henricus Regius (An. Med. 44.) SECT. LX. ON CALCULUS. The cause of the formation of stones, and that in children they are formed most readily in the bladder, and in adults m the kidneys,—all this having been explained in another place, j; we now proceed to the method of performing lithotomy, but jl shall fii'st give the symptoms of stones lodged in the bladder. 1 The patients then void urine of a watery consistence with a p sandy sediment; and from constant itching the member is355 CALCULUS. SECT. LX.] relaxed and again stretched in an uncommon degree, because, owing to the irritation, they are perpetually handling it, more especially in the case of children. When the stone falls into the neck of the bladder a sudden retention of urine takes place. Of those cut for the stone, children to the age of fourteen are the best subjects for the operation, on account of the softness of their bodies: old men are difficult to cure because ulcers of their bodies do not readily heal; and the intermediate ages have an intermediate chance of recovery. And again, those who have lai'ger stones recover best because they have become liabituated to the inflammation, whereas those who have smaller lecover with difficulty for the opposite cause. These things being so, when we proceed to the operation, we first have re- course to shaking the patient, sometimes by means of assist- ants, and sometimes by making him jump from a height, in order that the stone may be forced down to the neck of the bladder. We have then to place him sitting in an erect pos- ture, with his hands under his thighs, in order that the bladder may be forced down into a small space. If then we ascertain by feeling externally that the stone with the shaking has fallen clown to the perineum, we proceed immediately to the opera- tion ; but if it has not descended, we must introduce the index finger of the left hand well oiled, or, if an adult, the middle also, into the anus, and with the fingers in a supine, direction y. c search with them for the stone, and, bringing it down gra- Uially to the neck of the bladder, we fix it there, pushing it out with the finger or fingers when so fixed; and having given (Hrections to the assistant to press down the bladder with his bands, and ordering another assistant to raise the testicles in ''is right hand, and with the other to stretch the perineum to he other side from that upon which the incision is to be made, ve take the instrument called a lithotome, and between the Mills and the testicles, not, however, in the middle of the peri- ura, but on one side, towards the left buttock, we make an .l)lique incision, cutting down direct upon the stone where it .l otrudes, so that the external incision may be wider, but the nternal not larger than just to allow the stone to Ml tlirough t. Sometimes, from the pressure of the finger or fingers at lic anus, the stone starts out readily at the same time that the iicision is made, without requiring extraction; but if it doesCALCULUS. 356 [book VI. not start out of itself we must extract it with the forceps called the stone-extractor. After the removal of the stone, having stopped the bleeding by manna of frankincense and aloes, comfrey, misy, and such like styptic powders, and having dipped wool or com- presses in wine and oil, we apply them ; and also apply the ban- dages for calculous diseases, namely, that having six legs. But if there be any apprehension of hemorrhage we must apply a com- press which had been soaked in oxycrate, or water and rose- oil, and placing the patient in a reclining posture, bathe the parts frequently. After the thii'd day, having loosed the ban- dages, and poured much water and oil into the wound, we may dress it with the ointment called tetrapharmacon (basihcon) on a pledget, removing them and dressing often on account of the acrimony of the urine. If inflammation come on, we must have recourse to the cataplasms and fomentations proper for it. And we may also inject into the bladder oil of roses, oil of ca- momile, or butter, unless some inflammation prevent. In like manner, if the sore become spreading, or otherwise malignant, we must suit the apphcations to the state of it. When the ulcer is freed from inflammation we may loose the dressings, and use diachylon plaster to the groins and bottom of the beUy. During the whole time of the treatment, the thighs must be bound together, which contributes to the cm-e with the other remedies. If the stone, being smaU, fall into the penis, and cannot be voided with the urine, we may draw the prepuce strongly forwards, and bind it at the extremity of the glans. We must next apply another ligature round the penis behind the member, making the constriction at its extremity next the bladder, and then make an incision down upon the stone, and bending the penis we eject the stone, and undoing the ligatures we clear away the coagula from the wound. The pos- terior ligature is apphed lest the calculus should retreat back- wards, and the anterior, in order that, when untied, after the extraction of the stone, the skin of the prepuce may slide back- wards and cover the incision. Comm. COMMENTARY. We will now attempt to explain all the an- cient descriptions of lithotomy. Hippocrates in his Oath binds his pupils not to perform this operation, but to leave it to those who made it their business.-liCT. LX.] CALCULUS. 357 It appears then that in his days lithotomy was a separate branch Comm. of the profession. Celsus is the earliest author who describes lithotomy^ although it is probable that he merely explained the method of operating in Alexandria^ the surgeons of which city had acquired great celebrity in performing this operation. Me forbids the operation, except after every other remedy had tailed; and in children between the ages of nine and fourteen, and in the season of spring. The patient is to be kept upon .1 spare diet beforehand; and when the operation is about to be performed, he is to be directed to walk, so as to bring down t lie stone to the neck of the bladder, which is to be ascertained by introducing a finger into the anus. Then a strong and experienced person, sitting on a high seat, is to take the patient and hold him secure, his buttocks being placed upon the assistant's knee, and his legs being drawn in and his hands placed on them and held there. But if the patient be strong he is to be held by two assistants, one on each side, upon two seats placed beside one another, and they are to be clii-ected to press upon his shoulders with their breasts, so as to force down the bladder. Two other assistants are to be at hand, to prevent any risk of the former two losing their hold. The surgeon having pared his nails, is to introduce gently first the index and then the middle finger into the anus, whilst with the right he makes pressure upon the abdomen, and in this way the stone is to be secured at the neck of the bladder. The shape of the stone is to be considered, and it is to be pressed down so as to favour its exit. These matters being properly arranged, a lunated incision is to be made over the neck of the bladder near the anus down to the neck of the bladder, the horns of the incision inclining a little towards the (left ?) but- tock ; then at that part where the incision is bent round (at tlie curvature of the incision ?) even under the skin, another transverse incision is to be made, by wliich the neck is to be opened, and the urinary passage dilated, the opening being some- ^v■hat larger than the stone. When the stone is small it may be propelled and drawn out by the fingers ; but if large, it is • to be extracted by a hook or crotchet made for that purpose. This hook is of a semi-circular form, smooth externally, and 1 rough on the inside. By the help of it the stone is to be ' taken out dexterously, attention being paid to the shape of it.[book VI. CALCULUS. 358 Comm. He mentions that Ammonius the lithotomist was in the practice of breaking down the stone into pieces when it was so large that it could not be extracted without tearing the neck of the bladder. ' He states that the operation is seldom required in the case of females, but that if the stone be large it may some- times be necessaiy. The fingers are to be introduced into the vagiua, as they are into the rectum of males, and then, if the patient be a girl, an incision is to be made under the left edge (of the labia pudendi ?); but if in an adult female, a transverse incision is to be made on both sides between the urethra and OS pubis. The above is but an abridgment of the Celsian description, which, it must be admitted, is attended with considerable diffi- culties. We shall give the passage in which he describes the form and place of the incisions. " Incidi super A^esicse cervi- cem juxta anum cutis plaga lunata usque ad cervicem vesicae debet, cornibus ad coxas spectantibus paulum : deinde ea parte, qua resima plaga est, etiamnum sub cute altera transversa plaga facienda est, qua cervix aperiatm'; donee uiinse iter pateat, sic, ut plaga paulo major, quam calculus sit." Sprengel renders the words " cornibus ad coxas spectantibus paulum" by " dont les angles regardant les aines j" hut coxce signifies properly not the groins, but the nates, viz., the buttocks, or perhaps the hips. (Celsus viii, 1.) In the English translation of M. Foubert^s paper on Lithotomy, in the ' Memoirs of the French Academy of Surgery,' these words are more coiTectly rendered, " the extremities of which incision must be in some measure directed towards the thighs.^' Dr. Milligan, however, in his edition of Celsus, proposes to read coxam., by which he supposes that Celsus imderstood the coxa sinistra. He adds : " hinc liquet, cornua plagse Celsianse, ut hodiernse, coxam sinis- tram respexisse." We are inclined to adopt this conjecture, as it makes the Celsian description agree with that of oiu* author and his Arabian copyists, all of whom direct the first incision to be made towards the left nates. The words " qua resima plaga est," must signify, we suppose, the curvature in the middle of the incision where the two horns unite. M. Foubert reads " qua strictior ima plaga est," but we suspect without any proper authority from MSS. We may be permitted to remark that the advantages of theSECT. LX.] 359 CALCULUS. scmi-lunar incision are pointed out by Bromfield, and the Ccl- C sian operation was generally practised by the late Baron Dupuy- tien of Paris. Aetius and other- of the Greek authorities allude- frequently to the operation^ but none of them describe it minutely except faulus. Our author's statement, that there is less danger from the extraction of large than of small stones, is at variance, we l)clieve, with modern experience. Aretseus states that small atones ai-e most easily extracted. He was, however, no advo- ■ate for the operation at aU, except in extreme cases. He speaks of cutting " the neck of the bladder." (Morb. Acut. Curat, ii, 9.) Does, he not allude to attempts at lithotrity in the following pas- sage ?—6vT£ yap (kiOoQ fiiya^) OpvimTui, r) iruai, r/ (paOjuaKfo, n a/LKpiQ^vTrroiTO, ovre dawawg Te/xvtrai. (Morb. Chron. ii, 4.) Which passage may be thus translated : " when the stone is large neither lithotrity, or lithotripsy, nor lithotomy, can be- practised safely/' Theophilus, in his ' Commentary on the Aphorisms of Hippocrates,' states that in lithotomy it is not tlie bladder, properly speaking, but the neck of the bladder, which is muscular, that is cut. We now proceed to the Arabians. Albucasis, after detailing the symptoms in much the same terms as our author, goes on to describe the operation as follows. Having cleared out the bowels with a clyster, the patient is to be shaken so as to make the stone descend, and he is then to be secured in the arms of ;in assistant, with his hands under his nates. The surgeon is then to press upon the perineum, and, if the stone be felt, the operation is to be proceeded with; but otherwise, the index finger of the left hand, if the patient be a child, and the middle if an adult, is to be introduced into, the anus, and the <tone is thereby to be gradually brought down to the neck of the bladder. Having pushed it outwards to the place where \ ou mean to make your incision, an assistant is to be directed t o press down the bladder from above the piibes, while another draws up the testicles with the one hand, and with the other stretches the skin under them. Then with a proper scalpel the operator is to make an incision between the anus and the tes- I iclcs, not in the middle, but towards the left nates, straight upon the stone which is to be pressed out by the finger. Let t he incision be transverse (oblique ?), large externally, but in-CALCULUS. [book vj. 360 Comm. ternally of the size of the stone. If the stone does not then start out, the operator must seize upon it with a forceps, or a hook having a lunated extremity. If there be more than one stone, the largest is to be extracted first, and then the others may be easily removed. When the stone is large he directs us to break it down vidth a forceps. His directions respecting the treatment afterwards are similar to those of Paulus. When the stone sticks in the urethra he recommends us to cut down iipon it. His description of the operation on women is like- wise similar to our author's, but more circumstantial. Having got a dexterous midwife, or some proper person to introduce her finger into the rectum or vagina, and press the stone down to the left hip, the operator is to make first a small incision over it, and afterwards, by the help of a sound or specillum, it is to be enlarged so as to allow a passage for the stone. (Chirurg. ii, 60, 61.) Avicenna's description is nearly the same as that of Albucasis, but not so minute. He directs the surgeon to introduce a finger into the anus, if the patient be a male, but into the va- gina if a woman who is not a vii'gin, and to push the stone outwards, so as to make it protrude. He is then to cut dowia upon it, making an incision proportionate to the size of the stone; but if the stone be veiy large, the incision must not be made of the same size, but it is to be grasped in a forceps and broken into pieces. If inflammation come on after the opera- tion, he recommends him to have recourse to clysters, the warm bath, and venesection, and a piece of cloth dipped in oil of roses and some vinegar is to be applied to the part. The bad symptoms after the operation are said to be violent pain in the part and under the navel, coldness of the extremities, prostra- tion of strength, loss of appetite, and, at last, singultus and involuntary discharges from the bowels, (iii, xix, 1, 7.) The description given by Haly Abbas being nearly the same as that of Albucasis, need not be noticed here but very briefly. He prefers performing the operation in infancy, but permits it to be done at all ages. For the reason assigned by our author he states that recovery is most likely to take place when the stone is large. Like the others, he directs the surgeon to in- troduce either the fore-finger alone, or it and the middle finger into the anus, behind the stone, and to push it outwards, and361 CALCULUS. SECT. LX.] then the operator is to cut down upon it, making the incision Comm. between the testes and the anus, yet not in the middle, but ' '' ' towai'ds the left side. When the incision is carried down to the stone it will sometimes start out from the pressure of the tiugers in the anus; but otherwise, it is to be seized upon with a forceps and extracted. If inflammation come on he recom- mends us to apply a cataplasm, and to throw into the bladder an injection consisting of oil of roses and of camomile, or of melted butter. (Practic. ix, 46.) Rhases gives from preceding authors several descriptions of lithotomy, but as they closely resemble our author^s, we shall treat of them only in a cursory manner. In his first description he directs the surgeon to place the patient with his hands fiistened to his ankles so as to press down the bladder. When the stone does not descend properly, so as to be felt externally, he recommends him to introduce one or more fingers into the rectum and push it outwards; and then while an assistant draws up the testicles the operator is to make a transverse I oblique?) incision, larger externally, but internally only of such a size as to allow the stone to pass out. If the stone does not come out readily it is to be extracted with an iastru- ment, and the hemorrhage checked with a composition of aloes, frankincense, and vitriol. When the patient is a child he re- commends the operator to place him upon the knees of an assistant, and to make pressure on the abdomen so as to force clown the bladder. He forbids the operation when the stone cannot be brought down to the neck of the bladder. When the stone is large he directs it to be broken into pieces before extraction. His next description is taken from the celebrated Vntyllus, but as it scarcely differs at all from the preceding one, Ave shall merely select a few remarks. When the stone is smooth, round, and small, he directs the surgeon to push it down to the neck of the bladder by means of a finger intro- laced into the rectum, and to make an incision down upon it; after which the stone is to be forced out. When pain super- \ enes after the operation, he recommends him to place the patient in a bath medicated with camomile, linseed, mallows, &c.; or if it be summer, and there be any disposition to hemorrhage, to place him in a vessel filled with strong vinegar. When it is ascertained that there are clots of blood in theII 362 CALCULUS. [hook vi. Comm. bladder obstructing the iiriue, lie directs the surgeon to intro- " ' ' duce a finger by the incision, and extract them gradually. His next description is from an author named Sarad, whom he frequently quotes in other parts of his works. He directs the operator to introduce a finger into the rectum and push the stone outwards to the left side of the perineum, removed ||| about the size of a grain of barley from the raphe (daram), and then to make an incision into the neck of the bladder. He afterwards gives a very circumstantial account of the operation from another author called Athuriscus. He particularly directs the operator to make an incision in the left side of the perineum and to open the neck of the bladder, as a wound of the body of the bladder seldom unites. When the stone is large he recom- mends him to seize it with strong pincers and break it into pieces. When a stone sticks in the urethra he directs him to tie one ligature behind it and to secure the prepuce before the glans with another, and then to cut down upon the stone. He gives very minute directions about the after treatment, re- commending especially the removal of any clots which obstruct the passage. (Cont. xxiii.) The practice of hthotomy appears to have been reckoned a disrepiitable occupation among the Arabians, for Avenzoar mentions it as an operation which an upright and respectable man would not witness, far less perform, (ii, 3, 7.) As there are some doubts regarding the form of the incisions in the ancient methods of performing lithotomy, we will now give the words of some of the Arabian translators. Stephanus Antiochensis, the translator of Haly Abbas, has the following words : " Inter testes anumque finde et non in medi^ via sed in sinistri lateris parte ab intestiuis, sitque perallela fissura, et ah exterioribus larga, ab interioribus non." The translator of Albu- casis expresses himself thus : " Finde in eo quod est inter anum et testiculos et non in medio, ad latus natis sinistra;: fiat sectio transversa." The following are the words of Avicenna^s translator: " Cave ne scindas super commissuram quum sit malum, commissura enim secundum veritatem est locus mor- talis. ^Amplius fac super ipsum (lapidem ?) scissuram teudeii- tera ad transversum, studendo ut cadat scissura in coUo vesica;." The translator of Rhases expresses himself in the following terms : " Scinde super lapidem cum instrumento camadun ; ct IITESTICLES. 363 SECT. LXI.] scissura debet fieri transversa, et sit exterior caro larga et in Comm. interiori vesicje stricta.^^ '—v—' Yet notwithstanding all this we are inclined to think that the incision was oblique and not transverse; for oiir author, whom they all follow, directs us to make the incision oblique (Xo^oc)j and it is further clear that a transverse one would not answer the purpose so well. No dependence can be put in the accuracy of these barbai-ous translations. The language of Stephanus Antiochensis is particularly obscure. Casiri justly characterizes the translations of the Arabian authors as being "perversiones potius quam versiones." (Bibl. Hisp, Arab, i, 266.) The ancient operation, with scarcely any alterations, is de- scribed by the earHer modern writers on surgery. See Brunus (Chirurg. Magna, ii, 17); and Guido de Cauliaco (Chir. vi, 2.) They direct us to introduce a finger into the rectum and push the stone outwards; then to make an incision down upon it on the left side of the raphe. Brunus recommends a longi- tudinal incision. It appears that the ancient operation of lithotomy is still practised with great success by the native doctors of Hindostan. See 'Transactions of the Medical and Physical Society of Calcutta,' vol. iv. An interesting case in point, related in the ' Medical Gazette' for Feb. 7,1845, forms a valuable commentary on the Celsian description of lithotomy. In the year 1827 yir. Madden the traveller saw it performed in Tyre by an old pilot on a boy of thirteen years of age. The case did well. SECT. LXI. ON THE PARTS ABOUT THE TESTICLES. As contributing to the understanding of the operations on herniae, we shall premise a description of the parts about the testicles. The testicle itself is a glandular and friable sub- stance, formed for the production of semen. The substances railed parastatse and cremasteres, are processes from the mem- brane of the spinal marrow, descending along with the arterial vessels in the testicles, by which the semen is injected into the imdcndnm; the spermatic vessels are veins from the vena cava passing to the testicles in a convoluted manner, and by them t he testicles arc nourished. The tunica vaginalis (erythroides or < lytroides ?) is of a nervous nature; at the convex and anterior[book VI. 364 TESTICLES. part not adhering, but at tlie concave and posterior parts united to the testicle, deriving its origin from the peritoneal coat. This part, where it is united to the testicle, they call the posterior adhesion. The darti are membranes connecting the external skin to the tunica vaginalis, being united to it at the part where it is united behind to the testicle. But that wrinkled skin which forms an external covering to the testicles is called the scrotum. Comm. COMMENTARY. Celsus gives a similar description of the "—•—' parts connected with the testicles. The testicles themselves, he says, consist of medullary matter and possess no sensibility of their own, but experience violent pains and inflammations from the membrane which surrounds them. They hang from the groins by nerves called cremasters by the Greeks, Avith each of which descend two veins and arteries. These are covered by a thin nervous white coat, without blood, called elytroides by the Greeks. (This must be the tunica vaginalis of modern anatomists.) Above it is a stronger tunic which adheres strongly to the inner at its lower part, and is called dai'tos by the Greeks. (This appears to be the cremaster muscle of modern anatomists.) The veins, arteries, and nerves are sur- rounded by many small membranes. (By these he seems to have meant the fascise from the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle.)' All these parts are covered by an external investment called the scrotum, (vii, 18.) Buffus Ephesius says that the scrotum is a loose substance in which the testicles are placed, being in particular fleshy ex- ternally; that it consists of two tunics, the external being corrugated and called dartos, and the internal being called erythroides (elytroides?). The dartos and scrotum connect the testicles to the parts above, but the erythroides (vaginalis ?) is united to and surrounds the testicle itself. (De Corporis Humani partium appellationibus, ii.) Oribasius describes the cremasters as being two muscles which descend from the groins and surround the tunica vagi- nalis. (Anatomica ex Galeno.) (This is very similar to Cloquet's description of them.) Theophilus's description unfortunately has come down to us very incomplete. (Ue Fabricix Hominis, v, ad finem.)365 HYDROCELE. SECT. LXII.] SECT. LXII. ON HYDROCELE. An inert fluid, collected about the parts which are enveloped by the scrotum, and occasioning a marked swelling there, has obtained this appellation. The fluid is, for the most part, col- lected in the tunica vaginalis around the testicle, at its anterior part; but the afi"ection is sometimes, though rarely, formed ex- ternally to the tunica vaginalis. Often, however, it is collected in the proper tunic of the testicles, and surgeons call this afi"ection hydrocele of the tunica adnata. If the complaint is formed from some preceding cause, such as weakness of the parts, the blood brought there for the purpose of nourishment is converted into an inert watery or serous substance. But if it is occasioned by a blow, a sanguineous or feculent substance constitutes its contents. The common symptom is a permanent swelling with- out pain about the scrotum, not disappearing nnder any cir- cumstances, yet somewhat compressible when the collection is small, but not at all compressible when it is large. When the fluid is collected in the tunica vaginalis the swelling is globular, but somewhat oblong like an egg ; and in these cases the testicle is not to be felt as being everywhere sui-rounded with the fluid. But that which is collected externally to the tunica vaginalis, is felt as through a small intervening substance. When it is formed in the adnata, being everywhere circumscribed and globular, the swelling has the appearance of another testicle. If the fluid be watery, the swelling is of one colour and trans- parent ; but if it be feculent and bloody, it appears red or livid; and if these symptoms appear in both parts of the scrotum, you may be sure that there is a double hernia. We operate upon it in this manner. Having shaven the pubes and scrotum, unless the patient be a boy, we lay him in a supine posture upon a bench, and apply to his buttocks a cloth several times folded, and to the scrotum a sponge of considerable magnitude, and sitting at the left side of the patient, we give directions to an assistant sitting at his right side to draw the genital organs to the other side, and to draw up the skin of the scrotum to I the abdomen. Then taking a scalpel we divide the scrotum longitudinally from its middle to near the pubes, making the ) incision straight and parallel to the raphe which divides the366 HYDROCELE, [book VI. scrotum into two parts, and extending the incision down to the vaginalis. When the fluid is in the adnata, we make the in- cision where the apes of the tunica adnata makes its appear- ance, and separating the lips of the incision with a hook, and having dissected the darti with a knife for hydrocele and a scalpel, and laid hare the tunica vaginalis, we divide it through the middle with a lancet for bleeding, more especially in that part where it is separated from the testicle; and having dis- charged into some vessel the whole or most of the fluid, we cut away the vaginalis, especially its thinnest parts, with hooks. Afterwards, Antyllus uses sutures and the treatment for recent wounds; but the modems have recourse to what is called the incarnative mode of treatment. If the testicle is found in a state of putrefaction, or otherwise diseased, the vessels which pass along with the cremaster are to be separately inclosed in a hgature, the cremaster cut, and the testicle removed. And when there are two hernias we may operate in the same manner twice, directing the incisions on both sides at the parts of the scrotum about the loins. After these things, having introduced the head of a probe through the incision below at the extremity of the scrotum, and elevating the scrotum upon it, we make an incision with a sharp-pointed scalpel in a convenient situation for the discharge of the coagulated blood and pus. By means then of the head of the probe we introduce an oblong pledget into the upper incision, and having sponged away the clotted blood, we introduce wool dipped in oil through the incision down to the testicle; and externally we may apply other pieces of wool dipped in wine and oil to the scrotum, hypogastrium, groins, perineum, and loins; and applying a compress three times folded upon them, and binding them with a six-legged bandage, and other proper bandages, we place the man in a reclining posture, putting wool under the scrotum for the sake of ease, and spreading the soft skin under him to receive the embro- cations. We bathe with warm oil until the third daj', after which having loosed the bandages we must use the ointmeul tetrapharmacon on a pledget, having changed the oblong one. Afterwards we may again apply the embrocations proper for in- flammation until the seventh day, after which we have recoui-s(- to the medicine called motophylacion. After the ulcer has been cleaned and moderately incarnated, and the parts have beenSECT. LXII.] 367 HYDROCELE. bathed, we must remove the oblong pledget, and have recourse to the subsequent treatment as formerly described. But if in- flammation, hemorrhage, or any such disagreeable consequence come on, we must, in a word, treat each of these in a suitable manner, that I may not have occasion to make repetitions. But if we would rather have recourse to the cautery in cases of hydrocele (as is the practice of the moderns), we must follow all the directions given as to what is to be done before and after the operation, and also those given with regard to the operation itself, omitting only the incision with a scalpel, and the division for allowing the discharge of its contents. Wherefore having heated ten or twelve cauteries, shaped like the Greek letter T, and two sword-shaped ones, we must first burn the scrotum through the middle with the gamma-shaped, and having dis- ! sected away the membranes with a scalpel or blunt hook, we must burn with the sword-shaped as if cutting. Having laid bare the tunica vaginalis (which is easily recognized by its ' whiteness and density) with the extremity of a gamma-shaped I cautery, we evacuate the fluid. Afterwards, when the whole is 1 laid bare, we stretch it with hooks and remove it with a sword- s shaped cautery. Commentary. Celsus directs the surgeon, when water is I contained in a hernial tumour, to make an incision in the J groin, if the patient be a child, unless the largeness of the (collection prevent; but in adults, and when the swelling is i great, he recommends him to make it in the scrotum. Then if the incision be in the groin, the coats are to be drawn up I there and the water discharged ; but if in the scrotum, and if tthe disease be seated there, nothing more is to be done but to {evacuate the fluid, and remove any membranes which may 1 happen to contain it; after which the parts are to be washed iwith a solution of salt or soda. When the fluid is situated ti under the middle or inner coat (the tunica vaginalis and tunica aalbuginea?), all these tunics are to be removed without the »scrotum and cut out. (vii, 21.) Celsus, as weU as our author, ^describes the hsematocele or bloody tumour, the existence of •which is affirmed by Heister. (ii, 5^ 133.) Galen alludes incidentaUy to the evacuation of the fluid in •hydrocele. (Meth. Med. xiv.) Sprengel and Guy de CauHacHYDROCELE. 368 [book VI. Comm. affirm that lie makes mention of the seton as a mode of cure ; —'—' but if this assertion be correct we have not been able to find out the passage in which he does so. Aetius gives a very distinct account of the nature of hydro- cele, but his description of the operation is by no means so accurate as our author's. He trusts mostly to astringent and desiccative apphcations. (xiv, 22.) Albucasis describes the operation in nearly the same terms as Paulus. His operation consisted of making an incision in the swelling and dissecting out the coats of the testicles. The dressings which he recommends are similar to those mentioned by our author. He also describes the operation by the cautery in nearly the same terms as Paulus. He adds, that if the patient be timid and do not choose to submit to these operations, the surgeon may let out the water either with a scalpel or the instrument used for tapping in dropsy. He states, however, that after this operation the water will collect again. (Chinu-g. ii, 62.) Avicenna briefly describes the operation of opening the tumour, and applying cauteries or strong medicines to the membranes, (iii, xxii, i, 6.) Haly Abbas directs us to open the tumour, and cut out its tunics, and then to apply incarnative dressings. This treatment, he adds, the moderns prefer to the escharotic applications used by the ancients. (Pract. ix, 47.) He also describes the pro- cess of burning. (Pract. ix, 79.) Ehases describes the operation of puncturuig the scrotum for hydrocele. He also speaks of burning the part with a slender rod of iron, and of cutting out its tunics. (Cont. xxiv.) The membrane called tunica adnata in our translation is the " ima tunica" of Celsus, and the " panniculus proprius" of the Arabian translation of Albucasis, and seems to be the same as the tunica albuginea of modern anatomists. Sprengel gives an excellent history of the operation of hy- drocele. (Hist, de la Med. 18, 8.) ^SARCOCELE. 369 SECT. LXIII.] SECT. LXIII. ON SARCOCELE AND TOPHI OF THE TESTICLES. Wten flesli is formed in any part of tlie bodies whicli are i. connected by the scrotum, it gives rise to tlie disease called jsarcocele. This arises either from some obscure cause, the • testicle being attacked with a defluxion and becoming indurated, ; or from a blow, or from unskilful treatment after the operation for hernia. Its consequences are, a swelling of the same colour, with hardness; when the swelling is of a scirrhous nature, it lis devoid of colour and sensibility; and when it is malignant [ there are sharp pains. When going to operate we place the patient as in the former case, and make the incisions in Hke manner j and if the complaint is occasioned by the growth of a fleshy tumour to the testicle, we divide the dartos and tunica vaginalis in like manner; then stretching the testicle and bring- ing it to the outside of the vaginalis, we separate the cremaster from the vessels, tie a ligature round the vessels, and cut the cremaster; then we remove the testicle affected with the fleshy tumour as a foreign body. But if the fleshy tumour be formed about any of the coats of the testicle or its vessels, having di- vided the scrotum and the membranes lying under the flesh, ^ we must dissect out the whole fleshy tumour. But if the poste- rior process epididymis" ?) be affected with sarcocele, having 'dissected all the surrounding parts, we remove the testicle along with it j for it is impossible for the testicle to continue without it. Jf tophi be formed about the testicle and the tunica vaginalis, Ithey may be distinguished from sarcocele and hydrocele by their jresistance, hardness, and inequaHty, and are to be operated upon sas sarcocele. Commentary. Celsus describes and recommends the same Comm. pperations. He directs us to divide the nerve by which the KesHcle is suspended (the cremaster ?), then to tie the veins land arteries at the groin with a thread, and cut them below file ligature. When a fleshy tumour is formed between the Boats he recommends us to cut it out. (vii, 23, 23.) When the Darts are indurated he forbids us to meddle with them. Albucasis directs us to separate the cremaster from the ves- lels, to tie the vessels, and then remove the testicle from the 24370 [book VI. CmSOCELE. Comm. surrounding parts. Wlien tlie disease consists of a fleshy '"^^ tumour -wliich adheres to the testicle he directs us to cut it out. After the operation the wound is to be filled with rose- oil and wine. (Chirurg. ii, 63.) The other Arabians treat of the operation less minutely, with the exception of Haly Abbas, who describes it exactly as Albucasis. (Pract. ix, 48.) SECT. LXIV. ON CIRSOCELE AND PNEUMATOCELE. When the vessels about the scrotum or darti are in a varicose condition, they are ca,lled simply varices, but if the nutrient vessels of the testicles be in a varicose state, the affection is named cirsocele. The symptoms of it are obvious.. There is a collection attended with swelling, and somewhat curved, of a botryoidal shape, and accompanied with relaxation of the testicle. It also occasions certain inconveniences, especially in runmng, exercising, and walking. We may operate upon it thus. After putting the patient in a convenient posture, we must lay hold of the scrotum and push the cremaster to the under part; it is easily distinguished from the vessels, being more slender, firmer, and elastic, as being strong and firm; the patient also feels pain upon pressure, and moreover it is connected with the penis. Having secured the vessels in the scrotum by our own fingers and those of our assistant, and stretching them strongly, we press obliquely the point of a scalpel direct upon the vessels; then having transfixed the parts with hooks and dissected what lie under the skin, and having exposed the vessels, as mentioned in the operation of angiology and that for aneurism, and pushing through them a needle having a double thread, and cutting the loop of the thread, we tie the ligatures round the vessels where the varices arise and where they terminate, and make a straight incision in the intermediate space. Having evacuated the blood collected in the tumour, we apply the treatment for suppurations until the Hgatures with the vessels themselves fall out of their own accord. Leonides says, that when a few of the vessels which nourish the testicles are in a varicose state this operation should be performed, but that when all are affected, the testicle should be cut out along with them, lest being de- prived of its nutrient vessels it should decay. PneumatoceleSECT. LXIV.] CmSOCELE. 371 being a species of aneuiism, Leonides forbids us to operate upon it for fear of a bemorrhage^ wbicb cannot be restrained from taking place at tbe time; but, there being two kinds of it, the one occasioned by the four vessels which nourish the testicle, and ithe other by the arteries of the darti and scrotum being af- ; fected, the moderns refrain from meddling with the latter, but operate upon the former. We distinguish them from one an- other, inasmuch as that which arises from the arteries is easily made to disappear upon pressure with the fingers, whereas that . from the nutrient vessels of the testicles, not at all or with much ' ti-ouble. We operate upon it as for cirsocele, taking up each i of the veins and securing it with a thread. Commentary. Celsus thus describes the cirsocele : " VeuEe Comm. iintumescunt; eseque intortse conglomerataeque a superiore ^"^ ' ipai'te, vel ipsum scrotum implent, vel mediam tunicam vel : imam: interdum etiam sub ima tunica, circa testiculum ner- a-xmique ejus, increscunt." (vii, 18.) He describes the operation <at great length afterwards. If the varicose tumour is upon t the scrotum he directs us to burn it with slender and sharp : irons, which are to be applied to the veins themselves, but in - such a manner as to burn them alone. Then suitable dressings lare to be applied for producing cicatrization. When the I varicose veins ai-e situated above the middle timic, an incision is to be made in the groin, the tunic drawn out, and the veins -separated from it with a finger or the handle of a scalpel. The veins are afterwards to be tied with a thread above and below; then they are to be cut below, and the testicle restored to its place. When the disease is situated above the third tunic ;tunica albuginea?) the middle one must be cut out. Then f only two or three veins are in a varicose state they may be led, as above directed, at the groin and where they join the i esticle and cut out. When the disease is situated between \ he mtemal coat and the testicle, he says, there is no other j -emedy but the removal of the testicle. For this purpose he iirects us to secure the arteries and veins with a thread, divide ^hem, and then to cut the nerve by which the testicle is suspended ithe cremaster?). (vii, 19 and 22.) He does not treat of oneumatocele. It must be obvious that the pneumatocele of •ur author was an aneurismal varix or erectile tissue. We see[book VI. 372 ENTEROCELE. Comm. no good reason, therefore, for the animadversions which Heister ' " ' makes upon his account of it. (See Surgery.) This operation is briefly noticed in the ' Isagoge' of Galen, and ' Meth. Med.' (xiv.) Albucasis considers it a dangerous operation, but says he will describe it as it was performed by the ancients. He ac- cordingly gives our author's account of it, directing us to dis- sect the congeries of vessels from the surrounding parts, to pass a needle, armed with a double thread, under them, and to tie them above and below; then to make a longitudinal in- cision in them, and to evacuate the feculent fluids which they contain. The wound is afterwards to be dressed with incar- nants. If all the vessels are involved in the disease, he directs us to remove the testicle altogether. (Chirurg. ii, 64.) He says he never saw the operation performed for pneumatocele; but that the ancients operated for it in the same manner as for cii'socele. (66.) Avicenna and Ehases treat of the pneumatocele, and recom- mend carminative appHcations to it; but they do not describe the surgical operation. Haly Abbas borrows the description of Paulus. (Pract. ix, 49.) SECT. LXV. ON ENTEROCELE, OR INTESTINAL HERNIA. Enterocele is a descent of the intestine into the scrotum, and is occasioned either from rupture of the peritoneum which takes place in the groin, or from stretching of the peiitoneum. Both these, I mean rupture and stretching, are occasioned by previous violence, such as a blow, a leap, or loud crying, but that from stretching in particular is connected with relaxation and other weaknesses of the body. The common symptoms of both are a marked swelling in the scrotum, which is increased by exercise, heat, retention of the breath, and other exertions ; and its symptoms are, that it goes up slowly upon pressure, and quickly falls down again, and that while the person aff'ected with it lies in a recumbent postiire it remains in its proper place until he stands again erect. The retention of faeces in the region of the scrotum often brings on dangerous symptoms;ENTEROCELE. 373 SECT. LXV.] for it is attended with pain, and sometimes with rumbling of wind upon pressure. The peculiar symptoms of hernia from distension are, that it does not occur suddenly, but gradually; that it falls down occasionally from any ordinary causes; that the swelling appears equable and deep-seated, the protruded i intestine being surrounded by the peritoneum. In those from 1 rupture the descent at first is sudden, and happens only from violence; the sweHing is very large, and appears seated super- ; ficially immediately under the skin, owing to the intestines i having burst through the peritoneum. If the omentum alone : falls down to the scrotum in rupture of the peritoneum the aflfec- I tion is called epiplocele, but if intestine descend along with it, it is named epiploenterocele; and if water be contained in the t tunica vaginalis it receives an appellation compounded from all {the three. But neither these nor the intestinal hernia from J rupture of the peritoneum are proper subjects for surgery, but '-we operate upon enterocele alone from distension, in the fol- 1 lowing manner: after placing the patient in a recumbent pos- t ture, and getting the skin in the groin stretched by an assis- t tant, we make a transverse incision, cutting as in the operation I of angiology (but some make the incision not transverse but I longitudinal), then having transfixed it with hooks we stretch (Out the incision to such a degree as to afi'ord room for the t testicle to pass through j then passing through the inner skin ; a number of hooks proportionate to the size of the wound, and I dissecting the membranes and fat with a bhnd hook or scalpel •we cut them across. When the peritoneum is everywhere lilaid bare, introducing the index-finger at the back part of the sscrotum between the darti and peritoneum, we free the posterior rprocess (epididymis ?); and then with the right hand doubling tits extremity to the inside of the scrotum, and at the same jtime stretching the peritoneum in the left hand, we bring the •testicle with the vaginalis tunica to the incision, and give Idirections to one assistant to stretch the testicle, whilst we, having completely cleared the posterior process, ascertain by the fingers whether a fold of intestine be comprehended in the drunica vaginahs, and if so we must press it down to the belly; Ifchen we take a large-sized needle containing a doubled thread lof ten pieces, and we pass it through the middle at the extre- anity of the peritoneum close to the incision; and cutting tliQ[book VI. ENTEROCELE, 374 double we make four pieces of tliem, and laying them over one another in tlie form of the Greek letter X, we bind the perito- neum securely, and again twisting round the pieces we secure it so that none of the nutrient vessels may have a free passage to it lest any inflammation be occasioned, and we apply another ligature farther out, less than two fingers^ breadth distant from the former. After making these ligatures we leave about the size of a finger of the peritoneum, and cut off the whole all round, removing at the same time the testicle, then making an in- cision at the lower part of the scrotum to favour the discharge, we introduce an oblong pledget, and apply embrocations of oil and bandages as for hydrocele. We must also make the other applications as there laid down. I have known some not un- skilful surgeons who after the incision into the tunica vaginalis burnt the extremity of it with heated cauteries for fear of hemorrhage, as would appear. These after th6 operation straightway bathed their patients in a long wooden trough containing hot water, until the seventh day, repeating this as often as five times during the period of a day and a night, more especially with children; and it succeeded wonderfully, for they remained free from inflammation, and the ligatures fell out speedily along with the parts. In the intervals between the bathings the afore-mentioned embrocations were applied. Another surgeon, in addition to the means already mentioned, rubbed into their back at the time pepper triturated with oil. Commentary. Celsus recommends us, if the patient be a child, to make an attempt, in the first place, to efi'ect a cm'e with bandages. In more advanced ages, if a large portion of intestine has fallen down, and if attended with pain and vomit- ing, which symptoms generally arise from retention of the fseces, it is clear, he says, that the knife is not applicable, and that the case is to be remedied by other means. He recommends vene- section in the arm, the tepid bath, wai'm cataplasms, and spare diet; but he disapproves of purgatives. This is his treatment of strangulated hernia. "When an operation with the scalpel is resolved upon, an incision having been made in the groin down to the middle tunic (tunica vaginalis ?), the lips of it are to be separated with the assistance of hooks, while the sm'geon frees the tunic from all the small membranes (external fascia?).ENTEROOELB. SECT. LXV.] 375 Wlien this tunic is removed^ an incision is to be made from the Comm groin down to the testicle, which is to be careftilly cut out. This process, however, is only applicable when the patient is of a tender age, and the mischief is moderate. When the patient is a strong man and the disease greater, the testicle is not to be removed, but is to be allowed to remain in its place. It is accomplished in this manner: the groin being opened with a scalpel, in the same manner, down to the middle tunic, it is to be seized with two hooks, so that an assistant may pre- vent the testicle from falUng out at the wound; then that tunic is to be cut downwards with a scalpel, and under it the index- finger of the left hand is to be pushed down to the bottom of the testicle so as to force it up to the wound: then the thumb and index-finger of the right hand separate the vein, artery, nerve, and then- tunic, from the upper tunic. But if any small membranes (fasciee ?) come in the way, they are to be cut out with a scalpel, until the whole tunic be exposed. Having cut out what is proper, and replaced the testicle, a somewhat broader thong of skin is to be removed from the lips of the wound in the groin, in order to enlarge the wound, and thereby occasion a greater formation of new flesh. The object of this operation, it will be remarked, is to produce a firm cicatrix at the external abdominal ring. In cases of epiplocele, he recommends us either to replace the omentum, or to cause the death of it by septic medicines, cauteries, or the ligature ; or to cut it out with a pair of scissors, but of this proceeding he does not much ap- prove, as it may occasion dangerous hemorrhage, (vii, 20, 21.) G alen briefly states that intestinal and omental hernise are to be cured by pressing up the intestine or omentum, removing as much as possible of the spermatic vessels ; or otherwise draw- ing out the peritoneum, fomenting it, and then cutting it ofi*. (Isagoge.) He mentions that it was customary to bleed the patient before the operation when he was plethoric. (De Opt. sec.) Aetius speaks of the operation as being highly dangerous. He forbids attempts at reduction while the prolapsed parts are affected with inflammation, tormina, and flatus, (xiv, 23.) Albucasis's account of the treatment is quite similar to our author's. He states that the disease is occasioned by the de- scent of a portion of intestine to the testicle, owing to rupture376 ENTEROCELE. [book vi. or distension of the peritoneum. Sometimes, he says, feces get into the prolapsed bowels, and being retained give rise to violent and sometimes fatal symptoms. When going to operate he directs us, in the first place, to make the patient reduce the intestine if reducible. Then an incision is to be made along the whole skia of the testicle, and hooks are to be fixed in the lips of the wound so as to enlarge it, and allow a passage for the testicle. The membranes, then, below the skin, are to be dissected, so as to expose completely the tunica vaginaUs [sifac album.) The index-finger is then to be introduced between the tunica vaginalis and the second coat (tunica albuginea?) so as to free the adhesions at the back part of the testicle. The operator is afterwards to separate the testicle from all its adhesions and raise it up to the external wound. He must now examine whether any portion of intestine remain pro- truded, and if so, it must be replaced. The operjitor is then to take a large needle armed with a cord of ten threads, and having introduced it behind the tunic under the skin of the testicle (tunica vaginalis ?) its extremities are to be cut, and the threads arranged into four pieces. With them the perito- neum is to be tightly bound in a crucial form, so as that the nutrient vessels may not be able to reach it, which will obviate inflammation. Another ligature is to be appHed afterwards at the distance of less than two fingers' breadth from the former. After applying these two ligatures, about a finger's breadth of the peritoneum is to be left, and the rest is then to be cut all around, and the testicle removed along with it. An incision is then to be made at the lower part so as to allow an outlet for the blood and matter. Wool dipped in oil is to be applied afterwards, and bound as formerly described. Sometimes, he adds, the cautery is applied to the tunica vaginalis after the incision for fear of hemorrhage. (Chirurg. ii, 65.) He describes minutely the treatment by burning in another place, (i, 47.) Avicenna recommends the cautery, but does not describe the other operation. Haly's description is evidently taken from our author. (Pract. ix, 50.) Rhases states correctly that hernia generally arises from di- latation of the passage which leads from the cavity of the abdo- men to the testicle. In ordinary cases, he says, there is no rupture of the peritoneum. He states that the contents of theSECT. LXVI.] 377 BUBONOCELE. liernial tumour ai'e either intestines or omentum. The omen- Comm. tum, he adds, is the intestine most commonly found in ruptures. ' * ' He says the peritoneum {sifac) lines the whole intestines and surrounds the testicles. Antyllus, from whom he gives a sub- sequent extract, states in like manner that the peritoneum de- scends to the testicles and forms the tunica elytroides, i. e. vaginalis. Antyllus also affirms that hernia arises from relax- ation of the passage between the cavity of the abdomen and the testicles. This opinion regarding ruptures is maintained by several of the authorities quoted by Rhases, (Contin. xxiv.) Sprengel says of Rhases : " Sa theorie des hernies propre- ment dites est infiniment preferable ^ celle des Grecs.^^ (Hist, de la Med.) The account which Rhases gives of ruptures is, no doubt, very correct; but there is every reason to suppose that it was entirely taken from the works of the Greek surgeons. The operations practised by the ancients for the radical cure of hernia cannot but appear to us extremely cruel and hazardous; and yet the danger attending them must have been less than is generally supposed, otherwise they could not have been so fre- quently performed as they were about two centuries ago. Fa- bricius ab Aquapendente mentions that a celebrated rupture doctor of his time informed him that he used to operate upon 200 patients at an average every year. Fabricius, however, prxidently recommends us not to perform the operation except in extreme cases, and to be content in general with supporting the parts by means of a truss. The ancients never operated to relieve strangulated hernia. SECT. LXVI. ON BUBONOCELE, OR INGUINAL HERNIA. Enterocele arising from distension commences as bubono- cele ; for at first the peritoneuin being stretched the relaxed intestine is protruded as far as the groin, and forms this dis- ease, which the ancients operated upon in this manner. After making the incision to the extent of three fingers' breadth transversely across the tumour in the groin, and removing the membranes and fat, and the peritoneum being exposed in the middle where it is raised up to a point, let the knob of a probe[book VI. 378 BUBONOCELE. be applied, by wbicli the intestines will be pressed deep down. The prominences, tben, of the peritoneum formed on each side of the knob of the probe are to be united to one another by sutures, and then we extract the probe, neither cutting the peri- toneum nor removing the testicle, nor anything else, but curing it with the applications for fresh wounds. But since burning in cases of bubonocele is preferred by most of the moderns it will be right for us to give an account of this operation. After the man has undergone moderate exercise, let him cough violently and strain to keep in his breath; and when the swelling appears at the groin we mark with black ink or coUy- rium the place that is to be burned in a triangular figure, making its transverse line above in the situation of the groin, and we also make a mark in the middle of the triangle. Having laid the patient in a recumbent posture we first apply to the mark in the middle nail-shaped cauteries heated in the fire, afterwards burn the sides of the triangle with gamma-shaped (r) cauteries, and afterward level the triangle with cauteries shaped like tiles or leutils, an assistant during the whole pro- cess of burning wiping away the ichorous discharges with a rag; and in those who are of a moderate habit of body the burning should be carried to such a depth as to touch the fat. But in those who are lean we must not attend to this mark lest by mistake we should biu-n the peritoneum ; nor again in. those who are grosser and fatter, for in them the fat appears before a suflacient burning has taken place. We must, there- fore, be rather guided as to its extent by a skilful conjecture. After the burning, having triturated salts with leeks we apply them to the eschar, and use the inguinal bandage shaped like the Greek letter X. On the following days we complete the cure with the dressings fitting for eschars, such as lentils with honey, and the like. Commentary. Celsus directs us, when the inguinal tumour ' is moderate in size, to make one incision; but if larger, he re- commends two lines to be made, so that the middle may be cut out; then, without extracting the testicle, as advised in certain cases of prolapsed intestines, the veins are to be bound together and tied where they adhere to the tunics, and afterwai'ds cut below the knots, (vii, 24.)379 SECT. LXVIII.] CASTRATION. Avicenna speaks of astringent applications and the actual Comm. cautery, but disapproves of the incision and suture, (iii, 22, 1.) '—' ' The operations of the suture and burning are described by Albucasis (Chii'urg. ii, 67, and i, 47); by Ehases (Cont. xxjv); and by Haly Abbas (Pract. ix, 52, and ix, 80.) They all eyi- dently copy from our author. Gai'engoit affirms that Paulus has made mention of crural hernia, but we agree with Heister that this is a mistake. SECT. LXVII. ON RHACOSIS, OB RELAXATION OP THE SCROTUM, When the skin about the scrotum is relaxed without the bodies within being affected, rhacosis is formed, being a most unseemly complaint. Wherefore Leonides, having placed the man in a recumbent posture, cut off the redundant skin witli a scalpel dii-ect upon some board or some hard skin, and united the lips of the wound with sutures. But Antyllus, having first transfixed the redundant skin with three or four ligatures, cut off what was external to them with a sharp-pointed pair of scissors or scalpel, and having secured the parts with sutures, effected the cxu-e by the treatment for recent wounds. Commentary. Our author's description of the, two modes Comm. of performing the operation is copied by Albucasis. (Chirurg."—'—' ii, 68) ; and by Haly Abbas (Pract. ix, 53.) SECT. LXVIII.—ON CASTRATION. The object of our art being to restore those parts which are in a preternatural state to their natural, the operation of castra- tion professes just the reverse. But since we are sometimes compelled against our will by persons of high rank to perform the operation, we shall briefly describe the mode of doing it. There are two ways of performing it, the one by compression, and the other by excision. That by compression is thus per- foniied : children, still of a tender age, are placed in a vessel of hot water, and then when the parts are softened in the bath, the testicles are to be squeezed with the fingers until they dis-380 [book VI. CASTRATION. appear, and, being dissolved, can no longer be felt. Tlie metbod by excision is as follows : let tbe person to be castrated be placed upon a bencli, and the scrotum with the testicles grasped by the fingers of the left hand, and stretched; tw o straight incisions are then to be made with a scalpel, one in each testicle; and when the testicles start up they are to be dissected around and cut out, having merely left the very thin bond of connexion between the vessels in their natural state. This method is preferred to that by compression; for those who have had them squeezed sometimes have venereal desires, a certain part, as it would appeal-, of the testicles having escaped the compression. Comm. COMMENTARY. We have given Celsus's description of the ' * ' operation in the 64th section of this Book. Albucasis describes the operations by compression and by excision. In the former the testicle is squeezed by the operator while the patient is seated in hot water. In the other the spermatic cord is to be first secured vtdth a ligature and then the testicle cut out. (Chirurg. ii, 69.) They are likewise described in nearly the same terms liy Haly Abbas. (Pract. ix, 54.) The castration of the inferior animals is mentioned by Aristotle (Hist. Animal, ix, 50); by Varro (De Re Rustica, iii, 9); by Columella (De R. R. vi, 26); and by Palladius (De R. R. vi, 7.) VaiTO informs us that it was customary to make capons by burning the testicles of cocks with a red-hot iron. It appears from Juvenal that the surgeons in his time were often called upon to perform castration. (Sat. vi, 1. 370.) Abulpharagius likewise mentions that the perform- ance of this operation constituted at one time an important part of the surgical practice in Bagdad. (Dynast, ix.) But the Emperor Justinian condemned the operation as being dangerous and often fatal. Sprengel gives an interesting history of castration. One of the most important points in this operation is the mode of tying the cord. Some modern authorities affirm that no bad efi'ects result from putting a hgatiu-e round the whole cord, but others condemn this practice as bringing on comoilsions and tetanus. AU admit the difficulty of securing the artery sepa- rately.381 SECT, LIX.] NYMPHA. SECT. XXIX. ON HERMAPHRODITES. This affection derives its name from a combination of tlie names Hermes and Aphrodite (Mercury and Venus,) and occa- sions great deformity to both sexes. There being four varieties of it, according to Leonides; three of them occur in men and one in women. In men, sometimes about the perineum and sometimes about the middle of the scrotum, there is the ap- pearance of a female pudendum with hair; and in addition to these there is a third variety, in which the discharge of urine takes place at the scrotum as from a female pudendum. In women there is often found above the pudendum and in the situation of the pubes the appearance of a man^s privy parts, there being three bodies projecting there, one like a penis, and two like testicles. The third of the male varieties in which the urine is voided through the scrotum is incurable; but the other three may be cured by removing the supernumerary bodies and treating the part like sores. Commentary. This section of our author is copied by Albucasis (Chirurg. ii, 70); and by Haly Abbas (Pract. ix, 55.) Avicenna briefly mentions this monstrosity, (iii, 20, 2, 43.) Guy of Cauhac and Brunus describe it in the same terms as the Arabians. SECT. LXX. ON extirpation OF THE NYMPHA AND CAUDA PUDENDI. In certain women the nympha (chtoris ?) is excessively large and presents a shameful deformity, insomuch that, as has been related, some women have had erections of this part like men, and also venereal desires of a like kind. Wherefore, having placed the woman in a supine posture, and seizing the redun- dant portion of the nympha in a forceps we cut it out with a scalpel, taking care not to cut too deep lest we occasion the complaint called rhceas. The cauda is a fleshy excrescence arising from the mouth of the womb, and filling the female pu- dendum, sometimes even projecting externally like a tail; and it may be removed in the same manner as the nympha.382 [book VI. THYMI, ETC. Comm. COMMENTARY. That the nympha and clitoris were used ""^^ ' aneiently as synonymous terms is evident from UufiHis Ephesius (De Partibus Hominis); Soranus (c. 6); and Pollux (Onomasti- con, ii.) Martial, in more than one place, makes allusion to unnatural practices connected with an enlarged clitoris. Aetius says that it is a small muscular substance situated at the com- missure of the alse pudendi above the meatus urinarius. lie adds, that when preternaturally enlarged it is to be amputated. Like our author, he directs us to take hold of the tumom* with a forceps and cut off the protuberance, taking care not to cai-ry the excision too far. He recommends us to apply a sponge squeezed out of an astringent wine or cold water, with suitable dressings. He gives the same account of the cauda as our author, (xvi, 103 and 104.) It was a tumour arising from the uterus itself. Albucasis merely transcribes our author's ac- count of these operations. (Chirurg. ii, 71.) Avicenna briefly recommends us to remove the enlarged nympha by medicines or the knife, (iii, 22 ; i, 24.) It would appear that this operation, like circumcision, is still often practised in the East. The chapters of Soranus, in which these operations were treated of, are unfortunately wanting. On extirpation of the enlarged clitoris see Heister's Sur- gery (ii, 5, 147). The cauda pudendi was probably the cauli- flower excrescence of the os uteri described by late authorities on midwifery. SECT. LXXI. ON THYMI, CONDYLOMATA, AND HEMORRHOIDS ABOUT THE FEMALE PARTS OF GENERATION. The thymus is an excrescence sometimes red, but sometimes white, for the most part without pain, and resembling the clusters of thyme. The condylomata are rugose protuberances ; and the hemorrhoids resemble those about the anus, and, like them, sometimes pour forth blood. Such excrescences in women, when brought into view and exposed, are to be seized with a forceps and cut out with the point of a half-spatula. And we are then to use pounded galls, or fissile alum. For the more distinguished surgeons do not approve of ligatures m these cases.383 SECT. Lxxii.] IMPERFORATE PUDENDUM. Commentary. Aetius gives a fuller account of these tuber- Comm. cles. He recommends us to seize them with a forceps and cut tliem out by the roots. He directs us not to interfere with such hemorrhoids of the womb as are varicose and malignant. Those which are hai'd and do not bleed are to be cut out at nee, but such as are disposed to bleed are to be seized with a brceps and a hgatui'e put round them before they are cut. MoschioUj however, condemns this practice as being highly dangerous. Albucasis evidently copies from our author. (Chirurg. ii, 73.) Haly Abbas briefly directs us to seize these tubercles with a forceps and cut them out with a pair of scissors. (Pract. ix, 65.) E-hases, treating of diseases of the uterus, says, " if there be a red piece of flesh in the mouth of the womb, if situated at its anterior part^ and if it be round, or long, and not attended with pain, some surgeons cut it ofi", but I prefer tying it.^^ (Cont. xxii.) This description seems to apply to polypus of the womb. See a full account of the condylomata and hemorrhoids of the womb, by Lodovicus Mercatus (in the Gyneecia, p. 962.) He remarks that Celsus and Aetius call any tubercle arising from inflammation by the name of condyloma, whereas Paulus applies the term only to callous tubercles of the uterus. He approves of seizing them with a forceps and cutting them out. SECT. LXXII. ON IMPERTORATB PUDENDUM AND PHIMUS. Some women have the genital parts imperforate, sometimes naturally, and sometimes owing to some previous disease. And -sometimes it is deep-seated, sometimes in the alje pudendi, or in lie intermediate places, and is sometimes occasioned by an adhe- ion of the parts, and sometimes by obstruction. The obstructing ubstance is either flesh or membrane. The disease occasions i-eat impediment sometimes in coition, sometimes in concep- lOP, or in parturition, and occasionally during the menstrual imrgation, provided the membrane or flesh occasion a complete obstruction; for in certain cases there is a perforation in the iiiiddle. Having ascertained the cause, either from its being obvious to the sight, or by introducing the speculiun, if it be384 IMPERFORATE PUDENDUM. [book vi. a simple adhesion only, it may be separated by a straight in- cision, made with a scalpel, for operating upon fistulaj. But if it is an obstruction, having transfixed the connecting body, "whether it be membrane or flesh, with hooks, we stretch it and divide with a scalpel for fistulse; and ha-vdng stopped the hemorrhage with such applications as are desiccative without being stimulant, we have then recourse to such medicines as promote cicatrization, applying a priapus-shaped tent covered with some epulotic medicine, in those cases especially in which the operation is performed upon a part not veiy deep-seated, in order that the parts may not unite again. And the phimus which is formed at the mouth of the uterus is operated upon in the same manner. Comm. COMMENTARY. Aristotlc makes mention of imperforate ""^^ ' vagina. (De Generat. Animal, iv, 4.) Aetius treats of these diseases at considerably greater length than our author, but his practice is neai'ly the same. Upon the whole the amount of his directions respecting the treatment is, that when the obstruction is occasioned by a membrane, it is to be divided and the lips of the incision prevented from adhering by the introduction of suitable tents; or, if it is a fleshy body, it is to be dissected out, and the parts separated by a piece of sponge or tents, (xvi, 96.) The same operation is described by Sora- nus. (219.) The same method of treatment, however, had been previously recommended by Celsus. Thus, when the obstruction is oc- casioned by a simple membrane, he recommends us to divide it by two transverse incisions hke the letter X, taking great care not to wound the urinary passage, and then the mem- brane is to be cut out. When the obstruction is produced by a fleshy tumour, he directs us to expose it by making a sh-aight incision; then, having seized it with a forceps or hook, to dis- sect it out, and introduce an oblong tent {XiifivlaKoq) soaked in vinegar, and apply externally wool moistened with \dnegar. The dressings are to be removed on the third day, and the sore treated upon general principles. When the wound is heaUug, he advises us to introduce a leaden tube smeared with some suit- able ointment to prevent adhesion, (vii, 28.) Albucasis makes mention of a singular substitute for theSECT. LXXIIT.] 385 ABSCESS OF WOMB. leaden tube recommended by Celsus : " Coeat mnlier omni die Comm at non consolidetur locus vice alia!!" The same advice is '—^ gravely given by Rhases (Cent, xxii), and by Alsaharavius, Avho, :is we have formerly stated, was probably the same person as Albucasis. (Pract. xxv, 3, 19.) But when the obstruction arises from a fleshy tumour, Albucasis recommends us to make use of the leaden tube. (Chirurg. ii, 72.) Alsaharavius directs us to remove the obstruction by corrosive medicines or with the knife. Rhases briefly describes the phimus, and directs us to perforate it with an instrument of iron, and then to introduce a tent moistened in some styptic wine. Haly Abbas states that obstruction of the uterus may arise cither from a natural, that is to say, a congenital impediment, or from the effects of ulceration. He recommends us to make the midwife clear away the obstruction with a scalpel or any other convenient instrument. The Arabians were very delicate 111 allowing male practitioners to perform surgical operations about the genital organs of women. (Pract. ix, 66.) SECT. LXXIII. ON ABSCESS OF THE WOMB. When the abscess is situated at the mouth of the womb, so as Ithat it can be operated upon, we must not be in haste in having ^recourse to incision, nor until the disease be ripened, and the rinflammation has increased to its utmost, and the vascular (.bodies which surround it have become attenuated, owing to the limportance of the uterus in the system. In operating, the rwoman should be placed on a seat in a supine posture, having «her legs drawn up to the belly, and her thighs separated from ©ne another. Let her arms likewise be brought down to her Jlegs and secured by proper hgatures about the neck. The pperator, sitting on her right side, is to make an examination with a speculum proportionate to her age. The person using the speculum should measure with a probe the depth of the woman's vagina, lest the stalk (fistula) of the speculum being Jtoo long it should happen that the uterus should be pressed japon. If it be ascertained that the stalk is larger than the ragina, folded compresses are to be laid upon the ake pudendi, LU order that the speculum may be placed upon them. The[book vr. 386 ABSCESS OF WOMB. stalk (fistula) is to be introduced, having a screw at tlie upper part, and the speculum is to be held by the operator, but the screw is to be turned by the assistant, so that the laminte of the stalk being separated the vagina may be distended. When the abscess is exposed, if it be soft and thin (which may be ascertained by touching it with the finger), it is to be di\nded at the top by a scalpel or needle, and after the discharge of the pus, a soft oblong tent well smeared with rose-oil is to be introduced into the incision, or rather external to the opening into the woman's vagina, so as not to produce compression. And externally to the alae pudendi and the region of the pubes and loins unwashed wool, or clean wool dipped in oil, is to be applied. On the third day she is to be placed in a hip-bath of warm oil or water, or of a decoction of mallows; and having wiped the parts, we introduce the tent gently into the opening, spread with the ointment tetrapharmacon, either alone or with claiified honey; its strength, however, ought to be reduced with butter or oil of roses. The external parts are to be covered with cataplasms until the inflammation subside and the sore become clean. If it is got cleansed with difEculty, an injection of the decoction of iris, of birthwort, or of honey, may be thrown up with an ear-syringe. The healing process may be promoted by the calamine ointment diluted with wine and applied upon a pledget. But if the abscess be within the mouth of the uterus, we must dechne operating. Comm. COMMENTARY. A similar description of the method of open- ■"""^— ing abscesses in the vagina is given by Aetius. (xvi, 85.) The only difficulty in comprehending his description or our author's arises from our unacquaintance with the construction of the an- cient dioptrte or specula. Drawings of several sorts of them are given in the surgery of Albucasis and by Scultet. (Arsenal de Chirurg. tab. 18.) One of the simplest of them consists of two lamina or plates so united that by turning a vice or screw they separated to the proper distance. Albucasis evidently copies our author's description. (Chirurg. ii, 71.) The account given by Haly Abbas is quite similar. (Pract. ix, 57.)SECT. LXXIV.] EMBRYULCIA. 387 SECT. LXXIV. ON EMBRYULCIA AND EMBRYOTOMY. We have described the treatmeBt of difficult labours in the Third Book. If the process of parturition be not rectified by the means there laid down, we must proceed to the surgical operation, after having formed a probable conjecture whether the woman will siu'vive or not j and if she may be saved, then we are to operate; but if not, we must decHne attempting the operation. Those in a dying state are affected with coma, lethargy, and loss of muscular motion; they are difficult to rouse, or if roused by loud cries, they return a feeble answer, and again sink into a comatose state. Some have convulsive contractions, or subsultus tendinum, or insensibility to food. The pulse is found to be greatly inflated, but obscure and feeble. Those who are to recover have none of these symptoms. Having placed the woman in a supine posture, with her head rather depressed, her thighs are to be kept elevated by women on each side, or by certain assistants; or if they are not at liand, her chest is to be first fastened to the bed by ligatures, so that when the foetus is pulled the woman's body may not follow, and diminish the force of the pulling. Then the al® pudendi being separated by an assistant, we must introduce the left hand lubricated with some unctuous substance, the fingers being contracted, to the mouth of the uterus, and dilate it, ;tnd having got it relaxed by lubricating it with oil, we seek for the most convenient place for fastening the hook (embry- ulcus). The most convenient places in presentations of the head are—the eyes, the occiput, the roof of the mouth, the . chm, the clavicles, and the parts about the sides and hypo- «chondrium; and in feet presentations, the bones of the pubes, tthe middle of the ribs, or, again, the clavicles. The hook is to I be held m the right hand, and its curvature grasped with the I fingers, and it is to be gently introduced with the left band, land fixed on some of the afore-mentioned places, being pushed : to tlie cavity of the uterus. And another is to be applied oppo- site to It m order that the pulling mav be straight down and not to one side. Then we are to pull gently, not only straight- ^forward but also from side to side, as in the extraction of teeth; .and there ought to be no relaxation of the pulling in the in-EMBRYULCIA. [hook vj. 388 tervals. Then introducing the index-finger or more fingers besmeared with fat between the mouth of the womb and the impacted body, we must lubricate it all around. When the hook comes down properly it must be changed to a part above, and so- on nntil the foetus is completely extracted. When a hand presents, and is so impacted that it cannot be returned, we must wrap a cloth round it so that it may not sUp, and pull it so far, and when it is properly fallen down it should be cut off at the shoulder. The same thing is to be done when two hands fall down into the vagina; and in like manner, when the feet come down, and the rest of the body does not come along, we must amputate at the groins, and then en- deavour to txirn the rest of the body. If the impaction take place owing to the head being larger than natural, if it be a hydrocephalous foetus, we must open its skull with a polypus- scalpel, or a needle, or a sharp-pointed knife concealed between the fingers, in order that it may collapse when evacuated; but if it be a naturally large head, we must open the skull in lilce manner, and break down its bones with a tooth-forceps or a bone-forceps, and if the bones project they ought to be ex- tracted. If, after the head has been delivered, an impediment should take place at the chest, the parts about the clavicles should be divided down to the cavity of the thorax with the same instrument, so that the thorax may collapse when its fluid contents are discharged; but if it do not collapse we may divide the clavicles and extract them, when the thorax vrill collapse. If the belly be inflated, owing to the death of the child, or its being dropsical, we must evacuate its contents with the intestines in the same way. In presentations by the feet the wrong direction may be easily rectified at the mouth of the womb. But if the foetus stick at the chest or beUy, we must wrap a cloth about it and draw it down, and making a dinsion in the same manner, evacuate its contents. If, after the other parts are cut ofi", the head retreat backwards and is retained, we must introduce the left hand, and if the mouth of the womb be open, push up the hand to the cavity of the womb, and having found the head, bring it down with the fingers fixed in the mouth, and extract by one or two hooks fixed in it; but when there is inflammation at the mouth of the womb we must use no violence, but lubricate the parts with unctuousSECT. LXXIV.] 389 EMBRYULCIA. and fatty applications^ and have recourse to liip-baths, embro- cations, and cataplasms, in order tliat when the mouth is dilated extraction may be accomplished in the manner described ibove. Cross presentations, if they can be rectified, may be treated according to the afore-mentioned methods ; but if not, the whole foetus must be cut asunder within, and extracted in pieces, taking care that none of the parts of it be left behind. After the operation we must have recourse to the treatment for inflammations of the uterus. If hemorrhage come on, you have ah'eady had the management of it described. Commentary. There is a curious treatise commonly pub- Comm. lished along with the works of Hippocrates on the extraction ' ' ' of the foetus j but, as it is not mentioned by Erotian and Galen, it is now generally admitted not to be genuine. The author of it directs us, when the arm presents, to pull it down and amputate at the shoulder-joint j after Avhich the head is to be brought to the proper position and delivery accomplished ac- cordingly. This is not now the general rule of practice, and yet we were once compelled by necessity to deliver in this way, after Ave and an intelligent assistant had been foiled in all our attempts to turn the child. We have known of similar cases happening in the practice of other surgeons; and, in fact, this method of procedure was advocated lately by a sensible writer in the ' Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal.' The author of the ancient treatise in question recommends us to bring down the head in its natural state, if possible, but if this be found impracticable, to break it down. He directs us to give for drink a white, sweet, undiluted wine. Celsus gives an interesting account of this subject, and his practice is deserving of much consideration. He recommends us, when the position is unnatural, to turn the child either to the head or the feet; adding, afterwards, that delivery may generally be accomplished easily enough by the feet. In arm presentations, he approves of turning to the head, that is to say, in cases when it is ascertained that the foetus is dead. If the head is at hand, a smooth hook with a small point is to be fa.stened at tlie eye, the ear, the mouth, or the forehead, and its body is to be thus dragged down. This, however, must not be attempted when the mouth of the womb is not properly[book VI. EMBRYULCIA. 390 Comm. dilated. The right hand is to be employed in dragging doMn ' the foetuSj and the left in directing the instrument and the foetus. When the body of the foetus is distended -with a fluid, it is to be let out, and the body brought down with a hook. If the child lie across and the position cannot be got rectified, the hook is to be inserted at the armpit, and extraction gradu- ally performed. In extreme cases he recommends us to cut the neck asunder, and extract the parts separately, beginning with the head, for fear of its being left in the uterus. Should such an accident occur, however, he directs us to get the belly compressed so as to force the head down to the os uteri; after which it may be extracted with a hook in the manner described above. (Smellie relates histories of such cases.) When one foot presents, and the breech sticks at the os uteri, he recom- mends us, when the other foot cannot be found, to separate the one which protrudes; after which the body of the child may be pushed up, and the other leg found and brought down. It is to he recollected that this practice is only recommended when the child is dead. He adds, that other difficulties may give rise to the necessity of performing embryotomy, {vii, 29.) Aetius has an interesting chapter on the Extraction of the - Dead Foetus, copied from the works of Philumenus. His description of embryotomy is similar to our author's. He directs us to apply two hooks to certain pai'ts of the head, such as the eye, mouth, and chin, and thus to drag down the body. If the head is lai'ge or hydrocephahc, he advises us to open it and evacuate its contents ; and if even then it is found to be too large for the passage, he recommends us to break down the bones of the skull and remove them with a forceps, after which the instrument is to be fixed and the foetus dragged down. If obstruction to the delivery take place at the chest or the belly, he directs us to evacuate their contents in like mauner. When an arm or both present, he recommends us to amputate at the shoulder-joint. If the child come down doubled, and the position cannot be got rectified, he ad-vdses us, if the head can be reached, to break down its bones, and then extract the other parts accordingly; but if the legs are got at most easily and cannot be brought down, they are to be amputated at the hip-joint, and then the head will be got delivered. Wheu the body is so impacted in a doubled state that it cannot he moved, ^I SECT. Lxxiv.] EMBRYULCIA. 391 lie directs us to sepai'ate the vertebra at the neck, and then to Comm. I drag down the lower part of the body; after which the head " 1 is to be sought for by the hand introduced into the uterus, and j brought along with two hooks, (xvi, 33.) I No ancient author has described the operation of embry- i otomy so accurately as Soranus; but as his acco\mt of the I process is lengthy and does not differ essentially from that of j Aetius, (indeed the latter evidently copies from Soranus,) we j need not seek to give any outline of it. (Op. 51, 53, 53.) Avicenna takes his chapter on the extraction of the dead foetus from our author, (iii, 31, 2, 34.) We have mentioned in the Third Book that he was acquainted with the forceps. Albucasis, in like manner, takes his account of embryotomy j from Paulus. He relates a singiilar case that came under his own knowledge of an extra-uterine conception ; the most re- I markable circumstance about which was, that the bones of the i foetus after a time were discharged at the umbilicus. The work i of Albucasis contains drawings of the instruments used in his i time for obstetrical operations. There are several forcipes among I them, but as they all have teeth, it is to be presumed that ; they were used only for delivering the foetus when dead. It ; is to be regretted that he has entirely omitted the forceps i mentioned by Avicenna. (See Chu-urg. ii, 76 and 77.) Rhases directs us when the child's head is large and cannot ►be brought down with fillets, to open it and deliver with hooks. HWhen it is ascertained that the child is dead, he recommends ms to break down the bones of the head and evacuate the brain. In preternatural presentations he recommends us to deliver, if •■possible, by the head or feet, brit if this cannot be got accom- plished, he directs us to cut off the protruding part. Upon the whole his rules of practice are much the same as our : author's. (Cont. xxii.) ! Haly Abbas gives ample directions for the management of I these cases. When the head presents (the child being dead j and delivery found otherwise impracticable), he directs us to fix liooks in the hollows of the eyes, neck, or jaw-bone; or if the feet present, at the tops of the thighs. The body of the i child is then to be dragged along. When a hand presents, he ^recommends us to pull down the arm and amputate at the \ shoulder; and in like manner he directs us to amputate at the'■0)2 SECUNDINES. [book vi. Ci MM. liip-joiut when in footling presentations the delivery cannot he ' ^ ' otherwise accomplished. When the head is preternaturally large, he directs us to open it and evacuate its contents; and to do so in like manner with the chest when any obstruction takes place at it. He makes no mention of any instrumeut resembling the modern forceps. (Pract. ix, 57.) SECT. LXXV.-—ON RETENTION OF THE SECUNDINES. Often, after the removal of the foetus, the placenta (which is also called the secundines) is retained in the uterus. When the mouth of the uterus is dilated and the j)lacenta separated, and rolled into a ball in some part of the uterus, the extraction is most easy. The left hand warmed and anointed is to be introduced into its cavity, and the secundines extracted as they present. But if they adhere to the fundus uteri we must in- troduce the hand in like manner, and grasp them and pull them along, not straight down for fear of prolapsus, nor with great violence, but they are to be moved gently, at first from this side to that, and afterwards somewhat more strongly, for thus they will yield and be freed from their adhesion. If the mouth of the uterus be found shut we must have recourse to the same treatment. If the strength is not sunk, sternutatories and fu- migations with aromatics in a pot may be used; and if the mouth of the womb dilate, the hand is to be introduced and an attempt made to extract the placenta, as aforesaid. If even in this way it cannot be extracted, one need not be alai'med, for after a few days it will putrefy, dissolve into sanies and drop off. But since the fetid smell affects the head and disorders the stomach, we must use suitable fumigations, among which cardamum and dried figs are much approved. Comm. COMMENTARY. We have mentioned in another place that I—,—- Hippocrates' practice in retention of the placenta consisted in suspending weights from the end of the umbilical cord. Celsus directs us, when the placenta is not cast off" soon after the delivery of the child, to draw doAvn the umbilical cord geutly M ith the left hand, taking care not to break it. The right hand is then to follow it up to the secundines, and theii- veins andI -SECT. Lxxv.] SECUNDINES. 393 imembranes being separated from the womb, the whole are to Comm. I be extracted along with whatever coagulated blood may be in" :thc uterus, (vii, 29.) Our author merely abridges a fuller account of the subject {given by Aetius from the works of Philumenus. (xvi, 24.) " ISIoschion reprobates the ancient practice of using sternuta- tories, pessaries, and fumigations, and of suspending scales or weights from the cord, because these means sometimes occasion liemorrhage. He recommends the midwife, if the mouth of the womb be still open, to introduce her left hand, and to take hold of whatever part of the placenta presents : then, if it does not adhere to the fundus uteri it is to be extracted; but if it is not separated it is to be moved gently hither and thither 'without violence. When the mouth of the uterus is con- 'tracted, he advises her to use those liquors and injections which ;are applicable for inflammations of the womb. (Section liv.) I His method of securing the umbilical cord after delivery is I nearly the same as that now adopted. After the child has heen > allowed to lie on the ground for a few minutes, two ligatures ! are to be applied round the cord, the nearest being four fingers ) from the belly; it is then to be cut with a scalpel or any sharp 1 knife. He disapproves of using instruments of wood, glass, or i reeds, and hard crusts of bread, as practised by the ancients. • (Ixv.) He directs lacerations of the perineum to be treated by .-applying ointments composed of wax, oil of roses, litharge, c ceruse, and alum, with suitable bandages. (Ivii.) The practice of Soranusin these cases is most judicious, and such as can scarcely be improved upon at the present day. He disapproves of all violent attempts at extraction, but when the placenta cannot be got otherwise removed from the womb, he approves of introducing the hand well lubricated to extract the ^ secundines gently. He directs us when the mouth of the womb i is shut to open it if possible with the fingers in a gentle man- tner. This is the case now incorrectly called the hou.r-glass c contraction. Avicenna repeats the directions given by Paiilus and Aetius, Ibut seems to have considered the introduction of the hand into tthe uterus as a painful, and, in general, an unnecessary ope- rration. (iii, 21, 2, 16.) Albucasis follows our author's practice. (Chiriu-g. ii, 78.)[hook VI. BURNING THE HIPS. 394 Comm. Haly Abbas directs us to introduce the hand well lubricated " ' with, oil of violets, or the like, into the uterus, and extract the placenta if it be separated; but if it still adhere it is to be moved from side to side, and not pulled straight downwards. He adds, that when not extracted, it becomes putrid. (Pract. ix, 59.) Rhases directs us when the secundines do not come aAvay after delivery to make the woman sneeze, and if they are still retained, to pare the nails, and having introduced the hand into the uterus to pull cautiously so as not to give pain. AVhen they cannot be removed in this waj^, he recommends us to throw injections into the womb so as to promote putrefaction of the placenta. In another place he mentions, that Avhen long re- tained, the placenta putrefies and comes off in pieces. (Cont. xxii.) SECT. LXXVI.— ON OSURNING THE HIPS. As in the case of the shoulder, so also the hip-joint getting dislocated from acoUection of humours requires burning. Where- fore Hippocrates says ; " When dislocation at the hip-joint takes place from long-continued ischiatic disease, tlie leg wastes, and the patients are lame unless burnt." Burning, therefore, is to be performed more particularly at the place where the joint is dislocated, for thus the redundant humour will be dried up, and the part being condensed by the cicatrix will no longer be able to receive the bone, wherefore the burning should be carried to a considerable depth. The moderns form three eschars by burning; one behind in the hollow of the buttocks, another a little above the knee on the outside, and a third on the outside of the ankle in the fleshy part. Comm. COMMENTARY. Hippocrates recommeuds us to burn the parts ' ' over tlie hip-joint with crude flax. (De Aff'ectionibus.) The author of another of the Hippocratic treatises directs us to burn the bony parts with fungi and the flesh with a red-hot iron. (De Aff'ect. Int.) Aetius, upon the authority of Archigenes, recommends burn- ing in this case with irons, the roots of fuller's herb and birth- wort, or with goat's dung, (xii, 3.) Ccclius Aurelianus, in cases of ischiatic disease, speaks of form-iicT. Lxxvi.] BURNING THE HIPS. 395 iQg issues over the hip-joint by the actual and potential cau- Comm. eeries. His potential cauteries, with which he mentions that" ' ' sschars were burnt, appear to have been the ashes of herbs, that i3 to say, impure preparations of the caustic alkah,to which quick- lime was sometimes added. They must, therefore, have been ijiearly the same as the calx cum kali of modern use. He states, 'hat some bui'ned the part with the root of fuller's herb; others vith pieces of iron shaped like the letter T; that some raised j he skin in a fold and transfixed it with heated irons ; that some ; )urned it with fungi, and others with a piece of linen cloth ; bided and laid on the part. (Pass. Tard. v, 1.) j But the fullest account which we have of the ancient modes i )f burning the hips for diseases-of the joint is that which is [; p.ven in the book ' Euporiston,^ ascribed to Dioscorides. Men- i ion is there made of the methods of burning with goat's dung, i'.ind with wool smeared with oil. Some, it is said, form a ball I »f clay, and, having laid it on the place, apply to it a burning. ! • taff as long as it can be borne. Others, having stretched the j kin over the affected joint, transfix it with a heated style or i vriting pen. The Libyans performed the operation with shavings ; :»f the lote tree, sulphur, and elaterium. The Marmaridaj are ;; aid to have done it with green pieces of the wood of olive trees. ;i Che Parthians used a leaden tube, the extremity of which they i 1 meared with dough, in order to prevent the oil in the inside ; i'om escaping; then hot cauteries, to the number of forty or j ifty, were introduced, and the burning continued as long as it ;ould be well endured. Care in the meantime was taken to ;ool the face with cold water; and it was attended to, that ■ he tube was not over-filled with oil, lest it should run over. iEuporist. i, 242.) Albucasis describes minutely the process of burning Avith s-ed-hot irons. (Chirurg. i, 43.) Haly Abbas in like manner directs us to bum an eschar over the joint, and to keep it open or a considerable time. (Pract. ix, 81.) Asclepiades (apud Nicetse Collect.) mentions that he had seen itwo cases in which dislocation had taken place at the hip-joint ^eithout any accident. The editor of this work, Anthony Cocchi, States that he had met with only one such case in the whole asourse of his practice. We need scarcely remark that such rases, however, are by no means of rare occurrence.[book VI. 39G FISTULA. SECT. LXXVII. ON FISTULiE AND FAVI. The present occasion requiring us to treat of fistula in ano, it will not be improper to give an account in the first place of fistulte in general. A fistula then is a callous sinus, attended with little or no pain, and forming in most parts of the body. It generally originates in abscesses not properly healed. The callus is compact and white, the flesh dry, and therefore insen- sible, neither vein nor nerve passing to it. Sometimes the sinus is dry and sometimes filled with a discharge. The dis- charge is sometimes constant, and sometimes at intervals, the mouth of it being at one time shut up, and at another time open. Sometimes the fistula terminates on a bone, sometimes on a nerve, or some other important part; and it is either straight or crooked; has either one orifice or many. Those therefore that terminate upon large arteries, or nerves, or tendons of considerable size, or the pleura, or any important part, are cither not to be meddled with at all, or with great and skilful caution; but the others may be operated upon in this manner. We first examine them if they be straight with a sound (specil- lum), or if crooked with a double-headed specillum of a very flexiljle nature, such as those made of tin, and the smallest of those made of copper. When there are two or more orifices, we must not trust to the examination with a speciUum, but in- jecting the sinus by one of its openings we ascertain from the manner in which the injection comes out whether it be one fistula with many orifices, or if there be several fistulas. After the examination, if the sinus be superficial and naiTow, it is to be distended by the introduction of a specillum, and the callus is to be cut off with a properly-shaped scalpel, or pared with the nails or the point of a scalpel. If it is also broad the re- dundant parts are to be dissected away. If it is not superficial, but deep and straight, we must cut ofi" the callus all around as far as we can make incisions, and if any pai't remain, destroy it with a caustic medicine; or if the callus be large, and do not yield to medicine, we must form a slough by burning it with hot irons. If the fistula terminate with a bone, and if it is not diseased. M e need only scrape it, but if it is carious, or otherwise coi-rupted, the whole diseased portion is to be cut397 FISTULiE. SECT. LXXVII.] out with counter perforators, and if necessary we may bore a hole with a wimble (trephine ?) whether the bone be diseased only to the diploe or as far as the marrow. If a bone project, as after a transverse fracture, we must saw it off. Taking, therefore, two bandages, we apply the middle of the one to the projecting bone itself, and get it kept stretched by an assistant; the other being thicker, or formed of wool, we are to take in Hke manuLr, and apply the middle of it to the flesh under the bone, and taking its ends below, we give directions that the flesh below be retracted by this band lest it be torn by the teeth of the saw, and in this manner we accomplish the sawing. When any vital part is situated below, such as the pleiu'a, spinal marrow, or the like, in cutting or sawing the bone, we must use the instrument called meningophylax for protecting them. If the bone is not diseased, but is denuded of flesh all around, it is to be sawn in the same manner, for bones which are disen- gaged from the other parts all around cannot possibly incar- nate. In like manner, the extremity of a bone near a joint, if diseased, is to be sawn off; and often, if the whole of a bone, such as the idna, radius, tibia, or the like, be diseased, it is to be taken out entire. But if the head of the thigh-bone, or pelvis, or a vertebra of the spine be diseased, we must not at- tempt to operate upon them for fear of the adjoining arteries. We must proceed in this manner in every particular case, atten- tion being paid to the situation, proximity, and connexions of the affected parts, the extent of the disease, the strength and powers of the patient. The favus being a fistulous sinus with a milky discharge must be subjected to the same operation and treatment as fistula. Commentary. For an account of the practice of Hippo- crates we refer to our notes on the 49th section of the Fourth Book. Celsus states that if fistulas spread deep, are crooked, or are numerous, they are to be cured by an operation rather than by medicines. Wherefore, if it spread transversely, he recommends us to introduce a specillum, or sound, and cut down upon it. But if it is crooked, its bondings are to be followed out and cut open in the same manner. When the operator has reached the end of the fistula, all the callus is to be cut out, and theFISTULJil. 398 [HOOK VT. Comm. Hps of the wound secured by clasps and agglutinative applica- ' ' ' tions. When the fistula terminates with a rib he directs us to saw out a piece of it lest it affect the adjoining parts. Fistu- lous sores about the abdomen he pronounces to be highly dan- gerous. He recommends us, however, to attempt a cure by making an incision, and uniting the edges of the wound by sutures. [\\\, 4.) Aetius lays down nearly the same rules for the treatment of fistulse as our author. When the sinus runs transversely along the skin, he directs us to lay it open. When it penetrates downwards he advises us to cut off the callus; and when the ulcer terminates with a bone to remove the diseased lamina of it. (xiv, 55.) Albucasis delivers the surgical treatment of fistulae at great length. He is very particular in inculcating the necessity of making free incisions, and of removing any pieces of diseased bone which may happen to be found at the bottom of the sore. He relates a case of fistulous ulcer in the thigh, to cure which he removed large pieces of l)one, sawing it down as far as the marrow. Some of his saM^s are very ingeniously constructed, and one of them is not unlike the saw introduced into the prac- tice of surgery by the late Mr. Hey, of Leeds. He enumerates nine causes which prevent sores from healing; and as they ap- pear to be of some practical utility we shall briefly mention what they are : 1, a deficiency of blood in the body ; 2, ca- chexy, or bad condition thereof; 3, fungous flesh, which pre- vents the union of the edges of the sore ; 4, much sordes in the ulcer; 5, putridity, or any other bad quality of the fluids ; 6, improper applications; 7 and 8, the pestilential state of the atmosphere and the insalubrity of the place where the patient resides ; 9, a diseased bone. When none of these causes are present, the restorative principle of nature will of itself effect the cure of any solution of continuity. (Chirurg. ii, 88.) Bhases gives extracts from Antyllus, and many other authors, on this subject, but as their principles of treatment are much the same as those delivered by Paulus, we need not occupy much room with an abstract of them. Antyllus forbids us to use the knife when the fistula is situated in the groin or fun- dament. When it is not judged expedient to have recourse to an operation, one of his Arabian authorities, Aaron, recom-399 FISTUL/E IN ANO. SECT. Lxxvrir.] mends a powder composed of equal parts of quicklime, can- Comm. thaiides, arsenic, sandaracli, sal ammoniac, and ginger. (Cont. ' " xxviii.) SECT. LXXVIII. ON FISTULA IN ANO. Fistulte in ano are discovered, if they are bli7id, from their being attended "with pain, although no orifice appears; from there being a purulent moisture about the anus, and in most cases from their being preceded by symptoms of abscess; or, if they are open, by the introduction of a sound or swine's bristle; for the instrument will pass down into a cavity and meet the index-finger introduced into the anus if the fistula has penetrated to the inside; but if it has not penetrated, the instrument does not come in contact with the finger but the intermediate substance between them remains imperforated. The fistula is known to be crooked and winding from the in- strument's passing down but a short way, while a great quantity of pus is discharged in proportion. Those near the intestines are known by an abdominal worm or fseces sometimes pass- ing through the mouth of them. In almost all cases some callus appears about the orifice of the fistula. A fistula is in- cui-able that perforates the neck of the bladder, or extends to the joint of the thigh, or to the rectum. A fistula is diffi- cult to cure when it has no orifice, is blind, ends with a bone, and has many windings. AU the rest are, in general, easily cured. We proceed with them thus: having placed the patient in a supine posture, with the legs elevated, so that the thighs may be bent iipon the belly, as when an injection of the bowels is administered, if the fistiila terminate superficially, having introduced a sound or ear-speciUum through the orifice of it, we cut the skin which covers it at one incision. But if the fistula terminate deeply in the anus, having introduced a specillum into the mouth of it, and if we find that it has per- forated the gut, by introducing the finger into the anus oppo- site the affected buttock, we take hold of the head of the specillum, and bending it, bring it to the outside, and with one simple division cut asunder the parts which lie over the sound. If the fistula is found not to have as yet perforated the gut,[nooK VI. 400 FISTULiE IN ANO. and to have terminated only deeply in the fundament, and if upon examination we find that a scaly or membranous substance intervenes between the index-finger and the extremity of the sound, we must perforate it violently with the head of tlie sound, and forcing the sound through the rectum, we must again, as formerly described, cut asunder the intervening parts with a scalpel; or, having perforated the bottom of the fistula in ano with the sharp part of a falciform instrument for operating upon fistulas, we bring the instrument out at the anus, and so divide all the intermediate space with the edge of the instrument; and after the incision, having taken hold of the surrounding parts, which mostly consist of callus, with a common forceps, or one called staphylagra, we cut them out all around, avoiding the sphincter muscle ; for some cutting deep in an unskilful manner, have wounded it, from which the patient has had an involuntary discharge of faeces. Those who from timidity, avoid a surgical operation may be treated wath the ligature, as recommended by Ilippocrates. For Hippocrates directs us to pass a raw thread, consisting of five pieces, through the fistula by means of a probe having a perforation, or a double-headed specillum, and to tie the ends of the thread and tighten it every day until the whole intermediate substance between the orifice be divided and the ligature fall out. If it remain long, the thread may be sprinkled with the detergent powder called psarum, or some such powder, and drawn in. Some insert a thread-into the opening of the falciform instru- ment for operations on fistulse, and pass it through in the manner described, which I think ought not to be done. For by avoiding an operation, in addition they incur the incon- venience of a slow recover3^ With regard to blind fistulaj, Leonides says: " When the fistula is deep, and penetrates the sphincter, whether beginning in the fundament, or arising from a distance and terminating in the sphincter, after the examina- tion which has been described, we dilate the anus as we do the female vagina, "with the instrument for that purpose, or the small specillum. When the orifice of the fistula is discovered, the end of an ear-specillum is to be passed tlu'ough it, and pushed deep into it, and cutting down upon it where it pre- sents, the whole fistula is to be dinded with a semispathula or a spathula for operating upon fistulsc." We having met withSECT. LXXVIII.] 401 FISTULiE IN ANO. this state of the disease, have found it impossible to practise this mode of operating, because we could not discover the cavity of the fistula. For it was situated between the anus and sphincter towards the right side, and the dilator rather obsciu-ed the operation. But having dilated the wrinkles about the anus a certain fissure appeared among them, being as it were the defluxion of the fistula, for the pus passed out by it we saw to pass the head of the specillum into the fistula by it, which served as a director; and having passed the index-finger of the right hand to the sphincter, and having found a certain thin substance intervening between the finger and the sound, by pressing the sound violently to the finger, we perforated the bottom of the fistula, which was tui-ned upwards ; and passing with the finger the head of the instrument outwards, the whole of the substance between the mouths of the fistula, (I mean the one so situated as to favour the defluxion, and that now made by us,) we divided with a scalpel and cut out the sound. Commentary. Hippocrates describes minutely the apoli- Comm. nose, or the cure with the Hgature, in his work ' De Fistulis.' We must mention, however, that Kuhn and Sprengel do not admit this among the genuine treatises of Hippocrates, although they allow that it is ancient. Littre also, though, with some hesitation, has rejected it from his list of the genuine works of Hippocrates. And yet, considering that it was received as such by Galen and Erotian, it seems bold in any modern critic to refuse its claims. Celsus Kkewise describes distinctly the method of applying the ligature. The process, he says, is slow but free from pain. It may be expedited by smearing the thread with some escha- rotic ointment. The same thing, he adds, may be accompHshed by means of a scalpel guided upon a specillum (sound). When iinany smuses open by one mouth, he directs us to cut open a ^straight fistula with a scalpel, and then the others being tthereby exposed are to be tied with a thread. The diet is ito be of a diluent nature, with a liberal allowance of water for (dnnk. (vii, 4.) Aetius gives, from Leonides, a full account of fistuljE in ano, las we have explained in another place. He recommends us to 26402 FISTULiE IN ANO. [book vi. Comm. introduce a specillum, and having cut open the fistula upon it, '—"—' to pare away the callous parts of it. (xiv, 11.) Actuarius approves of the same practice as the others. He cautions against making large incisions lest the sphincter ani be wounded. (Meth. Med. iv, 6.) Albucasis delivers nearly the same rules of treatment as our author. According to circumstances he approves of the knife, the cautery, or the apolinose. (Chir. ii, 80.) Haly Abbas describes only the operation by the incision. He also states that if the sphincter ani be wounded, it will oc- casion irretention of the fteces. (Pr. ix, 60.) See also Rhases (Ad Mansor. ix, 80; Cont. xxviii) ; and Avicenna (iii, 18, 1, 18.) Avicenna prefers twisted hairs or bristles of a hog, as they will not putrefy. Upon the whole no other of the ancient authorities has treated so efficiently of fistulse in ano as Paulus. See an excellent account of the operation in SprengeFs ' History of Medicine.' John de Vigo trusted to septics, such as arsenic and the jegyptiacum. Ambrose Pare approved of the apolinose and incision. Severinus was an advocate for the cautery. Foubert and Camper likewise practised the apolinose —the one with a leaden thread, the other with a sHk one. Guido de Cauliaco and Rogerius approve of the Ugature. Brunus and Theodoricus prefer the actual cautery, but describe the others. The surgeons of tMs country have now generaUy rejected the methods with the ligature and the cautery. The foUowing account of the ancient speciUum by the learned Harduin wiU serve to illustrate our author's description of the operation. We overlooked it in the commentary on the fifteenth section. " Quid sit specillum Varro explicat (Lib. 5 de Lingua Lat.) Quo oculos inunguimus quibus specimus (hoc est, aspicimus), specillmn est. Grsecis ^ijXtj dicitur. Aetius Serm. 8, 14, cum specillo instrumento, quod melam Grmci ap- pellant. Instrumentum parvum ac teres, quo utuntuj ad vul- nerum aut fistularum viam aut profunditatem pernoscendam Une sonde de chirurgien." (Ad Plin. H. N vii, 54) II the KOTTc^pto., however, was the same as the ^,X», ^he spe- ciUum, it was evidently used for cutting with as well as tor cutting upon.403 SECT. LXXIX.] HEMORRHOIDS. SECT. LXXTX. ON HEMORRHOIDS OR PILES. The existence of hemorrhoids is rendered manifest to us by the discharge from them. Before proceeding to the operation we must use frequent clysters with the view of evacuating at the same time the contents of the intestine, and, by irritating the anus, of rendering it more disposed to eversion and protrusion of the gut. Having, therefore, laid the patient on his back in a clear light, if we are to use the ligature we pass a very thick thread round the Hps and secure each of the hemorrhoids with this ligature, leaving one as an outlet to the superfluous blood (for so Hippocrates directs.) After the application of the hgature, using a compress that has been dipped in oil and the bandage adapted for the anus, we order the patient to remain quiet, aad treat the bowels with tepid oil and honied water, and afterwards we use a cataplasm made of crumbs of bread and saffron j and after the falling off of the hemorrhoids the cica- trization is to be promoted by wine. Leonides has not recourse to the ligature, but having seized the hemorrhoids and held them for some time with the forceps used for operations on the u\-ula he cuts them off with a scalpel. After the operation we must use manna and starch with chalcitis, or the plaster of burnt sponge with pitch, and the trochisk called faustinum, in " order to burn it completely. Others by filHng the cavity of the instrument called staphylocaustes, with caustic medicines, liave oiu-nt hemorrhoids hke a scirrhous uvula. Commentary. Hippocrates directs us to pass a needle Comm. armed with a very thick thread through the hemorrhoids, and tie them with it. Septic applications are afterwards to be made to them. (De Victu Acut. 67.) The author of another f the Hippocratic treatises recommends us to cure them by uming with red-hot irons. (De Hsemorr.) Celsus directs us when the base of a hemorrhoid is narrow :o tie it with a thread Avhere it joins the anus, and to apply over it a sponge squeezed out of hot water until it become uvid, when it is to be scraped off with the nail or a scalpel. •Sometimes, however, he says, the ligature occasions great pain *nd retention of urine. If the hemorrhoid be large and its404 HEMOURHOIDS, [book vi. Comm. base broad, be directs us to seize it with a hook, and dissect it out a little above its base: the part is to be secured with a thread. When there are many hemorrhoids he advises us not to operate upon them all at one time. When there is a dis- charge of blood it is to be stopped by the appHcation of a sponge. The day after the operation he recommends us to use the tepid bath and catalapsms. (vii, 30.) Aetius approves of cutting off hemorrhoids, and describes the operation minutely. He directs us to seize the pile with a hook, grasp it firmly, and bind it with a thread, after which it is to be raised and cut off. To stop the bleeding a piece of sponge bound round with a thread is to be introduced into the anus. Suitable dressings and bandages are then to be apphed. (xiv, 6.) In the asagoge' ascribed to Galen, the method of treating hemorrhoids by the ligature is particularly commended. Albucasis prefers excision and burning, but if the patient wiU not submit to these methods of cure he approves of ha^^ng recourse to the ligature. Excision is performed by seizing the hemorrhoid with a hook and cutting it at its base, after which some styptic application is to be made. The hgature is apphed by transfixing the base of the hemorrhoid with a needle armed with a thread. (Chirurg. ii, 81.) He gives particular du-ections " about the process of burning, (p. i, 37.) When the hemorrhoid is internal Rhases directs us to evert the anus, and having laid hold of the tumonx to cut it out. He also describes the process of tying them in the same terms as the other authorities. (Contin. xxiv.) The directions given by Avicenna are quite similar. Haly Abbas recommends excision or the ligature. (Pract. ^'^'rabricius makes mention of all these methods of treatment, but speaks of the appHcation of the cauteiy as being dangerous. Upon the whole he appears to have entertained great appre- hensions from stopping the discharge of piles. (CEuv. Ch. u, 94) Theodoricus and Brunus recommend excision, the cautery, and the ligature, according to circumstances. Theodoricus also makes mention of applications for consuming and drying them up.SECT. LXXX.] 405 CONDYLOMATA. SECT. LXXX. ON CONDYLOMATA OR EXCRESCENCES^ AND FISSURES. Condyloma on the fundament differs in situation alone from that on the female parts of generation, being a wrinkled excrescence of the anus, either from a preceding inflammation or fissure. At first, then, it is called an excrescence, but when it becomes callous, condyloma. These also, like the former, are to be taken hold of with a forceps and cut out, and the cure completed with escharotics. Fissures are occasioned princi- pally by hard faeces, and being slow of granulating owing to their callosity, must be converted into recent ulcers by paring them with the nails or a scalpel, when they may be made to granulate by proper applications. Commentary. Celsus briefly directs us to seize the condy- Comm. loma with a forceps and cut it out by the roots. Should any ' ' fungous flesh arise it is to be kept down with the squama seris. (vii, 30.) Aetius gives a fuller account of these affections than our author. The condyloma, he says, is a tubercle which forms in tlie soft wrinkled skin about the anus. When it becomes hard and callous he recommends us to take hold of it with a forceps and cut it out by the roots. Old fissures he directs us to treat by paring their edges and applying suitable dressings, (xiv, 3.) The same treatment is recommended by the Arabians. See Haly Abbas (Chirurg. ix, 61) ; Albucasis (Chirurg. ii, 81, 82); Rhases (Contin. xxiv.) sect. LXXXI. ON IMPERFORATE ANUS. In new-bom children the anus is sometimes found imper- forate, being blocked up by a membrane. If possible, then, the membrane is to be ruptured with the fingers, but if not, we must cut it with the point of a scalpel, and accomplish the cure with wine. And since often in adults, owing to an ulcer not properly cured, a stricture takes place at the anus, we must break it with a convenient instrument, and treat it406 EXCISION OF VARICES. [book VI. properly with a pipe of lead, or some wedge-shaped tent in- troduced into the anus until the cure be completed, lest con- traction should again take place. The wedge-shaped tent is to be anointed with some healing ointment. Comm. COMMENTARY. Soranus describes this operation in very distinct terms, (p. 164.) Albucasis evidently copies our author's account, recommend- ing us to break or divide the membrane, and introduce a canula of lead into the opening to prevent adhesion. (Chirurg. ii, 79.) Haly Abbas, in Hke manner, directs us to make an opening and introduce a leaden tube or a piece of sponge. (Pract. ix, 63.) SECT. LXXXII. ON THE EXCISION OF VARICES. The varix is a dilatation of a vein occurring sometimes in the temples, sometimes in the hypogastric region below the navel, sometimes in the testicles, but more especially in the legs. For the most part it derives its origin from a melanchohc humour. The operation for those of the testicle we have already described when treating of cirsocele, and those in the leg may be operated upon in a similar manner, making the attempt upon those in the inner parts of the thighs, where they generally aiise; for below this, as they are divided into many ramifications, they are more difficult to succeed with. Wherefore, having washed the man, and applied a ligature round the upper part of the thigh, we are to direct him to walk about, and when the vein becomes distended we are to mark its situation with writing ink or col- lyrium, to the extent of three fingers' breadth or a little more, and having placed the man in a reclining posture with liis leg extended, we apply another ligature above the knee; and where the vein is distended we make an incision upon the mark with a scalpel, but not to a greater depth than the thickness of the skin, lest we divide the vein; and having separated the lips of the wound with hooks, and dissected away the membranes with crooked specilla, like those used in the operation for hydi-ocele, and laid bare the vein, and freed it all around, we loose the ligatures from the thigh, and having raised the vessel with a blind hook, and introduced under it a needle having a doubleSECT. Lxxxii.] EXCISION OF VARICES. 407 tliread we cut the double of it, and opening the vein in the middle with a lancet, evacuate as much blood as may be re- quired. Then having tied the upper part of the vessel with one of the ligatures, and stretched the leg, we evacuate the blood in the limb by compression with the hands. Then having tied the lower part of the vein, we may either cut out the portion in- termediate between the ligatures, or suffer it to remain until it drop out of its own accord with the ligatures; then we have to put a dry pledget into the wound, and apply over it an oblong compress soaked in wine and oil, and secure them with a band- age, and accomplish the cure by the treatment applicable in cases of suppuration. I am aware that some of the ancients do not use ligatures, but cut out the vessel immediately after it is laid bare, whilst others stretch it from below and tear it out by force. But the mode of operating now described is of all others the safest. Varices on the hypogastrium may be treated in hke manner, and those on the temples as described in the operation of angiology. Commentary. Hippocrates directs us to make small punc- Comm. tures in varices of the leg, but forbids to open them freely. (De ' * ' Ulceribus, 16.) In the Hippocratic treatise entitled ' Hippi- atrica,' it is recommended to burn varices in the legs of liorses. Celsus treats ingeniously of varices on the head (aneurism hj anastamosis) on the beUy (cirsocele ?), and on the leg. With regard to the treatment, he says, in a word, that they are all either to be burnt or cut out. If the varix be straight, or if, although transverse, it consist of a single vein of moderate size, it wiU be better, he says, to burn it. If crooked and con- voluted, and if it consist of a multitude of veins, it will be more useful to cut them out. He directs us, in burning them, to make an incision in the skin, and having laid bare the vein to touch it with a slender blunt piece of iron red-hot, taking care not to bum the edges of the wound which are to be drawn aside with hooks. This is to be done at intervals of about four fingers along the whole extent of the varix, and then the dressings for bums are to be applied. The varix is cut out in this way. The vein is to be exposed as above directed, and dissected with a scalpel from the surrounding parts (care being408 [book VI. EXCISION OF VARICES. CoMM taken not to hurt it); a blunt hook is then to be introduced ' ' below it; and the same thing is to be done at the same interval as mentioned above. When this has been performed wherever there are varices, the vein is to be cut asunder at one of the hooks, and drawn towards the next hook, and then torn out. The leg being in this way cleared of the varices, the Hps of the wound are to be united, and an agglutinative plaster applied above, (vii, 31.) It will be remarked that our author makes mention of this method of treatment but disapproves of it. Aetius describes the excision of varices in exactly the same terms as our author. He also makes mention of the treatment by the actual cautery, (xiv, 84.) The operation of extracting varicose veins is briefly described in the ' Isagoge' of Galen. Albucasis describes accurately the different modes of operating upon varices. He says there are two methods of performing the operation with the knife, that is to say, by incision or by extraction. The former method is done by applying a piece of fillet round the upper part of the thigh, and at the inferior part near the knee, and then opening the vein in one, two, or three places, and evacu- ating the blood in it : the limb is then to be bound up. la performing extraction, the veins are first to be made to swell by putting the limb into hot water, applying fomentations, and taking strong exercise ; and then a longitudinal incision is to be made in it, either at the knee or the ankle. The vein is afterwards to be dissected from the neighbouring parts and sus- pended with a blunt hook. The vein is to be laid bare in like manner at the distance of three fingers' breadth, and in more places if required. At last, it is to be cut asunder at the ankle and drawn out. Afterwards wool dipped in wine and rose-oil is to be applied. When the varix consists of a congeries of tortuous vessels he recommends us to dissect it out entire. (Chirurg. ii, 92.) Haly Abbas briefly inculcates the same treatment as Albu- casis. (Pract. ix, 64.) Avenzoar considers the complaint nearly incurable. Rhases directs us, in the first place, to bleed and purge, aud then to expose the vessel or cut it out. He also approves of compression. (Cont. xxviii.) It is related that the operation here described was performedAMPUTATION. 409 SECT. LXXXIV.] upon the celebrated Caius Marius. See Cicero (Tusc. Disput. ii.) Comm. Pliny (H. N. xi, 104); and Plutarchus (in Mario.) It seems to '"^^ have been a very painful operation, since it is mentioned as a proof of his fortitude that he submitted to it without being boimd. It would appear that the learned and ingenious Aurelius Severinus used to perform it. (V. Mangeti Bib. Chir, xvi.) SECT. LXXXm. ON THE DRACUNCULI OR GUINEA-WOKMS. The treatment of dracunculi being principally accomplished by medicines, we have given an account of it in the Fourth Book. Commentary. We have treated fuUy of this subject at the Com end of the Fourth Book. '—^ SECT. LXXXIV. ON AMPUTATION OF THE EXTREMITIES. Sometimes the extremities, such as a hand or a foot, having mortified, so that the bones themselves are corrupted, either from having been fractured by some external means, or from having become putrid owing to some internal cause, it is neces- saiy to saw them off; before doing which the parts surrounding the bones must be divided. But since, when this is done first, as a considerable time is required for the sawing, there is dan- ger of a hemorrhage taking place, Leonides properly directs us not to divide all the parts at once unless they are completely mortified, but first to cut the part where not many nor very large veins or arteries are known to be situated, down to the bone quickly; then to saw the bone as expeditiously as possible, applying a hnen rag to the parts which have been cut lest they be torn by the sawing and occasion pain, and then having cut through what remains, to apply red-hot irons to the vessels and stop the hemorrhage thereby with compresses of lint, and to apply proper bandages with the dressings suitable to suppu- rations.410 [book VI, AMPUTATION. Comm. COMMENTARY. Hippocrates and Galen recommend ampu- ' • tation to be performed in general at a joint. (Do Articulis, Gaieni Comment, t. v, p. 650, ed. Basil.) Hippocrates says com- plete excision may be performed at tbe joints of the hand and foot, and at those of the wrist and ankle, and generally with safety, unless the patient be cut off by fainting, or continual fever supervene on the fourth day. When gangrene attacks a fractured limb, his rule of practice is to let the parts drop off, and he remarks, many persons thus recover, even when the fracture is seated in the femur. When gangrene comes on without being preceded by fracture, he directs the soft parts, as soon as they have lost all sensibility, to be removed at the nearest joint below, and the surgeon is to wait until the bone also separates. He says he had seen the bone of the thigh thus separate on the eightieth day; in that case the limb below had been removed at the knee on the twentieth day. In a similar case of gangrene of the leg, the bones separated on the sixtieth day. He pronounces gangrene of the extremities to be more formidable in appearance than in reality. He recom- mends a mild and anti-inflammatory treatment, and that the limb should be laid in an elevated position as long as there is any fear of hemorrhage. Violent attacks of dysentery are apt to come on, but do not generally prove obstinate. (De Artie. 69.) It would appear from Thucydides and Lucretius that it was not uncommon to amputate in cases of gangrene in the days of Hippocrates. (See their Descriptions of the Plague of Athens.) In cases of gangrene Celsus directs us to make an incision of the flesh, between the sound and corrupted part, down to the bone, which is to be sawed across, and after the asperities have been removed from the end of the bone, the skin is to be brought over the stump, (vii, 33.) He gives us no particular de- scription, however, of amputation of the extremities. We turn, therefore, to the celebrated fragments of the works of Archi- genes and Heliodorus, preserved in the collection of Nicetas, published by Cocchius. (Chirurgici Grseci, Florent. 1756.) Archigenes begins by stating the circumstances which requii'c recourse to be had to amputation. They are, the presence of some intractable disease, such as gangrene, necrosis, putrefac- tion, cancer, certain callous tumours, and sometimes wounds inflicted by weapons, and the like. Before attempting theAMPUTATION. 411 ^ECT. LXXXIV.J operation he recommends us to consider well if the patient^s Comm. strength will enable him to endure it. The operator must then ' ' ' tie or sew the vessels which pass to the parts; in certain cases a ligature is to be applied round the whole limb, cold water is t o be poured upon it, and some are to be bled. Amputation near the joints is not to be attempted. In such as are of a full iiabit of body, a circular baud is to be put round the limb, to I h aw up the skin with, and to direct the incision. After cut- ting down to the bone, the tendons are to be retracted, and the bone scraped and sawn. When much blood is discharged, red-hot irons are to be appHed, and a double compress laid on the part from which the blood proceeds. Having loosened the liand, a cataplasm of leeks, bread, and salt is to be appHed to the stump; and the parts about the jaw-bone are to be anointed with cerate of iris and old oil, doubtless in order to obviate the danger from tetanus. Heliodorus states that a limb may require to be amputated owing to gangrene or any other cause that occasions the death of it. In the extremities, then, he remarks, amputation may be performed with less danger; but above the knee or elbow the danger of hemorrhage from the great vessels being wounded is very considerable. Some, he says, from too great anxiety for despatch, cut through all the bodies (the soft parts ?) at one incision, and then saw the bones. But this method of remov- ing the limb is not unattended with danger, as many vessels pour forth blood at the same time. " Wherefore/^ he adds, " it appears to me better first to divide those parts of the limb where there is least flesh, as on the anterior part of the leg, and then to saw the bone; and I myself am in the prac- tice of first applying a ligature above the part of the limb which is to be sawn across, and then of operating in the manner described. In sawing the bone the plate of the saw ought to be applied even, in order that the sawing of the bones may be (v en. When the bones are sawed the other parts which re- main undivided are straightway to be cut through with a scal- pel, and large pledgets applied along with suitable compresses, i external to these, sponges with suitable bandages are to be put on. After the third or fourth day, when all fear of li(;morrhage is over, suppuration is to be promoted by suitable 1 ressings."AMPUTATION. [book VI. 412 Comm. In no other of the Greek medical works which have come ' * ' down to us is there any description of amputation of the ex- tremities. Avicenna mentions the operation of sawing off the bones of the extremities^ but in such general terms as gives us no in- formation in what manner it was performed, (iv, 4, 4, 10, 11, 12.) The description given by Haly Abbas is more complete. A limb, he says, is amputated thus. The operation is to com- mence with first cutting the skin, and then when the bone of a limb is to be sawn, you must not cut through the whole flesh at once, lest an immoderate discharge of blood take place from the veins and arteries so as to occasion the death of the patient and interrupt the process of sawing the bone ; except the flesh of the limb be wasted or putrid. But you ought first to divide that part of the flesh where no great arteries and veins are situated, cutting them down to the bone, which is to be sawn across as quickly as possible, the fleshy parts in the mean time being retracted with a piece of linen, lest the saw should tear them and occasion bleeding and pain; when the bone is sawn across, whatever portion of the flesh remains un- divided is to be cut, and then the veins and arteries are to be burned. When the bleeding is stopped a pledget with suitable bandages is to be applied. (Pract. ix, 65.) Albucasis represents amputation as necessary in cases of mor- tification, as indicated by the smell and discoloration. When the disease is seated in the hand, he recommends us to ampu- tate at the fore-arm; when in the forearm, at the elbow; and if the arm itself be affected, he pronounces the case to be hopeless. In like manner, with regard to the lower extremities, he pro- nounces all cases incurable in which the disease is seated above the knee. In performing the operation he directs us to apply two bandages around the limb, the one above and the other below the place at which it is to be cut off". These bandages are to be pulled, the former upwards and the latter downwards, by two assistants, so as to put the skin upon the stretch; the fleshy parts are then to be divided with a large scalpel down to the bone, which is afterwards to be cut out, or sawed across, and during this part of the process a piece of linen is to be applied around aU the fleshy parts, to prevent them from being injured413 . Lxxxiv.] AMPUTATION. by the sawing. Should any hemorrhage occur during the opera- Comm. ti'on, he directs us to apply the cautery, or a styptic powder; and after the operation he recommends us to bandage the limb in a suitable manner, until the stump is healed. He relates a case, from which the timidity of his own practice is rendered very apparent. A person who had a spreading mortification in the foot, cut it off at the ankle-joint himself, and was cured for the time. The disease next attacked the hand, upon which he applied to Albucasis, requesting that he would cut it off in the same manner, but this he refused to do, for fear that the man's strength might not be able to endure the operation. He after- wai'ds learned that the man had cut off his whole hand, and had recovered. (Chirurg. ii, 89.) The history of this case proves decidedly that the operative surgery of the Arabians, in the days of Albucasis, must have been very defective; this he him- seK frankly confesses, for he declares that all knowledge of this art had been lost, except what vestiges of it had been preserved in the works of the ancient authors, whose descriptions, he com- plains, had been mutilated and corrupted. (Prefatio.) We men- tion this, in order that the ignorance which prevailed in his time may not be imputed to all preceding ages, nor may be used as an argument against the genuineness of the extracts from the works of Hehodoi-us and Archigenes, given above. Ehases makes some interesting remarks on the sawing of bones. He directs us to stretch the flesh upwards and down- wards, with a piece of cloth, so that it may not come in the way of the teeth of the saw. When it is necessary to saw a rib or a bone, near any important membrane or organ, he recommends us to use a plate (tabeUa), to protect the soft parts from the saw. When the bone connected with a joint is diseased, he directs us to extract it at the joint. When the os brachii, or tibia, is diseased, he recommends us to extract it entire, but forbids to meddle with the head of the femur or the vertebrae. In another place he declares it as his opinion that when a joint is swelled, and the bone diseased, (in cases of white swelling ?) it will be impossible to effect a cure unless the whole diseased portion of the bone be cut out. (Cont. xxix.) Erom these passages it is quite obvious that the ancients practised excision of the bones of joints. See also what our author says on this subject in the seventy-seventh section of this book. A Cooper or aPTERYGIA. [BOOK VI. Comm. Liston could not recommend a bolder plan of treatment in such cases. Theodoricus, Guy of Cauliac, and the other surgical writers of that age, follow closely in the footsteps of the ancients, especially of the Arabians. When the mortified part is near to a joint, they recommend amputation at it. In other cases they direct us to make an incision between the sound and the dead parts, to saw the bone with a fine saw, and to stop the bleeding with a heated iron. Theodoricus recommends stupifying medi- cines, such as opium, hyoscyamus, mandragora, or cicuta, before the operation, Ambrose Pare has undoubtedly the merit of in- troducing the use of the hgature into modern practice in ampu- tations, and, in fact, Archigenes seems to be the only ancient authority who mentions it in such cases. We have shown, how- ever, in another place, that the hgature was freely used by the ancients for stopping bleeding from woimds. SECT. LXXXV. ON PTERYGIA ABOUT THE NAILS. The pterygium is a fleshy excrescence about the nails, covering part of the nail, and being commonly formed in the large fingers and toes. But those in the feet arise most commonly from an accident, whereas, those in the hands arise from whitlow, the inflammation being neglected and turning to pus. For, the pus being allowed to remain, corrodes and corrupts the root of the nail, and often destroys the whole of it, but generallv the one half, while a portion of it uncorroded is left at the root of the nail, and sometimes the whole root is left uncoiToded. Sometimes, too, it corrupts the bone, when a disagreeable smell arises from it, and the extremity of the finger becomes sweUed and appears livid. They are to be treated, then, by cutting and removing aU the remaining part of the nail with the point of a scalpel, and then bui-ning both the ulcerated and cut part with cauteries. For, the pterygium is a spreading disease, and does not stop unless burnt, so that, if neglected, it afi'ects the whole finger. If, while the nail and bone remain sound, the inner angle of the nail sink down and pierce the adjacent flesh, it occasions inflammation ; and in this case the irritating portion is to be raised upon a thin probe, or some such thingBRUISED NAIL. ^ECT. LXXXVI.] 415 put under it, and removed with the point of a scalpel, and the excrescence eaten down with an escharotic medicine. And most cases are cui-ed by being treated in this way. But if larger, it is first to be cut out with a scalpel, and then the medicine is to be u^ed. Commentary. We have given an account of the ancient Comm. treatment of pterygia by medicines towards the end of the ' " ' Third Book. Celsus recommends excision with the knife and the appli- cation of cauteries or strong caustics afterwards, (vi, 19.) Aetius and Oribasius trust to septic and caustic applications \nthout an operation. Antyllus (apud Ehasis Cont. xxxvi,) recommended excision and burning when the discharge from the ulcer is fetid. Albucasis, like our author, recommends us to cut off the piece of nail that is attached, and then to apply a burning iron to the part. The burning, he adds, is of great consequence. When the bone is diseased he directs us to take it out, which generally may be done at the joint. (Chirurg. ii, 9.) Haly Abbas likewise directs us to cut off the piece of nail and apply the cautery. He says, if this be neglected the bone is apt to become diseased. When pus is seated below the nail, he recommends us to introduce the head of a probe under it, and cut upon it with a knife; after which a caustic medicine is to be applied to the flesh. (Pract. ix, 66.) SECT. LXXXVI. ON A BRUISED NAIL. Since, owing to nails having been bruised by accidents, 1 pains supervene, which compel us to operate upon them, it »will be sufficient to give you Galen's account of the matter. He says, then : " When the nails are contused we have found t the evacuation of the blood a palpable remedy for soothing the [I pain, when it and the throbbings are very violent. But we n must make an oblique incision, not straight from above down- » wards, with a sharp scalpel, so that when the blood is evacuated t the divided part of the nail may serve as a cover to the parts ! under it. But if you make a straight incision from aboveCLAVI, ETC. [book VI. 410 down to the fleshy excrescence, as it is called, another body is formed from the flesh below the nail shooting out through the division of the nail, whence pains again invade, as in the com- plaint we call paronychia, owing to the flesh under the nail being compressed by it. Wherefore, one may see the patients immediately relieved from pain by this section. On the fol- lowing days we may gently raise the divided part of the nail, and press the sanies from under the nail, and then again, as I said, apply the nail as a cover to the flesh below. The rest of the treatment of the finger should be soothing and dis- cutient." Comm. COMMENTARY, Aviccnna and Ehases approve of the plan of " ' treatment here recommended, upon the authority of Galen. Rhases, in fact, gives the very words of Galen. (Cont. xxxvi.) Albucasis directs us, ii^ the case of a bruised nail, first to have recourse to venesection, and then to make a transverse (oblique ?) incision through it. (Chirurg. ii, 91.) See our remarks in the sixtieth section of this Book on the confusion of the terms transverse and oblique by the translators of the Arabians. The same treatment is recommended by Haly Abbas. (Pract. ix, 67.) SECT. LXXXVII. ON CLAVI, MYRMECIA, AND ACROCHORDONES. The clavus is a round callus, white, resembling the head of a nail, and occurring in all parts of the body, but more espe- cially on the soles of the feet and the toes, occasioning pain and lameness in walking. Wherefore, having scarified around the clavus or corn, and taken hold of it with a forceps, we cut it out by the roots with a sharp-pointed scalpel or lancet for bleeding. Some, in order that they may not grow again, use heated cauteries. The myrmecia is a prominence of the skin, small, callous, round, thick, spreading deep at the base, and, if rubbed, occasioning a sensation like the bites of ants, and being formed in all parts of the body, but more especially in the hands. Wherefore, some, among whom is Galen, advise us toSECT. LXXXVII.] 417 CLAVI, ETC. scarify ai'oiind the mp'mecia with the stalk of a hard feather, such as those of old fowls, of geese, and of eagles, and to push it down so as to remove the myrmecia from the root. Others do the same thing with a copper or iron tube. The moderns are satisfied to scarify around it, and, having seized it with a forceps, to cut it out like corns with a scalpel. The acro- chordon is a small rising of the surface, free of pain, callous, for the most part round, and having a narrow base so as to .ippeai- to hang. It is so called from its resemblance to the cud of a cord. Having stretched out the protuberance then we may cut it out; or, otherwise, we may tie a thread or a hair round it. I have known many who consumed this and all the afore-mentioned protuberances with what is called the cold cautery. Commentary. We have already treated fully of these diseases Comm. towards the end of the Third Book and in the Fourth, to which " ' ' we refer the reader for further information on this head. Celsus recommends us merely to shave the clavus or corn. The others he directs us to remove by caustics, such as the lees of wine (potass ?), or a mixture of alum and sandarach. The acrochordon, he says, when cut out leaves no roots behind. V, 28.) Albucasis particularly recommends burning for the cure of clavus and myrmecia. This may be accomplished either with fire or hot water. If the former method is preferred, an iron proportionate to the size of the corn is to be heated red-hot and applied to it, and the burning carried to such an extent as to occasion suppuration. In the other method a funnel of l opper or iron, or else the quiU of a vulture is to be applied to the corn, and then filled with boiling water. By these 1 means, he says, the corn may be eradicated. (Chirurg. i, 55.) See also Haly Abbas (Pract. ix, 12) and Rhases (Cent, ^xxxvi.) Rhases does not state very distinctly the difi"erence between the myrmecia and acrochordon. He speaks of scraping E them out with a hard pen, and of tying them at the base; but B upon the whole he approves most of taking hold of them with »a forceps and dissecting them out. Avicenna recommends us to cut out the clavus and then k apply a caustic medicine to the part, (iv, 7, 4, 14.) n. 27[book vt. 418 WEAPONS. SECT. LXXXVIII. ON THE EXTRACTION OF WEAPONS. That the extraction of weapons is a most important de- partment of surgery is declared by the Poet Homer, when he says : " The man of medicine can in worth with many warriors vie, Who knows the weapons to excise, and soothing salves apply." We must first describe the different kinds of weapons. War- like instruments, then, differ from one another in material, figiire, size, number, mode, and power. In material, then, as the shafts are made of wood or of reeds ; and the heads them- selves are either made of iron, copper, tin, lead, horn, glass, bones, and of reeds, too, or of wood : and such differences are found especially among the Egyptians. In figure, inasmuch as some are rotmd, some angled (as triangular), some pointed and lance-shaped, as some have three points; some are barbed and some are without barbs; and of the barbed, some have the barbs turned backwards, so that in attempting to extract them they may fasten in the parts ; and some forwards, so that when pushed they may do the same thing: some have them diverging in opposite directions like the forked lightning, in order that whether pulled or pushed they may fasten in the parts. Some missiles have their barbs united by a hinge, which being expanded in the extraction, prevent the weapon from being drawn out. They differ in size, inasmuch as some are three fingers' breadth in size, and some are as small as one finger, which are called niicca in Egypt, and some are intermediate between them. In number, inasmuch as some are simple and some compounded. For certain small pieces of iron are inserted in them, which, in the extraction of the weapon, remain concealed in deep-seated parts. In mode, as some have the sharp extremity fixed to a tail and some to a shaft; and some have it carefully inserted in the shaft, and some carelessly, so that in the extraction they may separate and leave the head behind. In power, as some are not poisoned and some' are poisoned. Such are the differences of weapons. We now proceed to treat of the extraction, both in cases of those who have been wounded in war and those not in wai".419 WEAPONS. SECT. LXXXVIII.] whether vokmtai'ily and involuntarilyj under whatever circum- stances, and of whatever materials they may be composed. There are two modes of extracting weapons from fleshy parts ; either by pulling them backwards, or pushing them forwards. When the weapon is fixed superficially the extraction is made by pulling it back, and in like manner when it is lodged deep, but the opposite parts, if wounded, would occasion danger from hemorrhage or sympathy. It is to be pushed forwards when lodged deep, and the intervening substances between it and the opposite side are of small size, and neither nerve, bone, nor any such thing is an obstacle to the division. When a bone is wounded, the mode of extraction is by pulling; if, therefore, the head of the weapon be in sight, we make the extraction immediately; but, if it is hid, we must, says Hip- pocrates, get the wounded person to put himself in the same posture as when he received the wound, and thus make the examination; or, if this cannot be done, he is to be placed in the nearest possible to it, and thus it is to be examined with a sound. If the head of the weapon has fixed in the flesh, it is to be drawn out with the hands, or by laying hold of the ap- pendage, which is called the shaft, if it has not fallen off'. This part is mostly made of wood. When it has fallen off, we make the extraction by means of a tooth-extractor, or a root-extractor, or an instrument for extracting weapons, or any other convenient instrument. And sometimes we make an incision in the flesh around it in the first place, if the wound do not admit the in- strument. And if the head of the weapon has passed to the opposite side, and it is found impossible to extract it by the way in which it entered, having divided the parts opposite we extract it through them, either drawing it out in the manner mentioned, or we make a hole with the weapon itseF, pushing it either by the shaft, or, if it has come away, by an impellent instrument, taking care not to divide a nerve, vein, artery, or any important part, for it would be disgraceful if, in extracting the weapon, we should do more mischief than the weapon itself had done. If the weapon has a tail, which is ascertained by examination with the probe, having introduced the female part of the impellent instrument and fixing it, we push the weapon forwards, but if it has a shaft, the male part. .And if the head when extracted appear to have notches, so that other small pieces of iron might[book vr. WEAPONS. 420 be inserted in them, we make an examination again with the probe, if we find them we extract them in the same mannei'. And if the weapon has barbs in opposite dii-ections, which do not yield to our pulling, we must make an incision in the ad- jacent parts, if no important vessel or the like lie there, and when the weapon is laid bare, we extract it without trouble. Some apply a tube about the barbs, so that when they draw out the weapon the flesh may not be torn by the barbs. If the wound does not become inflamed, we may use sutures, and heal it up like a bloody wound; but if it inflame we may remove the in- flammation by embrocations, cataplasms, and the like. If the weapon be poisoned we must, if possible, cut off all the flesh which has imbibed the poison, which is known by its being altered from the sound flesh, for it appears pale, livid, and as it were dead. They say that the Dacians and Dalmatians touch the points of their weapons with elecampane, called also ninum, and that when it thus becomes mixed with the blood of the wounded animal it proves fatal, although it is eaten by them with impunity. If, again, the weapon fix in a bone, we make trial with the instrument, and, if flesh prevent the extraction, we cut it off, or separate it; but if it be lodged deep in the bone (which we know by its being so firm that it cannot be shaken with a considerable force) we first remove the remaining part of the bone with a cutting instrument, or bore it with tre- phines if it has considerable thickness, and thus disengage the weapon. If a weapon be lodged in any important part, such as the brain, heart, throat, lungs, liver, stomach, intestines, kidneys, womb, or bladder, and fatal symptoms have already shown themselves, as the extraction would occasion much lacera- tion we must decline the attempt, lest while we do no good we expose ourselves to the reprobation of ignorant people. But if the result be dubious, we must make the attempt, ha^dng first given warning of the danger. For in many cases, when an abscess has formed in some vital part, recovery has unexpectedly taken place; and the lobe of the liver, part of the omentum and peri- toneum, and the whole uterus are said to have been taken away, and yet death was not the consequence. And we often open the windpipe intentionally, in cases of angina, as we men- tioned under the head of Laryngbtomy. To leave the weapon then as it is, occasions certain death, and exhibits the art in an421 WEAPONS. SECT. LXXXVIII.] inhumane liglit, whereas by extracting it we might possibly save a life. It is not difficult to ascertain when an important part is wounded, this being discovered by the peculiarity of the symptoms, the dischai'ges, and situation of the parts. When, therefore, the membranes of the brain are wounded, there is intense pain of the head, the eyes are fiery, the tongue red, and there is aberration of intellect; but if it is attended with a wound of the brain, there is prostration of strength, with loss of speech, distortion of the countenance, vomiting of bile, a dis- chai-ge of blood from the nostrils, an evacuation of a white and pultaceous fluid by the auditory foramen, and of ichor, if it can find a passage by the wound. If the weapon has penetrated to the cavity of the chest, and sufficient room is left for it, the breath passes out. When the heart is wounded, the weapon appeal's at the left breast, and feels not as if in a cavity, but as fixed in another body, and sometimes there is a throbbing motion; there is a discharge of black blood if it can find vent, with coldness, sweats, and deliquium animi, and death follows in a short time. When the lungs are wounded, if the opening be sufficiently large, a frothy blood passes out at it; but if not, it is rather vomited up, the vessels of the neck are swelled, the tongue changes colour, and there is an urgent desire of cold things. When the diaphragm is wounded the weapon appears lodged about the false ribs, there are large inspirations with pain, sighs, and heavings of the parts about the shoulder-joints. If the viscera of the abdomen are wounded, the nature of the injury will be apparent from the discharge, if the wound be sufficiently large, or if the weapon be extracted, or if the shaft be broken internally ; for chyle is evacuated from the stomach, and faeces from the intestines; sometimes the omentum or an intestine protrudes. When the bladder is wounded urine is discharged. When the membranes of the brain or the cere- brum itself is wounded, we extract the weapon by trepanning the skull, as will be described presently in fractures of the bones of the head. If the weapon is lodged in the chest, and does not come out readily, it is to be extracted by means of a moderate incision in the intercostal space, or by cutting out a rib with the assistance of the instrument called meningophylax. In like manner, when the stomach, bladder, and other deep- seated parts are wounded, if the weapon come out readily it is422 WEAPONS. [book vi. to be extracted without more ado; but if not, we must en- large the -woundj and afterwards use the dressings for fresh wounds. In wounds of the abdomen, gastroraphe as formerly described may be had recourse to, if necessary. But if the ■weapon has lodged in any of the larger vessels, such as the in- ternal jugulars or carotids, and the large arteries in the arm- pits or groins, and if the extraction threaten a great hemor- rhage, they are first to be secured with ligatm-es on both sides, and then the extraction is to be made. If pai'ts have been fastened to one another, such as the arm to the chest, or the fore-arm to the other parts of the body, or the feet to one another, if the weapon (as a spear) do not penetrate through both parts, we are to take hold of the weapon externally and extract as if only one part were affected, but if it has passed through both, having sawed the wood through the middle, we extract each part singly, in the most convenient direction. But since often stones or the sharp points of rocks, or pieces of lead, or the like, are lodged in the body, either being impelled with force from a sling, or happening to be acuminated, they are to be known by the swelling being hard and irregu- lar, and by the solution not being eveiywhere straight, but larger than common, and having the sldn bruised and Hvid, and the pain being attended with a sense of weight. They are, therefore, to be dislodged by means of suitable instruments, or scraped out with the concave part of a specillum or of an ear-specillum adapted for wounds; or, if they can be apphed, a tooth-extractor or a root-extractor may be used for pulHng them out. In many instances weapons lodged in the body lie concealed, and a long time after, when the wounds are healed up, the part having suppurated bursts, and the weapon drops out. Comm. Commentaey. Hippocrates considered the extraction of weapons to be one of the most important departments of surgeiy. It is to be fully learned, he says, only by attaching oneself to a foreign ai-my. (De Medico.) He makes some interesting remarks on the subject in his treatise ' De Capitis Vulneribus.' We must now attempt to give an abstract of Celsus's very interesting chapter on the Extraction of Weapons. EverySECT. LXXXVIII.] 423 WEAPONS. \veapon is to be extracted either by the part at wbich it enters comm. .ir by that to -which it tends. If it is not deep-seated, or if it' ^ ' has not passed any great vessels or nerves^ there is no better plan than to draw it out as it entered. But if there is a greater space through which it must retm-n than there would be to push it out, and if it has already passed the vessels and nerves, it will be better to open what remains undivided, and extract it in this direction. If the weapon is to be drawn backwards, the opening is to be enlarged by a scalpel, which wiU occasion less inflammation and obstruction of the parts than if they are torn by the weapon itself. In whichever way it be extracted great care ought to be taken that no nerve, large vein, or artery be divided. If any of these parts be detected in the wound they are to be drawn aside with a blunt hook. These are his general directions. He then subjoins instructions for extracting particular kinds of weapons. An arrow being a slender body, and generally impelled with great force, is often lodged deep, and is to be extracted for the most part rather by the opposite side to which it entered, especially as it has bai'bs, which tear most if drawn backwards. The flesh about the weapon is to be separated by means of a suitable instru- ment, and then if the head (mucro) appear with the shaft aruado) fixed to it, the weapon is to be propelled until it can be laid hold of at the opposite side and extracted; or if the shaft has fallen out and only the iron remain lodged within, ; he head is to be seized with the fingers or a forceps, and re- moved, and it is to be extracted by the opening at which it entered, upon the same principles; for the wound being en- larged, the weapon is to be draAvn back by the shaft if it remain, or otherwise by the iron itself. If there appear to be barbs upon the arrow, and if short and small, they are to be broken off with a pair of pincers ; or, if larger and stronger, they are to be covered with split writing-pens (fissis sci'iptoriis calamis) to prevent them from tearing the flesh during extraction. (And here we may mention, that the com- mon calamus scriptorius of the ancients was made from an Egyptian reed. See Montfau§on (Palseographia Grteca, p. 3.) When the weapon which is lodged in the body is large it must not be extracted by the opposite side, as it would make the wound too large. He directs us to draw it back by means of424 WEAPONS. [book VI. Comm. an instrument invented by Diodes, of whiclx lie gives a descrip- " ' tion. Another class of weapons wliicli must sometimes be extracted are leaden balls, stones, or any such thing which breaks the skin, and is buried within. In all such cases the wound, he says, must be enlarged and the body extracted with a forceps. A complication which increases the difficulty of extraction arises from the weapon being lodged in a bone, or between two bones at a joint. When lodged in a bone it is to be moved about until loosened, when it is to be grasped with a forceps and extracted in the same way that a tooth is pulled out. It rarely happens that the weapon cannot be re- moved in this way; bxit if it remain fixed in the bone, it is to be struck with some iron instrument until it be shaken from the place where it is lodged. When other means do not suc- ceed, the bone is to be perforated with a trephine. "When the body is lodged in a joint between two bones, the two members about the wound are to be wrapped round with strips of cloth, or leathern thongs, and thereby sej)arated by pulling in oppo- site directions, by which means the space between them will be slackened, and then the weapon may be removed without diffi- culty. When the weapon had been poisoned, these things must be done with all possible despatch, and the remedies ap- plied which are used when a poison has been swallowed, or a person has been stung by a serpent. The wound from which a weapon has been extracted requires no other treatment than what is applicable for ordinary injmies. (vii, 5.) Albucasis borrows mostly from our author the account whicli he gives of the construction of weapons and the symptoms oc- casioned by the wounds which they inflict. He also relates some interesting cases of recovery from very severe wounds. An arrow entered at the root of a man^s nose and was extracted by Albucasis behind his ear j and the man recovered without having sustained any injury to the eye. He extracted another large arrow which had lodged deep below the eye of a Jew; and in this case also the sight was not impaired. He extracted a barbed arrow which had lodged in the throat of a Cluistian, by enlarging the wound, and the man recovered. An arrow had lodged in a man's belly, so that, at first sight, Albucasis con- sidered the case as hopeless; but, after thirty days, as no mortal svmptoms had supervened, he enlarged the wound andWEAPONS. 425 SECT. LSXXVIII.] extracted the weapon. He saw a man who had got an arrow Comm. lodged in his back j the wound healed, but after an interval of ' ' ' seven years the weapon came out below his buttocks. He knew a woman who had an arrow lodged in her belly, and the woimd healed, and the weapon never afterwards occasioned her any inconvenience. He knew a man who had an arrow lodged in his face, and the wound healed up, and never gave him much trouble. He relates that he extracted an arrow which had been buried in the nose of a prince, after making various fruitless attempts for the space of four months. He then delivers general directions for the extraction of weapons, bor- rowing, as usual, very freely from our author. When a weapon cannot readily be got extracted at the time, he recommends us to let it alone until it become loosened by the putrefaction of the surrounding parts. When impacted in a bone, he directs us either to move it about until it is loosened, or to perforate the bone with a trephine. When lodged in the cranium, it is to be removed in like manner with a trephine, provided the dura mater is not injured, for if it is wounded the case must not be interfered with. When a weapon is lodged deep in any pai-t of the body where there are no large nerves, veins, or bones, he directs us to enlarge the wound and extract the weapon; but if it has barbs, the fleshy parts about it must first be carefully separated to prevent them from being torn. When a weapon passes through a limb, or attaches one part of the body to another, he directs us to cut oflF the part which pro- jects, and then extraction may easily be accomplished. If fastened in a bone, he advises us to turn it round so as to loosen it; and if that does not suffice, he recommends us to leave it for a few days, when it may be extracted without diffi- culty. If the shaft or wooden part of a weapon be broken off, he directs us to apply to the head an impellent instrument with a concave extremity, so as to adapt itself to the form of the body which is to be extracted. When the weapon is poisoned, he recommends us, if possible, to cut out the flesh around it. When a weapon lodges in the breast, belly, bladder, or side, and can be felt with a probe, he directs us to cut cautiously upon it, taking care not to wound a vein or nerve. He concludes with giving drawings of forcipes and impellents. (Chirurg. ii, 96.)WEAPONS. [book VI, 426 Rliases gives sensible directions for the management of these cases, but they are so similar to those of our author that w c need not dwell upon them. If the size of the wound permit, he directs us to introduce a forceps to the iron head and draw it out. If the opening be too small, he recommends us to en- large it. When the weapon has nearly passed through the limb, he ad\dses us to push it out at the opposite side. Thorns and such like sharp things are to be removed by the applica- tion of extractive plasters. (Ad Mans, vii, 25.) Avicenna gives a literal translation of the present chapter of Paulus, and supplies nothing additional of much interest, (iv, 4, 2, 10.) The account given by Haly Abbas is full, but like that of Albucasis. He mentions that he had seen cases in which an arrow had been lodged in the intestines, and although faeces were dischai'ged by the wound, the patient recovered. He adds that others relate cases in which recovery took place although the liver or omentum had been wounded. (Pract. ix, 15.) The rules for the extraction of weapons laid do^vn by Theo- doricus and all the earlier authorities are mostly copied from the ancient authors, (i, 22.) It would be naturally expected that we should give some account in this place of the surgery in the heroic ages, as far as it can be learned from the poems of Homer and the Com- mentary of Eustathius. The Commentator remarks that three methods of extracting weapons are mentioned by Homer: 1. By evulsion or pulling the weapon backwards, as in the case of Menelaus. (Iliad, iv, 214.) 2. By protrusion or pushing it forwards, as in the case of Diomedes. (Iliad, v, 112.) 3. By enlarging the wound and cutting out the weapon, as prac- tised by Patroclus in the case of Eurypylus. (Iliad, xi, 218.) He further remarks that it appears to have been a common practice to suck a wound with the mouth; and, he adds, that this method ■was still in use among a barbarous people in his days. (IHad, iv, 219.) The weapons used in the Trojan war were swords, spears or javelins, stones flung by the hand or by a sling, hatchets or axes, as used by the Trojans on certain occasions (Iliad, xiij 590), and arrows. Eustathius remarks, however, that there would appear to have been very few bowmen. InSECT. LXXXIX.] 427 FRACTURES. his Commentaiy on the Odyssey he states that poisoned arrows Comm. were never employed in war, but only for killing wild beasts. ' ' ' (Odyss. i, 260.) We believe that no weapons of iron were used in the war of Troy, and that they were all made of copper. (See Jameson's Mineralogy, iii.) Little transpires from Homer with regai'd to the internal treatment. In one place (Iliad, xi, 638) mention is made of a mixture of wine and cheese having been given to a wounded warrior, which practice, Eustathius says, had given rise to a variety of conjectures. Some supposed that the wound in the case referred to was so shslit as not to render the administration of stimulants im- proper; others rather beheved that the loss of blood had been so great as to call for the use of wine to support the strength. But many, he adds, were of opinion that men in the heroic ages lived so temperately that their constitutions readily bore things on extraordinary occasions, which in after ages were reckoned to be of too inflammatory a nature. This explanation is advocated by Athenseus. (Deipnos, i.) In the Odyssey, mention is made of a hemorrhage being stopped by incanta- tion, which shows, as Eustathius remarks, that amulets and incantations were as ancient as the heroic ages. SECT. LXXXIX. ON PRACTURES AND THEIR DIFFERENCES. Having described the surgical operations on the fleshy parts, we have next to give an account of those which relate to the bones, I mean the treatment of fractures and dislocations; for these also faU under the department of surgery. And first, of fractures, beginning with fractures of the bones of the head, because they hold an intermediate place between the operations on the fleshy parts and the bones, and because the cranium overtops all the other parts. In general terms, then, a fracture is a division of a bone, or rupture, or excision of it, produced by external violence. The differences of fractures are many. A bone, then, is said to be fractured raphanatim, scandulatim, in unguem, polentatim, and per clefractionem. A fracture rapha- natim is a transverse one through the thickness of the bone, and is called also cucumeratim and caulatim, because cucumbers and cabbages break in this way. Scandulatim is a longitudinalFRACTURES. 428 [book VI. fracture of a bone. In unguem is a fracture at one part straight, and at its extremity lunated, and it is also called arundatim. Polentatim is a fracture of a bone into small pieces; and it is also called nucatim by some : Defractio or prcecisio is when part of a bone is taken away with teai'ing of the skin, so that part is removed and is wanting. These are the differences of fractm-es. Commentary. The following is a list of the ancient authors who have treated of fractures and dislocations: Hippocrates (de Practuris; de Articulis; de Vulner. Capit.; OflBcina Medici); Galen (Comment, in eosdem, Meth. Med. vi.); Celsus (viii); Oribasius (de Machinamentis, &c.); Nicetee Collectio ex Chirurg. Grsec.; Apollonius Citiensis (Scholia in Hippocrat. ed. Dietz); Avicenna (iv, 5, 23); Rhases (ad Mansor. 26; Divis i, 140 ; Cont. xxix) ; Averrhoes (CoUig. vii, 36); Avenzoar (ii, 6, 1) ; Haly Abbas (Pract. ix, ad finem.) Hippocrates does not make use of the technical terms explained by our author in this section, and Galen hints that he thinks his Master did better in confining himself to words generally un- derstood. Galen defines only a few of these terms. He calls that kind of fracture in which the end of a bone at an arti- culation is entirely taken away, dbruptio {airayjia.) A trans- verse fracture with a complete separation of the broken portions is called a fracture c.aulatim (KauAjjSo)'-) A longitudinal division not attended with an entii'e separation of the parts is called scandulatim [ay^i^aK-q'Bov.) He thinks the later writers on the subject who had introduced the use of such terms as raphanatim {pa^mvrf^ov) wApolmtMim (aX^iTTjSo)') had refined too much. All the terms mentioned by our author occur in a fragment of Soranus, preserved in the collection of Nicetas. They are also treated of very elaborately in the fragments of Heliodorus, contained in the same collection, Celsus, who was studious of perspicuity and elegance, avoids all technical terms as much as possible. He thus defines the varieties of fractures. A bone, he says, may be split longitu- dinally like a piece of wood, or it may be broken transversely or obliquely, and its ends may be blunt or sharp, Avhich last variety is the worst of all, as they cannot be easily made to unite with the other parts, and are apt to wound the muscles and nerves. Sometimes the bone is broken into fragments, andHEAD. SECT. XC.J 429 in certain bones a fragment is occasionally separated entirely Comm. from the broken bone. " ' ' TheAi'abians, especially Avicenna, HalyAbbas, andAlbucasis, adopt the terms used by our author. Albucasis remarks, that the fi'acture of a bone is recognised by the derangement of the broken pieces, by their projection, and the crepitus produced upon pressure. He says, however, that there may be a fissure without derangement or crepitus. SECT. XC. ON FRACTXJEES OF THE BONES OF THE HEAD. In particular, then, a fracture in the head is a division of the cranium, sometimes simple and sometimes complex, occasioned by some external violence. The differences of fractures of the head are these: a fissure, an incision, an expression, a depres- sion, an arched fractirre, and, in infants, a dent. A fissure, then, is a division of the skull, either superficial or deep, when the inward bone is not removed out of its place. An incision, or slash, {tyKoin]) is a division of the skull with refraction of the fractured bone (if the injured bone be broken ofi" some call the afi"ection deasciatio, i. e. as if done by a hatchet). An ex- pression is a division of a bone into many parts, with a sinking down of the fractured pieces upon the membrane of the brain. A depression {k-yyiaojjxa) is a division of a bone with a sinking downwards of the fractured bone from its natural position towards the meninx. An arched fracture {Kaf^apu)a^Q), as Galen says, is a division of the skull attended with elevation of the fractured pieces in the middle, and depression around the edges of the sound parts, like as in expression. Such is his opinion. Some enumerate also the capillary fracture, but it is a very narrow fissure which eludes the senses, and therefore, being often overlooked owing to the symptoms of it not being obvious, it occasions death. An indentation is not a division of a bone, and, therefore, such an injury is not properly called a fracture, but is, as it were, a protrusion and bending of the skull in- wardly, forming a hollow without a solution of continuity, as when vessels made of copper, or the raw hide of an ox, are struck on the outside. There are two different kinds of in- dentation, for either the bone is depressed through its wholeFRACTURES. 430 [book VI. thickness, so tliat often a separation of the membrane of the brain takes place, or it is pressed upon by the skull through- out ; or sometimes the indentation does not affect the skuU through its whole thickness but only its outer plate down to the diploe. To these differences some also add that by reper- cussion, which happens, say they, when a fracture of the cra- nium takes place opposite to the part which received the blow. But they are in a mistake, for what happens to glass vessels does not, as they say, happen here; for, this happens to them from their being empty, but the skuU is full and otherwise strong. But when many other parts of the head have been struck, as in a fall, and a fissure of the skull takes place with- out a solution of continuity of the skin, an abscess afterwards forms in it, and being opened, this fissure is discovered, which appears to them to have been occasioned by the blow on the opposite side; and this is to be cured like the fissure fii'st mentioned. If a fracture, then, occur in the head, it is dis- covered by the sharpness, weight, hardness, or violent force of the body which struck it, and by the symptoms which supervene upon the person who has been struck, such as ver- tigo, loss of speech, and sudden prostration, more particularly if it be a fracture with depression, or contusion, or expression, or the internally-arched fracture, owing to the compression of the brain. It is also discovered by its appearances to the senses ; for if there be a considerable division of the skin we ascertain the occurrence readily thereby; but if there be no division, or a very narrow one, and we suspect a fracture, we make an incision in the skin and ascertain it by the sight, or by probing it with an instrument. If then it be any of the other kinds of fracture it will readily be apparent, but if it is only a narrow capillary fissure which eludes the sense, having poured on the part some black liquid medicine, or the common writing ink, we scrape the bone, for the fissure appears black, and we must go on scraping until the symptoms of the fissure disappear; but if it extend to the membrane we must desist from the scraping, and endeavour to ascertain whether the membrane has separated from the bone or remains fixed. For if it remain, the inflammation of the wound continues mode- rate, the patient gets gradually freed from the fever, and the pus appears concocted. But if the membrane has separated.431 FRACTURES. SECT. XC] tlie pains increase and the fever in like manner, the bone changes colour, and then unconcocted pvis is discharged; and if the person who has the charge of it neglect the case, and has not recourse to perforation, still more grievous symptoms will come on, vomiting of bile, convulsions, disorder of intellect, and acute fever, tinder which circumstances one must decline operating. But if these are not present, and the membrane has not sepai'ated, and if the fracture be a mere fissure, it may be cured by scraping alone, although it be of considerable depth. If it extend to the diploe only it is to be scraped down to it, or the broken bone removed, as will be described. If broken into small pieces, these also are to be extracted with a convenient insti-ument. And if the membrane separate, and you have treated the patient from the commencement, and if it be winter, endeavour by all means to effect the removal of the bone before the fourteenth day; but, if in summer, before the seventh, while the afore-mentioned symptoms have not come on you may operate in this way : The Operation.—Having first shaved the head about the wound, we make two incisions intersecting one another at right angles hke the Greek letter X, one of them being the wound already existing; then dissecting the four angles at the top, so that the bone about to be perforated may be wholly laid bare, if there be bleeding we apply pledgets moistened in oxycrate, but if not dry ones; and then applying a compress out of wine and oil, we use a proper bandage; and next day, if no new symptom supervene, we proceed to perforate the affected bone. Wherefore, having placed the patient on a seat, or in a recHn- ing posture suitable to the wound, and stuffed his ears with wool in order to avoid the noise of the perforation, we loosen the bandage from the wound, and having removed all the dressings and sponged it, we direct two assistants with small twisted bands to retract the four angles of the parts lying over the fracture, and if the bone be weak, either naturally or from the fracture, we cut it out with counter-perforators, beginning first with the broader ones and changing to the narrower, and then usmg those which are of the form of a specillum, striking gently with the maUet to avoid shaking the head. But if the bone be strong it is to be first perforated mth that kind of perforators[book vr. FRACTURES. 432 called abaptistse, whicli have certain eminences projecting a little above the point tbat prevent them from sinking down to tbe membrane, and then, by using the chisels, we remove the fractured bone not at once, but by pieces, if possible with the fingers, or otherwise with a tooth forceps, or bone forceps, or hair-nippers, or some such instrument. The space between the perforations should be as great as the breadth of the largest head of a specillum, and its depth should be until it is near the inner surface of the bone, taking care that the perforator (trepan?) do not touch the membrane. Therefore, in order to suit the thickness of the bone with the size of the perforator, several ought to be previously prepared for the purpose. But if the fracture extend only to the diploe the perforation should be carried no farther. After the removal of the bone, ha^'ing .cleared away any asperity that remained after the cutting of the bone with a carving instrument, or the extremity of a per- forator, using the meningo-phylax as a protector, and bringing away carefully the small bones and spiculse which remain, we proceed to the application of the dressings. This is the more common, and at the same time the easiest and least dangerous mode of operating; but the method of performing it with a sort of incisor called lenticular is greatly praised by Galen, being performed without perforation after the pai-t has been scraped all round with hollow chisels (kv/cX/ctkoO- Wherefore he says thus : " If you have once laid bare the place, then applying the incisor, which has a projection at the extremity like a lenticu- lar, blunt and smooth, but sharp longitudinally, when you apply the broad part of the lenticular to the meninx, divide the cra- nium by striking with the small hammer. For we have all that we require in such operations; for the membrane, even if the operator were half asleep, could not be wounded being in con- tact only with the broad part of the lenticular, and if anything adhere to the cranium, the round part of the lenticular removes its adhesion without trouble. And behind it follows the inci- sor, or knife itself, dividing the skull; so that is impossible to discover another mode of operating more free from danger or more expeditious." But the mode of operating with saws and the instruments called choenicides or modioli (trepans ?) is condemned by the moderns as a bad one, and the operation may be done as we described for fissure. The same mode of433 SECT. XC] HEAD. remoAing bones will be applicable in the other fractures of the cranium. But regarding the amount of bones requiring ex- traction Galen informs us, writing thus plainly : " What parts )f a fractured bone are to be removed I will now explain to you in order. When it is greatly bruised it is to be taken out eutii-e, but if certain fissures extend from it farther, as some- times they appear to do, we must not pursue them to their termination, well knowing that no harm will result from them if everything else be properly done." After the operation, having dipped a simple linen rag of the size of the wound in oil of roses, we lay it over the membrane as a cover, and in like manner, having dipped a small ball of wool in oil of roses, we put it over the aforesaid rag, and then having moistened a doubled compress in wine and oil, or in the same oil of roses, we apply it to the whole wound, taking care that they be not too heavy for the meninx. We then have recourse to a broad bandage, which also must not be made tight, but so as merely to preserve the pledgets. And the regimen is to be what is called anti-inflam- matory and such as is apphcable for fevers, frequently bathing the membrane with oU of roses. After the third day loosing them and sponging the part we piu-sue the treatment applicable for recent wounds and the anti-inflammatory ; sprinkling upon the meninx some of the powders called cephalics until it incarnate, and sometimes scraping the bone, if it require it, on account of certain projecting spiculse, or for the sake of incarnation itself. And we may apply medicines of the ingredients recommended for wounds. On inflammation of the membrane of the bruin. Often after the operation the membrane is inflamed, so as not only to rise above the skull but likewise above the skin, and is attended with liardness, and obstructs the natural pulsatory motion of the l)rain, in which case convulsions and other severe symptoms, or death, for the most part supervene. It becomes inflamed either from the irritation of some sharp projecting piece of bone, or from the weight of the dressings, or from cold, or from eating too much, or from drinking wine, or some other cause not ap- parent. If then the cause be obvious it is to be speedily re- moved, or, if it is not, it will be proper to contend strenuously against it, either by having recourse to venesection, if nothing If- 28FRACTURES. [book VI. 434 prohibit it, or to a diet suitable for inflammation. We must also use topical remedies, such as warm embrocations with hot rose-oil,, and bathing the part with the decoction of marsh- mallows, or of fenugreek, of linseed, of camomile, and such like, and cataplasms of raw barley flour, or of linseed with the afore- mentioned decoction and the grease of a fowl; and irrigations with wool to be poured upon the head and occiput, and some anti-inflammatory oil is also to be poured into the meatus auditorius. The viscera also are not to be neglected, but suit- able cataplasms are to be applied to them. And care is to be taken of the whole body, putting the patients into warm baths and anointing them. If the inflammation continues and nothing else prohibit, Hippocrates directs us to purge them with cho- lagogue medicines. On blackness of the meninx. When the meninx turns black, if the blackness be superficial, and has been brought on by me- dicines which have that property, we may remove it by applying three parts of honey with rose-oil upon pledgets, along with the other suitable treatment. But if the blackness has come on spontaneously, more particularly if deep-seated, and be attended with other dangerous symptoms, then we must refrain from using them, for these appearances indicate a dissolution of the natural heat. I knew a person who had his skull trephined a year after the accident, and recovered. The fracture was from a weapon, and was situated on the bregma, and the discharge having an outlet, the meninx was thereby preserved free from injury. Commentary. Hippocrates very properly lays it down as a rrde that no injiu'ies of the head are to be considered as trifling, since wounds aff'ecting only the integuments wiU sometimes prove dangerous if neglected. He treats distinctly of fissures, contusions, and fractures of the cranium, which is an excellent arrangement of these accidents. Our limits, however, will not allow of our entering minutely into an explanation of his modes of treatment. In fractures of the head he forbids liquid appli- cations, especially wine. He calls the trephine by the name of rpviravov; and makes mention of a raspatory {^var^p). I* Avould appear that his object in applying the trepan was alto-SECT. XC] 435 HEAD. gether preventive; that is to say, that he had recourse to the Comm operation in order to prevent inflammation and swelling of' the brain, and not to remove the effects of them. He holds that severe contusions without fracture and fissures are more dangerous than injuries attended with depression and consider- able separation of the fractured portions, and it is in the former class of cases that he recommends trepanning. When the bone is broken into several pieces, he says it stands in no need of the trephine. One of the varieties of fracture, which he describes ^vith stirprising accuracy, is the separation of the bones at a suture. It, he adds, seldom requires the use of the trephine. He remarks, that convulsions often occur in consequence of injuries of the head, and that the convulsions are in the opposite side to that in which the injury of the brain is seated. He gives an excellent account of erysipelas of the face supervening upon injury of the head, and recommends it to be treated with cholagogues. Altogether, his work ' On Injuries of the Head' bespeaks extensive acquaintance with the subject, and we need have little hesitation in pronouncing it to be one of the most valuable relics of antiquity. In one of his aphorisms, he states that concussion of the brain occasions loss of speech; that is to say, as Galen explains his meaning, superinduces apoplectic symptoms. Galen mentions three sorts of instruments for operating upon the cranium, namely the cyclisci, the lenticulars, and the nar- row raspatories. Fractures are classed by him into those which extend only to the diploe, and those which penetrate to the inner surface of the bone. He likewise divides them into sim- ple fissures, contusions, and depressions inflicted by the body, which occasioned the injury. "When the fissure extends down only to the diploe, he directs us to scrape down the bone with raspatories, and then to apply the medicines called cephalics, consisting of Illyrian iris, the farina of tares, manna, birthwort, and panacea. Of the fractures which extend to the meninx, if a simple fissui'e, it may be treated in the same manner by ras- patories ; but if attended with contusion, by perforating it all round with an auger (trepan ?), and then using the scalpel, or by means of the cycHsci at once. Some, he says, instead of these instruments, use the abaptista, which had a circular bor- der projecting a little above the sharp extremity of the per-FRACTURES, [book VI. 436 Comm. forator. Some^ lie says, from timidity, use only the instrument ' ' ' called choenix (modiolus). Of all modes, however, he prefers that by the lenticular, as stated by our author. He then de- fines the engeisoma and camerosis, vrhich vp^e have translated the depressed and the arched fractures, the former being attended with depression, and the latter with elevation in the middle of the fracture. These are to be taken out entire by means of a lenticular or bone forceps. This, by the way, was the practice of the celebrated Heliodorus, of whose opinions on this subject we will give a short abstract below. (Nicetse CoUectio.) Such is Galenas general treatment of fractures of the skull. In a word, he lays it down as a rule, that parts which are greatly comminuted, must be entirely removed; but that fi'agments, which extend far, must not be followed to their extremities. He forbids the use of bandages. He mentions having tre- panned the head occasionally, but states that he generally left this task to the Roman surgeons. Sprengel remarks, that Galen was averse to the use of the trepan, and preferred the two instriiments called by him (^a/cwTog and k:uk:X/(j/coc. The latter, he remarks, was, properly speaking, a hollow chisel (un ciseau creux), which he drove in with a hammer. The former was a true lenticular-knife, resembling that described by Petit and Bell (Hist, de la Med., 18.) We will now attempt an abstract of Celsus's lengthy account of these accidents. When the skull has been struck, he recom- mends us in the first place to inquire whether the person has vomited bile, has experienced dimness of vision, with loss of speech, or a discharge of blood from the nose and ears; whether he fell down at the time, and if he lay in a comatose and sense- less state. These symptoms, he says, indicate a fractm-e of the bone, and the accident is to be looked upon as serious. But if torpor has come on, with mental aberration, paralysis, or con- traction of the tendons, it is probable that the membrane of the brain has been injured, and little hopes of recovery need be entertained. In order to ascertain whether or not the bone be fractured, nothing answers better, he says, than making an examination with a specillum (sound), that is neither too sharp nor too blunt. If the bone is felt to be everywhere smootli, we are certain that it is sound; but if roughness is detected, we know that it is occasioned by a fractm-e. He warns us, IIIHEAD. SECT. XC] 437 however, not to mistake a suture for a fissure, as was once clone Comm. bv Hippocrates, upon whom he bestows a merited eulogium for ' ' ' this frank confession of his own blunder. When this method of inspection does not succeed, he advises us to pour writing ink on the part and to scrape the bone, which will appear black when there is a fissure. Sometimes, however, he adds, the blow has been sustained on one part of the skull, and the fissure occui-s in another. This is the case of fracture by repercussion, of which we will make farther mention afterwards. Celsus says, we ought to suspect the existence of it when symptoms of fracture have occuiTcd without our being able to detect one in the part which received the blow. He also recommends us, if softness and swelhng be detected in any part, to examine it, as it is likely that a fissure of the bone may be found there, (By the softness and swelling, of which he speaks, he pro- bably meant the pufy tumour, described by Mr. Pott, in his work on ' Injuries of the Head.^) Sometimes, he adds, but rarely, although the skull be safe, a vessel in the membrane of the brain bursts and pours forth much blood, which, becoming coagulated, occasions great pain and dimness of sight. In such a case, he says, the pain will point out the seat of the extrava- sation, and if an incision be made in the skin, the bone will be found to be pale—" eo loco cute incisa, pallidum os reperitur." (Heliodorus, in like manner, states that when extravasation has taken place within the cranium, the bone wiU be found to be pale—Nicetse CoUectio.) The fact that in cases of extravasation below the skull the bone is pale, that is to say, does not bleed, is pointed out by Mr. Abernethy as an unerring guide to prac- tice in such cases. He says, "unless one of the large vessels of the dura mater be wounded, the quantity of blood poured out will probably be inconsiderable; I believe that a bone so circumstanced will not be found to bleed.^^ Celsus then pro- ceeds to the description of the operation. If the injured por- tion of the bone is not sufficiently exposed, he directs us in the first place to enlarge the wound of the integuments. The periosteum is then to be scraped away with a raspatory. The foiTn of the incision, if made solely by the operator, is to consist of two cross lines intersecting one another like the letter X, from the extremities of which the skin is to be ^dissected away. , If there be a discharge of blood it is tp438 FRACTURES. [book VI. Comm. be stopped by a sponge dipped in vinegar^ or by compresses, '"""^ ' while the head is elevated. In cases of fracture and fissure of the cranium, the ancient surgeons, he says, had immediate recourse to instruments for cutting out the part; but he recommends the surgeon, in the first place, to try the effect of applications for allaying the irritation, such as suitable plasters, with wool soaked in vinegar, proper bandages, and the like. This treatment is to be continued for five days, and on the sixth the part is to be fomented with a sponge soaked in wai'm water. If the skin begin to heal, and the fever to abate, and if the appetite return, with sound sleep, he recommends perse- verance in the use of these applications. In this manner, he adds, fissures will often be filled with callus; thus, also, bones more extensively fractured may become united with callus, which forms a much better cover to the brain than the common in- teguments after a piece of bone has been cut out. But if, ou the other hand, fever set in at the first with disturbed sleep, a copious discharge from the wound which shows no appearance of liealing ; if the glands of the neck swell, or if violent pain comes on, with loathing of food, the surgeon must proceed fortbwith to the operation. Dangerous consequences, he adds, may arise either from a fissure or a depression. A fissure may allow fluids to descend to the membrane of the brain, and thereby give rise to pain and inflammation. A depression in like manner may occasion irritation, and spiculfe of bones by wounding the brain may prove particularly troublesome. As a general rule, he recommends as little of the bone as possible to be removed. If the one edge overtop the other, it will be suflQcient to remove with a raspatory the prominent part; for when it is taken away there will be a sufficient opening for the cure. If the edges are firnily compressed together, a hole is to be bored with a wimble (terebra) on its side, at the distance of a finger's breath, and from it two lines are to be cut to the fissure with a raspatory (scalpel), in the form of the letter V, so that its vertex may be at the bole, and its base at the fissm-e. If the fracture be long, more of these holes must be cut out. In cases of depression the whole depressed portion must be re- | j moved. In whatever way the pieces of bone are cut they are all to be removed by means of a suitable forceps. But we Avill not occupy more space in explaining his method of operating, liSECT, xc] HEAD. 439 as we have been already more than usually prolix. Enough has Comm. been said to show that the practice of Celsus was sensible, and in many respects not very different from that which is now fol- lowed in such cases. It will be seen that he was not forward to perforate the skull, and that many of the rules of treatment lately laid down as new discoveries are distinctly mentioned by him. For a description of the instruments used by him, namely, the modiolus, terebr^, and scalper excisorius, we must refer the reader to the original work, (viii, 3.) The different kinds of fracture to which the skull is subject, and the treatment of them, are given very minutely in the Fragments ofHehodorus, published by Cocchi(Ch, Vet. 100, &c.); but as the views of the subject there laid down are nearly the same as our author^s, we shall only give a few specimens of the doctrines he inculcates. He describes very distinctly the species of fracture called diastasis, namely, the separation of two bones of the head at a suture. He directs that the head should be moulded into its former shape, and secured with compresses and tight bandaging. "When matter forms he recommends it to be cut down upon. When depression of the bone without fracture occm-s in children, it is not to be much interfered with, if no untoward symptoms come on. But if any collection take place, it is to be evacuated, even if trepanning should be re- quired for this purpose. He says, in the treatment of simple injuries of the scalp, that the cure by the first intention is the quickest, but the suppurative the safest. In the same Collec- tion there are a few fragments of Archigenes, containing some curious and important matter. He describes diastasis of the bones with more minuteness than any other ancient author, but does not touch upon the treatment. He appears to treat of hernia cerebri under the name of hypersarcosis, and recom- mends the excrescence to be removed, with septic medicines or the scalpel, down to the membrane [dura mater); after which a light dressing dipped in rose-oil is to be applied, and the part surrounded with a circular bandage. (Chirurg. Vet. p. 119.) Effusion of blood within the cranium is indicated by fevers coming on with chills, inordinate heat, disturbed sleep, eyes glossy, muddy, and red, loss of flesh, &c. In such cases, he remarks, if operated upon speedily, they exhibit promises of recovery, but generally soon die. (Ibid. 117.)FRACTURES. [book VI. 440 Albucasis enumerates the same varieties of fracture as our author,, and his descripton of the operation is little different. The drawings which he gives of the surgical instruments used by the ancients in operations on the head are interesting, as they tend to illustrate the descriptions of Paulus and the other authorities. We may remark, by the way, that his abaptista, which he calls terebru non profundantia, are a sort of spear- shaped instruments, having a globular ball a short way above their extremity. They, therefore, had no resemblance to a modern trephine with a conical crown. Avicenna gives a very full account of injuries of the head, but it is taken almost word for word from Galen and oui- author. Nearly the same may be said of Haly Abbas. Avenzoar states that trepanning the skull Avill be proper when there is fracture with depression; but laments that in his time it would be difl&cult to find a surgeon capable of per- forming the operation. Averrhoes likewise intimates that he did not know a surgeon who covild trepan the skull. This is an additional proof to what we have mentioned in the section on amputation that the Arabians in general were very timid operators. Rhases strongly inculcates the propriety of having recourse promptly to the operation, when the bone is fractured and de- pressed, before dangerous symptoms have come on. Unless there be pressure on the brain, however, he does not approve of having immediate recourse to the operation. It will be remarked that Celsus affirms, and our author denies, the occurrence of fracture by repercussion. It is the game as la fracture par contre-coup of tbe French medical authors, or the counter-fissure, namely, the fractura per resoni- tum of the earlier authorities. Soranus, who, like Celsus, be- lieves in its occurrence, defines it to be a fissure which takes place in the part of the cranium opposite to that which received the blow. (Nicetse Collectio.) Hippocrates himself makes mention of the counter-fissure, and pronounces it to be in- curable, as the surgeon has no certain data to discover its existence. (Vul. Cap. viii.) Tulpius, Pare, and Van Sweiten have related cases of the counter-fissure. (See Comment, in Boerhaav. Aph. 254.) Heister also believed in its occurrence. (Chirurg. i, 1, 14.) For cases of it lie refers to D. Wagnerus,■SliCT. XC.J HEAD. 441 Dissert, de contra-fissura,) and Le Maire (De resonitu.) He is Comm. mistaken, however, wten he quotes iEgineta as an authority ' ^ for it. Sabatier relates a case of fracture par contre-coup in the sternum occasioned by a fall on the back. (Memoires de FInstitut Natural, ii, 120.) See also Sprengel (Hist, de la ^led. 17.) Garengoit further relates various cases of the rontre fissure. Bertaphalia defines it in much the same terms as Soranus. (v, 5.) Mr. Guthrie treats learnedly of this sub- ject; but although he quotes many instances from the earlier authorities of fracture on one side of the head from a blow on the other, he states that in later years there is little proof of ^uch an occuiTcnce taking place. He admits, however, as in- disputable the occm'rence of fracture at the base of the skull from a blow on the vertex or back of the head. (Injuries of the Head, 65.) He also states that the term cnrnyriixa of our author, and that of' resonitus,' as used by Latin authors, was apphed to that species of fracture when the inner plate of the skull is knocked in or fractiired, without the outer one being injm'ed. (Ibid.) It does not appear, however, that the ancients applied the term in this sense. Thus Soranus, as stated above, defined it to be a fissure produced in the parts of the skull oppo- site to those which have received the blow. See the learned note of Cocchi. (Ap. Chirurg. Vet. 47.) Galen's definition is to the same effect. (Ibid. 107.) The treatment here recommended for inflammation of the membranes of the brain is so judicious, that even at the present flay scarcely any improvement could be made on it. Our late authorities have shown the utility of cholagogue purgatives in uch cases, and it will be remarked that they are recommended l)y our author and Hippocrates. (De Cap. Vuln. 27.) Celsus directs us, when the dura mater gets inflamed and welled, to pour tepid rose-oil upon it; and if it rise above the !)one to apply lentil or vine-leaves pounded with fresh butter or the grease of geese. He enjoins us to avoid all kinds of food requiring mastication, also smoke and sternutatories. When the brain projects beyond the bone (a case called hernia cere- bri by modem surgeons), he advises us to sprinkle it with squama seris, and to Tise cicatrizing applications. A person who has sustained a fracture of the skuU is advised to avoidFRACTURES. [book VI. 442 M. tlie sun, wind, frequent baths, and the free use of wine until the wound is healed. Aetius recommends bleeding and laxative clysters, (vi, 47.) HeHodorus recommends abstinence at first, and afterwards spare diet, water for drink, bleeding, when the inflammation is violent and the patient full, light dressings, cataplasms of mehlot, linseed, and oil, and fomentations with decoctions of fenugreek or mallows. Archigenes directs us when there is a fungous tumour projecting above the bone, to remove it with septicsor the scalpel, and then to apply pledgets. (Nicetaj Collect.) Avicenna and Albucasis repeat our author^s directions. Haly Abbas follows in the same strain, recommending us to remove any cause of irritation, to pour refrigerant oils on the place, and to have recourse to venesection. (Pract. ix, 85.) Our author having alluded to the pulsatory motion of the brain, we will state briefly the opinions of the principal ancient and modern authorities on this matter. Besides our author, Hippocrates, Galen, Oribasius, and Aetius, among the ancients, mention a certain movement of the brain, namely, a sweUing up during expiration, and a falling down dm-ing inspiration. Fallopius, Vesalius, Voltherus, Goiter, and Boerhaave main- tained that this opinion is unfounded. But Columbo, Piccolo- mini, Dulaurens, Biolan, Littre, and more recently, Schliting, Lamure, Haller, Lorri, Vic d^Azyr, and Dumas, have reproduced this ancient truth. We once had an opportunity of observing the pulsatory motion of the brain in the case of a poor boy who had lost a considerable piece of the skull by exfoliation. This would appear to be the most suitable occasion which we shall have to introduce an account of the osseous timiour, nearly all the information regarding which is derived from a fragment of Heliodoms. He describes it as a hard resistant tumour, immoveable, without pain, or change of colour. He says it occurs on all parts of the body, but more especially on the head, about the temples, when if one is formed on each side they are called horns. He directs that the tumour should be cut out from the very base, and the bone scraped with a raspatory. The wound is to be healed by glueing (the first in- tention?), if possible, but otherwise by suppurative applica- tions. (Ch. Vet. 124.)SECT. XCl.] NOSE. 443 SECT. XCl. ON TRACTUBE AND CONTUSION OF THE NOSE. The under part of the Bose being cartilaginous does not admit of fracture,, but it is liable to be crushed, flattened, and dis- torted; but the upper part being of a bony substance is some- times fract^lred. In such cases Hippocrates prohibits ban- daging, which only increases the flatness and distortion, unless when from a blow the parts about the middle of the nose pro- trude. For in these cases he applies a suitable bandage with medicines, in order to give the nose its proper shape. When, therefore, the nose is fractured in its under parts, having in- troduced the index or little finger into the nostril, push the parts outwards to their proper position. When the fracture is of the inner parts this is to be done with the head of a probe imme- diately, during the course of the first day, or not long after- wards, because the bones of the nose get consolidated about the tenth day. But they are to be put into the proper position with the index-finger and thumb externally. In order to pre- vent the bones from changing their position, two wedge-Uke tents, formed of a twisted linen rag, are to be applied, one to each nostril, even if but one part of the nose be deranged, and these are to be allowed to remain until the bone or cartilage gets consolidated. And some sew the quills of the feathers of a goose into the rags, and thus introduce them into the nose, in order that they may preserve the parts in position without obstructing the respiration; but this is unnecessary, as respi- ration is carried on by the mouth. If the nose become in- flamed we may use some anti-inflammatory application to it, such as that from juices (diachylon), the one from vinegar and oU, and such like; or a cataplasm of fine wheaten flour boiled with manna or gum may be appHed, both for the sake of the inflammation and in order to keep the nose in position. AVhen the nose is distorted to either side, Hippocrates directs us, after it has been restored ^to its proper position, to take a piece of leather of a finger's breadth, and having spread one of its ends with taurocolla or gum, to fasten one extremity of it on that jside of the nose to which it inclines, and after it dries to bring the thong by the opposite ear to the occiput and forehead, and to fix the other end of the thong firmly there, so that the noseFRACTURES. 444 [book VI. being drawn sideways may take tlie proper position in the middle. Tliis practice, however, is not mucli approved of by tlie moderns. If tbe bones of the nose are broken into small pieces we must make an incision or enlarge the wound, and having removed the small bones with a hair forceps, unite the divided parts with sutures, and use the applications for recent wounds and those of an agglutinative nature. If there be a sore within the nose it is to be cured with the pledgets called lemnisci, spread with suitable ointments. Some also use leaden tubes until it cicatrize, lest a fleshy excrescence should arise from the ulcer. Comm. COMMENTARY. Some accouut of Hippocrates's practice is given '——' by ova' author. As here mentioned, he strongly disapproves of bandages which, he says, never fail to disappoint the expectations of both surgeon and patient. He directs us to replace the broken parts, eitherwith the fore-finger or a specillum. He also describes the application of the piece of thong; a distinct account of which is given by our author. (De Articulis, 30.) Galen, in his ' Commentary,' explains the obscurities in the text, but supplies no additional facts or views of practice. He greatly disapproved of agglutinative apphcations and bandages. (Fragmentum ap. Nicetse Collect.) Celsus gives a full account of fractures of the nose, but as he follows the plan of treatment recommended by Hippocrates, it will be unnecessary to dwell long upon it. When the car- tilages are fractured, the pieces are to be replaced with a spe- cillum, or with two fingers pressing on both sides ; then oblong tents sewed round with a thin soft skin ai-e to be introduced into the nostrils; or a large quill smeared with gum, or ai-ti- ficers' glue may be applied in like manner. He speaks of the leathern thong, but uses it under somewhat difi'erent circum- stances than those for which our author recommends it. He directs us to fasten the middle of it to the nose, and the extre- mities to the temples on either side. When any fragment of a bone does not coalesce properly with the rest, he recommends us to extract it with a forceps. The case, he properly states, is more dangerous when there is an external wound; but in this case, he recommends us to apply one of the plasters adapted for recent wounds; like the others he disappiwes of bandages-LOWER JAW. -^ECT. XCII.] 445 Khases, Aviceima, Haly Abbas, and Albuca;sis lay down ex- Comm. ;ictlv the same rules of practice as Hippocrates and our author. ' * The recent authorities consider the introduction of the tents into the nostrils unnecessary, and even prejudicial. (See Beirs Operative Surgery; Cooper's Surgical Dictionary.) But the iirlier modern writers adopt exactly the practice of the ancients, i'heodoricus recommends us to turn the nose to its proper shape when distorted, by means of a strip of linen fastened to its ex- tremity with ichthyocoUa, or the gluten of hides, as directed by the ancients, (ii, 29.) SECT. XCTI. ON FRACTURE OF THE LOWER JAW, AND CONTUSION OF THE EAR. We have treated of contusion of the ear in the Third Book, HS this affection is not of the nature of a fractxire. Btit the lower jaw is fractured from many causes. If, then, it be only fractured externally, and is not divided into two, as it occasions ■d curvature inwardly, the symptoms of it are obvious. Where- fore, having introduced the index and middle fingers of one hand—of the right, if the right jaw be fractured, and of the left, if it is the left—we push outwards the internal cvirvature (jf the fracture, which is to be secured with the other hand externally. The bones of the jaw are ascertained to be set straight by the equality of the teeth. When the jaw is fractured completely across, {that is to say, caulatim,) it is to be set by making extension and counter-extension, with the aid of an assistant; and the teeth, separated at the broken part, are to be fastened together, as Hippocrates says, and bound with gold, namely, with a ligature or thread of gold. But since this is not readily procured by everybody, a strong flaxen thread, a piece of fine linen, horse-hairs, or the like, may be substituted; I If the fracture be attended with an external wound, we must examine with a probe and ascertain whether a piece of bone be broken off, and if this be found to be the case, and the wound ■ is small, it is to be enlarged and the broken piece or pieces removed with some suitable instrument, and the lips of the wound united with sutures; then dressings suitable to recent wounds with bandages are to be applied. If there be no wound.FRACTURES. [book ti. 446 a simple cerate is to be applied to the jaw along with suitable bandages. In appljdng the bandage, the middle of it is to be placed on the occiput, and the fold of it brought along by the ears on both sides to the chin, and then from the chin to the occiput again, and then again to the chin, and thence by the cheeks to the bregma, and then again to below the occiput, where the bandage must terminate. Upon these again a cover, that is to say, another bandage, is to be applied to the forehead and fastened behind the head, in order to secure the afore- mentioned bandages. Some, also, apply a light splint, or a pieqe of leather of proper size, to the jaw, and bandage it as we have described. Others use the bandage called a muzzle. If both sides of the jaws are separated at the symphysis, having removed them a little asunder with both the hands, adapt them again to one another, and having fastened the teeth together as aforesaid with a ligature, and applied the proper bandages, order the patient to be nourished with thin soups, because mas- tication is hurtful in this case. And, if you suspect that it has been deranged from its position, loose the bandages on the third dfty, and apply them again, and do in like manner until the callus be formed. The callus of the jaw-bone is generally formed within three weeks at most, because it is spongy and full of marrow. If any inflammation come on, we must not neglect the embrocations and cataplasms suitable to it; which practice is to be observed in all cases. Comm. COMMENTARY. Our author's account of fractures of the lower '—'—' jaw is taken almost word for word from Hippocrates. (De Artictdis.) He divides them into external fractures, and frac- tures caulatim (or cauledon), which, agreeably to the explanation of this term, given in the 89th section, Galen iaterprets to be a complete separation of the fractured portions. He directs us to fasten the teeth with a gold thread; and in other respects also his practice is exactly the same as our author's. His ac- count of fracture at the sj-mphysis is very correct. Soranus gives a very sensible account of this subject. A transverse fracture, he says, often takes place, but a longitudmal one seldom, and in certain cases it is not attended with any distortion. It is to be recognized by examination with the fingers, when any displacement of the parts and crepitus willCLAVICLE. M CT. xcm.] 447 be recognized. Fracture in the ramus may be distinguished comm. iVom dislocation, by there being mobility in the former case, "—*—' vhereas there is none in the latter. (Chirurg. Vet. p. 49.) Celsus says, that in fractures of the jaw-bone the separated portions are never completely disjoined. When the bone is fairly broken transverse, the tooth at the fractured part protrudes, ■vad is therefore to be secm'ed to the adjoining one with a hair. He then recommends us to apply a double compress, moistened in wine and oil, with agglutinants; and afterwards a bandage or soft piece of leather is to be put on with its middle at the I chin, and its extremities fastened above the head. In this, as in every other species of fracture, he recommends at first ab- stinence, and afterwards, liquid foodj not allowing a full diet • until the inflammation has subsided. He says, a fractured jaw-bone gets consolidated between the 14th and the 21st day. i Albucasis evidently copies from our author; and Avicenna ! and Uhases do so avowedly. ; Haly Abbas gives a similar account, recommending us to j secure the teeth with a thread; and then to apply bandages, ■ and occasionally a compress, as directed by our author. , By the first variety, described by all the ancient authorities, i was meant, we suppose, a fracture of the condyle. SECT. XCIII. ON FRACTITRE OF THE CLAVICLE. The clavicle in its natural position is united to the sternum ^ at its inner extremity, and at its outer it is articulated with the : acromion; and, therefore, as it supports the shoulder and the i arm itself, if it undergo a fracture in any part whatever, the ! portion of it united to the shoulder sinks down, being dragged along with the arm. It is better, then, that the fracture be : transverse, and not longitudinal, or partly straight with a lu- mated extremity, according to the opinion of most surgeons. Tor that which is fractured transversely, can, by extension and ccompression with the fingers, be readily restored to its proper ^position j but the other kinds of fracture have prominences not ieasily arranged. If, therefore, it be broken in any way through ats whole thickness, let one assistant take hold of the arm con- mected with the fractured clavicle, pulling it at the same timeFRACTURES. [book VI. 448 outwards and upwards j and let another pull the opposite- shoulder, or at least the neck, and let them make counter-ex- tension. The surgeon then, with his fingers, is to set the frac- ture, pushing down what is prominent, and drawing outwards what is situated too deep. If more counter-extension be required, a ball of rags, wool, or something such, may be applied below the armpit, and the elbow brought to the rib adjoining to it; and the other things may be done as described ah'eady. But if it is found impossible to raise up the end of the clavicle con- nected with the shoulder that is lodged down below, ha\ing laid the -man on his back, and placed a moderate cushion under his- back, let an assistant push the shoulders downw^ards, so that the bone of the clavicle, which is lodged below may be bent up- wards, and then set the fracture with the fingers. But if part of the clavicle be broken off and unconnected, and if we find it irritating the parts, we must make a straight incision with a scalpel and remove the broken portion, and smooth the re- mainder with chisels, taking care that the instrument called meningophylax, or another chisel be put under the clavicle to make it steady; and if no inflammation is present, we may use sutures, but otherwise, pledgets. And having prepai-ed various splenia (compresses), we must apply the larger and thicker to the projecting part of the bone; and these, when inflammation is present, are to be dipped in oil, but otherwise they are to be appHed dry. And having put a moderate ball of wool under the nearer armpit, we apply a suitable bandage round by the armpits, the fractured clavicle and the scapula, bringing the folds in a proper direction; and if the part of the clavicle con- nected with the shoulder fall downwards, the middle of abroad thong is to be put under the elbow of the same side, and the whole arm suspended by the neck, and the hand is to be slung in another bandage as in cases of bleeding at the elbow. But if, which rarely happens, the outer part be uppermost, we must not have recourse to this arrangement of the arm. The patient must lie in a supine position, and live upon a spare diet, and if necessary, embrocations and other suitable applications are to be made until the callus is formed. The callus of the clavicle is formed in about twenty days at most. Comm. COMMENTARY. Hippocrates givcs such an account ofCLAVICLE. SECT. XCIII.] 449 accident as clearly bespeaks his intimate acquaintance with the Comm. ■ subject. Ti'ansverse fractures, he says, are easily healed, whereas ' ' ' ! such as are oblique prove more diflBcult to manage. He justly 1 remarks, that the deformity occasioned by this injury appears ; first very great, and annoys both the patient and his phy- ^ sician, but that it gi'adually becomes less, and the patient, feel- ing little inconvenience from it, grows careless, and the phy- sician, seeing no evil consequences result from this neglect, acquiesces in it, and presently it is found -that proper callus is formed. Hippocrates further exposes the mistake of those who I endeavom' to push down the projecting bone, which, -he justly ; remarks, cannot be effected. The part which projects, as he > states, is almost universally the extremity attached to the ster- : num, the other portion being dragged down by the weight of the arm; and hence the mistake is obvious of those who attempt : to push down the upper extremity. He recommends the patient : to lie in bed until adhesion takes place, which generally occurs i between the fourteenth and twentieth day. (De Articulis, 16.) • Galen directs us to apply four splenia or oblong compresses i intersecting one another Hke the letter X. (Comment, et } Fragment, apud Nicetse Collect.) When the fracture is near t the shoulder, Galen recommends the spica bandage (De Fasciis), t for a drawing and description of which, see Heister's ' Surgery,^ { (p. iii, c. 4, § 1, c. 3.) Celsus agrees entirely with the account of the matter given ' by Hippocrates. When the bone is broken transversely, he - says, it will sometimes unite readily without the application of *a bandage. In general, as he explains, the upper end of the ! fractured portions is the part attached to the sternum, the other being attached to the shoulder and dragged down along with : the arm. He mentions that this is so generally the state of the parts, that some great masters of the art had declared that they had never seen a case in which the end attached to the shoukler projected, but that Hippocrates, who is rich in informa- tion upon these subjects, had affirmed upon his own authority that such an occurrence is to be met with. In setting the jfracture he properly directs us to raise the shoulder; and his imode of bandaging would seem to have been little different J from that now generally followed. He directs us to fill the I armpit with wool, and to apply over the fractured portions of 29450 FRACTURES. [book vi. Comm. the bone a compress three times folded, and moistened in Avine and oil; or, if the bone is broken into many fragments, a splint formed of cane (ferula). If the bones incline to the common position, the arm is to be fixed to the side, but if the outer end has a tendency upwards, the arm is to be tied to the neck. The man is to be laid on his back.' All spiculse of bones are to be cut out, if it is found that they are wounding the flesh. Albucasis follows our author closely. He particularly enjoins the surgeon when there are any projecting spiculse, to make an incision and cut them out; after which, a suture may be used to heal the integuments, provided the wound is large. A com- press, soaked in rose-oil, vinegar, and wine, is to be applied to allay inflammation. He dii'ects the patient to sleep on his back with a pillow under his armpit. E,hases, Avicenna, and Haly Abbas give exactly the same account of the accident as Albucasis and our author. SECT. XCXIV. ON THE SCAPULA. The scapula is not fractured in its broad and tabular part, but a fracture may sometimes take place at its spine. The fracture being sometimes what is called by expression, some- times a simple fracture, and sometimes a piece is broken ofi'. The expression, then, is ascertained by the touch, exhibiting a hoUow, and occasioning torpidity of the adjacent arm and a throbbing pain. Simple fracture is known by its roughness and local pain. Both are to be managed according to the anti-inflammatory plan of treatment. When a piece is broken off", which also may be ascertained by the touch, if it gives no disturbance it may be fixed by a convenient bandage, but when it moves about and produces irritation, it is to be removed by an incision, and sutures used, as described above. Bandages like those for the clavicle are to be appUed, and the patient is to be laid on the opposite side. Comm. COMMENTARY. Hippocrates has not treated particidai'ly of ' '' this fracture. Celsus treats in general terms of the cheek-bone, breast- bone, the broad bone of the scapula, the spine, os sacrara, &c.451 SECT. XCV,] BREAST-BONE. If there be an external wound, it is to be healed with suitable Comm. dressings; after which the fissure or hole in the bone will fill' ' up with callus. If the skin be entire,, he merely enjoins rest, a suitable cerate, and gentle bandages. Albucasis and Avicenna, as usual^ copy from our author. The former states that fractures of the scapula are healed in twenty or twenty-five days. Haly Abbas, like the others, directs us to remove any spiculse which occasion irritation, to apply soothing cataplasms, and suitable bandages. Uhases re- marks that the body of the bone is little subject to fractures, hut that its extremities may be broken ofi". A fracture of the lioUow portion of it is ascertained by a rising in the part; fis- sures are recognized only by the local pain. SECT. XCV. ON THE BKEAST-BONE. The middle of the sternum is fractured by simple division and by expression, and the extremity of it is broken off". When, therefore, the fracture is deranged, pain and inequality of the place follow, and there is crepitus upon pressure with the fingers. When by expression, there is Adolent pain, dyspnoea, and cough, owing to the pleura being irritated ; and rarely there is vomiting of blood, a hollow in the fractured place, and yielding thereof. The same treatment is to be applied as that recommended for the scapula. When the fracture is by ex- pression, we may practise Hippocrates's mode of setting which i he recommended for the clavicle when it inclines inwards, I having recourse to the supine posture, the application of a cushion upon the back, pressing down the shoulders, and draw- liing the sides together with the hands. The sides being covered • with wool, we apply a circular bandage, having first put on t two thongs straight from the shoulders, so that afterwards the : two ends may be united in a proper manner, and prevent the circidar bandage from falhng off. Commentary. Hippocrates holds injuries of the sternum Com to be more dangerous than those of the ribs. He recommends "-^ in this case a light diet, rest, silence, bleeding at the arm, and •so forth. (De Artie. 50.)FRACTURES. [book VI. 452 Comm. Celsus directs tliis fracture to be treated upon general priu- ' ciples, as explained in tlie preceding section. Tlie Arabians evidently follow our autbor. Albucasis speaks of applying thin splints. Tbe reader will find, upon reference to the ninetieth section, that a fracture by expression is a comminuted fracture with depression. SECT. XCVI. ON THE RIBS. Of the ribs, called also spathse, those which are long admit of a fracture in any part, but the false only at the spine, be- cause there only they are of a bony natiire ; for at their an- terior part they are cartilaginous, and are liable to be crushed, but not fractured. The diagnosis is not difficult, for an in- equality presents itself to the fingers of the examiner, and there is crepitus with derangement at the fractured part. When the fractured parts incline inwards there is a violent pungent pain, more severe than that in pleurisy, from the pleui'a being wounded as with a sharp instrument; there is difficulty of breathing, cough, and often vomiting of blood. The other modes of displacement, then, may be rectified by the fingers, but in that inwai'ds this cannot be done, owing to the difficulty of applying distension. Wherefore, some direct us to give much flatulent food, in order that by the inflation and disten- sion occasioned by it the fracture may be propelled outwards. But this is not necessary, for there is no communication be- tween the chest and the organs of nutrition, and besides, the inflammation will be augmented hy repletion. Others ap- ply a cupping instrument, which is not amiss, unless a collec- tion of humours should be occasioned by the suction, and the fracture be thereby pushed more inwardly. Wherefore, Soranus says, " Let the parts be covered with wool dipped in hot oil, and let the intercostal space be filled with compresses, in order that the circular bandage applied, as in the case of the sternum, may lie smooth. And let everything be done, as in pleurisy, according to the degree of accident. But if any great necessity compel us, owing to the pleura being irritated, we must divide the skin and lay bare the broken part of the'ECT. XCVI.] RIBS. 453 rib; aud then putting the instrument for protecting mem- )ranes under, to prevent the pleui-a from being wounded, cut tf properly, and remoA^e the irritating pieces of bone. After his the parts which are not inflamed are to be united and , Lired as recent wounds ; but such as are inflamed are to be covered with pledgets dipped in oil. The diet and treatment must be anti-inflammatory, and the patient is to be laid in the easiest posture." Commentary. Hippocrates gives a full and accurate ac- count of this accident. He remarks that when the broken uds of the bone are not pushed inwai-ds, it seldom happens that fever or any unpleasant symptoms supervene. "When fever IS not present he thinks that abstinence by occasioning an empti- ness of the belly, proves rather prejudicial by removing what otherwise tends to support the part affected, which is thereby made to hang unsupported. In this case a slight bandage w ill be sufficient. The ribs, he says, become united in about twenty days. "When the skin about the ribs is bruised by a blow or any other such cause, much blood, he says, is often \ omited up. Galen, in his commentary on this passage, states that when the vessels of the pleura are wounded and blood ffused into its cavity, a spitting of blood may take place ■Ithough the lungs themselves have not been injured. The treatment recommended by Hippocrates consists of bleeding at the elbow, enjoining silence, applying folded compresses with broad bandages, neither too tight nor too loose. He directs us to use a double-headed bandage, and to commence at the seat of the fi'acture. He approves of gentle aperients and restricted diet for ten days, after which period nourishing food is to be given. He adds, that when the proper treatment is neglected, even if no other inconvenience should result from it, a viscid collection is sure to form in the part. When, in addition to this swelling, a chronic pain gets seated in the part, he advises the actual cautery to be applied. (De Articulis.) Celsus, with his characteristic elegance and terseness, ex- pounds the rules of practice delivered by Hippocrates. He directs us to apply a bandage, to bleed from the arm, to open the Ijelly ; to avoid noise, speaking, tumultuous passions, smoke, dust, and whatever is calculated to excite coughing and sneez-454 FRACTURES. [book vi. Comm. mg. Gruels only are to be taken before the seventh day, after wliicb bread may be used. When the pain is violent he directs us to ap^ily a cataplasm made from darnel, or barley with fat figs. Should a collection of matter take place it is to be opened with a red-hot iron. "When mucus forms about the fracture, he recommends the application of the cautery. The above is but an imperfect outline of his admirable chapter on fractures of the ribs. Avicenna professedly copies from our author. Haly Abbas, Rhases, and Albucasis give nearly the same account, without the slightest addition of any importance. They all approve of making an incision and extracting the pieces of bones which may happen to be irritating the pleura. Albucasis gives a drawing of the meningophylax, or instrument for protecting membranes during the sawing of bones. SECT. XCVIl. ON THE BONES OF THE HIPS AND PUBES. The bones of the ischium or hips are rarely fractured indeed, but admit of the same varieties as those of the scapula. Their extremities, then, are sometimes broken off; there may be fi'actiu'e along their length, and the middle may be fractured by expression. They are attended with a local pain, a pungent and throbbing sensation, and torpor of the leg on that side if from expression. It is to be set in the same way as that of the scapula, only it does not admit of the extraction of broken pieces by an operation on account of the external parts. If necessary, it is to be set by the fingers, and afterwards we must apply the other convenient treatment, using embrocations, and filling up the hollows of the loins with compresses, in order that the cii'cular bandages which are put on may he even. The same things may be said with respect to the bones of the pubes, for we have nothing more partictdar to say of them. Comm. COMMENTARY. The other authorities do not treat of these cases so minutely as our author, whose account of them is sufficiently accurate. Celsus merely directs us to treat them upon general prin- ciples.455 VERTEBRAE, ETC. SECT. XCVIII.] Albucasis recommends the same plan of treatment as our Comm. author, with the addition of splints made of wood or leather. " ' ' These, however, cannot be very much required. He directs the patient to lie on his back or on the sound side. Avicenna does not treat of these cases of fracture. Haly Abbas and Rhases abridge our author's account. SECT. XCVUI. ON THE VERTEBRAE, SPINE OP THE BACK, AND OS SACRUM. The round bodies of the vertebrae may sometimes be crushed, but rarely undergo fracture, in which cases the membranes of the spinal marrow or the marrow itself being compressed, sympathetic nervous affections take place, and death speedily follows, more particularly if the vertebra of the neck be affected. Wherefore, having first given warning of the danger, we must, if possible, attempt to extract by an incision the compressing bone, or if not we must soothe the part by the anti-inflam- matory treatment. But if any of the processes of the vertebrae, of which the spine, as it is called, consists, be broken off, it will readily be felt upon examination with the finger, the liroken piece yielding and returning again to its position, and, there fore, we must make an incision of the skin externally and ex- tract it, and having united the wound with sutures, pursue the treatment for recent wounds. When the os sacrum is frac- tured the index-finger of the left hand is to be introduced into the anus, while with the other we manage as we best can the fractured bone; or if we feel any piece broken off, we make an incision and lay hold of it, and apply bandages and suitable treatment. Commentary. Celsus remarks that when a piece of one of Comm. the vertebrae is broken off a hollow is felt in the place, it is " ' ' attended with pain, and the person is compelled to bend in- wards. The treatment is to be conducted upon general prin- ciples, as explained under fractures of the scapula. Albucasis lays it down as a rule that when a fracture of the cervical vertebrae produces paralysis and insensibility of the arms, the case may be abandoned as hopeless. When, after a'^^^ FRACTURES. [book vr. Comm. fracture of tlie dorsal vertebrae, it is remarked that there is paralysis and insensibility of the lower extremities, and that the alvine and urinary discharges are passed unconsciously, he, in like manner, pronounces the case to be desperate. When a piece of bone is broken off and occasions great irritation, he recommends us, like our author, to make an incision and take it out. Haly Abbas and Avicenna borrow everything from Paulus. Rhases gives many curious remarks upon injiuies of the sjpine, but several of them are borrowed from Galen. (DeLocis Aft'ectis.) Galen relates many cases to show that retention of the urine and faeces is a common effect of an injmy of the spine. He also mentions that loss of speech is sometimes the consequence of the upper part of the spine being injui-ed. Ehases relates the case of a man who lost the sensibility of his arms from an injury of the last vertebra of the neck, pro- duced by a fall from a horse. He states, that when the injury is below the neck the respiration is never aflPected, He incul- cates that whenever there is paralysis of th.e limbs, or of any part after a fall, it arises from some injury of the spine. (Cont. i.) When the sacrum or os coccygis is fractured, he directs us to replace the parts by introducing the finger per anum. (Cont. xxix.) SECT. XCIX. ON THE AKM. WTien the arm is broken Hippocrates makes the extension thus : he says, " We must take an oblong piece of wood, such as that which is put into the holes at the end of spades, and fastening ropes to its extremities, suspend it transversely fi'om some beam, and placing the man upon some elevated object more^ erect than what is called the erect sleeping posture, we pass his hand over the above-mentioned piece of wood, so that the middle of the wood may be fitted to the ai'mpit, and his arm being bent at a right angle, an assistant stooping doAni takes hold of the hand, and then some heavy object, such as a stone, a leaden ball, or the like, is to be fastened to the elbow, and being allowed to hang suspended, in tliis way you must45/ -ECT. XCIX.] ARM. et the fracture, or instead of a weight an assistant may pull ilo'n n the arm, and instead of the above-mentioned piece of wood some use the step of a ladder." Soranus, however, proceeds rhus : Having placed the man in a chair, or, which is better, ;is it occasions less distui-bance, in a supine posture, then having put a ligatm'e round the wi'ist and suspended it from the neck so as to preserve its angular figure, we direct two assistants, the one to apply his fingers below the fracture and the other above, and thus to make the extension. Or if we require ■ !:i"onger pulling we apply two equal pieces of thong to the arm, he one aboA e the fractxu'e and the other below, and giving one ijf the pieces of thong to the assistant who stands above the [latient^s head, and the other to the one at his feet, we order them to make counter-extension. If the fracture be near the top of the shoulder we apply the middle of the thong to the ai-mpit and direct the assistant at the head to hold it, and, Vihile the other pulls in the opposite direction, we make the counter-extension as above. And when the fracture is at the Ibow, the ligature is to be applied there or at the wrist. The bones of the fracture being properly set, the extension is to be relaxed, and it is to be bound up according to the method of Hippocrates. When the fracture is free from inflammation and recent, we must use linen bandages of a proper length, and three or four fingers in breadth, which have been soaked in water or oxycrate, but when there is inflammation, thin soft pieces of wool steeped in oil are to be used. And if the frac- ture be at the middle of the arm the bandaging must commence at the fracture, and after two or three turns the bandaging is to be carried upwards, in order, as he says, that the overflow of blood to the part may be intercepted; and it is to terminate there. A second bandage is then to be applied with its head at the fracture, and, having done as in the former case, cai-ry it from above downwards, and again reverting from thence up- wards let it terminate there. There should be a moderate de- <j^ee of tightness according to our own feeling and that of the l)atient. If the fracture be near the top of the shoulder, the first bandage should take in the acromion, scapula, and sternum, so as to form what is called the crane bandage. The second one is to extend to the elbow, and reverting from thence to the upper parts it is to take in, with the acromion, the scapula and[book VI. FRACTURES. 458 sternum, like the first bandage. If tlie fracture be at the elbow, the fore-arm is to be taken in with the bandage, the figure of the elbow-joint being preserved. And so in like manner with the other members, such as the fore-arm, the thigh, and the leg ; and when the fracture is in any part near a joint, and not in the middle of the limb, the joint is to be bound along with it. After the bandaging the moderns immediately apply splints, in order to preserve the bones which have been set in their proper shape, tightening them agreeably to the patient's feeling and the swelling occasioned by the inflammation. But the ancients did not apply the splints until after the seventh day, within which period, as the inflammation had declined, the limb had become less swelled. Hippocrates orders the band- ages to be loosed every three days, lest, owing to the part being constantly covered up, distension and pruritus should come on, and that the insensible perspiration might not be obstructed after the bone has become firm; for that by these means not only does a painful pruritus take place in certain cases, but ulceration of the skin is occasioned by the acrimony of the sanious humours. He directs us, therefore, to bathe with tepid water, so as to dispel the humours, but after the seventh day to loose the bandages at greater intervals, because the pai'ts no longer require the expulsion of the humours; the formation of callus thus goes on properly. The splints are to be applied in this manner. Compresses, thrice folded and dipped in oil, are to be put upon the bandages, and if the limb be of equal thickness this is to be done even ; but if it is of unequal thick- ness, the hoUow parts are to be filled up with the compresses so as to make the arm of equal thickness for the application of the spHntsj then the splints being wi'apped with a moderate quantity of wool or flax, we apply them around the fracture, being not more than a finger's breadth distant from one another, binding them moderately tight, and taking care, as much as possible, that the splints do not come in contact with a joint, and being more particularly careful of the inner part of the joint, for there they sometimes occasion ulcers and inflamma- tions of tendons. But there the bandaging must be made slacker; and stronger, on the other hand, where the fractiu'e swells up. It is better that the chest should be moderately bound with the arm, lest by its motions it should derange the459 ARM. SECT. XCIX.] position. If inflammation should come on (wMcli we know by the swelling and redness aroiind, and from the limb being more tightly bound than formerly), or if the fracture become de- ranged, or if, without these occurring, the bandages become slacker, or, on the other hand, tighter than proper, the band- ages are to be loosed and everything rectified. The patient is CO be laid in a supine position, with his hand upon his stomach, and a soft pillow is to be placed under the arm having a skin upon it to receive the embrocations which run from it. The part is to be bathed with warm oil every day, more especially if inflammation be present, and during the time of inflamma- tion he is to be fed sparingly, and afterwards moderately, to promote the growth of callus. He must lie quiet imtil the callus is fonned, which, in the arm and leg, takes place about the fortieth day. After this the bandages are to be loosed, and after using the bath he is to be treated with plasters suit- able to fractiu'es. This mode of procedure is appHcable in almost all cases of fracture of limbs. Commentary. Hippocrates's account of fracture of the os Comm. humeri, as quoted by Paulus, is from the eighth chapter of his '—*—' work ' De Fractuiis,' but our author has used considerable li- berties in making the extract. The mode of using the piece of wood for suspending the arm is easily understood, from his own description without the commentary of Galen. (Seep. 541, t. V, ed. BasU.) In the edition by Littre it is, moreover, well illustrated by a drawing. (T. iii, p. 445.) He directs the splints not to be applied until the seventh day, in order to give time for the inflammation and swelling to subside. He says, the bone gets consolidated in about forty days. He justly remarks, that when distortion of the arm takes place it is to the outside, that is to say, backwards. His method of bandaging for fractures of the arm and fore-arm was the same. He directs us in the first place to put a cerate to the part, and then to apply the first bandage, beginning at the fracture, and carrying it two or three turns upwards, so as to prevent the blood from falling down into the part. The second bandage is to commence above the frac- ture, and is to be carried downwai'ds. Afterwards splenia or oblong compresses, spread with cerate, are to be laid over them, and these are to be secured by strips of linen cloth. TheseFRACTURES. [liooK vr. 460 . biindages are to be removed when tliey become slack, generally about the thii-d day. On tbe seventb the ferula; or splhits are to be applied, the limb by that time having lost its swelling, and they are to be allowed to remain until the 34th day after tlie accident. When swellings arise on any part of a limb from pressure, they are to be anointed with cerate or wine and oil, and wrapped in soft wool; and if the splints be hurting the limb they are to be removed for a time. (De Fract. 21.) When the bandages are taken off, he directs that hot water should be poured upon the limb. He recommends a spare diet unless there be a wound of the integuments. (De Fract. and Galen. Comment.) It may be proper to give some more account of the splenia and ferulae {vapOriKSQ), used by Hippocrates in frac- tures of the extremities. In his work entitled ' The Surgeon's Shop' ((V/'rpao)'), he directs the length of the splenia to be made proportionate to the part which they are applied to, their breadth three fingers, their thickness three or four folds, and their num- ber such as to encircle the limb without doing either more or less. It appears quite clear that they consisted of folded linen. The intention of them \vas to give some support to the part. He dii-ects the splints to be smooth, even, concave, and some- what shorter than the length of the bandages, in order not to hurt the sound skin. It appears, then, that the whole appa- ratus used by Hippocrates in the treatment of fractures, con- sisted, 1st, of two under-bandages, 2d, of splenia or folded com- presses, 3d, of the ferute or spHnts, 4th, of an outer bandage to secure the splints. With regard to the cerate used in the Hippocratic system of bandaging, it is important to state that, from a passage in his treatise, ' Officina Medici,' it would ap- pear that the cerate was not only applied to the skin, but that, for the sake of gi-eater security, every fold of the bandages was rubbed with it. See Galen's Commentary on the work, (T. v. p. 692, ed. Basil,) and Littre's Hippocrates, (T. iii, p. 316.) It remains to be mentioned, that the bandages were secui-ed by means of a thread or with a needle. (Off. Med. 8.) No- thing can surpass the judgment and precision with w^liich Hip- pocrates lays down his rules for the application of the bandages. (Ibid.) Galen describes the splenia as being pieces of linen folded three or four times, which are to be laid along the arm longitu-SECT. XCIX.] ARM. 461 dinally. He directs us to spread them with cerate. He says that they support the limb. He says distinctly that all the folds of the bandages should be rubbed with cerate in order to give greater support. All his directions for the treatment of a broken limb are most judicious. When at first there is much pain and inflammation, he recommends bleeding and purging; but when the callus begins to form, he du-ects the patient to use a nourishing diet. Spiculee and scales of bone are in ge- neral to be allowed to exfoliate of themselves, and not removed forcibly by the surgeon. (Comment, and Fragment, ap. Nicetse Collect.) Celsus lays down the principles of treatment in fractures of the arm, fore-arm, thigh, and leg so circumstantially, that we can afibrd room only for an outline of them. He recommends no time to be lost in getting the displaced parts properly re- duced. For this purpose, if the limb be strong, two assistants may be reqxm-ed to pull in contrary directions; and if other means do not succeed, thongs of leather, or linen bandages, may be attached to each end of the broken limb to make ex- tension and counter-extension with them. When the ends of the bone have been adjusted, (which is known by the pain and deformity being removed,) the limb is to be wrapped in linen cloths folded two or three times, and dipped in wine and oil. Six bandages or rollers (fascije) are then to be applied. The first is the shortest, which is to be three times rolled round the hrab upwards in a spiral direction, and three times generally will be sufficient. The second must be one half longer, and is to commence wherever the bone projects; or if there be no pro- jection, at any part of the fracture; and is to be carried first downwards and then upwards, so as to terminate a little above the former. These are to be secured by a broader linen cloth spread with cerate. The third and fourth bandages are then to be applied upon the principle, that the latter is to be put on in the contrary direction to the former; and further, it is to be observed that the third bandage terminates below, whereas all the others terminate above the fracture. Upon the whole, he adds, it is better to secure the limb with many than witli tight bandages, these being apt to occasion mortification. When properly applied they ought not to be loose on the first day, yet such as not to give pain; slacker on the second, and462 [book V]. FRACTURES. . loose on tlie tHrd day. They are then to be removed and ' again applied, and a fifth bandage is now to be superadded to them; and again, these are to be taken off on the fifth day, and six bandages put on, in such a manner that the third and fifth may terminate below, and all the others above. When- ever the bandages are taken off, the limb is to be bathed with hot water, and proper fomentations applied to allay the inflam- mation, which will generally be found to have subsided about the seventh or ninth day. Then the bandages are again to be put on as directed above, and ferulte or splints are also to be added, taking care to put on a stronger and broader splint at the side to which the fractured bone has a tendency to be protruded. These must all be rounded where they come in contact with a joint, to avoid injuring it; they are only to be secured -ndth such tightness as to keep the bones in their place, and when they get loose their thongs are to be tightened. The bandages are to be removed gradually. These are his general directions for all fractures of the extremities, and it is to be remarked that his mode of treatment is essentially the same as that of Hippo- crates. He afterwards describes at considerable length the method of setting the broken ends of the os humeri. After this is accomplished he directs us to bind the arm gently to the side. With regard to the splints, he properly recommends the longest to be applied externally; shorter ones on the braflni of the arm (over the biceps muscle ?), and the shortest under the armpit'. He advises us to remove them frequently when the fracture is situated near the fore-arm; and at these times the arm is to be bathed with hot water, and rubbed with a soft cerate. It will be seen that the methods of Hippocrates and Celsus, although the same in principle, differ in the following respects. Hippocrates uses three bandages, Celsus six : Hippocrates uses small compresses, Celsus large pieces of Hnen : Hippocrates uses cerate, Celsus wine and oU. The Arabians conducted the treatment in much the same way as the Greeks. In cases of fractm-e of the arm, Albucasis di- rects us to make the bandages of soft, thin linen cloth ; but of broader and firmer linen if the thigh or leg is to be treated. Below them is to be applied a smooth cloth spread with a suit- able liniment. After the under bandages have been put on mARM. ^ECT. XCIX.] ^63 the manner already described, the splints are to be applied, pro- Comm. vided no swelling nor inflammation be present, for in that case ' ' ' tliey are to be deferred for a few days. These splints are to be constructed from the middle part of the alcanna, or of pine, or of the palm-tree, or of a tree which he calls calingi. Avicenna directs us to form the splints of the wood of al- ranna, or of oleander, or of pomegranate tree, or the like. The length of the splints is to be made equal to that of the limb, and their greatest breadth about three fingers. They are to be secured with another bandage and pieces of tape made of linen cloth. There is to be an interval of a finger's breadth between each spHnt. He says, it is best to apply four splints of such a length as to reach from joint to joint. They are to be smooth and even so as not to injure any part. In cases of fracture of the OS humeri he directs us to surround the nearest joint with the bandages, and, if the fracture be in the middle, to make them take in both extremities. He recommends ns to foment the limb with vinegar and water, or water alone. The arm is to be fastened to the side and the hand laid on the stomach. Haly Abbas, in giving directions for the treatment of frac- tures in general, recommends the splints to be made of pieces of alcanna, or any hard wood. Afterwards he directs the limb to be laid.upon a table having a pad (pannus) placed on it, which last is to be secured with fillets. He gives particular directions not to apply the splints over the processes of bones, and when inflammation comes on he forbids splints to be used at all; in that case the patient is to be kept upon restricted diet. The bandages are to be removed in the course of three ; days. The directions given by the experienced Rhases about the . bandages and splints are very similar to our author's, and there- L: fore need not be repeated. See an account of the ancient splenia, or compresses, and of tthe ferulse, or splints, in Scultet's 'Arsenal de Chirurgie.' (29, ?30.) Seealso Van Swieten's'Commentary,'(354.) Van Swieten rremarks, that although the eighteen-tailed bandage be supposed modem invention, a similar one is described by Hippocrates, (De Fract.) and by Galen in his commentaries on the same. Le Clerc gives a pretty full description of the Celsian method »of ti-eating fractures. (Hist, de la Med.) See also Fabricius ab464 [book VI. FRACTURES. Comm. Aquapendente (CEuv. Cliir. ii, 3, and i, 4). We are certain it """^ ' will be generally admitted that the waxed apiiaratus of the ancients in the case of fractures was probably quite as efficacious as the' starched bandages which have been introduced of late years with so much advantage. SECT. C. ON THE ULNji AND RADIUS. The ulna and radius are sometimes both fractured together, and sometimes one of them only, either in the middle or at one end, as at the elbow or wrist. The worst of all is when both are fractured together, after that the ulna alone, but a fractured radius is, of all cases, the easiest cured. For, although it be larger than the ulna, yet it has this bone as a base and support to it. If only one be fractured, the extension must be applied principally to it, but if both, they are to be stretched evenly, the arm being put into an angular position, so that the thumb may be higher than the fingers, and the little finger lower than any of the others, for thus the ulna wiU be placed under the radius. If stronger extension be required, especially' when both are broken, we must apply it not only with the hands but also with ligatures, as described when treating of the arm ; and everything relative to the bandaging and the subsequent treatment, with the application of the splints, is to be done as in that case until callus is formed. The bones of the fore-arm have their callus formed in about thirty days at most. And the fore-arm is to be- otherwise arranged in the same manner as the arm, with the exception of those things which are put under it. Comm. COMMENTARY. Whoever would wish to see a full exposition ' ' ' of the principles upon which these cases of fracture ought to be conducted may consult the first part of Hippocrates^s work. (De Fracturis.) He shows, with a singular precision, the dis- advantages of the prone and supine positions of the hand, both of which, it appears, had their advocates in ancient times. The bandages, compresses, and splints are to be applied in the manner described in the preceding section. He insists strongly on the necessity of having the arm and wi'ist carefuUy sus-HAND AND FINGERS. 465 SECT. CI.] pended in a broad soft sling, and that the hand be placed Comm. neither too high nor too low. Hii^pocrates takes notice of' ' fracture of the olecranon, as will be explained afterwards. Oribasius gives a description and drawing of a laqueus cal- culated to retain the spKnts, and secure the fore-arm in cases of fracture. (De Laqueis, 2.) Celsus directs us to sling the arm, with the thumb a little inclined, towards the breast, in a convenient napkin (mitella), the broad part being applied to the arm, and the narrow ends tied behind the neck. Albucasis treats of this case of fracture very accurately. He calls the ulna the larger of the bones. He directs the arm to he suspended with the thumb uj)permost. Wlien the fractured pieces of bone , occasion irritation, he advises us to make an in- cision aild extract them. When a troublesome pruritus seizes the arm, he recommends us to remove the bandages and bathe with hot water. Rhases gives proper directions about not applying the band- ages too tight or too slack. When the hand swells he recom- mends them to be slackened. ' The accounts given by Avicenna and Haly Abbas are quite similar to om* author's. Avicenna cautions us not to make the splints too long lest they hurt the hand. None of the Arabians, w o believe, have noticed the fracture of the olecranon. Like most imitators, they often fall short of their originals! SECT. CI. ON THE HAND AND ITS FINGERS. The bones of the carpus, metacarpus, and of the phalanges of the fingers, being of a spongy and porous nature, are often crushed but rarely fractured. The patient then being placed on a high seat, we are to direct him to lay his hand prone upon an even table, and the fractured pieces being stretched hy an assistant, we arrange them with two fingers, that is to say, the thumb and the index-finger. A tight bandage is to be used at the time that inflammation prevails, for, owing to the porous nature of the bones, a redundance of callus is formed. If the phalanx or finger be simply broken, and it be the large one, called also the thumb, after suitable bandaging, H. 30FRACTURES. [book VI. 466 it is to be bound to the palm that it may be kept at rest; but if any of the others, as for example, the index or little finger, it is to be bound along with the one next to it, or if one of the middle, it may be bound along with that on either side, or all may be bound altogether. For they are thus kept best at rest, as if the fractured bones had been supported with splints. Comm. COMMENTARY. Hippocrates recommends the general treat- ' * ' ment applicable in all cases of fracture, with the exception of the spKnt, which, as Galen explains, is not admissible in these cases. Celsus says, it will be sufficient when a finger is broken to bind it to one piece of splint (surculum) after the inflammation has subsided. Albucasis recommends one small splint to be appHed upon the thumb when it is fractured. If one of the fingers be broken, it is to be bound up with the others, or one small piece of splint may be used. Avicenna, Bhases, and Haly Abbas treat distinctly of these accidents, but supply no additional in- formation. * SECT. CII. ON THE THIGH. The case of a broken thigh is analogous to that of the arm, but in particular, a fractured thigh is mostly deranged forwards and outwards, for the bone is naturally flattened on those sides. It is to be set by the hands, with ligatures, and even cords applied, the one above and the other below the fracture. When the fracture takes place at one end, if at the head of the thigh, the middle part of a thong wrapped round with wool, so that it may not cut the parts there, is to be applied to the peri- nseum, and the ends of it brought up to the head and given to an assistant to hold, and applying a ligature below the fracture, we give the ends of it to another assistant to make extension. If it is fractured near the knee, we apply the ligature imme- diately above the fracture, and give the ends to an assistant, with which to make extension upwards; and while we put a ligature round the knee to secure it, and while the patientS15CT. CII.] 467 THIGH. lies thus, witli his leg extended, we arrange the fracture. Pieces of bone which irritate the parts, as has been often said, are to be taken out from above; and the rest of the treatment we have already described in the section on the arm. The thigh gets consolidated withia fifty days. The manner of ar- ranging it afterwards will be described after delivering the treatment of the whole leg. Commentary. Hippocrates has correctly stated the diffi- culty attending the management of a fractured thigh-bone, and the disgrace which an ill-managed case entails upon the surgeon. He directs him to make extension and counter-ex- tension, and to apply the bandages and splints in the manner formerly described. He recommends a few turns of the band- age to be brought about the loins, in order to prevent the skin at the top of the thigh from being injured by the splints. He points out the extreme importance of attending to the position of the heel, as if improperly laid, it is capable of deranging the fracture entirely. It gets consolidated, he says, in about fifty (lays. (De Fracturis.) Celsus pronounces it impossible to heal a fractured thigh- bone without deformity. The patient, he says, must ever afterwards tread upon his toes; and yet, he adds, the case will be worse if neglected. Albucasis holds forth greater encouragement. He describes the process of treatment very minutely, directing the surgeon to stuff up all the hollow places ia the limb with soft pads be- fore applying the splints. He also recommends him to sur- ound the whole limb with a bandage from the heel to the nates. We are inclined to think, although the language of (lis barbarous translator is not sufficiently precise, that his -plints extended the whole length of the limb. Rhases, and we believe, he alone of all the ancient authori- ties, directs the thigh to be laid in a somewhat bent position, !ind for this purpose he recommends something suitable to be; put below it. Haly Abbas and Avicenna, as usual, borrow everything from )ur author.468 FRACTURES. [book vi. SECT. cm. ON THE PATELLA. The patella is a porous bone kept firmly in its place by the parts above and below, and is often crushed but seldom frac- tured. It undergoes fracture also through its thickness, and is broken into small pieces, with or without a wound. The symptoms are obvious,—a solution of continuity, a hollow, and crepitation. The fracture is put in order by extending the leg, for thus the divided portions may be brought together with the fingers, until the lips of the fracture mutually touch, and are united to one another, and fractured pieces, when separated, are thus arranged together. For even if caUus does not take place, owing to the parts being drawn in different directions by the muscles and tendons from the thigh and leg, which are in- serted into it, yet the separation is much diminished. But it occasions much lameness to the patients; for, when they at- tempt to labour, the knee cannot sustain them long, and in walking their ascent upwards is impeded; but in moviag along a plain their lameness is not perceptible. In ascending, how- ever, as the knee cannot bend in raising and setting down the leg, the lameness becomes apparent. And in this case any bone that irritates is to be taken out where it protrudes, and proper treatment applied. Comm. COMMENTARY. None of the aucicnt authorities have given '""^ so full an account of this accident as our author. Hippocrates and Celsus have omitted it altogether. Soranus merely gives the symptoms, namely, a hoUowness in the part and crepitus. Albucasis recommends us, after arranging the broken pieces of bone, to apply a round splint over it if necessary. Rhases likewise speaks of applying a well-stuffed splint. Haly's ac- count is distinct but similar to our author's, from which it is abridged. Neither he nor Avicenna makes any mention of a splint.SECT. CIV.] LEG. SECT. CIV. ON THE LEG. The treatment of fracttires of the leg corresponds with that I of the fore-arm, for it consists of two bones, the thicker of • which bears the same name (tibia), and the small one, from its resemblance, has been called fibula. Its fractures also admit the same varieties, being deranged on all sides when both the i bones are broken together, and to three when only one, namely, within, without, and the tibia backwards and the fibula for- ' wards. Wherefore it is to be set in the same manner by the i hands, or ligatures, sometimes applied to the leg itself, and ! sometimes to the thigh, (for the knee being a strong joint can ! bear the extension uninjured,) and ligatures are to be applied I likewise below the fracture, as we mentioned under the head of I the fore-arm. The case is to be managed otherwise, as de- ! scribed by us in the section on the arm. Commentary. Hippocrates has treated of this case at con- Comm. 5 siderable length. The bandages are to be applied as formerly I described, and the leg laid on a level board with a soft cushion 1 under it. It is clear that he did not approve of the bent posi- 1 tion of the limb. The splints are to be applied on the seventh or eleventh day. Of the fractures of a single .bone, that of the t tibia, he remarks, is the worse, a fractured fibula being easily ) managed. He gives particular directions to attend to the state I of the heel. Celsus treats of these fractures in general terms, Jike those ! of the fore-arm. Albucasis directs us to apply two splints made 1 of the wood of pines or palms, of moderate thickness, and of s such length as to extend from the knee to the feet. One of ■ t these is be placed below the leg and the other above; and they J are to be tied in three places, namely, at the extremities and in t the middle. The other Arabians treat of these fractures in more general t terms.470 [book VI, FRACTURES. SECT. CV. ON THE FOOT. The astragalus cannot be fractured by any means, being guarded by bodies on ail bands; by the tibia, the fibula, and the OS cuboides. But the scaphoides, the bones of the tarsus, and those of the toes, and the cuboides itself, are fractured bke those of the carpus, metacarpus, and the fingers of the hand, .so that what was said of them is apphcable here and need not be repeated. Comm. COMMENTARY. Hippocratcs remarks that these bones can ' only be fractured by some sharp and heavy body. They are to be treated like fractures in general, only that they do not re- quire splints. He recommends the recumbent position with the foot somewhat elevated, and states, in strong terms, the mischief brought on by unseasonable attempts at walking. (De Practuris, 10.) Galen, in his Commentary, gives an accurate anatomical description of the bones of the foot. Celsus is very brief on this case. He conducts the treat- ment on general principles. Albucasis directs us to make the patient put his foot on the ground, the surgeon is then to place one of his feet on it and stand on it. By this means the de- rangement of the bones will be rectified. He approves of a splint to the sole. We find nothing worthy of notice in the works of the other authorities. SECT. CVI. ON THE AKRANGEMENT OF THE LIMB. "When the thigh or leg is fractured, the manner of arrang- ing the limb will be as important a consideration to you as the other treatment. For the evenness of the fractui-ed pai'ts is especially preserved by this means when properly performed. Some, therefore, lay the fractured part upon a canal, either of wood or of earthenware, or else they lay the whole Hmb upon it; others apply it only in cases of fracture with a wound, be- cause, say they, these cannot be bound with splints. But tlie moderns altogether reject the use of these canals for many rea-471 SECT. CVI.] ARRANGEMENT OF LIMB. sons, but more especially on account of the pressure occasioned by their hardness. Nor is it improper to apply splints to frac- tured limbs with a wound, as we shall show afterwards. Let the patient, then, he upon his back, and let a thick garment, equal to the limb in length, be laid under it, more especially where the fracture is, and let both its ends be convoluted and wrapped round so as to resemble the canal in its middle longi- tudinal cavity, and let it be covered with a soft skin for receiv- ing the embrocations; and then let the limb be fitted to this canal-hke cavity, and let other garments or wool be apphed on both sides to prevent the hmb from being moved to the sides. And let a small board, covered with rags for sake of softness, be fastened to the sole of the foot; and, for the sake of greater security, let the middle of two or three hgatures be applied under this canal-hke garment, and let the broken limb be lightly bound along with it. But if the patient be unable to restrain himself from drawing in his leg, his foot should be fastened to the board by means of hgatures around the ankle, so that he may be prevented even from drawing in his leg involuntarily in his sleep. Some hkewise cut out a hole in the middle of the bed, that the patient may void his urine and faeces by it without requiring to be moved untd the callus has become formed. Commentary. "We have already mentioned that Hippo- Comm. crates approved of the straight position of the limb. With respect to the canals (awXiji'Eg) mentioned also by our author he expresses himself in equivocal terms. He says that they prove useftd, but not to the extent generally behoved. He properly remarks that they do not prevent the body from being moved, and that consequently they cannot be supposed capable of securing the limb entirely from derangement. He is de- cidedly of opinion that unless they extend from above the ham to the heel they do no good in fractures of the leg. (De Frac- turis, 16, ed. Littre.) Celsus gives the following description of the canals: " Is canalis et inferiore parte foramina habere, per quae, si quis humor excesserit, descendat: et a planta moram, quae simul et sustineat earn, et delabi non patiatur: et a lateribus cava, per quee loris datis, morse qusedam crus femurque, ut collocatum est,472 FRACTURES, [book vi. Comm. detineant." Galen, in his Commentary on Hippocrates (1. c.) ' describes these machines as being round externally and hollow within, so as to inclose the limb all around :—vspiXaufSavei to ctke'Xoc oXoi' fV KVK^(p. From these words one might think that the canal of which he speaks was a complete cylinder or cone. But from our author's direction to lay the limb upon the canal, it would appear that the machine he speaks of was open above, and as such it is represented and described by Scultet (Arsenal de Chirurg. xxii, 6.) His words are: " II faut que le canal embrasse plus de la moitie du membrethis, therefore, is a sort of trough. Sprengel calls it a box {botte, Fr. edit.) Littre translates it by gouttiere, I. c. For an accoimt of these and other machines anciently used in fractures of the lower extremities, see Van Swieten (Comment. 354), and Heister (Surgery, ix, 9.) Brunus and Theodoricus make men- tion of these canals, but do not much approve of them. Galen informs us that the canals were made of different kinds of wood. He speaks of a surgeon in his time who made them from the wood of the phillyrea. He makes mention of a method of supplying their place by means of a bolster laid below the limb and tied round it with fillets. (Nicetse Collect, and Comment. 1. c.) Avicenna and Albucasis take notice of these machines, but neither of them with approbation. They also speak of securing the limb in the way described by oui* author. The canals wotdd appear to be the machines wliich Rhases mentions by the name of barangi. (Cont. xxix.) SECT. CVII. ON FRACTURES COMFLICATED WITH A WOUND. When a fracture is attended with a wound, if there be a hemorrhage it is to be first stopped; and if there be inflamma- tion, we must use the applications suitable to it; and if there be contusion of the flesh, we must scarify the flesh to remove all apprehension of gangrene; or if gangrene or any other spreading mortification has come on, we must meet it with suitable remedies. The treatment of each of these cases you have had delivered in the Fourth Book. When none of these symptoms is present, nor much of the bone exposed, wc may473. SECT. CVII.] WITH A WOUND. use hooks and sutures^ and effect the cure by the treatment for recent wounds, having first cut out any broken pieces of bone which move about and produce irritation. But if a large bone project, which, for its size, cannot be brought into con- tact by the extension, it will require consideration. Hippo- crates, then, in fractures of the thigh and arm, dissuades from replacing at once the protruding bones, predicting danger from it, owing to the inflammation or perhaps spasm of the muscles and nerves which are apt to be brought on by the ex- tension. But time has shown that this attempt will sometimes succeed. Of whatever bones, therefore, we endeavour to re- place the protruded ends, we must not meddle with them when in a state of inflammation, but on the first day, before inflam- mation has come on, or about the ninth day, when the inflam- mation has gone off. We may set them by an instrument called the lever. It is an iron instrument about seven or eight fingers' breadth in length, and of moderate thickness that it may not bend during the operation; with its extremity sharp, broad, and moderately bent. Its sharp extremity, then, is to be put under the protiniding prominence of the bone, and by pushing at the other end while moderate extension of the limb is made, we bring the extremities of the fracture together; or, if we cannot do so, we must cut off the projections by counter-perforators (chisels), or saw them off in the manner desciibed when treating of fistulse. Having removed the spiculae of bones and set the limb aright, we cure the wound by dressing with pledgets. But in those members which are double or in pairs, we must take care when the bones of either of them are sawn off, that no contraction of the limb take place, but that it be kept of its proper length by extension. The bandaging is to be thus applied: the circular folds are to be arranged on both sides of the wound, and oblique ones ac- cording to the length of the sore, so that they may intersect one another in the form of the Greek letter X, and prevent the lips of it from gaping. And when the ulcer is foul, we must apply dressing with cleansing ointments; but if clean, with incarnating, and the other articles of known efficacy. Hippocrates used the pitch-plaster, which is said to have been the same as the ointment, tetrapharmacon, called also basilicon. After the sore has incarnated we apply splints. Some applyFRACTURES, [book vr. 474 them from tlie first, taking care not to hurt the parts about the ulcer, and tightening them according to necessity, or again slackening them. When a scale of bone is going to exfoliate, which we ascertain from the discharge being more copious and thin, we must remove the loose fungous flesh about it, and the bandages must be appHed loose; but having removed the scale with a hook or some such instrument, we must have recourse to tighter bandages. During the whole time of the heahng of the sore, the dressing called motophylax with some of the anti-inflammatory medicines is to be laid over the wound, to be kept on with a simple bandage, which is to be removed at each dressing; everything else remaining the same as de- scribed in the treatment of the arm. Comm. COMMENTARY. Hippocratcs treats of these cases at great ' * ' length. His method of rectifying the protruded ends of bones by means of a lever, is described by our author. He says, it may be done on the first or second day, but not on the third or fourth, after the inflammation is begun, for fear of occasioning convulsions. Compresses dij)ped in wine and oil, or soft bandages are to be used, but splints are not to be applied until the sore puts on a healthy appearance. He mentions that some were in the practice of bandaging the limb above and below the wound, and leaving it bare, in order to allow the discharges to escape; but this practice he greatly disapproves of, as tend- ing to produce swelling in the place ; and he recommends the whole limb to be well secured with bandages, but then not too tight. He states that all bones which are completely denuded, must exfoliate and come out. "When a bone projects and cannot be replaced, he directs the' surgeon to cut it off" if it irritate the soft parts. No splints are to be applied when there is a bone which it is seen will exfoliate. If it be the summer season, the compresses applied to the M'ound are to be frequently soaked with wine; but if it be winter, greasy wool is to be dipped in wine and oil and applied. Compound frac- tures of the thigh or arm, attended with protrusion of the broken bone, are said to be peculiarly dangerous; for if replaced, they are apt to occasion convulsions ; and if let alone, they give rise to acute bilious fevers. Some, however, he adds, recover when the bone is replaced. (De Fract. cum Comment, Galeui.)475 SECT. CVII.] WITH A WOUND. Galen explains, that the danger in cases of fractured femur and Comm. humerus arises from their vicinity to important blood-vessels """^^—' and muscles. Celsus lays down the ndes for conducting the treatment in these cases with great precision. He states, that fractures complicated with a wound of the skin are generally dangerous, especially when it is the humerus or femm\ In the latter case he.dii-ects us to saw off the ends of the bone. The case of a fractured humerus is more easily managed. The danger is greatly increased when the fracture is near a joint. He re- commends us to divide any muscle which may run across the wound, to let blood, and put the patient upon a restricted diet. In other fractures the bones are to be gently replaced. The wound is to be dressed with a pledget dipped in wine, to .which roses have been added. This application is borrowed .from Hippocrates. The bandages are to be put on somewhat slacker than when there is no external wound. Neither splints nor canals must be used, but broad bandages. The parts are ■ to be fomented with hot oil and wine, and the dressings re- newed every day. When a smaU fragment of a bone pro- jects, if it be blunt, he recommends us to replace it; but if sharp, he directs us to saw it off, and then replace the bones with the hands or a suitable instrument. Sometimes fragments of bones die, and after a time drop out; and sometimes sharp spiculse iiTitate the soft parts, in which case he recommends us ,to enlarge the wound and cut off the projecting points. The treatment recommended by Albucasis is very judicious. If inflammation be present, he directs us to subdue it by bleed- ing ; and, in that case, reduction is not to be attempted until the ninth day; but in all other cases it is to be done at first. When it cannot be reduced by the hands, an iron instrument seven or eight fingers' breadth in length, and two fingers broad, is to be used as a lever for this purpose. When the ends of the fracture are sharp and cannot be replaced, they are to be cut off or sawed. His saw bears a considerable resemblance to that of the late Mr. Hey, of Leeds. He recommends an as- tringent wine as a suitable application, but condemns all cerates which contain oil. The bandages are to be put on very slack. vSplints are not to be applied while the wound is irritable and ill-conditioned. When it does not heal, he savs476 FRACTURES. [book VI, Comm. we ought to suspect that it is prevented by spiculse of boneSj ' » ' -vvliicli are to be sought out and extracted. Avicenna and Rhases give very proper directions about re- moving spiculse of bones, and applying slack bandages, but they evidently copy from Hippocrates and our author. SECT. CVIII. ON THE REDUNDANT CALLUS OP FRACTURES. The superabundant callus of fractures occasions always a deformity, and sometimes also lameness if it be formed near a joint. If, therefore, the callus be newly formed, we use very astringent medicines, and bring it to its form by bandages; and sometimes we effect our purpose by applying a plate of lead to it. But if it is of a stony hardness we make an incision, and pare it oif, removing the prominent part by chisels, if need be, and boring it with trephines. Comm. COMMENTARY. Cclsus dii'ccts US to rub the limb with oil, * salt, and nitre; to pour a great quantity of hot salt water upon it; to apply an emollient ointment; to bandage it tightly, and to give an emetic. He also recommends us to produce revulsion by the application of mustard to another part. Albucasis recommends nearly the same plan of ti'eatment as our author. When the case is recent, he directs us to make astringent applications, such as aloes, olibanum, and myrrh, with an astringent wine or vinegar. He also speaks of applying a plate of lead; and when the callus becomes hard, he approves of scraping and sawing it off, as directed by our author. No additional information is to be got from the other Arabians. Theodoricus, and the other surgical authorities of that age, describe the treatment exactly as the ancients. When the callus is hard, they direct us to scrape or saw it off. SECT. CIX. ON DISTORTION FROM THE UNION BY CALLUS. When bones heal distortedly by callus, no little lameness takes place, more particularly if in the feet. The method thenSECT, ex.] 477 BONES NOT UNITED. of breaking them over again is not at all to be admitted, as it may occasion the utmost danger; but if the callus be newly formed, we must have recourse to the affusions of a relaxing na- ture, and to cataplasms, such as those from fat olives and pigeon's dung, and the other medicines for dissolving callus; and we also dispel it by friction with the hand, and bending it every way. But if it be of a stony hardness, we make an in- cision of the skin with a scalpel, and separate the union of the bones with chisels, and then cure the fracture as formerly said. Commentary. Celsus approves of breaking the bones over } again. With this intention he directs us, in the first place, to I bathe the limb with much hot water, and rub it with liquid cerate; t the caUus is then to be moved with the hands, and the ends of t the bone properly set; or if that cannot be thus accompHshed, I a rule is to be wrapped round with wool and bound upon the ] part, so as to restore it to its proper shape. Avicenna agrees with Celsus in speaking favorably of break- i ing the bone over again. He also speaks favorably of the < other treatment recommended by our author. Rhases recommends emollient applications, and gentle at- t tempts to restore the figure of the limb. Albucasis mentions the I proposal of breaking the bone again with disapprobation. SECT. ex. ON BONES WHICH HAVE NOT UNITED BY CALLUS. Sometimes fractured bones remain without forming adhesions, "! beyond the natural period, either owing to their being often ^ loosed, or from too frequent bathing of the part, or from having \ been moved unseasonably, or from the number of the bandages, or f from atrophy of the whole body, by which means the limb be- (comes emaciated. Wherefore we must endeavour to remove all tthe other causes, but more especially the atrophy, partly by «calefacient applications which attract nourishment to the place, «and partly by supplying a sufficiency of food and baths, and 1 whatever also is of a refreshing nature. Among the other »symptoms which follow the formation of callus, the bandages tthen become stained with blood, although no wound be present, • which probably takes place from the substance about the callus.478 LUXATIONS. [liOOK VI. wlien it unites, squeezing out the drops of blood which were^ distributed to the hollows of the bones. Commentary. When the fractured portions do not adhere after a certain time, Celsus directs us to extend the limb, and rub the ends of the bone together, in order to convert them again into the state of a recent fracture, taking care, however, not to hurt the muscles and nerves. The part is then to be fomented, and the splints applied on the fifth day. Rhases recommends calefacient liniments, friction, and nu- tritive food. SECT. CXI. ON LUXATIONS. We proceed to the treatment of luxations, which naturally follows that of fractures. A luxation then (to give a definition of it) is a displacement of a member from its proper cavity to an unusual place, by which means the voluntary motion is im- peded. We have no other diff'erences of it to mention, except that some are to a greater and some to a less degree. When the bone of a member, therefore, is completely removed from its place, the accident is called by the common name of luxation, but when only moved a little, or brought only to the brim of the cavity, it is called a subluxation. Comm. COMMENTARY. Cclsus givcs several important remarks upon dislocations in general, but as most of them may more properly be brought under particular heads, we shall notice them here but briefly. He distinguishes dislocations into two classes; the first consisting of a separation of two bones naturally united, such as the scapula from the humerus, the radius from the uhia, the tibia from the fibula, the os calcis from the bones of the ankle, which last is of rare occurrence, and the second being a removal of the bone of a joint from its proper place. "WTien a dislocation occurs, as he remarks, the finger discovers a cavity in the part, and inflammation and fever come on, followed sometimes by gangrene and convulsions. If not reduced, the limb wastes. In a j)erson who is lean, humid, and has weak nerves (muscles ?) the dislocation is most easily reduced, but isSECT, cxn.] LOWER JAW. 479 more difficult to retain. The inflammation is to be reduced by tlie application of wool dipped in vinegar ; by abstinence, a spare diet, and di'inking tepid water. Afterwards friction, exercise, iind a more generous diet are to be allowed, (viii, 11.) See many curious remarks on this subject in Galen's Com- mentary on Hippocrates (de Articulis), and in ApoUonii Citiensis Scholia in Hip. et Galen.; also Avicenna (iv, 5, 1); Haly Abbas (Pract. ix, 101); Rhases (Cont. xxix, 2.) SECT. CXII. ON THE LOWER JAW. Beginning then again from the upper parts we shall treat of i the lower jaw. For the upper being immoveable does not admit . of dislocation; but the lower does not indeed readily admit of ( complete luxation, owing to its heads being firmly fixed to the \ upper jaw, but it often undergoes subluxation, for the muscles > which are fixed to it being relaxed by the constant exercise of 1 mastication and speaking, the jaw is readily slackened from the I most common causes. For the term used by Hippocrates sig- 1 nifies slackened. In these cases the part returns to its natural ] place without trouble. With regard to the complete dislocation I of the lower jaw, it will be sufficient to debver Hippocrates's »account, being, at the same time, brief, complete and clear. 1 He says thus : " The jaw seldom faUs out of the joint, but it l is often slackened in yawning, as many other irregular actions l of muscles and tendons do this. When it falls out of the )joint it is marked principally by these symptoms; the lower jaw projects forwards, and is inclined in an opposite direction to the luxation; and the coronoid process of the bone swells out near the upper jaw-bone, and it is with difficulty that they shut their jaws. In these cases the suitable mode of reduction IS apparent. For somebody must hold the patient's head, another grasps the lower jaw internally and extemaUy with his i fingers at the chin, while the patient yawns as much as he can : conveniently; and we must first move the jaw with the hand i hither and thither for a certain time, and order the man to re- 1 lax the jaw and separate it; and then we must attend to per- I iorm tliree evolutions at the same time, we must move the jaw ! from its distorted shape to its natural; push the jaw back-480 [book VI. LUXATIONS. wards; and then shut the jaws close, and prevent yawning. This is the mode of reduction, and it cannot be performed by any other processes. Very little treatment will suffice after- wards. Having applied a waxed compress, it is to be secured with a loose bandage. But the surest process is to lay the man upon his back, and supporting his head upon well-stuffed pillows, that they may not yield, to get some person to hold the head of the patient. And if both ends of the jaw be dislocated, the treatment is the same, only the mouth cannot be so well shut, for then the jaw is more prominent, but less distorted from the teeth of the upper and lower jaws corresponding exactly to- gether. Reduction is to be immediately performed, and the mode of it has been already described. If it cannot be restored, there may be danger of the life from continued fevers, torpor, and earns. For these muscles being altered and stretched in a preternatui'al manner produce cai'us. They frequently have evacuations by the belly, which are purely bilious, and small in quantity; and if they vomit, it is pure bile. These, for the most part, die on the tenth day." This mode of reduction we have often practised, having first used fomentations of warm water and oil, by a sponge along the dislocated jaw, more espe- cially when there is any difficulty in restoring it to its position. Wherefore, having placed the man upon the ground, we stand behind and operate in the manner described by Hippocrates. Comm. COMMENTARY. The account here given of Hippocrates's method of reduction is taken from his work, 'De Articulis,' (31.) When a few of his tehnical terms are explained in the com- mentary of Galen, the description is sufficiently distinct, and is upon the whole a very correct account of the symptoms and treatment of this accident. The prominence of the coronoid bone is well described by Hippocrates. Galen remarks that the end of the jaw-bone slips under the zygomatic arch. It has been a matter of dispute what Hippocrates means by slack- ening, or incomplete luxations of the jaw. It is worthy of remark that such an accident is described by Sir Astley Cooper. (See further Littre's Hippocrates, t. iv, 29.) Galen's description of the method of reduction is given m the Collection of Niceta«. (Chirurg. Vet. ed. Cocchius.) It is substantially the same as that of Hippocrates.SECT. CXIT.] 481 LOWER JAW. A mode of reducing the dislocatiou by means of a machine Comm. is described by Oribasius, in his work De Machinamentis, 30. ^—' The account which Celsus gives of this accident is upon the whole veiy accurate, and corresponds very well with modern descriptions. If dislocated only at one end, the chin inclines to the opposite side, and the.teeth of the upper and lower jaws do not con-espond. If at both ends, the whole chin projects outwards, the lower teeth are more prominent, and the muscles appear stretched. The patient being properly seated, and his head held by an assistant, the surgeon haying wrapped his thumbs with Hnen cloths, is to put them into the patient's mouth, while the fingers are appHed externally. The jaw being firmly gi-asped, the chin is to be shaken, and then, at one and the same instant, the head is to be seized, the chin moved, the jaw forced into its place, and the moixth shut. After reduction, if pain in the eyes and neck has been brought on by the accident, he recommends us to let blood from the arm. The patient is to live upon liquids, and avoid talking. Albucasis follows Hippocrates in distinguishing dislocations of the lower jaw into partial and complete. In addition to the symptoms ah-eady detailed, he mentions a flow of saliva from the mouth, and an inabihty to speak. When the dislocation is partial or incomplete, he says, it soon returns of itself to its proper place. When the luxation is complete, he directs us to reduce it by introducing the thumbs into the mouth, and graspmg the jaw in the manner described by Hippocrates. He states that when not reduced the accident often proves fatal by superinducing fevers and coma. Avicenna, in like manner, affirms, that if not reduced, it may bring on fatal con- sequences. His account is borrowed entirely from Hippocrates. Rhases and Haly Abbas give exactly the same description of the symptoms and mode of reducing as Albucasis, Monteggia, Fabricius ab Aquapendente, Sir Astley Cooper, and Mr. Samuel Cooper (the author of the well-known Surgical Dictionary) affirm that there is no foundation for the prognostic of Hippocrates, that the accident will prove fatal if the dislo- cation be not speedily reduced. We can say, however, from our own personal knowledge, that such fatal consequences do occasionally occur. We once knew a poor woman who was very Uable to dislocations of the lower jaw, which we reduced 31[book VI. 482 LUXATIONS. Comm. tliree or four dilferent times. At lastj owing to circumstances ' ^ ' which it is unnecessary to explain, an intei'val of more than a day elapsed between the accident and the reduction. By this time she was become seriously indisposed, and died a few days afterwards with all the symptoms described by Hippocrates, We may mention also that Heister states that fatal con- sequences may result from the accident. (Chirurg. p. i, iii, 4.) The same thing is affirmed also by Brunus (Chirurg. Mag. i) ; by Theodoricus (ii, 43) ; and by Guido de Cauliaco (v, 3.) That species of sub-luxation described by Hippocrates, is mentioned by Guy of Cauliac in the following terms: " Man- dibnla quandoque moUificatnr." (v, 3.) SECT. CXIII. ON THE CLAVICLE AND ACROMION. The clavicle, at its inner extremity, is not liable to dislo- cation, for there it is articulated with the sternum, where it admits of no motion. Bvit if from any sudden and violent force from without, it should be torn from its place, it is to be subjected to the same treatment as a fracture. And its ex- tremity which is articulated with the shoulder does not readily fall out of the joint, being prevented by the biceps muscle and the acromion. But neither does the clavicle admit any strong peculiar motion of its own, being made solely for the expansion of the thorax, and hence man is the only animal which has a clavicle. If it should sometimes happen to be dislocated in wrestling, it is to be replaced with the hand, assisted by the application of many-folded compresses, together with con- venient bandages. When the acromion is sub-luxated it may be restored to its proper place by the same treatment. It is a small cartilaginoxis bone connecting the clavicle to the scapula, which is not to be seen in the skeletons. This, if moved a little from its place, exhibits the appearance to inexperienced persons of the head of the arm being dislocated; for the top of the shoulder appears sharper, and there is a hollow fi-om which it was removed; but the cases are to be distinguished from one another by the symptoms about to be enumerated. Comm. Commentaby. The dislocation of the outer end of the cla- '"-^ vicle from the acromion is treated of by Hippocrates, who gives483 CLAVICLE AND ACROMION. SECT, cxiir.] a very distinct account of the symptoms and mode of treat- Comm ment. He warns the surgeon not to confound this accident ^—^—' with, dislocation of the humerus, as he had frequently seen done. He directs the surgeon to push down the projecting end of the bone j and then to secure it with compresses, and bind the arm to the side. He holds that the accident always leaves some defonnity. (De Articulis, 15.) Galen mentions that this accident happens most commonly to young persons, and that when not reduced it occasions a wasting of the arm. The account which Galen in this place and, copying from him, our author have given of the accident to which they represent the acromion as being subject, has been the subject of much controversy among modern authorities. See Cocchi (Chirurg. Vet. 133) ; and Littre (Hippoc. iv, 12.) Hippocrates, whom they both evidently had in view, (de Artie. 13), clearly refers to dislocation of the scapular end of the cla- vicle; and probably Galen aEudes to the same, compHcated with separation of the acromion from the scapula in young subjects. We Avould beg leave to quote what Monro says of the acromion : " This is an epiphyse in children ; and in some old subjects I have seen it joined by a cartilage to the spine." (Anat. of the Bones, p. 231.) Galen states decidedly that in young persons this process is sometimes bent along with the clavicle, and in them that replacement of the parts to their natural state is easily effected. He adds, " as dry wood is not adapted for bending, but such as is sappy and green bear this, in the same manner the bones of growing animals can be bent by force, and more especially such as are porous and fistulous, as the clavicle is." Galen relates that in his own person he met mth. the accident while wrestUng in the Palestra, and that by using oily fomentations and light bandages, a cure was at last effected. He says he was then thirty-five years old, but adds, that he had never known another person cured who was so far advanced in life. (Ibid. 134.) Avicenna gives the same account of the acromion as the Greeks, (iv, 5,1, 10.) Neither Celsus nor Oribagius has treated of this case of dis- location. Rhases, Avicenna, Haly Abbas, and Albucasis agree that dislocations occur more frequently at the acromial than at the sternal end of the clavicle. Desault and Boyer, on the other hand, affirm that the accident occurs oftener at the sternal[hook VI. LUXATIONS. 484 Comm. extremity; but Sir Astley Cooper's ample experience confirms the correctness of the ancient statement. Mr. Listen also agrees in stating that dislocation at the acromial end is much more frequent than at the sternal. SECT. CXIV. ON DISLOCATION OF THE SHOULDER. The head of the arm, which is articulated with the cavity of the scapula, is often dislocated; but neither upwards, owing to the coronoid process of the scapula, which, prevents it, nor often backwards, owing also to the scapula, nor forwards owing to the tendon of the biceps muscle and the acromion. Sometimes, though rarely, it is dislocated inwards and out- wards, but frequeutlj^, and particularly in those who are lean, downwards. In such persons, however, as it is readily dislocated, so is it also reduced ; but in those who are brawny, on the other hand, it is not readily dislocated, and is reduced with difficulty. In some cases from a blow suspicions of dislocation are formed, although none has taken place, owing to the violent inflammation which supervenes. Where- fore, dislocation downwards may be thus ascertained. The affected shoulder, when compared with the sound one, appears very different, the upper pai't of the arm, whence the disloca- tion took place, seeming hollow; and (as mentioned Avith re- gard to the sub-luxation of the acromion,) the top of the shoulder appears sharper than natural; and the dislocated head of the arm is distinctly felt in the armpit. The elbow also is removed to a distance from the ribs; or, if you attempt it, you can only bring it to the ribs with difficulty; neither can the hand be raised to the ear, owing to the stretching of the elbow; nor can any other varied motions be performed with it. In children, then, and in recent and inconsiderable displacements of the bone, it may be often reduced, as Hippo- crates remarks, by the protuberant knuckle of the middle finger of the clenched hand of the siu'geon, or of the sound hand of the patient, if he be not a child. But the following are more effectual modes of reduction. Having biithed the man and used relaxing affusions, let hira be laid on the ground in a supine posture, and apply a moderately-sized ball, either of leather or some other soft thing to the armpit; and the surgeon being seated with his face turned to the patient upon485 SHOULDER. SECT. CXIV.] tlie affected side, if the right shoulder be dislocated, let hira put the heel of his right foot upon the ball previously fitted to the armpitj or if the left, that of the left foot; and seizing the hand of the affected arm, let him pull down to the feet, at the same time making counter-extension by the heel in the armpit, while an assistant, standing behind the head, pulls at the other shoulder in an opposite direction, to prevent the body from being dragged along. There is another mode of reduc- tion, namely, by suspending the patient upon a person's shoulder. A young man taller than the patient, or stand- ing on some elevated object, by his affected side, (the patient also being in a standing posture) is to apply his shoulder below the patient's armpit, while he stretches and pulls the patient's hand towards his own belly, so that the rest of the patient's body is suspended at the back of the person who supports him. But if the patient be light, another light child is to be suspended from him. For wliile the arm and the rest of the body are pulled downwards oppositely, the shoulder put under the armpit, readily replaces the dislocated limb. And the same thing may be done by means of the instrument called a pestle. It is a long piece of wood which is erected on the ground upon some other firm object. Its upper extremity, then, being rounded, and neither very thick nor thin, is ap- plied below the armpit of the patient, who either stands or sits, according to the length of the pestle, and the hand being stretched along the pestle and pulled downwards, while the rest of the body is balanced on the opposite side and weighs downwards, the reduction takes place either spontaneously, or Avith the assistance of another person pulling down. And this may be done with the step of a ladder, as we described when treating of the extension for a fractured arm. Here some round body is to be fitted to the step of the ladder, such as will suit the armpit of the patient, and propel the head of the arm. But if, owing to the oldness of the accident, or the hardness of the body, we find the reduction difficult, we must have recourse to the method by the means of the instrument called ambe. The ambe is a piece of wood about two cubits in length, of the breadth of three fingers, and about two fingers' breadth in thick- ness, having the one extremity round and adapted for the liollow of the armpit, like the extremity of the pestle. Hav ing486 LUXATIONS. [„ook vi. then wrapped its end with linen rags, in order that it may be softer, we adjust it under the head of the humerus in the arm- pit, and stretching the hand along the wood, we bind it at the arm, fore-arm, and wrist; then bringing the hand with the wood over a transverse piece of wood, fastened between two erect pedestals, or again over the step of a ladder, so that the armpit may be fitted transversely to the step, we draw the hand downwards, and allow the rest of the body to hang suspended on the opposite side; for then the limb will return to its place. After the reduction, we must apply to the armpit a secm-e and moderately-sized ball of wool, which, if there is no inflam- mation present, is to be dry, but if there is inflammation, it is to be dipped in oil. Around this, the shoulder, and the other armpit, a bandage is to be put on in the form of the Greek letter X, so that the decussation may take place above the affected shoulder; and the arm is to be bound to the sides; and the elbow and hand are to be slung by the neck, so that the limb may not fall out again while the dislocation is recent. After the seventh day or later, having loosed the bandages, we must have recourse to moderate friction, so that the body being rendered firmer, the joint may become less liable to luxations. But if the limb is often dislocated, either owing to its humidity (flabbiness), or from its being long subject to the accident, we must proceed to burning, as formerly described. But since sometimes the foetus in utero or the child, while growing, sustains a dislocation of the part which is not reduced, the flesh upon the shoulder is nothing reduced from the natiu-al, nor is the hand obstructed in any of its operations, but the bone remains shorter, not increasing in size; and such persons are called weasel-armed. But in the case of the thigh, the bone does not grow and the limb wastes; for, not being able to sustain the weight of the body, it is not exercised. And with regard to all the other members, if they remain unreduced the parts below are greatly impaired. Comm. COMMENTARY. Hippocrates delivers his opinions respecting ' ' ' dislocations at the shoulder-joint with singular modestj'^ and a remarkable air of truth. He says, that he had never met with a case in which the head of the humerus was not lodged in the armpit, and expresses a doubt whether in reality there4H7 SECT. CXIV.] SHOULDER. be dislocations inwards or backwards. " I will not affirm/' Comm. he adds, " whether or not dislocation forwards may take place, ' * ' only this I can say that I have never seen it." (De Articulis.) Galen, in his commentary on this work, mentions that he had seen five cases of the uncommon kinds of dislocation, fom- of which were dislocations forwards. They occurred mostly among the athletae. In one case, of which he relates the par- ticulars, he efiected the reduction Avith his heel placed in the armpit. Galen states distinctly, that it is the retraction of the muscles which proves the great obstacle to reduction. (Ed. Basil, V, 585.) Hippocrates has described several methods of reduction, most of which are mentioned by our author. By the fist placed in the armpit, as described by our author. By the heel, as likewise described by him. He adds one ad- vice not distinctly given by our author, to apply the ball placed in the armpit on the side within the head of the humerus, and not upon it. The process by suspending the patient upon the shoulder of another person is next described by him. Those by the pestle and ladder are afterwards clearly described. He then describes the ambe and the application of it to the reduc- tion of dislocations in nearly the same terms as our author. We may here mention, by the way, that the description of the ambe given by Boyer, does not correspond exactly to the in- strument recommended by Hippocrates. See drawings of Hippocrates's ambe in Heister's ' Surgery' (x, 4); in Scul- tet's 'Arsenal de Chirurgie' (xxii, 1); and in Littre's edition of Hippocrates (iv, 91.) Hippocrates describes other less im- portant processes of reduction with a Thessalian chaii', and a door. He remarks, that persons in a reduced habit of body are most liable to dislocations, and illustrates this position by some very acute observations on the occurrence of these ac- cidents in cattle. After reduction, he directs that a ball of soft wool should be placed in the armpit and secured with a bandage and a sling; and he attaches great importance to well-regulated friction afterwards. Celsus mentions two kinds of dislocation at the shoulder- joint, namely, downwards and forwards. He describes the methods of reduction by the hand, and by a wooden instrument (spathula lignea) resembling the ambe of Hippocrates. His description of the latter method is very distinct. His mode[book VI, ■488 LUXATIONS. Comm. of reducing dislocations inwards merits attention. The mau is to be laid on his back, and a strip of cloth or a thong of leather being placed in the armpit, its two ends are to be brought behind the patient's head and given in charge to an assistant, while another takes hold of the arm ; the surgeon is then to push back the patient's head with his left hand, while with the other he raises the fore-arm and arm, and pushes the bone into its place. After reduction the armpit is to be stulfed with wool, and suitable bandages applied. Oribasius treats of dislocations downwards, outwards, and forwards; and gives a very elaborate description of complicated machines for reducing them. Of these it is impossible to convey any coiTect idea without proper plates. We must be content, therefore, with referring the reader to his work. (De Machiuamentis.) Albucasis describes three kinds of dislocation at the shoulder, namely, downwards, inwards, below the pectoral muscle, and upwards, about which he expresses himself somewhat doubtftd. He denies the possibility of dislocations forwards and back- wards, the former being prevented by the muscles and latter by the scapula. His methods of reduction are exactly the same as those mentioned by Paulus. Avicenna expresses himself as being doubtful whether any dislocation takes place at the shoulder except downwai'ds, at least, he adds, he had no experience of any other case. He gives the symptoms of it very accurately, and describes all the methods of reduction mentioned by owx author. He approves of the cauterjr to obviate the tendency to repeated dislo- cations. Haly Abbas questions the occurrence of dislocations up- wards, forwards, inwards, or backwards. He appears, therefore, to agree with Hippocrates in considering that downwards as the only unequivocal case of dislocation. He recommends the processes of reduction described by our author. E-hases remarks, that owing to the shallowness of the glenoid cavity and the weakness of the ligaments the bones at the shoulder are more . subject to luxations than those of any other joint. He describes the symptoms very accurately. The top of the shoulder, he says, is sharper than natural, tlic head of the humerus is felt in the armpit, the arm cannot be broughtSECT. CXV.] ELBOW. 489 to the sides without pain, nor raised to the head at all. He Comm. remai-ks correctly that -when the accident happens during '—"—' delivery or in childhood, the arm does not grow to its natural size. He mentions that venesection is often of great use in reducing dislocations. He also recommends the warm bath. He denies the possibility of a dislocation in any other direction except downwards. The ancient modes of reduction are recommended and de- scribed by Guy of Cardiac (v, 2); and Theodoricus (ii, 47.) SECT. CXV. ON THE ELBOW. Inasmuch as the elbow-joint is more complicated than that of the shoulder, so, in like manner, are its dislocations more difficult to manage; for they are less readily occasioned, and more difficultly reduced, owing to the number of its processes and cavities. Sometimes it undergoes sub-luxation only, but often it is completely dislocated in every direction, and more especially forwards and backwards. It is easily recognised even by the sight, and the dislocated bone may be felt in the place to which it has been removed, while a hoUow appears in the place whence it was moved. A comparison with the sound arm particularly discloses the nature of the accident. Reduc- tion then must be made immediately before inflammation comes on, for, if this has supervened, it is difficult to cure, and some sucb cases become utterly irremediable, more espe- cially if the dislocation was backwards; for of all the disloca- tions at the elbow-joint, that backwards is the most painful and dangerous. Small displacements then may be restored by a moderate degree of extension, the assistants keeping the hand extended, pulling, and making counter-extension at the fore-arm and arm, while the surgeon with the palm of his hand pushes the dislocated bone into its natural place. Hippocrates rectifies the dislocation forwards by bending the hand suddenly so as to force the palm straight to the shoulder of the same side; and that backwards again by frequent and strong exten- sion ; inasmuch as dislocations forwards are produced by vio- lent extension, and those backwards by violent flexion. If the dislocation has continued long unreduced, we must have re-490 [book VI. LUXATIONS. course to stronger extension, sucli in particular as that de- scribed by Hippocrates for a fractured arm, where he has recourse to the piece of wood adapted to a spade. Some of the moderns manage the matter thus : Two assistants stretch- ing the arm as aforesaid, the one holding at the armpit, and ■! the other below at the wrist, the surgeon, standing opposite the patient, grasps the arm with the palms of both his hands near the joint, }md giving orders to bind a long folded robe or broad swathe round his hands and the arm of the patient, and to pull outwards and downwards towards the hand, whilst he, fol- lowing the same course, drags the parts with his hands thus secured until they pass the articulation of the joint. The arm should be first anointed with oil, to render the part slip- pery and easily moved with the palms of the surgeon's hands. Thus the dislocated parts being violently pulled by the hands of the assistants will return to their proper place. After the reduction the arm is to be bent to an angular position, and treated with oblong compresses and suitable bandages. Comm. Commentaky. No author, ancient nor modern, has given * ' so complete a view of the accidents to which the elbow-joint is subject as Hippocrates. In his works (De Fracturis, De Ar- ticTilis, and Mochhcus,) he has treated of this subject with surprising accuracy and skill. He describes the following in- juries of the elbow-joint: 1 st. Complete luxations, laterally, anteriorly, and posteriorly. 2d. Luxations of the radius, anteriorly, posteriorly, and laterally. 3d. Fracture of the olecranon. 4th. Fracture of the apophysis of the humerus. "We must give his description of the last-mentioned injury in his own words: " It sometimes happens that the head of the humerus is broken at its apophysis; and this, although it ap- pear a more serious accident, is, in fact, less so than many other injuries of the joint." It is singular that this distinct account of a very common injury of the joint should have been overlooked or misunderstood by aU his commentators and the surgical authorities down to the present day. We have often met with it in our own practice, and seen many instances iu which it had been misapprehended in the practice of other surgeons. It is only within the last five or six years that it has been described in any modern work on surgery. Lateral491 S£CT. CXV.] ELBOW. luxation of the radius is described by him under the name of Comm. diastasis. (De Fracturis, 44; De Articulis, 20.) The Commen- """^ taries of Apollonius Citiensis and Galen are worth consulting although they contain no new matter. Galen remarks that in dislocations of the radius, the power of flexion and extension ^ is often not much impaired; and this, we may add, is con- firmed by modern observation. Galen's account of fractures of the olecranon is remarkable for its precision and accuracy. (Chirurg. Vet. 84.) Celsus describes fovir different kinds of dislocation at the elbow, namely, forwards, backwards, and to either side. He also mentions that rare variety, in which there is a dislocation of the ulna, whUe the radius remains in its place. (See Sir Astley Cooper's Lectures.) The other varieties are all well described, and suitable methods of treatment recommended. When there is a dislocation forwards the arm is extended, but cannot be bent; when backwards, on the contrary, it cannot be extended, and is shorter than natural. When to either side, the arm is somewhat bent towards that side from which the bone has been moved. He lays it down as a general rule for treating all such dislocations, to extend both the members eoncemed in different dii-ections, until the bones are separated from one another, and then to push them into their right po- sition. When the dislocation is forwards, he directs us to make strong extension with the hands or with thongs, and then placing some round body upon the anterior part of the arm, to push the fore-arm over it suddenly to the shoulder. This method is well described by Hippocrates, but rather in- distinctly by Paulus. In all the other cases, the best method, he says, is to make reduction in the same way that it is per- formed for the replacement of fractures. Oribasius mentions the four ordinary kinds of dislocation at the elbow-joint, and describes methods of reducing them by machines. He has likewise described the separate dislocation of the radius from the humerus, and he is the only Greek au- thority, as far as we know, who has described the separate lux- ation of the ulna, but which, as stated above, had been noticed by Celsus. We need scarcely remark that a few cases of this ' imcommon accident have been reported of late years.492 LUXATIONS. Comm. Albucasis says that the fore-arm is dislocated in all direc- """^^ ' tions, but more especially backwards and forwards. His de- scription of the mode of reduction is evidently copied from Paulus. Avicenna likewise borrows his whole account from our author. Ehases and Haly Abbas describe the ordinary cases of com- plete luxation at the elbow-joint, but we believe that neither they nor any of the Arabians take notice of the dislocation of the radius from the ulna, nor the abruption of the apophysis of the humerus. SECT. CXVI. ON DISLOCATIONS AT THE WRIST AND FINGERS, Dislocations at the wrist and fingers are attended with no difficulty, unless accompanied with a wound. This case, there- fore, will be treated of under the head of dislocations with a wound. Those without a wound may be remedied by moderate extension and the anti-inflammatory plan of treatment. Comm. COMMENTARY. Hippocratcs says that the hand is dislocated inwards and outwards, but most frequently inwards. In the former case it is found impossible to bend the fingers, and in the latter to extend them. He also makes mention of disloca- tions to either side. He directs us to make counter-extension upon a table, and to push down the projecting end of the bone with the hand or the heel. He also describes the separate dislocation of the radius and ulna; and, upon the whole, his account is very little diflPerent from that given by Sir Astley Cooper in his ' Lectures,' and by Mr. Listen in his ' Elements of Surgery.' Celsus describes, in his usual elegant manner, the disloca- tions forwards and backwards. He denies the possibility of the lateral dislocations, and, in fact, it is now acknowledged that if ever they do occur they are incomplete. Like Hippo- crates, he directs us to replace dislocations of the fingers by making extension upon a table. He does not make mention of the sepai'ate dislocation of the lower end of the radius. Oribasius mentions the dislocations forwards and backwards, and likewise the separate dislocations of the radius and ulna.SPINE. 493 SECT, cxvn.] SoraetimeSj he says, the radius is dislocated, while the ulna re- Comm. mains in its place, and sometimes the ulna is dislocated while ' " ' the radius remains. He describes the process of reduction with machines. AlLucasis, Avicenna, and Haly Abbas describe very accu- rately the dislocations forvyards and backwards. They state that immediate reduction is peculiarly required in the case of this accident. Avicenna recommends a strengthening plaster to be put on the part before the splints are applied. When 1 the joint, after reduction, is found to have lost the power of ! motion, Albucasis recommends us to pour hot water upon it ! and apply friction. Rhases states that the ulna is more apt to be dislocated se- i parately than the radius, which generally undergoes fracture I rather than luxation. The fingers, he says, are mostly dislo- I cated inwards. SECT. CXVII. ON THE VERTEBRA OF THE SPINE. The vertebrae of the spine, when completely dislocated by i accident, occasion instant death; for the spinal marrow under- ! goes extraordinary compression; and even when one of its ■ nervous processes is compressed, it brings on dangerous symp- * toms. It often suffers sub-luxations, and when this takes place forwards it gets the name of repandation; when back- wards, that of gibbosity; and when sideways, that of wry-necked- ■ ness. When there is a small sub-luxation of many vertebrae T together, the distortion occasions a circular flexure of the spine, and in this case some are apt to be deceived, and take it for a I complete dislocation of one spine, whereas a complete disloca- 1 tion of one spinal vertebra does not produce a circular but an ' angular flexure of the spine, which is attended with more dan- i; ger. When the dislocation is inwards, it cannot be reduced ^ because no counter-pressure can be made on the belly. But 1 those who imagine that they can effect anything in this case ! by stretching the patients upon a ladder, by apply cupping in- " struments, or administering sternutatories, or by producing f coughing, or by inflation, are sufficiently exposed by Hippo- f crates. But since, often the breaking off of some of the small■^^•^ LUXATIONS. [BOOK v.. bones of the spine leaves a hollow appearance (as has been mentioned when treating of fractures), some have taken this for a dislocation forwards; and it being speedily healed, (for its callus is soon formed,) they have given out that a disloca- tion forwards is readily cured, although in fact it be wholly in curable, or difficult at least, to cure. For retention of the urine and faeces takes place, with coldness of the body; but this state is followed afterwards by an involuntary discharge of the excrements. These symptoms arise from the nerves and from muscular sympathy, and the patients soon die, more espe- cially if the upper parts and the vertebrae of the neck be afifected But that gibbous state of the spine which mostly takes place from infancy, is a protracted affection and not speedily fatal; but, as Hippocrates has shown, it leads to disease and is in- curable. But when this state occurs from an accident, the contrivances to remedy it with a ladder, suspending the patient erect, and inflation with a bladder, are altogether ridiculous. But the method of rectifying it, recommended by Hippocrates, will be alone sufficient. For, he says, a board, in length and breadth such as to contain the man, or a bench equal to it, is to be iilaced near a wall, being extended along the wall, and not more than a foot distant from it, and some robes are to he spread over it to prevent the body from being injured. Then the man, being bathed, is to be laid on his face along the board or bench, and a thong is to be twice passed round his breast by the armpits along the back; and the extremities of the thong are to be fastened to a pestle hke a piece of wood erected on the floor at the extremity of the board or bench, and this to be given to a person standing behind the patient^s head to hold, so that when the lower parts are secured oppositely, and the upper pulled towards the head, extension may be made at the proper time. Then another thong being bound round both the feet above the ankles, and again another above the loins, so that its two ends may meet upon the haunch-bone, the ex- tremities of these thongs are to be again united together, and bound to another pestle-like piece of wood resembhng that al- ready described; and this pestle, like the former, is to be erected near the extremity of the board or bench at his feet; and then we are to order the assistants to make counter-extension by these pieces of wood. Others effect this part of tlie operation by whatSECT. CXVII.] SPINE. 495 are called aselli. They are axles turned upon an erect piece of wood, which is placed at each extremity of the large board or bench, at the feet and head of the patient, and the thongs are to be wrapped round them. While the extension is thus made, we press down the prominence of the back with the palms of the hands, and if necessary we may sit upon it without ap- prehension. If the spine is not thus made straight, and the patient can endure pressure, we may scoop out from the adjoin- ing wall a furrow opposite the prominence of the back, so that the length of the furrow may not be greater than a cubit, and it must be in a situation neither much higher nor lower than tlie patient's spine. But this furrow ought rather to be pre- pared beforehand, and on this account we directed the board at first to be placed near the wall. Then one exti'emity of a board is to be introduced into the furrow, while we press the other downward until it is clear that the spine is rectified. According to Hippocrates, extension alone without the board, and again the treatment with the board alone, is sufficient to accompHsh the purpose. If this be true it will not be impro- per, in cases of dislocation anteriorly and laterally, to make the aforesaid extension without the compression. After the reduc- tion, a thin piece of wood three fingers in breadth, and of such a length as to comprehend the dislocated part and some of the sound vertebrae, is to be wrapped round with a piece of linen or some flax, on account of its hardness, and applied to the spine with suitable bandages. And the patient must be kept "IJon a spare diet. If afterwards any remains of the protube- rance are to be discovered, we must use relaxant and emollient applications, with the pressure by means of the plate. Some use a plate of lead. Commentary. Our author's account of dislocations of the Comm. '■pine is entirely condensed from Hippocrates's work ' De Ar- —' '•ulis,' and the commentary of Galen on the same. The de- '•ription of the methods of reduction is so plain, that we need "ot take up time in illustrating it. It will be remarked that lie makes mention of a mode of reducing these dislocations by ineans of axles or aselli. In the days of Hippocrates they were acquainted with only three of the mechanical powers, "amely, the lever, the wedge, and the axis in peritrochio. The49C LUXATIONS. [book VI last mentioned is called by him asellus. (See De Fracturis cum Comment. Galeni.) Hippocrates makes mention of a mode of reducing dislocations of the spine^ by succussion in a ladder, but expresses himself unfavorably of it as being a procedure which none but charlatans would practice. He speaks with becoming contempt of those who have recourse to ostentatious modes of performance ad captanclum vulgus. Celsus states very decidedly the fatal nature of dislocations of the uppermost vertebrae. Even those below the diaphragm are designated as highly dangerous. They happen either for- wards or backwards. Those above the diaphragm occasion paralysis of the hands^ vomitings, contractions of the tendons, difficulty of breathing, pain, and relaxation of the ears. Those below the diaphragm produce paralysis of the lower extremities, suppression of urine, or an involuntary discharge of it. Even these cases, he adds, prove fatal within three days. He says, that Hippocrates's mode of reduction by counter-extension and pressure on the part with the heel, applies only to cases of incomplete luxation. Oribasius describes the method of reduction by means of a machine, as mentioned by our author. It will readily be un- derstood that the whole process consisted in making counter-^ extension upwards and downwards, and pressing upon the part which projects with a piece of wood. (De Machinamentis.) Albucasis explains the nature of the accident and the me^ thods of reduction in much the same terms as our author. The patient is to be laid upon a board or bench of sufficient length, spread with some soft thing to prevent him fi'om being hurt. Then a pole or piece of wood is to be fastened at each extremity of the bench; and a rope or swathe, being caiTied round the patient's body by the armpits and above his head, is to be fastened to the upper pole, which is not to be fixed firm in the ground; and another rope is to be brought round below the part affected, and fastened to the pole at his feet. Powerful counter-extension may be thus made, while the geon presses upon the protruded part with his hand and pushes it into its place. If these means do not succeed, he directs us to fasten a piece of wood into a hole in the wall opposite the protuberant part of the patient's back and to press down with it. Other methods are also described by him. After reduc-SECT. CXVII.] SPINE. 497 tion he directs us to apply a splint with bandages^ as recom- mended by our author. Avicenna describes all the methods of reduction here men- tioned; and in the Latin edition of his works there are plates to illusti-ate his descriptions. Judging from our own experience of such cases, however, we would say that such contrivances can seldom be required to reduce these dislocations, as there is much less difficulty in the reduction than in keeping the parts in place afterwards. Haly Abbas copies the description given by Hippocrates of the mode of reduction. After the parts are restored to their place, he recommends us to apply a board (tabula lignea) three fingers broad, and of such a length as to comprehend the dislo- cated vertebrae and some of the adjoining ones; and to bind it firmly on to prevent a recurrence of the displacement. The ancients were well acquainted with the curvature of the spine occasioning pai-alysis of the lower extremities. Alsaha- ravius remarks that it occurs most frequently in childhood, and arises from an inflammation or collection of humours between the vertebrae. Sometimes, he adds, it is occasioned by a gross flatus. This is the disease called spina ventosa. When con- nected with a coDection of blood in the part, he recommends bleeding, clysters, and various emollient appKcations. When it arises from flatulence he prescribes the hermodactylus. If tlie usual means do not succeed he approves of the actual cau- tcry. (Pract. xxviii, 9.) But no ancient author has treated so fully of curvature of the spine as Rhases. He states that it occurs most frequently in chUdhood, and often proves fatal by occasioning pressure on ^he thoracic viscera. The disease, he says, may arise from a all, a blow, an abscess, or a gross flatus contained in the ver- < br£e. In cases of paralysis of the lower extremities connected vith this disease, he approves of applying the actual cautery to he back. (Cont. 1.) He states correctly that dislocations of he upper vertebrae often prove suddenly fatal. He directs the 'ii-geon to keep them reduced with a spHnt extending the ^ hole length of the spine. (Cont. xxix.) On the spina ventosa gibbositas, see further Serapion (v, 26.) For the cure of it, 0 recommends first discutient plasters, and if these do not iicceed he advises recourse to the actual cautery, (v, 37.) 33498 DISLOCATIONS. [bookvi. SECT. CXVIII. ON DISLOCATION AT THE HIP-JOINT. The other bones of the human body sometimes undergo sub- luxatioUj and sometimes complete luxation, but the articulations at the hip and the shoulder are subject only to complete lux- atiouj more especially the hip-joint, because it has a deep and round cavity which is further strengthened by a strong brim. The limb, then, being subject to displacement from its cavity by some great violence, many differences arise according to tlie greater or less degree of the dislocation. Dislocation at the hip-joint takes place in four ways, or rather places; for it is dislocated either inwards, outwards, forwards, or backwards; inwards and outwards frequently, more especially inwards; but forwards and backwards very rarely. When the dislocation is inwards, the affected leg, if compared with the sound one, ap- pears longer, the knee is more prominent, the patient cannot bend the leg at the groin, and a swelling is clearly felt in tbc perineum, from the head of the thigh being lodged there When the dislocation is outwards, the symptoms are the con- trary to these; for the leg appears shorter, there is a hollow in the perineum, a protuberance about the nates, the knee i' turned inwards, and the leg can be bent. When the disloca- tion is forwards, the patient can stretch the leg without pain at the knee, but when he attempts to walk he cannot turn the foot inwards; the urine is retaiaed, the groin is swelled, thf buttocks appear wrinkled and destitute of plumpness; and in walking he supports himself upon his heel. Those who expe- rience a dislocation backwards can neither extend the ham noi the knee, nor can they bend the limb before bending the groii also. The leg appears shorter, the groin looser, and the hea( of the thigh is to be felt at the buttock. When, then, fron infancy, or simply, when for a length of time the limb has been iieglected after being dislocated, and allowed to remain so, tin cure is impracticable, callus having been already formed. Bnt when the luxation is recent, it may be managed in the way re- commended by Hippocrates, We must, then, proceed immc diately to the reduction, for dislocations at the hip-joint, whci allowed to remain long, are wholly irremediable. In general then, in all the four kinds of dislocation, the reduction marSECT, cxviii.] HIP-JOINT. 499 accomplished by rotating it, by bending the limb, and by ex- tension. For if the accident be recent and the patient young, we may sometimes succeed in reducing the limb by grasping and rotating the thigh this way and that. When the disloca- tion is inwards we may sometimes accomplish our purpose by bending the limb at the groin inwards frequently and strongly. If the dislocation does not yield to these means we must have recourse to extension, first Avith the hands, certain assistants grasping the thigh and leg and pulling the limb downwards, while others grasp the body at the armpits and pull upwards. Or, if a stronger extension be required, the leg may be bound with twisted cords or thongs, above the ankle, and a little liigher than the knee, lest it suffer injury; but it is not neces- sary to secure the breast in this manner, for, as has been said, the hands may be put under the armpits for this purpose. And the middle of a soft and strong thong is to be applied to the perineum, and brought up to the shoulders anteriorly by the ^oins and clavicles, and posteriorly along the back, and the two ends are to be given to an assistant to hold. Then, all pulling together so as to raise the patient's body, extension is to be thus made. This mode of extension is applicable gene- rally in all the four varieties of dislocation. But the manner of replacement varies according to the nature of the dislocation. If the bone has been dislocated inwards, let the patient be stretched by having the middle of a thong applied to the perineum be- tween the head of the bone and the perineum, and let the thong be brought upwards by the adjoining groin and the cla- vicle, and let a young man with both his arms grasp the thigh V. hich is affected in its thickest part, and pull strongly outwards. This mode of reduction is easier than any of the others. When the limb does not thus yield we must have recourse to other ■ontrivances more complicated but more efficacious than these, i^et the man be stretched upon a large board, or bench, like -h-dt upon which we stretch those who have dislocation of the I'ine, and along nearly its whole length let certain gutters be 'cooped out, in breadth and depth not more than three fingers, md not more than four fingers distant from one another, so hat the extremity of the lever being inserted into them may "ipel the limb wherever it is required. In the middle of the 'oard, or bench, let another piece of wood be fastened about aDISLOCATIONS. [book VI. 500 foot in lengtli, and in thickness like tliat which is inserted in the extremity of a spade, so that when the man is pulled along, this piece of wood may come between the perineum and the head of the thigh, so as to prevent the yielding of the body when pulled by the feet, and thereby often obviating the neces- sity of making counter-extension; and at the same time when the body is extended this piece of wood will push the head of the thigh outwards. The extension is to be made in the man- ner described above, more particularly by the foot. But if it is not thus reduced, the erect piece of wood is to be taken away, and two other pieces of wood fastened on the sides of it like posts, not more than a foot in length, and let another piece of wood be adapted to them like the step of a ladder, so that the figure of the three pieces of wood may resemble the Greek letter H; the middle piece of wood being fixed a little below the upper extremities. Then the man being laid on the sound side, we bring the sound leg between the two posts below the piece of wood corresponding to the step of a ladder, while the affected one is brought above it, so that the head of the thigh is to be adapted to it; but a folded garment is to be first wrapped about it to prevent the thigh from being bruised. Then another board of moderate breadth, and of such a length as to extend from the head of the thigh to the ankle, is to be bound along the inner side of the thigh. Then extension being made either by the pestles mentioned in treating of the dislocation of the vertebra, or some other instrument, the leg is to be pulled downwards along with the board which is fastened to it, so that by the force exerted the head of the thigh-bone may return to its proper place. There is another mode of reduction without making extension upon a board, which is much com- mended by Hippocrates. The patient's hands, he says, are to be bound loosely to the sides, and a soft but strong thong put round both his feet at the ankles and above the knees, four fingers distant from one another, so that the aff'ected leg when stretched may come two inches lower down than the other. The man is afterwards to be suspended with the head two c;ibits distant from the ground. Then an expert young man is to seize the affected thigh in his arms, at its thickest part, Avhere the head of the thigh is lodged, and suddenly suspend himself from the man, by which means the joint will readily return to.501 IIIP-JOINT. SECT. CXVIII.] its place. This mode of reduction is simpler than any of the others, being performed without much apparatus, but many now reprobate it as dangerous. If the dislocation is outwards, the extension is to be made as above, but the thong at the perineum is to be passed by the opposite parts, I mean the groin and clavicle. The surgeon is to propel the limb from without inwards, the lever being fastened into one of the furrows for- merly prepared, and an assistant fixing the sound nates that the body may not yield. In dislocations forwards, the patient being stretched, a strong man is to apply the palm of the right hand to the affected groin, and press down with the other hand, so that the depressing force may be exerted downwards, and to the knee. In dislocations backwards, the man is not to be stretched so as to raise him up, but he is to lie upon a hard body as in dislocations outwards; and, as we mentioned with regard to dislocations of the vertebra backwards, the man is to be laid on his face upon a board or bench, and the ligatures are to be ap- phed, not to the loins, but to the leg as mentioned a little above. But the depression, by means of a board, is to be applied at the buttocks, where the dislocated bone is lodged. And thus much respecting dislocations at the hip-joint occasioned by some ex- ternal cause. But since dislocation sometimes takes place at the hip-joint, as at the shoulder, owing to a collection of hu- mours, we must, in this case, as we mentioned in the other, have recourse to burning. Commentary. Although the descriptions given by the me- Comm. dical authorities who preceded and followed our author will be found in the main exactly the same as his, we are induced to give a brief outline of them, in order to illustrate by every means in our power a subject so important as the one now on hand. Every subsequent author is indebted to Hippocrates for his lucid and correct exposition of dislocations at the hip-joint. He says truly that the thigh-bone is dislocated in four direc- tions, namely, inwards, which occurs frequently; outwards, the most frequently of all; baekwards and forwards, both very rarely. The following are the symptoms of dislocation in- wards, as described by him. The leg is longer than natural, the buttocks outwardly appear hollow; the knee, foot, and leg502 [book VI. DISLOCATIONS. Comm. are turned out; the patient cannot bend his thigh at the ' ' groin; and the head of the thigh-bone occasions a tumour in the perineum. This appears evidently to be the variety de- scribed by modern surgeons as the dislocation inwards and downwards, the head of the bone being lodged near the thy- roid foramen. The symptoms described by modern authors are exactly the same as those mentioned by Hippocrates, Having seen cases of it, we can bear testimony to the correctness of Hippocrates^s description. The symptoms of dislocation out- wards as enumerated by Hippocrates are, shortening of the limb, relaxation of the inner part of the thigh, and projection at the buttock, inclination of the knee, leg, and foot inwards, with inability to bend the limb. This case is described by ' modern authors as a dislocation upon the dorsum of the iHum. From personal experience we can also testify to the accuracy of the description of it given by Hippocrates. The next variety is the dislocation backwards, which, he remarks, is of rare occurrence. It is rather obscurely marked by inability to extend the leg at the hip-joint and ham, relaxation of the flesh in the groin, distension of the nates, a slight degree of shortening and inclination of the limb. He states that the head of the bone is situated below the flesh of the nates. This assuredly is the dislocation backwards upon the tuber ischii, the symptoms of which are admitted by Sir Astley Cooper to be sufiicieutly obscure. Hippocrates describes with great accuracy the appearance which the limb puts on after- wards when the dislocation is not reduced. (De Ai-ticiihs.) Reduction, he says, may be accomplished by the hands, with a bench, or with a lever. All these modes of reduction are mentioned by our author, and therefore we shall not take up time in describing them. (Ibid, and De Vectiariis, 15.) The figure of the bench of Hippocrates, given by Littre, woxdd appear to us excellent, and it renders the description easily understood. (Hippocrat. Op. t. iv, 44.) Littre also gives an excellent figure of the reduction by suspension. (lb. 291.) Apollonius Citiensis gives a most elaborate and interesting commentary on the methods of reduction recommended by Hippocrates in cases of dislocation at the hip-joint. These methods, however, may be best learned by examining the figures given in the Index Galeni, or in H. Stephens's Latiu.SECT, cxvm.] 503 HIP-JOINT. Ti-anslation of Oribasiiis (Ap. Med. Art. Princip.), or in Comm. Littre's Edition of Hippocrates (iii, and iv.) There is one curious passage in the commentary of Apollonius, which we must not pass by. He says that Hegetor, one of the followers of HerophUuSj had maintained that dislocation of the thigh being attended Avith rupture of the tendon fixed into his head (ligamentum teres) it was impossible ever afterwards to keep the ball of the femur in the acetabulum. This, Apollonius correctly argues, is contrary to experience and the authority x)f the ancients. (Ed. Dietz. p. 35.) Celsus describes the different modes of dislocation at the hip-joint in the following terms: " Femur in omnes quatuor partes promovetur, saepissime in interiorem; deinde. in exteri- orem; raro admodum in priorem, aut posteriorem. Si ia in- teriorem partem prolapsum est, crus longius altero et valgius est: extra enim pes ultimus spectat. Si in exteriorem, brevius va- rumque fit, et pes intus inclinatur; calx ingressu terram non contingit sed planta ima; meliusque id crus superius corpus, quam in priore casu, fert, minusque baculo eget. Si in priorem crus extensum est, imphcarique non potest; alteri cruri ad calcem par est, sed ima planta minus in priorem partem inch- natur: dolorque in hoc casu prsecipuus est, et maxime urina supprimitur. Ubi cum dolore inflammatio quievit, commode ■ ingrediuntur, rectusque eorum pes est. Si in posteriorem, ex- tendi non potest erus, breviusque est; ubi consistit, calx quo- que terram non contingit.'' His statement, however, that dis- locations inwards are of most frequent occurrence of any is at issue with that of Hippocrates, who more correctly states that the dislocations outwards are the most common of all. He likcAvise describes clearly the methods of reduction. If the •muscles of the limb be weak, it will be suflacient to make ex- tension by means of thongs applied at the groin and the knee; but if strong, it will be better to fasten them to the upper ex- ' tremities of two sticks loosely fixed in the ground, and to make • counter-extension by pulling the ends of the sticks in opposite ' directions. A more powerful method is by stretching the limb ' upon a board having axles at both ends with thongs fastened 1 to them, by turning which such powerful extension could be I made as would be sufficient even to break the muscles and \ tendons. When these are stretched, if the bone is dislocated50-1 DISLOCATIONS. [book vi. Comm. forwards, some round body is to be placed in the groin, and the knee is to be suddenly carried over it, for the same reason and in the same manner as in dislocations at the shoulder. In the other cases the surgeon is directed to push the bone towards its place, while an assistant propels the hip-joint. Oribasius mentions the four varieties of dislocation at the hip-joint. In three of them, he says, the leg is extended and cannot be bent; but in the dislocation backwards, it is bent and cannot be extended. He has described the method of re- ducing these dislocations by machines, of which he gives plates. Albucasis describes the four varieties of dislocation and the methods of reduction in much the same terms as Paulus. His modes of reducing them are : 1st. By rotating the limb in all directions. 2d. By making extension and counter-extension Avith the aid of two assistants. 3d. By suspending the patient, and getting a strong assistant to grasp the affected leg and swing himself by it. 4th. By making extension with ropes fastened to two sticks or pieces of wood as recommended for dislocations of the spine. When the dislocation is forwards, the surgeon is to press down the prominent part with his hands; but if backwards, a board is to be used in the manner described by our author. Avicenna agrees with Hippocrates, in opposition to Gelsus, that dislocation outwards (on the dorsum of the ihum) is of more frequent occurrence than the dislocation inwards (on the foramen ovale.) His description of the modes of reduction is evidently taken from Paulus. Haly Abbas describes the four varieties mentioned by Hip- pocrates, and recommends much the same treatment. The account of them given by Rhases is exactly the same. The earlier modern writers on surgery, describe the four varieties of dislocation at the hip-joint in the same terms as the ancients. They evidently follow the Arabians. See Theodoricus (ii, 51); Guido de Cauliaco (v, 2, 7.) Prom the contents of this section it wHl be clearly seen how erroneous is the statement made by the late Sir Astley Cooper, that the profession was entirely ignorant of the nature of these acci- dents until within these last few years.KNEE. 505 SECT. CXIX.] SECT. CXIX. ON DISLOCATION AT THE KNEE. The knee is dislocated in three ways: inwards^ outwards, and towards the ham j for it is prevented by the patella from being dislocated forwards. Using, then, the same modes of ex- tension, sometimes by the hands alone, and sometimes by cords, we must have recourse to suitable bandages, and the other suit- able treatment, the part being in particular preserved free from motion. Commentary. Hippocrates, like our author, mentions three Comm. directions in which the bones of the knee-joint may be dislo- cated: namely, inwards, outwards, and backwards. He has not noticed the dislocation forwards, which is, in fact, a very rare case. Celsus mentions, however, that Meges had related a case of dislocation forwards, which was successfully treated by him. But most of the other authorities, he says, have denied the possibility of such an occurrence. He directs the surgeon to reduce dislocations at the knee upon general principles, by making extension and counter-extension. Hippocrates repre- sents dislocations at the knee as being of more frequent occur- rence, but less dangerous, than those of the elbow. Oribasius, like our author, treats only of three kinds of dis- location at the knee. Albucasis denies the possibility of a dislocation forwards. He directs the surgeon, in making re- duction, to turn his back to the patient, and take the limb out between his knees; then while an assistant makes extension at the foot, he is to replace the bones with his hands. This seems a very proper method of reduction. Avicenna likewise mentions only three modes of dislocation. He has described dislocation of the patella, a case omitted by our author. He directs us after making reduction, to fill the hollows with compresses, and then to apply splints and bandages. He says that the knee is often dislocated in walking. He must surely allude to a species of sub-luxation first well described by the late Mr. Hey, of Leeds; for a complete luxation is a very rare occurrence, and is never occasioned but by great violence. Haly Abbas and Rhases describe only three kinds of dislo-50C [book VI. DISLOCATIONS. ^ cation at the knee, and deny the possibility of a dislocation ' forwards.. Both evidently copy from our author. The earlier modern surgeons, as usual, adopt the views of the Arabians, and accordingly deny the possibility of a dislocation forwards. See Theodoricus (ii, 52.) They would appear to have been wholly unacquainted with the works of Celsus, and to have derived all their information from the Arabians. Dislocations at the knee-joint are now found to be of much rarer occurrence than they are represented to be by the ancient authorities. In fact only a very few cases have been reported in modern times. We wotdd beg, therefore, to refer our readers to a case related in the ' Medical Gazette,' Dec. 16, 1842, by the author of this Commentary. It is necessary to remark, however, that several typographical mistakes occur in the Re- port, which are partly corrected in a subsequent number of the same periodical. SECT. CXX. ON DISLOCATION AT THE ANKLE, AND ALSO OF THE TOES. The articulation at the ankle, if but a little displaced, is remedied by moderate extension; but if completely dislocated, it requires greater force. We may endeavour therefore, in this case, to make strong extension by the hands; but if reduction does not take place, having stretched the man on the ground in a supine posture, we are to fasten into the floor a long and strong peg, between his two thighs, so as to prevent the body from yielding to the extension by the foot; or rather let the peg be fastened before the man is laid down; or if we have the large board at hand on the middle of which, as we said, a wooden peg a foot long is fastened, we may make the extension upon it. An assistant then grasping the thigh, and making counter- extension, another assistant is to pull the foot with his hands or by a thong, and the surgeon is to rectify the dislocation with his hands, while some other person keeps the other foot down below. After the reduction it is to be bound carefully, some folds of the bandage being carried along the front of the foot, And some towards the ankle; but we must take care not to in-SECT. CXX.] ANKLE AND TOES. 507 elude the posterior tendon which is inserted into the heel. And the man is to be kept fi'om walking for forty days; for those who attempt to walk before the cure is completed impair the actions of the part. If from a leap, as commonly happens, the bone of the heel is moved from its place, or if any inflammatory state is brought on, it is to be remedied by gentle extension and reduction, anti-inflammatory embrocations and secure bandages, the man being kept also in a quiet state until the part is restored. And dislocation of the toes, as we said with regard to the fingers, may be remedied without difficulty by moderate extension. In all these luxations and sub-luxations, after the reduction, and rest for a sTutable number of days, any inflammation or swelling which may remain in the joints, and occasion a protracted im- pairment of the function thereof, is to be cured by emollient applications, the materials of which must be known to every one who is conversant with the matters relative to our art. Commentary. Hippocrates states that dislocation at the Comm. ankle is generally produced by leaping from a great height. ' " ' He remarks that the accident gives rise to excessive swelling of the part. When the parts have been reduced, he directs us to apply a bandage to retain them properly in position, which, he says, it requires some address to perform in a suitable manner. He recommends us to reduce dislocations of the toes and of the bones of the foot like those of the hand. His account of dis- locations of the astragalus and of the os calcis is curious, but there is some difficulty in clearly apprehending his views. We need scarcely say that it is a subject still requiring eluci- dation. According to Celsus, dislocations at the ankle-joint may take place in all directions. He recommends us to reduce them with the hands, by making extension and counter-extension. He advises us to make the patient lie in bed longer than in ordi- nary cases. Oribasius makes mention of only three modes of dislocation at the ankle; namely, inwards, outwards, and backwards. According to Albucasis, dislocation at the ankle can only take place inwards or outwards. When the bones of the tarsus are displaced, he directs us to restore them by making the patient iDISLOCATIONS 508 [book VI. Comm. put Ms foot upou the ground; and the surgeon, by placing his foot upon it and standing erect, is to push them into their place. After reduction, a splint is to be put under the sole, and secured with bandages. Rhases, Avicenna, and Haly Abbas e-\ddently copy from our author. They give the same account as Hippocrates of dislocation of the astragalus. Luxations of the tarsal bones are described in Sir Astley Cooper's 'Surgical Lectiires,' and other modern works. Modem authors are agreed that dislocations may take place in all di- rections, and that they may be complete or incomplete. It will be remarked that Paulus makes mention of sub-luxations. This is the place where we shall be expected to give some account of the knowledge possessed by the ancients of the nature and treatment of Cltjb-foot. It is singular that Hippocrates is almost the only ancient author who has treated of the subject in an interesting manner, and of him one need have little hesi- tation in affirming, that he displays more practical acquaintance with it than any other writer until the time of Stromeyer. He states that there are more than one variety of this imjyediment; that it is not, properly speaking, a dislocation, but a declination of the foot from its natural position; and that most cases of congenital club-foot admit of cure, if it be attempted before the limb is much wasted. He gives minute directions for restoring the limb to its proper shape by the fingers, and for seeming it with waxed bandages and compresses, above which a piece of stout leather or a plate of lead is to be bound. Over aU a leaden boot, like the Chian shoes, may be apphed if necessary. By these means, he does not hesitate to declare that the de- formity may be generally overcome more readily than one would have beheved, " without cutting or burning, or any other com- plex mode of treatment." (De ArticuHs, 62.) Galen's commen- tary on this chapter is of use in illustrating the text of Hippocrates, but supplies no additional information for any practical purpose, (v, 642, ed. Basil.)SECT, CXXI.] WITH A WOUND. 509 SECT. CXXI. ON DISLOCATIONS WITH A WOUND. In the case of dislocations with a wound the utmost dis- cretion is required. For these, if reduced, occasion the most imminent danger, and sometimes death, the surrounding nerves and muscles being inflamed by the extension, so that strong pains, spasms, and acute fevers are produced, more particularly in the case of the elbows, knees, and joints above, for the nearer that they are to the vital parts the greater is the danger they induce. Wherefore, Hippocrates, by all means, forbids us to apply reduction and strong bandaging to them, and directs us to use only anti-inflammatory and soothing applications to them at the commencement, for that by this treatment life may sometimes be preserved. But what he recommends for the fingers alone, we would attempt to do for all the other joints : at first, and while the part remains free from inflam- mation, we would reduce the dislocated joint by moderate ex- tension, and-if we succeed in our object we may persist in using the anti-inflammatory treatment only. But if inflam- mation, spasm, or any of the afore-mentioned symptoms come on, we must dislocate it again if it can be done without violence. If, however, we are apprehensive of this danger (for perhaps if inflammation should come on it will not yield,) it will be better to defer the reduction of the greater joints at the com- mencement; and when the inflammation subsides, which happens about the seventh or ninth day, then, having foretold the danger from reduction, and explained how, if not reduced, they Avill be mutilated for Hfe, we may try to make the attempt without violence, using also the lever to faciHtate the process. We are to apply the same treatment to the ulcer as recom- mended for fractures with a wound. Commentary. Hippocrates, as stated by our author, was Comm. < decidedly averse to immediate reduction in cases of cUslocation • comphcated with an external wound. Hence, in compound • dislocations at the ankle, he forbids us to interfere at first, as I attempts at reduction will certaiidy bring on convulsions or (gangrene. Modern experience agrees with that of the father[book VI. DISLOCATIONS 510 Comm. of medicine as to the danger attending these accidents. Com- " ' ' pound luxations at the wrist, he says, prove fatal if reduced, but if let alone they generally get better. (De Artie. 64.) Compound dislocations at the knee are said to be particularly dangerous. (Ibid. 66.) Celsus follows the line of practice recommended by Hippo- crates. In cases of compound dislocations at the shoulder and hip-joint, he states that the danger is great if they are left un- reduced, but pronounces death to be certain if they are re- duced. Like Hippocrates, he approves of immediate reduction only in dislocations of the bones of the feet and hands. Even these, however, are not to be interfered with while the parts are in an inflamed state. He approves of bleeding, a spare diet, and rest. When a naked bone protrudes and cannot be got restored to its place, he advises it to be sawed off. (viii, 35.) Galen gives his unqualified sanction to the practice of Hip- pocrates. See his commentary on the work ' De ArticuHs' and ' Nicetse Collectio.-" Albucasis, like our author, recommends gentle attempts at reduction before swelling and inflammation come on, and soothing treatment afterwai'ds. The practice of Haly Abbas differs nothing in principle from that of our author and Albucasis. If reduction has not been performed early, he forbids it until the inflammation has sub- sided. Rhases appears to have copied his rules of treatment from our author. He recommends us, if possible, to replace the parts before inflammation comes on, but forbids it while they are in that state, for fear of occasioning convulsions and death. SECT. CXXII. ON DISLOCATION COMPLICATED WITH FRACTtTBE. ■ If a dislocation be attended with fracture without a wound we must apply the common extension, and replacement by the hands, as described for simple fractures. But if complicated with a wound, we must apply the suitable treatment from what has been said of fractures with a wound, and dislocations in particular.END OF VOL. II. 511 SECT. CXXII.] WITH FRACTURE. Commentary. Haly Abbas says that when a wound, a fracture, and a dislocation are combined in one case, each is to be treated upon general principles. Albucasis directs us to remove any spiculse of bone which may protrude in such cases. He exhorts the surgeon to act cautiously but confidently, as such conduct will prove most pleasing in the sight of his Creator, and redound to his own glory.C. AND J. ADLARD, PRINTERS, DAJITHULOUEW CLOSE.Il