GRAY'S ANATOMY DESCRIPTIVE AND APPLIEDi I i i ) i i I i ;j I I 1GRAY'S ANATOMYROYAL OOLLEOe OF PHYSIOIANS LIBRARY CLASS AOCN. SOURCE OATbTHE FIRST EDITION OF THIS WORK WAS DEDICATED TO SIR BENJAMIN COLLINS BRODIE, BART. F.B.S., D.C.L. IN ADMIKATION OP HIS GREAT TALENTS AND IN BEMEMBHANCE OF MANY ACTS OF KINDNESS SHOWN TO THE ORIGINAL AUTHOR OF THE BOOK FROM AN EARLY PERIOD OF HIS PROFESSIONAL CAREERPEEFAOE TO THE SEVENTEENTH EDITION IN this Edition the text has been carefully revised and, in several sections, rearranged. The B.N.A. terminology has been added in brackets after the names commonly used by English anatomists. Increased attention has been given to the clinical applications of anatomical data ; the title Surgical Anatomy has been replaced by that of Applied Anatomy, and under this heading many im- portant medical considerations are discussed. Me. Eedde Fedden has revised the surgical, and Dr. A. J. Jex-Blake has added the medical, notes in these paragraphs. Some two hundred additional engravings have been introduced, mostly in the sections of Embryology, Angiology, Neurology and Splanchnology. A few of these have been borrowed from standard works, and some are copied from models by His, Keibel and others, but the majority have been drawn from original preparations. The Editor acknowledges, with gratitude, the valuable help he has received from Mr. Frank Howson, M.A., Lecturer on Physiology, and Dr. J. Dunlop Lickley, Demonstrator of Anatomy, in this College. Mr. Howson undertook the revision of the Histological part of the book and furnished microscopic sUdes for drawings. Dr. Lickley has rendered invaluable and ungrudging service in the revision of the text, in the preparation of the Index, and in the making of dissections for the purposes of illustration. University of Ddbham Collbob of Medicine, Newcastle-upon-Tyne : August 1909.CONTENTS I'.VIJK Introduction 1 HISTOLOGY The animal cell 3 The nutritive fluids 7 Blood 7 Lymph 11 Epithelium 12 Connective tissues 15 The connective tissues proper . . 15 Cartilage 21 Bone 24 Pigment . . .• . . . . 35 Muscular tissue 36 Nervous tissue 42 The vascular system .... 55 The skin and its appendages . . . 64 Serous membranes .... 72 Synovial membranes 73 Mucous membranes .... 73 Secreting glands 74 EMBRYOLOGY Introductory remarks .... 77 The ovum 78 Coverings of the ovum ... 79 Maturation of the ovum . . . . 79 The spermatozoon . . . . 81 Fertilisation of the ovum . . . 83 Segmentation of the fertihsed ovum . 84 The embryonic area 86 The neural groove and tube . . 88 The notochord 89 Formation of the body cavity or coolom 90 The primitive segments or proto- vertebral somites . . . . 91 Delimitation of the embryo . . 91 Membranes and appendages of the embryo 92 Development of the parietes . . 102 Development of the nervous system and sense organs . . . . 115 Development of the vascular system 135 Development of the alimentary and i-espiratory systems . . . . 150 Development of the m-inary and generative organs . . . .167 The form of the embryo at different stages of its gro\vth . . . . 177 OSTEOLOGY General description of bones. . . 181 The vertebral column . . . . 182 General characters of a vertebra . 183 Cervical vertebrae . . . . 184 PA HE Thoracic or dorsal vertebrae . . 187 Lumbar vertebrae 190 Sacral and coccygeal vertebrae . 191 The sacrum 191 The coccyx 194 Vertebral column as a whole . . 198 The thorax 202 The sternum 203 The ribs 206 The costal cartilages . . . . 211 The skull 213 Ossa cranii 214 The occipital bone .... 214 The parietal bones . . . . 218 The frontal bone . . . .220 The temporal bones . . . . 223 The sphenoid bone .... 232 The ethmoid bone . . . . .238 Supernumerary or Wormian bones 240 Congenital fissures and gaps . . 240 Ossa faciei 241 Nasal bones 241 The maxillae or superior maxillary bones • 242 The lachrymal bones . . . 247 The malar or zygomatic bones . . 248 The palate bones .... 250 The inferior turbinated bones . . 253 The vomer 254 The mandible or inferior maxilla . 255 The hyoid bone 260 Exterior of the skull .... 261 The skull from above . . . . 261 The skull from below . . .262 The skull in profile . . . . 265 The skull from behind . . .268 The skull from the front . . . 268 Interior of the skull . . . .271 Inner surface of the skull cap . . 271 Upper surface of base of the skull 271 The nasal fossae 275 Differences in the skull due to age . 277 Sexual differences in the skull . . • 278 Craniology 278 The extremities . . . . • . . 286 Bones of the upper extremity . . 286 The clavicle 286 The scapula 289 The humerus 295 The ulna 301 The radius 306 The hand 311 The carpus 311 The metacarpus 315 The phalanges 318X CONTENTS PACK The hand (continued) Ossification of the bones of the hand 319 Bones of the lower extremity . . 320 The OS innominatum . . . . 320 The pelvis 327 The femur 332 The patella 341 The tibia 343 The fibula 347 The foot 349 The tarsus 349 The metatarsus 358 The phalanges 361 Ossification of the bones of the foot 362 Comparison of the bones of the hand and foot 362 Sesamoid bones 364 SYNDESMOLOGY General description of articulations . 366 Classification of joints . . . 368 The kinds of movement admitted in joints 370 Articulations of the trunk . . . 372 I. Articulations of the vertebral column .... II. Articulation of the atlas with the axis . . . ■ III. Articulations of the vertebral column with the cranium IV. Articulation of the mandible V. Articulations of the ribs with the vertebrae . . . VI. Articulations of the cartilages of the ribs with the ster- ntmi Articulations of the carti- lages of the ribs with each other. VII. Articulations of the sternum Mechanism of the thorax . VTTT. Articulation of the vertebral colimin with the pelvis . IX. Articulations of the pelvis Mechanism of the pelvis Articulations of the upper extremity I. Stemo-clavicular articulation II. Acromio-clavicular articula- tion Ligaments of the scapula . III. Shoulder-joint IV. Elbow-joint V. Radio-ulnar articulations VI. Radio-carpal or wrist-joint VII. Carpal articulations VIII. Carpo-metacarpal aitioula- tions IX. Intermetacarpal articulations X. Metacarpo-phalangeal articu- lations XI. Intcrphalangeal articulations Articulations of the lower extremity . I. Hip-joint Knee-joint . . • • Articulations between tibia and fibula . Ankle-joint . . . • Intertarsal articulations . . Tarso-melatarsal articula- tions 372 377 380 382 385 388 II. III. IV. V. VI. 390 390 391 392 i 393 397 399 399 401 403 404 409 412 415 417 420 422 422 423 423 423 430 439 440 444 449 VII. Intermetatarsal articulations VIII. Metatarso-phalangeal articu- lations .... IX. Intcrphalangeal articulations Arches of the foot .... MYOLOGY General description of muscles and fasciae Muscles and Fascia of the Cbanitjm and Face . . . I. Cranial region II. Auricular region . . . III. Palpebral region rV. Orbital region . V. Nasal region .... VI. Maxillary region . . . VII. Mandibular region VIII. Intermaxillary region . . IX. Temporo-mandibular region. X. Pterygo-mandibular region . Muscles and Fascls; of the Neck I. Superficial cervical region . II. Infrahyoid region . . ■ III. Suprahyoid region IV. Lingual region . V. Pharyngeal region . VI. Palatal region . VII. Anterior vertebral region VIII. Lateral vertebral region . . Muscles and Fascia of the Trunk I. Muscles of the back First layer Second layer Third layer Fourth layer Fifth layer Muscles and fasciae of the thorax . . . • Mechanism of respiration. Muscles and fasciae of the abdomen Muscles and fasciae of the pelvis Muscles and fasciae of the I-A(1K 450 451 451 452 II. III. IV. V. perinaeum 1. liluscles and fasciae of the iscliio-rectal region 2. Muscles and fasciaj of the urogenital region : (o) In the male (b) In the female . . Muscles and Fasci/e of the Upper Extremity . • • " Muscles and fascia? of the thoracic region . Anterior thoracic region . Lateral thoracic region . Muscles and fasciaj of the shoulder and arm . • Acromial region Anterior scapular region . Anterior humeral region . Posterior humeral region . Muscles and fascias of the forearm . . • • Anterior radio-ulnar region Radial region . • • Posterior radio-ulnar region 453 456 456 458 459 461 463 464 466 466 467 469 471 471 476 477 479 482 484 486 488 489 489 489 492 493 494 497 500 505 506 517 521 521 I. II. III. 523 526 528 528 528 532 533 533 534 536 538 539 540 545 545CONTENTS xi IV. Muscles and fascise of the hand Radial region Ulnar region . . • • Jliddle palmar region . ■ Muscles aud Fascue of the Lower Extremity . • • •. • I. Muscles and fasciae of the iliac region . • • . II. Muscles and fasciae of the thigh 1. Anterior femoral region . 2. Internal femoral region . 3. Gluteal region . 4. Posterior femoral region . III. Muscles and fasciiB of the leg . Anterior tibio-fibular region. Posterior tibio-fibular region Fibular region. rV. Muscles and fasciae of the foot. Dorsal region Plantar region PAQH 550 554 556 556 563 564 566 566 571 573 577 579 579 581 585 586 587 587 597 598 599 601 608 608 609 609 612 614 614 616 617 618 Extremity ANGIOLOGY Outline of circulation of the blood Pericardium . . . • Structure • • • • Heart Right auricle oU4 Right ventricle 606 Left auricle Left ventricle Interventricular septum . ■ • Structure Cardiac cycle and actions of valves Peouharities in the vascular system of the foetus Foetal circulation Changes in the vascular system at birth . . . • • The Arteries (general description of) Pulmonary artery .... Aorta 619 Ascending aorta .... 619 Branches 620 Ai'ch of aorta .... 620 Branches 623 Innominate artery .... 623 , Common carotid arteries . . 625 I- External carotid artery . . • 628 Branches 629 Triangles of the neck . . . 640 Anterior triangle . . . . 640 Posterior triangle .... 643 Internal carotid artery . . . 643 Branches 646 Arteries of the brain . . . . 652 Arteries of the Upper Extremity 654 Subclavian artery 654 Branches 659 The axilla 666 Axillary artery 667 Branches 669 Brachial artery 671 Bend of the elbow . . . . 672 Branches of brachial artery. . 673 Anastomosis around the elbow-joint 674 Radial artery 675 Branches 677 Ulnar artery 678 Branches 679 Arteries of the Trunk Thoracic aorta Branches Abdominal aorta . Branches Common iliac arteries Internal iliac artery . Branches External iliac artery . Branches Arteries of the Lower Femoral artery Femoral sheath . Scarpa's triangle . Hunter's canal .... Branches of the femoral artery Popliteal space 715 Popliteal artery '^16 Branches 1'^ Circumpatellar anastomosis . . 719 Anterior tibial artery . • .719 Branches "^21 Dorsalis pedis artery . . . 721 Branches ' Posterior tibial artery . . .722 Branches '^23 PAGE 682 682 684 685 687 696 698 699 705 706 707 707 707 710 710 713 724 725 726 727 728 729 Internal plantar artery . External plantar artery . . . The Veins (general description of) . Pulmonary veins Cardiac veins Veins of head and neck . . . Veins of the exterior of the head and face '^29 Veins of the neck . . . . 732 Veins of the diploii . . .735 Veins of the brain . . . . 736 Sinuses of the dura mater . .737 Emissary veins "^^3 Vems of the upper extremity and thorax 744 Digital veins 745 Cephahc vein 745 Basilic vein Median vein Axillary vein Subclavian vein . . . • Innominate or brachio-cephalic veins Vena cava superior Azygos veins Bronchial veins . . . • Spinal veins Veins of the lower extremity, abdomen and pelvis . Internal or long saphenous vein . External or short saphenous vein .... Popliteal vein . Femoral vein . . ■ External iliac vein . Internal iliac vein H.-Bmorrhoidal plexus Vesico-prostatic plexus. Vesical plexus . Uterine plexuses . Vaginal plexuses Common iliac veins Vena cava inferior Portal system of veins 746 746 747 747 747 748 750 750 751 752 752 753 755 755 755 755 757 757 757 758 758 758 758 760xii CONTENTS The Lymphatic System . . 7G3 j Lymphatic vessels . . . 763 { Lymphatic glands .... 764 Thoracic duct 765 Right lymphatic duct . . .767 Lymphatics of head, face and neck 767 Lymphatics of the upper extremity 772 Lymphatics of the lower extremity 775 Lymphatics of abdomen and pelvis 778 Parietal glands 778 Visceral glands . . . .781 Lymphatic vessels of the sub- diaphragmatic portion of the alimentary canal . . . . 784 Lymphatic vessels of the hver . 786 Lymphatic vessels of the spleen and suprarenal glands . . . 787 Lymphatic vessels of the urinary organs 787 Lymphatic vessels of the repro- ductive organs . . . . 789 Lymphatics of the thorax . .789 Parietal glands 789 Visceral glands .... 791 Lymphatic vessels of the thoracic viscera 792 NEUROLOGY General description of nervous system 7 94 The Spinal Cord . . . .795 Structure 799 The Brain 810 The hind-brain 811 ; Medulla oblongata . . . 811 i Structure 815 Pons 822 Structure 823 CerebeUum 825 Structure 830 Fourth ventricle .... 834 The mid-brain 838 Crura cerebri 838 Structure 839 Corpora quadrigemina . 843 Structure 843 Aqueduct of Sylvius . . . 844 The fore-brain 844 Diencephalon or inter-brain. . 844 Thalamencephalon . . . 845 i Thalamus . .845 Metathalamus . . . 848 Epithalamus .... 849 Hypothalamus . . . . 849 Third ventricle . . .852 Telencephalon . . . . 854 Cerebral hemispheres . . 854 Surfaces of cerebral hemi- i spheres 855 Interlobular fissures . . 856 Lobes of hemispheres . . 857 Frontal lobe . .857 Parietal lobe . . . . 859 Temporal lobe . . . 861 Insula or island of Reil. . 862 Rhincncephalon . . . 863 Interior of the cerebral hemi- spheres 865 Corpus callosuni ■ 865 Lateral ventricles . . . 867 Oorpus striatum . . . .871 Nucleus caudatus . . . . 871 Nucleus lonticularis . . . 872 Claustrmn 873 Nucleus amygdala . . .873 Internal capsule 873 External capsule .... 874 Substantia innominata of Meynert 874 Fornix 875 Foramen of Monro . . . . 876 Anteiior commissure . . .876 Septum pellucidum . . . . 876 Cavum septi pellucidi . . . 877 Choroid plexus of lateral ventricle 877 Velum interpositum . . .878 Structure of the cerebral hemi- spheres 878 White matter . .878 Grey matter 879 Structure of the cerebral cortex . 880 Special types of cerebral cortex . . 882 Weight of encephalon . . . 884 Cerebral localisation . . . . 885 Cerebral topography . . 885 Motor tract . . . . . . 888 Sensory tract 890 Meninges of the brain and spinal cord 892 Dura mater 893 Subdural sj)ace . . 895 Arachnoid membrane . 895 Subarachnoid space . . . 896 Glandulae Paccliionii . . 898 Pia mater 898 Ligamentum denticulatum . 899 The Cranial Nerves . . . . 899 First nerve 900 Second nerve 901 Thu-d nerve 903 Fourth nerve 905 Fifth nerve 906 Ophthalmic nerve . . . . 908 Ophthalmic ganglion . . . 910 Superior maxillary nerve . . . 911 Spheno-palatine ganghon . . 912 Inferior maxillary nerve . . . 914 Otic ganglion 917 Submaxillary ganglion . . . 918 Sixth nerve 920 Seventh nerve 922 Eighth nerve 927 Ninth nerve 930 Tenth nerve 933 Eleventh nerve 937 Twelfth nerve 939 The Spinal Nerves . . . . 941 Nerve roots 941 Spinal ganglia 941 Size and direction .... 943 Points of emergence . . . . 943 Connections with sympathetic . . 943 Structure 944 Divisions 945 Posterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves . . . 945 Cervical nerves .... 945 Thoracic nerves . . 948 Lumbar nerves .... 948 Sacral nerves 949 Coccygeal nerve .... 949XUl CONTENTS I'AOH The Spinal Nbkves {continued) Anterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves 949 Cervical nerves .... 949 Cervical plexiis 949 Superficial branches . . . 950 Deep branches (internal series) 952 Deep branches (external series) 953 Brachial plexus 953 Supraclavicular branches . 955 Infraclavicular branches . . 956 Thoracic nerves .... 966 Lumbo-sacral plexus. . . . 969 Lumbar nerves .... 969 Lumbar plexus . . . . 970 Sacral and coccygeal nerves . 978 Sacral plexus 978 Pudendal plexus . . . 985 Sympathetic Nerves . . . . 988 Cervico-cephalic portion of the ganghated cord . . . 990 Thoracic portion of the gangliated cord 993 Lumbar portion of the ganghated cord 994 Pelvic portion of the gangliated cord 996 Great plexuses of the sympathetic. 996 Cardiac plexus .... 996 Epigastric or solar plexus . . 997 Hypogastric plexus . . . 999 Pelvic plexuses 1000 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE Organs of taste 1001 The nose 1002 Accessory sinuses of the nose . 1008 The eye 1010 Capsule of Tenon . . . .1010 Tunics of the eye . . . . 1011 Sclera and cornea . . . 1011 Vascular and pigmented tunic. 1014 Retina 1020 Refracting media .... 1024 Aqueous humour . . . 1024 Vitreous body .... 1025 Crystalline lens . . . . 1025 Appendages of the eye . . 1028 Lachrymal apparatus . . . 1032 The ear -1034 The external ear . . . . 1034 The middle ear or tympanum . 1039 Ossicles of the tympanum . . 1043 The internal ear or labyrinth . 1047 The osseous labyrinth . . . 1047 The membranous labyrinth . 1051 of the SPLANCHNOLOGY Respiratory Organs The larynx . The trachea and bronchi The pleurte. The mediastinum . The lungs . Org/VNS of Digestion The mouth The teeth Permanent teeth . Temporary teeth The tongue The sahvary glands The pharynx The oesophagus The abdomen . The peritoneum . The stomach The small intestine The large intestine The liver Excretory apparatus liver The pancreas . Urogenital Organs . The urinary organs The kidneys . The ureters The bladder . The male urethra The female urethra The Male Reproductive Organs . The testes and their coverings The vas deferens The vesiculae seminales . The ejaculatory ducts . The penis The prostate gland Cowper's glands .... The Female Reproductive Organs The ovaries . . . . • The Fallopian tubes The uterus . The vagina The external organs . The mammary glands The Ductless Glands The thyi'oid body . The parathyroid glands The thymus gland. The spleen . The suprarenal glands The carotid bodies The coccygeal body l'A<iH 1059 1059 1070 1074 1078 1081 1088 1089 1092 1094 1096 1103 1108 1113 1116 1118 1121 1132 1139 1148 1163 1171 1176 1180 1180 1180 1191 1193 1200 1203 1203 1203 1210 1211 1212 1212 1215 1218 1218 1218 1221 1222 1229 1230 1232 1234 1235 1237 1238 1240 1245 1247 1247HUMAN ANATOMY INTRODUCTION THE term human anatomy comprises a consideration of the various struc- tures which make up the human organism. In a restricted sense it deals merely with the parts which form the fully developed individual and which can be rendered evident to the naked eye by various methods of dissec- tion. Regarded from such a standpoint it may be studied by two methods: (1) the various structures may be separately considered—systematic anatomy; or (2) the organs and tissues may be studied in relation to one another— topograpJdcal or regional anatomy. It is, however, of much advantage to add to the facts ascertained by naked- eye dissection those obtained by the use of the microscope. This introduces two fields of investigation, viz. the study of the minute structure of the various component parts of the hody—histology ; and the study of the human organism in its immature condition, i.e. the various stages of its intra-uterine develop- ment from the fertilised ovum up to the period when it assumes an independent existence—embryology. Owing to the difficulty of obtaining material illus- trating aU the stages of this early development, gaps must be filled up by observations on tlie development of lower iovms—comparative embryology, or by a consideration of adult forms in the line of human a.ncestvy—comparative anatomy. Finally, the direct application of the facts of human anatomy to the various pathological conditions M'hich may occur constitutes the subject of applied anatomy. . Systematic anatomy.—The various systems of which the human body is composed are grouped under the following headings : 1. Osteology—the bony system or skeleton. 2. Syndesmology—the articulations or joints. 3. Myology—the muscles. With the description of the muscles it is convenient to include that of the fasciae which are so intimately connected with them. 4. Angiology—the vascular system, comprising the heart, blood-vessels, lymphatic vessels and lymphatic glands. 5. Neurology—the nervous system. The organs of sense may be included in this system. 6. Splanchnology—the visceral system. Topographically the viscera form two groups, viz. the thoracic viscera and the abdomino-pelvic viscera. The heart, a thoracic viscus, is best considered wdth the vascular system. The rest of the viscera may be grouped according to their functions : (a) the respiratory system ; (6) the alimentary system; and (c) the genito-urinary system. Strictly speaking, the third sub-group should include only such components of the genito-urinary system as are included \\ithin the abdomino-pelvicilSTRODUCTiUA' cavity, but it is convenient to study under this heading certain parts which lie in relation to the surface of the body, e.g. the testes and the external organs rriescriptive purposes the body is supposed to be in the erect posture, with the arms hanging by the sides and the palms of the ^-'^ds ^jn^^ted forwards. The mesial plane is a vertical antero-postenor plane, passing tlirough the centre of the trunk. This plane ^^ill pass approximately through the sagittal suture of the skuU, and hence any plane paraUel to it is termed a sagittal plane. A vertical plane at right angles to the mesial pla"_« Pf^^^^^^ rouglilv speaking, through the central part of the coronal suture or tlirough a line parallel to it ; such a plane is therefore known as a coronal plane or some- times as a frontal plane. A plane at right angles to both the mesial and coronal v,\a,nes is termed a transverse plane. j j^rl^VntP The terms anterior or ventral, and posterior or dorsal, are employed to mdicate the relation of parts to the front or back of the body and the terms supertor or cephalic, and inferior or caudal, to indicate the relative levels of different structures.HISTOLOGY THE ANIMAL CELL (fig. 1) ALL the tissues and organs of the body originate from a microscopic structure (the fertilised ovum), which consists of a soft jelly-like granular material enclosed in a membrane, and containing a vesicle or small spherical body inside which are one or more denser spots. This may be regarded as a complete cell. All the solid tissues consist largely of cells essentially similar to it in nature but differing in external form. In the higher organisms a cell may be defined as ' a nucleated mass of protoplasm of microscopic size.' Its two essentials, therefore, are : a soft jelly- like granular material, similar to that found in the ovum, and usually styled protoplasm; and a small spherical body imbedded in it, and termed a nucleus.* Fig. 1.—Diagram of a cell. (Modified from Wilson.) Cell wall Nuclear memhrane Vacuole Altraclion Hphere (centro- sphere) enclosing two cen- trosomes ■Nucleolus Net-hnot of chromatin form- ing a pseudo-nucleolus Chromatin network -Cell-inclusions (paraplasyn) The other constituents of the ovum, viz. its limiting membrane and the denser spot contained in the nucleus, called the nucleolus, are not essential to the type- cell, and in fact many cells exist without them. . . - . Protoplasm {cytoplasm) is a material probably of variable constitution during life, but pelding on its disintegration bodies chiefly of protein nature. Lecithin and cholesterin are constantly found in it, as well as inorganic salts, chief among which are the phosphates and chlorides of the alkali metals and of calcium. It is of a semi-fluid, viscid consistence, and appears either as a hyaline substance, homogeneous and clear, or else it exhibits a granular appearance. Under a high power of the microscope protoplasm is seen to consist of an elastic and refractile network or reticulum, containing in its meshes a clear, semi-fluid, homogeneous substance. The reticulum is composed of a material known as spongioplasm, while the enclosed substance is termed hyaloplasm. The granular appearance is often caused by the knots of the network; but, in addition to * In certain lower forms of life, masses of protoplasm without any nuclei have been described by Huxley and others, as cells. b2HISTOLOGY these protoplasm frequently contains true granules, some of which are protem in natSe^andSably^^^^ constituents; others are fat, glycogen or pigment Sra mles and arc regarded as adventitious material taken in from without, and hencrai'e Sled cell inclusions or paraplasm.. The s>ze and shape of the meshes of the sponSasm vary in different cells and in different parts of the same ce 1 The icht^ve^amounts of spongioplasm and hyaloplasm also vary m different cells ; the iXr prponderatiig in the young cell and the former increasing at the the latter F^p°nQL^^^^ j b ^ ^^^^ epithelial XThe' per pW^b 0^^^^^ the rest.'and often altered by the cells, tne P^e^ipnery so-called cement, the nature of which is deposition in t «^ ^^^^^^ the cells from each other, and has unknown, ^lus cement substa^^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^^ solutions of"s1l^:rnit Se^ri^CS^ it tums a deep brown or black colour The mist^^^^^^^^ characteristics of protoplasm are its vital properties of ArfoTern paxtiSe which comes in contact with the protoplasmic substance tlTcell or maTremain in the substance of the protoplasm for some time without ^'Te Ss'fsTStf llot'imbedded in the protoplasm, and usually of a containing a substance known as f ^ ^'^tlS'Z of thrSn ^ but the former is probably of tl^e^^^^ fiat-x. as t^^^^^^ 'spoAgioplasm latter, which forms also tJ^J^^ . ^^^^^^^^^^^ ovintmnuclear of the cell substance. It is sometimes ™own arranged in a reticular network, ^-^^^or^^J^ y^Ti^^J^TtZ^^^^^^^^ TdTthelforr^amrd^W^^^^^^ it is supported by a mimber of^^^^^^^^^^^^^ S a material known as linin -l^^^J^ °f/d ^fh nc cd ed acl,nS interstitial substance does not «ta^^^f ^^^J.^m a neS, but presents the S,=ncro^^^^^^^^^^ - ^ ^TMnrnuclear matrix are one or more ^^^^^^''^ nueleoU, connected .with the nr.^^^^^^ Xme" r^iie^e^cd ro^idtsati^ ('net- are regarded as bemg °f f i^^^^'ular in shape and are termed psettdo- knots') of the chromopksm these are m^^^^^ P pseudo-nucleoU both in nucleoli; others are drstinct bodies dittermg 1 ^^^.^ nature and chemical composition ; they may be termtt usuaUy found in resting cells. , . r ordinary protoplasm in containing =i-r-t^Sft:^^^ parSS^^S^o^f^ap^^^^ Lrrounding protoplasmic grpl^^'^.^J'' ^eri al ^ pg ^eiit of fibrillar ro.. of it usuaUy Ues near the nucleus ^^^^ ^PfT'JJ^ Ztraction sphere or centrosphere. granules surrounding the particle ^..^^ system As a rule there are in each cell two «Pb^y*17^,X*t ^een in young cells which are of delicate fibrils (achromatrc ''P^f tin^ fpr^ce f bSed to commence in these about to undergo the process of division, a process hoddSB. „ . ». ^ J hv indired. or by direct division.THE ANIMAL CELL always takes place in this way, and that the process of reproduction of ceUs by S division is, as some observers believe, merely a sort of mipcrfect or """"TCl^Zlffrihiveot ceU division is characterised by a series of complex chm^es?n the nucleus, leading to its subdivision; this is followed by cleavage of the cell piUoplasm. Starting with the nucleus in the quiescent or resUng staS these kanges may be brieflv grouped under the four foUowing phases : f Prophase.-T]ie nuclear network of chromatin filaments assumes the form of a twisted skein or spirem. while the nuclear membrane and '^^l^^^l^^ ^^^PP^^;^ The convoluted skein of chromatin divides into a definite number of y-shaped segments or chromosomes. The number of chromosomes varies in different ammals XmL it is believed to be always sixteen^ Coincident with or P-c^<^^g th^se changes the centrosome, or attraction particle, which usually lies by the side ol lYucleus, underg and the two resulting centrosomes, each s n'oimded by a centrosphere, are seen to be connected by a spindle of delicate hromatic fibres, the achromatic spindle. The centrosomes ^oje away fTom each other-one towards either extremity of the uucleus-and the fibiils of the ichrmnatic spindle are correspondingly lengthened The centrosomes are no v situated one at either extremity or pole of the elongated spindle, and each is JSroimded by a centrosphere, from which fibrils radiate into the investing proto- plasm. A Une encircUng the spindle midway between its poles is named the equator, and around this the V-shaped chromosomes arrange themselves m the form of a star, thus constituting the mother star or monaster. i 2 Metavhase.—Each V-shaped chi-omosome now undergoes longitudinal cleavage into two equal parts or daughter chromosomes, the cleavage commencing at the apex of the V and extending along its divergent hmbs. The daughter chromosomes, thus separated, travel in opposite directions along the hbills ol the achromatic spindle towards the centrosomes, aroimd which they group tliQm- selves, and thus two star-hke figures are formed, one at either pole oi the achromatic spindle. This constitutes the diaster. 3 Anaphase.—The daughter chromosomes now arrange themselves into a skein o/ spire,n, and eventually form the network of chromatin which is characteristic of the resting nucleus. The nuclear membrane and nucleolus aie also differentiated during this phase. The cell protoplasm begins to appeal constricted aromid the equator of the achromatic spindle, where double rows ot granules are also sometimes seen. The constriction deepens and tlie original cell gradually becomes divided. ^ „iio 4 Telophase.—In this stage the ceU is completely divided mto two new cells, each with its own nucleus, centrosome and centrosphere, which assume tne ordinary positions occupied by such structures in the resting stage. _ The series of diagrams (fig. 2), by Delepine, is intended to explain the formation of some of the most important changes observed in nuclei ot ceiis durin" karyolvinesis ; it is based chiefly on the work of Flemmmg, Strasburger, E. van Beneden, Rabl, 0. Hertwig, Henneguy, and others. A. Restmg nucleus. Nucleolus and nuclear membrane visible. A centrosome is represented near tiie nucleus, b and c. Skein or spirem. b. Chromatic filaments much convolutea. Lonc'itudinal spUtting is evident in several parts. The centrosome has dividea and the nuclear membrane is becoming indistinct, c. The two centrosomes are mdely separated, and the space between them is occupied by the achromatic spindle. (Two arrows point to the positions which the centrosomes _ will ultimately occupy; duiing their passage to these points the achromatic spinaie seems to be within the nucleus.) The nuclear membrane has disappearea. D. Mother star or monaster. The nuclear segments (chromosomes) resulting nom the breaking-up of the chromatic filament into fragments of nearly equal lengtn have moved towards the equator of the spindle, where they now form an equatorial plate. These segments are all split longitudinally. E. Melaphase One halt ol each chromosome moves in the direction of one pole and the other halt m that oi the other pole, being guided towards the centrosomes by the achromatic hlanients. p. Daunhter stars or diaster. G. Daughter skeins or dispirem, begmning to form. Segments in the form of thick loops not closely packed. H. Daughter skeins ox dispirem, formed. Segments more closely packed and less distinct, owing to the formation of anastomoses, i. Resting daughter nuclei. Cell completely divided into two, but bridges remain between them in the region previously occupied by6 HISTOLOGY ¥ia. 2.—Karyokiaesis : or indirect cell-divisiou. r. Uauglitcrstars or uihhhu. toriiipil. I. Tiostins; <li>"!,'l't«''""Cloi-THE ANIMAL CELL 7 the achromatic filaments, these being specially distinct m certain cells (e.g. prickle- cells) The nucleus has a distinct nuclear membrane and a nucleolus. Li the reproduction of cells by direct division the process is one either of segmentation or of gemmation. In reproduction by segmentation or fission, the nucleus becomes constricted in its centre, assuming an hour-glass shape, and then divides into two. This is followed by a cleavage or division of the whole protoplasmic mass of the cell; and thus two daughter ceUs are formed, each containin'^ a nucleus. These daughter cells are at first smaller than the original mother cell; but they grow, and the process may be repeated m them so that multipUcation may take place rapidly. In reproduction by gemmation, a budding- ofl" or separation of a portion of the nucleus and parent cell takes place, and, this becoming separated, forms a new organism. , ^ , The cell-wall is merely the external layer of the protoplasm, firmer than the rest of the cell, and often thickened by the deposit in it of certain chemical substances. It forms a transparent, finely striated membrane, in which are a number of apertures. Through these openings protoplasmic processes can extend from cell to cell. They are often termed intercellular bridges. THE NUTRITIVE FLUIDS The circulating fluids of the body, which subserve its nutrition, are tlie blood and the lymph. Blood The blood is an opaque, rather viscid fluid, of a bright red or scarlet colour when it flows from the arteries, of a dark red or purple colour when it flows from the veins. It is salt to the taste, and has a peculiar faint odour and an alkahne reaction. Its specific gravity is about 1-06, and its temperature is generally about 99° F., though va'rying slightly in diflterent parts of the body. General compositioii of the blood.—Blood consists of a faintly yellow flmd, the flasma or liquor sanguinis, in which are suspended numerous minute particles, the blood corpuscles, the majority of which are coloured and give to the blood its red tint. If a drop of blood be placed in a thin layer on a glass sUde and examined mider the microscope, a number of these corpuscles will be seen floating in the clear fluid plasma. The blood corpuscles are chiefly of two kinds : (1) coloured corpuscles or (srythrocytes, (2) colourless corpuscles or leucocytes. A third variety, the blood platelets!^ is of subsidiary importance. 1. Coloured or red corpuscles [erythrocytes), when examined under the micro- scope, are seen to be circular discs, biconcave in profile. The disc has no nucleus, but, in consequence of its biconcave shape, presents, according to the altera- tions of focus under an ordinary high power, a central part, sometimes bright, sometimes dark, which has the appearance of a nucleus (fig. 3, a). It is to the aggregation of the red corpuscles that the blood owes its red hue, although when examined by transmitted fight their colour appears to be only a faint reddisli- yellow. The corpuscles vary slightly in size even in the same drop of blood, but the average diameter of each is "about ^^V^ of an inch, and the thickness about 1 ^i^ji of an inch, nearly one quarter of the diameter. Besides these there are found certain smaller corpuscles of about one-half or one-tliird of the size just indicated ; these are termed microcytes, and are very scarce in normal blood; in diseased conditions (e.g. aniemia), however, they are more numerous. Ihe uuraber of red corpuscles in the blood is enormous; between 4,000,000 and 5,000,000 are contained in a cubic millimetre. Power states that the red corpuscles of an adult would present an aggregate surface of about 3,000 square yards. Each corpuscle consists of a coloui-less elastic spongework or stroma, condensed at the periphery to form an investing membrane; uniformly diffused throughout the stroma are the coloured fluid contents. The stroma is composed mainly of nucleo-frotem and of the fatty substances, lecithin and cholesterin, while the coloured material consists chiefly of the respiratory protein, hccmoylobin, which is a compound protein composed of an iron-containing body, hifmatm, and of globin, a protein belonging to the globuUu group. Hiemoglobin has a great afliiuty for oxygen, and, when removed from the body, crystallises readily under certain circumstances ;HISTOLOGY 8 it is very soluble in water, so that the addition of water to a drop of blood speedily dissolves out the hajuioglobin from the corpuscles. If the web of a living frog's foot be spread out and examined under the micro- scope, the blood is seen to flow in a continuous stream through the vessels, and the corpuscles show no tendency to adhere to each other or to the wall of the vessel. Doubtless the same is the case in the human body ; but when the blood is drawn and examined on a slide without reagents, the corpuscles often collect into heaps like rouleaux of coins (fig. 3, h). It has been suggested that this phenomenon may be explained bv alteration in surface tension. During life the red corpuscles may be seen to cha^ige their shape under pressure so as to adapt themselves, to some extent, to the size of the vessel. They are, however, highly elastic, and speedily recover their shape when the pressure is removed. They are readily influenced by the medium in which they are placed. In water they swell up. lose their shape, and become globular [endosviosis) (fig. 3, c). Subsequently the hEemoglobin is dissolved out, and the envelope can barely be distmgmshed as a faint circular outhne. Solutions of salt or sugar, denser than the plasma, give them a stellate or crenated appearance (exosinosis) (fig. 3, d), but the usual shape may be restored by diluting the solution to the same specific gra^aty as the plasma The crenated outhne may be produced as the first effect of the passage of an eiectric shock : subsequently, if sufficiently strong, the shock ruptures the envelope. A solution of salt or sugar, of the same specific gravity as the plasma (i.e. an isotomc solution). Fig. 3.—Human red blood-corpuscles. merely separates the blood Highly magnified. corpuscles mechanicall}', without changing their shape. The colourless cor- puscles or leucocytes are of various sizes, some no larger, others smaller, than the red corpuscles. In human blood, however, the majority are rather larger than the red corpuscles, and measure about jxfVt) to i).-,V<T of an inch in diameter. On the average fi-om 10,000 to 12,000 leucocytes are found in each cubic miUimetre of blood. They consist of minute masses of nucleated protoplasm, and exhibit several varieties, which are differentiated from each other chiefly by the occurrence or non-occurrence of granules in their protoplasm, and by the staimng reactions o these granules when present (fig. 4). (1) The most numerous (/0-80 per cent) and important are spherical in shape, and are characterised by nuclei wlucli often consist of two or three parts (multipartite) connected together by fane threads of chromatin. The protoplasm is clear, aiid contains a number of very fane granules, which stain with acid dyes such as cosin (fig. 4, p). These cells are teimed the vohmorfhonuclear leucocytes. (2) A second variety comprises ^rom ^ to 4 per cent, of the leucocytes; they are larger than the pre^1ous land, and are mide up of coarsely granular protoplasm the granules being highly refract c nnd crrouDed round single nuclei of horse-shoe shape (fig. 4 E). iue ™les tlln deeply wfth eosin, and the. cells are therefore often termed LinofUl corpuBclei' (3) The third variety is called t.he ;j(«/.He cell (fig. 4 h • This s usually about the same size as the eosinophil cell, and, ^ hen at rest is spherical in shape and contains a single round or oval nucleus. The pr'toplsm is free \rom granules, but !s 7* X4d orSE;; - a Seen from the surface. 6. Seeu in profile and forming rouleaux. c. Bendered spherical by water, d. Rendered crenate by salt solution.THE NUTRITIVE FLUIDS 9 The third and fourtli varieties together constitute from 20 to 30 per cent, of the colourless corpuscles, but of these two varieties the lymphocytes are by far the more numerous. Leucocytes having in their protoplasm granules which stam mth basic dyes (basophil) have been described as occurring in human blood, but they are rarely found except in disease. The colourless corpuscles are very various in shape in Uving blood (fig. 5), because many of them have the power of constantly changing their form by protruding finger-shaped or filamentous processes of their substance, by wliich they move, and take up granules from the surrounding medium. In locomotion the corpuscle pushes out a process of its substance—a fseudopodium, as it is called—and then ■piQ, 4.—Varieties of leucocytes found in human blood. Highly magnified. shifts the rest of the body into it. In the same way when any granule or particle comes in its way the corpuscle wraps a pseudopodium round it, and then mth- draws the pseudopodium with the contained particle into its own substance. By n^eans of these amoeboid properties the cells have the power of wandering or emigrating from the blood-vessels by penetrating their walls and thus finding their way into the extra-vascular spaces. A chemical investigation of the proto- plasm of the leucocytes shows the presence of nucleo-protein and of a globuHn. The occurrence of small amounts of fat and glycogen may also be demonstrated. The blood platelets are discoid or irregularly shaped, colourless, refractile bodies, much smaller than the red cells. Considerable discussion has arisen as to their significance. Recent observers have shown that under the action of certain Fig. 5.—Human colourless blood-corpuscle, shomng its successive changes of outline within ten minutes when kept moist on a warm stage. (Schofield.) S t ^ € ^ stains the centrally situated portion of the blood platelet takes on an appearance suggestive of a nucleus. In spite of this, and of the fact that they have been ob- served in the blood-vessels during hfe, there is still a tendency to regard them as products of disintegration of the wliite cells, or as precipitates, possibly of nucleo- p'otein, and not as hving elements of the blood. Origin of the blood corpuscles.—In the embryo the red corpuscles are developed from cells in the vascular area of the blastoderm. These cells unite with one another to form a network, their nuclei multiply in number, and around some of the nuclei aggregations of coloured protoplasm take place. After a time the fibres of the network become hollowed out by an accumulation of fluid, and form capillary blood-vessels, and in the fluid those nuclei which are surrounded byHISTOLOGY 10 coloured protoplasm float as tlie first red blood cells.* The erabryoiiic corpuscles are thus nucleated, and, further, they have the power of amojboid movenieiit. These cells disappear in later embryonic life, to be replaced by smaller non- nucleated corpuscles, having all the characters of the adult erythrocytes, and formed, according to Schiifer, within certain cells of the connective tissue. Small globules of reddish colouring matter appear in their protoplasm, and the cells eventually becoming larger, more uniform in size and disc-shaped, float in a cavity which results from the coalescence of numerous vacuoles. After birth the important source of the red corpuscles is the red marrow in the ends of the long bones and especially in the ribs and sternum. Here are found special, nucleated, coloured cells, termed erythroblasts, which are probably direct descendants of the nucleated, embryonic red cells. These er}'throblasts by atrophy and disappearance of their nuclei (or, as some observers maintain, by extrusion of their nuclei) and by assumption of the biconcave form are transformed into the adult red corpuscles. Of the colourless corpuscles of the blood, the lymphocytes are derived from lymphatic tissue generally, and from the lymphatic glands especially, and enter the blood by Avay of the lymph stream ; the hyaline cells probably develop from the lymphocytes, while the eosinophil cells are beheved to originate mainly in the bone marrow and possibly also in the cormective tissues. The plasma or liquor sanguinis, the fluid portion of the blood, has a yellowsh tint, is alkaUne in reaction, and has a specific gravity of 1-028. It contains in solution about 10 per cent, of soUds, of which four-fifths are protein in nature ; the remainder being salts, chiefly chlorides, phosphates and sulphates of the alkali metals ; carbohydrates, chiefly sugar ; fats and soaps ; cholesterin, urea, and other nitrogenous extractives. The proteins are three in number, serum albumin, serum globulin, and Jibrinogen. Fibrinogen is a body of tlie globulin class, but differs from serum globulin in several respects. It is the substance from which the Jihrin, which plays so important a part in the clotting of the blood, is derived. In addition there maybe present in plasma several substances of very great import- ance in connection with immunity, such as antitoxins, opsonins, &c. The chemical nature of these bodies is at present the subject of close investigation, and for a detailed account of them reference should be made to the most recent works on bacteriology. Coagulation of the blood.—When blood is drawn from the body and allowed to stand, it solidifies in the course of a very few minutes into a jelly-hke mass or clot, which has the same appearance and volume as the fluid blood, and, hke it, looks quite uniform. Soon, however, drops of a transparent yellowish fluid, the serum, begin to ooze from the surface of the mass and to collect around it. Coincidentiy the clot begins to contract, so that in the course of about twenty-four hours it has become considerably smaller and firmer than the first formed jelly-hke mass, and is surrounded by a quantity of yellowish serum. The clotting of the blood is due to the formation of a fine mesh work of the insoluble material, /(6rt«, which entangles and encloses the blood corpuscles. Many theories have fi-om time to time been brought forward as to the nature of the processes concerned in the clotting of blood. It is undoubtedly due to a ferment, fibrin-Jerment, acting on Jibrinogen, one of the proteins present in plasma. Under the agency of the hbrin- ferment the fibrinogen is spUt up into an insoluble portion, fibrin, and a soluble portion, fibrino-globuHn, which remains in solution in the serum, llic mode oi formation of the ferment is still the subject of much discussion. It is supposed that when blood is shed, small quantities of a substance, thrombi'lanmc, arc liberated from the leucocytes and blood platelets; thrombokmase is also presenr. in the tissues. It acts on another substance, thrombogen, present in tne blood platelets, and converts it into the actual fibrin-ferment. Thrombogen, l.)e!^lacs existing in the blood platelets, is also present in minute quantities in the ^"^^"lat n plasma. Calcium salts play an important role in the process of the lo"nation of the ferment, for unless they are present in a soluble form the thrombokmase is unable to act on the thrombogen. i • +1,,, Fibrin may be obtained, practically free from corpuscles, by Y'"P "''f . blood, after it has been withdrawn from the body, mth a bundle of tMgs the fibrin adheres to these as it is formed. By various means the clotting ot the * Kecent observations tend to show that the endothelial lining of the vessels and the blood corpuscles are oE entodernial origin.THE NUTRITIVE FLUIDS 11 blood may be retarded so that the plasma may be obtained free from coU^usc es from th s plasma there may be derived fibrin and scrum, without the cellulai elements FibSn thus obtained is a white or l.uff-coloured stringy substance, and when observed, in the course of , , , , formation under the microscope, shows Fig. 6.—Fibrin from human blood, a mesh work of fine fibrils (fig. 6). After exposure to the air for some tune it becomes hard, dry, brown, and bnttle. It is one of the class of coagulated protems, insoluble in hot or cold water, saUne solution, alcohol, or ether. Under the action of dilute hydrochloric acid it swells up but does not dissolve, but, when thus swollen, is readily dissolved by a solution of pepsin. Serum, with the exception of its proteins, has a composition identical with that of plasma. The fibrinogen, charac- teristic of plasma, has disappeared, and , , . , „ the fibrin ferment and fibrino-globulin are found instead, as well as the serum albumin and serum globuUn which are not involved in the process of coagulation. Blood crystals.—HaBmoglobin, as already stated, readily crystallises when separated from the blood corpuscles. In human blood the crystals are elongated pnsms (fi" 7 a), and in the majority of animals belong to the rhombic system, though in the squirrel hexagonal plates are met with. Small brown prismatic crystals of hwmin (fig. 7, b) may be obtained by mixing dried blood with common Fig. 7.—Blood-crystals. B A. Hiemoglobm crystals from human blood. li. Uipmin crystals from blood treated with acetic acid. C. na;matoidin crystals from an old apoplectic clot. salt and boiling with a few drops of glacial acetic acid; a drop of the mixture on a slide will show the characteristic crystals on cooling. HcBmatoidm crystals (fig. 7, o) occur sometimes in old blood clots. Lymph Lymph is a transparent, colourless or sUghtly yellow fluid, whicli is conveyed by a set of vessels, named lymphalics, into the blood. These vessels arise in nearly all parts of the body as lymfh ca'pillaries. They take up the blood plasma which has exuded from the blood capillaries for the nourishment of the tissue elements, and return it into the veins. The greater number of these lymphatics empty themselves into one main duct, the thoracic duel, which passes upwards a.ong the fi-ont of the vertebral column and opens into the largo veins on the left side of root of the neck. The remainder empty themselves into a smaller duct which ends in the corresponding veins on the right side of the neck. Lymph is a watery fluid of sp. gr. about 1-015; it closely resembles the blood plasma, but is more dilute, containing only about 5 per cent, of proteins and 1 per cent, of salts and extractives. When examined under the microscope, leucocytes of the lymphocyte class are found floating in the transparent fluid; they are always increased in number after the passage of the lymph through lymphoid tissue, as in lymphatic glands.12 HISTOLOGY • Lymph varies greatly iu composition in different parts of the body. Tlie lymph Icavin" the liver contains the greatest percentage of proteins and has the highest specific gravity. In the limbs the lymph is scanty and has a low specific gravity. The intestinal lymph (chyle) is intermediate in composition and contains in addi- tion the fat absorbed by the lacteals, which gives it a milky appearance. Fig. 8.—Simple pavement epitheUum. EPITHELIUM All the surfaces of the body—the external surface of the skin, the internal surfaces of the digestive, respiratory, and genito-urinary tracts the closed serous cavities, the inner coats of the vessels, the acini and ducts of all seci-eting and ex- creting glands, the ventricles of the brain and the central canal of the spina cord —are covered by one or more layers of simple cells, caUed ejnlhelium or epithelial cells. These cells are also present in the terminal parts of the organs of special sense, and in some other structures, such as the pituitary and th}T:oid bodies. They serve various purposes, forming in some cases a protective layer, in others acting as agents in secretion and excretion, and again in others being concerned in the elaboration of the organs of special sense. Thus, in the skin, the main purpose served by the epi- thehum (here called the e-pidermis) is that of protection. As the surface is worn away by the agency of friction new cells are supplied, and thus the true skin and the vessels and nerves which it contains are defended from damage. In the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane and its glands, the epithelial cells appear to be the principal agents in Pi-eP^^'^^g ^'^'^ digestive secretions and in selecting and modifjang materials for absoiption In other situations (as the nose, fauces, and respiratory passages) an importai^^^ office of the epitheUal cells appears to be to maintain an equable t^P^rj^J^ ^ the moisture with which they keep the smiace always ^.^^f the serous cavities they also keep the opposed layers mo st, and thus facilitate their movements on each other. FinaUy, m aU internal parts they insuie a ^"SS^to^^^r of one or more layers of cells, -ted together by an mt^ stitial cement substance and supported on a basement membrane. It is naturain Fig. 10.—Goblet cells. (From Kirke's ' Phy- siology.') YiQ. 9.—Columnar epithelium from an intestinal villus. {itria led free hordeis of cells Basement memhrane grouped into two classes according as to -hither there is a {simile epilhelium), or more than one (straUfied epMium aud UansHwm '"ISfepithelium.-The cUffercnt varieties of simple epithelium are squamous or pavement, columnar, glandular or spheroidal, f ^-^^/^l^f ,^ , . ^f dif- The pavement epithehum (fig. 8) is composed o flat, "^^^^ fercnt shapes, usually polygonal, and varying m size, ih-^^; is generally by their eSges, like the l^les of a '--j:;^-^^"^tpe of ^';Z^^:r^'^^'^^^--^- or honeycombed13 EPITHELIUM Fig. 11.—Spheroidal epithel- ium. Magnified 250 times. network, which gives to the cell the appearance of granulation. This kind of epithelium forms the lining of the aii'-sacs of the lungs. The endothelium, which covers the serous membranes, and which lines the heai-t, blood-vessels, lymphatics, and the anterior chamber of the eye, is also of the pavement type, being composed of a single layer of flattened trans- parent squamous cells, joined edge to edge in such a manner as to form a membrane of cells. The base- ment membrane, which supports the epithelial cells, is composed of a homogeneous material. In some instances it has a number of apertures, and is then spoken of as a fenestrated membrane, whilst in other cases it is formed of flattened cells. The columnar or cylindrical epithelium (fig. 9) is formed of cylindrical or rod-shaped cells set together so as to form a complete layer, resembling, when viewed in profile, a palisade. The cells have a prismatic figure, flattened froni mutual pressure, and are set upright on the surface on which they are supported. Their protoplasm is always more or less reticulated, and fine longitudinal striee may be seen in it; the nucleus of each is oval in shape and contains an intranuclear network. Fro. 12.—CUiated epitheHum from the human trachea. Mi i\-Superficial ciliated cells ^Deeper non-ciliated cells — I'fisement membrane \ 'lifer layer of elastic fibres Inner layer of elastic fibres ■—Basal knobs The outer free border of each of these cells is distinctly marked off from the rest of the protoplasm, and contains well marked vertical striations. Tliis form of epithelium covers the mucous membrane of nearly the whole gastro-intestinal tract and its glands, the greater part of the urethra, the vas deferens, the prostate, Cowper's glands. Bar- cell (semidiagrammatic) ^j^^j.^,^ ^^^^^^^^ ^ p^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^ mv.cou& membrane. In a modified form it also covers the ovary. Gollet or chalice cells are modified columnar cells. The goblet cell appears to be formed by an alteration in shape of a columnar cell (ciliated or otherwise) consequent on the formation of granules, which consist of a substance called mucigen, in the interior of the cell. This distends the upper part of the cell, while the nucleus is pressed down towards its deep part, until the cell bursts and the mucus is discharged on to the surface of the mucous membrane (fig. 10), the cell then assuming the shape of an open cup or chalice. The glandular or spheroidal epithelium (fig. 11) is composed of spheroidal or polyhedral cells, but the cells may be columnar or cubical in shape in some situations. As in other forms of epithelial cells, the protoplasm is a fine reticulum, which gives to the cells the appearance of gi'anulation. Glandular cells are found in the terminal recesses of secreting glands, and the protoplasm of the cells usually contains the materials which the cells secrete. Ciliated epithelium (fig. 12) generally inclines to the columnar shape. It is distinguished by the presence of minute processes, like hairs or eyelashes (cilia)14 HISTOLOGY immediatelv on removal from tlie living body (for which in the human subject rremo^l of a iTsal polypus offers a convenient opportumty) in a weak so ution of sal the cilia mil be seen in lashing motion ; and if the cells be separated, they vviU often be seen to be moved about in the field by this ciliary action. Fig. 14.-EpitheUal cells from the oral cavity of man. Magnified 350 times. «. Large. 6. Middle sized, c The same with two nuclei. _ . . • T ,.;i;nfprl pnitheHum is found in the human body are : The ^^t^-^^^^'i^j;; to the smaUest ramifications of the respiratory tra^*J^o^ fpart of the pharynx and the surfaces of the vocal the bronchial tubes, except a "J [ ^ \ FaUopian tube and upper '^^he'^£u^ tre vasa etati! com vasculosi'and the first part o fhfVerify duct of'tie testicle; the ventricles of the brain and the central canal of the spinal cord. ^ ^^^^ ^ ^^^^^ of the finger. (Ranvier.) (From Schafer's'Essentials of Histology.') Fig. 15. — Stratified epithe- lium from the oesophagus. Stratum corneum Stratum^ liicidn HI Stratum., graniiloaum Prickle-cclls of.itratum.—- Malpighii Stratified epithelium (fig. 15) consists of -er~ one on the top of the other and varjang greatl> "^^^^P^^" /^'^^^ ..e^ticallv on the layer are for the most part columnar m ^ape, ^^.^J ^j'^/eroidal cells,-which basement membrane; above these are «^^jral aje^s P ^^^^ ^^^^-i ^^^^ as they approach the surface .TJ^.^^JagXVg- U), the margins of15 EPITHELIUM of this superficial portion. It exists in the form of coarse granules, and is especially well seen in the stratum granulosum of the epidermis. The most superficial layers lose their nuclei, die, and are thrown or worn off. Stratified epithelium is found in the skin, in the mucous membrane of the nose, excepting the olfactory portion, in the mucous membrane of the mouth, part of the phar3''nx, the oesophagus and in the conjunctiva. Certain colls found in the deeper layers of stratified epithelium, and termed prickle-cells (fig. 16), constitute a variety of squamous epitheUum. They possess short, fine fibrils, which pass from their margins to those of neighbouring cells, ser\dng to connect them together cement-substance, but are separated from each other by ititercellular channels, across which the fibrils may be seen bridging. When a cell is isolated, it appears to be covered over with a number of short spines, in consequence of the fibrils being broken through. These cells were first described by Max Schultze and Virchow, and it was believed by them that the cells were dovetailed together. Martyn subsequently showed that this was not the case and that the prickles were attached to each other by their apices : and Delepine believes the prickles to be parts of fibrils forming internuclear bundles between the nuclei of the cells of an epithelium in a state of active growth (see page 7, and fig. 2). Transitional epithelium occurs in the ureters and urinary bladder. Here the cells of the most superficial layer are cubical, with depressions on their under surfaces, to fit on to the rounded ends of the cells of the second layer, which are pear-shaped, the apices touching the basement membrane. Between the tapering points of the cells of the second layer is a third variety of cells of smaller size than those of the other two layers (fig. 17). CONNECTIVE TISSUES The term connective tissue includes a number of tissues which possess this feature in common, viz. they support and connect the other tissues of the body. The connective tissues may differ considerably from each other in appearance, but they present many points of relationship, and are, moreover, developed from the same layer of the embryo, the mesoderm. They are divided into three great groups : (1) the connective tissues proper, (2) cartilage, and (3) bone. Blood, which has already been described, is, strictly speaking, a form of con- nective tissue, and is so dealt with by many histologists. The Connective Tissues Proper Several forms or varieties of connective tissue are recognised : (1) Areolar tissue. (2) White fibrous tissue. (3) Yellow elastic tissue. (4) Mucous tissue. (5) Retiform tissue. They are all composed of a homogeneous matrix, in which are imbedded cells and fibres—the latter of two kinds, white, and yellow or elastic. The distinction between the different forms of tissue depends upon the relative preponderance of one or other Idnd of fibre, of cells, or of matrix. Connective tissue corpuscles.—The cells of the connective tissues are of three principal kinds : (1) Flattened lamellar cells, which may be either branched or unbranched. The branched lamellar cells are composed of clear cell-substance, and contain oval nuclei. The processes of these cells unite so as to form an open network, as in the cornea. The unbranched cells are joined edge to edge Hke the cells of an epitheHum. The ' tendon cells,' presently to be described, are examples of this variety. (2) Granule cells, which are ovoid or spheroidal in shape. They are formed of a soft protoplasm, containing granules which are albuminous in character and stain deeply with eosin. (3) Plasma cells of \yaldeyer, varying greatly in size and form, but distinguished from the other two varieties by con- taining a vacuolated protoplasm. The vacuoles are filled with fluid, and the16 HISTOLOGY protoplasm between the spaces is clear, mth occasionally a few scattered ^'Tf addition to these three typical forms of connective tissue corpuscles, areolar tissue may be seen to possess wandering cells, i.e. leucocytes which have emigrated horn the neighbourini vessels; in some instances as in the choroid coat of the Pve cells filled with granules of pigment {fKjment cells) are found. ^ Thrconncctive tissue corpuscles he in spaces in the gromd substance between the bundles of fibres, and these spaces may be brought into view by treating the L^sue S nitrate of silver and exposing it to_ the light. Thrs will colour the .rround substance and leave the cell-spaces unstained. " Areolar tissue (fig. 18) is so called because its meshes can be easily distended with 'k or fluid ai d thus separated into areote or spaces, which open freely into each other Such spaces, hoSever, do not exist in the natural condition of the body the whole tissue forming one unbroken membrane composed of a number of tte wnoie Y'^^^^". ,| sunerimposed. The chief use of areolar tissue is to bind ^IrtftShtr^^^^^^^^^^ its fibres, and the permeabihty of its areola, Fig. 18.-^ubcutaneous tissue from a young rabbit. Highly magnified. (Schafer.) Plasma cell Wliite fibres Elantk ■ fibres Fibrillateil ■cell Lamellar cell it allows them to moveoneach ot^e.^nd afiordsar^^^ other effused fluids. It is one of th^^'^f/*^^^^^^^ over the body, connecting It is found beneath the skin in a f^^^^ beneath the mucous and it to the subjacent parts. n same wa>^ t^^^ ^^^^^^^^ ^^^^ serous membranes. It is also o^""^,^'!*^^^'; ^J^^ with surrounding structures. . In investing sheaths for them, f of binding together the wnous addition to this, it IS present in i^teilor ot org^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^^ ^ lobes and lobules of t^e ^^^P^^^^.^rms one of the most important connecting and the fibres of muscles, &c. and th"s forrns one ^^^^^^ j media of the various structures f f'^^^^li^ ^.s^e are occupied by fat-cells, many parts the areote or i^tf^f^ff^f^^rbe described. , ^ ... constituting adifose tissue, ^^ich^nU piesentlj d somewhat Uke Areolar tissue presents to the "'^'^^^J^^^^'^^^ spun-silk. When stretched out, it is *° ,^°3^ormin, a network of extreme interiacing with each other ^^''l^''^^ZoT{H- 18) is found to be com- deUcacy. When examined under the microscope ^ngCONNECTIVE TISSUES 17 posed of white fibres and yellow elastic fibres intercrossing in all directions, and united together by a homogeneous cement or ground substance, the matrix, showing cell-spaces wherein lie the connective tissue corpuscles ; these contain the protoplasm out of which the whole is developed and regenerated. The tvhite fibres are arranged in waving bands or bundles of minute transparent homogeneous filaments or fibrillro. The bundles have a tendency to split up Fig. 19.—Adipose tissue. High power. a. Starliko appearance, from crystallisation of fatty acids. longitudinally or send off slips to join neighbouring bundles, and receive others in return, but the individual fibres are unbranched, and never join other fibres. The yelloiv elastic fibres have well-defined outlines and are considerably largcsr in size than the white fibrillro, but vary much, being from the ^Icin to the -j_i^,Tr of an inch in diameter. They form bold and wide curves, branch, and freely anastomose mth each other; Fig. 20.—Development of fat. (Klein and Noble Smith.) they are homogeneous in appear- ance, and tend to curl up, especially at their broken ends. Adipose tissue.—In almost all parts of the body the ordinary areolar tissue contains a variable quantity of fat. The principal situations where it is not found arc the subcutaneous tissue of the eyelids, of the penis and scrotum, of the njTnphpe; within the cavity of the cranium; and in the lungs, except near their roots. Its dis- tribution is not uniform ; in some parts it is collected in great abund- ance, as in the subcutaneous tissue, especially of the abdomen ; around the kidneys, and in some other situations. Lastly, fat enters largely into the formation of the marrow of bones. A distinction must be made between fat and adipose tissue ; the latter being a distinct tissue, the former an oily matter, which in addition to forming adipose tissue is also widely present in the body, as in the brain and liver, and in the blood, chyle, &c. Adipose tissue consists of small yeniolcs, fat-cells, lodged in the meshes of areolar ti.ssue. Fat-cclls (fig. 19) vary in size, but are of about the average diameter of y,',,-, of an inch; each consists of an exceedingly delicate protoplasmic mem- brane, filled with fatty matter, which is liquid during life, but becomes solidified a. Minute artery, r. Minute vein. c. Capillary blood-ves-sels iu tlie course of fonnntion ; tliey are not yet conipleti'ly lioUowcci out, there being still left in them protoiilasniio sepia. (/. The ground substance, containing numerous nucleated cells, some of which are more distinctly branched and flattened than others, and appear therefore more spindle-shaped.[g HISTOLOGY after death. They are ro^d or »pk--l 'X^f "ot bce„ ^ul^ected to pressure ; otherwise they assume a ^^^o^ l^^ ^SS^^m h.n,ato.yU,j ; always present and can be easuy +iip rnntained oilv matter as to be in t/e nitural condition ^^ .s -, fc^^^ the areol. of ^"rS^tand^^^^^^^^ -inly by the network of capUIary blood-vessels which is distributed to them ^ ^ ^ f ^ ^l^i^ palmitin Chemically the oily matenal m the cells is composted ol^t_^^^ are glycerin -RVp 01 __wiiite fibrous tissue. High power. compounds with fatty acids. Fig. 21. wmte noro _5 Sometimes fat crystals form m the cells after death (fig. 19, a). By boihng the tissue in ether or strong alcohol, the fat may be extracted fTom the vesicles, leav- ing them empty and shrunken. Fat may be first detected in the human embryo about the fourteenth week. The fat-cells are formed by the transforma- tion of connective tissue ^cor- puscles. small droplets of oil ^ Wed inthe ^o^lja^n, a^ th^e ^c^^e -^Mbrous tissue (fig. 21) rthrf^m ^o^^^^S^^^^ be foimd in the muscular fasciae or sheaths the periosteum, and pcnchondrium the investments of the various glands (such as the tunica albuginea testis, the capsule oi the kidney, &c,); the investing sheath of the nerves (epineurium), and of various organs, as the perns and the eye In wMte fibrous tissue, as its name imphes, the white fibrerpredominate ; the matrix is apparent only as a cement-substance the yellow elastic fibres are comparatively few, while the tissue-cells are arranged ^ ^^^^^^^ m inner It presents to the naked eye reTpearancS of silvery -l^ite f s -i^^^^^ fibres^covered over with -q^X , he fibres flocculent tissue ^^^^^ , ^^^S together and carries ^^^^ J "Xti! (fi2 22). It is not possessed of any elast Stv and only the very slightest extensibil- ? 7' 5 is exceedingly strong, so that upon the'application of any external violenc^, a s!l^^fj^Sfi^f=SE 1^-";:^^^^ ecus found in white fibrous membranes'they ^'^T'^eXon-S ' Tlly ar^ situated on the surfa^^^^^^^^^ cell being separated from Its neighbou^^^ ,^,,,,,^3 f one ¥he nucleus is generally situated at «'? ^f^ .^.^'it (fi-. 23). Upon the addition of the adjo ..in/cells being in close P™^" >5l'V glassy-looking indistinguish- of acetic \.cid white fibrous ^ alnfost completely mto gelatm. able mass. When boiled m watei it is Fig. 22.—Connective tissue. (Klein and Noble Smith.) SuenbSs.- 'on It's,.faco o........yor „. a network of line clastic fibres.CONNECTIVE TISSUES 19 the white fibres being composed of the albuminoid collagen, which is often regarded as the anhydride of gelatin. _ Yellow elastic tissue.—In certain parts of the body a tissue is found which when viewed in mass is of a yellowish colour, and is possessed of great elasticity, so that it is capable of considerable extension, and when the extending force is withdrawn returns at once to its original condition. This is yellow elastic tissue, which may be regarded as a cormective tissue in which the yellow elastic fibres have developed to the practical exclusion of the other elements. It is found in the ligamenta subflava, in the vocal cords, in the longitudinal coats of the trachea and bronchi, in the inner coats of the blood-vessels, especially the larger arteries, and to a very considerable extent in the thyro-hyoid, crico-thyroid, and stylo-hyoid U^aments. It is also found in the ligamentum nuchas of the lower animals (fig. 24). In some parts where the fibres are broad and large and the network close, the tissue presents the appearance of a membrane, with gaps or perforations Fig. 24.—Yellow elastic tissue. High power. Fig. 23. — Tendon of mouse's taU, stained with logwood, showing chains of cells between the tendon-bundles. (From Quain's ' Anatomy.' E. A. Schafer.) IT corresponding to the intervening spaces. This is to be found in the inner coats of the arteries, and to it the name oi J'enestraled membrane has been given by Henle. The yellow elastic fibres remain unaltered by acetic acid. Chemically they are composed of the albuminoid body elasiin. Mucous tissue exists chiefly in the ' jelly of Wharton,' which forms the bulk of the umbilical cord, but is also found in other situations in the fojtus, chiefly as a stage in the development of connective tissue. It consists of a matrix, largely made up of mucin, in which are nucleated cells with branching and anastomosing processes (fig. 2.5). Few fibres are seen in typical mucous tissue, though at birth the umbilical cord shows a considerable development of fibres. In the adult the vitreous humour of the eye is a persistent form of mucous tissue, in which there are no fibres, and from which the cells have disappeared, leaving only the mucinous ground substance. Retiform or reticular tissue (fig. 26) is found extensively in many parts of the body, constituting the framework of some organs and entering into the c 2HISTOLOGY 20 coiistnictiou of many mucous membranes. It is ii variety of connective tissue, in which the iutercelhilar or ground substance has, in a great measure, disappeared, and is rephiced by fluid. It is apparently composed almost entirely of extremely fine bundles of white fibrous tissue, forming an intiicate network, and Fio. 25.—Mucous tissue from the umbilical cord of the human foetus (four montlis). chemically it yields gelatin. The fibres are covered and concealed in places by flattened branched connective tissue cells. In many situations the interstices of the network are filled wdth rounded lymph-corpuscles, and the tissue is then termed lymphoid or adenoid tissue (see fig. 83, p. 63). Fig. 26.—Retiform connective tissue, from a lymphatic gland. Basement membranes, formerly described as homogeneous membranes, arc in most casoH rcallv a form of connective tissue. They conslitute^ the supporting membrane, or ,nnnhrana rropria, on which is placed the ^nHjl.el.u.n o i^uco^^^^ n.embranes or secreting glands, and they arc also found n> ''^^ "'^^'^^^"^^^^^^^^^^ means of st.ininu witli nitrate of silver they may be shown to consist usually21 CONNECTI'SrE TISSUES oi flattened cells in close apposition, and joined together by their edges, thus formin" an example of an epithelioid arrangement of connective tissue cells. In some situations the cells, instead of adhering by their edges, give off branchiuf^ processes which join with similar processes of other cells, and so form a network rather than a continuous membrane. Some basement membranes arc composed of elastic tissue, as in the cornea, others are merely condensed matrix. Vessels and nerves of connective tissue. — The blood-vessels of connective tissue are very few—that is to say, there are few actually destined for the tissue itseK, although many vessels carrying blood to other structures may permeate one of its forms, the areolar tissue. In white fibrous tissue the blood-vessels usually rim parallel to the longitudinal bundles and between them, sending trans- verse communicating branches across ; in some forms, as in the periosteum and dura mater, they are fairly numerous. In yellow elastic tissue, the blood-vessels also run between the fibres, and do not penetrate them. Lymphatic vessels are very numerous in most forms of connective tissue, especially in the areolar tissiie beneath the skin and the mucous and serous surfaces. They are also found in abundance in the sheaths of tendons, as well as in the tendons themselves. Nerves are to be found in the white fibrous tissue, where they terminate in a special manner ; but it is doubtful whether any nerves terminate in areolar tissue ; at all events, they have not yet been demonstrated, and the tissue is possessed of very little seusibihty. . • , , i x_ Development of connective tissue. — Connective tissue is developed from cells of the mesoderm. These cells, at first rounded, become fusiform and branched, and ultimately form connective tissue corpuscles. A mucinous inter- cellular substance or matrix, partly derived from the cells themselves and partly from the lymph exuded by the neighbouring blood-vessels, gradually separates the cells. In the matrix the fibres are deposited, probably under the influence of the cells, but not by any transformation of the cell protoplasm. In the case, of yellow elastic fibres, rows of granules of elastin are first laid down ; these eventually fuse into the fully developed fibre. Cartilage Cartilage is a non-vascular structure which is found in various parts of the body—in adult life chiefly in the joints, in the parietes of the thorax, and in various tubes, such as the air-passages, nostrils, and ears, which require to be kept permanently open. In the foetus, at an early period, the greater part of the skeleton is cartilaginous. As this cartilage is afterwards replaced by bone, it is called lemporan/, in contradistinction to that which remains unossified during the whole of life and is called permanent. Cartilage is divided, according to its minute structure, into hyahne cartilage, white fibro-cartilage, and yellow or elastic fibro-cartilage. Besides these varieties met with in the adidt human sub- Eio. 27.—Human cartilage-cells from the cricoid cartilage, x 350. ject, there is a variety called cellular cartilage, which consists entirely, or almost entirely, of cells, united in some cases by a network of very fine fibres, in other cases apparently destitute of any intercellular sub- stance, the cells' being separated from each other by their capsules only, which in this variety of car- tilage are extremely well marked. Cellular cartilage is found in the external ears of rats, mice, and some other animals, and is present in the notochord of the human embryo, but is not found in any other human structure. The various cartilages in the body are also classified, according to their functions and positions, into articular, intcrarticular, costal, and membraniform. Hyaline cartilage, which may be taken as the type of this tissue, consists of a gristly mass of a firm consistence, but of considerable elasticity and peaily- bluish colour. Except where it coats the articular ends of bones, it is covered externally by a fibrous membrane, the perichondrium, from the vessels of whichHISTOLOGY 22 Superficial flattened cells it imbibes its nutritive fluids, being itself destitute of blood-vessels. It contains no nerves. Its intimate structure is very simple. If a tliin slice be examined under the microscope, it will bo found to consist of cells of a rounded or bluntly angular form lying in groups of two or more in a granular or almost homogeneous matrix (tig. 27). The cells, when arranged in groups of two or more, have generally straight outlines where they are in contact with each other, and in the rest of theu circumference are rounded.' They consist of clear translucent P^«t«Pl^«™; "J fine iirtcrlacing filaments and minute granules are s^.^^f J^^^'^'^^f,^^ in this are one or two round nuclei, having the usual intranuclear networks Ihe cells are contained in cavities in the matrix, called carttlage lacunar ■ aromid these ?he matrix is arranged in concentric Unes, as if it had been formed in successive portions around the cartilage-cells. This constitutes the so-called caf ule oi the space Each lacuna is generally occupied by a single cell, but during the division of the cells it may contain two, four, or eight cells. The matrix is transparent and apparently vvithout structure, or else presents a dim y granular appe^ance, Uke grormd glass Some obser^^rs hje sho.m that the matrix of hyaUne cartilage, and especially of the articular variety, after prln' d r^aceration,^an be broken up into fine fibrils. These fibrils are prob- ablv of the same natire, chemically, as the white fibres of connective tissue It fs beUeved by some histologists that the matrix is permeated by a number of fine cSUh connect tfi lacun. with each otl^er^a^^*^^^^^^^^^^^^^ j'Kj 28—Vertical section of articular cartilage. of the perichoudriuna, and thus the structm-e is per- meated by a current of nutrient fluid. Articular cartilage, costal cartilage, and temporary car- tilage are all of the hyahne variety. They present minute differences in the size and shape of their cells and in the arrangement of their matrices. In articular cartilage (fig. 28), which shows no tendency to ossification, the matrix is finely granular ; the cells and nuclei are small, and are dis- posed parallel to the surface in the superficial part, while nearer to the bone they become vertical. Articular cartilages have a tendency to split in a vertical direction ; in disease this tendency becomes very manifest, ^^h. f-surf^ of it is exposed to fruition, is no covered P^^^^^.^^f'^^^^^^^^^^^^ b'e traced in nective tissue continuous *| f P^mife en^^^^ and here the cartilage-ceUs are the adult over a «XV.i iScS y ^^^^^^^ the branched connective tissue more or less branched and pass "^^^'^'^^'j. , cartila<Te forms a thin incrus- corpuscles of the. synovia "^'^"^^rane. Articuly .^^^ ^^^^^^ tation upon the jomt-surfaces of ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ and freedom of move- the force of concussions while if^i^^^^^ of the articular surface on ment. It varies in tluckness a^'^^^/f ^ ^ the slu.^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^^^^^ ^^^^ which it Ues; where this is f^f'^J^^f^.'es It appears to derive its reverse being the case on concave '^^^ticul^^^^^^^^ J\ ^^^^^^i,,.,,,, ,,d nutriment partly from the , J?^'j^.^^f,^^ Toynbee haB shown partly from those of the bone "P^^^^; V'f;;, ^^'j^^^^^^^^^^ the articular that the miuute vessels of the '^"/V^.^^ J J^"^^^^^^ lamella dilate and form arches, and .^^f;" ^ J^,^^^^^ H o matrix has a tendency In costal cartilage the ce Is and j^^-^^" "•V,^J hV thickest parts of the to fibrous striation especially in » f/;,^ ^^^-j^^J ; Li tj^^^^^^^^^^ ^l^^ Vz^^^^^-^i^^^^^ ^ ^^^^^hQs r Vertical rows of cells , Calcified matrix Bone23 CARTILAGE Fig. 29.—Costal cartilage from a man seventy-six years of age, showing the development of fibrous sti-ucture in the matrix. In several portions of the specimen two or three generations of cells are seen enclosed in a parent cell-wall. High power. tissue, but is not so really, for the vessels give no branches to the caitilage sub- stance itself and the channels may rather be looked upon as mvolutions of the Sondri m. The ensiform cartilage and the cartilages of the nose, larynx and Sea (except the epiglottis and cornicula laryngis, which are composed of elastic fibro-cartilagc) resemble the costal cartilages in microscopical characters. The hyahne cartilages, especiaUy in adult and advanced hfe, are prone to calcify-that is to say, to have their matrix permeated by calcium salts without any appearance of true bone. The pro- cess of calcification occurs frequently, according to Rollett, in such cartilages as those of the trachea and in the costal cartilages, where it may be succeeded by conversion into true bone. White fibro-cartilage consists of a mixture of white fibrous tissue and carti- laginous tissue in various proportions; to the former of these constituents it owes its flexibility and toughness, and to the latter its elasticity. _ When examined under the microscope it is found to be made up of fibrous connective tissue arranged in bundles, with cartilage-cells between the bundles ; the cells to a certain extent resemble tendon-cells, but may be distinguished from them by being sur- rounded by a concentrically striated area of cartilage matrix and by being less flattened (fig. 30). The fibro-cartilages admit of arrangement into four groups —interarticular, connecting, circumferen- tial, and stratiform. 1. The interarticular Jibro-cartilages (menisci) are flattened fibro-cartilaginous plates, of a round, oval, triangular, or sickle-Uke form, interposed between the ai-ticular cartilages of certain joints. They are free on both sui-faces, usually thinner towards the centre than at the circumference, and held in position by the attachment of their margins and extremities to the surrounding Ugaments. The synovial membranes of the joints are prolonged over them. They are found in the temporo-mandibular, sterno- clavicular, acromio-clavicular, I^G. 30.—White fibro-cartilage from an wrist- and knee-joints—i.e. in intervertebral disc. those joints which are most exposed to violent concussion and subject to frequent move- ment. Their uses are to obliterate the intervals be- tween opposed surfaces in their various motions; to increase the depths of the articular surfaces and give ease to the gUding move- ments ; to moderate the effects of great pressure and deaden the intensity of the shocks to which the parts may be subjected. Humphry has pointed out that these inter- ar-ticular fibro-cartilages serve an important purpose in increasing the varieties of movement in a joint. Thus, in the knee-joint, there are two lands of motion, viz. angular movement and rotation, although it is a hinge joint, in which, as a rule, only one variety of motion is permitted; the former movement takes place between the condyles of the femur and the interarticular cartilages, the latter between the cai-tilages and the head of the tibia. So, also, in the temporo-mandibular joint, the movementsHISTOLOGY 24 of opening and shutting the mouth take place between the fibro-cartilage and the inundiblc, the grinding movement between the glenoid cavity and the tbro- cartihiKC, the latter moving with the mandible. 2 The connecting fihrtcarlilages arc interposed between the bony sur aces of those joints wHch admit of only slight mobility, ^^^f ^^f" j^^^^^l ^.^^ vertebra) They form discs which are closely adherent to the opposed suifaces. Ml Sc is composed of concentric rings of fibrous tissue, with cartilaginous lamim^ interposed, the former tissue predominating towards the circumference, "^^"^s:::::^^ — of nms of ^^^^^^ surround the mar^ns of some of the articular cavities, ^-^^fll^'y^^'^^^^^ Fig. 31. -Yellow cartilage, ear of horse. High power. the hip, and the glenoid ligament of the shoulder ; they serve to deepen the articular cavities and to protect their edges. 4. The stratiform fibro- carlilages are those which form a thin coating to osseous grooves through which the tendons of certain muscles ghde. Small masses of fibro- cartilage are also developed in the tendons of some muscles, where they glide over bones, as in the ten- dons of thePeroneuslongus and Tibialis posticus. Yellow or elastic fibro- cartilage is found in the human body in the auricles nf the external cars the Eustachian tubes, the cornicula laryngis, and the • Wtif Trconsists of cartila-e-ceUs and a matrix, the latter being pervaded bfa n1S.i of V ow^ anastomosing in all directi^. eJcSpttmediately around each cell where there is ^^--^J ^/^^^^^^^^ ^^ni:l£j£fiS — " is that it yields on l^h^ vrS^ -ar?^ a mix5ii" of g^Lin^ShTucin^^ substances, chief among which, perhaps, is a compound termed chondro-mucoid. BONE structure and physical ^^'^''^^■^^j^^^^lZ;::^^ 1^. ^ur=i« r f iTt^ .f - =t (issue; the other consists of slender fibres and '^^.f^J^Xrl is called can- reticular structure; tins, from its ^-^f'^^Wa ce to lattice ^^^^^^^^^^ odious tissue. The compact .tissue IS a w^.j ^^^^^ the cancellous m the interior. The dat,ivc " '^^"^jj^ ^ according tissue varies in different bones, and ,n ^^^Tt^Z^X^^ compact tissue as strength or lightness is ^-^q^^^]^^'jf,^, .^"^^^^^^^^^^^ shows it to be extremely porous, s. that ^ ^ of solid matter, the cancellous tissue depends merely upon tlie ^ t1,e compact and the size and number of spaces in each ; the cavities25 BONE tissue and the solid matter between them abundant, while in the cancellouB t issue the spaces are large and the solid matter is in smaller quantity. Bone durino- life is permeated by vessels, and as enclosed, except wliere it is coated with articular cartilajic, in a fibrous membrane, the fcnosteum, by means of which many of these vessels reach the hard tissue. If the periosteum be stripped from the surface of the Uving bone, small bleeding points are seen which mark the entrance of the periosteal vessels ; and on section during life every part ot the bone exudes blood from the minute vessels which ramify m it. ihe interior ot each of the long bones of the limbs presents a cylindrical cavity hlled witJ: marrow and lined by a liighly vascular areolar structure, called the medullary mcmhrcmc or internal 'periosteum, which, however, is rather the areolar envelope of the cells of the marrow than a definite membrane. The periosteum adheres to the surface of each of the bones m nearly every part, but not to cartilaginous extremities. When strong tendons or Hgaments are attached to a bone, the periosteum is incorporated with them. It consists of two layers closely united together, the outer one formed chiefly of connective tissue, containing occasionally a few fat-ccHs ; the inner one, of elastic fibres of the Fig. 32.—Human bone-marrow. (Highly magnified.) Normoblast with dioidiiuj nucleus Mxjelocyte Erythrocyte --'^ Myeloplaxe —<:-, Myelocyte' Fat- Eosinophile cell Normoblasts Myelocyte dividing ^ir^^C^—Myelocyte ■Fat finer kind, forming dense membranous networks, which can be again separated into several layers. In young bones the periosteum is thick and very vascular, and is intimately connected at either end of the bone with the epiphysial carti- lage, but less closely with the shaft, from which it is separated by a layer of soft tissue, containing a number of granular corpuscles or ' osteoblasts,' in which ossification proceeds on the exterior of the young bone. Later in life the periosteum is thinner, less vascular, and the osteoblasts are converted into an epithelioid layer on the deep surface of the periosteum. The periosteum serves as a nidus for the ramification of the vessels previous to their distribution in the bone ; hence the habihty of bone to exfoliation or necrosis, when denuded of this membrane by injury or disease.' Fine nerves and lymphatics, wliich generally accompany the arteries, may also be demonstrated in the periostiuni. The marrow not only fills up the cyUndrical cavities in the shafts of the long bones, but also occupies the spaces of the cancellous tissue and extends into the larger bony canals (Haversian canals) which contain the blood-vessels. It differs in composition in different bones. In the shafts of the long bones the marrow is of a ijellotv colour, and contains, in 100 parts, 96 of fat, 1 of areolar tissue and vessels, and 3 of fluid with extractive matter; it consists of a basis of connective26 HISTOLOGY Fig. 33.—From a transverse section of the diaphysis of the humerus. Magnified. tissue supporting numerous blood-vessels and cells, most of which are fat-cells, but some arc ' nmrrow-cells,' such as occur in the red marrow to be immediate y described. In the flat and short bones, in the articular ends of the long bones in the bodies of the vertebra, in the cranial diploe, and m the sternum and nbs the marrow is of a red colour, and conta ns, m 100 parts, 75 of ^^'^Jf'^f^^S ^f solid matter consisting of cell-globulin, nucleo-protein, extractives salts, and only a small ropo t'o^of fS. The red marrow consists of a small quantity of connective tissue LoclvesiS, and numerous cells (fig. 32), some few of which are fat-ceUs, but the eieat maiority are romidish nucleated ceUs, the true ' marrow-cells of KSUikei These marrow-cells proper, or myeloajtes, resemb e in appearance Who d corpuscles, and Uke them are amoeboid ; they generally have a hyahne Splasm though some show granules either oxyphil or basophil in reaction I number^f eosinophil cells are also present. Among the marrow-cells may be ;ee"smaierc3s, w'hich possess a slightly pinkish hue ; t^ese are the .^^^^^^^^^^ or normoblasts from which, as we have seen, the red corpuscles of the adult are der"and wMch may be regarded as descendants of the nucleated coloured coiSerof the embryo. Giant-cells {myeloplaxes osteoclasts) larg^, multi- protoplasmic Isses, are also to be ^^^t^^^^^. They were beheved by Kolliker to be concerned in the absorption of bone-matrix, and hence the name which he gave to them—osteoclasis. They excavate in the bone small shallow pits or ca^dties, which are named HowsJivp's lacuncB, and in these they are found Mng. Vessels and nerves of bone.— The blood-vessels of bone are very numerous. Those of the compact tissue are derived from a close and dense network of vessels ramifying in the periosteum. From this mem- brane vessels pass into the minute orifices in the compact tissue, .and run through the canals which traverse its substance. The can- cellous tissue is suppHed in a similar way, but by less numerous and larger vessels, which, perforating the outer compact tissue, are distributed to the cavities of the spongy portion of the bone. In the long bones, numerous apertures may be seen at the end, near tUe arfoula, surlacea »,ne of the,e gWc passage ^" "^er-ej apertures arc toi tue veins oi uno sunuhed by one large wUch transimt, to the .<^«"'™l ^^^^^ medullary arteries and veins. ^''^ ™'' "^^^^ (3) immerolls large (Kaiikor)-(l) one or two largo ve us W "^'^sUl veins pass out ot Ld small veins emerge at the artrcular eu^^^^^^^^^^^ 4** a. Haversian canaUs. h. Lacunse, with W'-^'^.X^hfteAtitol , _f thp<ip canals, c. LacuniE ot tlie intei>wLi.u laSllte. d. others at the surlaoe o£ the Haversian systems, with cauaUculi given off from one side.27 BONE tissue the veins being enclosed and supported by osseous structure, and having cxceec in.dv thin coats When the bony structure is divided, the vessels remain l^itulous? and do not contract in the canals in wluch they arc contained. Hence he occul-rence of purulent absorption after amputation in those cases where the stump becomes inflLmed and the cancellous tissue is infiltrated and bathed by pus Lumlhatic vessels, in addition to those found in the periosteum, have been traced by Cruikshank into the substance of bone, and Klem describes them as runmng in the Haversian canals. Nerves are distributed fi'eely to the periosteum, and accompany the nutrient arteries into the interior of the bone. They are said by KolHkertobe most numerous in the articular extremities of the long bones, in the vertebrae, and in the larger fiat bones. Minute anatomy.—The intimate structure of bone, in all essential particulars identical in the compact and in the cancellous tissue, is most easily studied m a transverse section from the compact wall of one of the long bones after maceration (fig. 33). , .„ _ , , , If this be examined with a rather low power the bone will be seen to be mapped out into a number of circular districts each consisting of a central hole smi-ounded by a number of concentric rings. These districts are termed Haversian systems ; the central hole is an Haversian canal, and the rings are layers of bone-tissue arranged concentrically around the central canal, and termed lamella;. More- FiG. 34.—Transverse section of compact tissue of bone. Magnified. (Sharpey.) over, on closer examination, it will be found that between these lamellae, and therefore also arranged concentrically around the central canal, are a number of little dark spots, the lacunce, and that these lacunae are connected with each other aud with the central Haversian canal by a number of fine dark hnes, which radiate like the spokes of a wheel and are called canaliculi. All these structures— the concentric lamella3, the lacunte, and the canalicuU—may be seen in any single Haversian system forming a circular district round a central Haversian canal. Filling in the irregular intervals which are left between these circular systems are other lamellae, with their lacunae and canaliculi running in various directions, but more or less curved (fig. 34). These are termed interslilial lamellae. Again, other lamellae, for the most part found ou the surface of the bone, are arranged parallel to the circumference of the bone, constituting, as it were, a single Haversian system of the whole bone, of which the medullary cavity would repre- sent the Haversian canal. These latter lamellae are termed circumjerential or by some authoi's primary or fundamental lamellae, to distinguish them from those laid down around the axes of the Haversian canals, which are then termed secondary or sfecial lamellae. The Haversian canals, seen in a transverse section of bone as round holes at or about the centre of each Haversian system, may be demonstrated to be true canals, if a longitudinal section be made (fig. 35). It will then be seen that theHISTOLOGY 28 Fig. 35.—Section parallel to the siu'- face from the shaft of the femur. Magnified 100 times. 'At •i ji V v.. canals run parallel with the longitudinal axis of the bone for a short distance and Sen branch and communicate.^ They vary considerably m size, some bemg as much as ^,\„ of an inch in diameter ; the average si'ze is, however, about „;,„ of an inch. Near the medullary cavity the canals are larger than those near the surface of the bone. Each canal contains one or two blood-vessels, with a small quantity of dehcate connective tissue and some nerve filaments. In the larger ones there are also lymphatic vessels, and cells with branching processes which communicate, through the canaHcuU, with the branched processes of certain bone cells in the substance of the bone. Those canals near the surface of the bone open upon it by minute orifices, and those near the medullary ca\dty open in the same wav into this space, so that the whole of the bone is permeated by a system of blood-vessels running through the bony canals in the centres of the Haversian systems. The laniell(B are thin plates ot bone- tissue eucirchng the central canal, and may be compared, for the sake of illustration, to a number of sheets of paper pasted oue over another aroimd a central hollow cyhnder. After macerating a piece of bone m dilute mineral acid, these lameUffi may be stripped off in a longitudinal direction as thin films. If one of these be examined with a high power of the microscope, it will be found to be composed of a finely reticular struc- ture, made up of very slender transparent . fibres, decussating obUquely, and coalescing 1 * i J i -T i* ,.1 I If '• *' ? \ \ V" . Hayersian canals, b. Lacuna! seen from the side. c. Others seen trom^the surface in lameUa; which are cut horizontally. Perforating fibres of Shnrpey Apertures from which ■ - —~ the fibres have been jvith^lrairn Decussating fibres in ■ ~ lamcllitBONE 29 Fig. 37.—Nucleated bone-cells and their processes, contained in the bone-lacnnfe and their canaliculi respectively. From a section through the vertebra of an adult mouse. (Klein and Noble Smith.) These fibres were first described by Sharpey, and were named by him 'perforating ^'^^'Thcfamn 'fe are situated between the lamellre, and consist of a number of oblong spaces. In an ordinary microscopic section, viewed by transmitted light they appear as dark, oblong," opaque spots, and were formerly beheved to be solid cells. Subsequently, when it was seen that the Haversian canals were channels which lodged the vessels of the part, and the canaliculi minute tubes by which the plasma of the blood circulated through the tissue, the theory was formulated that the lacuna; were hollow spaces filled during hfe with the same fluid, and only Uned (if lined at all) by a dehcate membrane. But this view was eventually proved to be erroneous, for examination of the structure of recent bone led Virchow to beUeve that each lacuna is occupied during hfe by a branched cell, termed a bone-cell or bone-corpuscle, the processes fi'ora which pass down the canali- culi — a view which is now universally accepted (fig. 37). It is by means of these cells that the fluids necessary for nutrition are brought into contact with the ultimate tissue of bone. The canaliculi are exceedingly minute channels, which pass across the lamellae and connect the lacunre with neighbouring lacunro and also with the Haversian canal. From the Haversian canal a number of canalicuU are given off, which radiate from it, and open into the first set of lacuna} between the first and second lamellfe. From these lacuuse a second set of canaliculi is given off, which passes outwards to the next series of lacunoe, and so on until the periphery of the Haversian system is reached ; here the canahculi given off from the last series of lacunte do not communicate with the lacunae of neighbouring Haversian systems, but after passing outwards for a short distance form loops and return to their own lacunas. Thus every part of an Haversian system is suppUed with nutrient fluids derived from the vessels in the Haversian canal and distributed through the canaliculi and lacunre. The bone-cells are contained in the lacunae, which, however, they do not com- pletely fill. They are flattened nucleated branched cells, which are homologous with those of connective tissue; the i branches, especially in young bones, S'lO- 38.-^ection of bone after the removal pass into the canaUcuU from the lacunae. In a longitudinal section (fig. 35) the appearance of concentric rings is replaced by that of lamellae or rows of lacunoe, parallel to the course of the Haversian canals, and these canals appear as half-tubes instead of circu- lar spaces. The tubes are seen to branch and communicate, so that each separate Haversian canal runs only a short distance. In thin plates of bone (as in the walls of the spaces which form the cancellous tissue) the Haversian canals are absent, and the canaliculi open into the spaces of the cancellous tissue (medullary spaces), which thus have the same function as the Haversian canals in the more compact bone. Chemical composition.—Bone consists of an animal and an earthy part intimately combined together. • , , The animal part may be obtained by immersing a bone for a considerable time in dilute mineral acid, after which process the bone comes out exactly the of the earthy matter by the action of acids.HISTOLOGY 30 same shaoe as before, but perfectly flexible, so that a long bone (one of the ribs, rev Src^m e^ be tied in a knot. If now a transverse section is made fi.. 38) sTme general arrangement of the Haversian canals, lamella, lacuna, Mramemlmmms .nd .fZZT^T'Z c^<. of boneB which ate developed in 3«.-P»t of .he growing f^-'"'^^ " Union of adjacent = spicules Osteoblasts Osteogenetic fibres Calcified deposit between the fibres 'Bony spiciil-es and granular cells in a matrix. The V^f^^^^^^^^^l ^ in the interior the cells or osleMasts ^^do^n^^^^^^^ supplied with blood.vessels. At the outset o the P ^f ossification. netLrk of bony spicules IS noticed radia mg f i^^ ^^^^ These rays consist at their F'o^^^^S P°^^J'^,°^/Jw^"^^^^^^ 39). The fibres are granular corpuscles with an mtervcnmg 8™"°^.^"^^^^^^ from those termed o.ieo^ene^^'c fibres, and are made ^ th. n.atri. of white fibrous tissue. Like * V''^.*^^^ P'^ ^'^'^tpobh The membrane through the influence of the ce Is-m tli s case ti e "f/^^^^J^-.^ „f calcareous soon assumes a dark and W^^^'^-J^^^^^^ 2 n^the calcified material granules in the fibres and m tlie "^f J^J^? ^^f'^i^' J^^o^ed. By the fusion of some of the granular corpuscles or osteobla^^^^^^^^ the calcareous granules the t>SB"c ^gam as^^^^^^^^ a mo ^^^.^^lasts form but the fibres are no the corpuscles of the future bone, the sp^^^^^^ ■ jphery they continue the lacuna.. As the osteoge,iet c fibres grow out i j_ ^^^^^^ to cal<.ify,and give rise to/'-^Vr^Lod-vo^tls m^^^ a delicate connective tissue tlA^ clSlS" W tX^'^ th.cken by the addition of fresh31 BONE livers of bono formed by the osteoblaais on their surface and the meshes are correspondiu-ly encroached upon. Subsequently successive layers of bony tissue are deposited under the periosteum and round the larger vascular channels which become tiie Haversian canals, so that the bone increases much in thickness. Intracartilaginous ossification.—Just before ossification begins the mass is entirely cartilaginous, and in a long bone, which may be taken as an example the process commences in the centre and proceeds towards the extremities, which for some time remain cartilaginous. Subsequently a similar process commences in one or more places in those extremities and gradually extends through them. The extremities do not, however, become joined to the shaft by bony tissue until growth has ceased; between the shaft and either extremity a layer of cartilaginous tissue termed the epiphysial cartilage persists for a definite period. Fig. 40.—Section of foetal bone of cat. Fig. 41.—Part of a longitudinal section of the developing femur of a rabbit. 1 ir. Irruption of the subperiosteal tissue, p. Fibrous layer of tlie periosteum, o. Layer ot osteoblasts, tni. Subperiosteal bony deposit. (From Quaiu's ' Anatomy," K. A. Schiifer.) o. Flattened cartilage-cells, i. Enlarged cartilagc- cells. c, d. Newly formed bone. c. Osteo- blasts. /. Giant-cells or osteoclasts. 17, It. Shrunken cartilago-eells. (Ftom ' Atlas of Histology,' Klein and Noble Smith.) The first step in the ossification ot the cartilage is that the cartilage-cells, at the point where ossification is commencing and which is termed a centre of ossijication,^ enlarge and aiTange themselves in rows (fig. 40). The matrix in which they- are imbedded increases in quantity, so that the cells become further separated from each other. A deposit of calcareous material now takes place m this matrix, between the rows of cells, so that they become separated from each other by longitudinal columns of calcified matrix, presenting a granular and opaque appearance. Here and there the matrix between two cells of the same row also becomes calcified, and transverse bars of calcified substance stretch across from one calcareous column to another. Thus there are longitudinal groups of the cartilage-ceUs enclosed in oblong cavities, the walls of which are formed32 HISTOL(JGy of calcified matrix which cuts ofE all nutrition from the cells; tlie ceUs, in consequence, Avaste, leaving spaces called the f-^^^^ (^j^^l™- , At the same time that this process is going on in the centre o the soM bar ol cartilage certain changes are taking place on its surface. Ihis is covtiecl O) rveiy vW^^^^^ the peWc/L^<^r^«m entirely snndar to the em-^^^^^^^^^ connective tissue already described as constituting the basis of ."^e'""!^"^ bone on the inner surfLe of this-that is to say, on the surface in contac _ S'the cartilage-are gathered the formative cells, the osteoblasts. By ESS ^i^^ms??^:^ just uesciiDeu. ^'^^"^^ . . ' , f cartilage the formation of a ^'"^..^of'obtrsmc fo ^ned of cS fied matrix and containing the withered Fic 42 —Transverse section from the femur The processes consist of blood-vessels of a iiuman embryo about eleven weeks ^ud cells—osteoUasts, or bone-formers, old. and osteoclasts, or bone-destroyers. The latter are similar to the giant- cells (myeloplaxes) found in marrow and they excavate passages through the new-formed bony layer by absorp- tion, and pass through it into the calcified matrix (fig. 40). mereyer these processes come in contact with tlie calcified waUs of tbe primary areolfe they absorb them, and thus cause a fusion of the original caAaties and the formation of larger spaces, which are termed the secondary areolcE (Sharpey) or medullary sfaces (Muller). These secondary spaces become filled with embryonic marrow, consistmg of osteoblasts and vessels, derived, in the manner described above, from the osteogenetic layer of the periosteum ^^^Thut far there has been traced the formation of enlarged space^ (second- ary areolce), the perforated ^alls of which are still formed by calcified cartilage-matrix, containing an em- bryonic marrow derived fi'om the •osteoblast. proccsscs scut in from the ostcogenet^ layer of the periosteum, and consisting of ^ooA-^.^ ^^o^ Ss (fig 41). The walls of these secondary '"^^.^"i^ l^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^ layexs ti^^rMi^okn.^, bu.. they becom^^^^^^^^^ '^a^l^^n'the follo.Lg of new bono on their interior This Pjo^^^j J after undergoing manner. Some of the osteoblasts of tl^^.^^^^^^^^^^ ^Ipid division, arrange themselves as '^'^ "jP^; f^^J^^J; and thus the of the space (fig. 42). This laver of osteoblasts foim^^^^^^ .nbstance. Lll of ?he space becomes gradu^^^^^^^^^^^ •„ ^urn forms an On this a second layer "V? ^0^^^^ osseous layer. By the repetition o th « P oc^^^^^^^^^^ n^^^^,^ ^^^^^^ . ^he centre, much reduced in size, and at last 01 ' ""'^^^^^^^^^ a blood-vessel and n containing the remains of V^'; -J^''-^^^ ^^itXs tl e Haversian canal of the corn- few osteoblasts. Tins small '^'^^'^^^"^ ^^^^^^^ osseous matter encirchng this pletely ossified bone. >^^1'«, ^"^'^^^''''iXre-ich Haversian sy^^^^^ Lntral canal constitute the l« tissue, certain of the osteo- As the successive layers of f tco'jlasts loi.n ^ blastic cells remain included between the various . . osteoblast.BONE 33 t,he cells of the future bone, the spaces enclosing them forming the lacunjB (fig. 41). The canaliculi, at first extremely short, are supposed to be extended l)y'ab.«orptiou, so as to meet those of neighlDouring lacunae. Such are the changes which may be observed at one particular point, the centre of ossification. While they have been going on a similar process lias been set up in the surrounding parts and has been gradually proceeding towards the ends of the shaft, so that in the ossifving bone all the changes described above may be seen in different parts, from the true bone in the centre of the shaft to the hyaline cartilage at the extremities. The bone thus formed differs from the bone of the adult in being more spongy and less regularly lamcllated. The shaft of the bone is at first solid, but a tube is hollowed out in it by absorption around the vessels passing into it, and this becomes the medullary canal. This absorption is supposed to be brought about by large giant-cells, the so-called osteoclasts of Kolliker (fig. 41, /). They vary in shape and size, and contain a large number of clear nuclei, sometimes as many as twenty. The occur- rence of similar cells in some tumours of bones has led to such tumours being denominated ' myeloid.' The absorption of bone from the interior to form the medullary canal is progressive, and is accompanied by a progi'essi ve deposition of bone on the exterior from the periosteum, until the bone has attained the shape and size which it is destined to retain during adidt life. While the ossification of the cartilaginous shaft is extending towards the articular ends, the cartilage immediately in advance of the osseous tissue continues to grow until the length of the adult bone is reached. During the period of growth the articular end, or epiphysis, remains for some time entirely cartilaginous, then a bony centre appears, and initiates in it the same process of intracartilaginous ossification : but this process never extends to any great distance. The epiphysis remains separated from the shaft by a narrow cartilaginous layer for a definite time. This layer ultimately ossifies, the dis- tinction between shaft and epiphysis is obliterated, and the bone assumes its completed form and shape. The same remarks also apply to such, processes of bone as are separately ossified, e.g. the trochanters of the femur. The bones therefore continue to grow until the body has acquired its full stature. They increase in length by ossification continuing to extend behind the epiphysial cartilage, which goes on growing in advance of the ossifying process. They increase in circumference by deposition of new bone, from the deeper layer of the periosteum, on their external surface, and at the same time an absorption takes place from within, by which the medullary cavities are increased. The nieduUary spaces wliich characterise the cancellous tissue are produced by the absorption of the original foetal bone in a manner similar to that by which the original medullary canal is formed. The distinction between the cancellous and the compact tissue appears to depend essentially upon the extent to which this process of absorption has been carried. In some morbid states of the bone inflammatory absorption produces exactly the same change, and converts portions of bone, naturally compact, into cancellous tissue; in other pathological con- ditions denser bone may be formed. The number of ossific centres varies in different bones. In most of the shor*- bones ossification commences by a single point near the centre, and proceeds towards the surface. In the long bones there is a central point of ossification for the shaft or diapliysis : and one or more for each extremity, the epiphysis. That for the shaft is the first to appear. The times of union of the epiphyses with the sliaft vary inversely with the times at which their ossifications began (with the ex- ception of the fibula) and regulate the direction of the niitrient arteries of the bones. Thus, the nutrient arteries of the bones of the arm and forearm are directed towards the elbow, since the epiphyses at this joint become united to the shafts before those at the opposite extremities. In the lower limb, on the other hand, the nutrient arteries are dii-ectcd awa}' from the.knee : that is, upwards in tlic fcTuur, downwards in the tibia and fibula ; and in them it is observed that the upper epiphysis of the femur, and the lower epiphyses of the tibia and fil)ula, become first united to the shafts. Where there is only one epiphysis, the medullary artery is directed towards the other end of the bone ; as towards the acromial end of the clavicle, towards the distal ends of the metacarpal bone of the thumb and the metatarsal bono D3^ HISTOLOGY ot the great toe, .ud towards the prorimal errd. o! the other metaearpal and -'"CS'tE-epiphyse^, lor the -tjcular end. there^ for P^jecting Cara'=.t* X'Zt iHSed'-rtt d^etnp.on o. the inds of tl,e bones and transmitting ^^^^^ J^g^^^^^ ^ J (2) tracUon epifhyses, ^'^^'l^'^f one thne formed separate Et%^tStSrrn only appear as separate ossifications in early life.' . . , , Tt lias been stated above that the bones increase firstly in length Applied Anatomy.-It . ^ in +W^hohvsial cartilage, which goes on groTsmg m by ossification continumg to ^^^^^^f^^"^ JJ^^^P by deposition of new bono aclvance of the of^Y^-^ WOco^^^^^^^^^ A thorough reaUsatjon from the deeper layer of the pe^noste^^^^ on t consider the various patho- of these facts is ''"^l /tne iSa^V^^^^ which^nterferes with the gro^-th at the logical changes which affect bone. ,^^^^"^,1 j^^^,^ ^^^^^^ ,n epiphysial h^e wiU lead to a diminution i^ t^e length which «i Xlt life, and similarly anythmg which ^^t^^^^^'^^^^'JJi^J^.f^^^^^^ bone. Thui separa- ofthe periosteum WiU result m a f^j^Xusrsease a^^^^^^^^ ^'""^^ tion of the epiphysis, sep ic o^t^atercu ous disease ab^^^^^^ of shortemng of the bone, as IZlf^iZm results in fof-tive growji in c^^^^^^^^^ ,3,^ test It is thus obvious that a careful study " "^^^"^^'Jl^^oreover, an accurate knowledge utility in the proper ^derstandmg bonejl^^^^^^ J^^^^t beariigs. The outer portion of the blood supply of a long b°^^.f^^', ^^^^^^ ^ssels, which reach the bone through of the compact tissue b^ing f upplied by perioste^^^ structures are well developed ^nuscidar atWments, foUows that wh ic Je m^^^^^ ^^^^ and therefore amply ^^PP^^^d/T^JL^'T'^loo^ girth ; this is well seen m strong and the bones Proportionately weU devel^^^ 'Conversely, if the muscular muscular men mth well-maiked midges on me tissae has been added to the l^o'^^f.^^rom the ou ..de^^^^ ^.^^^^ ^^^^^^^ The best example of this condition is seen in conne^^ childhood, MUe paralysis,.here '-^^ becomes^^^^^^^ J^P^ consequence where the muscles become fiaccid f onic, anu continue to grow m length very greatly diminished. In such cases, ^^^'^ough tlie umo a^^ ^.^^^ ^^^^ S'Jhe e^piphysial fines, l-g^^^J^^f ^^^^^^^ aU the long bones o rfiUTtt r^Sk^^^^^^^^^^ -Addition having been made to their -^SSeretheperios^umhasW.^^^ injury or i-A'—J^^s"^^^^^^ "^-^ ^ 'oecS^tew. of the bo™ 'tie. ™r^^^^^^^^^ Sd^"»;;^the P™*""'» S",^ "apef t e S^. When the Mamma W^^^^^^^^^ When the medullary cavity is fiH^d ^uth P"«;/*'l ,i.^„ger of seiit.c ^^bol ben Haversian canals takes place, and there is a ^ cry g 6 ^ I'l „±25J K-ra'ir-inriS'',^ S ..>v .»t. 0.t,o.»yeht„ e»»ea.BONE 35 and if the patient survived, a tubular sequestrum of tlio divided shaft subsequently bep^ated^^^ understanding of the epiphyses is of the utmost possible importance to the student, and greatly simplifies many of the problems in the pathology of bone disease. Speaking generally, the long bones have at either end an epiphysis from the cartilage of which groAvth occurs, and hence the shaft of the bone increases in length from both ends. In every case, however, one epiphysis is the more active, and also continues in its activity for a longer time. This actively growing epiphysis is always the one from which the nutrient foramen in the diaphysis points, and it unites to the shaft at a later date. It follows, therefore, that the increase in length of a long bono is largely dependent on this epiphysis, and hence anything which interferes with the gi'owth from this epiphysial line at any time prior to the union of the epiphysis with the shaft must residt in a cessation of gro^vth in length of that bone. Thus when dealing with disease in the neigh- bourhood of this actively growing epiphysis very great care should be taken not to excise or destroy its line of union with tlie shaft. These epiphyses are particularly prone to become the seat of tuberculous disease, which especially tends to attack the soft, highly vascular cancellous tissue. Again, the actively growing epiphysial lino is the portion of a long bone which is in the vast majority of oases afl'ected by tumour growth in bone, whether it be innocent or malignant, the former (viz. osteoma) usually appearing about puberty, and the latter (viz sarcoma) usually towards the end of the active period of epiphysial gi'owth. Epiphysial growth, moreover, has to be considered by the surgeon when he is about to amputate in a child. If the amputation is being performed through a bone, the actively gi-o\\Tng epiphysis of which is at the upper end, and which will continue to grow for many years (i.e. humerus and tibia), it will be necessary to make allowance for this and to cut the flaps long ; as otherwse, owing to continued gi-owth, the sawn end of the bone will ultimately project through the stump, and a condition known as ' conical stump' wiU result. This requires removal of a further portion of the bone. An inflammatory condition termed acute epiphysitis also occurs, although it is not so frequent as the acute infective conditions of the diaphysis, owing to the fi-eer blood supply of the epiphysis ; in late years it has been shown that acute epiphysitis in children is very frequently the result of a pneumococcal infection, and it may imss on to complete separation of the epiphysis. In this connection it is worthy of note that some of the epiphysial lines lie entirely wthin the capsules of their corresponding joints, in other cases entirely without the capsules; and it must follow that in the former case epiphysial disease, acute or chronic, becomes, ipso facto, practically synonymous with disease of that joint. The best examples of intra-articular epiphyses are those for the head of the femur and head of the humerus, and the vast majority of aD eases of tuberculous disease of the hip start as a tuberculous epiphysitis about the intra-articular epiphysial line of the femur ; again cases of acute septic arthritis of the shoulder or hip joints generally have their origins in these intra-articular epiphysial lines, and often result in separation of the affected epiphysis. The other class, or extra-articular epiphyses, when diseased, do not tend to involve the neighbouring joint so readily ; and it should be the surgeon's duty to keep the disease from involving the joint. For example, the trochanteric epiphysis of the femur is extra- articular as regards the hip joint, and the epiphysial line of the head of the tibia is well below the level of the knee joint, and should a chronic tuberculous abscess form in the latter situation, it should be attacked from the outside before it has time to sjiread up and involve the cartilage of the head of the tibia. It is therefore of great surgical mterest to note in every case the relations which the various epiphysial lines bear to their respective joint capsules. A knowledge of the exact periods when the epiphyses become joined to the shaft is often of great importance in medico-legal inquiries. It also aids the surgeon in the dia- gnosis of many of the injuries to which the joints are liable ; for it not infrequently happens that, on the application of severe force to a joint, the epiphysis becomes separated from the shaft, and such injuries may be mistaken for fracture or dislocation. PIGMENT In various parts of the body pigment is found ; most frequently in epithelial cells and in the cells of connective tissue. Pigmented epithelial cells are found in the external layer of the retiiia, on the posterior surface of the iris, iu the olfactory region of the nose, and in the membranous labyrinth of the car. Pigment is likewise found in the cells of the deeper layers of the cuticle and in the hairs ; in the skin of the coloured races it is abundantly present, but in the white races it is well marked only in the areolaj round the nipples and in irregular coloured patches. In the conneclive-tissue cells pigment is frequently met with in the lower vertebrates. In man it is found in the choroid coat of the eye (fig. 43), and D 23g HISTOLOGY • +1, ;vi, of ,11 but the light blue eyes and the albino. It is also occasionally ;;;ef:i;hi.rlhecr:'cls.nntissuL the spinal corcL The -^'^.^tS^r Ss^' SV^cSs^'^r'iSe'Slls can be processes, which are also ^i^ed nviUi c-™ j,^ retina the ceUs withdrawn or protruded under the "^^Ij^^^^^^;^";J^-^., ,1,, ,^p,We of movement { YiQ, 43. Pigmeut-cclls from the choroid coat of the eyeball. ill order to protect the dehcate rods and cones. The pigment {melanin) consists of dark brown or black granules of very small size closely packed together within the cells, but not invading the nucleus Occasionally the pigment is yellow, and when occurring in the cells of the cuticle constitutes ' freckles.' In the retina another variety of pigment occurs, known as rhodopsin or visual furfle, which on exposure to light is bleached. Applied Anatomy.—AbnovmaX pigmenta- tion of the skin may be congenital, when it often takes the form of dark brown or black nsEvi (moles), scattered over a greater or smaller area of the body. It may also result from the prolonged consumption of various di-ugs, particularly of salts of silver or arsemc, being most marked wherever the skm is ex- posed to the action of light. Progressive darkening or bronzing of the skin is also highly suggestive of Addison's disease which commonly ^^^J^ thfsupra.-enal glands: It IS th^^^^^^^ Pign^entation is also pigmented, or is ^^^l.-^^^ed to piessuie oi uiita italia, and the thyroid gland ^k^^ZS^^^l!^^ »■»., .„d 1. does no. y,e,ci to any medical treatment as a rule. MUSCULAR TISSUE t .A nf hnndles of reddish fibres, endowed mth the property The muscles are formed of "^^^^^.^f muscular tissue. One of these, of contractility. There are ^^^^^ P^^^h its fibl^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^'^ nricroscope, from the charactens ic appearances ^^^^^ of being put is known as ' striped Voluntary ' muscle. The fibres of the into action and controlled by ^^^^^T^Jrined a^^^^^ and for the most part are other kind do not P^f «f/j'f^^ f^^^Se tbefar^ knmvn as the ' nnstriped ' or not under the control of the ^^^^^^^ fibres of the heart differ in certain ^':^tr^S^'i^^^^^^^ are therefore separately described L ' cardiac ' muscular fibres .^^ ^^^^^3,^1,, fibres : (1) trans- It is customary t^^^l'^J^^J^^f/^S aie for the most part under the control of versely striated '^uscular fibres ^^^^^^j^^JJ.j,, ^.^^^^les of the pharynx and upper the will, although f '^'J^^^ ;7 „,,^3ele is sometimes called sMctal; part of the a3Sophagus. This ^^'^^ij;^ .^.i^i^h are not under the control S transversely striated ^^^^'f'f^^^ "^^^^^^^ which are involuntarv and bniKllcs MO termed frmmh • .^^^nTmrt placed parallel to one »not,,er, thoup i Serent mrisele., and are for *<; „„dino„» attaehmenta Eacl, Sey h«yo a tendency to co„ye,ge "^"'^^ ,,„, „„„, wit,, cacl, otW,.^ ^tS^Z^^^S;:^'^'^- by a delicate connective t,s.uo derrvedMUSCULAR TISSUE 37 Fig. 44. — Transverse section from the sterno-mastoid in man. Magnified 50 times. from the perimysium and termed endomysium. This does not form the sheath of the fibres; but serves to support the blood-vessels and nerves ranufyuig between theiu The fibres are enclosed in separate and distinct sheaths of their own, but thcse'are not areolar tissue, and therefore not derived from the perimysium. A muscular fibre may be said to consist of a soft contractile substance, enclosed in a tubular sheath named by Bowman the sarcolcmma. The fibres are cyhndrical or prismatic in shape, and are of no great length, not exceeding, it is said, an inch and a half. They end either by blending with the tendon or aponeurosis, or else by rounded or tapering extremities which are connected to the neighbouring fibres by means of the sarcolemma. Their breadth varies in man from ^l,,- to of an inch. As a rule, the fibres do not divide or anastomose ; but occasionally, especially in the tongue and facial muscles, they may be seen to divide into several branches. The precise mode in which the muscular fibre joins the tendon has been variously described by different observers. It may, perhaps, be sufficient to say that the sarcolemma appears to blend mth a small bundle of fibres, into which the tendon becomes subdivided, wlule the muscular substance ter- minates abruptly and can be readily made to retract from the point of junction. The areolar tissue between the fibres appears to be prolonged more or less into the tendon, so as to form a kind of sheath around the tendon bundles for a longer or shorter distance. When muscular fibres are attached to skin or n. Epimysiiim. l>. Fasciculus. c. Perimysium, i. Fibre. Fig. 45.—^Two human mus- cular fibres. Magnified 350 times. In tlie ono, tlie bundle of librillaj (a) is torn, und tlio sarcolemma (6) is seen as an cmiity tube. Fig. 46.—Fragments of striped muscular fibres, showing a double cleavage. Magnified 300 diameters. C c" . Longitudinal cleavage. Tlie longitudinal and transverse lines are both seen. Some longitudinal lines are darkerand wider than the rest, and are not continuous from end to end. This results from partial separation of the flbrilla'. c. Fibrillaj separated fi-om one another by violence at the broken end of the fibre, and marked by transverse lines oq\ial in width to those on the fibre, c' (f represent two apiiearanccs commonly presented by the sejiaratcd single fibrillii^ (more highly magnified). At c' the borders and transverse lines arc all perfectly rectiluiear, and the included spa(!PS perfectly rectangular. At c" the borders are scallojied and the siiaccs bead-like. When most distinct and definite the librilla presents the former of these appearances. I. Transverse cleavage. The longitudinal lines arc scarcely visible, a. Incom]ileto fracture following the opposite sur- faces of a disc, which stretches across the interval, and retains the two fragments in connection. Tlio edge and surfaces of this disc are seen to be nunutely granidar, the granules corresponding in size to the thickness of the disc, and to the distance between the faint Io^^'itullinal lines. h. Another dis<; nearly detached, b'. DetjicluMl disc, more highly magnified, showing the sarcous elements. niucous niembrancs, their fibres are described by Hyde Salter as becoming continuous with those of the areolar tissue. The sarcolemma, or tubular sheath of the fibre, is a transparent, elastic, and apparently homogeneous membrane of considerable toughness, so that it sometijnes3g HISTOLOGY remains entire when the included ^-^f^^^^ll^^^^^^ granules, apparently f^^^Xxt^^'mtX fi^ by transmitted Hght, it is Upon exammation of ^^I^^^^*-^ f .^/^^ bands or stria., which pass found to be marked by alternate iig'" ,^ Tj ^^^k and transversely, or somewhat oblique y ^^^^IterLr^^^^^ They light bands ai. of nearly equal bre^lth, a^^-^* f the surface be carefully vary in breadth from about r^o to ,^ ,,,,01 i"^^ ^ junction of the dark and focussed, rows of granules will be det^cte^^^ green Srtbrough the dark light bands, and very fine longitudma hues certain bands and joimng ^^^^\^'''^'^^^f';^^^ rundngT^ between j-xo. 47.-A. Portion of a meduun-sized human muscular fibre. Magnified nearly 800 dia- rterB. Separated bundlesof fibrils,equally magnified. Fig 48.—Part of a striped mus- cular fibre of the water-beetle, prepared with absolute alcohol. Magnified 300 diameters. (Kleni and Noble Smith.) „ a Larger and i., 6, smaUer coUections. c. Still smaller. ' d?d The smallest which could be detaclied. and in them a minute networK. „„ae up of a bundle oHbri.. wMcl. h^c bee,, U^^^^^^^^^ and if the fibre be bai-de.,ed „, ''""'"'li' 46, i). Tie reticbim, »,th .Is iXXStrrSSLlCsf \ 51^^ , ,e d..ded If now a transverse section be made, the ^^^^^ or less polyhedral |r.Cld el='/o1^t —d b. become moio eomplicated /J^^J'Z Z''''^ »s » mere "'tf/'f■7' °' 'd;™, (-fig. 49. k). beoause it «»/*'i'=t,S; tie ligM bn,,d i.;to t«-o r4=n^:'NtS«o:^riurrVi ^ bei,., due to tbe b,b. be.u,39 MUSCULAR TISSUE refracted between discs of different refrangibiUty. In addition to the membrane of Krause fine clear Unes mav be made out, with a sufficiently high power, crossing the centre'of the dark band ; these are known as the hnes oj Hensen (fig. 49 h). Formerly it was supposed by Bowman that a muscular fibre was made up ot a number of quadrangular particles, which he named sarcous elements, pined together Hke so many bricks forming a column, and he came to this conclusion because he found that under the influence of certahi reagents the fibre could be broken up transversely into discs, as weU as longitudinally into fibriUse (lig. 4b b). But it is now beUeved that this cross-cleavage is purely artificial, and tliat a muscular fibre is built up of fibrillse and not of small quadrangular particles. Assuming that this is so, the minute structure of these longitudinal fibrillse, or sarcostyles, may now be considered. Perhaps there are few subjects in histology which have received more attention, and in which the appearances seen under the microscope have been more differently interpreted, than the minute anatomy of muscular fibre. Schiifer has worked out tliis subject, particularly m the wing muscles of insects, which are pecuUarly adapted for this purpose on accoimt of the large amount of interstitial sarcoplasm which separates the sarcostyles In the following description that given by Schafer will be closely followed (fig. 49). A sarcostyle may be said to be made up of successive portions, each of which is termed a sarcomere. The sarcomere is situated between two membranes oi Krause and consists of (1) a central dark part, which forms a portion of the dark band of the whole fibre, and is named a sarcous clement* This sarcous element Fig. 49.—Diagram of a sarcomere. (After Schafer.) A. In moderately extended condition, b. In a contracted condition. S.E.< H- S.E. k, h. Membranes o£ Krause. H. Line or plane o£ Hensen. S.E. Poriferous sarcous dement. really consists of two parts, superimposed one on the top of the other, and when the fibre is stretched these two parts become separated from each other at the hire of Hensen (fig. 49, a). (2) On either side of this central dark portion is a clear layer, most visible when the fibre is extended ; this is situated between the dark centre and the membrane of Krause, and when the sarcomeres arc joined together to form the sarcostyle, constitutes the Ught band of the striated musGular fibre. When the sarcostyle is extended, the clear intervals are well marked and plainly to be seen; when, on the other hand, the sarcostyle is contracted, that is to say, the muscle is in a state of contraction, these clear portions are very smaJl or they may have disappeared altogether (fig. 49, b). When the sarcostyle is stretched to its full extent, not only is the clear portion well marked, but the dark portion—the sarcous element—is separated into its two constituents along the line of Hensen. , The sarcous element does not He fi'ce in the sarcomere, for when the sarcostyle is stretched, so as to render the clear portion visible, very fine fines, which are probably septa, may be seen running through it from the sarcous element to the membrane of Krause. Schafer explains these phenomena in the following way. He considers that each sarcous element is made up of a number of longitudinal chamrels, which open into the clear part towards the membrane of Krause but are closed at the line of Hensen. When the muscular fibre is contracted the clear part of the muscular » This must not be confused with the 'sarcous element of Bowman' (see above).HISTOLOGY 40 substance is driven into these channels or tubes, and is therefore hidden from substance 'i";*^'^^^^^ . tlie sarcous element and widens and Sens the sain e e When on the otfer hand, the fibre is extended, this clear itrce is d i^i out of the tubes and collects between the farcous element IntZ^nL^a:::^ Kranse, and gives the apeara.ce of the^h^^^^^ plJmie mateil (tlie ckai- substance of tie sarcomere) recedes into tie sarcous Fio. SO—NoMtriated muscular fibre. (Frem Kirke's ' Physiology.') -1 ..,.(1 •jborteu Tie contraction oi the element, causing the ---/-^^^.^.^^^^^^^^^^ of those bodies, muscle is merely the sum total of and form a sort of rect- The capittancs of striped muscle f.^^^jT^^^ahmUy in the endomysium angular network, the branches of between the muscular fibr^^^^^^^^ veins, are found SpISnylS:. bXeeii tlic — " ^^de of termination Nerves are profusely distributed to striped muscle, is described on page 53. , 1 ] ,^ot been ascertained, The existence of lymvlmttc vesseh "J*^^ "i\"'si,eaths of the muscles, though they have been found ^'J^^ento ^^^^^^ in the following situations- Unstriped, plain, or involuntary muscle is lomia remainder of the viz. the lower half of the b Si, and the alveoli and gastro-nitestinal tube; . ^^^l ^^^^^^'^^S >m d conimon bile duct • in the infundibula of the lungs; in the g"; i„ the pelvis and calyces of large ducts of the salivary and pan"'^*^ the female sexual organs- the kidney, the "'"eter, bladder, ami mc^^hia "^u , d in preg- viz. the ovary, the Fallopian tubes, the ^'^^'"y^^ ^^^^ji, tissue of the chtons; nancy), the vagina, the broad ligaments, and the crccuiMUSCULAR TISSUE 41 Fig. 51. ■— Anastomosing mus- cular fibres of tlie heart seen in a longitudinal section. On the right the limits of the separate cells with their nuclei are exhibited somewhat dia- grammatically. in the male sexual organs—viz. the dartos oi the scrotum, the vas deferens and epididymis, the vesiculfe seminalcs, the prostate gland, and the corpora cavernosa and corpus spongiosum; in the capsule and trabecuL-e of the spleen ; in the mucous mem- branes, forming the muscularis mucosa); m the sldn, forming the arrectores pilorum, aud also in the sweat-glands; in the arteries, veins, and lymphatics ; in the iris and the ciliary muscle. Plaii: or uustriped muscle is made up of spindle- shaped cells, called contractile Jibre-cells, collected into bundles aud held together by a ccmeut sub- stance (fig. 50). These bundles are further aggre- ^ gated into larger fasciculi, or flattened bands, jf; and bound together by ordmary connective - ' - I tissue. The contractile fibre-cells are elongated, spindle- shaped, nucleated cells of various sizes, averaging ^ ^ from ah) shi oi an inch in length, aud ^r^r,Ti t - 11 \ ! to ,3^^,. of an inch in breadth. On transverse ' section they are more or less polyhedral in shape, fi-om mutual pressure. Each presents a faint , i longitudinal striation and consists of an elastic - V :^ cell-wall containing a central bundle of fibrillaj, 1 ; ''-i > representing the contractile substance, and an oval or rod-like nucleus, which includes, mthin a membrane, a fine network communicating at the ^jyikii-' ' ^ poles of the nucleus with the contractile fibres (Klein). The adhesive interstitial cement siibstance, which connects the fibre- cells together, represents the endomvsium of striped muscular tissue, while the tissue connecting the individual bmidles together represents the perimysium. Uu- striped muscle, except the ciliary muscle, is not under the control of the will, neither is the contraction rapid nor does it, as a rule, involve the whole muscle, as is the case with the voluntary muscles. The membranes which are composed of uustriped muscle slowly contract in a part of their extent, generally under the influence of a mechanical stimulus, as that of distension or of cold; and then the contracted part slowly relaxes while another portion of the membrane takes up the contraction. This pecuharity of action is most strongly marked iii the intestines, constituting their vermicular motion. Cardiac muscular tissue.—The fibres of the heart difl'er very remarkably from those of other striped nuiscles. 'i'hey are smaller by one-third, and their transverse strife are by no means so well marked. The fibres are made up of distinct quadrangular cells joined end to end* (fig. 51). Each cell con- tains a clear oval nucleus, situated near the centre of the cell. The extre- mities of the cells have a tendency to branch or divide, the subdivisions uniting with offsets from other cells, aud thus producing an anastomosis of the fibres. The connective tissue between Fio. 52.—Purkinje tibres from the sheep's heart. * The junctions between the cells arc only occasionally seen, and some hislologists maintain that they are only artefacts.HISTOLOGY the bmxdles of fibres is much less than in ordinary striped muscle, and no sarcolemma has been proved to exist. ,and the ordinary cardiac ^XnbeSSfSesps?::^^ of the moderator band and also appear a^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^ walls of the auricles and ventucles ^"^^^".^'^^The fibres are very much larger also occur in the human heart O^jl^'^^^^ In longitudinal in size than the cardiac cells and differ f^-^!^ f'^ee as long as they are section they are quadrdateral "l,^^.^^^^^^^ broad. The central portion of each ^ c°nteins one peripheral up of granular protoplasm, with no "^^^^^^^^^^f, PJ,'", The fibres are intimately pLtion is clear^nd has distinct t^^^^^^™ f^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ not branch.* connected xvith each «tlif, po^^ess no de^^^^^^ developed from Development of muscle fibres.-Volunterj musc^^^^^^^ multiphcation of the mesoderm, the embryonic cells of ^J^^^J^^^^^^^^ obvious at the side nuclei, and eventually become tnated th^^^^^^^^ .Jtimately extends to the of the fibres, spreads around the ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ pass out to assume their form. NERVOUS TISSUE gangha connected with them. A. Cell with braucUctl processes. „. spider cell with unbranched processes. • ^Ur ho composed of nerve-cells The nervous tissues are f^^^^^V^^'lTth ^f s n^^or^^^^^^ tissi.c called ncr.roglia, and their various P^'occsses, together w tl^^a ^^P^^ Certain long pro- which, however, is found only .^'^•^^^^^tai cc, and it is convement to consider cesses of the nerve-cclLs are of «P^';f ,"Xras nen;c-A6re«. them apart from the cells ; they are Kno n , ^^^^^ ^^^^^^ ^^^^^ * In the human heart the P^mitive tnu-Je t-s«e P (Gibson: British Medical JourvaU 1009).43 NERVOUS TISSUE To the naked eye a difEerence is obvious between certain portions of tlie brain uul spinal cord, viz. the grey matter and the while matter. The grey matter is Ym. 54.—^Various forms of nerve-cells. A. Pyramidal cell. U. Small multipolar cell, in which the axon quickly divides into numerous branches, c. Small fusiform cell. D and E. Qanglion cells (B shows T-shaped division of axon), ax. Axon, c Capsule. largely composed of nerve-cells, while the white matter contains only their long processes, the nerve-fibres. It is in the former that nervous impressions and Fig. 55.—Bipolar nerve-cell from the spinal ganglion of the pike. (After Kolliker.) Axon Sheath of cell both) Nucleus ■iK'^o;^>5*i^*^ Cell protoplasm impulses originate, and by the latter that they are conducted. Hence the grey matter forms the essential con- stituent of all the ganglionic centres, both those in the isolated ganglia and those aggregated in the brain and spinal cord ; while the white matter is foimd in the commissural portions of the nerve-centres and in the peripheral nerves. Neuroglia, the pecuUar gromid substance in which are embedded the true nervous constituents of the brain Fig. 5G.—Motor nerve-cell from ventral horn of spinal cord of rabbit. (After Nissl.) The angular and spindle-shaped Nissl bodies are well shown. -Axon -Myelin sheath 'Axon Nucleolus and spinal cord, consists of fibres and cells. Some of the cells are stellate in shape, and their fine processes become neurogUa-fibres, which extend radially and44 HISTOLOGY 57._Pyramidal cell from the cere- bral cortex of a mouse. (After Ramon y Cajal.) unbranched (fig. 53, b) among the nerve cells and fibi-es ^^.^^^.^^y^^J^^^^^PP^Ss Other cells give ofE fibres which branch repeated y (fig. 53, a), ^""f °j .^'^^'^ st ub f?om the epithehal cells huing the ventricles ol the brain and c«nUaU^^^^^ of tL spinal corl and pass through the nervous t^-"^' ^--^J.^^ -^^^ rz^t^t^e^^tt^^sssM^ in ori-in, whereas all connective tissues are mesodermal. latter are found cliiefly upon the spinal and cranial nerve-roots and in con- nection with the sympathetic nerves. The nerve-cells vary in shape and size, and have one or more processes They may be divided for purposes of description into three groups, accord- in'y to the number of processes which they possess: (1) Unipolar cells, which are found in the spinal ganglia ; the single process, after a short coui^?, divides in a T-shaped manner. (2) iii- nolar ceUs, also found in the spinal gangha (fig. 55), when the cells are in YiQ 58.—Cell of Pm-kinje from the cere- bellum of a cat. (After Ramon y Cajal.) ' AX07l anembryoniccondition. Theyaro cells of a frog. Sometimes the P^^. f^X in other cells they both emerge cell, and the cell then assumes a spnidU- shape m apparently connected at ko same point. In some cases ^^^f-^^J^ nerve-cell and is with a cell, one of the fibres is '•^^^y/X^anS-cell, or, agahi. it may be cmled passing to end in a ramification '^''"Xth kfrom the cell. (3) Multipolar .spirally round the nerve process ^^.^"''j^^^'/^'^eharactcrised by their large size cells, which are caudate or stellate "V^^'^f ; "^.f The processes are of two and by the tail-like processes wluch '^'^^ ^r asot because it becomes kinds • one of them is termed the axis-cylinder froccss uNERVOUS TISSUE 45 the axis-cylinder of a nerve-fibre (figs. 56, 57, 58). The others are termed the protovlasmic processes or dendrons ; they begin to divide and subdivide as soon as they emerge from the cell, and finally end in minute twigs and become lost among the other elements of the nervous tissue. Each nerve-cell consists of a fuiely fibrillated protoplasmic material, of a reddish or yellowish-brown colour, which occasionally presents patches of a deeper tint, caused by the aggregation of pigment-granules at one side of the nucleus, as in the substantia nigra and locus cceruleus of the brain. The protoplasm also contains pecuhar angular granules, which stain deeply with basic dyes, such as methylene blue ; these are known as NissFs granules (fig. 56). They extend into the dendritic processes but not into the axis cylinder; the small clear area at the point of exit of the axon is termed the cone of origin. These granules disappear {chromalolysis) during fatigue or after prolonged stimulation of the nerve-fibres connected with the cells. They are supposed to represent a store of nervous energy, and in various mental diseases are deficient or absent. The nucleus is, as a rule, a large, well-defined, round, vesicular body, often presenting an intra- nuclear network, and containing a nucleolus which is peculiarly clear and brilliant. Nerve-fibres are found universally in the peripheral nerves, and in the white substance of the brain and spinal cord. They are of two kinds—viz. meduUated or ivhile fibres, and non-medullaled or (jrey fibres. Fig. 59.—Medullated nerve-fibres stained with silver nitrate. Node of JRanvier I' ,V Mi ill: Frolmiann's lines The medullated fibres form the wliite part of the brain and spinal cord, and also the greater part of every cerebro-spinal nerve, and give to these structures their opaque, white aspect. When perfectly fresh they appear to be homogeneous ; but soon after removal from the body each fibre presents, when examined by trans- mitted Ught, a double outline or contour, as if consisting of two parts (fig. 59). The central portion is named the axis cylinder of Purkinje ; around this is a sheath of fatty material, staining black with osmic acid, named the white sub- stance of Schvann or medullary sheath, which gives to the fibre its double contour, and the whole is enclosed in a delicate membrane, the neurilemma, primitive sheath, or nucleated sheath of Schwann (fig. 59). The axis cylindrr is the essential part of the nerve-fibre, and is always present; the medullary sheath and the neuiilenima arc occasionally absent, especially at the origin and termination of the nerve-fibre. It undergoes no interruption from its origin in the nerve-centre to its peripheral termination, and must be regarded as a direct prolongation of a nerve-cell. It constitutes about one-half or one- third of the nerve-fibre, being greater in proportion in the fibres of the central organs than in those of the nerves. It is quite transparent, and is therefore indistinguishable in a perfectly fresli and natural state of the nerve. It is made up of exceedingly fine fibrils, which stain darkly with gold chloride (fig. 60), and at its termination may be seen to break up into these fibrillaj. The fibrillas have,„ HISTOLOGY 4G Uee„ termed the ,n»««/Wfc;'X'?^^^^^^ to be enveloped m . special, f»™f.L^^^^ nmroheratin. The medulkry sUeatl,, ■'""Xtt^L^ o "S lum i, contained in the white rtLr7S:!;;ra.;rJ;Vre ittbeheved to be ptod„e.d by the ac..o„ o. tlio reagents employed to show it. (fig. 60) is regarded as being a ^\.^vMary ^J'^f^'lf^^^^f^^^^ ke essential part of the fatty matter in a A^^d f ate ^^^^l^'^SLt^sorn. forming a layer of extreme nerve-the axis cyhnder. It ^ aries in ^^^"^^^^^^ be scarcely distinguish- TTiG 60—Longitudinal section through a nerve-fibri from the sciatic nerve of a frog Davidoff.) tmnness, so as ^^^^-^—j - ^ able, in others forming about one-half the nerve-fibrc. The variation in diameter of the nerve-fibres (from x^^ts «> ^wtso^oi an inch) depends mainly upon the amount of the white substance, though the axis cyhnder also varies ^athin certain Umits. The medullary sheath does not always form a continuous sheath to the axis cyhnder, but uiidei- goes interruptions in its continuity at Regular intervals, giving to the fibre the appearance of constriction at these pdnts. These were first described by Sanvier and are kno\vii as the nodes of IS (fig. 61). The portion o nerv- fibre between two nodes is called an Zernodal segment. The "em^kmrna o priimtive sheath is not "^^^Fn as a Le nodes, but passes over them as a continuous membrane In addition to these interruptions obhque clef s may be seen in the medullary sheath, sub dividin. it into irregular portions, which a.e t^d ^^:S:':i:iSSl^ oPuniermann (fig. 60). There is reason to beheve t^^^^^^^^ .erve-fibres, when produced in the preparation f^^^^'^'^'^^ll^^^^ appearance: this is due to Lamined, frequently present ^\«^^,^ed o v« .^^^^ ^ manipulation and pressure causing the o^lj^^^^^^^ even shght pressure consequence of the -^^^^^^^^^1^21^^^^^^^ 830. (After Bohm and Fibrils of axis cijlindcr Neurilemma Segment of Lantermann Fig A r.f Pnnvier of a medullated nerve- I the node, ^vhereas he axis cyimae i ^^^^ "one segment mto the othen M X ^^^^^^ neurilemma appears thickened. ^Jvien Smith.) 'The neurilemma, or primi live sheath presents the appearance of a dehcate, structureless membrane. Here and there beneath it, and situated in depressions in the white matter ot Schwann, are nuclei sur- rounded by a smal amount of protoplasm. The nuclei ^ Stener'andtatTdSite telation - *y>ode, o. B-^V ^thf S i,i the brain and spmal cord. ^^^^^^^ tj^e fihres deeenerate as far as tuc nrst , 'pi^o axons break up nno na^^ become surronndcil bv _dro|™ o.^^}|^^ ITK of regenerati end]of the nerve. fibres degenerate multaneously throug.im.. ^.^-eh are forraea irom uu- ■"^■•r"T,,;\,i,sori.tion47 NERVOUS TISSUE Fig. 62.—A small ner- vous branch from the sympathetic of a mam- mal. oridn but this has been experimentally proved by Halliburton and Mott not to be the case,. °he proliferated nuclei in tlie peripheral portions taking part merely m the formation of the so-called scaffolding along which the new axons pass. Non-medullaled Jibres.-Uost of the fibres of the sympathetic system, and some of the cerebro-spinal, consist of the grey or gelatinous nerve-fibres—/iftrcs 0/ Remak 62). Each of these consists of a central core or axis cyhiider enclosed in a nucleated sheatli which tends to spUt into fibrillse, and is probably of the nature of neurokeratin. In external appearance the non-medullated ncrve-hbrcs are semi-transparent and grey or yellowish-grey. The individual fibres vary in size, generally averaging about half the size of the meduUatM hbres. Development of nerve cells and fibres.—The nerve-cells are developed fi-om certain of the cells which hne the neural canal or form the neural crest of the embryo (see section on Embryology). Some of these cells assume a rounded form and are termed neuroblasts, and from each neuroblast there grows out a process, the axis-cylinder process or axon, and subsequently the branchmg processes or deudrons. The axis cylinders, at first naked, acquire then: inedullary sheaths, possibly by some metamorphosis of their outer layers. The neurilemma is thought to be derived from mesodermal cells which become flattened and wrapped round the fibre, the cement substance at their apposed ends forming the material which stains with silver nitrate at the nodes of Eanvier. Nerve-cells in the sympathetic and peripheral ganglia take their origin from small collections of neuroblasts, which are split off from the rudimentary spinal gangUa. Cells which are, originally, similar to neuroblasts seem to give rise to neurogUa cells, numerous processes sprouting from the cell to form the neuroghal fibres. The nervous structures are divided into two great systems — viz. the central, comprising the brain and spinal cord ; and the peripheral, consisting of the nerves connected with them. All these structures require separate consideration; they are composed of the two kinds of nervous tissue above described, intermingled in various proportions, and having, in some parts, a very intricate arrangement. The brain and spinal cord form the central system. In the brain the grey nervous matter is found on the surface, forming the convolutions of the cerebrum, and the lamina) of the cerebellum; in the interior it is collected into large and distinct masses or gangU- omc bodies, such as the corpus striatum, thalamus, and corpora quadrigemina; or is intermingled inti- mately with the white as in the pons Varolii and the floor of the fourth ventricle. In the spinal cord the grey matter is accumulated in the centre and the white matter on the periphery. The special arrangement and distribution of the grey and white matter m the central nervous system arc described with the anatomy of the nervous system. The nerves are round or flattened cords, formed of the nerve-fibres already described. They are connected at one end with the central nervous system or with the ganglia, and are distributed at the other end to the various textures of the body ; they are subdivided into two great classes—the cerebrospinal nerves, which proceed directly from the brain and spinal cord, and the sympathetic nerves, which proceed from the ganglia of the sympathetic. The cerebro-spinal nerves consist of numerous nerve-fibres collected together and enclosed in membranous sheaths (fig. 63). A small bundle of fibres, enclosed in a tubular sheath, is called 11 funiculus ; if the nerve is of small size, it may consist only of a single funiculus ; but if large, the funiculi are collected together into larger bundles or fasciculi, which are bound together in a common membranous investment. In structure, the common membranous investment, or sheath of the whole nerve {epineurium), as well as the septa given off from it, to separate the fascicuU, a. Two meduUatcd nerve-libres among a number of grey nerve- fibres, b.HISTOLOGY existing in great abiuidance. The ^ubulai saeatn o sepaxatcd, in the is a fine, --o^h transparex^t mem^^^^^^^^ SnLteTt fs Tade up'ol con- form of a tube, irom the fibres i*^,"^'^,^^^^^^^^^^^ The nerve-fibres are nective tissue, .'hich 'jf ^^-^^^[^^^^^^^^^^ connective tissue, held together and supported wit'^i\.*'^f^,;'""J^], ^^S.^ which pass inwards from called the endoneuriun^^^ It is shows a ground substance in which the innermost layer ^^f'J^^'^^'^^^ZtTtiss^ which run for the most part are imbedded fine bundles of ^i'^^'^^^,which are arranged so as to longitudinally It. serves ° JP^^^ ^P^Scerl^^^^^^^^ nerves coList almost the vessels composing which pierce the P^^^-^^^^lj^^^^^l, the fibres; they are 63 _Transverso section through a micro- Lpic nerve, representing a compound nerve- buncUe, surrounded by permem-ium. Magm- fied 120 diameters. . , The medullated fibres are seen as circles mth a central dot, viz. 'medullary sheath and^^^^^ cvlinder, in transverse section, ihey aie im bedded n endonemlmn, containing numerous Sli, which belong to the connective^^^^^^ cells of the latter. (Klem and Noble bmitli.) parallel witu. ^^-^ ^^.^^ , —j connected together by short, trans- verse vessels, forming narrow, oblong meshes, similar to the capil- lary system of muscle. Fine uon- mediiUated nerve-fibres, va^o-motor fibres, accompany these capillary vessels, and break up into ele- mentary fibrils, which form a net- work around the vessels. Horslev has demonstrated certain meduUated fibres running in the epmeurium and terminating in small spheroidal tactile corpuscles or end-bulbs oi Krause. These nerve-fibres, which Marshall behevesto be sensory, and which he has termed 7iervi nervorum, are considered by him to have an important bearing upon certain uem-algic pains. . The nerve-fibres, as far as is at present known, do not coalesce, but pursue an iminterrupted course from the centre to the periphery. In separating a nerve, however, into its component fumcuh, it may be seen that these do not pursue a perfectlv insulated course, but occasionally join at a very acute angle N^th other fumcuh proceeding in the same direction ; from this, branches are gi^*^!^ X" s =rbe^t^^| understood, however, that in tl^-—f ^ t^S^^^^^ municate with branches of a •^^(jWl^Xi S^^^^ a Pl^^"« ? thus take place form what is «f «^ the primary branches of the trunks "f^^^^^ ^''tLn^ -^^^^^-^ i„ the plexuses and sacral plexuses-and ^^iZu^ion of a plexus, the oomponen formed at the periphery of the '^o^>'-),"^V ■ ^^^^i, „ complex manner that the iiervc-bumile.49 NERVOUS TISSUE body there is a free interchange of the funiculi and primitive fibres. In each case, however, the individual fibres remain separate and distinct. It is probable that through this interchange of fibres, every branch passing oft" from a plexus has a more extensive connection with the spinal cord than if it had proceeded to its distribution without forming connections with other nerves. Con- sequently the parts suppUed by these nerves have more extended relations with the nervous centres ; by this means, also, groups of muscles may be associated for combined action. The sympathetic nerves are constructed in the same manner as the cerebro- spinal nerves, but consist mainly of non-medullated fibres, collected in funiculi and enclosed in sheaths of connective tissue. There is, however, in these nerves a certain admixture of medullated fibres, and the amount varies in different nerves, and may be known by their colour. Those branches of the sympathetic which present a well-marked grey colour are composed chiefly of non-medullatcd nerve- fibres, intermixed with a few medullated fibres ; while those of a white colour contain many of the latter fibres, and few of the former. The cerebro-spinal and sympathetic nerve-fibres convey various impressions. The sensory nerves, called also centripetal or afferent nerves, transmit to the nervous centres impressions made upon the peripheral extremities of the nerves, and in this way the mind, through the medium of the brain, becomes conscious of external objects. The centrifugal or efferent nerves transmit impressions from the nervous centres to the parts to which the nerves are distributed, these impressions either exciting muscular contraction, or influencing the processes of nutrition, growth, and secretion. Origins and terminations of nerves.—By the expression ' the terminations of nerve-fibres' is signified their connections with the nerve-centres, and with the parts they supply. The former are sometimes called their origins, or central terminations ; the latter their perifheral terminations. Origins of nerves.—The origin in some cases is single—that is to say, the whole nerve emerges from the nervous centre by a single root; in other instances the nerve arises by two or more roots which come off from different parts of the nerve-centre, sometimes widely apart from each other, and it often happens, when a nerve arises in this way by two roots, that the functioiis of these two roots are different; as, for example, in the spinal nerves, each of which arises by two roots, the anterior of which is motor, and the posterior sensory. The point where the nerve root or roots emerge from the surface of the nervous centre is named the superficial or apparent origin, but the fibres of the nerve can be traced for a certain distance into the substance of the nervous centre to some portion of the grey matter, which constitutes the deep or real origin of the nerve. The centrifugal or efferent nerve-fibres originate in the nerve-cells of the grey substance, the axis-cylinder processes of these cells being prolonged to form the fibres. In the case of the centripetal or afferent nerves the fibres grow inwards either from nerve-cells in the organs of special sense (e.g. the retina) or from nerve-cells in the ganglia. Having entered the nerve-centre they branch and send their ultimate twigs among the cells, without, however, uniting with them. Peripheral terminations of nerves. — Nerve-fibres terminate peripherally in various ways, and these may be conveniently studied in the sensory and motor nerves respectively. Sensory nerves would appear to terminate cither in minute primitive fibrillar or networks of these ; or else in special terminal organs, which have been named peripheral end-organs, and of which there are several principal varieties, viz. the end-bulbs of Krause, the tactile corpuscles of Wagner, the Pacinian corpuscles, and the ncuro-tendinous and neuro-muscular spindles. Termination in fhrillcB. — When a medullated nerve-fibre approaches its termination, the white matter of Schwann suddenly disappears, leaving only the axis cylinder surrounded by the neurilemma. After a time the fibre loses its neurilemma, and consists only of an axis cylinder, which can be seen, in prepara- tions stained with chloride of gold, to be made up of fine varicose fibrils. Finally, the axis cylinder breaks up iiito its constituent primitive nerve-fibrilko, which often present regular varicosities and anastomose with one another, thus forming a network. This network is always distributed to epithelial tissue, the nerve-fibrils lying in the interstitial substance between the epithelial cells, and there ter- minating, though some observers maintain that the actual terminations areFig. 64.—End-bulb of Krause. Histology.') HISTOLOGY the cornea. > minute cylindrical or oval bodies, con- siBting oE a capsule formed ^7 tbe ^^^^'^^^^^ ,,,e in wliieli the axis cylmder nieduUated fibre, and ^Oi^^''^"^"^^, t'f^V^r hi a ^ plexiform mass. End- terminates either as a bulbous ^^^^'^^^^^^ :^;";„'^;;a^^^^ conjunctiva of the eye, where they are spheroidal in shape in mau biit cylindrical in most other animals, in the mueoL membrane of the hps and tongue, aud hi the epineurium of nerve-trunks. They are also found in the genital organs o both sexes the penis in the male and the chtons m the female ; in these situations they have a mul- berry-Hke appearance, from being constncted by connective tissue septa mto from two to six knob-hke masses, and have received the name of genital corfuschs. Very similar cor- puSles are found in the epineurium of nerve- trSiks. In the synovial membranes of certain Ss (e.g. those of the fingers) rounded or ival end-bulbs have been found; these are designated articular end-bulbs. Tactile corpuscles have been described by Grandry as occurring in the papiUse of the Histology.. beTand tongue of birds and by Merkel a« occurring in the papiU. and epithehu^ of the sM^^^^^ in those parts of the skin devoid of ^l^^^"' '^o or more granular, some- S I very'delicate nudeated ^^^^^^^^ ^^^.,,.,b/e, which enters what flattened cells ; between these ^^^^ . ^ posed to end. S^Sir^op^dta^ and imperfect membranous septa derived fmm this penetrate the lnterl0l^ The ax? cXder of the medullated fibre nasses through the capsule, and having Sred the corpuscle terminates m a mS globular o? pyxiform -;^argeme-^ near the inner surface of the capsuie. These tactile corpuscles ^ave been de^ scribed as occurring m the P^P^^ °J corium of the hand and n alUlie papilla ; but from t^eir exis - ",ce in thSse'parts in wliich the sk n is highly sensitive, it is probable that they are specially concerned in the sense ot Such though their absence from the of other tactile parts shows that thev are not essential to this sense. ucrve-ending m Pnffini has described a special V'Uiety o ^^^^^j with the subcutaneous tissue , tl^^Y Z'^'., nervc-fibrcs divide .into "nnective tissue sheaths, ms,^e f free knobs. They resemble the branches, which show varicosities and ena organs of Golgi. A. Side view or '^V^^f^^^^^^^^'^^'^.^t'^l'^^ b. Tactile conniBCle, «Ucmma. d. Us two nerve of the painlla, ''S^ round tlie nervou-s fibres ^ ,in^,ion of one of teotilc corpuscle. P''™^^^^ from above so these fibres. D. A t-'x^f 1'*' ' „ „. cortical layer. „B toshow it«tran.jH=j^e^ecUo>K^ ^^,^uc^^^o body. t;i,S'S:;S^"^;..C..i:rlM«^orsub.tance. the sub- known asNERVOUS TISSUE 51 The Pacinian corpuscles^ (fig. 67) are found in the human subject lying chiefly in the subcutaneous tissue on the nei-ves of the palm of the hand and Fig. 66.—Nerve-euding of Ruflini. (After A. Ruffini, ' Ai-ch. ital. de Biol.,' Tuiin, t. xxi. 1894.) Neroe-Jihres \ Connective tissue sheath Fig. 67.—Pacinian corpuscle, with its system of capsules and central cavit}'. sole of the foot and in the genital organs of both sexes; but they have also been described as connected with the nerves of the joints, and in some other situations, as in the mesentery of the cat and along the tibia of the rabbit. Each of these corpuscles is attached to and encloses the termination of a single nerve-fibre. The corpuscle, which is perfectly visible to the naked eye (and which can be most easily demonstrated in the mesentery of a cat), consists of a number of lamellfe or capsules arranged more or less concentrically around a central clear space, in which the nerve-fibre is contained. Each lamella is composed of bundles of fine con- nective tissue fibres, and is Uned on its inner surface by a single layer of flattened epi- thelioid cells. The central clear space, which is elongated or cyUndrical in shape, is filled with a transparent material, in the middle of which is the single medullated fibre, which traverses the space to near its distal ex- tremity. Here it terminates in a rounded knob or end, sometimes bifurcating pre- viously, in which case each branch has a similar arrangement. Todd and Bowman have described minute arteries as entering by the sides of the nerves and forming capillary loops in the intercapsular spaces, and even penetrating into the central space. Other authors describe the artery as enter- ing the corpuscle at the pole opposite to the nerve-fibre. Herbst has described a nerve-ending somewhat similar to the Paciidan corpuscle, as being found in the mucous membrane of the tongue of the duck, and in some other situations. It differs, however, from the Pacinian corpuscle, in being smaller, its capsule thinner and more closely approxi- mated, and especially in the fact that the axis cylinder in the central clear space is coated with a continuous row of nuclei These bodies are known as the corpuscles of Herbst. :\j-teri(il twig, ending in ciipillariuH, wliiuli form loops in some of tlie inten:iiiisnlur spurts, iinil one penctrjitcii to tiie central oapsulo. h. Tlie llbrons tissue of tlio stnllj proloni,'Ctl from tlie ncnrilonnna. v. Nerve-tube lulvivncins to the central capsule, there iosin-^ its white matter, and stretching along tlio axis to the op|>osltc end, where it is fixed by a tubcrculatcd enlnrge- niont. * Often called in German anatomical works ' corpuscles of Vater.' E 2HISTOLOGY 52 Neuro-lendvnous spindlcs.-Th. uerves supplying ^ave ^ cations of the tevnial fibres, -P-^^^ 1^00,^ oSgcd^td 'ti;: tendon is becoming muscular. Tlie tendon ^^^"^^^^ ^^'^f fascicuU of uerve-fibres-one, two or ^^'^ '^''^'^I^'TI^^^^^^^^ discs or ;=rdnerveibres itiskn^^^^ ,,,,, ,,,, ... e8._0rgan of Oolgi (-o-tej^^^^^^^^^ fro. t.e .u.an tendo ACilHs. Nervc-fibrc Tendon bundles Organ of Oolgi, showmg ramifiMtion of nerve-fibrils Muscular fibres fibres (intrafusal fibres), embryonic in typ. in^ted nerve-fibres, experimentally f ^^J^ Tto l of an inch and have a distmctly neuro-muscular spmdlesvary i^^^^;;?^^^^^^^^^^ passing to tlie end-organ fusiform appearance. The ^^"^^^^^T^ t^Zing the fibrous capsule, they diNnde are from one to three or four m 'X^^^^^ ultimately end in naked axis several times, and, losing t^^^^" ^S^flattened xpausions or irregd SmlTSSffig'etrtet"^^ ^av^« ^^^^^ in the tongue or eye muscles. ,„ *c organB.ol »P«Wf"^/t ™SS rte'tJfc ol\»,«.r, „",\"k cylinder, Lived from e"""^'"';- i^* Jucrvc-c*. Tl,cy w,ll be "ll, mu,t t.l,o,e(ore b« ™f'-If "to organs d .fecial .ense. more particularly described m tiro chapter on w53 NERVOUS TISSUE Motor nerves can be traced into either unstriped or striped muscular fibres. In tlie unstriped or involuntary muscles the nerves are derived from the sym- pathetic, and are composed mainly of the non-meduUated fibres. Near their terminations they divide into numerous branches, which communicate and form intimate plexuses. At the junctions of the branches small-triangular nuclear bodies (gaugUon-cells) are situated. From these plexuses minute branches are given off, which divide and break up into the ultimate fibrillas of which the nerves are composed. These fibrillie course between the involuntary muscle-cells, and, according to Ehscher, terminate on the surfaces of the cells, opposite the nuclei, in minute swellings. Arnold and Frankenhauser beheved that these ultimate fibrillse penetrated the muscular cells, and ended in the nuclei. More recent observation has, however, tended to disprove this. In the striped or voluntary muscle, the nerves supplying the muscular fibres are derived from the cerebro-spinal nerves, and are composed mainly of medullated fibres. The nerve, after entering the sheath of the muscle, breaks up into fibres, or bundles of fibres, which form plexuses, and gradually divide until, as a rule, a single nerve-fibre enters a single muscular fibre. Sometimes, however, if the muscular fibre be long, more than one nerve-fibre enters it. Within the muscular fibre the nerve terminates in a special expansion, called by Kiihne, who first accurately described it, a motor end-plate (fig. 70).* The nerve-fibre, on approaching Fig. 70.—Muscular fibres of Laceria viridis with the terminations of nerves. a. Seen in profile, r P. Tlio nerve end-platos. S S. The base ot the plate, consisting of a granular mass witli nuclei. ' b. The same as seen in looking at a perfectly fresh fibre, the nervoiLS ends beinc; iprobably still excitable. (The forms of the variously divided plato can hardly be reiiresented in a woodcut by s\illicient.ly delicate and pale contours to reproduce correctly what is seen in nature.) c. The same as seen two hoius after death from poisoning by ciurare. the muscular fibre, suddenly loses its medullary sheath, the neurilemma becomes continuous with the sarcolemma of the muscle, and only the axis cyhnder enters the muscular fibre. There it at once spreads out, ramifying like the roots of a tree, immediately beneath the sarcolemma, and becomes imbedded in a layer of granular matter, containing a number of clear, oblong nuclei, the whole constituting an end-plate from which the contractile wave of the muscidar fibre is said to start. Ganglia are small aggregations of nerve-cells. They are found on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves ; on the posterior or sensory root of the fifth cranial nerve; on the facial and auditory nerves ; on the glosso-pharyngeal and pnoumo- gastric nerves. They are also found in a connected series along cither side of the vertebral column, forming the trunk of the sympathetic ; and on the branches of sympathetic nerves, generally in the plexuses or at the points of jimction of two or more nerves with each other or with branches of the cerebro-spinal system. On section they are seen to consist of a reddish-grey substance, traversed by numerous white nerve-fibres ; they vary considerably in form and size ; the largest are found in the cavity of the abdomen ; the smallest, not visible to the naked eye, exist in considerable numbers upon the nerves distributed to the different viscera. * 'I'liey had, however, previously been noticed, thoiifi;h not acciiratLly desci ibcd, by Doydrc, who named thera ' nerve-hillocks.'HISTOLOGY „. . .y»pathe«c g.ng„o„. jt'-^f^ cell is connected. The nerve- cells in tlie ganglia of tlie spmal nerves are pyriforni in shape, and have only single processes. A short distance from the cell and while still Avithin the gan- ghon this process di^'ides in a T-shaped manner, one limb of the cross-bar turning into the spinal cord, the other Hmb passing outwards to the periphery. In the sympathetic gangha (fig. i l) the .nerve-cells are multipolar and each has one axis-cyhnder process and several dendrons; the axon emerges from the gan- glion as a non-medullated nerve- fibre. Similar cells are found in Fia. 72.-Longitudinal section of a part of a posterior root ganglion. Nervc-fibrcs Capsule; were anatomically in contimuty ^ ^tCt e-ieh nerve-ccll and ita pi-ocesse.s (neuron) was Ihis view, and fonnulated ^.^^Vunt'^n] ttrnt cSnuity of the procesBCS of one neuron an independent morphological unit, ana niatNERVOUS TISSUE 55 with those of nnotlier neuron existed, aitliougli the close relationship of these jirocesses permitted pliysiologieal functional continuity. With improved methods of staunng and impregnation of nerve-cells and theii- processes, the neuron theory has gamed ground and is now accepted by the majority of anatomists. On the other hand, it is maintained by Bethe, Apathy and others that the nervous system is made up of a network of nem-o- fibrillsc which is continuous throughout the whole nervous system, is not confined to the neurons, and can give rise to new axons independent of nerve-cells. THE VASCULAR SYSTEM Fig. 73.—Transverse section through a small artery and vein of the mucous membrane of the epiglottis of a child. Magnified about 350 cUameters. (Klein and Noble Smith.) The Vascular system, exclusive of its central organ the heart, is divided into four classes of vessels: the arteries, capillaries, veins, and lymphatics. The minute structure of these vessels will be briefly described here, tlie reader being referred to the body of the work for the details of their ordinary anatomy. Structure of arteries (fig. 73).—The arteries are composed of three coats: internal or endothelial coat {tunica intima of Kolliker) ; middle muscular coat {tunica media) ; and external connective tissue coat {tunica adventitia). The two inner coats together are very easily separated from the external, as by the ordinary operation of tying a ligature round an artery. If a fine string be tied forcibly upon an artery and then taken oS, the external coat will be found undivided, but the two inner coats are divided in the track of the hgature and can easily be further dissected from the outer coat. The inner coat {tunica intima) can be separated from the middle by a little maceration, or it may be stripped ofi in small pieces ; but, on account of its friability, it cannot be separated as a complete membrane. It is a fine, trans- parent, colourless structure which is highly elastic, and is commonly corrugated into longitudinal winkles. The inner coat consists of: (1) A layer of pavement endotheUum, the cells of which are poly- gonal, oval, or fusiform, and have very distinct round or oval nuclei. This endo- theUum is brought into view most dis- tinctly by staining with nitrate of silver. (2) A sub-endothehal layer, consisting of deUcate connective tissue with branched cells lying in the interspaces of the tissue ; in arteries of less than a twelfth of an inch in diameter the sub-endothelial layer consists of a single stratum of stellate cells, and the connective tissue is only largely developed in vessels of a consider- able size. (3) An elastic or fenestrated layer, which consists of a membrane con- taining a network of elastic fibres, having principally a longitudinal direction, and in which, under the microscope, small elongated apertures or perforations may be seen, giving it a fenestrated appear- ance. It was therefore called by Henle the fenestrated membrane. This membrane forms the chief thickness of the inner coat, and can be separated into several hiycrs, some of which present the appearance of a network of longitudinal elastic fibres, and others present a more membranous character, marked by pale hues having a longitudinal direction. The fenestrated membrane in microscopic arteries is a very thin layer ; but in the larger arteries, and especially in the aorta, it has a very considerable thickness. A. Artery, showing the nucleated cntlothelium, e, wliidi lines it: the vessel being contracted, the cndothclinl cells appear very tliick. Underneath the eiidothclinni is the wavy clastic Ultima. The chief part of the wall of the vessel is occupied by the circular muscle- coat in : the stall-shaped nuclei of the muscle-cells are well seen. Outside this L-s a, part of the adven- titia. This is composed of bundles of connective tissue fibres, shown in section, with the nuclei of the connective tissue corpuscles. The adventitia f;radu- ally merges into the simounding connective tissue. V. Vem showing a thin endothelial membrane, e, raised accidentally from the intima, which on account of its delicacy is seen as a mere lino on the media m. This latter is composed of a few circular unstriped muscle-cells, o. The adventitln, similar in struc- ture to that of an artery.56 HISTOLOGY jTic;. 74._Longitudinal section of artery and vein. Tlic middle coat {tunica media) is distinguished from the inner by its colour of the -'tery --^^^^^ &s unit; Toform lamellAhich alternate with the rod-shaped nuclei, which are often shghtly curved^ The exfernai coat {tunica adventitia) consists ^^"^1^ °V fiKvP« ^^a^^^^^ bundt of white coni.ective tissue, but also contams -^f^^--^/.^ elastic tissue is much more abundant next the tunica media, and it is sometimes described as forming here, between the adventitia and media, a special layer, the tunica elastica externa of Henle. This layer is most marked in arteries of medium size. In the largest vessels the external coat is relatively thiu ; but in small arteries it is of greater proportionate thickness. In the smaller arteries it consists of a single layer of white con- nective tissue and elastic fibres ; while in the smallest arteries, just above the capillaries, the elastic fibres are wanting, and the con- nective tissue of which the coat is composed becomes more nearly homogeneous the nearer it approaches the capillaries, and is gradually reduced to a thin - ^ Some'arteries have extrenu.ly thin ^jf/P^^jS^^a^^^u.! and vertebral especially the case in those f^t^ exten al and middle coats, canal, the difference depending on the ^hiuM^s ot f^e ^x^^ - i„ thm The arteries, in their distribution tlnongho t tte l3oaj ^^^^^^^^ fibro-arcolar investments, which form their sheaths. a. An artery from tbe mesentery of ■^.«';;'^,;S'3?S'\iLf'l'Tunica diameter, treated ^vitl. acet^ aad m.g.«Aed 3oO t™^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^ adventitia, with elongated nude . P- ^'^^^ ° ,tly apparent in ir^^Tectir'";rciStf'«^Uei;S celis.^ a. Eiastio .ongi- tiidinal fibrous coat.57 THE- VASCULAR SYSTEM mammals a few vessels have been traced into the middle coat. Minnte veins serve to return the blood from these vessels ; they empty themselves into the \-ein or veins accompanying the artery. Lymphatic vessels are also present in the outer coat. Arteries are also suppUed with nerves, which are derived from the sympathetic, l)ut may pass through the cerebro-spinal nerves. They form intricate plexuses upon the surfaces of the larger tnmks, and run along the smaller arteries as single filaments, or bundles of filaments which twist around the vessel and unite with each other in a plexiform manner. The branches derived from these plexuses penetrate the external coat and are distributed principally to the mu.scular tissue of the middle coat, and thus regulate, by causing the contraction and relaxation of this tissue, the amount of blood sent to any part. The capillaries.—The smaller arterial branches (excepting those of the cavernous structure of the sexual organs, of the spleen, and of the placenta) Fig. 75.—Section of a medium-sized artery. (After Griinstein. Enilofhelial and siih- cndoihelinl layer of <^-v inner coa t ic lai/er most layers of ■middle coat _ Outermost layers of middle coat _Tnncrmosl part of outencoat , Outermost jiart of ' outer coat terminate in networks of vessels which pervade nearly every tissue of the body. These vessels, from theu' minute size, are termed capillaries. They arc interposed between the smallest branches of the arteries and the commencing veins, consti- tuting a network, the branches of which maintain the same diameter throughout; the meshes of the network are more uniform in shape and size than those formed by the anastomoses of the small arteries and veins. The diameters of the capillaries vary in the different tissues of the body, the usual size being about 3„'„,y of an inch. The smallest are those of the brain and the mucous membrane of the intestines ; and the largest those of the skm and the marrow of bone, where they are stated to be as large as , o',, o of an inch in diameter. The form of the capillary net varies in the different tissues, the meshes being generally rounded or elongated. The rounded form of mesh is most common, and prevails where there is a dense network, as in the lungs, in most glands and mucous membranes, and in the cutis ; the meshes are not of an absolutely circular outline, but more or less angular, sometimes nearly quadrangular, or polygonal, or more often irregular.gg HISTOLOGY • parallelograms orm xe ^J, I looked an-angement; :TgletS';x^jeXf i^^^ -twork and retunung after formrng :::tZ:ioolsX. in tl^c papm. of the tongue and ^ The nunxber of ^be captas a^^^^^^^^ the me^ ^^^^^^^^ are of vascularity of a part Ihe closest iic^joi situations the found in the '^f," ^^^'j.f^^^^^^ In the kidney, in interspaces are smaller than tlie capi'aiy ^ ^^^^^ the conjunctiva, and m the cutis, ^J^^^^-^.^^^Xf ^he bra'n fTom eight to ten times large as the capiHanes which form th^^^ br'mi ^.^^^ as large as the capiljanes in theu long ^^^^t^^^^'^^^^..^^^ ^^ath of the meshes -p^Q 76. — Capillaries from tlie mesentery of a guinea- pig after treatment with solution of nitrate of silver. 77 —Finest vessels on the arterial side. From the bmnan brain. Magnified 300 tmies. a. CeUs. 6. Their nuclei. glands, and in the mucous membranes; wider in bones and ligaments, winch are comparatively inactive ; and nearly altogether ab- c,,pb n doffrec as in the spleen. , n transparent endothelial Structure-The wall of a capillary consists ^ " cement-substance, by carmine or h«^matoxylm. ;veen t^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^ ,,,a as stomatu ■' rlnrV snots are sometimes seen, vml"- , I bclieveil toTHE VASCULAR SYSTEM 59 migrating from the blood-vessels, emerge ; but this view, though probable, is not universallv accepted. Kolosaow describes these cells as having a rather more complex structure. He states that each consists of two parts: of hyaline ground-plates, and of a proto- plasmic granidar part, in which is imbedded the nucleus, on the outside of the iiround-plates. The hyaline internal coat of the capillaries does not form a complete membrane, but consists of ' plates ' which are inelastic, and though in contact with each other are not continuous ; when therefore the capillaries are subjected to intravascular pressure, the plates become separated from each other ; the protoplasmic portions of the cells, on the other hand, are united together. In many situations a deUcate sheath or envelope of branched nucleated connective tissue cells is found around the simple capillary tube, particularly in the larger ones ; and in other places, especially in the glands, the capillaries are invested with retiform connective tissue. Fig. 78.—Section of a medium-sized vein. Endothelium- lilastic layer Middle coat -^i:* Outer coat P. & cue In the largest capillaries (which ought, perhaps, to be described rather as the smallest arteries or pre-capillaries) there is, outside the epithelial layer, a muscular layer consisting of contractile fibre-cells arranged transversely, as in the tunica media of the arteries (fig. 77). Structure of veins.—The veins, like the arteries, are composed of three coats— uiternal, middle, and external; and these coats are, with the necessary modifica- tions, analogous to the coats of the arteries ; the internal being the endothelial, the middle the muscular, and the external the connective or areolar (fig. 78). The main difference between the veins and the arteries is in the comparative weakness of the middle coat in the former. In the smallest veins the three coats are hardly to be distinguished. The endothelium is supported on a membrane separable into two layers, the outer of which is the thicker, and consists of a deUcate, nucleated membrane (adven- titia), while the inner is composed of a network of longitudinal clastic fibres (incdia). In the veins next above these in size (one-sixtieth of an inch in diameter), according to Kolliker a connective tissue layer containing lunnerousgo HISTOLOGY .nuscle-fibres circularly disposed can be faced forcing f^^^:^^'^:. the elastic -ul -nect^ tuictly perceptible^ In t^^^^^^^^^ same character as in the artenes but becomes clear, ihe <^ii'^°7'r^^^"^i,^r" t, ;„ sunported by a connective tissue its cells are more oval and less f^siloim l^^^^^PP^^^J^^ ^7 .eternal to this is layer, consisting of a dehcate netwoik °* ^^^ff^f^^^;;','^ i,, lace of the definite a layer of elastic fibres <lisposed m t^e ^^^^.f ^ coat. The fenestrated membrane seen ^^V^ ^"J^ ^th elastic fibres, middle coat is composed of %J^^'^^ muscular tissue. The white intermixed, m some veins with a tiansveise lay^i "J • ^^^^^ g,„aller fibrous element is in considerable as in the proportion in the veins than m the a|teiies The oui^^^ coa ,^ ^^.^^ arteries, of areolar tissue, ^Z^*^ coat, and contains a outer coat is from two to five times ^^^f J^J^^^ The^ are mosl distinct m the large number of longitudinal i^^^^^^^^^^^^^ J^^^ X in the heart, in the inferior vena ^^va, especiaUy at the ter^^^^^^^ ^ ^^^^^^^^ trimks of the hepatic veins, m all the large trun i ^^^^^^ external iUac, renal, and azygos jems In the renal an^l P^^^ ^^^^ mentioned through the whole thickness o of^^^^^^^ Jo the muscular fibres. All a layer of connective and elastic tissue IS found ^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^^^ the large veins which open into the '^^^^^.^^f^ .''^^yrj ^ from the heart. :^th aV of.^^-Pf rTmn^treinTo?!^^^^^^ Muscular tissue is ^^antmg-(l) m the ve^^^ o^ ^^i^^^ ^^^^^ (2) in the venous smuses of the duia ^^atei am tne _ i Wain and spmal cord ; ( ) m ^^^e veins of >he r^^^^^^^^ We^cSpora cavernosa. The ^:tZ'l^:^S^^^^^ an mter/al endothehal hmng supported on one or more layers °f ^^J^J^^^;^, to prevent the reflux of the ^llost veins are provided mth ™™Xn the inner coat, strengthened blood. Bach valve is formed by a „^ l^oth surfaces vdth endo- by connective tissue and elastic fibres, and i^;°^^'"^°^g^,feces. On the surface th^eUum, the arrangement of wluc^^^^^^^^^^ e k a- "-^^^^^^^^^ transversely ; while of the valve next the wall "'^f flows, the cells are arranged on the other surface, ^''^'^ ^^''^J^L'^^'^^^t Most commonly two such valves longitudinally in the especially m the smaller vems or are found placed opposite one .a^^bei.jnOTe e^^^^ ^^^^^^ branches; in the larger trunks at the point ^Jl^^^^^JX Te valves are semilunar, occasionally there are three and sometimes onlj one ihe ^ They are attached by f^^X ^u^f of the venous current, and Ue in close margins are free, directed in the ^.^^^^^^^ ^J^^^l-e current of blood takes its apposition with the wall of the l^^l^^'J^^^^^ t^kes place, the valves become nitural course ; if, ^^^r^J^lrTZSlTinto^^^^ and the current is distended, their opposed edges are biougM^^^ f attach, interrupted. The wall of the vein on ^fie carmac ski ^^^^^^^ Sent of each valve is expanded mto a Po^^f^ °\;^^^^;;;,c The valves are very when injected or distended vnth ^/Xtntt e e pec^^^^^^^^^ lower extremities ; numerous in the vems of ^l^^, ^^^^r^^^ force of gravity. Tlieyare these vessels having ^ conduct the bloocl against n .^^ diameter, also absent in the very smal veins, ^-C- ^^ose s than .^^ in the veno) cav^e the .l^^Patie jeius porta ve^^^^^^ ^^^^^ spermatic vein renal uterine, and ovarian vems. A ie\\ valves are i .^^ ^^^^^ and intercostal veins supplied vN-ith nutrient vessels vam^ ^?ff Wcteal vessels which are identical in f 'at It is thin, transparent, shghtly Its! ThV/n.erH«/isanendotheh.land el^a^^^^^ composed of a layer of elastic, and ruptures sooner than the otiici coTHE VASCULAR SYSTEM 61 Fia. 79.—^Pseiidostomata of serous membranes. olono-ated endothelial cells mth serrated margins, by which the adjacent cells are dovetailed into one another. These arc supported on an clastic membrane. The m iddle coat is composed of smooth muscular and fine elastic fibres, disposed in a ■ lansverse direction. The external coat consists of connective tissue, intermixed .vith smooth muscular fibres longitudinally or obliquely disposed. It forms a in-otective covering to the other coats, and serves to connect the vessel with the neighbouring structures. The above description applies only to the larger lyniphatics ; in the smaller vessels there is no muscidar or elastic coat, and the wall consists only of a connective tissue coat, lined by endothelium. The thoracic duct has a more complex structure than the other lymphatics ; it presents a dis- tinct sub-endotheUal layer of branched corpuscles, similar to that found in the arteries, and in the middle coat is a layer of connective tissue with its fibres arranged longitudinally. The lymphatics are suppUed by nutrient vessels, which are dfstributed to their outer and middle coats ; and here also have been traced many non-medullated nerve-fibres in the form of a fine plexus of fibrils. The lyniphatics are very generally provided with valves, which assist materially in effecting the circulation of the fluid they contain. These valves are formed of thin layers of fibrous tissue, lined on both surfaces by endothelium, which presents the same arrangement upon the two surfaces as was described in connection with the valves of veins. In form they are semilunar ; they are attached by their convex edges to the sides of (he vessel, the concave edges being free and directed along the course of the contained current. Usually two such valves, of equal size, are found opposite one another ; but occasionally exceptions occur, especially at or near the anas- tomoses of lymphatic vessels. Thus, one valve may be of very rudimentary size and the other increased in proportion. The valves in the lymphatic vessels are placed at much shorter intervals than in the veins. They are most numerous near the lymphatic glands, and are found more frequently in the lymphatics of the neck and upper extremity than in those of the lower extremity. The wall of a lymphatic immediately above the point of attachment of each segment of a valve is expanded into a pouch or sinus, which gives to these vessels, when dis- tended, the knotted or beaded appearance which they present. Valves are wantmg in the vessels composing the plexiform network in which the lymphatics usually originate on the surface of the body. Origia of lymphatics.—The finest lymphatic vessels (lymphatic capillaries) form a plexiform network in the tissues and organs, and their walls consist of a single layer of endothelial plates, with more or less sinuous margins ; the vessels of the lymphatic system therefore form a series of closed tubes similar to those of the blood vascular system. The lymphatic vessels for the most part accompany the arteries or veins throughout the body; sometimes a minute artei y may be seen to be ensheathed for a certain distance l)y a lymphatic capillary vessel, which is often many times wider than a blood capillary. These are known as perivascular lymphatics. Terminations of lymphatics.—The lymphatics, including the lacteals, discharge their contents into tlie veins at two points : namely, at the angles of junction of the subclavian and internal jugular veins—on the left side by means of the thoracic duct, and on the right side by the right lymphatic duct. (See description of lymphatics.) Lymphatic glands (lijmjjh (/lands) are small oval or bean-shaped bodies, situated in the course of lymphatic and lacteal vessels so that the lymph and chyle pass 1. Endothelium from tlie under surface of the cnilntm trndiniiim of the rabbit. *J. I'jndotheliunx of the mediastinum of the dog. 3. Section throuijh tlie pleura of the same animal, a. Pseudo- stomata. b. Free orifices of short lateral passages of the lyniph-cauals. (Copied from I,uilwig. Schweigger- Seidcl and Dyhkowsky.)g9 HISTOLOGY empty themseWes mto cortical substonc^^^^ ^^j^^ ^ fee supply of blood-veBScK ^Jict aie sup^^^^^^^^ the t. ^.^ .^^ :SlafSS« to l^^SXls .Ipplyins tl>c SUM. Pjq. 80.—Section of a lymphatic gland. Germ 'centre Medulla The capsule is composed of -nnecd^^^^ vjth son^^ and from its internal surface f^^^^ -^.J^Sie wit^a small admixture of trabecute, consisting m man, of f/^^^^^^^^^^^^ almost entirely plain muscle-fibres; but m many of rXtna towards tlic centre of the li involuntary muscle. Th^y P-^^^^!' SfaW one-third or one-fourth of gland, for a certain distance-that is to ^J'^^ ^ ^ In some ammals the space between the circumference and the c^nt e o m • j ^ portical hey^are sufficiently well marked to W^entl^^^^^^^^ portion of the gland into a mimber of ^ompj^^^^^^^^^^^ ,p,inging from the nan this arrangement is not obv.ous The larger i n.eshwork in the capsule break up into finer bancls, ttiese mteU.c^^^ ^^^^^^^^ ^^^^ central or medullary portion of the gland In tuc ^ ^ ^^gt^^,,^^ or Ipnphoid lacing trabecuhe (fig. 81 is contanie^^ the P opor ^ ; but leave., tissue. The gland-pulp does not, ^"^^^^^/^ a channel or space of umform between its outer margin and ^'^^^f "^^7'^^^^^^ (fig- B3). Runnmg width throughout. Tins .s f^^J^^S y^^Znl cinnectivc tissue, the fibres across it arc a number of finer ti*'^*;." ''^ '^^f^ing ceUs. of which are, for the most part, covered by ramiiymgTHE VASCULAR SYSTEM 63 On account of the peculiar arrangement of the framework of the organ, the I xnd-pulp in the cortical portion is disposed in the form of nodules, and m the ledullary part in the form of rounded cords. It consists of ordmary lymphoid Fig. 81.—Follicle from a lymphatic gland of the dog, in vertical section. a. lletioiilar sustentacular substance o£ the more external portion. 6, of the more internal, and e, of the most external and most finely webbed part on the s\irface o{ the follicle, d. Origin of a large Ij-mph-tube. e. Of a smaller one. Capsule. (/. Hepta. h. Vas afferens. i. Investing space of the follicle, with its retinacula. k. One of the divisions of the septa. I. Attachment of the lymph- tubes to the septa. Fia. 82.—From the medullary substance of an inguinal gland of the ox. (After His.) a. Lymph-tube witli its complicated system of vessels. b. Ketinacula stretched between the tube and tlie septa, c. Portion of anotlier lymph- tube, d. Septa. tissue, being made up of a delicate network of retiform tissue, which is contmuous with that in the lymph-paths, but marked off from it by a closer reticulation; it is probable, moreover, that the reticular tissue of the gland-pulp and the lymph- paths is continuous with that of the trabecule, and ultimately with that of the capsule of the gland. In its meshes are closely packed lymph-corpuscles, traversed by a dense plexus of capillary blood-vessels. The nodules or follicles in Fig. 83.—Section of lymphatic-gland tissue. n. Trabeculic. b. Small artery in substance of same. c. Lyuiph-paths. d. Lymph-corpuscles, e. Capillary plexus. the cortical portion of the gland frequently show, in their centres, areas where karyokinetic figures indicate a division of the lymph-corpuscles. These areas are termed germ-centres (fig. 80). The cells .composing them are smaller than the peripheral cells, and often stain less intensely.64 HISTOLOGY Tlie airerent vessels, as above stated, enter at all parts of the periphery of the gland, and after branching and forming a dense plexus in the substance of the capsule open into the lymph-smuses of the cortical part. In doing this they lose all their coats except their endothelial lining, which is continuous with a layer of similar cells lining the lyn^ph-paths. In like manner tU efferent vesse com- mences from the lymph-sinuses of the medullary portion. The stream of lymph carried to the gland by the afferent vessel thus passes through the plexus m the capsule to the^ymph-paths of the cortical portion, where it is exposed to the actSn of the glLl pulp ; flowing through these it enters the paths or sinuses of the medullary portion, and finally emerges from the hilus by means of the efferent vessel. M^e stream of lymph in its passage through the lymph-smuses is much retarded by the presence of the reticulum, hence morphological elements, elthrno^^ma lor morbid,\re easily arrested and deposited in the sinuses. This i a matte'o considerable importa^rce in connection with the subject of poisoned wounds and the absorption of the poison by the lymphatic system, smce the rvSve micro-organisms of the infective processes earned along the lymphatrc veSs may be arrested in the lymph-sinuses of the gland-tissue, and thus be ; vested fU entering the gei/eral circulation ,f 7 ^^-P'-^r^S^ with the efferent lymph-stream to ]oin the general blood-stieam. ihe arteries oi Ind eX^^ a^^^^^ Mus, and either go at once to the gland-pulp, to break up into a capiUaiy plexus, or else rmi along the trabecute, partly to supply them Lnd partly to assist in forimng the capillary plexus Sriaml-pulp. This plexui traverses the lymphoid tissue, but does not ente ^to thflymph^sinuses. From it the veins commence and emerge from the organ at the same place as that at which the arteries enter. THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES rv^, cv^n M) is the principal seat of the sense of touch, and may be part m the ^^S^^fof a layer of vascular connective tissue, absorbing powers, it consists prmcipauy ui J „ „„^i^^„ of epithehum, poration of watery vapour from its fr-ee J^, soles ofthe feet, it is parts. In some situations, as m palms of the Imnjj^nd ^ ^^^^ ^^^^ Lck, hard, and horny f ^'^^Znll^l Zs^ne biTthat tSs is not the only these parts are exposed .g^'f "^^^^^^^ cause is proved by the fact ^1^^^ „f \orny layer [stralum at birth. The more superficial deeper stratum, which is eornemn), may be separated by ^^^^^J ^ a i^l whlrclsist^ of several layers called the rde mueosumov stratum Joe e cpideriuis is marked by a net- of differently shaped ^^^^ J^^J^^^^^^^^^^ into a number of work of linear furrows of vaiiab e of tlicse furrows are large, as spaces of polygonal or l«=^f'^g«:«1.^7f\ TJ-^^es^^^^^^^^ folds in the dermis opposite the flexures of the joints, and P°^\\\^° ^'i*; ^ack of the hand, ;;-Jduced by moveme.its. In jtiiahon. as vi^on^^^^^^^^ ^^^^ they are exceedingly fine, and intersect ° ""^f ^f the foot, these Unes palmar surface of the hand and ^'J^ ^;^;\;'?°';j^^^^ upon the large size L-e very distinct, and ^'-^/^J^J^ J^on Sich \he epidermis is placed, and peculiar arrangements ol the papUlre iipoi ^^^^ patterns un ike In each individual the hues ^^^^he hps of tlu. fing^^^^^ .^^^^.^ , , „i al those of any other person. A '"f of these lines being made on is based on this fact, impressions ( P ter first covering the fing paper covered with soot, or on ^^h't« P«;P'^^^^^^^^^ , moulded upon the papillary layer 'The deep surface of the epidermis is f^°"';7 [^'"idermic sheath ; so that when of the dermis, each papilla being capped by its epiaeruTHE SKIN 65 the epidermis is removed by maceration, it presents on its under surface a number of pits or depressions corresponding to the papillse, and ridges corresponding to the intervals between them. Fine tubular prolongations are continued from this layer into the ducts of the sudoriferous and sebaceous glands. In structiu-e, the epidermis consists of several layers of epithelial cells, agglutinated together and having a laminated arrangement. These several layers nmy be described as composed of four different strata from witbin outwards : (1) the stratum Malpighii, composed of several layers of epithelial cells; those of the deepest laver are columnar in shape and placed perpendicularly on the surface of the corium, the lower ends of the cells being denticulated, to fit into corresponding denticulations of the true skin ; tbis deepest layer is sometimes termed the basilar Fig. 84.—diagrammatic sectional view of the skin (magnified). hii layer or stratum germinativum ; the succeeding strata consist of cells of a more rounded or polyhedr-al form, the contents of which are soft, opaque, granular, and soluble in acetic acid. They are often marked on their surfaces with ridges and furrows, and are covered with numerous fibrils which connect the surfaces of the cells: these are known as fricUe-cells (see page 15). They contain numerous epidermic fibrils, which are stained violet with haeraatoxylin and red with carmine, and form threads of union connecting adjacent cells. Between the cells are fine intercellular clefts which serve for the passage of lymph and in which lymph-corpuscles or pigment-granules may be found. (2) Immediately superficial to these are two or three layers of flattened, spindle-shaped cells, the stratum granulosum, which contain granules that are deeply stained by hematoxylin ; the granules consist Fgg HISTOLOGY of a material uamed eleidin, an intermediate substanc^ in the fo>-';|ftion of f-oratiu Thev are supposed to be cells in a tranational stage between the pioto- tlasm c cells of the stratum Malpighii and the horny cells of the superficial layers. FarAbove his layer, the cells become indistinct, and appear m sections o fo m fit^:^:2L J. dimly stnated membrane, --P^-^ f clo-ly pack^^^^^^^^ In whioE traces of tlattenetl nuclei may be found. It i« calM toe mamm W» » H) The 8nifaoe layer consist, of many lamelto of horny epjthehal scales " which ni nuclei are discernible, forming the sUaium cor«»». J1''»Y»»» »^ unr«ectecl by acetic acid, the protoplasm havmg become ehauRed into horn, Serial or Latin. Aeeording to Ranvier they coutan, grannies of a matenal *"TheX«'S%t'^^^^^^^^ iB separated ^^.h^ Fig. 85.—Section of epidermis. (Ranvier.) Stratum corneum. Stratum, lucidum J Stratum granulosum ^ Stratum Malpighii- .Nerve-fibrih Stratum germinativum White races, is due to the pres^ce of pig^^ pigment is more especially distinct ^^^^^^/^^lif^fWe pigmentary layer of the Klpighii, and is similar to that fo^^^ "r \he cells ^ne P ^ ^^^^ ^^.^^^^ retiiia As the cells approach tb^^/^^^^^^^l^'^tt from the superficial layers of partially lost; the disappearance of the pigment l the epidermis is, however, di^cult to explain. and highly elastic, in order The dermis, corium, or cutis vera is tough, liexiDie, anu g j to defend the parts beneath f™!^/'^^^'^^^;eighth of an inch, in different It varies in thickness, from a ^«[ty-ei?hth to^y^^^^^J ^^^^ ^^1,, t^e parts of the body. Thus it is very " ^^^^^^^^^ the front, and on the feet; thicker on the posterior aspect of ^^^^odj pe.us it is outer than on the inner sides of the hmb • J^^^ ^^^^ the male than in exceedingly thin and dehcate The skin gcncrain the female, and in the adult than in the cmiQ. varying amount of The corium consists of ,<^d coimcctive t ssi^^^^^^^ ^^^^^ The fibro- elastic fibres and numerous blood-vessels IW^^^^^^^^^ difierently arranged in areolar tissue forms the framework of ^^^^.f-f' ' insisting of two layers : the different parts, so that it is usual to describe it as consistu g67 THE SKIN deeper or reticular layer, and the superficial or papillary layer. Unstriped muscular fibres are found in the superficial layers of the corium, wherever hairs are present; and in the subcutaneous areolar tissue of the scrotum, penis, labia majora, and nipples. In the nipples the fibres are disposed in bands, closely reticulated and arranged in superimposed laminae. The reticular layer consists of strong interlacing fibrous bands, composed chiefly of the white variety of fibrous tissue, but also containing some fibres of yellow elastic tissue, which vary in number in different parts ; and connective tissue corpuscles, which are often to be fomid flattened against the white fibrous tissue bundles. Towards the attached surface the fascicuh are large and coarse, and the areolae which are left by their interlacement are large, and occupied by adipose tissue and sweat-glands. Below this the elements of the sldu become gradually blended with the subcutaneous areolar tissue, which, except in a few situations, contains fat. Towards the free surface the fasciculi are much finer, and their mode of interlacing close and intricate. The papillary layer is situated upon the free surface of the reticular layer ; it consists of numerous small, highly sensitive, and vascular eminences, the papillce, which rise perpendicularly from its surface. The papillae are minute conical eminences, having romid or blunted extremities, occasionally divided into two or more parts, and are received into corresponding pits on the under surface of the cuticle. Their average length is about pVir of an inch, and the diameter of the base TTSo of inch. On the general surface of the body, more especially in those parts which are endowed with sUght sensibiUty, they are few in numbei-, short, exceedingly minute, and irregularly scattered over the surface ; but in some situations, as upon the palmar surface of the hands and fingers, upon the plantar surface of the feet and toes, and aromid the nipple, they are long, of large size, closely aggregated together, and arranged in parallel curved Unes, forming the elevated ridges seen on the free surface of the epidermis. Each ridge contains two rows of papillae, and between the two rows the ducts of the sweat-glands pass outwards to open on the summit of the ridge. In structure each papilla consists of very small and closely interlacing bundles of finely fibrillated tissue, with a few elastic fibres ; within this tissue is a capillary loop, and in some papillae, especially in the palms of the hands and the fingers, there are tactile corpuscles. The arteries supplying the sldn form a network in the subcutaneous tissue, from which branches are given off to supply the sweat-glands, the hair-folhcles, and the fat. Other branches are given off which constitute a plexus immediately beneath the corium ; from this, fine capillary vessels pass into the papillae, forming, in the smaller ones, a single capillary loop, but in the larger, a more or less con- voluted vessel. There are numerous lymphatics supphed to the skin, which form two networks, superficial and deep, commimicating with each other and with those of the subcutaneous tissue by oblique branches. The nerves of the skin terminate partly in the epidermis and partly in the cutis vera. The former are prolonged into the epidermis from a dense plexus in the superficial layer of the corium and terminate between the cells in bulbous extremities ; or, according to some observers, in cup-shaped endings in which are lodged certain of the deeper cells of the Malpighian layer, termed tactile cells; these are especially well seen in the skin covering the pig's snout. The latter terminate in end-bulbs, touch-corpuscles, or Pacinian bodies, in the manner already described ; and, in addition to these, a considerable number of fibrils are distributed to the hair-foUicles, which are said to entwine the follicle in a circular manner. Other nerve-fibres are supphed to the plain muscular fibres of the hair-folUcles (arrectores pilorum) and to the muscular coats of the blood-vessels. These are probably non-medullated fibres. The appendages of the skin are the nails, the hairs, and the sudoriferous and sebaceous glands with their ducts. The nails and hairs are peculiar modifications of the epidermis, consisting essentially of the same cellular structure as that tissue. The nails (fig. 86) are flattened, elastic structures of a horny texture, placed upon the dorsal surfaces of the terminal phalanges of the fingers and toes. Each nail is convex on its outer surface, concave within, and is implanted by a P^^'*"*'^' called the root, into a groove in the sldn ; the exposed portion is called the body, and the distal extremity the free edge. The nail is firmly adherent to the dermis, being accurately moulded upon its surface, like the epidermis in other F 268 HISTOLOGY parts The part beneath the body and root of the nail is called the matn^, because from it the nail is produced. Corresponding to the body of the nail, the matrix is thick, and raised into a series of longitudinal ridges whic^ arc very vascular, and the colour is seen through the transparent tissue. Behind this near the root of the nail, there are papilte which are small, less vascular, and have no regular arrangement, and here the tissue of the nail is somewhat more opaque ; hence this portion is of a whiter colour, and is called the lunula on account of its shape. . , ^ , . ^ £ ;^ The cuticle as it passes forwards on the dorsal surface of the hnger oi toe is attached to the sui'face of the nail a httle in advance of its root; at the extremity of the finger it is connected with the under surface of the nail a httle behind its free ed^e. The cuticle and horny substance of the nail (both epidermic structures) are thSs directly continuous with each other. The nails consist of a greatly thickened stratum lucidum, the stratum corneum forming merely the thin cuticular fold {eponychium) which overlaps the lunula. The ceUs have a laminated arrange- ment and are essentially similar to those composing the epidermis. The cells ot ^e deepest layer, which lie in contact with the papilla o the matrix, are columnar in form and arranged perpendicularly to the suiiace ; those which Bucceed them are of a rounded or polygonal form, the more superficial ones becoming broad, ?Sn and flattened, and so closely packed as to make the hmits of ea^h -U v^^^^^^ indistinct. It is by the successive growth of new ceUs at the root and under surface o the body of the nail that it advances forwards and mamtains a due SSss wMe, J the same time, the growth of the nad m the P-P- dirftion is secured. As these cells in their turn become displaced by the growth of new Fig. 86.—Longitudinal section through human nail and its nail groove (sulcus). ~ —~~^__Slratum Eponychium — Nail - Stratum - Malpighii Stratum cor— neum of the vail groove , corneum ' Stratum granu- losuni - Corium - — --—j: - - ^ ''^^^ vessel proportion of carbon and sulptuJ- epidermis, and consist essentially The-hairs are pecuhar modifications ^y^^/Pf nearly everv part of of the same structure as that membrane, ^^ey are found on ne j i the surface of the body, excepting the P^f^^^, ^^^^^^^^^^ parts the glans penis. They vary much m length, thicluiess, !^^^^^ ^^^^ of the body and in difierent races ^^^'^l^^^t.Aevond the folhcles containing the eyeUds, they are so short as not to project beyond tji^^ ^^.i^. > them ; in others, as upon the scalp, ^^J.^^ whiskers and other parts, as the eyelashes the hairs P"'5,^^!?Jif ^^irs are stronger than beard, they are remarkable for their th.ckneBS^ .S^Sal oTova outline': curly curly hairs, and present on transverse section a cylindrical or hairs, on the other hand, are flattened. . the A hair consists of a root, the part implanted in the s.m , portion projecting from the surface : a ?.omf. enlargement, wliich is ^ The root of the hair presents at its ^rX^^ lodged in a foUicular whiter in colour and softer in texture than ^hen the hair is of involution of the epidermis called the ^^^t'-ff^^^^ cellular tissue. The considerable length the folhcle extends ^"/"^^^^'^^^'^^^^"^"'funncl-shaped opening, hair-folUcle commences on the surface /j^^, .^^^-^j ^^he atter in curly hairs- and passes inwards in an oblique or ^^'^^'^''l''^^^;, ' jids with the biUbous to become dilated at its deep extremity, where it corresponds69 THE SKIN oalargement of the hair which it contains. Opening into it, near its free extremity, are the ducts of one or more sebaceous glands. At the bottom of each hair-follicle is a small conical, vascular eminence or papiDa, similar in every respect to those found upon the surface of the skin ; it is continuous with the dermic layer of the folhcle, is highly vascular, and probably supplied with nerve-fibrils. In structure the hair-folUclc consists of two coats—an outer or dermic, and an inner or epidermic. The outer or dermic coat is formed mainly of fibrous tissue ; it is continuous with the corium, is highly vascular, and supplied by numerous minute nervous filaments. It consists of three layers (fig. 88). The most internal, next the cuticular fining of the follicle, consists of a hyaline basement membrane having a glassy, transparent appearance, which is well marked in the larger hau'-foUicles, FiQ. 87.—Section of skin, showing the epidermis and dermis : a hair in its follicle : the arrector piH muscle : sebaceous glands. Dermis _—"^"^S Sebaceous gland Fibrous part of hair " Vessel —- Dermic coat __r Inner root-sheath (Outfr root-sheath Knob of hair _ Papilla of hair ^-i^jT^I^'^: - Stratum corneum - Stratum lucidum ' Stratum granulosum - Stratum Malpighii • Stratum germmativum Arrector iiili muscle Dermic coat Medulla of hair -^.t —^'^^v; but is not very distinct in the foUicles of minute hairs. It is continuous with the basement membrane of the surface of the corium. External to this is a compact layer of fibres and spindle-shaped cells arranged circularly around the follicle. This layer extends from the bottom of the folhcle as high as the entrance of the ducts of the sebaceous glands. Externally is a thick layer of connective tissue, arranged in longitudinal bundles, forming a more open texture and corresponding to the reticular part of the corium. In this are contained the blood-vessels and nerves. The inner or epidermic layer is closely adherent to the root of the hair, so that when the hair is plucked from its follicle this layer most commonly adheres to it and forms what is called the root-sheath. It consists of two strata named respec- tively the outer and inner root-sheaths ; the former of these corresponds with the70 HISTOLOGY Miilpighian layer of the epidermis, and resembles it in the rounded form and soft character of its cells ; at the bottom of the hair-follicle these cells become con- tinuous with those of the root of the hair. The inner root-sheath consists of: (1) a delicate cuticle next the hair, composed of a thin layer of imbricated scales having a downward direction, so that they fit accurately over the upwardly directed imbricated scales of the hair itself; (2) one or two layers of horny, flattened, nucleated cells, known as Huxley's layer ; and (3) a single layer of homy oblong cells without visible ]iuclei, called Henle's layer. The hair-follicle contains the root of the hair, which terminates in a bulbous extremity, and is excavated so as to fit exactly the papilla from M'hich it grows. The bulb is composed of polyhedral epithelial cells, wliich as they pass upwards into the root of the hair become elongated and spindle-shaped, except some m the centre which remain polyhedral. Some of these latter cells contain pigment granules which give rise to the colour of the hair. It occasionally happens that these pic^meut granules completely fill the cells in the centre of the bulb ; this ^ ° gives rise to the dark tract Fro. 88.-Transverse section of hair-follicle. of pigment often Jound, of greater or less length, in the axis of the hair. The shaft of the hair con- sists of a central pith or medulla, an intermediate fibrous part, and the cuticle externally. The jnecZw//a occu- pies the centre of the shaft and ceases towards the point of the hair. It is usually wanting in the fine hairs covering the surface of the body, and commonly in those of the head. It 'is more opaque and deeper coloured when -^dewed by transmitted light than the fibrous part; but when viewed by reflected fight it is white. It is com- posed of rows of polyhedral cells, which contain granules of eleidin and frequently air-spaces. The fibrous por- tion of the hair constitutes the chief part of the shaft; its cells are elongated and unite to form flattened fusi- form fibres. Between the fibres are found minute spaces which contain pigment granules in dark hair, and By aline layer-- Fibrous part fi^s of hair Henle's layer Outer or — dermic coat minute air-spaces contained in the in white hair. In addition there is also a diffused pigment fi res The cells which form the hair-cuhck consist of a containea lu tuc fibres. inc tens fihrous part: they are converted single layer which surrounds those of the bbrous pare , uu .> into thin, flat scales having an imbricated ™g^^^^^ f involuntary muscular Connected with the hau-fo hcles ^^^^ f^J^^Jm ^h^^^ layer of the fibres, termed the arrcciores pdormru l^^yj^^^ ^^J^J outer surface of the hair- corium, and are inserted "^t^/.t^Jf'f ^f?",^^^^^^^^^ Thev are placed follicle, below the entrance o the duct "tt^^^^^^^f'^^^^^Xr action elevate the hair on the side towards which the lf[/lXteTln Vhrangle which the arrector (fig. 87).* The sebaceous gland is situateci n « contraction of muscle forms mth the superficial portion of the haii lollicie, . ArUn.Thon.son suggests that the coutr..tic.^f th.o .u^l.^ tiy^S^lS |^ ^•eak, flat hairs will tend to produce a permanent ^"y e^n emerging through theTHE SKIN 71 the muscle thus tends to squeeze the sebaceous secretiou out from the duct of ^''Vhe'febaceous glands arc small, sacculated, glandular organs, lodged in the substance of the corium. They are found in most parts of the skin, but are especially abundant in the scalp and face ; they are also very numerous around the apertures of the anus, nose, mouth, and external ear, but are wanting m the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. Each gland consists of a single duct, more or less capacious, which emerges from a cluster of sma 1 secreting pouches or saccules. The saccuh connected mth each duct vary, as a rule, in number from two to five but in some instances may be as many as twenty. Each saccule is composed ot a transparent, colourless membrane, enclosing a number of epithehal cells, ihose of the outer or marginal layer are small and polyhedral, and are continuous mth the Uuing cells of the duct. The remainder of the sac is fiUed with larger cells, containing fat, except in the centre, where the cells have become broken up, leaving a cavity filled with their debris and a mass of fatty matter which constitutes the sebaceous secretion. The ducts open most frequently into the hair- foUicles, but occasionaUy upon the general sui-face, as in the labia minora and the free marc^n of the hps. On the nose and face the glands are of large size, distinctly lobulated, and often become much enlarged from the accumulation ot pent-up secretion. The largest sebaceous Fig. 89.—Coiled tube of a sweat-gland cut in various directions. :. Longitudinal section of tlio proximal part of the coiled tube. b. Transverse section ot the same. c. Longitu- dinal section of the distal part of tlie coiled tube, rf. Transverse section of the same. (Prom Klein and Noble Smith's ' Atlas of Histology.') ww^-— ^ glands are those found in the eye Uds—the Meibomian glands. The sudoriferous or sweat glands are the organs by which water and traces of organic material are excreted by the sldn. They are found in almost every part of this structure, and are situated in small pits on the under surface of the corium, or, more fre- quently, in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, surrounded by a quantity of adipose tissue. They are small, lobular, reddish bodies, consisting of a single convoluted tube, from which the efferent duct proceeds upwards through the corium and cuticle, becomes somewhat dilated at its extremity, and opens on the surface of the cuticle by an obhque valve-like aperture. The duct, as it passes through the epidermis, presents a spiral arrangement, being twisted Uke a corkscrew in those parts where the epidermis is thick ; where, however, the epidermis is thin, the spiral arrangement does not exist; the spiral course of these ducts is particularly distinct in the thick cuticle of the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. In the superficial layers of the corium the duct is straight, but in the deeper layers it is convoluted or even twisted. The size of the glands varies. They are especially large in those regions where the amount of perspiration is great, as in the axillae, where they form a thin, mammillated layer of a reddish colour, which corresponds exactly to the situation of the hair in this region ; they are large also in the groin. Their number varies. Thev are most numerous on the palms of the hands, presenting, according to Krause, 2^800 orifices on a square inch of the integument, and are rather less numerous on the soles of the feet; in both of these situations the orifices of the ducts are exceedingly regular, and open on the curved ridges. In other situa- tions the glands are more irregularly scattered, but the number in a given extent of surface presents a fairly uniform average. In the neck and back they are least numerous, their number amounting to 417 on the square inch (Krause). Their total number is estimated by the same writer at 2,381,248, and he calculates that the whole of these glands would present an evaporating surface of about eight square inches. Each gland consists of a single tube intricately convoluted, terminating at one end by a blind extremity, and opening at the other end upon the surface of the skin. The wall of the duct is thick, the lumen seldomHISTOLOGY 72 exceeding one-tliird of the diameter of the tubes. The tube, both in the gland and where it forms the excretory duct, consists of two layers—an outer, formed by fine areolar tissue, and an inner layer of epithehum (fig. 89). The external coat is thin, continuous with the superficial layer of the conum, and extends only as high as the surface of the true sldn. The epithelial Umng m the distal part of the coiled lube of the gland proper consists of a single layer of cubical epithelium, supported on a basement membrane, and beneath it, between the epithelium and the fibro-ceUular coat, a layer of longitudinally or obliquely arrano-ed fibres, composed of involuntary muscle, the contraction of which aids the expulsion of the sweat. In the duct and the proximal part of the coiled tube ol the gland proper there are two or more layers of polyhedral eel s, fined on tlie internal surface, i.e. next the lumen of the tube, by a dehcate membrane or cuticle, and on the outer surface bva Hmiting membrana propria, but there are no muscular fibres The epithehum is continuous with the epidermis and mth the delicate internal cuticle of the epidermic portion of the tube. When the cuticle is care- fully removed from the surface of the cutis, these convoluted tubes of epithehum may be drawn out in the form of short, thread-Uke processes on its under surface. The contents of the smaller sweat-glands are quite fluid ; but in the larger glands the contents are semi-flmd and opaque, and contain a number of coloured granules and cells which appear analogous to epithelial cells. SEEOUS MEMBRANES The serous membranes form shut sacs, the walls of which are normaUy in con- tact so that the enclosed cavity is merely a potential one. The ^ac consists o one portion which is applied to the walls of the cavity which it hnes-the f anetnl portion : and another reflected over the surface of the organ or organs contamed m the cavity—the mscera^ portion. Sometimes the sac is arranged quite simply, as is the tunica vaginalis testis; at others with numerous involutions or recesses, as m tne peritoneum, m wtiicn, j^Q. 90.—^Part of the peritoneal surface of the central tendon of the diaphragm of a rabbit, prepared with nitrate of silver. nevertheless, the membrane can always be traced con- tinuously around the whole circiunference. The sac is completely closed, so that no communication exists between the serous ca^'ity and the parts in its neighbourhood. An ex- ception exists in the peri- toneum of the female ; for the Fallopian tubes open freely into the peritoneal cavity in the dead subject. This com- munication, however, is closed during fife, except at the moment of the passage of the ovum out of the ovary into the tube, as is proved by the fact that no interchange of fluids ever takes place between the two ca^^ties in dropsy of the peritoneum, or in accumula- tion of fluid in the Fallopian . . tubes The serous membrane '•«t.T^^i.a'Jre»-^^ L sometimes supported by Physiological Laboratory.' Klein.) f^^m, fibrOUS layer, aS IS the case With the pericardium, and such membranes may be spoken of fihro- '"The various serous membranes are the P^^t^^^^V *5;^:rfnd lieart abdomen; the two pleura, and pencarduim covenng^^^^^^ respectively ; and the turner vagmales, surrounding the testicles in ^i Serous membranes are thin, transparent, gfistemng structures, each consistin.73 SEROUS MEMBRANES homogeneous basement membrane lined on its mner surface by a single layer of nofv-onal or pavement endothelial cells, supported on a matrix of fibrous connective tissue, mth networks of fine elastic fibres, in which are contained numerous capil- laries and lymphatics. On the surface of the endothehum between the ceUs numerous apertures or interruptions are to be seen Some of these^^-e the structures formerly described as stomata, each of which is composed of cubical endothehum (see fig. 90); others {fseudoslomata) are mere mterruptions m the endothelial layer, and are occupied by processes of the branched connect ve tissue corpuscles of the subjacent tissue or by accumulations of the interceUular cement substance. , , . . , , The amount of fluid contained in these closed sacs is, in most cases, only sufficient to moisten the surface; when a small quantity can be coUected, it is found to resemble lymph, and Uke that fluid coagulates spontaneously ; but when secreted in large quantities, as in dropsy, it is a more watery fluid, yet stiU contains a considerable amount of protein which is coagulated on boihng. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES Fig. 91.—^Villus of synovial mem- brane. (After Hammar.) Synovial membranes, like serous membranes, are connective tissue membranes. In some cases they form closed sacs (synovial sheaths and bui'sse) directly inter- posed between two movable tissues so as to diminish friction; thus they may be placed between a tendon and a bone where the former glides over the latter, or between the skin and various subcutaneous bony pro- minences. In other cases they form incom- plete finings for the capsules of movable joints ; in such cases a diminution of fi'iction between the joint-surfaces is effected by the secretion poured out from the synovial cells. The synovial membranes are composed essentially of the typical connective tissue, cells and fibres, containing numerous vessels and nerves. It was formerly supposed that these membranes were- analogous in structure to the serous membranes, and consisted of a layer of flattened cells on a basement mem- brane. No such continuous layer, however, exists, although here and there are patches of epithelioid cells, surrounded and held together by an albuminous ground substance. Long viUus-hke processes (fig. 91) are often found projecting from the surfaces of synovial membranes; they are covered by small rounded cells, and are supposed to extend the surface for the secretion of the fluid {synovia) which moistens the membranes. It is a rich lymph, plus a mucin-like substance, and to the latter constituent it owes its viscidity. A further description of the synovial membranes will be given with the anatomy of the joints. MUCOUS MEMBRANES Mucous membranes line all the passages of the internal organs, and are continuous with the skin at the various orifices by which these passages open on the surface of the body. They are soft and very vascular, and the surface is coated over by their secretion, mucus, which is of a tenacious consistence and serves to protect them from the foreign substances with which they are brought in contact.74 HISTOLOGY They are described as lining the two tracts—the gastro-pulmonary and the genito-uvinary ; and alh or almost all, mucous membranes may be classed as belonging to and continuous with the one or the other of these tracts. The deep surfaces of these membranes are attached to the parts which they line by means of connective tissue, which is sometimes very abundant, fommg a loose and lax bed, so as to allow considerable movement of the opposed sudaces on each other. This is termed the submucous tissue. In other cases such an intervening tissue is exceedingly scanty, and the membrane is closely connected to the tissue beneath ; sometimes, for example, to muscle, as m the tongue ; sometimes to cartilage, as in the larynx ; and sometimes to bone, as m the nasal fossse and air sinuses of the skull. „i In structure a mucous membrane is composed of conum and epithelium, ine epithelium is of various forms, including the squamous, columnar, and ciliated, and is often arranged in several lavers. This epithelial layer is supported by the corium, which is analogous to the dermis of the skin, and consists of connective tissue, either simply areolar, or containing a greater or lesser quantity otlj-mpiioia tissue. The coriimi is usually covered on its external suiiace by a transparent basement membrane, generally composed of clear flattened cells placed edge to edge ; on this the epithelium rests. It is only in some situations that the basement membrane can be demonstrated. The corium is an exceedingly vascular membiane containing a dense network of capillaries, which he immediately beneath tue epithelium and are derived from small arteries in the submucous tissue. ^ The fibro-vascular layer of the corium contains, besides the areolai tissue and vessels, unstriped muscle-cells, which form in many situations a detiuite layer called the muscularis mucosoB. These are situated m the deepest pait ot the membrane, and are plentifully supplied with nerves. Other ^JJ^^ P^/^^ the epithehmn and terminate between the cells. Lymphatic ^^^sels are fomd in great abundance, commencing by blind extremities and communicatmg with plexuses in the submucous tissue. , Tiroiertine Imbedded in the mucous membrane are found numerous glands ^nd piojecting from it are processes (villi and papilte) analogous to the papill^E of t^^^^- ^^^^^ ■glands and processes, however, exist only at certam parts, and it wui oe mo convenient to describe them as they occur. SECRETING GLANDS The secreting glands are organs whose cells produce, by ^^^^^ ";^f,;!'°^jXi?e their protoplasm' certain substances, called ' secretions,' of «J^^^^^^^ composition ; the material for the secretion being blood. Each cell in the organism forms new products ^^T, f/^^fw Ss of to it. Where these new substances are utilised m some «f f'^f the organism they may be referred to as secreHons in contradistmct on tosub^^an^^^ which are merely effete products of P^otoP^^^^^^^f ^^^^^ a^^h^^^ excretions. The term secretion, however, is ^^^^^^'^ ^/^/Pf f, ^.^.^thir of glandular activity. The essential parts matters. m%ells, which have the power of extractmg from the ^^^^^^^^^^ L d in most cases of converting these mto new ^trrfatirrp^Sx^S (2) blood-vessels, by which the blood is brought into '^.^'^^f ^tosay not ceUs. The general arrangement in all secretmg ^'^^^^^l';-^^.^^,}^ S are only in secreting glands, but also in secreting '^^^^J^,^ l*^;^^^^^^^ f,pport. arranged on one surf ace of an extra-vascular basement n^^^^^^^ H^^^^^ them, while a minute plexus of capillary ^^ff , ^^^l^/,^ ?^ .^S^^^^^^ ^vhich of th; membrane. The cells then select froin ^^^^ °f J^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ pass through the membrane into them,_ and *\ese thej piepare and ^ By the various modifications of this ^.^^^^^"^g f^^^^f'?, * \;emW in difterent formed. This is generally ef!ected by -^l-JJ^'^,^,^^^^^^ a given ways, the object being to increase the extent ot secretmg sun '^'li the simplest form a single gland ; this may be either in the form of ^'^^^ 92 i) These are named of the tube may be dilated so as to fo;"\^/Stf ^shS Sbe, the invagination simple tubular or saccular glands. Or, msteaa oi n,75 SECRETING GLANDS may be lenatheued to a considerable extent, and then coiled up to occupy less space. This constitutes the simple convoluted tubular gland, an example ot which may be seen in the sweat-glands of the skin (fig. 92, c). If instead of a single invagination, secondary mvagmations take place h'om the prhnary one (fig. 92, d and e), the gland is termed a compound one These secondary invaginations may assume either a saccular or tubular torm, and so constitute the two subdivisions—the comfound saccular or raceinose gland, and the compound tubular. The racemose gland in its simplest form consists of a primary invagination which forms a sort of duct, at the extremity of which are found a number of secondary invaginations, called saccules or alveoh, as in Jirunner s (^lands (fig 92 d). But, again, in other mstances, the duct, instead oi being simple, may divide into branches, and these again into other branches, and so on ; each ultimate ramification terminating in a dilated cluster of sacciiles, and thus the secreting surface may be abnost indefinitely extended, as m the salivary glands Fig. 92.—Diagrammatic plan of the varieties of secreting glands. A. Simple gland. B. Sacculated simple gland. C. Simple convoluted tubular gland. P. Compound tubular gland. D, E. Racemose gland. (fig. 92, e). The ducts of the glands are composed of columnar epithelial cells resting on a basement membrane, outside which is a greater or lesser amount of connective tissue, depending on the size of the duct. In some cases small bundles of involuntary muscle fibres are found external to the basement membrane, and these by their contractions help to expel the contained secretion. In the compound tubular glands the division of the primary duct takes place in the same way as in the racemose glands, but the branches retain their tubular form, and do not termi- nate in saccular recesses, but hecome greatly lengthened out (fig. 92, f). The best example of this form of gland is to be found in the kidney. All these varieties of glands are produced by a more or less complicated invagination of a secreting membrane, and they are all identical in structure : that is to say, the saccules or tubes, as the case may be, are lined with cells, generally spheroidal or columnar in shape, and on their outer surfaces are intimate plexuses of capillary vessels. The secretion, whatever it may be, is eliminated by the cells from the blood, and is poured into the saccule or tube, and so finds its way out through the primary76 HISTOLOGY invagination on to the free surface of the secreting membrane In addition, however, to these glands, which are formed by an invagmaHon of the secreting membrane, there are some few others which are formed by a frotruswn ot the same structure, as in the vascular fringes of synovial membranes. This form ot secreting structure is not nearly so frequently met with. . There are also certain glands which are capable of interml secretion, vfUiem are no ducts leading to any free surface, the secretion bemg carried either directly into the blood stream, or indirectly through the medium of lymphatics. Such are the thyroid and suprarenal glands, but modern researches have shown that many glands which possess obvious external secretions elaborate at the same time internal secretions.EMBEYOLOGY THE term Embryology, in its widest sense, is applied to the vanous changes which take place during the growth of an animal from the egg to the adult condition : it is, however, usually restricted to the phenomena which occur before birth. It may be studied from two aspects : (1) that of oniofifeny, which deals only with the development of the individual; and (2) that of fhylogeny, which concerns itself with the evolutionary history of the ammal langdom. In all vertebrate animals the development of a new being can only take place when a female germ-cell or ovum has been fertihsed by a male germ-cell or spema- tozoiin. The ovum is a nucleated ceU, and all the compHcated changes by which the various tissues and organs of the body are formed from it, after it has been fertilised, are the result of two general processes, viz. segmentation and dijjerentiation Fig. 93.—Ovum of rabbit. Highly magnified. (After Waldeyer.) Germinal spot Part of corona, radiata Germinal vesicle Zona pellucida or striata Yolk granule of cells. Thus, the fertilised ovum undergoes repeated segmentation into a number of cells which at first closely resemble one another, but are, sooner or later, differentiated into two groups : (1) somatic cells, the function of which is to build up the various tissues of the body; and (2) germinal cells, which become imbedded in the sexual glands—the ovaries in the female and the testes in the male —and are destined for the perpetuation of the species. Having regard to the main purpose of this work, it is impossible, in the space available in this chapter, to describe fully, or illustrate adequatelj^ all the phenomena which occur in the different stages of the development of the human body. The principal facts only will be given—the student being referred for further details to one or other of the text-books on human embryolog}'.EMBRYOLOGY 78 THE OVUM The ova are developed from tlie primitive germ-cells which are imbedded iu the substance of the ovaries. Each of these cells gives rise, by repeated dl^aslons, to a immber of smaller cells termed obgonia from which the ova or frimary oocytes Human ova are extremely minute, measuring about "2 rnm or of an inch in diameter, and are enclosed within the egg-sacs or Graafian fo hcles of the ovaries^* By the enlargement and subsequent rupture of a Graafian folhcle at tte suxfact of the ovary an ovum is hberated and conveyed by the Fallopian tube or oviduct Fig. 94.—Human ovum examined fresh in the Uquor follicuU. (Waldeyer.) seen the germinal spot. ?aJritrSS within t~ ^^^^ an ordinary In appearance and structure "^^^^^ fi',^^ parts ; thus, the body cell, but distinctive names have been allied to its severe ^ of the cell is known as ^"^^.^'f^^^^^^^^ a thick, trans- the nucleolus as the germinal sfot J^^^^^J^.^.^ adhering to the outer surface coUectivelv constituting the corona radiata. * See description of the ovary on a future page.THE OVUM. 79 The vitellus or yolk comprises (1) the cijloplasm of the ordinaiy aiiimal cell mth its reticulum and cytolymph, the cytoplasm of the ovum being frequently termed' the formaiivc yolk, in order to distinguish it from (2) the nutritive yolk or deidoplasm, which consists of numerous rounded granules of fatty and albu- minoid substances imbedded in the cytoplasm. In the mammalian ovum the nutritive yollc is extremely small in amount, and is of service m nourishing the embryo in the early stages of its development only, whereas in the egg of the bird there is sufficient to supply the chick with nutriment throughout the whole period of incubation. The nutritive yolk not only varies in amomit, but in its mode of distribution within the egg : thus, in some animals it is nearly uniformly distri- buted throughout the cytoplasm ; in others it is centrally placed and is surrounded by the cytoplasm ; in still others it is accumulated at the lower pole of the ovum, while the cytoplasm occupies the upper pole. An attraction sphere with its centro- some is present in the ova of the lower animals, and is probably represented in the ova of mammals by the hoclij of Balbiani. This body is not visible during all the stages of the development of the ovum, and is ' most readily seen before the space appears in the Graafian foUicle. Then the body in question lies in the immediate neighbourhood of the nucleus. It consists of a lighter central sphere enclosing one or two smaller spheres, and surroimded by a more darkly staining protoplasm.' * The germinal vesicle or nucleus is a large spherical body which at first occupies a nearly central position, but becomes eccentric as the growth of the ovum proceeds. Its structure is that of an ordinary cell-nucleus, viz. it consists of a reticulum of achromatin the meshes of which are filled with nuclear sap or karyoplasm ; while connected with, or imbedded in, the achromatic reticulum are a number of chromatin masses or chromosomes, which may present the appearance of a skein or may assume the form of rods or loops. The nucleus is enclosed by a delicate nuclear membrane, and contains in its interior a well-defined nucleolus or germinal spot. COVEEINGS OF THE OVUM The zona pellucida or zona striata (figs. 93, 94) is secreted by the cells of the corona radiata, and consists of a thick, clear membrane, which, under the higher powers of the microscope, is seen to be perforated by numerous fine radially arranged channels. These give to it a striated appearance, and may suffice for the passage of nutritive materials to the ovum; they may also provide an entrance for the spermatozoa at the time of fertiUsation. In some animals (e.g. insects) the zona pellucida presents one or more small perforations or micropyles, by which the spermatozoa are believed to enter. The zona pellucida persists for some time after fertihsation has occurred, and may serve for protection during the earlier stages of segmentation. The corona radiata (fig. 94) consists of two or three strata of cells ; they are derived from the cells of the Graafian follicle, and adhere to the outer surface of the zona pellucida when the ovum is set free from the folUcle. The cells are radially arranged around the zona, those of the innermost layer being columnar in shape, and sending, according to some observers, deUcate processes from their deep ends into the channels of the zona. The cells of the corona radiata soon disappear; in some animals they secrete, or are replaced by, a layer of adhesive protein, which may assist in protecting and nourisliing the ovum. The phenomena attending the discharge of the ova from the Graafian follicles belong more to the ordinary functions of the ovary than to the general subject of embryology, and are therefore described with the anatomy of the ovaries.f MATURATION OF THE OVUM Before an ovum can be fertilised it must undergo a process of maturation or ripening. This takes place previous to, or immediately after, its escape from the Graafian follicle, and consists essentially of an unequal subdivision of the ovum (fig. 95) first into two and then into four cells. Three of the four are small, incapable * Robinson, ' Hunterian Lectures on the Mammalian Ovum and Placenta.' Journal of Anatom;/ and Phyaiology, vol. xxxviii. t See descriplion of the ovary on a future iJage.80 EMBRYOLOGY of further development, and are termed polar hoclics, while the fourth is much larger, and constitutes the mature ovum. The process of maturation has not been observed Fig. 95.—Formation of polar bodies in Asterias glacialLs. (Slightly modified from Hertwig.) /.pn ^ . the polar spindle has advaneed ^e^^ ot SLe^o^" receives hall of the spindle In fig. m the <^^^J'^^'?^';^^\^a-^ in ^g. y has been constricted ofE as the second ^pTafh^?^ ^0 rSr 0^ t^TX^elffnlt^ thi female pronucleus is developed. in the human ovum, but has been carefuUy studied in the ova of some of the lower animals, to wMch the foUowing desmption apphes ^^^^ .ucLrScSrn^t ^I^s^t^^ an. This.phes ovum. Secondary oocyte Mature ovum Primary oocyte Primary oocyte (comvxencing maturation) I * 1 First 2>olar \ J hody Polar bodies cells but to the primitive ova and their descen- dants. For the sake of illustration a species may be taken in which the number of nuclear chro- mosomes is four (fig. 96). If an ovum from such be observed at the begin- ning of the maturation process it -will be seen that the number of its chromo- somes is apparently re- duced to two. In reality, however, the number is doubled, since each chro- mosome consists of four granules grouped to form a tetrad. During the raetaphase (see page 5) each tetrad di^^des into two dyads, wliich are equally distributed be- tween the nuclei of the two cells formed by the first division of the ovum. One of the two cells is almost as large as the original ovum, and is named the secondanj oocyte; the other is small, and is81 MATURATION OF THE OVUM of the two resulting cells. This second division is also unequal, producing a large cell which constitutes the mature ovum, and a small cell, the second polar body. The first polar body frequently divides while the second is being formed, and as a final result four cells are produced, viz. the mature ovum and three polar bodies, each of which contains two chromosomes, i.e. one half the number present in the nuclei of the somatic cells of members of the same species. The nucleus of the mature ovum is termed the female pronucleus. The number of polar bodies varies in the ova of different animals ; typically three are formed, but in some animals there is only one, in others there are two—the last condition being probably explained by the fact that the first polar body has not undergone subdivision by the time the second is separated from the ovum. THE SPERMATOZOON The spermatozoa or male germ-cells are developed within the tubuU semiuiferi of the testes. They are present in enormous numbers in the seminal fluid, and consist of small but greatly modified cells. The human spermatozoon possesses a head, a neck, a connecting piece or body, and a tail (fig. 97). Fig. 97.—Human^spermatozoon. (Diagrammatic.) ■ I'er/orator ) Neck Con nect ing piece Tail' End-piece) }3ead -t cap Anterior ccntrosome Posterior centrosovie Spiral thread Mitochondrial sheath Terminal disc Axial filament A B 0 A. Surface \icw. B. ProQIe view. In 0 the head, neck, and connecting piece are highly magnified. The head is oval or elhptical, but flattened, so that when viewed in profile It IS pear-shaped. Its anterior two-thirds are covered by a layer of modified proto- plasm, which is named th.Qhead-cap. This, in some animals (e.g. the salamander), is prolonged into a barbed spearUke process or perforaior, which probably facilitates82 EMBRYOLOaY the entrance of the spermatozoon into the ovum, von Bardelebcn and E. Nelson have deSed speaihke perforators as being present m the human spermatozoa buro hei observers deny their presence. Waldeyer mchnes to the view that in man tt perEo consiL of the anterior sharp margin of the head-cap and acts r" cvS rather than a boring apparatus. The posterior part of the head exhibits an afhnity for certain reagents, and presents a transversely striated of chromatin, and is generally regarded as the nucleus of the ceU surrounded by a *^ ThrS is less constricted in the human spermatozoon than in those of some T^^ qg -Scheme showing analogies in the process of maturation of the ovum and F,^. 98.-bcneme sno^^^^^^ ^^^^^^ spermatids (young spermatozoa). Primary oocyte Primary spermatocyte OSecondary spermatocytes oocijte ■ ■ — - - Polar bodies Spermatids spiral thread, around which is an envelope of finely granular substance termed the mitochondrial sheath. , . , fi^jg^d or filament, sur- The tail is of great length, aiid ''"/^^^^^^"^ ^f.^rS o^^^^ present a striated rounded by its sheath which may .^"^^ f" J^^^^^^ piece appearance. Further, m some ammals ^^f^^^j^f'^^^^^^^ of which there is a condition, are capable of free "^°^<^'^X 'hek ^taW^^^^ clays. (e.g. in the female passages) may reta their viUl ty « ^^^^..^^^ ^^^^^ The spermatozoa are developed from ti e P™^;^^^^^^^^ ^^^e verv similar to those imbedded in the testes, and the stages .^^ ^^^^J^^/J^^^^^^^^^^ di^^«ion and produce of the maturation of the ovum. The primary germ ^ primary spermatocytes a number of cells termed spermatogoma,^^^^^^^^ are derived. Each pnmary spermatocy^^e^^^^^^^^^ spermatozoa; and each secondary spermatocyte ^"^^^^^ j^cs rise to four spermatozoa. from this it will be seen that a P-^T^rt^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ovum (fig.Js) it will be On comparing this process with that ottliematur secondary observed that the primary spermatocyte '^'^ secondary oocvte and the spermatocytes, and the primary oocyte to two cells, tUe secoua y .I THE SPERMATOZOON 83 first polar body. Again, the two secondary spermatocytes by their subdivision give origin to four spermatozoa, and the secondary oocyte and first polar body to four cells, the mature ovum and three polar bodies. In the development of the spermatozoa, as in the maturation of the ovimi, there is a reduction of the nuclear chromosomes to one half of those present in the primary germ cells. But here the similarity ends, for it must be noted that the four spermatozoa are of equal size, and each is capable of fertilising a mature ovum, whereas the three polar bodies are not only very much smaller than the mature ovum but are incapable of further development, and may be regarded as abortive ova. FERTILISATION OF THE OVUM FertiUsation consists in the union of the spermatozoon with the mature ovum (fig. 99). This usually takes place in the upper part of the Fallopian tube, and the ovuin is then conveyed to the cavity of the uterus—a journey which probably occupies two or three days. Sometimes the fertilised ovum is arrested in the Fallopian tube and there undergoes development, giving rise to a tubal pregnancy; or it may fall into the abdominal cavity and produce an abdominal pregnancy. Occasionally the ovum is not expelled from the Graafian follicle when the latter FiQ. 99.—The process of fertilisation in the ovum of a mouse. (After Sobotta.) ruptures, but is fertilised within the follicle and produces what is known as an ovarian pregnancy. Numerous spermatozoa may pierce the zona pellucida (e.g. in the rabbit as many as sixty have been seen in its interior), but only one, under normal conditions, enters the vitellas and takes part in the process of fertilisation. At the point where the spermatozoon is about to pierce the vitellus the latter is drawn out into a conical elevation, termed the cone of attraclion. As soon as the spermatozoon has entered at this point the peripheral portion of the vitellus is transformed 'into a membrane, the vitelline membrane, which prevents the passage o£ g284 EMBRYOLOGY additional spermatozoa. OccasionaUy a second spermatozoon may enter the vitellus thus eiving rise to a condition of polys-permy : when this occurs the ovum usuallv develops in an abnormal manner and gives rise to a monstrosity Havins pierced the Aatellus, the spermatozoon loses its tail, wlule its head and connecting piece assume the form of a nucleus contaimng a cluster of chromo- somes This constitutes the male pronucleus, and associated with it there are a centrosome and attraction sphere. The male pronucleus pa^es more deeply into the ^dtellus, and coincident with this the granules of the cytoplasm surrounding it become radially arranged. The male and female pronuclei migrate toxs-^ds each other, and, meeting near the centre of the vitellus, fuse to form a new nucleus the segrneMation nuoMs, which therefore contains both niale and female nuclea substance • the former transmits the individuahties of the male ancestors the attS those of the female ancestors, to the future embryo. By the union of the male and female pronuclei the number of chromosomes is restored to that which is present in the nuclei of the somatic cells. SEGMENTATION OF THE FERTILISED OVUM After it has been fertilised the ovum undergoes repeated subdivision into a nuX of small cells (figs. 100, 101). The segmentation nucleus exhibits the u^ual mitotic changes, and these are succeeded by a division of the ovum i^to two eel s S nearirequal size.* The process is repeated again and agam, so that,the two Fig lOO.-First stages of segmentation of a mammuUan ovum : semi-diagrammatic. ^ (From a drawing by Allen Thomson.) ...ZonapeU... ... PC..... -^cer^. ^ ^^^^^^ cells are succeeded by four, «ii|^\f ^^^^ fjf^^^^^^^^ that a mass of cells is found within the zona P^^J^f^^^^^^ is applied, the process, but ultimately disappears), and to this mass tiieter . in the ian ova the nut.tivo yoU. or deutoplas. is "^Zf ^ distributed throughout the cytoplasm ; l/;;,,,^^^^!.. the ova of bird.s. reptiles, and process of segmentation, and are therefore te med A^^^^^^^^ ^^^^ t, clea>-age is fishes where the nutritive yolk forms by far tlie i ova are XcrmoA mcrohlmtic. fimited to the formative yolk,_and is t;^ere^fore on 7^^^^^^^^^^^ , f„,e but Again, it has been observed, in some of t»^^J°;;,*''/X scenientat,ion process the chromosomes ml-ei; lie in apposition. At the enuator of the niclear spindle and then of the two pronuclei group themselves around the equai^^^^ opposite poles of the divide; an iqual number of --^^-Jf "^^^^^^^^^ equal shares of chromatin to the85 SEGMENTATION OF THE FERTILISED OVUM The segmentation of the mammalian ovum may not take place in the regular sequence of two, four, eight, &c., since one of the two first-formed cells may sub- divide more rapidly than the other, giving rise to a three- or a five-cell stage. Fig. 101.—Ovum of the rabbit at the end of the process of segmentation. E ep. Primitive ectoderm, hy. Primitive entoderm. Zip. Plnce'wliere tlie ectoderm has not yet grown over tlie entoderm. (From Balfour, after Ed. van Beuedeu.) The cells of the morula are at first closely aggregated inside the zona pellucida ; but soon they become ari-anged into an outer or peripheral layer, the primitive ectoderm or trophoblast, which does not contribute to the formation of the embryo Fig. 102.—Blastodermic vesicle of Vespertilio murinus. (After van Beneden.) Inner cM-mass Entoderm Blaatodemiio vesicle Trophoblast proper, and an inner cell-mass, from which the embryo is developed (figs. 101, b, and 102). Fluid collects between the trophoblast and the greater part of the inner cell-mass, and thus the morula is converted into a vesicle, the blastodermic vesicle. Fig. 103.—Section through embryonic area of Vespertilio murinus. (After van Beneden.) Inner cell-mass Tro2>hoblast The inner cell-mass remains in contact, however, with the trophoblast at one pole of the ovum ; this is named the embryonic pole, since it indicates the situation where the future embryo will be developed. The cells of the trophoblast becomeEMBRYOLOGY 86 differentiated into two strata : an outer, termed the symylium^oT f asirwdtohlmt, so named because it consists of a layer of protoplasm studded with nuclei, but showing no evidence of subdivision into cells ; and an inner layer offpnsmatic epithelmm, which is named the cytoblast or layer of Langhans. As already^stated, the cells of the trophoblast do not contribute to the formation of the embrvo proper • they form the ectoderm of the chorion and play an important part in the development of the placenta. On the inner surface of the mner cell-mass a layer of flattened cells, the entoderm, is differentiated and qmckly assumes the fonn of a Fig 104 —Section through embryonic area of Vespertilio murinus (after van Beneden) to show the formation of the amniotic cavity. Maternal blood-vessels Amniotic caviiij Flasmodiohlasf \ Trophoblast Embryonic ectoderm Entoderm. small sac the yoll-sac. Spaces appear between the remaining cells of the mass ?r lOsT'and by the enlargement and coalescence of these spaces a cavity, termed ca4 (fig- 104), is gradually developed Thjs -vity p^^^^^^^^^^ in certain of the bats, and probably also m man and ^^^^^^/^^f^'^^^^^^^^ amniotic cavity. The floor of this cavity is formed by a layer of prismatic ceus TeT^o^S -^^c^mn. derived from the inner ceU-mass and Ipng xn^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ with the entoderm. The formation of the ammon will be again referred (page 93). THE EMBRYONIC AREA in extent to the embryomc ^<^toderm ah-eady men^^^^^^^^^^ portion is the extra-embryomc area. The ^^.f/"^^^^ extra- ' remains as a relatively slow-gromng ^'l^'J^^J^^^^^^^^ embryomcportionsof t^^^^^^^^ ear circumstances it follows tliat tne mar^m u , / extra-embrvonic parts of as a ring between the upper '^'"Womc and the lo vei oj^^f/^^^^^^ (Robinson).* Une of the area for about one-half of its length (figs- J ^ ^^^^^or end of the vrindtvve groove, appears on the ^J^f^^^/ Te uZpore, .-ith the primi- this groove commumcates by n^emis of ^^^^^^^^^^^ thickening of the t ve alimentary canal, ihe pnmime swc grow downwards, and axial part of the ectoderm, the cells of ^^"^^ ^^^Pj^^'^g^id^ blend with those of the subjacent entoderm (fig. 107). H rom tne siae • . The Early Stages of the Development of the Pericardia..'by Professor Arthur Robinson. Journal nf Anatomy and Physiologn, vol. xxxvii.87 THE EMBRYONIC AREA streak a third layer of cells, the mesoderm or mesoblast, extends outwards between the ectoderm and entoderm. Although the mesoderm is mainly derived from the priniitive streak, possibly the entoderm a so contributes to It. The extension of the mesoderm takes place thronghont the whole of the embryonic and extra-embryonic areas of the ovum, except in certain regions. One of these is seen immediately in front of the neural tube. Here the mesoderm extends forwards in the form of two crescentic masses, which curve inwards and meet in Fig. 105.—Embryo of a rabbit. (After Kolliker.) Fig. 106.—Embryonic area of the ovum of rabbit at the seventh day. (From Kolliker.) ory. Embryonic area. streak. pr. Primitive the middle line so as to enclose behind them an area which is devoid of mesoderm and is named the bucco-pharyngeal area, since it afterwards forms the septum betweeir the primitive mouth and primi- tive pharynx. In front of the bucco-pharyngeal area, where the lateral crescents of mesoderm have fused in the middle Une, the peri- cardium is afterwards developed, and this region is therefore designated the pericardial area. A second region where the mesoderm is absent, at least jfor a time, is that immediately in front of the pericardial area. This is termed the pro-amniolic area, and is the region where the pro-amnion is developed; in man however, a pro-amnion is apparently never formed. Other regions are : a band on the ventral aspect of the neural tube in the site of the future vertebral column, and an area at the hinder end of the embryo in the position of the cloaca. ay. Embryooio area, o, o. Region of the blastodermic vesicle immediately surrounding the embryonic Tarea. pr. Primitive streak, ri. Neural groove between the nem-al folds. Fig. 107.—Section across primitive streak (semi-diagrammatic). Primitive streak The blastoderm now consists of three layers, named from without inwards, ectoderm, mesoderm and entoderm. Each has distinctive characteristics and gives rise to certain tissues of the body. The ectoderm consists of columnar cells, which are, however, somewhat flattened or cubical towards the margin of the embryonic area. It forms the whole of the nervous system, the epidermis of the sl<in, the lining cells of the sebaceous, sweat and mammary glands, the hairs and nails, the epitheUum of the nose and adjacent air-sinuses, and that of the cheeks and roof of the mouth. From it also88 EMBRYOLOGY are derived the enamel of tlie teetli, and the anterior lobe of the pituitary body, the epithelium of the cornea, conjunctiva, and lachrymal glands, and the neuro- epitheUum of the sense organs. The entoderm consists at first of flattened cells, which subsequently become columnar. It forms the epithelial lining of the whole of the alimentary canal excepting part of the mouth and pharynx and the terminal part of the rectum (which are hned by involutions of the ectoderm), the Uning cells of all the glands Fig. 108.—A series of transverse sections through an embryo of the dog. (After Bonnet.) Section I. is the most anterior. In V. the neural plate is spread out nearly flat. The series shows the uprising of the neural folds to form the neural canal. rudiments of endothelial heart-tubes. =planchnio lavcr of mesoderm are the heart-tubes h; l.p., lateral plate stiU splanchnio (sp) layers of mesoderm: o, aortJE; c, intermediate cell-mass; eel, ectodenn ; f "™ ' ^■ In ni IV. aid V. the scattered cells represented between the entoderni and ^o^ormat re cells which give origin in front, accordmg to Bomiet, to the uX^deTin I.! II., and III. : in IV. and V. split into somatic («»0 wd mes, mesoderm ; p, pericardium ; so, primitive segment. which open into the alimentary canal, including those of the liver and pa^creas, The epith'elium of the Eustachiafi tube and ^yfr^^f^'^'^'^l^^^^^ and air-cells of the lungs, of the urinary bladder and part of the urethra, and tnat which lines the follicles of the thyroid and thymus glands. ,„^,.„„„ded bv a The mesoderm consists of loosely arranged branched ^<^"? ff* .^"Ve considerable amount of intercellular fluid. From it the veSs s how^ body are developed. The epithelial lining of the heart and blood-vessels is. now ever, regarded by some as being of entodcrmal origin. THE NEURAL GROOVE AND TUBE In front of the primitive streak two longitudinal ridges, ^•'^"J^J^;;^^^^^';^ or folding up of the ectoderm, make their "PP^'™^' ^^.VJom middle line (fig. 106). These arenamed thencMrai or medullary folds , t^^y;™'^^^ some distance behind the anterior end of the embryonic area, where the) are89 THE NEURAL GROOVE AND TUBE coutiuuous wdth eacli other, and from there gradually extend backwards, one on .'ither side of the primitive streak. Between these folds is seen a mesial, longitu- dinal t'roove, the neural c/roove (figs. 108, 109), which gradually deepens as the medulfary folds become elevated. Ultimately the folds meet and coalesce in the middle Une, converting the neural groove into a closed tube, the neural tube or canal (fig. Ill), the surrounding ectodermal wall of which forms the rudiment of the nervous system. By the coalescence of the medullary folds over the anterior end of the primitive streak, the blastopore no longer Fio. 109.—Human embryo—length 2 mm. Dorsal view, opens on the surface but into the closed canal of the neural tube, and thus a transitory communica- tion, the neurenteric canal, is estabhshed between the neural tube and the primi- tive ahmentary canal. The coalescence of the medul- lary folds occurs first in the region of the hind- brain, and from there ex- tends forwards and back- wards ; the hinder part of the neural groove presents for a time a rhomboidal shape, and to this ex- panded portion the term sinus rhomboidalis has been apphed (fig. 110). Before the neural groove is closed to form the neural tube a ridge of ectodermal cells appears along the promi- nent margin of each medul- lary fold; this is termed the neural crest or ganglion ridge (fig. 150), and from it the spinal and cranial nerve ganglia and the gangha of the sympathetic nervous system are developed. The cephahc end of the neural groove exhibits several dilatations, which, when the tube is closed, assume the form of three vesicles ; these constitute the three primary cerebral vesicles, and correspond respectively to the future/ore-ftraw, mid- brain, and hind-brain (fig. 110). Their walls are developed into the nervous tissue and neurogha of the brain, while their cavities become modified to form its ventricles. The remainder of the tube forms the central canal of the spinal cord, whilst from its ectodermal wall the nervous and neurogUal elements of the spinal cord are developed. THE NOTOCHORD The notochord (fig. Ill) consists of a rod of cells situated on the ventral aspect of the neural tube; it constitutes the foundation of the axial skeleton, since around it the segments of the vertebral colunm are formed. Its appearance synchronises \vith that of the neural tube. On the ventral aspect of the neural groove an axial thickening of the entoderm takes place ; this thick- ening assumes the appearance of a furrow—the chordal furroiv—the margins of which come into contact, and so convert it into a solid rod of cells—the notochord —which is then separated from the entoderm. It extends throughout the entire length of the future vertebral column, and reaches as far as the anterior end of the mid-brain. Its cephahc extremity lies immediately behind the pituitary invagination of the stomatodfEura, where it ends in a hook-like extremity in the region of the future dorsum sellce of the sphenoid bone. It hes at first between the neural tube and the entoderm of the primitive ahmentary canal, but soon becomes separated from them by the mesoderm, wliich grows inwards and with the amnion laid oiJen. x 30. (After Graf Spee ; reconstruction.)EMBRYOLOGY 90 surrounds it. From this surrounding mesoderm the vertebral column, the basi- occipital and basi-sphenoidal portions of the skull and the membranes of the brain and spinal cord are developed. FOEMATION OF THE BODY CAVITY OR C(ELOM As the mesoderm develops between the ectoderm and entoderm it is separated into lateral halves by the neural tube and notochord. A longitudinal groove appears on the dorsal surface of either half and di\ddes it into an mner column, the Fig 110.—Chick embryo of thu-ty-three hours' incubation, viewed from the dorsal aspect. X 30. (From Duval's ' Atlas d'Embryologie.') 1 Read fold of amnion partly covering the fore-hrain Mid-hrain Hind-brain — Nerve ganglion Otic vesicle - Vitelline vein Fourteenth primitive segment Paraxial mesoderm Neural ridge Sinus rhomboidalia Bemains of primitive streak — Heart lateral m^esoderm, wluch is not ^.""fi'^?^, ^^J^^^^^^r ^^X^^ in the floor of the groove it into the extra-embryonic region. The T g\„o,vn as the intermediate connects the paraxial with the lateral mesoderm and is kno^^nFORMATION OF THE BODY CAVITY OR CCELOM 91 rell-mass ; in it the genito-urinary organs are developed. The lateral mesodcrra s„lits into two layers, an outer or somatic, which becomes apphed to the inner surface of the ectoderm, and with it forms the somatopleure ; and an inner or Fig. 111.—Section across the dorsal part of a chick embryo of forty-five houi-s'incubation. (Balfour.) lEctoderm . Ni'ural canal Primitive Wolffian , segment duct lioiiij cavity 01 coelom Somatic mesoderi tEntodcrm Notochord Aorta Splanchnic mesodern spla^rchnic, which adheres to the entoderm, and with iV^^.T .Je^ode^T^^^^^^^ rL The soace between the two layers of the lateial mesodeim is teimea tlmca^;o7TJ^^^^^ portion of this Jpace is enclosed witl^n^^^^^^^ emh.-y. and is named the emir^/omc ccelom ; it forms the rudiment of the pleural, peiicaidial, and peritoneal cavities, while the portion left outside the embryo, the extra- Fig. 112.-Dor8um of human embryo, embryonic ca^lom, envelops the yolk-sac, 2-11 mm. in length. (After Eternod ^ THE PRIMITIVE SEGMENTS OR PROTOVERTEBRAL SOMITES Towards the end of the second week the paraxial mesoderm becomes seg- mented and converted into a series of well-defined, more or less cubical areas, the primitive segments or protovertebral somites (figs. 110, 111, and 112), which extend from the occipital region of the head along the entire length of the trunk on either side of the middle line. They lie immediately under the ectoderm on the lateral aspect of the neural tube and notochord, and are con- nected to the lateral mesoderm by the intermediate cell-mass. The cells of each somite encircle a central cavity—the myoccel—which, however, soon becomes filled with angular and spindle-shaped cells. The somites of the trunk may be arranged in the following groups, viz.: cervical 8, thoracic 12, lumbar 5, sacral 5, and coccygeal from 5 to 8. Those of the occipital region of the head are usually described as being four in number. In mammals primitive segments can only be recognised in the occipital region of the head, but a study of the lower vertebrates leads to the belief that they are present also in the anterior part of the head, and that altogether nine segments are represented in the cephaUc region. 7olk-sac Cut edcje of amnion Primitive segments Neural folds Neiirenterit; canal DELIMITATION OF THE EMBRYO As has been pointed out, the margin of the embryonic area is of relatively slow growth, and thus it comes to form a ring of constriction between the embryo and the yolk-sac, and a part of the latter is enclosed within the embryo to formEMBRYOLOGY 92 the primitive iiliraentary canal (fig. lU). At the same time a part of the ctt'lom is enclosed within the embrj'o and forms the rudiment of the pleural, pericardial, and peritoneal cavities. Although the embryo grows in all directions, it increases much more rapidly in length than in width, and its cephalic and caudal extremities are bent downwards to form the cephalic and caudal fohh respectively (figs. 198 and 199). The pro-amniotic area, lying immediately in front of the pericardial area (see page 87), forms the anterior Umit of the slow-growing embryonic margin. The forward growth of the head therefore carries with it the posterior end of the pericardial area so that this area becomes inverted ; its posterior border becomes anterior and its dorsal surface ventral. When the cephalic and caudal flexures have been formed, the primitive alimentary canal presents the appearance of a nearly straight tulje, closed at its two extremities. TMs tube is divided into three portions, ^^z. : (a) the fm-e-gut, between the pericardium and the notochord ; (b) the mid-gut, opemng "directly into the yolk-sac ; and (c) the hind-gut, contained within the caudal fold (fig. 199). The passage between the mid-gut and the yolk-sac is at first relatively wide, but it is gradually narrowed and at the same time lengthened to form a tubular duct, the vitelline duct. MEMBRANES AND APPENDAGES OF THE EMBRYO.* These are concerned with the protection and nourishment of the embryo, and comprise (1) the yolk-sac, the amnion, the allantois, the chorion, and the umbihcal cord, which are'of embryonic origin; (2) the decidua, which is produced bv a modification of the mucous membrane of the uterus ; and (3) the placenta, which is derived partly from embryonic and partly from maternal tissues. Fig. 113.—Model of human embryo 1-3 mm. long. (After Eternod.) Somatic mesoderm Splanchnic mesoderm Entoderm Vitelline veins Amniotic cavity Amnion Medullary groove Neurenteric canal Body-stalk The yolk-sac (figs. 113, 114, 115) is an appendage of ^1'^ "^li^J^^^^^t^,;^^^^^^^ \\\ro thnt fnbp it s lined bv entoderm, outside of which is a layer ot mesoaerm. S ru ec o^t^;v^ni'aU^^^^ of the embryo, it is at ^-t compa^^^^^^^^^^ aije and communicates with the mid-gut by means of a relatively w de "Pf' ^^f with fluid, the vilellvne fluid, which possibly ^^^^^ ^^^^'^ f^^J^^'.^^^^^^^^ of the embryo during the earUer stages of its existence. Blood is conve> ea * The term embryo is often confined to a developing ov>nn up to the age of four months ; generally, however, the terms embryo and fcctus are niterchangeable.MEMBRANES AND APPENDAGES OF THE EMBRYO 93 wall of the sac by the primitiA^e aortae, and after circulating through a wide-meshed capillary plexus, termed the vascular area, is returned by the vitelline veins to the tubular heart of the embryo. This constitutes the vitelline circulation, and by means Fig. 114.—Section through the embryo which is represented in fig. 109. (After Graf Spec.) of it nutritive material is absorbed from the yolk-sac and conveyed to the embryo. At the end of the fourth week the yolk-sac presents the appearance of a small pear-shaped vesicle opening into the alimentary canal by a long narrow tube, the vitelline duct. The vesicle may be seen at birth as a small sac near the placenta, but the duct is soon obliterated ; its proximal part, however, sometimes persists in the adult as a diverticulum from the small intestine. It is known as Meckel's diverticulum, is situated from two to four feet above the ileo- colic junction, and may be attached by a fibrous cord to the abdominal wall at the umbilicus. The amnion is a membranous sac which surrounds and protects the embryo. It is developed in reptiles, birds, and mammals, which are hence called 'Amniota '; but not in amphibia and fishes, which are consequently tenned ' Anamma.' In reptiles, birds, and many mam- mals it is developed in the following manner. At the point of constriction where the primitive alimentary canal of the embryo joins the yolk-sac— i.e. in the region of the future umbilicus—a reflection or folding upwards of the somatopleure takes place. This, the amniotic fold (fig. 116), first makes its appearance at the cephalic extremity, and subsequently at the caudal end and sides of the embryo, and gradually rising more and more, its different parts meet and fuse over the dorsal aspect of the embryo, and enclose a cavity, the amniotic Fig. 116.—Human embryo from thirty-one to thu-ty-four days. (His.) Heart Mind-limbEMBRYOLOGY 94 cavity After the fusion of the edges of the amniotic fold, the two layers of the fold become completely separated, the inner formmg the amnion, the outer the false amnion or serosa (fig. 116). The space between the ammon and the serosa constitutes the extra-embryonic coelom, already referred to, and for a time communicates with the embryonic ccelom or primitive pleuro-peritoneal oa^^ty. In the human embryo the earliest stages of the formation of the ammon have not been observed ; in the youngest embryo which has been studied the ammon was already present as a closed sac (figs. 117, 123). As indicated on page 86, the primitive amniotic cavity which appears in the inner cell mass is probably retained in the human embryo, as in that of the bat, to form the permanent ammofc cavity This cavity is roofed in by a single stratum of flattened ectodennal cel ., the Lniolic ectoderm, and its floor consists of the prismatic ectoderm of the embryonic disc-the continuity between the prismatic embryomc ectoderm and tbe Ittened amniotic ectodemi being estabbshed at the margm of the embryo,^^^^^ area Outside the amniotic ectoderm is a thin layer of mesoderm, wluch separates It from the chorionic ectoderm or trophoblast and is continuous witb the mesoderm of th^body-stalk and witb the somatic mesoderm of the embryo Mall suggests that the human amnion may be formed by an mversion of the blastoderm. Frr 116 -Diagram of a transverse section, showing the mode of formation of the ammon ?n the chick^ The amniotic folds have nearly united in the middle hne. (From Quam s ' Anatomy,' vol. i. pt. 1, 1890.) false amnion^ chorion villi of chorion. I Ectoderm, blue ; mesoaerm, red; entoderm and notochord, black. When first formed the amnion is in close contact with the body of the embryo When first jo^J^r fifth week fluid begins to accumulate within it. This flmd foetus during the later stages of P^/g"''^"^/ flJ^nSJ^f^'f if^ cent, of solids': tathelattcr are carried the allantoio or umbibeal vessel..MEMBRANES AND APPENDAGES OP THE EMBRYO 95 In reptiles, birds, and many mammals the allantois becomes expanded into a sesicle (fig 199) which projects into the extra-embryonic coelom, i.e. into the space between the amnion and the serosa. If its further development be traced in the bird, it is seen to project to the right side of the embryo, and, gradually expanding it spreads over its dorsal surface as a flattened sac between the amnion and the serosa, and, extending in aU directions, ultimately surrounds the yolk. Its outer wall becomes applied to, and fuses with, the serosa, which lies immediately inside the shell membrane. Blood is carried to the allantoic sac by the two allan- toic or umbilical arteries, which are continuous with the primitive aortse, and, after circulating through the allantoic capillaries, is returned to the primitive heart by the two imibilical veins. In this way the allantoic circulation, which is of the utmost importance in connection with the respiration and nutrition of the chick, is established. Oxygen is taken from, and carbonic acid is given up to the atmosphere through the egg-shell, while nutritive materials are at the same time absorbed by the blood from the yolk. In man and other primates the nature of the allantois is entirely different from that just described. Here it exists merely as a narrow, tubular diverticulum of the hind-gut, and never assiunes the form of a vesicle outside the embryo. With the formation of the amnion the embryo is, in most animals, entirely separated from the chorion, and is only again united to it when the allantoic mesoderm spreads over and becomes applied to its inner surface. The human embryo, on the other hand, as was pointed out by His, is never wholly separated from the chorion, its tail end being from the first connected with the chorion by means of Fig. 118.—^Diagram illustrating early formation of allantois and diflferen- tiation of body-stalk. FiG. 117.—Diagram showing earliest Amniotic cavity observed stage of human ovum. Amniotic cavity ^—Body-stalk Allantois 7ol1c-sac Chorivn Yolk-sac Chorion a thick baud of mesoderm, named the body-stalk (Bauchstiel) (figs. 118 and 119) ; into this stalk the tube of the allantois extends (fig. 113). Moreover, in the human embryo the allantoic diverticulum is seen before the hind-gut is formed, and appears as a tubular protrusion from the yolk-sac (fig. 114). The body- stalk is at first attached to the hind-end of the embryo, but with the growth of the tail and the formation of the caudal flexure it assumes a ventral position, and the tubular allantois is then seen to open from the cloacal part of the hind-gut. The umbihcal orifice divides the allantois into two portions—an intra-abdominal and an extra-abdominal. The latter persists till birth in a rudimentary condition ; the proximal part of the intra-abdominal portion takes part in the formation of the cloaca. After the subdivision of the cloacal part of the hind-gut into bladder and rectum has taken place the distal part of the intra-abdominal portion of the allantois becomes obliterated and forms a fibrous cord, the urachus, which reaches from the summit of the bladder to the umbilicus. The umbilical cord and body-stalk (figs. 119, 120, 121).—The rudiment of the umbihcal cord is represented by the tissue which separates the rapidly growing embryo from the extra-embryonic area of the ovum. Included in this tissue are the body-stalk and the vitelline duct—the former containing the allantoic diverticulum and the umbilical vessels, the latter forming the communication between the aUmentary canal and the yolk-sac. The body-stalk is the posterior segment of the embryonic area, and is attached to the chorion. It consists of a plate of mesoderm covered by thickened ectoderm on which a trace of the neural groove can be seen, indicating its continuity with the embryo. Running through its mesoderm are the two umbilical arteries and the two umbilical veins, together with the canalEMBRYOLOGY 96 of the allautois—the last being lined by cutodermal epithelium. Its dorsal surface is covered by the amnion, wliile its Ventral surface is bounded by the extra- embryonic ccelom, and is in contact with the vitelline duct and yolk-sac. With the rapid elongation of the embryo and the formation of the tail fold, the body-stalk Fig. 119.—^Diagram showing later stage of allantoic development with commencing constriction of the yolk sac. Amniotic cavity Embryo Body-stalk Placental illi Allantois Yolk-sac Chorion Fig. 120.—Diagram showing the ex- pansion of amnion and delimitation of the umbilicus. Placental villi Fore-gut Embryo Amniotic cavity Heart comes to lie on the ventral surface of the embryo, where its mesoderm blends Sth that of the yolk-sac and the vitelline duct. The lateral leaves of somatopleuxe Sen grow round on each side, and, meeting on the ventral aspect of the aUantois endose the vitelUne duct and vessels, together with a part of the embryomc Fig. 121.—Diagram illustrating a later stage in the development of the umbiUcal cord. Placental villi Yolk-sac Umbilical cord Allantois Heart Alimentary canal Embryo Amniotic cavity eclon,; the latter i. "Wr'^'y ^IJllS^L^^S/JJXT;^^^MEMBRANES AND APPENDAGES OP THE EMBRYO 97 Mucous memhraiie Muscular fibres~- = A Stratum compactum imbiliciil vein, undergo atrophy, and disappear; and thus the cord, at birth, contains a pair of umbilical arteries and one (the left) unabiUcal vein. The chorion (figs. 117 to 121).—The chorion is developed from the wall of the blastodermic vesicle, and consists of two layers : an outer formed by the primitive ectoderm or trophoblast, and an inner by the somatic mesoderm (figs. 119 and 120). The trophoblast is made up of an internal layer of cubical or Fio. 122.—Diagrammatic sections of the uterine prismatic cells, the cytoUast or layer ^ucou.s membrane : (a) of the non-pregnant i^." ; ' T , ^ r uterus: b) of the pregnant uterus, showing o/Z<tn.<7A«ns,andanexternallayero the thi^^kened mucous membrane and thi richly nucleated protoplasm devoid altered condition of the uterine glands. of cell boundaries, the syncytium. (Kundrat and Engelmann.) It undergoes rapid proliferation and forms numerous processes, the chorionic villi, which invade and destroy the uterine decidua and at the same time absorb from it nutri- tive materials for the growth of the embryo. The chorionic villi are at first small and non-vascular, and consist of trophoblast only, but they increase in size and ramify, while the mesoderm, carrying branches of the umbilical vessels, grows into them, and in this way they are vascularised. Blood is carried to the villi by the branches of the umbilical arteries, and after circulating through the capillaries of the villi, is returned to the embryo by the umbilical veins. Until about the end of the second month of pregnancy the villi cover the entire chorion and are almost uniform in size (fig. 119), but after this they develop unequally. The greater part of the chorion is in contact with the decidua capsularis (fig. 124), and over this portion the ^^lli, with their contained vessels, undergo atrophy, so that by the fourth month scarcely a trace of them is left, and hence this part of the chorion becomes smooth, and is named the chorion Icpve; as it takes no share in the formation of the placenta, it is also named the non-placental part of the chorion. On the other hand, the villi on that part of the chorion which is in contact with the decidua placentalis increase greatly in size and complexity, and hence this part is named the chorion frondosum. Since it forms the foetal portion of the placenta, it is appropriately named the placental part of the chorion, and its villi, the placental villi (fig. 124). The decidua.—Changes take place in the mucous membrane of the uterus in order to render it fit for the reception of the fertilised ovum. It becomes congested and thickened, its connective tissue cells are increased in number, and its glands are expanded ; this altered mucous membrane is termed the decidua. "When the fertilised ovum enters the uterus it becomes imbedded in the decidua, which then undergoes the following changes : its thickness and its vascularity are greatly increased ; its glands are elongated and open on its free surface by funnel-shaped Stratum spongiosum Unaltered layer Muscular fibres 5B98 EMBRYOLOGY orifices, while their deeper portions are tortuous and dilated into irregular spaces. The interglandular tissue is also increased in quantity, and is crowded with large round, oval, or pol3^gonal cells, termed decidual cells. These changes are well advanced by the second month of pregnancy, when the mucous membrane consists of the following strata (fig. 122) : (1) stratum compaclmn, next the free surface ; in this the uterine glands are only slightly expanded, and are lined by columnai cells; (2) slratum spongiosum, in'which the gland tubes are greatly dilated and very' tortuous, and ultimately come to be separated by only a small amount of interglandular tissue, while their lining cells are flattened or cubical; (3) a thni unaltered layer, next the uterine muscular fibres, containing the deepest parts of the uterine glands, which are not dilated, and are lined with columnar epithelium : it is from this epithelium that the epithelial fining of the uterus is regenerated Fig 123 —Section through ovum imbedded in the uterine decidua. Semi-diagrammatic. (After Peters.) after pregnancy. The decidua fines the whok of the My of the uterus, ^vithout. however, occluding the orifices of the Fa lopia^^^^^^^^ the Imbedding of the ovum.-When the f^^^ll^^^^^^^';"'\ f'^Sood of the fundus uterus it adheres to the decidua, pnerally m the neighbov^^^^^^^^^^ a„d excavates uteri. It destroys the uterine epithelium «^'«.^,*^^,J,'7Xds^^^^^^^^^ in the decidua. and sinks into the decidua. It expands .^^P^f^^^^^ capsularis* the portion of the latter which overlaps t be ng namecl tuc ^^^^^^f,^.^,, The point at which the ovum entered IS at first^c^^^^^^^ blood clot, but soon all trace of ^he ap rture ost and ^ ^^^^ ^^^.^^^^^ ^^.^^-^^^ completely enveloped by the decidua (hg. 12^). me porn * The decidua capsularis was formerly "^^^\^/Z:^Z:S'Tio!S'^ :^r:Si tibmpletely cover the ovum.MEMBRANES AND APPENDAGES OF THE EMBRYO 99 intervenes between the ovum and the uterine wall is named the decidua basalts or decidua vlacentalis : it is here that the placenta is subsequently developed. The part of the decidua which lines the remainder of the uterus is known as the The trophoblast of the ovum proliferates rapidly and forms numerous branching villous processes which cover the entire surface of the ovum and invade and destroy the surrounding decidua. They embrace and erode the uterine capillaries so that blood spaces containing maternal blood are formed around the villi and m the trophoblast These spaces become greatly distended and constitute the maternal blood sinuses or intervillous spaces. The villi are at first non-vascular and consist of trophoblast only ; processes of mesoderm, however, soon invade them and carry into them branches of the umbilical vessels. Coincidently with the growth of the embryo, the decidua capsulars is thinned and extended (fig. 12-1). Its vascular supply is diminished, and it undergoes deo'eneration, and at the same time the non-placental villi atrophy and disappear. The space between the decidua capsularis and decidua vera is gradually obliterated, so that by the third month of pregnancy the two are in contact. By the fifth month ■piQ. 124. Sectional plan of the gravid uterus in the third and fourth month. (Modified from Wagner.) Placental villi imbedded in the ' uterus f amnion vera the decidua capsularis has practically disappeared, and, as a consequence, the chorion Iseva comes directly into contact with the decidua vera. During the succeeding months of pregnancy the decidua vera also undergoes atrophy, owing to the in- creased pressure. The glands of the stratum compactum are obliterated, and their epithelium is lost. In the stratum spongiosum the glands are compressed and present the appearance of slit-like fissures, while their epithelium undergoes degeneration. In the deepest or unaltered layer, however, the glandular epithelium retains a columnar or cubical form. The placenta.—The placenta comiects the fcetus to the uterine wall, and is the organ by means of which the nutritive, respiratory, and excretory functions of the fcetus are carried on. It is composed of foetal and maternal portions. The festal portion of the placenta consists of the villi of the placental part of the chorion. It has already been pointed out that the chorionic villi consist at firstoftrophoblast (ectoderm) only (fig. 125), and that they become vascularised by the growth into them of the mesoderm which conveys branches of the umbilical vessels (fig. 126). Further, it has been shown that, for a time, they cover the entire surface of the ovum and invade the whole o£ the surrounding decidua, but owing to the growth of the ovum and consequent extension of the decidua capsularis theEMBRYOLOGY iOO ca clc. vessels of the latter become atrophied and the villi over the corresponding part of the chorion disappear. On the other hand the placental vilU, which invade the decidua placentalis, branch repeatedly, increase enormously in size, and constitute the foetal part of the placenta (fig. 124). These greatly ramified vilU are suspended in the maternal blood sinuses. Fig. 125.—Diagram to illustrate the fii'st phase of and are therefore bathed in the placenta. (After Peters.) maternal blood, which is con- veyed to the sinuses by the uterine arteries and carried away by the uterine veins. A branch of an umbilical artery enters each villus and ends in a capillary plexus from which the blood is drained by a tributary of the umbilical vein. The vessels of the villus are surrounded by a thin layer of mesoderm consist- ing of gelatinous connective tissue, which is covered by two strata of ectodermal cells derived from the trophoblast: the deeper stratum, next the mesodermic tissue, represents the layer of Langhans ; the superficial, in contact with the maternal blood, the syncytium.* The maternal portion of the placenta is formed by the decidua placentaUs containing the maternal blood sinuses. As already explamed, these sinuses are produced partly by the erosion and opening out of the utenne vessels by the trophoblast and partly by the channels which make their appearance in the tTopho- blast itself. The destructive changes involve the greater portion of the stratum Fig. 126.—Diagram to illustrate the second phase of the placenta. (After Peters.) 711 es b.l., blood-lacuna ; ca, maternal capillary ; dc, decidua; mes, mesoderm ; stj, syncytium; tr, trophoblast. mcp III) ca "o stratum spongiosum and the unaltered layer ; through these and t^ebasa plate tne uteriSrifs and veinspass toand from^ lining of the uterine vessels ceases at the point where ^^'^J^'j^V Portions the sinuses themselves are Hned by the syncytium of the trophoblast. iortions . This outer layer was regarded by some authorities as b^^^^ "iirSfi of"te JtnXreS observations have proved that it is derived from the syncytium. The whole of the villi, therefore, consist of embryonic tissues.MEMBRANES AND APPENDAGES OF THE EMBRYO 101 Umhilical Avimon chorion vein Umbilical artery of the stratum compactum persist and are condensed to form a series of septa, which extend from the basal plate through the thickness of the placenta and subdivide it into the lobes or cotyledons seen on the utenne surface of the detached ^^^^The^fcetal and maternal blood currents traverse the placenta, the former passin" through the blood-vessels of the placental vilU and the latter through the material blood sinuses or intervillous spaces (fig. 127). The two currents do not inter- mingle being separated from each other by the delicate walls of the villi. Never- theless' the fcBtal blood is able to absorb, through the thin walls of the vilh, oxygen and nutritive materials from the maternal blood, and give up to the latter its waste products. The blood, so purified, is carried back to the foetus by the umbilical vein. It will thus be seen that the placenta not only estabhshes a mechanical connection between the mother and the foetus, but subserves for the latter the purposes of nutrition, respiration, and excretion. In favour of the view that the placenta possesses certain selective powers may be mentioned the fact that glucose is more plentiful in the maternal than in the foetal blood. It is interesting to note also that the proportion of iron, and of lime and potash, in the foetus is increased during the last months of pregnancy. Further, j27.—Scheme of placental circulation, there is evidence that the maternal leucocytes may migrate into the foetal blood, since leucocytes are much more numerous in the blood of the umbilical vein than in that of the umbilical arteries. The placenta is usually attached near the fundus uteri, and more frequently on the posterior than on the anterior wall of the uterus. It may, how- ever, occupy a lower position and, in rare cases, its site is close to the OS uteri internum, which it may occlude, thus giving rise to the condition known as -placenta frcevia. Separation of the placenta.— After the child is born, the placenta and membranes are expelled from the uterus as the after-hirth. The separation of the placenta from the uterine wall takes place through the stratum spongiosum, and necessarily causes rupture of the uterine vessels. The orifices of the torn vessels are, however, closed by the firm contraction of the uterine muscular fibres, and thus post-partum hcBmorrJiage is prevented. The epithelial lining of the uterus is regenerated by the proliferation and extension of the epithelium which lines the persistent portions of the uterine glands in the unaltered layer of the decidua. The expelled placenta appears as a discoid mass which weighs about a pound, and has a diameter of from six to eight inches. Its average thickness is about an inch and a quarter, but this diminishes rapidly towards the circumference of the disc, which is continuous with the membranes. Its uterine surface is divided by a series of fissures into lobules or cotyledons, the fissures containing the remains of the septa which extended between the maternal and fcetal portions. Most of these septa end in irregular or pointed processes; others, especially those near the edge of the placenta, pass through its thickness and are attached to the chorion. In the early months these septa convey branches of the uterine arteries which open into the maternal sinuses on the surfaces of the septa. The foetal sur- face of the placenta is smooth, being closely invested by the amnion. Seen through the latter, the chorion presents a mottled appearance, consisting of grey, purple. Uterine vein Uterine artery102 EMBRYOLOGY or yellowish areas. The umbilical cord is usually attached near the centre of the placenta but may be inserted anwhere between the centre and the margm. In some cases it is inserted into the membranes, i.e. the veZamentoMS insertion. From the attachment of the cord the larger branches of the urabihcal vessels radmte under the amnion, the veins being deeper and larger than the artei-ies. ihe remains of the vitelline duct and yolk-sac may be sometimes observed beneath the amnion, close to the cord, the former as an attenuated thread, the latter as a minute sac. ^ i i +1, On section, the placenta presents a soft, spongy appearance, caused by the greatly branched vilU ; surrounding them is a varying amount of materna blood giving the dark red colour to the placenta. Many of the larger viUi extend from the chorionic to the decidual surface, while others are attached to the septa which separate the cotyledons ; but the great majority hang free in the maternal sinuses, like the branches of a tree. i • The further growth of the embryo wiU be best understood from a descnption of the principal facts relating to the development of the chief parts of which the body consists. DEVELOPMENT OF THE PARIETES The Skeleton.-The skeleton is of mesodermal origin, and may be di^dded into (a) that of the trunk (axial skeleton), comprising the vertebral column, skuU, iibs, and stenuuu, and (h) that of the Umbs (appe-liculax^skelet^^^^^^^^ _ YiG 128 —Transverse section of a human embryo of the third week to show the differentiation of the prmiitive segment. (Kollmann.) The uotochord (fig. HI) is a temporary structure and forms a central axis, around which the segments of the vertebral column are de- veloped.* It is derived from the entoderm, and consists of a rod of cells, which lies on the ventral aspect of the neural tube and reaches from the anterior end of the mid- brain to the extremity of the tail. On either side of it is a column of paraxial meso- derm which di%ades into a number of more or less cubical segments, the primi- tive segments or frotovertebral somites (figs. 110, HI, 112). These are separated from one another by intersegmental septa and are arranged sym- metrically on either side of the neural tube and uoto- chord : to every^ segment a spinal nerve is ["distributed. At first each segment con- tains a central ca\-ity, the myoccel, but this is soon filled with a core of angular and spindle-shaped cells. The cells of the segment become differentiated into three groups, VZ^sSomMfSrSr . I„ .ho a,„phlo,«. th. .ot«ho,.l p„.to ..d fon.> the onl, ropre.enuli.o of . -kele... in that animal. ao, aorta m.p., musdo-plato; h.c, neural canal; ac, sclerotome; s.p., cutis-plate.DEVELOPMENT OF THE PARIETES 103 cells of the sclerotome are largely derived from those which form the core of the mvoccBl, and lie next the notochord. Fusion of the individual sclerotomes in an antero-posterior direction soon takes place, and thus a continuous strand of cells, the scleratogenous layer, is formed aloiig the ventro-lateral aspects of the neural tube. The cells of 'this layer proliferate rapidly, and extending inwards surround the notochord ; at the same time they grow backwards on the lateral aspects of the neural tube and eventually surround it, and thus the notochord and neural tube are enveloped by a continuous sheath of mesoderm, which is termed the membranous vertebral column. In this mesoderm the original segments are still distinguishable, but each is now difEerentiated into two portions, an anterior, consisting of loosely arranged cells, and a posterior, of more condensed tissue (fig. 129, A and b). Between the two portions the rudunent of the intervertebral disc is laid down (fig. 129, c). Cells from the posterior mass grow out into the intervals between the myotomes (fig. 129, b and c) of the corresponding and succeeding segments to form an arch or bow, the primitive vertebral bow. The mesial portion of this bow lies on the ventral aspect of the notochord, and is termed the hypocJiordal bar or brace. Its lateral portions extend both dorsally and ventrally ; the dorsal extensions surround the neural tube and represent the future neiual arch of the vertebra, while the ventral extend into Fig. 129.—Scheme showing the manner in which each vertebral centrum is developed from portions of two adjacent segments. Myotome Anterior portion of sclerotome Notocliord Posterior portion of sclerotome Intermyotomic sejjtuiii Costal process Intervertebral disc Notochord Centrum B the body-wall as the costal processes. The hinder part of the posterior mass joins the anterior mass of the succeeding segment to form the vertebral body. Each vertebral body is therefore a composite of two segments, being formed from the posterior portion of one segment and the anterior part of that immediately behind it. The neural and costal arches are derivatives of the posterior part of the segment in front of the intersegmental septum with which they are associated. This stage is succeeded by that of the cartilaginous vertebral column. In the fourth week two cartilaginous centres make their appearance on the dorsal aspect of the hypochordal bar, one on either side of the notochord ; these extend round the notochord and form the body of the cartilaginous vertebra. A second pair of cartilaginous foci appear in the lateral parts of the vertebral bow, and grow Imckwards on either side of the neural tube to form the cartilaginous neural arch. By the eighth week the cartilaginous arch has fused with the body, and in the fourth month the two halves of the arch are joined on the dorsal aspect of the neural tube. The spinous process is developed from the junction of the two halves of the neural arch. The transverse process grows out from the neural arch, immediately behind the costal process. Except in the case of the first cervical vertebra, the hypochordal bar of the primitive vertebral bow disappears by fusing with the intervertebral disc. In this vertebra, however, the entire bow persists and remains separate from theEMBRYOLOGY 104 cartilaginous body. The hypochordal bar becomes developed into the anterior arch of the bone, while the cartilaginous body forms the odontoid process which fuses with the body of the second cervical vertebra. The portions of the notochord which are surrounded by the bodies of the vertebrte atrophy, and ultimately disappear, while the parts which lie in the centres of the intervertebral discs undergo enlargement, and persist throughout life as the central nucleus fulposus of the discs (fig. 130). The ribs.—The ribs are formed from the ventral or costal processes of the primitive vertebral bows, the processes extending outwards between the muscle- plates. In the thoracic region of the vertebral column the costal processes of the vertebral bows grow outwards to form a series of arches, the primitive costal arches. As already described, the transverse process grows out behind the vertebral end of each arch. It is at first connected to the costal process by continuous meso- derm, but this becomes differentiated later to form the costo-transverse ligaments ; between the costal process and the tip of the transverse process the costo-transverse joint is formed by absorption. The costal process becomes separated from the vertebral bow by the development of the costo-central jomt. In the cervical vertehrcB the transverse process forms the posterior boundary of the foramen transversarium, while the costal process corresponding to the head and neck of the rib fuses with the body of the vertebra, and forms the antero- FiG. 130.—Sagittal section through the intervertebral disc and adjacent parts of two vertebrse of an advanced sheep's embryo. (KolUker.) Anterior cmiiinon ligavient Posterior common ligament Cartilaginous end of vertebral body Nucleus pulpostis Intervertebral disc Slight enlargement of notochord in the cartilaginous vertebral body lateral boundary of the foramen. The distal portions of the P^'^^^^^'^'^^f ^^^^J^J"! remain imdeveloped; occasionally the arch of the seventh cer^acal veitebia SSe goergreater^de;elopment, and by the formation ^f'^^^^f J^, is separated of! as a rib. In the lumbar reg^on the .^^^t^^ P^;*;^^^^^^^ ^^^^ primitive costal arches fail; the proximal portions remain ^"^df^^en*^^^^^^^^^ fuse with the transverse processes to form the transverse proc^ se of aesmpt^^^^^^ anatomy. Occasionally a movable rib is developed m ^"'"^^Jo /v jn coniVec- lumbar vertebra. In the sacral region costal processes are ^^^^P^^^^J^^ ■^"^'^t tion with the upper three, or it may be four, vertebra ; the IJ^^ ^acrum^ The segments fuse with one another to form the lateral masses of the sacrum, coccjraea^ vertetrfB are devoid of costal processes. ,ipvplnr.ment of The sternum.-The view generally held regarding the ^l^^^J^^^'^ J the sternum is that it arises as a paired structure ^3,*^^.;;^ , of the upper nine ribs which join on either side of the ^ H^ev cartilaginous strip. The two strips are at first <^«>"\<'^t«i^^ ™ ri * to a become united in the middle line from ^^f^^*^, ^'^f ^^'^^f' f "?„!^f, 1% ^^^^^ longitudinal piece of cartilage, which represen s the ^^""^"^"^'"fi^f The%^entral ends of the eighth and ninth cartilages fuse to form th*-^ ^^^^ appendix, and subsequently lose their connection ^"^h the stermmi^^ fe^^^^^^^^ the eighth retains its original connection, and constitutes an eighth true no.DEVELOPMENT OF THE PARIETES 105 whicli occurs more frequently on the right than on the left side. This bilatera cond tion of the primitive sternum would serve to explam the occui-rence of Su-es or holes £ the bone, as well as that rare anomaly a completely divided stemuL Paterson * on the other hand, after reviewing the literatui^e on this SubTecrand giving the results of his own observations on the embryomc and adult conditions of the sternum in EiG. 131.—Sagittal section of cephalic end of notochord. (Keibel.) fossa Mesode ordal tilage man and some of the lower animals says: 'The weight of evidence is all on the side of the primary association of the sternum with the shoulder girdle and its secondary connection with the ribs.' There is reason to beUeve that the upper part of the manubrium sterni represents the precoracoid element of the shoulder girdle. The skull.—Up to a certain stage the development of the skull corre- sponds with that of the vertebral column ; but it is modified later in association with the expansion of the brain-vesicles, the formation of the organs of smell, sight, and hearing, and the development of the mouth and pharynx. The notochord extends as far for- wards in the base of the future skull as the anterior end of the mid-brain, and becomes partly surrounded by meso- derm (fig. 131). The posterior part . . of this mesodermal investment corresponds with the future basi-occiput, and shows a subdivision into four segments, which are separated by the roots of the hypoglossal nerve. The mesoderm then extends over the brain-vesicles, and thus the entire brain is enclosed by a mesodermal investment, which is termed the membranous primordial cranium. From the inner layer of this the bones of Fig. 132.—Diagrams of the cartilaginous cranium. (Wiedersheim.) SiUcatiov of olfactory pit Ethmoid pla te — and nasal Olfactory organ Anter '. cerv vertebra Pituitary fossa.^ Trahecula cranii' Situation of otic vesicle Parachordal cartilage Notochord.. Extension around > olfactory organ Foramina for olfactory nerves Eyeball - Pituitary fossa Bast-cranial ' cartilage -Otic vesicle Notochord the skidl and the membranes of the brain are developed ; from the outer layer the muscles, blood-vessels, true sldn, and subcutaneous tissues of the scalp. In the shark and dog-fish this membranous cranium undergoes complete chondrification, and forms the cartilaginous skull or chondrocranium of these animals. In mammals, on the other hand, the process of chondrification is limited to the base of the skull—the roof and sides being covered in by membrane. Thus * The Uuvian Slcrntm, by A. Melville Paterson, 1904.EMBRYOLOGY 106 the bones of tlie base of the skull are preceded by cartilage, those of the roof and sides by membrane. The posterior part of the base of the skull is developed around the notochord, and exhibits a segmented condition analogous to that of the vertebral column, while the anterior part arises in fi-ont of the notochord and shows no regular segmentation. The base of the skull may therefore be divided mto (a) a chorclal or vertebral, and (b) a frecJiordal or prevertebral portion. In the lower vertebrates two pairs of cartilages are developed : viz. a pair of parachordal cartilages, one on either side of the notochord ; and a pair of prechordal cartilages, the traheculcB cranii, in front of the notochord (fig. 132). The I^a. 133.—Model of the chondrocranium of a human embryo, 8 cm. long. (From Hertwig's ' Handbuch der Entwckelungslehre.') Crista galli Cribriform plate Meckel's cartilage Malleus Incus Int. aud. meat. Jugular foramen Fossa siibarcuata Lesser vnng of sphenoid Optic foramen Greater wing of spheJioid Sella turcica Dorsum sclhe Can. nervi facialis -Ear capsule Ductus endol. For. hypoglossi Foramen magnum The mcmbrane-boncs are not represented. ■parach^ial caHOasc (Bg. 132) unite to form a ™'f On are of Sn oval shape, fuse with the 1^*"^^/ ,^^P^^*^„^f,*,tfnes cranii them arise the petro-mastoid portion.s of t^'^.t^'^K X',''J.^italy ^^^^^ ; their (fig. 132) are two curved bars o cartilage which eml^race t^e Pituit^^ ^^^^^ ^-^^ posterior ends soon unite with the l^'-^^' '^^Pl'^^^';^ ^'Jll^^^ and the form the ethmoidal plate, which extends forwards between the lore Dram107 DEVELOPMENT OF THE PARIETES olfactory pits Later, the trabeculas meet and fuse below the pituitary body, forming the floor of the pitiiitarv fossa, and so cutting oflt the anterior lobe of the pituitary body from the stomatodajum. The mesial part of the ethmoidal plate forms the bony and cartilaginous parts of the nasal septum. From the lateral margins of the trabecular cranii three processes grow out on either side. The anterior forms the lateral mass of the ethmoid and the alar cartilages of the nose ; the middle gives rise to the lesser wing of the sphenoid, while from the posterior the greater wing and external pterygoid plate of the sphenoid are developed (figs. 133, 134). The bones of the vault are of membranous formation, and are termed dermal or covering hones. They are partly developed from the mesoderm of the primordial cranium, and partly from that which hes outside the entoderm of the fore-gut. They comprise the upper part of the tabvUar portion of the occipital (interparietal), the squamous-temporals and tympanic plates, the parietals, the fi'ontal, the vomer, the internal pterygoid plates, and the bones of the face. Some of them remain distinct throughout life (e.g. parietal and frontal), while others join with the bones of the chondrocranium (e.g. inter- parietal, squamous-temporals, and internal pterygoid plates). Fig. 134.—The same model as shown in fig. 133 from the left side. For. optic. Lesser wiug of sphenoid Greater wing of sphenoid y^asal \{,psule iSept nasi . Maxilla For. hypogl. Cricoid cart. Thyroid cart Certain of the membrane-boiics of the right side are represented in yellow. Eecent observations have shown that, in mammals, the basi-cranial cartilage, both in the chordal and prechordal regions of the base of the skull, is developed as a single plate which extends from behind forwards. In man, however, its posterior pai-t shows an indication of being developed from two choudrifying centres which fuse rapidly in front and below. The relation of this cartilaginous plate to the notochord differs in different animals. In the rat embryo it lies beneath the notochord (Eobinson) ; in the sheep, pig, calf, and ferret, the cranial part of the notochord is enclosed within it; in man, the anterior and posterior thirds of the cartilage surround the notochord, but its middle third lies on the dorsal aspect of the notochord, which in this region is placed between the cartilage and the wall of the pharynx. The visceral arches.—In the lateral walls of the anterior part of the fore-gut a series of furrows or incomplete clefts appears (fig. 135). These are named the visceral clefts, and take origin as paired grooves or pouches in the sides of the fore- gut ; over each groove a corresponding indentation of the ectoderm occurs, so that the latter comes into contact with the entodermal lining of the fore-gut, and the two layers unite along the floors of the grooves to form thin septa between theEMBRYOLOGY 108 fore-gut and the exterior. In gill-bearing animals these septa disappear, and the grooves become complete clefts—the gill-clefts—opening from the pharynx on to the exterior ; perforation, however, does not occur in birds or mammals. The clefts separate a series of rounded bars or arches, the visceral arches, in which thickening of the mesoderm takes place (figs. 135, 1-36, 137). The dorsal ends of these arches are attached to the sides of the head, while the ventral extremities ultimately meet in the middle line of the neck. In all, five arches make their appearance, but of these Fig. 135.—Embryo between eighteen and twenty-one days. (His.) Mid-brain Fore-hrain—i!L_ Stomatodceum Mandibular arch TImd-brain Auditory vesicle Visceral arches Heart imnion {cut) only the first four are \'isible externally, the fifth never being elevated above the surface. The first arch is named the mandibular ; the second, the hyoid; the third, the thyro - hyoid (fig. 137) ; while the others have no distinctive names, but are referred to as the fourth and fifth visceral arches. In each arch a cartilaginous bar, consisting of right and left halves, is developed, and with each of these there is one of the primitive aortic arches. The mandibular arch Ues between the first vis- ceral cleft and the stoma- todaeum, and is developed into the lower Up and mandible. Its cartilaguaous bar is formed by what are known as Meckel's cartilages (right and left, fig. 138). The dorsal ends of these cartilages are connected mth the periotic capsules and are ossified to form two of the bones of the middle ear, the malleus and incus ;* the ventral ends meet each other in the region of the symphysis menti, and are usually regarded as undergomg ossification to form that portion of the mandible which contains the incisor teeth. The intervening part of the cartilage disappears; the portion immediately adja- cent to the malleus and Fig. 136.—The floor of the pharynx of a human embryo Body-stalk incus is replaced by fibrous membrane, and constitutes the spheno - mandibular ligament, while from the connective tissue covering the remainder of the carti- lage the greater part of the mandible is ossified. The second or hyoid arch assists in forming the side and front of the neck. From its cartilage are developed the styloid process, stylo- hyoid ligament, and lesser cornu of the hyoid bone. The cartilage of the third of the hyoid bone about fifteen days old. x 50. Tiibercidum impnr Fiircnia (From His.) Mandibular arch Hyoid arch Third arch - Fourth arch or thyro-hyoid arch The ventral ends of unite ^¥Those"of the opposite side, and^ forni a ^tran^^^^^^^^ The ventral gives origin to the great the second and third arches band, from use Ui tuvj w|^j^<^uiv^ , Y • 1 1 J the cartilages of which the body of the hyoid bone is developed. * Some regard the incus as arising from the dorsal end of the l^y">'l b^J-^•j)'^ J^/^"!;' (Phil. Trans.%o\. clxxix.) inclines to the view that the malleus, cartilaginous plate, the hyomandibula, which binds the proximal ends of the mandibular and hyoid bars together.DEVELOPMENT OF THE PARIETES 109 portions of the cartilages of the fourth and fifth arches unite to form the thyroid cartilage. The first and second arches grow more rapidly than those behind them, with the result that the latter become, to a certain extent, telescoped within the former, Fig. 137.—Profile view of the head of a human embryo, estimated as twenty-seven days old. (After His.) Lens and a deep depression, the sinus frcecervicalis (fig. 140) is formed on the side of the neck. This sinus is bounded in front by the hyoid arch, and behind by the thoracic wall; it is ultimately obUterated by the fusion of its walls. The outer part Fig. 138.—Head and neck of a human embryo eighteen weeks old, with Meckel's cartilage and hyoid bar exposed. (After Kolhker.) Malleus^ Incus Tynijinnic ring ,.Manilihle ■ —Meckel's cartilage Hyoid bone of the first cleft becomes the external auditory meatus, while the inner part of the same cleft forms the Eustachian tube, tympanic cavity and mastoid antrum. The septum between the outer and inner parts of this cleft is invaded by mesoderm, andEMBRYOLOGY 110 forms the membrana tympani. No traces o£ the outer parts of the second, third, and fourth clefts persist. The inner part of the second cleft is subdivided into an upper and lower portion by the palate. The former persists as the fossa of Rosenmuller. or lateral recess of the naso-pharynx ; in the latter is developed the tonsil, above which a trace of the cleft persists as the supra-tousillar fossa. I rom the pharyngeal w,n no —Under sm-face of the head of a human embryo about twenty-nine days old. (After His.) Membranous capsule over cerehral hemisphe)-e Fronto-nasal process Stomatodceum Lateral nasal process Eye Processus globularis Maxillary process Mandibular arch Hyomandibular cleft Mouth of olfactorjj pit {external nostril) Median part of fronto- nasal process Processus globularis Pituitary body Byoinandibular pouch Sinus pracervicalis Larynx Lung Eye Maxillary procrsf Mandibular arch Membrane closing hyomandibular cleft (membrana tympani\ Hyoid arch Thyro-hyoid arch Fourth arch boundaries. Two areas of .thickened e;;^-^f;?^g:2"SJSS:^cr^ diately under the fore-bram in the antciioi « tnc ,„,,o,,„dinp either side of the fronto-nasal vrocess By t^.^ - • ^0). which divide parts these areas are converted '^''^jfjJ^^Z^^^^^^^ (fig. 141). the fronto-nasal process into a mesial and t^^o laicra, ,111 DEVELOPMENT OF THE PARIETES The rounded lateral angles of the mesial uasal process constitute the rjlohular processes of His (figs. 140, 141). The olfactory pits form the rudiments of the nasal cavities, and extend backwards between the mesial and lateral nasal processes into the roof of the stomatodfeum. From their ectodermal lining the olfactory epitheUum and part of the olfactory bulb are derived. The globular processes are prolonged backwards as plates, termed the nasal Imninm : these laminae are at first some distance apart, but, gradually approaching, they ulti- mately fuse, and form the nasal septum ; the processes themselves meet in the middle line, and form the premaxillse and the pbiltrum or central part of the upper Up (fig. 142). The depressed part of the fronto-uasal process between the globular processes forms the lower part of the nasal septum or columella ; while above this is seen a prominent angle, which becomes the future point, and still higher a flat area, the future bridge, of the nose (fig. 144). The lateral nasal processes form the alfe of the nose. Continuous wath the dorsal end of the mandibular arch, and growing forwards from its cephaUc border, is a triangular process—the maxillary process—the ventral extremity of which is separated from the mandibular arch by a >-shaped notch (fig. 139). The maxillary process grows forwards to form the outer wall and floor of the orbit, and meets with the lateral nasal process, from Fig. 141.—Under surface of the head of a human embryo about thirty days old. (After His.) Eye Uymnandibular cleft Brain capsule over cerebral hemisphere Lateral nasal process Olfactory pit Processus glohularis Maxillary 2>rocess Mandibular a/rch which, however, it is separated for a time by a groove—the oculo-nasal sulcus— that extends from the furrow encircling the eyeball to the oKactory pit. The maxillary processes ultimately fuse with the lateral nasal and globular processes, converting the oculo-nasal sulci into the lachrymal sacs and nasal ducts, and at the same time forming the lateral parts of the upper Up and the posterior boundaries of the anterior nares. The maxillary process also gives rise to the lower portion of the lateral waU of the nasal cavity—the upper part of this wall, together wnth the roof, being developed from the ethmoid plate of the cartilaginous chondro- cranium. The nasal cavity is shut off from the buccal part of the stomatodseum by the development of the palate, the greater part of which is formed by a pair of shelf-like palatal processes which extend inwards hom the maxillary j^rocesses (figs. 142, 143) ; these coalesce mth each other in the middle lino, and constitute the entire palate, except a small part in front which is formed by the premaxillary bones. The union of the palatal processes with the premaxillffi is deficient in the middle line, where an aperture remains—the naso-palatine canal. The union of the parts which form the palate commences in front, the premaxillary and palatal processes joining in the eighth week, while the region of the future hard palate is completed by the ninth, and that of the soft palate by the eleventh week. The deformity known as cleft palate results from a non-union of the palatal processes,112 EMBRYOLOGY and that of hare-lip through a non-union of the maxillary and globular processes ?see pate 285). The nasal cavity becomes divided into the two nasal foss^ by a vertical septum, which extends downwards and backwards from the fronto-nasal ^ricei and nasal lamina, and unites below with the palatal processes. Into Fig 142 -The roof of the mouth of a human embryo about two and a half months old, shomng the mode of formation of the palate, (ilis.) Processus globularis Palatal process of processus globularis --^y Palatal part of maxillary process Maxillary process Mouth of olfactory pit, or nostril Mouth cavity this a plate of cartilage extends from the under aspect of the ethmoid plate of the chondrocranium. The anterior part of this persists as the septal cartilage of the nose, but the posterior and upper parts are replaced by the vomer and mesethmoid. On each side of the nasal septum, at its lower and anterior part, Fig. 143.-Frontal section of nasal cavity of a human embryo, 28 mm. long. (Kollmann.) Lateral part of ^. nasal capsule Concha inferior - Cartilage of Jacobson Ili^lilfi'lliiA Inferior meatus ,'| ^ :'' -^'g;?- f K-i ' ' Palatal process Cartilage of nasal sejttum -Jacohson's organ Inferior mcaiiis Cavity of mouth ■ A fnvm T blind nouch or diverticulum, which extends the ectoderm is invaginated to foim a 1^ P°"^" j^^s form the rudiments and maxillary bones.113 DEVELOPMENT OP THE LIMBS The Limbs.—The limbs begin to make their appearance in the third week as small elevations or buds at the side of the trunk (fig. 145). Prolongations from the muscle- and cutis-plates of several primitive segments extend into each bud, and carry with them tbe anterior divisions of the corresponding spinal nerves. Pinna Eye The axial part of the mesoderm of the limb bud becomes condensed and converted into its cartilaginous skeleton, and by the ossification of this the bones of tlie limbs are formed. By the sixth week the three chief divisions of tlie limb are marked ofE by furrows—the upper into arm, forearm, and hand ; the lower into thigh, leg, and foot (fig. 146). The limbs are at first directed backwards nearly Fig. 146.—Embryo of about six weeks. (His.) parallel to the long axis of the trunk, and each presents two surfaces and two borders. Of the surfaces, one—the future flexor surface of the limb—is directed ventrally; the other, the exlensw ■ surface, dorsally; while one border, the fre-axial, looks for- ward towards the cephalic end of the embryo, and the other, the post-axial, backwards towards the caudal end. The external con- dyle of the humerus, the radius and the thumb lie along the pre- axial border in the case of the upper limb; and the internal condyle of the femur, the tibia and the great toe along the corre- sponding border of the lower limb. The pre-axial part is derived from the anterior seg- ments, the post-axial from the posterior segments of the limb bud; and this explains, to a large extent, the innervation of the adult limb, the nerves of the more anterior segments being distributed along the pre-axial (radial or tibial), and those of the more posterior along the post-axial (ulnar or fibular) border of the limb. The Umbs next undergo a rotation or torsion tbrough. an angle of 90° around their long axes, the rotation Fore-limb Hind-limb Umbilical cordEMBRYOLOGY t being ejected alrnost entirely at t^^^^^^^^^ t^'iJ:^^:^^ TZ ^ is outwards ^onvaxds a he owe^^^^ ^^^^^^^ outwards, while manner the P hind-limb is directed inwards : thus the flexor Umb-buds and ^ continuous column of mesoderm^t^^^^^^^^ The first indications of the bones and pints aie cucumsc ^^^.^^^ the mesoderm; these c^densed parts become c^^^^^^ consist at first o\ 3°°^^'"^ into fibrous tissue as m the case of tl e three directions. may be convertea in ^^^^^ ^^.^j joint is developed. mp^ndermal core forms fibrous sheaths The tissue surrounding the o"^^^,^^^ ^Xe™^^^^ which are contmued for the developing bones, i.e. P«^°^J,«^^^^^2l m^^^^^ the capsules of the between the ends of the bones over that in them may be pints.. These -psu -^a^^^^^^^ ligaments. This, recogmsed specially strengtlienea »ana° w ii„aments. In some cases by howlver, is not the 0^17.^^*^°^ . ° ,^^^^^^^ portion of it persists and forms .^^^."^^^^^ development with Licular fibro-cartilages raay be intimately a^sociat^^^ the'knee-joint) the muscles surroundmg j^^^^^^^^^^^^^ structures, which are or with cartilaginous f ^^^^f' 'XTbro-cartilage of the sterno-clavicular joint) vestigial in human anatomy (e.g. the fibio ^artuage myotomes of The Muscles,-The volmitary muse es ^^^^^^'^^^^^^ ^heir position on the the primitive segments. Portions of^he ^J^^^^^^^, each other and side of the neural tube, ^„^f^^/^%,S column, or fuse with corresponding form the short muscles of ^J^^^Jf *Xm the Z^^^ the Erector portions of neighbouring myotomes to to V^^^^ ^^^^^ ,g,,n - spinas. Other portions of ^t^e yotomes extena Intercostal muscles, or may tLy may retain their segmental condition a^^^^^^ abdonnnal wall fuse with ad acent segments to ^^^^^^r into the Umb buds and there undergo Snally, portions of the myotomes waiide-nto the hmb fusions and alterations m forni to piod^^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^ their segmental segmental character the hmb muscles^ ^ nerve suppUes are retained, f ^ius and Latissimus dorsi) or towards darily towards the nnd-dorsal ^J'^-^^^-g-Jj^Pr'Again, muscles may ungrate in a the mid-ventral Hue e.g. Pectoralis 'l^apr • Ag ^^^^^^ cephalic direction (e.g. the facial "-«ck;^^^^^^ cle^ ^^^^^^^^ .nuscles carry or in a caudal direction (e.g. the lat^^ J^g^^ ^^^^ from which they were ongm- with them the segmental nerves ^/.f ^yfff^^'';!^. : the Diaphragm, which is X derived ; two examp es of this Jl^^^^^^JJ^^^g i„agnus, from the fifth sixth, derived from the tliird and fourth, ^l^d the "J^^erv^s of supply. In man115 THE SKIN, GLANDS, AND SOFT PARTS ectoderm, while the corium or true skin is of mesodermal origin, being derived from the cutis-plates of the primitive segments. About the fifth week the epidermis consists of two layers of cells, the deeper one corresponding to the rete mucosum. The subcutaneous fat appears about the fourth month, and the papilla3 of the true skin about the sixth. A considerable desquamation of ■pidermis takes place during foetal hfe, and this desquamated epidermis, mixed with a sebaceous secretion, constitutes the vernix caseosa, with which the skin is smeared during the last three months of foetal life. The nails are formed at the third month, and begin to project from the epidermis about the sixth. The hairs appear between the third and fourth months in the form of solid downgrowths of the deeper layer of the epidermis, the growing extremities of which become inverted by papillary projections from the corium. The central cells of the solid downgrowth madergo alteration to form the hair, while the peripheral cells are retained to form the Uning cells of the follicle. About the fifth month, the foetal hairs (lanugo) appear, first on the head and then on the other parts ; they drop off after birth, and give place to the permanent hairs. The cellular structures of the sudoriferous and sebaceous glands are formed from the ectoderm, while the connective tissue and blood-vessels are derived from the mesoderm. The mammary gland is also formed partly from mesoderm and partly from ectoderm—its blood-vessels and connective tissue being derived from the former, its cellular elements from the latter. Its first rudiment is seen about the third month, in the form of a number of smaD inward projections of the ectoderm, which invade the mesoderm ; from these, secondary tracts of cellular elements radiate and subsequently give rise to the glandular folHcles and ducts. The development of the folhcles, however, remains imperfect, except in the adult female. DEVELOPMENT OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM AND SENSE ORGANS The entire nervous system is of ectodermal origin, and its first rudiment is seen in the neural groove which extends along the dorsal aspect of the embryo (fig. 109). By the elevation and ultimate fusion of the medullary folds, the groove is converted into the neural tube (fig. 111). The anterior end of the neural tube becomes expanded to form the three primary brain-vesicles which are subse- quently modified to form the ventricular cavities of the brain (except the fifth) ; the remainder of the tube forms the central canal of the spinal cord (fig. 147). From its surrounding wall the nervous elements and the neuroglia of the brain and spinal cord are developed. The Spinal Cord.—At first the wall of the neural tube is composed of a single layer of columnar ectodermal cells. Soon the lateral parts of the wall become thickened, while the dorsal and ventral parts remain thin, and are named the roof and floor plates (figs. 147, 149). A transverse section of the tube at this stage presents an oval outline, while its Imnen has the appearance of a slit. The cells which constitute the wall of the tube are differentiated into two sets : viz. (a) spongioblasts or young neuroglia-cells, and (b) germinal cells, which are the parents of the neuroblasts or young nerve-cells (fig. 148). The spongioblasts are elongated and columnar, and extend from the lumen of the tube to its peripheral wall— their inner and outer ends being modified to fonn the inner and outer limiting membranes of the cord. The parts of the spongioblasts abutting against the central canal retain their columnar character, and ultimately form the laver of columnar ciliated epithelium which lines this canal. Their outer parts, on "the other hand, undergo ramification and form a sponge-like network, termed the myelospongium, from which the neuroglia or sustentacular tissue of the cord is developed. The branching of the spongioblasts is most marked near the periphery of the cord, and this outer part, in consequence, assumes the appearance of a fine reticulum. The germinal cells are large, round or oval, and fijst make their appearance ■ between the inner ends of the neuroglia-cells on the lateral aspects of the central canal. They increase rapidly in number, so that by the fourth week they form an almost continuous layer on each side of the tube. No germinal cells are found in the roof or floor plates; the roof-plate retains, in certain regions of the brain. Its epithelial character ; elsewhere, its cells become spongioblasts. The nuclei of many of the germinal cells exhibit mitotic changes, indicating that the cells I 2jjg EMBRYOLOGY are uiidersoins rapid subdiviBion. By such .ubdivision they give rise to the neuro- ='fyo4frve-cen. The^^^^^^^ ^'St^rf \Xo« StSXrE S^^^ a^d forJthe a^-cylinder or axon of the cell. Fig. 147.-Seotion of spinal cord of a four weeks' embryo. (His.) -Boof-plate it Oval bundle ■Posterior nerve-root Central canal ■Ependymal layer ■Mantle layer nterior nerve-roots Marginal layer Floor-plate A transverse section of ^VZI^Z Xe nSglia? nSir?;,i a:hr«te^:f^thri^S ^tLxrrii:stSLS7thTr;2 or....... the central canal. Germinal cell Neuroblast Myelospongium networl- U.,., next thec.ntr.1 canal, in which ^XTt^^pltL'Ii^'/orrSnS SL their subdivision and migration beco^^^^^^^^ canal ..self117 DEVELOPMENT OF THE SPINAL CORD appearance The widest part of the canal serves to subdivide the lateral wall of ?he neuraT tube into a dorsal or alar, and a ventral or basal lamma (fig. 149), a QiiTirlivision which extends forwards into the brain. Srventm part of the mantle layer becomes thickened, and on cross-secticn. annears Is a triangular patch between the marginal and ependymal layers. This EeSng is the ruSent of the anterior horn of grey matter, and contains many neSXsts the axis-cylinders of which pass out through the marginal layer and W thranterior roots';,f the spinal nerves (figs. 147, 149) The thickemng o^ mantle layer graduaUy extends in a dorsal direction, and orms the posterioi horn y mattel Thelxons of many of the neuroblasts ^ ^he alar lamni^^ forward, and cross in the floor-plate to the opposite side of the cord , these form the rucUment of the anterior white commissure of the cord. • f „f nf The anterior and lateral white colmnns of the spinal cord consist at first of the axons of the neuroblasts; they are, however, at - augmented by the pyramidal tracts which descend from the ^^^^bral cortex The fibres of the posterior nerve-roots grow inwards into the spinal cord from the ce s of the spinal gangUa; in the spinal cord of a six months foetus they form a well- FiG. 149.-Transverse sections through the spinal cords of Oilman embryos; A, about four and a half weeks old. b, about three months old. (His.) Eoof-plate Alar lamina Fasciculus gracili- Oval bundle Posterior nerve-root Central canal Ependyiiial lai/er Lateral column Basal lamina. nterior nerve-root Antefior column Floor-plate Posterior column Post, nerve-root Lateral column Central canal Anterior horn Anterior column A defined oval bundle in the peripheral part of the alar lamina. With the subsequent development of the posterior horn of grey matter this bundle is displaced inwards and forms the rudiment of the posterior column. By the growth of the anterior horns of grey matter, and by the increase in size of the anterior columns, a furrow is formed between the lateral halves of the cord anteriorly ; this graduaUy deepens to form the anterior median fissure. The mode of formation of the posterior fissure is somewhat uncertain. Many believe that it is produced by a growing together of the walls of the posterior part of the central canal. Robinson * traverses this view, and points out that the so-called posterior fissure is occupied by a fibrillated tissue, which is probably of a spongio- blastic origin, since its fibrils can be traced directly into the posterior grey commissure. Up to the fourth month of foetal life the spinal cord occupies the entire length of the spinal canal, and the spinal nerves pass outwards at right angles from the cord. From this time onwards, the vertebral column grows more rapidly than the cord, and the latter, being fixed above through its continuity with the brain, gradually assumes a higher position within the canal. By the sixth month its lower end reaches only as far as the upper end of the sacral canal; at birth it is • Studies in Anatoviy, Owens College, 1891.118 EMBRYOLOGY on a level with the third lumbar vertebra, and in the adult it terminates at the lower border of the first or upper border of the second lumbar vertebra. A delicate filament, the /Hum terminale, extends from its lower end as far as the coccyx. The Spinal Nerves.—Each spinal nerve is attached to the cord by an anterior or ventral and a posterior or dorsal root. The fibres of the anterior roots are formed by the axons of the neuroblasts which lie in the ventral part of the mantle layer ; these axons grow out through the overlying marginal layer and become grouped to form the anterior nerve- roots (fig. 147). 11 j: . • , The fibres of the posterior roots are developed from the cells of the spinal ganglia. Before the neural groove is closed to form the neural tube a ridge of ectodermal cells, the ganglion ridge or neural crest (fig. 150), appears along the prominent margin of each medullary lamina. When the laminae meet in the middle line the two ganglion ridges fuse and form a wedge-shaped area along the line of closure of the tube. The cells of this, area proHferate rapidly opposite the primitive segments and then migrate in an outward and ventral direction to the sides of the neural tube, where they form a series of oval- shaped masses, the future spinal ganglia. These gangUa are arranged sym- metrically on the two sides of the neural tube and, except in the region of the tail are equal in number to the primitive segments. The cells of the ganglia are at fijst round or oval in Fig. 150.—Two stages in the development of the neui-al crest in the human embryo. (Lenhossek.) shape, but soon assume the form of spindles the extremities of which gradually elongate into central and peripheral processes. The central processes grow in- wards and, becoming connected with the neural tube, consti- tute the fibres of the posterior nerve-roots, wlule the peripheral processes grow outwards to mingle with the fibres of the ante'rior root in the spinal nerve. As development pro- ceeds the original bipolar form of the cells changes; the two processes become approximated until they ultimately arise from a single'stem in a T-shaped manner. Only in the ganglia of the auditory nerve is the bipolar form retained. The anterior or ventral and the posterior or dorsal nerve- roots join immediately beyond the spinal gangUon to form the ^^^^ which then divides into anterior, posterior, and visceml J^™^^^^^^ ^^^'^^ and posterior divisions P-ceed toctly to th^^^^^^^^^^ further association mth ganglion cells ihe ^i^^'^^^^l^^^'JX thpv -oass through vesicles (figs. 110 and 135). These are "parked ofi from each other j,i„^.j,rmt constrictions, and are named J^e ./ore-he m^^^^^ ^^^^^^ ^X^'o^'Se'^TX ^^^^^DEVELOPMENT OF THE BRAIN 119 P.nbrvronic brain becomes bent ou itself in a somewhat zigzag fashion ; the two eSieirflexui's are concave ventrally and are associated with correspondmg a 1 tl,P whole head The first flexure appears m the region of the mid- Sr-J^ and is the F^^^^^ 155). By means of it he fo;? br?hi i^5 bent in a ventral direction around the anterior end of the noto ho d and ore-gut, with the result that the floor . f % ^^^'^^^^^ coiS to Ue almost parallel with that of the hmd-brain (fig. 155)- Th flpvnre causes the mid brain to become, for a time, the most prominent part of trbratr s nee itrdorsal surface corresponds with the convexity of the curve^ The second bend appears at the junction of the hind-brain and spinal cord This is termed the ce^mcal flexure (fig. 157), and increases from the thud to tie end of the fifth week, "when the hind-brain forms nearly a right angle with the spinal cord • after the fi th week erection of the head takes p ace and the cervical Ce^iWhes and cUsappears. The third bend is named ^^^o^exure (fia 157), because it is found in the region of the future P^^^, ^.f ^^-^ J! differs from the other two in that (a) its convexity is orwards, and (6) it.does not affect the head. The lateral walls of the brain-tube, Uke those of the spmal cord, are divided by internal fiuTOWs into alar or dorsal and basal or ventral laminse. The hind-brain or rhombencephalon.-The cavity of the hmd-bram becomes the fourth ventricle. At the time when the primary cephahc A^xure makes its appearance, the length of the hind-brain exceeds the combined lengths of the other two vesicles. Immediately behind the mid- brain it exhibits a marked constriction, the 151.—Diagram to illustrate the isthmus rhomhencefhali (fig. 154, Isthmus), ^iar and basal laminse of brain which is best seen when the brain is viewed vesicles. (His.) from the dorsal aspect. From the isthmus the valve of Vieussens or superior medullary velum and the superior peduncles of the cerebellum are formed. It is customary to di\ade the rest of the hind-brain into two parts: viz. an upper, called the melen- cephalon, and a lower, the myelencephalon. The cerebellum is developed by a thicken- ing of the roof, and the pons by a thicken- ing in the floor and lateral walls of the metencephalon. The floor and lateral walls of the myelencephalon are thickened to form the medulla oblongata; its roof remains thin, and, retaining to a great extent its epithehal nature, is expanded in a lateral direction. Later, by the growth and back- ward extension of the cerebellum, the roof is folded inwards towards the cavity of the fourth ventricle; it assists in com- pleting the dorsal waU of this cavity, and is also invagmated to form the epithelial covering of its choroid plexuses. Above it is contmuous with the inferior medullary velum ; below, with the obex and ligul^. The development of the medulla oblongata resembles that of the spinal cord, but at the same time exhibits one or two interesting modifications. On transvei;se section the myelencephalon at an early stage is seen to consist of two lateral walls connected across the middle line by floor and roof plates, as in the cord (figs. 152 and 153). Each lateral wall consists of an alar and a basal lamina, separated by an internal furrow, the remains of which are represented in the adult brain by the foveae on the floor of the fourth ventricle. The contained cavity is more or less triangular in outline, the base being formed by the roof-plate, which is thin and greatly expanded transversely. Pear-shaped neuroblasts are developed in the alar and basal laminaj, and their narrow stalks are elongated to form the axis- cvlinders of the nerve-fibres. Opposite the furrow or boundary between the alar and basal laminse a bundle of nerve-fibres attaches itself to the outer surface of the alar lamina. This is named the tractus solitarius (fig. 153), and is fonned by the sensory fibres of the glosso-pharyngeal and vagus nerves. It is the homologue of the oval bundle seen in the cord, and, like it, is developed by an ingrowth of fibres from the ganglia of the neural crest. At first it is applied to the outer surface of the alar lamina, but it soon becomes buried, owing to the growth over120 EMBRYOLOGY it of the neighbouring parts. By the fifth week the dorsal part of the alar lamina bends in an outward direction along its entire length, to form what is termed the rhombic lip (figs. 153, 156). Witliin a few days this lip becomes applied to, and unites with, the outer surface of the main part of the alar lamina, and so covers in the tractus solitarius and also the spinal root of the fifth nerve. Neuroblasts accumulate Fig. 152.—Transverse section of medulla oblongata of human embryo, x 32. (From KoUmann's in ' Entwekehingsgeschichte.') Boof-plate ■Alar lamina Furrow ietween alar and basal lamincB Basal lamina the mantle layer : those in the basal lamina correspond with the cells in the anterior horn of the spinal cord, and, like them, give origin to motor nerve-fibres ; in the medulla they are, however, arranged in groups or nuclei, instead of forming a continuous column. From the alar lamina and its rhombic lip, neuroblasts migrate into the basal lamina, and become aggregated to form the olivary nuclei, while many send their axis-cylinders through the floor-plate to the opposite side of the medulla, and thus constitute the rudiment of the raphe of the medulla. By means of this thickening of the ventral portion of the medulla the motor nuclei are buried deeply in the interior, and, in the adult, are found close to the fl^^. +hp fourth ventricle This is still further accentuated : (a) by the deXmtt of a?t rior pyramids, which are formed about the fourth tntTy le downward growth of the motor fibres from the cerebral cortex , nnrl (h\ bv the fibres which pass to and from the cerebellum. • ™ FaroZn is developed from the ventro-lateral waU of the metencephalon by a process similar to that which has been described for the medulla. 153 —Transverse section of medulla oblongata of human embryo. (After His.) Vagus nerve Hypoglossal nerve Floor-plate Rhombic lip Tractus solitarius Vagus nerve oglossal nervr Floor-2>late plates which soon fuse in the ?f ^i*! « f .^^^ brain vesicle • this constitutes the in the upper part of the ^f^'^^^^'^^^^^^^^ rudiment of th6 cerebellum, the outer suriace y;*;^" , ■ j., one on During the second month a pair of fissures, the fioccular jjssuies, pp ,DEVELOPMENT OF THE BRAIN 121 either side, in the postero-lateral part of the lamina and become continuous with a third fissure, the post-nodular, which is developed across the central part of the lamina. By this means a narrow area is mapped off; the central part of this area becomes the nodule, its lateral extremities the flocculi, and the intermediate portions the inferior medullary velum. Three additional furrows are soon developed. One, the fissura prima of Elliot-Smith, appears as a transverse groove on the anterior part of the upper surface and extends into the hemispheres ; it indicates the preclival fissure of the adult cerebellum. The portion of the cerebellum m front of it is differentiated into the Ungula, the lobus centralis, and the lobus culniiuis. The other two furrows mark off the future pyramid and are named the supra-pyramidal and pre-pyramidal fissures. The supra-pyramidal is the fissura secunda of ElUot-Smith, and forms the post-pyramidal fissure of the adult cerebellum. During the fourth and fifth months the following fissures appear in the lateral hemispheres: (1) the post-lunate, between the posterior crescentic and postero-superior lobes; the union of the two post-lunate fissures across the middle line forms the post- clival fissure which constitutes Fig. 154.—Exterior of brain of human embryo of the posterior boundary of the lobus cHvi ; (2) the' pa/ra- pyramidal, which blends with the post-pyramidal and separates the lobus tuberis from the lobus pyramidis; (3) the post-tonsillar, between the biventral lobe and the amygdala or tonsil; this becomes continuous with the pre- pyramidal, and with it forms the posterior Umitof the lobus uvulae; (4) the great horizontal fissure; although an important land- mark in the adult cerebellum, this fissure does riot appear until about the end of the fifth month, and from a developmental point of view is therefore of secondary interest. Some observers main- tain that the folium cacuminis, which connects the postero- superior lobes across the middle fine, is not developed until after birth, while others assert that it is present at the sixth month of foetal life. On the ventri- cular surface of the cerebellar lamina a transverse furrow, the incisura fastigii, appears, and deepens to form the tent-like recess of the roof of the fourth ventricle. The rudiment of the cerebellum at first projects in a dorsal direction ; but, by the baclcward growth of the cerebrum, it is folded downwards and sornewhat flattened, and the thin roof-plate of the fourth ventricle, originally continuous with the posterior border of the cerebellum, is projected inwards towards the cavity of the ventricle. The mid-brain or mesencephalon.—The mid-brain (figs. 154 to 157) exists for a time as a thin-walled cavity of some size, and is separated from the istlimus rhombencephali behind, and from the fore-brain in front, by slight constrictions. Its cavity becomes relatively reduced in diameter, and forms the Sylvian aqueduct of the adult brain. Its basal laminae increase in thickness to form the crura cerebri, which are at first of small size, but rapidly enlarge after the fourth month. The neuroblasts of these laminaj are grouped in relation to the sides and floor of the Sylvian aqueduct, and constitute the nuclei of the third and fourth nerves, and of the descending root of the fifth nerve. By a similar thickening process its alar laminai are developed into the four and a half weeks. (From model by His.)122 EMBRYOLOGY Fig. 155.—Brain of human embryo of four and a half weeks, showing interior of fore-brain. (From model by His.) corpora quadrigemina. The dorsal part of the wall for a time undergoes expansion, and presents an interior median farrow and a corresponding surface ridge ; these, however, disappear, and the latter is replaced by a groove. Subsequently two oblique furrows extend inwards and baclcwards, and the thickened lamina is thus subdi\ddcd into the quadrigeminal bodies. The fore-brain.—A transverse section of the early fore-brain shows the same parts as are displayed in similar sections of the spinal cord and medulla oblongata, viz. : a pair of thick lateral walls connected by thin floor and roof plates. Moreover each lateral wall exhibits a division into a dorsal or alar and a ventral or basal lamina separated internally by a furrow termed the sulcus of Monro. This sulcus ends anteriorly at the inner extremity of the optic stalk, and in the adult brain is retained as a shght groove extending backwards from the foramen of Monro to the Sylvian aqueduct. . , At a very early period—in some animals before the closure of the cramal part of the neural tube-two lateral diverticula, the optic vesicles, appear, one on either side of the fore-brain ; for a time they communicate ^vith the cavity of the fore-brain by relatively wide openings. The peripheral parts of the vesicles expand while the proximal parts are reduced to tubular stalks, the oftic stalks. The optic vesicle gives rise to the retina and the epithehum on the back of the cihary body and iris ; the optic stalk is invaded by nerve-fibres to form the optic nerve. The fore-brain then grows forwards, and from the alar laminae of this front portion the cerebral hemi- spheres originate as diverticula which rapidly expand to form two large pouches, one on either side. The ca%nties of these diverticula are the rudiments of the lateral ventricles ; they com- municate with the mesial part of the fore-brain caA^ty by re- latively wide openings, which ultimately form the foramen of Monro in the adult brain. The mesial portion of the wall of the fore-brain vesicle consists of a thin lamina, the lamina icr- minalis (figs. 155. 157), which stretches from the foramen of Monro to the recess at the base nntir stilk The anterior part of the fore-brain, including the rudiments o tie ce^ bra hemispheres i na^ed the telencephalon, and its posterior portion tl termed the diencelhalon; both of these contribute to the formation of the Th?£cip/^«ion.-From the alar lamina of tlie diencephalon the tlialamus metathalamus^ and epithalamus are developed. The j7ja^am«5 f^^^^^ arLes as a thickening which involves the anterior two-thirds « ^^'^ f ^ The two thalami are visible, for a time, on t^^^^^^^^^ "/^^Jlj .'^"oVer^^^^^ subsequently hidden by the cerebral hemispheres whi.h ^acU ^^^^^^^^ he^ ^ The thalami extend inwards and gradually "^ll'^T^.^:^.^^^^^^^^^ u.esial sUt-like aperture which forms the greater i;;! ^^^^.^J^/^; commiss^^re surfaces ultimately adhere, mpart, to each othci and the ''''^^ "^^^^^^^ of the ventricle is developed across the point of contact ^J^Jf*^^^^^ j ^j^^ ^la^ prises the geniculate bodies which originate as slight ^^^^^^f 5, ^^^^^I^Xnce oVt^ Wna. In the adult the external geniculate body appears as an emmence on Ganglia and VIII. Ns Auditory123 DEVELOPMENT OF THE BRAIN outer part of the pasterior end of the thalamus, while the internal is situated on the lateral aspect of the mesencephalon. . The epithalamus includes the pineal body, the posterior commissure, and the tri"onum habenuliB. The pineal body arises as an upward evagination ot the roof-plate immediately in front of the mid-brain ; this evagination becomes sohd with the exception of its proximal part, which persists as the recessus fineahs In Hzards the pineal evagination is elongated into a stalk, and its periplieral extremity is expanded into a vesicle, in which a rudimentary lens and retina are formed • the stalk becomes sohd and nerve-fibres make their appearance in it, so that in these animals the pineal body forms a rudimentary eye. Th&josienor commissure is formed by the ingrowth of fibres into the depression behind and below the pineal evagination, and the trigonum habenulse is developed in front of the pineal recess. -n • -l i ■ From the basal lamina of the diencephalon the pars mamillana hypothalami is developed; this comprises the corpora mamillaria and the posterior part of the tuber cinereum. The corpora mamillaria arise as a median thickemng, %vhich becomes di\dded into two by a mesial furrow during the third month. Fig. 156.—Exterior of brain of human embryo of five weeks. (From model b)' His.) Ganglion liahen ulee The roof-plate of the diencephalon, in front of the pineal body, remains thin and epithehal in character, and is subsequently invaginated by the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. The telence-phalon.—This consists of a median portion and two lateral diverticula, one on either side. The median portion forms the anterior part of the cavity of the third ventricle, and is closed below and in front by the lamina terminalis. The lateral diverticula consist of outward pouchings of the alar laminaj; the cavities represent the lateral ventricles, and their walls become thickened to form the nervous matter of the cerebral hemispheres. The roof-plate of the telencephalon remains thin, and is continuous in front with the lamina terminaUs and behind with the roof-plate of the diencephalon. In the basal laminae and floor-plate the pars optica hypothalami is developed ; this comprises the anterior part of the tuber cinereum, the infundibulum and posterior lobeof the pituitary body, and the optic commissure. The anterior part of the tuber cinereum is derived from the posterior part of the floor of the telencephalon. The infundibulum and posterior lobe of the pituitary body arise as a downward diverticulum from the floor. The most124 EMBRYOLOGY dependent part of the diverticulum becomes solid and forms the postenor lobe of the pituitary body; the anterior lobe of this body is developed from a diverticulum of the ectodermal lining of the stomatodaeum (page 155). The optic commissure is developed by the meeting and partial decussation of the optic nerves, which subsequently grow backwards as the optic tracts and ternunate in the diencephalon. . j- x- i r The cerebral hemispheres.—As already stated, these anse as diverticula ot the alar laminfe of the telencephalon (figs. 154 to 157); they mcrease rapidly m size and ultimately overlap the parts which are developed from the mid- and hind-brains. This great expansion of the hemispheres is a charac- teristic feature of the brains of mammals, and attains its maximum develop- ment in the brain of man. ElHot-Smith divides each cerebral hemisphere into three fundamental parts, viz. : the rhinencephalon, the corpus striatum, and the neopallium^ (figs. 154, 156) represents the oldest part of the telencephalon, and forms almost the whole of the hemisphere m fishes, amphibians, and reptiles. In man it is feebly developed m companson with Fig. 157.—Interior of brain of human embryo of five weeks. (From model by His.) Clwroidal fissure Pituitary body Becessus infimdibuli Tuber cinereum Corpus mamillare Cervical flexure the rest of the hemisphere, and comprises the foUowing Pf^V Sfacto'y lobe (consistin'g of the olfactory tract -J ^ulb ^^^^^^^^ olfactorium), the locus perforatus anticus, the f P^^f P^^"^"^ J tSe uncus supracallosal, and dentate gyn, the fornix, h^PPOcampus ana^ the last is the representative of ^^^^ l^/S^P^^^nnth a corresponding internal The olfactorv lobe appears as a longitudinal ridge, with a furrow, on the under surface of the hemisphere close to ThL ridge becomes di^dded by a groove - -^^-^^r^^i^eh"^^^^^^^^^^ The anterior grows forwards as a hoUow stalk the J^^^^^J*^^^^^,^,^ 3ohd and with the anterior part of the yentncu ar cavity f^^^^f'i^tinous tissue forms the rudiment of the oKactory bulb and tract a p^om the in the interior of the bulb indicates the position of the «^^^^^^ developed, posterior part the locus petfora ^s anticus and gyrus s^^^^ The position and connections of the remaining portions ot tue rm i are described with the anatomy of the brain. triangular The corfus striatum (figs. 155, 157) appears m the f^^amen thickening of the wall of the telencephalon between the optic recess anDEVELOPMENT OF THE BRAIN 125 of Monro. It increases in size, and by the second month is seen as aswelhng in the floor of the future lateral ventricle ; this swelUng reaches as far as the posterior end of the primitive hemisphere, and as a consequence when this part of the hemisphere arows backwards and downwards to form the temporal lobe, the posterior part of the corpus striatum is carried into the roof of the descending horn, where it is seen as the tail of the caudate nucleus in the adult brain. During the fourth and fifth months the corpus striatum becomes incompletely subdivided by the fibres oi the internal capsule into two masses, an inner, the caudate nucleus, and an outer, the lenticular nucleus. In front, the corpus striatum is continuous mth the grey matter of the locus perforatus anticus ; externally it is confluent for a tinie with that portion of the waU of the vesicle which is developed into the island of Reil, but the continuity is subsequently interrupted by the fibres of the external The neopallium forms the remaining, and by far the greater part of the cerebral hemisphere. It consists, at an early stage, of a relatively large, more or less hemispherical cavity—the primitive lateral ventricle—enclosed by a thin wall Fig. 158.—Median section of brain of human embryo of three months. (From model by His.) Choroidal fissure Wi inencephalon Lamina terminalis Corpus strialiim Optic recess Chiasma Pituitary body Becessus infundibuli from which the grey cortex of the hemisphere is developed. The vesicle expands in all directions, but more especially upwards and backwards, so that by the third month the hemispheres cover the diencephalon, by the sixth they overlap the mid-brain, and by the eighth the hind-brain. The hemispheres are separated by a deep cleft, the forerunner of the great longitudinal fissure, and this cleft is occupied by a septum of mesodermal tissue which constitutes the primitive falx cerebri. Coincidently with the expansion of the vesicle, its cavity is drawn out into three prolongations which represent the horns of the future lateral ventricle ; the posterior extremity of the vesicle is carried downwards and forwards and forms the descending horn, the posterior horn being produced somewhat later, in association with the back- ward growth of the occipital lobe of the hemisphere. The roof-plate of the fore-brain remains thin and of an epithehal character; it is invaginated into the lateral ventricle along the mesial wall of the hemisphere. This invagination constitutes the choroidal fissure, and extends from the foramen of Monro to the posterior end of the vesicle. Mesodermal tissue, continuous withEMBRYOLOGY 126 Fig. 159. — Outer sui-face o£ cerebral hemisphere of human embryo of al)oul five months. Fronto-^jarietal operculu tii. that of the septum in the fissure between the hemispheres, and carrying blood- vessels with it, spreads between the two layers of the invagmated fold and forms the rudiment of the velum interpositum ; the margins of the velum become highly vascular and form the choroidal plexuses which for some months com- pletely fill the ventricular cavities. By the downward and forward growth of the posterior end of the vesicle to form the temporal lobe the choroidal fissure finally reaches from the foramen of Monro to the extremity of the descending horn of the ventricle. The portion of the cerebral wall immediately above the choroidal fissure forms what is termed the hifpocampal formation, and in the adult is represented by the supra-callosal gyrus, the hippocampus, and the gyrus dentatus. The outer surface of the hemisphere is at first smooth, but later it exhibits a number of elevations or convolutions, separated from each other by furrows or fissures. The fissures, most of which make their appearance during the sixth or seventh months of foetal life, are divided into (a) complete, which result from foldings of the entire thickness of the cerebral wall, and thus produce corresponding eminences in the ventricular cavity, and (6) incomplete, afiecting only the supUcial part of the wall, and therefore leaving no impressions m the ventricle The complete fissures are the hippocampal or dentate, the collateral and the anterior part of the calcarine, and these give rise respectively to the following eminences m the ventricle, viz. . the hippo- Smpus maior, the eminentia colkteraHs, and the calcar avis or hippocampus 3r ThT Sylvian fissure is sometimes described as a complete fissure, but, Srictly speaking, this is not correct. It first appears as a depression, the Sylvtan Fig. 160.—Median section of brain of human embryo of four months. (Marchand.) Choroidal fissure Gyrus dentatus Tcenia ihalami V Temporal operculum Sylvian fossa Frontal operculum Thalamus Post, commissure -'ffl^ Corpora quadrigemina Aqueduct of Sylvius Cms ccrehri Cerehellu m IV. ventricle Corpus callosum SeptumpeUucidum Ajiterior commi'SSure Lamina tcrmiiiaKs BhinencephaJon Optic chiasma Pituitary body III. ventricle Pons Medulla oblongata fossa, on the outer surface of the hemisphere (fig. 159); ^^f-'^^^^^^^ the Dosition of the corpus striatum, and its floor is moulded to form the is anrt S ReU The Yntimate connection which exists between the cortex of the island127 DEVELOPMENT OF THE BRAIN and the subjacent corpus striatum prevents this part of the hemisphere wall from expanding at the same rate as the portions which surround it. The neighbouring parts of the hemisphere therefore gradually grow over and coyer in the island, uid constitute the temporal, fronto-parietal, frontal, and orbital opercula of the adult brain By the end of the first year after birth the island is completely sub- merged by the approximation of the opercula. The fissures separating the opposed margins of the opercula constitute the composite fissure of Sylvius. The commissures (fig. 160).—The development of the middle (page 122) and posterior (pa«-e 123) commissures has already been referred to. The great com- missures of the hemispheres, viz.: the corpus callosum, the fornix, and anterior commissure, arise from the lamina termiuahs. About the fourth month a small thickening appears in this lamina, immediately in front of the foramen of Monro. The lower part of this thickening is soon constricted ofi, and fibres appear in it to form the anterior commissure. The upper part continues to grow with the hemispheres, and is invaded by two sets of fibres. Transverse fibres, extending between the hemispheres, pass into its dorsal part, which is now differentiated as the corpus callosum. Into the ventral part longitudinal fibres from the hippo- campus pass to the lamina terminahs, and through that structure to the corpora mamillaria ; these fibres constitute the fornix. A small portion of the original thickening, lying antero-inferiorly between the corpus callosum and fornix, is not invaded by the commissural fibres ; it remains thin, and later a cavity forms m its interior. The cavity is the so-called fifth ventricle, and its bounding walls the septum pellucidum. .... • xi. r n • A summary of the parts derived from the brain vesicles is given m the loliowmg table :— 1. Myelencephalon Hind-brain or I Metencephalon rhombencephalon i. .3. Isthmus rhomb- encephali Mid-brain or mesencephalon . tl. Diencephalon Fore-brain 2. Telencephalon I Medulla oblongata I Lower part of fourth ^ ventricle. / Pons Varolii j Cerebellum I Upper part of fourth ^ ventricle. I Valve of Vieussens Superior peduncles of I cerebellum. , Crura cerebri J Corpora quadrigemina (Aqueduct of Sylvius. iThalamus Metathalamus Bpithalamus Pars mamillaria hypo- thalami Posterior part of third ventricle. Anterior part of third ventricle Pars optica hypo- thalami Cerebral hemispheres Lateral ventricles \Foramen of Monro. The Cranial Nerves.—With the exception of the olfactory and optic nerves, which will be specially considered, the cranial nerves are developed in a similar manner to the spinal nerves (see page 118). The sensory or afferent nerves are derived from the cells of the ganglion rudiments of the neural crest. The central processes of these cells grow into the brain and form the roots of the nerves, while the peripheral processes extend outwards and constitute their fibres of distribu- tion. It has been seen, in considering the development of the medulla oblongata (page 119), that the tractus solitarius (fig. 162), derived from the fibres which grow inwards from the ganglion rudiments of the glosso-pharyngeal and vagus128 EMBRYOLOGY nerves, is tte liomologue of tke oval bundle in the cord whicli had its origin in the posterior nerve-roots. The motor or efferent nerves arise as outgrowths of the neuroblasts situated in the basal laminae of the mid- and hind-brain. While, however, the anterior spinal nerve-roots arise in one series from the basal lamina, the cranial motor nerves Fro. 161.—^Transverse section of medulla oblongata of human embr}'o. x 32. (From Kollmann's ' Entwickelungsgeschichte.') ■Boof-plate ■Alar lamina Furrow heliveen alar and basa l lamince Basal lamina Yagus nerve Hypoglossal nerve Floor-plate are grouped into two sets, according as they spring from the mesial or lateral parts of the basal lamina. To the former set belong the third, fourth, sixth, and twelfth nerves; to the latter, the eleventh and the motor fibres of the fifth, seventh, ninth, and tenth nerves (figs. 161, 162). The Nose.—The development of the nose has already been con- sidered (pages 110, 111). The olfactory nerves are de- veloped from the cells of the ectoderm which lines the olfac- tory pits ; these cells undergo prohferation and give rise to what are termed the olfa<:iory cells of the nose. The axons of the olfactory cells grow into the overlying olfactory bulb and form the olfactory nerves. The Eye. The development of the eyes commences by the protrusion of a pair of diverticula from the lateral aspects of the fore-brain. These diverticula are known as the opic vesicles; they project towards the sides of the head, and the peripheral part of each expands to form a hollow bulb while the proximal part remains narrow and constitutes the optic stall (figs. 163, lo4 . Ihe ecto- derm of the surface of the embryo in the area overiymg the bulb becomes thickened, invaginated, and finaUy severed from the ectodermal covering of the Fig 162 —Transverse section of medulla oblongata of human embryo. (After His.) Bhomhic lip Tractus soUtariiis Vagtis nerve Hypoglossal nerve Floor-plate head as a vesicle of ceUs, the Uns vesicle ^M coM^^^^ crystalUne lens. The outer wall of the bulb is indented by t^jf invaginated until it comes into contact with the inner wall, ^1^^ J^^'gT converted into a cup, the optic cup, consisting o two strata of ^^llM^g" These two strata are continuous with each other at the cup ^^l^^^J/'f^ ultimately overlaps the front of the lens and reaches as far forwardDEVELOPMENT OF THE EYE 129 the future aperture of the pupil. The invagination is not limited to the outer wall of the bulb, but involves also its postero-inferior surface and extends in the form of a groove for some distance along the optic stalk, so that, for a time, a gap or fissure, the choroidal Jissure, exists in the lower part of the cup (fig. 165). i'hrough the groove and fissure the mesoderm extends into the optic stalk and cup, and in this mesoderm a blood-vessel is developed ; when the groove and fissure are closed this vessel forms the central artery of the retina. Some- FiG. 163.—Transverse section of head of chick embryo of forty-eight hours' incubation. (From Duval's ' Atlas d'Embryologie.') times the choroidal fissure remains patent, giving rise to the condition known as coloboma. The retina is developed from the optic cup. The outer stratum of the cup persists as a single layer of cells which assume a columnar shape, acquire pigment, and form the pigmented layer of the retina. The cells of the inner stratum proliferate and form a layer of considerable thickness from which the nervous elements and the sustentacular fibres of the retina, together with a por- tion of the vitreous body, are developed. In that portion of the cup which overlaps the lens the inner stratum is not differentiated into ner- vous elements, but forms a layer of columnar cells which is apphed to the pigmented layer, and these two strata form the pars ciliaris and pars iridica retince. Fig. 164.—Transverse section of head of chick embryo of fifty-two hours' incubation. (From Duval's ' Atlas d'Embryologie.') Cavity of fore-brain Pigmented layer of retina Ectodei-m Lens Nervous layer of retina Optic stalk The cells of the inner or retinal layer of the optic cup be- come differentiated into spon- gioblasts and germinal cells, and the latter by their sub- cUvisions give rise to neuro- blasts. As in the spinal cord, the spongioblasts ramify to form a myelospongium, from which the sustentacular fibres of Miiller, the outer and inner limiting membranes, together with the ground-work of the molecular layers of the retina are formed. The neuroblasts become arranged to form the ganglionic and nuclear layers. Cameron,* after careful study of the neuroblasts in the retina, spinal cord, and brau), maintains that they consist ° V u °"^^' ^'^^ possess no cytoplasmic investment; the ' clear protoplasm, which has been described as surrounding them during mitotic division, being merely the 1905 ^^'^^"P"^®"*^ °* Retina in Amphibia, Journal of Anatmiy and Physiology, vol. xxxix.,EMBRYOLOGY 130 achromatic nuclear substance set free owing to the disappearance of the nuclear mem- brane^ He further maintains that the nuclei of the nuclear layers undergo subsequent Tf-^iinftinn bv direct division. The layer of rods and cones is first developed m the ^nS rart S^ t^^^^^^^^^ ^^^'^^"^ ^^''^"^ cup-margin. FiQ 165 —Optic cup and choroidal fissure seen from below, from a human embryo of about four weeks. (KoUmann.) Telenceplialon Edge of optic cup Tha lamencep halon. Optic stalk-—_ Choroidal fissure Arteria centralis retime Fig. 166.-Horizontal section through the eye of an eighteen days' embryo rabbit, x 30. (Kolhker.) Budiment of ch Bectus muscle Optic'nerve Beliiia Pigmented layer Vitreous body (shrunken) —Eyelid Lens Corma Membrana pupill<iris Eyelid Pars ciliaris and i)ars iridica retina The ,0* .«d cone. -P,- "far globule. pSi'"Iff'^oSd I^mfo pigmented layer. obUteration of it^ e„raS&;l Xr-'i'riS: 0. tJse «tae, „e centnpet.1.DEVELOPMENT OF THE EYE 131 aud grow into the optic stalk from the nerve-cells of the retina, but a few extend in the opposite direction and are derived from nerve-cells in the brain. The crystalline lens is developed from the lens vesicle, which recedes within the margin of the cup, and becomes separated from the overlying ectoderm by mesoderm. The cells forming the posterior wall of the vesicle lengthen and are converted into the lens-fibres, which grow forward and fill up the cavity of the vesicle. The cells Fig. 167.—Sagittal section of eye of human embryo of six weeks. (KoUmann. 1/. ^pf retina dermal rvous la Iter «9 o o o • '^^©'?''« - Vpper eyelid Pigmented layer of retina Mesodermal part of vitreous body Rudiment of sclera forming the anterior wall retain their cellular character, and form the epithelium on the anterior surface of the adult lens. By the second month the lens is invested by a vascular mesodermal capsule, the tunica vasculosa lentis, the blood-vessels of which are chiefly derived faom the central artery of the retina ; the part of Fig. 168.—Section through the head of a hviman embryo, about twelve days old, in the region of the hind-brain. (Kollmann.) Cavity of hind-brain Notochord Fig. 169.—Section through hind-brain and auditory vesicles of an embryo more advanced than that of fig. 168. (After His.) Hind-brain Auditory vesicle this capsule which covers the front of the lens is named the memhrana pupillaris. By the sixth month all the vessels of the capsule are atrophied except one, the wrteria hyaloidea, which disappears during the ninth month ; the position of' this artery is indicated in the adult by the canalis hyaloideus, which reaches from the K 2EMBRYOLOGY oi3tic disc to the posterior surface oi the lens. With the loss of its blood-vessels ?hrtimica vasculosa lentis disappears, but sometimes the membrana pupillans norsis s at blrtrgi^^^^^ rise to the condition termed congemlal atresia of the vufd. P The Vitreous £dv is developed between the lens and the optic cup Pnmanly it consiste of a series of slendL protoplasmic processes which project from the Fig 171.—Left auditory vesicle of a hum^ raibryo of five weeks, seen from the outer surface. (W. His, ]un.) Fig. 170.—Left auditory vesicle of a human em- bryo of four weeks, seen from the outer surface. (W. His, jun.) Auditory vesicle Beccssus lahyrinthi (Aquceductus vestihuli) - Beccssus lahyrinthi [Aquceductus vestihuli) Superior semi circular canal External semicircular canal Posterior semi- circular canal Budiment of coclilea cellsoftheiiinerlayerofthecup.andunitetof^^^^^^^^^ At first these processes spnng from the ^^^l^/X^^^^^^^ f process of condensation their origins are limited to the cihary ^^g^^^n Se mesoderm extends into the they appear to form the zonule of Zinn. When the mes r^Hc^xX^x cup through the choroidal fissure it becomes intimately unitea wiv Fig. 172.-Transverse section through head of feteUh-p, in the region of the labyrinth, x 30. (After Boettclier.; Mecessus lahyrinthi- Vertical semi- circular can^l Utricle Saccule External semi- Oanglion cochleare circular canal Ductus cocMcari^ tf; ^IX'ec'tod" ^^^^^^ partly from t^^-^^^o^^ ,,,, „,,3oderm separating 'tL anterior chamber of t^e eye appears as a cMt m the^ . ^ the lens from the overlying ectoderm. T^e layer o ^^^^ ^^^^^ of forms the substantia propna of the cornea, tn the iris and the membrana pupillans.DEVELOPMENT OF THE EAR 133 The sclerotic aud choroid coats of the eyebaU are derived from the mesoderni sunoimdiiig the optic cup. „ , . , , , The eyelids are formed as small cutaneous folds (fig. 166), which at the end of the third month come together and unite in front of the globe and cornea. This union is broken up and the eyeUds separate before the end ot icetai hte. Fig. 173.—Transverse section of the canal of the cochlea of a foetal cat. (After Boefctcher and Ayres.) . Fig. 174.—Tubercles from which the dif- ferent parts of the pinna are developed. (His.) The lachrymal sac and nasal duct result from a thickening of the ectoderm in the groove between the lateral nasal and maxillary processes. This thickening becomes hoUowed out into a chaimel, and the hps of the groove meet over it, and convert it into a duct, which eventually opens into the nasal fossa. The epithehum of the cornea and con- junctiva, and that which hues the ducts and alveoU of the lachrymal gland, are of ectodermal origin, as are also the eye- lashes and the hning cells of the glands which open on the hd-margins. The Ear.—The first rudiment of the internal ear appears shortly after that of the eye, in the form of a thickening of the surface ectoderm over the region of the hind-brain. The thickening is followed by an involution of the ecto- derm to form the auditory pit (fig. 168), which deepens and forms a flask-shaped cavity. The mouth of the flask is then closed, and thus a shut sac, the auditory vesicle, is formed (fig. 169); from it the epithelial hning of the labyrinth is formed. The vesicle becomes pear- shaped ; and the neck of the flask, or recessus labyrinthi, prolonged upwards, forms the ductus endolymphaticus. From the vesicle certain diverticula are given off which form the various parts of the labyrinth. One from the anterior end gradually elongates, and, forming a tube coiled on itself, becomes the membranous canal of the cochlea, the vestibular extremity of which is subsequently constricted to form the oanalis reuniens. Three others appear as disc-hke evaginations on the surface Mandibular arch Maxillary process Eye 1, 2. Tubercles on mandibular arcU. 3. Tubercle above cleft, if, c. Prolongation of 3 downwards. ■!, 5, G. Tubercles on hyoid arch. o.». Auditory vesicle.EMBRYOLOGY 134 of the vesicle : the central parts of the walls of the discs coalesce and disappear, while the peripheral portions persist to form the membranous semicircular cana s of which the external canal is the last to be developed (figs. 171,. 172). The central part of the vesicle represents the membranous vestibule and is subdmded by a constriction into a smaller anterior part, the saccule, and a larger posterior part, the utricle. This subdivision involves the proxima part of the ductus endolymphaticus, with the result that the utricle and saccu e ultimately commiiiicate with each other by means of a Y-shaped canal. The Fig 175 —Left ears of human embryos estimated at thirty-five and thirty-eight days respectively. (After His.) Helix Cms helicis AnHliehx Crus liehcis Helix .'Antihelix Tragus' ^Antitragus Aniitragus / I Mandible Lobule Tragus I Mandible \ \ Lobule saccule opens into the membranous canal of the cochlea through the canahs ?euniL and the membranous semicircular canals commmncate wit^^.tie utr^le S Auditory vesicle is imbedded in a mass of mesodermal tissue which r^T^irllv nnrraoes chondrification and ossification to form the bony labyrmth. "^^?eZdT ear Eustachian tube, and mastoid antrum axe ^^fo^fj^^n. thP inner part of the first branchial hyomandibular) cleft, and are cio.ea substantia propria of the membrane. \N ith regard to the exact mode of development of the ossicles of the middle ear there is some difference of opinion. The view generallv maintained is that the tncu^ and malleu/Rve developed from the pro^mal end of the mandibular (Meckel's) cartilage (fig 138) ; that the base of the stapes is formed by the ossification of the mesoderm which fills in the foramen ovale, while its arch is developed around a small vessel the stapedial artery, which subsequently under- goes atrophy. As already stated (footno e page 108), Gadow regards all three ossicles as being derived from the hyomandibula. The external auditory meatus is formed from the outer part of the hyomandibular cleft, while the piima is developed by the gradual differenriation o six tubercles which appear around the outer -xgin f ^ ^^jf^S^ on the posterior edge of the fibular a ch t^^^^^^^ of the tragus and crus hel cis. Three are found «^ J^^l^J'^^g^, .^^es above the from below upwards, the lobule, agus, and antihcux^^ ^^^^ .^^ cleft, and grows downwards behind the ^'^t/J^^.y^^"^^^ axe developed dowAward prolongation the upper and posterior parts ot tlie (figs. 174, 175, 176). Fig. 176.—Pinna in a more advanced stage of development than those represented in fig. 175. Helix Antihelix Crus helicis Antitragus Lobule - Tragus Mandible135 DEVELOPMENT OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM Ectoderm Mesoderm Entoderm Blood island DEVELOPMENT OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM There are three distinct stages in the development of the circulatory system, each in accordance mth the manner in which nourishment is provided for at different periods of the existence of the individual. In the first stage there is the vitelline circulation, during which nutriment is extracted from the vitellus or contents of the yolk-sac. In the second stage there is the placental circulation, dunng which nutriment is obtained by means of the placenta from the blood of the mother. In the third stage, com- mencing after birth, Fig. 177.—Section througli vascular area to show commencing there is the complete development of blood-vessel. (Semi-diagrammatic.) circulation of the adult, during which nutrition is provided for by the organs of the individual. Blood-vessels first make their appearance in the mesodermal wall of the yolk-sac, i.e. out- side the body of the embryo. Here the cells become arranged into sohd strands or cords . , i n r ^i. x j which ioin to form a close-meshed network. The peripheral cells of these strands become flattened and joined to each other by their edges to form the walls of the primitive blood-vessels. Fluid collects within the strands and converts them into tubes, and the more centraUy situated cells of the cell-cords are thus pushed to the sides of the vessels and appear as masses of loosely arranged cells which project towards the lumen of the tube. These masses are termed blood islands h» 177)- their ceDs acquire colouring matter, (hsemoglobm), and are then detached to form the blood-corpuscles (fig. 178).* The earUest blood-corpuscles are all nucleated : they are also capable of subdivision and of executing amceboid movements, and in these respects resemble colourless blood-corpuscles. Soon, however, true colourless iv.G. 178.-Later stage. Wood - corpuscles make their appearance, and, according to Beard.f are first derived from the rudi- ments of the thyroid gland. Coincidently with the development of the blood- vessels in the vascular area, the first rudiment of the heart appears as a pair of tubular vessels which are developed in the splanchno- pleure of the pericardial area. These are named the frimilive aortce, and a direct continuity is soon established between them and the vessels of the vascular area. Each receives anteriorly a vein—the vitelHne vein— from the yolk-sac, and is prolonged backwards on the lateral aspect of the notochord under the name of the dorsal aorta. The dorsal aortse end at first on the yolk-sac ; but with the development of the allantois they are continued backwards through the body-stalk as the umbilical arteries to the villi of the chorion. By the forward growth and flexure of the head the pericardial area and the anterior portions of the primitive aortse are folded backwards on the ventral * Some observers incline to the view that the endothelium of the vessels is of entodermal origin. The blood-corpuscles are developed from these endothelial cells, and are therefore also entodermal, the sequence of the development of the different .structures being : first the heart, then the blood-vessels, and lastly the blood-corpuscles. (Consult Dr. E. Mehnert's Biomeohanik, Jena, 1898.) t Anatamncher Anzeigcr, December 1900. elode.rm Mesoderm Entoderm Vessel wall Blood-corpuscles136 EMBRYOLOGY aspect of the fore-gut, and the original relation of the somatopleuie and splauchno- pleiire layers of the pericardial area is reversed, the latter being placed on the dorsal aspect of the former. Each primitive aorta now consists of a ventral and a dorsal part connected anteriorly by an arch. These three parts are named respectively the anterior ventral aorta, the dorsal aorta, and the first cephaUc arch. The first cephaUc arches pass through the mandibular arches, and behind them five additional pairs subsequently develop, so that in all six pairs of aortic arches are formed. The vitelline veins which enter the embryo through the anterior wall of the umbiUcal orifice are now continuous with the posterior ends of the anterior ventral aortte. With the formation of the tail-fold the posterior parts of the primitive aortfe are carried forward in a ventral direction to form the posterior ventral aortse and primary caudal arches.* In the pericardial region the two primitive aortffi grow together, and fuse to form a single tubular heart (fig. 180), the posterior end of which receives the two vitelUne veins, while from its anterior end the two anterior ventral aortas emerge.f By the rhythmical contraction of the tubular heart the blood is forced through the aortse and blood- FiG. 179.—Human embryo of about fourteen days old with yolk-sac. (After His.) (From Kollmann's ' Entwickelungsgeschichte.') Dorsal aorta Primitive jugular vein Amnion Cardinal vein Dorsal aorta BoSy-stalk Chorionic villi vessels of the vascular area, from which it is returned to the heart by the AatelHne vSns This constitutes the vitelhne circulation (fig. 179), and by means of it nutriment is absorbed from the vitellus. _ i r ..i . i i Te^telhne veins at first open separately into the posterior end of the tubu ar hpnrt but after a time their terminal portions fuse, and the two vesse s com- Lun cal Ui the\'rrt through a comm'on orifice. The ^atelUne vems uUrmatebj drain the blood from the ahmentary canal, and are modified to form the portal v^r This L caused by the growth of the Uver, which interrupts their direct lontinuity witi r heart; and the blood returned by them circulates through '""'^^Z^tritZ^^^^^^ the vitelline circulation dmnnishes and ultimatelv ceases while an increasing amount of blood is carried through the IwdUS'to the vilU of the chorion, ^ub—^^^^^^^^ Pbnrionir vilh atrophv, thek vessels disappear ; and then the umoiucai a"«ieb tiveTthr t^^^^^^^^ contents to the V^-cent.,^l..n^^^^^^ o the heart by the umbihcal veins. In this manner the placental circulation * Young and Robinson, Journal of Anatomy md Phj/siolog,/, ^^o]: ^jj^^^'- ^^-^^ t In most fishes and in the amphibia the heart ongmates as a single median tuDc.137 DEVELOPMENT OF THE HEART ostabUshed, and by means of it nutritive materials are absorbed from, and waste uroducts given up to, the maternal blood. , t n ^. r j ^ The uSibilical vei:as, Uke the viteUine, become mterrupted by the hver, and the blood returned bv them passes through this organ before reachmg the heart. Ultimately the right umbiUcal vein shrivels up and disappears, as will be explained later (pages 145, 146). Fig. 180.-Diagram to illustrate the simple Fig. I81.-Heart fui-ther advanced than tubular condition of the heart. (Drawn in fig. 180. (Drawn from Ecker-Ziegler from Ecker-Ziegler model.) model.) Aortic hulb Ventricle A n ride Sinus venosus Vitelline veins Aortic bulb Vitelline veins During the occurrence of these changes great alterations take place in the primitive heart and blood-vessels, and now require description. Further development of the heart.—The simple tubular heart, already described, becomes elongated and bent on itself so as to form an S-shaped loop, the anterior part bending to the right and the posterior part to the left. The intermediate portion arches transversely from right to left, and then turns sharply forward into the anterior part of the loop. SUght constrictions make Fig. 182.—Head of chick embryo of about thirty-eight hoiu-s' incubation, viewed from the ventral sui-face. x 26. (From Duval's ' Atlas d'EmbryoIogie.') Fore-brain Aortic bulb Auricle their appearance in the tube and divide it Irom behind forwards into four parts, viz.: (I) the sinus venosus ; (2) the •primitive auricle; (3) the primitive ventricle; (4) the aortic hulb, which consists of two portions, a proximal muscular portion known as the hulbas cordis, and a distal portion, the primitive aortic stem (figs. 180 to 182). The constriction between the auricle and ventricle constitutes the auricular canal, and indicates the site of the future auriculo-ventricular valves.138 EMBRYOLOGY The sinus venosus is at first situated in the septum transversum (a layer of mesoderm in which the liver and the central tendon of the Diaphragm are developed) behind the common auricle, and is formed by the union of the viteUine veins. The veins or ducts of Cuvier from the body of the embryo and the umbilical veins from the placenta subsequently open into it (fig. 185). The sinus is at first placed transversely, and opens by a median aperture into the common auricle. Soon, however, it assumes an oblique position, and becomes crescentic in Fig. 183.—Heart of human embryo of about fifteen days. (Reconstruction by His.) Maxillary process Stoviatodtxum Mandibular arch Aortic bulb- Ventricle Duct of Cuvier Umbilical vein form ; its right half or horn increases more rapidly than the_ left, while the opening into the auricle now communicates with the right portion of the aun- cular cavity. The right horn ultimately becomes incorporated with and tomis a part of the right auricle, the Une of union between it and the auncle proper being indicated in the interior of the adult auncle by a vertical crest, the crista terminaUs of His. The left horn, which ultimately receives only the left duct of Cuvier, persists as the coronary sinus (fig- 192). The ^ateUlne and umbiUcal veins are soon replaced by a single vessel, the mfenor vena cava, ana Fig. 184.—Heart showing expansion of auricles. (Drawn from Ecker-Zeigler model.) Eight auricle Bulb us cordis - Left auricle - Auricular canal Ventricle the three veins (inferior vena cava and right and left Cuvierian ducts) «p«n into other above' the opening and are continuous -^th a ^^^^^^ the rigft is sfurium. The left venous valve practically disappears, wmie me g139 DEVELOPMENT OF THE HEART subsequently divided to form the Eustachian and Thebesian valves. At the lower extremity of the sUt is a triangular thickening, the spina vesHbuli of His which partly closes the aperture between the two auricles, and, according to His' takes a part in the formation of both the interauricular and mterventncular '^^The auricular canal is at first a short straight tube connecting the auricular with the ventricular portion of the heart, but its growth is relatively slow, and it Fig. 185.—Heart of human embryo, 4-2 mm. long, seen from behind. (His.) Aortic bulb Vitelline ceiii becomes overlapped by the auricles and ventricles so that its position on the surface of the heart is indicated only by an annular constriction (fig. 184). Its lumen is reduced to a transverse sUt, and two thickenings appear, one on its dorsal and another on its ventral wall. These thickenings, or endocardial cushions (fig. 189) as they are termed, project into the canal, and, meeting in the middle fine, unite to form the septum intermedium which di^ades the canal into two channels, the future right and left auriculo-ventricular orifices. Fig. 186.—^Diagi'ams to show the development of the septum of the aortic bulb and of the ventricles. (Born.) Aortic septum The primitive auricular cavity becomes subdivided into right and left aui-icles by an incomplete septum, the septum primum (fig. 189), which grows down- wards into the auricular cavity. For a time the two auricles communicate with each other by an opening, the ostium primum of Born, below the free margin of the septum. This opening is, however, closed by the union of the septum primum with the septum intermedium, and the communication between the auriclesEMBRYOLOGY 140 is re-established through an opening which is developed in the upper part of the septum primum ; this opening is known as the foramen ovale (ostium secundum of Born) and persists mitil birth. A second septum, the seftum secundum, semilunar in shape, grows downwards fx'om the upper wall of the auricle 'to the right of the primary septum and foramen ovale. Shortly after birth it fuses with the primary septum, and by this means the foramen ovale is closed, but sometimes the fusion is incomplete and the upper part of the foramen remains patent. The annulus ovalis denotes the free margin of the septum secundum. Fig. 187.—Diagrams to illustrate the transformation of the bulbus cordis. (Keith.) 4o Primitive aortic stem. auricle. iJ, Bulbus cordis, i? F, Eiglit ventricle, i F, Left ventricle. ' • P, Pulmonary artery. The primitive ventricle becomes divided by a septum, the septum tnfenus or ventricular sepum (figs. 186, 189), which grows upwards from the lower part of the ventricle, its position being indicated on the surface of the hea_rt by a 1]iitow. Its dorsal part grows more rapidly than its ventral portion, and fuses witJi tlie dorsal part of the septum intermedium. For a time an interventricular foramen exists above its ventral portion, but this foramen is ultimately closed by the fusion of the aortic septum with the ventricular septum. As already stated, the aortic bulb consists of a proximal muscular portion, the bulbus cordis, and a distal portion, the primitive aortic stem. When the Heart -Transverse sections through the aortic bulb to show the growth of the aortic The lowest section is on the left, the highest on the right of the figiu-e. (Attei Fig. 188.- septum. His.) Aorta Aorta Ao rtn Pulmo- nary artery Pulmoitary artery Pulmonary artery assumes its S-shaped form the bulbus cordis Ues ventral to and in front of t^e P^"^; tive ventricle. The adiacent walls of the bulbus cordis and ventricle approximate fuse aTfinally disappear, and the bulbus cordis now commuincates freely ^vlth t^e l^St ventifcirS^^^ junction of the bulbus.with the P--^---^^^^^^^^^ is brought directly ventral to and appUed to the auricular canal. ^7 thejipgrowth of the ventricular septum the bulbus cordis is '^^.^'^.^f^"^^^ S ^^^^ the left ventricle, but remains an integral part of the right ventncle, of which it forms the infundibulum (fig. 187). .■■ , /«„ ^^^a\ Thits The primitive aortic'stem is divided by the ?V'^*«/" .(?^:^^?Shi^^^ makes its appearance as two ridge-like tliickeiungs which project into the limienDEVELOPMENT OF THE HEART 141 of the tube; these increase in size, and ultimately meet and fuse to form the seXm and thus the primitive aortic stem is divided into the pulmonary artery and the aorta. The aortic septum takes a spiral course towards the proximal end nf the stem so that the two vessels lie side by side above, but near the heart pulmonary artery is in front of the aorta (fig, 188) The septum grows down into S ventricle as an obhque partition, which ultimately blends with the ventricular septum in such a way as to bring the bulbus cordis into communication 3 the pulmonary artery, and through the latter with the sixth pair of aortic arches ; while the left ventricle is brought into continmty with the aorta, which communicates with the remaining aortic arches. j i j • The valves of the heart.—The auriculo-ventricular valves are developed in relation to the auricular canal. By the upward expansion of the bases of the ventricles the canal becomes invaginated into the ventricular cavities ihe invaginated margin forms the rudiments of the lateral cusps o the auriculo-ven- tricidar valves ; the mesial or septal cusps of the valves are developed as downward prolongations of the septum intermedium. The aortic and pulmonary valves are Fig. 189.—Interior of dorsal half of heart from a human embryo 10 mm. long. (His.) ; Septum apuriam Opening of sinus venosus I Left venous valve Septum primum Bight venous valve Spina vestiluli Posteriirr endocardial cushion Auricular canal Septum inferius formed from four endocardial thickenings—an anterior, a posterior, and two lateral—which appear at the proximal end of the primitive aortic stem. As the aortic septum grows downwards it divides each of the lateral thickenings into two, thus giving rise to six thickenings—the rudiments of the semilunar valves—three at the aortic and three at the pulmonary orifice. Further Development of the Arteries.—It has been seen (page 136) that each primitive aorta consists of a ventral and a dorsal part which are continuous through the first aortic arch. The dorsal aortse at first rmi backwards separately on either side of the notochord, but about the third week they fuse from about the level of the fourth thoracic to that of the fourth lumbar segment to form a single trunk, the descending aorta. The first aortic arches pass through the mandibular arches, and behind them five additional pairs are developed within the visceral arches; so that, in all, six pairs of aortic arches are formed (fig. 191). The first and second arches pass between the ventral and dorsal aortse, while the others arise at first by a common trunk from the aortic bulb, but terminate separately in the dorsal aortse. As the neck elongates, the ventralEMBRYOLOGY 142 aortffi are drawn out, and the third and fourth arches arise directly fi-oni these vessels. In fishes these arches persist and give off branches to the gills, in which the blood is oxygenated. In mammals some of them remain as permanent structures, while others disappear or become obUterated (fig. 191). The anterior ventral aortce.—These persist on both sides. The right forms (a) the innominate artery, (6) the right common and external carotid arteries. The left gives rise to (a) the short portion of the aortic arch, which reaches from the origin of the innominate artery to that of the left common carotid artery ; (b) the left common and external carotid trunks. The aortic arches.—The first and second disappear ; the third constitutes the commencement of the internal carotid artery, and is therefore named the carotid j<];q 190 ^Profile view of a human embryo estimated at twenty or twenty-one days old. (After His.) Third aortic arch Auditory vesicle Second aortic arch First aortic arch / Primitive jugular vein Fojirth aortic arch Fifth aortic arch Dorsal aorta Cardinal vein Mid-gut Hind-gut Olfactory pit Maxillars protest Uyomandibular clfft Mandibular arch Aortic bulb Auricle Duel of Ciwier Ventiicle Vitelline vein Yolk-sac Alhmtois Umhilical {allantoic) artery Uvibilical vein internal mammary branch; wMc the »"™'''"J^S, ,°,,,,i„ati<>nof theductus aorta between the origin of the left carotid "^ejy ™ V TteTxth right areh dis- arteriosne. The Mth arch f'»PPfS,°;h^nuin«rv arteries and forms the Xo«t td ,rLi::r= ^s^^«H«- both pulmonary arteries ^f^^^^ffJ^°°|,V'JrtL'^Sclres the dorsal aort^ persist The dorsal aoHce.-ln front o the th rd .^^^^ic arcues^^ and form the forward continuation of the mternal carotid artene143 DEVELOPMENT OF THE ARTERIES tliird arch the right dorsal aorta disappears as far as the point where the two dorsal aortse fuse to form the descending aorta. The part of the left dorsal aorta which intervenes between the third and fourth arches disappears, while the remainder persists to form the descending part of the arch of the aorta. A constriction, the aortic isthmus, is sometimes seen in the aorta, between the origin of the left subclavian and the attachment of the ductus arteriosus. "Sometimes the right subcla\dan artery arises from the aortic arch beyond the ori<nn of the left subclavian and passes upwards and to the right behind the trachea and oesophagus. This condition may be explained by the persistence of the right dorsal aorta and the obUteration of the fourth right arch. In birds the fourth right arch forms the arch of the aorta ; m reptiles the fourth arch on both sides persists and gives rise to the double aortic arch in these '^'^ The heart originally Ues on the ventral aspect of the pharynx, immediately behind the stomatodajum. "With the elongation of the neck and development of the lungs it recedes within the thorax, and, as a consequence, the anterior EiG. 191.—Scheme of the aortic arches and theh- destination. (Modified from KoUmann.) External carotid Ventral aorta Internal carotid Common carotid night subclavian artery Bight pulmonary artery Trunk of pulmonary artery — Aortic arch Ductus arteriosus Vertebral artery Subclavian artery Left pulmonary artery ventral aortse are drawn out and the original position of the fourth and fifth arches is greatly modified. Thus, on the right side the fourth recedes to the root of the neck, while on the left side it is withdrawn within the thorax. The recurrent laryngeal nerves originally pass to their distribution under the sixth pair of arches, and are therefore pulled backwards mth the descent of these structures, so that in the adult the left hooks round the ductus arteriosus ; owing to the disappearance of the fifth and the sixth right arches the right nerve hooks round that immediately above them, i.e. the commencement of the subclavian artery. A series of segmental arteries arises from the primitive dorsal aortse, those in the neck alternating with the cervical segments of the spine. The seventh segmental artery which lies between the sixth and seventh cervical segments is of special interest, since it forms the lower part of the vertebral artery and, when the foreUmb bud appears, sends a branch to it (i.e. the subclavian artery) ; the upper part of the vertebral artery is formed by an inter-segmental anastomosis between the higher segmental arteries. From the seventh segmental arteries the entire left subclavian and the greater part of the right subclavian are formed.144 EMBRYOLOGY The subclavian artery is prolonged into the limb under the names of the axillary •ind brachial arteries, and these together constitute the arterial stem for the upper arm. The direct continuation ol this stem in the forearm forms the anterior interosseous artery ; while the radial and ulnar vessels, which ultmiately exceed this artery in size, are in reality lateral branches of the mam stem. The formation of the primary caudal arches has already been referred to fnaee 136) and the fusion of the dorsal aortse to form the greater part of the sVstemic aorta has been pointed out (page 135). The middle sacra artery of the adult was formerly regarded as the direct contmuation of the adult aorta, but Youn" and Eobinson (op. cit.) maintain that it ' is a secondary branch, probably i^epresenting fused segmental arteries.' They have also pointed out that while the dorsal and ventral extremities of the primary caudal arches remain, their middle portions ' disappear and are replaced by " secondary caudal arches Vir 102—Human embryo with heart and anterior body wall removed to show the sini!\emZ lnd its\ributarie8. (After His.) (From Kollmann's ' Entmekel- ungsgeschichte.') Bight primUive jugular vein Left primitive \ ^ jugular vein Bight cardinal vein- Bight duct of Cuvier Sinus venosus- Bight hepatic vein- Portal vein- Portal vein. Bight umbilical veir. Umbilical cord- Left cardinal vein Left duct of Cuvier Left hepatic vein Left umbilical vein Left umbilical vein which lie to the outer sides of the Wolffian ducts.' 'The vessels ^i^^^^J/f.^J^^ Cked upon as the posterior continuations of the primitive aorta tji^ ^^^^^^^^ man, rod'ents, &c., L the common iUac internal ihac and ^JTOgas "c arten^^ The hypogastric arteries are continued into the umbihcal cord as "mo arteries. After birth they become obliterated from the umbihcus as far as tlie origin of the superior vesical arteries. i. • r ^^^^ iho ^riatic artery, The primar^ arterial stem for the lower limb is fo™^'^.^^/ '^'fthrthig^ which accompanies the great sciatic nerve along the P^f/^^^J/J^^^^^^^ Tto to the back of the knee, whence it is continued „«J ^he Pe^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^ arrangement exists in reptiles and amphibians The femoral artery as a branch of the common iliac, and, P^f "^g .^o^" l^^^^^^^lff^^^^^^ the thigh to the bend of the knee, joms the sciatic '-^^erj- The toi^^^^^^ y enlarge!, and, coincidentlv with this, the part of the sciatic immediately a do145 DEVELOPMENT OF THE VEINS knee undergoes atrophy. The anterior and posterior tibial arteries are branches of the main arterial stem. Further development of the Veins.—The formation of the great veins of the embryo may be best considered by dividing them into two groups, visceral and parietal. The visceral veins are the two vitelline or omphalo-mesenteric veins bringing the blood from the yolk-sac, and the two umbiUcal or allantoic veins returning the blood from the placenta ; these four veins open close together into the sinus venosus (fig. 19-1). The vitelhne veins run upwards at first in front, and subsequently on either side of the intestinal canal. They unite on the ventral aspect of the canal, and beyond this are connected to one another by two cross branches, the first on the dorsal, the second on the ventral aspect of the duodenal portion of the intestine which is thus encircled by two venous rings (fig. 193). The por- tions of the veins above the upper ring become invaded by the developing liver and broken up by it into a plexus of small capiUary-Uke vessels termed sinusoids (Mnot). The branches conveying the blood to this plexus are named Fig. 193.—The liver and the veins in connection with it, of a human embryo, twenty-four or twenty-five days old, as seen from the ventral surface. (After His.) Anterior detaclied portions of umbilical veins Vence revehentes Duodenum veins the vence advehentes, and become the branches of the portal vein ; while the vessels draining the plexus into the sinus venosus are termed the venae revehentes, and form the future hepatic veins (figs. 192 and 193). Ultimately the left vena revehens no longer communicates directly with the sinus venosus, but opens into the right vena revehens. The lower part of the portal vein is formed from the fused vitelline veins which receive the veins from the aUmentary canal; its upper part is derived from the venous rings by the persistence of the left half of the lower and the right half of the upper ring, so that the vessel forms a spiral turn round the duodenum (fig. 193). The two umbiUcal veins fuse early to form a single trunk in the body-stalk, but renaain separate within the embryo and pass forwards to the sinus venosus in the side walls of the body. Like the vitelhne veins, their direct connection with the sinus venosus becomes interrupted by the invasion of the hver, and thus at this stage the whole of the blood from the yolk-sac and placenta passes through the substance of the Uver before it reaches the heart. Tlie right umbiUcal vein shrivels and disappears; the left, on the other hand, becomes enlarged and opens into the upper venous ring of the vitelhne veins. L^^(5 EMBRYOLOGY FinaUy a direct branch is established between tins ^^^^^^^^^ fef atd^ this bLuch is named the d^'^^Yf^Zytinr^^^^^^^ - carried channel through which most o the "ood ^^t^™^^^^^^^^^^ J proportion of the UgammtuB teres and Ugamentum .''»n»^jm of the bver ^^^^ T*. which open, one appearance of two shoit transverse m^i v y receives an ascend- o^either side, into the sinus venosus.^ M ^^^^^ ing and descending vem ihe ,\^f^Xlffian bodies and are called cardinal palietes of the trmik and from the W°ia^n bo^^ ^^^^^ ?eins. The descending ve.ns return^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^U,,,,^ Si^e^ ^^^^^ Sn^^riTcfmS^^^^^^^^^ Fig. 194.—Scheme of arrangement of parietal veins. Sinus venosus Primitive jugular Subclavian Duct of Ouvier Vitelline TJiribilical Cardinal Subcardinal Benal 195.—Scheme showing early stages of development of the inferior vena cava. Internal jugular External jugular Subclavian Duct of Cuvier Left cardi7i-al Ductus venosus Benal Subcardinal External iliac Internal iliac External iliac Internal iliac .WO cardinal veins (hg. 196). v^in cardinal vein. The portion of the ^^^^ f J^^^^^^^ of the left spermatic vein atrophies and disappears up .^K^^^J ^s as ^ superior and inferior azy^o the portion above the left ^e^^^^:^^"^ superior intercostal vem. The minor veins and the lower Portion of the iett s p ^^^^ ^^^^^^ extremities right cardinal vein, which now ''XTosterior abdominal wall; up to he level forms a large venous trunk along the PO^tenor a ^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^^ tlie of the renal veins it forms ^.^^^ Vel perSsts as the vena azygos major level of the renal vems the ngtt^-ardnial ve n p ^^^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^ l,t and receives the ^igl^t intercosta vein^ 'of^^ransverse branches m front into communication wth It by the de^elop of the vertebral column figs. 196 l.W). inferior vena cava is associated " Inferior vena cam.-The development o th«.^-^^^^^^^^^ 195V with the formation of two veins, the cardinal veins, and Cse he parallel to, and on ^he ^entral aspect^^o^^^ ^^^^ the tnbutanes originate £ longitudinal f^fi^t.^ey communicate with tlie carding from the mesentery to tlie cardmal veins t > ^.^^.g^erse branches. The t^^o veins above and below, and also by a seriesDEVELOPMENT OF THE VEINS 147 subcardinals are for a time counected with each other in front of the aorta by cross branches, but these disappear and are replaced by a single transverse channel at the level where the renal veins join the cardinals, and at the same level Fig. 196.—Diagram showing development of main cross branches between jugulars and between cardinals. heft innominate night innominate Vena cava superior Pre-renal part of vena cava inferior Post-renal part of vena cava inferior - Internal Jugular External jugular Duct of Cuvier Left cardinal Left capsular Left renal Left common iliac External iliac Internal iliac a cross communication is estabUshed on either side between the cardinal and subcardinal (fig. 195). The portion of the right subcardinal behind this cross commumcation disappears, while that in front (i.e. the pre-renal part) forms a Pig. 197.—Diagram showing completion of development of the parietal veins. Left innominate Internal jugular External jugular Subclavian Left superior intercostal Right innominate w Vena cava superior Vena azygos major Pre-renal part of_ vena cava inferior Vestigial fold of Marshall Oblique vein of Marshall Coronary sinus Vena azygos minor superior Vena azygos minor inferior Left capsular Left renal Left spermatic Left commo7i iliac External iliac Internal iliac and rSi 1 ductus venosus at the point of opening of the hepatic veins, cardinaF fi^ ^""^^^f^^^ ^««eives the blood from the post-renal part of the right caroinal through the cross commumcation referred to. In this manner a single L 2148 EMBRYOLOGY trunk, the inferior vena cava (fig. 197), is formed, and consists of the proximal part of t"ie dnctus venosiis, the pre-renal part ot the right subcardmal vein, the post- rem part of the right cardinal vein, and the cross branch which pins these two W The left subcardinal disappears, except the part immediately m front o Xe renal vein, which is retained as the left suprarenal vein. The ^pe^atic or ovaiS vlin opens into the post-renal part of the corresponding cardinal vem. S portion ofX right cardinal, as already explained, forms part of the inferior vena ™! 0 that the right spermatic opens directly into that vessel. The Post- renal secernent of the left cardinal disappears, with the exception of the portion betteirre spermat^^ and renal vein, which is retained as the proximal part of ''''^l:i::^l::oi^^ atrophy of the Wolffian bodies the cardinal veins diminish branch the left primitive jugular vein ^^^^^^J^^^^^^^^^^ the former constituting the upp^^^^^^^^ latter is represented by the vestigial loia auu 4 . animals, and are Both right and If .^-PX^lJiSrhumau b n| The obhque vein of Marshall occasionally found m the adult hunaau ^^^^ the coronary ^^X-primitive jugular or anterior car^n^^;;^^^^ T^iSSe surface of the brain, on the mesial side of the ^l^^l^^l^!"^^ ^l^eh is developed portion of each of these vems disappears and is leplacea d) a inclusive, ^n the lateral aspect of tt^%«^--^,^\r''^'t STsk^l if colany ^ seventh This new vein {vena capiUs lateralis) l.^^^f ^^^f^iX^^o'T^SnVe future lateral nerve The blood from the hmd-brain is collected into a vein ( "nus which passes through the f« ^rtTer-^^ d--^ nerve : here the two vessels ]om to foim the "iternai ]u u ^ ^he vena asplct of the ear-capsule an anastomotic chann^ s o^^^^ capitis laterahs and the lateral sinus and coin^^^^^^ eraniaf nerve becomes the former vein ^,l"^^,^«^*^j^'^t^?'JVf ^^^^^^ brain is ultimately dramed obhterated, and thus the ^J^^^Xe iu^^^^^ vein is therefore represented away by the lateral sinuses The P"'^™^^,^^^'';^ external iugular, as is usually in the Lult by the internal jugu ar, and ;^«\^YoriateX^^^ which at first stated * The external jugular ^^^^^/^ 'i;?'', JJienlar) and enters the prinutive drains the region behind he 'l^ll^f'^ ^'^^^'Zu the face and lingual region is transferred to the external jugnlar. ^ is placed directly Peculiarities of the foetal heart.--in ^^ariyicerai ^ position in the ^^^^ ""t L..1,, A^^cm Journal .f Anat.,,. vol. i... L F*- 'W9.DEVELOPMENT OP THE LYMPHATICS 149 ovale. In consequence of the communication between the pulmonary artery and the aorta, through the ductus arteriosus, the contents of the right ventricle are mainly carried into the latter vessel instead of to the lungs, and hence the wall of the"right ventricle is as thick as that of the left. At the end of foetal hfc, however, the left "ventricle is thicker than the right, a difference which becomes more and more emphasised after birth. The foetal circulation and the changes which take place in the circulation after birth are described on pages 614 to 616. The lymphatic vessels.—The lymphatic system begins as a series of sacs * at the points of junction of certain of the embryonic veins. These lymph-sacs are developed by the confluence of numerous venous radicles, which at first lose their connections with the venous system, but subsequently, on the formation of the sacs, regain them. The lymphatic system is therefore developmentally an offshoot of the venous system, and the lining walls of its vessels are always endo- thelial. As already stated in the chapter on Histology (page 61), it forms a closed system, and has not as was formerly supposed any direct communication with tissue clefts or spaces. Fig. 198.—Scheme showing relative positions of primary lymph-sacs based on the description given by Florence Sabin. Left innominate Jugular lymph-sac Bight innominate Vena cava superior Pre-renal part of vena cava inferior Post-renal part of vena cava inferior Cistema chyli Posterior lymph-sac ~ Internal jugular External jugular Duct of Cuvier - Left cardinal Left capsular Left renal Betro-peritoneal lymph-sac Left common iliac External iliac Internal iliac In the human embryo the lymph-sacs from which the lymphatic vessels are derived are six in number : two paired, the jugular and the posterior lymph-sacs ; and two unpaired, the retro-peritoneal and the cisterna chyli. In lower mammals an additional pair, subclavian, is present, but in the human embryo these are merely extensions of the jugular sacs. The position of the sacs is as follows : (1) jugular sac, at the junction of the subclavian vein with the primitive jugular ; (2) posterior sac, at the junction of the iliac vein with the posterior cardinal; (3) retro-peritoneal, in the position of the cross branch between the renal veins ; (4) cisterna chyli at the site of the cross branch between the two iliac veins (fig. 198). From the lymph-sacs the lymphatic vessels bud out along fixed lines corresponding more or less closely to the course of the embryonic blood-vessels. They all arise as endothelial outgrowths, which later become canalised. Both in the body wall and in the wall of the intestine.t the deeper plexuses are the first to be developed ; by continued growth of these the vessels in the superficial layers are gradually formed. It is as yet undeter- mmed whether the thoracic duct is formed from anastomosing outgrowths from the jugular sac and cisterna chyli or whether it is developed by the transformation * Sabin. AmericoM Journal of Anatomy, vol. ix., No. 1, Feb. 1909. -f Heuer. Ibid.EMBRYOLOGY 150 of some of the radicles of the azygos veins. At its connection with the cisterna chyli it is at first double, but the right vessel soon joins with the left. ' All the lymph-sacs except the cisterna chyli are, at a later stage, divided up by slender connective tissue bridges and transformed into groups of IjTnphatic glands. The lower portion of the cisterna chyli is similarly converted, but its upper portion remains as the receptaculum chyli. The Pericardium.—As already pointed out (page 87), the anterior portion of the embryonic area in front of the oral plate or bucco-pharyngeal membrane is named the pericardial area. Previous to the formation of the head-fold the mesoderm has divided into its somatic and splanchnic layers, and these two layers together with the intervening coelomic space, extend forwards on either side of the bucco-pharyngeal membrane into the pericardial area ; the part of the coelom contained within this area becomes the cavity of the pericardium. This is, at first, in the shape of a crescent, the lateral horns of which extend backwards on either side of the bucco-pharyngeal membrane and are continuous with the pleuro-peritonea part of the coslomic space. The primitive blood-vessels, which, in the pericardial region, fuse to form the primitive heart, are developed in the splanchnic mesoderm of the pericardial area. By the rapid elongation of the embryo and the formation of the head-fold, the pericardial area and its contained blood-vessels are folded backwards to form the ventral wall of the fore-gut. By means of this process the surfaces of the pericardial area are reversed, its splanchnic layer bemg now situated on the dorsal aspect of its somatic layer, while its original anterior Umit comes to form the front boundary of the umbihcus. The viteUme veins, bringing the blood from the yolk-sac, enter the embryo through the anterior wall of the umbihcus and pass upwards and forwards to open into the tubular heart, which is, for a time, suspended along its entire length, from the ventral aspect of the fore-gut, by a dorsal mesentery (dorsal mesocardium) (fig. 225). By t^e absorption of the middle part of this dorsal mesocardium behind the ascendmg aorta and puhnonary artery the great transverse sinus of the pericardium is formed In amphibians and birds the pericardium is developed by the fusion of the lateral halves of the coelom in the middle hne beneath the fore-gut, and therefore in these animals there exists, for a period, a ventral mesocardium ; Robmson has shown that the pericardial cavity in mammals is from the first a smgle ca^aty, and that there is never at any time a ventral mesocardium. to The mesoderm immediately in front of the ^.^^bihcus becomes tlnckened t^ form the septum transversum, above which ai;e situated the lateral ^0"^^ «f pericardial cavity. These assume the form of tubular passages on the sides of the foitgur^nd constitute the communications between the pericardial and pTeuro-pe?i?okeal parts of the ccBlom (fig. 225) The lung buds S^o j oMndtl^ Lets of Cuvier into these passages, and push their ^^7J^^war^^^^^^^^ into the tissue of the septum transversum. The expansion of P^^^^^^.^^'^.;'!' herefore takes place in the septum which by this --"-^^ ^^^^^^^^ C the central part of the Diaphragm and the posterior ^^^ll " f \f g^^^J^^^^^ ^^7, and pleurae are closed. DEVELOPMENT OF THE ALIMENTARY AND RESPIRATORY SYSTEMS The Alimentary Canal.-As aWy -dicated ^^^^^^^^^ alimentary canal consists of three parts, viz. ^'^''f?"^^^ the yolk-sac ; flexure, and dorsal to the heart; (2)/^^e'mc^^«f. openi^^^^^^^^ } ^^^^ and (3 the hind-gut, within t^e caudal flexure (fig.^^^^^^^ t separated from gut and hind-gut end blmdly. The anterior end of tho me gy terminates the stomatodl>um by the pharyngeal septum (fig^ ^ posteriorly in the cloaca, winch is closed '^^^.^^Jjf^/^^^T the duodenum are ^ The pharynx, a3Sophagus, stomach f'^eat^^^^^^ developed from the fore-gut,* while the kver and pancreas are lormea . The level of the opening of the common bile-duct is usually regarded as the iunct.on of the fore-gut with the niid-gut.DEVELOPMENT OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL 151 from the duodenum ; the descending, ihac, and pelvic parts of the colon, the rectum and the tubular stalk of the allantois are developed from the hind-gut; the mid-gut gives origin to the remainder of the alimentary tube. The mouth. —The mouth is developed partly from the stomatodseum, and partly from the floor of the anterior portion of the fore-gut. By the growth Fig. 199.—Diagrammatic outline of a sagittal section of the chick on the fourth day. (From Quain's 'Anatomy,' Allen Thomson.) a. future anus, stUl closed; o/. cephaUc fold; al. the aUantoio vesicle; <'^^'^ °^ ^'J^^^^^.^ h. heart; Aj,. entoderm; i.intestme; m. the mouth; me. ih^ mesentery; VJ-<^^ff^Jo\i^JV-^''<'^^^^^ inner and outer folds of amnion; s. fore-gut; sm. somatic mesoderm; ft. viteUme duct; vm. splanchnic mesoderm; ys. yolk-sac. of the head end of the embryo, and the formation of the cephalic flexure, the pericardial area and the oral plate or bucco-pharyngeal area come to he on the ventral surface of the embryo. With the further expansion of the brain, and the bulging forwards of the pericardium, the oral plate is depressed Fig. 200.—Diagram of a sagittal section of a mammaUan embryo. Very early. (After Quain.) Amnion llantois ■Hinihgut stalk or vitelline duct between these two prominences. This depression constitutes t\i& stomatodcBum (fig. 201). It is lined by ectoderm, and is separated from the anterior end of the fore-gut by the oral plate, wMch is now named the phanjngeal septum (fig. 201). This septum is devoid of mesoderm, being formed by the apposition of the stomatodseal ectoderm with the fore-gut entoderm ; at the end of a fortnight itEMBRYOLOGY 152 disappears, aud thus a comnmnication is established between the mouth and the future pharvnx. No trace of .the pharyngeal septum is found in the adult; and the communication just mentioned must not be confused with the isthmus faucium. Fig. 201.—Human embryo about fifteen days old. Brain and heart represented from right side. AUmentary canal and yolk-sac in mesial section. (After His.) Thalameiicephalon Mid-brain Pharyngeal septum Pharynx — Auditory pit Aortic bulb Stomach Optic vesicle Stomatodceum Ventricle Cloaca! dilatation of- hind-gut Body-stalJc' Umbilical vein Mid-gut opening into yolk-sac BinA-gut Allantois Umbilical artery since, as His has shown, the anterior pillars of the fauces are developed from the second visceral arches. EiG 202.-Under surface of the head of a human embryo about twenty-nine days old. (After His.) Membranous capsule over cerebral hemisphere Fronto-nasal process Stomatodmum Lateral nasal process Eye Processus globularis MaxiUnry process Mandibular arch Eyomandibulnr cleft The visceral arches extend in a ventral direction between the stomatodceum nnrl fhP nericardium • and with the completion of the mandibular arch and the ?ormltn' of the iilkry processes, thi mouth assumes the appearance of a153 DEVELOPMENT OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL pentagonal orifice. The orifice is bounded in front by the fronto-nasal process winch covers the fore-brain and contains the anterior part of the coalesced trabeculfc cranii, behind by the mandibular arch, and laterally by the maxillary processes (fig. 202). With the in- FiG. 203.—The floor of the pharynx of a human embryo about fifteen days old. x 50. (From His.) Tuberculum impar Fiirctila—i- —Mandibular arch ■--Hyoid arch - - Third arch - - Fourth arch ward growth and fusion of the palatal processes (figs. 142, 143), the upper portion of the stomato- dseura is shut oflt to form the nasal cavities, while from its lower or buccal portion the roof and an- terior part of the mouth, together with the teeth, are developed. The salivary glands arise as diverticula from the epithelial Uning of the mouth, and their rudiments , ■, , i -u appear in the follo\ving order, viz. : the parotid durmg the fourth week, the sub maxillary in the sixth week, and the subUngual during the ninth week (Hammar) Fio. 204.—The floor of the pharynx of a human embryo about twenty-three days old. X 30. (From His.) Tuberculum impar Posterior part of tongue Furcula Entrance to larynx — Mandibular arch —'Hyoid arch Third arch Fourth arch The tongue (figs. 203 to 205).—The tongue is developed in the floor of the pharynx. The rudiment of the anterior or buccal portion appears during the third week as a rounded elevation, immediately behind the ventral ends of the Fig. 205.—Floor of mouth of an embryo slightly older than that shown in fig. 204. X 16. (From His.) Papillary portion of tongue —Mandibular arch Hyoid arch Foramen ccscum Posterior part Third arch of tongue mandibular arches. This elevation is named the tuberculum impar (figs. 203 and 204); it extends forwards on the oral surface of the mandibular arch, and in- creases markedly in size by the development of a pair of lateral tongue-elevations,EMBRYOLOGY 154 which raise themselves from the inner surfaces of the mandibular arches and, blending vnth the tuberculum impar, form the tip and greater portion of the buccal part of the tongue. These lateral growths correspond with similar struc- tures which were described by E. Kallius in the development of the tongue of the lizard From the ventral ends of the fourth arch there arises a second and larger elevation, in the centre of which is a median groove or furrow. Tlus elevation is named the furcula (fig. 203), and is at first separated from the tuberculum impar by a depression, but later by a ridge formed by the forward growth and fusion o the ventral ends of the second and third arches. The posterior or pharyngeal part of the tongue is developed from this ridge, which extends forwards m the form of a V, so as to embrace between its two limbs the tuberculum impar (figs. 204 and 205). At the apex of the V a pit-like invagination occurs to form the nuddle thyroid rudiment, and this depression is represented m the adult by the formmn cJcum of the tongue. In the adult the union of the antenor and posterior parts of the tongue is marked bv a V-shaped depression (sulcus terminahs), the apex of which is at the foramen ci^cum, while the two hmbs run outwards and forwards parallel to, but a httle behind, the circumvallate papiUa^. The pronainent anterior part of the furcula forms the epiglottis ; the furrow behind it is the ^ entrance to the larynx; and tlie Fig 206. — Scheme sho\ving development of branchial epithelial bodies. (Modified from Kohn. Median mdivient of thyroid Parathyroids Thymus Lateral rudiment of thyroid Post-branchial body I, n, m, IV, visoeral clefts. anterior parts of its lateral margins constitute the aryteno- epiglottidean folds. The tonsils are developed from the lower parts of the second visceral clefts, immediately behind the anterior pillars of the fauces. The entoderm which lines these clefts grows in the form of a number of solid buds into the surrounding mesoderm. These buds become hollowed out by the de- generation and casting off of their central cells, and by this means the tonsillar crypts are formed. Lymphoid cells accumulate around the crypts, and become grouped to foriin the lymphoid folHcles; the latter, however, are not well defined until after birth. The thymus gland appears in the form of two flask-shaped ento- dermal diverticula, which arise, one on either side, from the third \Jll. ViViiVJ. J visceral cleft (fig. 206), and extend outwards and backwards into the surroundmg mesoderm to miet in front of the ventral aort^. The pharyngea opemng of each Sverticulum is soon obliterated, but the neck of the flask persists for some t«ne as a cellular cord. By further proliferation of the cells which Ime the flask Sids of cell are formed, which become surrounded and isolated by the mvadu g mesoderm In the latter, numerous lymphoid cells make their appearance and Se agSJgated to form lymphoid follicles. These lymphoid eel s are Probably deriva^tSJ of the entodermal cells which lined the origmal diverticulum and its '""^The thyreoid body is developed from a median and two lateral diverticula (fig. 206)^ The median diverticulum appears about the fourth week, "^latf behmd the tuberculum impar of the tongue, between the mandibular and hyoid ^iclies. it; g ows do^^ and backw'ards a. a tubular duct STelShm^ and sequently subdivides into a ser es of cellular cords, from ^^:f^^i^i^\^;^^f j^j^^^^^^^^ nart of the lateral lobes of the thyroid body are developed. The lat^J^Y^^^^™', Sfe fi-om the inner aspects of th^ fourth visceral clefts ; t^^J gf^^^ack. ards and fuse with the median portion to form the remainder of t^e ^ral lol^^^^ iue connections of the lateral diverticula with the P^^l^J"^/^^f.^PSimS" is sub- of the median rucUment is termed the ^^'n^^'t^"^ f\l I IW ^^^^^^^^ sequentlv interrupted by the development of the body of the h)oid bone, ana155 DEVELOPMENT OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL undergoes degeneration, its upper end being represented by the foramen cajcum of the tongue, and its lower by the pyramidal lobe of the thyroid body. The parathyroid bodies are developed as outgrowths from the mner aspects of the third and fourth visceral clefts (hg. 206). , , ■, ^, A pair of diverticula arise behind the fifth arch and form what are termed the postbranchial bodies (fig. 206); these degenerate and disappear at an early stage. The pituitary body, or hypophysis cerebri.—This consists of a large anterior, and a small posterior, lobe : the former is derived from the ectoderm of the stomato- dffium, the latter from the floor of the fore-brain. About the fourth week there appears a pouch-hke diverticulum of the ectodermal lining of the roof of the stomato- dseum. This, the pitui- tarv involution or pouch Fig. 207.—Vertical section of the head in early embryos of of 7?a<Me (fig. 207), is the rabbit. Magnified. (From Mihalkovics.) the rudiment of the an- terior lobe of the pitui- tary body; it extends upwards in front of the cephalic end of the notochord and the rem- nant of the phar}Tigeal septum, and comes into contact with the under surface of the fore-brain. It is then constricted o£E to form a closed vesicle, but remains for a time connected to the ectoderm of the stoma- todaeum by a solid cord of cells. The vesicle sends out hollow pro- cesses into the surroimd- ing mesoderm, and is gradually converted into a mass of small, tortuous tubules lined with co- lumnar or cubical cells. The upwardly directed pituitary involution be- comes applied to the antero-lateral aspect of a downwardly directed diverticulum from the base of the Eore-brain (page 123). This diver ticuliun constitutes the future infundibulum in the floor of the third ventricle, while its lower extremity becomes modified to form the posterior lobe of the pituitary body. In some of the lower animals the posterior lobe contains nerve-cells and nerve- fibres, but in man and the higher vertebrates these are replaced by connective tissue. A canal (cranio-pharyngeal canal) is sometimes found extending from the pituitary fossa to the under surface of the skull, and marks the original position of Rathke's pouch. The further development of the alimentary canal.—The upper part of the fore-gut becomes dilated to form the pharynx (fig. 208), in relation to which the branchial arches are developed (fig. 136) (see page 107) ; the succeeding part remains tubular, and with the descent of the stomach is elongated to form the oesophagus. About the fourth week a fusiform dilatation, the future stomach, A. From an embryo of five millimetres in length. B. Prom an embryo of six millimetres in length, c. Vertical section of the anterior end of the notochord and pituitary body, &c., from an embryo sixteen millimetres long. In A the bucco-pharyngeal membrane is still present. In B it is in the process of disap- pearing, and the stomatodffium now communicates with theprimitire pharynx. am. Amnion, c. Fore-brain, ch. Notochord. Anterior extremity of fore- gut, t. h. Heart, i'. Infundibulum. m. Wall of brain cavity, mc. Mid- brain, mo. Hind-brain, p. Origmal position of pituitary diverticulum, py. ph. Pharynx, sp.e. Spheno-ethmoidal; be. Central; and jp.o. Spheno- occipital parts of basis cranii. lha. Thalamus.EMBRYOLOGY 156 I makes its appearance, and beyond this the mid-gut opens freely into the yolk-sac (figs. 208 and 209). The opening is at first wide, but is gradually narrowed into a tubular stalk, the yolk-stalk or vitelline duct* At this stage, therefore, the Fig. 208.—Sketches in profile of two stages in the development of the human alimentary canal. (His.) Fig. A x 30. Fig. B x 20. Notochorcl Lung diverticuluvv Stomach- Liver- Opening into yolk-sac Allantois Bathke's pouch {pituitary involution) Mandibular arch allantoic part of hind-gut duct Lung diverticuhvin Oesophagus ^ Median rudiment of thyroid gland ' Mandibular arch Sotochord Stomach- Pancreas- ~ Bile-duct- Vitelline duct- Allantois - Bathke's pouch {pituitary invohitio7i) Post-aUantoic part of hind-gut -Wolffian duct . The p,..,... part of .1,0 ^^^J-^^SS!,:^ tilTS^Z^£157 DEVELOPMENT OF THE ALIMEN1\4RY CANAL alimentary canal forms a nearly straight tube in front of the notochord and m-iniitive aortaj (fig. 200). From the stomach to the rectum it is attached to the notochord by a band of mesoderm, from which the common mesentery of the gut is subsequently developed. The stomach has an additional attachment, viz. : to the Fig. 209.—Front view of two successive stages in the development of the alimentary canal. (His.) Tracliea-- CEsophagus Stomach — Bile-duct ' '^■shaped loop of mid-gut Vitelline duct Cloaca -- Linig - Trachea *■— Pancreas Bile-duct Pancreas — Lung Oesophagus -'Stomach ventral abdominal wall as far as the umbilicus by the septum transversum. The cephalic portion of the septum takes part in the formation of the Diaphragm (see page 167), while the caudal portion into which the liver grows forms the vcnlral mesogastrium (fig. 210). The stomach undergoes a further dilatation, and its two curvatures can be recognised (figs. 208, b, and 210), the greater directed towards the vertebral column and the lesser towards the anterior wall of the abdomen, while its two surfaces look to the right and left respectively. The mid-gut undergoes great elongation, and forms a V-shaped loop which projects downwards and forwards ; from the bend or angle of the loop the vitelhne duct passes to the umbihcus (fig. 211). For a time a part of the loop extends beyond158 EMBRYOLOGY the abdominal cavity into the umbilical cord, but by the end of the third month it is withdrawn within the cavity. With the lengthening of the tube, the mesoderm, which attaches it to the future vertebral column and carries the blood-vessels for the supply of the gut, is thinned and drawn out to form the posterior common mesentery. The portion of this mesentery attached to the greater curvature of the stomach is named the dorsal mesogaslrium, and the part which suspends the colon is termed the mesocolon (fig. 211). About the sixth week a lateral diver- ticulum makes its appearance a short distance behind the opening of the vitelline duct, and indicates the future ctecum and appendix. The part of the loop on the distal side of the csecal diverticulum increases in diameter and forms the future ascending and transverse portions of the large intestine. Until the third month the cffical diverticulum has a uniform calibre, but from this time onwards its most dependent part remains rudimentary and forms the vermiform appendix, while its upper part expands to form the c^cum. Changes also take place in the shape and position of the stomach. Its dorsal part or greater curvature, with the Fig 211 —Abdominal i^art of alimentary canal and its attachment to the primitive or common mesentery. Human embryo of six weeks. (After Toldt.) (From Kolhnann's ' Entwickelungsgeschichte.') — Aorta Ventral inesogastrium Spleen Dorsal mesogastrium Coeliac axis Pancreas Superior mesenteric artery Mesentery Ocectim Inferior mesenteric artery Hind-gut dorsal mesogastrium attached, grows much more rapidly thau its v^eir^ral part or lesser curvature to which the ventral mesogastrium is attached further, the greater curvature is carried downwards and to the left, « f ^^e ri^^^^ surtace of thestomach is now directed backwards and the l<^f<^. in position which explains why the left vagus nerve ^^^"^f ^^^^^^^^^^^^ stomach and the right vagus on the back of it. The dor^^^\ " ^ hei^e attached to the greater curvature must necessarily follow its movements, and iience sac of the peritoneum, and it increases in size as "-J' Sulure ^r^^^^^^^^ of further development; the entrance to t^^."^ P°^«V°TfronAhat S^^^^^ Winshw (figs. 212, 215). The duodenum is developed ^ which immediately succeeds the stomach; it ""^ergoes ht e elong^^^^^^^ more or less fixed in position by the hver and pancreas, which anse as divertic159 DEVELOPMENT OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL from it The duodenum is at first suspended by a mesentery, and projects forwards in the form of a loop. The loop and its mesentery are subsequently displaced by the transverse colon, so that the right surface of the duodenal Fio 212 —Diagrams to illustrate two stages in the development of the human alimentary canal and ite mesentery. The arrow indicates the entrance to the bursa omentahs. astriuitt Ciecum Ifeso- gastrium Greater 'ntrvalure of stomacli Duodenum G rsat omentum Mesocolon Point where intestinal loops cross each other Caecum Vermiform Large appendix intestine Mesenleru Vitelline duct .Rectum ■Large intestine Small intestine Rectum A B mesentery is directed backwards, and, adhering to the parietal peritoneum, is lost. The remainder of the alimentary canal becomes greatly elongated, and as a consequence the tube is coiled on itseK, and this elongation demands a corresponding increase in the width of the intestinal attachment of the mesentery, which becomes folded. At this stage the small and large intestines are attached to the vertebral column by a common mesentery, the coils of the small intestine falling to the right of the middle line, while the large intestine Ues on the left side.* The gut is now rotated upon itself, so that the large intestine is carried over in front of the small intestine, and the caecum is placed immediately below the liver; about the sixth month the cjecum descends into the right iliac fossa, and the large intestine forms an arch consisting of the ascending, trans- verse, and descending portions of the colon—the transverse portion crossing in front of the duodenum and Ijdng just below the greater curvature of the stomach ; within this arch the coils of the small intestine are disposed (figs. 212, 217). Sometimes the downward progress of the cfficum is arrested, so that in the adult it may be found lying immediately below the Uver instead of in the right iUac region. * Sometimes this condition persists throughout life, and it is then found that the duodenum does not cross from the right to the left side of the vertebral column, but lies entirely on the right side of the mesial plane, where it is continued into the jejunum; the arteries to the small intestine (rami intestini tenuis) also arise from the riglit instead of the left side of the superior mesenteric artery. Fig. 213.—Schematic and enlarged cross section through the body of a human embryo in the region of the meso- gastrium. Beginning of third month. (Toldt.) Lesser Liver Stornach omentum Liver Left suprarenal liight suprarenal capsule capsuleEMBRYOLOGY 160 Further changes take place in the bursa omentalis and in the common mesentery, and give rise to the peritoneal relations seen in the adult. The bursa omentalis, which at first reaches only as far as the greater curvature of the stomach, grows downwards to form the great omentum, and this downward extension fies in front of the transverse colon and the coils of the small intestine. The anterior layer of the transverse mesocolon is at first quite distinct from the Fig. 214.—Section through same region as in fig. 213, at end of third month. (Toldt.) Liver Stomach Lesser omentuvi Liver iglit suprarenal capsule Left suprarenal capsule posterior layer of the great omentum, but ultimately the two blend, and hence the great omentum appears as if attached to the transverse colon (fig. 216). The mesenteries of the ascending and descending parts of the colon disappear in the majority of cases, while that of the small intestine assumes the oblique attachment characteristic of its adult condition. Fig. 215.—Schematic figure of the bursa omentalis, &c. of eight weeks. (Kollmann.) Ventral mesogastriuin Liver Umbilical vein Human embryo Border of ventral mesogastrium Stomach Bursa OJitentalis Pancreas Dorsal mesogastriuin Duodenum Great omentum Transverse mesocolon Transverse colon The small omentum is formed, as indicated above, by a tM"ning of the meso- anterior abdominal wall. By t ie ^^"^"J f „^g,,tum into the body-stalk as the tube of the allantois , but, ^Mtll tiie groDEVELOPMENT OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL 161 flexure of the tail-end of the embryo, the body-stalk, with its contained allantoic tube is carried forwards to the ventral aspect of the body, and consequently a Fig. 216.—Diagrams to ilhistrate the develoiDment of the great omentum and transverse mesocolon. Diaphragm Liver Small omentum. /Inrsa omenlalis. Stomacli - P<mcreas[ Great omentum-^. .'Vene viesocoloti— Transverse colon— Small intestine j Afesentery I bitodenum JJitiphrai/m /Acer _ Small omentum Lesser sae of peritoneum . _ Stomach ~- Obliterated part of mesogastrlum Duodenum Transverse colon —' Mesentertf Small intestine Fro. 217.—Final disposi- tion of the intestines and their vascular i-elations. (Jonnesco.) bend is formed at the junction of the hind-gut and allantois. This bend becomes dilated into a pouch, which constitutes the entodermal cloaca ; into its dorsal part the hind-gut opens, and from its ventral part the allantois passes forwards. At a later stage the Wolffian and Miillerian ducts open into its ventral portion. The cloaca is, for a time, shut off from the exterior by a membrane, the cloacal membrane, formed by the apposition of the ectoderm and entoderm, and reaching, at first, as far forwards as the future uni- biUcus. Behind the umbilicus, however, the mesoderm subsequently extends inwards to form the lower part of the abdominal wall and symphysis pubis. By the growth of the surrounding tissues the cloacal membrane comes to lie at the bottom of a depression, which is fined by ectoderm and named the ectodermal cloaca (fig. 218). The entodermal cloaca is divided into a dorsal and a ventral part by means of a partition consisting of two lateral mesodermal folds which grow inwards and unite with each other in the middle fine. The dorsal part forms the rectum, and the anterior part the urogenital sinus and bladder. By the rupture of the cloacal membrane the entodermal cloaca opens on the exterior, thus giving rise to a condition which exists permanently in the reptile, bird, and monotreme. Into this cloacal channel in these animals the urine, the fseces, and the products of the genital organs are discharged. The communication of the rectum with the cloaca is obhterated by the inward growth of two eminences, which make their appearance one on either side of the cloaca. These join in the middle fine to form the perineal septum, and also fuse with the hinder edge of the septum which separates the urogenital sinus and bladder from the rectum. The anal canal is not developed from the cloacal open- ing of the hind-gut, but is formed by an in- vagination of the ectoderm behind the perineal septum. This invagination is termed the proctodceum (fig. 223), and it meets with the ventral aspect of the hind-gut and forms with it the anal membrane. By the absorption of this membrane the anal canal becomes continuous with M ^.Aorta. //.Hepaticartery. M,Col. Branches oJ superior mesenteric artery, m, m\ Brandies of in- ferior mesenteric artery. S. Splenic artery.EMBRYOLOGY 162 the rectum (fig. 224). A small part of the hind-gut proiects backwarck beyond the anal membrane ; it is named the post-anal gut, and usually becomes obliterated ^"%^WooT-Jones t gives a different account from the above as to the manner iii which the rectum is separated from the cloaca. He maintains that the growth of the hind-gut keeps pace with that of the hind-end of the enibryo and buds back- wards past its cloacal orifice, past its old termination m the aUantois, and forms the portion of the hind-gut distal to the aUantois ; this portion he terms the Fig. 219.—Cloaca and appendages of human embryo from twenty-five to twenty-seven days old. (From model by Keibel.) Fig. 218.—Tail end of human embryo from afteen to eighteen days old. (From model by Keibel.) Wolffian duct Wolffirin duct Ectodermal cloaca Cloacal rnetnbrane Nofochord Fig. 220.- -Tail end of human embryo, from eight and a half to nine weeks old. (From model by Keibel.) Ureter Wolffian dvet^ Miillenan duct Bladder Symphysis pvb Glans 2icms Urethra Vertebral column . ,a 001 ooo\ ' The cloacal opening of the hind-gut is now post-allantoic gut (figs. 221, 22J). ^,^^7. ^^f^^^he embryo of 12 somites (which formally lost; originally a sma 1 «P^»" ,^.7 ^^^^^Hf the hind-gut. the post- is about 2 mm. in total lenfO > t;^^ J^^^ grm »i f„iinwin<r article- ' A Contribution to the Jlonjhology of * Consult, in this connection the following aiU^ F.R.C.P.E. Journal of Avafomy and the Human Urino-gcnital Tract,' by D. Berry Hart, M.U., r •«DEVELOPMENT OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL 163 Fig. 22L Diagram to illustrate the development of the post-allantoic gut. The hincl- gut opens freely into the cloaca. (After Wood-Jones.) Fig. 222.—Diagram to illustrate the further development of the post-allantoic gut. The hind-gut still opens into the cloaca. The opening of the Miillerian ducts is also seen. (After Wood-Jones.) Fig. 223.—Diagram to illustrate the separation of the hind-gut from the cloaca. The hind-gut has now lost its cloacal opening. The post-allantoic gut is about to meet the proctodseal depression. (After Wood-Jones.)164 EMBRYOLOGY that tlie cloaca does not contribute to the formation of tlie rectum, and that the septa wliich have been described as fusing m the middle line to form the perinfeura are non-existent. Fig. 224.-Diagram to illustrate the formation of the vagina bladder, and urethra The Miilleriai ducts have lost their opening into the urogemtal smus and the ne^^ solid vagina has grown down and later becomes canalised. (After Wood-Jones.) Hind-gut Cavity of uterus ■Bladder j ■Vagina ■Post-allantoic gut ^Anal canal TfiP livpr arises in the form of a diverticulum or hoUow outgrowth from the veiiS ScS'oTtrat portion of the gut which f-waf becomes t^^^^^^^^^^ nart of the duodenum (figs. 208, 225). This diverticulum is hned by ento Se m, and grows upwards Li forwards into the ^^Pt--/™^«f,^tbS S gSe^ off two sohd buds of cells which represent the right an^ ^^.^^^^^ Se Uver. The sohd buds of cells grow into columns or cyhnders, termed the Fig 225.-Liver ^yith the septum transversum. Human embryo 3 mm. long. (After model and figure by His.) Aortic bulb Dorsal mesocardium Pericardial cavity- Anterior tvall of pericardiutn Lower wall of pericardium Vitelline duct Auricle Cuvierian duct Umbilical lein Vitelline vein Commumcation between pericardial and peritoneal cavitifs Peritoneal cavityDEVELOPMENT OF THE LIVER 165 meshes of the ceUular network and ultimately form the venous capillaries of the W By the continued growth and ramification of the hepatic cyhnders the mass of the Uver is gradually formed. The origmal diverticulum from the duodenum forms the common bile-duct, and from this the cystic duct and gall- bladder arise as a hollow evagination. . • „ „f \s the hver undergoes enlargement, both it and the ventral mesogastnum of the fore-gut are gradually differentiated from the septum transversum ; and from the under surface of the latter the Uver projects downwards into the abdominal cavitv By the growth of the Hver the ventral mesogastnum is divided into two Fig. 226.—Pancreatic buds from a hiunan embryo 7-5 mm. long. (Kollmann.) Ventral •pancreas (cranial 2iart) Dorsal j)ancreas Fig. 227.—Pancreas of a human embryo of five weeks. (Kolhuann.) ^Stomoc^j) _puci of SantoriAti I pancreas Bile-duct Ventral pancreas caudal part) Ventral pancreas [caudal part) Duct of Wirsung Bile-duct parts, of which the anterior forms the falciform and coronary ligaments, and the posterior the gastro-hepatio omentum. About the third month the liver almost fills the abdominal cavity, and its left lobe is nearly as large as its right. From this period the relative development of the liver is less active, more especially that of the left lobe, which actually undergoes some degeneration and becomes smaller than the right; but up to the end of'foetal life the liver remains relatively larger than in the adult. The pancreas (figs. 226 to 228).—The pancreas is developed in two parts, a dorsal and a ventral. The former arises as a diverticulum from the dorsal aspect of the duodenum a short distance above the hepatic diverticulum, and, growing upwards and backwards into the dorsal mesogastnum, forms the body and tail of the pancreas. The ventral part appears the form of two diverticula, cranial Fig. 228.—^Pancreas of human embrj'o at end of sixth week. (Kollmann.) in Duct of Santorini Dorsal pancreas and caudal, from the primitive bile-duct; the caudal enlarges to form the head of the pancreas, while the cranial atrophies and disappears. The duct of the dorsal part (duct of Santorini) therefore opens into the duodenum, while that of the ventral part (duct of Wirsung) terminates with the com- mon bile-duct. During the sixth week, in consequence of the rotation of the duo- denum, the two parts of the pancreas meet and fuse, and a communication is estabhshed between their ducts. After this has occurred the terminal part of the duct of Santorini, i.e. the part between the duodenum and the point of meeting of the two ducts, undergoes Httle or no enlargement, while the duct of Wirsung increases in size and forms the main duct of the gland. The opening of the duct of Santorini iuto the duodenum is sometimes obliterated, and even when it remains patent it is probable that the whole of the pancreatic secretion is conveyed through the duct of Wirsung. At first the pancreas is directed upwards and backwards between the two layers of the dorsal mesogastiium which give to it a complete peritoneal invest- ment, and its surfaces look to the right and left. With the change in the position of the stomach the dorsal mesogastrium is drawn downwards and to the left, and Bile-duct Ventral pancreas Duct of WirsungEMBRYOLOGY 166 the right side of the pancreas is directed backwards and the left forwards. The "ght surface becomes applied to the posterior abdominal wall, and the peritoneum ri which covered it undergoes absorption ; and thus, in the adult, the gland appears to lie behind the peritoneal cavity. i ■, i The spleen (fig. 211).—Although the spleen belongs to the group of ductless o-lands, its development may be conveniently referred to here. It appears m the second month as a localised thickening of the mesoderm in the dorsal meso- gastrium above the tail of the pancreas. It grows towards the left side of the dorsal mesogastrium, and thus comes into contact with the right surface of the stomach. With the change in position of this viscus the spleen is earned to the left and comes to Ue behind the cardiac part of the stomach and in contact with the left kidney. The part of the dorsal mesogastrium which intervened between the spleen and the greater curvature of the stomach forms the gastro-splemc omentum. ^ , , . , , , , The Eespiratory Organs.—Towards the end of the third week a deep longi- tudinal furrow (figs. 203 and 204) appears in the ventral wall of the fore-gut, commencing at the level of the fourth visceral arch and reaching backwards nearly as far as the stomach. It is bounded in front by an elevation termed the Fig. 229.—Diagram of transverse section through rabbit embryo. (After Keith.) QSsophagus- Inferior vena cava Pericardium lungs (fig. 208). ine o^^f ^'^^^ pxtremities—the infundibula of the lung, ultimately end in minute expanded 'F'^'^.^™"^''^^ .y.-. annearance on the from the sixth aortic arches.DEVELOPMENT OF THE DIAPHRAGM 167 The Diaphragm and pleurae (figs. 229 and 230).—The following description is based on that given by Keith.* The central tendon of the Diaphragm is derived from the septum transversum ; each half of its muscular portion is developed in two parts viz • (a) a sterno-costal portion, derived from the ventral longitudinal musculature of the embryonic neck; and (b) a sjiinal or vertebral portion, •uising from the bodies of the vertebrse and arcuate ligaments, and denved from the cervical part of the TransversaUs. The pleuro-peritoneal opening is closed by the approximation of tbe sterno-costal and vertebral parts ; and the spino-costal fibrous hiatus, best seen on the left half of the adult Diaphragm, marks its position after closure. Sometimes the opening remains patent, and may allow of the formation of a congenital diaphragmatic liernia. The formation or separation of the Diaphragm—for at first it forms part of the wall of the body-cavity—results from the development of the pleural cavities Fig. 230.—The thoracic aspect of the Diaphragm of a newly bom child in which the communication between the peritoneum and plem-a has not been closed on the left side ; the position of the opening is marked on the right side by the spino-costal hiatus. (After Keith.) and lungs. The lung buds appear in the cervical region of the ernbryo, and they, together with, the parts of the ccelom in which they are contained, undergo a rapid devebpment, growing forwards and outwards into the tissue of the dorsal part of the septum transversum and of the body-wall; mthin that tissue the pleural cavities are excavated. The pleural cavities also develop within the body-wall towards the ventral median line, thus separating the pericardium from the lateral thoracic wall (see arrows in fig. 229). In this manner the pleural ca^^ties are excavated within the body-wall, dorsal to and on each side of the pericardium. The formation of the pleural cavities separates an inner layer from the ventro-lateral aspect of the body-wall to form the sterno-costal part of the Diaphragm, and also an inner layer from the dorsal aspect of the body- wall to form tbe vertebral part of the Diaphragm. DEVELOPMENT OF THE URINARY AND GENERATIVE ORGANS The urinary and generative organs are developed from tbe intermediate cell- mass which is situated between the primitive segments and the lateral plates of mesoderm. The permanent organs of the adult are preceded by a set of structures which are purely embryonic, and which with the exception of the ducts disappear almost entirely before the end of foetal life. These embryonic structures are on either side : the pronephros, the mesonephros, the Wolffian and Miillerian ducts. The pronephros disappears very early; the structural elements of the mesonephros mostly degenerate, but in their place is developed the genital gland * Ilmnan Evibryology md Morphology, by Arthur Keith, M.D., F.B.C.S., 2ncl edition, 1904. Consult also an article on the development of the Diaphragm, by the same author, in vol. xxxix. of the Journal of Anatomy and Phydology.168 EMBRYOLOGY in association with which the Wolffian duct remains as the duct of the male genital gland, the Miillerian as that of the female. The Pronephros and Wolffian duct.—In the outer part of the intermediate cell-mass, immediately under the ectoderm, a longitudinal cord of cells makes its appearance. This cellular cord sinks into the subjacent mesoderm, and, acquiring a lumen, constitutes the Wolffimi duct* which passes backwards and opens into the ventral part of the cloaca. . , , i • i r .1 In front of the duct there are developed a number of tubules which form the pronephros or head-Udney^&w early embryonic structure in all vertebrates This consists of a series of transverse tubides which open into a duct termed the p»-o- nephric duct ; this duct is continuous posteriorly mth the Wolffian duct. Each pronephric tubule commmiicates by means of a funnel-shaped cihated opemng with the coelomic cavity, and in the course of each duct a glomerulus also is developed. The pronephros undergoes rapid atrophy and practicaUy disappears In the female the remains of it are probably represented by the hydatids ot Morgagni at the fimbriated end of the Fallopian tube ; in the male, by the stalked hydatid at the upper end of the testicle. Fig. 231.—Section of the urogeoital area of a chick embryo of the fourth day. (Waldeyer.) IStroma _ _ of ovary Primitive ova Mesentery '— an duct -MuUerimi duct —Wolffian tubules Body-tpall The Mesonephros, Miillerian duct, and Genital gland.--On the inner side of the Wolffian duct a series of tubules, the FoZ#a)i «M&w7es, are developed. Each tubule opens externally into the duct, while its opposite end is mvagmated by a tu^tt ot capillary blood-vessels to form a glomerulus. These tubules increase »i "^^J^er, and collectively constitute the mesonephros or Wol^an body (fig^; f I'/^^^j- At the beginning of the second month this body forms aii '^^''S^^.'f'^^^^ shaped structure: which projects into the coelomic cavity at the side «f d^^^^^^^ mesentery, and reaches from the septum transversum in front to tl^ejii^f. somite behind. The Wolffian body persists and forms the P™^f i» fishes and amphibians, but in reptiles, birds, and mammals it is ^^^^f^"^ the metanephros, which forms the permanent kidney in anterior tubules of the Wolffian body become attached to ^^^J^f^^l ^^''^^{^ or genital ridge from wliich the ovary in the emale and the te trc^^^ !L Wolffian are developed. During the development of the permanent ^^^ey^' bodies atriphy, and tl5s process proceeds to a much greater extent m the female than in the male. * The Wolffian duct is regarded by some embryologists it TnSSitrceS-' formed by a longitudinal invagination of the ectoderm which overlie, the mtermecliateDEVELOPMENT OF URINARY AND GENERATIVE ORGANS 169 lu the male the Wolffian duct persists, and forms the tube of the epididymis, the vas deferens, and common ejaculatory duct, while the senunal vesicle arises •IS a lateral diverticulum from its hinder end. The anterior Wolffian tubules form the rete testis, vasa efierentia, and coni vasculosi of the testicle ; while the posterior tubules are represented by the vasa aberrantia of the globus minor, and by the organ of Giraldes, which is sometimes found in front of the spermatic cord above the globus major (fig. 235, c). Fig. 232.—Enlarged view from the front of the left Wolffian body before the establishment of the distinction of sex. (From Farre, after Kobelt.) a a b. c, d. Tubular structure of the Wolffian body. e. Wolffian duct. /. Its upper extremity, g Its termiimtiOT in a: the urogenital sinus, h. The duct of MuUer. i. Its upper, funnel-shaped extrenuty. k. Its lo«er end, terminating m the urogenital sinus. I. The genital ridge, ovary or testicle. In the female the Wolf&an bodies and ducts atrophy. The remains of the Wolffian tubules are represented by the epoophoron or organ of Rosenmuller, and the paroophoron, two small collections of rudimentary blind tubules which are situated in the mesosalpinx (fig. 233). The lower part of the Wolffian duct disappears, while the upper part persists as the functionless duct of Gartner (fig. 235, B.) Fig. 233.—Adult ovary, parovarium, and Fallopian tube. (From Farre, after Kobelt.) a. a. EpoBphoron formed from the upper part of the Wolffian body. h. Remains of the uppermost tubes sometimes forming hydatids, c. Middle set of tubes, rf. Some lower atrophied tubes, e. Atrophied remams of the WoUhan duct. /. The terminal bulb or liydatid. It. The FaUopian tube, originally the duct of MiUler. t. Hydatid attached to the extremity. /. The ovary. The suprarenal bodies are generally regarded as being developed from two sources. The medullary part of the organ is of ectodermal origin, and is derived from the tissues forming the sympathetic ganglia of the abdomen, while the cortical portion is of mesodermal origin, and appears to be derived from invaginations of that portion of the ccelomic epithelium which overlies the Wolffian body. The * Berry Hart (op. «j<.) has described the Wolffian ducts as ending at the site of the future hymen in bulbous enlargements, which he has named the Wolffian bulbs; and states that the hymen is formed by these bulbs, ' aided by a special involution from below of the cells lining the urogenital sinus.' He further believes that ' the lower third of the vagina is due to the coalescence of the upper portion of the urogenital sinus and the lower ends of the Wolffian ducts,' and that ' the epithelial lining of the vagina is derived from the AVolffian bulbs.' He also regards the colliculus seminalis of the male urethra as being formed from the lower i)art of the Wolffian ducts.EMBRYOLOGY 170 Fig. 234.—Urogenital sinus of female human embryo of eight and a half to nine weeks old. Milllerian ducts two parts are at first quite distinct, but become combined in tlie process of develop- ment. The suprarenal bodies are at first larger than the kidneys ; about the tenth week they equal them in size, and from that time decrease relatively to the kidneys, though they remain, throughout foetal hfe, proportionately much larger than in the adult. . r ,i j i. The Micllerian fZitcts.—Shortly after the formation of the Wolthan ducts a second pair of ducts is developed ; these are named the Miillerian ducts. Each arises on the outer aspect of the corresponding Wolfiian body as a tubular invagi- nation of the cells Hning the coelom (fig. 231). The orifice of the mvagination remains patent, and undergoes enlargement and modification to form the abdominal ostium of the Fallopian tube. The ducts pass backwards on the outer aspects of the Wolffian bodies, but towards the posterior end of the embryo they cross to the inner side of the Wolffian ducts, and thus come to he side by side between and behind the latter—the four ducts forming what is termed the genital Ultfmately, the Miillerian ducts open into the ventral part of the cloaca between the orifices of the Wolffian ducts, and terminate on an elevation named the Miillerian eminence (fig. 234). Berry Hart describes them as ending bhndly on *^\n°th^ male the Miillerian ducts atrophy, but traces of their anterior ends are represented by the sessile hydatids of the epididymis, while their terminal fused ^ portions form the uterus mascuhnus or smus pocularis in the floor of the prostatic portion of the urethra (fig. 235, c). In the female the Miillerian ducts persist and undergo further development. The portions which He in the genital cord fuse to form the uterus and vagina; the parts in front of this cord remain separate, and each forms the corresponding Fallopian tube—the abdominal ostium of which is developed from the anterior extremity of the original tubular invagination from the ccBlom (fig. 235, b). The fusion of the Miillerian ducts begins in the third month, and the septum formed by their fused mes- ial walls disappears from below upwards, and thus the cavities of the vagina and uterus are produced. About the fifth month an annular constriction marks the position of the neck of the uterus and after the sixth month the walls of but Wood Jones (op. cit.) maintains that no such septum exists, and that th. «l„f2 th^;rog?MtaUiU at its uppev part (««• fv.f^.^' ^ open at the hind-end of the vagina, and for » <><''«''1=™'" " '/ ' N„ tunnel a new passage to the hind-end. The^^^*'//,^^^^^^ as the Wolfiian nr ^^ir is tr^t as to their origin, the same in the two sexes, ^^^^^ consists a thicke^^^^^^^^^ layer which lines the peritoneal or body cavit «^ J^^^'^^^^^^ mesoderm takes ridge. Beneath this tlnckeucd epithehum an^^n^^^^^^ place, forming a distinct P^^J^^^^"^' J^l^' 7^ the female are developed, and from it the testis in the male and the o% ary in tuo Miillerian eminenceDEVELOPMENT OF URINARY AND GENERATIVE ORGANS 171 Fig. 235.—^Diagrams to show the devel- opment of male and female generative organs from a common type. (Allen Thomson.) A.—Diagram of the primitive urogenital organs in the embryo previous to sexual distinction. 3. Ureter. 4. Urinarj- bladder. 5. Urachus. cl. Cloaca, cp. Elevation which becomes clitoris or penis, i. Lower part o! the Intestme. Is. Fold of integument from which the labia majora or scrotum are formed. Ill, m. Eight and left MUllerian ducts uniting together and nmning with the WollBan ducts in gc, the genital cord. ot. The genital ridge from which cither the ovary or testicle is formed, vg. Sinus urogenitalis. 11'. Left Wolffian body, w, w. Eight and left WolUian ducts. B B.—Diagram of the female type of sexual organs. C. Gland of Bartholin, and iumiediately above it the urethra, cc. Corpus cavern- osum cUtoridis. dG. Eemains of the left Wolffian duct, such as give rise to the duct of Giirtner, represented by dotted lines ; that of the right side is marked if. /. The abdominal opening of the left Fallopian tube. g. Bound ligament, corre- sponding to gubernaculum. h. Situation of the hymen, i. Lower part of the intestine. I. Labium, n. Nympha. o. The left ovary, po. Parovarium (epobphoron of Waldeyer). sc. Vascular bulb or corpus spongiosum, u. Uterus. The Fallopian tube of the right side is marked m. V. Vulva. f«. Vagina. IT. Scattered remains of WoliDan tubes near it (par- oophoron of Waldeyer). c C.—Diagram of the male type of sexual organs. C. Cowper's gland of one side. cp. Corpora cavernosa penis cut short, e. Caput epididymis, y. The gubernaculum. £. Lower part of the ijitestine. m. MUllerian duct, the upper part of which remains as the hydatid of Morgagni; the lower part, represented by a dotted line descending to the prostatic vesicle, constitutes the occasionally existing cornu and tube of the uterus masculinus. pr. The prostate gland. ». Scrotum, sp. Corpus spongiosum urethra;. (. Testicle in the place of its original forma- tion. 1', together with the dotted lines above, indicates the direction in which the testicle and epididymis descend from the abdomen into the scrotum, vd. Vas deferens, vh. Vas aberrans. fj. The vcsicula scminaUs. W. Scattered remams of the Wolfllan body, con- stituting the organ of QiraldOs, or the para- didymis of Waldeyer.172 EMBRYOLOGY Fig. 236.—^Transverse section of human embryo of eight and a half to nine weeks old. (From model by Keibel.) yVolJian body MiUlerian duel Woljtlw duct 'Spimd cord fpinnl ganglion •Notochord Sumpathetic ganglion Inferior vena cava f'ommon iliac artery Ureter .Uesovariiim Iidestine Bladder Umbilical artery At first the Wolffian body and genital ridge are suspended by a common mesentery, but as tlie embryo grows the genital ridge gradually becomes pinched off from the Wolffian body, with which it is at first continuous, though it still remains connected to the remnant of this body by a fold of peritoneum, the mesorcMum or mesovariuni (fig. 236). About the seventh week the distinction of sex in the genital ridge begins to be perceptible. The ovary, thus formed from the genital ridge, consists of a central part of connective tissue covered by a layer of epithehum, the germinal efithelium. Between the cells of the germinal epithelium a number of larger cells, the frimitive ova, are found, and these are carried into the subjacent stroma by bud-hke ingrowths of the germinal epithehum, the cells of which surround the primitive ova ; in this manner the primitive Graafian folhcles are formed. The rest of the germinal epithelium on the surface of the ovary forms the per- manent epithehal covering of this organ (fig. 237). According to Beard the primitive ova are early set apart during the segmentation of the ovum and migrate into the germinal ridge. Waldeyer taught, and for many years his views have been accepted, that the primitive Llm^Mbfa. Be"^^^^^^^ ' At the close oE segmentation many of the future germ-ceUs Fig. 237.—Section of the ovary of a newly born child. (Waldeyer.) Ovarian lithe of epithelium I I Germinal epithelium Pnmttive ova — Cell-nest Blood-vessel — Graafian follicle" lie i„ the .eg„e„,.«o„ o.vi.y i»,t b«...h ^^^'^J^t S^J'S.rltiy^ » Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, vol. xxxviii.DEVELOPMENT OF URINARY AND GENERATIVE ORGANS 173 ainone them' They can be further recognised by their irregular form and amoeboid OTOCc&es and by the fact that their cytoplasm has no affinity for ordinary stams, but assumes a brownish tinge when treated by osmic acid. The path along which they travel into the embryo is a very definite one—viz. ' from the yolk-sac upwards between the splanchnopleure and giit in the hinder portion of the embryo.' This pathway, named by jfeard the germinal path, ' leads them directly to the position which they ought fanally to take up in the " germinal ridge " or nidus.' A considerable number apparently never reach their proper destination, since ' vagrant germ-cells are found in all sorts of places, hut more particularly on the mesentery.' Some of these may possibly find their way into t he germinal ridge ; some probably undergo atrophy, while others may persist and become the seat of dermoid tumours. The testis is developed in a very similar way to the ovary. Like the ovary, ill its earliest stages it consists of a"^ central mass of connective tissue covered by iverminal epithelium, among which larger cells, the p-imitive sperm-celb, are seen. These are carried into the subjacent stroma by tubes of germinal epithelium, which form the lining of the seminiferous tubules, wliile the primitive sperm- cells form the spermatogonia. The seminiferous tubules become connected with outgrowths from the Wolffian body, which, as before mentioned, form the rete testis and vasa efferentia. Descent of the testes.—The testes, at an early period of fcetal life, are placed at the back part of the abdominal ca\dty, behind the peritoneum and a httle below the kidneys ; their anterior surfaces and sides are invested by peri- toneum. About the third month of intra-uterine Hfe a peculiar structure, the gubernaculum testis, makes its appearance. This is at first a slender band, extending from that part of the skin of the groin which afterwards forms the scrotum through the inguinal canal to the body and epididymis of the testis, and thence continued upwards in front of the kidney towards the Diaphragm. As development advances, the peritoneum covering the testis encloses it and forms a mesentery, the mesorchium, which encloses also the gubernaculum and forms two folds, one above the testis and the other below it. The one above the testis is the flica vascularis, and contains ultimately the spermatic vessels ; the one below, the flica guhernatrix, contains the lower part of the gubernaculum, which has now grown into a thick cord ; it terminates below at the internal ring in a tube of peritoneum, the processus vaginalis, which protrudes itself down the inguinal canal. The lower part of the gubernaculum by the fifth month has become a thick cord, while the upper pai-t has disappeared. The lower part can now be seen to consist of a central core of imstriped muscle-fibre, and outside this of a firm layer of striped elements, connected, behind the peritoneum, with the abdominal wall. As the scrotum develops, the main portion of the lower end of the gubernaculum is carried with the skin to which it is attached to the bottom of this pouch ; other bands are carried to the inner side of the thigh and to the perineum. The fold of peritoneum constituting the processus vaginalis proj ects itself downwards into the inguinal canal, and emerges at the external abdominal ring, pushing before it apart of the Internal oblique and the apoueiirosis of the External obUque, which form respectively the Cremaster muscle and the external spermatic fascia. It forms a gradually elongating pouch or cul-de-sac, which eventually reaches the bottom of the scrotum, and behind this the testis is drawn by the growth of the body of the foetus, for the gubernaculum does not grow commensurately with the growth of other parts, and therefore the testis, being attached by the gubernaculum to the bottom of the scrotum, is prevented from rising as the body • grows, and is drawn first into the inguinal canal and eventually into the scrotum. It seems certain also that the gubernacular cord becomes shortened as develop- ment proceeds, and this assists in causing the testis to reach the bottom of the scrotum. By the eighth month the testis has reached the scrotum, preceded by the lengthened pouch of peritoneum, the processus vaginahs, which com- municates by its upper extremity with the peritoneal cavity. Just before birth the upper part of the pouch usually becomes closed, and this obhteration extends gradually downwards to within a short distance of the testis. The process of peritoneum surrounding the testis is now entirely cut ofi from the general peritoneal cavity and constitutes the tunica vaginalis.* * The obliteration of the process of peritoneum wliich accompanies the cord, and is hence called the funionlar process, is often incomplete.EMBRYOLOGY 174 Fro. 238.—Tail end of human embryo of twenty-five to twenty-nine days old. (From model by Keibel.) Miillerian duct Allantois \ Kidney diverticulum Umbilical cord In the female there is also a gubernaculum, which effects a considerable change in the position of the ovary, though not so extensive a change as in that of the testis in the male The gubeniaculum in the female, as it hes on either side m contact with the fundus of the uterus, contracts adhesions to this organ, and thus the ovarv is prevented from descending below this level. The upper part of the gubernaculum, i.e. the part between the ovary and the uterus, becomes ultimately the round ligament of the ovary, while the lower part, i.e. the part between the attachment of the cord to the uterus and its termination in the labium majus, ultimately forms the round ligament of the uterus. A pouch of peritoneum analogous to the processus vaginalis in the male accompanies it along the in- guinal canal: it is called the canal of Nuck. In rare cases the gubernaculum may fail to contract adhesions to the uterus, and then the ovary descends through the inguinal canal into the labium majus, extending down the canal of Nuck, and under these circumstances its position resembles that of the testis in the male. The Metanephros or Permanent Kidney.—The rudiments of the permanent kidneys make their appearance about the end of the first or beginning of the second month. Each arises as a diverticulum from the hmd-end of the VN olfliau duct close to where the latter opens into the cloaca (figs. 238,239). This diverti- culum grows upwards and forwards into the posterior part of the intermediate cell-mass, where its bhnd or anterior extremity becomes dilated and subsequently divides into several buds, which Umbilical vessels Kind-giit XowcUovd Fig. 239.—Tail end of human embryo of thirty- two to thirty-three days old. (From model by Keibel.) form the rudiments of the pelvis and calyces of the kidney. By further subdivision it gives rise to the collecting tubules of the kidney; whether the secretory tubules are developed from the renal diverti- culum or from the surrounding mesoderm is not as yet deter- mined . The mesoderm around the subdivisions of the ' diverticulum becomes condensed to form the connective tissue and vessels of the kidney. The diverticulum is elongated to form the ureter, the posterior extremity of which opens at first into the hind-end of the Wolffian duct ; after the sixth week ^nn^rnfind^^^^^^^^ of the cloaca which ultimately be^m^^^^ S bladder (fig 240). The manner in which this separation is brought about is '"^'^KcrSy tubules of the kidney become arranged into pyramidal masses * The separation of the ureter from the Wolflian duct may be brought about by the ridge, the Wolffian IcAr, runs caudally "^^^"^^" ^^^^jt^'^^he body of the chamber. The ally disappears at the junction of the ^"f'^^^^^^ the opening of the ureter increased.DEVELOPMENT OF URINARY AND GENERATIVE ORGANS 175 or lobules and the lobulated condition of the Iddneys exists iov some time after birth while traces of it may be found even in the adult. The kidney of the ox •uid many other animals remains lobulated throughout life. The Urethra.—In the female the urethra is formed from the upper part ot tlie uro<^emtal sinus, viz. that part which hes above the openings of the Wolffian and MuUerian ducts. The portion of the sinus below these opemngs becomes gradually shortened, and is ultimately opened out to form the vestibule, and in this manner the urethra and vagina come to open separately on the surface. Wood-Jones let^ards the female urethra as ' the cloacal remnant in its simplest form, and ijolnts out that it does not remain tubular throughout foetal Ufe, but is for a time ' obUterated more or less completely by the proliferation of the vaginal bulbs. Developmentally considered, the male urethra consists of two parts : (1) the prostatic and membranous portions, which are derived from the urogenital sinus and correspond to the whole of the female urethra; (2) the penile portion, which is formed by the fusion of the inner genital folds (see below). _ , f t i The Prostate Gland originally consists of two separate portions, each ot which arises as a series of diverticular buds from the epithelial lining of the urogenital sinus, between the third and fourth months. These buds become tubular, and form the glandular substance of the two lobes, which ultimately meet and fuse behind the urethra and also extend on to its ventral aspect. The third or middle lobe is formed as an extension Fig. 240.—Tail end of human embryo, from eight and a half to nine weeks old. (From model by Keibel.) Ureter Wolffian duct Miillerian dud ^ Bladder Symphysis pubis Glans penis Urethra Vertebral column of the lateral lobes between the common ejaculatory ducts and the bladder. Skene's ducts in the female urethra are regarded as the homologues of the prostatic glands. The glands of Cowper in the male, and of Bartholin in the female, also arise as diverticula from the epithelial lining of the urogenital sinus. The Urinary Bladder. —The trigone of the bladder is formed from the upper part of the urogenital sinus (page 161) ; the remainder of the viscus is devel- oped from the part of the cloaca which hes above the sinus (fig. 239). The bladder is at first tubular in shape, its canal being continuous with that of the allantois, but after the second month its cavity expands to form a sac, from the summit of which the tube of the allantois extends to the umbilicus ; this tube undergoes obliteration to form the fibrous cord of the urachus. In some cases the allantoic canal remains patent, and urine may escape by it at the umbilicus. If the urethra be looked upon as the remnant of the cloaca, then the bladder, with the exception of the trigone, must be regarded as being developed by a dilatation of the proximal part of the allantois. The External Organs of Generation (fig. 241), Uke the internal, pass during development through an indifferent stage in which there is no distinction of sex. It is therefore necessary to describe this stage, and then follow the development of the female and male organs respectively. As already stated (page 161), the cloacal membrane, which is composed of ectoderm and entoderm, originally reaches from the umbiHcus to the tail. The mesoderm around the cloacal chamber gradually extends between the layers of the membrane, stopping short, however, round the margins of the entodermal cloaca, so that the bilaminar cloacal membrane is limited to this part. About the fifth week a prominence, the genital tubercle, arises in front of the cloacal membrane, while at the sides the edges of the mesoderm are elevated to form the labia-scrotal or outer genital folds. Along the under surface of the genital tubercle the ectoderm is thickened, and at the apex of the tubercle projects forwards as an epithelial horn. In this ectodermal176 EMBRYOLOGY tliickeiung a longitudinal groove, the genital groove, appears, and into its lips the mesoderm extends to form the inner genital folds. After the rupture of the cloacal membrane this groove becomes continuous with the urogenital sinus. With the formation of these parts the indifferent stat/e of the external genital organs is reached. In the female this stage is largelj' retained ; the lower part of the urogemtal sinus persists as the vestibule, the genital tubercle forms the clitoris, the labio- scrotal folds the labia majora, and the inner genital folds the labia minora. YiQ. 241. Stages in the development of the external sexual organs in the male and female. (Drawn from the Ecker-Ziegler models.) Umbilical conl Cenital tuhercle Genital tubercle IfOhiO'Scrotalfold Inner genital fold Genital groove \ w f ! a/ Glans penis Labio-scrotalfohl {nner genital fold Genital groove Ferinaum Anus Glans cliloridis Labio-serotal fold /nner genUal fold Genital groove Perinaeum — Glans penis Genital groore -Hcrotnm Haphe Prepuce Glans cliloridis Labium majus Labium minus Vestibule Vaginal orifice In the male the changes are greater on account of the development of the penile portion of the urethra. The genital tubercle enlarges to form the corpora cavernosa and glans penis. The lips of the inner genital folds meet and fuse from behind forwards to form the penile urethra, the bulb, and the corpus spongiosum The part of the urethral groove on the glans penis is closed independently ami the last part of the urethral tube to be completed is tbat at the l""^^!^" « glans and body of the penis. If the lips of the groove fail to close, the condition known as hypospadias results.DEVELOPMENT OF EXTERNAL ORGANS OF GENERATION 177 The labio-scrotal folds meet and uuite in the middle line to form the scrotum, their Une of union being indicated by the median raphe. The prepuce is formed by the growth of a solid plate of ectoderm into the superficial part of the genital tubercle ; on coronal section this plate presents the shape of a horseshoe. By the brealdng down of its more centrally situated cells this plate is split into two lamellse, and a cutaneous fold, the prepuce, is liberated and forms a hood over the glans. ' Adherent prepuce is not an adhesion really, but a hindered central desquamation ' (Berry Hart, op. cit.).* The homologies of the diiferent parts of the sexual organs may be stated in tabular form as follows :— IKDIFPERENT STAGE Male Female Genital ridge Testis. Ovary. Wolffian body. Rete testis, vasa efferentia, coni vasculosi, organ of Giraldes. Epoophoron or organ of Rosenmiiller. Parooph- oron. Wolffian duct . Canal of epididymis, vas deferens, common ejacu- latory duct. Seminal vesicle. Hydatid of Morgagni. (Duct of Gartner.) Miillerian ducts . Sessile hydatids of epididy- mes. Uterus masculinus. Fallopian tubes, uterus, vagina. Genital tubercle . Corpora cavernosa and glans penis. Clitoris. Urogenital sinus . Prostatic and membranous parts of urethra. Urethra. Vestibule. Inner genital folds. Penile urethra, bulb and corpus spongiosum. Labia minora. Labio-scrotal folds Scrotum. Labia majora. THE FORM OF THE EMBRYO AT DIFFERENT STAGES OF ITS GROWTH First Week.—During the early part of this period the ovum is in the FaUopian tube. Having been fertilised in the upper part of the tube, it slowly passes down, undergoing segmentation, and reaches the uterus before the end of the first week. Petersf described a specimen, the age of which he reckoned as from three to four days. It was imbedded in the decidua on the posterior wall of the uterus and enveloped by a decidua capsularis, the central part of which, however, consisted merely of a layer of fibrin. The ovum was in the form of a sac, the outer wall of which consisted of a layer of trophoblast; inside this was a thin layer of mesoderm composed of round, oval, and spindle-shaped cells. Numerous villous processes—some consisting of trophoblast only, others possessing a core of mesoderm—projected from the surface * Spicer (Jmimal of Anatoviy and Physiology, vol. xliii. 1909) describes the prepuce as arising in the form of an annular hood of mesodermal tissue which proceeds forwards ■within the stibstance of tlie surrounding epithelium. ' The main portion of this hood sjirings from mesoblastic tissue considerably posterior to the corvi.x glandis, in the form of a crescentic swelling or collar, and this creeps forward, burrowing always in the epithelial layers, bridging over the groove of the cervix which is filled with epidermal cells, and finally overlaps the body of the glans. This hood is the prepuce.' ' The epidermis covering the glans thus becomes divided into two layers: an outer, which forms the superficial covering of the prepuce, and an inner, which remains as a more or less solid layer between the prepuce and the glans until after birth. From it is differentiated a basal layer of cubical or cylindrical epithelium to line the inner aspect of the prepuce, and another to cover the surface of the glans, while central desquamation ensues later and prepares the way for a movable prepuce.' t Die JEinbetlung des Monsohliehen Hies, 1899. N178 EMBRYOLOGY of the ovnm iato the surrounding decidua. Inside this sac the rudiment of the embryo was found in the form of a patch of ectoderm, covered by a small but completely closed amnion. It possessed a mmute yolk-sac and was surrounded by mesoderm, which was connected by a band to that lining the trophoblast (fig. 123).* Fio. 242.—Human embryo of about fifteen days old. (His.) Heart Avmion Body-ntalk Chorion Second Weeh-By the end of this week the ovum has increased coJ^^'^erably m s ze and the majority of its viUi are vascularised. The embryo has assumed - definite form and its cejhahc and caudal extremities are easily distmguished Jhejieural meduUary folds are partly united. The embryo is more completely separated from Fig. 243.—Human embryo between eighteen and twenty-one days old. (His.) Mid-brain , Hind-brain Fore-brain —; Stomatodmwn - Mandibular ar Heart Auditory vesicle Visceral arches Amnion (cut) Body-stalk .h. ,oli..«. «.d .ho p«.™.l mesoderm U beiag divided into «>e primitive «=gme„ls the amnion and yolk-sac, were p-e^ent but "'^le ^^^^^ understated, and ectoderm. They arc of opinion that the age ot leters o estimate it as between and 14^ days.FORM OF THE EMBRYO AT DIFFERENT STAGES 179 and the ocular and auditory vesicles are formed. Four visceral clefts are present; the stomatodffium is well marked, and the bucco-pharyngeal membrane has dis- appeared. The rudiments of the limbs are seen as short buds, and the Wolffian bodies are visible (fig. 243). , , . i • ^, Fourth Tl'eeifc.—The embryo is markedly curved on itself, and when viewed in prohle is almost circular in outline. The cerebral hemispheres appear as hollow buds, and the elevations which form the rudiments of the pinna are visible. The limbs now appear as oval flattened projections (fig. 244). Fig. 244.—Human embryo, twenty-seven to thirty days old. (His.) Heart Fifth Week.—The embryo is less curved and the head is relatively of large size. Differen- tiation of the limbs into their segments occurs. The nose forms a short, flattened projection.. The genital tubercle is evident (fig. 245). Sixth Week.—'the curvature of the embryo is further diminished. The visceral clefts— except the first—have disappeared, and the rudiments of the fingers and toea can be recognised (fig. 246). Fig. 245.—Human embryo, thirty-one to thirty-four days old. (His.) Heart Hind-limb Seventh and Eighth Weeks.—The flexure of the head is gradually reduced and the neck is somewhat lengthened. The upper lip is completed and the nose is more prominent. The nostrils are directed forwards and the palate is not completely developed. The eyelids are present in the shape of folds above and below the eye, and the different parts of the pinna are distinguishable. By the end of the second month the foetus measures from 28 to 30 mm. in length (fig. 247). N 2180 EMBRYOLOGY Third Month.—The head is extended and the neck is lengthened. The eyelids meet and fuse, remaining closed until the end ot the seventh month. The limbs are well devel- oped and nails appear on the digits. The external organs are so fai- differentiated that it is possible to distinguish the sex. By the end of this month the length of the foetus is about 7 cm., but if the legs be included it is from 9 to 10 em. Fourth Month.—The loop of gut which projected into the umbilical cord is withdrawn within the foetus. The hairs begin to make their appearance. There is a general increase in size so that by the end of the fourth month the foetus is from 12 to 13 cm. in length, but if the legs be included it is from 16 to 20 cm. Fifth Month.—It is during this month that the first movements of the foetus are usually observed. The eruption of hair on the head commences, and the vernix caseosa begins to be deposited. By the end of this month the total length of the foetus, including the legs, is from 25 to 27 cm. YiG. 246.—Human embryo of about six weeks. Fig. 247.—Human embryo about (His.) eight and a half weeks old. (His.) Sixth Month—The body is covered by fine hairs {lantigo) and the deposit of vermx caseosa is considerable. The papilla of the skin are developed and the '',1^0™^^^^^. ^.^^"^ nail projects from the corium of the dermis. Measured from vertex to heels, the total length of the foetus at the end of this month is from 30 to 32 cm. Seventh Month—The pupiUary membrane atrophies and the eyehds ^eopen. ^ passes into the vaginal process of the peritoneum. From vertex to heels the total length at the end of the seventh month is from 35 to 36 cm., i.e. about 14 m. The weight is a little over three pounds. vpmW- Eighth Month—The skin assumes a pink colour and is now ^nt^^f caseosa, and the lanugo begins to disappear. Subcutaneous fat ha-^ ^'e^n to a considerable extent, and the foetus presents a plump ^PPf'^'^f f^" j *f length, i.e. from head to heels, at the end of the eighth month is about 40 cm. (16 m.), and the weight varies between 4^ and 5^ lbs. x, ^ i ti,b „mbiliciis is NirUh Month-The lanugo has largely disappeared from tl^*'.t"^^; .^^he ^^^^d^ci^is almost in the midcUe of the body and the testes are in the f "^o^^^J-^if^Vt 'o^ the foetus weighs from 6^ to 8 lbs., and measures from head to heels about 50 cm. (20 in.).OSTEOLOGY THE general framework of the body is built up mainly of a series of bones, supplemented, however, in certain regions by pieces of cartilage ; the bony part of the framework constitutes the skeleton. in comparative anatoniy the term skeleton has a -ndder apphcation, as m some of the lower animals hard, protective and supporting structures are more extensively distributed, being developed in association with the integu- mentary system. In such animals the skeleton may be described as consisting of an internal or deep skeleton, the endoslceleton, and an external or superficial, the exoskeleton. In the human subject the exoskeleton is extremely rudi- mentary, its only important representatives being the teeth and nails. The term skeleton is, therefore, confined to the endoskeleton, and this is divisible into an axial part, which includes that of the head and trunk, and an appendicular part, M'hich comprises that of the limbs. In the skeleton of the adult there are 206 distinct bones, as follows :— Axial Skeleton Vertebral column .... 26 SkuU 22 Hyoid bone 1 Ribs and sternum .... 25 74 Appendicular I Upper hmbs 64 Skeleton 1 Lower hmbs 62 — 126 Auditory ossicles. ....... 6 Total 206 The patellae are included in this enumeration, but the smaller sesamoid bones are not reckoned. Bones are divisible into four classes : Long, Short, Flat, and Irregular. The Long bones are found in the limbs, and each consists of a shaft and two extremities. The shaft, or diaphysis, is a hoUow cylinder, tlie central cavity being termed the medullary canal; the waU consists of dense, compact tissue of considerable thickness in the middle part of the shaft, but becoming thinner towards the extremities ; the cancellous tissue is scanty. The extremities are generally expanded, for the purposes of articulation, and to afford broad surfaces for muscular attachment. They are usually developed from separate centres of ossification termed epiphyses, and consist of cancellous tissue surrounded by a thin layer of compact bone. The meduUary canal and the spaces in the cancellous tissue are fiUed with marrow. The long bones are not straight, but curved; the curve generally taking place in two planes, thus affording gi-eater strength to the bone. The bones belonging to this class are : the clavicle, humerus, radius, ulna, femur, tibia, fibula, metacarpals, metatarsals, and phalanges. Short bones.—Wliere a part of the skeleton is intended for strength and compactness combined with limited movement, it is divided into a number of small bones, as in the carpus and tarsus. These consist of cancellous tissue covered by a tliin crust of compact substance. The patellce, together \vith the other sesamoid bones, are by some regarded as short bones. Flat bones.—Where the principal requirement is either extensive pro- tection or the provision of broad surfaces for muscular attachment, the bonesOSTEOLOGY 182 are expanded into broad, flat plates, as in the skull and the shoulder-blade. These bones arc composed of two thin layers of compact tissue enclosing between them a variable quantity of cancellous tissue. In the cranial bones, the layers of compact tissue are famiUarly known as the tables of the skuU ; the outer one is tliick and tough ; the inner is tliin, dense, and brittle, and hence is termed the vitreous table. The intervening cancellous tissue is called the diploe, and this, in certain regions of the skuU, becomes absorbed so as to leave spaces filled with air {air-sinuses) between the two tables. The flat bones are : the occipital, parietal, frontal, nasal, lachrymal, vomer, scapula, OS innominatum, sternum, ribs, and, according to some, the patella. The irregular bones are such as, from their peculiar form, cannot be grouped under the preceding heads. They consist of cancellous tissue enclosed within a thin layer of compact bone. The irregular bones are : the vertebras, sacrum, coccyx, temporal, sphenoid, ethmoid, malar, maxilla, mandible, palate, inferior turbinated, and hyoid. Surfaces of bones.—If the surface of a bone be examined, certain eminences and depressions are seen, to which descriptive anatomists have given the following names. These eminences and depressions are of two kinds : articular and non- articular. Well-marked examjjles of articular eminences are found in the heads of the humerus and femur ; and of articular depi-essions in the glenoid cavity of the scapula, and the acetabulum of the os innominatum. Non-articular eminences are designated according to their form. Thus, a broad, rough, uneven elevation is called a tuberosity, protuberance, or process ; a small, rough prominence, a tubercle ; a sharp, slender, pointed eminence, a spine ; a narrow, rough elevation, running some way along the surface, a ridge, crest, or line. Non-articular depressions are also of variable form, and are described as fosscB, pits, depressions, grooves, furrows, fissures, notches, &c. These non-articular eminences and depressions serve to increase the extent of surface for the attachment of hgaments and muscles, and are usually well marked in pro- portion to the muscularity of the subject; the grooves, fissures and notches transmit vessels and nerves. In describing the various surfaces or aspects of a bone, or indeed of any other structure, the body is supposed to be in the erect position. Any surface, extremity, or other part directed upwards towards the head is termed superior, while those directed downwards towards the feet are termed inferior. Surfaces directed forwards towards the front of the body are termed anterior or ventral, while those directed backwards are posterior or dorsal. Those surfaces which are directed towards a median antero-posterior vertical plane are termed i?ii(?r?ia/ or mesial, while those directed away from this plane are external or lateral. The minute structure, growth, and composition of bone are described on pages 24 to 34. THE VERTEBRAL COLUIMN The vertebral or spinal column (columna vertebralis) is a flexuous and flexible column, formed of a series of bones called vertebra;. , ■, 4.1, The vertebrae are thirty-three in number, and are grouped under the names cervical, thoracic or dorsal, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal, accordmg to the regions they occupy ; seven being found in the cervical region, twelve in the thoracic, five in the lumbar, five in the sacral, and four m the coccygeal. This number is sometimes increased by an additional vertebra m one region, or it may be diminished in one region, the deficiency being supphert by an additional vertebra in another. The number of cer\acal vertebrae is. however, very rarely increased or diminished. ■ j w- 4^ The vertebra; in the upper three regions of the column remain distinct throughout life, and are knoAra as true or niovable vertebrae ; those ot tne sacral and coccygeal regions, on the other hand, are termed /afoe or pxea vertebrae, because they are united in the adult to form two bones—live forming the upper bone or sacrum, and four the terminal bone or coccyx. With the exception of the first and second cervical, the true or rnox^Me vertebrae present certain common characters which are best studiea dj examining one from the middle of the thoracic region.183 VERTEBRA General Chabactees of a Vertebra A tvBical vertebra consists of two essential parts-viz. an anterior .Payment the body or centrum (corpus vertebra), and a posterior part the t^ZPLhLouI vevtehv^); these enclose a foramen, the spinal ov vertebral 7Zien tvlZn verteSe . The neural arch consists of a ^^v: oi pedicles ZdTvToUamince, and supports seven processes-vi^^. four arUcular (zyg- apoph/seS, two transverse (processus transversi), and one spinous (processus '^^met the vertebrae are articulated mth each other the bodies form a .trnr;cfnniar for the support of the head and trunk, and the spmal foramma oonstS^ute a caLl ^^^^^^^ of the spinal cord, wliilst between every S?of ve?tS a^^^^ intervertebral foramma (foramina rntervertebralia), one on either side, for the transmission of the spmal nerves and vessels Each of these constituent parts must now be considered. The body or centrum is the largest part of a vertebra and is more or less cvUndricS L shape. Its upper and lower surfaces are flattened and rough, aS Jve atUchmLt to the intervertebral fibro-cartilages, ^nd each presents a rill around its circumference. In front, it is convex from side to side and coi^ve from above dotards. Behind, it is flat from above doxswards aM sUgbtiy concave from side to side. Its anterior surface presents a fevv smaU apertures, for the passage of nutrient vessels ; on the posterior ir^i^lr" \;Se!"':; ^O. 248.-Sagittal section of a h,nibar vei-tebra. occasionally more than one, for the exit of veins from the body of the vertebra—the vence basis vertebrae. The pedicles are two short, thick processes of bone, which project ba,ck- wards, one on either side, from the upper part of the body, at the junction of its posterior and lateral surfaces. The concavities peSesTrt named t\ie intervertebral notches; and when the vertebrae are articulated, the notches of each contiguous pair of bones form the %nter- vertebral foramina, already referred to. , , , j j • j„ t^^^ The laminae are two broad plates directed backwards and inwards from the pedicles. They fuse in the middle hne posteriorly, and so complete the posterior boundary of the vertebral foramen." Their upper borders and the lower parts of their anterior surfaces are rough for the attachment of the ligamenta subflava. j r ^ The spinous process is directed backwards and downwards trom tne junction of the laminae, and serves for the attachment of muscles and ligaments. The articular processes, two superior and two inferior, sprmg trom tne junction of the pedicles and laminae. The superior project upwards and their articular surfaces are directed more or less backwards ; the mtenoi project downwards, and their surfaces look more or less forwards. The transverse processes, two in number, project one at either side irom the point where the lamina joins the pedicle, between the superior and interior articular processes. They serve for the attachment of muscles and ligaments. Structure of a vertebra (fig. 248).—The body is composed of cancellous tissue, covered by a thin coating of compact bone ; the latter is perforated by numerous orifices, some of large size, for the passage of vessels ; the interior of the bone is traversed by one or two large canals, for the reception of vems, which converge towards a single large, irregular aperture, or several small apertures, at the posterior part of the body. The arch and processes projecting from it have a thick covering of compact tissue.184 OSTEOLOGY Cervical VEiiTEBBiE (fig. 249) The cervical vertebrae (vertebrae cervicales) are the smaUest of tlie true vertebrae, and can be readUy distinguished from those of the thoracic o^ umbar regions by the presence of a foramen (foramen transversariura) each transverse process. The first, second, and seventh present excepS fe^t^re tTe rrlSg'fZr ^ ^ f°ll°-n/characters L common t" w«rS''' rf^"'" f"'"''^' '^^^ ^'T ^'^^ *° ^'^^ t^^^ from before back- wards, riie anterior and posterior surfaces are flattened and of equal depth • the former IS placed on a lower level than the latter, and its inferior border IS pxolonged do%vnwards, so as to overlap the upper and fore part of the vertebra below. Its upper surface is concave t/ansversely, and presents a projecting hp on either side ; its lower surface is concave from before back wards, convex from side to side, and presents lateraUy a shaUow concavity which receives the corresponding projecting lip of the subjacent vertebri.' llie pedicles are directed outwards and backwards, and are attached to the body midway between its upper and lower borders, so that the superior mtervertebral notch is as deep as the inferior, but it is, at the same time narrower, ihe lavitnce are narrow, and thinner above than below the ■spinal foramen is large, and of a triangular form. The spinous process is Aiiterior tuhercle of transverse procesn Foramen for vertebral artery Posterior tubercle of. transverse process Fig. 249.—a cervical vertebra. L Transverse process Superior articular jirocess Inferior articular process * short and bifid, the two divisions being often of unequal size. The superior and inferior articular processes of each side are fused to form an articular pillar, which projects outwards from the junction of the pedicle and lamina, ihe articular facets are flat and of an oval form : the superior look back- wards upwards, and slightly inwards ; the inferior forMards, downwards, and slightly outwards. The transverse processes are each pierced by a foramen transversarium, wliich, in the upper six vertebra, gives passage to the vertebral artery and vein and a plexus of sympathetic nerves. Each process consists of an anterior and a posterior part. The anterior portion is the homologue of the rib in the thoracic region, and is therefore named the costal process or costal element: it arises from the side of the body, is directed outwards in front of the foramen, and ends in a tubercle, the tuberculum anterius. The posterior part, the true transverse process, springs from the neural arch behind the foramen, and is directed forwards and outwards : it terminates in a tubercle, the tuberculum posterius. These tw o parts are joined, outside the foramen, by a bar of bone which exhibits a deep groove (sulcus n. spinalis) on its upper surface for the passage of the corresponding spinal nerve.* & j s Chassaignac first pointed out that the common carotid artery can be easily compressed against the anterior tubercle of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and * '^"oial element of a cervical vertebra not only includes tlie portion wliicli sprinp-s trom the side of the body, but tlie anterior and posterior tubercles and the bar of bone which connects them.185 CERVICAL VERTEBRA therefore this tubercle is named the hiberculum caroticvm or Chassaignac's tubercle. It also constitutes an important guide to the vertebral artery which enters the foramen transversarium of this vertebra. The first cervical vertebra (fig. 250) is named the atlas because it supports the globe of the liead. Its chief peculiarities are that it has neither body nor spinous process, but is ring-Hke, and consists of an anterior and a posterior arch, and two lateral masses. The anterior arch (arcus anterior) forms about one-fifth of the ring : its anterior surface is convex, and presents y at its centre a tubercle (tuberculum anterius) for the attachment of the Longus oM^^^^^^ cdH ; posteriorly it is concave, and marked by a smooth, oval or circular ' ^ facet (fovea dentis), for articulation with the odontoid process of the axis.'f^'^; ^^I^ The upper and lower borders respectively give attachment to the anterior occipito-atlantal and the anterior atlanto-axial ligaments; the former connects it with the occipital bone above and the latter with the axis below. The posterior arch forms about two-fifths of the ch-cumference of the ring : it terminates behind in a tubercle (tuberculum posterius) which is the rudiment of a spinous process and gives origin to the Rectus capitis posticus minor. The ^^^^2^^ - dimmutive size of this process prevents any interference with the movements \Z ^ between the atlas and the cranium. The posterior part of the .arch presents n±^^^-.Tt above and behind a rounded edge for the attachment of the posterior occipito- K)» atlantal ligament, Avhile immediately behind each superior articular process is ~ -s a gi-oove (sulcus arteriaj vertebralis), sometimes converted into a foramen by a Tnberrle Transvei se process Fig. 250.—^First cervical vertebra, or Atlas. Diaffmm of section of odontoid 2>rocess Diagram of section of transverse ligament Foramen for vertebral artery Groove for veHehral artci-y and first spinal nerve Eudimentary spinous process delicate bony spiculum which arches backwards from the posterior extremity ■ of the superior articular process. This groove represents the superior inter- vertebral notch, and serves for the transmission of the vertebral artery, which : after ascending through the foramen in the transverse process, winds round tlie lateral mass m a du-ection backwards and inwards. It also transmits the •suboccipital (first spinal) nerve. On the under surface of the posterior arch ibelund the articular facets, are two shaUow grooves, which represent the ! inferior mtervertebral notches of other vertebr£e. The lower border gives attachment to the posterior atlanto-axial ligament, which connects it with the axis. Ihe lateral masses are the. most bulky and soHd parts of the atlas, in border to support the weight of the head. Each presents an articular facet .above, and one below The superior facets are of large size, oval, concave, • and approach each other m front, but diverge behind: they are directed ■ upwards, mwards, and a little backwards, each forming a cup for the con-esponding condyle of the occipital bone, and are admirably adapted to tv Ti u^ movements of the head. Not infrequently they are partiaUy sub- 'tuviaed by more or less deep indentations which encroach upon their lateral margins, ihe inferior articular facets are circular in form, flattened or slightlv ineSfn"„ .v.'''^°*^^°"'''"''''''^' articulating with the axisrand .permitting the rotatory movements of the head. Just below the inner margm ot each superior facet is a smaU tubercle, for the attachment of the I transverse ligament which stretches across the ring of the atlas and divides the186 OSTEOLOGY vertebral foramen into two unequal parts—the anterior or smaller receiving the odontoid process of the axis, the posterior transmitting the spinal cord and its membranes. This part of the spinal canal is of considerable size, much greater than is required for the accommodation of the spinal cord, and hence lateral displacement of the atlas may occur without compression of this struc- ture. The transverse processes are large ; they project out\vardfi and down- wards from the lateral masses, and serve for the attachment of muscles wliich assist in rotating the head. They are long, and do not present anterior and posterior tubercles, since these have become fused into one mass ; the foramen for the vertelDral artery is directed from below, upwards and backwards. The second cervical vertebra (fig. 251) is named the axis or epistropheus because it forms the pivot upon which the first vertebra, carrying the head, rotates. The most distinctive character of this bone is the strong tooth-like odontoid process which rises perpendictdarly from the upper surface of the body. The body is deeper in front than behind, and prolonged downwards anteriorly so as to overlap the upper and fore part of the third vertebra. It presents in front a median longitudinal ridge, separating two lateral depres- sions for the attachment of the Longus coUi muscles. Its under surface is concave from before backwards and convex from side to side. The odontoid process (dens) exhibits a shght constriction, or neck, where it joins the body. On its anterior surface is an oval or nearly cu'cular facet for articulation with Fig. 251.—Second cervical vertebra, or Axis. Odontoid process Hough surface for check ligament Groove for transverse ligament Sjnnous process- A rticidar facet for atlas Body ~j Transverse process Inferior articular process '^ton^e anterior arch of the atlas. On the back of the neck, and frequently extending on to its lateral aspects, is a shaUow groove for the transverse ligament which retains the process in position. The apex is pomted, and gives attachment to the middle odontoid or check Ugament; below the apex the process is somewhat enlarged, and presents on either side a rough impres- sion for the attachment of the lateral odontoid or check hgament; these Ugaments connect the odontoid process to the occipital bone. Ihe internal structure of the odontoid process is more compact than that ot tiie ooay. The pedicles are broad and strong, especiaUy m front, where they coalesce mth the sides of the body and the root of the odontoid process, ihey are covered above by the superior articulating surfaces. The ImmnxE are thick and strong, and the spinal foramen large, but srnaUer than that ot the atlas. The transverse processes are very smaU, not bifid but t«rnimating m a single tubercle ; each is perforated by the foramen for the vertebral arterj, which is directed obUquelj^ upwards and outwards^ The super^or art^l^r surfaces are round, slightly convex, directed upwards and outwards a d are supported on the body, pedicles, and transverse processes The ariicvlar surfaces have the same direction as ^liose of the other cerym^^^ vertebriB. The superi(yr intervertebral notches are very .shaUow, and lie bemna IS art'?ular processes ; the inferior lie in front of the articular P^^^^f/^' the other cervical vertebrae. The spinoiis process is large very stiong, deqDiy channeUed on its under surface, and presents a bifid, tubercular extremityCERVICAL VERTEBRA 187 for the attachment of muscles which serve to rotate the head upon the ""^^^he seventh cervical vertebra (fig. 252).—The most distinctive char- acteristic of this vertebra is the existence of a long and promment spinous process; hence the name Fig. 252.—Seventh cervical vertebra, or vertebra prominens. Body- vertebra prominens. This pro- cess is thick, nearly horizontal in direction, not bifurcated, but terminating in a tubercle, to which the lower end of the hgamentum nuchse is attached. The transverse processes are of considerable size, their pos- terior tubercles are large and prominent, while the anterior are small and faintly marked ; the upper surface of each has usually a shallow groove, and its extremity seldom presents more than a trace of bifurca- tion. The foramen in the transverse process may be as large as that in the other cervical vertebrae, but is generally smaller on one or both sides ; occasionally it is double, sometimes it is absent. On the left side it occasion- ally gives passage to the ver- tebral artery; more frequently the vertebral vem traverses it on both sides ; but the usual arrangement is for both artery and vein to pass in front of the transverse process, and not through the foramen. Sometimes the anterior root of the transverse process exists as a separate bone, and attains a large size. It is then known as a ' cervical rib.' Spinous process Thobacic or Doesal Vertebb^ The thoracic or dorsal vertebrae (vertebrae thoracales) (fig. 253) are intermediate in size between those of the cervical and lumbar regions; they increase in size from above do'nnwards, the upper vertebrae being much smaller than those in the lower part of the region. They are distinguished by the presence of facets on' the sides of the bodies for articu- lation with the heads of the ribs, and facets on the transverse processes of all, except the eleventh and twelfth, for articulation with the tubercles of the ribs. The bodies in the middle of the thoracic region possess a very characteristic form, being heart-shaped and as broad in the antero-posterior as in the trans- verse direction. At the ends of the thoracic region they resemble respectively those of the cervical and lumbar vertebrae. They are shghtly thicker behind than in front, flat above and below, convex from side to side, deeply concave behind, and slightly constricted laterally and in front. They present, on either side, two costal demi-facets, one above, near the root of the pedicle, the other below, in front of the inferior intervertebral notch ; these are covered Avith cartilage in the recent state, and, when the vertebrae are articulated with one another, form, with the intervening intervertebral discs, oval surfaces for the reception of the heads of the ribs. The pedicles are directed backwards and shghtly upwards, and the inferior intervertebral notches are of large size, and deeper than in any other region of the vertebral column. The lamince are broad, thick, and imbricated—that is to say, they overlap one another like tiles on a roof. The spinal foramen is small, and of a circular form. The spinous process is long, triangular on coronal section, directed obliquely downwards, and terminates in a tubercular extremity. These processes overlap one another from the fifth to the eighth, but are less oblique in direction above188 ObTEOLOGY and below.* The superior articular processes are thin plates of bone projecting upwards from the junctions of the pedicles and laminae ; their articular facets are practically flat, and are directed backwards and a Uttle outwards and upwards. The inferior articular processes are fused to a considerable extent with the laminae, and project but slightly beyond their lower borders ; their facets are directed forwards and a httle inwards and dowTiwards. The trans- verse processes arise from the same parts of the arch as the posterior roots of the transverse processes in the neck, and are situated behind the superior articular processes and pedicles ; they are thick, strong, and of considerable length, directed obhquely backwards and outwards, and each presents a clubbed extremity, on the anterior part of which is a small, concave surface, for articulation with the tubercle of a rib. The first, ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth thoracic vertebrae present certain pecuharities, and must be specially considered (fig. 254). Fig. 253.—thoracic vertebra. The first thoracic vertebra presents, on either side of the body, an entire articular facet for the head of the fii-st rib, and a demi-facet for the upper half of the head of the second rib. The body is hke that of a cevical vertebra, being broad transversely ; its upper surface is concave, and Upped on eitlier side. The superior articular surfaces are obhque, durected upwards and backwards, but not outwards ; the spinous process is thick, long and almost horizontal. The transverse processes are long, and the upper intervertebral notches are deeper than in the other vertebrae of this series. The ninth thoracic vertebra may have no demi-facets beloAv. In some subjects, however, it has two demi-facets on either side ; when this occurs the tenth has demi-facets at the upper part only. .^^„^A^ The tenth thoracic vertebra has (except m the cases just mentioned) an entire articular facet on either side, which is placed partly on the outer surface I'n tCdeventh thoracic vertebra the body approaches in its form and size to that of the lumbar vertebra. The articular facets for the heads of the ribs one on either side, are of large size, and placed chiefly on the pedicles, ^^luch • In quadntpcds tl>c majority of the spinou.. processes "f ^''^ upwards a.Hl backwards, wl.ilc those of the hnnbar region are 'l'^<=«*f "l'^^" ^'^^"^-^ / The change in inclination is e(Tectc<l in one of the lower Ihorac.c points almost directly upwards. This vertebra is known as the antrohnal, and in man it., representative is the eleventh thoracic.189 THORACIC VERTEBRA are thicker and stronger in tliis and the next vertebra than in any other part of the thoracic region. The spinous process is short, and nearly horizontal in direction. The transverse processes are very short, tubercular at their extremities, and have no articular facets. The twelfth thoracic vertebra has the same general characteristics as the eleventh, but may be distinguished from it by its inferior articular processes beinf' convex and turned outw ards, like those of the lumbar vertebrae ; by Fig. 254.—Peculiar thoracic vertebrae. the general form of the body, laminae, and spinous process, in which it resembles the lumbar vertebra;; and by the transverse processes being subdivided into three elevations, the superior, inferior, and external tubercles; the superior and inferior correspond to the mamillaiy and accessory processes of the lumbar vertebrae. Traces of similar elevations are found on the transverse processes of the tenth and eleventh thoracic vertebrae.OSTEOLOGY 190 LuMBAK. Vertebrae The lumbar vertebrae (vertebraj lumbales) (figs. 255 and 256) are the largest segments of the movable part of the vertebral column, and can be distinguished by the absence of a foramen in the transverse process, and bj' the absence of facets on the sides of the body. Fig. 255.—A lumbar vertebra seen from the side. The body is large, ^vider from side to side than from before backwards, and a little thicker in front than behind. It is flattened or sHghtly concave above and below, concave behind, and deeply constricted in front and at the sides. The pedicles are very strong, directed backwards from the upper part of the body • consequently, the inferior mtervertebral notches are of considerable Fig. 256.—A lumbar vertebra seen from above and behind. depth. The laminc are broad, shor , and ^^ong ; the triangular, larger than in the thoracic, but ^i^^^l^P^^^^^" J-V^'L"^^^ The Ipinms process is thick, broad, and somewhat quadrnateral^ backsvards and t.>rminntes in a rough, uneven boidei. The superior191 LUMBAR VERTEBRA inferior articular processes are weU defined, projecting respectively upwards iiid downwards from the junctions of pedicles and lammse. The facets on I he superior processes are concave, and look backwards and inwards ; those on the inferior are convex, and are directed forwards and outwards. Tlie former are wider apart than the latter, smce in the articulated column the inferior articular processes are embraced by the superior processes of the subjacent vertebra. The transverse processes are long, slender, and directed transversely outwards in the upper three lumbar vertebrte ; they incUne a little upwards in the lower two. In the upper three vertebrae they arise from the junctions of the pedicles and the laminae, but in the lower two they are set further forward and arise from the pedicles and posterior parts of the bodies. They are situated in front of the articular processes instead of behind them as in the thoracic vertebrae, and are homologous with the ribs. Of the three tubercles noticed in connection with the transverse processes of the lower thoracic vertebrte, the superior one is comiected in the lumbar region with the back part of the superior articular process, and is named the mamillary process ; the inferior is situated at the back part of the base of the transverse process, and is called the accessory process (fig. 256). Although in man these are comparatively small, in some animals they attain considerable size, and serve to lock the vertebrae more closely together. Tlie external tubercle becomes the transverse process. The fifth lumbar vertebra is characterised by its body being much thicker in front than behind, which accords with the prominence of the sacro- vertebral articulation ; by the smaller size of its spinous process ; by the wide interval between the inferior articular processes ; and by the thick- ness of its transverse processes, which spring from the body as well as from the pedicles. Sacral and Coccygeal Vertebb.s! The sacral and coccygeal vertebrae consist at an early period of Ufe of nine separate segments which are united in the adult, so as to form two bones, five entering into the formation of the sacrum, four into that of the coccyx. Sometimes the coccyx consists of five bones; occasionally the number is reduced to three. The Sacrttji The sacrum (os sacrum) is a large, triangular bone, situated in the lower part of the vertebral column and at the upper and back part of the pelvic cavity, where it is inserted Mke a wedge between the two innominate bones; its upper part or base articulates Math the last lumbar vertebra, its apex with the coccyx. The sacrum is cui'ved upon itself, and placed very obhquely, its base projecting - forwards, and forming the prominent sacro-vertehral angle Avhen articulated with the last lumbar vertebra; its central part is projected backwards, so as to give increased capacity to the pelvic cavity. It presents for examination an anterior, a posterior, and two lateral surfaces, a base, an apex, and a central canal. The anterior surface (facies pelvina) (fig. 257) is concave from above doAvn- wards, and sUghtly so from side to side. In the middle are seen four transverse ridges, indicating the original division of the bone into five separate pieces. The portions of bone intervening between the ridges correspond to the bodies of the vertebrae. The body of the first segment is of large size, and in form resembles that of a lumbar vertebra ; the succeeding ones diminish from above downwards, are flattened from before backwards, and curved so as to accommodate themselves to the form of the sacrum, being concave in front, convex behind. At the ends of the ridges are seen the anterior sacral foramina (foramina sacraUa anteriora), four in number on either side, somewhat rounded in form, diminishing in size from above downwards, and directed outwards and forwards : they give exit to the anterior primary divisions of the sacral nerves and entrance to the lateral sacral arteries. External to these foramina is the lateral mass (pars lateralis), consisting of separate segments at an early period of Hfe ; in the adult, these become blended mth the bodies and with each other. Each lateral mass is traversed by four broad, shallow grooves, which lodge the anterior divisions of the sacral nerves as192 OSTEOLOGY they pass outwards, the grooves being separated by prominent lidges of bone which give origin to the Pyriformis. If a sagittal section be made through the centre of the sacrum (fig. 259), the bodies are seen to be united at their circumferences by bone, wide intervals being left centrally, which, in the recent state, are filled by the intervertebral discs. In some bones this union is more complete between the lower than between the upper segments. The fosterior surface (facies dorsalis) (fig. 258) is convex and narrower than the anterior. In the middle line it displays a crest (crista sacralis media) surmounted by three or four tubercles, the rudimentary spinous processes of the upper three or four sacral vertebrae. On either side of the spinous pro- cesses is a shallow groove, the sacral groove, which gives origin to the Multi- fidus spinas, the floor of the groove being formed by the united laminae of the corresponding vertebrae. The laminae of the fifth sacral vertebra, and Fig. 257.—Sacrum, anterior surface. sometimes those of the fourth, fail to meet behind, and thus a deficiency (hiatus sacralis) occurs in the posterior A\ all of the sacral canal. On the lateral aspect of the sacral groove is a linear series of tubercles produced by the fusion of the articular processes which together form indistinct crests (crista^ sacralej articulares). The articular processes of the first sacral vertebra are large and oval in shape ; then" facets are concave from side to side, look backwards and inwards, and articulate with the facets on the inferior processes of the httli lumbar vertebra. The tubercles which represent the inferior articular pro- cesses of the fifth sacral vertebra are prolonged do\\nwards as rounded ]Dro- cesses, which are named the sacral conma (cornua sacralis) and are connected to the cornua of the coccyx. External to the articular processes are tlie four posterior sacral foramirui (foramina sacralia posteriora) ; tliey are smaller in size and less regular in form than the anterior, and transmit the posterior divisions of the sacral nerves. On the outer side of the posterior sacral fora- mina is a series of tubercles, whioli represent the tramvcrsc processes ot tlie193 SACRUM sacral vertebra, and form the lateral crests of the sacrum (cristae sacrales laterales). The transverse tubercles of the first sacral vertebra are of large size, very distinct, and correspond with the superior angles of the bone; they, together with the transverse tubercles of the second vertebra, give attachment to the horizontal parts of the posterior sacro-iliac ligaments ; those of the third vertebra give attachment to the obUque fasciculi of the posterior sacro- iliac Ugaments ; and those of the fourth and fifth to the great sacro-sciatic ligaments. The lateral surface, broad above, becomes nan-owed into a thin edge below. The upper half presents in front a broad, ear-shaped surface for articu- lation with the ilium. This is called the auricular surface (facies auricularis), and in the fresh state is coated with fibro-cartilage. Behind it are three deep and uneven impressions, for the attachment of the posterior sacro-ihac liga- ment. The lower half is tliin, and termmates in a projection called the inferior Fig. 258.—Sacrum, posterior surface. lateral angle ; internal to this angle is a notch, which is converted into a foramen by the transverse process of the upper piece of the coccyx, and trans- mits the anterior division of the fifth sacral nerve. The thin lower half of the lateral surface gives attachment to the great and small sacro-sciatic Ugaments, and to some fibres of the Gluteus maximus behind, and to the Coccygeus in front. The base of the sacrum, wliich is broad and expanded, is directed upwards and forwards. In the middle is seen a large oval articular surface, the upper surface of the body of the first sacral vertebra, which is connected with the under surface of the body of the last lumbar vertebra by an intervertebral disc. Behind it, is the large triangular orifice of the sacral canal, which is completed by the laminaj and spinous process of the first sacral vertebra. The superior articular processes project from it on each side ; they are oval, concave, directed backwards and inwards, like the superior articular processes of a lumbar vertebra ; in front of each is an intervertebral notch, which forms o191 OSTEOLOGY the lower part of the foramen between the last lumbar and first sacral vertebrte. On either side of the bodj' is a broad triangular surface, which extends outwards, supports the Psoas raagnus and lumbo-sacral cord, and in the articulated pelvis is continuous with tlie iliac fossa. This is called the ala (ala sacralis) ; it is shghtly concave from side to side, convex from before backwards, and gives attachment to a few of the fibres of the Iliacus. The posterior part of the ala represents the transverse process, and its anterior part the costal process of the first sacral segment. The apex is directed downwards and presents an oval facet for articulation with the coccyx. The spinal canal (fig. 259) runs throughout the gi-eater part of the bone ; it is large and triangular in form above ; small and flattened from before backwards ; below, its posterior wall is incomplete, from the non-development of the laminae and spinous processes. It lodges the sacral nerves, and its Av ails are perforated by the anterior and Fig. 259.-Sagittal section of the sacrum. posterior sacral foramina, tln-ough which these pass out. Structure.—The sacrum consists of cancellous tissue invested externally by a thin layer of compact bone. Ai'ticulations.—The sacrum articu- lates with four bones ; the last lumbar vertebra above, the coccyx below, and the innominate bone on either side. Differences in the sacrum of the male and female. — In the female the sacrum is shorter and wider than in the male ; the lower half forms a greater angle with the upper; the upper half is nearly straight, the lower half presenting the greatest amount of curvature. The bone is also directed more obliquely backwards ; this increases the size of the pelvic cavity and renders the sacro-vertebral angle more prominent. In the male the curvature is more evenly distri- buted over the whole length of the bone, and is altogether greater than in the female. Variations.—The sacrum, in some cases, consists of six pieces ; occasionally the number is reduced to four. Sometimes the uppermost transverse tubercles are not joined to the rest of the bone on one or both sides, or the sacral canal may be open throughout a con- siderable part of its length, in consequence of the imperfect development of the laminse and spinous processes. The sacrum, also, varies considerably with respect to its degree ot curvature. The Coccyx The coccyx (os coccvgis) (fig. 260), so called from having been compared to a cuckoo's beak, is usually formed of four rudimentary vertebra?; the number may however be increased to five or diminished to three. In each ot the first three segments may be traced a rudimentary body, articular and transverse processes ; the last piece (sometimes the tlurd) is a mere nodule ot bone. All the segments are destitute of pedicles, lamina? and spinous processes, and, consequently, of intervertebral and spinal foramina, ihe first is the largest; it resembles the lowest sacral vertebra, and often exists as195 COCCYX Fig. 260.—Coccyx. Coniua Budim. trans. process Anterior surface a separate piece ; the last three, diminishing in size from above downwards, are usually fused to form a single bone. TJie gradual diminution in the size of the segments gives this bone a triangular form, the base of the triangle joining the end of the sacrum. It presents for examination an anterior and a posterior surface, two' borders, a base, and an apex. The anterior surface is slightly concave, and marked wth three transverse grooves, indicating the lines of junction of the different segments. It gives attachment to the anterior sacro-coccygeal ligament and Levator ani, and supports the middle part of the rectum. The posterior surface is convex, marked by transverse grooves similar to those on the anterior surface ; and presents on either side a hnear row of tubercles, the rudimentary articular processes of the coccygeal vertebrje. Of these, the superior pair are large, and are called the cornua coccygea ; they project upwards, and articulate with the cornua of the sacrum, and on either side complete the fifth posterior sacral foramen for the transmission of the posterior primary division of the fifth sacral nerve. The lateral borders are thin, and exhibit a series of small eminences, which represent the transverse processes of the coccygeal vertebrae. Of these, the first is the largest; it is flattened from before backwards, and often ascends to join the lower part of the thin lateral edge of the sacrum, thus completing the fifth anterior sacral foramen for the transmission of the anterior primary division of the fifth sacral nerve; the others diminish in size from above downwards, and are often want- ing. The borders of the coccyx are nan'ow, and give attachment on either side to the sacro-sciatic ligaments, to the Coccygeus in front of the liga- ments, and to the Gluteus maximus behind them. The base presents an oval surface for articu- lation with the sacrum. The apex is rounded, and has attached to it the tendon of the external Sphincter muscle of the anus. It may be bifid, and is sometimes deflected to one or other side. Ossification of the vertebral column.—Each ver- tebra is ossified from three primary centres (fig. 261), two for the neural arch, and one for the body.* Ossification commences in the neural arches of the upper cervical vertebrte about the sixth week of foetal hie, and gradually extends down the column. The ossific granules first appear in the situations where the transverse processes afterwards project, and spread backwards to the spine, forwards into the pedicles, and outwards into the transverse and articular processes. Ossification of the body commences about the eighth week in the lower thoracic region, and subsequently extends upwards and downwards along the column. At birth these three pieces are perfectly separate. The ossific centre for the body does not give rise to the whole of the body of the adult vertebra ; the postero-lateral portions of the body are ossified by extensions from the neural arch centres. The body of the vertebra during the first few years of life shows, therefore, two synchon- droses (neurocentral stjnchondroses) traversing it along the lines of junction of the three centres. In the thoracic region, tlie facets for the heads of the ribs he behind the neuro-central synchondroses and are ossified from the centres for the nem-al arch. During the first year the laminae become united behind, union taking place first in the lumbar region and then extending upwards through the thoracic and lower cervical regions. About the third year the bodies of the upper cervical vertebrse are joined to the arches on either side ; in the lower lumbar vertebriB the union is not completed until the sixth year. Before puberty, no other changes * A vertebra is occasionally found in which the body consists of two lateral portions—a condition which proves that the body is sometimes ossified from two primary centres, one on either side of the middle line. o 2 Posterior surfaceOSTEOLOGY 196 1 for each lamina {6th week) Fig. 262. By 8 secondary centres Neuro-central sy7ichondrosis 11 for each \ trans, process I Wth year 1/or sirinous process (Wth year) Fig. 263. By 2 additional plates 1 for upper surface of body occur, excepting a gradual increase in the growtli of these primary centres, the upper and under surfaces of the bodies, and the ends of the transverse and spinous processes, being cartilaginous. Fig. 261.—Ossification ot a vertebra. By 8 ■primary centres 1 for body (6th week) About the sixteenth year (fig. 262), five secondary centres appear, one for the tip of each transverse process, one for the extremity of the spinous process, and two epiphysial plates, one for the upper and the other for the lower surface of the body (fig. 263). These fuse with the rest of the bone about the age of twenty-five. Exceptions to this mode of development occur in the first, second, and seventh cervical vertebrae, and in those of the lumbar region. The atlas is usually ossified from three centres (fig. 264). Two of these are destined for the lateral masses, the ossifica- tion of which commences about the seventh week of foetal life near the articular processes, and extends backwards ; at birth, these portions of bone are separated from one another behind by a narrow interval filled with cartilage. Between the third and fourth years they unite either directly or through the medium of a separate centre developed in the cartilage. The anterior arch, at birth, is alto- gether cartilaginous and consists of the hypochordal brace or bar (see page 103), which persists in the case of this vertebra; in tliis a separate nucleus appears about the end of the first year after birth, and joins the lateral masses from the sixth to the eighth year —their lines of union extending across the anterior portions of the superior articular facets. Sometimes two nuclei, one on either side of the median line, are developed in the cartilage, and join to form a single mass. Occasionally there is no separate centre, the anterior arch being formed by the forward extension and ultimate junction of the two lateral masses. The axis is ossified from five- primaiv and two secondary centres (fig. 265). The body and neural arch arc ossified in the same manner as the corre- sponding parts in the other vcrtebrre, viz., one centre for tl\c lower part of the body, and two for the neural arch. The centres for the neural arch appear about the 1 for under surface of body 16th year By 3 centres Fig. 264.—Atlas. 1 for anter. arch {end of 1st yr.) I Ith week 1 for each lateral mass ■ Fig. 265.—Axis. By Y centres ind year Glh month 1 for each lateral mass (jtli or eighth week) 1 for body {ith month) 1 for under surface of body Fig. 266.—Lumbar vertebra. 2 additional centres for mamillary tubercles197 OSSIFICATION OF VERTEBRA seventh or eighth week of foetal Ufe, that for the body about the tourth or fifth Zni The odontoid process consists originally of an extension upwards of the carSa^inous mass, in which the lower part of the body is formed About the sixth nionth of f^tal Ufe, two centres make their appearance in the base of this process : they are placed laterally. Fig. 267.—Ossification of the sacrum. AMitional centres for costal elements* At birth Fig. 268. At 44 yrs Fig. 269. Tivo epiphysial plates for each lateral surface* and join before birth to form a conical bilobed mass deeply cleft above ; the interval between the cleft and the summit of the process is formed by a wedge-shaped piece of cartilage. The base of the process is separated fi-om the body by a cartilaginous disc, which gradually becomes ossified at its cir- cumference, but remains cartilaginous in its centre until advanced age.* In this cartilage, rudiments of the lower epiphysial lamella of the atlas and the upper epiphysial lamella of the axis may sometimes be found. Finally, as Hum- phry has demonstrated, the apex of the odontoid process has a separate centre, which appears in the second year and joins about the twelfth year. This is the upper epiphysial lamella of the atlas. In addition to these there is a secondary centre for a thin epiphysial plate on the under surface of the body of the bone. The seventh cervical vertebra.—The anterior or costal part of the transverse process of this vertebra is sometiines ossified from a separate centre wliich appears about the sixth month of foetal Ufe, and joins the body and posterior part of the transverse process between the fifth and sixth years. Occasionally the costal part persists as a separate piece, and, becoming lengthened out- wards and forwards, constitutes what is known as a cervical rib. Separate ossific centres have also been found in the costal processes of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebree. The lumbar vertebrae (fig. 266) have two additional centres for the mamillary tubercles. The transverse process of the first lumbar is sometimes developed as • u f a separate piece, which may remain permanently ununited with the rest of the bone, thus forming a lumbar rib—a pecuUarity, however, rarely met with. Sacrum (figs. 267 to 270).—The body of each sacral vertebra is ossified fi'om a primary centre and two epiphysial plates, one for its upper and another for its under surface, whilst each neural arch is ossified from two centres. The anterior portions of the lateral masses have six additional centres, two for each of the first three vertebrae; these represent the costal elements, and make their appearance above and to the outer side of the anterior sacral foramina (figs. 268 and 269).f * See Cunningham, Joiirn. Anat., vol. xx., p. 238. t The extremities of the spinous processes of the upper tlirec sacral vertebra are sometimes developed from separate epiphyses, and Fawcctt (Amtniuifher Anzeiger, Band AXX., I.IOT) states that a number of epiphysial nodules may be seen in the sacrum at the age of eighteen years. These are distributed as follows: One for each of the mamillary processes of the first sacral vertebra ; twelve—six on either side—in connection with the costal elements (two each for the first and second and one each for the third and fourth) and eight for the At 25th yea)OSTEOLOGY 198 On each lateral surface two epiphysial plates are developed (fig. 269) : one for the auricular surface, and another for the remaining part of the thin lateral edge of the bone. ° Periods of Ossification.—About the eighth or ninth week of fostal life, ossifica- tion of the central part of the body of the first sacral vertebra commences, and is rapidly followed by deposit of ossific matter in the second and third ; but ossifica- tion does not commence in the bodies of the lower two segments until between the fifth and eighth months of foetal Ufe. Between the sixth and eighth months ossification of the neural arches takes place ; and about the same time the costal centres for the lateral masses of the first three sacral vertebrae make their ap- pearance. The junction of the neural arches with the bodies takes place in the lower vertebrae as early as the second year, but is not effected in the uppermost until the fifth or sixth year. Fig. 270.—Base of young sacrum. Lateral epiphysis Lateral epiphysis About the sixteenth year the epiphysial plates for the upper and under surfaces of the bodies are formed; and between the eighteenth and twentieth years, those for the lateral surfaces make their appearance. The bodies of the sacral vertebra; are, during early life, separated from each other by intervertebral discs, but about the eighteenth year the two lowest segments become imited by bone, and the process of bony union gradually extends upwards, with the result that between the twenty-fifth and_ thirtieth years of life all the segments are united. On examining a sagittal section of the sacrum, the situations of the intervertebral discs are indicated by a series of oval cavities (fig. 259). Coccyx.—-The coccyx is ossified fi-om four centres, one for each segment. The ossific nuclei make their appearance in the following order : in the first segment between the first and fourth years ; in the second between the fifth and tenth years ; in the third between the tenth and fifteenth years ; in the fourth between the fourteenth and twentieth years. As age advances, the segments become imited with each other, the union between the first and second segments being frequently delayed until after the age of twenty-five or thirty. At a late period of hfe, especially in females, the coccyx is often joined to the sacrum. Vertebral Column as a Whole The vertebral column is situated in the median line, at the posterior part of the trunk; its average length in the male is about 71 centimetres (28 inches). Of this length the cervical part measures 12'5 cm. (5 in.), the thoracic about 28 cm. (11 in.), the lumbar 18 cm. (7 in.), and the sacrum and coccyx 12"5 cm. (5 in.). The female column is about 61 cm. (24 in.) in length. Curves.—Viewed laterally (fig. 271), the vertebral column presents several curves, which correspond to the different regions of the column, and are called cervical, thoracic, lumbar, and pelvic. The cervical curve, convex forwards, begins at the apex of the odontoid process, and ends at the middle of the second thoracic vertebra ; it is the least marked of all the curves. The tJioracic curve, concave forwards, begins at the middle of the second and ends at the middle of the twelfth thoracic vertebra. Its most prominent point behind corresponds to the spine of the seventh thoracic. The lumbar curve is more marked in the female than in the male ; it begins at the middle of the last thoracic vertebra, and ends at the sacro-vertebral angle. It is convex anteriorly ; the convexity of the lower three vertebrae being much greater than that of the upper two. The pelvic curve begins at the sacro-vertebral articulation, and ends at the transverse processes—four on either side—one each for tlic first, third, fourth, and fifth. He is further of opinion that tlie lower part of eacli lateral sin-face of the sacrum is formed by the extension and union of the third and fourth 'costal' and fourth and fifth 'transverse' epiphyses.199 VERTEBRAL COLUMN AS A WHOLE point of the coccyx; its concavity is directed downwards and forwards. The thoracic and pelvic curves are termed primary curves because they alone are present during foetal lite, i ne cervical and lumbar curves are com- pensatory or secondary, and are de- veloped after bu-th, the former when the child is able to sit upright and hold up its head, the latter when the child begins to walk. , . i . * If a body be enveloped m plaster ot Paris and divided in the median plane it will be found, as pointed out by Humphry, that a plumb-Une di-opped from the middle of the odontoid pro- cess of the axis will pass through the middle of the bodies of the second and twelfth thoracic vertebrae, thi-ough the middle and antero-inferior edge of the last lumbar, and Mill bisect a Une drawn transversely through the heads of the thigh bones. It is known from ex- periment that the Une of gravity of the head passes through the middle of the odontoid process ; it therefore follows that this Une passes through the points of confluence of the three superior curves of the vertebral column and through a Une joining the heads of the thigh bones, so that the weight of the skuU and its contents is directly transmitted to the pelvis and lower extremities when the body is in the erect position. The vertebral column has also a sUght lateral curvature, the convexity of which is directed towards the right side. This, as Bichat first explained, may be produced by muscular action, most persons using the right arm in preference to the left, especiaUy in making long-continued efforts, when the body is curved to the right side. In support of this explanation it has been found, by Beclard, that in one or two individuals who were left-handed, the lateral curvature was directed to the left side. Others regard this curvature as being produced by the aortic arch and upper part of the descending thoracic aorta—a view which is sup- ported by the fact that in cases where the viscera are transposed and the aorta is on the right side, the con- vexity of the lateral curvature is directed to the left side. Anterior surface.—Viewed from in front, the width of the bodies of the vertebrae wiU be seen to increase from the second cervical to the first thoracic; there is then a slight diminution in the next tliree vertebrae ; below this there Fig. 271.—Lateral view of the vertebral column. 1st cervical or Atlas 'Md cervical or Axis 1st thoracic 1st lumbar 4-OSTEOLOGY 200 is cagaiji a gradual and progressive increase in width as Io^^• as the sacro- vertebral angle. From this point there is a rapid diminution, to the apex of the coccyx. »ij^a The posterior surface oi the vertebral column presents in the median lin- <^'if,sP^inous processes. In the cervical region these are short and horizontal with bifid extremities. In the upper part of the thoracic region thev aiv directed obliquely ; in the middle they are almost vertical, and in the lower part they are horizontal, with a slight inchnation dowiiwards The spinous processes of the lumbar vertebras are nearly horizontal. They are separated by considerable intervals in the loins, by narrower intervals in the neck and are closely approximated in the middle of the thoracic region' Occasionally one of these processes deviates a httle from tlie median line— a tact to be remembered in practice, as irregularities of this sort are attendant also on fractures or disialacements of the vertebral column. On either side of the spinous processes is the vertebral groove formed by the laminse in the cervical and lumbar regions, \vhere it is shaUow, and by the laminje and transverse processes in the thoracic region, where it is deep and broad; these grooves lodge the deep muscles of the back. External to the vertebral grooves are the articular processes, and still more externally the transverse processes. In the thoracic region, the latter processes stand backwards, on a plane, considerably posterior to the same processes in the cervical and lumbar regions! In the cervical region, the transverse processes are placed in front of the articular processes, on the outer sides of the pedicles and between the inter- vertebral foramina. In the thoracic region they are posterior to the pedicles, intervertebral foramina, and articular processes. In the lumbar region they are placed in front of the articular processes, but behind the intervertebral foramina. The lateral surfaces are separated from the posterior by the articular processes in the cervical and lumbar regions, and by the transverse processes in the thoracic region. These surfaces present, in front, the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae, marked in the thoracic region by the facets for articulation with the heads of the ribs. More posteriorly are the intervertebral foramina, formed by the juxtaposition of the intervertebral notches, oval in shape, smallest in the cervical and upper part of the thoracic regions, and gradually increasing in size to the last lumbar. They transmit the spinal nerves and are situated between the transverse processes in the cervical region, and in front of them in the thoracic and lumbar regions. Tlie base of that portion of the vertebral column which is made up of the twenty-four movable vertebrae is formed by the under surface of the body of the fifth lumbar vertebrae ; and the siimmit, by the upper surface of the atlas. The vertebral or spinal canal follows the different curves of the column ; it is large and triangular in those regions of the column which enjoy the greatest freedom of movement, viz. the neck and loins ; and is small and rounded in the thoracic region, where motion is more limited. Surface Form.—The only parts of the vertebral column which are subcutaneous, and so dhectly mfluence the surface form, are the apices of the spinous processes. These are distinguishable at the bottom of a furrow, which, more or less evident, runs down the mesial line of tlie back from the external occipital protuberance to the middle of the sacrum. In the neck the furrow is broad, and ends below in a conspicuous projection caused by the spinous processes of the seventh cervical and first tlioracic vertebrae. Above this the spinous process of the sixth cervical vertebra sometimes forms a projection : the other cervical spinous processes are sunken, but that of the axis can be felt. In the thoracic region the fuiTOw is shallow, and during stooping disajipears, and then the spinous processes become more or less visible ; the markings produced by them arc small and clo^e together. In the lumbar region the fiu-row is deep, and the situation of the spinous processes is frequently indicated by little pits or depressions, especinll}' when the muscles in the loins are well developed. They are much larger and farther apart than in the thoracic region. In the sacral region the furrow is shallower, jiresenting a flattened area which ends below at the most prominent part of the posterior surface of the sacrum, formed by the spinous process of the third sacral vertebra. At (he bottom of the furrow the irregular posterior surface of the bone may be felt, and below this, in the deep gi-oove leading to the anus, the coccyx. In order to identify any particular spinous jirocess, it is customarj'to count from the prominence caused by the seventh cervical and first thoracic; of these two (he spinous process of the first thoracic is the more prominent. It is useful, how-201 VERTEBEAL COLUMN AS A WHOLE •ocess of the sixth cervical vertebra is ot surgical importance, it cieep piessuie uo iii.iul the neck, in the coui-sc of the carotid arter3% opposite the cricoid cartihxge, the promiueiit iterior tubercle of this process can be felt. This has been named Chasmujnacs tubercle, id against it the carotid artery may be most conveniently compressed by the finger. over to bear in mind that the root of the spine of tlic scapula is on a k^yel with the mt<-rval between the spinous processes of the third and fourtli thoracic; vertebr;e and the inferior anele witli the interval between the seventh and eighth thoracic ; tlie highest point of the crest of the ilium is on a level with the spinous process of the fourth lumbar and the nosterior suiierior spine of the ilium with that of the second sacral. Iho only other Bortions of the vertebral column which can be felt from the surface are the transverse processes of three of the cervical vertebroe-viz. the first, the sixth, and the seventh. Tiiat of the atlas can be felt as a rounded nodule of bone just below and in front ot tlie apex of the mastoid process, at the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid. The transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra is of surgical imjiortance. If deep pressure be made in th ante The transverse process of the seventh "cervical vertebra can be often felt. Sometimes its costal process is large and segmented off, forming a cervical rib. Applied 4nato»»/.—Occasionally the coalescence of the lamina; is not completed, and consequently a cleft is left in the arches of the vertebra, through wiiich a protrusion of the spinal membranes (dura mater and arachnoid), and generally of the spinal cord itself, takes place, constituting the malformation known as spina bifida. This condition is most common in the lumbo-saeral region, but it may occur in the thoracic or cervical region, or the arches tluonghout the \\hole length of the canal may remain incomplete. °The construction of the movable part of the vertebral column of a number of pieces, securely connected together and enjoying only a slight degree of movement between any tw'o individual pieces, Init jiermitting of a very considerable range as a whole, allows a sufficient degree of mobilitv without any material diminution of strength. The many joints of which the column is composed, together with the very varied movements to which it is subjected, render it liable to sprains ; but, so closely are the individual vertebrre articulated that these sprains are rarely severe, and an amount of violence sufficiently great to produce tearing of the ligaments would tend rather to cause a dislocation or fracture. The further safety of the column and its slight liability to injury is provided for by its disposition in curves, instead of in a straight line. For it is an elastic column, and must bend before it breaks ; imder these circumstances, being made up of three cui'ves, it represents three columns, and greater force is required to produce bending of a short column than of a longer one that is equal to it in breadth and material. Again, the safety of the column«s largely provided for by the presence between the bodies of the intervertebral discs, which act as liuffers in counteracting the effects of violent jars or shocks. . Fracture-dislocation of the vertebral column may be caused by direct or indirect violence. Fractures from indirect violence are the more common, and here the Ijodies of the vertebi-fe are compressed, while the arches are torn asunder ; in fracture from dii-ect violence, on the other hand, the arches are compressed and the bodies of the vertebi-ffi separated from each other. It will therefore he seen that in both classes of injury the spinal cord is the part least likely to be injured, and may escape damage even where there has been considerable lesion of the bony framework. When a fractiu'e- dislocation is produced by indirect violence, the displacement is almost always the same ; the upper segment being driven forwards on the lower, so that the cord is compressed between the body of the vertebra below and the arch of the vertebra above. Diseases of the »S';5Mie.—Spinal caries, or tuberculous disease affecting the cancellous tissue of the bodies of the verteluae, is a very common condition. When the bodies, having been destroyed, begin to fall together, the spinous ])rocesses are necessarily thrown back- wards and stand out prominently, especially if the disea.se affect the thoracic region, which is most commonly the case. The condition then goes by the name of angular curvature and great rigidity of the muscles in the affected region accompanies it. Pressure, by the inflammatory thickenings of the disease, is apt to involve the spinal nerves in the affected region, giving rise to peripheral pains, and if the disease be in the lower thoracic yertebi'iie the pains are referred to the cjiigastrie or umbilical regions, and often the chief tiling complained of is ' belly-ache.' Chronic abscess formation in spinal caries is very frequent, and it nearly always forms in front of the vertebral bodies. When the disease is in the lower thoracic region, the abscess usually tracks down behind the Diaphragm and enters the psoas sheath, forming the well-known psoas abscess, which may ])resont above Pou])art s ligament, or may pass beneath it into the thigh. In other cases the abscess takes a back- ward course between the transverse {irocesses and [jresents as a dorsal or lumbar abscess ; if the disease affect the cervical region of the spine, a posi-pharyngeal abscess results. Lateral curvature of the spine is a common affection in girls who are outgrowing their strength and who sit or stand long at lessons, and is due to the uneven transmission of wcinht down the column. In addition to the lateral displacement of the spinous processes there is a marked rotation of the. bodies of the vertebra;, the displacement of which is far in excess of that of the spinous processes. When the curve is severe and the bones have actually become distorted, the condition is past treatment. Kyphosis is an affection in which there is an increase in the normal thoracic curve, and is due to bending forwards of the upjier part of the body carrying the weight of202 OSTEOLOGY the head. It is seen in rickety childi-en, in rapidly growing adolescents, in senile conditions, and in certain diseases, such as osteo-arthritis and osteitis deformans. In tlie senile kyphosis often met with in aged laboiirers, the head is firmly fixed and bent forwards and downwards on to the chest, and the spinal column is curved and rigid. The ribs are immobilised, the chest is flattened antero-posteriorly, and breathing becomes almost entirely abdominal. Post-mortem, bony ankylosis of the ligaments and capsules of the intervertebral joints is found, mth ossification of the ligamenta subflava, interspinous and other ligaments. It may be noted that in marked cases of spinal deformity the trachea and aorta follow closely along the line of a spinal curvature occurring in their vicinity, whereas the oesophagus between the tracheal bifurcation and the stomach often passes like a bowstring across the concavity of the curve. Lordosis, on the other hand, is an exaggeration of the normal lumbar curve, the trunk being thrown backwards. This is always a compensatory curve, and is seen in any enlargement of the abdomen, such as pregnancy or tumours ; but it is more strongly marked in cases of disease of the hip-joint where the latter is permanently retained in a flexed position, so that in order to bring the foot down to the ground the j)elvis has to be tilted forwards, and this is accomplished by an increase of the normal lumbar curve forwards. Lamineclomy.—The operation of laminectomy is performed in cases of pressure on the spinal cord, where the continuity of the nerve-tracts has not been completely destroyed. It consists of cutting down on and removing the laminaj and spinous processes in the affected region, so as to relieve the cord from pressure ; but it is useless in cases of complete destruc- tion of the cord. Laminectomy is chiefly performed (i) for fracture-dislocation, (ii) for localised cord-pressure in cases of spinal caries, the object here being to remove the laminie against which the cord is pressed by the inflammatory mass ; and (iii) for the removal of tumours growing inside the spinal canal and compressing the cord. If such cases be taken early, very satisfactory results are obtained. THE THORAX The skeleton of the thorax, or chest, is an osseo-cartilaginous cage, containing and protecting the principal organs of respiration and circulation. It is conical in shape, being narrow above and t»road below, flattened from before backwards, and longer beliind than in front. It is somewhat reniform on transverse section on account of the projection of the vertebral bodies into the cavity. Boundaries.—The posterior surface is formed by the twelve thoracic vertebrse and the posterior parts of the ribs. It is convex from above doAvn- wards, and presents on either side of the middle hue a deep groove, in conse- quence of the direction backwards and outwards which the ribs take from their vertebral extremities to their angles. The anterior surface formed by the sternum and costal cartilages is flattened or shghtly convex, and inchned from above downwards and forwards. The lateral surfaces are convex; they are formed by the ribs, separated from each other by the intercostal spaces. These spaces are eleven in number, and are occupied by the Intercostal muscles and membranes. The upper opening of the thorax is reniform in shape, being broader from side to side than from before backwards. It is formed by the first thoracic vertebra behind, the upper margin of the sternum in front, and the first rib on either side, it slopes downwards and forwards, so that the anterior part of the rmg is on a lower level than the posterior. Its antero-posterior diameter is about two. and its transverse diameter about four inches. The lower opening is formed by the twelfth thoracic vertebra behind, by the eleventh and twelfth ribs at the sides, and in front bv the cartilages of the tenth, ninth, eighth, and seventh ribs, which ascend on either side and form an angle, the subcostal angle, into the apex of wliich the ensif orm cartilage projects. It is wider transversely than from before backwards, and slopes obUquely downwards and backwards. The Diapliragm closes the lower opening and forms the floor of the thorax. The thorax of the female difi^ers from that of the male as follows: 1. Its capacity is less. 2. The sternum is shorter. 3. The upper margm of the sternum is on a level with the lower part of the body of the thu'd thoracic vertebra, whereas in the male it is on a level with tlie lower part of the body of the second. 4. The upper ribs are more movable, and so aUow a greater enlargement of the upper part of the thorax.203 STERNUM The Stbrntjm The sternum (figs. 272 and 273) is an elongated, flattened bone, forming the middle portion of the anterior waU of the thorax. Its upper end supports the clavicles and its margins articulate with the cartilages of the first seven pairs of ribs. It consists of three parts, named from above downwards, the Fig. 272.—Anterior surface of sternum and costal cartilages. manubrium (presternum), the body or gladiolus (mesosternum), and the xiphoid or ensiform process (metasternum) ; in early life the gladiolus consists of four segments or sternebrce. In its natural position its inclination is oblique from above, downwards and forwards. It is slightly convex in front and concave beliind; broad above, becoming narrowed at the point where the manubrium joins the gladiolus, after wliich it again widens a Uttle, andOSTEOLOGY 204 273.—Posterior smiace of sternum. Stebno-hyoid H-For 1st jcostal ' cartilage then rapidly narrows to its lower extremity. Its average length in the adult IS about seven inclies, and is rather greater in the male than in the female. Tlio manubrium (manubrium sterni) is of a somewliat quadrangular form, broad and tliick above, narrow below at its junction with the gladiolus. Its anterior surface, convex from side to side, concave from above do\vn\\ards. is smooth, and affords attachment on either side to the sternal origins of the PectoraUs major and Sterno-inastoid muscles. In well-marked bones tlu- ridges limiting the attachments of these muscles are very distinct. Its posterior surface, concave and smooth, affords attachment on eitiier side to the Sterno- hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles. The superior border is the thickest and presents at its centre the presternal notch (incisura jugularis); on either side of the notcli is an oval articular surface, directed upwards, backwards, and outwards, for articulation with the sternal end of the clavicle. The inferior border, oval and rough, is covered in a recent state with a thin layer of cartilage, for articulation with the gladiolus. The lateral borders are each marked above by a depression for the first costal cartilage, and Fig. 273.—Posterior smiace below by a small facet, which, Avith a similar facet on the upper angle of the gladiolus forms a notch for the reception of the costal cartilage of the second rib. These articular surfaces are separated by a narrow, curved edge, which slopes from above downwards and inwards. The gladiolus (corjDus sterni), considerably longer, narrower, and thinner than the manu- brium, attains its greatest breadth close to the lower end. Its anterior surface is nearly flat, directed upwards and forwards, and marked by three transverse ridges which cross the bone opposite the third, fourth, and fifth articular depressions.* It affords attachment on either side to the sternal origin of the Pectoralis major. At the junction of the tliird and fourth pieces is occasionally seen an orifice, the sternal fora- men, of varying size and form. The posterior surface, slightly concave, is also marked by three transverse Unes, less distinct, however, than those in front; it affords attachment below, on either side, to the Triangularis sterni. The superior border is oval and articulates with the manubrium, the junction of the two forming the ang^dus Ludovici (angulus sterni). The inferior border is narrow, and articulates with the ^^th ensiform appendix. Each lateral border, at its superior angle, has a small facet, which with a similar facet on the manubrium, forms a cavity for the cartilage of the second rib ; below tliis are four angular depressions which receive the cartilages of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs, wliile the inferior angle has a small facet, which, A^ ith a corresponding one on the ensiform appendix, forms a notch for the cartilage of the seventh rib. These articular depressions are separated by a series of curved interarticvdar mtervals, which diminish in length from above downwards, and correspond to the inter- costal spaces. Most of the cartilages belonging to the true ribs, as w ill be seen from the foregoing description, articulate with the sternum at the lines of junction of its primitive component segments. This is well seen in many of the lower animals, where the separate parts of the bone remain unuiiited longer than in man. • i • j The ensiform process or xiphoid appendix (processus xiphoideus) is the smallest of the tliree pieces : it is thin and elongated in form, cartilaginous * Paterson (77(c Huvum Sternum, 1904), who cxamiiied 52-1 specimens, points out that these ridges are altogether absent in 26 7 per cent.; that in 69 per cent, andge exists opposite the third costal attachment; in 39 per cent, opposite the fourth ; and m 4 per cent, only, opposite the fifth. k vis ■ rfeZi' - 3rd 1 ^5th N. 4^ ^ WSTERNUM 205 Fig. 274.—Ossification of the sternum, by six centres. 11 for manubritcm Time of appearance 4 for gladiolus- 6th month 7th month 5 1st year after hirth i for ensiform] .,, , ,0., tj cartilage \ 5th to 18th year Fio. 275. Time of union Barely unite, except in old age Between puberty and the 25th year Soo7i after puberty Partly cartilaginous to advanced life Fig. 276.—Peculiarities. In number of centres for first inece, two or more centres for second piece, usually one for third \ for fourth] for fifth 2, placed laterally Fig. 277. And in mode of union Arrest of ossification of lateral pieces, producing ; Sternal fissure, and - Sternal foramenOSTEOLOGY 20(5 in structure in youth, but more or less ossified at its upper part in the adull Its anterior surface aifords attacliraent to tlie chondro-xiphoid ligament and a small part of the Rectus abdominis ; its posterior surface, to some of the fibres of the Diaphragm and Triangularis sterni ; its lateral borders. to the aponeuroses of the abdominal muscles. Above, it articulates with the lower end of the gladiolus, and at each superior angle presents a facet for the lower half of the cartilage of the seventh rib ; below, by its pointed extremity it gives attachment to the linea alba. This portion of the sternum varies mucli in form ; it may be broad and thin, pointed, bifid, perforated, curved, or deflected considerably to one or other side. Structure.—The sternum is composed of delicate, highly vascular cancellous tissue, covered by a thin layer of compact' bone which is thickest in the manubrium between the articular facets for the clavicles. Ossification.—The cartilaginous sternum originally consists of two bars, situated one on either side of the mesial plane and connected with the cartilages of the upper nine ribs of its own side. These two bars fuse with each other along the middle hue and the bone is ossified from six centres : one for the first piece or manubrium, four for the second piece or gladiolus, and one for the ensiform process (fig. 274). Up to the middle of foetal fife the sternum is entirely carti- laginous, and when ossification takes place the ossific gi-anules are deposited in the intervals between the articular depressions for the costal cartilages, in the following order : in the manubrium and first piece of the gladiolus, during the sixth month ; in the second and third pieces of the gladiolus, during the seventh month ; in its fourth piece, during the first year, or between the first and second years ; and in the ensiform process, between the fifth and eighteenth years. The centres make their appearance at the upper parts of the segments, and proceed gradually downwards.* To these may be added the occasional existence, as described by Breschet, of two small episternal centres, which make their appear- ance one on either side of the presternal notches; they are probably vestiges of the episternal bone of the monotremata and Hzards. It occasionally happens that some of the segments are formed from more than one centre, the number and position of which vary (fig. 276). Thus, the first piece may have two, three, or even six centres. When two are present, they are generally situated one above the other, the upper being the larger ; the second piece has seldom more than one ; the third, fourth, and fifth pieces are often formed from two centres placed laterally, the irregular imion of which will serve to explain the rare occurrence of the sternal foramen (fig. 277), or of the vertical fissure which occasionally intersects this part of the bone ; these conditions are further explained by the manner in which the cartilaginous matrix, in which ossification takes place, is formed. Union of the various centres of the gladiolus commences about puberty, and proceeds from below upwards; by the age of twenty-five they are all united (fig. 275). The ensiform process may become joined to the gladiolus before the age of thirty, but this occurs more frequently after fortv ; on the other hand, it sometimes remains ununited in old age. The manubrium is occasionally joined to the gladiolus in advanced hfe by bone. When this imion takes place, however, it is generally only superficial, the central portion of the intervening cartilage remaining unossified. Articulations,—The sternum articulates on either side with the clavicle and upper seven costal cartilages. The Ribs The ribs are elastic arches of bone, wdiich form the chief part of the thoracic walls. They are twelve in number on either side; but this number may be increased by the development of a cervical or lumbar rib, or may be diminished to eleven. The first seven are connected behind with the vertebral column, and in front, through the intervention of the costal cartilages, with the sternum; they are called vertebrosternal, or true ribs (costre veraj) .f The remain- ing five are false ribs (costaj spurise); of these, the first thi-ee have their cartilages * Out of 141 sterna between the ages ot birth and sixteen years, Paterson {op. eit.) found the fourth or lowest centre for the gladiolus present only in thirty-eight cases—26-9 per cent. . ■f Sometimes the eighth rib cartilage articulates with the sternum ; this condition occurs more frequently on the right than on the left side.RIBS 207 attached to the cartilage of the rib above [vertebro-cJiondral): the last two are free at their anterior extremities and are termed floating or vertebral ribs. The Fig. 278.—A central rib of the left side. Inferior aspect. Non-art icular part of tubercle Articular part of tubercle ribs vary in their direction, the upper ones being less oblique than the lower. The obliquity reaches its maximum at the ninth rib, and gradually decreases from that rib to the twelfth. The ribs are situated one below the other in such a manner that spaces called intercostal spaces are left between them. The length of each space corresponds to the lengths of the adjacent ribs and their cartilages ; the breadth is greater in front than behind, and between the upper than the lower ribs. The ribs increase in length from the first to the seventh, below which they diminish to the twelfth. In breadth they decrease from above down^^■ards ; in the upper ten the greatest breadth is at the sternal extremity. Common characteristics of the ribs (figs. 278 and 279).—A rib from the middle of the series should be taken in order to study the common characters of these bones. Each rib presents two extremities, a posterior or vertebral, an anterior or sternal, and an intervening portion—the body or shaft. The posterior or vertebral extremity presents for examination a head, neck, and tuberosity. The head (caj)itulum costse) is marked by a kidney-shaped articular surface, divided by a horizontal ridge (crista capituli) into two facets for articulation with the depression formed by the junction of the bodies of two con- tiguous thoracic vertebrae ; the upper facet is small, thelo\\ er of larger size ; the ridge separating them serves for the attachment of the interarticular ligament. The neck (coUum costse) is the flattened portion which extends outwards from the head ; it is about an inch long, and is placed in front of the transverse process of the lower of the two vertebrae with which the head articulates. Its anterior surface is flat and smooth, its posterior rough, for the attachment of the middle costo- transverse ligament, and perforated by numerous foramina. Of its two borders the superior presents a rough crest (crista colli costse) for the08Teoloc;y attachment of the anterior co8to-transver.se ligament; its inferior border is rounded. On the ijosterior surface at the junction of the neck and shaft and nearer the lower than the upper border, is an eminence—the tubercle (tuberculum costa?) ; it consists of an articular and a non-articular portion The articular portion, the inner and lower of the two, presents a small oval surface for articulation with the extremity of the transverse process of the lower of tlie two vertebrae to M^hich tlie head is connected. The non-articular portion is a rough elevation, and affords attachment to the posterior costo-transverse ligament. The tubercle is much more prominent in the upper than in the lower ribs. The shaft (corpus costse) is thin and flat, with two surfaces, an external and an internal; and two borders, a superior and an inferior. The external surface is convex, smooth, and marked, a little in front of the tuberosity, by a prominent hne, directed obliquely from above downwards and outwards ; this gives attachment to a tendon of the Iho-costalis or of one of its acces- sory portions, and is called the angle (angulus costse). At this point the rib is bent in two directions, and at the same time twisted on its long axis. If the rib be laid upon its lower border, it will be seen that the portion of the shaft in front of the angle rests upon this border, and that the portion behind the angle is bent inwards and at the same time tilted upwards; as thfe result Fig. 279.—A central rib of the left side, viewed from behind. of the twisting, the external surface, belund the angle, looks downwards, and in front of the angle, slightly upwards. The distance between the angle and the tuberosity is progressively greater from the second to the tenth ribs. The portion between the angle and the tuberosity is rounded, rough, and irregular, and serves for the attachment of the Longissimus dorsi. The external surface presents, towards its sternal extremity, an oblique line, the anterior angle. The internal surface is concave, smooth, directed a little Upwards behind the angle, a little downwards in front of it, and is marked by a ridge which commences at the lower extremity of the head ; this ridge is strongly marked as far as the inner side of the angle, and gradually becomes lost at the junction of tlie anterior and middle thirds of the bone. Between it and the inferior border is a groove, the subcostal groove (sulcus costae), for the intercostal vessels and nerve. At the back part of the bone, tliis groove belongs to tlie inferior border, but just in front of the angle, where it is deepest and broadest, it corresponds to the internal surface. The superior edge of the gi'oove is rounded and serves for the attacliment of the Internal intercostal muscle; the inferior edge corresponds to the lower margin of the rib, and gives attachment to the External intercostal. Within tlic groove are seen the orifices of numerous small foramina for nutrient vessels, whicli traverse the shaft obliquely from before backwards. Tlie suj)erior border, thick and rounded, is marked by an external and an internal lip, moreRIBS 209 distinct behind than in front, wliich serve for the attachment of the External and Internal intercostal muscles. The inferior border, thin and sharp, has attached to it the External intercostal muscle. The anterior or sternal extremity is flattened, and presents a porous, oval, concave depression, into wluch the costal cartilage is received. The first, second, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs present certain Peculiar ribs. Fig. 282. Single articular facet Fig. 283. Single articular facet — Fig. 284. Single articular facet variations from the common characters described above, and require special consideration. ^ Tlie first rib (fig. 280) is the most curved and usually tfie shortest of all the ribs ; it IS broad and flat, its surfaces looking upwards and downwards, and Its borders inwards and outwards. The head is small, rounded, and presents only a single articular facet, for articulation with the body of the first thoracic vertebra. The nech is narrow and rounded. The tuberosity, thick and prominent, is placed on the outer border. There is no angle, but at the uiDcrosity the rib is slightly bent, with the convexity of the bend upwards210 OSTEOLOGY so that the head of the bone is directed downwards. The upper surface, of the shaft is marked by two shallow grooves, separated from each other by a slight ridge prolonged internally into a tubercle, the scalene tubercle (tuberculum scaleni [Lisfranci]), for tlie attachment of the Scalenus anticus; the anterior groove transmits the subclavian vein, the posterior the sub- clavian artery. Between the groove for the subclavian artery and tlie tuberosity is a rough surface for the attachment of the Scalenus medius. The iinder surface is smooth, and destitute of a subcostal groove. The outer border is convex, thick, and rounded, and at its posterior part gives attach- ment to the first serration of the Serratus magnus; the inner is con- cave, thin, and sharp, and marked about its centre by the scalene tubercle. The anterior extremity is larger and thicker than that of any of the other ribs. The second rib (fig. 281) is much longer than the first, but bears a very considerable resemblance to it in the direction of its curvature. The non- articular portion of the tuberosity is occasionally only feebly marked. The angle is slight, and situated close to the tuberosity. The sJiaft is not twisted, so that both ends touch any plane surface upon which it may be laid ; but there is a bend, with its convexity upwards, similar to, though smaller than that found in the first rib. The shaft is not flattened horizontally like that of the first rib. Its external surface, which is convex, looks upwards and a httle outwards; it presents, near the middle, a rough eminence for the attacliment of the lower part of the first and the whole of the second digitation of the Serratus magnus ; behind and above this is attached the Scalenus posticus. The internal surface, smooth and concave, is du-ected downwards and a little inwards : it presents a short subcostal groove towards its posterior part. The tenth rib (fig. 282) has only a single articular facet on its head. The eleventh and twelfth ribs (figs. 283 and 284) have each a single arti- cular facet on the head, wliich is of rather large size ; they have no necks or tuberosities, and are pointed at their extremities. The eleventh has a slight angle and a shallow subcostal groove. The twelfth has neither, and is much shorter than the eleventh, and the head has a httle inclmation do^\7i\\ ards. Sometimes the twelfth rib is even shorter than the first. Structure.—The ribs consist of highly vascular cancellous tissue, enclosed in a thin layer of compact bone. Ossification.—Each rib, with the exception of the last two, is developed by three centres; a primary centre for the shaft, and two epiphyses, one for the head and one for the tubercle. The eleventh and twelfth ribs have only two centres, that foi the tubercle being wanting. Ossification begins in the shaft at a very early period, before its appearance in the vertebrae. The epiphysis for the head, of a slightly angular shape, and that for the tubercle, of a lenticular form, make their appearance between the sixteenth and twentieth years, and are not united to the rest of the bone until about the twenty-fifth year. Applied Anatomy.—GervitMl ribs derived from the seventh cer\ical vertebra (page 187) are of not infrequent occurrence, and are important clinically because they may give rise to obscure nervous or vascular symptoms. The cervical rib may be a mere epiphysis articulating only with the transverse process of the vertebra, but more commonly it consists of a defined head, neck and tubercle, with or without a bod}'. It extends outwards, or forwards and outwards, into the posterior triangle of the neck, where it may terminate in a free end or may join the first thoracic rib, the first costal cartilage, or the sternum.* It varies much in shape, size, direction, and mobility. If it reach far enough forwards, part of the brachial plexus and the subclavian artery and vein cross over it, and are apt to suffer compression in so doing. Pressure on the artery may obstruct the circulation so mucii that arterial thrombosis results, causing gangrene ot the finger-tips. Pressure on the nerves is commoner, and affects the eighth cervical and first thoracic nerves, causing paralysis of the muscles they supply, and neuralgic pains and parc-esthcsia in the area of skin to which they are distributed ; no oculo-pupil arv changes arc to be found. If these symptoms be severe, removal of the nb or as much ot it as causes pressure on the vessels and nerves is called for. Ihe operation is not tree from difficulty, and has been followed by paralysis of the muscles and by subchman aneurysm, due to injuries inflicted in the course of the operation. * W. 'Ihorbum, 1/ie Med. Chronicle, Manchester, 1907, 4th series, xiv., No. 3,COSTAL CARTILAGES 211 The Costal Cartilages The costal cartilages (cartilagines costales) (fig. 272) are bars of white, iiyahne cartilage, which serve to prolong the ribs forward to the front of the chest, and contribute very materially to the elasticity of its walls. The first seven pairs are connected with tlie sternum; the next three are each articu- lated with the lower border of the cartilage of the preceding rib ; the last two have pointed extremities, which end in the walls of the abdomen. Like the ribs, the costal cartilages vary in their length, breadth, and direction. They increase in length from the first to the seventh, then gradually diminish to tlie last. Then- breadth, as well as that of the intervals between them, diminishes from the first to the last. They are broad at their attachments to the ribs, and taper towards their sternal extremities, excepting the first two, which are of the same breadth throughout, and the sixth, seventh, and eighth, which are enlarged where their margins are in contact. They also vaiy in direction : the fu-st descends a little, the second is horizontal, the third ascends slightly, while the others follow the course of the ribs for a short distance, and then ascend to the sternum or preceding cartilage. Each costal cartilage presents two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities. The anterior surface is convex, and looks forwards and upwards : that of the first gives attachment to the costo-clavicular ligament and the Subclavius muscle ; that of the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth, at their sternal ends, to the Pectorahs major.* The others are covered by, and give partial attachment to, some of the fiat muscles of the abdomen. The posterior surface is concave, and directed backwards and downwards; the first gives attachment to the Sterno-thyroid, the third to the sixth inclusive to the Triangularis sterni, and the six or seven inferior ones to the Transversalis abdominis and the Diaphragm. Of the two borders, the superior is concave, the inferior convex; they afford attachment to the Internal intercostal muscles: the upper border of the sixth gives attachment also to the Pectoralis major. The con- tiguous borders of the sixth, seventh, and eighth, and sometimes the ninth and tenth, costal cartilages present small, smooth, oblong-shaped facets at the points Avhere they articulate with one another. Of the two extremities, the outer one is continuous with the osseous tissue of tlie rib to which it belongs. The inner extremity of the first is continuous with the sternum ; the six succeeding ones have rounded ends, wliich are received into shallow concavities on the lateral margins of the sternum. The inner extremities of the eighth, ninth, and tenth costal cartilages are pointed, and are connected with the cartilage immediately above. Those of the eleventh and twelfth are free and pointed. The costal cartilages are most elastic in youth, those of the false ribs being more so than those of the true. In old age they become of a deep yellow colour, and are prone to undergo superficial ossification. Surface Form.—The bones of the chest are to a very considerable extent covered by muscles, so that in the strongly developed muscular subject they are for the most part concealed. In the emaciated subject, on the other hand, the ribs, especially in the lower and lateral regions, stand out as prominent ridges with the sunken, intercostal spaces between them. In the middle line, in front, the superficial surface of the sternum can be felt through- out its entire length, at the bottom of a deep median furrow, the sternal furrow, situated between the Pectoralis major muscles. These muscles overlap the anterior surface somewhat, so that the whole of the sternum in its entire width is not subcutaneous, and this overlapping is greater opposite the centre of the bone than above and below, so that the furrow is wide at its upper and lower part, but narrow in the middle. The centre of the upper border of the sternum constitutes the presternal notch, and is in the same horizontal plane as the lower border of the bod^' of the second thoracic vertebra ; the lateral parts of this border are obscured by the tendinous origins of the Sterno- niastoid miiscles, w-hich appear as oblique tendinous cords, naiTowing and deepening the notch. Lower down on the subcutaneous surface a well-defined transverse ridge, the anguliis Lxidovici, is always to be felt. This denotes the line of junction of the manubrium and gladiolus ; it lies at the level of the fifth thoracic vertebra, and is a useful guide to the second costal cartilage, and thus to the identity of any given rib. The second rib being found, through its costal cartilage, it is easy to coimt downwards and find any * The first and seventh in addition occasionally give origin to the same muscle. P 2212 OSTEOLOGY other. From the middle of the sternum the furrow spreads out, and, exposing more of the surface of the bone, terminates at the junction of the gladiolus with the ensiform cartilage, on the same level as the disc between the ninth and tenth thoracic vertebra?. Immediately below this is the infra-sternal notch ; between the points of junction of the seventh costal cartilages to the sternum, and below the notch is a triangular depression, the epigastric fossa, or pit of the stomach (scrobiculus cordis), bounded laterally by the cartilages of the seventh ribs ; in it the ensiform cartilage can be felt. The stenmm in its vertical diameter presents a general convexity forwards, the most prominent point of which is at the joint between the manubrium and gladiolus. On either side of the sternum the costal cartilages and ribs on the front of the chest are partially obscured by the Pectoralis major, through which, however, they can be felt as ridges, with yielding intervals between them, corresponding to the intercostal spaces. Of these spaces, that between the second and third ribs is the widest, the next two somewhat narrower, and the remainder, with the exception of the last two, comparatively narrow. The lower border of the Pectoralis major corresponds to the fifth rib, and below this, on the front of the chest, the broad, flat outline of the ribs, as they begin to ascend, and the more rounded outline of the costal cartilages, are often visible. The lower boundary of the front of the thorax, the abdomino-thoracic arch, which is most plainly seen by bending the body backwards, is formed by the ensiform cartilage and the cartilages of the seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth ribs, and the extremities of the cartilages of the eleventh and twelfth ribs. On either side of the chest, from the axilla do^vnwa^ds, the flattened external surfaces of the ribs may be defined in the form of oblique ridges, separated by depressions corre- sponding to the intercostal spaces. They are, however, covered by muscles, which, when strongly developed, obscure their outline to a certain extent. Nevertheless, the ribs, with the exception of the first, can generally be followed over the front and sides of the chest without difficulty. The first rib, being almost completely covered by the clavicle and scapula, can only be distinguished in a small portion of its extent. At the back, the angles of the ribs lie on a slightly marked oblique line, on either side of and some distance from the spinous processes of the vertebrae. This line diverges somewhat as it descends, and external to it is a broad, convex surface, caused by the projection of the ribs beyond their angles. Over this surface, except where covered by the scapula, the individual ribs can be distinguished. For clinical j)urposes and convenience of description, the smiace of the chest has been mapped out by arbitrary lines into certain defuiite areas. On the front of the chest the most important vertical Unes are the mid-sternal, which runs down the median Une of the sternum, and the mammary, which runs vertically downwards from a point midway between the centre of the presternal notch and the tip of the acromion jirocess. This line, if prolonged, will cross Poupart's ligament at a point midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis. The lateral area is boimded by two vertical lines—that in front, the anterior axillary line, being dra^vn from the anterior fold of the axiUa ; and that behind, the posterior axillary line, fi'om the posterior fold. By some this lateral area of the thorax is further divided by a mid-axillary line, draAvn downwards from the apex of the axilla. On the posterior aspect of the thorax the scapular line is drawn vertically through the inferior angle of the scapula. Applied Anatomy.—Fracture of the sternum is by no means common, owing, no doubt, to the elasticity of the ribs and their cartilages which support it hke so many springs. The fracture usually occurs in the upper half of the gladiolus. Dislocation of the gladiolus from the manubrium may take place, and is sometimes described as a fracture.^ The bone is frequently the seat of gummatous tumours and not uncommonly is affected with caries. The ribs are frequently broken, though from their connections and shape they are able to withstand great force, yielding imder the injury and recovering themselves like a spring. The middle ones of the series are the most liable to fracture. The first and to a less extent the second, bemg protected by the clavicle, are rarely fractured ; and the eleventh and twelfth on account of their loose and floating condition enjoy a like immin\ity. The fracture generally occurs from indirect violence, from forcible compression of the chest wall, and the bone then gives way at its weakest part, i.e.. just in front of the angle. But the ribs may also be broken by "direct violence, in which case the bone is driven inwards at the point struck. Fracture of the ribs is frequently complicated with some injury to the viscera contained within the thorax or upper part of the abdommal cavity : this is most likely to occur in fractures from dii'ect violence. Fracture of the costal cartilages or separation of the cartilages from the ribs, may also take place, though they are comparatively rare injuries. In workmen the pressure of tools may displace the ensiform cartilage inward.s. The ribs are frequently the seat of tuberculous disease, with the formation of a chronic abscess in the chest wall.' This may not immediately overlie the carious portion of rib. as the pus is often directed a considerable distance along the subcostal groove before appearing beneath the integutnent.COSTAL CARTILAGES 213 the ribs opposite the convexity of the dorsal cm-ve become extremely convex behmd, bemg thro-tvn out and bulging, and at the same time flattened in front, so that the two ends ot the same rib are almost parallel. Coincident vnth this the ribs on the opposite side, on the concavity of the curve, are sunk and depressed behmd, and bulging and convex in ^"^^ It is commonly said that in tuberculosis of the lungs the chest is characteristically ' flat' that is to say, that the ratio of its antero-posterior to its transverse diameter is less than' the normal. But by careful measurement in a large number of cases. Woods Hutchinson has showTi that this is not so. Takmg the transverse diameter of the chest at the nipple level as = 100, he finds that in the normal adult man between the ages of 20 and 44 the antero-posterior diameter = 71. In 82 phthisical subjects it was = 79-.5, and in 30 'flat-chested' persons was = 80. He explains the error as an optical illusion, due to rolling fon\'ards of the shoulders in the ' flat-chested' ; the back is seen to be correspondingly rounded and protuberant, while the forward position of the shoulders and clavicles lends an appearance of flattening to the chest. More or less shrinkage of one side of the thorax is often seen as a consequence of adhesive pleurisy, in which the visceral and parietal pleura; adhere closely to one another and the lung becomes collapsed and fibrosed. If this process be at aU complete, great deformity of the chest results, the ribs on the affected side falUng in, together with obhtera- tion of the intercostal spaces ; the contents of the mediastina are pulled over towards the affected side, the other lung becomes emphysematous compensatorily. The vertebral column becomes scoliotic, with the conca^^ty of the curve towards the affected side. The skull is supported on the summit of the vertebral column, and is of an oval shape, A^dder behind than in front. It is composed of a series of flattened or irregular bones which, ^\'ith one exception (the mandible, or lower jaw), are immovably jointed together. It consists of two parts : (1) the cranium, which lodges and protects the brain and comprises eight bones (ossa cranii), and (2) the skeleton of the face, wliich consists of fourteen bones (ossa faciei), as follows : THE SKULL jOssa cranii, 8 bones Sphenoid. Frontal. Ethmoid. Skull, 22 bones < ,Two Nasals. Two Lachrymals. Ossa faciei, 14 bones Two Maxillffi. Two Palates. Two Inferior Turbinateds. Two Malars. Vomer. Mandible.OSTEOLOGY 214 According to the Basle nomenclature, certain bones developed in associa- tion with the nasal capsule, viz. the inferior turbinateds, the laclirymals the nasals, and the vomer, are grouped as cranial and not as facial bones. The Hyoid bone, situated at tlie root of tlie tongue and attached to the base of the skull by ligaments, has also to be considered in this section. OSSA CRANII The] Occipital Bone The occipital bone (os occipitale) (figs. 285 and 286), situated at the back and lo^yer part of the cranium, is trapezoid in shape and much curved on itself. It is pierced by a large oval aperture, the foramen magnum, through which the cranial cavity communicates Avith the vertebral canal. The curved, expanded plate behind the foramen magnum is named the tabular or squamous portion ; the thick, somewhat quadrilateral piece in front of the foramen is called the basilar process, whilst that on either side of the foramen constitutes the lateral or condylic portion. Fig. 285.—Occipital bone. Outer surface. The tabular portion (squama occipitalis), situated above and behind tlie foramen magnum, is curved from above downwards and from side to side. The external surface is convex and presents midway between the summit of the bone and the foramen magnum a prominence, the inioii or external occipital protuberance (protuberantia occipitalis externa). Extending outwards from this on either side are two curved lines, one a little above the other. The upper, often faintly marked, is named the highest curved line (linea nucliae suprema) and to it the epicranial aponeurosis is attached. The lo\\ er is termed the superior curved line (linea nuchas superior). That part of the squama which lies above the lineae supreniEe is named the jylanum occipitale, and isOCCIPITAL BONE 215 oovered by the Occipito-frontalis muscle ; that belo^^^ termed the planum Zchale ifrouSi and irregular for the attachment of several muscles. In-om he extiroccipi^^^ prot^uberance a ridge or crest (Imea nueh^ mediana of ten flintlv marked descends to the foramen magnum, and affords attachment to tr Lmm turn nuclL; running outw ards from tiie middle of this crest across Sch Imlfo the nuchal plane is the hvferior curved Une arned nucli^B mfenor) Svei-al muscles are attached to the outer surface of the squama occipitalis thuf the superior curved line gives origin to tlie Occipito- rontahs and Tmpezius! and msertion to the Sterno-mastoid and Splenius; into the surface beUvSen the superior and inferior curved lines the Complexus and the Superior oW que are inserted, whUst the inferior curved line and the area below it recdve the insertions of the Recti capitis postici major and minor. The Fia, 286.—Occipital bone. Inner surface. Superim- angle Inferior angle posterior occipito-atlantal ligament is attached around the postero-lateral part of the foramen magnum, just outside the margin of the foramen. The internal surface is deeply concave and divided into four fossai by a crucial ridge, the eminentia cruciaia. The upper Uvo fossae are triangular and lodge the occipital lobes of the cerebrum ; the lower two are quadi-ilateral a.nd accommodate the hemispheres of the cerebellum. At the point of intersection of the four divisions of the crucial ridge is the internal occipital protuberance (protuberantia occipitaUs interna). From tliis eminence the upper division of the ridge runs to the superior angle of the bone, and on one side of it (generally the right) is a deep groove, the sulcus sagittalis, which lodges the hinder part of the superior longitudinal sinus ; to the margins of this sulcus the falx cerebri is attached. The lower division of the crucial ridge is prominent, and is namedOSTEOLOGY 216 the crista occipitalis mterna ; it bifurcates near tlie foramen maenuni and gives attachment to the falx cerebelh ; in tlie attaclied margin of thk falx is the occipital sinus, wliich is sometimes duplicated. Transverse hooves one on either side extend outwards from tiie internal occipital protuberance to the lateral angles of tlie bone ; these grooves accommodate the lateral sinuses and their prominent margins give attachment to the tentorium cerebeUi Tlu' groove on the right side is usually larger than that on the left and is continuous with that for the superior longitudinal sinus. Exceptions to this concbtion are, however, not infrequent; the left may be larger than the right or the two may be almost equal m size. The angle of union of the superior longitudinal and lateral sinuses is named the iorcular Herophili * and its position IS indicated by a depression situated on one or other side of Hip protuberance. The lateral or condylic portions (partes laterales) are situated at the sides ot the foramen magnum ; on their under surfaces are the condyles for articula- tion With the superior facets of the atlas. The condyles are oval or reniform in shape, and their anterior extremities, directed forwards and inwards are closer together than their posterior, and encroach on the basilar portion of the bone. Iheir surfaces are convex from before backwards and from side to side, and look downwards and outwards. To theii- margins are attached the capsular hgaments of the occipito-atlantal articulations, and on the inner side of each is a rough impression or tubercle for the lateral odontoid hgament At the base of each condyle the bone is tunnelled by a short canal the anterior condyloid foramen (canalis hypoglossi). This commences on the cranial surface of the bone immediately above the foramen magnum, and is directed outwards and forwards above the condyle. It may be partially or completely chvided into two by a spicule of bone; it gives exit to the "hypoglossal or twelfth cranial nerve, and entrance to a meningeal branch of the ascending piiaryngeal artery. Behind each condyle is a fossa {fossa condyloidea) which receives the posterior margm of the superior facet of the atlas when the head is bent backwards ; the floor of this fossa is sometimes perforated by a foramen the posterior condyloid foramen, through which an emissary vein passes from the lateral sinus. Extending outwards from the posterior half of the condyle IS a quadrilateral plate of bone, the processus jugularis. This process is excavated in front by a deep notch (incisura jugularis), which, in the articulated skuU, forms the posterior part of the jugular foramen; this notch may be divided into two by a bony spicule, the processus intra jugularis, which. projects out^\■ards above the anterior condyloid foramen. The under surface of the processus jugularis is rough, and gives attachment to the Rectus capitis lateralis muscle and the lateral occipito-atlantal ligament; from this surface an eminence, the paramastoid process, sometimes projects do-miwards, and may be of sufl&cient length to reach, and articulate with, the transverse process of the atlas. Externally the processus jugularis presents a rough quadrilateral or triangular area which is joined to the jugular surface of the temporal bone by a plate of cartilage; after the age of twenty-five this plate tends to become ossified. The upper surface of the lateral part presents an oval eminence, the tuberculum jugulare, which overlies the canahs hypoglossi and is sometimes crossed by an oblique groove for the ninth, tenth, and eleventh cranial nerves. On the upper surface of the processus jugularis is a deep groove which curves inAvards and forwards and is continuous with the notch on the anterior surface. This groove lodges the terminal part of the lateral sinus, and opening into it, close to its inner margin, is the orifice of the posterior condyloid foramen. The basilar process (pars basilaris) extends forwards" and upwards from the foramen magnum, and presents in front an area more or less quadrilateral in outline. In the young skull this area is rough and uneven, and is joined to the body of the sphenoid by a plate of cartilage. By the twenty-fifth year this cartilaginous plate is ossified, and the occipital" and sphenoid must be severed by a saw. On its loiver surface, about half an inch in front of the foramen magnum, * The columns of blood coming in different directions were supposed to be pressed together at this point (toroular, a wine-press).217 OCCIPITAL BONE is the pharyngeal tubercle (tuberculum pliaryngeum) whicla gives attachment to the fibrous raphe of the pliarynx. On either side of the middle line the Recti capitis antici major and minor are inserted, and immediately in front of the foramen magnum the anterior occipito-atlantal ligament is attached. The tipper surface presents a broad, shallow groove which inclines upwards and forwards from the foramen magnum ; it supports the medulla oblongata, and near the margin of the foramen magnum gives attachment to the membrana tectoria or occipito-axial ligament. On the lateral margins of this surface are faint grooves for the inferior petrosal sinuses. The foramen magnum is a large oval aperture with its long diameter antero-posterior; it is wider behind than in front where it is encroached upon by tlie condyles. It transmits the medulla oblongata and its mem- branes, the spinal accessory nerves, the vertebral arteries, the anterior and posterior spinal arteries, and the occipito-axial ligaments. The siiperior angle of the occipital bone articulates with the postero-superior angles of the two parietal bones and, in the foetal skull, corresponds in position with the posterior fontanelle. The inferior angle is represented by the sawn surface of the basilar process, already referred to. The lateral angles are situated at the outer extremities of the transverse grooves : each is received into the interval between the postero-mferior angle of the Fiq. 287.—Ossification of occipital bone, parietal and the mastoid Usnallv l)v s.-ven centres, portion of the temporal. sisrf^ ' The superiar borders extend ^ 1 f for interparietal from the superior to the lateral \ ' ^ jiart of squama angles: they are deeply serrated ^fe^' 1 - for articulation with the pos- - terior borders of the parietal, "'^^F «M cartilagi- and form by this union the ^wA'/i lambdoid suture. The inferior ^^.^^^^ ^^ffeL#,l^^ squama /^orrfers extend from the lateral the 4 pieces 0^ ^aS£\ ^ for each condylic angles to the inferior angle ; separate K^tT f)~ portion the upper half of each articu- '^St^k Jj0 lates with the mastoid portion ^--^^^ 2 r rh ilar lortion of the corresponding temporal, ' the lower half with the petrous part of the same bone. These two portions of the inferior border are separated from one another by the jugular process, the notch on the anterior surface of which forms the posterior part of the jugular foramen. Structure.—The occipital, Hke the other cranial bones, consists of two compact lamellae, called the outer and inner tables, between which is the cancellous tissue or diploc; the bone is especially thick at the ridges, protuberances, condyles, and anterior part of the basilar process ; in the inferior fosste it is thin, semi- transparent, and destitute of diploc. ^cf^N'/t^ oeeiptT^Lir Ossification (fig. 287).—The upper portioii^of the squama occipitahs, viz. that above the linea suprema, is developed in membrane, and may remain separate throughout hfe when it constitutes the interparietal bone ; the rest of the bone is developed in cartilage. The number of nuclei for the intei'parietal part of the squama is four, two appearing near the middle line about the second month, and two some httle distance from the middle Hue about the third month of foetal life. The cartilaginous portion of the squama is ossified from two centres, which appear about the seventh week of foetal life and soon unite to form a single piece. Union of the upper and lower portions of the squama takes place about the third or fourth month after birth. Each of the condylic parts begins to ossify from a smglc centre about the end of the eighth week of foetal life. The basilar portion IS ossified from two centres, one in front of the other ; these appear about the sixth week of foetal life and rapidly coalesce, so that this part is frequently described as ossifjang from one centre. About the fourth year the tabular and the two condyhc portions unite, and about the sixth year the bone consists of a single piece. Between the eighteenth and twenty-fifth years the occipital and sphenoid become united, forming a single bone. Articulations.—The occipital articulates with six bones : the two parietals, the two temporals, the sphenoid, and the atlas.218 OSTEOLOGY The Parietal Bones The parietal bones (ossa parietales) form, by their union, the sides and roof of the skull. Each is irregularly quadrilateral in form, and presents for examination two surfaces, four borders, and four angles. The- external surface (fig. 288) is convex, smooth, and marked about its centre by an eminence, the parietal eminence (tuber parietale), which indicates the point where ossification commenced. Crossing the middle of the bone in an arched direction are two curved lines, the superior and inferior temporal lines (linese temporales); the former gives attachment to the temporal fascia, while the latter indicates the upper limit of the muscular origin of the Temporal muscle. Above these lines the bone is covered by the aponeurosis of the Occipito-frontalis; below them it forms part of "the temporal fossa, and FiQ. 288.—Left parietal bone. External surface. affords attachment to the Temporal muscle. At the back part of the superior border, close to the sagittal suture, is the parietal forajnen (foramen parietale). which transmits a vein to the superior longitudinal sinus, and sometimes a small branch of the occipital artery. It is not constantly present, and its size varies considerably. The internal surface (fig. 289) is concave ; it presents depressions corre- sponding to the cerebral convolutions, and numerous furrows for the ramifi- cations of the middle meningeal artery ; the latter run upwards and back wards from the antero-inferior angle, and from the central and posterior part of the lower border. Along the upper margin is a shallow groove, which, together with that on the opposite parietal, forms a cliannel (sulcus sagittalis) for the superior longitudinal sinus ; the edges of the sulcus afford attach- ment to the falx cerebri. Near the groove arc seen several depressions, best marked in the skulls of old persons, for the Pacchionian bodies. The internal opening of the parietal foramen is also seen when that aperture exists.PARIETAL BONES 219 The superior border (margo sagiLtalis), the longest and thickest, is dentated and articulates with its fellow of the opposite side, forming the sagittal suture. The inferior border (margo squamosus) is divided into three parts : of t hese, the anterior is thin and pointed, bevelled at the expense of the outer surface, and overlapped by the tip of the great Aving of the sphenoid; the middle portion is arched, bevelled at the expense of the outer surface, and overlapped by the squamous portion of the temporal; the posterior part is tliick and serrated for articulation with the mastoid portion of the temporal. The anterior border (margo frontalis) is deeply serrated, and bevelled at tlie expense of the outer surface above and of the inner below; it articulates with the frontal bone, forming one half of the coronal suture. The posterior border (margo occipitalis), deeply denticulated, articulates with the occipital, forming one half of the lambdoid suture. The antero-superior angle (angulus frontalis), thin and pointed, corresponds ^^ ith the union of the sagittal and coronal sutures ; this point is named the Fig. 289.—^Left parietal bone. Internal siu-face. bregma; in the foetal skuU this region is membranous, and is called the anterior fontanelle. The antero-inferior angle (angulus sphenoidalis), thin and pointed, is received into the interval between the frontal and the great wing of the sphenoid. Its inner surface is marked by a deep groove, sometimes a canal, for the anterior branch of the middle meningeal artery. The postero-superior angle (angulus occipitalis) corresponds with the point of junction of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures—a point which is termed the lambda ; in the foetus this part of the skull is membranous, and is called the posterior fontanelle. The postero-inferior angle (angulus mastoideus) articulates with, the occipital and with the mastoid portion of the temporal, and presents on its inner surface a broad, shallow gi-oove which lodges part of the lateral sinus. The point of union of this angle with the occipital and the mastoid part of the temporal is named the asterion. Ossification.—The parietal bone is ossified in membrane from a single centre, which appears at the parietal eminence about the seventh or eighthOSTEOLOGY 220 week of icehi] life. Ossification gradually extends in a radial manner from tfie centre towards the margins of the bone ; the angles are consequently the parts last formed, and it is here that the fontanelles exist. Occasionallv the parietal bone is cUvided into two parts, upper and lower, by an antero-nosterior suture Articulations.—The parietal articulates with five bones: the opposite parietal the occipital, frontal, temporal, and sphenoid. The Frontal Bone The frontal bone (os frontale) resembles a cockle-shell m form, and consists of two portions—a frontal or vertical portion corresponding with the region of the forehead ; and an orbital or horizontal portion, which enters into the formation of the roofs of the orbits and nasal fossee. Frontal or vertical portion (squama frontalis).—The external surface (fig. 290) of this portion is convex and usually exliibits, in the lower pari of the middle line, the remains of the frontal or metopic suture ; in infancy this suture divides the bone into right and left halves, a condition which mav Fig. 290.—Frontal bone. Outer sui-face. persist thi-oughout life. On either side of this suture, a little more than an inch above the supra-orbital margin, is a rounded elevation, the frontal eminence (tuber frontale). These eminences vary in size in different individuals, arc occasionally un.symmetrical, a)\d are especially prominent in young .skulls ; the surface of the bone above them is smooth, and covered by the aponeurosis of the Occipito-frontalis. Below the frontal eminences, and separated from them by a shallow groove, are t-wo arched elevations, the superciliary ridges (arcus superciliarcs); these are prominent internally, and ai-e joined across the middle line by a smooth elevation named tlie glabeila. These ridges are larger in the male than in the female, and their degree of prominence dejiends to221 FRONTAL BONE some extent on the size of the frontal can- sinuses,* but it must be noted that prominent ridges are occasionally associated with small air sinuses and vice versa. Beneath each superciliaiy ridge is a curved and prominent margin, the supra-orbital margin (margo supraorbitalis), which forms the upper boundary of the base of the orbit, and separates the frontal from tlie orbital portion of the bone. The outer part of this margin is sharp and prominent, affording to the eye, in that situation, considerable protection from injury ; the inner part is rounded. At the junction of its inner and middle thirds is a notch, sometimes converted into a foramen, the supra-orbital notch or foramen (incisura sive foramen supraorbitahs), which transmits the supra-orbital vessels and nerve. A small aperture in the upper part of the notch transmits a vein from the diploe to join the supra-orbital vein. The supra-orbital rnargin terminates externally in the external angular process, and internally in the internal angular process. The external angular process (processus zygomaticus) is strong, prominent, and articulates with the malar bone. Running upwards and back\vards from this process is a well-marked ridge, the temporal ridge (linea temporfilis); this ridge divides into the upper and lower temporal lines, which are continuous, in the articulated skull, witli the corresponding lines on the parietal bone. The area below and beliind the temporal ridge forms the anterior part of the temporal fossa, and gives origin to the Temporal muscle. The internal angular processes descend to a lower level than tlie external, and articulate with the lachrymal bones ; between them is a rough, uneven interval, the nasal notch, which articulates on either side of the middle hne with the nasal bone, and laterally with the frontal process of tlie maxilla. The term nasion is applied to the middle of the fronto-nasal suture. From the centre of the notch a process, the nasal process, projects downwards and forwards beneath the nasal bones and frontal processes of the maxillae, and supports the bridge of the nose. The nasal process terminates below in a sharp spine, the nasal spine, and on either side of this is a small grooved surface which enters into the formation of the roof of the nasal fossa. The nasal spine forms part of the septum of the nose, articulating in front vnth. the crest of the nasal bones and beliind with the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid. The internal surface (fig. 291) of the frontal portion is concave and presents in the upper part of the middle line a vertical groove, the sulcus sagiltalis, the edges of which unite below to form a ridge, the frontal crest (crista frontalis); the sulcus lodges the superior longitudinal sinus, while its margins and the crest afford attachment to the falx cerebri. The crest ends below in a small notch wliich is converted into a foramen, the foramen caecum, by articulation with the ethmoid. This foramen varies in size in different subjects, and is frequently impervious ; when open, it transmits a vein from the nose to the superior longitudinal sinus. On either side of the middle line the bone presents depressions for the convolutions of the brain, and numerous small furroMs for the anterior branches of the middle meningeal arteries. Several small, irregular fossae may also be seen on either side of the sulcus sagittalis, for the reception of the Pacchionian bodies. Orbital or horizontal portion (pars orbitalis).—This portion consists of two thin triangular plates, the orbital plates, ^\■hicll form the vaults of the orbits, and are separated from one another by a median gap, the ethmoidal notch. The inferior surface (lig. 291) of each orbital plate is smooth and concave, and presents, under cover of the external angular process, a shallow depression, the lachrijmal fossa (fossa glandulse lacrimalis), for the lachrymal gland; near the internal angular process is a depression, the fovea trochlearis, for the attachment of the cartilaginous pulley of the Superior oblique muscle of the eyeball. The superior surface is convex, and marked by depressions for the convolutions of the frontal lobes of the brain, and faint grooves for the meningeal branches of tlie ethmoidal arteries. * Some confusion i.s occa.sioncd to students commencing tlie study of anatomy by the name 'sinus'having been given to two different kinds of space connected witli the skulL It may be as well, therefore, to state here that the 'sinuses' in the interior of the cranium wliich produce the grooves on the inner surfaces of the bones are venous channels which convey the blood from the brain, while the ' sinuses ' external to the cranial cavity (the frontal, sphenoidal, ethmoidal, and maxillary) are hollow spaces in the bones themselves which communicate with the nasal cavities, and contain air.OSTEOLOGY 222 The ethmoidal notch (iiicisura etliinoidalis) separates the two orbital plates ; it is quadrilateral, ^ind filled up, in the articulated skull, by the cribriforin plate of the ethmoid. The margins of the notch present several half-cells which, when united with corresponding half-cells on the upper surface of the ethmoid, complete the ethmoidal air-cells. Two grooves cross these edges transversely ; they are converted into the anterior and posterior ethmoidal canals by the ethmoid bone, and open on the inner wall of the orbit. The anterior canajj^rans^^ the nagaljierve and Q3iim9l.SiiUQ^^:^i.:i!-SSi^ ; the nosterior^ the ^iostia:iej:_etl]j^^ in front of the ethmoidal notcli,"on either side of the nasal spine, are the openings of the frontal air sinuses. These are two irregular cavities, which extend backwards, upwards and outwards, for a variable distance between the two tables of the skuU, and are separated from one another by a thin bony septum, which often deviates to one or other side,* mth the result that the sinuses are rarely symmetrical. Absent at birth, they Fig. 291.—^Frontal bone. Inner sui-face. are usually fairly well developed between the ninth and twelfth years, but only reach their full size after puberty. They vary in size in different pereons, and are larger in men than in women. Aldren Turner {Th^ Accessory Sinuses of the Nose, 1901) gives the following measurements for a sinus of average size : height, in. ; breadth, 1 in. ; depth from before backwards. 1 in. They are lined by mucous membrane, and each communicates with the corresponding nasal fossa by means of a passage called the infundihidum. The border of the vertical portion is thick, strongly serrated, bevelled at the expense of the inner table above, where it rests upon the parietal bones, and at the e.xpense of the outer table on either side, where it receives the lateral pressure of those bones ; this border is continued below into a triangular, rough surface, which articulates with the great wing of the sphenoid. Tlie posterior borders of the orbital plates are thin, serrated, and articulate with the lesser wings of the sphenoid.223 FRONTAL BONE Structure.—The frontal portion and external angular processes are very thick, consisting of diploic tissue contained between two compact laminae ; in the regions described above the diploic tissue is replaced b)' the frontal air sinuses. The orbital portion is thin, translucent, and composed entirely of compact tissue; hence the faciUty with which instruments can penetrate the cranium through this part of the orbit; when the frontal sinuses are exceptionally large they may extend backwards for a considerable distance between the two tables of the orbital portion. Ossification (fig. 292). —The frontal bone is ossified in membrane from iivo f rimary centres, one for each lateral half, which appear about the seventh week of fcBtal fife, above the orbital arches. From each of these centres ossification extends upwards to form the corresponding half of the frontal portion, and backwards to form the orbital plate. The nasal spine is ossified from a pair of secondary centres, one on either side of the middle line ; and similar centres appear in the regions of the internal and external angular processes. At birth the bone consists of two pieces, which afterwards become united, along the middle hne, by the metopic suture which rims from the vertex of the bone to the root of the nose. This suture usually becomes obliterated within a few years after birth; but it occasionally persists throughout life. Articulations.—The frontal articulates with twelve bones : the sphenoid, the ethmoid, the two parietals, the two nasals, the two maxillae, the two lachrymals, and the two malars. The Temporal Bones The temporal bones (ossa temporalia) are situated at the sides and base of the skull. Each consists of four parts, viz. the squamous or squamo- zygomatic, the petro-mastoid, the tympanic plate, and the styloid process. The squamous portion (squama temporalis), the anterior and upper part of the bone, is scale-like, thin and translucent. Its outer surface (fig. 293) is smooth and convex ; it affords attachment to the Temporal muscle, and forms part of the temporal fossa; on its hinder part is a vertical groove for the middle temporal arteiy. A curved ridge, the temporal ridge, or supra- masioid crest, runs backwards and upwards across its posterior part ; it serves for the attachment of the temporal fascia, and limits the origin of the Temporal muscle. The boundary between the squamous and mastoid portions of the bone, as indicated by traces of the original suture, lies about half an inch below this ridge. Projecting from the lower part of the squamous portion is a long, arched process, the zygomatic process (processus zjrgomaticus). This process is at first directed outw'ards, its two surfaces looking upwards and downwards ; it then appears as if twisted inwards upon itself, and runs forwards, its surfaces now looking inwards and outwards. The superior border of the process is long, thin, and sharp, and serves for the attachment of the temporal fascia ; the inferior, short, thick, and arched, has attached to it some fibres of the Masseter. The outer surface is convex and subcutaneous ; the inner is concave, and affords attachment to the Masseter. The extremity is deeply serrated and articulates with the malar bone. Tlie zygomatic process is connected to the squamous portion by two roots—anterior and posterior. The anterior root, continuous witli the lower border, is short but broad and strong ; it is directed inwards and terminates in a rounded eminence, the eminentia articularis (tuberculum articulare). This eminence forms the front boundary of the glenoid fossa, and in the recent state is covered with cartilage. In front of the articular eminence is a small triangular area which assists in forming the zygomatic fossa ; this area is separated from the outer surface of the squamous portion by a ridge which is continuous posteriorly with the anterior root of the zygoma, and anteriorly, in the articulated Fig. 292.—Frontal bone at birth. Ossified from two primary centres.224 OSTEOLOGY skull, with the infra-temporal crest on the greater wing of the sphenoid. The posterior root, a prolongation of the upper border, is strongly marked ; it runs backwards above tlie external auditory meatus, and is continuous witli the supra-mastoid crest already referred to. At the junction of the anterior root with the zygomatic process is a projection, called the tvherde, for the attachment of the external lateral ligament of the temporo-mandibular joint; and behind the anterior root is an oval depression, forming part of the glenoid fossa,, for the reception of the condyle of the mandible. The glenoid fossa (fossa mandibularis) is bounded, in front, by the eminentia articularis ; beliind, by the tympanic plate which separates it from the external auditory meatus; it is divided into two parts by a narrow slit, the Glaserian fissure (fissura petro- tympanica). The anterior part, formed by the squamous portion of the bone, is smooth, covered in tlie recent state with cartilage, and articulates \^-ith the condyle of the mandible. Behind this part of the fossa is a small conical eixiinence, the post-glenoid process; this is the representative of a prominent Fis. 293.—Left temporal bone. Outer surface. Groove for inuldJe icmporal artery iTicisura parietalis Su2>ra-meatal triangle OOCII'ITO- FRONTALIS Eminentia articularis Post-glenoid process Glenoid cavity Glaserian fissure Tympanic plate Stylo-olossuk Occipital groove External auditory process Styloid process tubercle which, in some mammals, descends behind the condyle of the mandible, and prevents its backward displacement. The posterior part of the glenoid fossa formed by the tympanic plate, is non-articular, and lodges a ]iortion of the parotid gland. The^Glags^aiLfiss^^ leads into the jTu^^lg^earjaiLtymiTaajx- fCavity'; it lodges the ptQcessus^jaadlk^^^ '^"^ tqilSHUt*' ^^^f] t^ynT^aiiic. branc,h of the inl^iaa]. jnajd]laiXJU:tgri- The cJiorda_I^uuj!iia3j, nerv^lniises'thnnigh a canal {canal of Hugnier), separated from the anterior; (edge of the Glaserian fissure bv a thin scale of bone and situated on the outer> 'side of the Eustachian tube, in the retiring angle between the squamous4 and petrous portions of the temporal. This thin scale of bone is derived from the tegmcn tympani. and forms the greater part of the outer %\all of the bonv portion of the Eustachian tube. Between the posterior wall of the external auditory meatus and the posterior root of tlie zygoma is the area called the supramcatal triangle of Mace^ven, through M hich an mstrumenl may be pushed into the mastoid antrum.TEMPORAL BONES 225 The internal surface of the squamous portion (fig. 294) is concave; it presents depressions corresponding to tlie convolutions of the temporal lobe of the brain, and grooves for the branches of the middle meningeal artery. The superior border is tliin, and bevelled at the expense of the internal table, so as to overlap the low er border of the parietal bone, forming with it the squamous suture. The antero-inferior harder is thick, serrated, and bevelled at the expense of the inner table above and of the outer below, for articulation with the greater wing of the sphenoid. Posteriorly, the superior border forms an angle [incisura parietnlis) with the mastoid portion of tlie bone. The petro-mastoid portion consists of (a) the mastoid process, a prominent, nipple-like mass behind the external auditory meatus ; and ih) the petrous portion, which is pja-amidal in shape, and projects inwards and forwards to form part of the floor of the skull. Fig. 294.—^Left temporal bone. Inner surface. Aqiieeductus cochleee Meatus acusticus interims ( The mastoid portion (pars mastoidea) forms the posterior part of the bone. Its outer surface (fig. 293) is rough, and gives attachment to the Occipito- trontalis and Retrahens auriculam. It is perforated by numerous foramma ; one of these, of large size, situated near the posterior border, is termed the loramen mastoideum ; it transmits a vein to the lateral sinus and a small branch ot the occipital artery to the dura mater. The position and size of this foramen are very variable ; it is not always present; sometimes it is situated in the occipital bone, or in the suture between the temporal and the occipital. The mastoid portion is continued below iato a conical projection, the mastoid process (processus raastoideus), the size and form of which vary somewhat; it is larger m the male than in the female. This process serves for the attachment of the bterno-mastoid, Splenius capitis, and Trachelo-mastoid. On the inner side ot tlie process is a deep groove, the digastric fossa (incisura mastoidea), for tlie attachment of the Digastric ; internal to this is a shallow furrow, the occipital groove, which lodges the occipital artery.226 OSTEOLOGY The inn^er surface of tlie mastoid portion presents a deep, curved groove, the sulcus sigmoideus, which lodges part of the lateral sinus ; in it may be seen the opening of the mastoid foramen. The groove for the lateral sinus is separated from the innermost of the mastoid air-cells by only a thin lamina of bone, and even tliis may be partly deficient. A section of the mastoid process (fig. 295) shows it to be hollowed out into a number of spaces, tlie mastoid cells (cellulse mastoideai), which exhibit the greatest possible variety as to their size and number. At the upper and front part of the bone they are large and irregular and contain air, but towai-ds the lower part of the bone they diminLsh in size, while those at the apex of the process are frequently quite small and contam marrow. Occasionally they are entirely absent, and the mastoid is then solid throughout. In addition to these a large irregular cavity is situated at the upper and front part of the bone. It is called the mastoid antrum (antrum tympanicum), and must be distinguished from the mastoid cells, though it communicates with them. Like the mastoid cells it is filled -n'ith air and lined by a prolongation of the mucous membrane of the tympanic cavity, with which Fig. 295.—Coronal section of right temporal bone. Mastoid antrum Teginen ti/mjjnni Prominence of extl. semicircular canal Prominence of facial canal Fenestra ovalis Bristle in canal for Tensor tympani Processus cochleariformis Bristle in liiatux Fallopii Carotid canal Bony part of Eustachian tube Promontory Bristle in pyramid Fenestra rotunda Sulcus tympanicus Bristle in stylo-mastoid foramen it communicates. The mastoid antrum is bounded above by a tlun plate of bone, the tegmm tympani, whiclr separates it from the middle fossa of the base of th; skull • below by the mastoid process : externally by t he squamous portion of the bone'just below the supra-mastoid crest, and internally by the externa semicircular canal of the internal ear which projects l^to .its cavity It opei s in front into that portion of the tympanic cavity which is known as the attic trmSXum is a cavity of some considerable size a. t.eJi- of birth, and is derived, together with t ^^^y^^Pf ^^'^^ ni^^^^^^^ tube from the inner part of the first visceral cleft. The mastoid air ceiis mav'be regarded as diverticula from tlie antrum, and begin to appear at or Sore birth - by the fifth year they are weU marked, but then- development is not completed until towards puberty.227 TEMPORAL BONES former cavity is always associated with a similar condition in the latter, and may easily spread thence into the mastoid air-cells, leading to caries and necrosis of their walls and the risk of transference of the inflammation to the lateral sinus or brain. The mastoid antrum in fact forms a reservoir for pus which, Lf unable to drain away, may set up serious and often fatal intracranial complications- The superior border of the mastoid portion is broad and serrated, for articulation mth the postero-inferior angle of the parietal. The posterior border, also serrated, articulates with the inferior border of the occipital between the lateral angle and jugular process. Anteriorly the mastoid portion is fused with the descending process of the squamous portion above, and below it enters into the formation of the external auditory meatus and the cavity of the tympanum. The petrous portion (pars petrosa or pyramis), so named from its extreme density and hardness, is pyi'amidal and wedged in at the base of the skull between the sphenoid and occipital bones. Directed inwards, forwards, and a little upwards, it presents for examination a base, an apex, three surfaces, and three borders, and contains, in its interior, the essential parts of the organ of hearing. The base is fused with the internal surfaces of the squamous and mastoid portions. The apex (apex pyraniidis), rough and uneven, is received into the angular interval between the posterior border of the greater wing of the sphenoid and the basilar process of the occipital; it presents the anterior or internal orifice of the carotid canal, and forms the postero-external boundary of the foramen lacerum medium. The anterior surface (fig. 294) forms the posterior part of the middle fossa of the base of the skull. This surface is continuous with the inner surface of the squamous portion, to wluch it is united by the petrosquamous suture, remains of which are distinct even at a late period of life. It is marked by depressions for the convolutions of the brain, and presents six points for examination : (1) an eminence {eminentia arcuata) near the centre, which indicates the situation of tlie superior semicircular canal; (2) in front of and a little to the outer side of this eminence a depression, indicating the position of the tjmipanic cavity : here the layer of bone which separates the tympanic from the cranial cavity is extremely thin, and is known as the tegmen tympani ; (3) a shallow groove, sometimes double, leading outwards and backwards to' an oblique opening, the hiatus Fallopii (hiatus canalis facialis), for the passage of the large superficial petrosal nerve and the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal artery ; (4) a smaller opening, occasionally seen, external to the last, for the passage of the smaU superficial petrosal nerve ; (5) near the apex of the bone, the termination of the carotid canal, the wall of which in this situation is deficient in front; (6) above this canal a shallow depression (impressio trigemini) for the reception of the Gasserian ganghon. The posterior surface forms the front part of the posterior fossa of the base of the skull, and is continuous with the inner surface of the mastoid portion. It presents three points for examination. (1) Near the centre is a large oi-ifice, the mmtu^acvMi^ the size of which varies considerably ; its margins are smooth and rounded, and it leads into a short canal, about one-thii-d of an inch m length, which runs directly outwards. It transmits the seventh and eighth cranial nerves and the auditory branch of the basilar artery. Tins ^^"vi ^^^^^^ externally by a vertical plate, the lamina cribrosa, which is divided by a horizontal crest, the crista falciformis, into two unequal portions (ng. 296). Each portion is further subdivided by a vertical ridge into an anterior and a posterior part. The portion beneath the crista falciformis presents three sets of foramina ; one group, just below the posterior part of the crest situated in the area cribrosa media, consists of a number of small opeiungs tor the nerves to the saccule ; below and posterior to this is the foramen singulare, or opening for the nerve to the posterior semichcular canal; m front of and below the first is the tractus spiralis foraminosus, consisting of a number of small spirally arranged openings, which encircle the canalis centralis cochleae and transmit the nerves to the cochlea. The portion above the crista presents Dehmd the area cribrosa superior, pierced by a series of small openings, for the Q 2228 OSTEOLOGY passage of filaments to the utricle and the superior and external semicircular canals, and, in front, the area facialis, with one large opening, the commence- ment of the aquceductus Fallopii (canalis faciaUs), for the passage of the facial nerve. (2) Behind the meatus acusticus is a small slit almost hidden by a thin plate of bone, leading to a canal, the aqnoeductus vestibuli, which transmits the ductus endolymphaticus together ^\'ith a small artery and vein. (3) In the interval between these two openmgs, but above them, is an irregular depression which lodges a j)rocess of the dura mater and transmits a small vein. In tlie infant this depression is represented by a large fossa, the fossa subarcuala, which extends backwards as a blind tunnel under the superior semicircular canal. The inferior surface (fig. 297) is rough and irregular, and forms part of the exterior of the base of the skull. It presents eleven pomts for examination : (1) near the apex a rough surface, quadrilateral in form, Avhich serves partly for the attachment of the Levator palati and the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube, and jjartly for connection with the basilar process of the occipital bone through the mtervention of the dense fibrous tissue ; (2) behind this the large circular aperture of the carotid canal (canalis caroticus), M'hich ascends at first vertically, and then, making a bend, runs horizontally foi-wards and inwards ; it transmits into the cranium the mternal carotid artery, and the carotid plexus of nerves ; (3) to Fig. 296. — Diagrammatic view of the fundus of the right internal auditory meatus. (Testut.^ the inner side of the opening for the carotid canal and close to the posterior border, in front of the jugular fossa, is a triangular depression, on the floor of which is a small opening, the aquce- ductus cochlece, which lodges a tubular prolongation of the dm-a mater and transmits a vein from the cochlea to join the internal jugular ; (4) behind these openings a deep depression, the jugular fossa, of variable depth and size in diflFerent skuUs ; it lodges the bulb of the internal jugular vein, and, ^\•ith a similar depression on the front of the jugular process of the occipital bone, forms the jugular foramen ; (5) a small foramen foi the passage of Jacobson's nerve (the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal) ; tliis foramen is seen in the bony ridge dividing the carotid canal from the jugular fossa ; (6) a small foramen in the outer part of the jugular fossa, for the entrance of the auricular branch of the pneumogastric nerve (Arnold's nerve) ; (7) behind the jugular fossa, a quadrilateral area, the jugular surface. « hich is covered with cartilage in the recent state, and articulates with the jugular process of the occipital bone; (8) the vaginal process, a sheath-like plate of bone, wliich extends backwards from the carotid canal and divides behind into tAvo laminae; the outer lamina is continuous with the tympanic plate, the inner with the outer margin of the jugular surface ; between these laminaj is (9) the styloid process, a sharp spine, about an inch in length ; (10) the stylo-mastoid foramen, a rather large orifice, placed between the styloid and mastoid processes; it is the termnia- tion of the aquteductus Fallopii, and transmits the facial nerve and stylo- mastoid artery ; (11) the auricular fissure (fissura tympanomastoidea), situated between the tympanic plate and niastoid process, for the exit of the auriculai- branch of the pneumogastric nerve. Tlie superior border, the longest, is grooved for the superior petrosal snuis, and gives attachment to the tentorium cerebelli ; at its inner extremity is a notch, in wliich the fifth cranial nerve lies. The posterior horrfer is intermediate in length between the superior and the anterior. Its inner half is marked by I. Crista falciformis. 2. Area facialis, witli (2') In- ternal opening of the aquaeductus Fallopii. 3. Ridge separating the area facialis from the area cribrosa superior. -1. Area cribrosa superior, with (4') Open- ings for nerve Blamcnts. 5. Anterior inferior cribri- form area, with (5') the tractus spiralis forammosus, and (5") the canalis centralis of the cochlea. 6. Kidge separating the tractus spu-alis foraminosus from the area cribrosa media. 7. Area cribrosa media, with (7') Orifices for nerves to saccule. 8. Foramen singnlare.TEMPORAL BONES 229 a sulcus, which forms, with a corresponding sulcus on the occipital bone, the channel for the inferior petrosal sinus. Its outer half presents an excavation —the jugular fossa—which, with a similar notch on the occipital, forms the jugular foramen. A projecting eminence occasionally stands out from the centre of the notch, and divides the foramen into two. The anterior border is divided into two parts—an outer joined to the squamous portion by a suture {pctro-squamoiis), the remains of wliich are more or less distinct ; ail inner, free, which articulates with the spinous process of the sphenoid. At the angle of junction of the petrous and squamous portions are seen two canals, one above the other, and separated by a thin plate of bone, the processiis cochleariformis (septum canalis musculotubarii) ; they both lead into the tympanum. The upper one (semicanahs m. tensoris tympani) transmits tlie Tensor tjanpani, the lower one (semicanalis tubse auditiva;) forms the bony part of the Eustachian tube. Fig. 297.—Left temporal bone. Inferior surface. The tj'mpanic cavity and auditory ossicles, and the internal ear, are described with the organ of hearing. The tympanic plate (pars tympanica) consists of a cui'ved plate of bone lying below the squamous portion and in front of the mastoid process. Its poslero-superior surface is concave, and forms the anterior wall, the floor, and part of the posterior wall of the bony external auditory meatus. Internally, it presents a narrow furrow, the sulcus tympanicus, for the attachment of the membrana tympani. Its antero-inferior surface is quadi'ilateral and slightly concave; it constitutes the posterior boundary of the glenoid cavity, and is in contact with the retro-mandibular part of the parotid gland. Its outer border is free and rough ; it is named the external auditory process, and gives attachment to the cartilaginous part of the external auditory meatus. Inter- nally, the tympanic plate is fused with the j)etrous portion, and appears in the retreating angle between it and the squamous portion, where it lies below and to the outer side of the orifice of the Eustachian tube. Posteriorly, it blends with the squamous and mastoid parts, and forms the anterior boundarj^230 OSTEOLOGY of the auricular fissure. Its antero-superior border fuses externally with the back of the post-glenoid process, while internally it bounds the Glaserian fissure. The loiver border is tliin and sliarp at its inner part; its outer part splits to enclose the root of the styloid process, and is therefore named the vaginal process. The central portion of the tympanic plate is tliin, and in a considerable percentage of skuUs is perforated by a hole, the foramen of H-uschke. The external auditory meatus (meatus acusticus externus) is directed inwards and slightly forwards : at the same time it forms a shght curve, so that the floor of the canal is convex ujiwards. It measures about three-quarters of an inch in length, and presents an oval or elliptical shape—its long axis being directed doM nwards and shghtly backwards. As has been pointed out, its anterior wall, its floor, and the lower part of its posterior wall are formed by the tympanic plate ; the roof and upper part of the posterior waU are constituted by the squamous portion. Its inner end is closed, in the recent state, by the membrani tympani ; the upper limit of its outer orifice is formed by the posterior root of the zygoma, immediately below wliich there is sometimes seen a small spine, the suprameatal spine, situated at the upper and posterior part of the orifice. Fig. 298.—The thi-ee principal parts of the temporal bone at bii-tli. Processus cochleariforinis Fenestra ovalis Mastoid antrum. Sulcus tijmpanicus Bristle in aquceductus Fallopii Outer wall of mastoid antrum 1. Outer surface of petro-mastoid part. 2. Outer surface of tjrmpanic riug. 3. Inner sxu-face of squamous part. The styloid process is slender, pointed, and of varying length ; it projects downwards and forwards, from the under surface of the temporal bone, bej'ond the tympanic plate. Its proximal part (tympano-hyal) is ensheathed by the vaginal process, while its projecting portion (siylo-hyal) gives attachment to the stylo-hyoid and stylo-mandibular ligaments, and to the Stylo-glossus, Stylo-hyoid' and Stylo-pharyngeus muscles. The stylo-liyoid ligament extends from the apex of the process to the lesser cornu of the hj-oid bone, and may undergo partial or complete ossification. Structure.—The structure of the squamous portion is like that of the other cranial bones : the mastoid portion is cellular, and the petrous portion dense and hard. Ossification.—The temporal bone is ossified from eighl centres, exclusive of those for the internal ear and the tympanic ossicles—viz. one for the squamous portion including the zygoma, one for the tympanic plate, four for the petro-mastoid part, and two for the styloid process. Just before the close of foetal life (fig. 298) the temporal bone consists of three principal parts. I. The squamo-zygomatic is ossified in membrane from a single inicleus, which appears near the root of the zygoma about the second month. 2. The petro-mastoid is developed from four centres, which make their appearance in the cartilaginous car-capsule about the fifth or sixth month. One (prootic) appears in the neighbourhood of the enimcntia arcuata, spreads in front and above the internal auditory montiisTEMPORAL BONES 231 and extends to the apex of the bone ; it forms part of the cochlea, vestibule, superior semicircular canal, and inner wall of the tympanic cavity. A second (omstholic) appears at the promontory on the inner wall of the tympanum and surrounds the fenestra rotunda ; it forms the floor of the tympanum and vestibule, surrounds the carotid canal, invests the outer and lower part of the cochlea, and spreads inwards below the internal auditory meatus. A third (pteroHc) roofs in the antrum and tympanic cavity; „„„ , , ^ ^x. . Fig. 299.—Temporal bone at birth. Outer aspect. while the Squamous portion Petrosquamous suture T ijmpanic . ring fourth (epiotic) appears near the posterior semicircular canal and ex- tends to form the mastoid process (VroUk). 3. The tympanic ring is an incom- plete circle in the concavity of which is a gi'oove, the sulcus i,ympanicus, for the attach- ment of the circumference of the membraua tympani. This ring expands to form the tympanic plate, and is ossified in membrane from a single centre which appears about the third month. A fourth part, the styloid process, is developed from the proximal part of the cartilage of the second visceral or hyoid arch by two centres : one for the base appears before birth and is termed the tympano- hyal; the other, comprising the rest of the process, is named the stylo-hyal, and does not appear until after birth. The tympanic ring unites with the squamous portion shortly before birth; the petromastoid and squamous portions join during the first year, and the tympano-hyal portion of the styloid process about the same time (figs. 299 and 300). The stylo-hyal does not unite with the rest of the bone until after puberty, and in some skulls never at all. The chief subsequent changes in the temporal bone apart from increase in size are : (1) The tympanic ring ex- Petro-iuastoid portion Fig. 300.- -Temporal bone at birth. Inner aspect. Sq uamous portion Petrosquamous suture Eminentia arcuata tends outwards and backwards to form the tympanic plate. This extension does not, however, take place at an equal rate all round the circumference of the ring, but occurs most rapidly on its anterior and posterior portions, and these outgrowths meet and blend, and thus, for a time, there exists in the floor of the meatus a foramen, the foramen of Huschke: this foramen is usually closed about the fifth year, but may persist throughout life. (2) The glenoid cavity is at first extremely shallow, and looks outwards as well as downwards ; it becomes deeper and is ultimately directed downwards. Its change in direction is accounted for as follows : The part of the squamous temporal which supports it lies at first below the level of the zygoma. As, however, the base of the skull increases in width, this lower part of the squama is directed horizontally inwards to contribute to the middle fossa of the skull, and its surfaces therefore come to look upwards and downwards ; the attached portion of the zygomatic arch also becomes everted, and projects like a shelf at right angles to the squama. (3) The mastoid portion is at first quite flat, and the stylo-mastoid foramen and rudimentary styloid process lie immediately behind the tympanic ring. With the development of the air-cella the outer part C Fossa suharcuata Meatus acusticus iniernusOSTEOLOGY 232 of the mastoid portion grows downwards and forwards to form the mastoid process and the styloid process and stylo-mastoid foramen now come to lie on the undei surface. The descent of the foramen is necessarily accompanied by a correspond- ing lengthening of the aqueduct of Fallopius. (4) The downward and forward growth of the mastoid process also pushes forward the t}anpauic plate, so that tho portion of it which formed the original floor of the meatus and contained tin foramen of Husclike is ultimately found in the anterior wall. (5) The fossa suh- arcuata becomes filled up and almost obliterated. Articulations.—Tho temporal articulates with five bones: occipital, parietal, sphenoid, mandible, and malar. The Sphenoid Bone The sphenoid bone (os sphenoidale) is situated at the base of the skull in front of the temporals and basilar part of the occipital. It somewhat resembles a bat with its ^yings extended, and is divided into a central portion or body, two greater and two lesser wings extending outwards from the sides of the body, and two pterygoid processes A\hich project from it below. The body (corpus), more or less cubical in shape, is hollowed out in its interior to form two large cavities, the sphenoidal air sinuses, \\'hich are separated from each other by a septum. The superior surface of the body (fig. 301) presents in front a prominent spine, the ethmoidal spine, for articulation with the cribriform plate of the ethmoid ; behind this is a smooth surface slightly raised in the middle Line, with a depression on either side for the olfactory lobes of the brain. This surface is bounded behind by a ridge, which forms the anterior border of a Pig. 301,-—Sphenoid bone. Upper surface. Ellnuoidal narrow, transverse groove, the optic groove (sulcus cliiasmatis), above and behind which lies the optic commissure ; the groove terminates on either side in the optic foramen (foramen opticuni) which transmits the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery. Behind the optic groove is an olive-like elevation, the olivary eminence (tuberculum sellae) ; and still more posteriorly, a deep depression, the pituitary fossa, or sella turcica (fossa hypophyseos), which lodges the pituitary body. This fossa is bounded in front by two small eminences, one on either side, called the middle clinoid processes (processus clinoidei medii), and behind by a square-shaped plate of bone, the dorsum sellce, terminating at its superior angles in two tubercles, the posterior clinoid processes (processus clinoidei posteriores), the size and form of which vary considerably in different individuals. The posterior clinoid processes deepen the pituitary fossa, and give attachment to the tentorium cerebelli. OnSPHENOID BONE 233 either side of the dorsum sellse is a notch for the passage of the sixtli nerve, and below it presents a sharp process, tlie petrosal process, which articulates with the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, forming the inner boundary of the foramen lacerum medium. Behind the dorsum sellse, the bone presents a sliallow depression, the clivus, which slopes obliquely backwards, and is contiimous witl) the basilar groove of the occipital bone ; it supports the upper part of the pons Varolii. The lateral surfaces of the body are united with the greater wings and internal pterygoid plates. Above the attachment of each of the greater wings is a broad gi'oove, curved something like the italic letter /'; it lodges the internal carotid artery and the cavernous sinus, and is named the carotid groove (sulcus caroticus). Along the posterior part of the outer margin of this groove, in the angle between the body and greater wing, is a ridge of bone, called the lingula. The posterior surface, quadrilateral in form (fig. 303), is joined, dui'ing infancy and adolescence, to the basilar process of the occipital bone by a plate of cartilage. Between the eighteenth and twenty-fifth years this becomes ossified, ossification commencing above and extending dowuMards, and the two bones then form one piece. The anterior surface of the body (fig. 302) presents, in the middle line, a vertical crest, the crista sphenoidalis, which articulates with the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, and forms part of the septum of the nose. On either side of the crest is an irregular opening leading into the coiTcsponding sphenoidal air sinus. These sinuses are two large, irregular cavities hollowed out of tlie interior of the body of the sphenoid bone, and separated from one another by a bony septum, which is seldom quite vertical, being commonlj^ bent to one or the other side. They vary considerably in form and size,+ are seldom symmetrical, and are often partially subdivided by iiTegular osseous laminae. Occasionally, they extend into the basilar process of the occipital nearly as far as the foramen magnum. They begin to be developed m the third year, and are of a considerable size by the age of six. They are partially closed, in front and below, by two thin, curved plates of bone, the sphenoidal turbinated bones (see p. 236), leaving in the articulated skull a round opening at the upper part of each sinus by which it communicates with the upper and back part of the nose and occasionally with the jjosterior . . * figure both the anterior anJ inferior surfaces of the body of the sphenoid bone are shown, the bone being held with tlie pterygoid processes almost horizontal. t Aldren Turner (op. cit.) gives the following as their average measurements: vertical Height, I in.; antero-posterior depth, | in.; transverse breadth, J in.OSTEOLOGY 234 ethmoidal air-ceUs. The lateral margin of the anterior surface is serrated, and articulates witli the os planum of the ethmoid, completing the posterior ethmoidal cells ; the lowei- margin articulates with the orbital process of the palate bone, and the upper ^^•ith the orbital plate of the frontal bone. The inferior surface presents, in the middle line, a triangular spine, the rostrum sphenoidale, which is continuous with, the crista sphenoidahs on the anterior surface, and is received in a deep fissure between the alae of the vomer. On either side of the rostrum is a projecting lamina, the jyrocessus vaginalis, directed mwards from the base of the internal pterygoid plate, with which it will be described. The greater wings, or aU-sphenoids (alae magnse), are two strong pro- cesses of bone, which arise from the sides of the body, and are curved in a direction outwards, upwards, and backwards ; the posterior part of each pro- jects outwards and backwards as a triangular process %¥hich fits into the angle between the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal and presents at its apex a downwardly directed process, the sphenoidal spine (spina angularis). The superior or cerebral surface of each greater wing (fig. 301) forms part of the middle fossa of the skull ; it is deeply concave, and presents depressions for the convolutions of the temporal lobe of the brain. At its anterior and internal part is a circular aperture, the foramen rotundum, for the transmission of the second division of the fifth cranial nerve. Behind and external to this Pig. 303.—Sphenoid bone. Posterior surface. is a large, oval opening, the foramen ovale, for the transmission of the third division of the fifth nerve, the small meningeal artery, and sometimes the small superficial petrosal nerve.* At the inner side of the foramen ovale, a small aperture, the foramen Vesalii, may occasionally be seen opposite the root of the pterygoid process ; it opens below near the scaphoid fossa, and transmits a small vem from the cavernous siiius. Lastly, m the posterior angle, near to and in fi-ont of the spme, is a short canal, sometimes double, the foramen spinosum, which transmits the middle meningeal artery and vein and a recurrent branch from the thurd division of the fifth cranial nerve. The external surface (fig. 302) is convex, and divided by a transverse ridge, the infratemporal crest (crista infrateraporalis), uito two portions. The superior or larger (facies temporahs), convex from above dowmwards, concave from before backwards, forms a part of the temporal fossa, and gives attachment to the Temporal muscle. The mferior portion (facies infratemporalis), smaller in size and concave, enters mto the formation of the zygomatic fossa, and together with the infratemporal crest, affords attachment to the External pterygoid muscle. It presents tlie openmgs of the foramen ovale and foramen spmbsum, and, at its posterior part, the sphenoidal spine, which is frequently grooved on its inner aspect for the chorda tympam nerve. To the ^hcnoidal • The small superficial petrosal nerve sometimes passes through a special canal (cimaliculiis innominatus of Arnold) situated on the inner side of the foramen spmo.<=um.SPHENOID BONE 235 spine are connected the internal lateral ligament of the temporo-mandibular joint and the Tensor palati. Internal to the anterior extremity of the infra- temporal crest is a triangular process which serves to increase the attachment of the External pterygoid; extending downwards and inwards from this process on to the front part of the external pterygoid plate is a ridge which forms the anterior limit of the zygomatic surface, and, in the articulated skull, the posterior boundary of the pterygo-maxillary fissure. The anterior or orbital surface of the greater wing (facies orbitalis) (fig. 302), smooth, and quadrilateral in shape, is directed forwards and inwards and forms the posterior part of the outer wall of the orbit. It is bounded above by a serrated edge, for articulation with the orbital plate of the frontal ; below, by a rounded border, which forms the postero-external boundary of the spheno- maxillary fissure. Internally, it is limited by a sharp margin, which forms the lower boundary of the sphenoidal fissure and has projecting from about its centre a little tubercle of bone, which gives attachment to the inferior head of the External rectus muscle of the eyeball ; at the upper part of this margin is a notch for the transmission of a recurrent branch of the lachrymal artery. Externally, it presents a serrated margin for articulation -wdth the malar bone. At the inner and lower part of the anterior surface, immediately below the inner end of the sphenoidal fissure, is a grooved surface, which forms the posterior wall of the spheno-maxiUary fossa, and on which the foramen rotundum opens. Circumference (tig. 301).—Commencing from behind, that portion of the circumference of the greater wing which extends from the body to the spine is irregular. Its inner half forms the anterior boundary of the foramen lacerum medium, and presents the posterior aperture of the Vidian canal for the passage of the Vidian nerve and artery. Its outer half articulates, by means of a synchondrosis, with the petrous portion of the temporal, and between the two bones, on the under surface of the skull, is a furrow, the sulcus tubce, for the lodgment of the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube. In front of the spine the circumference presents a concave, sen-ated edge, bevelled at the expense of the inner table below, and of the outer table above, which articu- lates with the squamous portion of the temporal bone. At the tip of the great wing is a triangular portion, beveUed at the expense of the internal surface, for articulation with the antero-inferior angle of the parietal bone ; this region is named the jjterion. Internal to this is a triangular, seiTated surface, for articulation with the frontal bone ; this surface is continuous internally with the sharp inner edge, which forms the lower boundary of the sphenoidal fissure, and externally with the serrated margin for articulation with the malar bone. The lesser wings or orbitosphenoids (alae parvae) are two thin, triangular plates, \\hich arise from the upper and anterior parts of the body, and, projecting transversely outwards, terminate in sharp points (fig. 301). The superior surface of each is smooth, flat, broader internally than externally, and supports part of the frontal lobe of the brain. The inferior surface forms the back part of the roof of the orbit, and the upper boundary of the sphenoidal fissure (fissura orbitalis superior). This fissure is of a triangular form, and leads from the cavity of the cranium into that of the orbit: it is bounded internally by the body; above, by the lesser wing ; below, by the inner margin of the orbital surface of the greater wing ; and is completed exter- nally by the frontal bone. It transmits the tliifd, the fourth and the sixth nerves, the three branches of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, some filaments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, the orbital branch of the middle meningeal artery', a recurrent branch from the lachrymal artery to the dura mater, and the ophthalmic vein. The anterior border is serrated for articulation with the frontal bone. The posterior border, smooth and rounded, IS received into the Sjdvian fissure of the brain; the inner extremity of this border forms the anterior clinoid process (processus clinoideus anterius), which gives attachment to the tentorium cerebelli; it is sometimes joined to the middle clinoid process by a spicule of bone, and when this occurs the termina- tion of the groove for the internal carotid artery is converted into a foramen (carotico-clinoid). The lesser wing is connected to the body by two roots, the upper thin and flat, the lower thick and triangular; between the two rootsOSTEOLOGY 236 is the optic foramen (foramen opticum), for the transmission of the optic nerve and opiithahnic artery. Tile pterygoid processes (processus pterygoidei), one on either side, descend perpendicularly from the points where the body and greater Avings unite. Each process consists of an internal and an external plate, fused above and in front, but separated below by an angular cleft, tlie 'pterygoid notch (fissura pterygoidea). the margins of which are rougli for articulation with tlic tuberosity of the palate bone. The two plates diverge behind and enclose between them a V-shaped fossa, the pterygoid fossa (fossa pterygoidea), which contains the Internal pterygoid and Tensor palati. Above this fossa is a small, oval, shallow depression, the fossa scuphoidea, which gives origin to the Tensor palati. The anterior surface of the pterygoid process is broad and triangular near its root, where it forms the posterior wall of the spheno-maxillary fossa and presents the anterior orifice of the Vidian canal. The external jMrygoid plate (lamina lateralis processus pterygoidei) is broad, thin, and everted ; its outer surface forms part of the inner wall of the zygomatic fossa, and gives attachment to the External pterygoid ; its inner surface forms part of the pterygoid fossa, and gives attachment to the Internal pterygoid. The internal pterygoid plate (lamina medialis processus pterygoidei) is much narrower and longer than the external; it curves outwards, at its \o\\(^v extremity, into a hook-like process, the hamular process (hamulus pterygoidei), around which the tendon of the Tensor palati muscle glides. The outer surface of this plate forms part of the pterygoid fossa, the inner surface constitutes the outer boundary of the posterior aperture of the nares. Superiorly the internal pterygoid plate is carried inwards on the under surface of the body as a thin lamina, named the vaginal process ; which articulates in fr'ont with the sphenoidal process of the palate and internally with the ala of the vomer. The angular prominence between the posterior margin of the vaginal process and the inner margin of the scaphoid fossa is named the pterygoid tubercle, immediately above wliich is the posterior oj)ening of the Vidian canal (canalis pterygoideus). On the under aspect of the vaginal process is a furrow, the sulcus pterygopalatinu^, which is converted into the pterygo-palatine canal by the sphenoidal process of the palate bone, and transmits the pterygo-palatine vessels and the pharjoigeal nerve. Projecting back^vards from near the middle of the posterior edge of the internal pterygoid plate is an angular process, the processus tuharivs, which supports the pharyngeal end of the Eustachian tube. The pharyngeal aponeurosis is attached to the entire length of the posterior edge of the internal plate, and the Superior constrictor of the pharynx takes origin from its lower third. The anterior margin of the internal pterygoid plate articulates with the posterior border of the vertical plate of the palate. The sphenoidal turbinated bones (conchas sphenoidales) are two thin, curved plates, situated at the anterior and inferior jjart of the body of the sphenoid ; they exist as separate pieces until puberty, and occasionally are not joined to the sphenoid in the adidt. An aperture of variable size exists in the anterior wall of each, and through this the sphenoidal sinus opens into the nasal fossa. Each is irregular in form, and tapers to a point behind, being broader and thinner in front. Its upper surface, wliich looks towards the cavity of the sinus, is concave ; its under surface is convex, and forms part of the roof of the corresponding nasal fossa. Each bone articulates in front with the ethmoid, externally with the palate; its pointed posterior extremity is placed above the vomer, and is received between the root of the pterygoid process on the outer side and the rostrum of the sphenoid on the inner.* Ossification.—Until the seventh or eighth month of foetal Ufe the body of the sphenoid consists of two parts—viz. one in front of the ohvary eminence, the pre-spJienoid, with which the lesser wings are continuous : the other, comprism- the sella turcica, the post-sphenoid, with which are associated the greater wmgs * A small portion of .sphenoidal tin-biiialcd bone sometimes enters into the formation of the inner wall of the orbit, between the os planum of the ethmoid in front, the orbital plate of the palate below, and the frontal above. Cleland, Hot/. Soc. Trana. 18G2.SPHENOID BONE 237 Fig. 304.- -Plan of ossification of the sphenoid. for- ecctfjt. ixiro /ot* ciTv^trr^or' /gssct* -r(/Z7i^ ^cf?'^ of hotZi^ <?ric /or' ceec^i- zfi^er*naZ \,' \ eetc/t. y^vice^ icriny €Lru:Z eas^^nnixZ-J^^^- cne and pterygoid processes. With the exception of the internal pterygoid plates, the bone is ossified in cartilage. There are fourteen centres in all (fig. 304), six for the pre-sphenoid and eight for the post-sphenoid division. Pre-spJienoid division.—About the ninth week of foetal life an ossific centre appears for each of the lesser VAings (orbito-sphenoids) just outside the optic foramen. Shortly afterwards two nuclei for the pre-sphenoid part of the body appear on the inner sides of the optic foramina. The sphenoidal turbinated bones are each developed from a centre which makes its appearance abont the fifth month; * at birth they consist of small triangular laminsc, and it is not till the third year that they become hollowed out and cone-shaped; about the fourth year they fuse with the lateral masses of the ethmoid, and between the ninth and twelfth years they unite with the sphenoid. Post-sphenoid division.— The first ossific nuclei are those for the greater wings (ali-spheuoids). They make their appearance between the foramen rotundum and foramen ovale about the eighth week, and from them the external pterygoid plates also are formed.f Soon after, the centres for the post- sphenoid part of the body appear, one on either side of the sella turcica, and become blended together about the middle of foetal hfe. Each internal pterygoid plate (with the exception of its hamular process) is ossified in membrane, and its centre probably appears about the ninth or tenth week; the hamular process becomes chondrified during the third month, and almost at once undergoes ossifica- tion (Fawcett, op. cit.). The internal joins the external pterygoid plate about the sixth month. About the fourth month a centre appears for each lingula and speedily joins the rest of the bone. The pre-sphenoid is united to the post-sphenoid about the eighth month, and at birth (fig. 305) the bone consists of three pieces : a central, consisting of the body and lesser ^\angs, and two lateral, each comprising a greater wing and pterygoid pro- cess. In the first year after Fig. 305.—Sphenoid bone at birth. Posterior aspect. birth the greater wings and body become united, and the orbito-sphenoids extend in- wards alDove the anterior part of the body, and, meeting with each other in the middle line, form an elevated smooth surface, termed the jugum sphenoidale. By the twenty- fifth year the sphenoid and occipital are completely fused. -J J- • • .1 . Between the pre- and post- sphenoid divisions there are occasionally seen the remains of a canal, the canalis cr«mo237«(ry«5,eus through which, in early foetal life, the pituitary diverticulum (or poucli ot Kathke) of the buccal ectoderm is transmitted (see page 155). Jnf ^Plienoid has attached to it certain intrinsic hgaments, which have received betwL tr'' K -i^f'* important of these are : the perygo-spinotis. which stretches / ''P^^''°''^*'l «P"ie and the external pterygoid plate (see cervical fascia) ; the nrlllr ' f ''""^ P""""??^ '^^""^ P*"'**'^ 'interior to the posterior clinoid mnTJl' '^"'■""'co-c/iMoitZ, wliich passes from the anterior to the middle clinoid piocess. ihese ligaments occasionally ossify, and form adventitious foramina. centri"''"''^^"^ *° sphenoidal turbinated bones are ossified from four distinct ossified''i'n mo ^:f''«*'"'"'-'f'f 'inzoiffcT, March 1905) states that tlie external pterygoid plate is ossified m membrane, and is not a downward continuation of the cartilaginous grelt wingOSTEOLOGY 238 Articulations.—The sphenoid articulates with twelve bones : four single, the vomer, ethmoid, frontal and occipital; and four paired, the parietal, temporal, malar, and palate. The exact extent of articulation with each bone is .shown in the accompanying figures.* The Ethmoid Bone The ethmoid bone (os ethmoidale) is an exceedingly light, spongy bone, of a cubical shape ; it is situated at the anterior part of tiie base of the cranium, between the two orbits, at the roof of the nose, and contributes to each of these cavities. It consists of four parts : a horizontal or cribriform plate, which forms part of the base of the cranium; a perpen- dicular plate, which consti- tutes part of the nasal septum; and two lateral masses. The cribriform plate (lamina cribrosa) (fig. 306) is received into the ethmoid notch of the fi-ontal bone and roofs in the nasal fossae. Projecting upwards from the middle line of this plate is a tMck, smooth, tri- angular process, the crista galli, so called from its re- semblance to a cock's comb. Its base joins the cribriform plate. Its posterior border, long, thin, and slightly curved, serves for the attach- ment of the falx cerebri. Its anterior border, short and thick, articulates with the frontal bone, and presents two small projecting alar processes, wliich are received into corre- sponding depressions in the frontal bone and complete the foramen caecum. Its sides are smooth, and sometimes bulging from the presence of a smaU air- FiG. 307.—Perpendicular plate of ethmoid (enlarged). Shown by removing the right lateral mass. sinus in the intei-ior. On each side of the crista galli, the cribriform plate is narrow and deeply grooved; it supports the bulb of the olfactory lobe of the brain, and is perforated by foramina for the passage of the olfactoiy nerves. The foramina in the middle of the groove are small and transmit the nerves * It also sometimes articulates with the tuberosity of the maxilla (see page 242). Fig. 306.—Ethmoid bone. Outer surface of right lateral mass (enlarged). u'if/l infjiurbinfited 6-ETHMOID BONE 239 Perper, Lateral mass Sii2>ei-ior turbinated process Svperior meatus Processus uncina ttis erior turbinated process cular plate to the roof of the nose; those at the inner and outer parts of the groove are larger—the former transmit the nerves to the upper part of tlie nasal septum, the latter those to the superior turbinated process. At the front part of the cribriform plate, on either side of the crista galli, is a small fissui'e which is occupied by a process of dura mater. External to this fissm'e is a notch or foramen which transmits the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve; from it a groove extends backwards to the anterior ethmoidal foramen. The perpendicular plate (lamina perpendicularis) (figs. 307 and 308) is a thin, flattened lamella, polygonal in form, which descends from the under surface of the cribriform plate, and assists in forming I^G- 308.—Ethmoid bone from behind, the septum of the nose; it ^^Crista gain is generally deflected a little to one or other side. Its anterior border articulates with the nasal spine of the frontal bone and the crest of the nasal bones. Its posterior border articulates by its upper half with the crista sphenoidalis, by its lower half Avith the vomer. The inferior border is thicker than the posterior, and serves for the attachment of the septal cartilage of the nose. The surfaces of the plate are smooth, except above, where numerous grooves and canals are seen ; these lead from the inner foramina on the cribriform plate and lodge filaments of the olfactory nerves. The lateral mass (labyrinthus ethmoidahs) (fig. 308) consists of a number of tloin-walled cellular cavities, the ethmoidal cells, arranged in thi-ee groups, anterior, middle, and 'posterior, and interposed between two vertical plates of bone ; the outer plate forms part of the orbit, the inner, part of the correspond- ing nasal fossa. In the disarticulated bone many of these cells are opened into ; but when the bones are articulated, they are closed in at every part, except where they open into the nasal fossa. The upper sxvrface of the lateral mass presents a number of half-broken Fig. 309.—Ethmoid bone. Inner surface of cells, the walls of which are corn- right lateral mass (enlarged). pleted, in the articulated skull, by the edges of the ethmoidal notch of the frontal bone. Crossing this surface are two grooves, converted into canals by articu- lation with the frontal; they are the anterior and posterior ethmoidal canals, and open on the inner wall of the orbit. The posterior surface presents large irregular cellular cavities, which are closed in by articulation with the sphenoidal turbinated bone rp, and orbital process of the palate. -Liie outer surface is formed of a thin, smooth, oblong plate, the os planum (lamma papyracea), which covers in the middle and posterior ethmoidal cells and forms a large part of the inner wall of the orbit; it articulates with the orbital plate of the frontal, below with the maxiUa and orbital process of the palate, in front with the lachrymal, and behind with the sphenoid. In front of the lamina papyracea are some broken air-cells which are overlapped and completed by the lachrymal bone and the frontal process of An irregular lamina, the processus uncinatus, projects downwards ana backwards from this part of the lateral mass. This process, which is oftenOSTEOLOGY 240 broken in disarticulating the bones, forms a small part of the inner wall of the maxillary sinus or antrum of Highmore, and articulates witli the ethmoidal process of the inferior turbinated bone. The inner surface of the lateral mass (fig. 309) forms part of the outer wall of the corresponding nasal fossa. It consists of a thin lamella, wliich descends from the under surface of the cribriform plate, and terminates below in a free, convoluted margin, the middle turbinated process (concha nasalis media). The Avhole of this surface is rough, and marked above by numerous grooves, which run nearly vertically downwards from the cribriform plate ; they lodge branches of the olfactory nerves, which are distributed to the mucous membrane covering the superior turbinated process. The back part of this surface is subdivided by a narrow obhque fissure, the superior meatus of tlie nose, which is bounded above by a thin, cm'ved plate, the siiperior turbinated process (concha nasahs superior) ; the posterior ethmoidal cells open into this meatus. Below, and in front of the superior meatus, is seen the convex inner surface of the middle turbinated process. It extends along the wliole length of the inner surface of the lateral mass, and its lower margin is free and thick ; its outer sui-face is concave, and assists in forming the middle meatus of the nose. The middle ethmoidal cells open into the central part of this meatus and from its front part a sinuous passage, termed the infundibulum, extends upwards and forw-ards thi-ough the lateral mass and communicates with the frontal sinus and the anterior ethmoidal cells. Ossification.^—The ethmoid is ossified in the cartilage of the nasal capsule by three centres : one for the perpendicular plate, and one for each lateral mass. The lateral masses are first developed, ossific granules making their appear- ance in the region of the os planum between the fourth and fifth months of foetal life, and extending into the turbinated processes. At birth, the bone consists of the two lateral masses, which are small and ill developed. During the first year after birth, the perpendicular plate and crista galli begin to ossify from a single nucleus, and are joined to the lateral masses about the beginmng of the second vear. The cribriform plate is ossified partly from the perpendicular plate and partly from the lateral masses. The formation of the ethmoidal cells does not commence imtil about the fourth or fifth year. Articulations.—The ethmoid articulates with fifteen bones: four of the cranium—the sphenoid, two sphenoidal turbinateds, and the frontal; and eleven of the face—the two nasals, two maxillse, two lachrymals, two palates, two inferior turbinateds, and the vomer. SXJPEWTJMERARY OR WORMIAN * BoNES (OSSA SUTUR.A.KUM) In addition to the constant centres of ossification of the cranium, additional ones may be found in the course of the sutiires. These form irregular, isolated bones, interposed between the cranial bones, and termed Wormian bones or ossa Iriqueira. They are most frequently fovmd in the course ot the lambdoid sutine, but are occasionally seen at the fontanelles, especially the posterior. One, the pterion ossicle, sometimes exists between the antero-inferior angle of the parietal and the greater wing of the sphenoid. They have a tendency to be more or less symmetrical on the two sides of the skull, and vary much in size, being in some cases not larger than a pin's head, and confined to the outer table, in other cases so large that one pair of these bones may form the whole ot the occipital bone above the superior curved lines, as described by Beclard and \\'ard. Their number is generally limited to two or three ; but more than a hundi-ed have been found in the skull ot an adult hydrocephalic sui)ject. In their development, structure, and mode of articulation, they resemble the other cranial bones. Congenital Fissures and Gaps An arrest in the ossifying process may give rise to deficiencies, gaps, or fissures which are of importance from a medico-legal ])oint of \'icw, as they are liable to be mis- taken for fractures. The fissures generally extend from the margins towards the centre of a bone, but the gaps may be found in the middle as well as at the edges. In course of time they may become filled with (hin laminaj of bone. In many of these ca.^es. however, the gaps must be regarded as due to absorption of lione already formed rather * Ole Worm, Professor of Anatomy at Copenhagen, 1G24-1G39, was erroneously suiJposed to have given the first detailed description of these bones.241 NASAL BONES than as congenital deficiencies ; this is especially the case when they appear in the centre of a bone such as the parietal, the ossification of which has already been described <is occurring in a regular manner radiating from one centre. The condition is most commonly seen in very badly nourished children affected with congenital syphilis, and is called craniolabes. OSSA FACIEI The bones of the face (ossa faciei), fourteen in number, comprise the Two Nasals Two Palates Two Maxillas Two Inferior Turbinateds Two Lachrymals ' Vomer Two Malars Mandible Nasal Bones Tlie Nasal Bones (ossa nasalia) are two small oblong bones, varying in size and form in different individuals ; they are placed side by side at tho Fig. 310.—^Nasal bone and lachrymal bone in situ. Nasal bone Frontal ]>rocess Infra-orbital foramen Ant. nasal spine A Iveolar process ' Lachrymal bone Orbital surface Infra-orbital groove ■"^^^f"—r*"* —■ Artie, with malar ' 'ifTn— Post, dental canals '■..'■fiV Maxillary tuberosity middle and upper part of the face, and form, by their junction, ' the bridge' of the nose (fig. 310). Each presents two surfaces and four borders. The OM<er surjace. (fig. 311) is concavo-convex from above downwards, convex from side Fig. 311.—Right nasal bone. Outer surface. With f rontal bone _ With op2>osite bone Fig. 312.—Left nasal bone. Inner surface. With frontal spine Crest With petyendicalar 2>late of ethmoid roove for nasal nerve perf ^ I \ ' u Pyramidalis and Compressor nasi muscles, and I orated about its centre by a"^foramen, for the transmission of a small vein surface (fig. 312) is concave from side to side, and is traversed from R242 OSTEOLOGY above downwards by a groove for the passage of a branch of the nasal nerve. The superior border is narroAV, thick, and serrated for articulation with the nasal notch of the frontal bone. The inferior border is thin, and serves for the attacli- ment of the upper lateral cartilage of the nose. It presents, about its middle, a notch which marks the termination of the groove for the nasal nerve. The external border is serrated, bevelled at the expense of the inner surface above, and of the outer below, to articulate with the frontal process of the maxilla. The internal border, thicker above than below, articulates with its feUow of the opposite side, and is prolonged behind into a vertical crest, which forms part of the septum of the nose : this crest articulates, from above downwards, with the nasal spine of the frontal, the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, and the septal cartilage of the nose. Ossification.—Each bone is ossified from one centre, which appears about the eighth week of foetal life in the membrane overlying the front part of the cartilagin- ous nasal capsule. Articulations.—The nasal articulates with four bones : two of the cramum, the frontal and ethmoid, and two of the face, the opposite nasal and the maxilla. The Maxillae or Supbriob, Maxillary Bone.s The Maxillse are the most important bones of the face from a surgical point of view, on account of the diseases to which some of then- parts are £able They are the largest bones of the face, excepting the mandible, and form by their union, the whole of the upper jaw. Each assists m the formation of three cavities—viz. the roof of the mouth, the floor and outer waU of the nose and the floor of the orbit; it also enters into the formation of two fosste, the zygomatic and spheno-maxfllary, and two fissures, the spheno-maxillary and pterygo-maxiUary. i.- * <. i Each bone consists of a body and four processes—zygomatic, frontal, alveolar, and palatal. ., , . , j • „ The body (corpus maxiU*) is somewhat pyramidal m shape, and contains a large cavitv, the antrum of Highmore, or maxillary sinus. Its surfaces are four —an anterior or facial, a posterior or zygomatic, a superior or orbital, and an internal or nasal.^^ ^^^^.^^^ ^^^^.^^ anterior) (fig. 313) is dh-ected forwards and outwards. It presents at its lower part f«eri>,s of eminences corre- sponding to the positions of the fangs of the teeth. Just above those of e incisor teeth is a depression, the incisive fossa v.r}nch gi^«%o"g"^/« Depressor ate nasi; to the alveolar border below the fossa is attached a shp Ke Orbicidaris oris ; above and a Uttle external to.xt, the Compressor^^^^^ arises. More external is another depression, the camne fossa (fossa o^anma) Wer and deeper than the incisive fossa, from which it is separated by a verticaf ridge, the canine eminence, corresponding to the socket of the canine tonth The canine fossa gives origin to the Levator anguh oris. Above Jhe Lsa is t^rUa orbital foramen (foramen infraorbitale), the termina- tion of the infra-orbital canal ; it transmits the infra-orbital vessels and nerve Above the foramen is the margin of the orbit, v.Jich affords partia atSment to the Levator labii superioris. InternaUy, the acial surface is lirnited by a deep concavity, the nasal notch (incisura nasahs), the margin of which gives attachment to the Dilator naris posterior and termmates belo^^ in a pointed process, the anterior nasal spine (spma an ei-ior) ^Theposterior or zygomatic surface (f'^^j^V'^''' S 1 f v.ofni^^ Immediately above this is a smooth surface, which forms tlie anterior bounaarvMAXILL.E 243 of the spheno-maxillary fossa, and presents a groove, for the second division of the fifth cranial nerve ; this groove is directed outwards and slightly upwards, and becomes continuous with the infra-orbital groove on the orbital surface. Tlie superior or orbital surface (facies orbitalis) (fig. 313) is smooth and triangular, and forms the greater part of the floor of the orbit. It is bounded internally by an irregular margin which in front presents a notch, the lachrymal notch (incisura lacrimalis); behind this notch the margin articulates with the lachrymal, the os planum of the ethmoid and the orbital process of the palate. It is bounded behind by a smooth rounded edge which forms the anterior margin of the spheno-maxillary fissure, and sometimes articulates at its outer extremity with the orbital plate of the sphenoid. It is limited in front by part of the cu-cumference of the orbit, which is continuous on the iiiner side with the frontal process, and on the outer side with the zygomatic process. Near the middle line of the posterior part of the orbital surface is a deep groove, the infra-orbital (sulcus infraorbitalis), for the passage of the infra- orbital vessels and nerve. The groove begins at the middle of the posterior border, where it is continuous with that near the upper edge of the posterior Fig. 313.—Left maxilla. Outer surface. Tejjdo Dilatator naris posterior- Incisive fossa Posterior dental canal Maxillary tuberosity ■Bicusjiicl- surface, and, passmg forwards, ends in a canal, which subdivides into two branches. One of the canals, the infra-orbital (canalis infraorbitalis), opens just below themargm of the orbit; the other, which is smaller, runs down- wards m the substance of the anterior wall of the antrum ; it is called the anterior dental canal, and transmits the anterior dental vessels and nerve to the front teeth of the maxiUa. From the back part of the infra-orbital canal, a second small canal is sometimes given off, which runs downwards in the outer waU of the antrum, and conveys the middle dental nerve to the bicuspid teetb; occasionally, this canal is derived from the anterior dental. At the inner and fore part of the orbital surface, just external to the lachrymal groove, is a depression, which gives origin to the Inferior oblique muscle of the eyeball. ine internal surface (facies nasalis) (fig. 314) presents a large, irregular opening leading into the antrum of Highmore. At the upper border of this aperture are some broken air-cells, which, in the articulated skull, are closed ui Dy the ethmoid and lachrymal bones. Below the aperture is a smooth concavity which forms part of the inferior meatus of the nasal fossa, and oemnd It is a rough surface for articulation with the perpendicular plate of ne palate bone ; this surface is traversed by a groove, commencing near the K 2OSTEOLOGY 244 middle of the posterior border and running obliquely downwards and for- wards ; this groove is converted into a canal, the 'posterior 'palatine canal by the palate bone. In front of tlie opening of the antrum is a deeji groove, the lachrymal groove (sulcus lacrimalis), wliich is converted into a canal (canalis nasolacrimalis) by the lachrymal and inferior turbinated bones ; tliis canal opens into the inferior meatus of the nose and transmits the nasal duct. More anteriorly is a well-marked oblique ridge, the inferior turbinated crest (crista conchalis), for articulation with the inferior turbinated bone. The shallow concavitj'^ above this ridge forms part of the atrium of the middle meatus of the nose ; while that below it forms part of the inferior meatus. The antrum of Highmore (sinus maxUlaris) is a large pyramidal cavity, hollowed out of the body of the maxilla : its apex, directed outwards, is formed by the zygomatic process; its base, directed inwards, by the outer wall of the nose. Its \\&Vls are everywhere exceedingly thin, and correspond to the orbital, facial, and zygomatic surfaces of the body of the bone. Its inner wall, or base, presents, in the disarticulated bone, a large, irregular aperture, which Fig. 314.—Left maxilla. Liner surface. With frontal Bones partially closing orifice of antrum marhed in outline Ethmoid Itiferior turhinated Folate With nasal bone A7it. 7iasal S2)ine Bristle 2>assed through anterior palatine canal communicates with the nasal fossa. In the articulated skull tliis aperture is much reduced in size by the following bones : the uncinate process of the ethmoid above, the ethmoidal process of the inferior turbinated below, the vertical plate of the palate behind, and a small part of the lachrymal above and in front. It communicates with the middle meatus of the nose, generally by two small apertures left between the above-mentioned bones. In tlie recent state, usually only one small opening exists, near the upper part of the cavity, sufficiently large to admit the end of a probe ; the other is closed by mucous membrane. On the posterior loall are the posterior dental canals, transmitting the posterior dental vessels and nerves to tlie molar teeth. The floor is formed by the alveolar process of the jaw, and, in a cavity of average size, is on a level with the floor of the nose ; where the cavity is large it readies below this level. Projecting into the floor of the antrum are several conical processes, corresponding to the roots of the first and second molar teeth :* in some cases the floor is perforated by the fangs of the teeth. The infra-orbital canal usually * The number of teeth whose fangs are in relation with tlie floor of the antrum is variable. The antrum ' may extend so as to be in relation to all the teeth of the true maxilla, from the canine to the dens sapicniia;.'—(Salter.)MAXILLA 245 projects into the cavity as a well-marked ridge whicli passes downwards and inw ards from the roof "to tlie anterior wall ; additional ridges are sometimes seen in the posterior wall of the cavity, and are caused by the posterior dental canals. The size of the cavity varies in different skulls, and even on the two sides of the same skull. Aldren Tui-ner {op. cit.) gives the following measurements as those of an average-sized antrum : vertical height opposite first molar tooth, 1^ in. ; transverse breadth, 1 in. ; and antero-posterior depth, in. Applied Anatomy.—The extreme thinness of the walls of this cavity affords an explanation of the fact that a trnnour growing from the antrum and encroaching iipon the adjacent parts may push up the floor of the orbit, and chsplace the eyeball ; may project inwards into the nose; may protrude forwards on to the cheek; or may make its way backwards into the zygomatic fossa, or downwards into the mouth. The zygomatic or malar process (processus zygomaticus) is a rough triangular eminence, situated at the angle of separation of the facial, zygomatic, and orbital surfaces. In front it forms part of the facial surface ; behind, it is concave, and forms part of the zygomatic fossa ; above, it is rough and seiTated for articulation with the malar bone ; while below, it presents a prominent arched border which marks the division between the facial and zygomatic surfaces. The frontal or nasal process (processus frontalis) is a strong plate, which projects upwards, in\vards, and backwards, by the side of the nose, forming part of its lateral boundary. Its external surface is smooth, continuous with the facial aspect of the body, and gives attachment to the Levator labii superioris alseque nasi, the Orbicularis palpebrarum, and the Tendo oculi. Its internal surface forms part of the outer wall of the nasal fossa ; at its upper part is a rough, uneven area, which articulates with the ethmoid bone, closing in the anterior ethmoidal cells ; below this is an oblique ridge, the superior turbinated crest (crista ethmoidalis), the posterior end of which articulates M^ith the middle turbinated process of the ethmoid, while the anterior part is termed the agger nasi ; the crest forms the upper limit of the atrium of the middle meatus. Its upper border articulates with the frontal and its anterior with the nasal; its posterior border is tliick, and hollowed into a groove, which is continuous below with the lachrymal groove on the inner surface of the body : by the articulation of the inner margin of the groove ^^ ith the anterior border of the lachrymal a corresponding groove on the lachrymal is brought into continuity, and together they form the lachrymal fossa for the lodgment of the lachrymal sac. The outer margin of the groove is named the crista lacrimalis anterior, and is continuous below with the orbital margin ; at its junction with the orbital surface is a small tubercle, the lachrymal tubercle, which serves as a guide to the position of the lachrymal sac in the operation for fistula lacrimalis. The alveolar process (processus alveolaris) is the thickest and most spongy part of the bone. It is broader behind than in front, and excavated into deep cavities for the reception of the teeth. These cavities are eight in number, and vary iu size and depth according to the teeth they contain. That for the canine tooth is the deepest; those for the molars are the widest, and are sub- divided into minor cavities by septa ; those for the incisors are single, but deep and narrow. The Buccinator arises from the outer surface of this process, as far forward as the fu'st molar tooth. When the maxillse are articulated with each other, their alveolar processes together form the alveolar arch ; the centre of the anterior margin of tliis arch is named the alveolar point. The palatal process (processus palatinus), thick and strong, projects horizontally inwards from the umer surface of the bone. It forms a consider- able part of the floor of the nose and the roof of the mouth and is much thicker in front than behind. Its inferior surface (fig. 315) is concave, rough and uneven, and forms, with the palatal process of the opposite bone, the anterior three-fourths of the hard palate. It is perforated by numerous foramina for the passage of the nutrient vessels ; is channelled at the back part of its alveolar border by a gi'oove, sometimes a canal, for the trans- mission of the posterior palatine vessels, and the anterior or large palatine nerve from Meckel's ganglion ; and presents little depressions for the lodgmentOSTEOLOGY 2m of the palatine glands. When the two maxillae are articulated, a depression, the anterior palatine fossa, is seen in the middle Ime, immediately behind the incisor teeth. On examining the bottom of this fossa four canals are \dsible: two are situated laterally, and two in the middle line. The lateral canals are named the incisor foramina or foramina of Stenson ; they contam the remains of the organ of Jacobson, and tlirough each of them passes the terminal branch of the posterior palatine artery, which ascends from the mouth to the nasal fossa. The canals in the middle line are termed the foramina of Scarpa, and transmit the naso-palatine nerves, the left passing through the anterior, and the right through the posterior canal. On the under surface of the palatal process, a dehcate linear suture, well seen in young skulls, may sometimes be noticed extending outwards and forwards from the anterior palatine fossa to the interval between the lateral incisor and the canine tooth. The small part in front of this suture constitutes the premaxilla or os incisivum, which in most vertebrates forms an independent 5iG. 315.—The palate and alveolar arch. Foramina of Stenson Horizontal pla te of i>alate lone Accessory palatine canaU bone. It includes the whole tliickness of the alveolus, the corresponding part of the floor of the nose and the anterior nasal spine, and contains the sockets of the incisor teeth. The upper surface of the palatal process is con- cave from side to side, smooth, and forms the greater part of the floor of the nasal fossa. It presents, close to its inner margin, the upper oriflce of the foramen of Stenson. The outer border of the process is incorporated with the rest of the bone. The inner border is thicker in front than behind, and is raised above into a ridge, the nasal crest (crista nasalis), which, with the corresponding ridge of the opposite bone, forms a groove for the reception of the vomer. The front part of this ridge rises to a considerable height, and is n&med the incisor crest; it is prolonged forwards into a sharp process, which forms, together with a similar process of the opposite bone, the anterior nasal spine (spina nasaUs anterior). The middle of the inferior border of the anterior nasal apertui-e at the base of the nasal spine is named the svbnasal point. The posterior border is serrated for articulation with the horizontal plate of the palate-bone.247 aiAXILL.'E Ossification—The maxilla begins to ossify at a very early period, and ossifica- tion proceeds in it with such rapidity that it is difficult to ascertain with certainty its precise number of centres. It appears probable, however, that it is ossified from six centres, which are deposited in membrane. One, the orbilo-nasal forms that portion of the body of the bone which Hes internal to the infra-orbital canal including the inner part of the floor of the orbit and the outer wall ot the nasal fossa ; a second, the malar or zygomatic, gives origin to the portion which hes external to the infra-orbital canal, including the zygomatic process; from a third, the palatine, is developed the palatal process posterior to Stenson s canal together with the adjoining part of the nasal wall; a fourth, the pre- maxillary, forms the front part of the alveolus which carries the incisor teeth and corresponds to the premaxilla of the lower vertebrates ;* a fifth, the nasal, gives rise to the frontal process and the portion above the canine tooth ; and a sixth, the infravomerine, hes between the palatine and premaxillary centres and beneath the vomer; this centre, together with the corresponding centre of the opposite bone, separates the foramina of Stenson from each other. These various Fig. 316.—The maxilla at birth. AOTBMOR SOTFACE INPERIOR SURPAOB centres appear about the eighth week, and by the tenth week the bone consists of two portions, one the maxilla proper, and the other the premaxilla. The suture between these two portions persists on the palate till middle Hfe, but is not to be seen on the facial surface. This is beheved by Callender to be due to the fact that the front wall of the sockets of the incisor teeth is not formed by the premaxillary bone, but by an outgrowth from the facial part of the maxilla proper. The antrum is developed at an earlier period than any of the other accessory nasal sinuses ; it appears as a shallow groove on the inner surface of the bone about the fourth month of fcetal Ufe, but does not reach its full size until after the second dentition. The sockets for the teeth are formed by the downward growth of two plates from the dental groove, and by the subsequent development of partitions jutting across from the one to the other. Articulations.—The maxilla articulates with nine bones : two of the cranium, the frontal and ethmoid, and seven of the face—viz. the nasal, malar, lachrymal, inferior turbinated, palate, vomer, and its fellow of the opposite side. Sometimes it articulates with the orbital plate, and sometimes with the external pterygoid plate of the sphenoid. Changes produced in the Maxilla by Age At birth the transverse and antero-posterior diameters of the bone are each greater than the vertical. The frontal process is well marked and the body of the bone consists of little more than the alveolar process, while the teeth-sockets reach almost to the floor of the orbit. The antrum of Highmore presents the appearance of a sUt-Uke fuiTow on the outer wall of the nose. In the adult the vertical diameter is the greater, owing to the development of the alveolar process and the increase in size of the antrum. In old age the bone reverts in some measure to the infantile condition: its height is diminished, and after the loss of the teeth the alveolar process is absorbed, and the lower part of the bone contracted and diminished in thickness. The Lachkymal Bones The Lachrymal Bone (os lacrimale), the smallest and most fragile bone of the face, is situated at the front part of the inner wall of the orbit (fig. 310). * Some anatomists believe that the premaxillary bone is ossified by two centres (see page 285).OSTEOLOGY 248 Fig. 317.—Left lachi-ymal bone. External surface. (Slightly enlarged.) with frontal It presents for examination two surfaces and four borders. The external or orbital surface (fig. 317) is divided by a vertical ridge, the lachrymal crest (crista laciiraalis posterior), into two parts. The portion in front of this crest presents a longitudinal groove (sulcus lacrimalis), the inner margin of which unites with the frontal process of the maxilla, and the lachrymal fossa is thus completed. The upper part of this fossa lodges the lachrymal sac, the lower part, the nasal duct. The portion behind the crest is smooth, and forms part of the inrier ^A•all of the orbit. The crest, with a part of the orbital surface immediately behind it, gives origin to the Tensor tarsi muscle, and terminates below in a small, hook-like projection, the hainular process (hamulus lacrimalis), which articulates with the laclu'ymal tubercle of the raaxiUa, and com- pletes the upper orifice of the lachrymal canal. It sometimes exists as a separate piece, and is then called the lesser lachrymal hone. The internal or nasal surface presents a longitudinal furroA\-, corresponding to the crest on the outer surface. The area in front of tliis furrow forms part of the middle meatus of the nose ; that behind it articulates with the ethmoid bone, and completes some of the anterior ethmoidal cells. Of t\\& four borders the anterior is the longest, and articulates with the frontal process of the maxLUa. The posterior, thin and imeven, articulates ^dth the os planum of the ethmoid. The superior, the shortest and tliickest, articulates mth the internal angular process of the frontal. The inferior is divided by the lower edge of the vertical crest into two parts : the posterior part articulates with the orbital plate of the maxilla ; the anterior is prolonged downwards as the descending or turbinal process, which articulates with the lachrymal process of the inferior turbinated bone, and assists in forming the canal for the nasal duct. Ossification.—The lachrymal is ossified from a single centre, which appears about the eighth or ninth week in the membrane covering the cartilaginous nasal capsule. Articulations.—The lachrymal articulates with four hones: two of the cranium, the frontal and ethmoid, and two of the face, the maxiUa and the inferior turbinated. The Malab or Zygomatic Bones The Malar or Zygomatic Bone (os zygomaticum) is a small, quadrangular bone, situated at the upper and outer part of the face : it forms the prommence of the cheek, part of the outer waU and floor of the orbit, and parts of the temporal and zygomatic fossje (fig. 318). It presents an external and an internal surface ; four processes, the fronto-sphenoidal, orbital, maxiUar}', and temporal or zj^gomatic ; and four borders. The external surface (facies malaris) (fig. 319) is convex and perforated near its centre by a small aperture, the malar foramen (foramen z3^gomatico- faciale), for the passage of the malar nerve and vessels. It is covered by the Orbicularis palpebrarum, and presents, below the malar foramen, a slight elevation, the malar tubercle, \A-hich gives origin to the Zygomatici. The internal surface (facies temporahs) (fig. 320), directed backwards and inwards, is concave, presenting internally a rough, triangular area, for articu- lation with the maxilla, and externally a smooth, concave surface, the upper part of which forms the anterior boundary of the temporal fossa, the lower a part of the zygomatic fossa. On this surface, a little above its centre, is the aperture of a malar canal (foramen zygomaticotemporale), for the transmission of the temporal branch of the temporo-malar nerve. The fronto-sphenoidal process is thick and serrated, and articulates with the external angular process of the frontal bone. To its orbital margin is attached the external tarsal hgament. The orbital process is a thick, strong plate, projecting backwards and inwards from the orbital margin. Its antero-internal surface, smooth and concave, forms, by its junction with the orbital surface of the maxilla and with the greater wmg of the sphenoid, part of the floor and outer wall of the orbit. On it are seen the orifices of two]MALAR BONES 249 canals (foramina zygomaticoorbitalia) ; one of these canals opens into the temporal fossa, the other on the anterior surface of the bone ; the former transmits the temporal branch, the latter the malar branch of the temporo- malar nerve. Its postero-exiernal surface, smooth and convex, forms parts of Fig. 318.—^Right malar bone in situ. Fronto-sphenotdal proce.iK E.i f. aiir/ithir proccsH Zygomatic procty the zj'goinatic and temporal fossae. Its anterior margin, smootli and rounded, forms part of the circumference of the orbit. Its superior margin, rough, and directed horizontally, articulates with the frontal bone behind the external angular process. Its posterior margin is serrated for articulation with the greater wing of the sphenoid and the orbital surface of the maxilla. At Fig. 319.—Left malar bone. Outer surface. 'Bristles passed oiigh fenqi' lalar cana FiQ. 320.—Left malar bone. Inner surface. With frontal the angle of junction of the sphenoidal and maxillary portions, a short, rounded, '^"'^■^^^'ticular margin is generally seen ; this forms tlie anterior boundary 01 the spheno-maxillary fissure : occasionally, this non-articular margin does not exist, the fissure being completed by the junction of the maxilla and sphenoid, or by the interposition of a small Wormian bone in the angularOfcj'i'JiULOGY interval between them. The maxillary process is a rough, triangular surface which articulates with the maxilla. The temporal process, long,'narrow, and serrated, articulates with the zygomatic process of the temporal. Of the fotir borders, the antero-superior or orbital is smooth, concave, and forms a considerable part of the ch-cumference of the orbit. The antero-inferior or maxillary border is rough, and bevelled at the expense of its inner table, to articulate with the maxUla ; near the orbital margin it gives origin to the Levator labii superioris proprius. The postero-superior or temporal border, curved like an italic letter /, is contmuous above with the commencement of the temporal ridge, and below with the upper border of the zygomatic arch ; the temporal fascia is attached to it. The postero-inferior or zygomatic border affords attachment by its rough edge to the Masseter. Ossification.—The malar bone ossifies generally from three centres—one for the zygomatic and two for the orbital portion; these appear about the eighth week and fuse about the fifth month of foetal fife. After birth, the bone is sometimes divided by a horizontal suture into an upper larger, and a lower smaller division. In some quadrumana the malar bone consists of two parts, an orbital and a malar. Articulations.—The malar articulates with four bones : the frontal, sphenoid, temporal, and maxilla. The Palate Bones The Palate Bone (os palatinum) is situated at the back part of the nasal fossa between the maxilla and the pterygoid process of the sphenoid (fig. 321). It contributes to the walls of three cavities : the floor and outer wall of the nose, the roof of the mouth, and the floor of the orbit ; it enters into the formation of two fossae, the spheno-maxiUary and pterygoid; and one fissure, the spheno-maxillary. The palate bone somewhat resembles the letter L, and consists of a horizontal and a vertical plate and three outstanding processes Fig. 321.—Palate bone in situ. ine —viz. the pyramidal process or tuberosity, which is directed Ixackwards and outwards from the junction of the plates, and the orbital and sphenoidal processes, which surmount the vertical plate, and are separated by a deep not ch, the spheno-palatine notch. . The horizontal plate (pars horizontalis) (figs. 322 and 323) is quadri- lateral, and has two surfaces and four borders. The superior surface, concave from side to side, forms the back part of the floor of the nose. The inte7-ior surface, slightly concave and rough, forms, with the correspondmg surface251 PALATE BONES Maxillary surface Superior mealus_ Spheno-palaline foramen of the opposite bone, the posterior fourth of the hard palate. At its posterior part may be seen a transverse ridge, more or less marked, for the attachment of part of the aponeurosis of the Tensor palati. Tlie anterior border is seiTated, and articu- lates with the palatal Fig. 322.—Left palate bone. Internal view. (Enlarged.) process of the maxilla. The posterior border is concave, free, and serves for the attacliment of the soft palate. Its inner extremity is sharp and pointed, and, when united with the opposite bone, forms a projecting pro- cess, the posterior nasal spine (spina nasalis pos- terior) for the attach- ment of the Azygos uvulae. The external border is united with the lower part of the per- pendicular plate, and is grooved by the lower end of the posterior palatine canal. The internal border, the thickest, is serrated for articulation with its fellow of the opposite side ; its superior edge is raised into a ridge, which, united Avith the ridge of the opposite bone, forms a crest for articulation Avith the posterior part of the lower edge of the vomer. The vertical plate (pars perpendicularis) (figs. 322 and 323) is thin, of an oblong form, and presents two surfaces and four borders. The internal surface (facies nasalis) exhibits at its lower part a broad, shallow depression, which forms part of the inferior meatus of the nose. Imme- diately above this is a weU-marked Maxillary jirocess HOmZOKTAL PLATE Fig. 323. -Left palate bone. (Enlarged.) Posterior view. ySpheno-iyalatine foramen Spheiioiilnl procesx A rticular portion yon-articular portion horizontal ridge, the inferior tur- binated crest (crista conchalis), for articulation with the inferior tur- binated bone'; still higher is a second broad, shallow depression, which forms part of the middle meatus, and is limited above by a horizontal ridge less prominent than the inferior, the superior turbinated crest (crista ethmoidalis), for articu- lation with the middle turbinated process. Above the superior tur- binated crest is a naiTOw, horizontal groove, which forms part of the superior meatus. The external surface (facies maxiUaris) is rough and irregular throughout the greater j)art of its extent, for articulation with the inner surface of the maxiUa; its upper and back part is smooth where it enters into the formation of the spheno-maxiUary fossa ; it is also smooth in front, where it covers tlie posterior part of the orifice of the antrum. Towards the posterior part of tlus surface is a deep vertical groove, converted into the posterior palatine canal, by articulation with the maxilla; this canal transmits the posterior or descending palatine vessels, and the large palatine nerve. INTERNAL SUBFACE Posterior nasal s^nne252 OSTEOLOGY The anterior border is thin, irregular, and presents, opposite the inferior turbinated crest, a pointed, projecting lamina, the maxillary process, wliich is directed forwards, and closes in the lower and back part of the opening of tiie antrum of Highmore. The posterior border (fig. 323) presents a deep gi-oove, tlie edges of which are serrated for articulation with the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid. This border is continuous above with the sphenoidal process ; below it expands into tlie pjTamidal process or tuberosity. Tlie superior border supports the orbital process in front and the sphenoidal process behind. These processes are separated by the spheno-palatine notch (incisura sphenopalatina), which is converted into the spheno-palatine foramen by the under surface of the body of the sphenoid. In the articulated skull this foramen leads from the spheno-maxillary fossa into the posterior part of the superior meatus of the nose, and transmits the spheno-palatine vessels and the superior nasal and naso-palatine nerves. The inferior border is fused with the outer edge of the horizontal plate, and immediately in front of the tuberosity is grooved by the lower end of the posterior palatine canal. The tuberosity or processus pyramidalis projects backwards and out- wards from the junction of the horizontal and vertical plates, and is received into the angular interval between the lower extremities of the pterygoid plates. On its posterior surface is a median, grooved, triangular area, limited on either side by a rough articular furrow. The furrows articulate with the pterj^goid plates, while the grooved intermediate area completes the lower part of the pterygoid fossa and gives origin to a few fibres of the Internal pterygoid. The anterior part of the outer surface is rough, for articulation with the tuberositj'' of the maxilla ; its posterior part consists of a smooth triangular area wliich appears, in the articulated skuU, between the tuberosity of the maxilla and the lower part of the external pterygoid plate, and completes the lower part of the zygomatic fossa. The base of the tuberosity presents, close to its union with the horizontal plate, the apertures of the posterior and accessory palatine canals (foramina palatina minora) for the transmission of the posterior and external palatine nerves. The orbital process (processus orbitalis) is placed on a higher level than the sphenoidal, and is directed upwards and outwards from the front part of the vertical plate, to which it is connected by a constricted neck. It presents five surfaces, which enclose an air-ceU. Of these surfaces, three are articular and two non-articular. The articular surfaces are : (1) the anterior or maxillary, directed forwards, outwards, and dowTiwards, of an oblong form, and rough for articulation with the maxilla; (2) the posterior or sphenoidal, directed backwards, upwards, and inwards ; it presents the opening of the au'-cell, which usually communicates with the sphenoidal sinus ; the margins of the opening are serrated for articulation with the vertical part of the sphenoidal turbinated bone ; (3) the internal or ethmoidal, directed inwards, upwards, and forwards, articulates with the lateral mass of the ethmoid. In some cases, the cellular cavity above mentioned opens on this surface of the bone ; it then communicates with the posterior ethmoidal cells. More rarely it opens on both surfaces, and then communicates with the posterior ethmoidal cells and the sphenoidal sinus. The non-articular surfaces are : (1) the superior or orbital, directed upwards and outwards, is triangular in shape, and forms the back part of the floor of the orbit; and (2) the external or zygomatic, of an oblong forni, is directed outwards and downwards towards the sjDheno-maxillarj'- fossa ; it is separated from the orbital surface by a rounded border, which enters into the formation of the spheno-maxillary fissure. The sphenoidal process (processus sphenoidalis) is a thin, compressed plate, much smaller than the orbital, and directed upw ards and inwards. It presents three surfaces and two borders. The superior surface articulates w ith the root of the pterygoid process and the under surface of the sphenoidal turbinated bone, its inner border reaching as far as the ala of the vomer ; it presents a groove wiiich contributes to the formation of the pterygo-palatine canal. The internal surface is concave, and forms part of the outer wall of the nasal fossa. The external surface is divided into an articular and a non- articular portion : the former is rough, for articulation with the inner surface of the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid; the latter is smooth,PALATE BONES 253 and forms part of the splieno-maxillary fossa. The anterior border forms the posterior bouiiclary of the spheno-palatine notcli. The posterior harder, serrated at the expense of the outer table, articulates with the inner surface of the internal pterygoid plate. The orbital and sphenoidal processes are separated from one another by the spheno-palatine notch (incisura sphenopalatina). Sometimes the two processes are united above, and form between them a complete foramen (fig. 322), or the notch may be crossed by one or more spicules of bone, giving rise to two or more foramina. Ossification.—The palate bone is ossified in membrane from a single centre, which makes its appearance about the sixth or eighth week of foetal fife at the angle of junction of the two plates of the bone. From this point ossification spreads inwards to the horizontal plate, downwards into the tuberosity, and upwards into the vertical plate. Some authorities describe the bone as ossifying from four centres : one for the tuberosity and portion of the vertical plate behind the posterior palatine groove ; a second for the rest of the vertical and the horizontal plates ; a third for the orbital, and a fourth for the sphenoidal process. At the time of birth the height of the vertical plate is about equal to the trans- verse width of the horizontal plate, whereas in the adult the former measures about twice as much as the latter. Articulations.—The palate articulates with six bones : the sphenoid, ethmoid, maxiUa, inferior turbinated, vomer, and opposite palate. The Inferior Turbinated Bones The Inferior Turbinated Bone (concha nasalis inferior) extends horizontally along the outer wall of the nasal fossa (fig. 324) and consists of a lamina of spongy bone, curled upon itself like a scroll. It presents two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities. The internal surface (fig. 325) is convex, perforated by numerous apertures, and traversed by longitudinal grooves for the lodgment of vessels. The ex- ternal surface is concave " " Fig. 324.—^Inferior turbinated bone and lachrymal bone in situ. (fig. 326), and forms part of the inferior meatus. Its upper border is thin, irregular, and connected to various bones along the outer wall of the nose. It may be divided into three portions: of these, the anterior articu- lates with the inferior turbinated crest of the maxilla; the posterior with the inferior tur- binated crest of the palate ; the middle por- tion presents three -well- marked processes, which vary much in their size and form. Of these, the anterior and smallest is situated at the junction of the anterior fourth mth the posterior three- fourths of the bone: it is small and pointed, and is Ethmoidal process Frontal process Sit2>- turhinated crest Lachrymtil process hxf. turhi- nated crest called the lachrymal process (processus lacrimalis) ; it articulates, by its apex, with the descending or turbinal process of the lachrymal bone, aiid, by its margins, \\-ith the groove on the back of the frontal process of the maxilla, and thus assists in forming the canal for the nasal duct. Behind this process a broad, thin plate, the ethmoidal process (processus ethmoidalis) ascends to join the uncinate process of the ethmoid ; from its lower border a thin lamina254 OSTEOLOGY curves downwards and outwards, hooking over the lower edge of the orifice of the antrum which it narrows below; this lamina fixes the bone firmly to the outer wall of the nasal fossa and is caUed the maxillary process (processus maxiUaris). The injenor border is free, thick, and cellular in structire more especially in the middle of the bone. Both extremities are more or less narrow and pointed, the posterior being the more tapering. Pia. 325.—Right inferior turbinated bone. Internal surface. Fig. 326.—Right inferior turbinated bone. External surface. Ossification.-The inferior turbinated bone is ossified from a single centre, which appears about the fifth month of foetal Ufe in the outer wall of the cartilaginous nasal capsule. Articulations.—The inferior turbinated articulates with four bones: the ethmoid, maxilla, lachrymal, and palate. The Vomer The Vomer (vomer) is situated in the mesial plane, and forms the hmder and lower part of the septum of the nose (fig. 327). It is thin, somewhat quadrilateral m shape, and its anterior portion is frequently bent to one or Fig. 327.—Vomer in situ. Frontal sinus Sphenoidal sinus For triangular cartilage Eostrum of sjyht iwid Internal pterygoid plate other side ; it has two surfaces and four borders. The surfaces (fig. 328) arc marked by small furrows for blood-vessels, and each presents a groove, the naso- palatine, which runs obliquely downwards and forwards, and transmits the naso-palatine nerve and vessels. Tlie superior border, the thickest, jiresents a deep furrow, bounded on either side by a horizontal projecting ala of bone ;VOMER 255 the furrow receives the rostrum of the sphenoid, while the margins of the aliB articuhite with the vaginal processes of the internal pterygoid plates of the sphenoid behind, and with the sphenoidal processes of the palate bones in front. The inferior border articulates with the crest formed by the maxillge and palate bones. The anterior border is the longest and slopes downwards and forwards. Its upper half is fused with the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid ; its lower hali is grooved for the inferior margin of the septal cartilage of the nose. The posterior border is free, concave, and separates the nasal fossae behind. It is thick and bifid above, thin below. Ossification.—At an early period the septum of the nose consists of a plate of cartilage, the ethmo-vomerine cartilage. The postero-superior part of this cartilage is ossified to form the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid; its antero- inferior portion persists as Fig. 328.—The vomer. the septal cartilage, whilst the vomer is ossified in the membrane covering its pos- tero-inferior part. Two ossific centres, one on either side of the middle Une, appear about the eighth week of fcetal hfe in this part of the membrane, and hence the vomer consists primarily of two lamellae. About the third month these imite below, and thus a deep groove is formed in which the cartilage is lodged. As growth proceeds, the miion of the lamellae extends up- wards and forwards, and at the same time the interven- ing plate of cartilage undergoes absorption. By the age of puberty the lamellae are imited to form a mesial plate, but evidence of the bilaminar origin of the bone is seen in the everted alae of its upper border and the groove on its anterior margin. Articulations.—The vomer articulates with six bones : two of the cranium, the sphenoid and ethmoid ; and four of the face, the two maxillae and the two palate bones ; it also articulates with the cartilage of the nasal septum. Applied Anatomy.—^The surfaces of the vomer are covered by mucous membrane, which is intimately connected with the periosteum, little, if any, submucous connective tissue intervening. Hence polypi are rarely found growing from this sinface, though they frequently grow from the outer walls of the nasal fossae, where the submucous tissue is abundant. The Mandible or Inferior Maxilla The Mandible (mandibula), the largest and strongest bone of the face, serves for the reception of the lower teeth. It consists of a curved, horizontal portion, the body, and tAvo perpendicular portions, the rami, which join the back part of the body nearly at right angles. The body (corpus mandibulae) is curved somewhat like a horseshoe, and has two surfaces and two borders. The external surface (fig. 329) is marked in the median hne by a faint ridge, indicating the symphysis or line of junction ot the two pieces of which the bone is composed at an early period of life, ims ridge divides below and encloses a triangular eminence, the mental protuberance (protuberantia mentalis), the base of which is depressed in the centre but raised on either side to form the me7itoZ<M6ercZe(tubercu]um mentale). On either side of the symphysis, just below the incisor teeth, is a depression, me incisive fossa, which gives origin to the Levator menti and a small portion ot the Orbicularis oris. Below the second bicuspid tooth, on either side, midway between the upper and lower borders of the body, is the inental foramen, for the passage of the mental vessels and nerve. Running backwards and upwards from each mental tubercle is a faint ridge, the external oblique (hnea obliqua), which is continuous with the anterior border of the256 OSTEOLOGY ramus : it affords attachment to the Depressor labii inferioris and Depressor anguli oris ; the Platysma is attached below it. The internal surface (fig. 330) is concave from side to side, and presents, near tlie lower part of the symphysis, a pair of laterally placed tubercles, termed the genial or mental spines (spinas mentales), which give origin to the Genio-hyo-glossi. Immediately below these is a second pair of spines, or more frequently a median ridge or impression, for the origin of the Genio- hyoid muscles. In some cases the mental spines are fused to form a single eminence, in others they are absent and their position is indicated merely by an iiTcgularity of the surface. Above the mental spines a median foramen and furrow are sometimes seen ; they mark the line of union of the halves of the bone. Below the mental spines, on either side of the middle Une, is an oval depression for the attachment of the anterior belly of the Digastric. Extending upwards and backwards on either side from the lower part of the symphj'sis is the inter7ial oblique line or mylo-hyoid ridge (linea mylo- hyoidea) which gives origin to the Mylo-hj-oid ; at its posterior end, near the alveolar margin, it gives origin to a small part of the Superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx, and attachment to the pterygo-mandibular ligament. Above the anterior part of this ridge is a smooth triangular area against Fig. 329.—Mandible. Outer surface. Side view. Coronoid process Condyle Mental process' which the sublingual gland rests, and below the hinder part of the ridge is an oval fossa for the submaxillary gland. • , ^ • , n a The superior or alveolar border, wider behmd than m front., is hoilowecl into cavities, for the reception of the teeth ; these cavities are sixteen ni number, and vary in depth and size according to the teeth which tliey contain, io its outer lip, on either side, the Buccinator is attached as far fore-ard as the first molar tooth. The inferior border is rounded, longer than the superior, and thicker in front than behind ; at the point where it joins the lower border of the ramus a shallow groove, for the facial artery, may be present. The perpendicular portion, or ramus (ramus mandibul^) is quadrilateial in shape, and presents for examination two surfa^ces, four borders, «nd tAvo processes. The external surface (fig. 329) is fiat and marked by oblique nd^es at its lower part; it gives attachment throughout nearly the whole of its extent to the Masseter.^ Tiie internal surface (^g. 330) presents about its cen re ?he oblique apemcre of the inferior denial cajml (foramen mandibulare for the passage of the inferior dental vessels and ner^-e. The margm of this open ngTs iiTeaular; it presents in front a promment ridge surmounted bx a^sSspinrthe I mjt^la mandibul^. wh\c\x gives attachment to the spheno- maSuiriikamentT at its lower and back part is a notch from .Jich t^h mylo-hyoid groove runs obliquely dowmxards and forxxards, and lodges tlio257 MANDIBLE mvlo-liyoid vessels and nerve. Beliind this groove is a rough surface, for the insertion of the Internal pterygoid. The inferior dental canal (canalis inandibulfe) runs obliquely downwards and forwards in the substance of the ramus, and then horizontally forwards in the body, where it is placed under the alveoK, and communicates with them by small openings. On arriving at the incisor teeth, it turns bacli to communicate with the mental foramen, giving off two small canals, which run forward to be lost in the cancellous tissue beneath the incisor teeth. The canal in the posterior two-thirds of the bone is situated nearer the internal surface of the mandible ; and in the anterior third, nearer its external surface. Its walls are composed of compact tissue at either extremity, and of cancellous in the centre. It contains the inferior dental vessels and nerve, from wliich branches are distributed to the teeth through small apertures at the bases of the alveoli. The lower border of the riimus is thick, straight, and continuous with the inferior border of the body of the bone. At its junction Math the posterior border is the angle (angulus mandibulae), which may be either inverted or everted, and is marked by rough, obhque ridges \on each side, for the attachment of the Masseter externally, and the Internal pterygoid internally; the stylo-mandibular Fig. 330.—^Mandible. Inner surface. Side view. Articulation with temporal BODY ligament is attached to the angle between these muscles. The anterior border is thin above, thicker below, and continuous with the external oblique line. The posterior border is thick, smooth, rounded, and covered by the parotid gland. The upper border is thin, and presents two processes, separated by a deep concavity, the sigmoid notch. Of these processes, tlie anterior is tlie coronoid, tlie posterior the condylar. The coronoid process (processus coronoideus) is a thin, triangular eminence, which varies in shape and size. Its anterior border is convex and is continuous below with the anterior border of the ramus; its posterior border is concave and forms the anterior boundary of the sigmoid notch. Its external surface is smooth, and affords insertion to the Temporal and Masseter muscles. Its internal surface gives insertion to the Temporal muscle, and presents a ridge which begins near the apex of the process and runs downwards and forwards to the inner side of the last molar tooth. Between this ridge and the anterior border is a grooved triangular area, the upper part of which gives attachment to the Temporal, the lower part to some fibres of the Buccmator. The condylar process (processus condyloideus) is thicker than the coronoid, and consists of two portions : the condyle, and the constricted portion s258 OSTEOLOGY which supports it, the neck. The condyle presents an articular sui-face which articulates with the glenoid cavity of the temporal bone ; it is convex from before backwards, and from side to side, and extends farther on the posterior than on tlie anterior aspect. Its long axis is directed inwards and shghtly backwards, and if prolonged to the middle line will meet that of the opposite condyle near the anterior margin of the foramen magnum. At the outer extremity of the condyle is a small tubercle for the attachment of the external lateral liga- ment of the temporo-mandibular joint. The neck (collum mandibulae) is flattened from before backwards, and strengthened by ridges which descend from the fore part and sides of the condjde. Its posterior surface is convex ; its anterior presents a depression for the attachment of the External pterygoid muscle. Fig. 331.—Scheme showing ossification of the mandible, inner side (Low). The mem- brane bone is coloui-ed red. The greater jmrt of Meckel's cartilage is coloured blue. The uptm-ned, stippled portion near the symphysis represents the part of Meckel's cartilage which is surrounded and invaded by the membrane bone. The accessory nuclei of cartilage in the condyle, coronoid process, alveolar border and body are indicated by stippled areas. Meckel's cartilage The sigmoid notch, separating the two processes, is a deep semilunar depression, and is crossed by the masseteric vessels and nerve. Ossification.—The mandible is ossified in the fibrous membrane covering the outer surfaces of Meckel's cartilages. These cartilages form the cartilaginous bar of the mandibular arch (see p. 108), and are two in number, a right and a left. Their proximal or cranial ends are connected with the periotic capsules, and their distal extremities are joined to one another at the symphysis by mesodermal tissue. Thev can be seen on the inner aspect of the mandible of a five-months foetus (fig. 331), where they run forwards immediately below the condyles and then, bending downwards, he in a groove near the lower border of the bone ; in front of the canine tooth they inchne upwards and inwards to the symphysis. From the proximal end of each cartilage the malleus and incus, two of the bones of the middle ear, are developed ; the next Fig. 332.—Scheme showing ossification of mandible from the outer side (Low). Mem- brane bone coloured red. Accessory nuclei of cartilage stippled. succeeding portion, as far as the hngula, is replaced by fibrous tissue, which persists to form the spheno- mandibular hgameut. Between the lingula and the canine tooth the cartilage disappears, whilst the portion of it which hes below and behind the incisor teeth becomes ossified and incorporated with this part of the mandible. Ossification takes place in the mem- brane covering the outer surface of Meckel's cartilage (fig. 332), and each half of the bone is formed from a single centre which appears, near the mental foramen, about the sixth week of foetal life—i.e. earher than in any other bone except the clavicle. By the tenth week the portion of Meckel's cartilage which hes below and behind the incisor teeth is surroimded and invaded by the membrane-bone. Somewhat later, accessory nuclei of cartilage make then' appearance—viz. a wedge-shaped nucleus in the condyle, a small one in the coronoid process, and smaller ones in the front part of both alveolar walls and along the front of the lower border of the bone. These accessory nuclei possess no separate ossific centres, but ossification extends into them from the adjacent membrane-bone and they undergo absorption. The inner alveolar border, usua ly described as arising from a separate ossific centre (splemal centre), is formed in tUe human mandible by an ingrowth from the main mass of the bone. At birtli tlie259 MANDIBLE Side View of the Mandible at Different Periods of Life Fig. 333.—At birth.OSTEOLOGY 260 bone consists of two halves, united by a fibrous symphysis, in which ossification takes place during the first year. The above description of the ossification of the mandible is based on the researches of Low* and Fawcett.f and differs somewhat from that usually given. Articulations.—The mandible articulates mth the two temporal bones. Changes produced in the Mandible by Age At hirth (fig. 333), the body of the bone is a mere shell, containing the sockets of the two incisor, the canine, and the two temporary molar teeth, imperfectly partitioned off from one another. The dental canal is of large size, and nms near the lower border of the bone ; the mental foramen opens beneath the socket of the first molar tooth. The angle is obtuse (175°), and the condylar portion is nearly in line mth the body. The coronoid process is of comparatively large size, and projects above the level of the condyle. After birth (fig. 334), the two segments of the bone become joined at the symphysis, from below upwards, in the first year ; but a trace of separation may be visible in the beginning of the second year, near the alveolar margin. The body becomes elongated in its whole length, hut more especially behind the mental foramen, to provide space for the three additional teeth developed in this part. The depth of the body increases owing to increased growth of the alveolar part, to afford room for the fangs of the teeth, and by thickening of the subdental portion which enables the jaw to withstand the powerful action of the masticatory muscles ; but the alveolar portion is the deeper of the two, and, consequently, the chief part of the body hes above the oblique line. The dental canal, after the second dentition, is situated just above the level of the mylo-hyoid ridge ; and the mental foramen occupies the position usual to it in the adult. The angle becomes less obtuse, owing to the separation of the jaws by the teeth; about the fourth year it is 140°. , , , , n x In the adult (fig. 335). the alveolar and basilar portions of the body are usuaUy of equal depth. The mental foramen opens midway between the upper and lower borders of the bone, and the dental canal runs nearly paraUel with the mylo-hyoid Une. The ramus is almost vertical in direction, the angle measuring from 110° to 120°. In old age (fig. 336), the bone becomes greatly reduced in size, for with the loss of the teeth the alveolar process is absorbed, and the basilar part of the bone alone remains ; consequently, the chief part of the bone is below the obhque fine. The dertal canal, with the mental foramen opening from it, is close to the alveolar border. The ramus is obhque in dkection, the angle measures about 140°, and the neck of the condyle is more or less bent backwards. Hyoid Bone The Hyoid Bone (os hvoideum) is named from its resemblance to the Greek upsilon ; it is also called the os Ungum, because it supports the tongue, and gives attachment to several of its muscles. It is a bony arch, shaped hke a horseshoe, and consists of five segments, a body, two greater cornua, and two lesser cornua. It is suspended from the tips of the styloid processes ot the temporal bones by the stylo-hyoid ligaments. ^ . , r The body (basi-hyal) or central part of the bone is of a quadrilateral torm. Its anterior surface (fig. 337) is convex and directed forwards and upwards ; it presents a median and a transverse ridge which subdmde it mto four areas, tw^ on either side of the middle line. At the pomt of intersection of these ndges is an elevation named the tubercle. The anterior surface gives attacliment to the Genio-hyoid in the greater part of its extent; above, to the Genio-hyo- glossus ; below, to the Mylo-hyoid, Stylo-hyoid, and aponem-osis of the Digastric (suprahyoid aponeurosis) ; and externaUy to a part of the Hyo-glossu.. The posterior surface is smooth, concave, directed backwaixls and downwards and separated from the epiglottis by the thyi-o-hyoid membrane and a quantity ot iSse areolar tissue ; Tbursa intervenes between it and the i^yi--;^y^^ .^^:;!^- brane The superior border is rounded, and gives attachment to the tlijTO- hWd membrane, and parts of the Genio-hyo-glossus and Chondro-glossus ¥ll ir.TrSr border givers attachment, iii front, to the S;-rnc.liyoid ; be^^^^^^ to the Omo-hyoid, and at its junction with the great cornu to part of the Thyro * . The Development of the Lower Jaw in Man,' by Alexander Low, M.A.. n.B (Procordm<,s of the Anatomical ami Anthropoloffical Societ;/ of the L>,iveri:rty -;»*/T'''''-";/^°7; .„,,rican ^ t 'Ossification of the Lower Jaw in Man,' by Professor Fawcctt {Journal of the American Medical Aatociation, September 2, 1905).261 HYOID BONE hyoid. It also gives attachment to the Levator glandulse thyroideas, when this muscle is present. In early life the lateral surfaces are connected to the greater comua by synchondroses; after middle life usually by bony union. The greater cornua {thyro-hyals) project backwards from the lateral surfaces of the body; they are flattened from above downwards and diminish ui size from before back- wards ; each terminates in Fio. 337.—Hyoid bone. Anterior surface a tubercle for the attach- (enlarged). ment of the lateral thyro- hyoid ligament. The outer surface gives attachment to the Hyo-glossus ; the upper border to the Middle con- strictor of the pharynx, and the lower to part of the Thyro-hyoid. The lesser cornua (cerato-hyals) are two small, conical eminences, attached hy their bases to the angles of junction between the body and greater cornua, and giving attachment by their apices to the stylo- hyoid ligaments.* The smaller cornua are connected to the body of the bone by distinct diarthrodial joints, which usually persist throughout life, but occasionally become ankylosed. Ossification.—The hyoid is ossified from six centres : two for the body, and one for each cornu. Ossification commences in the body about the eighth month, in the greater cornua towards the end of foetal life, and in the lesser cornua during the first or second year after birth. Surface Form.—The hyoid bone can be felt in the receding angle below the chin, and the finger can be carried along the whole length of the bone to the gi'eater cornu, which ia situated on a level with the angle of the jaw. This process of bone is best perceived by making pressure on one cornu and so pushing the bone over to the opposite side, when the cornu of that side mil be distinctly felt immediately beneath the skin. It is an important landmark in Ugature of the lingual artery. Applied Anatomy.—The hyoid bone is occasionally fractured, generally from direct violence, as in hanging, forcible grasping of the throat in garotting or throttling, or by a blow. The fracture generally occm-s about the junction of the greater cornu with the body of the bone, but sometimes takes place through the latter. Since the muscles of the tongue have important connections with this bone, there is great pain upon any attempt being made to move the tongue, as in speaking or swallowing. EXTERIOR OF THE SKULL The skull as a whole may be viewed from different points, and the views so obtained are termed the normce of the skull; thus, it may be examined from above (norma verticalis), from below (norma basalis), from the side (norma lateraUs), from behind (norma occipitalis), or from the front (norma frontalis). The Skull feom Above (norma verticalis) ^Vhen viewed from above the outline presented varies greatly in different skulls ; in some it is more or less oval, in others more nearly circular. The surface is traversed by three sutures, viz. : (1) the coronal, nearly transverse in direction, between the frontal and parietals; (2) the saijittal, mesially placed, and deeply sen-ated in its anterior two-thirds, uniting the parietal bones ; and (3) the upper part of the lamhdoid, between the parietals and occipital. The point of junction of the sagittal and coronal sutures is named the bregma, * These ligaments in many animals are distinct bones, and in man may undeigo partial ossification.202 OSTEOLOGY that of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures, the lambda ; these points indi- cate respectively the positions of the anterior and posterior fontanelles in the foetal skull. On eitlier side of the sagittal suture are the parietal eminence and parietal foramen—the latter, however, is frequently absent on one or both sides. The skull is often somewhat flattened in the neighbourhood of the parietal foramina, and the term ohelion is applied to that point of the sagittal suture M'hich is on a level with the foramina. In front is the glabella, and on its lateral aspects are the superciliary ridges, and above these the frontal eminences. Immediately above the glabella may be seen the remains of the inter-frontal suture ; in a small percentage of skulls this suture persists and extends along the mesial plane to the bregma. Passing backwards and upwards from the external angular processes of the frontal bone are the temporal lines, which mark the upper limits of the temporal fossaj. The zygomatic arches may or may not be seen projecting beyond the anterior portions of these lines. The Skull from Below (norma basalis) The inferior surface of the base of the skull exclusive of the mandible (fig. 338) is bounded in front by the incisor teeth in the maxHlse ; behind, by the superior curved lines of the occipital; and lateraUj'' by the alveolar arch, the lower border of the malar, the zygoma, and an imaginary line, extending from the zygoma to the mastoid process and extremity of the superior curved line of the occipital. It is formed by the palatal processes of the maxillae and palate bones, the vomer, the pterygoid processes, the under surfaces of the greater wings, spinous processes, and part of the body of the sphenoid, the under surfaces of the squamous, mastoid, and petrous portions of the temporals, and the under surface of the occipital bone. The anterior part or hard palate is raised above the level of the rest of the surface (when the skull is turned over for the purpose of examination), and is bounded in front and laterally by the alveolar arch containing the sixteen teeth of the maxillae. Immediately behind the incisor teeth is the anterior palatine fossa. At the bottom of this fossa four apertures may usually be seen: two placed la^terally, foramina of Stenson, open above, into the floor of the nose, and transmit the anterior branches of the posterior palatine vessels, and two in the median Ime, the foramina of Scarpa, the anterior transmitting the left, and the posterior the right naso-palatine nerve. The vault of the hard palate is concave, imeven, perforated by numerous foramina, marked by depressions for the palatme glands, and traversed by a crucial suture formed by the junction of the four bones of which it is composed. In the young skuU a sutiure may be seen passmg outA^ ards and forwards on either side from the anterior palatine fossa to the interval between the lateral incisor and canine teeth, and marking off the premaxillary portion of the bone. At each posterior angle of the hard palate is the posterior palatine foramen, for the transmission of the posterior palatine vessels and large descending palatine nerve ; and running forwards and inwards from it a groove, for the same vessels and nerve. Behind the posterior palatme foramen is the tuberosity of the palate-bone, perforated by one or more accessory posterior palatine canals, and marked by the commencement of a ridge, which runs transversely inwards, and serves for the attachment of the tendmous expansion of the Tensor palati. Projecting backwards from the centre of the posterior border of the hard palate is the posterior nmal spine for the attachment of the Azygos uvula;. Behind and above the hard palate are the posterior apertures of the nares (choana), nieasurmg about_an mch in their vertical and half an inch in their transverse diameters They are separated from one another by the vomer, and each is bounded above by the body of the sphenoid, below bv the horizontal plate of the palate-bone, and laterally by the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid. At tlie base of the vomer may be seen the expanded alae of this bone, receiymg between them the rostrum of the'sphenoid. Near the lateral margms of the ah-e of the vomer, at the root of the pterygoid processes, are the pierygo-palatinc canals. The pterygoid process, which bounds the posterior nares on either side, presents near its base the pterygoid or Vidian canal, for the Vidian nerve and artery. Each process consists of two'plates, separated behind by the pt^ygoid tossa, which lodges the Internal pterygoid and Tensor palati. The mternal plate is263 THE SKULL FROM BELOW long and narrow, presenting on the outer side of its base the scaphoid fossa, for the oricrin of the Tensor palati, and at its lower extremity the hamular process, around"which the tendon of this muscle turns. The external pterygoid plate is Fia. 338.—Base of skull. Inferior surface. Incisors Anterior palatine fossa Transmit! left naso-palnline nerve Transmits anterior palatine vessels Transmits right naso-palatine nerve Accessory palatine foramina Posterior nasal spi7ie Azijgos uvulce Hamular process Sphenoidal process of palate Pteri/go-palatine canal Tensor tympani Pharyngeal spine Situation of Eustachian tube and canal for Tensor tympani Tensor palati Foramen for Jacobson*s nerve Afjuaditctus cociilew Jugular foramen Foramen for ArnohVs nerve A uricular fissureOSTEOLOGY 264 broad ; its outer surface forms the inner boundary of the zygomatic fossa, and affords attachment to the External pterygoid. Beliind the nasal fossae in the middle line is the basilar portion ot the occipital bone, presenting near its centre the pharyngeal Ivberde for the attach- ment of the fibroiis raphe of the pharynx, with depressions on either side for the insertions of the Recti capitis antici major and minor. At the base of the external pterygoid plate is the foramen ovale, for the transmission of the third division of the fifth nerve, tlie small meningeal artery, and sometimes the small superficial petrosal nerve ; behind tliis, Hxe foramen spinosum which transmits the middle meningeal artery and veins, and the prominent spinous process of the sphenoid, which gives attachment to the spheno-mandibular ligament and the Tensor palati. External to the spinous process is the glenoid fossa, divided into two parts by the Glaserian fissure ; the anterior portion, concave, smooth, bounded in front by the emineniia articularis, serves for the articulation of the condyle of tlie lower jaw ; the posterior portion, rough and bound'd behind by the tympanic plate, is occupied by a part of the parotid gland. Emerging from between the laminae of the vaginal process of the tympanic plate is the styloid process ; and at the base of this process is the stylo-mastoid foramen, for the exit of the facial nerve, and entrance of the stylo-mastoid artery. External to the stylo-mastoid foramen, between the tympanic plate and the mastoid process, is the auricular fissure,ioT the auricular branch of the pneumogastric. Upon the inner side of the mastoid process is the digastric fossa, and a little more internally, the occipital groove for the occipital artery. At the base of the internal pterygoid plate is a large and somewhat triangular aperture, the foramen laceriim medium, bounded in front by the greater wing of the sphenoid, behind by the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and internally by the body of the sphenoid and basilar portion of the occipital bone ; it presents ia front the posterior orifice of the Vidian canal; behind, the aperture of the carotid canal. The basilar surface of this opening is filled up in the recent state by a fibro-cartilagmous plate, across the upper or cerebral surface of which the internal carotid artery passes. External to this aperture is a groove, the sulcus tubes audiiivce, between the petrous part of the temporal and the greater wing of the sphenoid. This sulcus is directed outwards and backwards from the root of the internal pterygoid plate and lodges the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube; it is continuous behind with the canal in the temporal bone which forms the bony part of the same tube. At the bottom of this sulcus is a narrow cleft, the fissura petro- squamosa, which is occupied, in the recent condition, by a plate of cartilage, the bones bounding the fissure being united by a synchondi'osis. Behmd this suture is the under surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, present- mg, near its apex, the quadrilateral rough surface, part of which affords attach- ment to the Levator palati muscle; to the outer side of this surface is the oriface of the carotid canal, and to its inner side, the depression leading to the aquoeductus cochlece, the former transmitting the internal carotid artery and the carotid plexus of the sympathetic, the latter serving for the passage of a vein from the cochlea. Behind the carotid canal is a large aperture, the jugular foramen, formed in front by the petrous portion of the temporal, and behind "by the occipital; it is generally larger on the right than on the left side, and is partly subdivided into three compartments. The anterior compartment transmits the mf erior petrosal sinus; the middle, the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo- gastric, and spinal accessory nerves ; the posterior, the lateral smus and some meningeal branches from the occipital and ascending pharyngeal arteries. On the ridge of bone dividing the carotid canal from the jugular foramen is the small foramen for'Jacobson's nerve (tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyn- geal) ; and on the wall of the jugular foramen, near the root of the styloid process, is the small aperture for Arnold's nerve (auricular brancli of the pneumogastric). Extending forwards from the jugular foramen to the foramen lacerum medium is the fissura petro-occipitalis, which is occupied, in the recent state, by a plate of cartilage. Behind the basUar ]Jortion of the occipital bone is the foramen magnum, bounded laterally by the occipital condjdes Avliich are rough internally for the attachment of the check or odontoid hgaments. External to each condyle is the jugular process, which gives attachment to the Rectus capitis laterahs muscle and the lateral occipito-atlantal hgament. Tlie foramenTHE SKULL ^ROM BELOW 265 magnum transmits the medulla oblongata and its membranes, the spinal acces- sory nerves, the vertebral arteries, the anterior and posterior spinal arteries, and the occipito-axial ligaments. The mid-points on the anterior and posterior margins of the foramen magnum are respectively termed the hasion and the opislhion. In front of each condjde is the anterior condyloid foramen, for the passage of the hypoglossal nerve and a meningeal artery. Behind each condyle is the fossa condyloidea, perforated on one or both sides by the posterior condyloid foramen, for the transmission of a vein from the lateral sinus. Behind the foramen magnum is the external occipital crest, terminating above at the external occipital protuberance, while on either side are the superior and inferior curved lines; these, as well as the surfaces of bone between them, are rough for the attachment of the muscles which are enumerated on page 215. The Skull in Profile (norma lateralis) When viewed from the side (fig. 339) the skull is seen to consist of the cranium above and behind, and of the face below and in front. The cranium is some- what ovoid in shape, but its contour varies in different cases and depends largely on the length and height of the skuU and on the degree of prominence of the supercihary ridges and frontal eminences. Entering into its formation Fig. 339.—Side view of the skull. are to be seen the frontal, the parietal, the occipital, the temporal, and the greater wing of the sphenoid. These bones are joined to one another and to the malar by the following sutures : the zygomatico-temporal between the zygomatic process of the temporal and the temporal process of the malar; the fronto-malar uniting the malar with the external angular process of the frontal;OSTEOLOGY the sutures surrounding the great wing of the sphenoid, viz. : the spheno-malar in front, the spJmio-frontal and sp?ieno-parietal above, and the spheno-squamosal behind. The spheno-parietal suture varies in length in different skulls, and is absent in those cases where the frontal articulates with the squamous part of the temporal. The point corresponding with the posterior end of the spheno- parietal suture is named the pterion ; it is situated about an inch and a quarter behind, and a little above the level of the external angular process of the frontal bone. The squamous suture arches backwards from the pterion and connects the squamous part of the temporal with the lower border of the parietal: this suture is continuous behind with the short, nearly horizontal parieto- mastoid suture, wliich unites the mastoid process of the temporal ^vith the region of the postero-inferior angle of the parietal. Extending from above downw^ards and forwards across the cranium are the coronal and lamhdoid sutures; the former connects the parietal with the frontal, the latter, the XJarietal with the occipital. The lambdoid suture is continuous below with the occipito- mastoid suture between the occipital and the mastoid portion of the temporal. In or near this suture is the mastoid foramen, for the transmission of an emissary vein. The point of meeting of the parieto-mastoid, occipito-mastoid, and lambdoid sutures is known as the asterioyi. Immediately above the orbital margin is the superciliary ridge, and, at a higher level, the frontal eminence. Near the centre of the parietal bone is the parietal eminence. Posteriorly is the external occipital protuberance, from which the superior curved line may be followed forwards to the mastoid process. Arching across the side of the cranium are the temporal lines or ridges, which mark the upper limit of the temporal fossa. The temporal fossa is bounded above and behind by the temporal lines, which extend from the external angular process of the frontal bone upwards and backwards across the frontal and parietal bones, and then curve down- wards and forwards to become continuous with the supra-mastoid crest and the posterior root of the zygoma. The point where the upper temporal line cuts the coronal suture is named the stephanion. The temporal fossa is bounded in front by the frontal and malar bones, and opening on the back of the latter is a foramen which transmits the temporal branch of the temporo-malar nerve. Externally the fossa is limited by the zygomatic arch, formed by the malar and temporal bones ; below, it is separated from the zj'^gomatic fossa by the infra-temporal crest on the greater wing of the sphenoid, and hya, ridge, continuous with this crest, which is carried backwards across the squamous part of the temporal to the anterior root of the zygoma. In front and below, the fossa communicates with the orbital cavity through the spheno-maxUlary fissure. The floor of the fossa is deeply concave in front and convex beliind, and is formed by the malar, frontal, parietal, sphenoid, and temjioral bones. It is traversed by vascular furro\\-s : one, usually well marked, runs upwards above and in front of the external auditory meatus, and lodges the middle temporal artery. Two others, frequently indistinct, may be observed on the anterior part of the floor, and are for the anterior and posterior deep temporal arteries. The temporal fossa contains the Temporal muscle and its vessels and nerves, together with the temporal branch of the temporo-malar nerve. The zygomatic arch is formed by the zygomatic process of the temporal and the temporal process of the malar, the two being united by an oblique suture ; the tendon of the Temporal muscle passes under the arch to gain insertion into the coronoid process of the mandible. The zygomatic process of the temporal arises by two roots, an anterior, directed mwards in front of the glenoid cavity, where it expands to form the eminentia articularis, and a posterior, which runs backwards above the external auditory meatus and is continuous with the supra-mastoid crest. The upper border of the arch gives attachment to the temporal fascia; its lower border and inner surface give origin to the Below the posterior root of the zygoma is the elliptical orifice of the external auditory meatti^, bounded in front, below, and beliind by the tym- panic plate; to the outer margin of this plate the cartilaginous part of the external auditory meatus is attached. Tlie small triangular area between the posterior root of the zygoma and the postero-superior part of the267 THE SKULL IN PROFILE orifice is termed the supra-meatal triangle, on the anterior border of which a small spinous process, the supra-meatal spine, is sometimes seen. Between the tympanic plate and the eniinentia articularis is the glenoid cavity, divided into two parts by the Glaserian fissure. The anterior and lai'ger part of the cavity articulates with the condyle of tlie mandible and is limited behind by the post-glenoid i^rocess : the posterior part lodges a portion of the parotid gland. The styloid process extends downwards and forwards for a variable distance from the lower part of the tympanic plate, and gives attachment to the Stylo-glossus, Stylo-hyoid, and Stylo-pharyngeus, and to the stylo- hyoid and stylo-mandibular ligaments. Projecting downwards behind the external auditory meatus is the mastoid process, to the outer surface of which the Sterno-mastoid, Splenius capitis, and Trachelo-mastoid are attached. The zygomatic or infra-temporal fossa (fig. 340) is an irregularly shaped cavity, situated below and on the inner side of the zygoma. It is bounded, Fio. 340.—Left zygomatic fossa. Parietrf/, Sohcno-iiuiiillarij fissure Infra-temporal crest Fterygo-maxillary fissure Samidar process External auditory meatus Tympanic plate Styloid process Glenoid cavity Zygomatic process (cut) External pterygoid plate in front, by the zygomatic sm-face of the maxilla and the ridge which descends from its nialar process ; behind, by the eminentia articularis of the temporal and the spine of the sphenoid ; above, by the greater wing of the sphenoid below the infra-temporal crest, and by the under surface of the squamous temporal; below, by the alveolar border of the maxilla ; internally, by the external pterygoid plate. It contains the lower part of the Temporal muscle, the External and Internal pterygoids, together with the internal maxillary vessels and inferior maxillary nerve and their branches. The foramen ovale and foramen spinosiim open on its roof, and the posterior dental canals on its anterior wall. At its upper and inner part may be observed two fissures, which together form a T-shaped fissure, the horizontal limb being named the spheno-maxillary, and the vertical one the pterygo-maxiUary fissure. The spheyio-maxillary fissure (fissura orbitalis inferior), horizontal in direction, opens into the outer and back part of the orbit. It is bounded above by the lower border of the orbital surface of the greater wing of the sphenoid ;OSTEOLOGY 268 below, by the external border of the orbital surface of the maxilla and the orbital process of the palate bone ; externally, by a small part of the malar bone * : internally, it joins at right angles with tlie pterygo-maxLUary fissure. Through the sphcno-maxiUary fissure the orbit communicates with the temporal, zygomatic, and spheno-maxillary fossae ; the fissure transmits the superior maxillary nerve and its temporo-malar branch, the infra-orbital vessels, the ascending branches from Meckel's ganglion, and a vein which connects the ophthalmic vein with the pterygoid venous plexus. The pterygo-maxillary fissure is vertical, and descends at right angles from the inner extremity of the preceding ; it is a triangular interval, formed by the divergence of the maxilla from the pterygoid process of the sphenoid. It connects the spheno-maxillary fossa with the zygomatic fossa, and transmits the terminal part of the internal maxillary artery. The spheno-maxillary fossa (fossa pterygo-palatina) is a small, tri- angular space situated at the angle of junction of the spheno-maxillary and pterygo-maxillary fissures, and placed beneath the apex of the orbit. It is bounded above by the under surface of the body of the sphenoid and by the orbital process of the palate bone ; in front, by the zygomatic surface of the maxilla ; behind, by the base of the pterygoid process and lower part of the anterior surface of the greater wing of the sphenoid ; internallj', by the vertical plate of the palate bone with its orbital and sphenoidal processes. This fossa communicates with the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure, ^vith the nasal cavitj' by the spheno-palatine foramen, and -^^dth the zygomatic fossa by the pterygo-maxillary fissure. Five foramina open into it. Of these, tliree are on the posterior wall, viz. : the foramen rotundum, the Vidian canal, and the pterygo-palatine canal, from without downwards and inwards. On the inner wall is the spheno-palatine foramen, and beloM' is the superior orifice of the posterior palatine canal. The fossa contains the superior maxillary nerve and Meckel's ganglion, and the termination of the internal maxillary artery. The Skuxl feom Behind (norma occipitalis) When viewed from behind the cranium presents a more or less circular outline. In the middle line is the posterior part of the sagittal suture con- necting the parietal bones; extending downwards and outwards from the hinder end of the sagittal suture is the deeply serrated lambdoid suture joioing the parietals to the occipital and continuous below with the parieto-mastoid and occipito-mastoid sutures; it frequently contains one or more Wormian bones. Near the middle of the squama occipitalis is the external occipital protuber- ance or inion, and extending outwards from it on either side is the superior curved line (linea nuchas superior), and above this the faintly marked linea suprema. The part of the squama above the inion and linese supreme is named the planum occipitale, and is covered by the Occipito-frontalis muscle : the part below is termed the planum nuchale, and is divided by a mesial ridge which runs downwards and forw ards from the inion to the foramen magnum ; this ridge gives attachment to the ligamentum nuchas. The muscles attached to the planum nuchale are enumerated on page 215. Below and m front are the mastoid processes, convex externally and grooved internally by the digastric foss£e. In or near the occipito-mastoid suture is the mastoid foramen for the passage of the mastoid emissary vein. The Skull from the Feont (norma frontalis) When viewed from the front (fig. 341) the skull exhibits a somewhat oval outline, limited above by the frontal bone, below by the body of the mandible, and laterally by the malar bones and the mandibular rami, ihe upper part, formed by the vertical plate of the frontal, is smooth and convex ; the lower part, made up of the bones of the face, is irregular, and is excaval^ed laterally by the orbital cavities, and presents in the middle fine the anterior nasal aperture leading to the cavity of the nose, and below tins the transverse slit between the upper and lower dental arcades. Above, the frontal eminences * Occasionally the superior maxillary bone and the sphenoid articulate with each other at the anterior extremity of this fissure ; the malar is then excluded from it.269 THE SKULL FROM THE FRONT stand out more or less prominently, and beneath these are the superciliary ridges, joined to one another in tlio middle by the glabella. On and above the glabella a trace of the interfronlal suture sometimes persists ; beneath it is the fronto-nasal suture, the mid-point of which is termed the nasion. Behind and below the fronto-nasal suture tlie internal angular process of the frontal articulates with tlie lachrymal and with the frontal process of the maxiUa. Arching between the internal and external angular processes of the frontal is the upper part of the margin of the orbit, thin and prominent in its outer two-thu-ds, rounded in its inner third, and presenting, at the junction of these two portions, the supra-orbital notch or foramen for the supra-orbital nerve and vessels. The external angular process articulates with the malar, and from it the temporal line extends upwards and backwards. Below the Fig. 341.—Anterior region of the skull. fronto-nasal suture is the bridge of the nose, convex from side to side, concavo- convex from above downwards, and formed by the two nasal bones su]i]Mrted m the middle line by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, and lateriilly by the frontal processes of the maxUlaj which are prolonged up\vards bet^^•een the nasal and lachrymal bones and form the lower and iimer part of the circumference of each orbit. Below tlie nasal bones and betw^een the maxilla; IS the anterior aperture of the nose, pyriform in shape, with the narrow end directed upwards. Laterally this opening is bounded bv sharp margins, to which the lateral cartilages of the nose are attached ; beiow, the margins are thicker and curve inwards and forwards to end in the anterior nasal spine. Un looking into the nasal cavity, the bony septum Avhich separates the nasal tossse presents, in front, a large triangular deficiencv ; this, in the recent270 OSTEOLOGY state, is filled up by tlie septal cartilage. On the lateral wall of each nasal fossa the anterior part of the inferior turbinated bone is visible. Bolow and external to the anterior nasal aperture are tlie facial surfaces of the maxillse, each perforated, near the lower margin of the orbit, by the infra-orbital foramen for the passage of the infra-orbital nei've and vessels. Below and internal to this foramen is the canine eminence separating the incisive from the canine fossa. Beneath these fossae are the alveolar processes of the maxillte contaming the upper teeth, which overlap the teeth of the mandible in front. The malar bone on either side forms the prominence of the cheek, the lower and outer portion of the orbital cavity, and the anterior part of the zygomatic arch. It articulates internally with the maxiUa, beliind with the zygomatic process of the temporal, and above with the greater wing of the sphenoid and the external angular process of the frontal ; it is perforated by the malar foramen for the passage of the malar bi-anch of the temporo-malar nerve. On the body of the mandible is a median ridge, indicating the position of the symphysis ; this ridge divides below to enclose the mental protuberance, the lateral angles of which constitute the mental tubercles. Below the incisor teeth is the incisive fossa, and beneath the second bicuspid tooth the mental foramen which transmits the mental nerve and vessels. Passing upwards from the mental tubercle is the external oblique line, which is continuous behind with the anterior border of the ramus. The posterior border of the ramus rims downwards and forwards from the condyle to the angle, which is frequently more or less everted. The orbits (fig. 341) are two quadrilateral pyramidal cavities, situated at the upper and anterior part of the face, their bases being directed forwards and outwards, and their apices backwards and inwards, so that then- long axes, if continued backwards, would meet over the body of the sphenoid bone. Each presents for examination a roof, a floor, an inner and an outer wall, a base, and an apex. The roof is concave, directed downwards, and slightly forwards, and formed in front by the orbital plate of the frontal; behind by the lesser wing of the sphenoid. It presents internally the depression for the attacliment of the cartilaginous puUey of the Superior obUque ; externally, the lachrymal fossa for the lachrymal gland ; and posteriorly, the suture between the frontal and the lesser wng of the sphenoid. Tlie floor is directed upwards and outwards, and is of less extent than the roof ; it is formed cliiefly by the orbital surface of the maxilla ; in front, and externally, to a small extent, by the orbital process of the malar, and behind and internally, by the orbital process of the palate. At its inner angle is the upper opening of the naso-lachrymal canal, immediately to the outer side of which is a depression for the origin of the Inferior oblique muscle of the eyeball. On its outer part is the suture between the maxilla and malar, and at its posterior part that between the maxilla and the orbital process of the palate. Running forwards near the middle of the floor is the infra-orbital groove, terminating in front in the infra-orbital canal and transmitting the infra- orbital nerve and vessels. The inner wall is nearly vertical, and is formed from before backwards by the frontal process of the maxilla, the lachrymal, the os planum of the ethmoid, and a small part of the body of the sphenoid in front of the optic foramen. Sometimes the sphenoidal turbinated bone appears in this wall (see footnote, page 236). It exhibits three vertical sutures—viz. : one between the frontal process of the maxilla and the lachrymal, another between the lachrymal and ethmoid, and a third between tlie ethmoid and sphenoid. In front is seen the lachrymal groove, which lodges the lachrymal sac, and behind the groove is the lachrymal crest, from which the Tensor tarsi arises. At the junction of the inner wall and the roof is the suture which joins the frontal bone to the frontal process of the maxilla, the lachrjanal, and the ethmoid. The point of junction between the anterior border of the lachrymal and the frontal is named the dacryon. In the suture bet\\een the frontal and the os planum of the ethmoid are the anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramma, the former transmitting tlie nasal nerve and anterior ethmoidal vessels, the latter the posterior ethmoidal vessels. The outer wall, directed inwards and forwards, is formed by tlie orbital process of the malar and the orbital surface of the greater wmg of the splienoid;THE ORBITS 271 these are united by a vertical suture whicli terminates below at the front end of the spheno-maxillavy fissure. On the orbital process of the malar are the orifices of one or two canals wliich transmit the temporal and malar branches of the temporo-malar nerve. Between the roof and the outer wall, near the apex of the orbit, is the sphenoidal fissure. Through this fissure the third, the fourth, the ophthalmic division of the fifth, and the sixth nerves enter tlie orbital cavity, also some filaments from the cavernous plexus of tlie sympathetic and the orbital branches of the middle meningeal artery. Passing backwards througli tlie fissure are the ophthalmic vein and the recurrent branch from the lachrymal artery to the dura mater. The outer wall and the floor are separated posteriorly by the spheno-maxillary fissure wliich transmits the superior maxillary nerve and its temporo-malar branch, the infra-orbital vessels, and the ascending branches from Meckel's ganglion. The base of the orbit, quadrilateral in shape, is formed above by the supra- orbital arch of the frontal bone, in which is the supra-orbital notch or foramen for the passage of the supra-orbital vessels and nerve ; below by the malar and maxilla, united by the malo-maxillary stiture ; externally by the malar and the external angular process of the frontal joined by the fronto-malar suture; internally by the internal angular process of the frontal and the frontal process of the maxilla, the fronto-maxillary suture intervening. The apex, situated at the back of the orbit, corresponds to the optic foramen,* a short, circular canal, which transmits tlie optic nerve and ophthalmic artery. It will thus be seen that there are nine openings communicating with each orbit—viz. : the optic foramen, sphenoidal fissure, spheno-maxillary fissure, supra-orbital foramen, infra-orbital canal, anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramina, malar foramen, and the canal for the nasal duct. INTERIOR OF THE SKULL In order to study the interior of the skuU the skull-cap should be removed hj a saw-cut carried round the cranium about the level of the frontal eminences and the upper limits of the squamous sutures, cutting the occipital bone about an inch above the external protuberance. Inner Surface of the Skull-cap The inner surface of the skull-cap is concave and presents depressions for the convolutions of the cerebrum, together with numerous furrows for the lodgment of branches of the meningeal arteries. Along the middle line is a longitudinal groove, narrow in front, where it commences at tlie frontal crest, but broader behind ; it lodges the superior longitudinal sinus, and its margins afford attachment to the falx cerebri. On either side of it are several depressions for the Pacchionian bodies, and at its back part, the openings of the parietal foramina when these are present. It is crossed, in front, by the coronal suture, and behind by the lambdoid, whilst the sagittal lies in the mesial plane between the parietal bones. Upper Sttrface ov the Base op the Skull The upper surface of the base of the skuU or floor of the cranial cavity (fig. 342) presents three fossae, called the anterior, middle, and posterior cranial fossae. Anterior fossa.—The floor of the anterior fossa is formed by the orbital plates of the frontal, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and the lesser wings and front part of the body of the sphenoid ; it is limited behind by the posterior borders of the lesser wings of the sphenoid and by the anterior margin * Some anatomists describe the apex of the orbit as corresponding with the inner end of the sphenoidal fissure. It seems better, however, to adopt the statement in the text, since the muscles of the eyeball take origin around the optic foramen, and diverge from it to the globe of the eye.OSTEOLOGY 272 of the optic groove. It is traversed by three sutures, tlie fronto-ethmoidal, spheno-ethmoidal and sphow-frontal. Its lateral portions roof in the orbital cavities and support the frontal lobes of the cerebrum ; they are convex Fig. 342.—Base of the skull. Upper surface. Groove for super, longitudinal sinus Grooves for anter. meningeal arierij Foramen ccecum Crista galli Slit for nasal nerve. Groove for nasal nerve Anterior ethmoidal foramen Orifices for olfactory nerves Posterior ethmoidal foramen Ethmoidal spine Olfactory grooves Optic foramen Optic groove Olivary process Anterior clinoid process Middle clinoid process Posterior clinoid process Groove for sixth nerve Foramen lacerum medium Orifice of carotid canal Depression for Gasserian ganglion Meatus acusticus interniis SHI for dura mater Groove for supenor petrosal sinus Jugular foramen Anterior condyloid foramen Aquoiductus vestibuU Posterior condi/loid foramen Mastoid foramen Posterior meningeal grooves and marked by depressions for the brain convolutions, and grooves for branche^ of the meningeal arteries. The central portion corresponds with the root ot the nose, and is markedly depressed on either side of the crista g^^^- J^ presents, in and near the median line, from before backwards, the commence-ANTERIOR AND MIDDLE FOSS^ 273 ment of the frontal crest for the attachment of the falx cerebri ; the foramen ccecum, between the frontal bone and tlie crista galli of the ethmoid, which usually transmits a small vein from the nose to the superior longitudinal sinus; behind the foramen caecum, tlie crista galli, the free margin of which affords attacliment to the falx cerebri ; on either side of the crista galli, the olfactory groove formed by the cribriform plate, which supports the olfactory bulb, and presents foramina for the transmission of the olfactory nerves to the nose, and in front a slit-Hke opening for the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve. On the outer side of eacli olfactory groove ai'e tlie internal openings of tlie anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramina ; the anterior, situated about the middle of the outer margin of the olfactory gi'oove, transmits the anterior ethmoidal vessels and the nasal nerve ; tlie nerve runs in a groove alono- the outer edge of the cribi-iform plate to the slit-like opening above mentioned ; the posterioi- ethmoidal foramen opens at the back part of this margin under cover of the projecting lamina of the sphenoid, and transmits a menm- geal branch from tlie posterior ethmoidal artery. Farther back in the middle line is the ethmoidal spine, bounded behind by a slight elevation separating two shallow longitudinal gi-ooves which support tlie olfactory lobes. Behind this is the anterior margin of the optic groove, running outwards on either side to the upper margin of the optic foramen. The middle fossa, deeper than the preceding, is narrow in the middle Ime, but becomes wider at the side of the skull. It is bounded in front by the posterior margins of the lesser wings of the sphenoid, the anterior clmoid processes, and the ridge forming the anterior margin of the optic groove : behind, by the superior borders of the petrous portions of the temporals, and the dorsum selte, externally by the squamous portions of the temporals, antero- inferior angles of the parietals, and greater wmgs of the sphenoid. It is traversed by four sutures, the squamous, spheno-parietal, spheno-squamosal, and spheno- petrosal. The middle part of the fossa presents, in front, the optic groove and olivary eminence ; the optic groove ternimates on either side at the optic foramen which transmits the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery to the orbital cavity. Behind the optic foramen the anterior clinoid process is directed backwards and in\^^ards and gives attachment to the tentorium cerebelli. Behind the olivary eminence is a deep depression, th&--sella turcica, which lodges the pituitary" body and presents on its anterior wall, the middle clinoid processes. The sella turcica is bounded posteriorly by a quadi-ilateral plate of bone, the dorsum sellcB the upper angles of which are surmounted by the posterior clinoid processes ■ these attord attachment to the tentorium cerebelli, and below each is a notch for the sixth nerve. On either side of the sella turcica is the carotid groove, which IS broad, shallow, and curved somewhat like the italic letter f. It be^rins behind at the foramen lacerum medium, and ends on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process, where it is sometimes converted into a foramen (carotico-clinoid) bv the union of the anterior with the middle clinoid process ; posteriorly it is bounded on the outer side by the lingula. This groove lodges the cavernous smus and the internal carotid artery, the latter being surrounded by a plexus or sympathetic nerves. The lateral parts of the middle fossa are of con.siderabledepth, and support the temporal lobes of the brain. They are marked by depressions for the brZl!;?''''f ^1^?^ t^-'-^^ersed by furrows for the anterior and posterior Dranches of the middle memngeal artery. These furrows begin near TZl^^^'T'^ spmosum and the anterior runs forwards and up.\'ards to the anteio-inferior angle of the parietal, where it is sometimes converted mto a Dony canal; the posterior runs backwards and outwards across the squamous C, 'J." 1 r?i"P°''?;^ ^'^^ P-'^s^es on to the parietal near the middle of its nXl^Tni^' The following apertures are also to be seen. In front is the tZ ' i bounded above by the lesser wing, below, by the greater ex^P^r'n^n ^^^*^!™'^"y'.by the body of the sphenoid ; it is usually conTpleted nnvi J 1^ ?'"''!.*''^ P^''*^ «^ the frontal bone. It transmits to the orbital Zvvl c «f ^'''^ ophthalmic division of the fifth, and the sixth orE' kT"" f^'Oi^i the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, and the a rfcuiTenTt w "^^T^S^^l ""'^^'y' f™"^ the orbital cavity » recuirent branch from the lachrymal artery to the dura mater, and the TOSTEOLOGY 274 ophthalmic vein. Behind the inner extremity of the splienoidal fissure is the foramen rotundum, for the passage of the second division of the fifth nerve ; still more posteriorly is the foramen Vesalii, which varies in size in different individuals, and is often absent; \\'hen present, it opens below at the outer side of the scaphoid fossa, and transmits a small vein. Behind and external to the latter opening is the foramen ovale, wliich transmits the third division of the fifth nerve, the small meningeal artery, and the small superficial petrosal nerve.* On the outer side of the foramen ovale is the foramen spinosum, for the passage of the middle meningeal artery and veins, and a recurrent bianch from the inferior maxiUary nerve. On the inner side of the foramen ovale is the fo)-amen lacerum medium; in the recent state the lower part of this aperture is filled up by a layer of fibro-cartilage, whUe its upper and inner parts transmit the internal carotid artery surrounded by a plexus of sympa- thetic nerves. The Vidian nerve and a meningeal branch from the ascending pharyngeal artery pierce the layer of fibro-cartilage. On the anterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone are seen, from without inwards, the eminence caused by the projection of the superior semicu-cular canal; in front and a little to the outer side of this a depression corresponding to the roof of the tympanic cavity ; the groove leading to the hiatus Fallopii, for the transmission of the great superficial petrosal nerve and the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal artery ; beneath it, the smaller groove, for the passage of the small superficial petrosal nerve ; and, near the apex of the bone, the depression for the Gasserian ganglion and the orifice of the carotid canal. The posterior fossa is the largest and deepest of the three. It is formed by the dorsum seUse and chvus of the sphenoid, the occipital, the petrous and mastoid portions of the temporals, and the postero-inferior angles of the parietal bones ; it is crossed by two sutures, the occipilo-masioid and the parieto- mastoid, and lodges the cerebellum, pons Varolii, and medulla oblongata. It is separated from the middle fossa in and near the median Une by the dorsum sellEe, and on either side by the superior border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. This border gives attachment to the tentorium cerebeUi, is grooved for the superior petrosal sinus, and presents at its inner extremity a notch upon which the fifth nerve rests. The fossa is hmited behmd by the grooves for the lateral sinuses. In its centre is the foramen marjnum, on either side of which is a rough tubercle for the attachment of the lateral odontoid or check hgaments ; a little above this tubercle is the anterior condyloid foramen, which transmits the hypoglossal nerve and a meningeal branch from the ascending pharyngeal artery. In front of the foramen magnum the basilar process of the occipital and the posterior part of the body of the sphenoid form a grooved surface which supports the medulla oblongata and pons Varolii ; in the young skull these bones are joined by a synchon- drosis. This grooved surf ace is separated on either side from the petrous portion of the temporal by the petro-occipital fissure, which is occupied m the recent state by a plate of cartUage. Tliis fissure is continuous behind with the jugular foramen, and its margins are grooved for the inferior petrosal smus. The jugular foramen is situated between the lateral portion of the occipital and the petrous part of the temporal. The anterior portion of this foramen trans- mits the inferior petrosal sinus; the posterior, the lateral smus and some meningeal branches from the occipital and ascending pharyngea,! arteries ; and the middle, the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spmal accessory nerves Above the jugular foramen is the iiiternal auditory mcatt^s, tor tlie facial and auditory nerves and auditory artery ; behind and external to this is the sUt-like opening leading into tlie aquajductus vestibuh, which lodges the ductus endolymphaticus ; while between these, and near the superior border of the petrous portion, is a small triangular depression, the remains of the fossa subarcuata, which lodges a process of tlve dura mater and occasionallv transmits a smaU vein. Behind the foramen magnum are the tnferwr occipital fossce, which support the hemispheres of the cerebellum, separated from one another by the internal occipital crest, which serves for the attachment ol the falx cerebelh, and lodges the occipital sinus The posterior fossns are surmounted by tlie deep transverse grooves for the lateral sinnse.'^. Each ot * See footnote, page 2.34.275 THE NASAL FOSS^ these channels, in its passage to the jugular foramen, grooves the occipital, the postero-inferior angle of the parietal, the mastoid portion of the temporal, and the jugular process of the occipital, and terminates at the back part of the jugular foramen. Wliere this sinus grooves the mastoid portion of the temporal, the orifice of the mastoid foramen may be seen; and, just previous to its termination, the posterior condyloid foramen opens into it; neither foramen is constant. The Nasal Foss^ The nasal fossae are two irregular cavities, situated one on either side of the middle line of the face, extending from the base of the cranium to the roof of the mouth, and separated from each other by a thin vertical septum. They open on the face thi-ough the pear-shaped anterior nasal aperture, and communicate behind with the nasal part of the pharynx by the posterior naves or choance. They are much narrower above than below, and in the middle than at their anterior or posterior openings : then- depth, which is considerable, IS greatest in the middle. They communicate mth the frontal, ethmoidal' sphenoidal, and maxillary sinuses. Each fossa is bounded by a roof, a floor' an inner and an outer wah. ' ' Fig. 343.—Inner wall of left nasal fossa. Crest of nasal bone Nasal spine of frontal bone Space for triangular cartilage of septum Trf— Crest of palate-bonc " Crest of maxilla The roof (figs. 343 and 344) is horizontal in its central part but slooes JaSTnit 'VT' r^^'t'^^ i« fo^ed in front by the^nas;i bonesTnd Eoid nn^h r iT^'^V u *l^%«iiddle, by the cribriform plate of the Ws the 1 of /r ' ^ sphenoid, the sphenoidil turbinated cribrif'o -m ^LV ^ir'Tu """"i sphenoidal process of the palate-bone. The on fl; ? ^ the ethmoid presents the foramina for the olfactory nerves • on the posterior part of the roof is the opening into the sphenoidal sin^s. ' ihe//oor IS flattened from before backwards and concave from side to side Lerio.T. by the palatal processes of the maxiUa and palate; near Its ■ anterior extremity is the opening of the incisor foramen. ' other sidr'TMff°' ^^^^''J^^^^^ (jig- is frequently deflected to one or other side. It is formed, in front, by the crest of the nasal bones and nasal276 OSTEOLOGY spine of the frontal; in the middle, by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid ; behind, by the vomer and rostrum of the sphenoid ; below, by the crest of the maxiUcB and palate bones. It presents, in front, a large, triangular notch, wliich receives the septal cartilage of the nose ; and behind, the free edge of the vomer. Its surface is marked by numerous turrows for vessels and nerves and by the groove for the naso-]3alatine nerve, and is traversed by sutures connecting the bones of which it is formed. The outer wall (fig. 344) is formed, in front, by the frontal process of the maxilla and by the lachrymal bone ; ui the middle, by the ethmoid, maxilla and inferior turbinated bones; behind, by the vertical plate of the palate-bone, and the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid. This surface presents three irre<^ular longitudinal passages, termed the superior, middle, and inferior meatuses of the nose. The superior meatus, the smallest of the three, occupies the middle tliird of the outer wall. It lies between the superior and middle tuj-binated processes of the ethmoid ; the spheno-palatine foramen opens into Fig. 344.—Roof, floor, and outer wall of left nasal fossa. Nasal hone Nasal spine of frontal bone^ Horizontal plate of ethmoid\ Sphenoid Frobe passed through naso-lachrymal canal Bristle passed through infundibulum OUTER WALL Frontalproc. of maxilla Lachrymal i g I"— Ethmoid ■I » / Unciform proc. of eth moid \ J ^ Inferior turbinated Palate Superior meatus Middle meatus Inferior meatus FLOOR Anterior nasal spine Palatal proc. of maxilla. Palatal process of palate. Posterior tiasal spine. Anterior palatine canal it behind, and the posterior ethmoidal cells in front. The sphenoidal sum. opens into a recess, the spheno-ethmoidal recess, wliicli is placed above ami behind the superior turbinated process. The middle meatu.^ is situated betA^ een the middle turbinated process and the inferior turbniated bone, and extends from the anterior to the posterior end of the latter. It presents m front^ th orifice of the infundibulum, by whicli the middle meatus communicates Mth frontal sinus and anterior ethmoidal cells. The infundibu m^^^ downwards into a curved groove, the hiatus semdvnans, m l'^^^^"^'.1^^^^^ of whicli is seen the orifice of the antrum of Highinore. In a ^o"^^^'^ percentage of skulls the antral orifice is duplicated, the second opening being EaUy sfuated behind the hiatus. Above tl- J-^tus semdi^ convex surface-the bulla ethmoidalis-on which the middle f tl^^o'^^/.^^^^^^P;": The inferior meatus, the largest of the three, is ^1-«P-e between turbinated bone and tlie floor of the nasal fossa ^^.f £htd and pr^^^^^^^ length of the outer wall of the nose, is broader in front than behind, and piesent, anteriorly the lower orifice of the canal Jor the nasal duct.277 DIFFERENCES IN THE SKULL The anterior nasal apertwe is a heart-shaped or pyriform opening, whose long axis is vertical, and narro^v extremity upwards. This opening in the recent state is much contracted by the cartilages of the nose. It is bounded above by the inferior borders of the nasal bones ; laterally by the thin, sharp margins «-hich separate the facial from the nasal surfaces of the maxillas; and below by the same borders, where they slope inwards to join each otlier at the anterior nasal spine. The posterior nares or choance are each bounded above by the under surface of the body of the sphenoid and ala of the vomer ; below, by the posterior border of the horizontal plate of the palate-bone ; externally, by the inner surface of the internal pterygoid plate ; they are separated from each other by the posterior border of the vomer. Differences in the Skull due to Age At birth the skull as a whole is large in proportion to the other parts of the skeleton, but its facial portion is sniall, and equals only about one-eighth of the bulk of the cranium as compared with one-half in the adult. The frontal and parietal eminences are prominent, and the greatest width of the skull is at the level of the latter ; on the other hand, the glabella, supercihary ridges, and mastoid processes are not developed. Ossification of the skull-bones is not completed, and many of them—e.g. the occipital, temporals, sphenoid, frontal, and mandible— consist of more than one piece. Unossified membranous intervals, termed fontanelles, are seen at the angles of the parietal bones ; these fontanelles are six in number : two, an anterior and a posterior, are situated in the middle hne, and two, an antero-lateral and a postero-lateral, are placed on either side. The anterior or hregmatic fontanelle (fig. 345) is the largest, and is situated at the junction of the sagittal, coronal, and interfrontal sutures ; it is lozenge-shaped, and measures about an inch and a half in its antero-posterior and an inch in its trans- FiG. 345.—Skull at bii-th, showng the Fig. 346.—The lateral fontanelles. anterior and posterior fontanelles. verse diameter. The posterior fontanelle is triangular in form and is situated at the junction of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures. The lateral fontanelles (fig. 346) are small, irregular in shape, and correspond respectively with the antero-inferior and postero-inferior angles of the parietal bones. An additional fontanelle is some- times seen in the sagittal suture at the region of the obeUon. The fontanelles are usually closed by the growth and extension of the bones which surround them, but sometimes they are the sites of separate ossific centres which develop into Wormian bones. The posterior and lateral fontanelles are obhterated within a month or two after birth, but the anterior is not completely closed until the first half of the second year ; sometimes it remains open beyond the second year, a condition which is usually due to malnutrition in rickets. A knowledge of the shape and position of the fontanelles is of service to the accoucheur in enabling mm to determine which part of the foetal head is presenting during parturition. ihe small size of the face at birth is mainly accounted for by the rudimentary condition of the jaws, the non-eruption of the teeth, and the'small size of theOSTEOLOGY 278 maxillary air-sinuses and nasal ca-vaties. At birth the nasal cavities lie almost entirely between the orbits, and the lower border of the anterior nasal aperture is only a Uttle below the level of the orbital floor. "With the eruption of the milk- teeth there is an enlargement of the face and jaws, and these changes are still more marked after the second dentition. The skull grows rapidly from birth to the seventh year, by which time the foramen magnum and petrous parts of the temporals have reached their full size and the orbital cavities are only a Uttle smaller than those of the adult. Growth is slow from the seventh year until the approach of puberty, when a second period of activity takes place : this consists of an increase in all directions, but it is especially marked in the frontal and facial regions, where it is associated with the development of the air-sinuses. Obliteration of the sutures of the vault of the skull takes place as age advances. This process may commence between the ages of thirty and forty, and is first seen on the inner surface, and some ten years later on the outer sm-face of the skull. The dates given are, however, only approximate, as it is impossible to state with anything hke accuracy the time at which the sutures are closed. Obliteration usually occurs first in the posterior part of the sagittal suture, next in the coronal, and then in the lambdoid. In old age the skull generally becomes thinner and hghter, but in a small proportion of cases it increases in thickness and weight, o\ving to a hypertrophy of the inner table. The most striking feature of the old skull is the diminution in the size of the j aws consequent on the loss of the teeth and the absorption of the alveolar processes. This is associated with a marked reduction in the vertical measurement of the face and with an alteration in the angles of the mandible. Sexual Differences in the Skull Until the age of puberty there is Httle difference between the skull of the female and that of the male. The skull of an adult female is as a rule Ughter and smaller, and its cranial capacity about 10 per cent, less, than that of the male. Its walls are thinner and its muscular ridges less strongly marked; the glabella, supercihary ridges, and mastoid processes are less pronainent, and the corresponding air-sinuses are small or rudimentary. The upper margin of the orbit is sharp, the forehead vertical, the frontal and parietal eminences prominent, and the vault somewhat flattened. The contour of the face is more rounded, the facial bones are smoother, and the jaws and their contained teeth smaller. From what has been said it will be seen that more of the infantile characteristics are retained in the skull of the adult female than in that of the adult male. A well-marked male or female skull can easily be recognised as such, but in some cases the respective characteristics are so indistinct that the determination of the sex may be difficult or impossible. Craniology Skulls vary in size and shape, and the term a'aniohgy is appUed to the study of these variations. The size of a skull constitutes a good index of the develop- ment of the brain which it contained, and is most conveniently arrived at by ascertaining the capacity of the cranial cavity. This is accompUshed by fiUing the cavity with shot and measuring the contents in a graduated vessel. Skulls may be classified according to their capacities as follows : 1. Microcephalic, with a capacity of less tlian 1350 cubic centimetres— e.g. those of native AustraUans and Andaman Islanders. 2. Mesocephalic, with a capacity of from 1350 c.cm. to 1450 c.cm.—e.g. those of African negroes and Chinese. 3. Meyacephalic, vnih a capacity of over 1450 c.cm.—e.g. those of Europeans, Japanese, and Eskimos. In comparing the shape of one skull with that of another it is necessary to adopt some definite position in which the slcuU should be placed during the process of examination. It should be so placed that a fine carried through the lower margin of the orbit and upper margin of the external auditory meatus is in the horizontal plane. The norma) of one skull can then be compared with those of another, and the differences in contour and surface-form noted. Further, it is necessary that the various linear measurements used to determine the shape of theCRANIOLOGY 279 slniU should be made between definite and easily localised points on its surface. The principal points have already been mentioned in the descriptions of the individual skull-bones, but are here tabulated for convenience of reference. They may be divided into two groups : (1) those in the mesial plane, and (2) those on either side of it. The points in the mesial plane are the : Menial point. The most prominent point of the chin. Alveolar point or prosthion. The central point of the anterior margin of the upper alveolar arch. Sub-nasal point. The middle of the lower border of the anterior nasal aperture, at the base of the nasal spine. _Jlasion. The central point of the fronto-nasal suture. __^ihella. The point in the middle Une at the level of the superciliary ridges. ^^Jj^hryon. The point in the middle line at the level where the temporal lines most nearly approach each other. ^_^egma. The meeting point of the coronal and sagittal sutures. Obelion. A point in the sagittal suture on a level with the parietal foramina. Lambda. The point of jimction of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures. ^Occipital point. The point in the middle Une of the occipital bone farthest from the glabella. Jjmon. The external occipital protuberance. ^^isihion. The mid-point of the posterior margin of the foramen magnum. ^^sion. The mid-point of the anterior margin of the foramen magnum. The points on either side of the mesial plane are the : Oonion. The outer margin of the angle of the mandible. Dacryon. The point of union of the antero-superior angle of the lachrymal with the frontal bone and the frontal process of the maxilla. ^^tephanion. The point where the temporal hne intersects the coronal suture. '\^terion. The point where the greater wing of the sphenoid joins the antero- inferior angle of the parietal. Auricular point. The centre of the orifice of the external auditory meatus. Asterion. The point of meeting of the lambdoid, masto-occipital, and masto- parietal sutures. The horizontal circumfei-ence of the cranium is measured in a plane passing through the glabella (Turner) or the ophryon (Flower) in front, and the occipital point behind ; it averages about twenty inches (50 cm.) in the female and twenty- one inches (52-5 cm.) in the male. The occipito-fronial or longitudinal arc is measured from the nasion over the middle line of the vertex to the opisthion ; while the basi-nasal length is the distance between the basion and the nasion. These two measurements, plus the antero-posterior diameter of the foramen magnum, represent the vertical circumference of the cranium. The length is measured from the glabella to the occipital point, while the breadth or greatest transverse diameter is usually found near the external auditory meatus. The proportion of breadth to length (]^eadth xJOO) termed the length cephalic index or index of breadth. The height is usually measured from the basion to the bregma, and the pro- portion of height to length ^-^^^jp^^ constitutes the veHical or height index. In studying the face the principal points to be noticed are the proportion of its length and breadth, the shape of the orbits and of the anterior nasal aperture, and the degree of projection of the jaws. The length of the face may be measured from the ophryon or nasion to the chin, or, if the mandible be wanting, to the alveolar point; while its width is represented by the distance between the zygomatic arches. By comparing the length -with the width of the face, skulls may be divided into two groups : dolichofacial or leptoprosope (long-faced) and brachyfacial or chcemoprosope (short-faced). The orbital index signifies the proportion which the orbital height bears to the orbital width, thus : orbital height x 100 orbital width280 OSTEOLOGY The nasal index expresses the proportion which the width of the anterior nasal aperture bears to the height of the nose, the latter being measured from the nasion to the lower margin of the nasal aperture, thus : nasal width x 100 nasal height The degree of projection of the jaws is determined by the gnathic or alveolar index, which represents the proportion between the basi-alveolar and basi-nasal lengths, thus : basi-alveolar length x 100 basi-nasal length The following table, modified from that given by Duckworth,* illustrates how these different indices may be utilised in the classification of slnills: Index CLASSmCATION Nomenclature 1 Examples 1. Cephahc . Below 75 . . . Between 75 and 80 Above 80 . . . DoUchocephalic . Mesaticephalic Brachycephahc . Kaffirs and Native Australians Europeans and Chinese Mongolians and Andamans 2. Orbital . . Below 84 . . . Between 84 and 89 Above 89 . . . Microseme Mesoseme . Megaseme. Tasmanians and Native Austra- han? Europeans Chinese and Polynesians 3. Nasal . . . Below 48 . . . Between 48 and 53 Above 53 . . . Leptorhine Mesorhine. PlatjThine Europeans Japanese and Chinese Negroes and Native Austrahans 4. Gnathic . Below 98 . . . Between 98 and 103 Above 103 . . . Orthoguathous . Mesognathous Prognathous . Europeans Chinese and Japanese Native Australians Surface Form.—The various bony prominences or landmarks which are easily felt and recognised in the head and face, and which afford the means of mapping out the important structures comprised in this region, are as follows : 8. Parietal eminence. 9. Temporal ridge. 10. Frontal eminence. Superciliary ridge. Nasal bone. Lower margin of orbit. Mandible. 11. 12. 13. 14. 1. Supra-orbital arch •2,. Internal angular process. 3. External angular process. 4. Zygomatic arch. 5. Mastoid process. 6. External occipital protuberance. 7. Superior curved line of occipital bone. I. The supra-orbital arch can be felt throughout its entire extent, covered by the eyebrow. It forms the upper boundary of the circumference of the orbit and sejjarates the face from the forehead. It terminates internally at the root of the nose, m the uUcr7ial angular process which articulates with the lachr^^nal bone and frontal process of the maxilla, and externally in the external angular process which articulates with the malar bone. At the junction of the inner and middle thirds of the arch, a slight interruption in the outUne may sometimes be felt; this is the supra-orbital notch. When tbe notch * Morphology and Anthropology, by W. L. H. Duckworth, M.A., Cambridge University Press.281 SURFACE FORM OF THE SKULL is converted into a foramen, the interruption does not exist. A line carried from this notch or foramen downwards over the face, to the second bicuspid tooth of the mandible, passes over the infra-orbital and the mental foramina, and thus constitutes a guide to the points of exit of the three largest cutaneous branches of the fifth cranial nerve.. In the less civilised races, as the forehead recedes backwards, the supra-orbital arch becomes more prominent and approaches more to the condition seen in the monkey tribe, in which the supra-orbital arches are very largely developed and acquire additional promi- nence from the oblique direction of the frontal bone. 2. The internal angular -process can scarcely be felt. Its position is indicated by the angle formed by the supra-orbital arch with the frontal process of the maxiUa and the lachrymal bone at the inner side of the orbit. Between the internal angular processes is a broad surface, which assists in forming the root of the nose, and immediately above this an expanded, smooth, somewhat triangular area, the glabella, situated between and connecting the superciliary ridges. 3. The external angular process is much more strongly marked than the internal, and can be plainly felt. It is formed by the junction of the supra-orbital and temporal ridges, and, articulating ^vith the malar bone, it serves to a very considerable extent to support the bones of the face. In carnivorous animals the external angular process does not articulate with the malar, and therefore this lateral support to the bones of the face is not present. 4. The zygomatic arch can be felt throughout its entire length, and is formed by the malar bone and the zygomatic process of the temporal bone. Its anterior part is broad, and constitutes the prominence of the cheek ; its posterior part is narrow, and terminates just in front and a little above the tragus of the external ear. Its upper border may be traced backwards, as the posterior root, above the tragus and the external auditory meatus to join the posterior part of the lower temporal ridge, forming the supramastoid crest. A spot in this line, immediately in front of the upper border of the tragus and between it and the condyle of the mandible, is known as the pre-auricular point. Tliis is an important landmark, since the temporal vessels and the am'iculo-temporal nerve cross it, and two inches vertically above it is the lower end of the fissure of Rolando. The lower border of the zygomatic arch is more plainlj' to be felt than the upper, in consequence of the dense temporal fascia being attached to the latter, which somewhat obscures its outline. 5. Behind the ear the mastoid portion o f the temporal bone can be plainly felt, terminating below in a nipple-shaped process. Its anterior border lies immediately behind the concha, and its apex is about on a level with the lobule of the ear. It is rudimentary in infancy, but gi-aduaUy develops in childhood. 6. The external occipital protuberance {inion) can be felt at the level where the skin of the neck joins that of the head. At this point the skull is thick for the purposes of safety, while radiating from it aro numerous curved arches or buttresses of bone which give to this portion of the skull further security. 7. Rumiing outwards on either side from the external occipital protuberance is an arched ridge of bone, the superior curved line, which gives attachment to some of the muscles which keep the head erect on the vertebral column. Below this line the surface of bone is obscured by the overlying muscles, except in the middle, where the external occipital crest can generally be felt at the bottom of the nuchal furrow. Above it, the vault of the cranium is thuily covered with soft structiu'es, so that the form of this part of the head is almost exactly that of the upper portion of the occipital, the parietal, and the fi'ontal bones themselves ; in bald persons, even the lines of junction of the bones (especially that of the occipital and parietals at the lambdoid suture) may be defined as slight depressions, caused by the thickening of the borders of the bones. 8. Near the line of the greatest transverse diameter of the head are the parietal eminences, one on either side of the middle line ; they denote the points where ossification of the parietal bones began. Tlie parietal eminence is particularly exposed to injury from blows or falls on the head, but fracture is to a certain extent prevented by the shape of the bone, which forms a dome, so that the force of the blow is diffused over the bone in every direction. 9. At the side of the head is the temporal ridge. Commencing at the external angular process, it may be felt as a curved ridge, passing upwards on the frontal bone, and then curving backwards, separating the forehead from the temporal fossa. It may then be traced, in a curved direction, over the parietal bone, where, though less marked, it can generally be recognised. Finally, the ridge curves do\TOwards and forwards, and terminates in the posterior root of the zygoma. 10. The frontal eminences vary in prominence in different individuals, and are frequently unsymmctrical. Their prominence depends more upon the general shape of the bone than upon the size of the eminences themselves. As the skull is more highly developed in consequence of increased intellectual capacity, so the frontal bone becomes more upright, and the frontal eminences stand out in bolder relief. Thus they may be considered as affording, to a certain extent, an indication of the development of the frontal lobes of the brain, and of the mental powers ot the individual. 11. Below the frontal eminences are the superciliary ridges, which denote the position of the frontal sinuses, and vary in different individuals, being, as a rule, small in the female, absent in children, and sometimes unusually prominent in the male, when the frontal sinuses are largely developed. The degree of prominence of the superciliary ridges is not, however, necessarily dependent on the size of the frontal sinuses, tor large sinuses may be present in cases where there is but little elevation of the ridges,OSTEOLOGY 282 and, on the other hand, strongly marked ridges may be associated with small air-sinuses. They commence on either side of the glabella, and here present a rounded form, which gradually fades away at their outer ends. 12. The nasal bones form the prominence of the nose. They vary much in size and shape, and to them is due the varieties in the contour of this organ and mucli of the character of the face. 13. The lower margin of the orbit, formed by the maxilla and malar bone, can be felt throughout its entire length. It is continuous internally with the frontal process of the maxilla, and at their point of junction is a little tubercle, which serves as a guide to the position of the lachrymal sac, which is situated above and behind it. 14. The outline of the mandible can be felt throughout its entire length. Just in front of the tragus of the external ear, and below the zygomatic arch, the condyle can be made out. When the mouth is opened, this prominence of bone advances out of the glenoid fossa on to the eminentia articularis, and recedes when the mouth is closed. From the condyle the posterior border of the ramus can be followed do^vn to the angle, and from the angle to the sjnnphysis menti the lower rounded border of the body of the bone is plainly to be felt. At the point of junction of the two halves of the bone is a well-marked triangular eminence, the mental process, which forms the prominence of the chin. Applied Anatomy.—Occasionally a protrusion of the brain or its membranes may take place through one of the sutures, owing to non-closure. When the protrusion con- sists of membranes only, and is fiUed with cerebro-spinal fluid, it is called a meningocele ; when it consists of brain as well as membranes, it is termed an encephalocele. These malformations are usually found in the middle line, and most frequently at the back of the head, the protrusion taking place between the centres of ossification of the tabular portion of the occipital bone (see page 217). They generally occur through the upper part of the vertical fissure, which is the last to ossify, but not uncommonly through the lower part, when the foramen magnum may be incomplete. More rarely these protrusions are met with in other situations, as in the sagittal, lambdoid, and other sutures, or through abnormal gaps and deficiencies at the sides or base of the skull. The chief function of the skull is to protect the brain from any form of violence to which it may be subjected. We find, therefore, that those portions of the skuU which are most exposed to external violence are thicker than those which are shielded from injury by overlying muscles. Thus, the skull-cap is thick and dense, whereas the squamous portion of the temporal bone, being protected by the Temporal muscle, and the inferior occipital fossEB, being shielded by the muscles at the back of the neck, are thin and fragile. Fracture of the skull is further prevented by its elasticity, its rounded shape, and its construction of a number of secondary elastic arches, each made up of a single bone. The manner in which vibrations are transmitted through the bones of the skull is also of importance as regards its protective mechanism, at all events as far as the base is concerned. In the vault, the bones being of a fairly equal thickness and density, vibrations are transmitted in a uniform manner in aU directions, but in the base, owing to the varying thickness and density of the bones, this is not so ; and therefore m this situation there are special buttresses which serve to carry the vibrations in certain definite directions. At the front of the skull, on either side, is the ridge which separates the anterior froin the middle fossa of the base ; and behind, the ridge or buttress which separates the middle from the posterior fossa ; and if any violence is applied to the vault, the vibrations would be carried along these buttresses to the sella turcica, where they meet. This part has been termed the ' centre of resistance,' and here there is a special protective mechanism to guard the brain. The subarachnoid space is dilated, and the increased quantity of cerebro-spinal fluid acts as a water-cushion to shield the bram from injury. In like manner, when violence is applied to the base of the skull, as in falls upon the feet, the vibrations are carried backwards through the occipital crest, and forwards through the basilar process and body of the sphenoid to the vault of the skull. Fractures of the skull are best considered as affecting either the vaiilt or the base. Fractures of the vault may, and generally do, involve the whole thickness of the bone ; but sometimes the inner table only may be fractured, and portions of it driven inwards. As a rule, in fractures of the skull, the inner table is more splmtered and comminuted than the outer, and this is due to several causes. It is thinner and more brittle ; the force of the violence as it passes inwards becomes broken up. and is more diffused by the time it reaches the inner table ; the bone bemg in the form of an arch bends as a whole and spreads out, and thus presses the particles together on the convex surface of the arch, i.e. the outer table, and forces them asunder on the concave surface or inner table ; and, lastly, there is nothmg firm under the inner table to support it and oppose the force. Fractures of the vault may be sunple fissures, or may be starred and commi- nuted, and the fragments may be depressed or elevated. Cases of fracture with elevation of the fractured portion are uncommon, and can only be produced by direct J^ina- comminuted fracture, a portion of the skull is broken into several pieces, the lines ot fracture radiating from a centre where the chief impact of the blow \yas felt; it tne fracture is also depressed, a fissure circumscribes the radiating lines, enclosmg a portion of the skull. If this area is circular it is termed a ' pond ' fracture, and would in all probability have been caused by a round instrument, as a life preserver or hammer ; n283 APPLIED ANATOMY OF THE SKULL I elliptical in shape it is termed a ' gutter ' fracture, and would owe its shape to the instrument which had produced it, as a poker. Fracture of the outer table alone only occurs in the region of the frontal sinuses where the two tables are completely separated. Fractures of" the base of the skull may be produced by indirect or direct -snolence. I. In cases of the former class the violence is applied to the vertex or some part of the cranial convexity, as when a person falls from a height on to his head and a fracture of the base results. The mechanism of this form of fracture was formerly explained by the doctrine of contre-coup, i.e. that the force was transmitted from one side of the skull to the other ; but this idea is now completely exploded, and there are at the present day two theories as to mode of causation of these fractures, (a) According to Aran's theory of irradiation all fractures of the base are produced by a fissure, wliich starts from the point of injury and radiates to the base. There can be little doubt that many cases of fracture of the base, especially of the middle fossae, are caused in this way, but it is insufficient to explain all, since instances have been met with of fracture of the base of the skull in which there has been no fracture of the vaiilt. (b) To explain these cases, another theory, known as the compression or bursting theory, has been suggested. If a hollow, elastic sphere is compressed from above downwards, it will bulge laterally, and, if the compression is sufficient, it will eventually burst in the situation wliere it bulges. Now, the skull is an elastic sphere, and when compression is applied to it, its diameter will be reduced along the line of greatest pressure and will therefore be increased in other directions, and may increase to such an extent that bursting occurs. In a hollow elastic sphere of imiform thickness, the bulging and subsequent bursting take place at the equatorial line midway between the two points of compression ; but the skull is not of uniform thickness, and therefore the bulging and subsequent bursting take place at the weakest part. n. Direct violence applied to the base of the skull may cause fracture in several different ways : by the impact of the vertebral column against the condyles of the occipital bone, in falls on the buttocks or feet; by the condyle of the lower jaw being driven against the glenoid fossa, in blows or falls on the chin ; by the thrusting of a pointed instrument through the orbit or nose ; by gunshot wounds through the mouth ; and by a fall or a stab on the back of the head. In the majority of cases of fracture of the base, the fracture is compound. In the anterior fossa, if the fissure extend across the cribriform plate, the nasal mucous membrane is usually torn and the fracture rendered compoimd into the nose. In the middle fossa, the fracture usually opens up the tympanic cavity, and if the membrana tympani be torn, the fracture is compound, via the external auditory meatus. Continued bleeding from the nose or ear is one of the most constant symptoms in these cases. The most common place for fracture of the base to occur is through the middle fossa, and here the fissure usually takes a fairly definite course. Starting from the point struck, which is generally somewhere in the neighbourhood of the parietal eminence, it runs down- wards through the parietal and the squamous portion of the temporal and across the petrous portion of this bone, frequently traversing and implicating the internal auditory meatus, to the middle lacerated foramen. From this it may pass across the body of the sphenoid, through the pituitary fossa, to the foramen lacerum medium of the other side, and may indeed travel roimd the whole cranium, so as to completely separate the anterior from the posterior part. The course of the fracture should be borne in mind, as it explains the symptoms to which fracture in this region may give rise : thus, if the fissure pass across the internal auditory meatus, injury to the facial and auditory nerves may result, with consequent facial paralysis and deafness ; or the tubular prolongation of the arachnoid aroimd these nerves in the meatus may be torn and thus permit of the escape of the cerebro-spinal fluid should there be a communication between the internal ear and the tympanum together with rupture of the membrana tympani, as is frequently the case : again, if the fissure pass across the pituitary fossa and the muco-periosteum covering the under surface of the body of the sphenoid is torn, blood will find its way into the pharynx and be swallowed, and after a time vomiting of blood will result. Fractures of the anterior fossa, involving the bones forming the roof of the orbit and nasal fossa, are generally the result of blows on the forehead ; but fracture of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid may be a comphcation of fracture of the nasal bone. When the fracture implicates the roof of the orbit, the blood finds its way into this cavity, and, travelling forwards, appears as a subconjunctival ecchymosis. If tlie roof of the nasal fossa be fractured, the blood escapes from the nose. In rare cases there may be also escape of cerebro-spmal fluid from the nose, should the dura mater and arachnoid have been torn. In fractures of the posterior fossa, extravasation of blood may appear at the nape of the neck, beneath the muscles attached to the superior curved line of the occipital Diseases of the Skull.—An inflammatory condition affecting the bones and the peri- ^''^JJ™ .together is generally caused by septic infection either of a scalp wound, exposing wid bruising the bone, or of a compound fracture, and is termed septic osteomyelitis. Occasionally it may occur independently of injury, and then follows the same course, and IS due to the same causes, as acute infective osteomyelitis in the long bones. i284 OSTEOLOGY The most common chronic disease of the skull is due to syphilis. In acquired syphilis the disease usually occurs as nodes, which arise most commonly in the pericranium, but maj' also arise in the diploe, or more rarely on the inner surface of the skull. The formation of gammata under the periosteum generally leads to airies, which may be either limited if the gumma is localised, or widespread if the gumma is diffuse. The caries is often complicated by necrosis, for a condition of sclerosis is frequently set up in the surrounding bone, and the vessels in the Haversian canals become compressed and the vitality of the bone is interfered wth ; hence we often find a central necrosing area suri-ounded by a zone of caries. Large carious sequestra may be thrown off after prolonged suppuration, leavmg considerable areas of the dura mater exposed. A common result of sj'^philitic disease of the skull is the production of large hard masses of bones on its surface, which give it a tuberculated appearance ; in other cases, the skull j)resents a curious worm-eaten appearance ; this is due to the fact that the osteogenetic powers of the pericranium are small and the formation of bone on the surface slight. In hereditary syphilis, in addition to the formation of gummata, which are usually of the subperiosteal variety, atrophic or hypertrophic changes may take place. In the atrophic cases the bone becomes abnor- mally thin, or even perforated, generally where there is pressure, as from the pillow or nurse's arm. Hence they are usually met with in the parietal bones or vertical plate of the occiput. This condition is known as craniotabes, and may also occur as a consequence of rickets ; it gives rise to a peculiar sensation known as that of ' egg-sheU crackling' when the affected bones, reduced to a membranous or parchment-like consistency, are palpated. In the hypertrophic cases, a deposit of porous bone takes place aromid the anterior fontanelle in the parietal and frontal bones ; these deposits are separated by the coronal and sagittal sutures, and give to the skull an appearance hke a ' hot cross bun.' They are known as Parrot''s nodes, and such a skull has received the name of the ' hot cross bun' skull. The most common tumours of the skull are the osteomata and the sarcomata. The osteoma is generally the ivory exostosis, though cases of spongy exostosis do occur. Sarcomata of the skull may arise either from the pericranium or the diploe, but it is usually impossible to distinguish clinically between the two. Carcinoma, if it occurs in the skull, is always secondary to cancer m some other part of the body. Hypertrophic changes occur in the skull in ostitis deformans, acromegaly, leontiasLs ossea, and in rickets. In these latter cases the skull becomes enlarged from the formation of periosteal outgrowths of soft pumice-like osteoid tissue on the outer side of the skull. These deposits are very rich in blood-vessels, and occur between the ridges of the cranial bones and their centres of ossification, and are symmetrically arranged—often about the anterior fontanelle. The anterior fontanelle itself, instead of closing between the 18th and 24th months, as it normally does, remains patent in rickets until the third or even the sixth year. The general shape of the skull alters. The forehead is high and square, with prominent frontal eminences, and the head tends to be cubical or box-shaped, whereas in hydrocephalus it is rather globular ; the enlargement of the head m rickets appears to be greater than it really is because the development of the facial bones is retarded. The base of the nose may appear sunken, from retarded development of the basis cranii. In marked cases of rickets these changes in the shape of the skull are permanent. In congenital hydrocephalus, or enlargement of the head due to the presence of excess of fluid in the ventricles of the brain, the cranium becomes globular, and its bones are thin and atrophic. Often they are widely separated, the intervening fontanelles beuig much enlarged and partially filled in by numerous Wormian bones ; the atrophy of the cramum and brain may be so extreme that the Ught of a candle may be plauily visible through the whole thickness of the enlarged head. The head may be abnormally small (microcephalus) with premature ossification of its sutures, a condition usually associated with idiocy. Linear craniotomy, or the excision of a strip of bone on either side of the median line, has been proposed as an operation likely to improve the patient's mental development by allowing room for the growth and expansion of the brain. Unfortunately in these cases the brani always shows imperfect or prematurely an-ested development, so that the operation is foredoomed to failure ; in addition, premature ossification of the sutures is not invariably present m microcephalus. The mastoid antrum, situated in the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, is some- times the seat of suppuration as a result of infection extending backwards from the tympanic cavity. In such cases, the surgeon has to open tlie antrum in order to give exit to the pus. This he does by introducing his gouge in the suprameatal triangle (see page 224) A line is drawn horizontally through the upper border of the bony external auditory meatus, and a second vertically through the posterior wall of the meatus, ami the gouge is applied in the angle where these two lines intcr-sect each other; it the instrument be introduced at a higher level it will open the cavity of the skull. It is to be carried in the dkection of the external auditory canal—inwards forwards, and a little upwards—for the distance of from 1 to H cm., when the antrum will be reached, in some cases of middle-ear trouble, septic thrombosis of the lateral smus takes place, and it becomes necessary to trephine and explore the sinus.285 DISEASES OP THE SKULL In connection with the bones of the face a common malformation is cleft palate. The cleft usually starts posteriorly, and in its most elementary form may consist simply of a bifid uvula ; or the cleft may extend through the soft palate ; or the posterior part or the whole of the hard palate may be involved, the cleft extending as far forwards as the anterior palatine canal. In the severest forms, the cleft extends through the alveolus and passes between the premaxillary bone and the rest of the upper jaw ; that is to say, between the lateral incisor and canine teeth. In some instarces, the cleft has been noticed to pass outwards between' the central and lateral incisor teeth ; and this has induced some anatomists to believe that the premaxillary bone is developed from two centres (fig. 347) and not from one, as was stated in the description of the bone. The mesial segment, bearing a central incisor, is called an endogiiathion ; the lateral segment, bearing the lateral incisor, is called a mesognathion; and the rest of the maxilla is termed the exognathion. The cleft may affect one or both sides; if the latter, the central part is frequently displaced forwards and remains united to the septum of the nose, the deficiency in the alveolus being complicated with a cleft in the lip (hare-lip). On examining a cleft palate in which the alveolus is not implicated, the cleft will generally appear to be in the mesial line, but occasionally is unilateral and in some cases bilateral. To understand this it must be borne in mind that three processes are concerned in the formation of the palate—the two palatal processes of the maxillre, which grow in horizontally and unite in the middle line ; and the ethmo-vomerine process, which grows downwards from the base of the skull and fronto-nasal process to unite with the palatal process in the mesial line. In those cases where the palatal processes fail to unite with each other and with the mesial process, the cleft of the palate is median ; where one palatal process unites with the mesial septum, the other failing to do so, the cleft in the palate is unilateral. The right process is the one which usuallj' joins, and tho cleft is therefore on the left side. In some cases where the palatal processes fail to meet in the middle, the ethmo-vomerine process grows down- wards into the cleft and thus produces a bilateral cleft. Occasionally there may be a hole in the middle line of the hard palate, the anterior part of the hard and the soft palate being perfect, but this is rare, because, as a rule, the union of the various processes progresses from before backwards, and there- fore the posterior part of the palate is more Fig. 347.—The premaxilla and its frequently defective than the anterior. sutmres (after Albrecht) The bones of the face are sometimes fractured as the result of direct violence. The two most Endognathion commonly broken are the nasal bone and the Mesognathion mandible, and of these, the latter is by far the Exognathion most frequently fractured of all the bones of the face. Fracture of the nasal bone is for the most part transverse, and takes place about half an inch from the free margin. The broken portion maj' be displaced backwards or more generally to one side by the force which produced the lesion, as there are no muscles here which can cause displacement. The malar bone is probably never broken alone—that is to say, without fracture of some of the other bones of the face. The zygomatic arch is occasionally fractured, and when this occurs from direct violence, as is usually the case, the fragments may be displaced inwards. Fractures of the maxilla may vary much in degree, from the chipping off of a portion of the alveolar arch, to an extensive comminution of the whole bone from severe violence, as the kick of a horse. The most common situation for a fracture of the mandible is in the neighbourhood of the canine tooth, as at this spot the bone is weakened by the deep socket for the fang of this tooth ; it is next most frequently fractured at the angle; then at the symphysis ; and finally the neck of the condyle or the coronoid process may be broken. Occasionally a double fracture may occm-, one in either half of the bone. The fractures are usually compoimd, from laceration of the mucous membrane covering the gums. The displacement is mainly the result of the same violence as produced the injury, but may be further increased by the action of the muscles passing from the neighbourhood of the symphysis to the hyoid bone. The maxilla and the mandible are frequently the seat of necrosis ; but the disease more often a,ffects the lower than the upper jaw. It may be the result of periostitis from tooth irritation, injury, or the action of some specific poison, as syphilis, or from salivation by mercury ; it sometimes occurs in children after attacks of the exanthematous fevers, and a special form occurs from tho action of the fumes of phosphorus in persons engaged in the manufacture of matches. In the vast majority of cases, however, it is of dental origin. Tumours originate in the jaw-bones not infrequently, and may be either innocent or malignant. In the maxilla cysts may occur in the antrum ; or in either jaw in connection with the teeth ; those connected with the roots of fully developed teeth are known as aental cysts ; those connected with unerupted teeth, dentigerous cysts. Malignant tumours show a marked degree of malignancy when occurring in the maxilla. ihe maxilla sometimes requires removal for tumours or other conditions. In order to remove it, the patient should be placed in the recumbent position, in a good light, with286 OSTEOLOGY tho head and shoulders just raised. The central incisor tooth on the affected side is then extracted. One incision is begun just below the inner canthus of the eye and passes along tho side of tho noso, round the ala, and down tho middle lino of the upper li]) into the mouth. A second incision is made from the commencement of the first, along the lower border of tho orbit as far as the prominence of the malar bone. The flap thus formed is reflected outwards, so as to expose the bone. Tlie periosteum attached along the lower margin of the orbit is now to be incised, and with the handle of the scalpel the periosteum covering the floor of the orbit is to be raised from the bone ; for in aU cases it is essential that this fibrous layer should not be removed. The mouth is now \videly opened with a gag, and the mucous membrane covering the hard palate incised down to the bone in the middle line, and the soft palate separated from the hard. The surgeon now proceeds to divide the connections of the bone with the other bones of the face, having first separated the ala of the nose from its bony attachment. They are (1) the junction with the malar bone, the line of section being caiTied into the spheno-maxillary fissure ; (2) the frontal process of the maxilla ; a small portion of its upper extremity, connected with the nasal bone in front, the lachrymal bone behind, and the frontal bone above, being left ; (3) the connection with opposite maxilla and with the palate bone in the roof of the mouth. The bone is now firmly grasped with hon-forceps ; and by means of a rocking movement upwards and downwards, the remaining attachments of the orbital plate mth the ethmoid, and of the back of the bone with the palate, are broken through. Occasionally, in removing the upper jaw, it will be found that the orbital plate can be saved, and this should always be done if possible. A horizontal saw-cut is to be made just below the infra-orbital foramen, and the bone cut through in this situation. THE EXTREMITIES The extremities, or limbs, are long, jointed appendages of the body, each of which is connected to the trunk by one end, and is free in the rest of its extent. They are four in number : an tifftr or thoracic fair, connected with the thorax and subservient mainly to prehension ; and a lower fair, connected Mdth the vertebral column, intended for support and locomotion. Both pairs of hmbs are constructed after one common type, but certain differences are observed between the upper and lower pairs, dependent on the peculiar offices they have to perform. The bones by which the upper and lower limbs are attached to the trunk are named respectively the shoulder and pelvic girdles. The shoulder girdle (cingulum extremitatis superioris) is formed by the scapulae and clavicles, and is imperfect in front and behmd. In front, however, it is completed by the upper end of the sternum, with wliich the inner extremities of the clavicles articulate. Behind, it is widely imperfect, the scapulae being connected to the trunk by muscles only. The -pelvic girdle (cmgulum extremitatis inferions) is formed by the innomuiate bones, which articulate mth each other in front, at the symphysis pubis. It is imperfect behind, but the gap is fiUed in by the upper part of the sacrum. The pelvic girdle therefore presents, with the sacrum, a complete rmg, massive and comparatively rigid, m marked contrast to tlie hghtness and mobility of the shoulder gu-dle. BONES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY The Clavicle The Clavicle (clavicula), or collar-bone (figs. 348 and 349), forms the anterior portion of the shoulder girdle. It is a long bone, curved somewhat like the italic letter /, and placed nearly horizontally at the upper and anterior part of the thorax, immediately above the first rib. It articulates by its inner extremitv with the upper end of the sternum, and by its outer with the acromion process of the scapula.* It presents a double curvature, the convexity bemg directed forwards at the sternal end, and the concavity at the scapular end. Its outer third is flattened from above downwards, whilst its * The clavicle acts especially as a fulcrum to enable the muscles to give lateral motion to the arm lb is accordingly absent in those ammals whose fore-limbs are used only for n».rres^on bub IS present-for the most parb in animals whose anterior extremities arc Ed aZl-uS for prehension, though in some of them-as. for '^^'^-^l^^J:^::^!: ^^^ll of the carnivora-it is merely a rudimentary bone suspended among the muscles, and not articulating with cither the scapula or sternum.287 CLAVICLE inner portion, consisting of the inner two-thirds, is of a rounded or prismatic form. The outer third presents two surfaces, an upper and a lower ; and two borders, an anterior and a posterior. The upper surface is fiat, rough, and marlced by impressions for the attachments of the Deltoid in front, and the Trapezius behind ; between these two impressions a small portion of the bone is subcutaneous. Tiie under surface is flat. At its posterior border, a little external to the point where the prismatic joins with the flattened portion, is a rough eminence, the conoid tubercle; this, in the natural position of the bone, sm-mounts the coracoid process of the scapula, and gives attachment to the conoid ligament. From this tubercle an oblique ridge, the oblique or trapezoid ridge, passes forvvards and outwards, and affords attachment to the trapezoid Ugament. The anterior border is concave, thin, and rough, and gives attach- ment to the Deltoid ; it frequently presents, at its mner part, a tubercle, the deltoid tubercle. The posterior border is convex, rough, thicker than the anterior, and gives attachment to the Trapezius. The inner two-thirds constitute the prismatic portion of the bone, which is curved so as to be convex in front, concave behind, and is marked by three borders, separating three sm-faces. The anterior border is continuous wnth. the anterior margin of the flat portion. Its outer portion is smooth, and Capsular ligament Fig. 349.—Left clavicle. Inferior surface. Capsular ligament corresponds to the interval between the attachment of the Pectoralis major and Dtiltoid; its inner part forms the lower boundary of an elliptical space for the attachment of the clavicular portion of the PectoraUs major, and approaches the posterior border of the bone. The superior border is continuous with the posterior margin of the flat portion, and separates the anterior from the posterior surface. Smooth and rounded externaUy, it becomes rough towards the mner third for the attachment of the Sterno- mastoid, and termmates at the upper angle of the sternal extremity. The posterior or subclavian border separates the posterior from the inferior surtace, and extends from the conoid tubercle to the rhomboid impression ; It terms the posterior boundary of the groove for the Subclavius muscle, and gives attachment to a layer of cervical fascia which envelops the Omo-hyoid.288 OSTEOLOGY The anterior surface is included between the superior and anterior borders. Its outer part looks upwards, and is continuous witii the superior surface of the flattened portion; it is smootli, convex, and nearly subcutaneous, being covered only by the Platysma. Its inner portion is divided by a narrow- subcutaneous area into two parts : a lower, elliptical in form, and directed forwards, for tlie attachment of the Pectoralis major ; and an upper, for the attachment of the Sterno-cleido-mastoid. The posterior or cervical surface is smooth, and looks backwards towards tlie root of the neck. It is limited, above, by the superior border; below, by the subclavian border ; internally, by the margin of the sternal extremity ; and externally, by the conoid tubercle. It is concave from within outwards, and is in relation, by its lower part, with the suprascapular vessels. This surface, at the junction of the inner and outer curves, is also in close relation ^\^th the bracliial plexus of nerves and the subclavian vessels. It gives attachment, near the sternal extremity, to part of the Sterno-hyoid; and presents, near the middle, a foramen, directed obliquely outwards, which transmits the cliief nutrient arterj'^ of the bone. Sometimes there are two foramina on the posterior surface, or one on the posterior and another on the inferior surface. The inferior or subclavian surface is bounded, in front, by the anterior border ; beliind, by the subclavian border. It is narrow internally, but gradually increases in width externally, and is con- tinuous with the imder surface of the flat portion. On its inner part is a broad rough surface, the rhomboid impression (tuberositas costalis), rather more than an inch in length, for the attachment of the .CQsto-cl^yicular or rhomboid ^ liga^^ient. The rest of this surface is occupied by a groove, broad and smooth externally, narrow and more uneven internally, which gives attachment to the Subclavius ; ^the cost^ora^Qjdmem^^ wliich splits to enclose the muscle, - is ^ttachecLio^tljejji^gu^ Not infrequently this groove is ""^iobdividedlotigiHidma^ line which gives attachment to the intermuscular septum of the Subclavius. The inner or sternal extremity (extremitas stemalis) of the clavicle is triangular in form, directed inwards, and a little downwards and forwards; it presents an articular facet, concave from before backwards, convex from above downwards, which articulates with the manubrium sterni tlu'ough the inter- vention of an interarticular fibro-cartilage. The lower part of the facet is carried outwards on the inferior surface of the bone as a small semi-oval area wMch articulates with the cartilage of the first rib. The circumference of the articular surface is rough, for the attachment of numerous ligaments; the upper angle gives attachment to the interarticular fibro-cartilage. The outer or acromial extremity (extremitas acromialis), directed outwards and forwards, presents a small, flattened, oval facet (facies articularis acromiahs) which looks obliquely downwards, for articulation with the acromion process of the scapula. The circumference of the articular facet is rough, especially above, for the attachment of the acromio-clavicular ligaments. In the female, the clavicle is generally shorter, tliinner, less curved, and smoother than in the male. In those persons wlio perform considerable manual labour it becomes thicker and more curved, and its ridges for muscular attachment are prominently marked. Structure.—The clavicle consists of cancellous tissue, invested in a compact layei-, which is much thicker in the middle than at the extremities of the bone, jjj^^^^jj^gificadon.—The cl^ivicle begins to ossify.before auv. other bgac in the bo_dv; \ inn^siHecrirom two centres—viz. a primary centre for the shaft and outer end, ) which appears during the fifth or sixth week of fojtal life, and a secondary centred* for the sternal end, which makes its appearance about the eighteenth or twentieth|| year, and unites with the rest of the bone about the twenty-fifth year. Surface Form.—'\:\\e clavicle can be felt throughout its entire length. At the inner end, the enlarged sternal extremity, where the bone projects above the upper margni o\ the sternum, can be felt, forming with the sternum and the rounded tendon of the bterno- mastoid a v-shaped notch, the prestenial notch. Passing outwards, the shaft of the bone can be defined immediately under the skin, with its convexity forwa.-ds in the inner two- thirds ; the surface is partially obscured above and below by the attachments of the Sterno- mastoid and Pectoralis major. In the outer third it is concave forwai-ds, "•>"''^^es externally in a somewhat enlarged extremity which articulates with the acromion process of the scapula. The direction of the clavicle is almost, if not quite, horizontal when Un-CLAVICLE 289 arm is lying quietly by the side, though in well-developed subjects it may incline a little upwards at its outer end. Its direction, however, varies with the varying movements of the shoulder-joint. The clavicle inclines backwards, so that its outer or acromial extremity is on a plane posterior to its sternal end." This causes the shoulder to be thrown backwards awcay from the thorax. Applied Anatoviy.—The clavicle is very frequently fi-actured. This is duo to the fact that it is much exposed to violence, and is the only bony connection between the upper limb and the trunk, actmg as a buttress to keep the point of the shoulder away from the thorax. It is, moreover, slender, and is very superficial. It may be broken by direct or indirect violence. The most common cause is, however, indirect violence, as the result of force applied to the hand or shoulder, and the bone then gives way at the junction of its outer with its inner two-thirds, that is to say, at the junction of the two curves, for this is its weakest part. The fracture is generally oblique, and the displacement of the outer fragment is downwards, forwards, and inward^. The deformity is mainly due to the weight of the arm acting upon the fragment when the buttress-like action of the bone is gone, assisted by the muscles which pass from the thorax to the upper extremity. The mner fragment, as a rule, is little displaced. Beneath the bone the main vessels of the upper limb and the great nerve-cords of the brachial plexus lie on the first rib and are liable to be wounded in fracture, especially in fracture from direct violence, when the force of the blow drives the broken ends inwards. Fortunately the Subclavius intervenes between these structures and the clavicle, and often protects them from injury. The clavicle is occasionally the seat of sarcomatous tumours, rendering the operation of excision of the entire bone necessary. This is an operation of considerable difficulty and danger. It is best performed by exposing the bone freely, disarticulating at the acromial end, and turning it inwards. The removal of the outer part is comparatively easy, but resection of the inner part is fraught wth difficulty, the main danger being the risk of wounding the great veins which are in relation %vith its under surface. Great deformity of the clavicle may be met with m rickets, the natural curvatures of the bone being exaggerated imtil it takes on an S-shape. The Scapula The Scapula or shoulder-blade forms the posterior part of the shoulder gu-dle. It IS a flat, triangular bone, and presents for examination two surfaces three borders, and three angles. The ventral surface (facies costalis) (fig. 350) presents a broad concavity the tossa subscapularis. The inner two-thirds of the fossa are marked by several oblique ridges, which are directed outwards and upwards ; the outer third IS smooth. The obUque ridges give attachment to the tendinous inter- sections, and the surfaces between them to the fleshy fibres, of the Subscapularis ihe outer third of tlie fossa is covered by the fibres of this muscle. The sub- scapular fossa is separated from the internal border by smooth triangular areas at the superior and inferior angles, and in the interval between these by a narrow ridge winch is often deficient. These triangular areas and the intervening ridge attord attachment to the Serratus magnus. The subscapular fossa presents a ti;ansverse depression at its upper part, where the bone appears to be bent on itselt along a fine at right angles to and passing through the centre of the glenoid cavity, forming a considerable angle, called the subscapular angle ■ this gives greater strength to the body of the bone by its arched form, ^vhi\e the sunmiit of the arch serves to support the spine and acromion process. ihe dorsal surface (facies dorsalis) (fig. .351) is arched from above down- wards, and is alternately concave and convex from side to side. It is subdivided unequally into two parts by the spine ; the portion above the spine is called ^tiemipraspmousjossa, and that below it the infraspinous fossa. ihe supraspinous fossa (fossa supraspinata), the smaUer of the two is concave, smooth, and broader at the vertebral than at the humeral extremity, attords attachment by its inner two-thirds to the Supraspinatus. ihe infraspinous fossa (fossa infraspinata) is mucli larger than the pre- ceaing ; towards its vertebral margin a shallow concavity is seen at its upper part. Its centre presents a prominent convexity, while near the axillary Doraer is a deep groove «'hich runs from the upper towards the lower part, xne inner two-thirds of the fossa affords attachment to the Infraspinatus • the outer third is covered by this muscle. riflii surface is marked near tlie axillary border by an elevated hnnWn'^i^''. ^"-'^"^ P^i'*^ of the glenoid cavity, downwards and oacKwards to the vertebral border, about an inch above the inferior angle VOSTEOLOGY 290 The ridge serves for the attachment of a strong aponeurosis, which separates the Infraspinatus from the two Teres muscles. The surface of bone between the ridge and the axillary border is narrow in the upper two-thirds of its extent, and is crossed near its centre by a groove for the passage of the dorsalis scapula3 vessels ; it affords attachment to the Teres minor. Its lower third presents a broader, somewhat triangular surface, which gives origin to the Teres major, and over which the Latissimus dorsi glides ; frequently the Fig. 350.—Left scapula. Anterior surface. Ooraco-aerotn ia I ligament latter muscle takes origin by a few fibres from tliis part. The broad and narrow portions of bone above alluded to are separated by an oblique line, wliich runs from the axillary border, downwards and backwards to meet the elevated ridge : to it is attached the aponeurosis which separates the leres muscles from eacli other. , , f u i ■ i Tlie spine (spina scapulae) is a prominent plate of bone, which crosbt.^ obliquely the inner four-fifths of the dorsal surface of the scapula at its uppe. part and separates the supra- from the infra-spinous fossa. It botrins at t)ie291 SCAPULA vertebral border by a smooth, triangular area over which the tendon of insertion of the lower part of the Trapezius glides, and, gradually becoming more elevated as it passes outwards, ends in the acromion process, which over- liangs the shoulder-joint. The spine is triangular, and flattened from above do\\Tiwards, its apex being directed inwards, its base outwards. It presents two surfaces and three borders. Its superior surface is concave; it assists in Fig. 351.—Left scapula. Posterior surface. Coraco-humerdl ligament Coraco-acromial ligament Sum-i^ni.S'' supraspmous fossa, and affords attachment to part of the S iiTo n 5Mr/ace forms part of the infraspinous fossa, gives of a nutrlS? " f *m -^fP'^^tf' ^^^^l P^-esents near its centre the orifice dorsum o til r - -2^ /hrec borders, the anterior is attached to the two C« ' P<^'te^\or, or crest of (he spine, is broad, and presents o hps and an mtervenmg rougli interval. Tlie Trapezius is attached to lieOSTEOLOGY 292 superior lip, and a rough tubercle is generally seen on that portion of the spine which receives the tendon of insertion of the lower part of this muscle. The Deltoid is attached to the whole length of tlie interior lip. The interval between the lips is subcutaneous and partly covered by the tendinous fibres of these muscles. The external border, or base, the shortest of the three, is slightly concave ; its edge, thick and round, is contiimous above with the under surface of the acromion process, below with tlie neck of the scapula. It forms tlie inner boundary of a notch, the (p-eat scajmlar notch, wliich serves to connect the supra- and infra-spinous fossae. The acromion process (acromion) forms the summit of the shoulder, and is a large, somewhat triangular or oblong process, flattened from beliind forwards, directed at first a httle outwards, and then curving forwards and upwards, so as to overhang the glenoid cavity. Its upper surface, directed upwards, backwards, and outwards, is convex, rough, and gives attachment to some fibres of the Deltoid, and in tlie rest of its extent is subcutaneous. Its under surface is smooth and concave. Its outer border is thick and irregular, and presents three or four tubercles for the tendinous origins of the Deltoid muscle. Its hmer border, shQi'ter than the outer, is concave, gives attachment to a portion of the Trapezius, and presents about its centre a small, oval surface (facies articularis acromii) for articulation with the acromial end of the clavicle. Its apex, which corresponds to the point of meeting of these two borders in front, is thin, and has attached to it the coraco-acromial ligament. Of the three borders of the scapula, the superior (margo superior) is the shortest and thinnest ; it is concave, and extends from the superior angle to the base of the coracoid process. At its outer part is a deep, semicircular notch, the suprascapular notch (incisura scapulae), formed partly by the base of the coracoid process. This notch is converted into a foramen by the transverse ligament, and serves for the passage of the suprascapular nerve ; sometimes the ligament is ossified. The adjacent margin of the superior border affords attachment to the Omo-liyoid. The external or axillary border (margo axdlaris) is the thickest of the three. It begins above at the lower margm of the glenoid cavity, and inclines obliquely downwards and backwards to the inferior angle. Immediately below the glenoid cavity is a rough impression, the infraglenoid tubercle (tuberositas infraglenoidahs) about an inch in length, which affords attacliment to the long head of the Triceps ; in front of this is a lont^itudinal groove, which extends as far as the lower third of this border, and affords origin to part of the Subscapularis. The inferior tlurd, which is thin and sharp, serves for the attachment of a few fibres of the Teres major behind, and of the Subscapularis in front. The internal or vertebral border (margo vertebralis), also named the base, is the longest of the three, and extends from the superior to the inferior angle. It is arched, intermediate m thickness between the superior and tlie external borders, and the portion of it above t he spine is bent considerably outwards, so as to form an obtu.se angle with tlie part below. This border presents an anterior and a posterior hp, and an intermediate narrow area. The anterior lip affords attachment to the Serratus masnus : the posterior lip, to the Supraspinatus above the spine, the intra- spinatus below ; tlie area between the two lips, to the Levator anguli scapu * above the triangular surface at the commencement of the spine, to the Rhomboideus minor on the edge of that surface, and to the Rhoniboideus major ■ this last is attached by means of a fibrous arch, connected above to the lower part of the triangular surface at the base of the spine, and below to the lower part of the border. j , • f;„„ Of the three ajwles. the superior (angulus medialis), formed by the junction of the superior and internal borders, is thin, smooth, rounded, mclined somc- whaf outwards, and gives attacliment to a few fibres of I^vato;anguh scapulae. The inferior angle (angulus inferior), thick rough is foiniexl > the union of the vertebral and ax Uary borders, its outer sm aee ^^^^^^^ attachment to the Teres major and frequently to a few ^'/^^J^f^'f^^™^^^^ dorsi. The external angle (angulus lateralis) is tl^^ thickest part _of the W and forms what is called the head of the scapula The /,,rarf present a shallow pyriform, articular surface, the gleiwid camty (^'-^^^'^^^ f^.f ] ^^^^^^^ iJtwards and forwards. It is broader below than above and its ^^^'^^^^^ is the longest. At its apex is a slight elevation, the supraglenoid tubccl^293 SCAPULA (tuberositas supraglenoidalis), to which the long tendon of the Biceps is attached. The surface is covered wdth cartilage in the recent state ; and its margins, slightly raised, give attachment to a fibro-cartilaginous structure, the glenoid ligavient, which deepens the cavity. The neck ot the scapula (collum scapulae) is the slightly depressed surface wliicli sui'rounds the head; it is more distinct beiiind where it forms part of the great scapular notcli, than in front, and below than above. The coracoid process (processus coracoideus) is a thick curved process attached by a broad base to the upper part of the neck of the scapula ; it is directed at first upwards and inwards ; then, becoming smaller, it changes its direction, and passes forwards and outwards. The ascending portion, flattened from before backwards, presents in fi'ont a smooth concave surface, over wliich the Subscapularis passes. The horizontal portion is flattened from above downwards ; its upper surface is convex and irregular, and gives attachment Fio. 352.—Plan of ossification of the scapula. From seven centres. to the Pectoralis minor ; its under surface is smooth ; its inner border is rough, and gives attachment to the Pectoralis minor ; its outer border is also rough tor the coraco-acromial ligament, wliile the apex is embraced by the conjoined tendon of origm of the short head of the Biceps and Coraco-brachialis and gives attachment to the costo-coracoid ligament. At the inner side of the root of the coracoid process is a rough impression for the attachment of the conoid ligament; and running from it obliquely forwards and outwards, on to the upper surface of the horizontal portion, is an elevated ridge for the attachment of the trapezoid ligament. Structure.—The bead, processes, and the thickened parts of the bone, contam cancellous tissue ; the rest of the bone consists of a thin layer of compact tissue, ihe central part of the supraspinous fossa and the upper part of the infraspinous lossa, but especially the former, are usually so thin as to be semi-transparent; occasionally the bone is found wanting in this situation, and the adjacent muscles are separated only by fibrous tissue.294 OSTEOLOGY Ossification (fig. 352).—The scapula is ossified from neven or more centres : one for tlie body, two for the coracoid process, two for the acromion, one for the vertebral border, and one for the inferior angle. Ossification of the body begins about the second month of foetal life, by the formation of an irregular quadrilateral plate of bone, immediately behind the glenoid cavity. This plate extends so as to form the chief part of the bone, the spine growing up from its posterior surface about the third month. At birth, a large part of the scapula is osseous, but the glenoid cavity, the coracoid and acromion processes, the posterior border, and inferior angle are cartilaginous. From the fifteenth to the eighteenth month after birth, ossification takes place in the middle of the coracoid process, which as a rule becomes joined with the rest of the bone about the fifteenth year. Between the fourteenth and twentieth years, ossification of the remaining parts takes place in quick succession, and usually in the following order ; first, in the root of the coracoid process, in the form of a broad scale ; secondly, near the base of the acromion process ; thirdly, in the inferior angle and contiguous part of the posterior border ; fourthly, near the extremity of the acromion ; fifthly, in the posterior border. The base of the acromion process is formed by an outward extension of the spine ; the two separate nuclei of the process unite, and then join with the extension from the spine. The upper third of the glenoid cavity is ossified from a separate centre (subcoracoid), which makes its appearance between the tenth and eleventh years and joins between sixteen and eighteen. Further, an epiphysial plate appears for the lower part of the glenoid cavity, while the tip of the coracoid process frequently presents a separate nucleus. These various epiphyses are joined to the bone by the twenty-fifth year. Failure of bony union between the acromion process and spine sometimes occurs, the junction being effected by fibrous tissue, or by an imperfect articulation ; in some cases of supposed fracture of the acromion with ligamentous union, it is probable that the detached segment was never united to the rest of the bone. Articulations.—The scapula articulates with the humerus and clavicle. Surface Form.—The only parts of the scapula which are truly subcutaneous are the spine and acromion process, but, in addition to these, the coracoid process, the vertebral border and inferior angle, and, to a less extent, the axillary border, may be defined. The acromion process and spine are easily felt throughout their entke length, forming, with the clavicle, the arch of the shoulder. The acromion can be ascertauxed to be connected to the clavicle at the acromio-clavicular joint by rimnmg the finger along it, the position of the joint being often indicated by an irregularity or bony outgrowth from the clavicle close to the joint. The acromion can be felt formmg the point of the shoulder, and from this can be traced backwards to the spme. The place of junction is denoted by a prommence, which is sometimes called the acromial angle. The spine can be felt as a distmct ridge, marked on the surface as an obhque depression, which becomes less and less distinct and ends a little external to the spinous processes of the vertebrae. It« termination is indicated by a slight dimple in the skin, on a level with the mterval between the third and fourth thoracic spines. Below this point the vertebral border of the scapula may be traced, runnmg do%vnvvards and outwards to the inferior angle of the bone, which can be recognised, although covered by the Latissunus dorsi. From this angle the axillary border can usually be traced through its thick muscular covermg, formmg, with the muscles, the posterior fold of the axilla. The coracoid process may be felt about an inch below the junction of the middle and outer third of the cla\ncle. It is covered by the anterior border of the Deltoid, and lies a little to the outer side of a slight depression, corresponding to the mterval between the Pectoralis major and Deltoid. When the arm is hangmg by the side, the upper angle of the scapula corresponds to the upper border ot the second rib or the mterval between tJie farst and second thoracic spines, the inferior angle to the upper border of the eighth nb or the interval between the seventh and eighth thoracic spines. _ Applied A-natomy.—FractuTes of the body of the scapula are rare, owing to the mobiUty of the bone, the thick layer of muscles by which it is encased, and the elasticity ot the ribs on which it rests. Fracture of the neck is also uncommon The most trequeiit course of the fracture is from the suprascapular notch to the infraglenoid tubercle and it derives its principal interest from its simulation of a subglenoid dislocation ot the humerus. The diagnosis can be made by notmg the alteration m the position ot the coracoid process. The acromion process is more frequently broken than any other part of the bone, and fibrous union is very liable to occur in this situation. . t w The presence ot ' winged scapula' (scapulas alata;) described in thm persons of feeble muscular development in whom the lower angles of the blade-bones project unduly, is due partly to abnormal roundness of the thoracic wall (' barrel-shaped chest, page zii),HUMERUS 295 and partly to weakness and flaccidity of the Latissimus dorsi and Serratus magnus. The shoulders are held low in these subjects, and the clavicles slope dowiawards and forwards, carrying with them the scapula, which fit ill to the posterior wall of the chest and so tend to project from it. Tumours of various kinds grow from the scapula. Of the innocent form probably the osteomata are the most common. When an osteoma gi-ows from the venter of the scapula, as it sometimes does, it is of the compact variety, such as usually grows from membrane-formed bones, as the bones of the skull. Sarcomatous tumours sometimes grow from the scapula, and may necessitate removal of the bone, with or without amputation of the upper limb. The bone may be excised by a T-shaped incision, and the flaps being reflected, the removal is commenced from the posterior or vertebral border, so that the subscapular vessels which lie along the axillary border are amongst the last structures divided, and can be at once secured. The Humerus The Humerus (figs. 353 and 354) is the longest and largest bone of the upper extremity ; it presents for examination a shaft and two extremities. The upper extremity consists of a large rounded head joined to the shaft by a constricted portion called the neck, and two eminences, the greater and lesser tuberosities. The head (caput humeri), nearly hemispherical in form,* is directed upwards, inwards, and a little backwards, and articulates with the glenoid cavity oif the scapula. The circumference of its articular surface is slightly constricted, and is termed the anatomical neck, in contradistinction to the constriction which exists below the tuberosities. The latter is called the surgical neck (collum chirurgicum), since it is frequently the seat of fracture. Fi-acture of the anatomical neck does sometimes, though rarely, occur. The anatomical neck (coUum anatomicum) is obliquely directed, forming an obtuse angle with the shaft. It is most distmctly marked in the lower half of its cu-cumference ; in the upper half it is represented by a narrow groove separating the head from the tuberosities. Its circumference affords attachment to the capsular Ugament, and is perforated by numerous vascular foramina. The greater tuberosity (tuberculum majus) is situated on the outer side of the head and lesser tuberosity. Its upper surface is rounded and marked by three flat impressions, separated by two shght ridges : the highest impres- sion gives insertion to the Supraspinatus ; the middle to the Infraspinatus ; the lowest one, and the shaft of the bone below it, to the Teres minor. The outer surface of the greater tuberosity is convex, rougli, and continuous with the outer surface of the shaft. The lesser tuberosity (tuberculum minus), although smaller, is more prominent than the greater : it is situated in front, and is directed inwards and forwards. Above and in front it presents an impression for the insertion of the tendon of the Subscapularis. The tuberosities are separated from each other by a deep groove, the bicipital groove (sulcus iutertubercularis) which lodges tlie long tendon of the Biceps, and transmits a branch of the anterior circumflex artery to the shoulder-joint, it begms above between the two tuberosities, runs obUquely downAvards and a elf ®nds near the junction of the upper with the middle thu-d ot the bone. In the recent state its upper part is covered Math a tliin layer of cartilage, hned by a prolongation of the synovial membrane of the shoulder- joint; its lower portion gives msertion to the tendon of the Latissimus dorsi. It IS deep and narrow above, and becomes shallow and a Uttle broader as it descends, its lips are called, respectively, the anterior and posterior bicipital ridges (cristse tuberculi majoris et minoris), and form the upper parts of the anterior and mternal borders of the shaft of the bone. The shaft (corpus humeri) is almost cyhndrical in the upper half of its extent, prismatic and flattened below, and presents three borders and three surtaces for examination. * Though the head is nearly hemispherical in form, its margin, as Humphry has shown, is uy no means a true circle. Its greatest diameter is, from the top of the bicipital groove in a aireotion downwards, inwards, and backwards. Hence it follows that the greatest elevation nhi;^® 'T''" . obtained by rolling the articular surface in this direction—that is to say, Obliquely upwards, outwards, and forwards.296 OSTEOLOGY Fig. 353.—Left humerus. Anterior view. Capsular ligament Surgical neck Common origin "iTr^- Flexor carpi radialis Pnltnaris longiis Flexor snblimis digitorum Flexor carpi nlnaris V Brachio-radiaUs or Supinator longus Extensor carpi radialis longior Capsular ligament [—Commoji origin of Extensor carpi rod. hrcv. „ comnnniis digiiornm „ minimi digiti „ carpi ulnaris Supinator brevisHUMERUS The anterior border (margo an- terior) runs from the front of the greater tuberosity above to tlie coronoid fossa below, separating tlie internal from the external surface. Its upper part is very prominent and rough, and forms the outer lip of the bicipital groove ; it is some- times called the anterior bicipital or pectoral ridge, and serves for the insertion of the tendon of the Pectoralis major. About its centre it forms the anterior boundary of the rougli deltoid impression ; below, it is smooth and rounded, aiford- ing attachment to the Brachials anticus. The external border (margo lateralis) runs from the back part of the greater tuberosity to the external epicondyle, and separates the external from the posterior surface. Its upper half is rounded and indistinctly marked, serving for the attachment of the lower part of the insertion of the Teres minor, and below this giving origin to the external head of the Triceps muscle; its centre is traversed by a broad, but shallow oblique de- pression, the musculo-spiral groove (sulcus radialis). Its lower part for •ms a promhient, rough margin, a little curved from behind for- ^•ards, the external supracondylar ridge, which presents an anterior lip for the origin of the Brachio- radialis above, and Extensor carpi radialis longior beloM', a posterior lip for the Triceps, and an inter- mediate space for the attachment of tlie external intermuscular septum. The internal border (margo medialis) extends from the lesser tuberosity to the internal epicon- dyle. Its upper third consists of a prominent ridge, the posterior bicipital ridge, which gives insertion to the tendon of the Teres major. About its centre is a slight im- pression for the insertion of the Coraco-brachialis, and just below this is the entrance of the nutrient canal, directed dowmvards; some- tunes there is a second nutrient canal situated at the commence- ment of the musculo-spiral groove, llie mferior third of this border IS raised into a sliglit ridge, the internal supracondylar ridge, wliich becomes very prominent below ; it presents an anterior lip for tlie Fig. 354.—Left humerus. Posterior view.298 OSTEOLOGY origins of the Bracliialis anticus and Pronator teres, a posterior lip for the internal head of the Triceps, and an intermediate space for the attachment of the internal intermuscular septum. The external surface (facies anterior lateralis) is directed outwards above, where it is smooth, rounded, and covered by the Deltoid; forwards and outwards below, where it is slightly concave from above do^\^lwards, and gives origin to part of the Bracliialis anticus muscle. About the middle of this surface is a rough, triangular elevation (tuberositas deltoidea) for the insertion of the Deltoid; below this is the musculo-spiral groove, directed obhquely from behind, forwards, and downwards, and transmitting the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery. The internal surface (facies anterior medialis), less extensive than the external, is directed inwards above, forwards and inwards below; its upper part is narrow, and forms the floor of the bicipital groove which gives insertion to the tendon of the Latissimus dorsi; its middle part is slightly rough for the attachment of some of the fibres of the tendon of insertion of the Coraco-brachiahs ; its lower part is smooth, concave from above downwards, and gives origm to the Brachialis anticus.* The posterior surface (facies posterior) appears somewhat twisted, so that its upper part is directed a little inwards, its lower part backwards and a little outwards. Nearly the whole of this surface is covered by the external and internal heads of the Triceps, the former arising from its upper and outer part, the latter from its inner and back part, the two heads being separated by the musculospiral groove. The lower extremity is flattened from before backwards, and curved slightly forwards ; it terminates below in a broad, articular surface, which is divided into two parts by a slight ridge. Projecting on either side are the external and internal epicondyles. The articular surface extends a httle lower than the epicondyles, and is curved slightly forwards ; its greatest breadth is in the transverse diameter, and it is obliquely directed, so that its inner extremity occupies a lower level than the outer. The outer portion of the articular surface presents a smooth, rounded eminence, named the capitellum, or radial head of the humerus (capitulum humeri) ; it articulates with the cup- shaped depression on the head of the radius, and is limited to the front and lower part of the bone. On the inner side of this eminence is a shallow groove, in which is received the inner margin of the liead of the radius. Above the front part of the capitellum is a shght depression, the fossa radialis, which receives the anterior border of the head of the radius, when the forearm is flexed. The inner portion of the articular surface, the trochlea humeri, presents a deep depression between two well-marked borders. The troclilea is convex from before backwards, concave from side to side, and occupies the anterior, lower, and posterior parts of the extremity. The external border, less pro- minent than the mternal, separates it from the groove which articulates with the margin of the head of the radius. The internal border is tlucker of greater length, and consequently more prominent, than the external. The grooved portion of the articular surface fits accurately A\ithin the greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna ; it is broader and deeper on the posterior than on the anterior aspect of the bone, and is inchned obhquely from behmd forwards, and from without inwards. Above the front part of the trochlear surface is a small depression, the fossa corojioidea, which receives the eoronoid process ot the uhia during flexion of the forearm. Above the back part of the trochlea is a deep triangular depression, the oZecrawo/i/ossa (fossa olecrani), in winch * A small, hook-shaped process of bono, the siqiracondi/l^r process, varying from i to t ol an inch in length, is not infrequently found projecting from the mner ^"'•f-'*'=%°f ^^^^X^,^^^^ the humerus two inches above the internal epicondyle. It is curved inwards, and its pointed extremity is connected to the internal border, 3"^tabove the inn epicondyle, by a ligament or fibrous band, which gives origin to %r>o'^'Zf.^d hv7£^^ teres- through the arch completed by this fibrous band the median nerve and l^iacliiu arte T pass ^fhen these structuJes deviate from their usual course. ^ Son'etimes t^ie ii^rve aloiu is trans^mittcd through it, or the nerve may be accompanied by the "l"^,^^.'^ "^^f/.f ° high division of the brachial. A well-marked groove is usually found ^''l^'^^^Jj;^, which the nerve and artery are lodged. This arch is the homologue of the ^"P'^'cond} '""^ J;"™™ in many animals, and probably serves in them to protect the nerve and artery fiom compression during the contraction of the muscles in this region.299 HUMERUS Fig. 365.—Longitudinal section of head of left humerus. E])iphijsiul line Fig. 356,—Plan of ossification of the humeras. the summit of tlie olecranon process is received in extension of the forearm. These fossae are separated from one another by a thin, transparent lamina of bone, which is sometimes perforated, form- ing the supratrochlear foramen; their margins afford attachment to the anterior and posterior ligaments of tlie elbow-joint; the fossae are lined, in the recent state, by the synovial membrane of this articula- tion. The external epicondyle (epicondylus lateralis) is a small, tubercular eminence, less prominent tlian the internal, curved a little forwards, and giving attachment to the external lateral ligament of the elbow- joint, and to a tendon common to the origin of some of the Extensor and Supi- nator muscles. Tlie internal epicondyle (epicondylus medialis), larger, more promi- nent, and therefore more liable to fracture than the external, is directed a little back- wards ; it gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the elbow-joint, to the Pronator teres, and to a tendon common to the origin of some of the Flexor muscles of the forearm. The ulnar nerve runs in a groove (sulcus n. ulnaris) on the back of the internal epicondyle. These epicondyles are dii-ectly continuous above ^vith the external and internal supracondylar ridges. Structure.—The extremities con- sist of cancellous tissue, covered with a thin, compact layer (fig. 355) ; the shaft is composed of a cyUu- der of compact tissue, thicker at the centre than towards the extremi- ties, and contains a large medullary canal which extends along its whole length. Ossification (fig. 356). — The humerus is ossified fi-om eight centres, one for each of the following parts : the shaft, the head, the greater tuber- osity, the lesser tuberosit}', the radial head, the trochlear portion of the articular surface, and one for each epicondyle. The centre for the shaft appears near the middle of the bone in the eighth week of foetal life, and soon extends towards the extremities. At birth the humerus is ossified in nearly its whole length, only the extremities remaining cartilaginous. During the first year, sometimes before birth, ossification commences in the head of the bone, and during the third year the centre lor the greater tuberosity, and during the fifth that for the lesser tuberosity, make their appearance. By the sixth year the centres for the head and tuberosities have increased in size and become joined, so as to form a single large - • — about the twentieth year. The lower end ot the humerus is ossified as follows. At the end of the second Epijihijses of head and \ y/\^ tuherosities blend at V/ \^ Jifth year, and unite with shaft at twcnti eth year Unites with shaft \ a,- at eighteenth year J 5 epiphysis, which fuses with the shaft vearOSTEOLOGY 300 ossification begins in the capitellum, and extends inwards, to form the chief part of the articuhir end of the bone, the centre for the inner part of the trochlea not appearing until about the age of twelve. Ossification commences in the internal epicondyle about the fifth year, and in the external about the thirteenth or fourteenth year. About the sixteenth or seventeenth year, the outer epicondyle and both portions of the articulating surface, having already joined, unite with the shaft, and at tlie eighteenth year the inner epicondyle becomes joined to it. Articulations.—The humerus articulates with the scapula, and with the ulna and radius. Surface Form.—The humeriis is almost entirely clothed by the muscles which surroxmd it, and the only parts of the bone which are strictly subcutaneous are small portions of the internal and external epicondyles. In addition to these, the tuberosities and a part of the head of the bone can be felt under the skin and muscles by which they are covered. Of these the greater tuberosity forms the most prominent bony point of the shoulder, extending beyond the acromion process and covered by the Deltoid. It influences materially the surface form of the shoulder. It is best felt while the arm is lying loosely by the side ; if the arm be raised, it recedes from under the finger. The lesser tuberosity, directed forwards and inwards, can be felt on the inner side of the greater tuberositj', just below the acromio-clavicular joint. Between the two tuberosities lies the bicipital groove. This can be defined by making firm pressure with the finger, just internal to tlie greater tuberosity ; on rotating the humerus, the groove will be felt to pass under the finger. With the arm abducted from the side the lower part of the head of the bone can be felt by pressing deeply in the axilla. On either side of the elbow-joint, and just above it, are the internal and external epicondyles. Of these the internal is the more prominent, but the internal supracondylar ridge, f)assing upwards from it, is much less marked than the external, and, as a rule, is not to be felt. Occasionally, however, the hook-shaped process mentioned above is found on this border. The position of the external epicondyle is to be seen most plainly diu-ing semiflexion of the forearm, and is indicated by a depression between the attachments of the adjacent muscles. From it a strong bony ridge can be felt rimning up the outer border of the shaft of the bone. This is the external supra- condylar ridge ; it is concave forwards, and corresponds with the curved direction of the lower extremity of the humerus. Applied Anatomy.—There are several points of surgical interest coimected with the ossification of the humerus. The upper end, though the first to ossify, is the last to join the shaft, and the length of the bone is mainly due to growth from the upper epiphysial line. Hence, in cases of amputation of the arm in young subjects, the humerus continues to grow considerably, and the end of the bone which immediately after the operation was covered with a thick cushion of soft tissue begins to project, thinning the soft parts and rendering the stump conical. This may necessitate the removal of a couple of inches or so of the bone, and even after this operation a recurrence of the conical stump may take place. The region of the upper epiphysis, moreover, is the common site for the growth of tumours, both innocent and maUgnant. There are several points of surgical interest in connection -w-ith fractures of the himierus. The bone may be broken by direct or indirect violence, hke the other long bones, but, in addition to this, it is probably more frequently fractured by muscular action than any other bone of this class. It is usually the shaft, just below the insertion of the Deltoid, which is thus broken, and the accident has been kno^vn to happen from throwing a stone. Fractures of the upper end may take place either through the anatomical or surgical neck, or a separation of the greater tuberosity may occxn. Fracture of the anatomical neck is a very rare accident ; m fact, it is doubted by some whether it ever occurs. Fracture of the surgical neck of the bone is not xmeommon, and impaction may occur; on the other hand, the upper end of the lower fragment may be displaced into the axilla and may damage the vessels or nerves. The fractine some- what closely simulates dislocation of the shoulder-joint, but can be distmguished by the fact that the head of the bone remams in its normal position and the great tuberosity still forms the most prominent point of the shoulder. Separation of the upper epiphysis sometimes occurs in the young subject, and is marked by a characteristic deformity, con- sisting in the presence of an abrupt projection at the front of the jomt some short distance below the coracoid process, caused by the upper end of the lower fragment. In fractures of the shaft of the humerus the lesion may take place at any point, but appears to dc more common in the lower than the upper part of the bone. The points of mterest in connection with these fractures are: (1) that the musculo-spiral nerve may l>e injinecl as it lies in the groove on the bone, or may become involved in the callus which > subsequently thrown out; and (2) the frequency of non-union, winch is ^fjx^^-ed to be more common m the humerus than in any other bone. An important distinction to make in fractures of the lower end is between those that involve the elbow-jomt and thos^ which do not; the former are always serious, as they may lead to impairment ot the utility of the limb. They include the T-shaped fracture and oblique fractures ^^hlcn301 ULNA involve the articular surface. Those which do not involve the joint are the transverse fracture above the epiconclyles, and the so-called epitrochlear fracture, where the tip of the internal epicondylc is broken off, generally from direct violence. The Ulna The Ulna (figs. 358 and 359) is a long bone, prismatic in form, placed at the inner side of tlie forearm, parallel with the radius. Its upper extremity, of oreat thickness and strength, forms a large part of the articulation of the elbow-joint; the bone diunnishes in size from above downwards, its lower extremity being very small, and excluded from the wist-joint by the interposition of an interarticular fibro-cartilage. It is divisible into a shaft and two extremities. The upper extremity (fig. 357), the strongest part of the bone, presents two curved processes, the olecranon jjrocess and the coronoid process ; and two concave, articular cavities, the greater and lesser sigmoid cavities. The olecranon process (olecranon) is a large, thick, curved eminence .situated at the upper and back part of the ulna. It is bent foi'wards at the summit so as to present a promment lip which is received into the olecranon fossa in extension of the forearm. Its base is contracted where it ioins the shatt; this is the narrowest part Fig. 357.—Upper extremitj' of left ulna. Outer aspect. Olecranon process Coronoid 2>rocess of the upper end of the ulna, and, consequently, the most usual seat of fracture. Its posterior surface, directed backwards, is triangular, smooth, subcutaneous, and covered by a bursa. Its superior sttrface is of quadi-ilateral form, marked beliind by a rough impression for the inser- tion of the Triceps muscle ; and in front, near the margin, by a slight transverse groove for the attach- ment of part of the posterior liga- ment of the elbow-joint. Its an- terior surface is smooth, concave, covered with cartilage in the recent state, and forms the upper and back part of the greater sigmoid cavity. Its lateral borders present continua- tions of the gi-oove on the margin of the superior surface ; they serve for the attachment of ligaments— viz. the back part of the internal lateral ligament internally, and the posterior ligament externally. From the inner border a part of the Flexor carpi ulnaris arises ; while to the outer border the Anconeus is attached. nrowfin^T"°'^.Pn°'^f^^ (processus coronoideus) is a triangular eminence rtXi lionzontally forwards from the upper and front part of the ulna, fhat ?r«otfr '""^ ^^^^.^}^^% and of considerable strength ; so much .so sltht V ^nrv..? r '^'^ occurrence. Its apex is pointed, rnS^i 1 }^P^^'a/ds, and m flexion of the forearm is received into the L ms ; e^rrf t'VV^^^erus. Its upper surface is smooth, concave, and s coif' 3 ^ *-^! g^-e^ter sigmoid cavity. Its antero-inferior surface tL Sii'nbfn T'^^^ intemaUy by a rough impression for tlie insertion of shaft k l r*'''"'- junction of this surface with the front of the gives insertinnf ^^ii^e^ce the i«6e.cZe. of the ulna (tuberositas ulna?), which tXrHrf uf° l?.^'* °' Braclualis anticus ; to the outer border of this oE niL°f "^f ligament is attached. Its outer surface presents a narrow, promh.Vnf f ^^P'l'^^^'on, the lesser sigmoid cavity. Its inner surface, by its hganCt ' At'M'T'''f^^W^^ attacliment of part of the internal lateral the oris n ofLl h TV^f ^^f ""Ji^-^^^^ ^ ^'""'^^^'^'^ eminence for origm of one head of the Flexor sublimis digitorum ; behind the eminence302 OSTEOLOGY Fig. 358.—Bones of left forearm. Anterior aspect. ULNA r- a Capsular ligament Flexor sublimin digitorum Pronatm- teres Occasional origin of Flexor longus pollicis Oapsidar ligament Stt/loid prorrss Radial origin of Flexor suhlimis digitoruvi Brachio-radintin Groove for Extensor ossis meta 'carpi pollicis a?iri Extensor brevift pnUicisULNA 303 Fig. 359.—Bones of left forearm. Posterior aspect. ULNA RADIUS Cfipaiilar ligament Flexor suhlimis digitoruni Capsular ligament For Extensor carpi ulnaris ■~ I j For Extensor minimi iligiti f^or Ell. carpi rtulialis lonyior ' ■''OJ- Extensor carpi raiUalis brevior F,„- i Fixtensor indicts For Extensor longns polHcis ^ Extensor communis digitorum3U4 OSTEOLOGY is a depression for part of the origin of the Flexor profundus digitorum ; descending from the eminence is a ridge wliich gives origin to one head of the Pronator teres. Frequently, the Flexor longus pollicis arises from the lower part of the coronoid process by a rounded bundle of muscular fibres. The greater sigmoid cavity (incisura semilunaris) is a semilunar depres- sion of largo size, formed by the olecranon and coronoid processes, and serving for articulation with the trochlear surface of the humerus. About the middle of either lateral border of this cavity is a notch, which contracts it somewhat, and indicates the junction of the two processes of which it is formed. The cavity is concave from above downwards, and divided into an inner and an outer portion by a smooth ridge running from the summit of the olecranon to the tip of the coronoid process. The inner portion is the larger, and is slightly concave transversely ; the outer is convex above, slightly concave ^^^The lesser sigmoid cavity (incisura radialis) is a narrow, oblong, arti- cular depression on the outer side of the coronoid process, which receives the lateral articular surface of the head of the radius. It is concave from before back\vards, and its prominent extremities serve for the attachment ot the orbicular ligament. . . • r j j The shaft (corpus ulnse), at its upper part, is prismatic m form, and curved from behind forwards and from without inwards, so as to be convex behind and externally; its central part is quite straight; its lower part is rounded, smooth, and bent a Httle outwards. It tapers gradually from above do«n- wards. and has three borders and three surfaces. The anterior border (margo volaris) begins above at the prominent inner angle of the coronoid process, and ends below in front of the styloid process. Its upper part, well defined, and its middle portion, smooth and rounded, give origin to the Flexor profundus digitorum; its lower fourth marked off from the rest of the border by the commencement of an obhque ridge on the anterior surface, serves for the origin of the Pronator quadratus. This border separates the anterior from the internal surface. The vosterior border (margo dorsalis) begins above at the apex of the tri- angular subcutaneous surface at the back part of the olecranon, and ends be low atfhe back of the styloid process ; it is well marked in the upper three-fourtbs^ and gives attachment to an aponeurosis which affords a common origin to the Mexor carpi alnaris, the Extensor carpi uhiaris, and the Flexor profundus dilitorum f its lower fourth is smooth and rounded. This border separates the internal from the posterior surface. . . , The "iernni or inUmsxom border (crista interossea) begms above by the union oUwo lines, whieh converge from tl>e extremities ot the lesser sigmoid and enclose between them a triangular space or f'S"'° Rnninator brevis ; it ends below at the head of the ihia. It» t.^vo middle foSs ie very prominent, its lower fourth is smooth and romided This Wer £ves attoc[°ment to the interosseous membrane, and separates the '^^!^£rs:^is:s^^^. ^'-t tt^ierpSs,:: broil' a'nd concave'above ; convex ami -mewh^^ - .'^IJ;^;'^^^^^ i^l^iXaStitSplrStwidTa';*^^^ULNA 305 appears in the olecranon near its extremity, Inferior extremity Fig. 360. ulna. Plan of ossification of the From tkree centres. Olecranon Appears at jjamSb^ Joins shaft at tenth year f^S^ sixteenth year ISL.fl downwards to the Supinator brevis, the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, the Extensor longus pollicis, and the Extensor indicia. The mternal surface (facies raedialis) is broad and concave above, narrow and convex belo^\'. It gives origin by its upper three-fourths to the Flexor profundus digitorum : its lower fourth is subcutaneous. The lower extremity of the ulna is of smaU size, and presents two eminences; the outer and larger is a rounded, articular eminence, termed the head of the ulna; the inner, narrower and more projecting, is a non-articular eminence, the styloid process. The head (capitulum ulnae) presents an articular surface, part of which, of an oval or semilunar form, is directed downwards, and articu- lates with the upper surface of the interarticular fibro-cartilage which separates it from the wrist-joint; the remaining portion, directed outwards, is narrow, convex, and received into the sigmoid cavity of the radius. The styloid process (processus styloideus) projects from the inner and back part of the bone; it descends a little lower than the head, and ends in a rounded summit, which affords attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the wrist-joint. The head is separated from the styloid pro- cess, internally, by a depression for the attachment of the apex of the trian- gular interarticular fibro-cartilage, and behind, by a shallow groove for the passage of the tendon of the Extensor carpi ulnaris. Structure.—The structure of the ulna is simihir to that of the other long bones. Ossification.—The ulna Ls ossified fi-oni three centres : one each for the shaft, the inferior extremity, and the top of the olecranon (fig. 360). Ossification begins near the middle of the shaft about the eighth week of fcetal life, and soon extends through the greater part of the bone. At birth the ends are cartilaginous. About the fourth year, a centre appears in the middle of the head, and soon extends into the styloid process. About the tenth year, a centre the chief part of this process being formed by an upward extension of the shaft. The upper epiphysis joins the shaft about the sixteenth, the lower about the twentieth year. Articulations.—The ulna articulates with the humerus and radius. Surface Form.—The most prominent part of the ulna, the olecranon process, can always be identified at the back of the elbow-joint, men the forearm is flexed, the upper quadi-ilateral surface can be felt, directed backwards ; during extension it recedes mto the olecranon fossa, and the contracting fibres of the Triceps prevent its being perceived. On the back of the olecranon is the smooth, triangular, subcutaneous surface, contmuous with the posterior border of the shaft. During extension, the upper border ot the olecranon is slightly above the level of the internal epicondyle, and the process Itself IS nearer to this epicondyle than to the external one. Running down the back of the forearm, fi'om the apex of the triangular surface, is the prominent posterior border of the ulna, which can be felt throughout its entire length. As it passes down the forearm It pursues a sinuous course and inclines to its inner side, so that it is situated in the middle of the back of the limb above, and on the inner side of the wTist below. It is. rounded ofi m its lower third, and may be traced below to the small subcutaneous surface ot the styloid process. Internal to this border the lower fourth of the inner surface can be telt. The styloid process forms a prominent tubercle, continuous above v.'ith the posterior subcutaneous border, and terminating below in a blunt apex, which lies on a level witti the wrist-jomt. The styloid process is best perceived when the hand is in a position nudway between supination and pronation. If the forearm be pronated while the finger IS placed on the process, the latter will be felt to recede, and another prominence will X Appears at. fourth year ■Joins shaft at twentieth yearOSTEOLOGY 30G appear just behind and above it. This is the head of the ulna, which articulates with the lower end of the radius and the triangular interarticular fibro-cartilage, and now projects between the tendon of the Extensor carpi uhiaris and that of the Extensor minimi digiti. The Radius The Radius (figs. 358 and 359) is situated on the outer side of the ulna, which exceeds it in length and size. Its upper end is small, and forms only a small part of the elbow-joint ; but its lower end is large, and forms tlie chief part of the Avrist-joint. It is a long bone, prismatic in form, slightly curved longitudinally, and, like other long bones, has a shaft and two extremities. The upper extremity presents a head, neck, and tuberosity. The head (capitulum radii) is of a cylindrical form, depressed on its upper surface mto a shallow cup (fovea capituh radii) which articulates with the capitellum of the humerus. Around the circumference of the head is a smooth, articular surface (circumferentia articularis), broad internally where it articulates with the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, narrow in the rest of its cu-cumference, where it rotates within the orbicular ligament. The head is supported on a round, smooth, and constricted portion called the neck (collum radii), on the back of which is a slight ridge for the insertion of part of the Supmator brevis. Beneath tlie neck, at the inner and front aspect of the bone, is a, rough eminence, the bicipital tuberosity (tuberositas radii) ; its surface is divided by a vertical line into a posterior, rough portion, for the insertion of the tendon of the Biceps, and an anterior, smooth portion, on which a bursa is interposed between the tendon and the bone. The shaft (corpus radii) is prismoid in form, narrower above than below, and slightly curved, so as to be convex outwards. It presents three borders and three surfaces. l. t i-\ The ayiterior border (margo volaris) extends from the lower part ot tlie tuberosity above, to the anterior part of the base of the styloid process below, and separates the anterior from the external surface. Its upper thu'd is very prominent, and from its oblique direction, downwards and outwards, has received the name of the oblique line of the radius; it gives insertion, externaUy. to the Supinator brevis, internaUy, there arises from it the Flexor longus pollicis, and between these the Flexor sublimis digitorum. The middle third of the anterior border is indistinct and rounded. Its lower fourth is sharp prominent, affords msertion to the Pronator quadratus, and gives attachment to the posterior annular ligament of the ^vrist; it termmates m a smaU tubercle, into which is inserted the tendon of the Brachio-radiahs. The vosterior border (margo dorsalis) begms above at the back ot the neck and ends below at the posterior part of the base of the styloid process ; it separates the posterior from the external surface. It is indistinct above and below, but well marked in the middle third of the bone. The internal or interosseous border (crista interossea) begms above, at the back part of the tuberosity, where it is rounded and indistmct; it becomes sharp and prominent as it descends, and at its lower part divides into two ridges which are continued to the anterior and posterior margms of the sigmoid cavTty. To the posterior of the two ridges the lower part of tlie u?Jero«seou membrane is attached, while the triangular surface between the ndges gn insertion to part of the Pronator quadratus. This border separates tli^ ante^ioi from the posterior surface, and throughout the greater part of its extent gives attachment to the interosseous membrane. fnnrtbc; The anterior surface (fades volaris) is concave m "PP^.^^ ".f and gives origin to the Flexor longus pollicis ; it is broad A/^t m ^^^^^^ fourth, and affords insertion to the Pronator quadratus A P^o^^fnfS^ limits the insertion of the Pronator quadratus be ow, and betw^^^ t .'iteri^ • inferior border is a triangular rough surface for the '^"adn lent of he antm^ ligament of the v^Tist-joint. At the junction of the "PJ^^'^ of this surface is the nutrient foramen, which is directed obliquely up; T\Jposterior surface (facies dorsalis) is mund, ffmo^^^^^^^ upper third of its extent, and covered by the Supinator brevis. mi^^le ^ is^broad, slightly concave, and gives origin to the Extensor oss s m^^^^^^^ pollicis above, and the Extensor brevis pollicis below. Its lower tlnrd is Lnoaa,307 RADIUS Fig. 361.—Plan of ossification of the raclius. Prom three centres. Head Appears at fifth year ~ Unites loith shaft about puberty convex and covered by the tendons of tlie muscles vvliich subsequently run in the grooves on the lower end of the bone. The external surface (facies lateralis) is round and convex throughout its entire extent. Its upper third gives insertion to the Supinator brevis. About its centre is seen a rough ridge, for the insertion of the Pronator teres. Its lower part is narrow, and covered by the tendons of tlie Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and Extensor brevis jjoUicis. The lower extremity is large, of quadrilateral form, and provided witli two iirticular surfaces—one on the inferior surface, for articulation with the cai-pus, and another at the inner side, for articulation with the ulna. The carpal articular surface is triangular, concave, smooth, and divided by a sliglit antero-posterior ridge into two parts. Of these, the external, triangular, articu- lates « ith the scaphoid bone ; the inner, quadrilateral, witli the semilunar. The articular surface for the ulna is called the sigmoid cavity (incisura ulnaris) of the radius ; it is narrow, concave, smooth, and articulates with the head of the ulna. These two articular surfaces are separated from each other by a prominent ridge, to which the base of the triangular fibro-cartilage is attached; this structure separates the wrist-joint from the inferior radio-ulnar articula- tion. This end of the bone presents three non-articular surfaces—anterior, posterior, and external. The anterior surface, rough and irregular, affords attachment to the anterior ligament of the m-ist-joint. The posterior surface is convex, affords attachment to the pos- terior ligament of the wist-joint, and is marked by three grooves. Enumerated from without inwards, the first groove is broad, but shallow, and subdivided into two by a slight ridge : the outer of these two transmits the tendon of the Extensor carpi radialis longior, the iimer the tendon of the Extensor carpi radiahs brevior. The second, near the centre of the bone, is a deep but narrow groove, bounded on its outer side by a sharply defined ridge ; it is directed obhquely from above, downwards and outwards, and transmits the tendon of the Ex- tensor longus pollicis. The third and most internal is broad, for the passage of the tendons of the Extensor indicis and Extensor communis digitorum. The external surface is prolonged ob- hquely downwards into a strong, conical projection, the styloid process (processus styloideus), which gives attachment t)y Its base to the tendon of the Brachio-radialis, and by its apex to the external lateral hgament of the wrist-joint. The outer surface of this process is marked ^^t'enswTeS'pdlicls^^^'^ Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and 1 boiies^'^"*^'^^'^''''^*^ structure of the radius is similar to that of the other long «l,.?f^^^^''f*^°^ i^^- .^P)-—The radius is ossified from three centres : one for the T Ma . Ti. , extremity. That for the shaft makes its appearance near . \ ^""""g ''^^^^^ ^^eek of foetal Ufe. About the end of ■ tue second year, ossification commences in the lower end ; and at the fifth year, in cne upper end. The upper epiphysis fuses with the shaft, at the age of seven- teen or eighteen, the lower about the age of twenty. An additional centre, fifteenth yeM bicipital tuberosity, appears about the fourteenth or s RPnd^-^r^^*^,°°^'~,'''^'' articulates with four bones : the humerus, uka, ' scapiioicl, and semilunar. X 2 . 'ft Appears at second year Unites with shaft about twentieth year Lower extremity308 OSTEOLOGY Surface Form.—Below, and a little in front of, the posterior surface of the external condyle a part of the head of the radius may be felt; its position is indicated by a little dimple in the skin, which is most visible when the arm is extended. If the finger be placed on this dimple and the semiflexed forearm pronated and supinated, the head of the bono will bo distinctly perceived rotating in the lesser sigmoid cavity. The upper half of the shaft cannot be felt, as it is surrounded by the fleshy bellies of the muscles arising fi-om the external condyle. The lower half can be readily examined, though covered by tendons and muscles and not strictly subcutaneous, and if traced downwards is felt to terminate in a lozenge-shaped, convex surface on the outer side of the base of the styloid process. This is the only subcutaneous part of the bone, and from its lower extremity the apex of the styloid process will bo felt bending inwards towards the wrist. About the middle of the posterior aspect of the lower extremity is a well-marked ridge, the dorsal radial tubercle, best perceived when the hand is slightly flexed on the wrist. It forms the outer boundary of the oblique groove, through which the tendon of the Extensor longus poUicis runs, and helps to keep that tendon in its place. Applied Anatomy.—The two bones of the forearm are more often broken together, than is either the radius or ulna separately. It is therefore convenient to consider the fractm'es of both bones in the first instance and subsequently to mention the principal fractures which take place in each bone. Fractures of both bones may be produced by either direct or indirect violence, though more commonly by du-ect violence. Wlmn indirect force is applied to the forearm the radius as a rule gives way, though botli bones may suffer. Fractm-e from indhect force generally takes place somewhere about the middle of the bones, while that from direct violence may occur at any part, but is most frequent in the lower half of the bones. The fracture is usually transverse, but may be more or less oblique. A point of interest in connection with these fractures 3s the tendency there is for the two bones to unite across the interosseous membrane ; the limb should therefore be put up in a position midway between supination and prona- tion, which is not only the most comfortable position, but also separates the bones most widely from each other and therefore diminishes the risk of their becoming united across the interosseous membrane. Anterior and posterior splints are appUed m these cases, and should be rather wider than the limb, so as to prevent any lateral pressure on the bones. . , The special fractures of the uhia are :—(1) Fractui-e of the olecranon, which is usually caused by direct violence, as in falls on the elbow with the forearm flexed, but occa- sionally by muscular action in sudden contraction of the Triceps. The most common place for the fi-acture to occur is at the constricted portion where the olecranon joms the shaft of the bone, and the fracture may be either transverse or obHque ; but any part may be broken, and even a thin shell may be torn off. Fractures from direct violence are occasionaUy commmuted. The displacement is slight, if the fibrous structures around the process are not torn. (2) Fracture of the coronoid process may occur as a com- plication of dislocation backwards of the bones of the forearm, but it is doubtful it it ever takes place as an uncomplicated injury. (3) Fractures of the shaft of the uhia may occur at any part, but usually take place at or a Uttle below the middle of the bone. Thev are c^eneraUy the result of direct violence, but may occur as a complication ot dislocation of the radius. (4) The styloid process may be knocked off by dhect violence. Fractures of the radius may consist of—(1) Fracture of the head of the bone ; this tor the most part takes place in conjunction with some other lesion, but may occur as an uncomplicated injury. (2) Fracture of the neck may also occur, but is usuaUy complicated with other injury. (3) Fractures of the shaft of the rac^us are very common and may take place at any part of the bone. They may be caused by dnect or indirect violence In fracture of the upper third of the shaft—that is to say, above the nisertion of the Pronator teres—the displacement is very great. The upper fragment is strongly supinated by the Biceps and Supmator brevis, and flexed by the Biceps ; while the lower fragment is pronated and dra^vn towards the ulna by the two Pronators. If such a _fracture be put up in the ordinary position, midway between supination and pronation, tUe bone will unite with the upper fragment in a position of supmation, and the lower one in the mid-position, and thus considerable impairment of the movement of supuiatiou ^xiU result; the 1 mb should therefore be put up with the forearm supinated. (4) 1 he most important fracture of the radius is that of the lower end (CoUes's fracture). The fracture is trans- verse and generally takes place about an inch from the lower extremity. It is caused by faUs on the palm of the hand, and is an injury of advanced life, occurring more frequently in the female than in the male. In consequence of the manner ni which the fracture is caused the upper fragment is driven into the lower, and impaction is the i-esult ; excess of'violence may, ho^vever, disimpact, the lower fragment being split into two or more p^ecerso that no fixation occurs. Separation of the lower epiphysis of he radius Sav tE place in the young. This injury and CoUes-s fracture maybe distinguished E other injuries in this neighbourhood^specially dislocation, with which they are ab^e to be confounded-by observing the relative positions o the ^tylmd processes --^ the ulna and radius. In the natural condit on of parts with the arm side, the styloid process of the radius is on a lower level than that of the ulna : that is toCARPUS 309 I Fig. 362.—Bones of the left hand. Palmar surface. Carpus Fl-EXOB CARPI ULNAKIK /a\':'^\ r J/sSt' 'i^'''^^^ ^ Groove for tendon Flexor bbevis minimi digiti Opponens minimi digiti Metacarpus f Flexor brevis AND Abductor UI^ilMI DIGITI Flexor c^^pi badialis , • Ol'l'OXENS roi.ucis " \r Fi.EXOrt Bnnvis pollici UCTAf Ann l'OLLI(.'l.> f^t^ • Sesa moid hones AnnccTou • Flexor sublimis dioitorum Flexor pkofuxdus dioitorum310 OSTEOLOGY I I Fio. 363.—Bones of the left hand. Dorsal surface.311 CARPUS say, nearer the groxmd. After fracture or separation of the epiphysis the styloid process of the radius is on the same level as, or on a higher level than, that of the uhia, whereas it would be unaltered in position in dislocation. Reduction in the case of Colles's fracture is usually easily effected by traction on the hand, the limb being subsequently splinted with, the hand in the position of ulnar flexion. THE HAND The skeleton of the hand (figs. 362 and 363) is subdivided into three segments—the carpus or wist bones ; the metacarpus or bones of the palm ; and tlie phalanges or bones of the digits. THE CARPUS Tlie Carpal bones (ossa carpi), eight in number, are arranged in two rows. Those of the upper row, from the radial to the ulnar side, are named the scaphoid, semilunar, cuneiform, and pisiform ; those of the lower row, in the same order, are named the trapezium, trapezoid, os magnum, and unciform. Common Characteks of the Carpal Bones Each bone (excepting the pisiform) presents six surfaces. Of these the anterior or palmar and the posterior or dorsal are rough, for ligamentous attach- ment ; tlie dorsal surfaces being the broader, except in the scaphoid and semi- lunar. The superior or proximal, and inferior or distal surfaces are articular, the superior generally convex, the inferior concave ;. the internal and external surfaces are also articular when in contact with contiguous bones, otherwise they are rough and tubercular. The structure in aU is similar, consisting of cancellous tissue enclosed in a layer of compact bone. Each bone is ossified from a single centre. ■ Bones op the Upper Row Scaphoid (fig. 364) The Scaphoid (os naviculare manus) is the largest bone of the first row. It has received its name from its fancied resemblance to a boat, being broad at one end, and narrow like a prow at the other. It is situated at the upper and outer part of the carpus, its long axis being from above downwards, outwards, and forwards. The superior surface is convex, smooth, of triangular shape, and articulates with the lower end of the radius. The inferior surface, directed downwards, outwards, and backwards, is also smooth, convex, and triangular, and is divided by a slight ridge into two parts, the external articulating Fig. 364.—The left scaphoid. with the trapezium, the inner with the trapezoid. The dorsal surface presents a nan-ow, rough groove, which runs the entire length of tire bone, and serves for the attachment of ligaments. The palmar surface is concave above, and elevated at its lower and outer part into a rounded projection, the tuberosity (tuberculum oss. navicularis), which is directed forwards and gives attacliraent to the anterior annular ligament of the wrist and sometimes origin to a few fibres of the Abductor poUicis. The external surface is rough and narrow, and gives attachment to the external lateral ligament of the wrist. The internalOSTEOLOGY 312 surface presents two articular facets; of these, the superior or smaller is flattened, of semilunar form, and articulates with the semilunar ; the inferior or larger is concave, forming witli the semilunar bone a concavity for the head of the OS magnum. Articulations.—The scaphoid articulates mth five bones : the radius above, trapezium and trapezoid below, os magnum and semilunar internally. Semilxjnar (fig. 365) The Semilunar (os lunatum) may be distinguished by its deep conca\aty and crescentic outline. It is situated in the centre of the upper row of the carpus, between the scaphoid and cuneiform. The superior surface, convex and smooth, articulates with the radius. The inferior surface is deeplj'^ concave, and of greater extent from before backwards than transversely : it articulates with the head ]?IG. 365.—^The left semilunar. For cuneifomi For radius of the OS magnum, and, by a long, narrow facet (separated by a ridge from the general surface), with the unciform. The palmar and dorsal sur- faces are rough, for the attachment of ligaments, the former being the broader, and of a some- what rounded form. The external surface presents a narrow, flattened, semilunar facet for articulation with the scaphoid. The internal surface is marked by a smooth, quadrilateral facet, for articulation with the cuneiform. Articulations.—The semilunar articulates with five bones : the radius above, OS magnum and unciform below, scaphoid externally and cimeiform internally. For scaj>hoid For unciform For os magnum CuNBrFORM (fig. 366) The Cuneiform (os triquetrum) may be distinguished by its pyramidal shape, and by an oval isolated facet for articulation with the pisiform bone. It is situated at the upper and inner side of the carpus. The superior surface presents an internal, rough, non-articular portion, and an external convex articular portion, which articulates with the triangular fibro-cartilage of the wrist. The inferior surface, directed outwards, is concave, sinuously curved, and smooth for articulation with the unciform. The dorsal surface is rough for the attachment of ligaments. The palmar surface presents, on its inner Fig. 366.—The left cuneiform. For pisiform For semilunar Fig. 367.—The left pisiform. For cuneiform For unciforiii part, an oval facet, for articulation with tiie pisiform ; its outer part is rough for ligamentous attachment. The external surface, the base of the pyramid, is marked by a flat, quadrilateral, smooth facet, for articulation with tlie semilunar. Tlie internal surface, the summit of the pyramid, is pointed and roughened, for the attachment of the internal lateral ligament of the wrist. Articulations.—The cuneiform articulates vAih. three bones : the semilunar externally, the pisiform in front, the unciform below ; and with the triangular, interarticular fibro-cartilage which separates it from the lower cud of the ulna.313 CARPUS PiSIFOKM (fig. 367) Tlie Pisiform (os pisiforme) may be known by its small size, and by its presenting a single articular facet. It is situated on a plane anterior to the other carpal bones and is spheroidal in form, with its long diameter directed vertically. Its dorsal surface presents a smooth, oval facet, for articulation with the cuneiform : this facet approaches the superior, but not the inferior border of the bone. Tlic palmar surface is rounded and rough, and gives attach- ment to the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, and to the Flexor carpi ulnaris and Abductor minimi digiti. Tlie outer and inner surfaces are also rough, the former being concave, the latter usually convex. Articulation.—The pisiform articulates with one bone, the cuneiform. Bones of the Lower Row Trapezium (fig. 368) The Trapezium (os multangulum majus) may be distinguished by a deep groove, for tlie tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis. It is situated at the external and inferior part of the carpus, between the scaphoid and first metacarpal bone. The superior surface is directed upwards and inwards ; internally, it is smooth, and articulates ^^dth the scaphoid ; externally, it is rough, and continuous with the external surface. The inferior surface, directed dowTiwards and outwards, is oval, concave from side to side, convex from before backwards, so as to form a saddle-shaped surface, for articulation with the base of the first metacarpal bone. The palmar surface is narrow Fig. 368.—The left trapezium. T-i , ., Givove For trapezoia ^^iifF'^;:^^ nidge For scaphoid For 2nd /.^ metacarpal \ For 1st metacarpal For trapezoid For 2nd metacarpal and rough. At its upper part is a deep groove, ruiming from above obliquely downwards and inwards : it transmits the tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis, and is bounded externally by an oblique ridge. Tliis surface gives origin to the Abductor, Opponens, and Flexor brevis poUicis muscles, and also affords attachment to the anterior amiular ligament of the wist. The dorsal surface is rough. The external surface is broad and rough, for the attachment of ligaments. The internal surface presents two facets : the upper, large and concave, articulates with the trapezoid; the lower, small and oval, with the base of the second metacarpal. Articulations.—The trapezium articulates with four bones : the scaphoid above, the trapezoid and second metacarpal internally, the first metacarpal below. Trapezoid (fig. 369) The Trapezoid (os multangulum minus) is the smallest bone in the second row. It may be known by its wedge-shaped form, the broad end of the wedge forming the dorsal, the narrow end the palmar, surface; and by its having four articular surfaces touching each other, and separated by sharp edges. The superior surface, quadrilateral, smooth, and slightly concave, articulates with the scaphoid. The inferior surface articulates with the upper end of the second metacarpal bone ; it is convex from side to side, concave from before backwards, and subdivided, by an elevated ridge, into two unequal lateral facets. Fig. 369.—The left trapezoid. Palmar For For scaphoid surface trapezium Dorsal surface For OS magnum For 2nd metacarpal The dorsal and palmar314 OSTEOLOGY surfaces are rough for the attachment of ligaments, the former being the larger of the two. The external surface, convex and smooth, articulates with the trapezium. The internal surface is concave and smooth in front, for articulation with the os magnum ; rough behind, for the attachment of an interosseous ligament. Articulations.—The trapezoid articulates with four bones : the scaphoid above, second metacarpal below, trapezium externally, and os magnum internally. Os Magnum (fig. 370) The Os magnum (os capitatum) is the largest of the carpal bones, and occupies the centre of the wrist. It presents, above, a rounded portion or head, wliich is received into the concavity formed by the scaphoid and semi- lunar bones ; a constricted portion or neck ; and below this, the body. The superior surface is round, smooth, and articulates with the semilimar. The inferior surface is divided by two ridges into three facets, for articulation witli the second, tliird, and fourth metacarpal bones, that for the third (the middle facet) being the largest. The dorsal surface is broad and rough. The palmar surface is narrow, rounded, and rough, for the attachment of Ugaments and a part of the Adductor obliquus pollicis. The external surface articulates Fig. 370.—The left os magnum. For semilunar metacarpal with the trapezoid by a small facet at its anterior inferior angle, behind which is a rough depression for the attacliment of an interosseous ligament. Above tliis is a deep, rough groove, which forms part of the neck, and serves for tlie attachment of Ugaments ; it is bounded superiorly by a smooth, convex surface, for articulation with the scaphoid. The internal surface articiilates with the unciform by a smooth, concave, oblong facet, which occupies its posterior and superior parts ; it is rough in front, for the attachment of an interosseous ligament. .. Articulations.—The os magnum articulates with seven bones : the scaplioid and semilunar above ; the second, third, and fourth metacarpals below ; the trapezoid on the radial side ; and the unciform on the uhiar side. Unciform (fig. 371) The Unciform (os hamatum) mav be readily distinguished by its wedge- shaped form, and the hook-lilce process which projects from its paimar surface. It is situated at the inner and lower angle of the carpus, with its base downwards, restmg on the two inner metacarpal bones, and its apex clirectea upwards and outwards. The superior surface, the apex of t^ie wedge, is narrow, cSnvex, smooth, and articulates witli tlie semilunar. The interior surface articulates with the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones, by concave facets ^^•lucll are separated by an antero-posterior ridge. The dorsal surface is tnangulai and rough, for ligamentous attachment. Tlie qyalmar suriace presents, at its lower and inner side, a curved, hook-like process, the unciform process (lia»^ul»s), directed forwards and outwards. This process gives attachment, by its apex, to the anterior annular ligament of the wrist and tlie FIp^o^ c.aiiDi uhians b^ its inner surface to tlie Flexor brevis and Opponens minimi digiti; its outerCARPUS 315 side is grooved for the passage of the Flexor tendons into the palm of the hand. It is one of the four eminences on the front of the carpus to which tlie anterior annular ligament of the wist is attached ; tlie others being the pisiform internally, the oblique ridge of the trapezium and the tuberosity of the scaphoid externally. The internal surface articulates with the cuneiform by an oblong Fig. 371.—The left unciform. For semilunar For oth metacarpal Unciform process For 5th metacarpal facet, cut oblique]}' fi-om above, dowjiwards and inwards. The external surface articulates -with the os magnum by its upper and posterior part, the remaining jrortion being rough, for the attachment of ligaments. Articulations.—The unciform articulates with five bones : the semilunar above, the fourth and fifth metacarpals below, the cuneiform internally, the os magnum externally. THE METACAKPUS The Metacarpus consists of five cylindrical bones which are numbered from without in\A-ards (ossa metacarpalia I-V); each consists of a shaft and two extremities. Common Chaeactees op the Metacabpal Bones The shaft (corpus) is prismoid in form, and cui'ved, so as to be convex in the longitudinal direction behind, concave in front. It presents three surfaces : two lateral and one dorsal. The lateral surfaces are concave, for the attach- ment of the Interosseous rnuscl es, and separated from one another by a prominent anterior ridge. The dorsal surface presents in its distal two-thirds a smooth, triangular, flattened area which is covered, in the recent state, by the tendons of the Extensor muscles. This surface is bounded by two lines, which commence in small tubercles situated on either side of the digital extremity, and, running upwards, converge to meet some distance behind the centre of the bone and form a ridge which runs along the rest of the dorsal surface to the carpal extremity. This ridge separates two lateral sloping surfaces tor the attachment of the Dorsal interossei.* To the tubercles on the digital J^.^^emities are attached the lateral ligaments of the metacarpo-phalangeal The carpal extremity or base (basis) is of a cuboidal form, and broader behmd than m front: it articulates above with the carpus, and on either side with the adjoming metacarpal bones; its dorsal and palmar surfaces are rough, for thp attachment ot ligaments. The digital extremity or head (capitulum) presents an oblong surface markedly convex from before backwards, less so from side to side, and flat- tened laterally ; it articulates with the proximal phalanx. It is broader, and extends farther forwards, on the palmar than on the dorsal aspect, and is longer in the antero-posterior than in the transverse diameter. On either side of the head is a tubercle for the attachment of the lateral ligament of the metacarpo- phalangeal joint. The dorsal surface, broad and flat, supports the Extensor tendons ; the palmar surface is grooved in the middle line for the passage ot the Flexor tendons, and marked on either side by an articular eminence continuous with the terminal articular surface. .v,, r/J^^ ^^°P'°& nietacarpal bones may be at once distinguished from the metatarsal bones. " o ^OSTEOLOGY 316 Pectjliak, Characters of the Metacarpal Bones The first metacarpal bone (fig. 372) is sliorter and stouter than the others, diverges to a greater degree from the carpus, and its palmar surface is directed inwards towards the palm. The sliajt is flattened and broad on its dorsal surface, and does not present the ridge which is found on the other metacarpal bones ; its palmar surface is concave from above downwards. On its outer border is inserted the Opponens pollicis ; its inner border gives origin to the outer head of the First dorsal interosseous. The mr-pal extremity presents a concavo-convex surface, for articulation with the trapezium ; it has no lateral facets, but on its outer side is a tubercle for the insertion of the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. The difjital extremity is less convex than those of the other metacarpal bones, and is broader from side to side than from before backwards. On its palmar surface are two articular eminences, of which the outer one is the larger, for the two sesamoid bones in the tendons of the Flexor brevis poUicis. The second metacarpal bone (fig. 373) is the longest, and its base the largest, of the four remaining bones. Its carpal extremity is prolonged upwards Fig. 372.—The first meta- carpal. (Left.) Fig. 373.—The second metacarpal. (Left.) For For 3rd trapezoid ^''^i''^^'*"'" JagnZn ^"trapezoid For trapezium For trapeziwii and inwards, forming a prominent ridge. It pre- sents four articular facets : three on the upper surface and one on the inner or ulnar side. Of the facets on the upper surface the . i.„f„„^ middle is the largest and is concave ffom side to side, convex f^m befo e backwards for articulation with the trapezoid ; the external is smaU, flat and oval for articulation with the trai^ezium ; the internal, on the summit of the ridge, is long and narrow for articulation with the os magnunl. The facet on lie ulnar side articulates with the third metacarpal. The Exten or carp radialis longior is inserted on the dorsal surface and the Flexor carpi radiali. on the palmar surface of this extremity. , The third metacarpal bone (fig. 374 is a little smaller than the preceding The dorsal aspect of its <^^iremily presents on i^s mdial Ea p??amidal eminence, the styloid p-ocess, which «^t«uds upwards beW OS maaLm; immediately below this is a rough surface for the attacl iii^^^^^^^^ o t"e°SxteAsor carpi raialis brevior. The carpal '-t.cular facet is conca^^ behind flat in front, and articulates with the os magnum. On the radial siac Ts a smooth concave facet for articulation with the second -arpa^ ai d on the ulnar side two smaU oval facets for articulation mth the tourtii metacarpal.METACARPUS 317 Fig. 374.—^The third metacarpal. (Left.) m m The fourth metacarpal bone (fig. 375) is shorter and smaller than the preceding. The carpal extremity is small and quadrilateral; its superior surface presents two facets, a large one externally for articulation with the unciform and a small one internally for the os magnum. On the radial side are two oval facets, for articulation with the third metacarpal; and on the ulnar side, a single concave facet, for the fifth metacarpal. The fifth metacarpal bone (fig. 376) presents on its carpal extremity one facet on its superior surface, which is concavo-convex, and articulates with the unciform, and one on its radial side, which articulates with the fourtli meta- carpal. On its ulnar side is a prominent tubercle for the insertion of the tendon of the Extensor carpi ulnaris. The dorsal surface of the shaft is marked by an oblique ridge, which extends from near the ulnar side of the upper extrem- ity to the radial side of the lower. The outer division of this surface serves for the attachment of the Fourth dorsal interosseous muscle ; the inner division is smooth, triangular, and covered by the Extensor tendons of the little finger. Articulations.—Besides their phalan- geal articulations, the metacarpal bones articulate as follows : the first with the trapezium; the second with the trapezium, trapezoid, os magnum and third metacarpal; the third with the os magnum and second and fourth metacarpals ; the fourth with the os magnum, unci- form, and third and fifth metacarpals ; and the fifth with the unciform and fourth metacarpal. Stijloiil process For 2nd meta- carpal For For ith OS magnum metacarpal Fig. 375.—The fourth metacarpal. (Left.) Fur OS ^ mugmcm -^"r 3ril metacarpal Fig. 376.—The fifth metacarpal. (Left.) For r,th For vieta- unciform cardial For 4th viefacarjinl The first has no lateral facets on its carpal extremity ; the second has no lateral facet on its radial, but one on its ulnar side ; the third has one on its radial and two on its ulnar side ; the fourth has two on its radial and one on its idnar side ; aud^the fifth has one on its radial side only.318 OSTEOLOGY THE PHALANGES The Phalanges (plualanges digitorum manus) are fourteen in number, three for each finger, and two for the thumb. Each consists of a shaft and two extremities. The shaft tapers from above downwards, is convex pos- teriorly, concave in front from above downwards, fiat from side to side, and marked laterally by rough ridges, w hicli give attachment to the fibrous sheaths of the Flexor tendons. The metacarpal extremities of the bones of the first row present oval, concave articular surfaces, broader from side to side than from before backwards. The proximal extremity of each of the bones of the second and third rows presents a double concavity separated by an antero-posterior median ridge. The distal extremities are smaller than the proximal, and each terminates in two lateral condjdes separated by a shallow Fig. 377.—Plan of ossification of the hand. One centre for each hone : AH cartilaginous at birth METACARPALS OP FINUERS Two centres for each hone : One for shaft One for digital extremity PHALANGES Two centres for each hone . One for shaft One for metacarpal extremity ^ Appears ird year \^ Unite Wth year ^ Appears 8th week ^ Appears ilh-illi iiear ^ Unite lS//i-20/ft pear ^l^l—Appears 81 li treek " PI ^Appears ilh-blh ijcar iL'nite 18Wi-2(WA pear \%' V ippears 8lh ireek- V groove ; the articular surface extends farther on the palmar than on the dorsal aspect, a condition best marked in the bones of the first row. The ungual phalanges are convex on their dorsal and flat on their palmar surfaces ; they are recognised by their small size, and by a roughened elevated surface of a horse-shoe form on the palmar aspect of the distal extremity of each which serves to support the sensitive pulp of the finger. Articulations.- In the four inner digits the phalanges of the first row articulate with those of the second row and with the metacarpals ; the phalanges of the second row with those of the first and third rows, and the ungual phalanges witii those ol the second row. In the thumb, which has only two phalanges, the first phalanx articulates ])y its proximal extremity with the metacarpal bone and by its distal with the ungual phalanx.OSSIFICATION 319 Ossification of the Bones of the Hand The Carpal Bones are each ossified from a single centre, and ossification pro- ceeds in the following order (fig. 377) : in the os magnum and unciform during the first year, the former preceding the latter ; in the cuneiform, during the third rear; in the semilunar and trapezium, during the fifth year, the former preceding the latter; in the scaphoid, during the sixth year; in the trapezoid, during the eighth year; and in the pisiform, about the twelfth j^ear. Occasionally an additional bone, the os ceMrale, is found on the back of the c arpus, lying between the scaphoid, trapezoid, and os magnum. During the second month of foetal life it is represented by a small cartilaginous nodule, which usually fuses with the cartOaginous scaphoid. Sometimes the styloid process of the third metacarpal is detached and forms an additional ossicle. The Metacarpal Bones are each ossified from two centres ; one for the shaft and one for the digital extremity of each of the four inner bones ; one for the shaft and one for the carpal extremity of the first metacarpal bone.* It will be seen, therefore, that the first metacarpal bone is ossified in the same manner as the phalanges, and this has led some anatomists to regard the thumb as being made up of three phalanges, and not of a metacarpal bone and two phalanges. Ossification commences in the middle of the shaft about the eighth or ninth week of foetal life, the centre for the first metacarpal bone being the last to appear, and graduallj' proceeds towards either end of the bone; about the thii-d year the digital extremities of the four inner metacarpals, and the base of the first metacarpal begin to ossify ; they unite with the shafts about the twentieth year. The Phalanges are each ossified from two centres ; one for the shaft, and one for the proximal extremity. Ossification begins in the shaft, about the eighth week of foetal life. Ossification of the proximal extremity commences in the bones of the first row between the third and fourth years, and a year later in those of the second and third rows. The two centres become united in each row between the eighteenth and twentieth years. In the ungual phalanges the centres for the shafts appear at the distal extremities of the phalanges, instead of at the middle of the shafts, as in the other phalanges. Moreover, of all the bones of the hand, the ungual phalanges are the first to begin to ossify. Surface Form.—On the front of the -wrist are two subcutaneous eminences, one on the radial side, the larger and flatter, produced by the tuberosity of the scaphoid and the ridge on the trapezium; the other on the uhiar side, caused by the pisiform bone. The tuberosity of the scaphoid can be felt just below and internal to the apex of the styloid process of the radius, between the tendons of the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and Flexor carpi radialis ; it is best perceived by extending the hand on the forearm. Half an inch below this tubercle another and better marked prominence can be felt; this is the ridge on the trapezium, which gives attachment to some of the short muscles of the thumb. On the inner side of the front of the wrist the pisiform bone forms a small but prominent projection. It is some distance below the lower end of the ulna, and just below the level of the styloid process of the radius ; it is crossed by the crease which separates the front of the forearm from the palm of the hand. The rest of the front of the carpus is covered by tendons and the annular ligament, and is entirely concealed, with the exception of the hooked process of the unciform, wliich can be made out only with difficulty. The back of the carpus is convex and covered by the Extensor tendons, so that the posterior surface of the cuneiform is the only bone which can be felt. Below the carpus the dorsal surfaces of the metacarpal bones, except the fifth, are covered by tendons, and are only visible m very thin hands. The dorsal surface of the fifth is, however, subcutaneous throughout almost its whole length, and is plainly to be perceived and felt. Slightly external to the middle line of the hand is a prominence, frequently well marked, but occasionally mdistinct, formed by the styloid process of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. This prommence is in the same line as tlie dorsal radial tubercle, and is an mch and a half below it. Tlie heads of the metacarpals are plainly to be felt and seen, rounded in contour and standing out in bold relief under the skin, when the fist is clenched. It should be borne in mind that when the fingers are flexed on the hand, the articular surfaces of the first phalanges glide off the heads of the metacarpals on to their anterior surfaces ; so that the heads of these bones form the prommences of the * Allen Thomson demonstrated the fact that the first metacarpal bone is often developed trom three centres : that is to say, there is a separate nucleus for the distal end, forming a distinct epiphysis visible at the age of seven or eight years. He also states that there are traces of a proximal epiphysis in the second metacarpal bone. Journal of Anat. and Physiol., 18G9.OSTEOLOGY 320 knuckles and rocoive the force of any blow which may be given. The liead of the Ihird metacarpal bone is the most prominent, and receives the gi'eater part of the shock of thi- blow. This bone articulates with the os magnum, so that the concussion is carried through tliis bone to the scaphoid and semilunar, with which the head of the os magnuiu articulates, and by these bones is transferred to the radius, along which it may be carried to the capitellum of the humerus. The enlarged extremities of the phalanges can bo plainly felt. \Vlicn the digits are bent, the proximal phalanges of the joints form prominences, which in the joints between the first and second phalanges are sliglit!\ hoUowed, in accordance with the grooved shape of their articular surfaces, while in tho^i between the second and third rows the prominences are flattened and square-shaped. In the palm of the hand the four inner metacarpal bones are covered by muscles, tendons, and the palmar fascia, and no part of them but their heads is to be distinguished. With regard to the thumb, the base of the metacarpal bone forms a prominence on the dorsal aspect, below the styloid process of the radius ; the shaft can be felt, covered by tendons ; it terminates at its head in a flattened prominence, in fi'ont of which can be felt the sesamoid bones. Applied Anatomy.—The carpal bones are little liable to fracture, except from extreme violence, when the parts are so comminuted as to necessitate amputation. Occasionally they are the seat of tuberculous disease. The metacarpal bones and the phalanges are sometimes broken from direct violence. There are two diseases of the metacarpal bones and phalanges which require special mention on account of their frequent occurrence. One is tuberculous dactylitis, consisting in a dejjosit of tuberculous material in the medullary canal, expansion of the bone, with subsequent caseation and necrosis. The other is chondroma, which is perhaps more commonly found in connection with the metacarpal bones and phalanges than with any other bones. The tumours are usually multiple, and spring from beneath the periosteum about the epiphysial line. BONES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY The Os iNNOMiNATtrM The Os Innominatum (os coxae) is a large, iiTegularly shaped, flattened bone, constricted in the centre find expanded above and below. It meet.s its fellow of the opposite side in the middle Hne in front, and together they form the sides and anterior waU of the pelvic cavity. It consists of three parts, the ilium, ischium, and pubis, which are distinct from each other in the young subject, bat are fused in the adult to form a single bone ; the union of the three parts takes place in and around a large cup-shaped articular cavity, the acetabulum, which is situated near the middle of the outer sm-face of the bone. The ilium, so called because it supports the flank, is the superior broad and expanded portion which extends upwards from the acetabulum. The iscJiium is the lowest and strongest portion of the bone ; it proceeds downwards from the acetabulum, expands into a large tuberosity, and then, curving forwards, forms, v>nth the pubis, a large aperture, the obturator forame'n. The pubis extends inwards and downwards from the acetabulum and articulates in the middle hne with the bone of the opposite side : it forms the front of the pelvis and supports the external organs of generation. The Ilium (os ilium) presents for examination two surfaces—an external and an internal—a crest, and two borders—an anterior and a posterior. The external surface of the ilium (fig. 378) is divided into two parts—an upper or gluteal, and a lower or acetabular. The upper or ghdeal portion. known as the dorsum ilii, is directed backwards and outwards behind, and downwards and outwards in front. It is smooth, convex in front, deeplv concave beliind ; bounded above by tlie crest, below by the upper border of tlie acetabulum, in front and behind by the anterior and posterior borders. This surface is crossed in an arched direction by three lines—tl\e superior, middle and inferior curved Hues. The superior or posterior curved line (hnea crlutaea posterior), the shortest of the tliree, begins at the crest, about two mches in front of its posterior extremity; it is at first distinctly niarked, but as it passes downwards to the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic notch, where it ends, it becomes less distinct, and is often altogether lost. Behind this line is a narrow semilunar surface, the upper part of which is rough and gives origin to a portion of the Gluteus maxinuis ; the lower part is smooth and has no muscular fibres attached to it. The middle curved line (hnea glutaea anterior), the longest of the three, begins at the crest, about an mch and a321 OS INNOMINATUM half behind its anterior extremity, and, taking a curved direction down- wards and backwards, ends at the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic notch. The space between the superior and middle curved lines and the crest is concave, and gives origin to the Gluteus medius. Near the middle of this hne a nutrient foramen is often seen. The inferior curved line (linea glutaea inferior), the least distinct of the three, begins in front at tlie notch on the anterior border, and, curving backwards and downwards, ends near the middle of the great sacro-sciatic notch. The surface of bone included oecween the middle and inferior curved lines is concave from above down- wards, convex from before backwards, and gives origin to the Gluteus minimus xsetween the inferior curved hne and the upper part of the acetabulum is a rough, shaUow groove, from which tlie reflected tendon of the Rectus ilT^lf T^^^- ■ '^^^^ ^^^^^ acetabular pari of the external surface enters into the formation of the acetabulum, of which it forms rather less than two- Y322 OSTEOLOGY fifths. It is separated from the gluteal portion by a prominent rim, wliich forms part of the margin of the acetabular cavity. The internal surface (fig. 379) of tlie ilium is bounded above by the crest; below, it is continuous with the pelvic surfaces of the pubis and ischium, only a faint line iiidicating the jjlace of union ; in front and behind, it is bounded by the anterior and posterior borders. It presents a large, smooth, concave surface, called the iliac fossa (fossa iliaca), which gives origin to the Ihacus and is perforated at its inner part by a nutrient canal; and below tliis Fig. 379.—Right os innominatum. Internal surface. CllUS PENIS Thansveksus pebis.t.i -finw lull I'MHi' a smooth, rounded border, he linea *\Pf« P^^J^^^^lJ f^^ the portion of the internal surface which .'^"^^^ ™ Belnnd true pelvis and gives origin to part of J'^^ O^*™^^^ the iliac fossa is a rough surface, divided ^^.^ 1'^ ^ called from posterior. The anterior or aurrcnlar surja^e (l^''^'^^'^^^^^^^ state, its resemblance in sliape to the ear, is coa ed .^^t'^.^", ^''"^f^ "^,'''Vhe posterior and articulates ^vith a similar surface on tlic side o »f « of the portion (tuberositas iliaca) is elevated and much, for the attacume323 OS INNOMINATUM posterior sacro-iliao ligaments and for the origins of the Erector and Multifidus spinffi. The crest of the ilium (crista iliaca) is convex in its general outline but is sinuously curved, being concave inwards in front, concave outwards behind. It is thinner at the centre than at the extremities, and terminates in the anterior and posterior superior iliac spines. The surface of the crest is broad, and divided into an external lip, an internal lip, and an intermediate space. About two inches beliind the anterior superior iliac spine there is a prominent tubercle on the outer lip. To the external lip (labium externum) are attached the Tensor fasciae femoris, Obhquus externus abdominis, and Latissimus dorsi, and along its whole length the fascia lata ; to the space between the lips (linea intermedia) the Internal oblique; to the internal lip (labium internum), the fascia iliaca, the Transversalis abdominis, Quadratus lumborum. Erector spinte, and Iliacus. The anterior border of the ilium is concave. It presents two projections, separated by a notch. Of these, the uppermost, situated at the junction of the crest and anterior border, is called the anterior superior iliac spine (spina ihaca anterior superior) ; its outer border gives attachment to the fascia lata, and the Tensor fasciae femoris ; its inner border, to the Ihacus ; while its extremity affords attachment to Poupart's ligament and gives origin to the Sartorius. Beneatli tliis eminence is a notch which gives origin to the Sartorius, and across which the external cutaneous nerve passes. Below the notch is the anterior inferior iliac spine (spina iliaca anterior inferior), whicli ends m the upper hp of the acetabulum ; it gives attachment to the straight tendon of the fiegtus fftmnris and to the ilin-femnral hfx^-m^^t of the hip-jnhit. On the mner side of the anterior inferior spine is a broad, shallow groove, over whicli the Iho-psoas passes. This groove is bounded internally by an eminence, the tho-pectineal, which marks the point of union of the ilium and pubis. The posterior border of the ilium, shorter tlian the anterior, also presents two projections separated by a notch, the posterior superior iliac spine (spina Iliaca posterior superior) and the posterior inferior iliac spine (spina iliaca posterior inferior). The former corresponds with that portion of the inner surface of the ilium M-hich serves for the attachment of the obHque portion of the sacro-iliac ligaments and the Multifidus spina;; the latter to the lower extremity of the auricular surface. Below tlie posterior inferior spine is a aeep notch, the great sacro-sciatic notch (incisura iscliiadica major) J lie Ischium (os ischii) forms the lower and back part of the os innomi- natum. It is divisible into a tliick and soUd portion, the body : a large rough eminence, on which the trunk rests in sitting, the tuberosity; and a thin part, which passes forwards and slightly upwards, the ramus. Ihe body (corjDusoss.iscliii), somewhat triangular in form, presents three sui-faces, external, internal, and posterior; and three borders, external, internal, and posterior. TJie external surface corresponds to tliat portion of the acetabulum which is formed by the ischium ; it is smooth and concave, and fhfn . K f than two-fifths of the acetabular cavitv. Between of nt nS T tuberosity is a deep groove, along wJiicli' the tendon d Jifnl f ^'"u'' ''J"''^ """"^t^^ P^^'^^ outwards to be inserted into the Sl infnH / 7^^ '"'^'''^^ surface -,^ smooth, concave, and it f n^fn f 1 ^^'T^''''' °f tl^e lateral boundary of the true pelvic cavity ; mrt nf /r nl. ^.^'^^^ °^ ^'^^S*^' ^'^^^"1^^ foramina, and gives origin to Cll nnSt 1". ''IV"*?™"'-. ^^'^ surface is quadrilateral in form, behind '^i'^t^d, externaUy, by the margin of the acetabulum 3 tt OKf posterior border ; it supports the Pyriformis, the two Gemelli, Knw , 1 '"i passage outwards to tlie great trochanter, on thl' If ^ <^"berosity, it presents a groove continuous witli that Pdi L fi ™ surface for the tendon of the Obturator externus; tiie lower Sn f'f S?;oove IS formed by the tuberosity of the iscliium, and gives of fll e GemeUus inferior. TJie external border forms the prominent rim Toit ?«'^?f ''u" , ^"^'^ separates the posterior from the external surface, the nnfo ''^ cotyloid ligament. The internal border is thin, and forms prLnts n nr'''" '^^^^^ The posterior border piesents a thin and pointed triangular eminence, the spine of the ischium (spina Y 2324 OSTEOLOGY ischiadica), more or less elongated in different subjects ; its external surface gives attachment to the GemeUus superior, its internal surface to the Coccygeus Levator ani, and the pelvic fascia ; while to the pointed extremity is attached the smaU sacro-sciatic ligament. Above the spine is a large notch, the greM sacro-sciatic notch (incisu.'a ischiadica major), converted into a foramen by^ the small sacro-sciatic ligament; it transmits the Pyiiformis the gluteal, — vessels, the superior and inferior gluteal nerves, the^iatio*^C8sels tlie greater. :Vand lesser sciatic nerves, the uiternal pudic vessels and nerve, and the nerves , Xto the Obturator internus and Quadi-atus femoris Of these, the glutea C ^''^Vessels and superior gluteal nerve pass out above the Pyi-iformis, the othei/ . -*<»«^structures below it. Below the spine is a smaller notch, the '^f^l'^'^n sciatic (incisura iscliiadica minor) ; it is smooth, coated in the recent stated ^^^with cartUage, the surface of ^^•hich presents two or three "dges cor^sponding '"^^to the subdTvisions of tlie tendon of the Obtuiutor internus, ^vhichjvand^ over '/^Jt. It is converted into a foramen by the sacro-sciatic hgaments, and trai^mits 'i: A-^he tendon of the Obturator internus, the nerve which supplies that muscle, -i^--^"" and the internal pudic vessels and nerve. • +Wp The tuberosity (tuber ischiadicum) presents for exammation three surfaces: Ixterma 1, ifJrnal, and posterior. The -^Sfbove^W in shape, and rough for the attadiment of muscles. It is b^^f the groove for thi tendon of the Obturator externus ; f/^^^/^.f 1^^^^^^^^ the nosterior margin of the obturator foramen, and below it is continuous Sh^the raLs b^^^^^^^^ it is bounded by a prominent margm which separates torn tS posterior surface. In front li this margm the -rfa.e gives origin to the Ouadratus femoris, and anterior to this to some of the fibres of origin o? the ObtSor externus ; the lower part of the suiiace g-- origm of thP Adductor maenus. The internal sur ace forms part of the bony wau oi ?L tue pdvt In front, it is limited by the posterior margin of the obturator- foramen Behind it is bounded by a sharp ridge, winch gives attachment to Tficiform pr^^^^^^^ of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and more the descending ramus of the pubis—tne 3"^^"°" 7, / • • f tj.e Obturator ^ficiaUerine^^ i' If these tSlges bTtT^^^^ddH^vn- o,JJi^ Zf^h^t^i^^n^v^^^ ntW i- ist behind the point of i^<-^?^Ern^ wm be found to ^^^^tCt^ev"^ tsS^^r. continuous r^r^ origin of the Transversus penni^i; heie the tv. o U.> eis 01 behind the posterior border ^l^^%'^ff^:.l''Z iCsvS-us perim^i is in front of the point of junction ^l.^^^ f^f';^^^^^^^ presents for exammation two sur aces '""^ f for the origin of various is rough, directed downwards and ""^wajds an^^^^^^^^^ angle, muscles. The Adductor longus arises from the upperOS INNOMINATUM 325 immediately below the crest; lower down, from without inwards, the Obturator externus, the Adductor brevis, and the upper part of tlie Gracilis take origin. The 'posterior stirface, convex from above downwards, concave from side to side, is smooth, and forms part of tlie anterior wall of the pelvis. It gives origin to the Levator ani and Obturator internus, and attachment to the pubo- prostatic hgaments and to a few muscular fibres prolonged from the bladder. The upper border presents a prominent tubercle, wliich projects forwards, the pubic spine (tuberculum pubicum); the outer pillar of the external abdominal ring and Poupart's ligament are attached to it. Passing upwards and out- wards from the pubic spine is a well-defined ridge, forming a part of the linea Uio-pectinea which marks the brim of the true pelvis : to it are attached a portion of the conjoined tendon of the Internal oblique and Transversalis, Gimbernat's ligament and the triangular fascia of the abdomen. Internal to the spine of the os pubis is the crest, which extends from this process to tlie inner extremity of tlie bone. It affords attacliment to tlie conjoined tendon of the Internal oblique and Transversalis, and to the Rectus and Pyramidalis. The point of junction of the crest with the inner border of the bone is called the angle ; to it, as well as to the symphysis, the internal piUar of the external abdominal ring is attached. The internal border is articular ; it is oval, covered by eight or nine transverse ridges, or a series of nipple-hke processes arranged in rows, separated by grooves ; they serve for the attachment of a thin layer of cartilage, placed between it and the central fibro-cartilage. The outer border presents a sharp margin, which forms part of the circumference of the obturator foramen and affords attachment to the obturator membrane. The ascending: or superior ramus (ramus superior oss. pubis) extends from the body to the point of junction of the pubis \nth the Uium, and forms the upper part of the circumference of the obturator foramen. It presents for examination superior, inferior, and posterior surfaces, and an outer extremity. The superior surface presents a continuation of the Uio-pectineal line, already mentioned as commencing at the pubic spine. In front of this line, the surface of bone is triangular in form, wider externally than internally, smooth, and is covered by the Pectineus. The surface is bounded externally by a rough eminence, eminentia ilio-pectinea, which serves to indicate the point of junction of the iUum and pubis, and below by a prominent ridge, the obturator crest (crista obturatoria), which extends from the cotyloid notch to the spine of the pubis. The inferior surface forms the upper boundary of the obturator foramen, and presents, externally, a broad and deep, oblique gi'oove, for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve ; and internally, a sharp margin which forms part of the circumference of the obturator foramen, and gives attachment to the obturator membrane. The posterior surface constitutes part of the anterior boundary of the true pelvis. It is smooth, convex from above downwards, and affords origin to some fibres of the Obturator internus. The outer extremity, the thickest part of the ramus, forms one-fifth of the acetabulum. The descending or inferior ramus (ramus inferior oss. pubis) is thin and flattened. It passes, outwards and dowmvards, becoming narrower as it descends and joins \nth the ramus of the ischium. Its anterior surface is rough, for the origin of muscles—the GraciUs along its inner border ; a portion of the Obturator externus where it enters into the formation of the Obturator foramen; and between these two, the Adductores brevis et magnus from within outwards. The posterior surface is smooth, and gives origin to the Obturator internus, and, close to the inner margin, to the Compressor urethrse. The inner border is thick, rough, and everted, especially in females. It presents two ridges, separated by an intervening space. The ridges extend downwards, and are continuous with similar ridges on the ramus of the ischium ; to the external is attached the fascia of CoUes, and to the internal the superficial layer of the triangular ligament of the uretlu-a. The outer border is thin and sharp, forms part of the circumference of the obturator foramen, and gives attachment to the obturator membrane. The acetabulum, or cotyloid cavity, is a deep, cup-shaped, hemispherical uepression, directed downwards, outwards, and forwards. It is formed internally by the pubis, above by the ilium, behind and below by the ischium ; a little less than two-fifths being contributed by the ilium, a little more than twoOSTEOLOGY 326 fifths by the ischium, and the remaining fifth by the pubic bone. It is bounded by a prominent, uneven rim, which is thick and strong above, and serves for the attachment of tlie cotyloid ligament, which contracts its orifice, and deepens the surface for articulation. It presents below a deep notch, the cotyloid notch (incisura acetabuli), which is continuous with a circular depression, the fossa acetabuli, at the bottom of the cavity : this depression is perforated by numerous apertures, and lodges a mass of fat. The notch is converted into a foramen by tlie transverse ligament; through the foramen nutrient vessels and nerves enter the joint; the margins of the notch serve for the attachment of the lii^amentum teres. The ^obturator or thyroid foramen (foramen obturatum) is a large aperture, situated between the ischium and pubis. In the male it is large and of an oval form, its longest diameter being obhquely from before backwards ; in the female it is smaller, and more triangular. It is bounded by a tliin, uneven margin, to which a strong membrane is attached ; and presents, superiorly, a deep Fig. 380.—Plan of ossification of the os innominatum. groove (sulcus obturatorius), wliich runs from the pelvis obliquely inwards and downwards. This groove is converted into a foramen by a ligamentous band, a specialised part of the obturator membrane, attached to t^vo ^f^^^l^^^'^ (tuberculum obturatorium posterius) on the niterna border of the ?sclu»m^^^^^ in front of the cotvloid notch, the other (tuberculum obturatorius aiiteuus) on the inferior margin of the posterior surface of the f^^^^^ing ramus ot pubis. Through the foramen the obturator vessels and nerve pass out ot tnc ^^^Structure.-The thickest parts of the bone consist of cancellous fi^sue enclosed between two layers of compact tissue. The thinner parts of the bone, as at the bottom oUhe acetabulum and centre of the iUac fossa, are usually seim-transparent, and composed entirely of compact tissue. • •« i ^inht oentres • Ossification (fig. 380).-Thc os innominatum is ossified f-*"'" ^v- three primary-one'each for the iUmn, ischium, and pubis ; ^'fJ^l'^Zve one for the crest of the ihum, one for the anterior inferior spine (said to occur more327 OS INNOMINATUM frequently in the male than in the female), one for the tuberosity of the ischium, one for the symphysis pubis (more frequent in the female than in the male), and one or more for the V-shaped piece at the bottom of the acetabulum. The centres appear in the following order : in the lower part of the ilium, immediately above the sciatic notch, about the eighth or ninth week of foetal life ; in the body of the ischium, about the third month ; in the body of the pubis, between the fourth and fifth months. At birth, the three primary centres are quite separate, the crest, the bottom of the acetabulum, the ischial tuberosity, and the rami of the ischiiun and pubis being still cartilaginous. By the seventh or eighth year, the rami of the pubis and iscliium are almost completely united by bone. About tlie thirteenth or fourteenth year, the three primary centres have extended their growth into the bottom of the acetabidum, and are there separated from each other by a Y-shaped portion of cartilage, which now presents traces of ossification, often by two or more centres. One of these, the os acelahuU, appears about the age of twelve, between the ilium and pubis, and fuses with them about the age of eighteen ; it forms the pubic part of the acetabulum. The ilium and ischiimi then become joined, and lastly the pubis and ischium, through the intervention of this Y-shaped portion. At about the age of puberty, ossification takes place in each of the remaining portions, and they join with the rest of the bone between the twentieth and twenty-fifth years. Separate centres are frequently found for the pubic and ischial spines, and for the crest and angle of the pubis. Articulations.—The os innominatimi articulates with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the sacrum and femur. The Pelvis The Pelvis, so called from its resemblance to a basin, is stronger and more massively constructed than the walls of the cranial or thoracic cavities ; it is a bony ring, interposed between the movable vertebrte of the spinal column which it supports, and the lower limbs upon which it rests. It is composed of four bones : the two ossa innominata laterally and in front; and the sacrum and coccyx behind. The pelvis is divided by an oblique plane passing through the prominence of the sacrum, the linea dio-pectinea, and the upper margin of the symphysis pubis, into the false and true pelvis. The circumference of this plane is termed the pelvic brim. The false pelvis (pelvis major) is the expanded portion of the cavity situated above and in front of the pelvic brim. It is bounded on each side by the ilium; in front it is incomplete, presenting a wide interval between the spinous processes of the ilia on either side, which is filled up in the recent state by the parietes of the abdomen ; behind, in the middle line, is a deep notch. Its walls support the intestines, and transmit part of their weight to the anterior wall of the abdomen; the term false pelvis is therefore incorrect, and the space ought more properly to be regarded as part of the hypogastric and iliac regions of the abdomen. The true pelvis (pelvis minor) is that part of the pelvic cavity which is situated below and beliind the pelvic brim. It is smaller than the false pelvis, but its bony walls are more perfect. For convenience of description, it is divided into an inlet bounded by the superior circumference, an outlet bounded by the inferior circumference and a cavity. The superior circumference forms the brim of the pelvis, the included space being called the inlet (apertura pelvis superior) (fig. 381). It is formed laterally by the ilio-pectineal lines, in front by the crests of the pubic bones, and behind by the anterior margin of the base of the sacrum and sacro-vertebral angle. The inlet of the pelvis is somewhat heart-shaped, obtusely pointed in front, diverging on either side, and encroached upon behind by the projection forwards of the promontory of the sacrum. It has three principal diameters : f\ntero-posterior, transverse, and oblique. The antero-posierior or conjugate diameter extends from the sacro-vertebral angle to the symphysis pubis ; its average measurement is four inches in the male, four and three-quarters in the female. The transverse, diameter extends across the greatest width of the inlet, from the middle of the brim on one side to the same point on the opposite ; its average measurement is four and a haU inches in the male, five and a328 OSTEOLOGY quarter in tho female. The oblique diameter extends from the ilio-pectineal eminence of one side to the sacro-ihac articulation of the opposite side ; its average measurement is four and a quarter inclies in the male, and fiA^e in the female. The cavity of the true pelvis is bounded in front and below by the sym- physis pubis and the bodies of the pubic bones ; above and behind, by the Fig. 381.—Diameters of the pelvic inlet (female). anterior concave surfaces of the sacrum and coccyx, which curving forwards above and below, contract the inlet and outlet of the canal; laterally, by a broad, smooth, quadrangular area of bone, correspondmg to the muer surface of the body of the ischium and that part of the ilium which is below the iho- pectineal line. The cavity measures an inch and a haK m depth m rroiit, Fig. 382.—Diameters of the pelvic outlet (female). 'J three inches and a half in tlie middle, and four "\^l^<'%^"d From this description, it will be seen that the cavity of the 1« ,\^jf^°\*^ curved canal, considerably deeper on its posterior than " J} contains, in the recent subject, the pelvic colon rectum ^^la^^^^; the organs of generation. The rectum is placed at the back of tbe vis^^.^^^^^ corresponds to the curve of the sacrum and coccyx : the bladder is m fiont,PELVIS 329 Fig. 383.—Mesial sagittal section of pelvis. behind tlie symphysis pubis. In the female, the uterus and vagina occupy the interval between these viscera. .1^.1 The lowpr circumference of the pelvis is very uregular; the space enclosed bv it is named tlie outlet (apertura pelvis inferior) (fig 382) and is bounded behind by the point of the coccyx ; and lateraUy by the tuberosities of the ischia. These eminences are separated by three notches : one m front tiie pubic arch (arcus pubis), formed by the convergence of the rami of the ischium and pubis on eitlier side. The other notches, one on either side, are formed by the sacrum and coccyx behind, the ischium in front, and the ilium above : they are caUed the sacro-sciatic notches ; m the natural state they are converted into foramina by the great and small sacro-sciatic ligaments. When the ligaments are in situ, the outlet of the pelvis is lozenge-shaped bounded, in front, by the subpubic ligament and the rami of the pubes and iscbia ; laterally by the tuberosities of the ischia; and behind, by the great sacro-sciatic ligaments and the tip of the coccyx. . The diameters of the outlet of the pelvis are two, antero-posterior and transverse. The antero-posterior diameter extends from the tip of the coccyx to the lower part of the symphysis pubis ; its average measurement is three and three-quarter inches in tlie male, and five inches in the female. It varies with the length of the coccyx, and is capable of increase or diminution, on account of the mobility of that bone. The transverse diameter, measured between the posterior parts of the ischial tuber- osities, is three and a half inches in the male, and four and three-quarters in the female.* Axes (fig. 383).—A Ime at right angles to the plane of the inlet at its centre would, if prolonged, pass through the umbilicus above and the middle of the coccyx below: the axis of the inlet is therefore directed downwards and backwards. The axis of the outlet, produced upwai-ds, would touch the base of the sacrum, and is also directed downwards, and slightly backwards. The axis of the cavity—i.e. an axis at right angles to a series of planes between those of the inlet and outlet—is curved like the cavity itself: this curve corresponds to the concavity of the sacrum and coccyx, the extremities being indicated by the central points of the inlet and outlet. A knowledge of the dii'ection of these axes serves to explain the course of the foetus in its passage through the pelvis during parturition. Position of the pelvis (fig. 383).—In the erect posture, the pelvis is placed obliquely with regard to the trimk : the plane of the pelvic inlet forms an angle of from 50° to 60°, and that of the outlet one of about 15° with the horizontal plane. The pelvic surface of the symphysis pubis looks upwards and backwards, the concavity of the sacrum and coccyx downwards and forwards ; the base of the sacrum in well-formed female bodies being nearly four inches above the upper border of the symphysis pubis, and the apex of the coccyx a little more than half an inch above its lower border. In consequence of this obliquity of the pelvis, the line of gravity of the head, which passes through the middle of the odontoid process of the axis and the points of junction of the curves of the vertebral column to the sacro-vertebral angle, descends towards the front of the cavity, so that it bisects a line drawn transversely through the centres of the heads of the thigh-bones (see page 199). Differences between the male and female pelves.—The female pelvis (fig. 385) is distinguished from that of the male (fig. 384) by its bones being more delicate and its depth less. The whole pelvis is less massive, and its * i he measurements of the pelvis given above are fairly accurate, but different measure- ments arc g:iven by various authors, no doubt due in a great measure to differences in the physique and stature of the population from whom the measurements have been taken.OSTEOLOGY 330 muscular impressions are slightly marked. The ilia are less sloped, and the anterior iliac spines more w idely separated ; hence the greater prominence of the hips. The inlet in the female is larger than in the male ; it is more nearly circular, and its obliquity is greater. The cavity is shallower and wider ; the Kg. 384.—Male pelvis. sacrum is shorter, wider, and its upper part is less curved ; the obturator foramma are triangular in shape and smaller m size than in the male. The outlet is larger and the coccjrx more movable. The sacro-sciatic notches arc shallower, and the spuaes of the ischia project less inwards. The tuberosities Fig. 385.—^Female pelvis. of the ischia, and the aeetabula are wider apart and tlie former J« ^ everted. Th^ pubic symphysis is less deep, and thV'"b^'^,«f V^^^^^^^^ more romided than in the male, where it is an angle ' f ^'^^^l^^'^^^^^^^^ In consequence of this the width of the fore part of the Vf'l'^y';^'^''^^^^^^ a condition which facilitates the passage of the festal head duimg paituulion.331 PELVIS The size of the pelvis varies not only in the two sexes, but also in different members of tlie same sex, and does not appear to be influenced in any way by the iieight of the individual. Women of short stature, as a rule, have broad pelves. Occasionally the pelvis is equally contracted in all its dimen- sions, so much so that all its diameters measure an inch less than the average, and this even in well-formed women of average height. The principal diver- gences, however, are found at the uilet, and affect the relation of the antero- posterior to the transverse diameter. Thus the inlet of the pelvis may be elliptical either in a transverse or an antero-posterior direction ; the transverse diameter in the former, and the antero-posterior m the latter, greatly exceeding the other diameters. Again, the inlet of the pelvis in some instances is seen to be almost circular. The same differences are found in various races. European women are said to liave the most roomy pelves. That of the negress is smaller, circular in shape, and with a narrow pubic arch. The Hottentots and Bushwomen possess the smallest pelves. In the fmtus, and for several years after bii'th, the pelvis is small m proportion to that of the adult, and the projection of the sacro-vertebral angle less marked. The generally accepted opinion that the pelvis does not acquire its sexual characteristics untU after puberty has been shown to be erroneous,* the characteristic differences between the male and female pelvis being distinctly indicated as early as the fourth month of foetal life. Surface Form.—The pelvic bones are so thickly covered with muscles that it is only at certain points that they approach the surface and can be felt through the skin. In front, tlie anterior superior spine of the ilium is easily recognised ; a portion of it is subcutaneous, and in thin subjects may be feen to stand out as a prominence at the outer extremity of the fold of the groin. Li fat subjects its position is marked by an obhque depression, at the bottom of which the bony process may be felt. Proceeding upwards and outwards from this process, the sinuously curved crest of the ilium may be traced throughout its whole length. Its highest point is on a level with the spinous process of the fourth lumbar vertebra: upon its outer lip, about two inches behind the anterior superior spine, is a prominent tubercle. The position of the crest is indicated, in muscular subjects, by a groove or furrow, the iliac furroiv, below the projection of the fleshy fibres of the External oblique muscle of the abdomen ; the iliac furrow lies slightly below the level of the crest. It terminates behind in the posterior superior spine, the position of which is indicated by a sUght depression on a level with the spmous process of the second sacral vertebra. Between the two posterior superior spines, but at a lower level, is to be felt the spinoiis process of the third sacral vertebra. Another part of the bony pelvis which is accessible to touch is the tuberosity of the ischium, situated beneath the gluteal fold, and, when the hip is flexed, easily felt, as it is then uncovered by muscle. Finally, the spuie of the pubis can be readily felt, and constitutes an important surgical guide, especially in connection with the subject of hernia. It is in nearly the same horizontal plane as the upper edge of the great trochanter. In thin subjects it is very apparent, but in the obese it is obscured by the pubic fat. It can, how- ever, be detected by follo\ving up the tendon of origin of the Adductor longus muscle. A line drawn from the anterior superior spme of the ilium to the most prominent part of the tuberosity of the ischium passes across the hip at a level with the upper border of the great trochanter. It is known as Nelaton's line, and is of service in detecting any displacement of the trochanter in fractures or dislocations in this situation. If a hne be drawn from the posterior superior spine of the ilium to the outer part of the tuberosity of the ischium, it will cross the spine of the ischium about four inches below the posterior superior iliac spme. The gi-eat sciatic foramen will lie above, and the lesser foramen below this point. Applied AfuUomy.—^There is arrest of development in the bones of the pelvis in cases of extroversion of tho bladder ; the anterior part of the pelvic girdle being deficient, the bodies of the pubic bones imperfectly developed, and the symph3fsis absent. ' The pubic bones are separated to the extent of from two to four inches, the superior rami shortened and directed forwards, and the obturator foramen diminished in size, nan-owed, and turned outwards. The iliac bones are straightened out more than normal. The sacrum is very pecuUar. The lateral curve, instead of being concave, is flattened out or even convex, with the iho-sacral facets turned more outward than normal, while the vertical curve is straightened.' t * Fehling, Zeitschr. far Oeburt. ii. &ynlilt. Bd. ix. luid x.; and Arthur Thomson, Juurnal of Anatomy and Physioloyy, vol. xxxiii. t Wood. Heath's Dictionary of Praotiaal Sit/rgery, i. 42G.332 OSTEOLOGY Fractures of the pelvis are divided into those of the false and those of the true pelvis. Fractures of the false pelvis vary in extent; a small portion of the crest may be broken, or one of the spinous processes may be torn off, or the bone may be extensively comminuted. This latter accident is the result of some crushing violence, and may be complicated with fracture of the true pelvis. These cases may be accompanied by injury to the intestine as it lies in the hollow of the bone, or to the iliac vessels as they course along the margin of the true pelvis. A fracture of the true pelvis generally occurs through the ascending ramus of the pubis and the ramus of the ischium, as these are the ^^'eake8t parts of the bony ring, and may be caused either by crushing violence applied in an antero-posterior direction, when the fracture occurs from direct force, Oi- by compression laterally, when the acetabula are jircssed together and the bone gives way in the same place from indirect violence. Sometimes the fracture may be double, occurring on both sides of the body. It is in these cases that the contained viscera are likely to be injured : the urethra, the bladder, the rectum, the vagina in the female, the small intestines, and even the uterus, have all been lacerated by displaced fragments. Fractures of the acetabulum are occasionally met with : either a portion of the rim may be broken off, or a fracture may take place through the bottom of the ca^nty, and the head of the femur be driven inwards and project into the pelvic cavity. Separation of the Y-shaped cartilage at the bottom of the acetabulum may also occur in the young subject, spUtting the bone into its three portions. The coccyx is not infrequently fractured or displaced forwards to nearly a right angle with the sacrum by kicks or by falls backwards. The fracture is attended with gi-eat pain in walking and on making any expu'atory effort, such as coughing, defoecation, &c., because the Coccygeus, which is attached to this bone, forms part of the pelvic diaphragm. Falls or blows on the coccyx, imaccompanied by fractui-e, sometimes give rise to severe pain, which is exceedingly mtractable and difficult of cure. The condition is known as coccygodynia, and for its relief removal of the coccyx has been practise^- The pelvic bones often undergo important deformity in rickets, the effects of which in the adult woman may interfere seriously with child-bearmg. The deformity is due mainly to the weight of the spine and trmik, which presses on the sacro-vertebral angle and greatly mcreases it, so that the antero-posterior diameter of the pelvis is dimmished, and may measure as little as IJ mches, the entrance into the pelvis becoming reniform. In other cases all the pelvic bones give way, so that a general diminution in aU the diameters of the pelvis results, the pelvic entrance becommg triangular or asymmetrical. If the pubic symphysis be forced forwards, the rickety pelvis may even come to resemble closely the deformed pelvis of osteomalacia ; in this disease the weight of the trunk causes an increase in the sacro-vertebral angle, and a lessening of the antero-posterior diameter of the inlet, and at the same time the pressure of the heads of the thigh-bones on the acetabula causes these cavities, with the adjacent bone, to be pushed upwards and backwards, so that the obhque diameters of the pelvis are also diminished, and the cavity of the pelvis assumes a tri-radiate shape, with the symphysis pubis pushed forwards. The Fbmxje The Femur (figs. 387 and 388), the longest, largest, and strongest bone in the skeleton, is almost perfectly cylindrical in the greater part of its extent. In the erect posture it is not vertical, being separated above from its feUow by a considerable interval, which corresponds to the breadth of the pelvis but inclinmg gradually do-miwards and mwards, so as to approach its fellow towards its lower part, for the purpose of bringmg the knee-joint near the line of gravity of the body. The degree of this mclmation vanes m different persons, and is greater in the female than in the male, on account of the greater breadth of the pelvis. The femur, like other long bones, is divisible mto a shaft and two extremities. . , j ^ The upper extremity (fig. 386) presents for examination a head, a neck, a great and a small trochanter. The head (caput femoris), wliich is globular, and forms rather more than a hemisphere, is du-ected upwards, inwards, and a Httle forwards, the gi-eater part of its convexity bemg above and in front. Its surface is smooth, coated with cartilage in the recent state, except over a depressed ovoid area (fovea capitis femoiis), which is situated a little below and behmd its centre, and gives attachment to the ligamentum teres. ., , « , , Tlie neck (collum femoris) is a flattened pyramidal process of bone, wiiicli connects the head with tlie shaft, and forms with the latter a_Ande angle The angle is widest m mfancy, and becomes essened durmg gro^^•th, so tliat at puberti it forms a gentle curve from the axis of the sliaft. In the adult, the Lck forms an angll of about 125° with the shaft, but this varies m mverse333 FEMUR proportion to the development of the pelvis and the stature. In consequence of tlie prominence of the hips and widenmg of the pelvis in tlie female, the neck of the thigh-bone forms more nearly a right angle with the shaft than it does in the male. It has been stated that the angle dimmishes in old age and that the durection of the neck becomes horizontal, but this statement is founded on insufficient evidence. Humphry found that the angle decreases during the period of growth, but after full grow th has been attained it does not usually undergo any change, even in old age ; it varies considerably in different persons of the same age. It is smaller m short than in long bones, and when the pelvis is wide.* The neck is flattened from, before back- wards, contracted in the middle, and broader externally than internally. The vertical diameter of the outer half is mcreased by the obliquity of the lower edge, which slopes do^vnwards to join the shaft at the level of the small trochanter, so that it measures one-tlm-d more than the antero- posterior diameter. The inner half is smaller, and of a more circular shape. The anterior surface of the neck is perforated by numerous vascular foramina. The posterior surface is smooth, and is broader and more concave than the anterior ; it gives attachment to the posterior part of the capsular ligament of the hip-joint, about half an inch above the posterior intertrochanteric line. Fig. 386.—Upper extremity of right femiu" viewed from behind and above. The superior border is short and thick, and terminates externally at the great trochanter ; its' surface is perforated by large foramina. The inferior border, long and narrow, curves a little backwards, to terminate at the small trochanter. The trochanters are prominent processes of bone which alford leverage to the muscles which rotate the thigh on its axis. They are two in number, the great and the small. The great trochanter (trochanter major) is a large, irregular, quadi-ilateral eminence, situated at the outer side of the neck, at its junction with the upper part of the shaft. It is directed a little outwards and backwards, and, in the adult, is about three-quarters of an inch lower than the head. It presents for examination two surfaces and four borders. The external surface, quadri- lateral in form, is broad, rough, convex, and marked by a diagonal impression, which extends from the postero-superior to the antero-inferior angle, and serves for the uxsertion of the tendon of the Gluteus medius. Above the impression is a triangular surface, sometimes rough for part of the tendon of the same muscle, sometimes smooth for the interposition of a bursa between tlie tendon and the bone. Below and behind the diagonal impression is a smooth, triangular surface, over which the tendon of the Gluteus maximus plays, a bursa being interposed. The internal surface, of much less extent * Journal of Anatoviy and Physiology, vol. xxiii.'334 OSTEOLOGY Fig. 387.—Right femui-. Anterior surface. Obturator intcrnus and Gemelli Pyriformis than the external, presents at its base a deep depression, the digilal fossa (fos.sa trochanterica), for the insertion of the tendon of the Obtu- rator externus, and above and m front of this an impression for the insertion of tlie Obturator mternus and Gemelh. The superior border is free ; it is tliick and irregular, and marked near the centre by an im- pression for the insertion of tlie Pyi'iformis. The inferior border corresponds to the line of junction of the base of the trochanter w ith the outer surface of the shaft; it is marked by a rough, prominent, slightly curved ridge, which gives origin to the upper part of the Vastus externus. The anterior border is prominent and somewhat irre- gular ; it affords insertion at its outer part to the Gluteus minimus. The posterior border is very promi- nent, and appears as a free, rounded edge, which bounds the back part of the digital fossa. The small trochanter (tro- chanter minor) is a conical eminence, which varies in size in different sub- jects ; it projects from the lower and back part of the base of the neck. Its base is triangular, and connected with the adjacent parts of the bone by three well-marked borders : two of these are above—the internal con- tinuous with the lower border of the neck, the external with the pos- terior intertrochanteric line—while the inferior border is continuous with the middle division of the Imea as- pera. Its summit, directed inwards and backwards, is rough, and gives insertion to the tendon of the Psoas. A well-marked prominence, of variable size, which projects at tlie junction of the upper part of the neck with the great trochanter, is called the tubercle of the femur : it is the point of meeting of five muscles : the Gluteus muiimus ex- ternally, the Vastus externus below, and the tendon of the Obturator internus and two Gemelli above. Capsular ligament Rumiing obliquely downwards and inwards from the tubercle is the spiral line of the femur, or antcrwr intertrochanteric line (linea intcrtro- chanterica) ; it wmds round the i nner side of the shaft, below the lesser trochanter, and terminates about two inches below this eminence m the linea aspera. Its upper half is rough, and affords attachment Adductor tubercle Inner tuberosity£E^^4Si5Iir^tsTo\\er half is less prominent, and gives origin to the upper part of the Vastus internus. Running obliquely downwards and inwards from the summit of the great tro- chanter on the posterior surface of the neck is a very prominent ridge, the posterior intertro- chanteric line (crista intertro- chanterica). Its upper half forms the posterior border of the great troclianter, and its lower half runs downA\ ards and mwards to the upper and back part of the lesser trochanter. A slight ridge is sometimes seen commencing about the middle of the posterior intertrochanteric line, and passing vertically do\™wards for about two inches along the back part of the shaft: it is called the linea quadrata, and gives attachment to the Quadratus femoris and a few fibres of the Adductor magnus. Generally tliere is merely a slight thickening about tlie middle of the intertrochanteric line, marking the attachment of the upper part of the Quadratus femoris. This is termed by some anatomists the tubercle of the Quadratus. The shaft (corpus femoris) is almost cylindi-ical in form, but is a little broader above than in the centre, broadest and some- what flattened from before back- wards below. It is slightly arched, so as to be convex in front, and concave behind, where it is strengthened by a promi- nent longitudinal ridge, the linea aspera. It presents for examina- tion three borders, separating three surfaces. Of the three borders, one, the linea aspera, is posterior ; the other two are placed laterally. The li7iea aspera (fig. 388) is a prominent longitudinal ridge or crest, on the middle thu-d of the bone, presenting an inner and an outer lip, and a nar- row, rough, intermediate space. Above, the linea aspera is pro- longed by three ridges. The external ridge is very rough, and runs almost vertically upwards to the base of the great trochanter. It is termed FEMUR 335 Fig. 388.—Right femior. Posterior surface. ligament336 OSTEOLOGY the gluteal ridge (tuberositas glutaea), and gives attachment to part of the Gluteus maximus: its upper part is often elongated mto a roughened crest, on which a more or less well-marked, rounded tubercle, the trocJmnler tertius, is occasionally developed. The middle ridge (linoa pectinea) is contmucd to the base of the small trochanter and gives attachment to the Pectineus ; the internal ridge is lost above in the spiral line of the femur ; between these two a portion of the Iliacus is inserted. Below, the linea aspera is prolonged by two ridges, enclosing between them . a. triangular area, the popliteal surface (planum popliteum), upon which the popliteal artery rests. Of these two ridges, the outer is the more prominent, and descends to the summit of the external condyle. The inner is less marked, especially at its upper part, where it is crossed by the femoral artery. It terminates, below, at the summit of the internal condyle, in a small tubercle, the adductor tubercle, which affords insertion to the tendon of the Adductor magnus. _ From the inner lip (labium mediale) of the luiea aspera and its mner prolongations above and below, the Vastus uiternus arises; and from the outer lip (labium laterale) and its outer prolongation above, the Vastus externus takes origm. The Adductor magnus is mserted mto the Imea aspera, to its outer prolongation above, and its inner prolongation below. Between the Vastus externus and the Adductor magnus two muscles are a^tached—viz. the Gluteus maximus inserted above and the short head of the Biceps arising below. Between the Adductor magnus and the Vastus mternus four muscles Fig. 389.—Lower extremity of right femiu- viewed from below. Outer groove- Outer tubcrositij-i Inner groove Inner tuberosity Semilunar area are inserted : the Iliacus and Pectineus above ; the Adductor brevis and AdduSor longus below. The linea aspera is perforated a little below its centre by the nutrient canal, which is directed obHquely upwards. ^ The two lateral borders of the femur are only shghtly marked. the outer extends from the antero-inferior angle of the great trochanter to the anterior Stremity of the external condyle ; the inner from the spiral h.ie, at a point opposTte the small trochanter, to the anterior extremity of the internal condyle. The inner border marks the internal limit of attachment of the Crureus. The anterior surface includes that portion of the shaft which sitxiated between the two lateral borders. It is smooth, convex, broader above and bdovrtharin the centre, and slightly twisted, so that its upper part is dn-ected forwids an a little outwards, its lower part forwards and a httle mwards. From the upper three-fourths of this surface the Crureus arises ; the lower fm?rTh is separated from the muscle by the mtervention o the synovial mSraL of^The knee-joint and a bursa, and gives origin to the Subcrure^s. rnij^;,ir^ss;J^^:of^^ the Vastus internus.337 FEMUR The lower extremity (fig. 389), larger than the upper, is somewhat cuboid in form, but its transverse diameter is greater than its antero-posterior; it consists of two lateral oblong eminences known as the condyles. In front, the condyles are but slightly prominent, and are separated from one another by a smooth shallow articular depression called the trochlea ; behind, they project considerably, and the interval between them forms a deejj notch, the inter- co7idyloid notch (fossa intercondyloidea). The external condyle (condylus lateralis) is the more prominent and the broader both in its antero-posterior and trans- verse diameters; the internal condyle (condylus medialis) is the longer and, when the femur is held with its shaft perpendicular, projects to a lower level. Wlien, however, the femur is m its natural oblique position the lower surfaces of the two condyles lie practically in the same horizontal plane. The condyles are not quite parallel with one another ; the long axis of the external is almost directly antero-posterior, but that of the internal runs backwards and inwards. Then- opposed surfaces, viz. the inner surface of the external and the outer of the internal, are small, rough, and concave, and form the lateral walls of the intercondyloid notch. This notch is limited above by a ridge, the linea inter- condyloidea, and below by the central part of the posterior margm of the trochlear surface. The posterior crucial ligament of the knee-joint is attached to the lower and front part of the inner wall of the notch and the anterior crucial ligament to an impression on the upper and back part of its outer wall. The outer surface of the external condyle and the inner of the internal are each surmounted by a tuberosity. That on the internal condyle—the inner tuberosity (epicondylus medialis)—is a large convex eminence to which the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint is attached. At its upper part is the adductor tubercle, already referred to, and behind it is a rough impression which gives origin to the inner head of the Gastrocnemius. That on the external condyle, the outer tuberosity (epicondylus lateralis), smaller and less promment than the mtemal, gives attachment to the external lateral ligament of the knee- jomt. Du-ectly below it is a small depression from which a smooth well-marked groove curves obHquely upwards and backwards to the posterior extremity of the condyle. This groove is separated from the articular surface of the condyle by a prominent lip across which a second, shallower groove runs vertically downwards from the depression. In the recent state these grooves are covered mth cartilage. The Popliteus arises from the depression ; its tendon is lodged m the oblique groove when the knee is flexed and m the vertical groove when the knee is extended. Above and behind the outer tuberosity is an area for the origm of the outer head of the Gastrocnemius, above and to the mner side of which the Plantaris arises. The articular surface of the lower end of the femur occupies the anterior inferior, and posterior surfaces of the condyles. Its front part is named the trochlea (facies pateUaris) and articulates with the patella; it presents a median groove which extends do^rawards to the intercondyloid notch and two lateral convexities, the external of wliich is broader, more prominent and extends farther upwards than the internal. The lower and posterior parts ot the articular surface constitute the tibial surfaces for articulation wtli the corresponding tuberosities of the tibia and' semilunar cartUages. xnese surtaces are separated from one another by the intercondyloid notch o^^^ 1'°"^ ^^clilea by faint grooves which extend obliquely across the conayles. 1 he outer of these grooves is the better marked ; it runs outwards ana torwards from the front part of the intercondyloid notch, and expands externaUy to form a triangular depression. When the knee-joint is fully extenaecl the outer triangular part of this groove rests upon the anterior portion 01 Hie external semilunar cartilage, and its inner part comes into contact with the fnh! ^^''f";^ of t/i? outer articular surface of the tibia in front of the external ^uoercie ot the tibial spme. The iiuier groove is less distinct than the outer. A^aoes not reach as far as the intercondyloid notch and therefore exists only un cne inner part of the condyle ; it receives the anterior edge of the internal PYf^ if '^^^g® ^^'lien the knee-joint is extended. Where the groove ceases Aceinauy the trochlear surface is seen to be continued backwards as a semi- l,,r^... ''''''''' anterior part of the intercondyloid notch ; this semi- fkSnn''''?ff f ^^^^^ internal vertical facet of the pateUa in forced nexion of the knee-joint. The tibial surfaces of the condyles are convex from338 OSTEOLOGY side to side and from before backwards. Each presents a double curve, its posterior segment being an arc of a circle, its anterior, part of a cycloid.* Fig. 390.—Longitudinal section of head and neck of femur. Structure.—The shaft of the femui- is a cyUnder of compact tissue hoUowed by a large medullary canal. The wall of the cyUnder is of great thickness and dLity fn the middle third of the ^^^ft^ -^b^ Fig. 39L—Scheme showing disposition of principal cancellous lamella; in upper extremity of femur. and below this the wall becomes thinner, while the medullary canal is gradually filled up by cancellous tissue, so that the upper and lower ends of the shaft (fig. 390), and the articular extremities more especially, consist of cancellous tissue, invested by a thin compact layer. The cancelli in the ends of the femur are disposed along the hues of greatest pressure and tension. In the upper end (fig 391) the chief lamellae are arranged m the foUowiug manner. A senes of bony planes at right angles to the articular surface of the head converge to a central dense wedge, which presents few and dense cancelU. The wedge is supported by strong lamellaj, which extend to the sides of the neck and arc specially marked along its upper and lower borders. Any force therefore appUed *° "^^^/^i^^^Jek tninsmitted directly to the central wedge and thence to the junction of the * A oyoMd is a curve traced by a point in the circumference of a wheel when the wheel is rolled along in a straight line.339 FEMUR with the shaft. This junction is specially strengthened by a series of dense lamellse which extend fi'om the lesser trochanter to the outer end of the superior border of the neck; this arrangement will obviously oppose considerable resistance to either tensile or shearing force. A smaller bar stretching across the junction of the great trochanter with the neck and shaft resists the shearing force of the muscles attached to this prominence. These two bars, one at the junction of shaft and neck, the other at the junction of shaft and gi-eat trochanter, form the upper layers of a series of arches which extend across between the sides of the shaft and transmit to the shaft forces applied to the upper end of the bone. In the midst of the cancellous tissue of the neck is a vertical plane of compact bone, the femoral spur {calcar femorale) which commences at the point where the neck joins the shaft midway between the small trochanter and the internal border of the shaft of the bone, and extends in the direction of the digital fossa (fig. 392). This materially strengthens this portion of the bone. Another point in connection with the structure of the neck of the femur requires mention, especially on accoimt of its influence on the production of fracture in this situation. It will be noticed that a considerable portion of the great trochanter lies behind the EiQ. 392.—Calcar femorale. Great trochanter . Digital fossa Small trochanter Calcar femorale level of the posterior surface of the neck, and if a section be made through the trochanter at this level, it \vill be seen that the posterior wall of the neck is prolonged into the trochanter. This prolongation is termed by Bigelow the 'true neck,' * and forms a thin, dense plate of bone, wliich passes beneath the posterior intertrochanteric ridge towards the outer surface of the bone. In the lower end, the cancelli spring on all sides from the inner sui-face of the cylinder, and descend in a perpendicular direction to the articidar surface, the cancelli being strongest and having a more accur- ately perpendicular course above the condyles. In addition to this, however, horizontal planes of can- cellous tissue are to be seen, so that the spongy tissue in this situation presents an appearance of being mapped out into a series of cubical compartments. Articulations. — The femui- articulates with three bones : the OS innominatum, tibia, and patella. Ossification (fig. 393). — The femur is ossified from five centres : one for the shaft, one for the head, one for each trochanter, and one for the lower extremity. Of all the long bones, except the clavicle, it is the first to show traces of ossification ; this commences in the middle of the shaft, at about the seventh week of icetal lite, and rapidly extends upwards and downwards. The centres in the epiphyses appear in the foUowing order: in the lower end of the bone, at the nintn month of foetal life (from this centre the condyles and tuberosities lornied); m the head, at the end of the first year after birth ; in the gi are ^— ^ „„„^, great fh- f 1,' fourth year ; and in the small trochanter, between the muteenth and fourteenth years. The order in which the epiphyses are joined to ine Shaft is the reverse of that of their appearance: they are not united until after puDerty the small trochanter being first joined, then the great, then the head, ana, lastly, the inferior extremity, which is not united until the twentieth year. Bigelow on the Hip, Philadelphia, 1869. Z2340 O.STEULUUY Surface JPom—The femur is covered witli muscles, so that in fairly muscular subjects the shaft caimot bo detected, and the only parts accessible to the touch the outer surface of the great trochanter and the lower expanded end of the bone The situation o the great trochanter is generally indicated by a depression, owing to the thjckne^ oUl^^ Gluteuf medius and minimus, which project above it. When however, the thigh is flexed and especially if it be crossed over the opposite one, the trocharitcr produces a blunt eminence on the surface. The upper border is about on a level with the centre of the h.p- S and is indicated by a line di-a\vn from the anterior superior spme of the il.um over Ihe outer sfdL of the hip, to the most prominent point of the tuberosity of the ischium This is known as N61aton's line. The outer and inner condyles of the lower extremity are accessrble to the touch. The outer one is more subcutaneous than the mner one. Tnd read y felt The tuberosity on it is comparatively little developed, but can be Tore or less easily recognised. The inner condyle is more thickly covered, and this gives Henera onvSVut^^^^^^ part, especially when the knee is flexed The tuberosity on it is easHy felt, and at the upper part of the condyle the sharp -^'^^^'^'^l^^^^'J^; it^ertion of the tendon of the Adductor magnus can be recognised ^^^thout difficulty ■^rtL°,™ee i, flexed, „d ..e pate.l. •'^-^-^^ ^"trS-^.tl^tn Fig. 393.—Plan of ossification of the femur. From five centres. Ap2>ears at ^ ith year ; joins shaft a aboxU- l&th tjr. % Appears at end of 1st yr.; joins shaft about 18th yr. Apiiears IZth-lith year ; joins shaft about ISth year of the trochlear surface of the femur can be made out above the patella. Applied Anatomy.—Theie are one or two points about the ossification of the femur bearing on practice to which allusion must be made. The lower end of the femur is the only epiphysis m which ossification has commenced at the time of birth. The presence of this ossific centre is, therefore, a proof, m a newly born child found dead, that the child has arrived at the full period of utero-gestation, and is always relied upon in medico-legal investigations. The position of the epiphysial line should be carefully noted. It is on a level with the adductor tubercle, and the epiphysis does not, therefore, form the whole of the cartilage-clad portion of the lower end of the bone. It is essential to bear this point in imnd in performing excision of the knee, since growth in length of the femur takes place chiefly from the lower epiphysis and any interference with the epiphysial cartilage in a young chUd would mvolve such ultimate shortening of the Umb, from want of growth, as to render the limb almost useless. Separation of the lower epiphysis may take place up to the age of twenty, at which time it be- comes completely joined to the shaft of the bone ; but, as a matter of fact, few cases occur after the age of sixteen or seventeen. The epiphysis of the head of the femur is of i-t-st principally cm acc^n^f^ts bem, tl^seat of on^m. m be noted that the epiphysis tor the head is entu.^^^^^^^^^^ .^^^^ Fractures of the femur .^^-^^f'j^^j^.^t^t^^^^^^^^^ Ihe fracLes of the upper end of the upper end ; of the shaft ; and ot t'le 'ower enu jimction of the neck may be classified into (I) fracture of the neck ; (2) fracture at tne ]i ^j^^ with the great trochanter ; (3) fracture of the great t^oclianter ^^^^^^^ of Ipiphysis^either of the head or o the great t^^^^^^'^^^^b^f ^j^^ a correct the neck, is usually termed ''^l'"'''P'''\^'J^^^^^ the fracture is designation, as, owing to attachment o^^ ^ lo,,er partly within and partly without the ' Spally women, and usually Appears at 9th month of fcetal life Joins shaft at 20^/i year Loivvr c.Llremify341 APPLIED ANATOMY OF FEMUR fragments become united by fibrous tissue, but frequently no union takes place, and the opposed surfaces become smooth and eburnated. Fractures at the junction of the neck with the great trochanter are usually termed exlra-capsular, but this designation is also incorrect, as the fracture is partly within the capsule owing to its attachment in front to the anterior intertrochanteric line, which is situated below the line of fracture. These fractures are produced by direct violence to the great trochanter, as from a fall laterally on the hip. From the manner m which the accident is caused the neck of the bone is driven into the trochanter, where it may remain impacted, or the trochanter may be split into two or more fragments, disimpaction resulting. , .. . Fractm'es of the shaft may occur at any part, but the most usual situation is at or near the centre of the bone. They may be caused by direct or mdirect violence. Fractures of the upper third of the shaft are almost always the result of mdirect violence, while those of the lower thu-d are the result, for the most part, of direct violence. Fractures of the shaft are generally obhque, but they may be transverse, longitudinal, or spiral. The transverse fracture occurs most frequently in children. The fractures of the lower end of the femur include transverse fracture above the condyles, the most common ; and this may be complicated by a vertical fracture between the condyles, constituting the T-shaped fracture. In these cases the popliteal artery is in danger of being wounded. Obhque fracture separating either the internal or external condyle, and a longitudinal mcomplete fracture between the condyles, may also take place. The femur as well as the other bones of the leg is frequently the seat of acute osteo- myeUtis in children. This is no doubt due to then- greater exposui-e to injury, which is often the excitmg cause of this disease. Necrosis of portions of the diaphysis frequently ensues, especially in the region of the popliteal surface of the femur, and the disease may contmue for years, great trouble being experienced with dischargmg sinuses which periodically close and reopen to allow of the exit of a piece of dead bone. Tumoiu-s are not infrequently foimd growing from the femm-: the most common forms being sarcoma which may grow either from the periosteum or from the medullary tissue within the interior of the bone, and exostosis which commonly originates in the neighbourhood of the epiphysial cartUage of the lower end. The periosteal sarcomata of the femur and most of the central growths are usually of a very high degree of malignancy; although the 'myeloid' growth, which nowadays cannot be classed as a malignant tumour, may also be found. The region of the lower epiphysial line is by far the commoner seat for all these tumours, and it should be noted that the lower epiphysis has the longest period of active growth, and that these tumours usually begin to grow towards the end of the period of active growth. Sarcomata about the upper end of the femur are seen occasionally, but very rarely in comparison wdth those at the lower end. Secondary carcinoma also occurs in this bone, most commonly due to a primary focus in the breast, and spontaneous fracture of the bone may take place in these cases. The Patella The Patella (figs. 394 and 395) is a flat, triangular bone, situated at the anterior part of the knee-joint. It is usually regarded as a sesamoid bone, developed in the tendon of the Quadriceps extensor, and resembles these bones (1) in being developed in a tendon ; (2) in its centre of ossification presenting a knotty or tubercular outline ; (3) in being com- Fig. 394.—^Right patella. Fig._395.—Right patella, posed mainly of dense can- cellous tissue. It serves to protect the front of the joint, and increases the leverage of the Quadriceps extensor by making it act at a greater angle. It presents an anterior and a posterior surface, three borders, and an apex. The anterior surface is convex, perforated by small apertures, for the passage of nutrient vessels, and marked by numerous rough, longitudinal striae. This surface is covered, in the recent state, by an expansion from the tendon of the Quadriceps extensor, which is continuous below with the superficial fibres of the ligamentum patellae. It is separated from the integument by a bursa. The 'posterior surface (facies articularis)OSTEOLOGY 342 Fig. 396.—Bones of the right leg. Anterior surface. Capsular ligament External malleolus presents above a smooth, oval, articular area, covered with car- tilage in tlie recent state, and divided into two facets by a vertical ridge, which descends from the superior border towards tlie inferior angle of the bone. The ridge corresponds to the groove on the trochlea of the femur, and the two facets to the inner and outer parts of the same surface ; the outer facet is the broader and deeper. BeloAV the articular surface is a rough, con- vex, non-articular depression, the lower half of which gives attach- ment to the ligamentum pateUse : the upper half is separated from the head of the tibia by adipose tissue. The superior border (basis pateUse) is thick, and sloped from behind, downwards, and forwards: it gives attachment to that por- tion of the Quadriceps extensor which is derived from the Rectus and Crureus. The lateral borders are thinner, converging below: they give attachment to those portions of the Quadriceps ex- tensor which are derived from the external and internal Vasti. The apex (apex patellae) is pointed, and gives attachment to the Ugamentum patellae. Structure.—The patella consists of a nearly uniform dense can- cellous tissue, covered by a thin compact lamina. The canceUi immediately beneath the anterior surface are arranged parallel with it. In the rest of the bone they radiate from the posterior articular surface towards the other parts of the bone. Ossificatiou. — The patella is ossified from a single centre, which usually makes its appearance in the second or third year, but may be delayed mitil the sixth year. More rarely, the bone is developed by two centres, placed side by side. Ossification is completed about the age of puberty. Articulations. — The patella articulates with the femur. Surface Form. — The external surface of the patella can be felt in front of the knee. In the extended position of the limb the inner border of the bone is a little more pro- minent than the outer, and if the Quadriceps extensor be relaxed, the343 PATELLA bone can be moved from side to side and appears to be loosely fixed. When the joint is flexed, the patella recedes into the hollow between the condyles of the femur and the upper end of the tibia, and becomes firmly applied to the femur. Applied Anatomy.—The main surgical interest about the patella is in connection with fractures, which are of frequent occurrence. They are most frequently produced by muscular'action—that is to say, by violent contraction of the Quadriceps extensor, while the limb is in a position of semiflexion, so that the bone is snapped across the condyles, and the fracture is transverse. Fracture of the patella is also produced by direct violence, such as falls on the knee, and here the fracture is usually stellate and the bone comminuted. The principal interest in these cases attaches to their treatment. Owing to the displacement of the fragments, and the difficulty there is in maintaining them in apposi- tion, union takes place by fibrous tissue, and this may subsequently stretch, producing wide separation of the fragments and permanent lameness. Truly satisfactory results after this fractirre are generally only to be obtained by opening the joint and wiring the fragments together, and this is especially so when there is marked separation of the frag- ments owing to laceration of the lateral aponeurosis. It is an anatomical possibility, if the fracture involve only the lower and non-articular part of the bone, for this to take place without injury to the synovial membrane and without involving the cavity of the knee-joint. The Tibia The Tibia (figs. 396 and 398) is situated at the front and inner side of the leg, and, excepting the femur, is the longest and largest bone of the skeleton. It is prismoid in form, expanded above, where it enters into the knee-joint, more sUghtly enlarged below. In the male, its dkection is vertical, and parallel with the bone of the opposite side ; but in the female it has a slightly oblique direction downwards and outwards, to compensate for the greater obliquity of the femur inwards. It presents for examination a shaft and two extremities. The upper extremity, or head, is large, and expanded into two lateral emmences, the tuberosities. The superior surface (facies articularis superior) presents two smooth articular facets, one on either side of the middle line (fig. 397). The inner of these is oval in shape, and shghtly concave from side Fig. 397.—Upper surface of right tibia, showing attachment of crucial ligaments and semilunar cartilages. Posterior crucial ligament Internal semilunar Anterior crucial ligament to side, and from before backwards. The outer, nearly circular, is concave from side to side, but slightly convex from before backwards, especially at its posterior part, where it is prolonged on to the posterior surface for a short distance. The central portions of these facets articulate wth the condyles of the femur, while their peripheral portions support the semilunar cartilages of the knee, which here mtervene between the two bones. In the rniddle line, but nearer the posterior than the anterior aspect of the bone, is an eminence, the spine of the tibia (eminentia intercondyloidea), surmounted on either side by a prominent tubercle, on to the lateral aspects of wliich the facets just described are prolonged; in front of and behind the spinous process are rough depressions for the attachment of the anterior and posterior crucial ligaments and the semilunar fibro-cartilages (fig. 397). The anterior344 OSTEOLOGY surfaces of the tuberosities are continuous Avith one another, forming a single large somewhat flattened area : this area is triangular, broad above, and perforated by large vascular foramina : narrow below where it terminates in a prominent oblong elevation of large size, the tubercle of the tibia (tuberositas tibite), which gives attachment to the Ugamentum patellae ; a bursa intervenes between the deep surface of the ligament and the part of the bone immediately above the tubercle. Posteriorly, the tuberosities are separated from each other by a shallow depression, the popliteal notch, which, gives attachment to part of the posterior crucial ligament, and part of the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. The inner tuberosity (condylus medialis) presents posteriorly a deep transverse groove, for the insertion of the tendon of the Semi- membranosus. Its lateral surface is convex, rough and prominent; it gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament. The outer tuberosity (condylus lateralis) presents posteriorly a flat articular facet, nearly circular in form, directed downwards, backwards, and outwards, for articulation mth the head of the fibula. Its lateral surface is convex and rough, more prominent in front than the internal : it presents an emmence, situated on a level with the upper border of the tubercle of the tibia at the junction of its anterior and outer surfaces, for the attachment of the iho-tibial band. Just below this a part of the Extensor longus digitorum takes origin and a slip from the Biceps tendon is inserted. The shaft (corpus tibije) is of a triangular prismoid form, broad above, gradually decreasing in size to the commencement of its lower fourth, which is its most slender part. It then enlarges again towards its lower extremity. It presents for examination three borders and three surfaces. The anterior border, the most prominent of the three, is called the crest or shin (crista anterior) ; it commences above at the tubercle, and terminates l)elow at the anterior margin of the inner malleolus. It is sinuous and prominent in the upper two-thirds of its extent, but smooth and roimded below ; it gives attachment to the deep fascia of the leg. The internal border (margo medialis) is smooth and rounded above and below, but more prominent in the centre ; it begins at the back part of the inner tuberosity, and ends at the posterior border of the mternal malleolus ; its upper part gives attachment to the internal lateral hgament of the knee to the extent of about two inches, and msertion to some fibres of the Pophteus ; from its middle third some fibres of the Soleus and Flexor longus digitorum take origin. The external or interosseous border (crista mterossea) is thin and promment, especially its central part, and gives attachment to the interosseous membrane ; it commences above in front of the fibular articular facet, and bifurcates below, to form the boundaries of a triangular rough surface, for the attachment of the interosseous ligament connecting the tibia and fibula. The internal surface (facies medialis) is smooth, convex, and broader above than below ; "its upper thu-d, directed forwards and mwards, is covered by the aponeurosis derived from the tendon of the Sartorius, and by the tendons of the GracUis and Semitendmosus, all of which are mserted nearly as far forward as the anterior border ; in the rest of its extent it is sub- cutaneous. 1 • t I f The external surface (facies lateralis) is narrower than the internal; its upper two-thirds present a shallow groove for the origin of the Tibialis anticus; its lower third is smooth, convex, curves gradually forAvards to the anterior aspect of the bone, and is covered from Aiathin outwards by the tendons ot tiie Tibialis anticus, Extensor longus hallucis, and Extensor longus digitorum. The posterior surface (facies posterior) (fig. 398) presents, at its upper part, a prominent ridge, the oblique line of the tibia (linea pophtea) wine i extends from the back part of the articular facet for the fibula obliquely downwards, to the internal border, at the junction of its upper and midcUe thirds; it marks the lower limit of the msertion of the Pophteus, serves for the attachment of the popliteal fascia and gives origin to part of the ^^oleus 1 lexor longus digitorum and Tibialis posticus. The triangular area, f^^, t^,^''^. innir side of this line, gives insertion to the Pophteus. The '"'f the posterior surface is divided by a vertical ridge into two parts : t ^ ncige is well marked at its commencement at the oblique line, but graduaUy becomes345 TIBIA Capsular ligament Posterior surface. Capsular ligament Sti/loid process mdistinct below ; the inner and broader portion gives origin to the Flexor longus digitorum, the outer and nanwer to part of the Tibialis posticus. The remaining part of , . , the posterior surface is Fig. 398.—Bones of the right leg. smooth and covered by the Tibialis posticus, Flexor longus digitorum, and Flexor longus hal- hicis. Immediately below the oblique line is the medullary foramen, which is large and directed obliquely downwards. The lower extremity, much smaller than the upper, presents five sur- faces ; it is prolonged domiwards on its inner side as a strong process, the internal malleolus. The inferior surface (f acies articuiaris inferior) is quadrilateral, and smooth for articulation with the astragalus. It is concave from before backwards, broader in front than behind, and traversed from before backwards by a slight elevation, separating two lateral depressions. It is continuous internally with that on the inner malleolus. The anterior surface of the lower ex- tremity is smooth and rounded above, and covered by the tendons of the Extensor muscles of the toes; its lower margin presents a rough transverse depression for the attachment of the anterior ligament of the ankle-joint. The pos- terior surface is traversed by a shallow groove directed obliquely down- \vards and inwards, con- tinuous Avith a similar groove on the posterior surface of the astragalus, and serving for the pas- sage of the tendon of the Flexor longus hallucis. The external surface pre- sents a triangular rougli depression for the attach- ment of the inferior in- terosseous ligament con- necting it with the fibula; the lower part of this Articulates with astragalus Capsular ligament346 OSTEOLOGY Loiver extremity Fig. 399.—Plan of ossification of the tibia. From three centres. TJ'pper extremitij Appears before or shortly after birth ~si Joins shaft lJ''about Wth year depression is smooth, covered with cartilage iii the recent state, and articu- lates with the fibula. The surface is bounded by two prominent borders, continuous above with the interosseous ridge ; they afford attachment to the anterior and posterior inferior tibio-fibular hgaments. The internal surface is prolonged downwards to form a strong pyramidal process, flattened from without inwards—the internal malleolus (malleolus medialis). The inner surface of this process is convex and subcutaneous ; its outer surface (facies articularis malleolaris) is smooth and slightly concave, and articulates with the astragalus ; its anterior border is rough, for the attachment of the anterior fibres of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint; its posterior border presents a broad and deep groove (sulcus malleolaris), directed ob- liquely do^vnwards and inwards, and occasionally double ; this groove transmits the tendons of the Tibialis posticus and Flexor longus digitorum. The summit of the internal malleolus is marked by a rough depression behind, for the attachment of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle- joint. Structure.—The structure of the tibia is like that of the other long bones. The compact wall of the shaft is thickest at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the bone. Ossification.—The tibia is ossified from J^ree centres (fig. 399): one for the shaft, and one for each ex- tremity. Ossification begins in the centre of the shaft about the seventh week of foetal hfe, and gradually extends towards the extremities. The centre for the upper epi- physis appears before or shortly after birth ; it is flattened in form, and has a thin tongue-shaped process in front, which forms the tubercle; that tor the lower epiphysis appears in the second year. The lower epiphysis joirm the shaft at about the eighteenth, and the upper one ]oms about the twentieth year Two additional centres occasionally exist, one for the tongue-shaped process of the upper epiphysis, which forms the tubercle, and one for the inner Articulations.—The tibia articulates with three bones : the femur, fibula, and astragalus. Surface Form.-A considerable portion of the tibia is ^.^^^^t^'^^^^^". i^^*^^"^^!^ extremity the tuberosities can be felt just below the knee J,*^™^\^°''^t1 e broad and smooth, and merges into the subcutaneous surface t^^^^wL^n the apex external one is narrower and more promhaent, and on ,t, about imdway bet^veen ^e apex of the pateUa and the head of the fibula, is a promment 0 the iho-tibial band. In front of the upper end of the f^^jf^^*^Xul/Slo^^^ is the tubercle of the tibia, formmg an oval emmenco, which is ^^^"^^^^^v i^^o-M the anterior border or crest of the bone. This border caa befetintte upper two tUirOs of its extent, as a sharp and flexuous ridge. In t^^^ lower third of t^^^^^^^ disappears, aAd the bone is concealed by the tendons of « "^Hitoe otthc tfb^ sliShtfy Internal to the anterior border is to be felt the broad interna siirface "y^^/'^';'^e widl encroached upon by the muscles in fron '-^^ ^^^"^titerL nSeS^^^ expanded uiner tuberosity and ends below at mt«^"^' farther malleolus is a broad prominence situated on a 1> f''^^ l^^^^^^X of arch of the forward than the external malleolus. It overhangs ^l^^ ™ edge, foot. Its anterior border is nearly straight; ite posterior ^^o^dfr presen^ a siiaq g which forms the inner margin of the groove for the tendon of the Tibiahs posticus. Appears at ^ntl year Joins shaft about 18th yearFIBULA 347 The Fibula The Fibula (figs. 396 and 398) is placed on the outer side of the tibia, with which it is connected above and below. It is the smaller of the two bones, and, in proportion to its length, the most slender of all the long bones. Its upper extremity is small, placed towards the back of the head of the tibia, below the level of the knee-joint, and excluded from the formation of this joint; the lower extremity inclines a little forwards, so as to be on a ^jlane anterior to that of the upper end; it projects below the tibia, and forms the outer part of the ankle. The bone presents for examination a shaft and two extremities. The upper extremity or head (capitulum fibulae) is of an irregular quadrate form, presenting above a flattened articular facet (facies articularis capituli fibulse), directed upwards, forwards and inwards, for articulation with a corresponding facet on the external tuberosity of the tibia. On the outer side is a thick and rough prominence, continued behind into a pointed eminence, the styloid process (apex capituli fibulse), which projects upwards from the posterior part of the head. The prominence, at its upper and outer part, gives attachment to the tendon of the Biceps, and to the long external lateral ligament of the knee, the ligament dividing the tendon into two parts. The summit of the styloid process gives attachment to the short external lateral ligament. The remaining part of the circumference of the head is rough, for the attaclunent of muscles and ligaments. It presents in front a tubercle for the origin of the upper and anterior fibres of the Peroneus longus, and a surface for the attachment of the anterior superior tibio-fibular ligament; and behind, another tubercle, for the attachment of the posterior superior tibio-fibular ligament and the origin of the upper fibres of the Soleus. The shaft (corpus fibulae) presents four borders—the antero-external, the antero-internal, the postero-external, and the postero-intemal; and four surfaces—anterior, posterior, internal, and external. The antero-external hord^er begins above in front of the head, runs verti- eaUy downwards to a little below the middle of the bone, and then curving somewhat outwards, bifurcates so as to embrace a triangular subcutaneous surface immediately above the outer surface of the external malleolus. This border gives attachment to. an intermuscular septum, which separates the Extensor muscles on the anterior surface of the leg from the Peronei longus et brevis on the outer surface. The antero-internal border, or interosseous ridge (crista interossea) is situated close to the inner side of the preceding, and runs nearly parallel with it m the upper third of its extent, but diverges from it so as to include a broader space in the lower two-thirds. It begins above just beneath the head of the bone (sometimes it is quite indistinct for about an inch below the head), and ends at the apex of a rough triangular surface immediately above the articular facet of the external malleolus. It serves for the attachment of the inter- osseous membrane, which separates the Extensor muscles in front from the Flexor muscles behind. The postero-external border is promment; it begins above at the base of the styloid process, and ends below hi the posterior border of the outer malleolus. It IS directed outwards above, backwards in the middle of its course, back- ^t-l * ^^^^^^ inwards below, and gives attachment to an aponeurosis which separates the Peronei on the outer surface of the shaft from the Flexor muscles on the posterior surface. The postero-intemal border, sometimes called the oblique line, begins above at the mner side of the head, and ends by becommg continuous with the antero-internal border or interosseous ridge at the lower fourth of the bone, it is well marked and prominent at the upper and middle parts of the bone. gives attachment to an aponeurosis which separates the Tibialis posticus the Soleus and Flexor longus hallucis. The anterior, .smfaao. is the interval between the antero-external and antero-mternal borders. It is extremely narrow and flat in the upper thnd f fvf•' grooved longitudinally in its lower thhd ; it serves lor the origin of three muscles, the Extensor longus digitorum. Extensor ■,E£2Erius haUucis. and Peroneus tertius.^OSTEOLOGY 348 The posterior surface is the space iacluded between the postero-external and the postero-internal borders ; it is continuous below with the triangular surface above the articular facet of tlie outer malleolus ; it is directed back- wards above, backwards and inwards at its middle, directly inwards below . Its upper third is rough, for the origm of the Soleus ; its lower part presents a triangular surface, connected to the tibia by a strong interosseous ligament; the intervening part of the surface is covered by the fibres of origm of the Flexor longus hallucis. Near the middle of this surface is the meduUary foramen, which is directed downwards. The internal surface is the interval included between the antero-mternal and the postero-mternai borders. It is grooved for the origin of the Tibialis posticus. The external surface is the space between the antero-external and postero- external borders. It is much broader than the preceding, and often deeply arooved : it is directed outwards m the upper two-thirds of its course, back- wards in the lower third, where it is contmuous J^J^^^X^^^^^ Fig. 400.—^Lower extremity of right fibula. Internal aspect. _Interosseoiis border For astragalus For post.fascic. of extl. lateral ligt. This surface is completely occupied by the Peronei longus et brevis. The lower extremity, or external malleolus (malleolus lateralis), is of a pyramidal form, some- what flattened from with- out inwards, and is longer, and descends lower, than the internal malleolus. The external surface is convex, subcutaneous, and con- tinuous with the trian- gular, subcutaneous surface on the outer side of the shaft. The internal surface (fig. 400) presents in front a smooth triangular facet (facies articularis malleoli), broader above than below, and convex from above downwards, which articu- lates with a corresponding surface on the out«r side of the astragalus. Behind and beneath the articular surface is a rough depres- sion, which gives attach- ment to the posterior f asci- The anterior border is thick for tlie attachment of the The posterior border is cuius of the external lateral ligament of the ankle, and rough, and marked below by a depression anterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament. —- broad and presents a shallow groove (sulcus malleolaris), for the passage of he tendons of the Peronei longus et brevis. The sumrrnt is rounded and gnes attachment to the middle fasciculus of the external lateral l/.f™^'^,^- .^^ Articulation8.-The fibula articulates .vith two bones : the tibia and astragalus Ossification.-The fibula is ossified from three centres (fig. 401 : one tor t t shaft and one for each extremity. Ossification begins m the shaft aboiit t o eighth week of foetal Ufe, a httle later than in the tibia, and extends towards t e xTremities. At birth both ends are cartilaginous. ^^^^.^^ ZtlZr^^^ lower end in the second year, and in the upper one about tlie fourth > ear. ij^^ epiphysis, the first to ossify, ^^tes with the shaft about the twentieth year, the upper epiphysis joins about the twenty-fifth year. Surface Form.-Tho only parts of the fibula which are subcutaneous are he"^' the W part of the outer ^su^rface of the shaft, and the -t/^f ^ -d^res^"^^^^ can be felt behind and to the outer side of the outer tuberosity of the tibia, and pre. cmFIBULA 349 Fig. 401.—Plan of ossification of the fibula. From three centres. U2)]>er extremity Appears about 4th year Unites about 25th year n small Drominent, triangular eminence slightly above the level of the tubercle of the tibia The external maUcolus is a narrow, elongated prominence, situated on a plane uosterior to the internal malleolus and reaching to a lower level. From it may be traced the lower third or half of the external surface of the shaft of the bone in the mterval between the Peroneus tertius m front and the tendons of the other two Peronei belund. Applied Anatomy.—In fractures of the bones of the leg, both bones are generaUy fractured, but either bone may be broken separately, the fibula more frequently than the tibia. Fracture of both bones may be caused by either direct or indirect violence. When it occurs from indirect force, the fracture in the tibia is at the junction of the middle and lower thu-d of the bone. Many causes conduce to render this the weakest part of the bone. The fracture of the fibula is usually at a rather higher level. These fractures present great variety, both as regards then- direction and con- dition. They may be oblique, transverse, longi- tudinal, or spu-al. When oblique, they are for the most part the result of indirect violence, and the direction of the fracture is downwards, forwards, and inwards in many cases, but may be downwards and outwards, or downwards and backwards. When transverse, the fracture is often at the upper part of the bone, and is the result of direct violence. The spiral fracture of the tibia generally starts as a vertical fissure, involving the ankle-joint, and is associated with fracture of the fibula higher up. It is the result of torsion, from twisting of the body while the foot is fixed. Fractures of the tibia alone are almost always the result of direct violence, except where the malleolus is broken off by twists of the foot. Fractures of the fibula alone may arise from indirect or direct force, those of the lower end being usually the result of the former, and those higher up being caused by a direct blow on the part. The tibia is the bone which is most commonly and most extensively distorted in rickets. It bends at the junction of the middle and lower third, its weakest part, and presents a curve forwards with generally some lateral displacement. The tibia is more often the seat of acute infective necrosis than any other bone in the body, and with the formation of the sequestrum, a large amount of new bony material is thrown out by the periosteum. The sequence of events in this disease can be very closely followed in the case of the tibia, and it is not uncommon to find a patient from whom the whole diaphysis of the tibia has been removed, going about with a new bone entu-ely of periosteal formation. Chronic bone abscess is more frequently met with in the cancellous tissue of the head or lower end of the tibia than in any other bone in the body. These abscesses are very chi-onic, and in most cases the result of tuberculous osteitis, although they are sometimes due to the organisms of suppuration or even the Bacillus typhosus. THE FOOT The skeleton of the foot (figs. 402 and 403) consists of three parts : tlie tarsus, metatarsus, and phalanges. THE TARSUS The Tarsal bones (ossa tarsi) are seven in number: viz. the os calcis, astra- galus, cuboid, navicular, and the internal, middle, and external cuneiforms. Appears at 2nd year Lower extremity Unites about 20th year The Os Calcis (fig. 404) The Os Calcis (calcaneus) is the largest and strongest of the tarsal bones. It is situated at the lower and back part of the foot, serving to transmit the weight of the body to the ground, and forming a strong lever for the rnuscles of the calf. It is irregularly cuboidal in form, having its long axis directed forwards and outwards ; it presents for examination six surfaces.350 OSTEOLOGY Fig. 402.—Bones of tlio right foot. Dorsal surface.352 OSTEOLOGY The superior surface is formed beliind by the upper aspect of that part of the bone which projects backwards to form the heel. This varies m lengtli m different mdividuals, is convex from side to side, concave from before back- wards, and supports a mass of fat placed m front of the tendo Achillis. In front of this area is a large, usually somewhat oval-shaped facet (facies articularis posterior), which looks upwards and forwards ; it is convex from behind forwards, and articulates with the posterior calcanean facet on tlie Fig. 404.—The left os oalcis. a. Postero-external view. b. Antero-internal view. A Groove for Peroneus longus | External tubercle For posterior facet of astragalus For middle facet of astragalus For anterior facet of astragalus Internal tubercle Groove for Flexor longus hallucis Sustentacuhnn tali For cuboid Groove for interosseous ligament under surface ol the aBtragalus. It is bounded -terior^^^^ lodgment of the interosseous ««!^^"''«-^J'^Jf,^^\^^ rom behind £=;rd\4^.r>ora*a-t:K site u^':;~ s'iij'l:^^ ...d s„,ue.OS CALCIS 353 articularis anterior) is placed on the anterior part of the body, and articulates with the anterior calcanean facet on the astragalus. The upper surface, anterior and external to the facets, is rough for tlie attacliment of ligaments and for tlie origin of the Extensor brevis digitorum. The inferior surface is uneven, wider behind than in front, and convex from side to side ; it is bounded posteriorly by two tubercles, separated by a depression ; the external (processus lateralis tuberis calcanei), small, promi- nent, and rounded, gives origin to part of the Abductor minimi digiti; the internal (processus medial is tuberis calcanei), broader and larger, gives attach- ment, by its prominent mner margin, to the Abductor hallucis, and in front to the Flexor brevis digitorum and the plantar fascia ; the depression between the tubercles gives origin to the Abductor minimi digiti. The rough surface in front of the tubercles gives attachment to the long plantar ligament, and to the outer head of the Flexor accessorius ; while to a prominent tubercle nearer the anterior part of this surface, as well as to a transverse groove in front of the tubercle, is attached the short plantar ligament. The external surface is broad behind, and narrow m front, flat and almost subcutaneous; near its centre is a tubercle, for the attachment of the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament. At its upper and anterior part, this surface gives attachment to the external calcaneo-astragaloid ligament; and in front of the tubercle it presents a narrow surface marked by two oblique grooves. The grooves are separated by an elevated ridge, or tubercle, which varies much in size in different bones ; it is named the peroneal tubercle (processus trochlearis), and gives attachment to a fibrous process from the external annular ligament. The superior groove transmits the tendon of the Peroneus brevis ; the inferior, that of the Peroneus longus. The internal surface is deeply concave ; it is directed obliquely do^vnwards and forwards, and serves for the transmission of the plantar vessels and nerves mto the sole of the foot; it affords origm to part of the Flexor accessorius. At its upper and fore part is an emmence, the lesser process or sustentaculum tall, which projects horizontally inwards, and gives attachment to a slip of the tendon of the Tibialis posticus. This process is concave above, and supports the middle articular surface of the astragalus ; below, it is grooved for the tendon of the Flexor longus hallucis; its anterior margin gives attach- ment to the mferior calcaneo-navicular ligament, and its mner, to a part of the mternal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The anterior surface ffacies articularis cuboidea), of a somewliat triangular form, articulates with' the cuboid. It is concave from above, downwards and outwards, and convex in a du-ection at riglit angles to this. Its mner border gives attachment to the inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament. posterior surface is promment, convex, wider below than above, and divisible into three areas. The lowest of these is rough, and covered by the fatty and fibrous tissue of the heel; the middle, also rough, gives insertion to tne tendo Achillis and Plantaris ; whfle the highest is smooth, and is covered by a bursa which mtervenes between it and the tendo Achillis. cuboicf"^^^*^°°^"~''^^^ ^^^^"^^ articulates mth two bones : the astragalus and The Astragalus (fig. 405) The Astragalus (talus) is the second largest of the tarsal bones. It occupies the middle and upper part of the tarsus, supporting the tibia above, art culatmg with the malleoli on either side, resting below upon the os calcis and Thead ^^'^^ navicular. It consists of a body, a neck «^*penor surf ace oi the body (corpus tali) presents, behmd, a smooth trochlear surface (trochlea tali) for articulation with the tibia. The trochlea IS Droader in front than behmd, convex from before backwards, slightly concave from side to side: m front it is confluent with the upper surface or tne neck of the bone. The inferior surface presents two articular areas, tne posterior and middle calcanean facets, separated from one another by a aeep groove, the sulcus tali. The groove runs obliquely forwards and outwards, becoming gradually broader and deeper in front : it corresponds ^Mtn a similar groove upon the upper surface of the os calcis, and forms.OSTEOLOGY 354 when articulated with that bone, a canal {sinus tarsi) filled up in the recent state by the interosseous calcaneo-astragaloid ligament. The posterior calcanean Fig. 405.—^The left astragalus, a. Supero-external view. b. Infero-internal view. c. Inferior view. For navicular Neck Siij). surface, fur tibia For inferior tibio-fihultir ligament Tubercle For ext. vialleolii: For int. malleolus Szc2>. surface, for tibia Groove for Flexor longiis " hallucis For inferior calcaneo navicular ligament Middle calcanean facet Posterior calcanean For 7iaviciilar For navicular Anterior caltanean facet Groove for interosseous ligament facet Groove for fle.r long, hallucis facet (fades articularis. calcanea P-'^^^^ ^t ,n ^^^^^^^^ •form. It articulates with the ^^^'^^ Jj^ff^f J^^^^^ which runs OS calcis.* and is deeply concave m du:ect on o ts ^^g ^ ^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^^ * Sowell (Journal of Aruitoviy and rinjHology. ''^■^ f^^ 'J^^, jiic posterior calcanean 10 per cent, of these bones a smal triangular ff ;" ^ body with the posterior wall facet, is present at the junction of the external surface of the y of the sulcus tali.ASTRAGALUS 355 forwards and outwards at an angle of about 45'' with the antero-posterior axis of the body. The middle calcanean facet (facies calcanea articularLs media) is small, oval in form and slightly convex ; it articulates with the upper surface of the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis. The internal surface presents at its upper part a pear-shaped articular facet for the inner malleolus, continuous above with the trochlear surface ; below the articular sui'face is a rough depression for the attachment of the deep portion of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The external surface presents a large triangular facet, concave from above downwards, for articulation with the external malleolus; its anterior half is continuous above with the trochlear surface ; and m front of it is a rough depression for the attach- ment of the anterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle- joint. Fawcett * has dhected attention to a facet which comes into contact with the inferior tibio-fibular ligament during flexion of the ankle-joint. It is situated between the posterior half of the outer border of the trochlea and the corresponding part of the base of the triangular facet for the external malleolus. It is triangular in shape, the base bemg directed backwards ; below the base is a groove which affords attachment to the posterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The posterior surface is narrow, and traversed by a groove, which runs obliquely downwards and inwards, and transmits the tendon of the Flexor longus hallucis. External to the groove is a prominent tubercle, to which the posterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament is attached ; tliis tubercle (processus posterior tali) is some- times separated from the rest of the astragalus, and is then known as the 05 trigonum. To the inner side of the groove is a second smaller tubercle. The neck (collum tali) is directed forwards and inwards, and comprises the constricted portion of the bone between the body and the oval head. Its upper and inner surfaces are rough, for the attachment of ligaments ; its external surface is concave, directed downwards and outwards, and is con- tmuous below with the deep groove for the mterosseous calcaneo-astragaloid ligament. The head (caput tali) looks fom^ards and inwards; its anterior surface presents a large, oval, convex facet (facies articularis navicularis), for articu- lation with the navicular. Its inferior surface has two facets, which are best seen m the recent condition. The mner of "these, situated immediately in front of the middle calcaneal facet, is convex, triangular or semi-oval in shape, and rests on the inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament; the outer is named the anterior calcanean facet; it is somewhat flattened, and articulates with the facet on the . upper surface of the anterior part of the os calcis. Articulations.—The astragalus articulates with four bones : tibia, fibula, os calcis, and na%-icular. The Cuboid (fig. 406) The Cuboid (os cuboideum) is placed on the outer side of the foot, in front Fig. 406.—The left cuboid, a. Antero-internal view. b. Postero-external view. Occasional fi for navicii of the OS calcis, and behmd the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. It is of a pyramidal shape, its base being directed inwards. * I'Jdinhurgh Medical Journal, 1895. A A 2OSTEOLOGY 356 The superior or dorsal surface, directed upwards and outw ards, is rough, for the attachment of numerous ligaments. The inferior or plantar surface presents in front a deep groove (sulcus m. perontei), which runs obliquely from without, forwards and inwards ; it lodges the tendon of the Poroneus longus, and is bounded behind by a prominent ridge, to which the long calcaneo-cuboid ligament is attached. The ridge terminates externally in an eminence, the tuberosity (tuberositas oss. cuboidei), the surface of which presents a convex facet; on this facet glides the sesamoid bone or cartilage frequently found in the tendon of the Peroneus longus. The surface of bone behind the^ groove is rough, for the attachment of the short plantar ligament, a few liljres of the Flexor brevis hallucis, and a fasciculus from the tendon of the Tibialis posticus. The external surface presents a deep notch formed by the commence- ment of the peroneal groove. The posterior surface is smooth, triangular, and concavo-convex, for articulation with the anterior surface of the os calcis. The anterior surface, of smaller size, but also irregularly triangular, is divided by a vertical ridge into two facets : the inner, quacb-ilateral in form, articulates with the fourth metatarsal; the outer, larger and more triangular, articulates with the fifth. The internal surface is broad, rough, irregularly quadrilateral, present- ing at its middle and upper part a smooth oval facet, for articulation witli the external cuneiform ; and behmd this (occasionally) a smaller facet, for articulation with the navicular ; it is rough in the rest of its extent, for the attachment of strong interosseous ligaments. Articulations.—The cuboid articulates with four bones : the _ os calcis, external cuneiform, and fourth and fifth metatarsals; occasionally with a fifth, the na\dcular. The Navicular (fig. 407) The Navicular or Scaphoid (os naviculare pedis) is situated at the inner side of the tarsus, between the astragalus behmd and the three cuneiform bones in front. i t -j j t, ^ The anterior surface is convex from side to side, and subdivided by two ridges into tliree facets, for articulation with the three cuneiform bones. The posterior surface is oval, concave, broader externally than internally, and articulates with the rounded head of the astragalus. The superior surface iS convex from side to side, and rough for the attachment of ligaments. The Fig. 407. The left navicular, a. Antero-external view. B. Postero-internal view. For mid. cuneiform B . / ^ Occasional ^"^ ~ facet for cuboid For astragalus Tubercle inferior surface is irregular, and also rough for the attachment of l^ga™^"t^- Tiie inierjial surface presents a rounded tubercle (tuberositas ossis naviculans the lower part of which gives attachment to part of the tendon of « ^ Tibiali.j posticus. The external surface is rough and irregular fo^^.tl^^/ttato ligaments, and occasionally presents a small facet for articulation with the """^AitiSSations.-The navicular articulates with four bones : the astragalus and the three cuneiforms ; occasionally with a fifth, the cuboid.. The Internal Cuneiform (fig. 408) The Internal Cuneiform (os cuneiforme primum) is ^a^-f«f three cuneiforms. It is situated at the mner side of the foot, bet^^een the navicular bcJiind and the base of the first metatarsal in tront.CUNEIFORM BONES 357 Fig. 408.—The left internal cuneiform, a. Antero- internal view. B. Postero-external view. For Isf metatarsal For 2nd metatarsal For mid-cuneiform The internal surface is subcutaneous, and forms part of the kiner border of the foot; it is broad, quadrilateral, and presents at its anterior inferior angle a smooth oval impression, into wliich part of the tendon of the Tibialis anticus is inserted ; in the rest of its extent it is rough for the attachment of ligaments. The external surface is concave, presenting, along its superior and posterior borders, a narrow reversed L-shaped surface, the vertical Imib and posterior part of the horizontal limb of which articulate witli the middle cuneiform, and the an- terior part of the hori- zontal limb with the second metatarsal bone : the rest of this surface is rough for the attachment of ligaments and part of the tendon of the Pero- neus longus. The anterior surface, kidney - shaped and much larger than the posterior, articulates with the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The pos- ferior surface is triangiilar, concave, and articulates with the innermost and largest of the three facets For tendon of Tibialis anticus For navicular on the anterior surface of the navicular. The inferior or plantar surface ia rough, and forms the base of the wedge ; at its back part is a prominent tuberosity for the insertion of part of the tendon of the Tibialis posticus. It also gives insertion in front to part of the tendon of the Tibialis anticus. The superior surface is the narrow pointed end of the wedge, and is du-ected ujawards and outwards; it is rough for the attachment of ligaments. Articulations, — The internal cuneiform articulates with four bones : the na%dcular, middle cuneiform and first and second metatarsals. The Middle Ctjneifoem (fig. 409) The Middle Cuneiform (os cuneiforme secundum), the smallest of the three, is of very regular wedge-like form, the broad extremity being placed upwards, the narrow end downwards. It is situated between the other two cuneiforms, and articulates Fig. 409.—The left middle cimeiform. a. Antero- internal view. b. Postero-external view. For int. cuneiform For navicular with the navicular behind, and the second metatarsal in front. The anterior surface, tri- angular m form, and narrower than the posterior, articulates with the base of the second metatarsal bone. The posterior surface, also triangular, articu- lates with the middle facet on the anterior surface of the navicular. The internal surface presents a reversed L-shaped articular facet, running along the superior and posterior borders, for articulation with the internal cunei- form, and is rough in the rest of its extent for the attachment of ligaments, ihe external surface presents posteriorly a smooth facet for articulation with the external cuneiform bone. The superior surface forms the base of the wedge ; it is quadi-ilateral, broader behind than in front, and rough for the attachment of ligaments. The inferior surface, sharp and tubercular, is also rough for ligamentous attachment, and for the insertion of a slip from the tendon of the Tibialis posticus. For Ind metatarsal For ext. cuneiformOSTEOLOGY 358 Articulations.—The imddle cuneiform articulates with four bones: th<- navicular, internal and external cuneiforms, and second metatarsal. The External Cuneefoem (fig. 410) The External Cuneiform (os cuneiforme tertium), intermediate in size between the two preceding, is of a very regular wedge-like form, the broad extremity being placed upwards, the narrow end downwards. It occupies the centre of the front row of the tarsal bones, between the middle cuneiform internally, the cuboid externally, the navicular behind, and the third meta- tarsal in front. The anterior surface, triangular in form, articulates with the third meta- tarsal bone. The posterior surface articulates with the most external facet of the navicular, and is rough below for the attachment of hgamentous fibres. The internal surface presents an anterior and a posterior articular facet, separated by a rough depression : the anterior, sometimes divided, articulates with the outer side of the base of the second metatarsal bone ; the posterior skirts the posterior border, and articulates with the middle cuneiform ; the rough depression gives attachment to an interosseous ligament. The ]?IG. 410.—The left external cuneiform, a. Postero-internal view. B. Antero-external view. For ith metatarsal For cuboid external surface also presents two articular facets, separated by a rough non-articular surface ; the anterior facet, situated at the superior angle of the bone, is smaU and semi-oval in shape, and articulates with the inner side of the base of the fourth metatarsal bone ; the posterior and larger one is triancrular or oval, and articulates with the cuboid; the rough non-articular surface serves for the attachment of an interosseous ligament. The three tacets for articulation with the three metatarsal bones are continuous ^vlth one another; those for articulation mth the middle cuneiform and navicuar are also continuous, but that for articulation mth the cuboid is usually separate. The superior or dorsal surface is of an oblong form its postero- external angle being prolonged backwards. The ^nter^or "'l"/""^! J a rounded margin, and serves for the attachment of part of the tendon of the Tibialis posticus, part of the Flexor brevis hallucis, and ligaments Articulations.—The external cuneiform articulates with six bones the naM cular, middle cuneiform, cuboid, and second, third, and fourth metatarsals. The Metatarsus The Metatarsus consists of five bones which are numbered from withm outwardrfossa nietatarsalia I.-V.) ; each presents for examination a shaft and two extremities. Common Characters of the Metatarsal Bones The sJuift (corpus) is prismoid in form tapers gradually from the tarsal to the phalangeal extremityf and is curved longitudmaUy, ^e cm^^ below, slightly convex above. The posterior ftrcvn^, °,L^"4rsWAe wedge-shaped: articulating by its terminal surface ^ff and by its lateral surfaces mth the contiguous metatarsal bones . its dorsal andMETATARSAL BONES 359 plantar surfaces are rough for the attachment of ligaments. The anterior extremity, or head (capitulum), presents a terminal convex articular surface, oblong from above downwards, and extending farther backwards below than above. Its sides are flattened, and on each is a depression, surmounted by a tubercle, for ligamentous attachment. Its under surface is grooved in the middle line for the passage of the Flexor tendons, and marked on either side by an articular eminence continuous with the terminal articular surface. Pbcxjliar Characters of the Metatarsal Bones The first metatarsal bone (fig. 411) is remarkable for its great thickness, and is the shortest of aU the metatarsal bones. The shaft is strong, and of well-marked prismoid form. The posterior extremity presents, as a rule, no lateral articular facets, but occasionally on the outer side there is an oval facet, by which it articulates -with the second metatarsal. Its terminal articular surface is of large size and kidney-shaped ; its circumference is grooved, for the tarso-metatarsal ligaments, and internally gives insertion to part of the tendon of the Tibialis anticus ; its inferior angle presents a rough oval prominence for the insertion of the tendon of the Peroneus longus. The head is large ; on its plantar surface are two grooved facets, over which glide sesamoid bones ; the facets are separated by a smooth elevated ridge. Fig. 411.^—The first metataxsal. (Left.) Fig. 412.—The second metatarsal. (Left.) cuneiform ' cuneiform For middle For external cuneiform cuneiform The second metatarsal bone (fig. 412) is the longest and largest of the remaining metatarsal bones, being prolonged backwards into the recess formed by the three cuneiform bones. Its 'posterior extremity is broad above, narrow and rough below. It presents four articular surfaces : one behind, of a trian- gular form, for articulation with the middle cuneiform ; one at the upper part of its internal surface, for articulation with the internal cuneiform ; and two on its external surface, an upper and lower, separated by a rough non-articular mterval. Each of these external articular surfaces is divided into two by a vertical ridge ; the two anterior facets articulate with the third metatarsal; the two posterior (sometimes continuous) with the external cuneiform. A fifth facet is occasionally present for articulation with the first metatarsal; It is oval in shape, and is situated on the inner side of the shaft near the base.360 OSTEOLOGY The third metatarsal bone (fig. 413) articulates behind, by means of a triangular smooth surface, with the external cuneiform ; on its inner side, by two facets, with the second metatarsal; and on its outer side, by a suigle Fig. 413.—The tliii'd metatarsal. (Left.) Fig. 414.—The fourth metatarsal. (Left.) facet, with the fourth metatarsal, angle of the base. The fourth metatarsal bone (fig its posterior extremity presents an The latter facet is situated at the upper FiG.'415.—The fifth metatarsal. (Left.; 414) is smaller in size than the preceding ; oblique quadrilateral surface for articu- lation with the cuboid ; a smooth facet on the inner side, divided by a ridge into an anterior portion for articulation -with the third metatarsal, and a posterior portion for articulation with the external cuneiform ; on the outer side a single facet, for articulation with the fifth metatarsal. The fifth metatarsal bone (fig. 415) is recognised by a tubercular eminence, the tuberosity, on the outer side of its base. The 6a.se articulates behind, by a tri- angular surface cut obliquely from without inwards, with the cuboid; and mter- nally, with the fourth metatarsal. On the inner part of its dorsal surface is inserted the tendon of the Peroneus tertius, and on the dorsal surface of the tuberosity that of the Peroneus brevis. A strong band of the plantar fascia con- nects the projecting part of tlie tubero- sity Avith the outer tuberosity on the under surface of the os calcis. The plantar surface of the base is grooved for the tendon of the Abductor minimi digiti. and gives origin to the Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Articulations.-Each metatarsal bone articulates with one or more of the tarsal bones by its proximal extremity, and by the other with one of the first row ot For ah metatarsal For cuboid Tiibci osilyPHALANGES 361 phalanges. The fii-st metatarsal articulates with the internal cuneiform, the second''with all three cuneiforms, the third with the external cuneiform, the fourth with the external cuneiform and the cuboid, and the fifth with the cuboid. Phalanges The Phalanges (phalanges digitorum pedis), both in number and general arrangement, resemble those of the hand ; there being two in the great toe, and three in each of the other toes. They differ from them, how- over, m their size, the shafts being much reduced in length, and, especially in the first row, laterally compressed. The phalanges of the first row closely resemble those of the hand. The sluift of each is compressed from side to side, convex above, concave below. The posterior extremity is concave ; and the anterior extremity presents a troclilear surface for articulation with the second phalanx. Fig. 416.—^Plan of ossification of the foot. TABSUS. One centre for each bone, except OS calcis OUTEB FOUK METATABSALS. Two centres for each bone : One for shaft One for digital extremity PHALANGES. Two centres for bone : One for shaft One for metatarsal extremity Appears 9th ictek L'nile 18l!i-20tlt year | Appears bIh-Slli umr -ikad Appears 4l/i yea v Unite ntlt-lSl/i year Appears Znd-KA month Appears Hth-lth year Unite nih-mh year Appears ind-ilh mouth Appears iith year 5. Untie Utli-lBlh year ^ £ Appears \Oth iceek -8J> ^ The phalanges of the second row are remarkably small and short, but rather broader than those of the first row. The ungual phalanges, in form, resemble those of the fingers ; but they are smaller, flattened from above downwards ; each presents a broad base tor articulation with the corresponding bone of the second row, and an expanded extremity for the support of the nail and end of the toe. Articulations.—In the foiu-outer toes, the phalanges of the first row articulate behind with the metatarsal bones, and in front with the second phalanges, whichOSTEOLOGY 362 in their turn articulate with the fii-st and third : the ungual phalanges articulate with the second. In the great toe the first phalanx articulates behind with, the metatarsal bone and in front with the ungual phalanx. Ossification of the Bones of the Foot (fig. 416) The Tarsal bones are each ossified from a single centre, excepting the os calcis, which has an epiphysis for its posterior extremity. The centres make their appearance in the following order : os calcis, at the sixth month of foetal hfe ; astragalus, about the seventh mouth ; cuboid, at the ninth month ; external cuneiform, during the first year; internal cuneiform, in the third year; middle cuneiform and navicular, in the fourth year. The epiphysis for the posterior extremity of the os calcis appears at the tenth year, and unites with the rest of the bone soon after puberty. The tubercle on the posterior surface of the astragalus is sometimes ossified from a separate centre, and may remain distinct from the main mass of the bone, when it is named the os trigonum. The Metatarsal bones are each ossified from two centres : one for the shaft, and one for the digital extremity, in the four outer metatarsals ; one for the shaft, and one for the proximal extremity, in the metatarsal of the great toe.* Ossifi- cation commences in the centre of the shaft about the ninth week, and extends towards either extremity. The centre for the proximal end of the first metatarsal appears about the third year; the centres for the distal ends of the other bones between the fifth and eighth years ; they join the shafts between the eighteenth and twentieth years. The Phalanges are each ossified from two centres : one for the shaft, and one for the metatarsal extremity. The centre for the shaft appears about the tenth week, that for the metatarsal extremity between the fourth and tenth years ; it joins the shaft about the eighteenth year. Comparison op the Bones op the Hand and Foot The hand and foot are constructed on somewhat similar principles, each con- sisting of a proximal part, the carpus or the tarsus, a middle portion, the metacarpus or the metatarsus, and a terminal portion, the phalanges. The proximal part con- sists of a series of more or less cubical bones which allow a slight amount of ghding on one another and are chiefly concerned in distributing forces transmitted to or from the bones of the arm or leg. The middle part is made up of slightly movable long bones which assist the carpus or tarsus in distributing forces and also give greater breadth for the reception of such forces. The separation of the individual bones from one another allows of the attachments of the Interossei and protects the dorsi-palmar vascular anastomoses. The distal portion is the most movable, and its separate elements enjoy a varied range of movements, the chief of which are flexion and extension. The functions of the hand and foot are, however, very different, and the general similarity between them is greatly modified to meet these requirements. Thus the foot forms a firm basis of support for the body in the erect posture, and is therefore more solidly built up and its component parts are less movable on each other than those of the hand. In the case of the phalanges the difference is readily noticeable ; those of the foot are smaller and their movements are more liimted than those of the hand. Very much more marked is the difference between the meta - carpal bone of the thumb and the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The metacarpal bone of the thumb is constructed to permit of great mobility, is directed at an acute angle from that of the index finger, and is capable of a considerable range of movements at its articulation with the carpus. The metatarsal bone of the great toe assists in supporting the weight of the body, is constructed with great solidity, lies parallel witli the other metatarsals, and has a very limited degree of mobility. The carpus is small in proportion to the rest of the hand, is placed in line with the forearm, and forms a transverse arch, the concavity of which constitutes a bed for the flexor tendons and the palmar vessels and nerves. Ihe tarsus forms a considerable part of the foot, and is placed at right angles to the leg, a position which is almost pecuUar to man, and has relation to his erect ♦ As was noted in the first metacarpal, so in the tir.st metatarsal, there is often a second epiphysis for its distal extremity (see footnote, page 319).363 COMPARISON OF HAND AND FOOT posture. In order to allow of tlieir supporting the weight of the body with the least expenditure of material the tarsus and a part of the metatarsus are constructed in a series of arches (figs. 417 and 418), the disposition of which will be considered after the articulations of the foot have been described. Surface Form.—On the dorsum of the foot the individual bones cannot be dis- tinguished, with the exception of the head of the astragalus, which forms a rounded pro- jection in front of the ankle-joint when the foot is forcibly extended. The whole surface of the dorsum of the foot forms a smooth convex outline, the summit of which is the ridge formed by the head of the astragalus, the navicular, the middle cuneiform, and the second metatarsal bones ; from this it inclines gradually outwards and rapidly inwards. Fig. 417.—Skeleton of foot. Inner aspect. On the inner side of the foot, the internal tuberosity of the os calcis and the ridge separating the inner from the posterior surface of the bone may be felt. In front of this, and below the internal malleolus, the projection of the sustentaculum tali can be felt. About an inch or an inch and a quarter in front of the internal malleolus is the tuber- osity of the navicular. Farther forwards, the ridge formed by the base of the first metatarsal bone can be obscvu'ely felt, and from this the shaft of the bone can be traced to the expanded head articulating with the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. Immediately beneath the base of this phalanx, the internal sesamoid bone can be felt. Lastly, the expanded ends of the bones forming the last joint of the great toe can be felt. On the outer side of the foot the most posterior bony point is the outer tuberosity of the OS calcis, with the ridge separating the posterior from the outer surface of the Fig. 418.—Skeleton of foot. Outer aspect. bone. In front of this the greater part of the external surface of the os calcis is sub- cutaneous ; on it, below and in front of the external malleolus, the peroneal ridge when present can be felt. Farther forwards, the base of the fifth metatarsal bono forms a prominent and well-defined landmark, and in front of this the shaft of the bone, with its expanded head, and the base of the first phalanx, may be made out. Applied Anatomy.—Considering the injuries to which the foot is subjected, it is surprising how seldom the tarsal bones are fractured. This is no doubt due to the fact that the tarsus is composed of a number of bones, articulated by a considerable extent of surface, and joined together by very strong ligaments which serve to break the force of violence applied to this part of the body. When fracture docs occur, those bones being composed for the most part of a soft cancellous structure, covered only by a thin shell of compact tissue, are often extensively comminuted, especially as most of the fracturesOSTEOLOGY 364 are produced by direct violeace; and, as there is only a very scanty amount of soft parts over the bones, the fractures are very often compound, and amputation is often necessary. When fracture occurs in the anterior group of tarsal bones, it is almost invariably the result of direct violence ; but fractures of the posterior group—that is, of the os calcis and astragalus—are usually produced by falls fi'om a height on to the feet. In club-foot (tahpes), especially ui congenital cases, the bones of the tarsus become altered in shape and size, and displaced from then- proper positions. This is principally the case in congenital talipes equino-varus, in which the astragalus, particularly about the head, becomes twisted and atrophied, and a similar condition may be present in the other bones, more especially the navicular. The tarsal bones are peculiarly liable to become the seat of tuberculous caries following comparatively trivial injiiries, especially as they are not maintained in a condition of rest to the same extent as some other parts of the body after similar injm'ies. Caries of the os calcis or astragalus may remain limited to the one bone for a long period, but when one of the other bones is affected, the remainder frequently become involved, since the disease spreads through the large and complicated synovial membrane which is more or less common to these bones. Amputation of the foot is often required either for injury or disease. The principal amputations are as follows :—(1) Syme's : amputation at the ankle-joint by a heel-flap, with removal of the malleoU and sometimes a thin slice from the lower end of the tibia. (2) Pu-ogofi's : amputation of the whole of the tarsal bones (except the posterior part of the OS calcis), and a thin slice from the tibia and fibula including the two malleoli. The sa\vn surface of the os calcis is then turned up and united to the cut surface of the tibia. (3) Subastragaloid: amputation of the foot below the astragalus through the jomt between it and the os calcis. The bones of the tarsus occasionally require removal individually. This is especiallj- the case with the astragalus for tuberculous disease Umited to that bone; or the astra- galus may requii-e excision in cases of subastragaloid dislocation, or in cases of inveterate talipes. The cuboid has been removed for the same reason. Fractures of the metatarsal bones and phalanges are nearly always the result of direct violence, and in the majority of cases the injury is caused by severe crushing accidents, necessitating amputation. The metatarsal bones, and especially that of the great toe, are frequently diseased, either in tuberculous subjects or m patients with perforating ulcer of the foot. SESAMOID BONES Sesamoid bones (ossa sesamoidea) are small more or less rounded masses imbedded in certain tendons and usually related to joint surfaces. Tbeir functions probably are to modify pressure, to diminish friction, and occasionally to alter the direction of a muscle pull. That they are not developed to meet certaui physical requirements in the adult is evidenced by the fact that they are present as cartilaguious nodules m the foetus, and m greater numbers than m the adult. They must be regarded, accordmg to Thilenius, as mtegral parts of the skeleton phylogenetically mherited. Physical necessities probably come into play m selectmg and m regulatmg the degree of development of the origmal cartilagmous nodules. iSjeverthe- less, irregular nodules of bone may appear as the result of mtermittent pressure in certam regions, e.g. the ' rider's bone,' which is occasionaUy developed in the Adductor muscles of the thigh. , , , , . Sesamoid bones are invested by the fibrous tissue of the tendons, except on the surfaces in contact with the parts over which they glide, where they present smooth articular facets. , , . . , i a i , In the upper extremity the sesamoid bones of the jomts are found only on the palmar surface of the hand. Two, of which the miier is the larger, are constant at the metacarpo-phalangeal jomt of the thumb; one i^ frequently present in the correspondmg jomt of the little finger and one (or two) in the same joint of the index finger. Sesamoid bones are also found occasionaUy at the metacarpo-phalangeal joints of the middle and rmg fingei^ at the interphalangeal joint of the thumb, and at the distal mterphalangeal ^''"^n°tVe^owe^^x^eSity the largest sesamoid bone of the jomts is the patella, developed in the tendon of the Quadriceps extensor muscle. P^^"^^^^^ aspect of the foot, two, of which the umer is the larger, are al".*y« P'^f^^f^ at the metatarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe ; one sometunes at the * Morpholog. Arbeitcn, 190(), v. p. 309.365 SESAMOID BONES metatarso-phalangeal joints of the second and fifth toes, one occasionally at the corresponding joint of the third and fourth toes, and one at the inter- plialangeal joint of the great toe. Sesamoid bones apart from jomts are seldom found in the tendons of the upper limb ; one is sometimes seen m the tendon of the Biceps opposite the tubercle of the radius. They are, however, present in several of the tendons of the lower limb, viz. one hi the tendon of the Peroneus longus, where it glides on the cuboid ; one, appearuig late in life, in the tendon of the Tibialis anticus, opposite the smooth facet of the mternal cuneiform bone ; one in the tendon of the Tibialis posticus, opposite the uiner side of the head of the astra- galus ; one in the outer head of the Gastrocnemius, behind the outer condyle of the femur ; and one in the conjoined tendon of the Psoas and Iliacus, where it glides over the pubis. Sesamoid bones are found occasionally in the tendon of the Gluteus maximus, as it passes over the great trochanter, and in the tendons which M'md round the inner and outer malleoli.SYNDESMOLOGY THE various bones of the Skeleton are connected to adjacent bones at different parts of their surfaces, and such connections are termed Joinls or Articulations. Where the joints are immovable, as in the articulations between the bones of the skuU (with the exception of those of the mandible), the adjacent margins of the bones are almost in contact, being separated merely by a thm layer of fibrous membrane, named the sutural ligament. In certain regions at the base of the skull this fibrous membrane is replaced by a layer of cartilage. Where slight movement combined with great strength is required, the osseous surfaces are united by tough and elastic fibro-cartilages, as in the jomts between the vertebral bodies, and in the mterpubic articulation. In the freely movable joints the surfaces are completely separated ; the bones forming the articulation are generally expanded for greater convenience of mutual connection, covered by cartilage and held together by strong bands or capsules of fibrous tissue, called ligaments ; such jomts are partially Imed by a membrane, the synovial membrane, which secretes a fluid to lubricate the various parts of which the joint is formed. The structures, therefore, which enter into the formation of a movable jomt are bone, cartilage, fibro- cartilage, ligament, and synovial membrane. t i i Bone constitutes the fundamental element of all the jomts. In the long bones the extremities are the parts which form the articulations ; they are generally somewhat enlarged, and consist of spongy canceUous tissue with a thin coatmg of compact substance. In the flat bones, the articulations usuaUy take place at the edges ; and in the short bones at various parts ot their surfaces. The layer of compact bone which forms the joint surface, and to which the articular cartilage is attached, is caUed the articular lamella. It is white, extremely dense, and varies m thickness. It differs from ordmary bone-tissue in that it contains no Haversian canals, and its lacunae are larger, and have no canaliculi. The vessels of the cancellous tissue, as they approach the articular lameUa, turn back in loops, and do not perforate it; this layer ls consequently denser and firmer than ordmary bone, and is evidently designed to form an unyieldmg support for the articular cartilage. The articular cartilage, which covers the articular surfaces of bones, is of the hyaline variety, and has been described m the section on Histology (page 21)^ properly so caUed, are peculiar to the movable joints, and serve to connect together the articular surfaces of bones. They are composed mainly of bundles of white fibrous tissue placed parallel with or closely mter- laced with one another, and presentmg a white, shmmg, sdvery aspect, in the frlely movable joi^its, or diarthrodia, they form envelopes or capsules coLectin^g together the articular extremities of bones. Portions of these SpS undergo thickening and form strong ligamentous bands. These con- Sent parts of the capside are usuaUy described as distmct l^g«™c.nts bu £ addition to them there are other ligaments derived from the muscle ^rroundiiig the joints. Ligaments are pliant and flexible, .so as to allou of t^e most perfect^reedom ot movement, but strong tough and mextensib e^ so as not to yield readUy under the most severely applied force. Some367 STRUCTURE OF JOINTS ligaments consist entirely of yellow elastic tissue, as the ligamenta sub- liava, which connect together the lamina of adjacent vertebrae, and the liffamentum nuchse in the lower animals. In these cases it will be observed that the elasticity of the ligament is intended to act as a substitute for muscular power. Synovial membrane is composed of a thm, delicate, connective tissue, with branched connective-tissue corpuscles. Its secretion is thick, viscid, and glairy, like the white of egg, and is hence termed synovia. The synovial membranes in the body admit of subdivision into three kind.s—articular, bursal, and vaginal. The articular synovial memhranes are found in all the freely movable jomts. The membrane invests the inner surface of the capsule enclosing the joint, and is reflected over any tendons passing through its cavity, as the tendon of the Popliteus in the knee, and the tendon of the Biceps in the shoulder. Hence the articular synovial membrane may be regarded as a short wide tube, attached by its open ends to the margins of the articular cartilages and covermg the inner surface of the capsule which connects the articular sui'faces. In the foetus this membrane is said, by Toynbee, to be continued over the surfaces of the cartilages ; but in the adult it is wanting, excepting at the cu'cumference of the cartilage, upon which it encroaches for a short distance and to which it is firmly attached. In some of the joints the synovial mem- brane is thrown mto folds, which pass across the cavity. They are called synovial ligaments, and are especially distinct in the knee. In other joints there are flattened folds, subdivided at their margins into fringe-like processes, which contain convoluted vessels. These folds generally project from the synovial membrane near the margin of the cartilage, and lie flat upon its surface. They consist of connective tissue, covered with endothelium, and contain fat-cells in variable quantities, and, more rarely, isolated cartilage-cells. The larger folds often contain considerable quantities of fat. Under certain diseased conditions, similar processes are found covering the entire surface of the synovial membrane, forming a mass of pedunculated fibro-fatty growths \\hich project into the jomt. Similar structures are also found in some of the bursal and vaginal synovial membranes. The bursal synovial membranes are found interposed between surfaces which move upon each other, as between tendon and bone, or between.the integument and projecting bony surfaces. They admit of subdivision into two kinds, the bursce mucosae and the bursce synovice. The bursce mucosae are large, simple, or irregular sacs in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, enclosmg a clear viscid fluid. They are found below the integument in various situations, e.g. over the front of the patella, the olecranon, the malleoli, and other prominent parts. The bursce synovice are interposed between muscles or tendons, and the projecting bony surfaces over which they play, as between the Gluteus maximus and the great trochanter. Each consists of a thin wall of connective tissue, partially covered by patches of cells, and contains a viscid fluid. Where one of these exists in the neighbourhood of a joint, it may communicate with the joint cavity, as in the case of the bursa between the tendon of the Psoas and Iliacus and the capsular ligament of the hip, or that interposed between the deep surface of the Subscapularis and the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint. The vaginal synovial membranes {synovial sheatlis) serve to facilitate the gliding of tendons in the osseo-fibrous canals through which they pass. The membrane is here arranged in the form of a sheath, one layer of which adheres to the wall of the canal, and the other is reflected upon the surface of the enclosed tendon, the space between the free surfaces of the membrane contammg synovia. These sheaths are chiefly found surrounding the tendons of the Flexor and Extensor muscles of the fingers and toes, as they pass through the osseo-fibrous canals m the hand or foot. Synovia is a transparent, yellowish-white, or slightly reddish fluid, viscid hke the white of egg, and has an alkaline reaction and slightly saline taste. ^Vpl'ii^ Anatomy.—All synovial membranes, whether articular, bursal, or vaginal, are hablo to be affected by acute or chronic forms of inflammation, and the processes are essentially similar, no matter which kmd of synovial membrane is affected.368 SYNDESMOLOGY CLASSIFICATION OF JOINTS The articulations are divided into three classes : syiiarIhroses ov immov&hle, mnphiarlhroses or mixed, and diarihroses or movable, joints. 1. Synarthroses. Immovable Articttlations Synarthroses include aU those articulations in which the surfaces of the bones are in almost direct contact, fastened together by an intervening mass of connective tissue or hyaline cartilage, and in M'liich there is no appreciable motion, as in the joints between the bones of the skuU, excepting those of the mandible. There are four varieties of synarthrosis : Sutura, Schindylesis, Gomphosis, and Synchoncbosis. Sutura is that'form of articulation where the contiguous margins of the bones are united by a thin layer of fibrous tissue, the sutural ligament (fig. 419). It is met M'ith only in the skull. When the articulating surfaces are connected by a series of processes and indentations interlocked together, the articulation Fig. 419.—Section across the sagittal Fig. 420.—Section through oceipito- suture. sphenoid synchondrosis of an infant. Penosteum is termed a true suture {sutura vera) ; and of this there are three varieties: sutura dentata, serrata, and limbosa. The surfaces of the bones are not in direct contact, being separated by a layer of membrane, continuous externally with the pericranium, mternally with the dura mater. The sutura dentata is so called from the tooth-like form of the projectmg articular processes, as in the suture between the parietal bones. In the sutura serrata the edges of the bones are serrated like the teeth of a fine saw, as between the two portions of the frontal bone. In the sutura limbosa, there is besides the dentated processes, a certain degree of bevellmg of the articular surfaces, so that the bones overlap one another, as in the suture between the parietal and frontal bones. When the Fig. 421. -Diagrammatic section oi a symphysis. Intervertebral disc of fihro-cartilage Articular cartilage articulation is formed by roughened surfaces j)laced in af)position with one another, it is termed a false suture {sutura notha), of which there are two kmds, the sutura squamosa, formed by the overlapping of con- tiguous bones by broad bevelled margins, as in the squamo-parietal (squamous) suture ; and the sutura harmonia, Avhere there is simple apposition of contiguous rougli surfaces, as in the articulation between the maxillaj, or between the horizontal plates of the palate bones. Schindylesis is that form of articulation m which a thm plate ot bone is received into a cleft or fissure formed by the separation of two lamma- in another bone, as in the articulation of the rostrum of the sphenoid and perpendicular plate of the ethmoid with the vomer, or in the reception of the latter in the fissure between the maxilloe and between the palate bones. Gomphosis is articulation by the insertion of a conical process into a socket, as a nail is driven into a board ; this is not iUustrated by any articulation between bones, properly so caUed. but is seen in the articulations of tlie teeth with the alveoli of tlie mandible and maxillae.CLASSIFICATION OF JOINTS 369 Synchondrosis.—Where the connecting medium is cartilage the joint is termed a syncliondrosis (fig. 420). This is a temporary form of joint, for tlie cartilage becomes converted into bone before adult life. Sucli joints are found between the epiphyses and shafts of long bones, between the occipital and the sphenoid at, and for some years after, birth, and between the petrous portion of the temporal and tlie jugular process of the occipital. 2. AmPHIARTHROSES. MiXED ArTICUXiATIONS In this form of articulation only a slight amount of movement is possible. Tlie contiguous bony surfaces are either connected together by broad flattened discs of fibro-cartilage, of a more or less complex structure, as in the articula- tions between the bodies of the vertebrae (fig. 421) ; or are united by an inter- osseous ligament, as in the inferior tibio-fibular articulation. The first form is termed a Symphysis, the second a Syndesmosis. 3. DiAKTHROSES. MOVABLE ARTICULATIONS This form of articulation includes the greater number of the joints in the body, mobility being their distinguishing characteristic. A diarthrodial joint is formed by the approximation of two contiguous bony surfaces covered with cartilage, and connected by liga- ments lined by synovial membrane (fig. 422). It may be divided, com- pletely or incompletely, by an interarticular fibro-cartilage or meniscus, the periphery of which is continuous vdth. the capsular liga- ment while its free surfaces are covered by synovial membrane (fig. 423). The varieties of joints in this class have been determined by the kind of motion permitted in each. There are two varieties in which the movement is uniaxial; that is to say, all movements take place around one axis. In one form, the Ginglymus, this axis is, practically speaking, transverse ; in the other, the Trochoid or pivot-joint, it is longi- tudinal. Tliere are two varieties where the movement is bi-axial, or around two horizontal axes at right angles to each other, or at any intervening axis between the two. These are the Condyloid and the Saddle-joint. There is one form where the move- ment is polyaxial, the Enarthrosis or ball-and-socket joint; and finally there are the Arthrodia or gliding joints. Ginglymus or Hinge-joint.— In this form of jomt tlie articular surfaces are moulded to each other in such a manner as to permit motion only in one plane, forwards and backwards, the extent of motion at the same time being con- siderable. Tlie dii'ection Avhich the distal bone takes in this motion is never in tiic same plane as that of the axis of the jiroximal bone ; there is always a certain' amount of deviation from the straiglit Ime during flexion. The articular surfaces are connected together by strong lateral liga- ments, which form their chief bond of union. The best examples of ginglymus B B I Fig. 422.—Diagrammatic section of a diarthrodial joint. Fig. 423. — Diagrammatic section of a diarthrodial joint, with an interarticular fibro-cartilage.370 SYNDESMOLOGY are the intorphalangeal joints and the joint between the humerus and ulna; llie knee and ankle-joints are less typical, as they allow a slight degree of rotation or lateral movement in certaia positions of the limb. Trochoid or Pivot-joint.-—Where the movement is limited to rotation, the joint is formed by a pivot-like process turning within a ring, or a ring on a pivot, the rmg being formed partly of bone, partly of ligament. In the superior radio-ulnar articulation, the rmg is formed by the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna and the orbicular ligament; here, the head of the radius rotates within the ring. In the articulation of the odontoid process of the axis with the atlas, the ring is formed in front by the anterior arch of the atlas, behind, by the transverse ligament; here, the ring rotates round the odontoid process. Condyloid Articulation.—In this form of joint, an ovoid articular head, or condyle, is received into an eUiptical cavity in such a manner as to permit of flexion, extension, adduction, abduction and circumduction, but no axial rotation. The articular surfaces are coimected together by anterior, posterior, and lateral ligaments. The wrist-joint is an example of this form of articulation. Articulation by Reciprocal Reception {saddle-joini).—In this variety the opposing surfaces are reciprocally concavo-convex. The movements are the same as in the preceding form ; that is to say, flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, and circumduction are allowed, but no axial rotation. The articular surfaces are connected by a capsular ligament. The best example of tins form is the carpo-metacarpal joint of the thumb. Enarthrosis is that variety of joint in which the distal bone is capable of motion around an indefinite number of axes, which have one common centre. It is formed by the reception of a globular head into a deep cup-like ca_vity (hence the name ' baU-and-socket'), the parts being kept m apposition by a capsular ligament strengthened by accessory ligamentous bands. Examples of this form of articulation are found in the hip and shoulder. Arthrodia is a variety of joint which admits of only gliding movement; it is formed by the apposition of plane surfaces, or one slightly concave the other slightly convex, the amount of motion between them bemg Jmiited by the ligaments or osseous processes surrounding the articulation ; as in the joints between the articular processes of the vertebrae, the carpal jomts except that of the os magnum with the scaphoid and semilunar, and the tarsal ioints with the exception of that between the astragalus and the navicular. On the next page, in a tabular form, are the names, distmctive characters, and examples of the different kinds of articulations. The Kinds of Movement admitted in Joints The movements admissible in joints may be divided into four kinds : gUding and angular movements, circumduction, and rotation. These movements are often howevlr more or less combined in the various j^aints, so as to produce an infinite variety and it is seldom that we find only one kind of motion m any particular ]om . mld^ movement is the simplest land of motion that can take placY^ a pint, one surface gUding or mo^dng over another without any angular or rotatoiy move- men It is'common to all m'ovable joints ; but m some, as in most ofthe^-^^^^^^^^^^^ tions of the carpus and tarsus, it is the only motion l^^^-^f^^^J^'^^T^^^ is not confined to plane surfaces, but may exist between any two contiguous surfaces, ^l:X'^oZner^ occurs only between, the long bones, and by it th^^^^^^^^ between the two bones is increased or diimmshed. It may take place^ 1) forwards and backwards constituting flexion and extension, or ""^^^ , f ^"^^^^^^^ from the mesial fine of the body (or m the fingers or ™^ .f,? of the hand or foot) constituting adduction and abduction Th^^^^^^^^ Suet om or hinae-ioints admit of flexion and extension only. Abduction ^"^'^J!^^^^^ combifei with flexion and extension, are -^^-^h in the more^^^^^^^ as in the hip, the shoulder, the carpo-metacarpal P','^* ^^^.^ i^' and hip-joints.371 MOVEMENTS ADMITTED IN JOINTS Synarthrosis, or Immovable Joint. Surfaces separated by fi- brous membrane or cartilage,with- out any inter- \ening synovial cavity, and im- movably con- nected M'ith each other. As in joints of cranium and face (except the mandible). A mphiarthrosis, Mixed Articula- tion. Sutura. Ar- ticulation by processes and indentations interlocked to- gether. Sutura vera (true) articulates by indented bor- ders. Sutura notha (false) articulates by rough sur- faces. / dentata, having tooth - like processes ; as in interparietal su- ture. serrata, having ser- rated edges like the \ teeth of a saw; as in interfrontal suture. limhosa, having be- velled margins, and dentated processes; as j in fronto-parietal su- \ ^ ture. squamosa, formed by thin bevelled mar- gins, overlapping each other ; as in squamo- parietal suture. harmonia, formed by the apposition of contiguous rough sur- faces ; as in inter- maxillary suture. Schindylesis.—Articulation formed by the reception of a thin plate of one bone into a fissure in another; as in articulation of rostrum of sphenoid with vomer. Gomphosis.—Articulation formed by the msertion of a conical process mto a socket; as in the teeth. Synchondrosis.—When the connecting medium is carti- lage, as in the occipito-sphenoid jouit. Symphysis.—Surtaces connected by fibro-cartilage, not separated by synovial membrane, and having limited motion; as m joints between bodies of vertebrte. ° Syndesmosis.Surtsices united by an interosseous liga- ment. As in the inferior tibio-fibular articulation. Ginglymus.—Hinge-joint; motion limited to two direc- tions, forwards and backwards. Articular surfaces fitted together so as to permit of movement in one plane ; as m the mterphalangeal jomts and the joint between the humerus and the ulna. Trochoid or pivot-joint.—Aiticnlation by a pivot-process turmng within a ring, or a ring round a pivot; as in superior radio-uhiar articulation, and atlanto-axial joint. Condyloid.—Ovoid head received into elliptical cavity Movements m every direction except axial rotation : as the wnst-joint. Reciprocal Reception {saddle-joint).—Opposed articular surfaces reciprocally convex m one direction and concave m the other. Movement in every direction but no axial rotation ; as in the carpo-metacarpal joint of the thumb Enarthrosis.—BaM-and-socket joint; capable of motion in all directions. Articulation by a globular head received mto a cup-like cavity; as in hip- and shoulder-jomts. Arthrodia. — Gliding-joint; articulation by plane sm-- faces which glide upon each other; as in the carpal and tarsal articulations. • witwf n?^? movement in which a bone moves round a central axis sepSehon!^°'''^t''^ ^^^^^^} displacement; the axis of rotation may lie in a vertebra around VkT^ ^"""^"^ «f ^^is lonXdinal ax^ '^^'^^ J^" ^^^l^ °^ ^ bone may rotate around its own arifof rotatioT;.!v'' ^^J^*^*^^^ °f the humerus at the shoulder-joint; or the rotation may not be qmte parallel to the long axis of the bone, as in the B B 2 . Diarthrosis, Movable Joint.372 SYNDESMOLOGY movement of the radius on the ulna during pronation and supination of tlie hand, where it is represented bv a Une connecting the centre of the head of the radius above with the centre of'the head of the uhia below. Liqamentous Action of Muscles.—The movements of the different joints ot a limb are combined bv means of the long muscles passing over more than one ioiut These, when relaxed and stretched to their greatest extent, act as elastic Uo-aments in restraining certain movements of one joint, except when combined°with corresponding movements of the other-the latter movements hem<y usually in the opposite direction. Thus the shortness of the hamstring muscles prevents complete flexion of the Hp, unless the knee-pint is also flexed so as to bring their attachments nearer together. The uses o tlus arrangement are threefold. 1. It co-ordinates the kinds of movements which are the most habitual and necessary, and enables them to be performed with the least expendi- ture of power. ' Thus in the usual gesture of the arms, whether in grasping or reiectmg^ the shoulder and the elbow are flexed simultaneously, and simultane- ously extended,' in consequence of the passage of the Biceps and Triceps over both ioints. 2. It enables the short muscles which pass over only one joint to act upon more than one. ' Thus, if the Rectus femoris remain toiucal y of such length that when, stretched over the extended hip, it compels ex ension of the knee then the Gluteus maximus becomes, not only an extensor of the hip but an extensor of the knee as well.' 3. It provides the l^f^^^^^ j^^^^' while they are of very great power m resisting movements to an extent incom patible Jth the mechanism of the pint, at the same time spontaneouslv yield when neSssary ' Taxed beyond its strength a hgament wiU be ruptured, whereas a coXcted m;,scle is easily relaxed ; also, if neighbouring joints be united by Laments thramount of flexion or extension of each must remain m constant pfopoSSA to thaTof the other ; while, if the union be by ---l-'X\nTSrent of the points of attachment of those muscles may vary considerably different varietie^s of movement, the muscles adapting themselves tonica% to^^^^^ ^ngth reauired' The quotations are from a very interestmg paper by Oleland m tne soon as they stoop. Hence they can «^^P,;^^^^^ ^ "^^Z ^tliose of the The articulations may be grouped mto those ot tne cruiiK, upper extremity, and those of the lower extremity. ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK These may be divided into the foUowmg groups, viz. : , , 1 VT Of the cartilages of the ribs with the 1. Of the vertebral CO umn. VI. Ot tl^e.^''^^'? ^ .^j^ ,,,1, other. II. Of the atlas with the axis. t£ sternum. III. Of the vertebral column with VII. 0 the stemmi^^ ^^^^^^^^^^ .^^^ ^^^^ the cranium. ^ -^i^- , . IV. Of the mandible. tv Of the Tielvi^ V. Of the ribs with the vertebrae. IX. Of the pel^ is. I. ARTICULATIONS OF THE VERTEBBAL COLUMN There are two varieties of -tioulatjon m tl. between the bodies of tlie ver ebraj, h ch foun a^^^^ l^^^ ^^^.^^^j,^^. joints, and are termed the f^7ft ,fnl ioints and ar^^ processes, which form a series of arthrod.al joints, anaARTICULATIONS OF VERTEBRAL COLUMN 373 L Intercentral Articulations The intercentral articulations, or articulations between the bodies of the vertebree, belong to the class of amphiarthrodial joints, and the individual vertebrjB move only sHghtly on each other. When, however, this slight degree of movement between the pairs of bones takes place in all the jomts of the vertebral column, the total range of movement is very considerable. The ligaments of these articulations are the following : Anterior Common Ligament. Posterior Common Ligament. Intervertebral Discs. The Anterior Common Ligament (lig. longitudmale anterius) (figs. 424, 435, and 442) is a broad and strong band of fibres, which extends along the anterior surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrae, from the axis to the sacrum. It is broader below than above, thicker in the thoracic than in the cervical or lumbar region, and somewhat thicker opposite the bodies of the vertebrae than opposite the intervertebral discs. It is attached, above, to the body of the axis, where it is continuous with the anterior atlanto-axial ligament, and Fig. 424.—^Vertical section of two lumbar vertebrse and their ligaments. extends down as far as the upper part of the front of the sacrum. It consists of dense longitudinal fibres, which are intimately adherent to the interverte- bral discs, and the prominent margins of the vertebrse, but not to the middle parts of the bodies. In the latter situation the fibres are exceedingly thick, and serve to fill up the concavities on the anterior surfaces, and to make the front of the vertebral column more even. The ligament is composed of several layers of fibres, which vary in length, but are closely interlaced with each other. The most superficial fibres are the longest and extend between four or five vertebrse. A second, subjacent set extends between two or three vertebrse; while a third set, the shortest and deepest, extends from one vertebra to the next. At the sides of the bodies the ligament consists of a few short fibres, which pass from one vertebra to the next, separated from the median IJortion by oval apertures for the passage of vessels. The Posterior Common Ligament (lig. longitudinale j)osterius) (figs. 424, 425) is situated ^vithin the spinal canal, and extends along the posterior surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrse, from the body of the axis, where it is continuous Mith the occipito-axial ligament, to the sacrum. It is broader above thanSYNDESMOLOGY 374 below, and tliicker in the thoracic than in the cervical or lumbar regions. In the situation of the intervertebral discs and contiguous margins of the vertebrae, where the ligament is more intimately adherent, it Ls broad, and in the thoracic and lumbar regions presents a series of dentations with intervening concave margins ; but it is narrow and thick over the centres of the bodies, from .which it is separated by the venae basis vertebrce. This ligament is composed of smooth, shining, longitudinal fibres, denser and more compact than those of the anterior ligament, and consists of superficial layers occupying the interval between three or four vertebrae, and deeper layers which extend between one vertebra and the next adjacent to it. It is separated from the dura mater of the spinal cord by some loose connective tissue. The Intervertebral Discs (fibrocartilagines intervertebrales) (figs. 424, 436) are interposed between the adjacent surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrae, from the axis to the sacrum, and form the chief bonds of connection between the vertebrae. They vary in shape, size, and thickness, in different parts of the vertebral column. In shape and size they correspond with the surfaces of the bodies between which they are placed, except in the cervical region, where they are slightly smaller from side to side than the corresponding bodies. In thick- ness they vary not only in the different regions of the column, but in different parts of the same disc ; they are thicker Fig. 425.—Posterior common ligament, in the thoracic region. Pedicle {cut) ■Intervertehral disc in front than behind in the cervical and lumbar regions, and thus con- tribute to the anterior convexities of the column in these regions; while they are of nearly imiform thickness ia the thoracic region, the anterior con- cavity of this region being almost entirely owing to the shape of the ver- tebral bodies. The intervertebral discs constitute about one-fourth of the length of the spinal column, exclusive of the first two vertebrae; but this amount is not equally distributed between the various bones, the cervical and lumbar portions having, in propor- tion to their length, a much greater amount than the thoracic region, with the result that these parts possess greater pliancy and freedom of move- ment. The intervertebral discs are adherent, by their surfaces, to thm layers of hyaline cartilage which cover the upper and imder sm-faces of the bodies of the vertebrae, and in which, in early life, the epiphysial plates develop; by their cu'cumferences they are closely connected in front to the anterior, and behind to the posterior, common ligaments. In the thoracic region they are joined laterally, by means of the interarticular ligaments, to the heads of those ribs which articulate with two vertebra?: they consequently form parts of the articular cavities in which the heads of these ribs are received. Structure of the Intervertebral Discs.—Each is composed, at its circumference, of laminaj of fibrous tissue and fibro-cartilage, forming the annulus Jibrosus ; and. at its centre, of a soft, pidpy, highly elastic substance, of a yellowish colour, winch rises up considerablv above the surrounding level when the disc is diAaded horizontally. This pulpy substance {nucleus pulposus), especially well developed in the lumbar region, is the remains of the notocliord. The lamiuaj are arranged concentrically ; the outern^ost consist of ordinary fibrous tissue, the others ot white fibro-cartilage. The laminaj are not quite vertical in their direction, those near the circumference being curved outwards and closely approximated ; while those nearest the centre curve in the opposite direction, and are somewhat more widely separated. The fibres of which each lamina is composed arc directed, tor the most part, obliquely from above downwards, the fibres of adjacent^ amma- passing in opposite directions and varying in every layer: so that the fibres ol one layer are directed across those of another, like the limbs of the letter A. inis375 ARTICULATIONS OF VERTEBRAL COLUMN laminar arrangement belongs to about the outer half of each disc. The pulpy substance presents no concentric arrangement, and consists of a fine fibrous matrix, containing angular cells united to form a reticular structure. Applied Anatomy.—AVhen an aneurysm presses on the vertebral column, the vertebral bodies are often deeply eroded by the tumoiu*, while the intervertebral discs remain intact. The discs are the first to be destroyed, however, in tuberculosis of the spine, where, as not infrequently happens, the disease begins in the discs, and spreads thence to the bodies of the two adjoining vertebrae simultaneously. 2. Intebnbural Abtictjlations The interneui'al articulations, or articulations between the articular pro- cesses of the vertebrae, belong to the arthrodial variety of movable joints. The processes are connected together by capsular ligaments, which are lined by sjmovial membranes ; but in addition to these are a number of accessory ligaments, which connect together the laminae, spinous and transverse processes. The ligaments of the interneural articulations are : Capsular. Ligamenta subflava. Intertransverse. Supraspinous. Interspinous. Fig. 426.—Neui-al arches of three thoracic vertebras viewed fi-om the front. The Capsular Ligaments (capsulse articulares) (fig. 424) are thin and loose ligamentous sacs, attached to the contiguous margins of the articular processes of adjacent vertebrae. Each ligament is defective internally, where the sac is completed by the ligamentum subflavum. They are longer and looser in the cervical than in the thoracic or lumbar regions. The capsular ligaments are lined on their inner sm-faces by synovial membrane. The Ligamenta Subflava (ligg. flava) (fig. 426) connect the laminae of adjacent vertebrae, from the axis to the first segment of the sacrum. They are best seen when viewed from the iaterior of the spinal canal : when looked at from the outer surface they appear short, being overlapped by the laminae. Each ligament con- sists of two lateral portions, which commence one on either side at the roots of the articular processes, and extend back- wards to the point where the laminae converge to form the spinous process ; the posterior margins of the two portions are in contact and to a certain extent united, slight intervals being left for the passage of small vessels. Each ligament consists of yellow elastic tissue, the fibres of which, almost perpendicular in dii-ection, are attached to the anterior surface of the lamina above, some dis- tance from its inferior margin, and to the posterior surface and upper margin of the lamma below. In the cervical region the ligaments are thin, but very broad and long ; they become thicker in the thoracic region, and in the lumbar region acquire very considerable thick- ness. Their highly elastic property serves to preserve the upright posture, and to assist the vertebral column in resuming it, after flexion. These ligaments do not exist between the occiput and atlas, or between the atlas and axis. The Supraspinous Ligament (lig. supraspinale) (fig. 424) is a strong fibrous cord, which connects together the apices of the spinous processes Pedicle {cut)3m from the seventh cervical vertebra to the sacrum. It is thicker and broader in the lumbar than in the thoracic region, and intimately blended, in both situations, with the neighbouring aponeurosis. The most superficial fibres of this ligament connect three or four vertebrae ; those more deeply seated pass between two or three vertebraj; while the deepest connect the spinous processes of neighbouring vertebrae. It is continued upwards to the external occipital protuberance and crest, as the ligamentum nuchse. The Ligamentum nuchae is a fibrous membrane, which, in the neck, represents the supraspinous ligaments of the lower vertebrae. It extends from the external occipital protuberance and crest to the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra. From its anterior border a fibrous lamina is given off, which is attached to the posterior tubercle of the atlas, and the spinous processes of all the cervical vertebra3, so as to form a septum between the muscles on either side of the neck. In man it is merely the rudiment of an important elastic ligament, which, in some of the lower animals, serves to sustain the weight of the head. The Interspinous Ligaments (ligg. interspmalia) (fig. 424), thm and membranous, are mterposed between the spinous processes. These ligaments extend from the root to the apex of each spinous process, coimecting together their adjacent margins. They meet the ligamenta subflava in front and the supraspinous ligament behmd. They are narrow and elongated in the thoracic region ; broader, quadrilateral in form, and thicker in the lumbar region ; and only slightly developed in the neck. The Intertransverse Ligaments (ligg. mtertransversaria) are mterposed between the transverse processes. In the cervical region they consist of a few irregular, scattered fibres ; m the thoracic region they are rounded cords intimately connected with the deep muscles of the back ; ra the lumbar region they are thin and membranous. Movements.—The movements permitted in the vertebral column are, Flexion, Extension, Lateral movement. Circumduction, and Rotation. In Flexion, or movement forwards, the anterior common ligament is relaxed, and the intervertebral discs are compressed in front; while the posterior common Hgameut, the Hgamenta subflava, and the inter- and supra-spmous Hgaments are stretched, as well as the posterior fibres of the intervertebral discs. The interspaces between the laminae are widened, and the inferior articular processes ghde upwards, upon the superior articular processes of the subjacent vertebra. Flexion is the most extensive of all the movements of the vertebral '^^^^^Extension, or movement backwards, an exactly opposite disposition of the parts takes place. This movement is not extensive, being hmited by the anterior common Ugament, and by the approximation of the spinous processes. In Lateral Movement, the sides of the intervertebral discs are compressed, the extent of motion being hmited by the resistance offered by the surrounding hgaments. This movement may take place in any part of the column, but is freest in the neck and loins. ■ r ^r. j- Circumduction is very hmited, and is merely a succession of the preceding ™°^oSow is produced by the twisting of the intervertebral discs ; this, although only sUght between any two vertebrte, produces a considerable extent ot mo\ o- ment when it takes place in the whole length of the column, the front of the upper part of the column being turned to one or other side. This movement occurs to a shght extent in the neck, is freer in the upper part of the thoracic region, and absent in the lumbar region. j . -i i,„„„ The extent and variety of the movements are influenced by the shape and direction of the articular surfaces. . , In the cervical region the upward inchnation of the superior articular suifaces allows of free flexion and extension. Extension can be earned farther than flexion at tie upper end of the region it is checked by the locking of tlie Pos -lor^e^^^^^^^^ of the superior atlautal facets in the posterior condyloid fossae of the occipital bo e at the lower end it is hmited by a mechamsm whereby the inferior <:"^^^^^^ cesses of the seventh cervical vertebra slip into grooves behind and below the supmor articular processes of the first thoracic. Flexion is arrested '''^'^lJ^^J''''''^l convexity is straightened; the movement is checked by the apposition of theARTICULATIONS OF VERTEBRAL COLUIMN 377 nroiectine lower lips of the bodies of the vertebrae with the shelving surfaces on he bodies of the subjacent vertebra. Lateral aexion and rotation are free in the rervical re<rion : they are, however, always combined. The upward and inward inclinations of the superior articular surfaces impart a rotatory movement during lateral flexion, while pure rotation is prevented by the slight inward slope of these *'"?nThe ihoracic region, notably in its upper part, all the movements are limited in order to reduce interference with respiration to a minimum. The almost com- plete absence of an upward inclination of the superior articular surfaces prohibits iny marked flexion, while extension is checked by the contact of the inferior articiUar margins with the laminsc, and the contact of the spinous processes with one another. The mechanism between the seventh cervical and the first thoracic vertebree, which limits extension of the cervical region, will also serve to hmit flexion of the thoracic region when the neck is extended. Rotation is free in the thoracic recnon : the superior articular processes are segments of a cylinder whose axis is in the mid-ventral hne of the vertebral bodies. The direction of the articular facets would allow of free lateral flexion, but this movement is considerably limited i)i the upper part of the region by the resistance of the ribs and sternum. In the lumbar region flexion and extension are free. Flexion can be carried farther than extension, and is possible up to the straightening of the lumbar curve; It is, therefore, greatest at the lowest part where the curve is sharpest. The inferior articular facets are not in close apposition with the superior facets of the subjacent vertebra, and on this account a considerable amount of lateral flexion is perinitted. For the same reason a sUght amount of rotation can be carried out, but this is so soon checked bv the interlocking of the articular surfaces that it is negligible. The principal muscles which produce flexion are the Sterno-mastoid, Rectus capitis anticus major, and Longus colli; the Scaleni ; the abdominal muscles and the Psoas magnus. Extension is produced by the fourth layer of the muscles of the back, assisted in the neck by the Splenius, Seniispinales dorsi et coUi, and the Multifidus spinje. Lateral motion is produced by the fourth and fifth layers of the muscles of the back, by the Splenius, the Scaleni, the Quadratus lumborum and the Psoas magnus, the muscles of one side only acting ; and rotation by the action of the following muscles of one side only, viz. the Sterno-mastoid, the Rectus capitis anticus major, the Scaleni, the Multifidus spinse, the Complexus, and the abdominal muscles. II. ARTICULATION OF THE ATLAS WITH THE AXIS The articulation of the Atlas with the Axis is of a complicated nature, comprising no fewer than four distinct joints. There is a pivot articulation between the odontoid process of the axis and the ring formed by the anterior arch of the atlas and the transverse ligament (see fig. 429) ; here there are two joints : one in front between the posterior sm-face of the anterior arch of the atlas and the front of the odontoid process ; the other between the anterior surface of the transverse ligament and the back of the process. Between the articular processes of the two bones there is on either side an arthrodial or gliding joint. The ligaments which connect these bones are : Two Capsular. Posterior Atlanto-axial. Anterior Atlanto-axial. Transverse.* The Capsular Ligaments (capsulse articulares) are two thin, loose capsules, connecting the lateral masses of the atlas with the margins of the superior articular surfaces of the axis. Each is strengthened at its posterior and inner part by a ligamentous band, the accessory ligament, which is attached below to the body of the axis near the base of the odontoid process, and above to the lateral mass of the atlas near tlio transverse ligament. The Anterior Atlanto-axial Ligament (fig. 427) is a strong membrane, fixed, above, to the lower border of the anterior arch of the atlas ; below, * It has been found necessary to describe the transverse ligament with those of the atlas and axis; but the student must remember that it is really a portion of the mechanism by which the movements of the head on the vertebral column are regulated; so that the connections between the atlas and axis ought always to be studied in association with those between the axis and the skull. !378 SYNDESMOLOGY to the front of the body of the axis. It is strengthened in the middle line In a rounded cord, which is connected, above, to the tubercle on the anterior arch of the atlas, and below to the body of the axis, and is a continuation upwards of the anterior common ligament. The ligament is in relation, in front, with the Recti antici majores. The Posterior Atlanto-axial Ligament (fig. 428) is a broad, thin membrane, attached, above, to the lower border of the posterior arch of the atlas ; below, to the upper edges of the laminae of the axis. This ligament supplies the place of the ligamenta subflava, and is in relation, behind, witli the Inferior oblique muscles. The Transverse Ligament (lig. transversum atlantis) (figs. 429, 430), is a thick, strong band, which arches across the ring of the atlas, and serves to retain the odontoid process m contact with its anterior arch. It m concave in front, convex behind, broader and thicker in the middle than at eitlier extremity, and firmly attached on either side to a small tubercle on the inner surface of the lateral mass of the atlas. As it crosses the odontoid process, a Fig. 427.—Occipito-atlantal and atlanto-axial ligaments. Front view. small fasciculus {crus superius) is prolonged upwards, and another {crus inferhis) dowTiwards, from the superficial or posterior fibres of the ligament. The former is inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone, in close relation witli the occipito-axial ligament; the latter descends, to be attached to the posterior surface of the body of the axis ; hence, the whole ligament has received the name of cruciform (lig. cruciatum atlantis). The transverse ligament divides the ring of the atlas into two unequal parts : of tlrese, the posterior and larger serves for the transmission of the spinal cord and its membranes and the spinal accessory nerves ; the anterior and smaller contains the odontoid process. The neck of the odontoid process is constricted where it is embraced posteriorly by the transverse ligament, so that this ligament suffices to retain the odontoid process in position after all the otlier ligaments have been divided. There are four Synovial Membranes in this articulation : one linmg the inner surface of each of tlic capsular ligaments ; one between the anterior surface of the odontoid process and tlie anterior arch of the atlas, and one between the posterior surface of the odontoid process and tlie transverse ligament. Tiio latter often communicates with those between the condyles of the occipital bone and the articular surfaces of tlio atlas.ATLANTO-AXIAL ARTICULATIONS 379 Movements—Tliis joint allows the rotation of the atlas (and, with it, of the cranium) ujion the axis, the extent of rotation being limited by the odontoid lisaments. Fig. 428.—Occipito-atlantal and atlanto-axial ligaments. Posterior view. Arch for passage of vertebral arferi/ and first cervical nerve The opposed articular siirfaces of the atlas and axis are not reciprocally curved ; both surfaces are convex in their long axes. When, therefore, the upper facet ghdes forwards on the lower it also descends ; the fibres of the capsular hgament Fig. 429.—Ai-ticulation between odontoid process and atlas. are relaxed in a vertical direction, and will then permit of movement in an antero- posterior direction. By this means a shorter capsule suffices and the strength of the joint is materially increased.* * Corner (' The Physiology of the Atlanto-axial Joints,' Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, vol. xli.) states that the movements which take place at these articulations arc of a complex nature. The first part of the movement is an eccentric or asymmetrical one ; the atlanto- axial joint of the side to which the head is moved is fixed, or practically fixed, by the muscles of the neck, and forms the centre of the movement, while the opposite atlantal facet is carried downwards and forwards on the corresponding axial facet. The second part of the movement IS centric and symmetrical, the odontoid process forming the axis of the movement.ISYJMDESMULUGY 380 The principal muscles by whicli these movements are produced are the Stei-ii(j- mastoid and Complexus of one side, acting with the Rectus capitis anticus major, Splenius, Trachelo-mastoid, Rectus capitis posticus major, and Inferior and Superior oblique of the other side. III. ARTICULATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN WITH THE CRANIUM The ligaments connecting the vertebral column with the cranium may be divided into two sets, those connecting the atlas with the occipital bone, and those connecting the axis with the occipital bone. Ligaments connecting the Atlas with the Occipital Bone The articulation between the atlas and the occipital bone is a double condyloid joint. Its ligaments are : Two Capsular. Anterior Occipito-atlantal. Posterior Occipito-atlantal. Two Lateral Occipito-atlantal. The Capsular Ligaments (capsulse articulares) surround the condj^es of the occipital bone, and connect them with the articular processes of the atlas ; they are thin and loose, and are lined by synovial membrane. The Anterior Occipito-atlantal Ligament (membrana atlantooccipitalis anterior) (fig. 427) is a broad membrane, composed of densely woven fibres, which passes between the anterior margm of the foramen magnum above, and the upper border of the anterior arch of the atlas below. Laterally, Fig. 430.—Occipito-axial and atlanto-axial ligaments. Posterior view, obtained by removing the arches of the vertebrse and the posterior part of the slaill. Middle odontoid ligament Uccipilo- ( Capsular lim- atlantal \ '"f"' ""^ fl'""' \ twl membrane . . , 1 Capsular ligament Ulanio-] andspnoria! I membrane it is continuous with the capsular ligaments. In front, it is strengthened in the middle line by a strong, rounded cord, which is attached, above, to the Lilar process of the occiput, and, below,, to the tubercle on the ante^^ arch of the atlas. This ligament is in relation m front Avith the R«cti antici minores, behind with the odontoid ligaments. „tior,fnnnpi,iitaHs The Posterior Occipito-atlantal Ligament (membrana ^tlant«of posterior) (fig. 428) is a broad but thin membrane connected, aboxe to e posterior margin o the foramen magnum ; below, to the upper border of theOCCIPITO-AXIAL ARTICULATIONS 381 . ■ 1, flio iflnt? On either side this lieament is defective below, !■ re^fhe^up^^^^^^^^^ h'li^SebxSnoteh, and forms wfth this noteh the boundary o an opeZcr for the passage of the vertebral artery and suboccipital nerve. Tlie fiee Wer of thi Ugament, which arches over the artery and nerve, omet mes becomes ossified. The ligament is m relation behind with the Recti postici mmores and Obliqui superiores ; in front, ^vlth the dura mater of the spinal canal, to which it is intimately adherent. The Lateral Ligaments are thickened portions of the capsular ligament, reinforced bv bundles of fibrous tissue, which are directed obliquely upwards and mwards, attached above to the jugular processes of the occipital bone, below, to the bases of the transverse processes of the atlas. Fig. 431.—Sagittal section through the occipital bone and first three cervical vertebra. (Spalteholz.) Anterior occipito atlantal ligament ilenthrana tectoria Crus superiiis of transverse ligament Lig. apicis dentis- Ant. arch of atlas- Odontoid process of axis Articular cavity Transverse Ugament Anterior atlanto- axial ligament Intervertebral disc Anterior common ligament Superficial layer of memhrana tectoria *%%. ^Canalis hypoglossi occipifo- igament Posterior arch of atlas Snboccipital nerve Posterior common Ugament Synovial Membranes.—There are two synovial membranes : one Iming each of the capsular ligaments. The joints occasionally communicate with that between the posterior surface of the odontoid process and the transverse ligament. Movements.—The movements permitted in this joint are («) flexion and extension, which give rise to the ordinarv forward and backward nodding of the head, and (6) shght lateral motion to one or other side. Flexion is produced mainly by the action of the Recti capitis antici major and minor; extension by the Recti capitis postici major and minor, the Superior oblique, the Complexus, Splenius, Sterno-mastoid, and upper fibres of the Trapezius. _ The Recti laterales are concerned in tlie lateral movement, assisted by the Trapezius, Splenius, Complexus, and the Sterno-mastoid of the same side,' all acting together. According to Cruveilhier, there is a slight movement of rotation in this joint.382 SYNDESMOLOGY Ligaments connecting the Axis with the Occipitai. Bone Occipito-axial. Three Odontoid. The Occipito-axial Ligament (membrana tectoria) is situated within the spinal canal. It is a broad, strong band, which covers the odontoid process and its ligaments, and appears to be a prolongation upwards of the posterior common ligament of the vertebral column. It is attached, below, to the posterior surface of the body of the axis, and, becoming expanded as it ascends, is mserted mto the basQar groove of the occipital bone, m front of the foramen magnum, where it blends with the dura mater of the skuE. It Ls in relation by its anterior surface with the transverse ligament, by its posterior surface with the dura mater. The Odontoid or Check Ligaments (ligamenta alaria) (fig. 430) are strong, rounded fibrous cords, which arise one on either side of the upper part of the odontoid process, and, passmg obhquely upwards and outwards, are inserted into the rough depressions on the inner sides of the condyles of the occipital bone. In the triangular mterval between these ligaments is another fibrous cord, the ligamentum apicis dentis or middle odontoid ligament (fig. 431), which extends from the apex of the odontoid process to the anterior margm' of the foranien magnum, being intimately blended with the deep portion of the anterior occipito-atlantal ligament and upper fasciculus of the transverse ligament of the atlas. It is regarded as a rudimentary intervertebral disc, and in it traces of the notochord may persist. The odontoid ligaments serve to limit the extent to which rotation of the cranium may be carried ; hence they have received the name of check ligaments. In addition to these ligaments which connect the atlas and axis to the skull, the ligamentum nuchse must be regarded as one of the ligaments by which the vertebral column is connected with the cranium. It has been described on page 376. Applied Anatomy.—The ligaments which unite the component parts of the vertebral columu together are so strong, and the bones are so interlocked by the arrangement of their articulating processes, that dislocation is very uncommon,' and, indeed, except in the upper part of the neck, rarely occurs unless accompanied by fracture. Dislocation of the occiput from the atlas has been recorded only ia one or two cases ; but dislocation of the atlas from the axis, with rupture of the transverse Ugament, is much more common : it is the mode in which death is produced ia many cases of execution by hanging. In the lower part of the neck—that is, below the third cervical vertebra—dislocation unattended by fracture occasionally takes place. IV. ARTICULATION OF THE MANDIBLE (AETICULATIO MANDIBULARIS) This is a ginglymo-arthrodial joint; the parts entering into its formation on either side are, above, the anterior part of the glenoid cavity of the temporal bone and the eminentia articularis ; and, below, the condyle of the mandible. The ligaments are the following : Capsular. Internal Lateral. External Lateral. Interarticular Fibro-cartUage. Stylo-mandibular. The Capsular Ligament (capsula articularis) forms a thin and loose, but distinct capsule, attached above to the circumference of the glenoid cavity and the articular surface immediately in front; below, to the neck of the condyle of the mandible. It is thinnest on the inner side. The External Lateral Ligament (lig. temporomandibulare) (fig. 432) is an accessory band of the capsular ligament, and is not separable from it. It consists of two short, narrow fasciculi, one in front of the other, attached, above, to the outer surface of the zygoma and to the tubercle on its lower border; below, to the outer surface and posterior border of the neck of the mandible. It is broader above than below ; its fibres are jjarallel with one another, and directed obliquely downwards and backwards. Externally, it is covered by the parotid gland, and by the integument. The Internal Lateral Ligament (lig. sphenomandibulare) (fig. 433) is a flat thin band which is attached above to the spinous process of the sphenoid383 TEMPORO-MANDIBULAR JOINT > lone and, becoming broader as it descends, is inserted into the lingula of the dental foramen. Its outer surface is in relation, above, %vith the External pterygoid ; lower down, it is separated from the neck of the condyle by the Fig. 432.—^Temporo-mandibular articulation. External view. i internal maxillary artery ; still more inferiorly, the inferior dental vessels i and nerve and a lobule of the parotid gland separate it from the ramus of the I mandible. The inner surface i is in relation with the Internal j^^. 433.-Temporo-mandibular articulation. I pterygoid. Internal view. The Interarticular ■ Fibro-cartilage (discus ar- I ticularis) (fig. 434) is a thin I plate of an oval form, placed I horizontally between the con- 1 dyle of the mandible and the i glenoid cavity. Its upper • surface is concavo-convex i from before backwards, and : a little convex transversely, I to accommodate itself to the ! form of the glenoid cavity. 1 Its under surface, which is i in contact with the condyle, is ' concave. Its circumference 1 is connected to the capsular 1 ligament; and in front to the t tendon of the External ptery- ^ goid. It is thicker at its ; periphery, especially behind, i than at its centre. The fibres of which it is composed have • a concentric arrangement, [ more apparent at the circum- ■ ference than at the centre. Its surfaces are smooth. It divides the joint into two cavities, each of which is furnished with a synovial membrane.SYNDESMOLOGY 384 The Synovial Membranes, two in number, are jilaced one above, and the other below, the fibro-cartilage. The upper one, the larger and looser of the two, is continued from the margin of the cartilage covering the glenoid cavity and eminentia articularis on to the upper surface of the fibro-cartilage. The lower one passes from the under surface of tlie fibro- cartilage to the neck of the condyle, being prolonged a little farther downwards behind thair in front. Tlie interarticular cartilage is sometimes perforated in its centre, and the two synovial sacs then communicate with each other. The Stylo-mandibular Ligament (lig. stylomandibulare) (fig. 433) is a specialised band of the cervical fascia, which extends fi"om near the apex of the styloid process of the temporal bone to the angle and posterior border of the ramus of the mandible, between the Masseter and Internal pterygoid. This ligament separates the parotid from the submaxillary gland, and from its inner side some fibres of the Stylo-glossus take origin. Although usually classed among the ligaments of the jaM^ it can only be considered as accessory to the articulation. The nerves of this joint are derived from the auriculo-temporal and masse- teric branches of the inferior maxillary, the arteries from the temporal branch of the external carotid. Movements.—The movements permitted in this articulation are very extensive. Thus, the mandible may be depressed or elevated, or it may be carried forwards or backwards ; a sUght amount of lateral movement is also permitted. It must be borne in mind that there are two distinct joints in this articulation—one between the condyle and the interarticu- FiG. 434.—Vertical section of temporo- lar fibro-cartilage, and another mandibular articulation. between the fibro-cartilage and the glenoid fossa. '\\Tien the mouth is but sUghtly opened, as during ordinary conversation, the movement is confined to the lower of the two joints. On the other hand, when the mouth is opened more widely, both joints are concerned in the movement; in the lower joint, viz. that between the condyle and the fibro-cartilage, the movement is of a hinge-hke character, the condyle moving round a trans- verse axis on the fibro-cartilage. while in the upper joint the movement is of a gUding character, the fibro-cartilage. too-ether with the condyle, ghding forwards on to the emmentia articularis, round an axis which passes through the dental foramina. These two movements take place simultaneously, the condyle and fibro-cartilage move forwards on the eminence, and at the same time the condyle revolves on the fibro-cartUage. in the opposite movement of shutting the mouth the reverse action takes place ; tUc fibro-cartilage gUdes back, carrying the condyle ^vith it, and this at the same time revolves back to its former position. When the mandible is carried horizontally forwards, as in protruding the lower incisors in front of the upper, the movement takes place principaJlv in the upper compartment of the joint, the fibro-cartUagc and the condyle gliding forwards on the glenoid fossa. The grinding or chewing movement is produced by one condyle, with its fibro-cartilage, ghding ahernatel> forwards and backwards, wliile the other condyle moves snnultaneously in the opposite direction; at the same time the condyle undergoes a vertical rotation on the fibro-cartilage. One condyle advances and rotates, the other condyle recedes and rotates, in alternate succession. • . j k„ Plntv^mi the The mandible is defvcssed by its own weight, assisted by the Plat^sma tne Digastric, the Mylo-hyoid, and the Genio-hyoid It femed by the anter o part of the Temporal, Masseter, and Internal pterygoid It a ^ ".^^^^^ bv the simultaneous action of the External and Internal pterygoids, tl^^"J'^^^fi"^^^^ fibres of the Masseter and the anterior fibres of the Temporal ; it is c^^^.nu hachvards by the deep fibres of the Masseter and the posterior fibres of the Temporal.TEMPORO-MANDIBULAR JOINT 385 The sjrinding movement is caused by the alternate action of the two Pterygoids of either side. Surface Form.—The temporo-mandibular articulation is quite superficial, and is situated below the base of the zygoma, in front of the tragus and external auditory meatus, and behind the posterior border of the upper part of the Masseter. Its position can be ascertaiaed by feeling for the condyle of the jaw, the movements of which can be distinctly felt in opening and shutting the mouth. When the mouth is opened wide, the condyle advances out of the glenoid fossa on to the eminontia articularis, and a depression is felt in the situation of the joint. Applied Anatomy.—The mandible is dislocated only in one direction—viz. forwards. The accident is caused by violence or muscular action. When the mouth is open, the 1 ondyle is situated on the eminentia articularis, and any sudden violence, or even a sudden nmsoular spasm, as during a convulsive yaw, may displace the condyle forwards into I he zygomatic fossa. The displacement may be unilateral or bilateral. Reduction is accomplished by depressing the jaw with the thumbs placed on the last molar teeth, and at the same time elevating the chin. The downward pressure overcomes the spasm of the Masseter, Temporal and Internal pterygoid, and elevation of the chin tlirows the condyle backwards ; the above-mentioned muscles then draw the condyle !)ack into its normal position. In close relation to the condyle of the mandible are the external auditory meatus and the tympanum ; any force, therefore, applied to the bone is liable to be attended with damage to these parts, or inflammation in the joint may extend to the ear; or on the other hand inflammation of the middle ear may involve the articulation and cause its destruction, thus leading to ankylosis of the joint. The joint is also occasionally the seat of osteo-artliritis, leading to great suffering during efforts of mastication. A peculiar affection sometimes attacks the neck and condyle of the mandible, consisting in liypertrophy and elongation of these parts and consequent protrusion of the chin to the opposite side. V. AKTICULATIONS OF THE RIBS WITH THE VERTEBB^ (ARTICULATIONES COSTOVERTEBRALES) The articulations of the ribs with the vertebral column may be divided into two sets : 1, those which connect the heads of the ribs with the bodies Fig. 435.—Costo-eentral and costo-transverse articulations. Anterior view. Inlerarticular ligament Louer synovial cavity of the vertebrse (costo-cenlral) ; 2, those \\ hich connect the necks and tubercles or tlie ribs with the transverse processes {costo-transverse) C 0SYNDESMOLOGY 386 1, COSTO-CENTBAL ArTICDXATIONS (ArTICULATIONES CaPITULORUM) (fig. 435) These constitute a series of gliding or arthrodial joints, and are formed by the articulation of the heads of the ribs with the facets on the contiguous margins of the bodies of the thoracic vertebraj and with the intervertebral discs between them ; in the case of the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs the cavity is formed by a single vertebra. The ligaments of the joints are : Capsular. Anterior Costo-vertebral or SteUate. Intcrarticular. The Capsular Ligament (capsula articularis) surrounds and encloses the joint, being composed of short, strong fibres, which pass between the head of the rib and the circumference of the articular cavity formed by the niter- vertebral disc and the adjacent vertebra;. It is most distmct at the upper and lower parts of the articulation ; some of its upper fibres pass through the intervertebral foramen to the back of the intervertebral disc, while its posterior fibres are continuous with the middle costo-transverse ligament. The Anterior Costo-vertebral or Stellate Ligament (lig. capituli costa; radiatum) is a specialised part of the capsule, and comiects the anterior part of the head of each rib with the sides of the bodies of two vertebra?, and the intervertebral disc between them. It consists of three flat bundles of ligamentous fibres, which are attached to the anterior part of the head of the rib just beyond the articular surface. The superior bundle passes upwards to be connected with the body of the vertebra above ; the inferior one descends to the body of the vertebra below; and the middle one, the smallest and least distinct, passes horizontally inwards, to be attached to the mter- vertebral disc. The ligament is in relation, in front, v,ith the thoracic gangha of the sympathetic, the pleura, and, on the right side, Mith the vena azygos major • behind, with the intcrarticular Hgament and synovial membranes. In'the first costo-central joint, where the rib articulates with a single vertebra this ligament does not present a distinct division mto tlu-ee fasciculi; its fibres however, radiate, and are attached to the body of the last cervical vertebra, as weU as to the body of the first thoracic. In the costo-central articu- lations of the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, each of Avhich articulates with a single vertebra, the division does not exist; but the fibres of the ligament in each case radiate and are connected to the vertebra above, as well as to that with which the rib articulai.es. , ■ . a The Intcrarticular Ligament (lig. capituli costee interarticidare) is situated in the interior of the joint. It consists of a short band of fibres, flattened from above downwards, attached by one extremity to the sharp crest which separates the two articular facets on the head of the rib, and by tlie otliei to the intervertebral disc; it divides the johit into two cavities. In the first tenth, eleventh, and twelfth costo-central jomts, the interaiticula ligament does not exist; consequently, there is but one cavity. This ligainen is the homologue of the ligamailum conjugnk of some mammals, winch unites the heads of opposite ribs across the back of the intervertebral disc. Synovial Membranes.-There are two synovial membranes in each of the aSiions m which there is an. intcrarticular ligament one above and one below this structure : only one in those ]omts where there is a single cavity. 2 COSTO-TRANSVERSB ARTICULATIONS (ArTICULATIONES CoSTOTHANSVERSARI.^^) (fig. 436) The articular portion of the tubercle of the rib forms with the articular facet on the adjacent transverse process an arthrodial ]0"it- In the eleventh and twelfth ribs this articulation is wanting. The ligaments connecting these parts are : C„„gular Middle Costo-transverse (Interosseous). Anterior Costo-transverse. Posterior Costo-transverse. The Capsular Ligament (capsula articularis) is a thin, membranousCOSTO-TRAJSrSVERSE ARTICULATIONS 387 sac attached to the cu'cumferences of the articular surfaces, and lined by a sjmovial membrane. The Anterior or Superior Costo-transverse Ligament (lig. costotrans- versarium anterius) consists of two sets of fibres : one (anterior) is attached below to the sharp crest on the upper border of the neck of the rib, and passes obliquely upwards and outwards to the lower border of the transverse process immediately above ; the other (posterior) is attached below to the neck of t he rib, and passes upwards and inwards to the base of the transverse process and outer border of the inferior articular process of the vertebra above. This ligament is in relation, in front, with the intercostal vessels and nerves ; behind, with the Longissimus dorsi. Its internal border is thickened and free, and bounds an aperture which transmits the posterior branches of the intercostal \essels and nerves. Its external border is continuous with a thin aponeurosis, w hich covers the External intercostal muscle. The first rib has no anterior costo-transverse ligament; a band of fibres {lig. lumbocostale) in series with the anterior costo-transverse ligaments Fig. 436.—Costo-transverse articulation. Seen from above. ' connects the neck of the twelfth rib to the base of the transverse process of ■ the first lumbar vertebra. The Middle Costo-transverse or Interosseous Ligament (lig. colli ' costse) consists of short but strong fibres, which pass between the rough ; surface on the back of the neck of the rib and the anterior surface of the • adjacent transverse process. A rudimentary ligament may be present in the case of the eleventh and " twelfth ribs. The Posterior Costo-transverse Ligament (lig. costotransversarium ■ posterius) is a short but thick and strong fasciculus, whicli passes obliquely I from the summit of the transverse process to the rougli non-articular portion ' of the tubercle of the rib. The ligaments attached to the upper ribs ascend I from the transverse processes ; they are shorter and more oblique than those i attached to the inferior ribs, which descend slightly. Movements.—The heads of the ribs are so closely connected to the bodies of I the vertebriB by the stellate and interarticular Ugaments that only slight gliding I movements of the articular surfaces on one another can take place. Similarly, t the strong costo-transverse ligaments binding the necks and tuberosities of the 0 C 2SYNDESMOLOGY 388 Fig. 437.—Section of the costo- transverse joints from the third to the ninth inclusive. Contrast the concave facets on the upper with the flattened facets on the lower transverse processes. ribs to the transverse processes limit the movements of the costo-transverse joints to slight gliding, the nature of which is determined by the shape and direction of the articular surfaces (fig. 437). In the upper six ribs the articular surfaces on the tuberosities arc oval in shape and convex from above downwards ; they fit into corresponding concavities on the anterior surfaces of the transverse processes, so that upward and downward movements of the tuberosity are associated with rotation of the rib neck on its long axis. In the seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth ribs the articular surfaces on the tuberosities are flat, and are directed obliquely downwards, inwards, and backwards. The surfaces with which they articulate are placed on the upper margins of the transverse processes ; when, therefore, the tuberosities are drawn up they are at the same time carried backwards and inwards. The two joints, costo-ceutral and costo-transverse, move simultaneously and in the same directions, the total effect being that the neck of the rib moves as if on a single joint, of which the costo-central and costo-transverse articulations form the extremities. In the upper six ribs the neck of the rib moves but slightly upwards and down- wards ; its chief movement is one of rotation round its own long axis, rotation backwards being associated with depression, rotation for- wards with elevation. In the seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth ribs the neck of the rib moves upwards, backwards, and inwards, or do\vn- wards forwards and outwards; very slight rotation accompanies these movements. VI. AETICXJLATIONS OF THE CARTILAGES OP THE RIBS WITH THE STERNUM (ARTICULA- TIONES STERNOCOSTALES) (fig. 438). The articulations of the cartUages of the true ribs with the sternum are arthrodial joints, with the exception of the first, in which the cartilage is almost always directly united with the sternum, and which must, therefore, be regarded as a synarthrodial articulation. The ligaments connecting them are : Capsular. Anterior Chondro-sternal. Posterior Chondro-sternal. Interarticular Chondro-sternal. Anterior Chondro-xipboid. Posterior Chondro-xiphoid. The Capsular Ligaments (capsuhv articulares) surround the joints formed between the cartilages of the true ribs and the sternum. They are very thin, intimately blended M'itli the anterior and posterior ligaments, and strengthened at the upper and lower parts of the articulations by a few fibres, wliich pass from the cartilages to the side of the sternum. The Anterior Chondro-sternal Ligaments (ligg. sternocostalia radiata) are accessory parts of the capsular ligaments, and consist of broad and t un membranous bands that radiate from the front of the inner extremities ot the cartilages of the true ribs to the anterior surface of the sternum. 1 hey are composed of fasciculi which pass iir different directions. The superior ./o^ffC" ' ascend obliquely, the inferior pass obliquely downwards, and the middle fasciculi horizontally. The superficial fibres are the longest ; they inter- mingle with the fibres of the ligaments above and below them ^Yth those of the opposite side, and with the tendinous fibres of origin of the Pectoralis maior, forming a thick fibrous membrane (membrana sterni) which covers the front of the sternum. This is more distinct at the lower than at the upper part.389 STERNO-COSTAL ARTICULATIONS The Posterior Chondro-sternal Ligaments are also parts of the capsular licraments, but are less thick and distinct tlian the anterior ; they are composed of fibres which radiate from the posterior sui-faces of the sternal ends of the cartilages of the true ribs to the posterior surface of the sternum, becoming blended with the periosteum. The Interarticular Chondro-sternal Ligaments (ligg. stemocostaUa interarticularia).—These are found constantly only between the second costal Fig. 438.—Stemo-costal and interchondral articulations. Anterior view. The synovial cavities exposed by t ca.rtilages and the sternimi. The cartilage of the second rib is connected ' with the sternum by means of an interarticular ligament, attached by one t extremity to the cartilage of the rib, and by the other to the fibro-cartilage ) which unites the first and second pieces of the sternum. This articulation ' P^'oyided with two synovial membranes. Occasionally the cartilage of I the third rib is connected with the sternum by means of an interarticular 1 ligament which is attached by one extremity to the cartilage of the rib, and bySYNDESMOLOGY 390 tlie other to the point of junction of the second and thu-d pieces of the sternum. Still more rarely similar ligaments are found in the other four joints of the series. In the lower two the ligament sometimes completely obliterates the cavity, so as to convert the articulation into an ampliiarthrosis. The Anterior Chondro-xiphoid (lig. costoxiphoideum anterius).—This is a band of fibres which connects the anterior surface of the seventh costal cartilage, and occasionally also that of the sixth, to the anterior surface of the ensiform process. It varies in length and breadth in different subjects. The Posterior Chondro-xiphoid (fig. costoxiphoideum posterius) is a similar though less distmct band on the posterior surface. Synovial Membranes.—There is no synovial membrane between the first costal cartilage and the sternum, as this cartUage is directly continuous with the manubrium. There are two synovial membranes in the articulation of the second costal cartUage vdth the sternum. There is generally one synovial membrane in each of the joints between the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh costal cartilages and the sternum; but it is sometimes absent in the sixth and seventh chondro-sternal joints. If an interarticular ligament exists in any of these joints, there are two synovial cavities. After middle life the articular surfaces lose theh' polish, become roughened, and the synovial membranes appear to be wanting. In old age, the articula- tions do not exist, the cartilages of most of the ribs becoming continuous with the sternum. Movements.—SUght gliding movements are permitted in the chondro-sternal articulations. Abtictoations of the Cartilages op the Ribs with each other (Artiohlationes Interohondrales) (fig. 438) The contiguous borders of the sixth, seventh, and eighth, and sometimes the ninth and tenth, costal cartilages articulate with each other by small, smooth, oblong-shaped facets. Each articulation is enclosed in a thin capsidar ligament, lined by synovial membrane and strengthened externally and internallj' by Hgamentous fibres {interchondral ligaments) which pass from one cartUage to the other. Sometimes the fifth costal cartUage, more rarely that of the ninth, articulates by its lower border with the adjoining cartUage by a smaU oval facet ; more frequently the connection is by a few ligamentous fibres. Occasionally, the articular surfaces above mentioned are wanting. Articxtlations of the Ribs with their Cartilages (Costo-chondral) The outer extremity of each costal cartUage is received into a depression in the sternal end of the rib, and the two are held together by the periosteum. VII. articulations op the sternum The first piece of the sternum is united to the second either by an amphi- arthrodial joint—a j)iece of fibro-cartUage connecting the segments—or by a diarthrodial joint, in ^\'hich eacli bone is clothed with a lamina of cartilage, adherent on one side, free on the other. In the latter case, the cartUage covering the gladiolus is continued without interruption on to the cartUages of the facets for the second ribs. Rivington found the diarthrodial form of jouit in about one-third of the specimens examined by him, Maisonneuve more frequently. It appears to be rare m chUdhood, and is formed, in Rivington's opinion, from the amphiarthrodial form, by absorption. The diarthrodial joint seems to have no tendency to ossify at any age, whUe the amphiarthrodial is more liable to do so, and has been found ossified as early as tliirty-four years of ago. The two segments are further connected by anterior and posterior inter- sternal ligaments. The Anterior Intersternal Ligament consists of longitudinal fibres, whicli blend with those of tlie anterior cliondro-sternal ligaments and with the tendinous fibres of origin of the Pectoralis major. This ligament is rough, irregular, and much thicker below than above. . The Posterior Intersternal Ligament is disposed in a somewhat simUar manner on the posterior surface of the articulation.391 MECHANISM OF THORAX Mechanism of the Thobax Each rib possesses its own range and variety of movements, but the move- ments of all are combined in the respiratory excursions of the thorax. Each rib may be regarded as . ^ , • I lever the fulcrum of Fig. 439.—Lateral view of first and seventh ribs in position, citnntpri iin- showing the movements of the sternum and ribs in, A, ordi- nStely outside 2e -ry expix-ation; B, quiet inspiration ; c, forced inspiration, costo-transverse articu- lation, so that when the shaft of the rib is ele- vated the neck is de- :iressed and vice versa; from the disproportion ill length of the arms of I he lever a sUght move- ment at the vertebral l ud of the rib is greatly magnified at the an- terior extremity. The anterior ends of the ribs Ue on a lower plane than the pos- terior; when therefore the rib-shaft is elevated the anterior extremity is thrust also forwards. Again, the middle of the shaft lies in a plane below that pass- j i i- i ing through the two extremities, so that when the shaft is elevated relatively to its ends it is at the same time carried outwards from the median plane of the thorax. Further, each rib forms Fig. 440.—Diagram shomng the axes of move- the segment of a curve which is ment (a b and c d) of a vertebro-sternal rib. greater than that of the rib imme- The inten-upted lines indicate the position of diately above, and therefore the the rib in inspiration. elevation of a rib increases the transverse diameter of the thorax in the plane to which it is raised. The modifications of the rib move- ments at their vertebral ends have already been described (page 387). Further modifications result from the attachments of their anterior extremities, and it is convenient therefore to consider separately the movements of the ribs of the three groups—vertebro-sternal, vertebro- chondral, and vertebral. Vertebro-sternal ribs (figs. 4:39, 440)—The first rib differs from the others of this group in that its attachment to the sternum is a rigid one; this is counterbalanced to some extent by the fact that its head possesses no interarticular ligament, and is therefore more movable. The first pair of ribs with the manubrium sterni move as a single piece, the anterior portion being elevated by rotatory move- ments at the vertebral extremities. In normal quiet respiration the movement of this arc is practically nil; when it does occur the anterior part is raised and carriedSYNDESMOLOGY 392 forwards, increasing the aiitero-posterior and transverse diameters of this region of the chest. The movement of the second rib is also slight in normal respiration, as its anterior extremitj' is fixed to the manubrium, and prevented therefore from moving upwards. The chondro-sternal articidation, however, allows the middle of the shaft to be drawn up, and in this way the transverse thoracic diameter is increased. Elevation of the third, fourth, fifth and sixth ribs raises and thrusts forwards their anterior extremities, the greater part of the movement being effected by the rotation of the rib-neck backwards. The thrust of the anterior extremities carries forwards and upwards the gladiolus, which moves on the manubrio-gladiolar joint, and thus the antero-posterior thoracic diameter is increased. This movement is, however, soon arrested, and the elevating force is then expended in raising the middle part of the rib-shaft and everting its lower border ; at the same time the costo-chondral angle is opened .., T^- 1. • it ■ c L out. Bv these latter movements Fro. 441.—Diagram showing the axis of movement -S i_i • • ^v, (AB)of avertebro-chondralrib. The interrupted a considerable mcrease in the lines indicate the position of the rib in in- transverse diameter of the thorax spiration. is effected. Vertebra - chondral ribs (fig. 441).—The seventh rib is in- cluded with this group, as it conforms more closely to their type. While the movements of these ribs assist in enlarging the thorax for respiratory purposes they are also concerned in in- creasing the upper abdominal space for viscera displaced by the action of the Diaphragm. The costal cartilages articvdate with one another, so that each pushes up that above it, the final thrust being directed to pushing forwards and upwards the lower end of the gladiolus. The amount of elevation of the an- terior extremities is limited on accoimt of the very slight rota- tion of the rib-neck. Elevation of the shaft is accompanied by an outward and backward move- ment ; the outward movement everts the anterior end of the rib and opens up the subcostal angle, while the backward movement pulls back the anterior extremity and counteracts the forward thrust due to its elevation; this latter is most noticeable in the lower ribs, which are the shortest. The total result is a considerable increase in the transverse and a diminution in the median antero-posterior diameters of the upper part of the abdomen; at the same time, however, the lateral antero-posterior diameters of the abdomen are increased. Vertebral ribs—These ribs, having only costo-central articulations with no interarticular Ligaments and free anterior extremities, are capable of slight move- ments in all directions. When the other ribs are elevated these are depressed and fixed to form points of action for the Diaphragm. VIII. ARTICULATION OP THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN WITH THE PELVIS The ligaments connecting the last lumbar vertebra with the sacrum are simUar to those which join the movable segments of the vertebral column with each other—viz.: 1. The continuation downwards of the anterior and posterior common ligaments. 2. The intervertebral disc, connectmg the body ot tiie last lumbar to that of the first sacral and forming an amp narthrodial joint. 3. Ligamenta subflava, connecting the arch of the last lumbar vertebra witn the posterior border of the sacral canal. 4. Capsular ligaments connecting393 ARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS the articular processes and forming a double artlirodia. 5. Inter- and supra- ^^"t\vo additional ligaments connect the pelvis with the vertebral column; these are the lumbo-sacral and the ilio-lumbar. , . , , . , The Lumbo-sacral Ligament (fig. 442) is a short, thick triangular fasciculus, which is connected above to the lower and front part of the trans- verse process of the last lumbar vertebra, passes obliquely outwards, and is attached below to the lateral surface of the base of the sacrum, becommg blended with the anterior sacro-iliac ligament. In front this ligament is m relation with the Psoas. ^ , ^, . , j The Ilio-lumbar Ligament (lig. Uiolumbale) (fig. 442), the thickened lower edge of the anterior lamella of the lumbar fascia, passes horizontally outwards from the apex of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra to the crest of the ilium immediately m front of the sacro-iliac articulation. Fig. 442.—Articulations of pelvis and hip. Anterior view, tfi'lfl Aperture of communication with bursa under Psoas and Iliacns It is of a triangular form, thick and narrow internally, broad and thin externally. In front it is in relation with the Psoas ; behind, with the muscles occupying the vertebral groove ; above, with the Quadratus lumborum. IX. AKTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS The ligaments connecting the bones of the pelvis with each other may be divided into four groups : 1. Those connecting the sacrum and ilium. 2. Those passing between the sacrum and ischium.. 3. Those uniting the sacrum and coccyx. 4. Those between the two pubic bones. 1. Articulation of the Sacrum and Ilium (Aeticulatio Sacroiliaca) The sacro-iliac articulation is an amphiarthrodial jomt, formed between the lateral surfaces of the sacrum and the ilium. The articular, ear-shaped surface of each bone is covered with a thin plate of cartilage, thicker on the 8a,crum than on the ilium. These cartilaginous plates are in close contact with each other, and to a certain extent are united together by irregular394 SYNDESMOLOGY patches of softer fibro-cartilage, and at tliek upper and posterior part by fine interosseous fibres. In a considerable part of their extent, especially in advanced life, they are not connected together, but are separated by a space containing a synovia-like fluid, and hence the joint presents the characters of a diarthrosis. Tlie ligaments connecting these surfaces are the anterior and posterior sacro-iliac. The Anterior Sacro-iliac Ligament (lig. sacroiliacum anterius) (fig. 442) consists of numerous thin bands, which connect the anterior surfaces of the sacrum and ilium. The Posterior Sacro-iliac Ligament (lig. sacroiliacum posterius) (fig. 443) is a strong ligament, situated in a deep depression between the sacrum and ilium behind, and forming the chief bond of connection between those bones. It consists of numerous strong fasciculi, which pass between the bones in various directions. The upper part of the ligament (Ug. sacroiliacum posterius breve) is nearly horizontal m direction, and passes Fig. 443.—Articulations of pelvis and hip. Posterior view. ilf Small sacro-sciatic liga ment from the first and second transverse tubercles on the posterior surface of the sacrum to the rough, uneven surface at the posterior part of tlie mner surface of the ilium. The lower part (Ug. sacroiliacum posterius lougum) oblique m direction, is attached by one extremity to the third ransve^se tubercle on the posterior surface of the sacrum, and by the othei to t e posterior superior spme of the ilium ; the lov\ er part is sometimes caUed tlie oblique sacro-iliac ligament. Surface Form.-The position of the sacro-iliac joint is indicated by the posterior superior spine of the ilium. This process is immediately behind the centre of the articulation. 2. Ligaments passing between the Sacexjm and Ischiuji (fig. 444) The Great Sacro-sciatic. The Small Sacro-sciatic. The Great or Posterior Sacro-sciatic Ligament (lig. f £ situated at the lower and back part of the pelvis. It is flat, and tiiangularARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS 395 form • narrower in the middle tlian at the extremities ; /"ached by its bioad Eto the Posterior inferior spine of the ilium, to the fourth and fifth trans- vSse tubeX of the sacrum, and to the lower part of the lateral margm of Ji f hnnP nnd the coccyx. Passmg obliquely downwards, outwards, and fonvarfTit becom^^^^ and t4k, but It its insertion into the inner mlrgTn of the tubero of the ischium, it mcreases in breadth and is pro^ S^S forwards along the mner margm of the ramus, formmg what is known as the /Sm ligament, the free cSncave edge of which gives attachment To the obtuVator fascia. One of its surfaces is turned towards the perinseum L Xr towards the Obturator internus. The lower border of the ligament Fig. 444.—Side view of pelvis, showing the great and lesser sacro-sciatio ligaments. Atiterior sacro-iliac ligament Poupart's ligament Great sacro- sciatic liga- ment Small sacro- sciatic liga- ment Great sacro- sciatic liga- ment Obturator tnemhrane is du-ectly contmuous with the tendon of origin of the long head of the Biceps, and by many is believed to be the proximal end of this muscle, cut off by the projection of the tuberosity of the ischium. Relations.—The -posterior surface of this ligament gives origin, by its whole extent, to fibres of the Gluteus maximus. Its anterior surface is united to the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament. Its external border forms, above, the posterior boundary of the great sacro- sciatic foramen, and, below, the posterior boundary of the small sacro-sciatic foramen. Its lower border forms part of the boundary of the perinooum. It is pierced by the coccygeal branch of the sciatic artery, and coccygeal nerve. The Small or Anterior Sacro-sciatic Ligament (lig. sacrospinosum), much shorter and smaller than tlie preceding, is thin, triangular in form attached by its apex to the spme of the iscliium, and internally, by its broad base, to the lateral margin of the sacrum and coccyx, in front of the attach- ment of the great sacro-sciatic ligament with which its fibres are intermingled. Relations.—It is in relation anteriorly, with the Coccygeus to which it is closely connected ; posteriorly, it is covered by the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and crossed by the internal pudic vessels and nerve. Its superior border forms the lower boundary of the great sacro-sciatic foramen ; its inferior border, part of the margin of the small sacro- sciatic foramen. These two ligaments convert the sacro-sciatic notches into foramina. The superior or great sacro-sciatic foramen (foramen ischiadicum majus) is bounded, in front and above, by the posterior border of the os innominatum ; behind, by the great sacro-396 SYNDESMOLOGY sciatio ligament; and below, by the small sacro-sciatic ligament. It is partially filled up, in the recent state, by the Pyi'iformis which passes through it. Above this muscle, the gluteal vessels and superior gluteal nerve emerge from the pelvis ; and below it, the sciatic vessels and nerves, the internal pudic vessels and nerve, the inferior gluteal nerve, and the nerves to the Obturator internus and Qiiadratus femoris make their exit from the pelvis. The inferior or small sacro-sciatic foramen (foramen ischiadicum minus) Ls bounded, in front, by the tuber ischii ; above, by the spine of the ischium and small sacro-sciatic ligament; behind, by the great sacro-sciatic ligament. It transmits the tendon of the Obturator internus, its nerve, and the internal pudic vessels and nerve. 3. Articulation op the Sacrum and Coccyx This articulation is an amphiartlirodial joint, formed between the oval surface at the apex of the sacrum, and the base of the coccyx. It is homologous with the joints between the bodies of the vertebr33, and is connected by similar ligaments. They are: Anterior Sacro-coccygeal. Lateral Sacro-coccygeal. Posterior Sacro-coccygeal. Interposed Fibro-cartilage. Interarticular. The Anterior Sacro-coccygeal Ligament (lig. sacrococcygeum anterius) consists of a few irregular fibres, which descend from the anterior surface of the sacrum to the front of the coccyx, becoming blended -with the periosteum. The Posterior Sacro-coccygeal Ligament (lig. sacrococcygeum posterius) is a fiat band, of a pearly tint, which arises from the margin of the lower orifice of the sacral canal, and descends to be inserted into the posterior sm-face of the coccyx. This ligament completes the lower and back part of the sacral canal and its superficial fibres are much longer than the more deeply seated. It is in relation, behind, with the Gluteus maximus. A Lateral Sacro-coccygeal Ligament (lig. sacrococcygeum laterale) exists on either side of the joint and connects the transverse process of the coccyx to the lower lateral angle of the sacrum. A disc of Fibro-cartilage is interposed between the contiguous surfaces of the sacrum and coccyx ; it differs from those between the bodies of the vertebrae in beuig thumer, and its central part firmer in texture. It is some- what thicker m. front and behind than at the sides. Occasionally the coccyx is freely movable, most notably during pregnancy ; in such cases a synovial membrane is present. . The Interarticular Ligaments are thin bands of ligamentous tissue, which unite the cornua of the two bones. The different segments of the coccyx are connected together by the exten- sion downwards of the anterior and posterior sacro-coccygeal ligaments, thin annular discs of fibro-cartilage bemg mterposed between the segments, in the adult male, all the pieces become ossified together at a comparatively early period ; but in the female, this does not commonly occur until a later period of life. At a more advanced age the joint between the sacrum and coccyx is obliterated. - , Movements.—The movements which take place between the sacrum and coccyx, and between the different pieces of the latter bone, are forwards and backwards ; they are very Umited. Their extent increases dunng pregnancy. 4. Articulation of the Pubic Bones (Symphysis Pubis) The articulation between the pubic bones is an amphiarthrodial joint, formed between the two oval articular surfaces of the pubic bones, ihe ligaments of this articulation are : Anterior Pubic. Superior Pubic. Posterior Pubic. Subpubic. Interpubic Disc. The Anterior Pubic Ligament (Hg. pubicum anterius) (fig. 442) consists of several superimposed layers, which pass across tlie front of the articiUation. The superficial fibres pass obUquely from one bone to the other, decussatmg397 SYMPHYSIS PUBIS Made near its posterior siu-face. Iliialine cartilage eocerimj houe /nlennediale flbro-c Cavity at upiKr and forming an interlacement with the fibres of the aponeurosis of the External oblique and the inner tendons of origm of the Recti The deep fibres pass transversely across the sympliysis, and are blended with the fibro-cartilage. ^ • \ ■ t t t The Posterior Pubic Lig-ament (lig. pubicum posterms) consists of a few thin, scattered fibres, which unite the two pubic bones posterioiiy. The Superior Pubic Ligament (lig. pubicum superms) is a band of fibres, which connects together the two pubic bones superiorly. The Subpubic Ligament (lig. pubicum inferius) is a thick, triangular arch of lio-amentous fibres, connectmg together the two pubic bones below, and formtng the upper boundary of the pubic arch. Above, it is blended with the interarticular fibro-cartUage ; lateraUy, it is attached to the descending rami of the pubic bones ; below, it is free, and is separated from the triangular y^.^ 445.—Coronal section of the symphysis ligament of the perinseum by an open- pubis, ing through which the deep dorsal vein of the penis passes into the pelvis. The Interpubic Disc (lamma fibrocartilaginea interpubica) connects the opposed surfaces of the pubic bones. Each of the bony surfaces is covered by a thin layer of hyaline cartilage firmly connected to the bone by a series of nipple-like processes whicli accurately fit within corre- sponding depressions on the osseous surfaces. These opposed cartilaginous surfaces are connected together by an intermediate lamina of fibro-cartilage which varies in thiclmess m different subjects. It often contains a cavity in its interior, probably formed by the softening and absorption of the fibro-cartilage, since it rarely appears before the tenth year of life and is not lined by synovial membrane. This cavity- is larger in the female than in the male, but it is very doubtful whether it enlarges, as was formerly supposed, during pregnancJ^ It is most frequently limited to the upper and back part of the joint; but it occasionally reaches to the front, and may extend the entire length of the cartilage. It may be easily demonstrated by making a coronal section of the symphysis pubis near its posterior surface (fig. 445). The Obturator Membrane (membrana obturatoria) is more properly regarded as analogous to the muscular fasciae, with which it wiU be described (page 575). Mechanism of the Pelvis The pelvic girdle supports and protects the contained viscera and affords surfaces lor the attachments of the trunk and lower hmb muscles. Its most important mechanical function, however, is to transmit the weight of the trunk and upper limbs to the lower extremities. It may be divided into two arches by a vertical plane passing through the acetabular cavities ; the posterior of these arches is the one chiefly concerned iu the function of transmitting the weight. Its essential parts are the upper three sacral vcrtebrse and two strong pillars of bone rmining from the sacro-iliac articula- tions to the acetabular cavities. For the reception and diffusion of the weight the acetabular cavity is strengthened by two additional bars running towards the pubis and ischium. In order to lessen concussion in rapid changes of distribution of the weight, joints (sacro-ihac articulations) are interposed between the sacrum and the ihac bones ; an accessory joint (symphysis pubis) exists in the middle of the anterior arch. The sacrum forms the summit of the posterior arch ; the weight transmitted falls on it at the lumbo-sacral articulation and, theoretically, has a component in each of two directions. One component of the force is expended in driving the sacrum downwards and backwards between the iliac bones.398 SYNi)E«MULUGY while the other thrusts the upper end of the sacrum downwards and forwards towards the pelvic cavity. The movements of the sacrum are regulated by its form. Viewed as a whole, it presents the shape of a wedge with its base upwards and forwards. The first component of the force is therefore acting against the resistance of the wedge, and its tendency to separate the ihac bones is resisted by the sacro-iliac and iUo-lumbar ligaments and by the ligaments of the symphysis pubis. If a series of coronal sections of the sacro-ihac joints be made, it will be found possible to divide the articular portion of the sacrum into three segments : anterior, Fig. 446.—Coronal section of anterior sacral segment. middle, and posterior. In the anterior segment (fig. 446), which mvolves the first sacral vertebra, the articular surfaces show sUght sinuosities and are abnost parallel to one another ; the distance between their dorsal margins is, however, shghtly greater than that between their ventral margins. This segment therefore presents I shght wedge shape with the truncated apes downwards. The middle segment (fia 447) is a narrow band across the centres of the articulations. Its dorsal width is'cUstinctly greater than its ventral, so that the segment is more defiiiitelv wedge-shaped, the truncated apes being agam directed downwards. Each Fig. 447.—Coronal section of middle sacral segment. articular surface presents in the centre a marked ^^^^^^r^^^^ ;3,f37J,et fi wards, and into this a corresponding convexity of the i'^^^^;y.^^^"\^J.Xv^^^^^^^ formiilg an interlocking mechanism. In the pos/mo. s^U^ (fig. ^^)^tlie ^ e tra width is greater than the dorsal, so that the wedge i^J^J^^' ^T^^ of the othir segmcnts-i.e. the truncated apex is directed upAA aids. The articular399 MECHANISM OF THE PELVIS Fig. 448.—Coronal section of posterior sacral segment. interposes the resistance of its wedge shape and that of the iiiterloclcing mechanism ^. unurfaces • a rotatory movement, however, is produced by winch the anterior s'^mentt il ed downwards and the posterior upwards ; the axis of thrs rotation nasSs through the dorsal part of the middle segment. The movement of the Er or segment is slightly limited by its wedge form, but chiefly by the postenor srcro-iliac ligaments ; that of the posterior segment is checked to a shght extent by its wedge form, but the chief Hmiting factors are the great and small sacro- sciatic hgameuts. In all these movements the effect of the sacro- iliac and iUo-lumbar ligaments and the Ugaments of the sym- physis pubis in resisting the separation of the iUac bones must be recognised. . _ ^.v/ //l'<i-'.-/H\'~ During pregnancy the pelvic joints and ligaments are relaxed, and capable therefore of more extensive movements. When the foetus is being expelled the force is appUed to the front of the sacrum. Upward dislocation is again prevented by the inter- . , r ^ i i j +t, locking mechanism of the middle segment. As the foetal head passes the anterior segment the latter is carried upwards, enlarging the antero-posterior diameter of the pelvic inlet; when the head reaches the posterior segment this also is pressed upwards against the resistance of its wedge, the movement only being possible by the laxity of the joints and the stretching of the sacro-sciatic ligaments. ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY The articulations of the Upper Extremity may be arranged as follows : . ^ SacraL - Segment^ 1 >-.a s I. Sterno-clavicular. II. Acromio-clavicular. III. Shoulder. IV. Elbow\ V. Radio-ulnar. XI. Interphalangeal. VI. Wrist. VII. Carpal. VIII. Carpo-metacarpal. IX. Intermetacarpal. X. Metacarpo-phalangeal. I. STERNO-CLAVICULAE ARTICULATION (ARTICULATIO STERNOCLAVICXJLARIS) The Sterno-clavicular articulation (fig. 449) is regarded by most anatomists as an artlirodial joint; but Cruveilhier considers it to be an articulation by reciprocal reception. Probably the former opinion is correct, the variety of movements which the joint enjoys being due to the interposition of an inter- articular fibro-cartilage between the joint surfaces. The parts entering into its formation are the sternal end of the clavicle, the upper and lateral part of the manubrium sterni, and the cartilage of the first rib. The articular surface of the clavicle is much larger than that of the sternum, and is invested with a layer of cartilage,* which is considerably thicker than that on the latter bone. The ligaments of this joint are: Capsular. Interclavicular. Anterior Sterno-clavicular. Costo-clavicular (rhomboid). Posterior Sterno-clavicular. Interarticular fibro-cartilage. The Capsular Ligament (capsula articularis) completely surrounds the articulation and consists of fibres of varying degrees of thickness and strength. Those in front and behind are of considerable thickness, and form the anterior and posterior sterno-clavicular ligaments ; but those above, and especially those below, are thin and scanty, and partake more of the character of areolar than of true fibrous tissue. * According to Bruch, tlie sternal end of the clavicle is covered by a tissue which is fibrous rather than cartilaginous in structure.SYNDESMOLOGY 400 The Anterior Sterno-clavicular Ligament (Ug. steinoclaviculare ant.) is a broad band of fibres, \\hich covers the anterior surface of the articula- tion ; it is attached above to the upper and front part of the inner extremity of the clavicle, and, passing obliquely downwards and in^^•ards, is attached below to the front of the upper part of the manubrium stern!. This ligament is covered by tlie sternal portion of the Sterno-cleido-mastoid and the integu- ment ; behind, it is in relation with the capsule, the interarticular fibro- cartilage and the two synovial membranes. The Posterior Sterno-clavicular Ligament (hg. sternoclaviculare post.) is a similar band of fibres, which covers the posterior surface of the articula- tion ; it is attached above to the upper and back part of the mner extremity of the clavicle, and, passing obliquely downwards and inwards, is attached below to the back of the upper part of the manubrium sterni. It is in relation, in front, with the interarticular fibro-cartilage and synovial membranes ; behind, with tlie Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid. The Interclavicular Ligament (Hg. interclaviculare) is a flattened band, which varies considerably in form and size in different individuals ; it passes in a curved direction from the upper part of the inner extremity of one cla\ncle to that of the other, and is also attached to the upper margin of the sternum. It is in relation, in front, with the integument; behind, with the Sterno- thyi'oid muscles. ¥l6. 449.—Sterno-clavicular articulation. Anterior view. The Costo-clavicular or Rhomboid Ligament (hg. costoclaviculare) is short, flat, strong, and rhomboid in form. Attached below to the upper and inner part of the cartUage of the first rib, it ascends obliquely backwards and outwards, and is attached above to the rhomboid depression on tlie under surface of the clavicle. It is m relation, in front, with the tendon of origin of the Subclavius ; behind, M ith the subclavian vem. «... The Interarticular Fibro-cartilage (discus articularis) is a flat and nearly circular disc, interposed between the articulating surfaces of the steinum and clavicle. It is attached, above, to the upper and posterior border of the articular surface of the clavicle ; below, to the cartflage of tbe first rib, near its junction with the sternum ; and by its circumference to « e mtei- clavicular and anterior and posterior sterno-clavicular ligaments It is tlucker at the circumference, especiaUy its upper and back part, than at its centre S divides the joint into two cavities, each of which is furnished with a synovial Of'the'two Synovial Membranes found in this articulation the o^t^r is reflected from t^ie sternal end of the clavicle, over the adjacent surface of L fibrteaSge, and over the cartilage of the first rib ; t - nincn^ is attached to the margin of the articular surface of the sternum and clothes the adjacent surface of the fibro-cartilage ; the latter is the larger of the two.401 STERNO-CLAVICULAR ARTICULATION Movements.—Tliis articulation is the centre of the movenionts of the .sliouhler, and admits of a Hniited amount of motion in nearly every direction—U])war(l.s, downwards, backwards, forwards, as well as circumduction. _ When these move- ments take place in the joint, the clavicle in its motion carries the scapula with it, tliis bone gliding on the outer surface of the chest. This joint therefore forms the centre from which all movements of the supporting arch of the shoulder ori'Tinate, and is the only point of articulation of this part of the skeleton with thiTtnmk. ' The movements attendant on elevation and depression of the shoulder take place between the clavicle and the interarticular fibro-cartilage, the bone rotatinti upon the ligament on an axis drawn from before backwards through its own articular facet. When the shoulder is moved forwards and backwards, the clavicle, with the interarticular fibro-cartilage, rolls to and fro on the articular surface of the sternmn, revolving, with a shding movement, romid an axis drawii nearly vertically through the sternum. In the circumduction of the shoulder, which is compounded of these two movements, the clavicle revolves upon the interarticular fibro-cartilage, and the latter, with the clavicle, rolls upon the sternum.' * Elevation of the shoulder is Umited principally by the costo-clavicular ligament; depression, by the interclavicular hgament and interarticular fibro- cartilage. The muscles which raise the clavicle, as in shrugging the shoulders, are the upper fibres of the Trapezius, the Levator anguh scapulas, and the clavicular head of the Sterno-mastoid, assisted to a certain extent by the two Rhomboids, which pull the vertebral border of the scapula backwards and upwards and so raise the clavicle. The depression of the clavicle is principally effected by gravity assisted by the Subclavius, Pectoralis irunor, and lower fibres of the Trapezius. It is drawn backwards by the Rhomboids and the middle and lower fibres of the Trapezius, and forwards by the Serratus magnus and PectoraUs minor. Surface Form.—The sterno-clavicular joint is subcutaneous and its position may be easily ascertained by feeling the enlarged sternal end of the clavicle just external to the long, cord-like, sternal origin of the Sterno-mastoid. If this muscle be relaxed by bending the head forwards, a depression just internal to the end of tlio clavicle, and between it and the sternum, can be felt, indicating the exact position of the joint. Applied^ Anatoimj.—The strength of this joint mainly depends upon its hgaments, and it is owing to this, and to the fact that the force of the blow is usually transmitted along the long axis of the clavicle, that dislocation rarely occurs, and that the bone is broken rather than displaced, ^\^len dislocation does occur, the course which the displaced bone takes depends more upon the direction in which the violence is applied than uj^on the anatomical construction of the joint; it may bo either forwards, backwards, or upwards. Should it be displaced backwards it may cause pressure on the trachea. The chief point worthy of note, as regards the construction of the joint, in comicetion wth dislocation, is the fact that, owing to the shape of the articular surfaces, and the strength of the joint mainly depending upon the hgaments, the displacement when reduced is very liable to recur, and hence it is extremely difficult to keep the end of the bone in its proper place. 11. ACROMIO-CLAVICULAR ARTICULATION (ARTICULATIO ACROMIO- CLAVICULARIS) The acromio-clavicular articulation (fig. 450) is an arthrodial joint between the outer extremity of the clavicle and the inner margin of the acromion process of the scapula. Its ligaments are : Capsular. Interarticular Fibro-cartilage. Superior Acromio-clavicular. r, i • i i Trapezoid a Tnf.^,.;^.. A • 1 • 1 Coraco-clavicular ^, interior Acromio-clavicular. Conoid. I'he Capsular Ligament (capsula articularis) completely surrounds the articular margins, and is .specially strong above and below, where it forms the superior and inferior acromio-clavicular ligaments. It consists of fibres arranged parallel to each other and passing between the adjacent borders of the two bones. The Superior Acromio-clavicular Ligament (lig. acromioclaviculare sup.) IS a quadrilateral band, which covers the superior part of the articulation, extending between the upper part of the outer end of the clavicle and the adjoin- ing part of the upper surface of the acromion. It is composed of parallel fibres, * nuiiipbry, On the Human Slifltlon, page 402.402 SYNDESMOLOGY which interlace with the aponeuroses of the Trapezius and Deltoid ; below, it is in contact with tlie intcrarticular fibro-cartilage wlien this is present. Tlie Inferior Acromio-clavicular Ligament (lig. acromioclaviculare inf.) is somewhat thinner tlian the preceding ; it covers the under part of the articu- lation and is attaclied to the adjoining surfaces of the two bones. It is m relation, above, in rare cases with the intcrarticular fibro-cartilage ; below, with the tendon of the Supraspinatus. _ The Intcrarticular Fibro-cartilage (discus articulans) is frequently absent in this articulation. When it exists, it generally only partiaUy separates the articular surfaces, and occupies the upper part of the articulation. More rarely it completely separates the joint into two cavities. The Synovial Membrane.—Tliere is usually only one synovial membrane in this articulation, but when a complete intcrarticular fibro-cartilage exists, there are two. Fig. 450.—The left shoulder-joint, acromio-clavicular articulation, and proper ligaments of scapula. TbP rnraro-clavicular Ligament (lig. coracoclaviculare) (fig. 450) serves cuius, i» broad, thin, aud quadnlateral . ./''fj'Sw to the upper surface t ^Str^^X^^t^^^tr^:^: proieetiu, backwards. -j fl,r> imstorior and internal fasciculus,ACROMIO-CLAVICULAR ARTICULATION 403 attached by its apex to a rough impression at the base of the coracoid process, internal to the preceding ; above, by its expanded base, to the conoid tubercle on the under surface of the clavicle, and to a line proceedmg internally from it for half an incli. These ligaments are in relation, in front, with the Subclavius and Deltoid ; behind, with the Trapezius. . ,• j- Movements.—The movements of this articulation are of two kinds: 1. A ghding motion of the articular end of the clavicle on the acromion. 2. Rotation of the scapula forwards and backwards upon the clavicle; the extent of this rotation is hmited by the two portions of the coraco-clavicular ligament, the trapezoid limiting rotation forwards and the conoid backwards. The acromio-clavicular joint has important functions in the movements of the upper extremity. It has been well pointed out by Humphry, that if there liad been no joint between the clavicle and scapula, the circular movement of the scapula on the ribs (as in throwing the shoulders backwards or forwards) would have been attended with a greater alteration in the direction of the shoulder than is consistent with the free use of the arm in such positions, and it would have been impossible to give a blow straight forwards with the full force of the arm ; that is to say, with the combined force of the scapula, arm, and forearm. ' This joint,' as he happily says, 'is so adjusted as to enable either bone to turn in a hiuge-hke manner upon a vertical axis drawn through the other, and it permits the surfaces of the scapula, hke the baskets in a roundabout swing, to look the same way in every position, or nearly so.' Again, when the whole arch formed by the clavicle and scapula rises and falls (in elevation or depression of the shoulders), the joint between these two bones enables the scapula still to maintain its lower part in contact with the ribs. Surface Form.—The position of the acromio-clavicular joint can generally be ascer- tained by defining the slightly enlarged extremity of the outer end of the clavicle, which projects above the level of the acromion process of the scapula. Sometimes this enlargement is so considerable as to form a rounded eminence, which is easily felt. The joint Ues in the plane of a vertical line passing up the middle of the front of the arm. Applied Anatomy. — The acromio-clavicular joint owes its security mainly to the coraco-clavicular hgament, which limits the amount of movement of the outer end of the clavicle either upwards, backwards, or forwards. Owing to the slanting shape of the articular surfaces of this joint, dislocation generally occurs upwards : that is to say, the outer end of the clavicle is displaced above the acromion process of the scapula. The displacement is often incomplete, on account of the strong coraco-clavicular ligaments, which remain untorn. The same difficulty exists, as in the stemo-clavicular dislocation, in maintaining the ends of the bone in position after reduction. LIGAMENTS OF THE SCAPULA The ligaments of the scapula (fig. 450) are : Coraco-acromial, Transverse, and Spmo-glenoid. The Coraco-acromial Ligament (lig. coracoacromiale) is a strong triangular band, extending between the coracoid and acromion processes. It is attached, by its apex, to the summit of the acromion just in front of the articular surface for the clavicle ; and by its broad base to the whole length of the outer border of the coracoid process. Its posterior fibres are directed inwards, its anterior fibres forwards and inwards. This ligament, together with the coracoid and acromion processes, forms a vault for the protection of the head of the humerus. It is in relation, above, with the clavicle and under surface of the Beltoid ; below, with the tendon of the Supraspinatus muscle, a bursa being interposed. Its outer border is continuous with a dense lamina that passes beneath the Deltoid upon the tendons of the Supra- and Infra-spinatus muscles. The ligament is sometimes described as consisting of two marginal bands and a thinner intervening portion, the two bands being attached respec- tively to the apex and base of the coracoid process, and joining together at their attachment into the acromion process. When the Pectoralis minor is inserted, as occasionally is the case, into the capsule of the shoulder-joint nistead of into the coracoid process, it passes between these two bands, and the intervening portion is then deficient. The Transverse or Suprascapular Ligament (lig. transversum scapulae superius) converts the suprascapular notch into a foramen. It is a thin and D D 2404 SYNDESMOLOGY flat fasciculus, naiTOwer at the middle than at the extremities, attached by one end to the base of the coracoid process, and by the other to the inner extremity of tlie scapular notch. The suprascapular nerve passes through the foramen ; the suprascapular vessels pass over the ligament. Tlie ligament is sometimes ossified. The Spino-glenoid Ligament (lig. transversum scapula inferius) consists of a band of fibres, situated on the posterior surface of the neck of the scapula and stretching from the outer border of the spine to the margm of the glenoid cavity. It forms an arch under which the suprascapular vessels and nerve pass as they enter the infraspinous fossa. III. SHOULDER-JOINT (ARTICULATIO HUMERI) The shoulder-joint (fig. 450) is an enarthrodial or ball-and-socket joint. The bones entering into its formation are the large hemispherical head of the humerus and the shallow glenoid cavity of the scapula, an arrangement which permits of very considerable movement, while the joint itself is protected against displacement by the tendons which surround it. The ligaments do not maintain the joint surfaces in apposition, because when they alone remain the humerus can be separated to a considerable extent from the glenoid cavity ; their use, therefore, is to lunit the amount of movement. The joint is pro- tected above by an arch, formed by the coracoid and acromion processes, and the coraco-acromial ligament. The articular surfaces are covered by cartilage : that on the head of the humerus is thicker at the centre than at the circum- ference, the reverse being the case m the glenoid cavity. The ligaments of the shoulder are : Capsular. Gleno-humeral. Coraco-humeral. Transverse Humeral. Glenoid.* The Capsular Ligament (capsula articularis) completely encircles the articulation, being attached, above, to the ckcumference of the glenoid cavity beyond the glenoid Ugament; below, to the anatomical neck of the humerus, approachms nearer to the articular cartilage above than m the rest ot its extent It is thicker above and below than elsewhere, and is remarkably loose and lax, and much larger and longer than is necessary to keep the bones in contact, aUowing them to be separated from each other more than an mch, an evident provision for that extreme freedom of movement which is peculiar to this articulation. It is strengthened, above, by the Supraspmatus ; below by the long head of the Triceps ; behind, by the tendons of the Infraspmatus aM Teres'minor ; and in front, by the tendon of the Subscapidaris. The capsular ligament usuaUy presents tliree opemngs One anterioily belo^^ the coracoid process, establishes a communication between the ]omt and a bursa beneath the tendon of the Subscapularis muscle. f^^«^^^'J ^^^^^^^^ is not constant, is at the posterior part, where a commumcation sometimes exists between the jomt and a bursal sac under the tendon of he Infraspinatus muscle The third is seen between the tuberosities of the humerus, for the nncj'iacTP nf the loii" tendoii of the Biceps. . j i j ^ Thl Coraco-humeral Ligament (lig. coracohumerale) is a broad band which strengthens the upper part of tlie capsular ligament. It arises fiom The IterSer of the coraioid process, and passes obhquely downwards and out^^ard^ to front of the gre^t tuberosity of the b"«^^^^^^^^^^ with the tendon of the Supraspmatus. This Ugament is ntn^ to the capsular ligament by its hinder and lower border ; but its superior ann InterLr bWer presents a free edge, which overlaps the capsi.lar ligament. O Pno-h^mSrLiffaments.-I^ addition to the coraco-humeral hgamei t, thre^ suppliS bS which are named gleno-humeral ^^^a»^c"/^, SgtS tTe capsular ligament Those may best b^^^^^^^ capsule at tlie back of tlie jomt and removing the head of the humerus. one jointSHOULDER-JOINT 405 of them is situated on the inner side of the join and passes from tlie innei edge of the glenoid cavity to the lower part of the lesser tuberosity of the huSerus A second is situated at the lower part of the joint, and passes from he under edge of the glenoid cavity to the under part of the anatomical neck of the humerus. A third is situated at the upper part of the jomt, and is fixed above to the apex of the glenoid cavity close to the root of the coracoid process, and passing downwards along the inner edge of the tendon of the Biceps is attached below to a small depression above the lesser tubeiosity of the'humerus. In addition to these, the capsule is strengthened externally on its anterior aspect by two bands derived from the tendons of the Pectoralis major and Teres major respectively. i i, i t The Transverse Humeral Ligament is a broad band of fibrous tissue passing from the lesser to tlie greater tuberosity of the humerus and always limited to that portion of the bone ^v\uch. lies above the epiphysial hue It converts the bicipital groove into an osseo-aponeurotic canal, and is tiie homologue of the strong process of bone which connects the summits of the two tuberosities m the musk ox. . The Glenoid Ligament (labrum glenoidale) is a fibro-cartilaginous rim attached round the margin of the glenoid cavity. It is triangular on section, Fig 451.—Coronal sections through the shoulder-joint (a) with the arm hanging by the side; (b) with the arm abducted at right angles. (After Henle.) B SUPItASl'INATt'S ClaBieln TUICEPS ircuiiiflex vessels Circumflex vessels the .thickest portion being fixed to the circumference of the cavity, the free edge being thin and sharp. It is continuous above with the long tendon of the Biceps, which gives off two fasciculi, to blend with the fibrous tissue of the ligament. This ligament deepens the cavity for articulation, and protects the edges of the bone. The Synovial Membrane is reflected from the margin of the glenoid cavity over the glenoid ligament; it is then reflected over tlie internal surface of the capsular ligament, and covers the loAver part and sides of the anatomical neck of the humerus as far as the cartUage covering the head of the bone. The long tendon of the Biceps which passes through the capsular ligament is enclosed in a tubular sheath of synovial membrane, which is reflected upon it at the point where it perforates the capsule, and is continued around it as far as the summit of the glenoid cavity. The tendon of the Biceps thus traverses the articulation, but it is not contained in the interior of the synovial cavity. Bursse.—The bursfe in the neighbourhood of the shoulder-joint are the fol- lowiug : (1) A constant bursa is situated between the tendon of the Subscapularis muscle and the capsule of the joint; it communicates with the synovial cavity through an opening in the front of the capsular Ugament: (2) a bursa which occasionally communicates with the joint is sometimes found between the tendonSYNDESMOLOGY 406 of the Infraspinatus and the capsule : (3) a large bursa exists between the under surface of the Deltoid and the capsule, but does not communicate with the joint ; this bursa is prolonged under the acromion process and coraco-acromial ligament, and intervenes between these structures and the capsule of the joint: (4) a large bursa mucosa is situated on the summit of the acromion : (5) a bursa is frequently found between the coracoid process and the capsule of the joint: (6) there is a bursa beneath the Coraco-brachialis : (7) one lies between the Teres major and the long head of the Triceps : (8) one is placed in front of, and another behind, the tendon of the Latissimus dorsi. The Muscles in relation with the joint are, above, the Supraspinatus ; below, the long head of the Triceps ; in front, the Subscapularis ; behind, the Infra- spinatus and Teres minor ; within, the long tendon of the Biceps. The Deltoid is placed most externally, and covers the articulation on its outer side, as well as in front and behind. The Arteries supplying the joint are articular branches of the anterior and posterior circumflex, and suprascapular. The Nerves are derived from the circumflex and suprascapular. Movements.—The shoulder-joint is capable of every variety of movement, flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, circumduction, and rotation. The humerus is flexed (drawn forwards) by the PectoraUs major, anterior fibres of the Deltoid, Coraco-brachialis, and when the forearm is flexed, by the Biceps ; extended (drawn backwards) by the Latissimus dorsi. Teres major, posterior fibres of the Deltoid, and, when the forearm is extended, by the Triceps; it is abducted by the Deltoid and Supraspinatus ; it is adducted by the Subscapularis, Pectoralis major, Latissimus dorsi, and Teres major, and by the weight of the Hmb ; it is rotated outwards by the Infraspinatus and Teres minor; and it is rotated inwards by the Subscapularis, Latissimus dorsi, Teres major, PectoraUs major, and the anterior fibres of the Deltoid. . , ^i. , j The most striking peculiarities in this joint are : L The large size of the head of the humerus in comparison mth the depth of the glenoid ca^aty, even when this latter is supplemented by the glenoid hgament. 2. The looseness of the capsule of the joint. 3. The intimate connection of the capsule with the nwscles attached to the head of the humerus. 4. The pecuhar relation of the Biceps tendon to the joint. j It is in consequence of the relative sizes of the two articular surfaces, and the looseness of the capsular hgament, that the joint enjoys such free movement in every possible direction. When these movements of the arm are arrested in the shoulder-joint by the contact of the bony surfaces, and by the tension of the corresponding fibres of the capsule, together with that of the muscles acting as accessory hgaments, the arm can be carried considerably farther by the movements of the scapfila, involving, of coui-se, motion at the acromio- and sterno-clavicular joints. These joints are therefore to be regarded as accessory structures to the shoulder-joint (see pp. 401 to 403). The extent of these movements of the scapula is very considerable especially in extreme elevation of the arm, which moyement is best accomphshed when the arm is thro^™ somewhat forwards and outwards because the margin of the head of the humerus is by no means a true "rcle ts greatest diameter is from the bicipital groove downwards wards, and the greatest elevation of the arm can be obtained by ro hng its articular urface in the direction of this measurement. The great ^vidth of tlie c^^itral portion of the humeral head also allows of very free horizontal -"^^^^ -J^^^^^^^^^^^ arm is raised to a right angle, in which movement the arch formed by the aciomion, ti'coracoid process, and the coraco-acromial hgament, constitutes a sort of supple- mental articular cavity for the head of the bone. The looseness of the capsule is so great that the am will ff about an inch from the scapula when the muscles are dissected from the ^^Z^^^^^^^ an opening made in it to counteract the atmospheric pressure. The mo^crac s nl tlS o ut therefore are'not regulated by the capsule so much as b> the ™Zg mtdtand by the pressure of the^itmosphere - a-nge^^ ' renders tlie movements of the ]oint much more e^isy t,^^^". fSHOULDER-JOINT , , 1 no Iw til p. interlocking of the bones. Thus it is said portions of the capsule as weU a. by e mteiloc ^^^^^^^^^ ,,ith the upper that ' abduction is checked by f "/}^ ^ tension of the coraco-humeral f"' "V^^etr et'X'JcL^t C aSd^ that the. Hmitations of ''"'T.nt at Z shouklciS^^^^ due to the structure of the pint i self, the :STt-ent Sng! Jn^ different positions of the elevated arm, into the tl,P Serratus maanus and Pectoralis minor, assisted, when the arm is hxed, by Z lecttaUs S The mobihty of the scapula is very co-derable and ereatly assists the movements of the arm at the shoulder-] oint Thus in i a sing the arm from the side, the Deltoid and Supraspinatus can only Uft it to a light !nlle with the trunk the further elevation of the hmb bemg effected by the x lez's and S raUis magnus moving the scapula on the wall of the chest ThirmobiUty is of special Importance in ankylosis of the fio^lder-joint the movementthis bone compeiisating to a very great extent for the immobihty °^*CatWtt has pointed out that in abducting the arm and mising it above thetlttl^caya rotates throughout the whole ^o..n..nt ^^^e exception nf n short- snace at the beginning and at the end ; that the humerus moves ou L^ctl^t'onfy while passing from the hanging to the horizontal positicni bu also in travellin<r upwards as it approaches the vertical above tliat tne ciavicie moves not oni; during the second half of the movement but in the first as well iroucrh to a £ extent-i.e. the scapula and clavicle are concerned in the first Sag ' as well as 1^ the second ; and that the humerus is partly involved m the spcond as well as chiefly in the first. . t r • x rr„,.^^ The Intimate union of the tendons of the Supraspinatus, Infraspinatus Teres minor and Subscapularis muscles with the capsule, converts these muscles m o r dc and spontaneously acting ligaments of the ]Oint. It is regarded as being alsffntTnld to prevent the folds into which all portions of the capsule would Sernateiy fall in^he varying positions of the joint from being driven between the bones by the pressure of the atmosphere. , ,, • • x Th pecuhar relations of the Biceps tendon to the «l^°^l<i;^i«i^ , ^PP^^j! subserve%arious purposes. In the first place, by its connection mth botii the shoulder and elbow the muscle harmonises the action of t^e two joints and acts as an elastic hgament in all positions, m the manner previously discussed (see page 372). Next, it strengthens the upper part of the articular cavity, and pievents the head of the humerus from being pressed up against the ^^^romion p ocess when the Deltoid contracts; it thus fixes the head of the humerus as the centic ot motion in the glenoid cavity. By its passage along the bicipital groove it assist, in rendering the head of the humerus steady in the various i^oy^^mf 9^*^^ arm. When the arm is raised from the side it assists the Supra- f^^J^J^f ^^p^ , in rotating the head of the humerus in the glenoid cavity. It also holds the head of the bone firmly in contact with the glenoid cavity and prevents its ^lipprng over its lower edge, or being displaced by the action of the Latissimus dorsi and Pectoralis major, as in climbing and many other movements. Surface J-orm.—The direction and position of the shoulder-joint may be indicated by a line drawn from the middle of the coraco-acromial ligament, in a curved <!iyection witn its convexity inwards, to the innermost part of that portion of the head of the Hummus which can be felt in the axilla when the arm is forcibly abducted from the side. When the arm hangs by the side, not more than one-third of the head of the bone is m contact with the glenoid cavity, and three-quarters of its circumference is in front of a vertical line drawn from the anterior border of the acromion process. Applied Anatomy—Owing to the construction of the shoulder-joint and the freedom of movement which it enjoys, as well as in consequence of it^ exposed situation, it is more * Journ. of Anat. a/nd Phys. No. 1, 1867, p. 85. t Ibid. vol. xviii. 1884408 SYNDESMOLOGY frequently dislocated than any other joint in the body. Dislocation occurs when the arm is abducted, and when, therefore, the head of the humerus presses against the lower and front part of the capsule, which is the thinnest and least supported part of the ligament. The rent in the capsule almost invariably takes place in this situation, and through it tlie head of the bono escapes, so that tlie dislocation in most instances is primarily aubglenoid. The head of the bone does not usually remain in this situation, between the tendons of the Subscapularis and the Triceps, but generally assumes some other position, which varies according to the direction and amount of force producing the dislocation and the relative strength of the muscles in front of and behind the joint. As the muscles at the back are stronger than those in front, and especially since the long head of the Triceps prevents the bone from passing backwards, dislocation forwards is much more common than backwards. The most frequent position which the head of the humerus ultimately assumes is on the front of the neck of the scapula, beneath the coracoid process, and hence named subcoracoid. Fig. 452.-—Left elbow-joint, showing Fig. 453.—Left elbow-joLnt, showing anterior and internal ligaments. posterior and external ligaments. front of the chest, beneath the clavicle (sub- clavicular). Sometimes it remains in the position in which it was primarily displaced, resting on the axillary border of tlie scapula (subglenoid), and rarely it passes back- wards and remains in the infraspinous fossn, beneath the spine (subspinous). The shoulder-joint may be the seat of any of those inflammatory affections, either acute or chronic, which attack joints, though perliaps less frequently than some other articu- lations of equal size and importance. Acute synovitis may result frojn injury, rheumatism, or pya;mia, or may follow secoiidarily on acute eijiphj'sitis in infants. It is attended with effusion into the joint, and when this occurs the capsule is evenly distended, and the contour of tlie joint rounded. Special projections may occur at the sites of the ojjenings in the capsular ligament. Thus a swelling may appear just in front of the joint, internal to the lesser tuberosity, from effusion into the bursa beneath the Subscapularis : or. again, a swelling which is sometimes bilobed may be seen in the interval between the Deltoid and Pectoralis major, from effusion into the diverticulum Avliieh runs doAvn the bicipital groove with the tendon of the Biceps. The effusion into the synovial cavity can be bestELBOW-JOINT 409 ascertained by examination from the axilla, where a soft, elastic, fluctuating swelling can usually be felt. In cases of septic synovitis, where incision is required, the openmg should be made in front, over the most prominent point of the SAvelling. After the pus has hecn evacuated a counter-opening should be made behind, so as to ensure efficient drainage. , , , . . ^ t i i i. Tuberculous arthritis not infrequently attacks the shoulder-jomt, and may lead to total destruction of the articulation, when ankylosis may result, or long-protracted suppuration may necessitate excision. This jomt is also one of those which is most liable to be the seat of osteo-arthritis, and may also be affected in gout and rheumatism ; or in locomotor ataxy, when it becomes the seat of Charcot's disease. Ankylosis is occasionally met with in the shoulder-joint as the result of destructive changes. The ankylosis usually takes place with the arm in a dependent position, and any attempt to raise the arm is attended by a rotation of the scapula on the wall of the chest. Excision of the shoulder-joint may be requu-ed in cases of arthritis (especially the tuberculous form) which have gone on to destruction of the articulation ; in compound dislocations and fractures, particularly those arising from gimshot injuries, in which there has been extensive injury to the head of the bone ; in some cases of old um-educed disloca- tion, where there is much pain ; and possibly in some few cases of gro-niih connected with the upper end of the bone. The operation is best performed by making an incision from the middle of the coraco-acromial hgament dowi the arm for about thi-ee uiches : this will expose the bicipital groove containing the tendon of the Biceps, which should be hooked out of the way. The capsule is freely opened, and the muscles attached to the greater and lesser tuberosities of the humerus are stripped off mth the capsule, without dividing then- attachments to the latter. The head of the bone can then be thiaist out of the wound and sav^m oft' ; or divided with a narrow saw in situ and subsequently removed. The section should be made, if possible, just below the articular surface, so as to leave the bone as long as possible. The glenoid ca\aty must then be examined, and gouged if carious. IV. ELBOW-JOINT (AKTICULATIO CUBITI) The elbow-joint (figs. 452, 453) is aginglymus or hinge-joint. The trochlea of the humerus is received into the greater sigmoid cavity of the uhia, so as to admit of the movements peculiar to this joint, viz. flexion and extension ; while the capiteUum of the humerus articulates with the cup-shaped depression on the head of the radius. The articular sui'faces are each covered with a thin layer of cartilage, and connected together by a Capsular Ligament (capsula articularis), whicli is especially thickened on its two sides, and, to a less extent, in front and behind. These thickened portions are usually described as distinct ligaments under the following names : Anterior. Internal Lateral. Posterior. External Lateral. The Anterior Ligament (fig. 452) is a broad and thin fibrous layer, which covers the anterior surface of the joint. It is attached to the front of the internal epicondyle and to the front of the humerus immediately above the coronoid and radial fossae ; below, to the anterior surface of the coronoid process of the ulna and to the orbicular ligament (page 413), being continuous on either side with the lateral ligaments. Its superficial fibres pass obliquely from the inner condyle of the humerus outwards to the orbicular ligament. The middle fibres, vertical in direction, pass from the upper part of the coronoid depression and become partly blended with the preceding, but mainly inserted into the anterior sm-face of the coronoid process. The deep or transverse set intersects these at right angles. This ligament is in relation, m front, with the Brachialis anticus, except at its outermost part. The Posterior Ligament (fig. 453) is thm and membranous, and consists of transverse and oblique fibres. Above, it is attached to the humerus imme- diately beliind the capitellum and close to tlie inner margin of the trochlear surface, to the lateral margins of the olecranon fossa, and to the back of the external condyle some little distance from the trochlear surface. Below, it IS fixed to the upper and outer margins of the olecranon process, to tlie posterior part of the orbicular ligament, and to the ulna behind the lesser sigmoid cavity. The transverse fibres form a strong band which bridges across the olecranon fossa ; under cover of this band a pouch of synovial membrane and a pad of fat project into the upper part of the fossa when the joint is extended. In the fat are a few scattered fibrous bundles, which pass from410 SYNDESMOLOGY the deep aspect of the transverse band to the upper part of the fossa. This ligament is in relation, behind, with the tendon of tlie Triceps and tlic Anconeus. The Internal Lateral Ligament (lig. coUaterale ulnare) (fig. 452) is a thick triangular band consisting of two portions, an anterior and posterior, united by a thinner intermediate portion. The anterior portion, directed obliquely forwards, is attached, above, by its apex, to tlie front part of the internal epicondyle of the humerus ; and, below, by its broad base, to the inner margin of the coronoid process. The posterior portion, also of triangular form, is attached, above, by its apex, to the lower and back part of the internal epicondyle ; below, to the inner margin of the olecranon. Between these two bands a few intermediate fibres descend from the internal epicondyle to blend with a transverse band of ligamentous tissue which bridges across the notch between the olecranon and coronoid processes. This ligament is in relation, internally, Fig. 454.-Sagittal section of right elbow-joint taken with the Triceps and Flexor somewhat obliquely and seen from the radial aspect, carpi uhiaris and the ulnar (After Braune.) nerve, and gives origin to part of the Flexor subhmis digitorum. The External Lateral Ligament (lig. coUaterale radiale) (fig. 453) is a short and narrow fibrous band, less distinct than the in- ternal, attached, above, to a depression below the ex- ternal epicondyle of the humerus; below, to the orbicular ligament, some of its most posterior fibres passing over that ligament, to be mserted into the outer margin of the ulna. It is intimately blended with the tendon of origin of the Supinator brevis. The Synovial Mem- brane is very extensive. It extends from the margin of the articular surface of the humerus, and lines the coro- noid and olecranon fossae on that bone ; it is reflected over the anterior, posterior, and lateral ligaments, and forms a pouch between the lesser sigmoid cavity, the internal surface o( the orbicular ligament, and "j'^^f ft' oivily t °a^te^ntrMa^r&f^=^^ The Muscles in relation with the joint are ^^^^^^^^^ a„d the Median cephalic vein Head of radius Badial nerveELBOW-JOINT 411 and the recurrent branch of the radial. These vessels form a complete anas- tnmotic chain around the joint. , The iVe^es of the joint are a twig from the ulnar, as it passes between the niternal condyle and the olecranon; a filament from the musculo-cutaneous, and two from the median. . t,v ^ •„ +i,„ Movements.-The elbow-joint comprises three different portions, viz the joint between the ulna and humerus, that between the head o the radius and the humerus, and the superior radio-ubiar articulation, described below All these articular surfaces are enveloped by a common synovial membrane and the move- ments of the whole joint should be studied together. The combination of the movements of flexion and extension of the forearm with those of pronation and supination of the hand, which is ensured by the two being performed at the same joint, is essential to the accuracy of the various minute movements of the ^'"'The portion of the joint between the ulna and humerus is a simple hinge-joint, and allows of movements of flexion and extension only. Owing to the obliquity of the trochlear surface of the humerus, this movement does not take place in the plane of the shaft of the humerus. When the forearm is extended and supinated, the axes of the arm and forearm are not in the same line, the iipper portion of the limb forming an obtuse angle with the lower, the hand and forea,-m being directed outwards. During flexion, on the other hand, the forearm and the hand tend to approach the middle Une of the body, and thus enable the hand to be easily carried to the face. The shape of the trochlear surface of the humerus with its prominences and depressions accurately adapted to the great sigmoid cavitv, prevents any lateral movement. Flexion is produced by the action of the Biceps and BrachiaUs anticus, assisted by the Brachio-radiahs and the muscles arisin<x from the internal condyle of the humerus ; extension, hj the Triceps and Anconeus, assisted by the Extensors of the wrist, the Extensor commums digitorimi and the Extensor minimi digiti. j- i i. j f The joint between the head of the radius and the capitellum or radial head ot the humerus is an arthrodial joint. The bony surfaces would of themselves constitute an enari;hrosis and allow of movement in all directions were it not lor the orbicular ligament, by which the head of the radius is bound down fii-mly to the si<^moid cavity of the ulna, and which prevents any separation ot the two bones^laterally. It is to the same ligament that the head ot the radius owes its security from dislocation, which would otherwise tend to occur, from the shallowness of the cup-like surface on the head of the radius. In fact, but lor this h^ament, the tendon of the Biceps would be hable to puU the head ot the radius°out of the joint.* The head of the radius is not in complete contact with the capitellum of the humerus in all positions of the joint. The capiteUum occupies only the anterior and inferior surfaces of the lower end of the humerus, so that in complete extension a part of the radial head can be plainly felt projec^ting at the back of the articulation. In full flexion the movement of the radial head is hampered by the compression of the surrounding soft parts, so that the freest rotatory movement of the radius on the humerus (pronation and supination) takes place-in semiflexion, in which position the two articular surfaces are in freest and most intimate contact. Flexion and extension of the elbow-joint are hmited by the tension of the structures on the front and back of the joint; the hnutation of flexion is also aided by the soft structures of the arm and forearm coming into contact. • 1 -v. In any position of flexion or extension, the radius, carrying the hand with it, can be rotated in the upper radio-ulnar joint. The hand is directly articulated to the lower surface of the radius only, and the concave or sigmoid surface on the lower end of the radius travels round the lower end of the ulna. The latter bone is excluded from the wrist-joint by the interarticular fibro-cartilage. Thus, rota- tion of the head of the radius round an axis which passes through the centre of the radial head of the humerus imparts circular movement to the hand through a very considerable arc. Surface Form.—li the forearm be slightly flexed, a curved crease or fold with its con- vexity do^rawards is seen in the front of the elbow, extending from one condyle to the other. The centre of this fold is some slight distance above the line of the joint. The position * Humphry, op. ait. p. 419.412 SYNDESMOLOGY of the radio-humeral joint can be ascertained by feeUng for a slight groove or depression between the head of the radius and the capitellum of the humerus at the back of the articulation. Applied Anatomy.—From the great breadth of the joint, and the manner in which the articular surfaces are interlocked, and also on account of the strong lateral ligaments and the support which the joint derives from the mass of muscles attached to each condyle of the humerus, lateral displacement of the bones is very uncommon ; whereas antero- posterior dislocation, on account of the shortness of the antero-posterior diameter, the wealaiess of the anterior and posterior hgaments, and the want of support of muscles, occurs much more frequently. Dislocation backwards takes place when the forearm is in a position of extension, and forwards when in a position of flexion. For, in the extended position, the coronoid process is not locked into the coronoid fossa, and loses its gi'ip to a certain extent, whereas the olecranon process is in the olecranon fossa, and entirely prevents displacement forwards. On the other hand, during flexion, the coronoid process is in the coronoid fossa, and prevents dislocation backwards, while the olecranon, having left the olecranon fossa, is not so efficient in preventing a forward displacement. ^Vhen lateral dislocation does take place it is generally incomplete. Dislocation of the elbow-joint is of common occurrence in children, far more common than dislocation of any other articulation. As a rule, in young persons, the apphcation of any severe violence to a joint is more likely to produce a fracture of bone than dislocation. In lesions of this joint there is often very great difficulty in ascertaining the exact nature of the injury. The elbow-joint is occasionally the seat of acute synovitis. The joint-cavity then becomes distended with fluid, the bulging showing itself principally around the olecranon process, that is to say, on its inner and outer sides and above, in consequence of the laxness of the posterior ligament. Again, there is often some swelling just above the head of the radius, in the line of the radio-humeral joint, or the whole elbow may assume a fusiform appearance. There is not generally much swelling at the front of the joint, though sorne- times deep-seated fulness beneath the Brachialis anticus may be noted. When suppuration occurs the abscess usually points at one or other border of the Triceps ; occasionally the pus discharges itself in front, near the insertion of the Brachialis anticus. In cases of suppurative synovitis, incisions should be made into the joint on either side of the olecranon, care being taken to avoid wounding the ulnar nerve on the inner side. Chronic synovitis, usually of tuberculous origin, is of common occurrence in the elbow-joint: in such cases the forearm tends to assume the position of semiflexion, which is that of greatest ease and relaxation of hgaments. It should be borne in mind that if anlvylosis occur in this or the extended position, the hmb will not be nearly so useful as if ankylosed in a position of rather less than a right angle. The elbow-jomt is also sometimes affected with osteo-arthritis, but less commonly than some of the larger joints. Excision of the elbow is principally requu-ed for one of three conditions—viz. tuber- culous arthritis, uijury and its results, or faulty ankylosis—but may be necessary for some other rarer conditions, such as disorganismg arthritis after pyremia and unreduced dis- locations. The results of the operation are, as a rule, more favourable than those of excision of any other joint, and it is one, therefore, that the surgeon should never hesitate to perform, especially in any of the first three conditions mentioned above. The operation is best performed by a vertical mcision down the back of the jomt; a straight incision is made about four inches long, the mid-pomt of which is on a level with and a httle to the inner side of the tip of the olecranon. This incision is made Aoym to the bone, through the substance of the Triceps. The operator, guardmg the soft parts ^yith his thumb-nail, separates them from the bone with the point of his knife. In doing this there are two structiu-es which he should carefully avoid : the ulnar nerve, which lies parallel to his mcision, but a Uttle mternal, as it coiurses down between the mternal condyle and the olecranon process ; and the prolongation of the Triceps into the deep fascia of the forearm over the Anconeus. Having cleared the bones and di\^ded the lateral and posterior hgaments, the forearm is strongly flexed and the ends of the bones turned out and sawn off. The tummg out of the ends of the bones is rendered easier by first cutting off the olecranon process with a pair of cutting bone forceps. The section of the humerus should be through the base of the condyles, that of the uhia and radius should be just below the level of the lesser sigmoid cavity of the uhia and the neck of the radius, in this operation the object is to obtain such union as shall allow free motion of the bones of the forearm ; and, therefore, passive movements must be commenced early—that is to say about the tenth day. It is most important to maintam the contmuity of the iYiceps wth the deep fascia of the forearm, so as to obtam good power of extension m the new joint. V. RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATIONS The articulation of tlie radius with the ulna is effected by ligaments, which connect together both extremities as well as the shafts of these bones, ihe Haaments may, consequently, be subdivided into three sets: 1, those of the superior radio-ulnar articulation; 2,the middle radio-ulnar ligaments; 6, those of the inferior radio-ulnar articulation.RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATIONS 413 1. Superior Radio-ulnar Articulation (Articxjlatio Radiotjlnaris Proximalis) This articulation is a trochoid or pivot-joint between the circuniference of the head of the radius and the ring formed by the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna and the awitdar or orbicular ligament. ...^ The Annular or Orbicular Ligament (lig. annulare radn) (fag. 455) is a strong band of fibres, which encircles the head of the radius, and retams it m contact with the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. It forms about four- fifths of the osseo-fibrous ring, and is attached to the anterior and posterior margins of the lesser sigmoid cavity ; a few of its lower fibres are, however, contmued round below the cavity and form at this level a complete fibrous^ vm" Its upper border blends with the anterior and posterior ligaments ot the^elbow while from its lower border a thin loose membrane passes to be attached to the neck of the radius ; a tliickened band Avhich extends from Fig. 455.—Orbicular ligament of radius, from above. The head of the radius has been sawn off and the bone dislodged from the ligament. Head of radius Ligamentum Greater sigmoid (cut) guadratiim cavity Orbicular ligament Lesser sigmoid cavihj Olecranon (cut) the hwer border of the orbicular ligament below the lesser sigmoid cavity to tlie neck of the radius is known as the ligamentum quadratum. The outer surface of the orbicular ligament is strengthened by the external lateral ligament of the elbow, and affords origm to part of the Supinator brevis. Its inner surface is smootli, and lined by synovial membrane, which is continuous with that of the elbow-joint. Movements.—The movements which take place in this articulation are limited to rotatory movements of the head of the radius within the ring formed by the orbicular Ugament and the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna ; rotation forwards being called pronation ; rotation backwards, supination. Supination is performed by the Biceps and Supinator brevis, assisted to a sUght extent by the Extensor muscles of the thumb, and, in certain positions, by the Brachio-radialis. Pronation is performed by the Pronator teres and Pronator quadratus, assisted, in some positions, by the Brachio-radialis. Surface Form.—The position of the superior radio-ulnar joint is marked on the surface by a dimple on the back of the elbow which indicates the position of the head of the radius. Applied Anatomy.—Dislocation of the head of the radius alone is a not uncommon accident, and occurs most frequently in young persons from falls on the hand when the forearm is extended and supinated, the head of the bone being displaced forward. It is attended by rupture of the orbicular ligament. Occasionally a peculiar injury, which is supposed to be a subluxation, occurs in young children in lifting them from the ground by the hand or forearm. It is beUeved that the head of the radius is displaced downwards in the orbicular ligament, the upper border of which becomes folded over the head of theSYNDESMOLOGY 414 radius, between it and the capitcUum of the luimerus. The forearm becomes fixed in a position of semiflexion, midway between supination and pronation, and great pain is comphxined of upon any attempt to move the joint. It should be noted that tlie synovial membrane of the superior radio-ulnar joint is directly continuous with that of the elbow- joint, and, therefore, any septic or tuberculous disease which affects the latter also involves the former joint. The superior radio-ulnar joint is always removed in an excision of the elbow (see p. 412). 2. Middle Radio-ulnar Union The shafts of the radius and ulna are connected by the Oblique ligament and the Interosseous membrane. The Oblique Ligament (chorda obliqua) (fig. 452) is a small, flattened, fibrous band, which extends obliquely do\vnwards and outwards, from the outer side of the tubercle of the ulna at the base of the coronoid process to the radius a little below the bicipital tuberosity. Its fibres run in the opposite direction to those of the interosseous membrane ; and it appears to be placed as a substitute for it in the upper part of the interosseous interval. It is sometimes wanting. The Interosseous Membrane (membrana interossea antibrachii) is a broad and thin plane of fibrous tissue descending obliquely do\™wards and inwards, from the interosseous ridge on the radius to that on the ulna ; the lower part of the membrane is attached to the posterior of the two fines into wliich the interosseous ridge of the radius divides. It is deficient above, commencing about an inch beneath the bicipital tuberosity of the radius ; is broader in the middle than at either extremity ; and presents an oval aperture just above its lower margin for the passage of the anterior interosseous vessels to the back of the forearm. This ligament serves to connect the bones, and to increase the extent of surface for the attachment of the deep muscles. Between its upper border and the oblique ligament an interval exists, through which the posterior interosseous vessels pass. Two or three fibrous bands are occasionally found on the posterior surface of this membrane; they descend obliquely from the ulna towards the radius, and have consequently a direction contrary to that of the other fibres. The membrane is in relation, in front, by its upper three-fourths, with, the Flexor longus poUicis on the outer side, and A\'ith the Plexor profundus digitorum on the inner, lying in the interval bet^'een which are the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve ; by its lower fourth witli the Pronator quadi-atus ; hehind, with the Supinator brevis, Extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis, Extensor breyis pollicis. Extensor longus poUicis, Extensor indicis ; and, near the wTist, with the anterior interosseous artery and posterior mt«rosseous nerve. 3. Inferior Radio-ulnar Articulation (Articulatio Radioulnaris DiSTALIS) This is a pivot-jomt formed between the head of the ulna and the sigmoid cavity on the inner side of the lower end of the radius. The articular surfaces are connected together by the following ligaments : Anterior Radio-ulnar. Posterior Radio-ulnar. Interarticular Fibro-cartii age. The Anterior Radio-ulnar Ligament (fig. 456) is a narrow baud of fibres extending from the anterior margin of the sigmoid cavity of the radius to the anterior surface of the head of the ulna. The Posterior Radio-ulnar Ligament (fig. 457) extends between corre- sponding surfaces on the posterior aspect of the articulation. Tlie Interarticular Fibro-cartilage (discus articulans) (fig. 459) is tri- angular in shape, and is placed transversely beneath the head of the ulna, binding the lower ends of the ulna and radius firmly together. Its periphery is thicker than its centre, which is thin and occasionally perforated, it is attached by its apex to a depression which separates the styloid process ot the ulna from the head of that bone ; and by its base, which is thin, to the prominent edge of the radius, which separates the sigmoid cavity from the carpal articular surface. Its margins are united to the ligaments of theRADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATIONS 415 u-rist ioint Its upper surface, smooth and concave, articulates with the i nf nlna forming an arthrodial joint ; its under surjace, also concave slotr omsTrt ?f the wrist-joint and articulates with the cuneiform '^nd part of ?^e semilunar. Both surfaces are clothed by synovial memSane :^he upper surface, by one peculiar to the radio-ulnar articulation , ( hp mider surface bv the synovial membrane ot the wrist. The Sv^vS MembrLe (fig. 459) of this articulation has been called, from Tts extreme l«ss, tlie membrana sacciformis ; it extends upwards etween tlie radius and the ulna, forming here a very loose cul-de-sao (recessus sacciformis). The quantity of synovia which it contains is usually considerable. Movements -The movements in the inferior radio-uhiar articulation are just the revle of those in the superior radio-uhiar joint. They consist of "^ovenients of rotation of the lower end of the radius round an axis which passes thiou.^h the celSL of the head of the ulna. When the radius rotates forwards, pona<zori o ^he forearm and hand is the result; and when backwards, suvinahon It will ius be seen that in pronation and supination of the forearm -^<i liand the radiu describes the segment of a cone, the axis of which extends from the centre of the head of the radius to the middle of the head of the ulna. In this movement the head of the ulna is not stationary, but describes a curve in a direction opposite to that taken by the head of the radius. This, however, is not to be ^'egarded as a rotation of the ulna-the curve which the head of this bone describes is due to a combined antero-posterior and lateral movement, the former talang place almost entirely at the elbow-joint, the latter at the shoulder-]oint. Surface Form—The position of the inferior radio-ulnar joint may be '-^^f ^ta/^f J feeling for a slight groove at the back of the between the prominent head of the ulna and the lower end of the radius, when the forearm is m a state of almost complete pronation. VI. RADIO-CARPAL OR WRIST-JOINT (ARTICULATIO RADIOCARPEA) The x^Tist-joint (figs. 456, 457) is a condyloid articulation. The parts entering into its formation are the lower end of the radius and under surface of the Lnterarticular fibro-cartUage above ; and the scaphoid, semdunar, and Fio. 456.—Ligaments of wrist and hand. Anterior view. Infei-ior radio-ulnar articulation f^^^^a Wrist-joint Carpal articulations Piso-unciform liqamcnt Piso-metacarpal Iigamrnt C'arpo-metacarpal articulations cuneiform bones below. The articular surface of the radius and the under surface of the lnterarticular fibro-cartilage form together a tran.sversely elliptical concave surface, the receiving cavity. The articular surfaces of the scaphoid, semUunar, and cuneiform present a smooth, convex surface, theSYNDESMOLOGY 416 condyle, which is received into the concavity above mentioned. All the bonv surfaces ol the articulation are covered with cartilage, and connected together by a Capsule, strengthened by the following ligaments : Anterior. Internal lateral. Posterior. External lateral. The Anterior Ligament (lig. radiocarpeum volare) (fig. 456) is a broad membranous band, attached above to the anterior margin of the lower end of the i-adius, to its styloid process and to the front of tlie lower end of tlie ulna • Its fibres pass downwards and inwards to be inserted into the palmar surfaces of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform, some of the fibres being continued to the OS magnum. In addition to this broad membrane, there is a distinct rounded fasciculus, superficial to the rest, which passes from the base of the styloid process of the ulna to the semilunar and cuneiform. The ligament is perforated by numerous apertures for the passage of vessels, and is in relation m front, with the tendons of the Flexor profundus digitorum and Flexor longus polhcis ; behind, it is closely adherent to the anterior border of the triangular fibro-cartilage of the inferior radio-ulnar articulation. Fig. 457.—Ligaments of mist and hand. Posterior view. The Posterior Ligament (lig. radiocarpeum dorsale) (fig. 457), less thick and strong than the anterior, is attached, above, to the posterior border of the lower end of the radius ; its fibres pass obliquely downwards and inwards, to be attached to the dorsal surfaces of the scaijhoid, semilunar, and cmieiform. being continuous witli those of the dorsal carpal ligaments. It is in relation, behind, with the Extensor tendons of the fingers ; in front, it is blended witli the triangular fibro-cartilage. The Internal Lateral Ligament (lig. collaterale carpi ulnare) (fig. 456) is a rounded cord, attaclied above to the extremity of the styloid process of the ulna, and dividing below into t^-o fasciculi, one of which is attached to the inner side of the cuneiform, tlie other to the pisiform and annular ligament. The External Lateral Ligament (lig. collaterale carpi radiale) (fig. 456) extends from the summit of the styloid process of tlie radius to the out^r side of the scaphoid, some of its fibres being prolonged to the trapezium and annular ligament. It has in relation with it the radial artery, which separates the ligament from the tendons of the Extensor ossis metacarpi and Extensor brevis pollicis.417 WRIST-JOINT The Synovial Membrane (fig. 459) lines the mnersur aces o the ligaments above drscribed, extending from the lower end of the radius and intcrarticular ilbro cartUage above to the articular surfaces of the cai-pal bones below. It is loose and lax, and presents numerous folds, especially behind. The wrist- oint is covered in front by the Flexor, and behind by the Extensor r eudons ; it is also in relation with the radial and ulnar arteries. The 'Arteries supplying the joint are the nterior and posterior carpal branches of the Fig. 468.—Longitudinal section of the right forearm, hand, and third finger, viewed from the (After Braune.) ulnar aspect. radial and uhiar, the anterior and posterior interosseous, and some ascending branches from the deep palmar arch. The Nerves are derived from the ulnar and posterior interosseous. Movements.—The movements permitted in this joint are flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, and circumduction. They will be studied with those of the carpus, with which they are combined. Surface Form.—On the front of the wist three transverse furrows may be generaOy seen: the uppermost is on a level with the styloid process of the ulna ; the middle corresponds fairly acciu-ately with the -nTist-jomt ; and the lowest indicates the position of the mid-carpal articulation. Applied Anatomij.—The wrist-joint is rarely dislocated, its strength depending mamly upon the numerous strong tendons which surround the articulation. Its security is further provided for liy the number of smaU bones of which the carpus is made up, and which are united by very strong ligaments. The shght movements which take pface between the several bones serve to break the jars that result from falls or blows on the hand. Dislocation backwards, which is the more common, simulates to a considerable extent CoUes's fracture of the radius, and is liable to be mistaken for it. The differential diagnosis can be easily made by observing the relative positions of the styloid processes of the radius and the ulna. In the natiual condition the styloid process of the radius is on a lower level, i.e. nearer the ground, when the arm hangs by the side, than that of the ulna, and this relationship is not disturbed in dis- location. In CoUes's fracture, on the other hand, the styloid process of the radius is on the same, or even a higher level than that of the ulna. The wrist-joint is occasionally the seat of acute synovitis. When the synovial sac is distended with fluid, the swelling is greatest on the dorsal aspect of the wrist, showing a general fulness, with some bulging between the tendons. The in- flammation Ls prone to extend to the intercarpal joints and to attack also the sheaths of the tendons in the neighbourhood. Chronic in- flammation of the wrist is generally tuberculous, and often leads to similar disease in the synovial sheaths of adjacent tendons and of the intercarpal joints. The disease, therefore, when progressive, frequently leads to caries of the carpal bones, and the result is often an ankylosis. A free incision of the joint by a straight posterior cut leads, in some cases, to most satisfactory results. VII. CARPAL ARTICULATIONS (ARTICULATIONES INTERCARPE.ai;) These articulations may be subdivided into tlrree sets : 1. The Articulations of the First Row of Carpal Bones. 2. The Articulations of the Second Row of Carpal Bones. 3. The Articulations of the Two Rows with each other. E ESYNDESMOLOGY 418 1. Articulations op the First or Proximal Row of Carpal Bones These are arfchrodial joints. The ligaments connecting the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform are : Dorsal, Palmar, and two Interosseous. The Dorsal Ligaments, two in number, are placed transversely behind the bones of the first row ; they connect the scaphoid and semilunar, and the semilunar and cuneiform. • The Palmar Ligaments, also two, connect the scaphoid and semilunai. and the semilunar and cuneiform ; they are less strong than the dorsal, and placed very deeply below the Flexor tendons and the anterior ligament of the wrist. The Interosseous Ligaments (fig. 456) are two narrow bundles of fibrous tissue, one connecting the semilunar with the scaphoid, the other joining it to the cuneiform. They are on a level with the superior surfaces of these bones, and their upper surfaces are smooth, and form part of the convex articular surface of the wrist-joint. The ligaments connecting the pisiform bone are— Capsular. Two Palmar. The Capsular Ligament is a thin membrane which connects the pisiform to the cuneiform. It is lined with a separate synovial membrane. The two Palmar Ligaments are strong fibrous bands; one, the piso- unciform ligament (Ug. pisohamatum), connects the pisiform to the unciform, the other, the piso-metacarpal ligament (hg. pisometacarpeum), joins the pisiform to the fifth metacarpal bone (fig. 456). These ligaments are, in reahty, prolongations of the tendon of the Flexor carpi ulnaris. 2. Articulations of the Second or Distal Row of Carpal Bones These also are arthrodial joints. The articular surfaces are covered with cartilage, and connected by the following ligaments : Dorsal, Palmar, and three Interosseous. The Dorsal Ligaments, tlu-ee in number, extend transversely from one bone to another on the dorsal surface, connecting the trapezium with the trapezoid, the trapezoid with the os magnum, and the os magnum with the unciform. , The Palmar Ligaments, also three, have a similar arrangement on the palmar surface. , , . , ^, r xi c ^ The three Interosseous Ligaments, much thicker than those of the hrst row are placed one between the os magnum and the unciform, a second between the os magnum and the trapezoid, and a third bet^^•een the trapezium and trapezoid. The first of these is much the strongest, and the third is some- times wanting. 3. Articulations of the Two Rows of Carpal Bones with each other The joint between the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform on the one hand, and the second row of carpal bones on the other, is named the mrd-c<irpal joint, and is made up of three distmct portions : in the centre the head of (he OS magnum and tlie superior surface of the unciform articulate wit li the deep cut)-shaped cavity formed by the scaphoid and semilunar, and constitute a sort of ball-and-socket joint. On the outer side the trapezium and trapezoid articulate with the scaphoid, and on the inner side tlie unciform articulates with the cuneiform, forming gliding joints. The ligaments are : Anterior or Palmar. Iiiternal Lateral Posterior or Dorsal. External Lateral. The Anterior or Palmar Ligament consists of short fibres, jl^jch pas^ for the most part, from the palmar surfaces of the bones of the first row to the front of the os magnnm.419 CARPAL ARTICULATIONS Tlip Posterior or Dorsal Ligament consists of short, irregular bimdles of fibres passing between the bones of the first and second rows on the dorsal surface of the carpus. .,1.1 i- i i-i The Lateral Ligaments are very short : one is placed on the radial, the other on the ulnar side of the carpus ; the former, the stronger and moie distinct connects the scaphoid and trapezium, the latter the cuneiform •ind unciform • they are continuous with the lateral ligaments of the wrist- joint. In addition to these ligaments, a slender interosseous band sometimes connects the os magnum and the scaphoid. , • .rm The Synovial Membrane of the Carpus is very extensive (fig. 459) ; it passes from the margins of the under surfaces of the scaphoid, semilunar, Mid cuneiform bones to the margins of the upper surfaces of the bones of the second row. It sends two prolongations upwards—between the scaphoid and semilunar and the semilunar and cuneiform—and three prolongations doAvn- \\ ards between the four bones of the second row. The prolongation between the trapezium and trapezoid, or that between the trapezoid and os magnum, is often continued onwards, omng to the absence of the interosseous ligament, into the carpo-metacarpal joints, sometimes of the yio. 459.—^Vertical section thi-ough the articulations four mner metacarpal bones, at the wrist, showing the five synovial membranes, sometimes of the second and tliird only. In the latter condition the joint between the unciform and the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones lias a separate synovial mem- brane. The sjmovial mem- branes of these joints are prolonged for a short distance Ijetween the metacarpal bones. There is a separate synovial membrane between tlie pisiform and cunei- form. Movements.—The articu- lation of the hand and wrist considered as a whole involves four articular surfaces : (a) the inferior surfaces of the radius and triangular fibro-cartilage ; (b) the superior surfaces of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform, the pisiform having no essential part in the move- ment of the hand; (c) the S-shaped sui-face formed by the inferior sm-faces of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform ; (d) the reciprocal surface formed by the trapezium, trapezoid, os magnum, and unciform. These fom- surfaces form two joints : (1) the superior or wrist-joint proper ; and (2) the inferior or mid-carpal joint. (1) The articulation between the forearm and carpus is a true condyloid articula- tion, and therefore all movements but rotation are permitted. Flexion and exten- sion are the most free, and of these a greater amount of extension than of flexion is permitted since the articulating surfaces extend farther on the dorsal than on the palmar surfaces of the carpal bones. In this movement the carpal bones rotate on a transverse axis drawn between the tips of the styloid processes of the radius and ulna. A certain amount of adduction (or ulnar flexion) and abduction (or radial flexion) is also permitted. The former is considerably greater in extent than the latter on account of the shortness of the styloid process of the ulna, abduction being soon limited by the contact of the styloid process of the radius with the trapezium. In this movement the carpus revolves upon an autero-posterior axis drawn through the centre of the wrist. Finally, circumduction is permitted by the combined and consecutive movements of E E 2420 SYNDESMOLOGY adduction, extension, abduction, and flexion. No rotation is possible, but the effect of rotation is obtained by the supination and pronation of the radius on the uhia. The movement of flexion is performed by the Flexor carpi radialis. the Flexor carpi ulnaris, and the Palraaris longus ; eoctension by the Extensorcs carpi radialis longior et brcvior and the Extensor carpi ulnaris ; adduction (ulnar flexion), by the Flexor carpi ulnaris and the Extensor carpi ulnaris; and abduction (radial flexion) by the Extensors of the thumb, and'the Extensores carpi radialis longior et brevior and the Flexor carpi radiaUs. When the fingers are extended, flexion of the wrist is performed by the Flexores carpi radialis et ulnaris and extension by the Extensor communis digitorum. When the fingers are flexed, flexion of the wrist is performed by the Flexores sublimis et profundus digitorum, and extension by the Extensores carpi radiales et ulnaris. (2) The chief movements permitted in the transverse or mid-carpal joint are flexion and extension and a slight amount of rotation. In flexion and extension, which are the movements most freely enjoyed, the trapezium and trapezoid on the radial side and the unciform on the ulnar side glide forwards and backwards on the scaphoid and cuneiform respectively, while the head of the os magnum and the superior sm-face of the unciform rotate in the cup-shaped ca^'itv of the scaphoid and semilmiar. Flexion at this joint is freer than extension. " A very trifling amount of rotation is also permitted, the head of the os magnum rotating round a vertical axis drawn through its owii centre, while at the same time a sUght gUding movement takes place in the lateral portions of the joint. VTII. CARPO-METACARPAL ARTICULATIONS (ARTICULATIONES CAEPOMETACARPEjE) 1. Akticulation of the Metacaepal Bone of the Thumb with the Trapezitjm (Artictjlatio Caepometacabpea Poiiicis) This is a joint of reciprocal reception, and enjoys great freedom of movement on account of the configuration of its articular surfaces, which are saddle- shaped, so that, on section, either in the long axis or at right angles to it, one bone appears to be received into a cavity in the other. The joint is surrounded by a capsular ligament. The Capsular Ligament (capsula articularis) is thick but loose, and passes from the chcumference of the upper extremity of the metacarpal bone to the rough edge bounding the articular surface of the trapezium ; it is thickest externally and behind, and lined by a separate synovial membrane. Movements.—In the articulation of the metacarpal bone of the thiunb with the trapezium the movements permitted are flexion and extension in the plane of the palm of the hand, abduction and adduction in a plane at right angles to the palm, circumduction, and opposition. It is by the movement of opposition that the tip of the thumb is brought into contact with the palmar surfaces of the shghtly flexed fingers. This movement is effected through the medium of a smaU sloj^ing facet on the anterior hp of the saddle-shaped articular surface of the trapezium. The Flexor muscles puU the corresponding part of the articular surface of the metacarpal bone on to this facet, and the movement of opposition is then carried out by the Adductors. Flexion of this carpo-metacarpal joint is produced by the Flexores longus et brevis polUcis assisted by the Opponens polUcis and the Adductores transversus et obhquus polhcis. Extension is effected mainly by the Extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis, assisted by the Extensores longus et brevis polhcis. Adduction is carried out by the two Adductors ; abduction mainly by the Abductor polhcis, assisted by the Extensors. 2. Aetioulations of the Four Innee Metacarpal Bones with the Carpus The joints formed between the carpus and the four inner metacarpal bones are arthrodial joints. The ligaments are : Dorsal, Palmar, and Interosseous. The Dorsal Ligaments, the strongest and most distmct, connect the carpal and metacarpal bones on their dorsal surfaces. The second meta- carpal bone receives two fasciculi, one from the trapezium, the other from421 CARPO-METACARPAL ARTICULATIONS Fig. 460.—Articulations of the phalanges. Metacarpo-plialangeal articulatiun Lateral ligament t lic trapezoid : the third metacarpal receives two, one from the trapezoid, md oTfiom the OS magnum; the fourth tM^o, one rom the os magnum : d one from the uncifonn ; the fifth receives a smgle fasciculus from the uacifoma, and tliis is continuous with a shnilar ligament on the palmar surface f'ormino- an incomplete capsule. TiiePalma? Ligaments have a somewhat similar arrangement on the nxlmar surface, with the exception of those of the third metacarpal, which are hree in number, an external one from the trapezium situated above the .lieath of the tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis ; a middle one from the os magnum ; and an internal one from the unciform. The Interosseous Ligaments consist of short, thick fibres, which are limited to one part of the carpo-metacarpal articulation; they connect the contiguous inferior angles of the os magnum and unciform with the adjacent surfaces of the third and fourth meta- carpal bones. The Synovial Mem- brane is frequently a continuation of that between the two rows of carpal bones. Occa- sionally, the articulation of the unciform with the fourth and fifth meta- carpal bones has a sepa- rate synovial membrane. The synovial mem- branes of the wrist and carpus (fig. 459) are thus seen to be five in number. The first, the membrana sacci/ormis, passes from the lower end of the ulna to the sigmoid cavity of the radius, and lines the upper surface of the interarticular fibro-carti- lage. The second passes from the lower end of the radius and inter- articular fibro-cartilage above, to the bones of the first row below. The third, the most extensive, passes between the con- tiguous margins of the tw'o rows of carpal bones, and sometimes, in the event of one of the inter- osseous hgaments bemg absent, between the bones of the second row to the carpal extremities of the four inner metacarpal bones. The fourth, from the margm of the trapezium to the metacarpal bone of the thumb. The fifth, between the adjacent margins of the cuneiform and pisiforni bones". Occasionally the carpo-metacarpal joints have a separate synovial membrane (see page 419). Movements.—The movements permitted in the carpo-metacarpal articulations of the fingers are hmited to shght gUding of the articular surfaces upon each other, the extent of which varies in the different joints. Thus the articulation of the metacarpal bone of the Uttle finger is most movable, then that of the ring-finger; the metacarpal bones of the index and middle fingers are almost immovable. Phalangeal artictilationsSYNDESMOLOGY 422 Fig. 461.—Lateral view of metacarpo- phalangeal and interphalangeal joints. IX. INTERMETACAKPAL AETICULATIONS (ARTICULATIONES INTERMETACARPE^) The carpal extremities of the four inner metacarpal bones articulate with one another by small surfaces covered with cartilage, and connected together by dorsal, palmar, and interosseous ligaments. The Dorsal and Palmar Ligaments pass transversely from one bone to another on the dorsal and palmar surfaces. The Interosseous Ligaments pass between their contiguous surfaces, just beneath their lateral articular facets. The Synovial Membrane between the lateral facets is a reflection from that between the two rows of carpal bones. The Transverse Metacarpal Ligament (fig. 460) is a narrow fibrous band, which passes transversely across the anterior surfaces of the digital extremities of the four inner metacarpal bones, con- necting them together. It Ls blended anteriorly with the anterior (glenoid) ligaments of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations. To its posterior border is connected the fascia which covers the Interosseous muscles. Its anterior surface is concave where the Flexor tendons pass over it. Behind it the tendons of the Interossei pass to their insertions. X. METACARPO-PHALANGEAL ARTICULA- TIONS (ARTICULATIONES METACARPO- PHALANGE^) (figs. 460, 461) These articulations are of the con- dyloid kind, formed by the reception of the rounded heads of the metacarpal bones into shallow cavities in the extremities of the first phalanges, with the exception of that of the thumb, which presents more of the characters of a ginglymoid jouit. The ligaments are— Anterior and Two Lateral. Metacarpal hone Srcl phalanx 2nd phalanx _Latera,l ligament Lateral ligament The Anterior Ligaments [Glenoid Ligaments of Cruveilhier) are thick, dense, fibro-cartilaginous structures, placed upon the palmar surfaces of the joints in the intervals between the lateral ligaments, to which they are connected ; they are loosely united to the metacarpal bones, but are very firmly attached to the bases of the first phalanges. Their palmar surfaces are intimately blended with the transverse metacarpal ligament, and present grooves for the passage of tlie Flexor tendons, the sheaths surroundmg wliich are connected to the sides of the grooves. By then: deep surfaces, tliey form part of the articular facets for the heads of the metacarpal bones, and are lined by synovial membranes. , , The Lateral Ligaments (hgg. collateraHa) are strong, rounded cords, placed on the sides of the joints; each is attached by one extremity \o the posterior tubercle and adjacent depression on the side of the head d the metacarpal bone, and by the other to the contiguous extremity ot the phalanx. . . . Movements.—The movements which occur in these joints are iiexion, exten- sion, adduction, abduction, and circumduction ; the movements of abduction and adduction are very hmited, and cannot be performed when the imgers aie flexed.INTERPHALANGEAL ARTICULATIONS 423 XI. INTERPHALANGEAL ARTICULATIONS (ARTICULATIONES DIGITORUM MANUS) These are hinge joints. The ligaments are : Anterior. Two Lateral. The arrangement of these ligaments is similar to those m the metacarpo- phalangeal articulations. The Extensor tendon supplies the place of a posterior ligament. Movements.—The only movements permitted in the phalangeal joints are flexion and extension ; these movements are more extensive between the first and second phalanges than between the second and third. The amount of flexion is very considerable, but extension is limited by the anterior and lateral ligaments. Muscles Acting on the Joints of the Digits Flexion of the metacarpo-phalangeal joints of the fingers is effected by the Flexores subHmis et profundus digitonim, Lumbricales, and Interossei, assisted in the case of the Uttle finger by the Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Extension of these joints is produced by the Extensor commum's digitorum, Extensor indicis and Extensor minimi digiti. Flexion of the interphalangeal joints of the fingers is accompUshed by the Flexor profimdus digitorum acting on the first and second joints and by the Flexor subhmis digitorum acting on the fiirst joints. Extension is effected mainly by the Lumbricales and Interossei, the long Extensors having Uttle or no action upon these joints. Flexion of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint of the thumb is effected by the Flexores longus et brevis poIUcis : extension by the Extensores longus et brevis pollicis. Flexion of the interphalangeal joint is accomplished by the Flexor longus pollicis and extension by the Extensor longus polUcis. Surface Form.—TYxa prominences of the knuckles do not correspond to the position of the joints either of the metacarpo-phalangeal or interphalangeal articulations. These prommences are invariably formed by the distal ends of the proximal bone of each joint, and the fine mdicating the position of the joint must be sought considerably m front of the middle of the knuckle. ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY The articulations of the Lower Extremity comprise the following : I- Hip. V. Intertarsal. II. Knee. VI. Tarso-metatarsal. III. Tibio-fibular. VII. Intermetatarsal. IV. Ankle. VIII. Metatarso-phalangeal. IX. Interphalangeal. I. HIP.JOINT (ARTICULATIO COM) This articulation is an enarthrodial, or baU-and-socket joint, formed by acetfhHP''°" T ^^"^^^ the cup-shaped caviJy of the the o.?t"°'V fVf^^' ^''^^'^^^g" ^^^^ of"^ the femur, thicker at excpS,V,n f «ii-^»mference, covers the entire surface with the t£t ooLL H ^^'T'r,^'''*-^^^"'^^^^ ligamentum teres; ckcumfpZ?^ % f ^t^bulnm is much thinner at the centre than at the Ee Ea H.T "ifoo^Plfte cartilaginous ring, of a horse-shoe in t^f; Zf^, fT^'t '''^'^'^ ^^^"^^ ^ depression, occupied "g^LST'the 11?^:^'-^^^ '''' ^^^^^^^ synovial'membrkne. \. Capsular. Teres. Ilio-femoral. Cotyloid. ■ Transverse. the'^marSin^of'Hf.V^f?^* (capsula articularis), strong and dense, embraces Kne margm of the acetabulum above, and suiTounds tlie neck of the femur424 SYNDESMOLOGY below. Its upper circumference is attached to the rim of tlie acetabulum, two or three Hues external to the cotyloid ligament, above and behind ; but in front, it is attached to the outer margin of the ligament, and. opposite to the notch where the margm of the cavity is deficient, it is connected to the trans- verse ligament, and by a few fibres to the edge of the obturator foramen. lis lower circumference surrounds the neck of tlie femui-, being attached, in front, to the spiral or anterior int«rtrochanteric line ; above, to the base of the neck; behind, to the neck, about half an inch above the posterior intertrochanteric luie; below, to the lower part of the neck, close to the lesser trochanter. From this insertion some of the fibres are reflected upwards along the neck as longi- tudinal bands, termed rciinacula. The capsule is much thicker at the upper and fore part of the joint, where the greatest amount of resistance is required, than below and internally, where it is thin, loose, and longer than in am' other part. It consists of two sets of fibres, circular and longitudmal. The circular Fig. 462.—Right hip-joint from the front. (Spalteholz.) fibres [zona orbicularis) are most abundant at the lower and back part of the capsule, and form a sling or collar around the neck of the femur. Anteriorly they blend with the deep surface of the ilio-femoral ligament, and through its medium reach the anterior inferior spine of the Uium. Tlie longitudinal fibres are greatest in amount at the upper and front part of the cajisule, where they are reinforced, b,y distinct bands, or accessory ligaments, of which the most important is the ilio-fcmoral (lig. iliofemoi'ale). The other accessory bands are known as the pubo-fcmoral (lig. pubocapsulare), passing from the ilio-pectineal eminence and obturator crest to the front of tlie capsule, where some of its fibres blend with the lower segment of the ilio-femoral ligament ; and {haischio- cnpsulnr (lig. ischiocapsularo), passing from the ischium, just below the aceta- bulum, to blend with the circular fibres at the lower part of tlie joint. Tlio external surface (fig. 442, page 393) is rougii, covered by numerous muscles, and separated in front from the Psoas and iHacus by a synovial bursa, MhicliHIP-JOINT 425 not infrequentl}' comnumicates by a circular aperture with the cavity of the joint. It differs from tlie capsular ligament of tiie shoulder in being much less loose and lax, and in not being perforated for the passage of a tendon. The Ilio-femoral Ligament (figs. 462 and 467) is a band of great strength which lies ha front of tlie joint; it is intimately connected with the capsular ligament, and serves to strengthen it in this situation. It is attached, above, to the lower part of the anterior mferior spine of the ilium ; and, di\ading below, forms two bands, of which one passes downwards to be inserted into the lower part of the anterior mtertrochanteric line ; the other passes down- wards and outwards to be inserted into the upper part of tlie same line. Between the two bands is a thinner part of the capsule. In some joints there is no division, and the ligament spreads out into, a flat triangular band which is attached below into the whole length of the anterior intertrochanteric line. This ligament is frequently called the Y-shaped ligament of Bigelow ; and the outer or upper of the two bands is sometimes described as a separate ligament, under the name of the ilio-trochanteric ligament. Fig. 463.—Left hip-joint laid open. flatt^en!d^iP^"'-^"^""l'^^r^^.('^g- ^^^""^ i<imov\s) is a triangular, somewhat S;^ttlnf'Sid^ftl.;T' into the depression a little'behind anl one \nt7QSr^\Z^ri}T ' ^^""^ attached by three bands, ligament and notch, where they blend with the transverse is fOTmed of cnin.^ '""^^"'^ °f bone outside the notch. It rnembmne Oocn^tnn 1? ^'^^^'^f»™unded by a tubiUar sheath of svnovial beTltoSer absen? T synovial fold exists, or the ligament mav and thflimb tSn o'-^ J ! ^f^^^^^ i« made tense when the hip if semiflexed, ligament thou^i^.V ; "°H'^-- ^i^^^ever, but little influence as a Tho rr^^ f"-A T • ""-^ ^^'■'^^^^ ^'^tcnt limit movement. attacKd to thp m^v^-^"'^"^ ^^•■'^'"""l glcnoidale) is a fibro-cartUaguious rim at tS same t meTS. . *h aeetabuhnn, the cavity of which it deepens ; on its sSe It hSdci« ^V^" b?'^"- "P the inequalities simace. It bndges over the notch as the tramverse ligament, and thus426 SYNDESMOLOGY Fig. 464.- —Vertical section through hip-joint. (Henle.; Rectus muscle Cotyloid ligament \ Cafsular ligament forms a complete circle, which closely surrounds the head of the femur and assists in holding it in its place. It is triangular on section, its base being attached to the margin of the acetabulum, and its opposite edge being free and sharp. Its two surfaces are invested by synovial membrane, the external one being in contact with the capsular ligament, the internal one being inclined inwards so as to narrow tlie acetabulum, and embrace the cartilaginous surface of the head of the femur. It is much thicker above and behind than below and in front, and consists of close compact fibres, which arise from different points of the circumference of the acetabulum, and interlace with each other at very acute angles. The Transverse Ligament (lig. transversum acetabuli) Ls in reahty a portion of the cotyloid ligament, tliough differing from it in having no cartilage cells among its fibres. It consists of strong, flattened fibres, which cross the notch at the lower part of the acetabulum, and convert it mto a foramen. Thus an interval is left beneath the ligament for the passage of nutrient vessels to the joint. The Synovial Membrane is very extensive. Commencing at the margin of the cartilaginous surface of the head of the femur, it covers aU that portion of the neck which is con- tained within the joint; from the neck it is reflected on the internal surface of the cap- sular ligament, covers both surfaces of the cotyloid liga- ment and the mass of fat con- tained m the depression at the bottom of the acetabulum, and is prolonged in the form of a tubular sheath around the ligamentum teres as far as the head of the femur. It sometimes communicates through a hole in the capsular ligament between the inner band of the Y-shaped liga- ment and the pubo-femoral ligament with a bursa situated on the under sm-face of the Ilio-psoas. The Muscles in relation with the joint are, in front, the Psoas and Ihacus, separated from the capsular hgameut by a sjTiovial bursa ; above, the reflected head of the Rectus and Gluteus niinimus, the latter being closely adherent to the capsule; internally, the Obturator externus and Pectineus : behind, the Pyriformis, Gemellus superior. Obturator internus. Gemellus inferior. Obturator externus, and Quadratus femoris (fig. 465). The Arleries supplying the joint are derived from the obturator, sciatic, internal circumflex, and gluteal. . . The Nerves are articular branches from the sacral plexus, great sciatic, obturator, accessory obturator, and a filament from the branch of the anterior crural supplying the Rectus. . Movements.—The movements of the hip are very extensive, and consist oi fiexion, extension, adduction, abduction, circumduction, and rotation. The length of the neck of the femur and its inchnations to the shaft have the effect of converting the angular movements of flexion, extension, adduction, and abduction partially into rotatory movements in the joint. Thus when the thigli is flexed or extended, the head of the femur, on account of the inward inchnation of the neck, rotates within the acetabulum with only a shght amount of guni'ii^ to and fro. The forward slope of the neck similarly affects the movements of adduc- tion and abduction. Conversely rotation of the thigh which is permitted by the Lig. teres Obturator membraneHIP-JOINT 427 upward inclination of the neck, is not a simple rotation of the head of the femur in the acetabulum, but is accompanied by a certain amount of gliding. The hip-joint presents a very striking contrast to the shoulder-joint in the much more complete mechanical arrangements for its security and for the limita- tion of its movements. In the shoulder, as has been seen, the head of the humerus is not adapted at all in size to the glenoid cavity, and is hardly restrained in any of its ordinary movements by the capsular Ugament. In the hip-joint, on the contrary, the head of the femur is closely fitted to the acetabulum for a distance extending over nearly half a sphere, and at the margin of the bony cup it is still more closely embraced by the cotyloid ligament, so that the head of the femur is held in its place by that ligament even when the fibres of the capsule have been quite divided (Humphry). The ilio-femoral Ugament is the strongest of all the ligaments in the body, and is put on the stretch by any attempt to extend the femur beyond a straight hue with the trunk. That is to say, this ligament is the chief agent in maintaining the erect position without muscular fatigue ; for a Fig. 465.—ReLation of muscles to the capsule of the hip-joint. (From a di-a\nng by F. A. Barton.) f"® FT'''^- ^^'"'t^ °^ of falls behind the unrl W ^Pi°"'*'.' ^"^ tlierefore the pelvis tends to faU back- ThP P/;7«^l*«^,'^y the tension of the ilio-femoral and capsular.Hgaments. uHterl 5' T'^ "''^ P™^^^"^^ f°^- the two bones being'directlv ranl^ ' hgamentum teres; but it is doubtful whether this so-called tie hfn ninf "l^'"? ^^^^anism of the joint. Flexion of £to conf-Tf arrested by the soft parts of the thigh and abdomen being brought Srhinti ? *\V'^, ^'^'^ °" *^gh' '-'^d by the action of the ham- £o?-iTfr :h'^'\?\«g extended; extension by the tension of the ilio- £on hv^Z ; ^'i^^^^tmf by the thighs coining into contact; adduction with caSuki-hi^^onr' ^T'f- *l^l^liO:fe"?o^''^l ligament and the miter part of the and the ' 'I'^^'^^t'O" by the inner band of the iho-femoral Ugament fel al iLanTe^^^^ band; rotation outwards by the outer band of the iUo- th^M 1 ^ ! i ^""'"^ rotation inwards by the ischio-capsular Ugament and Se th pl^'V^ the capsule. The muscles which flex the^femur on Se pehS are the Psoas, Ihacus, Rectus, Sartorius, Pectineus, Adductores longus et b?evls!SYNDESMOLOGY 428 and the anterior fibres of the Glutei medius and minimus. Extension is mainly performed by the Gluteus maximus, assisted by the hamstring muscles and the ischial head of the Adductor magnus. The thigh is adducted by the Adductors magnus, longus andbrevis, the Pectineus.the GraciUs, and lower part of the Gluteus maximus, and abducted by the Gluteus medius and Gluteus minimus, and the upper part of the Gluteus maximus. The muscles which rotate the thigh intvards are the Gluteus minimus and the anterior fibres of the Gluteus medius, the Tensor fascife femoris and the Ilio-psoas ; while those which rotate it oultcards are the posterior fibres of the Gluteus medius, the Pyriformis, Obturators externus and internus, Gemelli superior and inferior, Quadratus femoris, Gluteus maximus, the three Adductors, the Pectineus, and the Sartorius. Surface Form.—A line dra^vn from the anterior superior spine of the iliura to the most prominent part of tiie tuberosity of the ischium (Nelaton's line) (fig. 466) runs through the centre of the acetabulum, and would, therefore, indicate the level of the hip-joint; in other words, the upper border of the great trochanter, which touches Nelaton's line, is on a level with the centre of the hip-joint. Fig. 466.—Nelaton's line and Bryant's triangle. Gr, Applied Anatomy.—In dislocation of the hip, ' the head of the thigh-bone may rest at any point aroimd its socket' (Bryant) ; but whatever position the head ultimately assumes, the primary displacement is generally downwards and inwards, the capsule giving way at its weakest—that is, its lower and inner—part. The situation tliat the head of the bone subsequently assumes is determined by the degree of flexion or extension, and of outward or inward rotation of the thigh at the moment of luxation, influenced, no doubt, by the ilio-femoral ligament, which is not easily ruptured. When, for instance, the head is forced backwards, this ligament forms a fixed axis, round which the head of the bone rotates, and is thus driven on to the dorsum of the ilium. The ilio-femoral hgament also influences the position of the thigh in the various dislocations : m the dislocations back^yards it is tense, and produces inversion of the limb ; in the dislocation on to the pubes, it is relaxed, and therefore allows the external rotators to evert the thigh ; wliile in tlie thyroid disloca- tion it is tense, and produces flexion. The muscles inserted mto the upper part of the femur, witii the exception of the Obturator internus, have very little direct influence m determining the ]josition of the bone. Bigelow, liowever. has endeavoured to show that tlie Obturator internus is the principal agent in deciding whether, in the backward dislocations, the head of the bone shall be ultimately lodged on the dorsum of the fluim. or in or near the sciatic notcli ; in both dislocations the head passes, in the iirst instance, in the same direction ; but, as Bigelow asserts, in the displacement on to the dorsum theAPPLIED ANATOMY OF HIP-JOINT 429 head of the bone travels up behind the acetabulum, in front of the muscle ; while in the dislocation into the sciatic notch the head passes behind the muscle, and is prevented from reaching the dorsum, in consequence of the tendon of the muscle arching over the neck of the bone, and it therefore remains in the neighbourhood of the sciatic notch. Bigolow distinguishes these two forms of dislocation by describing them as dislocations backwards, ' above and below ' the Obturator internus. The ilio-femoral ligament is rarely torn in dislocations of the hip, and this fact is taken advantage of by the surgeon in reducing these dislocations by manipulation. It is made to act as the fulcrum to a lever, of which the long arm is the shaft of the femur, and the short arm the neck of the bone. The hip-joint is rarely the seat of acute synovitis from injury, on account of its deep position and its thick covering of soft parts. Acute inflammation may, and does, frequently occur as the result of constitutional conditions, as rheumatism, pyasmia, &c. When, in these cases, effusion takes place, and the joint becomes distended wth fluid, the swellmg is not very easy to detect on account of the thicluiess of the capsule and the depth of the articulation. It is principally to be found on the front of the joint, just internal to the ilio-femoral ligament ; or behmd, at the lower and back part. In these two places the capsule is thinner than elsewhere. Disease of the hip-joint is much oftener of a chronic character, and is usually of tuberculous Fig. 467.—Hip-joint, femoral ligament. showing the ilio- (After Bigelow.) origin. It begins either in the bones or in the synovial membrane ; usually in the former, and probably, in most cases, in the growng, highly vascular tissue in the neighbourhood of the epiphysial cartilage. In this respect it differs very materially from tuberculous arthritis of the knee, where the disease usually commences in the synovial membrane. In chi;Qnic hip-disease the affected limb assumes an altered position, the cause of which it is important to understand. In the early stage of a typical case, the limbls fl r-Xf• d. all(11101edr and' rotated outwards. In tins ptisitii iii all the ligaments of the joint are relaxed: the front of the capsule by flexion ; the outer band of the iho-femoral ligament by abduction ; and the inner band of this Ugament and the back of the capsule by rotation outwards. It is, therefore, the position of greatest ease. The condition is not quite obvious at first, upon examining a patient. If the patient is laid in the supine position, the affected limb will be found to be extended and parallel vnth the other. But it will be seen that the pelvis is tilted downwards on the diseased side and the limb apparently longer than its fellow, and that the lumbar spine is arched forwards (lordosis). The condition IS thus explained: a hmb which is flexed and abducted is obviously useless for progression, and in order to overcome the cbfficulty the patient depresses the affected side of his pelvis, thus producing parallelism of his imS nf T ite transverse horizontal axis, so as IdSed an™Sted This Wt"'*'^"'' °^ ^'^/i--^ the limb becomes flexed"and events as rega^rthe adducti^n^^^^^^^^ ^^'^T^' '^"^^"l'^^- ^'^t'^^' ^» nerve which aho Wpw J^.l r f^/^ 4^ductor muscles arc supplied by the obturator reflex act on by the^StZn nf J^'T '^^'^ '^'^'^^'^ thrown into inflamed articulation peripheral terminations of this nerve in the of middle age or Xan^ed Se m^^^^ 1 frequently affected. It is a disease arthritis the condiMonTs snoken nf^!l f-^ 'I associated with chronic osteo- ■The head of the femur is worn ^'•^'^"'^/e/orman. of the hip, or Morbus coxce senilis. articular s^face comes o 1 o on ^r^f" '"''^ "^^"'^ ^^"^ '^^'^'^ "^"^ i^'^g^'l^r of bone occurs at Us edges and a so f ^'"T, trochanters. New formation eroded by a simHar chiW nroci.« P ^.T°- ta'^"^"^, which is widened and limitation of CCment resuU Tth n^? 3°"^*. shortening of the limb, and great movement result, vnth much creaking and grating when the joint is moved limbs, and at the same time to direct the limb do\vnwards,430 SYNDESMOLOGY Congenital dislocation is more commonly met with in the hip-joint than in any other articulation. The displacement usually takes place on to the dorsum ilii. It gives rise to extreme lordosis, and a waddling gait is noticed as soon as the child commences to walk. Excision of the liip may be required for disease or for injury, especially gunshot. It may bo performed either by an anterior incision or by a posterior one. The former entails less interference with important structures, especially muscles, than the latter, but permits of less efficient drainage. In these days, however, when the surgeon aims at securing healing of the wound without suppuration, this second desideratum is not of so much importance. In the operation from the front, an incision is made three to four inches in length, starting immediately below and external to the anterior superior spinous process of the iliiim, downwards and inwards between the Sartorius and Tensor fascia; femoris, to the neck of the bone, dividing the cajisule at its upper part. A narrow- bladed saw now divides the neck of the femur, and the head of the bone is extracted with sequestrum forceps. All diseased tissue is carefully removed with a sharp spoon or scissors, and the cavity thoroughly flushed out with a hot antiseptic or sterile fluid. The posterior method consists in makmg an incision three or four inches long, commencing midway between the top of the great trochanter and the crest of the Uium, and extending down the posterior border of the trochanter. The muscles are detached from the great trochanter, and the capsule opened freely. The head and neck are freed from the soft parts and the bone sawn through just below the top of the trochanter with a narrow saw. The head of the bone is then levered out of the acetabulum. In both operations, if the acetabulum is eroded, it must be freely gouged. II. KNEE-JOINT (AETICULATIO GENU) The knee-joint was formerly described as a ginglymus or hinge-joint, but is really of a much more complicated character. It must be regarded as consisting of three articulations in one : two condyloid joints, one between each condyle of the femur and the corresponding semilunar cartilage and tuberosity of the tibia, and a third between the patella and the femur, partly arthrodial, but not completely so, since the articular surfaces are not mutually adapted to each other, so that the movement is not a simple gliding one. This view of the construction of the knee-joint receives confirmation from the study of the articulation in some of the lower mammals, Avhere, corresponding to these three subdivisions, three synovial membranes are sometimes found, either entirely distinct or only connected together by small communications. This view is further rendered probable by the existence within the joint of the two crucial ligaments, which must be regarded as the external and internal lateral ligaments of the inner and outer joints respectively. The existence of the ligamentum mucosum would further indicate a tendency to separation of the synovial cavity into two minor sacs, one corresponding to each lateral joint. The bones entering into the formation of the knee-joint are the condyles of the femur above, the head of the tibia below, and the patella in front. They are connected together by ligaments, some of which are placed on the exterior of the joint, while others occupy its interior. Exterior Ligaments ' Interior Ligaments Capsular. Anterior or External Crucial. Anterior, or Ligamentum Posterior or Internal Crucial. Patellaj. Two Semilunar Fibro-cartilages. Posterior, or Ligamentum Transverse. Posticum Winslowii. Coronary. Internal Lateral. Ligamentum mucosum |Processes of Syn- Extei'nal Latoi-al. Ligamenta alaria ) ovial membrane. The Capsular Ligament (capsula articularis) consists of a thin, but strong, fibrous membrane M hich is strengthened in almost its entire extent by bands inseparably connected with it. Above and in front, beneath the tendon of the Quadriceps extensor muscle, it is so tliin that it is usually described as defective. Its chief strengthening bands arc derived from the fascia lata and from the tendons surrounding the joint. In front, expansions from the Vasti and from the fascia lata and its ilio-tibialband fill in the mtcr- vals between the anterior and lateral ligaments, constituting the lateral patellarICSTEE-JOINT 431 FiQ. 468.—Right knee-joint. Anterior view. ligaments. Behind, the capsular ligament consists of vertical fibres which arise from tiie condyles and intercondyloid notcli of the femur, and are augmented by fibres derived from the tendon of the Semimembranosus, to form the jjosterior ligament. On the outer side of the joint, a jirolongation from the ilio-tibial band fills in the interval between tlie posterior and the external lateral ligaments, and partly covers the latter. On the inner side, expansions from the Sartorius and Semimembranosus pass ujawards to the internal lateral ligament and strengthen the capsule. Tlie Anterior Ligament, or Ligamentum Patellse (fig. 468), is the central portion of the common tendon of the Extensor muscles of tlie thigh, which is continued from the pateUa to the tubercle of the tibia, supj^lying the place of an anterior ligament. It is a strong, flat, ligamentous band, about three inches in length, attached, above, to the apex and adjoining margins of the patella and the rough depression on its posterior surface ; below, to the tubercle of the tibia; its superficial fibres are continuous over the front of the patella with those of the tendon of the Quadri- ceps extensor. The lateral portions of tlie tendon of the Extensor muscles pass down on either side of the patella, to be inserted into the upper extremity of the tibia on either side of the tubercle; these portions merge into the capsular ligament, as stated above, forming the lateral patellar ligaments. The posterior suiface of the ligamentum patellae is separated from the synovial membrane of the joint by a large pad {infrapatellar) of fat, and from the tibia by a synovial bursa. The Posterior Ligament (lig. posti- cum Winslowii) (fig. 469) is a broad, flat, fibrous band, formed of fasciculi sepa- rated from one another by apertures for the passage of vessels and nerves. It is attached above to the upper margin of the intercondyloid notch and posterior surface of the femur close to the articular margins of the condyles, and below to the posterior margm of the head of the tibia. Superficial to the main part of the liga- ment is a strong fasciculus, derived from the tendon of the Semimembranosus and passing from the back part of the inner tuberosity of the tibia obliquely upwards and outwards to the back part of the outer condyle of the femur, where it becomes lost in the general ligament.* The posterior ligament forms part of the floor of tlie popliteal space, and the popliteal artery rests upon it. The Internal Lateral Ligament (lig. collaterale tibiale) is a broad Hat, membranous band, situated nearer to the back than to the front of the M attached, above, to the inner tuberositv of the femur immcdiatelv Delow the Adductor tubercle ; below, to the inner tuberosity and inner surface o± the shaft of the tibia. The fibres of the posterior part of the ligament are short, and are inserted into the inner part of the tuberosity of tlie tibia aoove the groove for the Semimembranosus muscle. Thev incline back- Wi ""u .^ descend. The anterior part of the ligament is a flattened Dana, about four inches in length, which inclines forwards as it descends. J-t is inserted into the inner surface of the shaft of the tibia about an inch distUtirtn ?^ tf.'ncd the ligamentum posticum Winslowii, in contra- aistinction to the posterior ligament, which is then regarded as part of the capsular ligament432 SYNDESMOLOGY and a half below the level of the tuberosity. It is crossed, at its lower part, by the tendons of the Sartorius, Gracilis, and Semitendinosus muscles, a synovial bursa being interposed. Its deep surface covers the antei'ior portion of the tendon of the Semimembranosus, with which it is connected by a few fibres, and the Lnierior internal articular vessels and nerve ; it is intimately adlierent to the internal semilunar fibro-cartilage. Tlie External Lateral Ligament (lig. collaterale fibulare) is a strong, rounded, fibrous cord, attached, above, to the back part of the outer tuberosity of the femur, immediately above the groove for the Popliteus muscle ; below, to tlie outer side of the head of the fibula, in front of the styloid process. Its miter surface is covered by the tendon of the Biceps, which divides at its insertion into two parts, separated by the ligament. Passing beneath the ligament are the tendon of the Popliteus muscle, and the inferior external articular vessels and nerve. It has no attachment to the external semilunar fibro-cartilage. Fig. 469.—Right knee-joint. Fig. 470.—Right knee-joint. Showing Posterior view. interior ligaments. The Short External Lateral Ligament is an inconstant bundle of fibres placed behind and parallel .vith the preceding, attached, above, to the lower and back part of he outer tuberosity of the femur ; below, to the summit of the styloid process of fihula. jliis ligament is intimately connected v^ith the capsular ligament, while passmg beneath it are The tendon of the Popliteus muscle, and the inferior external articular vessels and nerve The Crucial Ligaments (ligg. cruciata genu) are of considerab e strength, situated in the interior of the jomt nearer its Posterior t an its anterior part. They are called crucial because thoy cross each other somewliat like ihe lines of the letter X; and have received the names anlcnor and posterior, from the position of their attachments to the tibia. „„.^-iu<»^ The Anterior or External Crucial Ligament (hg. cruciatun antcT s) (figs. 470, 471) is attached to the depression m Iront of the spine of the tibia, being blended with the anterior extremity of the external semilunar fibro-433 KNEE-JOINT cartilage ; it passes obliquely ujjw ards, backwards, and outwards, and is fixed into the inner and back part of the outer condyle of the femur. The Posterior or Internal Crucial Ligament (lig. cruciatura posterius) (figs. 471. 472) is stronger, but sliorter and less oblique in its direction, than Fig. 471.—Head of tibia, with semilunar fibro-cartilages. Seen from above. Right side. the antenor It is attached to the back part of the depression behind the spine of the tibia, to the pophteal notch, and to the posterior extremity of the external semilunar fibro-cartilage ; and passes upwards, forwards, and inwards, Fra. 472.—Left knee-joint from behind, showing interior ligaments. Ant. crucial ligament Tendon ofPopUfeus Ext. semilunar cartilage lixt. lateral ligament- Ligament of Wrisbcrg Inf. semilunar cartilage ■Int. lateral ligament capsular ligament ligament; behind, with theSYNDESMOLOGY 434 The Semilunar Fibro-cartilages (fig. 471) are two crescentic lamellae, which serve to deepen the surfaces of the head of the tibia for articulation with the condyles of tlie femur. The periplieral border of each cartilage is thicli, convex, and attached to the inside of the capsule of the knee ; the opposite border is thin, concave, and free. Their upper surfaces are concave, and in relation with the condyles of the femur ; tlieir lower surfaces are flat,' and rest upon the head of the tibia; botli surfaces of tlie cartilages are smooth, and invested by synovial membrane. Each cartilage covers neai-ly two-thirds of the periphery of the corresponding artictdar surface of the tibia.' The Internal Semilunar Fibro-cartilage (meniscus medialis) is nearly semicircular in form, a little elongated from before backwards, and broader behind than in front; its anterior extremity, thin and pointed, is attached to a depression on the anterior margin of the head of the tibia, in front of the anterior crucial ligament; its posterior extremity is fixed to the depression behind the spine, between the attachments of the external semi- lunar fibro-cartUage and the posterior crucial ligament. The External Semilunar Fibro-cartilage (meniscus lateralis) forms nearly an entire circle, covering a larger portion of the articular surface than the internal one. It is grooved on its outer side for the tendon of the Poj)liteus muscle, which separates it from the external lateral ligament. Its extremities, at their insertion, are interposed between the two extremities of the internal semilunar fibro-cartilage ; the anterior is attached in front of the spine of the tibia to the outer side of, and behind, the anterior crucial ligament, with which it blends ; the posterior is attached behind the spine of the tibia and in front of the posterior extremity of the internal semilunar fibro-cartilage. The anterior attachment of the external semilunar cartilage is twisted on itself so that its free margin looks backwards and upwards, its anterior end resting on a sloping shelf of bone on the front of the external tubercle of the tibial spine. Close to its posterior attachment it gives off a strong fasciculus, the ligament of Wrisberg, which passes obliquely upwards and inwards, to be inserted into the inner condyle of the femur, immediately behind the attachment of the posterior crucial ligament. Occasionally a small fasci- culus is given off which passes forwards to be inserted mto the back part of the anterior crucial ligament. The external semilunar fibro-cartilage wives off from its anterior convex margin a fasciculus wliich forms the transverse ligament. The Transverse Ligament (lig. transversum genu) is a band of fibres which passes transversely from the anterior convex margin of the external semilunar fibro-cartilage to the anterior convex margin of the internal semilunar fibro-cartilage ; its thiclmess varies considerably in different subjects, and it is sometimes absent. The Coronary Ligaments (ligamenta coronaria) are merely portions of the capsular ligament, wliich connect the periphery of each of the semilunar fibro-cartilages with the margin of the head of the tibia. The Synovial Membrane of the knee-joint is the largest and most exten- sive in the body. Commencing at the upper border of the patella, it forms a short cul-de-sac beneath the" Quadriceps extensor tendon, on the lower part of the front of the shaft of the femur : this very frequently communicates with a synovial bursa interposed between the tendon and the front of the femur, by an orifice of variable size. The pouch of synovial membrane between the Extensor tendon and front of the femur is supported, during the movements of the knee, by a small muscle, the Subcrureus, which is inserted into it. On either side of the patella, the synovial membrane extends beneath the aponeurosis of the Vastus, and more especially beneath that of the Vastus internus. Below the patella it is separated from the anterior hgament by a considerable quantity of adipose tissue, known as the infrapatellar pad. In this situation it sends'into the interior of the joint a triangular prolonga- tion which extends from the anterior part of the joint below the patella to the front of the intercondyloid notch. This fold has been termed the ligamentum mucosum (plica synovialis patellaris). It also sends off two fringe-likc folds, called tlio ligamenta alaria (plicis alares) which extend from the sides of the ligamentum mucosum, upwards and laterally between the patella and iemur. On either side of the joint, it passes downwards from the femur, lining theKNEE-JOINT 435 capsule to its point of attacliment to the semilunar cartUages ; it may then be traced over the upper surfaces of these cartilages to their free borders, and thence along their under surfaces to the tibia. At the back part of the external one it forms a cul-de-sac between the groove on its surface and the tendon of the Popliteus ; it surrounds the crucial ligaments, and lines the inner surfaces of the ligaments which enclose the joint. Bursae.—The bursae about the knee-joint are the following : In front there are four bursae : one is intei-posed between the patella and ilie sl^Q^ another of smaU size between the upper parf8t tbjjyjia and the" ligamentum patellae a thii'd between the lower part~7)t the tuberosity of Fia. 473.—Sagittal section of right knee-joint. Posterior ligament Int. semilunar cartilage Adipose tissue Bursa under Qucidrice}>s extejisor cruris Int. semilunar cartilage Ligamentwin patellee Bursa between tibia and Ugamentum 2)atella; tJie- tibm gp.d th^ akin a-n^ a fourth between the anterior surface of tlio l< .."^f tfiJl^tf'' ^'^"^".^ "r^^ surface of Dm Quadriceps rxlrn.Mr cruris, usually communicaHhLr Willi ih.^ kiicc-joint. On the outer side there : UjJone(whicTrsomeXimes'''communicates \Mtli flic joint) Bgtween the outer head-pf the Gastrocnemius and tlio .ansulr i-2)Tne ^ there joint) !». iwii^iartBEZ—j^uJ"-, "■^ '■^'^ v.<ci,:>i.i ui^iit;iiinis auci till! <ai)sulc : 12) one apove-thegxtemarlateral ligament,'betweeii it and (Ik^ tendon'ol' the I'.ir-eps- \r' °5St>.^'^5^''^tl' tl"' exTernhl lateral lit^amont, beiwen it and tlu- (,ndon„f f^":"^.""'"'^ ^^'"^ sometimes only an expansion IVoni I lie nexl hin sa) ; •■lieat h tliu tendon of the Popliteus. hel il and the eondvie of ^\ll|e|l ainiusl always an extension tVoni the sy)io\ial meinhriuier^^ (IT^rrbe the fern I436 SYNDESMOLOGY ^ On the inner side there arc five burssB : (1) h»f.w»^n i.iu. imii.,- heailoLlJie Gastrocnemius and the capsule: this sends a prolongation between the tendons of tne LJastrocnemius and Semimembranosus and often communi- cates with the joint ; (2) onejiil^qyP.fhp a^pm.l Uf^y^^ limmrpt .hfitilTrm il, |ind the tendons of tlio Sartorn]^(jyjg.ni1i«. .and Sr^n^i^An^^np^pB ■ (3) ^Mirnlli (he lulcnial lain al li-iQlfiBLJaaLweCil it and the tendon-of the RemU mfinhranosus ((his is m.iucI iiiics oiily an cxpansioji from tholu'xt bursa) ; (1) QIC boiicalli {\\v t(;ml()ii. of tlu^jSi'iiiiiiu;iiiljrajj.o.i!u.s, bt't'A.ueii it and the head of the tibia ; (5) occasionally there is 'a bursa between the tendonw of tlic Semi membranosus and Semitendinosus. Structures around the Joint.—In front, and at the sides, is the Quadriceps extensor; on the outer side, the tendons of the Biceps and Pophteus and the external popliteal nerve ; on the inner side, the Sartorius, GraciUs, Semitendinosus and Semimembranosus ; behind, an expansion from the tendon of the Semi- membranosus, the pophteal vessels, and the internal pophteal nerve, Pophteus, Plantaris, and inner and outer heads of the Gastrocnemius, some lymphatic glands,' and fat. The Arteries supplying the joint are the anastomotica magna, a branch of ihe femoral, the articuhir branches of the_ popht'Sl 'tlie anterior and' pbs'terTVii' recurrent liranch.es. of the anterior tibial^ and the descending brancli from the external cireiim(li-\ of the profinida. '-'-^ ^ The Nerves are derived from the obturator, anterior crural, and external and internal pophteal. Movements.—The movements which take place at the knee-joint are flexion and extension, and, in certain positions of the joint, internal and external rotation. The movements of flexion and extension at this joint differ from those in a typical hinge-joint, such as the elbow, in that (a) the axis romid which motion 'takes place is not a fixed one, but shifts forwards during extension and backwards during flexion ; (6) the commencement of flexion and the end of extension are accom- panied by rotatory movements associated with the fixation of the hmb in a position of great stabihty. The movement from full flexion to full extension may there- fore be described in three phases. 1. In the fully flexed condition the posterior parts of the femoral condyles rest on the corresponding portions of the menisco-tibial surfaces, and in this position a slight amount of simple rolhng movement is allowed. 2. During the passage of the hmb from the flexed to the extended position a ghding movement is superposed on the rolhng, so that the axis, which at the commencement is represented by a fine through the inner and outer tuberosities of the femur, gradually shifts forwards. In this part of the movement, the pos- terior two-thirds of the tibial articular surfaces of the two femoral condyles are involved, and as these have similar curvatures and are parallel to one another, they move forwards equally. 3. The external condyle is brought almost to rest by the tightening of the anterior crucial hgament; it moves, however, shghtly forwards and inwards, pushing before it the anterior part of the external semilunar cartilage. The tibial surface on the internal condyle is prolonged farther forwards than that on the external, and this prolongation is directed outwards. "WTien, therefore, the move- ment forwards of the condyles is checked by the anterior crucial ligament, con- tinued muscidar action causes the internal condyle, dragging with it the semilunar cartilage, to travel backwards and inwards, thus producing an internal rotation of the thigh on the leg. When the position of full extension is reached the outer part of the groove on the external condyle is pressed against the anterior part of the corresponding semilunar cartilage, while the inner part of the groove rests on the articular margin in front of the external tubercle of the tibial spine. Into the groove on the internal condyle is fitted the anterior part of the internal semi- lunar cartilage, while the anterior crucial ligament and the articular margin in front of the inner tubercle of the tibial spine are received into the fore part of the intercondyloid notch. This third phase by winch all these parts are brought into accurate apposition is known as the ' screwing home,' or locking movement of the joint. The complete movement of flexion is the converse of that described above, and is therefore preceded by an external rotation of the femur which imlocks the extended joint.KISTEE-JOINT 437 The axes round which the movements of flexion and extension take place are not precisely at right angles to either bone; in flexion, the femur and tibia are in the same plane, but in extension the one bone forms an angle with the other. In addition to the rotatory movements associated with the completion of extension and the initiation of flexion, rotation inwards or outwards can be efiected when the joint is partially flexed. These latter rotatory movements take place mainly between the tibia and the semilunar cartilages, and are freest when the leg is bent at right angles with the thigh. Movements of Patella.—The articular surface of the patella is indistinctly divided into seven facets—upper, middle, and lower horizontal pairs, and an internal perpendicular facet (fig. 474). When the knee is forcibly flexed, the internal perpendicular facet is in contact with the semilunar surface on the outer part of the internal condyle ; this semilmiar surface is a prolongation backwards of the inner part of the trochlea. As the leg is carried from the flexed to the extended position, first the uppermost pair, then the middle pair, and lastly the lowest pair of horizontal facets are successively brought into contact with the trochlear surface of the femur. In the extended position, when the Quadriceps extensor is relaxed, the patella Hes loosely on the front of the lower end of the femur. Dming flexion, the ligamentum patellae is put upon the stretch, and in extreme flexion so also is the posterior crucial ligament; the lateral and posterior liga- ments, and, to a slight extent, the anterior crucial heament, are relaxed. Flexion is checked during ^ , . ,. hfe by the contact of the leg with the thigh. When f/^'-^f ,, , ■ ■ J. ■ { u i J J ii. 1 i- 1 J of the right patella, show- the knee-]omt is fully extended the lateral and pos- ■ diagrammatically the tenor hgaments, the anterior crucial hgament, and ^reas of contact with the the inner part of the posterior crucial ligament, are femui-in different positions rendered tense ; in the act of extending the knee, of the knee, the hgamentum patellse is tightened by the Quad- riceps extensor, but in full extension with the heel supported it is relaxed. Eotation inwards is checked by the anterior crucial ligament; rotation outwards tends to imcross and relax the crucial ligaments, but is checked by the internal lateral hgament. The main function of the crucial ligaments is to act as a direct bond between the tibia and femur and to prevent the former bone from being carried too far backwards or forwards. They also assist the lateral ligaments in resisting any lateral bending of the joint. The interarticular cartilages are in- tended, as it seems, to adapt the surface of the tibia to the shape of the femur to a certain extent, so as to fill up the intervals which would otherwise be left in the varying positions of the joint, and to obviate the jars which would be so frequently transmitted up the limb in jumping or by falls on the feet; also to permit of the two varieties of motion, flexion and extension, and rotation, as explained above. The patella is a great defence to the Imee-joint from any injury inflicted in front, and it distributes upon a large and tolerably even surface, during loieehng, the pressure which would otherwise fall upon the prominent ridges of the condyles ; it also affords leverage to the Quadriceps extensor. When standing erect in the attitude of ' attention,' the weight of the body falls in front of a hue carried across the centres of the knee-joints, and therefore tends to produce over-extension of the articulations ; this, however, is prevented by the tension of the anterior crucial, posterior, and lateral ligaments. Extension of the leg on the thigh is performed by the Quadriceps extensor; flexion by the hamstring muscles, assisted by the Gracilis and Sartorius, and by the Gastrocnemius, Popliteus, and Plantaris. Rotation outivards is efiected by the Biceps, and rotation inwards by the Pophteus, Semitendinosus, and, to a slight extent, the Semimembranosus, the Sartorius, and the Gracihs. The Pophteus comes into action especially at the commencement of the movement of flexion of the knee; by its contraction the leg is rotated inwards, or, " the tibia be fixed, the thigh is rotated outwards, and the knee-joint is unlocked.SYNDESMOLOGY Surface Form-pie inteTViil between the femur and tibia can always be easilv If the bmb be extended, it is situated on a sHghtly higher level than the nn^ nf tl n but ,f the Hmb be slightly flexed, a knife ^carxid\Sta^t backS^^ below the apex of the patella would pass directly into the joint men th^ 1 ^1^. ^ flexed, the internal border of the inner condyle of the femur th^^ n^i. i f f ^" inner t.xberosity of the tibia, and the inner margt ofth^^atrformlS^^^^ area, which coincides with the level of the ioint and witli tlio irTw i ^ '^^P'^^f ed cartilage. « this cartilage be displace^inwarC gap^^^^ the knee-joint is distended with Lid, the outuke of^thTl^ovtl m^S:^^^^^^ of the knee may be fairly weU mapped out. "^uia-ue au me rronc ^Pplied Anatomy.—Fvom a consideration of the construction of the knee-ioint it would at firs sight appear to be one of the least secure of any of the johits^ the body It IS formed between the two longest bones, and therefore the amount ^of lev™ S can be brought to bear upon it is considerable ; the articular surfaces are but iU^adaS to each other and the range of motion which it enjoys is great. All these circumstS tend to render the articulation insecure; nevertheless,%n account of theTowerfS hgaments which bmd the bones together, the joint is one of the strongest in the body and dislocation from traumatism is a rare occurrence. When, on the other hand the I^oT a ! l^een softened or destroyed by disease, partial displacement is Uab'le S occur and is frequently brought about by the mere action of the muscles displacing the articular surfaces from each other. The tibia may be dislocated forwards, backwards mwards or outwards ; or a combination of two of these dislocations may occur and any ot these dislocations may be complete or incomplete. One or other of the semilunar cartflages may become displaced and nipped between the femur and tibia. The accident is produced by a twist of the leg when the knee is flexed, and is accompanied by a sudden pain and fixation of the knee in a flexed position ihe cartilage may be displaced either inwards or outwards : that is to say, either inwards towards the tibial spme, so that the cartUage becomes lodged in the intercondyloid notch • or outwards so that the cartilage projects beyond the margin of the two articular surfaces' Ine mternal cartilage is much more commonly the one affected. Acute synovitis, the result of traumatism, is very common in the knee, on account of the superficial position of the joint. When the cavity is distended with fluid, the swelluig shows itseH above and at the sides of the pateUa, reaching about an inch, occasionaUy two mches or more, above the trochlear surface of the femur, and extending a Uttle higher under the Vastus internus than under the Vastus externus. The lower level of the synovial membrane is just above the level of the head of the tibia. Chronic synovitis shows itseK prmcipaUy in the form of pulpy degeneration of the synovial membrane, leading to tuberculous arthritis. The reasons why tuberculous disease of the knee usually com- mences in the synovial membrane appear to be (a) the complex and extensive nature of this sac, and (6) the fact that injuries are generally diffused and applied to the front of the jomt rather than to the ends of the bones. SyphiUtic disease not infrequently attacks the knee-joint. In the tertiary form of the disease, gummatous infiltration of the synovial membrane may take place. The knee is one of the joints most commonly affected with osteo-arthritis, and is said to be more frequently the seat of this disease in women than in men. The occun-ence of the so-called loose cartilages is almost confined to the knee, though they are occasionally met with in other joints. Many of them occur in cases of osteo-arthritis, in which calcareous or cartilaginous material is formed in one of the synovial frmges and constitutes the foreign body, and may or may not become detached, in the former case only meriting the usual term, ' loose ' cartilage. In other cases they have their origin in the exudation of inflammatory lymph, and possiblj% in some rare instances, a portion of the articular cartflage or one of the semilunar cartilages becomes detached and constitutes the foreign body. In inflammatory affections of the knee-joint, the position of greatest ease, and therefore the one which is always assumed, is that of sUght flexion. In this position there is the most complete relaxation of ligamentous structures, and, therefore, the greatest diminution in the tension caused by the effusion. If this flexed position be maintained for any length of time, it becomes permanent from fibrous adhesions taking place, and the utility of the limb is materially impaired. Attention should therefore be paid by the surgeon to the position of the limb ; and by carefully applied splints, vnih. the leg "in an extended position, this untoward result should be prevented. In cases of septic sjmovitis, incisions to evacuate the pus should be made vertically on either side of the pateUa, between it and the condyles of the femur. Genu valgum, or knock knee, is a common deformity of childhood. In this condition, owing to changes in and about the joint, the angle between the outer borders of the tibia and femur is diminished, so that as the i^atient stands the two internal condyles of the femora are in contact, but the tw^o internal maUeoli of the tibite are more or less widely separated from each other. Wlien, however, the knees are flexed to a right angle, the two legs are practically parallel with each other. At the commencement of the disease there is a yielding of the internal lateral ligament and other fibrous structures on the inner side of the joint; as a result of this there is a constant undue pressure of the outer439 ARTICULATIONS BETWEEN TIBIA AND FIBULA tuberosity of the tibia against the outer condyle of the femur. This extra pressure causes nn-est of growth, and, possibly, wasting of the outer condyle, and a consequent tendency for the tibia to become separated from the internal condyle. Irregular overgrowth from the inner portion of the epiphysial line takes place, giving rise to apparent enlargement of the inner condyle of the femur, the line of the epiphysis becommg obhque, with a direction downwards and inwards, mstead of at right angles to the axis of the bone. It the deformity be marked, an osteotomy of the femur is required to correct it. Excision of the knee-jomt is most frequently required for tuberculous disease of this articulation but is also practised in cases of disorganisation of the knee from other causes. It is also occasionaUy caUed for in cases of injury, gunshot or otherwise. The operation is best performed by a horse-shoe incision, startmg from one condyle, descendmg as low as the tubercle of the tibia, and then carried upwards to the other condyle. The bone havmg been cleared, and in those cases where the operation is performed for tuberculous chsease aU pulpy tissue having been carefully removed, the section of the femur is first made. This should never include, in children, more than, at the most, two-thirds of the articular surface, otherwise the epiphysial cartilage vnil be involved, with disastrous results as regards the growth of the limb. Afterwards a thm slice should be removed from the upper end of the tibia, not more than half an mch. If any diseased tissue still appears to be left m the bones, it should be removed with the gouge, rather than that a further section of the bones should be made. The bursEe about the knee-joint are sometimes the seat of enlargement. The pre- patellar bursa—i.e. the bursa between the front of the patella and the skm—is frequently affected in individuals who are in the habit of constantly kneeling, and the condition is then known as ' housemaid's knee.' The bursa beneath the Semimembranosus tendon also occasionally becomes enlarged, and forms a fluctuating swelling at the back of the knee. During extension, the swelling is firm and tense ; but during flexion it becomes soft, and, as the bursa often communicates with the synovial cavity, the fluid it contains can be made to disappear by pressure when the knee is flexed. Extension of septic processes within the joint is apt to occur along the tendon sheath of the Popliteus muscle, and this may lead to deep-seated suppuration in the popliteal space, often associated with septic thrombosis of the pophteal vein ; when this occurs amputation of the hmb becomes necessary. III. ARTICULATIONS BETWEEN THE TIBIA AND FIBULA The articulations between the tibia and fibula are effected by ligaments which connect both extremities ; in addition the shafts of the bones are bound together. The hgaments may consequently be subdivided into three sets : L Those of the Superior Tibio-fibular articulation. 2. The Middle Tibio- fibular ligament or interosseous membrane. 3. Those of the Inferior Tibio- fibular articulation. I. StrPEEIOR TlBIO-FIBDTLAR ARTICULATION (AbTICULATIO TiBIOriBULAEIS) This articulation is an arthrodial joint. The contiguous surfaces of the bones present flat, oval facets covered with cartilage and connected together by the following ligaments : Capsular. Anterior Superior Tibio-fibular. Posterior Superior Tibio-fibular. The Capsular Ligament (capsula articularis) surrounds the articulation, being attached round the margins of the articular facets on the tibia and fibula; it is much thicker in front than behind. The Anterior Superior Tibio-fibular Ligament (lig. capituli fibula; anterius) (fig. 470) consists of two or three broad and flat bands, which pass obHquely upwards and inwards from the front of the head of the fibula to the front of the outer tuberosity of the tibia. The Posterior Superior Tibio-fibular Ligament (lig. capituli fibulae posterius) (fig. 469) is a single thick and broad band, wliich passes upwards and inwards from the back part of the head of the fibula to the back part of the outer tuberosity of the tibia. It is covered by the tendon of the Popliteus muscle. A Synovial Membrane lines the capsule, and at its upper and back part is occasionally continuous with that of the knee-joint. 2. Middle Tibio-fibular Ligament or Interosseous Membrane An Interosseous Membrane (membranainterossea cruris) extends between the interosseous margins of the tibia and fibula, and separates the muscles onSYNDESMOLOGY 440 tlie front from those on the back of the leg. It consists of a thin aponeurotic lamma composed of oblique fibres, which for the most part pal dTnwa^ds and outwards; some few fibres, iiowever, pass in the oppositniieclion It is broader above than below. Its upper \nargin doe.s^no quite reS til superior tibio-fibular joint but presents a free concave border^above whlh is a large oval aperture for the passage of the anterior tibial vessels to t e fron of the leg. At Its lower part is an opening for the passage of the antli^or peroneal vessels. It is continuous, below with the inflrior in?erosseous ligament, and presents numerous perforations for the passage of snmU vessels FVf.il ^^"^^ Extensoi^longus digSun ' Extensor proprius hallucis, Peroneus tertius, and the anterior tibial vessels and nerve ; behmd, M-ith the Tibialis posticus and Flexor longus hallucis! 3. Inferiob Tibio-fibular Abtictjlation (Syndesmosis Tibio- pibulare) nf f^l"f ^^■^^^"l^^^i^^js by the rough, convex surface of the inner side of the lower end of the fibula, and a concave rough surface on the outer side of the tibia. Below, to the extent of about a sixth of an inch, these surfaces are smooth, and covered with cartilage, which is continuous with that of the anlde-joint. The ligaments of this joint are : Anterior Inferior Tibio-fibular. Transverse Inferior Posterior Inferior Tibio-fibular. Interosseous. .^^^ Inferior Tibio-fibular Ligrament (lig. maUeoli lateralis anterius) (fig. 476) is a flat, triangular band of fibres, broader below than above, which extends obliquely downwards and outwards between the adjacent margins of the tibia and fibula, on the front aspect of the articula- tion. It IS in relation, in front, with the Peroneus tertius, the aponeurosis of the leg, and the mtegument; behind, udth the inferior interosseous ligament • and lies in contact with the cartilage covering the astragalus. The Posterior Inferior Tibio-fibular Ligament (lig. maUeoli lateralis posterius), smaller than the preceding, is disposed in a similar manner on the posterior surface of the articulation. The Transverse Inferior Ligament lies under cover of the posterior ligament, and is a strong, thick band of yellowish fibres which passes trans- versely across the back of the joint, from the external malleolus to the posterior border of the articular surface of the tibia, almost as far as its malleolar process. This ligament projects below the margin of the bones, and forms part of the articulating surface for the astragalus". The Interosseous Ligament consists of numerous short, strong, fibrous bands, which pass between the contiguous rough surfaces of the tibia and fibula, and constitute the chief bond of union between the bones. It is continuous, above, with the interosseous membrane. The Synovial Membrane wliich is associated with the small arthrodial part of this joint is continuous with that of the ankle-joint. IV. ANKLE-JOINT (AETICULATIO TALOCRURALIS) The ankle-joint is a ginglymus, or hinge-joint. The structures entering into its formation are the lower extremity of the tibia and its malleolus, tlie external malleolus of the fibula, and the transverse ligament, \A-hich together form a mortise to receive the upper convex surface of the astragalus and its two lateral facets. The surfaces are connected by a capsule, which in places forms thickened bands constituting the following ligaments : Capsular. Anterior. Internal Lateral. Posterior. External Lateral. The Capsular Ligament (capsula articularis) is an imperfect ligamentous structure which siuTounds the joint, and is attached, above, to the borders of the articular surface of the tiljia ; and below, to the astragalus around itsANKLE-JOINT 441 upper articular surface. The parts of which it is composed vary considerably in strength. ip-ament (fig. 475) is a broad, thin, membranous layer, attach:d''a?ovrto''tSTnte^^^^^^ of the lower extremity o the tjb.a^ attacnea auu ' , ^ ^ ^ f superior articular surface. It is m in froiTt «Sh tkrExtonsor tendons of the toes, the tendons of tlie ySs'Tntt^and P™ tcrtius, and the anterior tibial vessels and Tlie Posterior Ligament is very thin, and consists principally of transverse fibrS ?t S attached, above, to the margin of the articular surface of he tibk blending with the transverse tibio-fibular ligament below, to the nstrasXs bchid its superior articular facet. Externally where a somewhat thlckS band of transverse fibres is attached to tbe hollow on the inner surface of the external malleolus, it is stouter than internally. The Internal Lateral or Deltoid Ligament (hg. deltoideum) (fig. 475) is a strong, fiat, triangular band, attached, above, to the apex and anterior and posterior borders oi the inner malleolus. It consists of two sets of fibres, Fig. 475.—Ankle-joint, tarsal and tarso-metatarsal articulations, laternal view. Right side. Tarso-metatarsal articulatio superficial and deep. Of the superficial fibres the most anterior pass forwards to be inserted into tlie tuberosity of the navicular bone, and immediately behind this thev blend with the inner margm of the inferior calcaneo- navicular ligament; the middle descend almost perpendicularly to be mserted into the whole length of the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis ; the posterior fibres pass backwards and outwards to be attached to the inner side of the astragalus, and to the prominent tubercle on its posterior surface, internal to the groove for the tendon of the Flexor longus hallucis. The deep fibres are attached, above, to the tip of the inner malleolus, and, below, to the inner surface of the astragalus. Tliis ligament is covered by the tendons of the Tibialis posticus and Flexor longus digitorum. The External Lateral Ligament (fig. 476) con.sists of three fasciculi, taking different directions, and separated by distinct intervals, for which reason it is described by some anatomists as three distinct ligaments. The anterior fascicuhis (lig. talofibulare anterius), the shortest of the three, passes from the anterior margin of the external malleolus, forwards and inwards to tlie astragalus, in front of its external articular facet.SYNDESMOLOGY 442 The poslei-ior fasciculus (Hg. talofibulare posterius), the strongest and most deeply seated, passes inx^^ards from the depression at the inner and back part of the external malleolus to a prominent tubercle on the posterior surface of the astragalus immediately external to the groove for the tendon of the Flexor longus halluois. Its fibres are almost horizontal in direction. The middle fasciculus (lig. calcaneofibulare), the longest of the three is a narrow, rounded cord, running from the apex of the external malleolus dowTi- wards and shghtly backwards to a tubercle on the outer surface of the os calcis. It IS covered by the tendons of the Peronei longus et brevis. The Synovial Membrane invests the inner surfaces of the ligaments, and sends a duplicature upwards between the lower extremities of the tibia and fibula for a short distance. Eelations.—The tendons, vessels, and nerves in connection with the joint are, in front, from within outwards, the Tibiahs anticus. Extensor proprius hallucis, anterior tibial vessels, anterior tibial nerve. Extensor longus digitonun, and Peroneus tertius ; behind, from within outwards, the Tibiahs posticus. Flexor longus digitorum, posterior tibial vessels, posterior tibial nerve. Flexor longus hallucis ; and, in the groove behind the external malleolus, the tendons of the Peronei longus et brevis. The Arteries supplying the joint are derived from the malleolar branches of the anterior tibial and the peroneal. The Nerves are derived from the anterior and posterior tibial. Movements.—When the body is in the erect position, the foot is at right angles to the leg. The movements of the joint are those of dorsiflexion and extension; dorsiflexion consists in the approximation of the dorsmn of the foot to the front of tlie leg, while in extension the heel is drawn up and the toes pomted down- wards. The malleoh tightly embrace the astragalus in all positions of the joint, so that any slight degree of lateral movement which may exist is simply due to stretching of the inferior tibio-fibular hgameuts, and sUght bending of the shaft of the fibula. The superior articular surface of the astragalus is broader in front than behind. In dorsiflexion, therefore, greater space is required between the two malleoli. This is obtained by a sUght outward rotatory movement of the lower end of the fibula and a stretching of the inferior tibio-fibular hgaments : this outward movement is facihtated by a slight ghcliug at the superior tibio-fibularANIvLE-JOTNT 443 • 1 .1 ,,«a=;v.lv nko hv the bending of the shaft of the fibnla. Of the articula ion and p^^^^^^^^^^ i7of very gre.xf power-so mneh so, that it usually Sra fort 4StS^^^^^^^ the process of Lne to which it is attached. Its middle portion together with the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament, ITncb the bones of the leg firmly to the foot, and resists displacement in every Sion Its anterior and posterior fibres Umit extension and flexion of the foo rrsrectively, and the anterior fibres also limit abduction. The posterior portion Se external lateral Ugament assists the middle portion m resistmg the displace- ment of the foot backwards, and deepens the cavity for the reception of the astragalus. The anterior fasciculus is a security against the displacement of the foot forwards, and limits extension of the joint , -^i, ^i, ■ + The Movements of inversion and eversion of the foot, together with the minute chan'^es in form by which it is appUed to the gromid or takes hold of an ob]ect in cUmWng &c., are mainly effected in the tarsal joints ; the pint which enjoys the grStest amoilnt of motion being that between the astragalus and os calcis behind, Fio. 477.—Coronal section of right ankle-joint and foot. Int. malleolus Int. lateral ligament Tibialis posticus Flexor longus digitonim Flexor longus hallucis Int. plantar nerve and vessels Accessorius Abductor hallticis Ext. plantar nerve and vessels Flexor hrevis digitorum Interosseous ligament External malleolus External lateral ligament Interosseous ligament Tendon of Peroneus brevis Tendon of Peroneus longiis Abductor minimi digiti and the navicular and cuboid in front. This is often called the transverse or inedio- tarsal joint, and it can, with the subordinate joints of the tarsus, replace the ankle- joint in a great measure when the latter has become ankylosed. Extension of the foot upon the tibia and fibula is produced by the Gastro- cnemius, Soleus, Plantaris, Tibialis posticus, Peronei longus et brevis. Flexor longus digitorum, and Flexor longus hallucis ; dorsiflexion, by the Tibialis anticus, Peroneus tertius, Extensor longus digitorum, and Extensor proprius hallucis.* Surface Form.—Tho level of the anlde-joint may be indicated by a transverse line dra^TO across the front of the lower part of the leg, about half an inch above the level of the tip of the internal malleolus. The joint can be felt on either side of the Extensor tendons ; and during extension of the foot, the superior facet of the astragalus can be perceived below the anterior border of the lower end of the tibia. The student must bear in mind that the E.xtensor longus digitorum and Extensor proprius hallucis are extensors of the toes, h^xt flexors of the ankle ; and that the llexor longus digitorum and Flexor longus hallucis are flexors of the toes, but extensors of the ankle.SYNDESMOLOGY 444 Applied Anatomy.—As the ankle-joint is a very strong and powerful articulation displacement of the trochlear surface of the astragalus from the tESar ^rt^e "s not of common occurrence, and great force is required to produce it. Nevertheless dislocation does occasionally occur, both m an antero-posterior and a lateral direcUon In the latter, which is the more common, fracture is a necessary accompaniment of the mjury. The dislocation m these cases is somewhat peculiar, and is not a displacement in a horizontally lateral cbrection, such as usually occurs m lateral dislocations of guiSo d joints, but the astragalus undergoes a partial rotation round an antero-posterior axis dravvn through Its own centre, so that the superior surface, instead of bemg directed dfspracTment"^" ^^^^ ^^"''^^^^ outwards according to the variety of the The anMe-joint is more frequently spramed than any jomt in the body, and this may lead to acute synovitis. In these cases, when the synovial sac is distended with fluid the bulgmg appears principally in the front of the joint, beneath the anterior tendons, and on either side between the Tibialis anticus and the internal lateral ligament on the inner side, and between the Peroneus tertius and the external lateral Ugament on the outer side. In addition to this, bulgmg often occurs posteriorly, and a fluctuatmg sweUing may be detected on either side of the tendo Achillis. ^ J Chronic synovitis may result from frequent sprauas, and when once this joint has been sprained it is more hable to a recurrence of the injury than it was before ; or the synovitis may be tuberculous m its origm, the disease usually commencmg in the astragalus and extending to the jomt, though it may commence in the synovial membrane, the result probably of some slight strain in a tuberculous subject. Excision of the ankle-joint is not often performed, for two reasons. In the first place disease of the articulation for which this operation is indicated is frequently associated with disease of the tarsal bones, which prevents its performance ; and, secondly, the foot after excision is often of very little use ; far less useful, in fact, than it is after Syme's amputation, which is, therefore, a preferable operation in these cases. V. INTEETARSAL ARTICULATIONS (ARTICULATI0NE3 INTERTARSE^) 1. Articulation of the Os Calcis and Astragalus (Articulatio Talocalcanba) The articulations between the os calcis and astragalus are two in number— anterior and posterior. Of these, the anterior forms part of the joint between the OS calcis, astragalus, and navicular, and will be described as the astragalo- €alcaneo-navicular articulation. Tlie posterior or astragalo-calcanean articula- tion is formed between the posterior and larger facet on the inferior surface of the astragalus, and the external facet on the superior surface of the os calcis. It is an artlirodial joint, and the two bones are connected together bv the following ligaments : Capsular. Anterior Calcanco-astragaloid. External Calcaneo-astragaloid. Posterior Calcaneo-astragaloid. Internal Calcaneo-astragaloid. Interosseous. The Capsular Ligament (capsula articularis) surrounds the two articular surfaces, and consists for the most part of short fibres, which are spUt up into distinct slips, forming the specially named ligaments of the articulation ; between them there is only a \\'eak fibrous investment. The External Calcaneo-astragaloid Ligament (lig. talocalcaneum laterale) (fig. 476) is a short, strong fasciculus, passing from the outer surface of the astragalus, immediately beneath its external facet, to the outer surface of the OS calcis. It is placed in front of, but on a deeper plane than, the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint, with tlie fibres of which it is parallel. Tlio Internal Calcaneo-astragaloid Ligament (lig. talocalcaneum mediale) is a band of fibres connecting the internal tubercle of the back of the astragalus with the back of the sustentaculum tali. Its fibres blend with those of the inferior calcaneo-naviciilar ligament. The Anterior Calcaneo-astragaloid Ligament (hg. talocalcaneum an- terius) extends from the front and outer surface of the neck of tlie astragalus to the superior surface of tlie os calcis. It forms the posterior boundary of the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid joint, and is sometimes described as the anterior interosseous ligament.ARTICULATION OF OS CALCIS AND ASTRAGALUS 445 The Posterior Calcaneo-astragaloid Ligament lig. talocalcaneum oosterius) (fig. 475) coimects the external tubercle of the astragalus with the upper and inner part of the os caleis ; it is a short band, the fibres of which radiate from their narrow attachment to the astragalus The Interosseous Ligament (lig. talocalcaneum interosseum) (fig. 477) forms the chief bond of union between the bones. It is, in fact the umted capsular ligaments of the two joints mentioned above, tlie astragalo-calcaneo- navicularand the astragalo-calcanean, and consists of two partially united layers of fibres, one belonging to the anterior and the other to the posterior joint. It is attached by one extremity to the groove between the articular Fig 478. —Sagittal section of the right foot near its inner border, dividing the tibia, astragalus, navicular, internal cuneiform, and first metatarsal bone, and the first phalanx of the great toe. (After Braune.) 'TLEXOn IlllEVIS HALLtJCIS ExI. plaulnr vessels Abductor MINIMI digit: facets of the under surface of the astragalus; by the other, to a corresponding depression on the upper surface of the os calcis. It is very thick and strong, being at least an inch in breadth from side to side, and serves to unite the os calcis and astragalus solidly together. The Synovial Membrane (fig. 480) lines the capsule of the joint, and is distinct from the other synovial membranes of the tarsus. Movements.—The movements permitted between the astragalus and os calcis are hmited to gUding of the one bone on the other backwards and forwards and from side to side. 2. Articulation of the Astragalus with the Os Cai-cis and Navicular (Articul.'Vtio Talocalcaneonavicularis) The articulation between the astragalus and navicular is an arthrodial joint: the rounded head of the astragalus being received into the concavity formed by the posterior surface of the navicular, the anterior articular surface of the calcaneum, and the upper surface of the inferior calcaneo- navicular ligament, which are all directly continuous with each other. There are two ligaments in this joint : Capsular. Superior Astragalo-navicular. The Capsular Ligament (capsula articularis) consists of a layer of fibres, imperfectly developed except posteriorly, where it becomes greatly increased, and forms, with a part of the capsule of the astragalo-calcanean joint, the strong interosseous ligament -which fills in the canal formed by the opposing grooves on the os calcis and astragalus, as above mentioned. The Superior Astragalo-navicular Ligament (lig. talonaviculare dorsale) (fig. 475) is a broad band, which passes obliquely forwards from the neck of the astragalus to the superior surface of the navicular bone. It is weak, and thinSYNDESMOLOGY 446 in texture, and covered by the Extensor tendons. The inferior calcaneo- navicular sujDphes the place of an inferior ligament. The Synovial Membrane lines all parts of the capsule of the joint Movements.—This articulation permits of a considerable range of gliding move- ments ; its feeble construction allows occasionally of dislocation of the other bones of the tarsus from the astragalus. 3. Articitlations of the Os Caxcis with the Cttboid (Articulatio Calcaneocuboidea) The ligaments connecting the os calcis M'ith the cuboid are five m number : Capsular Dorsal ] Superior Calcaneo-cuboid. (Internal Calcaneo-cuboid (Interosseous). Plantar \ ^^^S Calcaneo-cuboid. {Short Calcaneo-cuboid. The Capsular Ligament (capsula articularis) is an imperfectly developed layer, contammg certain strengthened bands, which form the other named ligaments of the joint. The Superior or Dorsal Calcaneo-cuboid Ligament (fig. 476) is a thm but broad fasciculus, which passes between the contiguous surfaces of the os ^ ^ ^ calcis and cuboid, on the dorsal surface Fig. 479.—Ligamenta of plantar sui'face of the joint. The Internal Calcaneo-cuboid (Interosseous) Ligament (fig. 476) is a short, but thick and strong band of fibres, arising from the os calcis, in the deep hoUoM^ which intervenes between it and the astragalus, and closely blended at its origin ^dth the superior calcaneo-naAdcular Hgament, so as to form with it a V-shaped struc- ture. It is inserted into the inner side of the cuboid bone. This Hgament forms one of the chief bonds of union betAveen the first and second rows of the tarsus. The Long Calcaneo-cuboid or Long Plantar Ligament (Ug. plan- tare longum) (fig. 479), the more super- ficial of the two plantar hgaments, is the longest of aU the hgaments of the tarsus : it is attached to the under surface of the os calcis, from near the tuberosities to the anterior tubercle : its fibres pass forwards to be attached to the ridge on the under surface of the cuboid bone, the more superficial fibres beuig continued onw ards to the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. This ligament crosses the groove on the under surface of the cuboid bone, converting it into a canal for the passage of the tendon of the Peroneus longus. The Short Calcaneo-cuboid or Short Plantar Ligament (hg. cal- caneocuboideum plantare) (fig. 479) lies nearer to the bones than the preceding, from which it is separated by a little areolar tissue. It is exceedingly broad, about an mch in length, and extends from the tubercle and the depression m front of it, on tlie fore part of the right foot.LIGAMENTS CONNECTING OS CALCIS AND NAVICULAR 447 of the under surface of the os calcis, to the inferior surface of the cuboid '^"^vnojSal MeSr^al'-^^^^^^ membrane in this joint is distinct fron?Kt of ti?f o??e^ tarsal articulations (fig. 480). It lines the inner surface °^MovSnts;-The movements permitted between the os calcis and cuboid are limited to sU"ht gUding movements of the bones upon each other. it tZverse tarsal or medio-tarsal joint is formed by the articulation of the OS calcis wfth the cuboid, and the articulation of the astragalus with the nav^c- Ir The movement which takes place in this pint is more extensive than that n the other tarsal joints, and consists of a sort of rotation by means of which the foot may be sUghtly fleied or extended, the sole being at the same tmie carried inwards (inverted) or outwards (everted). 4. The Ligaments connecting the Os Calcis and Navicular Though these two bones do not directly articulate, they are connected by two ligaments : Superior or External Calcaneo-navicular. Inferior or Internal Calcaneo-navicular. The Superior or External Calcaneo-navicular Ligament (lig. calcaneo- naviculare dorsale) (fig. 476) arises, as already mentioned with the mternal calcaneo-cuboid in the deep hollow between the astragalus and os calcis , it nasses forwards from the upper surface of the anterior extremity of the OS Balcis to the outer side of the navicular bone. These two ligaments resemble the letter Y, being blended together behind but separated m front. The Inferior or Internal Calcaneo-navicular Ligament (lig calcaneo- naviculare plantare) (fig. 479) is by far the larger and stronger of the two ligaments between these bones ; it is a broad and thick band of fibres, and passes forwards and inwards from the anterior margin of the sustentaculum taU of the OS calcis to the under surface of the navicular bone. This ligament not only serves to connect the os calcis and navicular, but supports the head of the astragalus, forming part of the articular cavity in which it is received The uvper surface presents a fibro-cartilaginous facet, Imed by the synovial membrane continued from the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation, and upon this a portion of the head of the astragalus rests. The under surface is in contact with the tendon of the Tibialis posticus muscle ; its mner border is blended with the fore part of the internal lateral Ugament of the ankle- joint, thus completing the socket for the head of the astragalus. Applied Anatomy.—The inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament, by supportmg tlie head of the astragalus, is principally concerned in maintaining the arch of the foot. When it yields, the head of the astragalus is pressed downwards, inwards, and forwards by the weight of the body, and the foot becomes flattened, expanded, and turned outwards, and exhibits the condition known as flat-foot. This hgament contains a considerable amount of elastic fibres, so as to give elasticity to the arch and sprmg to the foot; hence it is sometimes called the ' spring' ligament. It is supported, on its under surface, by the tendon of the Tibialis posticus, which spreads out at its msertion mto a number of fasciculi, which are attached to most of the tarsal and metatarsal bones. This prevents undue stretching of the Ugament, and is a protection agamst the occurrence of flat-foot, hence muscular weakness is, in most cases, the primary cause of the deformity. 5. The Articulation of the Navicular with the Cuneiform Bones (Artioulatio Cuneonavicularis) The navicular is connected to the three cuneiform bones by : Dorsal and Plantar ligaments. The Dorsal Ligaments are small, longitudinal bands, arranged as three bundles, one to each of the cuneiform bones. The bundle connecting the navicular with the internal cuneiform is continuous round the inner side of the articulation with the plantar ligament which connects these two bones. i448 SYNDESMOLOGY The Plantar Ligaments liave a similar arrangement to those on tlu- dorsum. They are strengthened by processes given off by the tendon of tlic Tibialis posticus. The Synovial Membrane of these joints is part of the great tarsal synovial membrane. Movements.—Mere ghding movements are permitted between the navicular and cmieiform bones. 6. The Articulation of the Navicular with the Cuboid (Articulatio Cuboideonaaicularis) The navicular bone is connected with the cuboid by : Dorsal, Plantar, and Interosseous ligaments. The Dorsal Ligament extends obliquely forwards and outwards from the navicular to the cuboid bone. The Plantar Ligament passes nearly transverselj'^ between these two bones. The Interosseous Ligament consists of strong transverse fibres, and connects the rough non-articular portions of the lateral surfaces of the two bones. The Synovial Membrane of this joint is part of the great tarsal synovial membrane. Movements.—The movements permitted between the navicular and cuboid bones are limited to a shght ghding upon each other. 7. The Articulation of the Cuneiform Bones with each other (Articulationes Intercuneiformes) These bones are connected together hy: Dorsal, Plantar, and Interosseous ligaments. The Dorsal Ligaments consist of two transverse bands: one connecting the internal with the middle cuneiform, and the other connecting the middle with the external cuneiform. The Plantar Ligaments have a similar arrangement to those on the dorsum. They are strengthened by processes given oflE from the tendon of the Tibialis posticus. The Interosseous Ligaments consist of strong transverse fibres which pass between the rough non-articular portions of the lateral surfaces of the adjacent cuneiforin bones. The Synovial Membrane of these joints is part of the great tarsal synovial membrane. Movements.—The movements permitted between the cuneiform bones are hmited to a sUght ghding upon each other. 8. The Articulation of the External Cuneiform Bone with the Cuboid (Articulatio Cuneocuboidea) These bones are connected together by: Dorsal, Plantar, and Interosseous ligaments. Tlie Dorsal Ligament passes transversely between the two bones. The Plantar Ligament has a similar arrangement. It is strengthened by a process given off from tlie tendon of the Tibialis posticus. The Interosseous Ligament consists of strong transverse fibres wluch connect the adjacent rough non-articular surfaces of the two bones. The Synovial Membrane of this joint is part of the great tarsal synovial membrane. , , i -r t Movements.—The movements permitted between the external cuneiform and culjoid are limited to a slight gliding upon each other. Nerve-supply.—All the joints of the tarsus are supphed by the anterior tibial nerve.TARSO-METATARSAL ARTICULATIONS 449 Applied Analomi/.—In spite of tlie great strength of the ligaments which connect the tarsal bones together, dislocation at some of the tarsal joints does occasionally occur ; tiiough, on account of the spongy character of the bones, they are more frequently broken as the' result of violence, than dislocated. When dislocation takes place, it is most commonly in connection v\'ith the astragalus ; for not only may this bono be dislocated from the tibia and fibula at the ankle-joint, but the other bones may be dislocated from it, the trochlear surface of the bone remaining in situ in the tibio-fibular mortise. This constitutes what is known as the sub-aslragaloid dislocation. Or, again, the astragalus may be dislocated fi-om all its connectioas—from the tibia and fibula above, the os calcis below, and the navicular in front—and may even undergo a rotation, on either a vertical or a horizontal axis. In the former case the long axis of the bone becoming du-ected across the joint, so that the head faces the articular surface on one or other malleolus ; or, in the latter, the lateral surfaces becoming directed upwards and doi«Tiwards, so that the trochlear surface faces to one or the other side. Reduction in these cases is often very difficult or impossible, and the displaced astragalus may then requu-e removal by open operation. Dislocation may also occur at the medio-tarsal joint, the anterior tarsal bones being luxated from the astragalus and calcaneum. The other tarsal bones are also, occasionally, though rarely, dislocated from their connections. VI. TARSO-METATARS\L ARTICULATIONS (ARTICULATIONES TARSOMETATARSE^) These are arthrodial joints. The bones entering into their formation are four tarsal bones, viz. the internal, middle and external cuneiform, and tlie cuboid, wliich articulate with the bases of the metatarsal bones of the five toes. The metatarsal bone of the great toe articulates with the internal cuneiform ; that of the second is deeply wedged in between the internal and external cuneiforms resting against the middle cuneiform, and is the most .strongly articulated of all the metatarsal bones ; the third metatarsal articulates w ith the external cuneiform ; the fourth, vnth. the cuboid and external cunei- form ; and the fifth, with the cuboid. The bones are connected by the following ligaments : Dorsal. Plantar. Interosseous. The Dorsal Ligaments consist of strong, flat bands, Avliich connect the tarsal with the metatarsal bones. Tiie first metatarsal is connected to the internal cuneiform by a single broad, thin band ; the second has three dorsal ligaments, one from each cuneiform bone.; the thkd has one from the external cuneiform ; the fourth has two, one from the external cuneiform and one from the cuboid ; and the fifth, one from the cuboid. The Plantar Ligaments consist of longitudinal and oblique bands connecting tlie tarsal and metatarsal bones, but disposed with less regularity than the dorsal ligaments. Those for the first and second metatarsals are the most strongly marked ; the second and tliird metatarsals receive strong bands, which pass obliquely across from the internal cuneiform ; the jjlantar ligaments of the fourth and fifth metatarsals consist of a few fibres derived from the cuboid. The Interosseous Ligaments are three in number : internal, middle, and external. The mterrial is, the strongest of the three, and passes from the outer surface of the internal cuneiform to the adjacent angle of the second metatarsal. The middle, less strong than the preceding, connects the external cuneiform with the adjacent angle of the second metatarsal. The external connects the outer angle of tlie external cuneiform with the adjacent side of the tliird metatarsal. The Synovial Membrane between the internal cuneiform bone and the fu-st metatarsal is a distinct sac. The synovial membrane between the middle and external cuneiforms beliind, and the second and tliird metatarsal bones in front, is part of the great tarsal synovial membrane. Two prolonga- tions a,re sent forwards from it, one between the adjacent sides of the second and third and another between those of the tliird and fourth metatarsal bones. The synovial membrane between the cuboid and the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones is a distinct sac. From it a prolongation is sent forwards between the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. Movements.—The movements permitted between the tarsal and metatarsal bones are hniited to shght gliding movements of the bones upon each other. G G450 SYNDESMOLOGY VII. INTEEMETATAESAL AETICULATIONS {AETICULATIONES INTEEMETATAESE^: i The base of the first metatarsal is not connected with the second metatarsal by anj' ligaments ; in this respect the great toe resembles the thumb. The bases of the four outer metatarsals are connected by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments. The Dorsal Ligaments pass transversely between the dorsal surfaces of the adjacent metatarsal bones. The Plantar Ligaments have a similar arrangement to those on tlic dorsum. The Interosseous Ligaments consist of strong transverse fibres wliich pass between the rough non-articular portions of the lateral surfaces. The Synovial Membranes between the second and third, and that between the third and fourth metatarsal bones are part of the great tarsal synovial membrane ; that between the fourth and fifth is a prolongation of the synovial membrane of the cubo-metatarsal joint. Movements.—The movement permitted in the tarsal ends of the metatarsal bones is limited to a sHght gliding of the articular sm-faces upon one another. Tlie digital extremities of all the metatarsal bones are connected together b}'^ the transverse metatarsal ligament. The Transverse Metatarsal Ligament is a narrow band which passes transversely across the anterior extremities of all the metatarsal bones, connecting them together. It is blended anteriorly with the plantar (glenoid) ligaments of the metatarso-phalangeal articulations ; to its posterior border is comiected the fascia covering the Interosseous muscles. Its inferior surface is concave where the Flexor tendons run below it; above it the tendons of the Interosseous muscles pass to their insertion. It differs from the transverse metacarpal ligament in that it is attached to the fu-st digit and connects it with the others. The Synovial Membranes in the Tarsal and Metatarsal Joints The Synovial Membranes (fig. 480) found in the articulations of the tarsus and metatarsus are six in number : one for the posterior calcaneo- astragaloid articulation; a second for the anterior calcaiieo-astragaloid and the astragalo-navicular articulations ; a third for the calcaneo-cuboid articulation ; and a fourth for the articulations of the navicular with the Fig. 480.—Oblique section of the articulations of the tarsus and metatarsus. Showing the six synovial membranes. three cuneiforms, the three cuneiforms with each other, the external cuneiforin with the cuboid, and the middle and external cuneiforms with the ba.ses ot the second and third metatarsal bones, and the lateral surfaces of the second third, and fourtii metatarsal bones with each other ; a fiftli for tlie mternal cuneiform with tiie metatarsal bone of the great toe; and a sixtli for tlie451 METATARSO-PHALANGEAL ARTICULATIONS articulation of the cuboid with the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. A small sjmovial membrane is sometimes found between tlie contiguous surfaces of tlie navicular and cuboid bones. Nerve-supply.—The nerves supplying the tarso-metatarsal joints are derived from the anterior tibial. VIII. METATARSO-PHALANGEAL ARTICULATIONS (ARTICTJLATIONES METATARSOPHALANGE.E) The raetatarso-phalangeal articulations are of the condyloid kind, formed by the reception of the rounded heads of the matatarsal bones into shallow cavities in the extremities of tlie first phalanges. The ligaments are : Plantar. Two Lateral. Tlie Plantar Ligaments (Glenoid ligaments of Cruveilhier) are thick, dense, fibrous structures. They are placed on the plantar surfaces of the joints in the intervals between the lateral ligaments, to which they are connected ; they are loosely united to the metatarsal bones, but very firmly to the bases of the first phalanges. Their plantar sui'faces are intimately blended with the transverse metatarsal ligament, and present grooves for the passage of the Flexor tendons, the sheaths surrounding whicli are connected to the sides of the grooves. Theii- deep surfaces form parts of the articular facets for the heads of the metatarsal bones, and are lined by synovial membrane. The Lateral Ligaments are strong, rounded cords, placed one on either side of each joint, and attached, by one extremity, to the posterior tubercle on the side of the head of the metatarsal bone, and, by the other, to the contiguous extremity of the phalanx. The place of a Dorsal Ligament is supplied by the Extensor tendon on the back of each joint. Movements.—The movements permitted in the metatarso-phalangeal articu- lations are flexion, extension, abduction, and adduction. IX. INTERPHALANGEAL ARTICULATIONS (ARTICULATIONES DIGITORUM PEDIS) The articulations of the phalanges are ginglynioid joints. The ligaments are : Plantar. Two Lateral. The arrangement of these ligaments is similar to that in the metatarso- phalangeal articulations : the Extensor tendon supplies the place of a dorsal ligament. Movements.—The only movements permitted in the phalangeal joints are flexion and extension ; these movements are more extensive between the first and second phalanges than between the second and third. The amount of flexion is very considerable, but extension is limited by the plantar and lateral Hganients. Surface Form.—^The principal joints which it is necessary to distinguish, with regard to the surgery of the foot, are the mid-tarsal and tJie tarso-metatarsal ; the mid-tarsal joint consists of the astragalo-navicular and calcaneo-cuboid articulations. The joint between the astragahis and the navicular lies immediately behind the tubercle of the latter bone. If the foot be grasped and forcibly extended, a rounded prominence, the head of the astragalus, appears on the inner side of the dorsum in front of the ankle-joint, and if a knife were carried downwards, just in front of this prominence and behind the line of the navicular tubercle, it would enter the astragalo-navicular joint. The calcaneo- cuboid joint is situated midway between the external malleolus and the prominent base of the fifth metatarsal bone. The plane of the joint is in the same line as that of the astragalo-navicular. The position of the joint between the fifth metatarsal bone and the cuboid is easily found by the projection of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, which IS the guide to it. The direction of the line of the joint is very oblique, so that, if continued inwards, it would pass through the inner .side of the head of the first metatarsal bone. The joints between the third and fourth metatarsal bones and the cuboid and external cunciforrn are the direct continuation inwards of the previous joint, but their planes are less oblique. The tarso-metatarsal articulation of the great toe corresponds to a groove which can be felt by making firm pressure on the inner side of the foot one inch m front of the tubercle on the navicular bone ; and the joint between the second G G 2SYNDESMOLOGY 452 metatarsal bone and the middle cuneiform is to be found on the dorsum of the foot, half an inch behind the level of the tarso-mctatarsal joint of the great too. Tlie hne of tin- joints between the metatarsal bones and the first phalanges is about an inch behind the webs of the corresponding toes. Applied Anatomy.—Gout peculiarly ailccts the metatarso-phalangcal joint of the biL' toe, beginning with the deposit of sodium and calcium urates in the cartilage on the bones forming the joint, and slow necrosis of the surrounding tissue. Later the circum- articular fibrous tissue becomes the seat of these goutj^ deposits, and considerable thickening and deformity may result. The other chief joint-affections, such as rheumatism, gonorrhceal arthritis, tuberculosis, or syphilis, comparatively seldom attack the big too joint. Arches of the Foot In order to allow of its supporting the weight of the body in the erect posture with the least expenditure of material, the foot is constructed of a series of arches which are formed by the tarsal and metatarsal bones, but are strengthened by tli ( ligaments and tendons of the foot. The main arches are the antero-posterior arches, which may, for descriptive purposes, be regarded as divisible into two types—an inner and an outer. The inner arch (see fig. 417, page 363) is made up by the os calcis, the astragalus, the na\acular, the three cuneiforms, and the inner three metatarsals. Its summit is at the superior articular surface of the astragalus, and its two extremities or piers, on which it rests in standing, are the tubercles on the inferior surface of the OS calcis posteriorly and the heads of the inner three metatarsal bones anteriorly. The chief characteristic of this arch is its elasticity, due to its height and to the number of small joints between its component parts. Its weakest part, i.e. the part where it is most liable to yield from over-pressure, is the joint between the astragalus and navicular, but this portion is braced by the inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament which is elastic and is thus able to quickly restore the arch to its pristine condition when the disturbing force is removed. This ligament is supported internally by blending with the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint and inferiorly by the tendon of the Tibialis posticus which is spread out in a fan-shaped insertion, and prevents undue tension of the ligament or such an amomit of stretching as would permanently elongate it. The arch is further supported by the plantar fascia, by the small muscles in the sole of the foot, by the tendons of the Tibiales anticus et posticus and Peroneus longus, and by the ligaments of all the articulations involved. The outer arch (see fig. 418. page 363) is composed of the os calcis, the cuboid, and the fourth and fifth nieta- tarsals. Its summit is at the calcaneo-astragaloid articulation, and its chief joint is the calcaneo-cuboid, which possesses a special mechanism for locking and allows only a limited movement. The most marked features of this arch are its solidity and its slight elevation; two strong ligaments, the long and short inferior calcaneo-cuboid, together with the outer Extensor tendons and the short muscles of the little toe, preserve its integrity. WhWc these inner and outer arches may be readily demonstrated as the component antero-posterior arches of the foot, yet the fundamental longUndinal arch is contributed to by both, and consists of the os calcis, cuboid, external cuneiform, and third metatarsal : all the other bones of the foot may be removed without destroying this arch. In addition to the longitudinal arches the foot presents a series of transver.so arches. At the hinder part of the metatarsus and the anterior part of the tarsus the arches are complete, but in the middle of the tarsus they present more the characters of half-domes the concavities of \vhich are directed downwards and inwards, so that when the inner borders of the feet are placed in apposition a complete tarsal dome is formed. The transverse arches are strengthened b}- the interosseous, plantar and dorsal ligaments, by the short muscles of the first and fifth toes (especially the Adductor transversus hallucis), and by the Peroneus longus, whose tendon stretches across between the piers of the arches.I MYOLOGY* THE Muscles are connected with, the bones, cartilages, ligaments, and skin, either directly or tlu-ough the intervention of fibrous structures, called tendons or aponeuroses. Wliere a muscle is attached to bone or cartilage, the fibres terminate in blunt extremities upon the periosteum or peri'chondrium, and do not come into direct relation with the osseous or cartilagmous tissue. Where muscles are connected with the skin, they lie as a flattened layer beneath it, and are connected with its areolar tissue by larger or smaller bundles of fibres, as in the muscles of the face. The muscles vary extremely m thek form. In the limbs, they are of considerable length, especially the more superficial ones ; they surround the bones, and constitute an important protection to the various joints. In tlie trunk, they are broad, fiattened, and expanded, forming the parietes of the cavities which they enclose. Hence the reason of the terms, long, broad, short, &c., used in the description of a muscle. There is considerable variation in the arrangement of the fibres of certam muscles with reference to the tendons to which they are attached. In some muscles the fibres are parallel and run directly from their origin to their insertion; these are quadrilateral muscles, such as the Thyro-hyoid. A modification of these is found in the fusiform muscles, in which the fibres are not quite parallel, but slightly curved, so that the muscle tapers at either end; in their actions, however, they resemble the quadrilateral muscles. Secondly, in other muscles the fibres are convergent; arising by a broad origin, they converge to a narrow or pointed insertion. This arrangement of fibres is found in the triangular muscles—e.g. the Temporal. In some muscles, wliich otherwise would belong to the quadrilateral or triangular type, the origin and insertion are not in the same plane, but the plane of the line of origin intersects that of the line of insertion : such is the case in the Pectineus muscle. Thirdly, in some muscles the fibres are oblique and converge, like the plumes of a quUl pen, to one side of a tendon which runs the entire length of the muscle. Such muscles are rhomboidal or penniform, as the Peronei. A modification of these rhomboidal muscles is found in those cases where obUque fibres converge to both sides of a central tendon which runs down the middle of the muscle ; these are called bipenniform, and an example is afforded in the Rectus femoris. Finally, we have muscles in which the fibres are arranged in curved bvmdles in one or more planes, as in the Spliincter muscles. The arrangement of the fibres is of considerable importance in respect to the relative strength and range of movement of the muscle. Those muscles where the fibres are long and few in number have great range, but diminished strength ; where, on the other hand, the fibres are short and more numerous, there is great power, but lessened range. The names appUed to the various muscles have been derived : 1, from their situation, as the TibiaUs, Eadiahs, Ulnaris, Peroneus; 2, from their direction, as the Rectus abdominis, Obhqui capitis, Transversahs ; 3, from their uses, as Flexors, * The Muscles and Fasciai are described conjointly, in order that the student may consider ihe arrangement of the latter in his dissection of the former. It is rare for the student of anatomy in this counti-y to have the opportunity of dissecting the fasciffi separately; and it is for this reason, as well as from the close connection tliat exists between the muscles and their investing sheaths, that they arc considered together. Some general observations are first made on the anatomy of the muscles and fasci:e, the special descriptions being given in connection with the different regions.MYOLOGY 454 Extensors, Abductors, &c. ; 4, from their shape, as the Deltoid, Trapezius Khoniboideus ; 6, from the number of their divisions, as the Biceps and Tricep'^ • 6, from their pomts of attachment, as the Sterno-clcido-mastoid, Sterno-hyoid' oterno-thyroid. In the dcscriptioi; of a muscle, the term origin is meant to imply its more fixed or central attachment; and the term inseHion the movable point on which t]i<- force of the muscle is applied ; but the origin is absolutely fixed in only a veiv small number of muscles, such as those of the face \vhich are attached by qui- extremity to the bone, and by the other to the movable integument; in the greatci number, the muscle can be made to act from either extremity. In the dissection of the muscles, the student should pay especial attention u< the exact origin, insertion, and actions of each, and its more important relations with surrounding parts. While accurate Icnowledge of the points of attachment of the muscles is of great importance in the determination of their actions, it is not t<, be regarded as conclusive. The action of a muscle deduced from its attachment,-, or even by pulling on it in the dead subject, is not necessarily its action in tin- livmg. By pulling, for example, on the Brachio-radialis in the cadaver the hand may be shglitly supinated when in the prone position and slightly pronated when in the supine position, but there is no evidence that these actions are performed by the muscle during Hfe. It is impossible for an individual to throw into action any one muscle ; in other words, movements, not muscles, are represented in the central nervous system. To carry out a movement a definite combination of muscles is called into play, and the individual has no power either to leave out a muscle from this combination, or to add one to it. One (or more) muscle of the combination is the chief moving force ; when this muscle passes over more than one joint other muscles (synergic muscles) come into play to inhibit the move- ments not required ; a third set of muscles (fixation muscles) fix the hmb—i.e. in the case of the limb-movements—and also prevent disturbances of the equihbrium of the body generally. As an example, the movement of the closing of the fist may be considered: (1) the prime movers are the Flexores digitorum, Flexor longus pollicis, and the small muscles of the thumb ; (2) the synergic muscles are the Extensores carpi, which prevent flexion of the wrist; while (3) the fixation muscles are the Biceps and Triceps, which steady the elbow and shoulder. A further point which must be borne in mind in considering the actions of muscles is that in certain positions a movement can be effected by gravity, and in such a case the muscles acting are the antagonists of those which might be supposed to be in action. Thus in flexing the trunk when no resistance is interposed the Erectores spina? contract to regulate the action of gravity, and the Eecti abdominis are relaxed.* By a consideration of the action of the muscles, the surgeon is able to explain the causes of displacement in various forms of fracture, and the causes which produce distortion in various deformities, and, consequently, to adopt appropriate treatment in each case. The relations, also, of some of the muscles, especially those in immediate apposition with the larger blood-vessels, and the surface- markings they produce, should be carefully remembered, as they form useful guides in the appHcation of Ugatures to those vessels. Applied Anatomy.—Degeneration of muscular tissue is important clinically, and is met with in two main conditions. In one, the degeneration is myopathic, or primary in the muscles themselves ; in the other it is neuropatliic. or secondarj' to some lesion of the nervous sjrstem—a hfemorrhage into the brain, for example, or injurj- or inflammation of some part of the spinal cord or peripheral nerves. In either case more or less paral^-sis and atrophy of the affected muscles result. IrtTien the degeneration begins primarily in the muscles, liowever, it often liappens that though the muscle-fibres waste away, their place is taken by fibrous and fatty tissue to such an extent that the affected muscles increase in volume, and actually ajjpear to liyi^ertrophy. Ossification of muscular tissue a.s a result of repeated strain or injury is not infrequeni. It is oftencst found about the tendon of tlie Adductor longus and Vastus internus in horse- men, or in the Pcctoralis major and Deltoid of soldiers. It may take the form of exo.stoses firmly fixed to the bone—e.g. ' rider's bone ' on the femur (page 573)—or of layers or spicules of bone lying in the muscles or tlieir fascia? and tendons. Busse states that these hony deposits are preceded by a hsemorrhagic myositis due to injury, tlie effused blood organising and being finally converted into bone! In the rarer disease, progressive myositis ossificans. * Consult in this connection the Croonian Lectures (1903) on ' Muscular Movements and their representation in the Central Nervous System,' by Charles E. Heevor. M.D.GENERAL ANATOMY 455 there is an unexplained tendency for practically any of the voluntary muscles to become converted into solid and brittle bony masses which are completely rigid. Tendons are white, glistening, fibrous cords, varying in length and thick- ness sometimes round, sometimes flattened, of considerable length and devoid of elasticity. They consist almost entirely of white fibrous tissue the fibrils of which have an undulating course parallel with each other and are firmly united together. Tliey are very sparingly supphed with b ood- vessels the smaller tendons presenting m their interior no trace ot tliem. Nerves' supiDlying tendons liave special modifications of their terminal fibres named organs of Golgi (see page 52). The tendons consist prmcipally of a substance which yields gelatm. , ■, , j- i i Avoneuroses are flattened or ribbon-shaped tendons of a pearly-white colour, iridescent, glistening, and simUar in structure to the tendons, ihey are only sparingly supplied with blood-vessels. The tendons and aponeuroses are connected, on the one hand, with tlie muscles and, on the other hand, with the movable structures, as the bones, cartilages, ligaments, and fibrous membranes (for mstance, the sclera). Where the muscular fibres are in a direct line with those of the tendon or aponeurosis, the two are directly continuous, the muscular fibre being distmguishable from that of the tendon only by its striation. But where the muscular fibres iom the tendon or aponeurosis at an oblique angle, the former termmate, accordmg to Kolliker, in romided extremities which are received into correspondmg depressions on the surface of the latter, the connective tissue between the fibres bemg contmuous with that of the tendon. ihe latter mode of attachment occurs m all the penniform and bipenniform muscles, and in those muscles the tendons of which commence m a membranous form, as the Gastrocnemius and Soleus. • i, m • i The fascioR are fibro-areolar or aponeurotic lammae, of variable thickness and strength, found m aU regions of the body, mvestmg the softer and more delicate organs. The fasciae have been subdivided, from the situations in which they are found, into two groups, superficial and deep. The superficial fascia is found immediately beneath the mtegument over almost the entire surface of the body. It connects the skm with the deep fascia, and consists of fibro-areolar tissue, containmg in its meshes pellicles of fat in varying quantity. In the eyelids and scrotum, where fat is rarely deposited, this tissue is very liable to serous mfiltration. The superficial fascia varies m thickness in different parts of the body ; m the grom it is so thick as to be capable of being subdivided into several laminae. Beneath the fatty layer of the superficial fascia, which is immediately subcutaneous, there is generally another layer of the same structure, comparatively devoid of adipose tissue, in which the trunks of the subcutaneous vessels and nerves are found, as the superficial epigastric vessels in the abdominal region, the superficial veins in the forearm, the saphenous veins in the leg and thigh, and the superficial lymphatic glands. Certain cutaneous muscles also are situated m the superficial fascia, as the Platysma in the neck, and the Orbicularis palpebrarum around the eyelids. This fascia is most distinct at the lower part of the abdomen, the scrotum, perinaeum, and extremities; it is very thin in those regions where muscular fibres are inserted into the integument, as on the side of the neck, the face, and around the margin of tiie anus. It is very dense in the scalp, in the palms of the hands, and soles of the feet, forming a fibro-fatty layer, which binds the integument firmly to the underlying structures. The superficial fascia connects the skin to the subjacent parts, facilitates the movement of the skin, serves as a soft nidus for the passage of vessels and nerves to the integument, and retains the warmth of the body, since the fat contained in its areolae is a bad conductor of heat. The deep fascia is a dense, inelastic, unyielding fibrous membrane, forming sheaths for the muscles, and in some cases affording them broad surfaces for attachment. It consists of shinmg tendinous fibres, placed parallel with one another, and connected together by other fibres disposed in a rectilinear manner. It forms a strong investment which not only binds down collectively the muscles in each region, but gives a separate slieath to each, as well as to the vessels and nerves. The fasciae are thick in unprotectedMYOLOGY 456 situations, as on the outer side of a limb, and thinner on the inner side llie deep tasciae assist the muscles in their actions, by the degree of tension and pressure they make upon their surfaces ; and, in certain situations where they are strengthened by the presence m them of degenerated muscular hbres which have become converted into fibrous sheets, the degree ot tension and pressure is regulated by the associated muscles, as, for instance by the iensor fasciae femoris and Gluteus maximus in the tiiigh, by the Biceps in the upper and lo\\'er extremities, and Palmaris longus m tliie hand In the limbs, the fascite not only invest the entire hmb, but give oflf septa which separate tlie various muscles, and are attached beneath to the periosteum : these prolongations of fasciae are usually spoken of as intermuscular septa. i he Muscles and Fasciae may be arranged, according to the general division of the body, into those of tlie cranium, face, and neck ; those of the trunk ; those of the upper extremity ; and those of the lower extremity. MUSCLES AND FASCIiE OF THE CRANIUM AND FACE The Muscles of the Cranium and Face consist of ten groups, arranged according to the region in ^^■hich they are situated. I. Cranial Region. VI. Maxillary Region. II. Auricular Region. VII. Mandibular Region. III. Palpebral Region. VIII. Intermaxillary Region. IV. Orbital Region. IX. Temporo-mandibular Region. V. Nasal Region. X. Pteiygo-mandibular Region. Tlie muscles contained in each of these groups are the following : /. Cranial Region. Compressor naris. Occipito-frontalis. Compressor narium minor. Depressor alae nasi. II. Atiricular Region. Attrahens auriculam. VI. Maxillary Region. AttoUens auriculam. Levator labii superioris proprius. Retrahens auriculam. Levator anguli oris. Zygomaticus major. ///. Palpebral Region. Zygomaticus minor. Orbicularis palpebrarum. Tensor tarsi. VII. Mandibular Region. Corrugator supercilii. - Levator menti. Depressor labii inferioris. IV. Orbital Region. Depressor anguh oris. Levator palpebrae superioris Rectus superior. VIII. Intermaxillary Region. Rectus inferior. Orbicularis oris. Rectus internus. Buccinator. . Rectus externus. Risorius. Obliquus oculi superior. Obliquus oculi inferior. IX. Temporo-mandibulm Region. Masseter. V. Nasal Region. Temporal. Pyramidalis nasi. Levator labii superioris alseque nasi. A'. Pterygo-mandibidar Region. Dilatator naris posterior. Pteiygoideus externus. Dilatator naris anterior. Pterygoideus internus. I. Cranial Region Occipito-frontalis The superficial fascia in the cranial region is a fii-m, dense, fibro-fatly layer, intimately adherent to the integument, and to the Occipito-frontalis and its tendinous aponeurosis ; it is continuous, behind, with the su]iprficial fascia at the back part of tlie neck ; and, laterally, is continued over tlio temporal fascia. It contains betAveen its layers the superficial vcs.sels and nerves and mucli granular fat.457 CRANIAL REGION The Occipito-frontalis (m. epicranius) (fig. 481) is abroad, musculo-fibrous laver whicli covers the wliole of one side of the vertex of the skuW, from the ' occiput to the eyebrow. It consists of two muscular beUies, connected by an i interveninc' tendinous aponeurosis, the epicranial aponeurosis. The occipital mrlion (m°occipitalis) is thin, quadi-ilateral in form, and about an inch and : a Iialf in length ; it arises from the outer two-thirds of the superior curved ' line of the occipital bone, and from the mastoid portion of the temporal. Its Fig. 481.—^Muscles of the head, face, and neck. Corrugator supercilii Hihilalor naris ant. DiliiUilov naris //osi ompi: nariuni minoi Depressor alw nasi Levator menti fibres of origin are tendinous, but they soon become muscular, and ascend in a parallel direction to termmate in the tendinous aponeurosis. Tlie frontal portion (m. frontalis) is thin, of a quadrilateral form, and intimately adherent to the superficial fascia. It is broader, and its fibres are longer and paler in colour than those of the occipital portion. It has no bony attachments. Its internal fibres are continuous with those of the Pyramidahs nasi. Its middle fibres become blended with the Cori'ugator supercilii and Orbicularis palpebrarum ; and the outer fibres are also blended with the latter muscle458 MYOLOGY oyer the external angular process. From these attachments the fibres are cUrected upwards and jom the aponeurosis below tlie coronal suture The niner margms ot the frontal portions of the two muscles are joined togetiiei- for some distance above the root of the nose ; but between the occipital portin there is a considerable, though variable, interval, which is occupied bv iIm- a25oneurosis. ^ ' The epicranial aponeurosis (galea aponeurotica) covers the upper part ot the vertex of tlie skull, being continuous across the middle line with the aponeurosis ot the opposite muscle. Behind, it is attached, in the interval betwee^n the occipital origins, to the occipital protuberance and liighest curved ines ot the occipital bone ; in front, it forms a short and narrow in-olongation between the frontal portions. On either side it gives origin to the AttoUens and Attrahens muscles of the pinna ; in this situation it loses its aponeurotic character, and is continued over the temporal fascia to tlie zygoma as a laxn ot laminated areolar tissue. This aponeurosis is closely connected to tlie integument by the firm, dense, fibro-fatty layer which forms the suijerficial tascia : it is connected with the pericranium bv loose ceUular tissue, which allows of a considerable degree of movement of the aponeurosis, cam-incr with it the integument. ^ ^ Nerves.—The frontal portion is suppUed by the temporal branches of the facial nerve ; the occipital portion by the posterior auricular branch of the same nerve. Actions.—The frontal portion of the muscle raises the eyebrows and the skin over the root of the nose, and at the same time draws the scalp forwards, throwint.' the integument of the forehead into transverse wrinkles. The posterior portion draws the scalp backwards. By bringing alternately into action the frontal and occipital portions the entire scalp may be moved forwards and backwards. In the ordinary action of the muscles, the eyebrows are elevated, and at the same time the aponeurosis is fixed by the posterior portion, thus gi^nug to the face the expression of surprise : if the action be exaggerated, the evebrows are still further raised, and the skin of the forehead thrown into transverse wrmkles. a~ in the expression of fright or horror. Applied Anatomy.—Fvom an anatomical point of view, the scalp consists of five layers. VIZ. the skin, subcutaneous tissue, Occipito-frontaUs muscle and its aponeurosis, su1> aponeui-otic connective tissue, and pericranium. But from a sm-gical standpoint it is better to regard the first three of these structures as a single layer, since they are all intimately fused together, and when torn off in an accident, or turned do-vvn as a flap in a surgical operation, remain firmly connected to each other. In consequence of the dense character of the subcutaneous tissue, the amount of swellmg which occurs as the result of mflammation is slight ; and the edges of a wound which does not involve the Occipito-frontaUs muscle or its aponeurosis do not gape. The blood-vessels, also, which lie m this tissue, when wounded, are unable to contract and retract freely ; and therefori the hemorrhage from scalp wounds is often very considerable, but can always be arrested by pressure—a matter of great importance, as it is often very difficult or impossible to pick up with forceps a wounded vessel in the scalp. The subaponeurotic connective tissue is, from a surgical point of xiqw, of considerable importance. It is loose and lax, and is easily torn through ; and hence, when a flai^ wound occurs in the scalp, this is the tissue which is torn ■i\hen the flap is separated from the parts beneath. The vessels are therefore torn down with the flap, and there is little risk of sloughing, unless the vitaUty of the part has been actually destroyed by the injury. In consequence of its loose nature and feeble vitality, any septic iiiflammation is apt to assume a very diffuse form and spread all over the skull, and, unless reheved bj^ timely incisions may lead to serious complications. Owing to the attachments of the aponeurosis to the zygoma and highest curved line, subaponeurotic effusions sag 6o\yn in these situa tions, but do not extend beyond to the zygomatic fossa or into the neck ; but anteriorly. where there is no definite attachment to bone, the effusion will jiass down over the nose, and into the eyelids. When making incisions into the scalp, care should be taken to avoid the course of the main arteries. The skin of the scalp is abundantly sujiplied with sebaceous and sudoriparous glands. The former are sometimes the seat of cystic enlargement, constituting the so-called sebaceoum cysts or wens. II. Auricular Region (fig. 481) Attrahens auriculam. Attollens auriculam. Retrahens auriculam. These three small muscles arc placed immediately beneath tiie skin around the pinna. In man, in whom the pinna is almost immovable, they are459 AURICULAR REGION rudimentary. Thej^ are the homologues of large and important muscles in some of tlie mammalia. . , u t The Attrahens auriculam (m. auriculans anterior), the smaUest ot tne tJn-ee is thin, fan-shaped, and its fibres are pale and indistinct. It arises from tlie lateral edge of the aponeurosis of the Occipito-f rontalis, and its fibres converge to be inserted into a projection on the front of the lielix. The Attollens auriculam (m. auricularis superior), the largest of the three, is thin and fan-shaped. Its fibres arise from the aponeurosis of the Occipito- frontalis, and converge to be inserted by a thin, flattened tendon into the upper part of the cranial surface of the pinna. Tlie Retrahens auriculam (m. auricularis posterior) consists of two or three fleshv fasciculi, which arise from the mastoid portion of the temporal bone by short aponeurotic fibres. They are inserted into the lower part of the cranial surface of the concha. Nerves.—The Attrahens and Attollens auriculam are supplied by the temporal branch of the facial nerve ; the Retrahens auriculam is supplied by the posterior auricular branch of the same nerve. Actions.—In man, these muscles possess very little action : the Attrahens auriculam draws the ear forwards and upwards ; the Attollens auriculam shghtly raises it; and the Retrahens auriculam draws it backwards. III. Palpebeal Region (figs. 481 and 482) Orbicularis palpebrarum. Tensor tarsi. Corrugator supercUii. Tlie Orbicularis palpebrarum (m. orbicularis oculi) is a sphincter muscle which surrounds the circumference of the orbit and eyelids. It arises from Fig. 482.—Left Orbicularis palpebrarum, seen from behind. (From Toldfc's Atlas, published by Rebman, Ltd., London.) Frontal sinus Orbital jiurtion of Antrum of Orbicu laris j'aljiebrarum Highviore tlie internal angular process of tlie frontal bone, from tlie frontal process of the maxilla in front of the lachrymal groove for the nasal duct, andMYOLOGY 41)0 from the anterior surface and borders of a sliort tendon, tlie iendo oculi or internal tarsal ligament, placed at the inner angle of the orbit. From tlii-' origin, tlie fibres are directed outwards, forming a broad, thin, and flat layei which covers the eyelids, surrounds the circumference of the orbit, and spreads out over the temple, and downwards on the cheek. The palpebral portion (pars palpebralis) of tlie Orbicularis is thin and pale ; it arises from tlu^ bifur- cation of the tendo oculi, forms a series of concentric curves, and is inserted into the external tarsal ligament. The orbital portion (pars orbitalis) is thicker and of a reddish colour: its fibres are well developed, and form complci. ellipses. The upper fibres of this portion blend with the Occipito-frontalis and Corrugator supercilii. The tendo oculi, or internal tarsal ligament, is a short tendon, about two Imes in length and one m breadth, attached to the frontal process of the maxilla in front of the lachrymal groove. Crossmg the lachrymal sac, it divides into two parts, eacli division being attached to the uiner extremity of the corresponding tarsal plate. As the tendon crosses the lachrymal sac, a strong aponeurotic lamina is given off from the posterior surface, which expands over the sac, and is attached to the ridge on the lachrymal bone. This is the reflected aponeurosis of the tendo oculi. The external tarsal ligament is a much weaker structure than the tendo ocuh. It is attached to the margin of the frontal process of tlie malar bone, and passes inwards to the outer commissure of the eyelid, where it divides into two slips, which are attaclied to the margms of the respective tarsal plates. The Tensor tarsi or muscle of Horner (pars lacrimalis m. orbicularis oculi) is a small thin muscle, about tliree lines in breadth and six m length, situated at the inner side of the orbit, behind the tendo oculi and laclirymal sac (fig. 482). It arises from the crest and adjacent part of the orbital surface of the lachrymal bone, and passing across the lachrymal sac, divides into two slips, wliich cover the lachrymal canals, and are inserted into the tarsal plates internal to the puncta lacrimaha. Its fibres appear to be continuous witli those of the palpebral portion of the Orbicularis ]3alpebrarum, from which they are usually considered to be derived ; it is occasionally very indistinct. The Corrugator supercilii is a small, narrow, pyramidal muscle, placed at the inner extremity of the eyebrow, beneath the Occipito-frontalis and Orbicularis palpebrarum muscles. It arises from the inner extremity of the supercfliary ridge ; whence its fibres pass upwards and outwards, between the palpebral and orbital portions of the Orbicularis palpebrarum, and are inserted into the deep surface of the skin, opposite the middle of the orbital arch. Nerves.—The Orbicularis palpebrarum, Corrugator supercilii, and Tensor tarsi are suppUed by the facial nerve. Actions.—The Orbicularis palpebrarum is the sphincter muscle of the eyelids. The palpebral portion acts involuntarily, closing the Uds gently, as in sleep or in blinking; the orbicular portion is subject to the will. When the entire muscli^ is brought into action, the skin of the forehead, temple, and cheek is drawn inward- towards the inner angle of the orbit, and the eyelids axe fii'mly closed, as in photo- phobia. When the skin of the forehead, temple, and cheek is thus drawn inward- by the action of the muscle it is thrown into folds, especially radiating from the outer angle of the eyehds, which give rise in old age to the so-called ' crow's feel.' The Levator palpebriB is the direct antagonist of this muscle ; it raises the upper eyehd and exposes the globe of the eye. Each time the eycUds are closed through the action of the Orbicularis, the tendo ocuh becomes tightened, and draws the wall of the lachrymal sac outwards and forwards, so that a vacuum is made in it, and the tears are sucked along the lachrymal canals into it. Tln' Tensor tarsi draws the eyeUds and the extremities of the lachrymal canals inwards and compresses them against the surface of the globe of the eye ; thus placini: them in the most favourable situation for recei\'ing the tears. It serves, also, to compress the lachrymal sac. The Corrugator supercihi draws the eyebrow down- wards and inwards, producing the vertical wrinkles of the forehead. It is the ' frowning ' muscle, and may be regarded as the principal agent in the expression of suffering.ORBITAL REGION 461 IV. Obbital Region Levator palpebrffi superioris. Rectus internus. Rectus superior. Rectus extenius. Rectus inferior. Obliquus oculi superior. Obliquus oculi inferior. The Levator palpebra superioris (fig. 483) is thin, flat, and triangular i in Shane It arises from the under surface of the lesser wing of the sphenoid, i above and in front of the optic foramen, from which it is separated by the origm Fig. 483.—Sagittal section of right orbital ca^atj'. Tendon of Obliquus superior Orbilalplnle qffrontal hone I hi A k Levalor jMlpebra'superioris , I i^.WmSMh'r^'^^ 'A Hrctus superior . ..^ I Orhicularis iMlpclyrarwni Upper eyelid Optic nerve Bectus inferior Roof of antrum of Bighmore Obliquus inferior Lower eyelid Inferior tarsal plate Orhicn laris palpebrarum of the Superior rectus. At its origin, it is narrow and tendmous, but soon becomes broad and fleshy, and terminates anteriorly in a wide expansion which splits into three lamellae. The superficial lamella blends with the Fig. 484.—Muscles of the right orbit. superior palpebral ligament, and is prolonged forwards above the superior tarsal plate to the palpebral part of the Orbicularis palpebrarum, and to the deep surface of tlie skin of the upper eyelid. The middle lamella, largely made up of non-striped muscular fibres, is inserted into the upper marginMYOLOGY of the superior tarsal plate, whilst tlie deepest lanieUa blends with an exnansio., t^JJni^^i^l^^^^'^^ ^^''^ ^«—t^srs;;: •;: The Four Recti (fig 484) arise from a fibrous ring (annulus tendineu. eommums) which surrounds the upper, inner, and lower margins of t?e o t foramen and encircles the optic nerve. The ring is completed by a 1 ■ tendinous bridge prolonged over tiie lower and inner part of the sphenoic il fissure and attached to a tubercle on the margin of the greatei w^70^1 l e sphenoid, bounding the sphenoidal fissure (fig. 485). Two fpecialised |a^'s of this fibrous ring may be made out : a lower, the ligament or tendon of 7Ann which gives origin to the Inferior rectus, part of the Internal rectus, and Uh- lower head of origm of the External rectus ; and an upper, which giv^e-s orili . o the Superior rectus, the rest of the Internal rectus, and the upper head^f the External rectus. This upper band is sometimes termed tJie superior tmdon of Lockwood. Each muscle passes forward in the position implied In- Its name to be inserted by a tendinous expansion into the sclera, about a quarter of an mch from the margin of the cornea. Between the two heads <,i the External rectus is a narrow interval, through which pass the Uvo divisions ot the third nerve, the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, the sixth nerve, and the ophthalmic vein. Although tliese muscles present a common origin and are inserted in a similar manner into the sclera there are certain differences to be observed in them as regards their length and breadth. The Internal -tlQ. 485.—The relative iDositions of rectus is the broadest, the External the Iff Z^^'^n longest, and the Superior the thinnest and jeic eyeoaii. narrowest. Rectus superior The ObHquus ocuH supcriof is a Levator \ fusiform muscle, placed at the uppr-r palpebrw siiperiorls \ i • 1 "i- i-i^c u^jpi i , and inner side of the orbit, internal td om.uus superior | ^m^^^^^^ the Lcvator palpebrse. It arises imme- diately above the inner margin of the optic foramen, above and internal to the origin of the Superior rectus, and, passing forwards to the inner angle of the orbit, terminates in a rounded tendon, Mhich Lfpperhemi plays in a fibro-cartilaginous rinc; or Rec,u,i.ferior V ,;.erkeaa puUey attached to the troclilear fossa near T tJie internal angular process of the frontal bone. The contiguous surfaces of the tendon and ring are lined by a delicate synovial membrane, and enclosed ui a thin fibrous investment. The tendon is refiected backwards, outwards, and downwards beneath the Superior rectus to the outer part of the globe of the eye, and is inserted into the sclera, beliind tlie equator of the eyeball, the insertion of the muscle tying between the Superior and External recti. The ObHquus oculi inferior is a thin, narrow muscle, placed near tlic anterior margin of the orbit. It arises from the orbital plate of tlie maxilla, external to the lachrymal groove. Passing outwards, backwards, and upwards, between the Inferior rectus and the floor of the orbit, and then between the eyeball and the External rectus, it is inserted into the outer part of the sclera between the Superior and External recti, near to, but sonie\\hat behind, the insertion of the Superior oblique. Nerves.—The Levator palpebra>, Inferior oblique, and the Superior. Inferior and Internal recti are supplied by the third nerve : the Superior oblique, by the fourth ; the External rectus, by the sixth. Actions.—The Levator palpebriB raises the upper eyelid, and is the direct antagonist of the Orbicularis palpebrarum. The four Recti arc attached to the globe of the eye in such a manner that, acting singly, they will turn its corneal surface either upwards, downwards, inwards, or outwards, as expressed by their names. The movement produced by the Superior or Inferior rectus is not quitr a simple one, for inasmuch as each passes obhqucly outwards and forwards to tho eyeball, the elevation or depression of the cornea is accompanied by a certain deviation inwards, with a slight amount of rotation. These latter movementsORBITAL REGION 463 .are corrected by the Oblique muscles, tlie Inferior oblique correcting the deviation •inwards of the Superior rectus, and the Superior obUque that of the Inferior ■rectus The contraction of the External or Internal rectus, on the other hand, produces a purely horizontal movement. If any two contiguous Recti of one eye Xct together they carry the globe of the eye in the diagonal of these directions, !viz upwards and inwards, upwards and outwards, downwards and inwards, or ^downwards and outwards. A little consideration \vill show that sometimes the corresponding Recti of the two eyes act in unison, and at others the opposite llRecti act together. Thus, in turning the eyes to the right, the External rectus 'of the right eye will act in unison with the Internal rectus of the left eye ; but if hboth eyes are directed to an object in the middle line at a short distance, the [■two Internal recti will act in unison. The movement of circumduction, as in looking round a room, is performed by the successive action of the four Recti. IThe ObUque muscles rotate the eyeball on its antero-posterior axis, the Superior .idirectinc the cornea downwards and outwards, and the Inferior directing it iiupwards and outwards ; these movements are required for the correct viewing of Am object when the head is moved laterally, as from shoulder to shoulder, in order that the picture may fall in all respects on the same part of the retina of (•either eve. Fasciae of the orbit.—The connective tissue of the orbit is in various I places condensed into thin membranous layers, which may be conveniently ddescribed as (1) the orbital fascia ; (2) the sheaths of tlie muscles ; and I (3) the fascia of the eyeball. (1) The orbital fascia. This forms the periosteum of the orbit. It is 1 loosely connected to the bones, and can be readily separated from them. 1 Behind, it is connected with the dura mater by processes which pass through • the optic foramen and sphenoidal fissure, and with tlie sheath of the optic I nerve. In front, it is connected with the periosteum at the margin of the I orbit, and sends off a process which assists in forming the palpebral fascia. 1 From its internal surface two processes are given off : one to enclose the 1 lachrymal gland, the other to hold the puUey of the Superior oblique muscle i in position. A layer of non-striped muscle, the Orhitalis mtiscle of H. MiiUer, 1 may be seen bridging across the spheno-maxillary fissure. "(2) The .?heaths of the muscles give off expansions to the margins of the < orbit, which limit the action of the muscles. (3) The fascia of the eyeball—Tenon's capsule—will be described with the f anatomy of the eyeball. Applied Anatomy.—The position.s and exact points of insertion of the tendons of the i Internal and External recti into the globe should be carefully examined from the front of the eyeball, as the surgeon is often required to divide one or other of the muscles for • the cure of strabismus. In convergent strabismus, which is the more common form of ■ the disease, the eye is turned inwards, requiring the division of the Internal rectus. In • the divergent form, which is more rare, the eye is turned outwards, the External rectiis I being especially implicated. The deformity produced in either case is to be remedied by division of one or tlie other muscle. The operation is thus performed : the lids are to I be well separated ; the eyeball is rotated outwards or inwards, and the conjunctiva raised ' by a pair of forceps, and incised immediately beneath the lower border of the tendon ' of the muscle to be divided, a little beliind its insertion into the sclera ; the submucous I areolar tissue is then divided, and into the small aperture thus made, a blunt hook is 1 passed upwards between the muscle and tlie globe, and the tendon of the muscle divided by a pair of blunt-pointed scissors passed between the hook and the globe. A more recent operation is that of advancement in which either the Internal or External ; rectus (depending on the form of strabismus) is shortened. The muscle is exposed in the same manner ; a portion is then cut out of it and the cut ends are sewn together. V. Nasal Region (fig. 486) Pyramidalis nasi. Dilatator naris anterior. Levator labii superioris alaeque nasi. Compressor naris. Dilatator naris posterior. Compressor narium minor. Depressor alse nasi. The Pyramidalis nasi (m. procerus) is a small pyramidal slip placed over the nasal bone. Its origin is by tendinous fibres from^the fascia covering theMYOLOGY 4(34 f lower part of the nasal bone and upper part of the cartilage, w here it blends with the Compressor naris, and it is inserted into the skin over tlie lower part of the forehead between the two ej^ebrows, its fibres decussating with tliose of the Occipito-frontalis. '^^V^ J-^^^^^^ labii superioris alaeque nasi is a thin triangular rausole placed by the side of tJie nose, and extending between tlie inner margin of the orbit and the upper lip. It arises by a pointed extremity from the upper part of tlie frontal process of the maxilla, and, passing obliquely downwards and outwards, divides into tw^o slips^ one of which is mserted into the cartilage of the ala of the nose ; the other is prolonged into the upper Up, blending with the Orbicularis oris and Levator labii superioris proprius. " The Dilatator naris posterior is a small muscle, which is placed partly beneath the elevator of the nose and lip. It arises from the margin of the nasal notch of the maxilla, and from the sesamoid cartilages, and Ls inserted into the skin near the margin of the nostrU. The Dilatator naris anterior is a thin delicate fasciculus, passing from the cartilage of the ala of the nose to the integument near its margin." This muscle is situated in front of the preceding. The Compressor naris is a small, thin, triangular muscle, arising by its apex from the maxilla, above and a little external to the incisive fossa': its fibres proceed upwards and inwards, expanding into a thin aponem-osis which is continuous on the bridge of the nose wdth that of the muscle of the opposite side, and wdth the aponeurosis of the Pyramidahs nasi. The Compressor narium minor is a small muscle, attached by one end to the alar cartilage, and by the other to the integument at the end of the nose. The Depressor alae nasi is a short radiated muscle, arising from the incisive fossa of the maxilla ; its fibres ascend to be inserted into the septum, and back part of the ala of the nose. This muscle lies between the mucous membrane and muscular structure of the lip. Nerves.—All the muscles of this group are suppUed by the facial nerve. Actions.—The Pyramidahs nasi drawls down the inner angle of the eyebrows and produces transverse wrinkles over the bridge of the nose. The Levator labii superioris alseque nasi draws upwards the upper hp and ala of the nose ; its most important action is upon the nose, which it dilates to a considerable extent. The action of this muscle produces a marked influence over the couuteuauce, and it is the principal agent in the expression of contempt and disdain. The two DUatatores enlarge the aperture of the nose. Their action in ordinary breathing is to resist the tendency of the nostrils to close from atmospheric pressure, but in difiicult breathing, as well as in some emotions, such as auger, they may be noticed to be in violent action. The Depressor alge nasi is a direct antagonist of the other muscles of the nose, drawing the ala of the nose downw-ards, and thereby constricting the aperture of the nares. The Compressor naris depresses the cartilaginous part of the nose and draws the alaj together. The Levator labii superioris proprius is a thin muscle, of a quadrilateral form. It arises from the lower margin of the orbit immediateh* above the infra-orbital foramen, some of its fibres being attached to the maxUla, others to the malar bone ; its fibres converge to be inserted mto the muscular suit stance of the upper lip, between the attachment of the Levator labii superioris alseque nasi and the Levator anguli oris. The Levator anguli oris (m. caninus) arises from the canine fossa, imnir- diately below tiie infra-orbital foramen ; its fibres incline downwards and a little "outwards, to be inserted into the angle of the mouth, intermingling with those of the Zygomaticus major, the Depressor anguli oris, and tli(> Orbicularis oris. The Zygomaticus major is a slender fasciculus, which arises from the malar bone, in front of the zygomatic suture, and descending obliquely down- VI. Maxillary Region (fig. 486) Levator labii superioris proprius. Levator anguli oris. Zygomaticus major. Zygomaticus minor.MAXILLARY REGION 465 wards and inwards, is inserted into the angle of the mouth, where it blends with the fibres of the Levator anguli oris, the Orbicularis oris, and the Depressor anguli oris. The Zygomaticus minor arises from the malar bone, immediately behmd the maxillary suture, and passing downwards and inwards, is continuous with the Orbicularis oris at the outer margin of the Levator labii superioris. It lies anterior to tlie preceding. Fig. 486.—Muscles of the head, face, and neck. Nerves.—This group of muscles is supplied by the facial nerve. Actions.—The Levator labii superioris is the proper elevator of the upper lip, carrying it at the same time a little forwards. It assists in forming the naso-labial ridge, which passes from the side of the nose to the upper lip and gives to the face an expression of sadness. The Levator anguh oris raises the angle of the mouth and assists the Levator labii superioris in producing the naso-labial ridge. The Zygomaticus major draws the angle of the mouth backwards and upwards, as in laughing ; while the Zygomaticus minor, being inserted into the outer part of H H4G0 MYOLOGY the upiDer lip and not into the angle of the mouth, draws it backwards, upwards, and outwards, and thus gives to the face an expression of sadness. VII. Mandibular Region (fig. 486) ' Levator menti. Depressor labii inferioris. Depressor anguli oris. The Levator menti (m. mentalis) or Levator labii inferiorLs is a small conical fasciculus, placed on the side of the frsenum of the lower lip. It arises from the incisive fossa, external to the symphysis menti ; its fibres descend to be inserted into the integument of the chin. The Depressor labii inferioris (m. quadratus labii inferioris) is a small quadrilateral muscle. It arises from the external oblique line of the mandible, between the symphysis and the mental foramen, and passes obliquely up- wards and inwards, to be inserted into the integument of the lower lip, its fibres blending with the Orbicularis oris, and with those of its fellow of the opposite side. It is continuous Avith the fibres of the Platj^sma at its origm. This muscle contains much yellow fat intermingled with its fibres. The Depressor anguli oris (m. triangularis) is triangular in shape, arising by its broad base, from the external oblique line of the mandible, W'hence its fibres pass upwards, to be inserted, by a narrow fasciculus, into the angle of the mouth. It is continuous wdth the Platysma at its origin, and -with tlie Orbicularis oris and Risorius at its insertion, and some of its fibres are directly continuous with those of the Levator anguli oris. Nerves.—This group of muscles is supphed by the facial nerve. Actions.—The Levator menti raises and protrudes the lower hp, and at the same time wrinkles the integument of the chin, expressing doubt or disdain. The Depressor labii inferioris draws the lower lip directly downwards and a Uttle outwards, as in the expression of irony. The Depressor anguU oris depresses the angle of the mouth, being the antagonist of the Levator auguU oris and Zygomaticus major ; acting with the Levator anguU oris, it will draw the angle of the mouth directly inwards. VIII. Interbiaxillary Region Orbicularis oris. Buccinator. Risoruis. The Orbicularis oris (fig. 486) is not a simple sphincter muscle like the Orbicularis palpebrarum, but consists of numerous strata of muscular fibres having different directions and surrounding the orifice of the mouth. These fibres are partially derived from the other facial muscles which are mserted into the lips, and are partly fibres proper to the lips themselves. Of the former, a considerable number are derived from the Buccinator and foi-m the dfeeper stratum of the Orbicularis. Some of the Buccinator fibres—namely, those near the middle of the muscle—decussate at the angle of the mouth, those arising from the maxilla passing to the lower lip, and those from the mandible to the upper lip. Other fibres of the muscle, situated at its upper and lower part, pass across the lips from side to side without decussation. Superficial to this stratum is a second, formed on either side by the Levator and Depressor anguli oris muscles, which cross each other at the angle ot th- mouth ; those from the Depressor passing to the upper hp, and tjiose^ tror the Levator to the lower lip. along which they run to be inserted into 11 skin near the median line. In addition to those there are fibres from otln muscles inserted into the lips, the Levator labii superioris, the Levator labn superioris ateque nasi, the Zygomatici, and the Depressor laljii inferioris : these intermingle with tlie transverse fibres above described, and liave princi pallv an oblique direction. The proper fibres of tlie lips arc oblique, and pass from the under surface of the skin to the mucous membrane tlu-ougli tlie thickness of the lip. Finally there are fibres by which the muscle .s connected with the maxiUse and the septum of the nose and with themandihle^ In the upper lip these consist of two bands, imier and outer, on each side ot ni le erINTERMAXILLARY REGION 467 t the middle line ; the outer band (m. incisivus superior) arises from the alveolar border of the maxilla, opposite the lateral incisor tooth, and arching outwards ■ is continuous at the angle of the mouth with the other muscles inserted into ■ this part; the inner band (to. nasolahialis) connects the upper lip to the back , of the septum of the nose. The interval between tlie two inner bands corre- i sponds with the depression, called the phiUrum, seen on the lip beneath the ' septum of the nose. The additional fibres for tlie lower lip constitute a slip (m. incisimis inferior) on either side of the middle line which arises from the mandible, external to the Levator labii inferioris, and arches outwards to the angle of the mouth, to join the Buccinator and the other muscles attaclied to tliis part. , . c The Buccinator (fig. 494) is a broad, thin muscle, quadrilateral m form, occupying the interval between the jaws at the side of the face. It arises from the outer surfaces of the alveolar processes of the upper and lower jaws, corre- sponding to the three molar teeth ; and behind, from the anterior border of the pterygo-mandibular ligament which separates it from the Superior constrictor of the pharynx. The fibres converge towards the angle of the mouth, where the central fibres intersect each other, those from below being continuous with the upper segment of the Orbicularis oris, and those from above with the inferior segment; the uppermost and lowermost fibres continue forward uninterruptedly into the corresponding lip without decussation. Relations.—The Buccinator is in relation by its superficial surface, behiad, with a large mass of fat, which separates it from the ramus of the lower jaw, from the Masseter, and from a small portion of the Temporal, and which has been named the suctorial pad, because it is supposed to assist in the act of sucldng. In front the superficial sm-face of the Buccinator is in relation with the Zygomatici, Risorius, Levator anguli oris, Depressor angiili oris, and Stenson's duct which pierces it opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw ; the facial artery and vein cross it from below upwards ; it is also crossed by the branches of the facial and buccal nerves. The deep surface is in relation with the buccal glands and mucous membrane of the mouth. The pterygo-mandibular ligament is a tendinous band, derived from the deep cervical fascia and attached by one extremity to the hamular process of the mternal pterygoid plate, and by the other to the posterior extremity of the internal oblique line of the mandible. Its inner surface is covered by the mucous membrane of the mouth. Its outer surface is separated from the ramus of the mandible by a quantity of adipose tissue. Its posterior border gives attachment to the Superior constrictor of the pharynx ; its anterior border, to the fibres of the Buccinator (see fig. 494). The Risorius consists of a narrow bundle of fibres, which arises in tlie fascia over the Masseter muscle and, passing horizontally for\^'ards, is inserted into the skin at the angle of the mouth (fig. 486). It is placed superficial to the Platysma, and is broadest at its outer extremity. This muscle varies much in its size and form. Nerves.—The muscles in this group are all supplied by the facial nerve. Actions.—The Orbicularis oris in its ordinary action produces the direct closure of the hps ; by its deep fibres, assisted by the obhque ones, it closely applies the hps to the alveolar arch. The superficial part, consisting principally of the decussating fibres, brings the hps together and also protrudes them forwards. The Buccinators contract and compress the cheeks, so that, during the process of mastication, the food is kept under the immediate pressure of the teeth. When the cheeks have been previously distended with air, the Buccinator muscles expel it from between the hps, as in blowing a trumpet. Hence the name ijiuccina, a trumpet). The Risorius retracts the angles of the mouth, and produces the unpleasant expression which is sometimes seen in tetanus, and is known as ' risus sardonicus.' IX. Temporo-mandibulab Region Masseter. Temporal. Masseteric fascia.—Covering the Masseter muscle, and firmly connected with it, is a strong layer of fascia, derived from the deep cervical fascia. Above, this fascia is attached to the lower border of the zygoma, and behind it-invests the parotid gland, constituting the parotid fascia. H H 2/468 MYOLOGY The Masseter (fig. 486) is a short, thick muscle, somewhat quadrilateral in form, consisting of two portions, superficial and deep. The superficial portion. the larger, arises by a thick, tendinous aponeurosis from the malar process of the maxilla, and from the anterior two-thirds of the lower border of tlic zygomatic arch : its fibres pass downwards and backwards, to be inserted inio tiae angle and lower half of the outer surface of the ramus of the mandible. The deep portion is much smaller, and more muscular in texture ; it arises from the posterior third of the lower border and the whole of the inner surface of the zygomatic arch ; its fibres pass dowwards and forwards, to be inserted into the upper half of the ramus and the outer surface of the coronoid process of the mandible. The deep portion of the muscle is partly concealed, in front, by the superficial portion ; behind, it is covered by the parotid gland. The fibres of the two portions are continuous at their insertion. Relations.—The Masseter is in relation by its superficial sur face -with the integument, Platysma, Risorius, Zygomatici, the parotid gland and socia parotidis, and with Steoson's duct, and the branches of the facial nerve and the transverse facial vessels which cross it. By its deep surface, it is in relation with the insertion of the Temporal muscle, the Fig. 487.—The Temporal muscle ; the zygoma and Masseter have been removed. ramus of the mandible, the Buccinator and the long buccal nerve from which it is separated by a mass of fat. The masseteric nerve and artery enter it on its deep surface. Its posterior margin is overlapped by the parotid gland. Its arUerior margiv. which projects over the Buccinator muscle, is crossed below by the faoial vein. The temporal fascia covers the Temporal muscle. It is a strong, fibrous investment, covered, on its outer surface, by the Attrahens and Attollens auriculam muscles, the aponeurosis of the Occipito-frontaUs, and by part of the Orbicularis palpebrarum. The temporal vessels and tlio auriculo-temporal nerve cross it from below upwards. Above, it is a single layer, attached to the entire extent of the upper temporal ridge : but below, where it is attached to the zygoma, it consists of two layers, one of which is inserted into the outer, and the otlier mto the inner border of the zygomatic arch. A small quantity of fat, the orbital branch of the temporal artery, and a filament from the orbital or temporo-malar brancli ot the superior maxillary nerve, are contained between these two layers. It affords attachment by its inner surface to the superficial fibres of the Temporal muscle.PTERYGO-MANDIBULAR REGION 469 The Temporal (m. temporalis) (fig. 487) is a broad radiating muscle, situated at the side of tlie head, and occupymg the entne extent of the tempoSl fossa. It arises from the whole of the temporal fossa (except that poSi of it which is formed by the malar bone) and from the inner surface of the temporal fascia. Its fibres converge as they descend and termmate in a tendon; which is inserted into the mner surface, apex, and anterior boixler of the coronoid process, and the anterior border of the ramus of the mandible, nearly as far forwards as the last molar tooth. Relations —The Temporal is in relation by its superficial surface with the integunient, the Attrahens and AttoUens aui-iculam muscles, the temporal fascia, the superhcia temporal vessels, the auriculo-temporal nerve, the temporal branches of the facial and Zporo-malar nerves, the aponeurosis of the Occipito-frontalis. « ^;yf .'P^' ^'^^ Masseter. By its deep surface, it is in relation with the tempora fossa, the External ntervoid and part of the Buccinator muscles, the internal maxil ary artery, and its deep temporal branches, the deep temporal nerves, and the buccal vessels and nerve Behind the tendon are the masseteric vessels and nerve. Its anterior border is separated from the malar bone by a mass of fat. Ilerves.—Both muscles are supplied by the inferior maxillary nerve. X. Ptbrygo-Mandibtjlar Region (fig. 488) Pterygoideus externus. Pterygoideus internus. The Pterygoideus externus is a short, thick muscle, somewhat conical m form which extends almost horizontally between the zygomatic fossa and the condyle of the mandible. It arises by two heads, separated by a shght mterval: the Ufper from the inferior portion of the external surface of the greater wing Fig. 488.—^The Pterygoid muscles; the zygomatic arch and a portion of the ramus of the jaw have been removed. of the sphenoid and from the pterygoid ridge which separates the zygomatic from the temporal fossa; the lower from tlie outer surface of the external pterygoid plate. Its fibres pass liorizontally backwards and outwards, to be inserted into a depression in front of the neck of the condyle of the mandible, and into the front of the interarticular filn-o-cartilage of the temporo-mandibular articulation.470 MYOLOGY Relations.—By Its external surface it is in relation with the ramus of the lower iaw the internal maxillary artery, which crosses it,* the tendon of the Temporal muscle and the Masseter. Its internal surface rests against the upper part of the Internal ptervKoid the internal lateral ligament, the middle meningeal artery, and the inferior maxillary nerve • by its upper border it is in relation with the temporal and masseteric branches of the interior maxillary nerve ; by its lower border it is in relation with the inferior dental and lingual nerves. Through the interval between the two portions of the muscle, the buccal nerve emerges and the internal maxillary artery passes, when the trunk of this vessel lies on the lower part of the muscle (see fig. 488). Pterygoideus internusis a thick, quadrilateral muscle, and resembles the Masseter in form. It arises from the pterygoid fossa, being attached to the mner surface of the external pterygoid plate, and to the grooved surface of the tuberosity of the palate bone, and by a second slip from the outer surface of the tuberosities of the palate and maxilla; its fibres pass down- wards, outwards, and backwards, to be inserted, by a strong tendinous lamma, into the lower and back part of the inner side of the ramus and angle of the mandible, as high as the dental foramen. Relations.—By its external surface it is in relation with the ramus of the mandible, from which it is separated, at its upper part, by the External pterygoid, the internal lateral ligament, the internal maxillary artery, the inferior dental vessels and nerves, the Imgual nerve, and a process of the parotid gland. By its internal surface it is in relation with, the Tensor palati, bemg separated from the Superior constrictor of the pharjmx by a cellular interval. Nerves,—These muscles are supplied by the inferior maxillary nerve. Actions.—The Temporal, Masseter and Internal pterygoid raise the mandible against the maxillas mth great force. The External pterygoids assist in opening the mouth, but their main action is to draw forward the condyles and inter- articular cartilages so that the mandible is protruded and the inferior incisors projected in front of the upper ; in this action they are assisted by the Internal pterygoids. The mandible is retracted by the posterior fibres of the Temporal. If the Internal and External pterygoids of one side act, the corresponding side of the mandible is drawn forward while the opposite condyle remains comparatively fixed, and lateral movement, such as occurs during the trituration of food, takes place. Surface Form.—The outline of the muscles of the head and face cannot be traced on the surface, except in the case of two of the masticatory muscles. The muscles of the head are thin, so that the outline of the bone is perceptible beneath them. Those of the face are small, covered by soft skin, and often by a considerable layer of fat, so that their outline is concealed ; but they serve to round off and smooth prominent borders, and to fill up what would be otherwise unsightly angular depressions. Thus, the Orbi- cularis palpebrarum rounds off the prominent margm of the orbit, and the Pyramidalis nasi fills in the sharp depression beneath the glabella, and thus softens and tones down the abrupt depression which is seen on the unclothed skull. In like manner, the labial muscles, converging to the lips, and assisted by the superimposed fat, fill in the sunken hollow of the lower part of the face. Although the muscles of the face are usually described as arising from the bones, and inserted into the nose, lips, and corners of the mouth, they have fibres inserted into the skin of the face along their whole extent, so that almost every point of the skin of the face has its muscular fibre to move it. Hence it is that when in action the facial muscles produce alterations in the skin-surface, giving rise to flie formation of various folds or wrinkles, or otherwise altering the relative position of parts, so as to produce the varied expressions with which the face is endowed ; these muscles are therefore termed the ' muscles of expression.' The only two muscles in this region which greatly influence surface-form are the Masseter and the Temporal. The ^Masseter is a quadrilateral muscle, which imparts fulness to the hinder part of the cheek. '^^Hien the muscle is firmly contracted, as when the teeth are clenched, its outline is plainly visible ; the anterior border forms a j^rominent vertical ridge, behind which is a con- siderable fulness, especially marked at the lower part of the muscle. The Temporal muscle is fan-shaped, and fills the temporal fossa, substituting for it a somewhat convex form, the anterior part of which, on account of the absence of hair over the temple, is mon- marked than the posterior, and stands out in strong relief when the muscle is in a state of contraction. * In many cases the artery will be found under cover of the muscle.SUPERFICIAL CERVICAL REGION 471 MUSCLES AND FASCI/E OF THE NECK Tlie muscles of the neck may be arranged into groups, corresponding with the regions in which they are situated. These groups are nine in number : I. Superficial Region. V. Pharyngeal Region. II Infrahyoid Region. VI. Palatal Region. Ill Suprahyoid Region. VII. Anterior Vertebral Region. IV. Lingual Region. VIII. Lateral Vertebral Region. IX. Muscles of the Larynx. Tlie muscles contained in each of these groups are the followmg : /. Superficial Region. Platysma. Sterno-cleido-mastoid. II. Infrahyoid Region. Sterno-hyoid. Sterno-thyroid. Thyro-hyoid. Omo-hyoid. ///. Suprahyoid Region, Digastric. Stylo-hyoid. Mylo-hyoid. Genio-hyoid. IV. Idngv/il Region. Genio-hyo-glossus. Hyo-glossus. Chondro-glossus. Stylo-glossus. , Palato-glossus. .2 (Superior lingualis. s ] Inferior lingualis. I Transverse lingualis. i~ 1,Vertical lingualis V. Pharyngeal Region. Inferior constrictor. Middle constrictor. Superior constrictor. Stylo-pharyngeus. Palato-pharyngeus. Salpingo-pharyngeus. VI. Palatal Region. Levator palati. Tensor palati. Azygos uvulse. Palato-glossus. Palato-pharyngeus. Salpingo-pharyngeus. VII. Anterior Vertebral Region. Rectus capitis anticus major. Rectus capitis anticus minor. Rectus capitis lateralis. Longus colli. VIII. Lateral Vertebral Region. Scalenus anticus. Scalenus medius. Scalenus posticus. IX. Muscles of the Larynx Included in the description of the Larvnx. I. Superficial CiIrvical Region Platysma. Sterno-cleido-mastoid. The superficial cervical fascia is a thin lamina, which is hardly demon- strable as a separate membrane. It invests the Platysma. The Platysma (fig. 486) is a broad, thin plane of muscular fibres situated on the side of the neck. It arises by thin, fibrous bands from the fascia covering the upper part of the Pectoralis major and Deltoid; its fibres pass over the clavicle, and proceed obliquely upwards and inwards along the side of the neck. The anterior fibres interlace, below and behind the sympliysis menti, with the fibres of the muscle of the opposite side ; the posterior fibres pass over the mandible, some of them being attached to the bone below the external oblique line, others passing on to be inserted into the skin and subcutaneous tissue of the lower part of the face, many of these fibres blending with the muscles about the angle and lower part of the mouth. Sometimes fibres can be traced to the Zygomatic muscles, or to the margin ofMYOLOGY 472 the Orbicularis oris Beneath the Platysma, the external jugular vein mav be seen descending from the angle of the mandible to the clavicle nf ,^f*^°°f--Tli« Platysma produces a slight wrinkhng of the surface of the skin ot the neck, m an oblique direction, when the entire muscle is brought into action Its anterior portion the thickest part of the muscle, depresses the lower iaw • it also serves to drawdown the lower lip and angle of the mouth on each side, being one of the chief agents in the expression of melancholy The deep cervical fascia (fig. 489) lies under cover of the Platysma and constitutes a complete mvestment for the neck. It also forms sheaths for Fig. 489.—Section of the neck at about the level of the sixth cervical vertebra bhowing the arrangement of the deep cervical fascia. S'iemo-TnexstouZ t/ezn-j Scctlenn^ •Arvt.jfvi^iZcm vein, -TroLcAect' -6'* aenrictzZ 'T^i~6e6rtxZ -vessels ScctZemii\ medium] S'emi^spinali.s coHC. ertta-s ca, the carotid vessels, and, in addition, is prolonged deeplj'^ in the shape of certain processes or lamollse, which come into close relation with the structure^ situated in front of the vertebral column. The investing portion of the fascia is attached behind to the ligamentum nuchae and to the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra. It forms a thin investment to the Trapezius muscle, and at its anterior border is continued forwards as a rather loose areolar laj^er, covering the posterior triangle of the neck, to the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, where it begins to assume the appearance of a fascial membrane. Along the hinder edge of theSUPERFICIAL CERVICAL REGION 473 ^Stonio-raastoid it divides to enclose tlie muscle, and at the anterior margin ,aiSXms a single lameUa, which roofs in the anterior triangle of the neck and reaches forvvards to the middle line, to become f .^^^"^^^^^J ?oirespoXg part from the opposite side of the neck. In the middle line of : Ee SS^tTslftached to the sj^mphysis menti and body of the hyoid bone 4bove, the fascia is attached to the superior curved line o the occipital, to t the mastoid process of the temporal, and to the whole length of the body ot the mandible Opposite the angle of the mandible the fascia is very strong, and Ss the aSterior edge of the Sterno-mastoid firmly to that bone Between the mandible and the mastoid process it ensheathes the parotid gland—the layer wliich covers the gland extending upwards under the name ."of the parotid fascia to be fixed to the zygomatic arch, /^om the layer . which passes under the parotid a strong band extends upwards to the styloid 1 process forming the stylo-mandibular ligament. Three other bands may be ' defined: the spheno-mandibular, the ptenjgo-mandibular and the pterygo-spmous i Uqaments. The pten/go-spinous ligament is a membranous band which stretcnes I across from the upper half of the posterior fi-ee border of the external ■ pterycroid plate to the spinous process of the sphenoid. It occasionally ossities, ; and produces between its upper border and the base of the skull, a^ven- 1 titious foramen which transmits the branches of the third division ot the httn ! nerve to the muscles of mastication. , • i j 4.1 Below, the fascia is attached to the acromion process, the clavicle, and the : manubrium sterni. Some little distance above the last, however, it splits 1 into two layers, superficial and deep. The former is attached to the anterior border of the manubrium, the latter to its posterior border and to the mter- . clavicular ligament. Between these two layers is a slit-like mterval, the supra- . sternal space, or space of Burns. It contains a small quantity of areolar tissue, : and sometimes a lymphatic gland, the lower portions of the anterior jugular vems and then- transverse connecting branch, and also the sternal heads of the Sterno-mastoid muscles. -j • ct The fascia which Imes the deep surface of the Sterno-mastoid gives ott the follomng important processes. (1) A process envelops the tendon of the Omo-hyoid, and binds it down to the sternum and first costal cartilage. (2) A strong sheath, the carotid sheath, encloses the carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and pneumogastric nerve. (3) The prevertebral fascia extends inwards behind the carotid vessels, where it assists in forming then- sheath, and passes in front of the prevertebral muscles. It forms the posterior limit of a fibrous compartment, which contains the larynx and trachea, the thyroid gland, and the pharynx and oesophagus. The prevertebral fascia is fixed above to the base of the skull, while below it is contmued into the thorax m front of the Longus colli muscles. Parallel to the carotid sheath and along its inner aspect the prevertebral fascia gives off a thin lamina, the bucco- pharyngeal fascia, which closely invests the Constrictor muscles of the pharynx, and is continued forward from the Superior constrictor on to the Buccinator. It is attached to the prevertebral layer by loose connective tissue only, and thus an easily distended space, the retro-pharyngeal space, is found between them. This space is limited above by the base of the skull, while below it extends behind the oesophagus into the thorax, where it is continued into the posterior mediastinum. The prevertebral fascia is prolonged downward.s and outwards behind the carotid vessels and in front of the Scaleni, and forms a sheath for the brachial nerves and subclavian vessels in the pos- terior triangle of the neck; it is continued under the clavicle as the axillary sheath and is attached to the deep surface of the costo-coracoid membrane. Immediately above and behind the clavicle an areolar space exists between the investing layer and the sheath of the subclavian vessels, and in its upper portion are found the lower part of the external jugular vein, the descending clavicular nerves, the suprascapular and transversalis colli vessels, and the posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid muscle. Tliis space is limited below by the fusion of the costo-coracoid membrane with the anterior wall of the axillary sheath. (4) The pretracheal fascia extends inwards in front of the carotid vessels, and assists in forming the carotid sheath. It is further continued behind the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone, and, after enveloping the thyroid body, Ls prolonged in front of the trachea to meet the correspondingMYOLOGY 474 layer of the opposite side. Above, it is fixed to the hyoid bone, while below it IS carried downwards m front of the trachea and large vessels at the root of the neck, and ultimately blends with the fibrous pericardium. This layer IS fused on either side with the prevertebral layer, \dth which it completes the compartment containing the larynx and trachea, the thyroid gland tlic pharynx and oesophagus. ' ApTplied Anatomy.~ThQ deep cervical fascia is of considerable importance from a surgical point of view. As will be seen from the foregoing description, it may be divided into three layers: (1) an investing layer; (2) a layer passing in front of the trachea, and formmg with the superficial layer a sheath for the depressors of the hyoid bone ; (3) a prevertebral layer passing in front of the bodies of the cervical vertebra and forming with the second layer a space m which is contained the trachea, oBsophagus &c. The investing layer would oppose the extension of abscesses towards the surface, and pus formmg beneath it would have a tendency to extend laterally. If the pus be contained in the anterior triangle, it may find its way into the anterior mediastinum, being situated in front of the layer of fascia which passes down into the thorax to become continuous Fig. 490.—Muscles of the neck. Lateral view. with the pericardium ; but owing to the less density and thickness of the fascia in tlnV situation it more frequently finds its way through it and points above the sternum. Pus forming beneath the second layer would in all probability find its waj' into tlie posterior mediastinum. Pus forming behind the jirevertebral layer, in cases, for instance, of caries of the bodies of the cervical vertebras, might extend towards tlie posterior and lateral part of the neck and point in this situation, or might perfornlc this layer of fascia and the pharjmgeal fascia and point into the pharjaix (retro-pharyngca! abscess). In cases of cut throat the cervical fascia is of considerable importance. When the wound involves only the investing layer the injury is usually trivial, the special danger being injury to the external jugular vein, and the special complication, diffuse celluhtis. But where the second of the two layers is ojoened up, important structures maj- be injured, and serious results follow. The sternal head of origin of the Stemo-mastoid is contained in Burns's space, so that this space is opened in division of this tendon. The lower jiart of the anterior jugular vein is also contained in the same .space.SUPERFICIAL CERVICAL REGION 475 The Sterno-mastoid (m. sternocleiclomastoideus) (fig. 490) is a large, thick f whioh msses obliquely across the side of the neck, being enclosed iElt:^en I ftr rm investing layer of the deep cervical fascia ifcis thlk and narrow at its central part, but broader and thinner at eithei extremity It arises by two heads from the sternum and clavicle. The : W is a rounded fasciculus, tendinous in front, fleshy behind, whidi Ss from the upper and anterior part of the manubrium sterm, and s , d ectedumvards, outwards, and backwards. The clavicidar forlion arises from ^e superFor border and akterior surface of the inner third of the clavicle, behircomposed of fleshy and aponeurotic fibres ; it is directed a most verti- ca l/upwarfs. These two portions are separated from one another at their , origin by a triangular interval, but become graduaUy blended, below the ■ middle of the neck? into a thick, rounded muscle which is mserted, by a strong 1 tendon, into the outer surface of the mastoid process, fl^om its apex to its ; fCSr border, and by a thin aponeurosis into the outer half of the superior i curved line of the occipital bone. The Sterno-mastoid vanes much in its . extent of attachment to the clavicle : in one case the clavicular may be as , narrow as the sternal portion ; in another, as much as three mches m breadth When the clavicular origin is broad, it is occasionally subdivided mto numeious ■ shps separated by narrow intervals. More rarely, the adjoming margms of the Sterno-mastoid and Trapezius have been found m contact. , . , . This muscle divides the quadrilateral area of the side of the neck into two •triangles, an anterior and a posterior. The boundaries of the antenor tnangle . are, in front, the median fine of the neck ; above, the lower border of the body of the mandible, and an imaginary line drawn from the angle of the mandible to the Sterno-mastoid ; behind, the anterior border of the Sterno-naastoid muscle. The apex of the triangle is at the upper border of the sternum. Ihe boundaries of the -posterior triangle are, in front, the posterior border of the bterno-mastoid ; below, the middle third of the clavicle ; behind, the anterior margin ot the Trapezius. The apex corresponds with the meeting of the bterno-mastoid and Trapezius on the occipital bone.* Relations.—By its swperfcial surface it is in relation with the integument and Piatysma, from which it is separated by the external jugular vein, several ot tne superficial branches of the cervical plexus, and the anterior layer of the deep cervical fascia.' By its deep surface it is in relation with the sterno-clavicular articulation, tne process of the deep cervical fascia which binds the posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid to the sternum and clavicle, the Sterno-hyoid, Sterno-thyi-oid, Omo-hyoid, posterior belly of the Digastric, Levator anguli scapulae, Splenius and Scaleni muscles, the common carotid artery, the internal and anterior jugular vems, the origins of the mternal and external carotid arteries, the occipital, subclavian, transversaUs colli, and suprascapular arteries and veins, the phrenic, pneumogastric, hypoglossal, descendens and communicantes hypoglossi nerves, the spmal accessory nerve which pierces its upper third, the cervical plexus, the upper part of the brachial plexus, parts of the thyi-oid and parotid glands and their vessels, and the deep lymphatic glands. Actions.—When only one Sterno-mastoid muscle acts, it draws the head towards the shoulder of the same side, assisted by the Splenius and the ObUquus capitis inferior of the opposite side. At the same time it rotates the head so as to carry the face towards the opposite side. If the head be fixed, the two muscles assist in elevating the thorax in forced inspiration. Acting together from their sterno-clavicular attachments the muscles will flex the cervical part of the vertebral column. Nerves.—The Piatysma is supplied by the facial nerve; the Sterno- mastoid by the spinal accessory and branches from the anterior primary divisions of the second and third cervical nerves. Surface Form.—The anterior edge of the muscle forms a very prominent ridge beneath the skin and constitutes a guide to the surgeon in making the necessary mcisions for hgature of the common or external carotid artery, or of the internal jugular vein. Applied Anatomy.—The surgical anatomy of the Sterno-mastoid muscle is of import- ance in connection with the deformity kno^vn as wry-neck, which is due to a contracted condition of this muscle. The wry-neck may be temporary, as the result of direct * The anatomy o£ these triangles will be more fully described with that of the vessels of the neck (p. 640).476 MYOLOGY irritationof the muscle or of the nerves which supply it, and may occur in acute glandular enlargement, cellulitis of the neck, myositis of the muscle, or cervical carie^ It mav however, be permanent, and is then most often due to injury to the muscle durmg birth' especially in breech presentations ; rupture of the muscle and subsequent cicatriciai contraction takmg place. In these cases, division of the muscle is often necessary to effect a cure, and this may be done either subcutaneously or through an open wound Tlie subcutaneous method is thus performed : the external jugular Ld anterior jugular veins having been, if possible, dehned, a tenotomy knife is introduced close to the margin of one tendon of origm of the muscle, about half an inch above the clavicle, and the teno- tome passed fiat behmd the tendon and then turned forwards, and the tendon divided from behind forwards while the muscle is put well upon the stretch by an assistant. Th,- othof tendon IS then divided m a similar manner. In dividing the clavicular oriem it is always desirable to introduce the tenotome along the posterior border, in order to avoid the external jugular vein. The open method is, however, much to be preferred, as bemg the more effectual and the less dangerous, if precautions are taken to keep the wound aseptic. Ihe tendons of origin are freely exposed by a horizontal incision across the root of the neck and carefully divided ; any tense bands of fascia which can be felt should also be divided. The wound is now sutured and dressed, and the head fixed in as straight a position as possible. ^ There is also a condition coming on m adult Ufe (spasmodic torticollis), which is a ver\ distressing form of functional nervous disease. It begins with tonic or clonic spasm of one of the Sterno-mastoids, which is soon followed by spasm of the Trapezius, particularly its clavicular portion. The Splenius of the opposite side, the Scaleni, Complexi, and Itachelo-mastoids, may all become involved in turn, with secondary contracture of the deep cervical fascia. Operation m these cases often fails to give satisfactory results. Tenotomy of the affected muscles or section of the nerves supplying them may afford temporary relief, but the spasm often returns when the cut nerves or muscles rejom. II. Infrahyoid Region (figs. 490, 491) Sterno-hyoid. Thyro-hyoid. Sterno-thyroid. Omo-hyoid. The Sterno-hyoid (m. sternoliyoideus) is a thin, narrow, riband-Uke muscle, which arises from the posterior surface of the inner extremity of the clavicle, the posterior sterno-clavicular ligament, and the upper and posterior part of the manubrium sterni; passing upwards and inwards, it is inserted, by short, tendmous fibres, into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone. Below, this muscle is separated from its fellow by a considerable interval; but the two muscles come into contact with one another in the middle of their course, and from this upwards, lie side by side. It sometimes presents, immediately above its origin, a transverse tendinous intersection, hke those in the Rectus abdominis. The Sterno-thyroid (m. sternothjrreoideus) is shorter and wider than the preceding muscle, beneath which it is situated. It arises from the posterior surface of the manubrium sterni, below the origin of the Sterno-hyoid, aad from the edge of the cartilage of the fii-st rib, and sometimes of the second rib also ; and is inserted into the obhque line on the side of the ala of the thyroid cartilage. This muscle is in close contact with its feUow at tlie loMer part of the neck ; and is occasionally traversed by a transverse or oblique tendinous intersection Uke those in the Rectus abdominis. The Thyro-hyoid (m. thyreohyoideus) is a small, quadrilateral muscle appearing like a continuation of the Sterno-thyroid. It arises from the oblique line on the side of the tbjToid cartilage, and passes vertically upwjirds to be inserted into the lower border of the body and greater cornu of the hyoid bone. The Omo-hyoid (m. omohyoideus) passes across the side of the neck, from the scapula to the hyoid bone. It consists of two fleshy bellies united by a central tendon. It arises from the upper border of the scapula, and occasionally from the transverse ligament w^hich crosses the suprascapular notch, its extent of attachment to the scapula varying from a few lines to an inch. From this origin, the posterior belly forms a flat, narrow fasciculus, which inclines forwards and slightly upM-ards across the lower part of the neck, being bound dowTi to the clavicle by a fibrous expansion ; it then passes behind the Sterno-mastoid muscle, becomes tendinous and changes its direction, forming an obtuse angle. It terminates in the anterior belly, -H hichINFRAHYOID REGION 477 ,t)asses almost verticaUy upwards, close to the outer border of the Sterno- ! hvoid to be inserted into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone, i iust external to the insertion of the Sterno-hyoid. The central tendon of this muscle which varies much in length and form, is held in position by a process , of the deep cervical fascia, which sheathes it. This process is prolonged down I to be attached to the clavicle and first rib. It is by this means that the angular : form of the muscle is maintained. . . , . xi. i The posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid divides the posterior triangle ot the neck into an upper or occifital and a lower or subclavian triangle, while its anterior belly divides the anterior triangle into an upper or carotid and a lower or muscular tnangle Nerves.—The Thyro-hyoid is supphed by a branch from the hypoglossal nerve • the anterior belly of the Omo-hyoid by the descendens hypoglossi; the Sterno-hyoid, Sterno-thyroid, and posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid, are supplied Fig. 491.—Muscles of the neck. Anterior view. by branches from the loop of communication between the descendens and communicantes hjqjoglossi. Actions.—These muscles depress the larynx and hyoid bone, after they have been drawn up with the pharynx in the act of deglutition. The Omo-hyoid muscles not only depress the hyoid bone, but carry it backwards and to one or the other side. They are concerned especially in prolonged inspiratory efforts ; for by rendering the lower part of the cervical fascia tense they lessen the inward suction of the soft parts, which would otherwise compress the great vessels and the apices of the lungs. The Thyro-hyoid may act as an elevator of the thyroid cartilage, when the hyoid bone ascends, drawing the thyroid cartilage up behind the hyoid bone. The Sterno-thyroid acts as a depressor of the thyroid cartilage. III. Suprahyoid Region Digastric. Stylo-hyoid. (figs. 490, 491) Mylo-hyoid. Genio-hyoid. The Digastric (m. digastricus) consists of two fleshy bellies united by an intermediate, rounded tendon. It is a small muscle, situated below theMYOLOGY 478 body of the mandible, and extending, in a curved form, from the mastoid process of the temporal to the symphysis menti. The posterior belly (vent^-r posterior), longer than the anterior, arises from the digastric groove on tlie inner side of the mastoid process, and passes doMTiwards, forwards, and inwards. Tlie anterior belly (venter anterior) arises from a depression on the inner side of the lower border of the mandible, close to the symphysis, and passes downM'ards and backwards. The two bellies terminate in the central tendon which perforates the Stylo-hyoid muscle, and is held in connection with the side of the body and the greater cornu of the hyoid bone by a fibrous loop, lined by a synovial membrane. A broad aponeurotic layer is given off from the tendon of the Digastric on either side, to be attached to the body and greater cornu of the hyoid bone ; this is termed the suprahyoid aponeurosis. It forms a strong layer of fascia between the anterior portions of the two muscles, and a firm investment for the deeper muscles of the supra-hyoid region. The Digastric muscle divides the anterior superior triangle of the neck into smaller triangles : (1) the submaxillary triangle, bounded above by the lower border of the body of the mandible and a hne drawn from its angle to the mastoid process, below by the posterior belly of the Digastric and the Stylo-hyoid muscles, in front by the anterior belly of the Digastric; (2) the carotid triangle, bounded above by the posterior belly of the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid, behind by the Sterno-mastoid, below by the Omo-hyoid ; (3) the suprahyoid or sub- mental triangle, bounded externally by the anterior belly of the Digastric, internally by the middle line of the neck from the hyoid bone to the symphysis menti and inferiorly by the body of the hyoid bone. Relations.—The Digastric is in relation by its superficial surface with the Platysma. Sterno-mastoid, part of the Splenius, Trachelo-mastoid, mastoid process, Stylo-hyoid. and the parotid gland. The deep surface of the anterior belly Ues on the Mylo-hyoid : the deep surface of the posterior belly on the Stylo-glossus, Stylo-pharyngeus, and Hyo-glossus muscles, the external carotid artery and its occipital, lingual, facial, and ascending pharjmgeal branches, the internal carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and hypoglossal nerve. The Stylo-hyoid (m. stylohyoideus) is a small, slender muscle, lying in front of, and above, the posterior belly of the Digastric. It arises from the back and outer surface of the styloid process, near the base ; and, passing downwards and forwards, is inserted into the body of the hyoid bone, at its junction with the greater cornu, and just above the Omo-hjJ^oid. This muscle is perforated, near its insertion, by the tendon of the Digastric. The stylo-hyoid ligament.—In connection with the Stylo-hyoid muscle a ligamentous band, the stylo-hyoid ligament, may be described. It is a fibrous cord, often containing a little cartilage in its centre, which continues the styloid process down to the hyoid bone, being attached to the tip of the former and the lesser cornu of the latter. It is often partially ossified, and in many animals forms a distinct bone, the epihyal. The Mylo-hyoid (m. myloliyoideus) is a flat, triangular muscle, situated immediately above the anterior belly of the Digastric, and formmg, with its fellow of the opposite side, a muscular floor for the cavity of the mouth. It arises from the whole length of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the mandibli". extending from the symphysis in front to the last molar tooth behmd. Tiie posterior fibres pass inwards and slightly do^^•nwards, to be inserted into the body of the hyoid bone. The middle and anterior fibres are inserted into a median fibrous raphe extending from the symphysis menti to the hyoid boiu-. where they join at an angle with the fibres of the opposite muscle. This median raphe is sometimes wanting ; the muscular fibres of the two sides are then directly continuous with one another. Relations.—The mylo-hyoid is in relation by its superficial or under s«r/occ with the Platysma, the anterior bellv of the Digastric, the suprahyoid aponeurosis, the superficial part of the submaxillary gland, the facial and submental vessels, and the mylo-liyoid vessels and nerve. By its deep or superior surface it is in relation with the Gemo-hyoid. part of the Hyo-glossus. and Stylo-glossus muscles, the hypoglossal and lingual nerves, the submaxillary ganglion, the sublingual gland, the deep portion of the submaxillary gland and Wharton's duct, the sublingual and ranine vessels, and the buccal mucous membrane.SUPRAHYOID REGION 479 The Genio-hyoid (m. geniohyoideus) is a narrow slender muscle, situated .abovfthe hiner border of the preceding. It arises from the mfenor gemal tubei'le on the inner side of the symphysis monti and passes downwards and backwards, to be inserted into the anterior surface of the body of the i-hvoid bone This muscle lies in close contact with its fellow of the opposite .side and increases slightly in breadth as it descends ■ Nerves—The Mylo-hyoid and anterior belly of the Digastric are supplied by tthe mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental; the Stylo-hyoid and posterior belly oof the Digastric, by the facial; the Genio-hyoid, by the hypoglossal Actions.—These muscles perform two very important actions. They raise the thyoid bone, and with it the base of the tongue, during the act of deglutition ; Fig. 492.—Muscles of the tongue. Left side. I or, when the hyoid bone is fixed by its depressors and those of the larynx, I they depress the mandible. During the first act of deglutition, when the mass 1 of food is being driven from the mouth into the pharynx, the hyoid bone and • with it the tongue, is carried upwards and forwards by the anterior belly of the Digastric, the Mylo-hyoid, and Genio-hyoid muscles. In the second act, when • the mass is passing through the pharynx, the direct elevation of the hyoid bone takes place by the combined action of all the muscles ; and after the food lias passed, the hyoid bone is carried upwards and backwards by the posterior belly of the Digastric and the Stylo-hyoid, which assist in preventing the return of the food into the mouth. IV. Lingual Region (fig. 492) Genio-hyo-glossus. Hyo-glossus. Chondi'o-glossus. Stylo-glossus. Palato-glossus.* The Genio-hyo-glossus (m. genioglossus) has received its name from its triple attachment to the mandible, hyoid bone, and tongue, but its * The Palato-glossus, or Constrictor istlimi fauciiim, although one of the muscles of the tongue, serving to draw its base upwards during the act of deglutition, is more closely associated with the soft palate, both in situation and function ; it will, consequently, be described with the muscles of that structure (p. 485).MYOLOGY 480 connection with the hyoid bone is very slight and may be altogether absent. It is a flat, triangular muscle, placed vertically close to the middle line, its apex corresponding with its point of origin from the mandible, its base with its insertion into the tongue and hyoid bone. It arises by a short tendon from the superior genial tubercle on the inner surface of the symphysis menti, immediately above the Genio-hyoid, and from this point spreads out in a fan-like form. The inferior fibres extend downwards, to be attached by a thin aponeurosis to the upper part of the body of the hyoid bone, a few passing between the Hyo-glossus and Chondro-glossus to blend with the Constrictor muscles of the pharynx ; the middle fibres pass backwards, and the superior ones upwards and forwards, to enter the whole length of the under surface of the tongue, from the base to the apex. Behind, the muscle is quite distinct from its fellow of the opposite side ; the two muscles are separated at their insertions into the under surface of the tongue by a tendinous raphe, which extends through the middle of the organ ; in front, they are more or less blended : distinct fasciculi are to be seen passing off from one muscle, crossing the middle hne, and intersecting bundles of fibres, derived from the muscle on the other side. The Hyo-glossus is a thin, flat, quadrilateral muscle, which arises from the side of the body and whole length of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, and passes almost vertically upwards to enter the side of the tongue, between the Stylo-glossus and Inferior lingualis. The fibres of this muscle which arise from the body of the hyoid bone are directed upwards and backwards, overlapping those arising from the greater cornu, which are inchned upwards and forwards. Relations.—The Hyo-glossus is in relation by its external surface with the Digastric, the Stylo-hyoid, Stylo-glossus and Mylo-byoid muscles, the submaxiUary gangUon, the lingual and hypoglossal nerves, Wharton's duct, the ranine vein, the subhngual gland, and the deep portion of the submaxillary gland. By its deep swr/oce it is in relation with the stylo-hyoid ligament, the Genio-hyo-glossus, Inferior lingualis, and Middle constrictor, the hngual vessels, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The Chondro-glossus is a distinct muscular slip, though it is sometime^ described as a part of the Hyo-glossus, from which, however, it is separated by the fibres of the Genio-hyo-glossus, which pass to the side of the pharynx. It is about three-quarters to an inch in length, and arises from the mner side and base of the lesser cornu and contiguous portion of the body ot tlie hvoid bone, and passes directly upwards to blend with the mtrmsic muscular fibres of the tongue, between the Hyo-glossus and Genio-hyo-glossus. A smaU slip of muscular fibres is occasionally found, arismg from the cartilage triticea in the thyi'O-hyoid ligament , it pas.ses upwards and forw ards and enters the tongue with the hindermost fibres of the Hyo-glossus The Stvlo-glossus, the shortest andsmaUest of the three styloid muscles, arises from the anterior and outer side of the styloid process, neai' its apex and from the stylo-mandibular ligament. Passing downwards and fofA.ards between the internal and external carotid arteries, and becoming nearly horrzontal in its direction, it divides upon the side of the tongue into U^o po io^ : one, longitudinal, enters the side of the tongue r its doijal surface blendiAg with the fibres of the Inferior lingualis m front of the Hjo- gbLS; the oTher, oblique, overlaps the Hyo-glossus muscle and decussates "''^Neive^-^The muscles of this group are supplied by the hypoglossal. Muscular substance of tongue (%/i'J3).-The tongue consists o^ tuo sym- metrical portions separated from each other in the middle line by * J ous Sptum. Its muscular fibres run in various directions, but "^^^ greuped into Uvo sets-extrinsic and intrinsic. The extrinsic muscles are those ^vhlch ha^e into which the muscular fibres which terminate on the surface of the tongue481 LINGUAL REGION inserted. Upon removing this with the mucous membrane, the first stratum of muscular fibres is exposed. This belongs to the group of intrinsic muscles, and has been named the Superior lingualis. It consists of a thin layer of oblique and longitudinal fibres, which arise from the submucous fibrous layer, close to the epiglottis, and from the fibrous septum, and pass forwards and outwards to the edges of the tongue. Between its fibres pass some vertical fibres derived from the Genio-hyo-glossus and from the Vertical intrinsic muscle, which will be described later on. Beneath this layer is the second stratum of muscular fibres, derived principally from the extrinsic muscles. In front, it is formed by the fibres derived from the Stylo-glossus, running along the side of the tongue, and sending one set of fibres over the dorsum which runs obhquely forwards and inwards to the middle line, and another set of fibres, on to the under surface of the sides of the anterior part of the tongue, which runs forwards and inwards, between the fibres of the Hyo-glossus, to the middle line. Behind this layer of fibres, derived from the Stylo-glossus, are fibres derived from the Hyo-glossus, together with some few fibres of the Palato-glossus. The Hyo-glossus, entering the side of the under surface of the tongue, between the Stylo-glossus and Inferior lingualis, passes round its margin and spreads out into a layer on the dorsum fjg. 493.-CoronaI section of tongue, showing which occupies the middle third of intrinsic muscles. (Altered from Ki-ause.) the organ, and runs almost trans- versely inwards to the septum. It y S is reinforced by some fibres from ^^winmnnL'Wxnrlwir! the ralato-glossus; other fibres of ^r-^^' ' , , this muscle pass more deeply and rs^^^ - ^ i • ■ intermingle with the next layer. " ^ _ The posterior part of the second • *, —-—>^ layer of the muscular fibres of the tongue is derived from those fibres of the Hyo-glossus which arise from the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone, and are here described as a separate muscle—the Chondro-glossus. The fibres of this muscle are arranged in a fan-shaped manner, and spread out over the posterior third of the ^./l/ ; ' ' tongue. Beneath this layer is the ^ '•l^''^^'^''- ' great mass of the intrinsic muscles 'J^flVei of the tongue, intersected at right ^^i;?;: i angles by the terminal fibres of one of the extrinsic muscles—the „. Lmgual artery, b. inferior ImguaUs, cut tl>roud.. J.'ibres beniO-hyO-gloSSUS. This portion °' Hyo-glossus. a. Oblique fibres of stylo-glossus. c. Insertion nf tlio +r^.-nm,^ in -^nl I, „ 1 1 °* Trausvcrse lingualis. f. Superior lingualis. g. Papilto of 01 tJie tongue is paler in colour and tongue, h. vertical fibres ot Genio-li/o-glossus interseotiDg softer in texture than that already Transverse Ungualls. i. septum. described, and is sometimes desig- ^^'^ ruedullary portion in contradistinction to the firmer superficial part, which IS termed the cortical portion. It consists largely of transverse fibres, the Iransverse lingualis, and of vertical fibres, the Vertical lingualis. The Transverse lingualis forms the largest portion of the third layer of muscular fibres of the tongue. The fibres arise from the median septum, and pass outwards to be inserted into the submucous fibrous layer at the sides of the tongue. Intermingled with these transverse intrinsic fibres are transverse extrinsic fibres derived from tile falato-glossus and the Superior constrictor of the pharynx. These Trans- verse extnnsic fibres, however, run in the opposite direction, passing inwards towards tile septum. Intersecting the transverse fibres are a lartre number of vertical fibres derived partly from the Genio-hyo-glossus and partly from intrinsic noies, the Vertical lingualis. The fibres derived from the Genio-hyo-glossus enter tne uucler surface of the tongue on either side of the median septum from base to apex. Lhey ascend in a radiating manner to the dorsum, being inserted into the suDmucous fibrous layer covering the tongue on cither side of the middle line. The vertical lingualis is found only at the borders of the fore part of the tongue, ^xtemai to the fibres of the Genio-hyo-glossus. Its fibres extend from the upper o tne under surface of the organ, decussating with the fibres of the other muscles, I I482 MYOLOGY and especially with the Transverse lingiialis. The fourth layer of muscular fibres of the tongue consists partly of extrinsic fibres derived from the Stylo-glossus, and partly of intrinsic fibres, the Inferior lingualis. At the sides of the under surface of the organ arc some fibres derived from the Stylo-glossus ; as this muscle rinis forwards at the side of the tongue, it gives off fibres which pass forwards and inwards between the fibres of the Hyo-glossus and form an inferior oblique stratum which joins in front with the anterior fibres of the Inferior linguahs. The Inferior lingualis is a longitudinal band, situated on the under surface of the tongue, and extending from the base to the apex of the organ. Behind, some of its fibres are connected with the body of the hyoid bone. It lies between the Hyo-glossus and the 6enio-hyo-glossus ; in front of the Hyo-glossus it comes into relation with the Stylo-glossus, mth the fibres of wliich it blends. It is in relation by its under surface with the ranine artery. Applied Anatomy.—The fibrous septum which exists between the two halves of tlie tongue is very complete, so that the anastomosis between the two hugual arteries is not very free. This is a point of considerable importance in connection with removal of one-half of the tongue for cancer, an operation which is now frequently resorted to when the disease is strictly confined to one side of the organ. If the mucous membrane be divided longi- tuduially exactly in the middle line, the tongue can be split into halves along the median raphe, without any appreciable haemorrhage, and the diseased half can then be removed. Actions.—The movements of the tongue, although numerous and comphcated, nray be understood by carefully considering the direction of the fibres of its muscles. The Genio-hyo-glossi, by means of their posterior fibres, draw the base of the tongue forwards, so as to protrude the apex from the mouth. The anterior fibres draw the tongue back into the mouth. The whole of these two muscles acting along the middle fine of the tongue draw it downwardjs, so as to make it concave from side to side, forming a channel along which fluids may pass towards the pharynx, as in suclcing. The Hyo-glossi depress the tongue, and draw down its sides, so as to render it convex from side to side. The Stylo- glossi draw the tongue upwards and backwards. The Palato-glossi draw the base of the tongue upwards. The intrinsic muscles are mainly concerned in alteriiig the shape of the tongue, whereby it becomes shortened, narrowed from side to side, or curved in different directions ; thus, the Superior and Inferior Uuguales tend to shorten the tongue, but the former, in addition, turn the tip and sides upwards so as to render the dorsum concave, while the latter pull the tip downwards and cause the dorsum to become convex. The Transverse linguahs narrows and elongates the tongue, and the Vertical linguaUs flattens and broadens it. The complex arrangement of the muscular fibres of the tongue, and the various direc- tions in which they run, give to tliis organ the power of assuimug the various forms necessary for the enunciation of the different consonantal sounds ; and Macalister states ' there is reason to believe that the musculature of the tongue varies in different races owing to the hereditary practice and habitual use of certain motions required for enunciating the several vernacular languages. V. Pharyngeal Region (fig. 494) Inferior constrictor. Superior constrictor. Middle constrictor. Stylo-pharyngeus. Palato-pharyngeus. \ ^^^^^ section.) Salpingo-pharyngeus. I The Inferior constrictor (ra. constrictor pharyngis inferior), the thickest of the three constrictors, arises from the sides of the cricoid and thyroid carti- lages. To the cricoid cartilage it is attached in the interval between the Crico- thyroid muscle in front, and the articular facet for the mfenor cornu of the thyroid cartilage behind. To the thyroid cartilage it is attached to the obl.qu.. line on the side of the ala, to the cartilaginous surface behind 't- n^^'^; far as its posterior border, and to the inferior cornu. In-om t \cse attachme s the fibres spread backwards and inwards, to be inserted xnto the l^brous i aphe in the posterior median line of (be pharynx. The inferior fibres are l^orizontol, and continuous with the circular fibres of the CBSophagus ; the rest ascenrt, increasing hi obliquity, and overlap the Middle constrictor.PHARYNGEAL REGION 483 Relations.—The Inferior constrictor is covered by a thin membrane which surrounds « the entire pharj'nx (bucco-pharjmgeal fascia). Behind, it is in relation \\\t\\ the vertebral coluima and the prevertebral fascia and muscles ; laterally, with the thyroid gland, the common carotid artery, and the Sterno-thyroid muscle ; by its internal surface, with the Middle constrictor, the Stylo-pharyngeus, Palato-pharj'ngeus, the pharyngeal aponeurosis and mucous membrane of the pharynx. The internal laryngeal nerve and the laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid artery run near the ujiper border, and the inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerve and the laryngeal branch of the inferior thyroid artery pass beneath the lower border of this muscle, before they enter the larynx. The Middle constrictor (ra. constrictor pharyngis medius) ii? a flattened, fan-shaped muscle, smaller than the preceding. It arises from the whole length of the upper border of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, from the lesser cornu, and from the stylo-hyoid ligament. The fibres diverge from their origin : the lower ones descending beneath the Inferior constrictor, the middle fibres passing transversely, and the Fig. 494. —Muscles of the pharynx. External view. upper fibres ascending and overlapping the Superior constrictor. The muscle is inserted into tlie posterior median fibrous raphe, blending in the middle line with the one of the opposite side. Relations.—This muscle is separated from the Superior constrictor by the glosso- phai-yngeal nerve and the Stylo-pharyngeus and stylo-hyoid ligament; and from the Inferior constrictor by the internal laryngeal nerve and laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid artery. Behind, it Ues on the prever- tebral fascia, the Longus colli, and the Rectus capitis anticus major. On its outer side it is in relation with the carotid vessels, the pharyngeal plexus, and some lympliatic glands. Near its origin it is covered by the Hyo-glossus, from which it is separated by the lingual vessels. It Ues upon the Superior constrictor, the Stylo-pharyngeus, the Palato-pharyngeus, the pharyngeal aponeurosis, and the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The Superior constrictor (m. con- strictor pharyngis superior) is a quadi-i- lateral muscle, thinner and paler than the other Constrictors, and situated at the upper part of the pharynx. It arises from the lower third of the pos- terior margin of the internal pterygoid plate and its hamular process, from the pterygo-mandibular ligament, from the alveolar process of the mandible above the posterior extremity of the mylo-hyoid ridge, and by a few fibres from the side of the tongue. From these points the fibres curve backwards, to be inserted into the median raphe, being also prolonged by means of an aponeurosis to the pharyngeal spine on the basilar process of the occipital bone. The superior fibres arch beneath the Levator palati and the Eustachian tube. The interval between the upper border of the muscle and tlie base of the skuU is deficient in muscular fibres, and closed by the pharyngeal aponeurosis ; it is known as the sinus of Morgagni. Relations.-—The Superior constrictor is in relation by its outer surface with the pre- vertebral fascia and muscles, the vertebral column, the internal cai-otid and ascending pharyngeal arteries, the internal jugular vein and pharyngeal venous plexus, and the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, spinal accessory, hypoglossal, lingual, and sympathetic nerves, the Middle constrictor and Internal pterygoid mtiscles, the styloid process, the stylo-hyoid ligament, and the Stylo-pharyngeus. By its internal surface it is in relation I I 2484 MYOLOGY with tlie Palato-pharyngeus, the tonsil, the pharyngeal aponeurosis and mucous membraiK; of the pharynx. Its lower border is separated from the Middle constrictor of the pharynx by the Stylo-pharyngeus muscle and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The Stylo-pharyngeus is a long, slender muscle, cylindrical above, Ijroad and thin below. It arises from the inner side of the base of the styloid process, passes downwards along the side of the pharynx between the Superior and Middle constrictors, and spreads out beneath the mucous membrane. Some of its fibres are lost in the Constrictor muscles, while others, joining with the Palato-pharyngeus, are inserted into the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve runs on the outer side of this muscle, and crosses over it in passing forward to the tongue. "Nerves.—The Constrictors are supphed by branches from the pharyngeal plexus, the Inferior constrictor by additional branches from the external and recurrent laryngeal nerves, and the Stylo-pharyngeus by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Actions.—When deglutition is about to be performed, the pharynx is drawn upwards and dilated in different directions, to receive the food propelled into it from the mouth. The Stylo-pharyngei, which are much farther removed from 'One another at their origin than at their insertion, draw the sides of the pharynx 'Upwards and outwards, and so increase its transverse diameter ; its breadth in the antero-posterior direction is increased by the larynx and tongue being carried forwards in their ascent. As soon as the bolus is received in the pharvnx, the ^•elevator muscles relax, the pharynx descends, and the Constrictors contract upon the bolus, and convey it gradually downwards into the cBsophagus. VI. Palatal Region (fig. 495) Levator palati. Palato-glossus. Tensor palati. Palato-pharyngeus. Azygos uvula3. Salpingo-pharyngeus. The Levator palati (m. levator veli palatini) is a long, thick, rounded muscle, placed on the outer side of the posterior nares. It arises from the under surface of the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and from the inner surface of the cartUagmous portion of the Eustachian tube. After passing above the upper concave margin of the Superior constrictor, it spreads out in the soft palate, its fibres extending obliquely downwards and inwards, as far as the middle line, where they blend with those of the opposite side. The Tensor palati (m. tensor veli palatini) is a broad, thm, nband-iike muscle, placed on the outer side of the Levator palati, and consisthig of a vertical and a horizontal portion. The vertical portion arises by a flat lamella from the scaphoid fossa at the base of the internal pterygoid plate, from the .spine of the sphenoid, and from the outer side of the cartdagnious portion of the Eustachian tube. Descending vertically between the internal pterygoid plate and the inner surface of the Internal pterygoid muscle, it ternimates in a tendon, which winds round the hamular process, being retauied in this situation by some of the fibres of origin of the Internal pterygoid muscle. Between the hamular process and the tendon is a smaU bursa. The tendon or horizontal portion then passes inwards, and is mserted into a broad aponeurosis, the palatine aponeurosis, and into the transverse ridge on tlie horizontal portion of the palate bone. r ^.i i j Palatine aponeurosis.—Attached to the posterior border of the hard palate is a thin, firm, fibrous lamella which supports the niusch^s and gives strength to the soft palate. It is thicker above than below, where it becomes very thin and difficult to define. Laterally, it is continuous with the pharyngeal aponeurosis. 111,, The Azygos uvulse (m. uvulae) is not a single muse e as ^^x)uld be inferred from its name, but a pair of narrow cylindrical fleshy fasciculi, placed one on either side of the median line of the soft palate ±.acli muscu> arises from tlie posterior nasal spine of the palate bone, and from the con- tiguous tendinous aponeurosis of the soft palate, and descends to be inserted into the uvula.485 PALATAL REGION The Palato-glossus (m. glossopalatinus) is a small fleshy fasciculus, narrower in the middle than at either extremity, forming, with the mucous membrane covering its surface, the anterior pillar of the fauces. It arises from the anterior surface of the soft palate, where it is continuous with the muscle of the opposite side, and passing downwards, forwards, and outwards in front of the tonsil, is inserted into the side of the tongue, some of its fibres spreading over the dorsum, and others passing deeply into the substance of the organ to intermingle with the Transverse lingualis. The Palato-pharyngeus (m. pharyngopalatinus) is along, fleshy fasciculus narrower in the middle than at either extremity, forming, with the mucous membrane covering its surface, the posterior pillar of the fauces. It is separated from the Palato-glossus by an angular interval, in which the tonsil is lodged. It arises from the soft palate by an expanded fasciculus, which is divided into I'lO. 495.—Muscles of the soft palate. The pharynx is laid open from behind. two parts by the Levator palati and Azygos uvulae. The posterior fasciculus lies in contact with the mucous membrane, and joins with the corresponding muscle in the middle line ; the anterior fasciculus, the thicker, lies in the soft palate between the Levator and Tensor, and joins in the middle lino the corresponding part of the opposite muscle. Passing outwards and downwards behind the tonsil, the Palato-pharyngeus joins the Stylo-pharyngeus, and IS inserted with that muscle into the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage, some of its fibres being lost on the side of the pharynx, and others passing across the middle line posteriorly, to decussate with the muscle of the opposite side. The Salpingo-pharyngeus.—This muscle arises from the inferior part of the Eustacliian tube near its orifice; it passes downwards and blends with the liosterior fasciculus of the Palato-pharyngeus.486 MYOLOGY In a dissection of the soft palate from its posterior or nasal surface to its anterior or oral surface, tlio muscles would be exposed in the following order : viz. the posterior fasciculus of the Palato-pharyngeus, covered by a continuation of the mucous membrane of the floor of the nasal fossce ; the Azygos uvulai ; the Levator palati ; the anterior fasciculus of the Palato-pharyngeus ; the aponeurosis of the Tensor palati, and the Palato-glossus covered 'by a continuation of the oral mucous membrane. Nerves.—The Tensor palati is supplied by a branch from the otic ganglion ; the remaining muscles of this group are in all probabihty supphed by the bulbar portion of the spinal accessory through the pharyngeal plexus.* Actions.—During the first stage of deglutition, the bolus is driven back into the fauces by the pressure of the tongue against the hard palate, the base of the tongue being, at the same time, retracted, and the larynx raised with the pharynx, and carried forwards under it. During the second stage the entrance to the laiynx is closed, not, as was formerly supposed, by the folding backwards of the "epi- glottis over it, but, as Anderson Stuart has shown, by the drawing forward of the arytenoid cartilages towards the cushion of the epiglottis—a movement produced by the contraction of the External thyro-arytenoid, the Arytenoid and the Aryteno-epiglottidean muscles. The bolus after leaving the tongue passes on to the posterior or laryngeal surface of the epiglottis, and ghdes along this for a certain distance ; t then the Palato- glossi muscles, the constrictors of the fauces, contract behind it; the soft palate is shghtly raised by the Levator palati, and made tense by the Tensor palati; and the Palato-pharyngei, by their contraction, pull the pharynx upwards over the bolus, and come nearly together, the uvula filling up the shght interval between them. By these means the food is prevented from passing into the naso- pharynx ; at the same time, the Palato-pharyngei form an inchned plane, directed obliquely downwards and backwards, along the under surface of which the bolus descends into the lower part of the pharynx. The Salpingo-pharyngei raise the upper and lateral parts of the pharynx—i.e. those parts which are above the points where the Stylo-pharyngei are attached to the pharvnx. Applied Anatomy.—After the operation for the closure of a cleft in the palate, the palate muscles, especially the Tensor and Levator palati, have a tendency to retard the healing process by active traction upon the Hne of suture. To ob%'iate this, it is necessary to divide them. This is best done by making longitudinal incisions, on either side, parallel to the cleft and just internal to the hamular process, in such a position as to avoid the posterior palatine artery. Paralysis of the soft palate is a common sequel of diphtheria; it gives rise to regurgitation of fluids through the nose. VII. Anterior Vertebral Region (fig. 496) Rectus capitis anticus major. Rectus capitis lateralis. Rectus capitis anticus minor. Longus colli. The Rectus capitis anticus major (m. longus capitis), broad and thick above, narrow below, appears like a continuation upwards of the Scalenus anticus. It arises by four tendinous slips, from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebra?, and ascends, converging towards its fellow of the opposite side, to be inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone. The Rectus capitis anticus minor (m. rectus capitis anterior) is a .short, flat muscle, situated immediately behind the upper part of the preceding. It arises from the anterior surface of tlie lateral mass of the atlas, and from the root of its transverse process, and passing obliquely upw ards and inwards, is inserted into the basilar process immediately behind the preceding muscle. The Rectus capitis lateralis is a short, flat muscle, which arises from tiio upper surface of the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into llio under surface of the jugular process of the occipital bone. * 'The Innervation of the Soft Palate,' by Aldrcn Turner, Journal of Arwtomy ami PhyKwhiii/, vol. x.xiii. ]). 523. t Wfilton (quotocl by Anderson Stuart) maintains that the epiglottis is not essential to tlie deglutition even of liquids.ANTERIOR VERTEBRAL REGION 487 The Longus colli is a long, flat muscle, situated on the antenor surface of the vertebral column, between the atlas and the third thoracic vertebra. It is broad in the middle, narrow and pointed at each extremity, and consists of three portions, a superior oblique, an inferior oblique, and a vertical portion. The superior oblique portion arises from the anterior tubercles of the trans- verse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae ; and, ascending obliquely inwards, is inserted by a narrow tendon into the tubercle on the anterior"arch of the atlas. The 'inferior oblique portion, the smallest part of the muscle, arises from the front'of the bodies of the first two or three tlioraeic vertebrae ; and, ascending obliquely outwards, is inserted into the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrffi. The vertical portion lies directly on the front of the spine ; it arises, Fig. 496.—^The prevertebral muscles. below, from the front of the bodies of the upper three thoracic and lower three cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the front of the bodies of the second, tliird, and fourth cervical vertebrae above. Nerves.—The Rectus capitis anticus minor and the Rectus lateralis are suppUed from the loop between the first and second cervical nerves ; the Rectus capitis iuiticus major by branches from the second, third, and fourth cervical; the Longus coin by Ijranches from the second to the seventh cervical nerves. Actions.—The Rectus capitis anticus major and minor are the direct antagonists of the muscles at the back of the neck, serving to restore the head to its natural position after it has been drawn backwards. These muscles also serve to flex the head, and from their obUquity, rotate it, so as to turn the face to one or the other side. The Rectus lateralis, acting on one side, bends the head laterally. The Longus colh flexes and slightly rotates the cervical portion of the spine.MYOLOGY 488 VIII. Lateral Vertebral Region (lig. 496) Scalenus anticus. Scalenus medius. Scalenus posticus. u J Scalenus anticus (m. scalenus anterior) is a cone-shaped muscle situated deeply at the side of the nock, behind the Sterno-mastoid. It arises trom tlic anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third fourth btth, and sixth cervical vertebrae, and descending, almost vertically is'insert«d by a narrow, flat tendon mto the scalene tubercle on the inner border of the hrst rib, and also into the upper surface of the rib between the grooves for the subclavian artery and vein. The lower part of this muscle .separates the subclavian artery and vein : the latter being in front, and the former with the brachial plexus, behind. Relations.—/?! fro7it of the Scalenus anticus are the clavicle, the Subclavius, Sterno- mastoid, and Omo-hyoid muscles, the transversaUs coUi, the suprascapular and ascending cervical arteries, the subclavian vein, and the phrenic nerve. By its posterior surface it IS m relation with the cords of the brachial plexus, the subclavian artery, and the pleura which separate it from the Scalenus medius. It is separated from the Longus colh, on the inner side, by the vertebral artery. On the anterior tubercles of the traasverse processes of the cervical vertebra;, between the attachments of the Scalenus anticus and Longus colU, lies the ascending cervical branch of the inferior thyroid artery. The Scalenus medius (m. scalenus medius), the largest and longest of the three Scaleni, arises from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the lower six cervical vertebrae, and descending along the side of the vertebral column, is inserted by a broad attachment into the upper suiiace of the liist rib, behind the groove for the subclavian artery, as far back as the tubercle. It is separated from the Scalenus anticus by the subclavian artery below, and the cervical nerves above. The posterior thoracic nerve, or nerve of Bell, is formed in the substance of the Scalenus medius and emerges from it. The nerve to the Rhomboids also pierces it. Relations.—The Scalenus medius is in relation by its anterior surface with the Sterno- mastoid ; it is crossed by the clavicle, the Omo-hyoid muscle, subclavian artery, and the cervical nerves. To its outer side are the Levator anguh scapulae and the Scalenus posticus. The Scalenus posticus (m. scalenus posterior), the smallest of the three Scaleni, arises, by two or three separate tendons, from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the lower two or three cervical vertebrae, and diminishing as it descends, is inserted by a thin tendon into the outer surface of the second rib, behind the attachment of the Serratus magnus. This is the most deeply placed of the three Scaleni, and is occasionally blended with the Scalenus medius. Nerves.—The Scaleni are supplied by branches from the second to the seventh cervical nerves. Actions.—The Scaleni muscles, when they take their fixed points from above, elevate the first and second ribs, and are, therefore, inspiratory muscles. \\'Tien they take their fixed points from below, they bend the spinal column to one or other side. If the muscles of both sides act, lateral movemcut is prevented, but the spine is slightly flexed. Surface Form.—The muscles in the neck, with the exception of the Platj^mn, are invested by the deep cervical fascia. The Plat;/sma does not influence surface form unless it is in action, when it produces -wrinkling of the skin of the neck, which is thro>\ii into obUque ridges parallel with tho fasciculi of the muscle. The Sterno-mastoid is the most important muscle of the neck as regards its surface form. If the muscle be put inlo action by drawing the chin downwards and to the opposite shoulder, its surface form will be plainly outlined. The sternal origin will stand out as a sharply delincd ridge, while the clavicular origin will jireseut a Hatter and less prominent outline. The Hesliy middle portion will appear as an oblique roll or elevation, with a thick rounded anterior border gradually becoming less marked above. A\'hen the muscle is at rest its anterior border is still visible, forming an oblique rounded ridge, terminating below in the sharp outline of the sternal head. The posterior border of the muscle does not show aboveLATERAL VERTEBRAL REGION 489 the clavicular head. The anterior border is defined by drawing a line from the tip of the mastoid process to the sterno-clavicular joint. It is an important surface-marking in the operation of ligature of the common carotid artery. Between the sternal and clavicular heads is a slight depression, most marked when the muscle is in action, which overlies the lower part of the internal jugular vein. This is bounded below by the promi- nent sternal extremity of the clavicle. Between the sternal origins of the t-H'o muscles is a V-shaped depression, the suprasternal notch, more pronounced below, and less so aljove, where the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, lying upon the trachea, become more prominent. Above the hyoid bone, in the middle line, the anterior belly of the Digastric to a certain extent influences surface form. It corresponds to a line di-awn from the symphysis menti to the side of the body of the hyoid bono, and renders this part of the hyo-mental region convex. In the posterior triangle of the neck, the posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid, when in action, forms a conspicuous object, esf)ecially in thin necks, presenting a cord-like form running across this region, almost parallel with, and a little above, the clavicle. MUSCLES AND FASCLE OF THE TRUNK The Muscles of the Trunk may be arranged in four groups, corresponding wit li tlie regions in which they are situated. I. The Back. II. The Thorax. III. The Abdomen. IV. The Pelvis. V. The PerinsEum. I. Muscles op the Back The muscles of the back are very numerous, and may be subdivided into five layers. First Layer Trapezius. Latissimus dorsi. Second Layer Levator anguli scapulae. Rhomboideus minor. Rhomboideus major. Third Layer Serratus posticus superior. Serratus posticus inferior. Splenius capitis. Splenius colli. Fourth Layer Sacral and Lumbar Regions Erector spinaj. Thoracic Region. Ilio-costalis. Musculus accessorius ad ilio-costalem. Longissimus dorsi. Spinalis dorsi. Cervical Region Cervicalis ascendens. Transversahs cervicis. Trachelo-mastoid. Complexus. Biventer cervicis. Spinalis colli. Pefth Layer Semispinalis dorsi. SemispinaUs colli. Multifidus spinae. Rotatores spinae. Interspinales. Extensor coccygis. Intertransversales. Rectus capitis posticus major. Rectus capitis posticus minor. Obliquus capitis inferior. Obliquus capitis superior. Trapezius. First Layer Latissimus dorsi. _ The superficial fascia forms a layer of considerable thiclmess and strength, in which a quantity of granular pinkish fat is contained. It is continuous |vith the general superficial fascia. The deep fascia is a dense fibrous ayer, attached above to the superior curved line of tlie occipital bone ; in •^'le middle line it is attached to the ligamentum nuchas, and to the spinous processes and supraspinous ligaments of all tlie vertebrije below the seventh cervical; laterally, in the neck it is continuous with the deep cervical lascia ; over the shoulder it is attached to the spine of the scapula and the490 MYOLOGY acromion process, and is continued downwards over the Deltoid muscle to the arm ; on the thorax it is continuous with the deep fascia of the axilla and chest, and on the abdomon with that covering the abdominal muscles ; below, it is attached to the crest of the ilium. The Trapezius (fig. 497) is a broad, flat, triangular muscle, placed imme- diately beneath the skin and fascia, and covermg the upper and back part of the neck and shoulders. It arises from the external occipital protuberance a,nd the inner third of the superior curved line of the occipital bone, from the ligamentum nuchse, the si^inous process of the seventh cervical, and the spinous processes of all the thoracic vertebrte, and from the corresponding portion of the supraspinous ligament. From this origin, the superior fibres proceed downwards and outwards, the inferior upwards and out^\-ards, and the middle horizontally ; the superior fibres are inserted into the posterior border of the outer third of the clavicle ; the middle fibres into the inner margm of the acromion process, and into the superior lip of the posterior border or crest of the spine of the scapula ; the inferior fibres converge near the scapula, and terminate in an aponeurosis, which glides over the smooth triangular surface on the inner extremity of the crest of the spine, to be inserted into a tubercle at the apex of this smooth triangular surface. The Trapezius is fleshy in the greater part of its extent, but tendinous at its origin and inser- tion. At its occipital origin, it is connected to the bone by a thin fibrous lamina, firmly adherent to the skin, and wanting the lustrous, shining appear- ance of aponeurosis. At the middle of its origin from the spines of the vertebrse, it is connected to the bones by means of a broad semi-elliptical aponeurosis ; this occupies the space between the sixth cervical and the third thoracic vertebrse, and forms, with the aponeurosis of the opposite muscle, a tendinous ellipse. The rest of the muscle arises by numerous short tendinous fibres. The two Trapezius muscles together resemble a trapezium, or diamond- shaped quadrangle : two angles corresponding to the shoulders; a third to the occipital protuberance ; and the fourth to the spinous process of the last thoracic vertebra. The clavicular insertion of this muscle varies in extent : it sometimes advances as far as the middle of the clavicle, and may occasionall}' become blended with the posterior edge of the Sterno-mastoid, or overlap it. The Latissimus dorsi (fig. 497) is a broad, flat muscle, which covers the lumbar and the lower half of the thoracic regions, and is gradually contracted into a narrow fasciculus at its insertion into the humerus. It arises by tendinous fibres from the spinous processes of the six inferior thoracic vertebrae and from the posterior layer of the lumbar fascia (see page 493), hj which it is attached to the spines of the lumbar and sacral vertebrse, to the supraspinous ligament, and to the posterior part of the crest of the ilium. It also arises by muscular fibres from the external lip of the crest of the ilium external to the margin of the Erector spinse, and from the three or four loAver ribs by fleshy digitations, which are interposed between similar processes of the External oblique muscle (fig. 502, page 507). From this extensive origiir the fibres pass in different directions, the upper ones horizontally, the middle obliquely upwards, and the lower vertically upwards, so as to converge and form a thick fasciculus, which crosses the inferior angle of the scapula, and usually receives a few fibres from it. The muscle curves around the lower border of the Teres major, and is tAvisted upon itself, so that the superior fibres become at first posterior and then inferior, and the vertical fibres at first anterior and then superior. It terminates in a short quadrilateral tendon, about three inches in length, which passes m front of the tendon of the Teres major, and is inserted into the bottom of the bicipital groove of the humerus ; its insertion extending higher on tlie humerus than that of the tendon of the Pectoralis major. The lower border of the tendon of this muscle is united with that of the Teres major, the surfaces of the two being separated near their insertions by a bursa ; another bursa is sometimes interposed between the muscle and the inferior angle of the scapula. The muscle at its insertion gives off an expansion to the deep fascia of the arm. A muscular slip, the a.rillari/ arch, varying from 3 to 4 inches iu length, and from J to J of an inch in Ijreadtli, occasionally arises from the upper edge of the LatissimusMUSCLES OF THE BACK 491 Fig. 497.—MuscJes of the back. On tlie left side, the first layer is exposed; on the right side, the second layer and part of the third.MYOLOGY 492 dorsi about the middle of the posterior fold of the axilla, and crosses the axilla in front oi the axillary vessels and nerves, to join the under surface of the tendon of the Pectoralis major, the Conico-brachialis, or the fascia over the Biceps. The position of this abnormal slip is a point of interest in its relation to the axillary artery, as it crosses the vessel just above the spot usually selected for the application of a ligature, and may mislead the surgeon during the operation. It may be easily recognised by the transverse direction of its fibres. Struthers found it, in 8 out of 105 subjects, occurring seven times on itoth sides. There is usually a tibrous slip which passes from the lower border of the tendon of the Latissimus dorsi, near its insertion, to the long head of the Triceps. 'J'his is occasionally muscular, and is the representative of the Dorso-epUrochlearis muscle of apes. The outer margin of the Latissimus dorsi is separated below from the External oblique muscle of the abdomen by a small triangular interval, the base of which is formed by the crest of the ilium, and its floor by the Liternal oblique. This is known as the triangle of Petit (trigonum lumbale), and is sometimes the site of a lumbar hernia. Another triangle of practical importance is situated behind the scapula. It is bounded aboA^e by the Trapezius, below by the Latissimus dorsi, and externally by the vertebral border of the scapula ; the floor is partly formed by the Rhomboideus major. If the scapula be drawn forwards by folding the arms across the chest, and the trunk bent forwards, a part of the sixth and seventh ribs and the interspace between them become subcutaneous and available for auscultation. The space is therefore known as the triangle of auscultation. Nerves,—The Trapezius is suppUed by the spinal accessory, and by branches from the third and fourth cervical nerves ; the Latissimus dorsi by the sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves through the middle or long subscapular nerve. Second Layer (fig. 497) Levator anguli scapulae. Rhomboideus minor. Rhomboideus major. The Levator anguli scapulse (m. levator scapulse) is situated at the back part and side of the neck. It arises by tendinous sHps frora the transverse processes of the atlas and axis and from the posterior tubercles of the trans- verse processes of the third and fourth cervical vertebrae ; these tendons, becoming fleshy, are united to form a flat muscle, M'hich passes downwards and backwards, and is inserted into the posterior border of the scapula, between the superior angle and the triangular smooth surface at the root of the spine. The Rhomboideus minor arises from the lower part of the ligamentum nuchae and the spinous processes of the seventh cervical and first thoracic vertebrae. Passing downwards and outwards, it is inserted into the base of the triangular smooth surface at the root of the spine of the scapula. This small muscle is usually separated from the Rhomboideus major by a slight interval. The Rhomboideus major is situated immediately below the preceding, the adjacent margins of the two bemg occasionally united. It arises by tendinous fibres from the spinous processes of the second, third, fourth, and fifth thoracic vertebrae and the suprasxjinous ligament, and is inserted into a narrow tendinous arch, attached above to the lower part of the triangular surface at the root of the spine, below, to the inferior angle, the arch being connected to the border of the scapula hj a thm membrane. When the arch extends, as it occasionally does, only a short distance, the muscular fibres are inserted into the scapula itself. Nerves.—The Rhomboid muscles are supphed by a branch from the fifth cervical nerve ; the Levator anguh scapulae by the third and fourth cervical nerves, and frequently by a branch from the nerve to the Rhomboids. Actions.—The movements effected by the preceding muscles arc numerous, as may be conceived from their extensive attachments. The whole of the Trapezius when in action retracts the scapula and braces back the shoulder ; if the head be fixed, the upper part of the Trapezius will elevate the point of the shoulder, as in supporting weights ; when the lower fibres arc brought into action they assist in depressing the bone. The middle and lower fibres of the muscle rotate the scapula, causing elevation of the acromion process. If the shoulders be fixed, the Trapezii, acting together, will draw the head directly backwards; or if only one act, the head is drawn to the corresponding side.MUSCLES OF THE BACK 493 The Latissimus dorsi, when it acts upon the humerus, depresses it, draws it backwards, and at the same time rotates it inwards. It is the muscle which is principally employed in giving a downward blow, as in felling a tree or in sabre practice. If the arm be fixed, the muscle may act in various ways upon the trunk : thus, it may raise the lower ribs and assist in forcible inspiration; or, if both arms' be fixed, the two muscles may assist the Abdominal and great Pectoral muscles in suspending and drawing the whole trunk forwards, as in chmbing or wallcing on crutches. The Levator anguli scapula; raises the superior angle of the scapula, assisting the Trapezius in bearing weights or in shrugging the shoulders. If the shoulder be fixed, the Levator auguU scapulas inchnes the neck to the corresponding side and rotates it in the same direction. The Rhomboid muscles carry the inferior an^Ic backwards and upwards, thus producing a slight rotation of the scapula upon the side of the chest, the Rhomboideus major acting especially on the lower angle of the scapida, through the tendinous arch by which it is inserted. The Rhomboid muscles, acting together with the middle and inferior fibres of the Trapezius, will retract the scapula. TmRD Layer (fig. 497) Serratus posticus superior. Serratus posticus inferior. CI 1 • r Splenius capitis. Splenius < c 1 • IT [ Splenius colli. The Serratus posticus superior is a thin, flat, quadi-ilateral muscle, situated at the upper and back part of the thorax. It arises by a thin and broad aponeurosis from the lower part of the ligamentum nuchas, from the spinous processes of the last cervical and upper two or three thoracic vertebrjE and from the supraspinous ligament. Inclining downwards and outwards, it becomes muscular, and is inserted, by four fleshy digitations, into the upper borders of the second, third, fourth, and fifth ribs, a little beyond their angles. The Serratus posticus inferior is situated at the junction of the thoracic and lumbar regions : it is of an irregularly quadrilateral form, broader than the preceding, and separated from it by a wide interval. It arises by a thin aponeurosis from the spinous processes of the last two thoracic and upper two or three lumbar vertebrae, and from the supraspinous ligament. Passing obhquely upwards and outwards, it becomes fleshy, and divides into four flat digitations, which are inserted into the lower borders of the lower four ribs, a little beyond their angles. The thin aponeurosis of origin is intimately blended with the lumbar fascia. The vertebral fascia is a thin, fibrous lamina, extending along the whole length of the back part of the thoracic region, serving to bind down the long extensor muscles of the back which support the vertebral column and head, and to separate them from those muscles which connect the vertebral column to the upper extremity. It consists of longitudinal and transverse fibres blended together, forming a thin lamella, which is attached in the median line to the spinous processes of the thoracic vertebrae ; externally, to the angles of the ribs ; and below, to the upper border of the Serratus posticus inferior and to the portion of the lumbar fascia which gives origin to the Latissimus dorsi ; above, it passes beneath the Serratus posticus superior and the Splenius, and blends with the deep fascia of the neck. The lumbar fascia or aponeurosis (fig. 498), which may be regarded as the posterior aponeurosis of the Transversalis abdominis muscle, consists of three laminae, which are attached as follows : the posterior layer, to the spines of the lumbar and sacral vertebrae and the supraspinous ligament; the middle, to the tips of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebras and the intertransverse hgaments ; the anterior, to the roots of the lumbar transverse processes. The posterior layer is continued above as the vertebral fascia, while inferiorly it is fixed to the outer lip of the iliac crest. With this layer are blended the aponeurotic origin of the Serratus posticus inferior and part of that of the Latissimus dorsi. The middle layer is attached above to the last rib, and below to the iliac crest; the anterior layer is fixed below to the494 MYOLOGY ilio-lumbar ligament and iliac crest ; vvliile above it is thickened to form tiie external arcuate ligament of the Diaphragm, and stretches from the tip of the last rib to the transverse process of the first or second lumbar vertebra. These three lawyers, togetlier with the vertebral column, enclose two spaces, the posterior of wiiich is occupied by the Erector spinse muscle, and the anterior by the Quadratus lumborum. The Splenius is a broad sheet situated at the back of the neck and upper part of the thoracic region. At its origin, it is a single muscle, which arises, by tendinous fibres, from the lower half of the ligamentum nucliaj, fro.m the spinous processes of the last cervical and upper six tlioracie vertebrae, and from the supraspinous ligament. From this origin the fleshy fibres proceed obliquely upwards and outwards, forming a broad flat muscle, which divides as it ascends, into two portions, the Splenius capitis and Splenius colli. The Splenius capitis (m. splenius capitis) is inserted, under cover of tlie Sterno-mastoid, into the mastoid process of the Temporal bone, and into the rough surface on the occipital bone just below the outer third of the superior curved line. The Splenius colli (m. splenius cervicis) is inserted, by tendinous fasciculi, into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the upper two or three cervical vertebrae. Nerves.—The Splenius is supplied by the external branches of the posterior primary divisions of the middle and lower cervical ner%'es ; the Serratus posticus superior is suppUed by branches from the upper three or four intercostal nerves ; Fig. 498.—Diagram of a transverse section of the posterior abdominal wall, to show the three layers of the lumbar aponeurosis. V Posterior laijer the Serratus posticus inferior by branches from the ninth, teath, and eleventh intercostal nerves. Actions.—The Serrati are respiratory muscles. The Serratus posticus superior elevates the ribs and is therefore an inspiratory muscle. The Serratus posticus inferior draws the lower ribs downwards and backwards, and thus elongates the thorax ; it also fixes the lower ribs, thus assisting the inspiratory action of the Diaphragm and resisting the tendency which it has to draw the lower ribs upwards and forwards. It must therefore be regarded as a muscle of inspiration. This muscle is also probably a tensor of the vertebral fascia. The Splenii of the two sides, acting together, draw the head directly backwards, assisting the Trapezius and Gomplexus ; acting separately, they draw the head to one side, and sUghtly rotate it, turning the face to the same side. They also assist in supporting the head in the erect position. a. Outer Column. Ilio-costalis. Musculus accessorius. Cervicalia ascendons. FoTTBTH Layer 1. Erector spinse, b. Middle Column. Longissimus dorsi. Trans vcrsalis cervicis. Trachelo-mastoid. c. Inner Column. Spinalis dorsi. 2. Gomplexus.MUSCLES OF THE BACK 495 Tlio Erector spinas (m. sacrospinalis) (fig. 499), and its iirolongations in tlie thoracic and cervical regions, fill up the groove on either side of tlie Fig. 499.—Muscles of the back. Deep layers. Occipital honeMYOLOGY 496 vertebral column. They are covered in the lumbar region by tlie lumbar fascia, in the thoracic region by the Serrati and the vertebral fascia, and in the cervical region by a layer of cervical fascia continued beneath tiie Trapezius and the Splenius. This large muscular and tendinous mass varies in size and structure at different parts of the vertebral column. In the sacral region it is narrow and pointed, and at its origui chiefly tendinous in structure. In the lumbar region it becomes enlarged, and forms a thick fleshy mass. In the thoracic region it is subdivided into three columns, which gradually diminish in size as they ascend to be mserted into the vertebrae and ribs. The outer and middle columns are each subdivided from below upwards into three parts, viz. the outer into Ilio-costalis, Musculus accessorius, and Cervicalis ascendens; the middle into Longissimus dorsi, Transversalis cervicis, and Trachelo-mastoid. The inner column is the shortest and weakest, and is named the Spinalis dorsi. The Erector spinte arises from the anterior .'jurface of a ver}' broad and thick tendon, which is attached, internally, to the spines of the sacrum, to the spinous processes of the lumbar and the eleventh and twelfth thoracic vertebrae, and the supraspinous ligament ; externally, to the back part of the inner lip of the crest of the ilium, and to the lateral crests of the sacrum, where it blends with the great sacro-sciatic and posterior sacro-iliac liga- ments. Some of its fibres are continuous with the fibres of origin of the Gluteus maximus. The muscular fibres form a large fleshy mass, bounded in front by the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and bj the middle lamella of the lumbar fascia. The Ilio-costalis (m. iliocostalis lumborum), the external portion of the Erector spinae, is inserted, by six or seven flattened tendons, into the mferior borders of the angles of the lower six or seven ribs. The Musculus accessorius (m. iliocostalis dorsi) arises by flattened tendons from the upper borders of the angles of the lower six ribs internal to the tendons of insertion of the Ilio-costalis; these become muscular, and are inserted into the upper borders of the angles of the upper six ribs and into the back of the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. The Cervicalis ascendens (m. iliocostalis cervicis) is situated on the inner side of the Accessorius ; it arises from the angles of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs, and is inserted mto the posterior tubercles of the trans- verse processes of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae. The Longissimus dorsi is the middle and largest portion of the Erector spinse. In the lumbar region, where it is as yet blended with the Iho-costalis, some of its fibres are attached to the whole length of the posterior surfaces of the transverse processes and the accessory processes of the lumbar vertebra, and to the middle layer of the lumbar fascia. In the thoracic region it is inserted, by rounded tendons, into the tips of the transverse processes of all the thoracic vertebrae, and by fleshy processes uito the lower nme or ten ribs between theu- tubercles and angles. The Transversalis cervicis (m. longissimus cervicis), placed on the inner side of the Longissimus dorsi, arises by long thm tendons from the summits of the transverse processes of tiie upper four or five thoracic vertebrte, and is inserted by similar tendons into the posterior tubercles of tlie transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae from the second to the sixtii inclusive. . . , Tlie Trachelo-mastoid (m. longissimus capitis) lies on the inner side of the Transversalis cervicis, between it and the Complexus muscle. It arises by tendons from the transverse processes of the upper four or five tiioracic vertebra}, and the articular processes of the lower three or four cervical. The fibres form a small muscle, which ascends to be inserted into the posterior margin of the mastoid process, beneath the Splenius capitis and Sterno-mastoid muscles. This small muscle is almost always crossed by a tendinous inter- section near its insertion into the mastoid process. . . . The Spinalis dorsi is situated at the inner side of the Longissimus dorsi, with which it is intimately blended, and arises by three or four tendons from the spinous processes of the first two lumbar and the last two tlioracic vertebra : these unitincr, form a small muscle whieii is inserted by separate tendons into the .spinous processes of the upper thoracic vertebrae, the number varyingMUSCLES OF THE BACK 497 tiom four to eight. It is intimately united with the Semispinalis dorsi, which lies beneath it. The Spinalis colli is an inconstant muscle, which arises from the lower part of the ligamentum nuchaj, the spine of the seventh cervical, and sometimes from the spines of the first and second thoracic vertebrse, and is inserted into the spinous process of the axis, and occasionally into the spinous processes of the two vertebra; below it. The Complexus (m.^semispinalis capitis) is a broad, thick muscle, situated at the upper and back part of the neck, beneath the Splenius, and internal to the Transversalis cervicis and Trachelo-mastoid. It arises by a series of tendons from the tips of the transverse processes of the upper six or seven thoracic and the seventh cervical vertebrae, and from the articular processes of the three cervical above this. The tendons, uniting, form a broad muscle, which passes obliquely upwards and inwards, and is inserted into the innermost depression between the two curved lines of the occipital bone. This muscle is traversed about its middle by an imperfect tendinous intersection. The term Biventer cervicis is given to the inner portion of the Complexus ; this portion is usually separated from the rest of the muscle, and consists of two fleshy bellies connected by an intervening tendon. Fifth Layer The fifth layer, or rather group, of muscles comprises the Semispinalis dorsi. Extensor coccygis. Semispinalis colli. Inter trans versales. Multifidus spinae. Rectus capitis jjosticus major. Rotatores spinse. Rectus capitis posticus mmor. Interspinales. Obliquus capitis inferior. Obliquus capitis superior. The Semispinalis dorsi (fig. 499) consists of thin, narrow, fleshy fasciculi, interposed between tendons of considerable length. It arises by a series of small tendons from the transverse processes of the lower thoracic vertebrae, from the sixth to the tenth inclusive, and is inserted, by five or six tendons, into the spinous processes of the upper four thoracic and lower two cervical vertebrae. The Semispinalis colli (m. semispinalis cervicis), thicker than the pre- ceding, arises by a series of tendinous and fleshy fibres from the transverse processes of the upper five or six thoracic vertebrae, and is inserted into the cervical spinous processes, from the axis to the fifth inclusive. The fasciculus connected with the axis is the largest, and is chiefly muscular in structure. The Multifidus spinae (m. multifidus) consists of a number of fleshy and tendmous fasciculi, which fill up the groove on either side of the spinous processes of the vertebrae, from the sacrum to the axis. In the sacral region, these fasciculi arise from the back of the sacrum, as low as the fourth sacral foramen, from the aponeurosis of origin of the Erector spinae, from the mner surface of the posterior superior spine of the ilium, and from the posterior sacro- iliac ligaments ; in the lumbar region, from the mamillary processes ; in the thoracic region, from the transverse processes ; and m the cervical region, from the articular processes of the four lower vertebrae. Each fasciculus, passmg obliquely upwards and inwards, is inserted into the whole length of the spmous process of one of the vertebrae above. These fasciculi vary in length : the most superficial, the longest, pass from one vertebra to the third '^^ rP^^j''^ above ; those next in order pass from one vertebra to the second or third above ; while the deepest connect two contiguous vertebrae. ihe Rotatores spinae (mm. rotatores) are found only in the thoracic region ot the vertebral column, beneath the Multifidus spmae ; they are eleven in number on either side. Each muscle is small and somewhat quadrilateral in orm ; it arises from the upper and back part of the transverse process, and IS inserted into the lower border and outer surface of the lamina of the vertebra Th ^fi' • ^^^^^ extendmg inwards as far as the root of the spmous process, ine bi'st IS found between the first and second thoracic vertebrae ; the last, K K498 MYOLOGY between the eleventh and twelfth. Sometimes the number of these muscles is diminished by the absence of one or more from the upper or lower end. The Interspinales are short muscular fascicuH, placed in pairs between the spijtious processes of the contiguous vertebrae, one on eitlier side of the interspinous ligament. In the cervical region they are most distinct, and consist of six pairs, the first being situated between the axis and thurd vertebra, and the last between the last cervical and the first thoracic. They are small narrow bundles, attached, above and below, to the apices of the spinous processes. In the thoracic region, they are found between the first and second vertebrae, and sometimes between the second and third ; and below, between the eleventh and twelfth. In the lumbar region, there are four pairs of these muscles in the intervals between the five lumbar vertebrae. There is also occasionally one in the interspinous space, between the last thoracic and first lumbar, and one between the fifth lumbar and the sacrum. The Extensor coccygis is a slender musciilar fasciculus, which is not always present; it extends over the lower part of the posterior surface of the sacrum and coccyx. It arises by tendinous fibres from the last segment of the sacrum, or first piece of the coccyx, and passes downwards to be inserted into the lower part of the coccy^x. It is a rudiment of the Extensor muscle of the caudal vertebrae of the lower animals. The Intertransversales are small muscles placed between the transverse processes of the vertebrae. In the cervical region they are most developed, consisting of rounded muscular and tendinous fasciculi, and are placed in pairs, passing between the anterior and the posterior tubercles respectively of the transverse processes of two contiguous vertebrae, and separated from one another by the anterior primary division of the cervical nerve, which lies in the groove between them. In this region there are seven pairs of these muscles, the first pair being between the atlas and axis, and the last pair between the seventh cervical and first thoracic vertebrae. In the thoracic region they are least developed, consisting chiefly of rounded tendinous cords in the inter- transverse spaces of the upper thoracic vertebras, but between the transverse processes of the lower three thoracic vertebrae, and between the transverse processes of the last thoracic and the first lumbar, they are muscular in structure. In the lumbar region they are arranged in pairs, on either side of the vertebral column ; one set occupying the entire interspace between the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrte, the Intertransversales laterales ; the other set, Intertransversales mediales, passing from the accessory process of one vertebra to the mamillary process of the vertebra below.* The Rectus capitis posticus major (m. rectus capitis posterior major) arises by a pointed tendinous origin from the spinous process of the axis, and, becoming broader as it ascends, is inserted into the outer part of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone and the surface of bone immediately below it. As the muscles of the two sides pass upwards and outw^ards, they leave between them a triangular space, in which are seen the Recti capitis postici minores. The Rectus capitis posticus minor (m. rectus capitis posterior mmor), the smallest of the four muscles in this region, is of a triangular shape ; it arises by a narrow pointed tendon from the tubercle on the posterior arch of the atlas, and, becoming broader as it ascends, is inserted into the iimer part of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone and the surface between it and the foramen magnum. The Obliquus capitis inferior, the larger of the two Oblique muscles, arises from the apex of the spinous process of the axis, and passes outwards and slightly upwards, to be inserted into the lower and back part of the transverse process of the atlas. The Obliquus capitis superior, narrow below, wide and expanded above, arises by tendinous fibres from the upper surface of the transverse process of the atlas, joining with the insertion of the preceding. It passes obhquely upwards and inwards, and is inserted into the occipital bone, between the two curved lines, external to the Complexus. ♦ The student is referred to an article on the morphology of the human intertransvi muscles, by J. Dunlop I.ickley ; Journal of Anatomy and rhysiology, vol. xxxix. 1904.499 MUSCLES OF THE BACK The Suboccipital triangle.—Between the two Oblique muscles and the Rectus capitis posticus major a triangular interval exists, the suboccipital triangle. This triangle is bounded, above and internally, by the Rectus capitis posticus major; above and externally, by the Obhquus capitis superior; below and externally, by the Obliquus capitis inferior. It is covered in by a layer of dense fibro-fatty tissue, situated beneath the Complexus muscle. The floor is formed by the posterior occipito-atlantal hgament, and the posterior arch of the atlas. It contains the vertebral artery running in a deep groove on the upper surface of the posterior arch of the atlas, and the posterior primary division of the suboccipital nerve. Nerves.—The fourth and fifth layers of the muscles of the back arc supplied by the posterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves. Actions.—When both the Spinales dorsi contract, they extend the thoracic portion of the vertebral column ; when only one contracts, it helps to bend it to one side. The Erector spinae, comprising the lUo-costahs and the Longissiraus dorsi with their accessory muscles, serves, as its name implies, to maintain the column in the erect posture ; it also serves to bend the trunk backwards when it is required to counterbalance the influence of any weight at the front of the body—as, for instance, when a heavy weight is suspended from the neck, or when there is any great abdominal distension, as in pregnancy or dropsy ; the pecuUar gait imder such cu'cumstances depends upon the vertebral column being drawn backwards, by the counterbalancing action of the Erector spinse muscles. The muscles which form the continuation of the Erector spinse upwards steady the head and neck, and fix them in the upright position. If the IHo-costalis and Longis- simus dorsi of one side act, they serve to draw down the chest and vertebral column to the corresponding side. The Cervicales ascendentes, taking their fixed points from the cervical vertebrre, elevate those ribs to which they are attached; taking their fixed points from the ribs, both muscles help to extend the neck ; while one muscle bends the neck to its own side. The Transversales cervicis, when both muscles act, taking their fixed points from below, bend the neck back- wards. The Trachelo-mastoids, when both muscles act, taking their fixed points from below, bend the head backwards; while, if only one muscle acts, the face is turned to the side on which the muscle is acting, and then the head is bent to the shoulder. The two Recti draw the head backwards. The Rectus capitis posticus major, owing to its obliquity, rotates the cranium, with the atlas, romid the odontoid process, turning the face to the same side. The Multifidus spinaj acts successively upon the different parts of the column: thus, the sacrum furnishes a fixed point from which the fasciculi of this muscle act upon the lumbar region; these then become the fixed points for the fasciculi moving the thoracic region, and so on throughout the entire length of the column; it is by the successive contraction and relaxation of the separate fasciculi of this and other muscles that the erect posture is preserved without the fatigue that would necessarily have been produced had this position been maintained by the action of a smgle muscle. The Multifidus spinse, besides preserving the erect position of the column, serves to rotate it, so that the front of the trunk is turned to the side opposite to that from which the muscle acts, this muscle being assisted in its action by the Obliquus externus abdominis. The Complexi draw the head directly backwards ; if one muscle acts, it draws the head to one side, and rotates it so that the face is turned to the opposite side. The Superior oblique draws the head backwards and to its own side. The Inferior oblique rotates the atlas, and with it the cranium, round the odontoid process, turning the face to the same side. The Semispinales, when the muscles of the two sides act together, nelp to extend the vertebral column; when the muscles of only one side act, tliey rotate the thoracic and cervical pai-ts of the column, turning the body to the opposite side. The Interspinales by approximating the spinous process help to extend the column. The Intertransversales approximate the transverse processes, M u-fiT *° *^ column to one side. The Rotatores spinsB assist the Multitidus spinte to rotate the vertebral column, so that the front of the trunk IS turned to the side opposite to that from which the muscles act. n.nfTfR'^^F°"""~'^^ surface forms produced by the muscles of the back are numerous fioi 1 1 • a ^^^^y^^ unless they are considered in systematic order. The most super- ciai layer influences to a certain extent the surface form, and at the same time reveals thl '^y^''^ beneath. The Trapezius at the upper part of the back, and in neci£, covers over and softens down the outline of the underlying muscles. Its anterior K K 2MYOLOGY 500 border forms the posterior boundary of the posterior triangle of the neck, and presents a slight ridge which passes downwards and forwards from the occiput to tlio junction of the middle and outer thirds of the clavicle. The inferior border of the muscle may be traced as an undulating ridge to the spinous process of the twelfth thoracic vertebra. In like manner, the Latissimus dorsi softens down and obscures the underlying structures at the lower part of the back and side of the chest. The anterior border of the muscle is the only part which gives a distinct surface form. This border may be traced, when the muscle is in action, as a rounded edge, starting from the crest of the ilium, and passing obliquely forwards and upwards to the posterior border of the axilla, where together with the Teres major it forms a thick rounded fold, the posterior boundary of the axillary space. The muscles in the second layer influence to a very considerable extent the surface form of the back of the neck and upper part of the trunk. The Levator anguli scapulce reveals itself as an elevation, rurming do^vnwards and outwards, from the trans- verse processes of the upper cervical vertebrae to the angle of the scapula, covered over and toned down by the overlying Trapezius. The Rhomboidei produce, when in action, a vertical eminence between the vertebral border of the scapula and the spinal furrow, varying in intensity according to the condition of contraction or relaxation of the Trapezius muscle, by which they are for the most part covered. The lowermost part of the Rhom- boideus major is uncovered by the Trapezius and forms on the surface an obUque ridge running upwards and inwards from the inferior angle of the scapula. The Splenii by their divergence serve to broaden out the upper part of the back of the neck and produce a fulness in this situation. In the loin, the Erector spince, bound down by the lumbar fascia, forms a rounded vertical eminence, which determines the depth of the spinal furrow, and tapers below to a point on the posterior surface of the sacrum. In the back it forms a flattened plane which gradually becomes lost on passing upwards. Applied Anatomy.—In cases of tuberculous caries of the vertebral bodies, and in other diseases affecting the vertebral column, rigidity of the spinal muscles is one of the earliest and most constant symptoms. A child with commencing spinal disease always maintains the affected portion of the column in a state of absolute rigidity, to prevent the inflamed structures from being moved against each other; this is one of the best examples of nature's method of producing rest of the affected part. II. Muscles and Fascia of the Thorax The muscles belonging exclusively to this region are the Intercostales externi. Triangularis sterni. Intercostales interni. Levatores costarum. Infracostales. Diaphragm. Intercostal fasciae.—In each intercostal space thin but firm layers of fascia cover the outer surface of the External intercostal and the inner surface of the Internal intercostal muscle ; and a, third layer, the middle intercostal fascia, more 'delicate, is mterposed between the two planes of muscular fibres. They are best marked in those situations where the muscular fibres are deficient, as between the External intercostal muscles and sternum in front, and between the Internal intercostals and vertebral column, behind. The Intercostal muscles (fig. 518) are tM-o thua planes of muscular and tendinous fibres occupying each of the intercostal spaces. They are named external and internal from their surface relations—the external bemg superficial to the internal. The External intercostals (mm. intercostales externi) are eleven ni number on either side. They extend from the tubercles of the ribs, behmd, to the outer ends of the cartilages of the ribs, in front, where they terminate m a thin membrane, the anterior intercostal membrane, which is continued for\\ ards to the sternum. Each arises from the lower border of a rib, and is inserted into the upper border of the rib below. In the two lower spaces they extend to the ends of the cartilages, and in the upper two or three spaces they do not quite reach the ends of the ribs. They are thicker than the Internal inter- costals, and their fibres are directed obliquely dow nwards and outwards on the back of the chest, and downwards, forwards, and inwards on tlie front. The Internal intercostals (mm. intercostales interni) are also eleven in number on either side. They commence anteriorly at the sternum, in the interspaces between the cartilages of tlie true ribs, and at tlie anterior extremities of the cartilages of the false ribs, and extend backwards as tar as the angles of the ribs, whence tliey are continued to tlie vertebral column by a tliin aponeurosis, the posterior intercostal membrane. Each arises tromMUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE THORAX 501 the ridge on the inner surface of a rib, as well as from the corresponding costal cartilage, and is inserted into the upper border of the rib below. Their fibres are also du-ected obliquely, but pass in a direction opposite to those of the External intercostals. The Infracostales (mm. subcostales) consist of muscular and aponeurotic fasciculi, which vary in number and length : they are placed on the inner surfaces of the ribs, where the Internal intercostal muscles cease ; each arises from the inner surface of one rib, and is inserted into the inner surface of the first, second, or thii'd rib below. Their fibres run in the same direction as those of the Internal Fig. 500.—Posterior surface of sternum and costal cartilages, showing Triangularis sterni muscle. (From a preparation in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England.) fiteriio- wintoid intercostals. They are most frequent between the lower ribs. The Triangularis sterni (m. transversus thoracis) is a thin plane of muscular and tendinous fibres, situated upon the inner wall of the front of the chest (fig. 500). It arises on either side from the lower third of the posterior surface of the sternum, from the pos- terior surface of the ensi- form cartilage, and from the sternal ends of the costal cartilages of the lower three or four true ribs. Its fibres diverge upwards and outwards, to be inserted by digitations into the lower borders and inner surfaces of the costal cartilages of the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs. The lowest fibres of this muscle are horizontal in their dii'ec- tion, and are continuous with those of the Trans- versalis ; those which succeed are oblique, while the superior fibres are almost vertical. This muscle varies much in its attachment, not only in different bodies, but on opposite sides of the same body. The Levatores costarum (fig. 499), twelve in number on either side, are small tendinous and fleshy bundles, which arise from the extremities of the transverse processes of the seventh cervical and upper eleven thoracic vertebrae ; they pass obliquely downwards and outwards, like the fibres of the External intercostals, and each is inserted into the upper border of the rib immediately below the vertebra from which it takes origin, between the tubercle and the angle. Each of the inferior Levatores divides into two fasciculi, one of which is inserted as above described ; the other fasciculus passes down to the second rib below its origin ; thus, each of the lower ribs receives fibres from the transverse processes of two vertebrae. Nerves.^—The muscles of this group are supphed by the intercostal nerves. ■ The Diaphragm (diaphragma) (fig. 501) is a dome-shaped musculo-fibrous septum which separates the thoracic from the abdominal cavity, its convex502 MYOLOGY upper surface forming the fioorof the former, and its concave under surface the roof of the hitter. Its peripheral part consists of muscular fibres which take origm from the cu-cumference of the thoracic outlet and converge to be inserted into a central tendon. It arises anteriorly by two fleshy slips from the back of the ensiforra cartilage; on either side from the inner surfaces of the cartilages and adjacent portions of the lower six ribs interdigitating with the Transversalis abdominis ; beliind from aponeurotic arches, named the ligamenta arcuata, and from the lumbar vertebrae by two pillars or crura. The ligamenta arcuata are five in number—one mesial, and two, an internal and an external, on either side. The Ugameyitum arcuatum internum is a tendinous arch in the fascia covering the upper part of the Psoas magnus ; its inner end is continuous with the outer tendinous margin of the corresponding cms, and is attached to the outer Fig. 501.—The Diaphragm. Under surface. Ensiforin cartilage side of the body of the first or second lumbar vertebra ; its outer end is fixed to the front of the transverse process of the first and, sometimes also, to that of the second lumbar vertebra. The ligamentum arcuatum externum is the thickened upper margin of the anterior lamella of the lumbar aponeurosis. It arches across the up])er part of the Quadratus lumborum, and is attached by its inner extremity to the front of the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra, by its outer to the tip and lower margin of the t^'elfth rib. The crura.—At their origins the crura are tendinous in structure, and blend with the anterior common ligament of the vertebral column. The rigid crus, larger and longer than t)ie loft, arises from tlie anterior surfaces of the bodies and intervertebral discs of the upper three lumbar vertebrae, while the left crus arises from the corresponding parts of tiie upper two only. Tlie internal tendinous margins of the crura pass forwards and inwards, and meet503 MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE THORAX in the middle line to form an arch across the front of tlie aorta ; this arch, wliich is often poorly defined, is known as the ligamentum arcuatum medium. From this series of origins the fibres of the Diaphragm converge to be inserted into the central tendon. The fibres arising from the ensiform cartilage are very short, and occasionaUy aponeurotic; those from the interna,! and external arcuate Ugaments. and more especiaUy those from the ribs and tlieu- cartilages, are longer, and describe marked curves as they ascend and converge to theur insertion. The fibres of the crura and those from the Hgamentum arcuatum medium diverge as they ascend, the outermost bein<T du-ected upwards and outwards to the central tendon, the uinermosfc decussatmg in front of the aorta, and then divergmg to surround the oesophagus before reaching their insertion. The fibres from the right crus are more numerous than those from the left, and pass m front of them. The central tendon (centrum tendineum) of the Diaphragm is a thin but strong tendinous aponeurosis situated near the centre of the vault formed by the muscle, but somewhat closer to the front than to the back of the thorax, so that the posterior muscular fibres are the longer. It is situated immediately below the pericardium, with which it is partially blended. It is shaped some- what like a trefoil leaf, consisting of thi'ee divisions or leaflets separated from one another by slight mdentations. The right leaflet is the largest, the middle, du-ected towards the ensiform cartilage the next hi size, and the left the smallest. In structure the tendon is composed of several planes of fibres, which intersect one another at various angles and unite into straight or curved bundles—an arrangement which affords it additional strength. Openings in the Diaphragm.—The Diaphragm is pierced by a series of apertures to permit of the passage of structures between the thorax and abdomen. Three large openings—the aortic, the oesophageal, and the vena caval—and a series of smaller ones are described. The aortic opening (hiatus aorticus) is the lowest and most posterior of the three large apertures ; it lies at the level of the twelfth thoracic vertebra. Strictly speaking, it is not an aperture in the Diaphragm but an osseo- aponeurotic opening between it and the vertebral column, and therefore behind the Diaphragm ; occasionaUy some tendmous fibres prolonged across the bodies of the vertebrae from the mner parts of the lower ends of the crura pass behind the aorta, and thus convert the opening into a fibrous ring. The aperture is situated slightly to the left of the middle line, and is bounded in front by the ligamentum arcuatum medium and crura, and behind by the body of the first lumbar vertebra. Through it pass the aorta, the vena azygos major and the thoracic duct; occasionally the vena azygos major is transmitted through the right crus. The oesophageal opening (hiatus oesophageus) is situated at the level of the tenth thoracic vertebra; it is elliptical in form, muscular in structure, and bounded by the decussating fibres of the two crura.* The anterior edge is occasionally formed by the margin of the central tendon. The aperture is placed above, in front, and a little to the left of the aortic opening, and transmits the oesophagus, the pneumogastric nerves, and some small oesophageal arteries. The vena caval opening (foramen vense cavse) is the highest of the three, and is situated about the level of the disc between the eighth and ninth thoracic vertebrae. It is quadrilateral in form, and is placed at the junction of the right and middle leaflets of the central tendon, so that its margins are tendinous. It transmits the inferior vena cava, the wall of which is adherent to the margins of the opening, and some branches of the right phrenic nerve. Of the lesser apertures, two in the right crus transmit the greater and lesser right splanchnic nerves; three in the left crus give passage to the greater and lesser left splanchnic nerves and the vena azygos minor. The gangliated cords of the sympathetic usually enter the abdominal cavity behind the Diaphragm, under the internal arcuate ligaments. On either side two small intervals exist at which the muscular fibres of the Diaphragm are deficient ♦ Low (^Journal of Anatomy a/nd Physiology, vol. xlii.), in tweuty-five cases which he examined, failed to find a fasciculus from the left crus to the right margin of the CESophageal opening. He regards the oesophageal passage in the Diaphragm as formed by the splitting of the mesial fibres oC the right crus.504 MYOLOGY and arc replaced by areolar tissue. One between the fibres of origin from the ensiform cartilage and those from the cartilages of the adjoining ribf< transmits the superior epigastric brancli of the internal mammary artery and some lymphatics from the abdominal wall and convex surface of the liver. The other, between the fibres springing from the internal and external arcuate ligaments, is less constant ; when this interval exists, the upper and back part of the kidney is separated from the pleura by areolar tissue only. Belalions.—The upper surface of the Diaphragm is in relation with three serous mem- branes, Yiz. on either side the pleura, which separates it from the base of the corresponding lung, and on the middle leaflet of the central tendon the pericardium, which intervenes between it and the heart. The central portion lies on a slightly lower level than the siunmits of the lateral portions. The greater part of the under surface is covered by the peritoneum. The right side is accurately moulded over the convex surface of the right, lobe of the liver, the right kidney, and right suprarenal capsule, the left over the left lobe of the hver, the fundus of the stomach, the spleen, the left kidney, and left suprarenal capsule. Nerves.—The Diaphragm is supplied by the phrenic and lower intercostal nerves. Actions.—The Diaphragm is the principal muscle of inspiration, and presents the form of a dome concave towards the abdomen. The central part of the dome is tendinous, and the pericardium is attached to its upper surface ; the circum- ference is muscular. During inspiration the lowest ribs are fixed, and from these and the crura the muscular fibres contract and draw downwards and forwards the central tendon with the attached pericardium. In this movement the curva- ture of the Diaphragm is scarcely altered, the dome moving downwards nearly parallel to its original position and pushing before it the abdominal viscera. The descent of the abdominal viscera is permitted by the elasticity of the abdominal wall, but the hmit of this is soon reached. The central tendon apphed to the abdominal viscera then becomes a fixed point for the action of the Diaphragm, the effect of which is to elevate the lower ribs and through them to push forwards the gladiolus sterni and the upper ribs. The right cupola of the Diaphragm, hang on the liver, has a greater resistance to overcome than the left, which hes over the stomach, but to compensate for this the right crus and the fibres of the right side generally are stronger than those of the left. In all expulsive acts the Diaphragm is called into action to give additional power to each expulsive effort. Thus, before sneezing, coughing, laughing, crying, or vomiting, and previous to the expulsion of urine or feces, or of the foetus from the uterus, a deep inspiration takes place. The height of the Diaphragm is con- stantly varying during respiration ; it also varies with the degree of distension of the stomach and intestines and with the size of the hver. After a forced expira- tion the right cupola is on a level in front with the fourth costal cartilage, at the side with the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs, and behind with the eighth rib ; the left cupola is a httle lower than the right. Halls Dally * states that the absolute range of movement between deep inspiration and deep expiration averages in the male and female 30 mm. on the right side and 28 mm. on the left: in quiet respiration the average movement is 12'5 mm. on the right side and 12 mm. on the left. Skiagraphy shows that the height of the Diaphragm in the thorax varies considerably with the position of the body. It stands highest when the body is horizontal and the patient on his back, and in this position it performs the largest respiratory excursions with normal breathing. When the body is erect the dome of the Diaphragm falls, and its respiratory movements become smaller. The dome falls still lower when the sitting posture is assumed, and in this position its respiratory excursions are smallest. Tliese facts may, perhaps, explain why it is that patients suffering from severe dyspnoea are most comfortable and least short of breath when they sit up. When the body is horizontal and the patient on his side, the two halves of the Diaphragm do not behave ahke. Tlie uppermost half sinks to a level lower even than when the patient sits, and moves little with respiration ; the lower half rises higher in the thorax than it does when the patient is supine, and it.s respiratory excursions are much increased. In unilateral disease of the pleura or lungs analogous interference with the position or movement of the Diaphragm can generally be observed skiagraphically. ♦ ' Inquiry into the Physiological Mechanism of llespiration.' Journal of An/jUmy and I'lnjsiology, vol. .xliii. 1908.MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE THORAX 505 It appears that the position of the Diaphragm in the thorax depends upon three main factors, viz.: (1) the elastic retraction of the lung-tissue, tending to pull it upwards ; (2) the pressure exerted on its under surface by the viscera: this naturally tends to be a negative pressure, or downward suction, when the patient sits or stands, and positive, or an upward pressure, when he lies ; (3) the intra-abdominal tension due to the abdominal muscles. These are in a state of contraction in the standing position and not in the sitting ; hence the Diaphragm, when the patient stands, is pushed up higher than when he sits. The Intercostal muscles, internal and external, have probably no action in moving the ribs. They contract simultaneously and form strong elastic supports which prevent the intercostal spaces being pushed out or drawn in during respiration. The anterior portions of the Internal intercostals probablv have an additional function in keeping the chondro-sternal and interchondral joint surfaces in apposition, the posterior parts of the External intercostals performing a similar function for the costo-vertebral articulations. The Levatores costarum being inserted near the fulcra of the ribs can have little action on the ribs; they act as rotators and lateral flexors of the vertebral column. The Triangularis sterni draws down the costal cartilages, and is therefore a muscle of expiration. Mechanism of Respiration The respiratory movements must be examined during (a) quiet respiration, and (b) forced respiration. Quiet respiration.—The first and second pairs of ribs are fixed by the Scaleni and by the resistance of the cervical structures ; the last pair, and through it the eleventh, by the Quadratus lumborum. The other ribs are elevated, so that the first two intercostal spaces are diminished while the others are increased in TOdth. It has already been shown (p. 392) that elevation of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs leads to an increase in the antero-posterior and transverse diameters of the thorax : the vertical diameter is increased by the descent of the diaphragmatic dome so that the lungs are expanded in all directions except backwards and upwards. Elevation of the eighth, ninth, and tenth ribs is accompanied by an outward and backward movement, leading to an increase in the transverse diarneter of the upper part of the abdomen; the elasticity of the anterior abdominal wall allows a slight increase in the antero-posterior diameter of this part, and in this way the decrease in the vertical diameter of the abdomen is compensated and space provided for its displaced viscera. Expiration is effected bv the elastic recoil of its walls and by the action of the abdominal muscles, which push back the viscera displaced downwards by the Diaphragm. Forced respiration.—All the movements of quiet respiration are here carried out, but to a greater extent. In inspiration the shoulders and the vertebral borders of the scapulaj are fixed and the limb muscles. Trapezius, Serratus magnus. Pectorals, and Latissimus dorsi, are called into play. The Scaleni are in stronger action, and the Sterno-mastoids also assist when'the head is fixed by drawint^ up the sternum and by fixing the clavicles. The first rib is therefore no longer stationary, but, with the sternum, is raised ; with it all the other ribs except the last are raised to a higher level. In conjunction with the increased descent 01 the Diaphragm this provides for a considerable augmentation of all the thoracic diameters. The anterior abdominal muscles come into action so that the umbilicus IS drawn upwards and backwards, but this allows the Diaphragm to exert a more powerful influence on the lower ribs; the transverse diameter of the upper part ot the abdomen is greatly increased and the subcostal angle opened out. The deeper muscles of the back, e.g. the Serrati postici superiores and Erectores spinte, are also brought into action ; the thoracic curve of the vertebral column is partially straightened, and the whole column, above the lower lumbar vertebriB, drawn oackwards. This increases the antero-posterior diameters of the thorax and upper part of the abdomen and widens the intercostal spaces. Forced expiration IS eaected by the recoil of the walls and by the contraction of the antero-lateral Serm abdominal wall, and the Serrati postici inferiores and Triangularis Halls Dally (op. cit.) gives the following figures as representing the average changes wMon occur dunng deepest possible respkation. The presternum moves 30 mm. in anMYOLOGY 606 upward and 14 mm. in a forward direction ; the width of the Bubcostal angle, at a level of 30 mm. below the raeso-metasternal articulation, is increased by 26 mm.; the umbilicus is retracted and drawn upwards for a distance of 13 mm. III. Muscles of the Abdomen The muscles of the abdomen may be divided, into two groups : 1, The antero-lateral muscles ; 2, The posterior muscles. 1. Antero-laterai, Muscles The muscles of this group are: Obliquus Externus. Transversalis. Obliquus Internus. Rectus. Pyramidalis. The superficial fascia of the abdomen consists, over the greater part of the abdominal wall, of a single layer of fascia which contains a variable amount of fat; but as this layer approaches the groin it is easily divisible into two, between which are found the superficial vessels and nerves and the superficial inguinal lymphatic glands. The superficial layer [fascia of Camber) is thick, areolar in texture, and contains in its meshes adipose tissue, the quantity of which varies in different subjects. Below, it passes over Poupart's ligament, and is continuous with the superficial fascia of the thigh. In the male, thif? fascia is continued over the penis and outer surface of the cord to the scrotum, where it helps to form the dartos. As it passes to the scrotum it changes its character, becoming thin, destitute of adipose tissue, and of a pale reddish colour, and in the scrotum it acquires some involuntary muscular fibres. From the scrotum it may be traced backwards to be continuous with the superficial fascia of the perinaeum. In the female, this fascia is continued into the labia majora. The deeper layer (fascia of Scarpa) is thinner and more membranous in character than the superficial layer, and contains a considerable quantity of yellow elastic fibres. It is loosely connected by areolar tissue to the apo- neurosis of the External oblique, but in the middle line it is more intimately adherent to the linea alba and to the symphysis pubis, and is prolonged on to the dorsum of the penis, forming the suspensory ligament; above, it is continuous with the superficial fascia over the rest of the trunk ; below and externally, it blends with the fascia lata of the thigh a little below Poupart s ligament • internally and below, it is continued over the perns and spermatic cord to the scrotum, where it helps to form the dartos. From the scrotum it may be traced backwards into continuity with the deep layer of the super- ficial fascia of the perineum [fascia of Colics). In the female, it is contmued into the labia majora and thence to the fascia of CoUes. , •, , The Obliquus externus abdominis (fig. 502) is situated on the side and fore part of the abdomen, bemg the largest and the most superficial of the three flat muscles in this region. It is broad, thm, and irregularly quadri- lateral, its muscular portion occupying the side, its aponeurosis the anterior wall of the abdomen. It arises, by eight fleshy digitations, from the external surfaces and lower borders of the lo^ver eight ribs ; these digitations are arranged in an oblique line which runs downwards and back^v^ards, the upper ones being attached close to the cartilages of the correspondmg ribs, the lowest to the apex of the cartilage of the last rib, the intermediate ones to the ribs at some distance from their cartilages. The five superior serrations mcrease in size from above downwards, and are received between correspondmg pro- cesses of the Serratus magnus ; the three lower ones diminish in size froin above downwards, receiving between them corresponding processes from the Latissi- muTdorsi. From these attachments the fleshy fibres proceed m various du-ections. Those froin the lowest ribs pass nearly J^rtically downjj.ir^^^^ to bo inserted into the anterior half of the outer hp of the crest of tj^j^^ "^n the middle and upper fibres, directed downwards and forwards ^^^^^^^ in an aponeurosis, opposite a line dra^-n from the prominence of the mnth costal cartilage to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The apoicurosis of the External obliqv. is a thin but stroii^^ ^ structure, the fibres of which are directed obliquely downwards andim^ards.MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN 507 It is joined with that of the opposite muscle along the median line, and covers the whole of the front of the abdomen ; above, it is covered by and gives origui to the lower border of tlie Pectoralis major ; below, its fibres are closely aggregated together, and extend obliquely across from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the spine of the pubis and the linea ilio- pectinea. In the median line, it interlaces with the aponeurosis of the opposite muscle, forming the linea alba, which extends from the ensiform cartilage to the symphysis pubis. Fig. 502.—The External oblique muscle. That portion of the aponeurosis which extends between the anterior superior spine ot the ilium and the spine of the pubis is a thick band, folded inwards, ana continuous below with the fascia lata ; it is called Poupart's ligament. J-ne portion which is reflected from Poupart's ligament at the spine of the puDis along the pectmeal line is called Oimbernat's ligament. From the point or attachment of the latter to the pectineal line, a few fibres pass upwards and inwards behmd the inner pillar of the external abdominal ring, to the linea *u.Da ihey diverge as they ascend, and form a thin triangular fibrous layer. Which is caUed the <nawj«toj-/ascm.508 MYOLOGY In the aponeurosis of the External oblique, immediately above the crest of the pubis, is a triangular opening, tlie external abdominal ring, formed by a separation of the fibres of the aponeurosis in this situation. The following parts of the aponeurosis of the External oblique muscle require further description, viz. the external abdominal ring, the inter- coluiunar fibres and fascia, Poupart's ligament, Gimbernat's ligament, and the triangular fascia. The external or superficial abdominal ring (annulus inguinalis subcuta- neus) is an interval in the aponeurosis of the External oblique, just above and to the outer side of the crest of the pubis. The aperture Ls oblique in direction, somewhat triangular in form, and corresponds with the course of the fibres of the aponeurosis. It usually measures from base to apex about an inch, and Pig. 503.—The external abdominal ring. transversely about half an inch. It is bounded below by the crest of the pubis; on either side by the margins of the opening m the aponeurosis, which are called the columns or pillars of the ring ; and above, by a series ot curved fibres, the intercolumnar (fig. 503), which pass across the upper angle of the ring, so as to increase its strength. • >■ j The external or inferior pillar (crus inferius) is the stronger ; it is formed by that portion of Poupart's ligament which is inserted into the spme of the pubis : it is curved so as to form a kind of groove, upon which the spermatic cord rests. The internal or superior pillar (crus superius) is a broad, thin, Hat band, which is attached to tlie front of the symphysis pubis, interlacing with its fellow of the opposite side, that of the right side bemg superficial. The external abdominal ring gives passage to tlie spermatic cord and ilio-inguinal nerve in the male, and to the round ligament of the uterus anaMUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN 509 tlie ilio-inguinal nerve in the female : it is much larger in men than in women, on account of the large size of the spermatic cord. The intercolumnar fibres (fibrae intercrurales) are a series of curved tendinous fibres, which arch across the loM'er part of the aponeurosis of the External oblique, describing a curve with the convexity downwards. They have received then* name from stretching across between the two pillars of the external ring. They are much thicker and stronger at the outer margui of the external ring, where they are connected to Poupart's ligament, than internally, where they are inserted into the linea alba. They are more strongly developed in the male than in the female. The intercolumnar fibres increase the strength of the lower part of the aponeurosis, and prevent tlie divergence of the pillars from one another. Fro. 604.—The Internal oblique muscle. Cunjoined tendon Cremastei' These intercolumnar fibres, as they pass across the external abdominal ring, are themselves connected together by delicate fibrous tissue, thus forming : a fascia, which, as it is attached to the pillars of the ring, covers it in, and is caUed the intercolumnar fascia. This intercolumnar fascia is continued ' clowTi as a tubular prolongation around the spermatic cord and testis, and ' encloses them in a distmct sheath ; hence it is also called the external spermatic ■ jascia. The external abdominal ring is only seen as a distinct aperture after 1 the external spermatic fascia has been removed from its pillars. t ligament (lig. inguinale) is the lower border of the aponeurosis ' , 1 J^xternal oblique muscle, and extends from the anterior superior spine ' ot the ihum to the spine of the pubis. From this latter point it is reflected backwards and outwards to be attached to the pectineal line for about half ■ an inch, forming Gimbernat's ligament. Its general direction is convexMYOLOGY 510 downwards towards the thigh, where it is continuous with the fascia lata. Its outer half is rounded, and oblique in direction. Its inner half gradually widens at its attachment to the jjubis, is more horizontal in direction, and lies beneath the spermatic cord. Nearly the whole of the space included between the crural arch and the innominate bone is filled in by the parts which descend from the abdomen into the thigh. Gimbernat's ligament (lig. lacunare) is that part of the aponeurosis of the External oblique muscle which is reflected backwards and outwards from the spine of the pubis to be inserted into the pectineal line. It is about half an incli in length, larger in the male than in the female, almost iiorizontal in direction in the erect posture, and of a triangular form with the base directed outwards. Its base, or outer margin, is concave, thin, and sharp, and forms the inner boundary of the crural ring. Its apex corresponds to the spine of the pubis. Its posterior Fig. 505.—The Cremaster muscle. margm is attached to the pectmeal line, and is continuous with tlie pubic portion of the fascia lata. Its anterior margin is attached to Poupart's ligament. Its surfaces are directed upwards and dowTiwards. The triangular fascia (lig. ingumale reflexum) of the abdomen is a layer of tendinous fibres of a triangular shape, formed by an ex- pansion from Gimbernat's ligament and the outer pillar of the ring. It passes inwards behind the sper- matic cord, and expands into a somewhat fan-shaped fascia, lymg behind the inner j)illar of the ex- ternal abdominal ring, and in front of the conjoined tendon, and inter- laces with the ligament of the otlier side at the linea alba. Ligament of Cooper. — This is a strong fibrous band, which was first described by Sir Astley Cooper. It extends outwards from the base of Gimbernat's ligament along the ilio-pectineal line, to which it is attached. It is strengthened by the pectineal aponeurosis, and by a lateral expansion from the lower attachment of the linea alba (adminiculum linese alba;). The Obliquus internus abdominis (fig. 504), thinner and smaUer than the preceding, beneath which it lies, is of an irregularly quadrilateral torm, and situated at the side and fore part of the abdomen. It arises, by fleshy fibres, from the outer half of Poupart's ligament, being attached to the groove on its upper surface, from the anterior two-thirds of the middle lip of the crest of the ilium, and from the posterior lamella of the lumbar fascia. Irom this origin the fibres diverge, those from Poupart's ligament, few m number, and paler in colour than the rest, arch downwards and mward.s across the spermatic cord in the male and the round ligament in the female, and, becoming tindinous, are inserted, conjointly with those of Transversahs i^^^^^^^^ crest of the pubis and inner part of tlie ilio-pectuieal line belund Gunberna^^^^ ligament, forming what is known as the '^""JO"!^^ t.^.^^^on of tl e Li^^^^^^^^ oblique and Transversalis. Those from the anterior third of the il ac or gm are horizontal in then: direction, and, becomnig tendinous along the Ioaact fourth of the linea semilunaris, pa«s in fi-ont of the Rectus muscle "^^^ into the linea alba. Those arising from the middle third of * ^« ^^^^ from the crest of the ilium pass obliquely upwards and inwards, and termmatoMUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN 511 in an aponeurosis; this divides at the outer border of the Rectus muscle into two lamellae, which are continued forwards, one in front of and the other behind this muscle, to the ILnea alba : the posterior lamella being also con- nected to tlie cartilages of the seventh, eighth, and ninth ribs. The most posterior fibres pass almost vertically upwards, to be inserted into the lower borders of the cartilages of the three lower ribs, being continuous with the Internal intercostal muscles. Pig. 506.—The Transversalis, Rectus, and Pyramidali-s muscles. . f ^ Cremaster (fig. 505) is a thin muscular layer, composed of a number or lasciculi which arise from the middle of Poupart's ligament where its fibres are contmuous with those of the Internal oblique and also occasionally with tne iransversahs. It passes along the outer side of the spermatic cord, descends witii It through the external abdominal rmg upon tlie front and sides of tlie com, and forms a series of loops which differ in thickness and length in different thp upper part of the cord are' exceedmgly short, but ney become m succession longer and longer, the longest reaching down asMYOLOGY 512 low as the testicle, where a few are inserted into the tunica vaginalis. These loops are united together by areolar tissue, and form a thin covering over the cord and testis, the cremasteric fascia. Tlie fibres ascend along the inner side of the cord, and are inserted by a small pointed tendon into the spine and crest of the pubis and into the front of the sheath of the Rectus. It will be observed that the origin and insertion of the Cremaster are precisely similar to those of the lower fibres of the Internal oblique. Tiiis fact is explained by the manner in which the testis and cord are invested by this muscle. At an early period of foetal life the testis is placed at the lower and back part of the abdominal cavity, but during its descent towards the scrotum, which takes place before birth, it carries on it some fibres from ' the lower part of the muscle, and these accompany the testis and cord into the scrotum. The Transversalis abdominis (m. transversus abdominis) (fig. 506), so called from the direction of its fibres, is the most internal of the flat muscles of the abdomen, being placed immediately beneath the Internal oblique. It arises by fleshy fibres from the outer third of Poupart's ligament, from the Fig. 507.—The ligaments of Henle and Hesselbach, seen from in front. (Modified from Braune.) Semilunar fold of Douglas Transversalis Bectus abdominis Deep epi- gastric artery and vein Internal oblique Ligament of Henle Ligament of Hesselbach anterior three-fourths of the inner lip of the crest of the ilmm from the inner surfaces of the cartilages of the lower six ribs, interdigitatmg with the Diaphragm, and from the lumbar aponeurosis, which may be regarded as tlie posterim- aponeurosis of the muscle, and whicb has been seen to divide nto three lamellae (see page 493). The muscle terminates in front m a broad aponeurosis the lowe? fibres of which curve down^^•ards and inwards and areTserter together with those of the Internal oblique, into the crest of the pubis and pectineal line, forming what is luiOMii as the conjoined tendon of the Internal oblique and Transversalis. Throughout the res of its extent the aponeurosis passes horizontally mwards and is inserted mtP Ihe linea alba • its upper three-fourths passing behind the Rectus niuscle, binding with thfposterior lamella of the"^ Internal oblique ; its lower fourth ^T/J S^otef ^e'JSon'olTh^ Internal oblique and Transversalis. is niai^^^^^^513 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN into an outer and an inner portion—tlie former being termed the ligament of Hesselbach ; tlic latter, the lujament of Henle (fig. 507). The Rectus abdominis is a long flat muscle, which extends along the whole length of the front of tlie abdomen, being sejDarated from its feUow of the ojiposite side by the linea alba. It is much broader, but thinner, above than below, and arises by two tendons, the external or larger being attached to the crest of the pubis, the internal, smaller portion, interlacing with its fellow of the opposite side, and being connected with the ligaments covering the front of the symphysis pubis. The muscle is inserted by three portions of unequal size into the cartilages of the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs. The upper portion, attached principally to the cartilage of the fifth rib, usually has some fibres of insertion into the anterior extremity of the rib itself. Some fibres are occasionally connected with the costo-xiphoid ligaments, and side of the ensiform cartilage. The Rectus muscle is traversed by tendinous intersections, three in number, which have received the name of linece transverscB (inscriptiones tendineie). One of these is usually situated opposite the umbilicus, one corresponds to the extremity of the ensiform cartilage, and the other is about midway between the ensiform cartilage and the umbilicus. These intersections pass trans- versely or obliquely across the muscle in a zigzag course ; they rarely extend completely through its substance ; they may pass only halfway across it, and are intimately adherent in front to the sheath in which the muscle is enclosed. Sometimes one or two additional lines, generally incomplete, may be seen below the umbilicus. Fig. 508.—Diagram of sheath of Rectus. The Rectus is enclosed in a sheath (fig. .508) formed by the aponeuroses of the Oblique and Transversalis muscles, which are arranged in the following manner. When the aponeurosis of the Internal oblique arrives at the outer margin of the Rectus, it divides into two lamellae, one of which passes in front of the Rectus, blending with the aponeurosis of the External oblique, the other, behind it, blending with the aponeurosis of the Transversalis, and tliese, joinmg again at its inner border, are inserted into the linea alba. This arrangement of the aponeurosis exists from the costal margin to midway between the umbilicus and symphysis pubis, where the posterior wall of the sheath terminates in a thin curved margin, the semihmar fold of Douglas (linea semicu-cularis), the concavity of which looks downwards towards the pubis : below this level the aponeuroses of all three muscles pass in front of the Rectus without any separation. Tlie extremities of the fold of DouMas descend as pillars to the pubis. The inner pillar is attached to the symphysis pubis ; the outer pillar, the ligament of Hesselbach, or outer part of the conjoined tendon, passes downwards as a distinct band on the inner side of the internal abclominal rmg, and there its fibres divide mto two sets, internal and external: tUe internal fibres are attached to the ascending ramus of the pubis and the pectineal fascia ; the external ones pass to the Psoas fascia, to the deep surface ot Foupart's ligament, and to the tendon of the Transversalis on the outer siae ot the ring. The Rectus muscle, m the situation where its sheath is m ffnil^^ L*^^^' separated from the peritoneum by the fascia transversalis ing. 5U9). Since the tendons of the Internal oblique and Transversahs only R^ffi 11^^ margin, it follows that above this level the fiieatu ot the Rectus is also deficient behind, the muscle resting directly onMYOLOGY 514 the cartilages of tlie ribs, and being covered merely by the tendon of tlie External oblique. The Pyramidalis is a small muscle, triangular in shape, placed at the lower part of the abdomen in front of tlie Rectus, and contained in the sheatii of that muscle. It arises by tendinous fibres from the front of the pubis and the anterior pubic ligament ; the fleshy portion of tlie muscle passes upwards, diminishing in size as it ascends, and terminates by a pointed extremity which is inserted into the linea alba, midway between the umbilicus and the pubis. This muscle may be wanting on one or both sides ; the lower end of the Rectus then becomes proportionately increased in size. Occasionally it is double on one side, and the muscles of the two sides are sometimes of unequal size. It may extend higher than the level stated above. Besides the Rectus and Pyramidalis muscles, the sheath of the Rectus contains the superior and deep epigastric arteries, and the terminations of the lumbar arteries and lower intercostal arteries and nerves. Nerves.—The abdominal muscles are supplied by the lower intercostal nerves. The Traiisversalis and Internal oblique also receive filaments from the hypogastric branch of the iUo-hypogastric and sometimes from the ilio-inguinal. The Cremaster is supplied by the genital branch of the genito-crural and the Pyramidalis usually by the twelfth thoracic. The linea alba is a tendinous raphe seen along the middle line of tlie abdomen, extending from the ensiform cartilage to the symphysis jDubis, and attached to both. It is placed between the inner borders of the Recti, and is formed by the blending of the aponeuroses of the Obliqui and Trans- FiG. 509.—Diagram of a transverse section through the anterior abdominal wall, below the semilunar fold of Douglas. versales muscles. It is narrow below, corresponding to the linear interval existing between the Recti ; but broader above, as these muscles diverge from one another in their ascent; it becomes of considerable breadth after great distension of the abdomen from pregnancy or ascites. At its lower end the linea alba has a double attachment—its superficial fibres passing in front of the inner heads of the Recti to the symphj^sis pubis, wliile its deeper fibres form a triangular lamella, attached behind the Recti to the posterior hp of the crest of the pubis, and named the adminiculum linece alhce. It presents numerous apertures for the passage of vessels and nerves ; the umbilicus, which in the foetus exists as an aperture and transmits tlie umbilical vessels, is obliterated in the adult, the cicatrix being stronger than the neighbouring parts ; hence umbdical hernia occurs in the adult near the umbilicus, while in the foetus it occurs at the umbilicus. The lineae semilunares are two curved tendinous lines placed one on eitlier side of the linea alba. Each corresponds with the outer border of the Rectus muscle, extends from the cartilage of the ninth rib to the pubic spine, and is formed by the aponeurosis of the Internal oblique at its point of division to enclose the Rectus, reinforced in front by that of the External oblique, and behind by that of the Transversalis. , , . , , Actions.—When the pelvis and thorax are fixed, the abdominal muscles com- press the abdominal viscera, by constricting the cavitv of the abdomen, in which action they are materially assisted by the descent of the Diaphragm By these means assistance is given "in expelling the foetus from the uterus, the ff^es fro the rectum, the urine from the bladder, and the contents of the stomach m vomiting.MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN 515 If the pelvis and vertebr.al column be fixed, these muscles compress the lower part of the thorax, materially assisting expiration. If the pelvis alone be fixed, the thorax is bent directly forward, when the muscles of both sides act; when the muscles of only one side contract the trunk is bent towards that side and rotated towards the opposite side. If the thorax be fixed, the muscles, acting together, draw the pelvis upwards, as in climbing; or, acting singly, they draw the pelvis upwards, and bend the vertebral column to one side or the other. The Eecti, acting from below, depress the thorax, and consequently flex the vertebral column ; when acting from above, they flex the pelvis upon the vertebral column. The Pyramidales are tensors of the linea alba. The fascia transversalis is a thin aponeurotic membrane which lies between the inner surface of the Transversalis muscle and the extra-peritoneal fat. It forms part of the general layer of fascia lining the abdominal parietes, and is directly continuous with the iliac and pelvic fasciae. In the inguinal region, the transversalis fascia is thick and dense in structure and joined by Fig. 510.—The left internal abdominal ring. fibres from the aponeurosis of the Transversalis muscle, but it becomes thin as it ascends to the Diaphragm, and blends with the fascia covering the under aspect of this muscle. In front, it unites across the middle line with the fascia on the opposite side of the body ; and behind, it becomes lost in the tat which covers the posterior surfaces of the kidneys. Below, it has the following attachments : posteriorly, to the whole length of the crest of the mum, between the attachments of the Transversalis and Iliacus muscles ; between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the femoral vessels it IS connected to the posterior margin of Poupart's ligament, and is there continuous with the iliac fascia. Internal to the femoral vessels it is thin and attached to the pubis and ilio-pectineal line, behind the conjoined tendon, with which it is united ; it descends in front of the femoral vessels to form tlie anterior wall of the femoral sheath. Beneath Poupart's ligament it is strengthened by a band of fibrous tissue, which is only loosely connected to Poupart's ligament, and is specialised as the dee-p crural arch. "^The spermatic cord in the male and the round ligament in the female pass through the L L 2510 MYOLOGY transversalis fascia at a point called the internal abdominal ring. This opening is not visible externally since the transversalis fascia is prolonged on these structures as the infundibuliform fascia. The internal or deep abdominal ring (annulus inguinalis abdominalis) is situated in the transversalis fascia, midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis, and about half an inch above i'oupart's ligament (fig. 510). It is of an oval form, the long axis of the oval being vertical; it varies in size in different subjects, and is much larger in the male than in the female. It is bounded, above and externally, by the arched fibres of the Transversalis ; below and internally, by the deep epigastric vessels. It transmits the spermatic cord in the male and the round ligament in the female. From its circumference a thin funnel-shaped membrane, the infundihuliform fascia, is continued round the cord and testis, enclosing them in a distmct covering. Extra-peritoneal connective tissue. — Between the inner surface of the general layer of the fascia which lines the interior of the abdominal and pelvic cavities, and the peritoneum, there is a considerable amount of connective tissue, termed the extra-peritoneal or subperitoneal connective The parietal portion lines the cavity in varying quantities in different situations. It is especially abundant on the posterior wall of the abdomen, and particularly around the kidneys, where it contains much fat. On the anterior wall of the abdomen, except in the pubic region, and on the roof of the abdomen, it is scanty, and here the transversalis fascia is more closely connected with the peritoneum. There is a considerable amount of extra- peritoneal connective tissue in the pelvis. The visceral portion follows the course of the. branches of the abdommai aorta between the layers of the mesenteries and other folds of peritoneum which connect the various viscera to the abdominal wall, and assist m fixing them. The two portions are directly contmuous with each other. The deep crural arch.—Curving over the external ihac vessels, just at the point where they become femoral, on the abdominal side of Poupart's ligament and loosely connected with it, is a thickened band of fibres called the deep crural arch. It is apparently a thickening of the fascia transversalis, jomed externally to the centre of the lower margin of Poupart s ligament and arching across the front of the crui'al sheath to be inserted by a broad attach- ment into the spine of the pubis and ilio-pectmeal line, behmd the conjoined tendon. In some subjects this structure is not very prominently marked, and not infrequently it is altogether wanting. Surface Form.—The skin of the abdomen is thin and sensitive In the male it is often thickly hair-clad, especiaUy towards the lower part of the middle Ime. In the female, the hairs are confined to the pubes. After distension from pregnancy or other causes, the skin commonly presents transverse white hnes, which are quite smooth, being destitute of papilla. These are known as strim gravidarum. ., ,, • ^ t The only muscles of the abdomen which have any considerable mfluence on surface form are the External oblique and Rectus. With regard to the External f ^ue, the up^r dieitations of its origin from the ribs are well marked m a muscular subject, SdicSSg with those of the Serratus magnus ; the lower digitations ai-e not visible being covered by the thick border of the Latissimus dorsi. It« attachment to he crest of the mum m conjunction with the Internal oblique, forms a t nek obhque roll which dLSm Ls tCiliac hu-row. Sometimes on the front of the latera -g-n of the abdomen an undulating outhne marks the spot where the muscular fibres termmate and tl c apo- nLScoinces. The outer border of the Rectus is defined by the hnea scndvnan^. Xich rayTe exactly determmed by putting the muscle into actum. It corresponds with aTuTved hue, Jth its convexity outwards, dra^m from the end of the cartilage of The ninth rib to th; spme of the pubis ; at the level of the umb licus. it is about three the from the mediin line. Thc^ surface of the Rectus presents ^'^-/^^l ^'^; \L li^etr transversa; The niipcr two of these, viz. one opposite or a little t)elo^^ tnt. oS: eSrm cartilage, a'n^d the other midway between this j^oint ' Jo usually well marked; the third, opposite the "'^l''''^"''; .f, ?° f''^^^'f,,,/^^^^ umbilicus, situated in the linea alba, varies in position ,vs ''f J^^'f' ,^ from three-quarters of an inch to an inch above the '^^^l "^^j^'^J" i*^^^^^^^^^ iliac crests, and usually corresponds to the disc between the third and fourth lumi ar vertebra}.MUSCLES OP THE ABDOMEN 517 I 2. Posterior Muscles of the Abdomen Psoas luagnus. Iliacus. Psoas parvus. Quadratus lumborum. The Psoas magnus, the Psoas parvus, and the Iliacus muscles, with the fasciae covering them, will be described with the muscles of the lower extremity (see page 564). The fascia covering the Quadratus lumborum.—This is the most iinterior of the three layers of the lumbar aponeurosis. It is a thin layer of fascia covering the anterior surface of the Quackatus lumborum, and attached, internally, to the bases of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae ; below, to the ilio-lumbar ligament; above, to the apex and lower border of the last rib. The upper margin of this fascia, which extends from the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra to the apex and lower border of the last rib, constitutes the ligamentam arcuatum externum (page 502). The Quadratus lumborum (fig. 499, page 495) is situated in the lumbar region. It is irregularly quadrilateral in shape, and broader below than above. It arises by aponeurotic fibres from the ilio-lumbar ligament and the adjacent portion of the crest of the ilium for about two inches, and is inserted into the lower border of the last rib for about half its length, and by four small tendons into the apices of the transverse processes of the upper tour lumbar vertebrae. Occasionally a second portion of this muscle is found in front of the preceding. It arises from the upper borders of the transverse processes of the lower three or four lumbar vertebrae, and is inserted into the lower margin of the last rib. The Quadi'atus lumborum is contained in a sheath formed by the anterior and middle lameU£e of the lumbar aponeurosis, in front of which are the colon, the kidney, the Psoas, and the Diaphragm ; between the fascia and the muscle are the last thoracic, ilio-inguinal, and ilio-hypogastric nerves. Nerve-supply.—The last thoracic and first and second lumbar nerves supply this muscle. Actions.—The Quadratus lumborum draws down the last rib, and acts as a muscle of inspiration by helping to fix the origin of the Diaphragm. If the thorax and spine are fixed, it may act upon the pelvis, raising it towards its own side \vhen only one muscle is put in action ; and when both muscles act together, either from below or above, they flex the trunk. IV. Muscles and Fasciae of the Pelvis Obturator internus. Levator ani. Pyriformis. Coccygeus. The muscles within the pelvis may be divided into two groups : (1) the Obturator internus and the Pyriformis, which are muscles of the lower extremity, and will be described with these (page 575); (2) the Levator ani and the Coccygeus, which together form the fdvic diajihragm and are associated with the pelvic viscera. The classification of the two groups under a common heading is convenient in connection with the fasciae investing the muscles. These fasciae are closely related to one another and to the deep fascia of the pennaeum, and in addition have special connections with the fibrous coverings of the pelvic viscera ; it is customary therefore to describe them together under the term pelvic fascia. Pelvic fascia,—The fascia of tlie pelvis may be resolved into : (a) the fascial sheaths of the Obturator internus, Pyriformis, and pelvic diaphragm ; (b) the fascia associated with the pelvic viscera. The fascia of the Obturator internus covers the pelvic surface of, and is attached round the margin of the origin of, the muscle. Above, it is loosely connected to the back part of the ilio-pectineal line, and here it is continuous \vith the iliac fascia. In fi-ont of this, as it follows the luie of origin of the Obturator internus, it gradually separates from the iliac fascia and the continuity between the two is retained only through the periosteum. It archesMYOLOGY 518 beneath the obturator vessels and nerve, completing the obturator canal, and at the front of the pelvis is attached to the back of the body of the pubis. Below, the obturator fascia is attached to the falciform process of the great sacro-sciatic ligament and to the pubic arch where it becomes continuous witii the deep layer of the fascial sheath of the Compressor urethra? (deep layer of the triangular ligament). Behind, it is prolonged out on the Obturator internus into the gluteal region. The pudic vessels and nerve cross the pelvic surface of the Obturator internus and are enclosed in a special canal—Alcock's canal—formed by the obturator fascia. The fascia of the, Pyriformis is very thin and is attached to the front of the sacrum and the sides of the great sacro-sciatic foramen; it is prolonged out on the muscle into the gluteal region. At its sacral attachment round the margins of the anterior sacral foramina it comes into intimate association with and ensheathes the nerves emerging from these foramina. Hence the sacral nerves are frequently described as lying behind the fascia. The internal iliac vessels and their branches, on the other hand, lie in the subperitoneal Fig. 511.—Coronal section of pelvis, showing arrangement of fasciae from behind. Anterior crural nerve Femoral vessels Obturator fascia- Fascia endopelvina Internal pudic vessels \-^^ml^^ and nerve r'>-~-i.wlr^fK Tuherosity of ischium tissue in front of the fascia, and the branches to the gluteal region emerge in special sheaths of this tissue, above and below the Pja-iformis muscle. The fascia of the pelvic diaphragm covers both surfaces of the muscles. The layer covering the lower surface (fascia inferior diaphragmatis pe vis) is known as the anal fascia. It is attached above to the obturator fascia along the line of origin of the Levator ani, while he\o^^■ it is continuous with the deep layer of the triangular ligament and with the fascia on the Internal sphincter ani. The layer covering the upper surface of the pehnc diaphragm (pars diaphragmatica fasciee pehds) follows, above, the Une of ongni of the Levator ani and is therefore somewhat variable. In front it is attached to the back of the symphysis pubis about three-quarters of an inch above its lower bordex It can then be traced outwards across the back of the body of the pubis for a cUstance of about half an inch, when it reaches the obturalor fascia. It is attached to this fascia along a line wliich pursues a somewhat to the spine of the ischium. The irregularity of this line is due to the act that tlie origin of the Levator ani, which in lower fornis is from P^^f^^; brim, is in man lower down, on tlie obturator fascia. Tendinous fibres of origin519 MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE PELVIS of the muscle are therefore often found extending up towards, and in some cases reaching, the pelvic brim, and on these the fascia is carried. It wall be evident that the fascia covering that part of the Obturator internus above the origin of the Levator ani is a comjiosite fascia and includes the following: (a) the obturator fascia; (b) the fascia of the Levator ani ; (c) degenerated fibres of origin of the Levator ani. This portion was formerly described as the pelvic fascia. The lower margin of the fascia covering the upper surface of the pelvic diaphragm is attached along the line of insertion of the muscle. At the level of a line extending from the lower part of the symphysis pubis to the spine of the ischium is a thickened A^ hitish band in this upper layer of the pelvic diaphragmatic fascia. It is termed the white line (arcus tendineus fasciae pelvis), and marks the line of attachment of the special fascia (pars endopelvina fasciae pelvis) which is associated ^vith the pelvic viscera. The fascia endopelvina is to be regarded as a tliickening of the subperitoneal tissue round the various pelvic viscera, to form for them fibrous coverings Fig. 512.—Side view of pelvic viscera of the male subject, showing the fascia endopelvina. which will be described later (see section on Splanclinology). It is attached to the fascia on the upper surface of the pelvic diaphragm along the wliite line, and has been subdivided in accordance with the ^dsce^a to which it is related. Tlius its anterior part, known as the vesical layer, forms the anterior and lateral ligaments of the bladder. Its middle part crosses the floor of the pelvis between the rectum and vesiculae seminales as the recto-vesical layer; in the female this is perforated by the vagina. Its posterior portion passes to the side of the rectum ; it forms a loose sheath for the rectum, but is firmly attached round the anal canal ; this portion is known as the rectal layer. The Levator ani (fig. 513) is a broad, thin muscle, situated on the side of the pelvis. It is attached to the inner surface of the side of the true pelvis, and descends to unite with its fellow of the opposite side and form the greater part of the floor of the pelvic cavity. It supports the viscera in this cavity and surrounds the various structures whicli pass through it. It arises, in ifont, from the posterior surface of the body of the pubis on the outer side520 MYOLOGY of tlie sympliysis ; behind, from the inner surface of the spine of the iscliium ; and between these two points, from the obturator fascia. Posteriorly, thi.s fascial origin corresponds, more or less closely, with the white line (page 519), but in front, the muscle arises from the fascia at a varying distance above the white line, in some cases reaching nearly as high as the canal for the obturator vessels and nerve. The fibres pass downwards to the middle line of the floor of the pelvis ; the most posterior are inserted into the sides of the last two segments of the coccyx ; those placed more anteriorly unite with the muscle of the opposite side, in a median fibrous raphe {ano-coccyr/eal raphe), which extends between the coccyx and the margin of the anus. The Fig. 513.—Left levator ani from within. Left lobe of prostatr (jhnul [riii) Ano-coccygcal raphe middle fibres are inserted into the side of the rectum, blending with the fibres of the Sphmcter muscles ; lastly, the anterior fibres descend upon the side of the prostate gland to unite beneath it with the muscle of the opposite side, joining with the fibres of the External sphincter and Transversus periiiEei muscles at the central tendinous point of the perinajum. The anterior portion is occasionally separated from the rest of the muscle by connective tissue. From this circumstance, as well as from its pecuhar relation with the prostate gland, descending by its side, and surrounding it as in a sling, it has been'described by Santorini and others as a distinct muscle, under the name of Levator prostata:. In the female the anterior hbres of the Levator ani descend upon the side of the vagina.MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE PELVIS 521 Relations.—By its upper or pelvic surface, with the fascia which separates it from the bladder, prostate, rectum, and peritoneum. By its lower or perineal surface, it forms the inner boundary of the ischio-rectal fossa, and is covered by a thin layer of fascia, the ischio-rectal or anal fascia, given off from the obturator fascia. Its posterior border is free and separated fi'om the Coccygeus muscle by a cellular interspace. Its anterior border is separated from the muscle of the oi^ijosite side by a triangular space, through which the urethra, and in the female the vagina, pass from the pelvis. The Levator ani may be divided into iho-coccygeal and pubo-coccygeal parts. The Ilio-coccygeus arises from the ischial spine and from the posterior part of the pelvic fascia, and is attached to the coccyTc and ano-coccygeal raphe : it is usually thin, and may fail entirely, or be largely replaced by fibrous tissue. An accessory slip at its posterior part is sometimes named the Ilio-sacralis. The Pubo-coccygeus arises from the back of the pubis and from the anterior part of the obturator fascia, and ' is directed backwards almost liorizontally along the side of the anal canal towards the coccyx and sacrum, to which it finds attachment. Between the termination of the vertebral column and the anus, the two j)ubo-coccygei muscles come together and form a thick, fibro-muscular layer lying on the raphe formed by the Ilio-coccygei' (Thomjison). The greater part of tliis muscle is inserted into the coccyx and into the last one or two pieces of the sacrum. This insertion into the vertebral column is, however, not admitted by all observers. The iibres which form a sling for the rectum are named the Pubo-rectalis or Sphincter recti. They arise from the lower part of the symphysis pubis, and from the upper layer of the triangular ligament. They meet with the corresponding fibres of the opposite side around the lower part of the rectum, and form for it a strong sUng. Nerve-supply.—The Levator ani is supplied by a branch from the fourth sacral nerve and by a branch which is sometimes derived from the perineal, sometimes from the inferior hsemorrhoidal division of the pudic nerve. The Coccygeus (fig. 513) is situated behind and parallel with the preced- ing. It is a triangular plane of muscular and tendinous fibres, arising by its apex from the spine of the ischium and lesser sacro-sciatic ligament, and inserted by its base into the margin of the coccyx and into the side of the lowest piece of the sacrum. It assists the Levator ani and Pyi-iformis in closing in the back part of the outlet of the pelvis. Nerve-supply.—The Coccygeus is supplied by a branch from the fourth and fifth sacral nerves. Actions.—The Levatores ani constrict the lower end of the rectum and vagina. They elevate and invert the lower end of the rectum after it has been protruded and everted during the expulsion of the fteces. They are also muscles of forced expiration. The Coccygei muscles pull forward and support the coccyx, after it has been pressed backwards dxuing deftecation or partm-ition. The Levatores ani and Coccygei together form a muscular diaphragm which supports the pelvic viscera. V. Muscles and Fasci.5: of the Perin,^;um The perinaeum corresponds to the outlet of the pelvis. Its deep boundaries are—in front, the pubic arch and the subpubic Hgament ; behind, the tip of the coccyx ; and on either side the rami of the pubis and ischium, and the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The space is somewhat lozenge-shaped and is limited on the surface of the body by the scrotum in front, by the buttocks behind, and on either side by the inner side of the thigh. A line di-awn trans- versely across in front of the ischial tuberosities divides the space into two portions. The posterior contains the termination of the anal canal and is known as the ischio-rectal or anal region ; the anterior, which contains the external urogenital organs, is termed the urogenital region. The muscles of the peiinseum may therefore be divided into two groups : 1. Those of the ischio-rectal region. 2. Those of the urogenital region : a. In the male; B, In the female. 1. Muscles and Pasci.^ of the Ischio-rectal Region Corrugator cutis ani. External sphincter ani. Internal sphincter ani. The superficial fascia is very thick, areolar in texture, and contains much fat m its meshes. On either side a pad of fatty tissue extends deeply betweenMYOLOGY 522 the Levator ani and Obturator interuus into a space known as tlie ischio- rectal fossa. The deep fascia forms the lining of the ischio-rectal fossa ; it comprises the anal fascia, and the portion of obturator fascia below the origin of Levator ani. Ischio-rectal fossa.—^The fossa is somewhat prisniatic in shape, with its base directed to the surface of the perina3um, and its apex at tlie line of meeting of the obturator and anal fasciae. It is bounded internally by the External sphincter ani, and the anal fascia ; externally by the tuberosity of the ischium and the obturator fascia ; anteriorly by the fascia of CoUes covering the trans- versus perinsei, and by tlie deep layer of the triangular hgament; posteriorly by the Gluteus maximus and the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Crossing the space transversely are the infeiior hsemorrhoidal vessels and nerves ; at the back part are the perineal and perforating cutaneous branches of the pudendal plexus ; wliile from the fore part the superficial permeal vessels and nerves emerge. The internal pudic vessels and nerve lie in Alcock's canal on the external wall. The fossa is filled ^^dtli fatty tissue across Ai'liich numerous fibrous bands extend from side to side. A'pplied Anatomy.—Abscess ia the ischio-rectal fossa commonly occurs ; it is most often the result of infection from the bowel, and is especially prone to occur in tuberculous subjects ; occasionally it follows perforation by a foreign body which has been swallowed, such as a fish bone. The abscess may bulge at the side of the anus, at the border of Gluteus maximus, or against the rectal wall. There is great pain on defaecation, and, on examining the bowel, fulness on the side of the abscess may be detected. If left to itself the pus will find exit tlirough the skin, or into the rectum, between the two Sphincters ; and the condition will degenerate into one of the varieties of fistula, owing to the constant pull of the Sphincter preventing closure of the walls of the cavity. These abscesses should be opened at the earliest possible moment, as they tend to track and bui-row widely into the soft fat in the fossa, and also in the subcutaneous tissues. An incision should be made tangential to the anus over the region of the ischio-rectal fossa, and should then be con- verted into a T, by making another incision outwards at right angles to it, so that the wound may be kept open and may heal up from the bottom. Frequently, however, in spite of care, a fistula ensues which requires division of the External sphincter for its cure. The Corrugator cutis ani.—Around the anus is a thin stratum of involuntary muscular fibre, which radiates from the orifice. Liternally, the fibres fade off into the submucous tissue, wliile externally tliej'- blend with the true skin. By its contraction it raises the skin into ridges around the margin of the anus. The Sphincter ani externus (fig. 514) is a thin, flat plane of muscular fibres, elliptical in shape and intimately adherent to the integument surrounding the margin of the anus. It measures about three or four inches in length, from its anterior to its posterior extremity, being about an inch in breadth, opposite the anus. It consists of two strata, superficial and deep. The superficial. constituting the main portion of the muscle, arises from a narrow tendinous band, the ano-coccygeal raphe, which stretches from the tip of the coccyx to the posterior margin of the anus; it forms two flattened planes of muscular tissue, which encircle the anus and meet in front to be inserted into the central tendinous point of the perinseum, joining with the Transversus permaei, the Levator ani, and the Accelerator urinaj. The deeper portion forms a complete sphincter to the anal canal. Its flbres surround the canal, closely applied to the Internal sphincter, and in front blend with the other muscles at tlie central point of the perinjeum. In a considerable proportion of oases the fibres decussate in front of the anus, and are continuous with the Transversus perinsei. Posteriorly, they are not attached to the coccyx, the fibres of opposite sides being continuous behind the anal canal. The upper edge of the muscle is ill-defined, since fibres are given off from it to join tlie Levator ani. . . Nerve-supply.—A branch from the fourth sacral and twigs from the mferioi hteinorrhoidal branch of the internal pudic supply the muscle. Actions.—The action of this muscle is peculiar. 1. It is, like other inuscles. always in a state of tonic contraction, and having no antagonistic muscle it keeps the anal canal and orifice closed. 2. It can be put into a condition of greater contraction under the influence of the will, so as more firmly to occlude the anal aperture in expiratory efforts, unconnected with defajcation. 3. Taking its fixedMUSCLES AND FASCLE OF THE UROGENITAL REGION 523 l)oiut at the coccyx, it helps to fix the central point of the perinajum, so that the Accelerator urinse may act from this fixed point. The Sphincter ani internus is a muscular ring which surrounds the anal canal for about an inch ; its inferior border being contiguous with, but quite separate from, the External sphincter. Tiiis muscle is about a sixth of an inch in thickness, and is formed by an aggregation of the involuntary circular fibres of the intestine. Its lower border"is about a quarter of an inch from the external orifice. It is paler in colour and less coarse in texture than the External sphincter. Actions.—Its action is entirely involuntary. It helps the External sphincter to occlude the anal aperture. 2. A. Muscles and Fascia of the Urogenital Region in the Male (figs. 514, 515) Transversus perinaji. Erector penis. Accelerator urinse. Compressor urethras. Superficial fascia.—The superficial fascia of this region consists of two layers, superficial and deep. The superficial layer is thick, loose, areolar in texture, and contains in its meshes much adipose tissue, the amount of which varies in different subjects. In front, it is continuous with the dartos of the scrotum ; behind, it is continuous with the subcutaneous areolar tissue surrounding the anus ; and. Fig. 514.—The perinsBum. The integument and superficial layer of superficial fascia reflected. on either side, with the same fascia on the inner sides of the thighs. In the middle line, it is adherent to the skin of the raphe and to the deep layer of the superficial fascia. The deep layer of superficial fascia (fascia of CoUes) (fig. 514) is thin, aponeurotic in structure, and of considerable strength, serving to bind down the muscles of the root of the penis. It is continuous, in front, with tiie dartos of the scrotum, the deep fascia of the penis, the fascia of the spermatic524 MYOLOGY cord, and Scarpa's fascia upon the anterior wall of tlie abdomen ; on either side it is firmly attached to the margins of the rami of the pubis and ischium, external to the crus penis and as far back as the tuberosity of the ischium ; posteriorly, it curves round the Transversus perinaji muscles to join the lowci' margin of the triangular ligament. In the middle line, it is connected with the superficial fascia and with the median septum of the Accelerator urinaj muscle. This fascia not only covers the muscles in this region, but sends upM'ards a vertical septum from its deep surface, which separates the back part of the subjacent space into two, the septum being incomplete in front. The central tendinous point of the perinaeum.—This is a fibrous point in the middle line of the perinaeum, between the urethra and the rectum, and about half an inch in front of the anus. At this point six muscles converge and are attached : viz. the External sphincter ani, the Accelerator urina^. the two Transversi perinsei, and the anterior fibres of the Levatores ani ; so that by the contraction of these muscles, which extend in different directions, it serves as a fixed point of support. The Transversus perinaei is a narrow muscular slip, which passes more or less transversely across the perineal space in front of the anus. It arises by tendinous fibres from the inner and fore part of the tuberosity of the ischium, and, running inwards, is inserted into the central tendinous point of the perinseum, joining in this situation with the muscle of the opposite side, with the External sphincter ani behind, and \vith the Accelerator urinse in front. In some cases, the fibres of the deeper layer of the Sphincter ani decussate in front of the anus and are continued into this muscle. Occasionally it gives off fibres, which join with the Accelerator urinse of the same side. Nerve-supply.—It is supplied by the jDerineal branch of the mternal pudic. Actions.—The simultaneous contraction of the two muscles serves to fix the central tendinous point of the perinseum. The Accelerator or Ejaculator urinae (m. bulbocavemosus) is placed in the middle line of the perinseum, in front of the anus. It consists of two symmetrical parts, united along the median line by a tendinous raphe. It arises from the central tendon of the perhiseum and from the median raphe in front. Its fibres diverge like the plumes of a quill-pen ; the most posterior form a thin layer, which is lost on the superficial surface of the triangular ligament ; the middle fibres encurcle the bulb and adjacent parts of the corpus rgrhtfi^v^t-s-pongiooum, and join with the fibres of the opposite side, on the upper part «AX<^A€ J of the eorp»6- spongiooum-, in a strong aponeurosis ; the anterior fibres, the longest and most distinct, spread out over the side of the corpus cavernosum,pf^ cX/'o- to be inserted partly into that body, anterior to the Erector penis, occasion- vtfr/jojws ally extending to the pubis, and partly terminating in a tendinous expansion which covers the dorsal vessels of the penis. The latter fibres are best seen by dividing the muscle longitudmally, and reflecting it outwards from the surface of the corpus spongiosum. Actions.—This muscle serves to empty the canal of the urethra, after the bladder has expelled its contents ; during the greater part of the act of mictunnou its fibres are relaxed, and it only comes into action at the end of the process. The middle fibres are supposed by Krause to assist in the erection of the corpus spongio- sum, by compressing the erectile tissue of the bulb. The anterior fibres, according to Tyrrel, also contribute to the erection of the penis by compressmg the dorsal vein, as they are inserted into, and continuous with, the fascia of the perns. The Erector penis (m. ischiocavernosus) covers the crus penis. It is an elongated muscle, broader in the middle than at either extremity, and situated on either side of the lateral boundary of the perina5um. It arises by tendinous and fleshy flbres from the inner surface of the tuberosity of the ischium, behind the crus penis ; and from the rami of the pubis and ischium on either side of the crus. From these points fleshy fibres succeed, and end in an aponeurosis which is inserted into the sides and under surface of the crus ^^"ilerve-supply.—The Erector penis is supphcd by the perineal branch of tlu- internnl pudic. . j x j +1 + ,rn Action.—The Erector penis compresses the crus poms, and retards tlie return of the blood through the veins, and thus serves to maintain the organ erect.MUSCLES AND FASCIJ2 OF THE UROGENITAL REGION 625 Between the muscles just examined a triangular space exists, bounded internally bv the Accelerator urinae, externally by the Erector penis, and behind by the Trans- v'ersus perinsei. The floor of this space is formed by the triangular ligament of the urethra (deep perineal fascia), and running from behind forwards in it are the superficial perineal vessels and nerves, and the long pudendal nerve. The transverse perineal artery courses along the posterior boundary of the space on tlie Transversus perinaji. The deep fascia of the urogenital region forms an investment for the Compressor urethras, but within it lie also the deep vessels and nerves of this part, the whole forming a transverse septum which is known as the Fig. 515.—Muscles of male perinseum. dtaphragma urogenitale. Prom its shape it is usually termed the triangular ligament, and it is stretched almost horizontally across the pubic arch, so as to close in the front part of the outlet of the pelvis. It consists of two dense membranous laminae, which are united along their posterior borders, but are separated in front by intervening structures. The superficial of these two layers, the inferior layer of the triangular ligament (fascia diaphi-agmatica uro- genitaHs inferior), is triangular in shape, and about an inch and a half in depth. Its apex is directed forw-ards, and is sejjarated from the subpubic ligament by an oval opening for the transmission of the dorsal vein of the penis. Its lateral margins are attached on either side to the rami of the pubis andMYOLOGY 52G ischium, above the crus penis. Its base is directed towards tlie rectum, and connected to the central tendinous point of tlie perinajum. It is continuous witli tlie deep layer of the superficial fascia behind the Transversus perina?i muscle, and with a thin fascia which covers the under surface of the Levator ani muscle (anal fascia). This layer of the triangular ligament is perforated, about an inch below the symphysis pubis, by the urethra, the aperture for which is circular in form and about a quarter of an inch m diameter ; by the arteries to the bulb and the ducts of Cowper's glands close to the urethral orifice ; by the arteries to the corpora cavernosa—one on oitiier side close to the pubic arch and about halfway along the attached margin of the ligament; by the dorsal arteries and nerves of the penis near the apex of the ligament. Its base is also perforated by the superficial perineal vessels and nerves, while between its apex and the subpubic ligament the deep dorsal vein of the penis jjasses uj)wards into the pelvis. If the superficial or inferior layer of the triangular ligament be detached on either side, the following structures will be seen between it and the deep layer : the dorsal vein of the penis ; the membranous portion of the urethi-a, and the Compressor urethrse muscle ; Cowper's glands and their ducts ; the pudic vessels and dorsal nerves of the penis; the arteries and nerves of the bulb, and a plexus of veins. The deep or superior layer of the triangular ligament (fascia diaphragmatica urogenitalis superior) is continuous with the obturator fascia and stretches across the pubic arch. If the obturator fascia be traced inwards after lea^^Jlg the Obturator internus muscle, it wUl be found attached by some of its deeper or anterior fibres to the inner margin of the ischio-pubic ramus, whUe its superficial or posterior fibres pass over this attachment to form the superioi- layer of the triangular ligament. Behmd, this layer of the fascia is continuous with the inferior layer and with the fascia of CoUes, and in front it is continuous with the fascial sheath of the prostate gland. The Compressor urethrae (m. constrictor urethrse) surrounds the whole length of the membranous portion of the urethra, and is contained bet\veen the two layers of the triangular ligament. It arises by aponeurotic fibres from the junction of the rami of the pubis and ischium, to the extent of half or three-quarters of an inch : each segment of the muscle passes inwards, and divides into two fasciculi, which surround the urethra from the prostate gland behind to the bulbous portion of the urethra in front ; and unite, at the upper and lower surfaces of this tube, with the muscle of the opposite side, by means of a tendinous raphe. Nerve-supply.—The perineal branch of the internal pudic supphes this muscle. Actions.—The muscles of both sides act together as a sphincter, compressing the membranous portion of the urethra. During the transmission of fluids they like the Acceleratores urinse, are relaxed, and only come into action at the end ol the process to eject the last drops of the fluid. 2. B. Muscles of the Urogenital Region in the Female (fig. 516) Transversus perinaei. Erector clitoridis. Sphincter vaginae. Compressor urethra. The Transversus perinaei in the female is a narrow muscular slip, which passes more or less transversely across the back part of the perineal space It arises by a small tendon from the inner and fore part of the tuberositA of the ischium, and, passing inwards, is inserted into the central point of he perinajum, joining in this situation with the muscle of the opposite side, tbc External sphincter ani behind, and the Sphincter vagiiiJe in front Nerve-supply.-This muscle is supplied by the perineal branch of the mtcinal ^'"'Ac'tion.-The simultaneous contraction of the two muscles serves to fix the central tendinous point of the perbiieum. nrifiop of Tlie Snhincter vag-inae (m. bulbocavernosus) surrounds the ori ice m the vagina amMs homologous with the Accelerator urina. ,n the male. It covel^^the outer aspect of the vestibular bulbs, and is attached posteriorlyMUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE UROGENITAL REGION 527 to the central tendinous point of the perinseum, where it blends with the External sphincter ani. Its fibres pass forwards on either side of the vagina, to be inserted into the corpora cavernosa of tlie clitoris, a fasciculus crossing over the body of the organ so as to comi^ress the dorsal vein. Nerve-supply.—It is supphed by the perineal branch of the internal pudic. Actions.—The Sphincter vaginas diminishes the orifice of the vagina. The anterior fibres contribute to the erection of the clitoris, as they are inserted into and are continuous with the fascia of the clitoris, compressuig the dorsal vein during the contraction of the muscle. Tlie Erector clitoridis (m. ischiocavernosus) corresponds with the Erector penis in tlie male, but is smaller. It covers the unattached surface of the ( Tus clitoridis. It is an elongated muscle, broader at the middle than at I'ither extremity, and situated on tlie side of the lateral boundary of the perina5um. It arises by tendinous and fleshy fibres from the inner surface Fig. 516.—^Muscles of the female perinsemu. (Modified from a drawing by Peter Thompson.) Clitoris Spliincter ani externus of the tuberosity of the ischium, behind the crus clitoridis ; from the surface of the crus ; and from the adjacent portion of the ramus of the ischium. From these points fleshy fibres succeed, and end in an aponeurosis, Avhich is inserted mto the sides and under surface of the crus clitoridis. Nerve-supply.—The perineal branch of the internal pudic supphes this muscle. Actions.—The Erector clitoridis compresses the crus cHtoridis and retards the return of blood through the veins, and thus serves to maintain the organ erect. The triangular ligament in the female is not so strong as in the male. It is attached to the pubic arch, its apex being connected with the subpubic ligament. It is divided in the middle line by the aperture of the vagina, witli the external coat of which it becomes blended, and in front of this is per- forated by tlie urethra. Its posterior border is continuous, as in the male, M^ith the deep layer of the superficial fascia around the Transversus perinsei muscle. Like the triangular ligament in the male, it consists of two layers, between which are to be found the following structures : the dorsal vein of the clitoris.528 MYOLOGY a portion of the urethra and the Compressor urethras musole, the glands of Bartholin and tlieir ducts ; the ])udic vessels and the dorsal nerves of tlie clitoris ; the arteries and nerves of the bulbi vestibuli, and a plexus of veins. The Compressor urethrae (m. constrictor urethras) arises on either side from the margin of the descending ramus of the pubis. The fibres, passing inwards, divide into two sets : those of the fore part of the muscle are directed across the subpubic arch in front of the urethra to blend with the muscular fibres of the opposite side ; while those of the hinder and larger part pass inwards to blend with the wall of the vagina beliind the urethra. Nerve-supply.—It is supplied by the perineal branch of the internal pudic. MUSCLES AND FASCIAE OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY The muscles of the upper extremity are divisible into groups, corresponding with the different regions of the limb. CL, I Flexor profundus digitorum. S >5 ] Flexor longus pollicis. I. Thokaoic Region 1. Anterior Thoracic Region. Pectoralis I Pronator quadratus. major. Pectoralis minor. Subclavius. 2. Lateral Thoracic Region. Serratus magnus. II. Shotjldek and Arm 3. Acromial Region. Deltoid. 4. Anterior Scapular Region. Subscapularis. 5. Posterior Scapular Region. Supraspinatus. Teres minor. Infraspinatus. Teres major. 6. Anterior Humeral Region. Coraco-brachialis. Biceps. Brachialis anticus. 7. Posterior Humeral Region. Triceps. Subanconeus. III. Forearm 8. Anterior Radio-ulnar Region. .3 Pronator teres. Flexor carpi radialis. Palmaris longus. Flexor carpi ulnaris. Flexor sublimis digitorum. 9. Radial Region. Brachio-radialis (Supinator longus). Extensor carpi radialis longior. Extensor carpi radialis brevior. .5 'o u 1^ 10. Posterior Radio-ulnar Region. [Extensor communis digitorum. « 1 Extensor minimi digiti. ^ I Extensor carpi ulnaris. ^ 'Anconeus. / Supinator brevis. ^ u I Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Extensor brevis pollicis. Extensor longus pollicis. Extensor indicis. TV. Hand 11. Radial Region. Abductor poUicis. Opponens pollicis. Flexor brevis poUicis. Adductor obliquus pollicis. Adductor transversus pollicis. 12. Ulnar Region. Palmaris brevis. Abductor minimi digiti. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Opponens minimi digiti. 13. Middle Palmar Region. Lumbricales. Interossei palmares. Interossei dorsales. I. Muscles and Fascia of the Thoracic Region 1. Anterior Thoracic Region Pectoralis major. Pectoralis minor. Subclavius. The superficial fascia of the anterior thoracic region is a loose cellulo- fibrous layer, enclosing masses of fat in its spaces. It is contmuous with tlie529 MUSCLES AND FASCIiE OF THORACIC REGION superficial fascia of the neck and upper extremity above, and of the abdomen below. Opjjosite the mamma it divides into tAvo layers, one of whicli passes in front of, the otlier beliind tluit gland ; from both layers numerous septa pass into the gland, supporting its various lobes : from the anterior layer, fibrous ]irocesses pass forwards to the integument and nipple. These processes were railed by Sir A. Cooper the ligamenta suspensoria, from the support they afford to the gland in this situation. The deep fascia of the anterior thoracic region (fascia pectoralis) is a thin lamina, covering the surface of the Pectoralis major, and sending numerous prolongations between its fasciculi : it is attached, in the middle line, to the front of the sternum ; above, to the clavicle ; externally and below it becomes continuous with the fascia over the shoulder, axilla, and thorax. It is very thin over the upper part of the Pectoralis major muscle, thicker in the interval between it and the Latissimus dorsi, where it closes in the axillary space, and forms the fascia axillaris; it divides at the outer margin of the latter muscle into two layers, one of which passes in front, and the other behind it ; these proceed as far as the spinous processes of the thoracic vertebrae, to which they are attached. As the fascia leaves the lower edge of the Pectoralis major to pass across the floor of the axilla it sends a layer upwards under cover of the muscle : this lamina splits to envelop the Pectoralis minor, at the upper edge of which it becomes continuous with the costo- coracoid membrane. The hollow of the armpit, seen when the arm is abducted, is produced mainly by the traction of this fascia on the axillary floor, and hence the lamina is sometimes named the suspensory ligament of the axilla. At the lower part of the thoracic region the deep fascia is well developed, and is continuous with the fibrous sheaths of the Recti abdominis. Applied Anatomy.—Id. cases of suppuration in the axilla, the axillary fascia prevents the extension of the pus in a downward direction, and so it has a tendencv to spread upwards, beneath the Pectoral muscles, towards the root of the neck Early evacuation is therefore necessary. The incision should be made midway between the anterior and posterior axillary folds, so as to avoid the long thoracic and subscapular vessels, and the edge of the knife should be directed away from the axillary vessels. The Pectoralis major (fig. 517) is a broad, thick, triangular muscle situated at the upper and fore part of tlie chest and in front of the axilla It arises from the anterior surface of the sternal half of the clavicle • from half the breadth of the anterior surface of the sternum, as low doMTi'as the attachment of the cartilage of tlie sixth or seventh rib ; from the cartilages of aU the true ribs, with the exception, frequently, of the first, or seventh or both, and from the aponeurosis of the External oblique muscle of the abdomen. The fibres from tins extensive origin converge towards theii- inser- tion, giving to the muscle a radiated appearance. Those fibres which arise from the clavicle pass obliquely outwards and do\A nwards, and are usuaUy separated from tlie rest by a slight interval : those from tlie lower part of the sternum and the cartilages of the lower true ribs, run upwards and outwards ; while the middle fibres pass horizontally. They all terminate m a flat tendon about two inches broad, which is inserted into the outer bicipital ridge of the Humerus This tendon consists of two lammse, placed one in front of the other and usually blended togetlier below. The anterior lamina, the thicker, receives the clavicular and the upper fibres of the sternal portion of the muscle ; its bbres are inserted in the same order as that in which they arise : that is to ntv; f o'^tej-^ost fibres of origin from the clavicle are inserted at the uppermost dn 1 ; If bicipital ridge ; the upper fibres of origin from the sternum pass aown to the lowermost part of this anterior lamina of the tendon and extend nf iP'^'.^'^i^^e tendon of the Deltoid and join with it. The posterior lamina oi the tendon receives the attaciiment of the lower fibres of the sternal portion ana the deeper part of the muscle from the costal cartUages. These deep acres, and particularly those from the lower costal cartilages, ascend tlie liiglier f^!f?.^ baclvwards successively behind the superficial and upper ones, &o tnat the tendon appears to be twisted. The posterior lamina reaches higher on the humerus than the anterior one, and from it an expansion is given off ininf ''^^''^ bicipital groove and blends with the capsule of the slioulder- joint. J^rom the deepest fibres of this lamina at its insertion an expansion M MMYOLOGY 530 is given off which lines the bicipital groove of the humerus, while from the lower border of the tendon a third expansion passes downwards to the fascia of the arm. Relations.—The Pectoralis major is in relation by its oTitertor «ttr/oce with the integii- mont, the superficial fascia, the Platysma, some of the branches of the descending cervical nerves, the mammary gland, and the deep fascia ; by its posterior surface, with the sternum, the ribs and costal cartilages, the costo-coracoid membrane, the Subclavius, PectoraUs minor, Serratus magnus, and the Intercostals ; it forms the anterior waU of the Fig. 517.—Muscles of the chest and front of the arm. Superficial view. axillary space, and covers the axiUary vessels and nerves and the Biceps and Coraco- brachilhs Its upper border lies paraUel with the Deltoid, from which it is separated by a slSht interspace in which he the cephalic vein and humeral branch of the acromio-thorn ic Xry lU lower border forms the anterior margin of the axiUa, being separated "Sterna y from ibo Latissimus dorsi by a considerable interval ; but the two muscles graduahy converge towards the outer part of the space. The costo-coracoid membrane (fascia coracoclavicularis) is a strong fascia situated'undcr'cover of the clavicular portion of.the P-^-fl'-^N-'^^J t It occupies the interval between tlie Pectqrali.s minor and Subclaviub muscles,MUSCLES AND FASCIAE OF THORACIC REGION 531 and protects the axillary vessels and nerves. Traced upwards, it splits to enclose the Subclavius muscle, and its two layers are attached to the clavicle, one in front of and the other behind the muscle ; the latter layer fuses with the deep cervical fascia and witli the sheath of the axillary vessels. Internally, it blends with the fascia covering the first two intercostal spaces, and is attached also to the first rib internal to the origin of the Subclavius muscle. Externally, it is very thick and dense, and is attached to the coracoid process. The portion extending from the first rib to the coracoid process is often whiter and denser than the rest, and is sometimes called tlie costo-coracoid ligament. Below this, it is thin, and at the upper border of the Pectoralis minor it splits into two layers to invest the muscle ; from the lower border of the Pectoralis minor it is continued do-miwards to join the axillary fascia, and outwards to join Fia, 518.—^Muscles of the chest and front of the arm, with the boundaries of the axilla. the fascia over the short head of the Biceps. The costo-coracoid membrane is pierced by the cephalic vein, acromio-thoracic artery and vein, superior thoracic artery, and external anterior thoracic nerve. The Pectoralis minor (fig. 518) is a thin, flat, triangular muscle, situated at the upper part of the thorax, beneath the Pectoralis major. It arises by three tendinous digitations, from the upper margins and outer surfaces of the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, near tlieir cartilages, and from the aponeuroses covermg the Intercostal muscles ; the fibres pass upwards and outwards, and converge to form a flat tendon, which is inserted into the imier border and upper surface of the coracoid process of the scapula. Relations.—By its anterior surface it is in relation with the Pectoralis major, the external anterior thoracic nerve, and the thoracic branches of the acromio-thoracic artery. M M 2532 MYOLOGY By its posterior surface, with the ribs, Intercostal muscles, Serratus magnus, the axillary space, and the axillary vessels and brachial plexus of nerves. Its upper border is separated from the clavicle by a narrow triangular interval which is occupied by the costo-coracoid membrane, behind which are the axillary vessels and nerves. Running parallel to the Imuer border of the muscle is the long thoracic artery, and piercing the muscle is the internal anterior thoracic nerve. The Subclavius is a small triangular muscle, placed in the interval between the clavicle and the first rib. It arises by a short, thick tendon from the first rib and its cartilage at their junction, in front of the rhomboid ligament; the fleshy fibres proceed obliquely upwards and outwards, to be inserted into the groove on the under surface of the clavicle Spine of between the rhomboid and conoid liga- scapitla ments. Fig. 519.—Serratus magnus. (From a preparation in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England.) Relations.—Its deep swr/ace is separated from the first rib by the subclavian vessels and brachial plexus of nerves. Its anterior surface is sepa- rated from the PectoraUs major by the costo- coracoid membrane, which, with the clavicle, forms an osseo-fibrous sheath in which the muscle is enclosed. Nerves.—The PectoraUs major is supplied by the external and internal anterior thoracic nerves; through these nerves the muscle receives filaments from all the spinal nerves entering into the formation of the brachial plexus; the PectoraUs minor receives its fibres from the eighth cer^acal and first thoracic nerves through the internal anterior thoracic nerve. The Subclavius is suppUed by a filament derived from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. Actions.—If the arm has been raised by the Deltoid, the PectoraUs major will, con- jointly with the Latissimus dorsi and Teres major, depress it to the side of the chest. If acting alone, it adducts and draws for- wards the arm, bringing it across the front of the chest, and at the same time rotates it inwards. The PectoraUs minor depresses the point of the shoulder, drawing the scapula downwards and inwards to the thorax, and throwing the inferior angle backwards. The Subclavius depresses the shoulder, drawing the clavicle downwards and forwards. When the arms are fixed, all three muscles act upon the ribs, drawing them upwards and expanding the chest, and thus becoming very important agents in forced inspiration. During an attack of asthma patients always assume an attitude which fixes the shoulders, so that all these muscles may be brought into action to assist in dilatmg the cavity of the chest. Ext. ohlique Eighth rib 2. Lateral Thoracic Region Serratus magnus. The Serratus magnus (m. serratus anterior) (fig. 519) is a thin, irregularly quadrilateral muscle, situated between the ribs and the scapula at tlic upper and lateral part of the cliest. It arises by fleshy digitations from tlie outerMUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THORACIC REGION 533 surfaces and upper borders of the upper eiglit or nine ribs, and from tlie aponeuroses covering the intervening Intercostal muscles. Each digitation (except the first) arises from the corresjionding rib ; the first digitation arises from the first and second ribs, and from the fascia covering the first intercostal space. From this extensive attachment the fibres pass backwards, closely applied to the chest-wall, and reach the vertebral border of the scapula, and are inserted into its ventral aspect in the following manner. The first digita- tion, arising from tlie first and second ribs, is inserted into a triangular area on the ventral surface of the superior angle. Tlie next two digitations (i.e. from the second and third ribs) spread out to form a thin, triangular sheet, the base of which is directed backwards and is inserted into nearly the whole length of the ventral surface of the vertebral border. The lower five or six digitations converge to form a fan-shaped mass, the apex of M'hich is inserted, by muscular and by tendinous fibres, into a triangular impression on the ventral sm-face of the inferior angle. The lower four slips interdigitate at their origins with the upper five slips of the External oblique muscle of the abdomen. Relations.—This muscle is partly covered, in front, by the Pectoral muscles and by the mammary gland ; behind, by the Subscapularis. The axillary vessels and nerves lie upon its upper part, while its deep sui-face rests upon the ribs and Intercostal muscles. Nerves.—The Serratus magnus is supplied by the posterior thoracic nerve, which is derived from the fifth, sixth, and seventh "cervical nerves. Actions.—The Serratus magnus, as a whole, carries the scapula forwards, and at the same time raises the vertebral border of the bone. It is therefore concerned in the action of pushing. Its lower and stronger fibres move forwards the lower angle and assist the Trapezius in rotating the bone at the sterno-clavicular joint, and thus assist this muscle in raising the acromion and supporting weights upon the shoulder. It is also an assistant to the Deltoid in raising the arm, inasmuch as during the action of this latter muscle it fixes the scapula and so steadies the glenoid cavity on which the head of the humerus rotates. After the Deltoid has raised the arm to a right angle with the trunk, the Serratus magnus and the Trapezius, by rotating the scapula, raise the arm into an almost vertical position. It is possible that when the shoulders are fixed the lower fibres of the Serratus magnus may assist in raising and everting the ribs ; but it is not the important inspiratory muscle it was formerly beheved to be. Applied Anatomi/.—When the muscle is paralysed, the vertebral border, and especially the lower angle of the scapula, leave the ribs and stand out prominently on the surface, giving a pecuUar ' winged' appearance to the back (page 294). The patient is unable to raise the arm, and an attempt to do so is followed by a further projection of the lower angle of the scapula from the back of the thorax. II. Muscles and Fascia of the Shoulder and Arm The superficial fascia of the upper extremity is a thin fibro-cellular layer, containing the superficial veins and lymphatics and the cutaneous nerves, it IS most distinct in front of the elbow, where it contains very large superficial veins and nerves ; in the hand it is hardly demonstrable, the integument being closely adherent to the deep fascia by dense fibrous bands. Subcutaneous bursas are found in this fascia over the acromion, the olecranon, and the knuckles. M ^^^P fascia of the upper extremity comprises the fascia of the shoulder, arm, and forearm, the anterior and posterior annular ligaments ot the carpus, and the palmar fascia. These will be considered in the description of the muscles of the several regions. 3. Acromial Region Deltoid. The deep fascia covering the Deltoid invests the muscle, and sends nunierous prolongations between its fasciculi. In front it is continuous with the fascia covermg the Pectoralis major ; behind, where it is thick and strong, with that covermg the Infraspinatus ; above, it is attached to the clavicleMYOLOGY 534 the acromion, and the spine of the scapula; below, it is continuous with the deep fascia of the arm. The Deltoid (m. deltoideus) (fig. 517) is a large, thick, triangular muscle, which gives the rounded outline to the shoulder, and has received its name from its resemblance to the Greek letter A inverted. It covers the shoulder-joint in front, behind, and on the outer side. It arises from the anterior border and upper surface of the outer third of the clavicle ; from the outer margin and upper surface of the acromion process, and from the lower lip of the posterior border of the spine of the scapula, as far back as the triangular surface at its mner end. From this extensive origin the fibres converge towards their msertion, the middle passmg vertically, the anterior obliquely backwards and outwards, the posterior obhquely forwards and outwards ; they unite to form a thick tendon, which is inserted into a rough triangular prominence on the middle of the outer side of the shaft of the humerus. At its msertion the muscle gives off an expansion to the deep fascia of the arm. This muscle is remarkably coarse m texture, and the arrangement of its fibres is somewhat peculiar ; the central portion of the muscle—that is to say, the part arismg from the acromion process—consists of oblique fibres; these arise in a bipenni- form manner from the sides of tendinous intersections, generally four m number, which are attached above to the acromion process and pass do^rawards parallel to one another in the substance of the muscle. The oblique fibres thus formed are inserted into similar tendinous intersections, generally three in number, which pass upwards from the insertion of the muscle and alternate with the descendmg septa. The portions of the muscle which arise from the clavicle and spine of the scapula are not arranged m this manner, but pass from thek origin above to be inserted mto the margms of the inferior tendon. Relations.—The Deltoid is in relation by its superficial surface with the integument, the superficial and deep fascia, Platysma, and supra-acromial nerves. Its deep surface is separated from the capsule of the shoulder-joint by a large synovial bursa, and covers the coracoid process, coraco-acromial Ugament, Pectoralis minor, Coraco-brachiahs, botu heads of the Biceps, the tendon of the Pectoralis major, the insertions of the bupra- spinatus. Infraspinatus, and Teres minor, the scapular and external heads ot the Triceps, the circumflex vessels and nerve, and the upper part of the shaft ot the hunierus. Its an^emr Wer is separated at its upper part from the PectoraUs major by a cellular interspace, which lodges the cephaUc vein and humeral branch of the acromio-thoracic artery: lower down the two muscles are in close contact. Its posterior border rests on the Infraspinatus and Triceps muscles. Nerves.—The Deltoid is supphed by the fifth and sixth cervical through the circumflex nerve. , -j ^ • > Actions.—The Deltoid raises the arm dkectly from the side, so as to brmg it at right angles with the trunk. Its anterior fibres, assisted by the Fectoraiis major, draw the arm forwards ; and its posterior fibres, aided by the Teres ma]or and Latisstmus dorsi, draw it backwards. ATyplied Anatomy.—The Deltoid is very liable to atrophy, and in this condition dfe- location of the shoulder-joint is simulated as there is flattening of the ^^"^^^er and^^^^^^^ prominence of the acromion process; the distance ako between ind the head of the bone is increased, and the tips of the fingers can be inserted between them. Atrophy of the Deltoid may be due to disuse, such as foUows chrome arthritis or permanent injury of the shoulder"-joint. It also frequently resu ts from degenerations occ^g in the spinal cord, or injury to the circumflex nerve (' ^^-l^-ljrPf ^ ^^j^f^^ Deltoid and Spinati often escape in myopathic atrophies affeotmg the other muscles ot the upper arm or shoulder in young persons. 4. Anterior Scapular Region Subscapularis. The fascia subscapularis is a thin membrane attached to the entire circumferScf of ?he suLcapula^ fossa, and affording attachment by its mner surface to some of the fibres of the Subscapularis muscle. The Subscapularis (fig. 518) is a large triangular muscle wh.c^^^^^^^ subscapular fossa, and arises from its internal t^^•o-thn•ds and from the lo^erMUSCLES AND FASCIA OF SHOULDER AND ARM 535 two-thirds of the groove on the axillary border of the bone. Some fibres arise from tendinous laminae which intersect the muscle and are attached to ridges on the bone ; others from an aponeurosis, which separates the muscle from the Teres major and the long head of the Triceps. The fibres pass outwards, and, gi-adually converging, terminate in a tendon which is inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus and the front of the capsular liga- ment of the shoulder-joint. The tendon of the muscle is separated from the neck of the scapula and anterior part of the capsular ligament of the shoulder- joint by a large bursa, which communicates with the cavity of the joint by an aperture in the capsular ligament. Fig. 520.—Muscles on the dorsum of the scapula and the Triceps. Relations.—The anterior surface of this muscle forms a considerable part of the posterior wall of the axilla, and is in relation with the Serratus magnus, Coraco-brachialis, and Biceps, the axillary vessels and brachi^il plexus of nerves, and the subscapular vessels and nerves. Its posterior surface is in relation \vith the scapula and the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint. Its lower border is in contact with the Teres major and Latissimus dorsi. Nerves.—The Subscapularis is supplied by the fifth and sixth cervical nerves through the upper and lower subscapular nerves. Actions.—The Subscapularis rotates the head of the humerus inwards; when the arm is raised, it draws the humerus forwards and downwards. It is a powerful defence to the front of the shoulder joint, preventing displacement of the head of the bone. 5. Posterior Scapular Region (fig. 520) Supraspinatus. Teres minor. Infraspinatus. Teres major. The fascia supraspinata completes the osseo-fibrous case in which the Supraspinatus muscle is contained; it affords attachment, by its deep536 MYOLOGY surfaoe, to some of the fibres of the muscle. It is thick internally, but thhmer externally under the coraco-acromial ligament. The Supraspinatus occupies the whole of the supraspinous fossa, arising from its internal two-tliirds, and from the strong fascia which covers its surface. The muscular fibres converge to a tendon, which passes across the upper part of the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint, to which it is intimately adherent, and is inserted into the highest of the three impressions on the great tuberosity of the humerus. The fascia infraspinata is a dense fibrous membrane, covering in the Infraspinatus muscle and fixed to the circumference of tlie infraspinous fossa ; it affords attachment, by its inner surface, to some fibres of that muscle. It is intimately attached to the deltoid fascia along the overlapping border of the Deltoid muscle. The Infraspinatus is a thick triangular muscle, M'hich occupies the cliief part of the infraspinous fossa, arising by fleshy fibres from its internal two- thirds ; and by tendinous fibres from the ridges on its surface : it also arises from a strong fascia which covers it externally, and separates it from the Teretes major et minor. The fibres converge to a tendon, wliich glides over the external border of the spine of the scapula, and, passing across the posterior part of the capsular ligament of the shouJder-joint, is inserted into the middle impression on the great tuberosity of the humerus. The tendon of this muscle is sometimes separated from the capsule of the shoulder-joint by a synovial bursa, which may communicate with the joint cavity. The Teres minor is a narrow, elongated muscle, which arises from the dorsal surface of the axillary border of the scapula for the upper two-thirds of its extent, and from two aponeurotic laminae, one of which separates it from the Infraspinatus, the other from the Teres major. Its fibres run obliquely upwards and outwards ; the upper ones terminate in a tendon which is inserted into the lowest of the three impressions on the great tuberosity of the humerus ; the lower fibres are inserted directly into the humerus immediately below this impression. The tendon of this muscle passes across, and is united with, the posterior part of the capsular ligament of the shoulder- joint. The Teres major is a thick but somewhat flattened muscle, and arises from the oval area on the dorsal surface of the inferior angle of the scapula, and from the fibrous septa interposed between it and the Teres minor and Infraspinatus ; the fibres are dii-ected upwards and outwards, and terminate in a flat tendon, about two inches in length, which is inserted into the inner bicipital ridge of the humerus. The tendon, at its insertion into the humerus, lies behind that. of the Latissimus dorsi, from which it is separated by a synovial bursa, the two tendons being, however, united along then: lower borders for a short distance. Herves.—The Supra- and Infra-spiaatus muscles are supphed by the fifth and sixth cervical nerves through the suprascapular nerve ; the Teres minor, by.tk^ fifth cervical, through the circumflex ; and the Teres major, by the fifth and sixth cervical, through the lower subscapular. Actions.—The Supraspinatus assists the Deltoid in raising the arm from the side, and fixes the head of the humerus in the glenoid cavity. The Infraspinatus and Teres minor rotate the head of the humerus outwards : they also assist in carrying the arm backwards. One of the most important uses of these three muscles is the great protection they afford to the shoulder-joint, the bupra- spinatus supporting it above, and preventing displacement of the head ot tlie humerus upwards, while the Infraspinatus and Teres minor protect it behind, and prevent dislocation backwards. The Teres major assists the Latissimus dorsi in drawing the previously raised humerus downwards and backwards, and in rotating it inwards ; when the arm is fixed it may assist the i ectorals and Latissimus dorsi in drawing the trunk forwards. 6. Anterior Htimeral Region (fig. 518) Coraco-brachialis. Biceps. Brachialis anticus. The deep fascia of the arm (fascia brachii)is continuous with that covering the Deltoid and the Pectoralis major, by means of which it is attached. abo\e.537 MUSCLES AND FASCL5: OF SHOULDER AND ARM to the clavicle, acromion, and. spine of the scaj)ula ; it forms a thin, loose, membranous sheath investing the muscles of the arm, and sends inwards septa between them ; it is composed of fibres disposed in a circular or spiral direction, and connected together by vertical and oblique fibres. It differs in thickness at different parts, being thin over the Biceps, but thicker where it covers the Triceps, and over the condyles of the humerus : it is strengthened by fibrous aponeuroses, derived from the Pectoralis major and Latissimus dorsi on the inner side, and from the Deltoid externally. On either side it gives off a strong intermuscular septum, which is attached to the corresponding supra- condylar ridge and condyle of the humerus. These septa serve to separate the muscles of the anterior from those of tlie posterior brachial region. The external intermuscular septum extends from the lower part of the anterior bicipital ridge, along the external supracondylar ridge, to the outer epicondyle ; it is blended with the tendon of the Deltoid, gives attachment to the Triceps beliind, to the Brachialis anticus, Bx-acliio-radiaUs and Extensor carpi radialis longior in front, and is perforated by the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery. The internal intermuscular septum, thicker than the preceding, extends from the lower part of the posterior lip of the bicipital groove below the Teres major, along the internal supracondylar ridge to the inner epicondyle ; it is blended with the tendon of the Coraco-brachialis, and affords attachment to the Triceps behind and the Brachialis anticus in front. It is perforated by the ulnar nerve, the inferior profunda artery, and the posterior branch of the anastomotic artery. At the elbow, the deep fascia is attached to all the prominent points round the joint, viz. the epicondyles of the humerus and the olecranon process of the ulna, and is continuous with the deep fascia of the forearm. Just below the middle of the arm, on its inner side, in front of the internal intermuscular septum, is an oval opening in the deep fascia, which transmits the basilic vein and some lymphatic vessels. The Coraco-brachialis, the smallest of the tliree muscles in this region, is situated at the upper and inner part of the arm. It arises by fleshy fibres from the apex of the coracoid process, in common with the short head of the Biceps, and from the intermuscular septum, between the two muscles ; the fibres pass downwards, backwards, and a little outwards, to be inserted by means of a flat tendon into an impression at the middle of the inner surface and internal border of the shaft of the Jiumerus between the origins of the Triceps and Brachialis anticus. It is perforated by the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The inner border of the muscle forms a guide to the position of the terminal portion of the axillary and upper part of the brachial arteries. Relations.—The Coraco-brachialis is in relation by its anterior surface with the Pectoralis major above, and at its insertion with the brachial vessels and median nerve which cross it; by its posterior surface, with the tendons of the Subscapxilaris, Latissimus dorsi, and Teres major, the inner head of the Triceps, the humerus, and the anterior circumflex vessels ; by its inner border, with the third part of the axillary and the upper part of the brachial artery and the median and muscido-cutaneous nerves; by its outer border, with the short head of the Biceps and Brachialis anticus. The Biceps (m. biceps brachii) is a long fusiform muscle, occupying the anterior surface of the arm, and divided above into two portions or heads, from which cu-cumstance it has received its name. The short head (caput breve) arises by a thick flattened tendon from the apex of the coracoid process, in common with the Coraco-brachialis. The long head (caput longum) arises from the supraglenoid tubercle at the upper margin of the glenoid cavity, and is continuous witli the glenoid ligament. This tendon arches over tlie head of the humerus, being enclosed in a special sheath of the synovial mem- brane of the shoulder-joint ; it then passes through an opening in the capsular ligament at its attachment to the humerus, and descends in the bicipital groove, in which it is retained by the transverse humeral ligament and by a fibrous prolongation from the tendon of the Pectoralis major. Each tendon is succeeded by an elongated muscular belly, and the two bellies, although closely applied to each other, can readily be separated until within about three inches of the elbow-joint. Here they end in a flattened tendon, which IS inserted into the rough posterior portion of the tuberosity of the radius, a synovial bursa being interposed between the tendon and the front part of538 MYOLOGY the tuberosity. As the tendon of the muscle approaches the radius it is twisted upon itself, so that its anterior surface becomes external and is applied to the tuberosity of the radius at its insertion. Opposite the bend of the elbow the tendon gives off, from its inner side, a broad aponeurosis, the bicipital fascia (semilunar fascia), which passes obliquely downwards and inwards across the brachial artery, and is continuous with the deep fascia covering the origins of the Flexor muscles of the forearm (fig. 517). A third head to the Biceps is occasionally found, arising at the upper and inner part of the Brachialis anticus with the fibres of which it is continuous, and inserted into the bicipital fascia and inner side of the tendon of the Biceps. In most cases this additional slip passes behind the brachial artery in its course down the arm. In some instances the third head consists of two slips, which pass down, one in front of, the other behind the artery, concealing the vessel in the lower half of the arm. Relations.—Its anterior surface is overlapped above by the Pectoralis major and Deltoid ; in the rest of its extent it is covered by the superficial and deep fasciae and the integument. Its posterior surface rests above on the shoulder-joint and upper part of the humerus ; below, it lies on the Brachialis anticus, with the musculo-cutaneous nerve intervening between the two, and on the Supinator brevis. Its inner border is in relation with the Coraco-brachialis, and overlaps the brachial vessels and median nerve ; its outer border, with the Deltoid and Brachio-radiahs. The Brachialis anticus (m. brachiahs) is a broad muscle, which covers the elbow-joint and the lower half of the front of the humerus. It is some- what compressed from before backwards, and is broader in the middle than at either extremity. It arises from the lower half of the front of the humerus ; and commences above at the insertion of the Deltoid, which it embraces by two angular processes. Its origin extends below to within an inch of the margin of the articular surface. It also arises from the intermuscular septa, but more extensively from the inner than the outer; it is separated from the outer below by the Brachio-radiaUs and Extensor carpi radialis longior. Its fibres con- verge to a thick tendon, which is inserted into the tubercle of the idna and the rough depression on the anterior surface of the coronoid process, bemg received into an interval between two fleshy shps of the Flexor profundus digitorum. Relations.—The Brachiahs anticus is in relation by its aivterior sur face with the Biceps, the brachial vessels, musculo-cutaneous and median nerves; by its posterior surface, with the humerus and front of the elbow-joint; by its inner border, with the Triceps, ulnar nerve, and Pronator teres, from which it is separated by the mtermuscular septum ; by its outer border, with the musculo-spiral nerve, radial recurrent artery, the Brachio- radiaUs, and Extensor carpi radialis longior. Nerves.—The muscles of this group are suppUed by the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The Brachiahs anticus usually receives an additional filament from the musculo- spiral. The Coraco-brachialis receives its supply prunarily from the seventh cervical, the Biceps and Brachialis anticus from the fifth and sixth cer-sacal nerves. Actions.—The Coraco-brachiahs draws the humerus forwards and mwards, and at the same time assists in retainmg the head of the bone in contact vnth the glenoid cavitv. The Biceps is a flexor of the elbow and, to a less extent, of the shoulder : it' is also a powerful supmator, and serves to render tense the deep fascia of the forearm bv means of the bicipital fascia given off from its tendon. The Brachialis anticus is a flexor of the forearm, and forms an important defence to the elbow-jomt. When the forearm is fixed, the Biceps and Brachiahs anticus flex the arm upon the forearm, as is seen in efforts of chmbiug. Applied Anatomy.—The long tendon of the Biceps is sometimes dislocated from the bicipital groove. When this takes place, the arm becomes fixed in a position of abduction, but the head of the humerus can be felt in its proper position. It can generaUy be replaced by flexing the forearm on the arm and rotating the limb. Rupture of the long tendon of the Biceps may also take place. 7. Posterior Humeral Region Triceps. Subanconeus. The Triceps (m. triceps brachii) (fig. 520) is situated on the back of the arm, extending the entire length of the posterior surface of the humerus, it is of large size, and divided above into three parts, hence its name, liiesoMUSCLES Am FASCIA OF SHOULDER AND ARM 539 three portions have been named (1) the middle, scapular, or long head ; (2) the external, or long humeral head ; and (3) the internal, or short humeral head. The external and internal heads are separated by the musculo-spiral groove containing the musculo-spu-al nerve and superior profunda vessels. The middle or scapular head (caput longum) arises by a flattened tendon from a rough triangular depression on the scapula, immediately below the glenoid cavity, being blended at its upper part with the capsular ligament; the muscular fibres pass downwards between the two other portions of the muscle, and join witli them m the tendon of insertion. The external head (caput laterale) arises from the posterior surface of the shaft of the humerus, between the insertion of the Teres minor and the upper part of the musculo-spiral groove and from the external border of the humerus and the external intermuscular septum ; the fibres from this origin converge towards the tendon of insertion. The internal head (caput mediale) arises from the posterior surface of the shaft of the humerus, below the musculo-spLra] groove : it is narrow and pointed above, and extends fi-om the insertion of the Teres major to within an inch of the trochlear surface : it also arises from the internal border of the humerus and from the back of the whole length of the internal and lower part of the external intermuscular septa. Some of the fibres are directed do\vn- wards to the olecranon, while others converge to the tendon of insertion. The tendon of the Triceps commences about the middle of the back part of the muscle : it consists of two aponeurotic laminae, one of which is sub- cutaneous and covers the posterior surface of the muscle for the lower half of its extent; the other is more deeply seated in the substance of the muscle. After receiving the attachment of the muscular fibres, they jom together above the elbow, and are inserted, for the most part, into the posterior portion of the upper surface of the olecranon process ; a band of fibres is, however, continued doAvnwards, on the outer side, over the Anconeus, to blend with the deep fascia of the forearm. The long head of the Triceps descends between the Teres minor and Teres major, dividing the triangular space between these two muscles and the humerus into two smaller spaces, one triangular, the other quadrangular (fig. 520). The triangular space contains the dorsahs scapulae vessels ; it is bounded by the Teres minor above, the Teres major below, and the scapular head of the Triceps externally. The quadrangular space transmits the posterior circumflex vessels and the circumflex nerve ; it is boimded by the Teres minor above, the Teres major below, the scapular head of the Triceps internally, and the humerus externally. The Subanconeus is the name given to a few fibres from the under surface of the lower part of the Triceps muscle, which are inserted into the posterior ligament and synovial membrane of the elbow-joint. By some authors it is regarded as the homotype of the Subcrureus in the lower limb, but it is not a separate muscle. Nerves.—The Triceps is supplied by the seventh and eighth cervical nerves through the musculo-spiral nerve. Actions.—The Triceps is the great extensor muscle of the forearm, serving, when the forearm is flexed, to extend the elbow-jomt. It is the direct antagonist of the Biceps and Brachiahs anticus. When the arm is extended, the long head of the muscle may assist the Teres major and Latissimus dorsi m drawing the humerus backwards and in adducting it to the thorax. The long head protects the under part of the shoulder-joint, and prevents displacement of the head of the humerus downwards and backwards. The Subanconeus draws up the synovial membrane of the elbow-joint during extension of the forearm. Applitd Anatomy.—The existence of the strong insertion from the Triceps into the fascia of the forearm is of importance in excision of the elbow; it should always be carefully preserved from injury by the operator. By means of these fibres the patient is enabled to extend the forearm, a movement which would otherwise mainly be accomplished by gravity—that is to say, by allowing the forearm to drop from its own weight. III. Muscles and Fascia op the Forearm The deep fascia of the forearm (fascia antibrachii), continuous above with that enclosing the arm, is a dense, highly glistening membranous investment.MYOLOGY 540 which forms a general sheath enclosing the muscles in this region ; it is attached, beliind, to the olecranon and posterior border of the ulna, and gives off from its deep surface numerous intermuscular septa, wliich enclose each muscle separately. In fi-ont it is continuous witii tlie anterior annular ligament of the wrist, and forms a sheath for the tendon of the Palraaris longus muscle which passes over the annular ligament to be inserted into the palmar fascia. Behind, near the wrist-joint, it becomes much thickened by tlie addition of many transverse fibres, and forms the posterior annular ligament. It consists of circular and oblique fibres, connected together by numerous vertical fibres. It is much thicker on the posterior than on the anterior surface, and at the lower than at the upper part of the forearm, and is strengthened above by tendinous fibres derived from the Biceps in front, and from the Triceps behind. Its deep surface gives origin to muscular fibres, especially at the upper part of the inner and outer sides of the forearm, and forms the boundaries of a series of cone-shaped cavities, in which the muscles are contained. Besides the vertical septa separating the individual muscles, transverse septa are given off both on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the forearm, separating the deep from the superficial layers of muscles. Numerous apertures exist in the fascia for the passage of vessels and nerves ; one of these, of large size, situated at the front of the elbow, serves for the passage of a communicating branch between the superficial and deep veins. Near the MTist, it is perforated on its anterior surface by the ulnar artery and nerve. The muscles of the forearm may be subdivided into groups corresponding to the regions they occupy. One grouj) occupies the inner and anterior aspect of the forearm, and comprises the Flexor and Pronator muscles. Another group occupies its outer side ; and a third its posterior aspect. The two latter groups include all the Extensor and Supinator muscles. 8. Anterior Radio-ulnar Region The muscles in this region are divided for convenience of description into two groups or layers, superficial and deep. Superficial Layer (fig. 521) Pronator teres. Palmaris longus. Flexor carpi radialis. Flexor carpi ulnaris. Flexor sublimis digitorum. These muscles take origin from the internal epicondyle of the hunierus by a common tendon; they receive additional fibres from the deep fascia of the forearm near the elbow, and from the septa which pass inwards from this fascia between the individual muscles. The Pronator teres has two heads of origin. One (caput humerale), the larger and more superficial, arises from the humerus, immediately above the internal epicondyle, and from the tendon common to the origm of the other muscles ; also from the fascia of the forearm, and intermuscular septum between it and the Flexor carpi radialis. The deep head (caput ulnare) is a thin fasciculus, which arises from the inner side of the coronoid process of the ulna, and joins the preceding at an acute angle. The median nerve enters the forearm between the two heads of the muscle, and is separated from the ulnar artery by the deep head. The muscle passes obliquely across the forearm, and terminates in a flat tendon, Avhich turns over the outer margin of the radius, and is inserted into a rough impression at the middle of the outer surface of the shaft of that bone. The outer border of tin muscle forms the inner boundary of a triangular space {antecubttal fossa) situated in front of the elbow-joint and containing the brachial artery, median nerve, and tendon of the Biceps. Applied A7iatomy.—This muscle, when suddenly brought into very active use, as in the game of law tennis, is apt to be strained, producing slight swelling, tenderness, ancl pain on putting the muscle into action. This is known as ' lawn-tennis arm. The Flexor carpi radialis lies on the inner side of the preceding muscle. It arises from the internal epicondyle by the common tendon; from the fascia541 MUSCLES AND FASCIiE OP THE FOREARM Pig. 521.—^Front of the left fore- arm. Superficial muscles. of the forearm ; and from the intermuscular septa between it and the Pronator teres externally, the Palraaris longus internallj'-, and the Flexor subUmis digitorum beneath. Slender and aponeurotic in structure at its commence- ment, it increases in size, and terminates in a tendon, wliich forms rather more than the lower half of its length. Tliis tendon passes through a canal in the outer part of the annular ligament, runs through a groove in the trapezium (which is converted into a canal by a fibrous sheath, and lined by a synovial mem- brane), and is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the mdex finger, and by a slip into the base of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. The radial artery, in the lower part of the forearm, lies between the tendon of this muscle and the Brachio-radiaUs, and may easily be tied in this situation. The Palmaris longus is a slender, fusiform muscle, lying on the inner side of the preceding. It arises from the inner epicondyle of the humerus by the common tendon, from the deep fascia, and the intermuscular septa between it and the adjacent muscles. It terminates in a slender, flattened tendon, which passes over the upper part of the annular ligament, to end in the central part of the palmar fascia and lower part of the annular ligament, frequently sending a tendinous slip to the short muscles of the thumb. This muscle is often absent, and is subject to very considerable variations : it may be ten- dinous above and muscular below ; or it may be muscular in the centre with a tendon above and below ; or it may present two muscular bundles with a central tendon; or finally it may consist solely of a tendinous band. Just above the wTist, the median nerve lies close to the tendon, on its outer and posterior aspects. The Flexor carpi ulnaris lies along the ulnar side of the forearm. It arises by two heads, connected by a tendinous arch, beneath which pass the uhiar nerve and posterior ulnar recurrent artery. One head (caput liumerale) arises from the inner epicondyle of the humerus by the common tendon; the other (caput ulnare) from the inner margin of the olecranon and from the upper two-thirds of the posterior border of the ulna by an aponeurosis, common to it and the Extensor carpi ulnaris and Flexor profundus digitorum ; and from the inter- muscular septum between it and the Flexor sublimis digitorum. The fibres terminate in a tendon, which occupies the anterior part of the lower half of the muscle, and is inserted into the pisiform bone, and is prolonged from this to the unciform and fifth metacarpal bones by the piso-unciform and piso-metacarpal liga- ments ; it is also attached by a few fibres to the annular ligament. The ulnar vessels and nerve lie on the outer side of the tendon of tliis muscle, in the lower two-thirds of tlie forearm ; the tendon forming a guide in tying the artery in this situation. The Flexor sublimis digitorum (m. flexor digitorum sublimis) is placed beneath the Flexor carpi ulnaris ; it is the largest of the muscles of tlie superficial layer, and arises by three heads. One head (caput humerale) arises from the internal epicondyle of the humerus by the common tendon,MYOLOGY . 522.—Front of the left forearm. Deep muscles. from the internal lateral ligament of the elbow-joint, and from the intermuscular septa between it and the preceding muscles. The second head (caput ulnare) arises from the inner side of the coro- noid process of the ulna, above the ulnar origin of the Pronator teres (see fig. 358, page 302). The third head (caput radiale) arises from the obhque line of the radius, extending from the bicipital tuberosity to the in- sertion of the Pronator teres. The fibres pass vertically do\i^nwards, forming a broad and thick muscle, which speedily separates into two planes of muscular fibres, superficial and deep : the super- ficial plane divides into two parts which end in tendons for tlie middle and ring fingers ; tlie deep plane gives off a muscular slip to join the part of the superficial j)lane which is associated with the tendon of the ring finger, and then divides into two parts, which end in tendons for the index and Httle fingers. As the four tendons thus formed pass beneath the annular ligament into the palm of the hand, they are arranged in pairs, the super- ficial pair corresponding to the middle and ring fingers, the deep pair to the index and httle fingers. The tendons diverge from one another as they run onwards, and form posterior relations to the superficial palmar arch and digital branches of the median and ulnar nerves. Opposite the bases of the first phalanges each tendon divides into two slips, to allow of the passage of the corre- sponding tendon of the Flexor profundus digitorum ; the two portions of the tendon then unite and form a grooved channel for the reception of the accompany- ing deep Flexor tendon. Fmally they subdivide a second time, to be 'inserted into the sides of the second phalanges about their middle. After leaving the palm, these tendons, accompanied by the deep Flexor tendons, he m osseo-aponeurotic canals (fig. 522). The canals are completed by strong fibrous sheaths, wliich arch across the tendons, and are attached on each side to the margins of tlie phalanges.MUSCLES AND FASCIiE OF THE FOREARM 543 Opposite the middle of the proximal and second phalanges the sheaths are very strong, and the fibres pass transversely ; but opposite the joints they are much thimier, and the fibres are directed obliquely. Each sheatli is lined by a synovial membrane, which is reflected on the contained tendons. Deep Layer (fig. 522) Flexor profundus digitorum. Flexor longus poUicis. Pronator quadratus. The Flexor profundus digitorum (m. flexor digitorum profundus) is situated on the ulnar side of the forearm, immediately beneath the superficial Flexors. It arises from the upper three-fourths of the anterior and inner surfaces of the shaft of the ulna, embracing the insertion of the Brachialis anticus above, and extending below, to within a short distance of the Pronator quadratus. It also arises from a depression on the inner side of the coronoid process ; by an aponeurosis from the upper three-fourths of the posterior border of the ulna, in common with the Flexor and Extensor carpi ulnaris; and from the ulnar half of Fig. 523.—Vincula aecessoria and tendons of forefinger. the interosseous membrane. The fibres form a fleshy beUy of considerable size, M'hich divides into four tendons : these run under the anniilar ligament beneath the tendons of the Flexor sublimis digitorum. Opposite the first phalanges, the tendons pass through the openings in the tendons of the Flexor sublimis digitorum, and are finally inserted into the bases of the last phalanges. Tlie portion of the muscle for the index finger is usually distinct throughout, but the tendons for the three inner fingers are connected together by cellular tissue and tendinous slips, as far as the palm of the hand. The tendons of544 MYOLOGY this muscle and those of the Flexor sublimis digitorum, while contained in the osseo-aponeurotic canals of the fingers, are invested in synovial sheaths, and are connected to each other, and to tlie phalanges, by slender, tendinous filaments, called vincula accessoria (fig. 523). There are two sets of these : (o) the ligamenta brevia, which are two in number in each finger, and consist of triangular bands of fibres connecting tlie tendon of the Flexor sublimis digitorum to the front of the first interphalangeal joint and head of the first phalanx, and the tendon of the Flexor profundus digitorum to the front of the second interphalangeal joint and head of the second phalanx ; (6) tlie ligamenta longa, which connect the under surfaces of tlie tendons of the Flexor profundus digitorum to those of the subjacent Flexor sublimis after the tendons of the former have passed through the latter. The ligamenta brevia of the deep Flexor tendons consist largely of yellow elastic tissue, and may assist in drawing down the tendons after flexion of the finger. Four small muscles, the Lumbricales, are connected with the tendons of the Flexor profundus in the palm. They will be described Mith the muscles of the hand. The Flexor longus poUicis (m. flexor polUcis longus) is situated on the radial side of the forearm, lying in the same plane as the preceding. It arises from the grooved anterior surface of the shaft of the radius, extending from immediately below the tuberosity and oblique line, to M-ithin a short distance of the Pronator quadratus. It also arises from the adjacent part of the interosseous membrane, and generally by a fleshy slip from the iimer border of the coronoid process, or from the internal condyle of the humerus. The fibres proceed downwards, and terminate in a flattened tendon, wliich passes beneath the annular ligament, is then lodged in the interspace between the outer head of the Flexor brevis poUicis and the Adductor obhquus pollicis, and, entermg an osseo-aponeurotic canal similar to those for the other Flexor tendons, is inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the thumb. The anterior interosseous nerve and vessels pass downwards on the front of the interosseous membrane between the Flexor longus pollicis and Flexor profundus digitorum. The Pronator quadratus is a small, flat, quadi-ilateral muscle, extending transversely across the front of the radius and ulna, above theu- carpal extremities. It arises from the pronator ridge on the lower part of the anterioi* surface of the shaft of the ulna ; from the inner part of the anterior surface of the lower fourth of the ulna ; and from a strong aponem-osis which covers the inner thu'd of the muscle. The fibres pass outwards and sUghtly doAvn- wards, to be inserted into the lower fourth of the outer border and the anterior surface of the shaft of the radius. The deeper fibres of the muscle are inserted into the triangular area above the sigmoid cavity of the radius—an attach- ment comparable with the origin of the Supinator brevis from the triangular area below the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. ,. j i. Nerves.—All the muscles of the superficial layer are supphed by the median nerve excepting the Flexor carpi ulnaris, which is supphed by the ulnar. The Pronator teres, the Flexor carpi radialis, and the Palmaris longus derive their supply primarily from the sixth cervical; the Flexor sublimis digitorum from the seventh and eighth cervical and first thoracic, and the Flexor carpi uluaris from the eighth cervical and first thoracic nerves. Of the deep layer, the Flexor profundus digitorum is supphed by the eighth cervical and first thoracic through the ulnar, and anterior interosseous branch of the median. The remaining two muscles Flexor longus pollicis and Pronator quadratus, are also supplied by the erghth cervical and first thoracic through the anterior interosseous branch ot the ™^Actions.—These muscles act upon the forearm, the wrist, and hand. The Pronator teres helps to rotate the radius upon the ulna, rendering the hand prone ; when the radius is fixed, it assists the other muscles m flexing the forearm The Flexor carpi racUalis is one of the flexors of the wrist; when acting alone it flexes the wrist! inclining it to the radial side. It can also assist in pronating the forearm and hand, and, by continuing its action, m b«"<i'"f. tl^*^ ,^''^"7; a/'^^^ Flexor carpi ulnaris is one of the flexors of the wrist; when acting alone, it flexes the wrist, inclining it to the ulnar side ; and by continumg to f' ^^^^J the elbow. The Palmaris longus is a tensor of the palmar fascia. It also assistsMUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE FOREARM 545 ill flexing the wrist and elbow. The Flexor subliixiis digitorum flexes first the middle, and then the proximal phalanges. It assists in flexing the wrist and elbow. The Flexor profundus digitorum is one of the flexors of the phalanges. After the Flexor sublimis has bent the second phalanx, the Flexor profundus flexes the terminal one ; but it cannot do so until after the contraction of the superficial muscle. It also assists in fle.xing the wrist. The Flexor longus pollicis is a flexor of the phalanges of the thumb ; when the thumb is fixed, it also assists in fle.xing the wrist. The Pronator quadratus helps to rotate the radius upon the ulna, rendering the hand prone. 9. Radial Region (figs. 520, 522) Brachio-radialis {Supinator longiis). Extensor carpi radialis longior. Extensor carpi radialis brevior. The Brachio-radialis [Supinator longus) is the most superficial muscle on the radial side of the forearm : it is fleshy for the upper two-thu'ds of its extent, tendinous below. It arises from the ujDper two-thii-ds of the external supracondylar ridge of the humerus, and from the external intermuscular septum, being limited above by the musculo-spiral groove. Interposed between it and the Bracliialis anticus are the musculo-spu-al nerve and the anastomosis between the anterior branch of the superior profunda artery and the radial recuixent. The fibres terminate above the middle of the fore- arm in a flat tendon, which is inserted into the outer side of the base of the styloid process of the radius. The tendon is crossed near its insertion by the tendons of the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and Extensor brevis pollicis ; on its ulnar side is the radial artery. The Extensor carpi radialis longior (m. extensor carpi radialis longus) is placed partly beneath the preceding muscle. It arises from the lowev third of the external supracondjdar ridge of the humerus, from the external mtermuscular septum, and by a few fibres from the common tendon of origin of the Extensor muscles of the forearm. The fibres terminate at the upper third of the forearm in a flat tendon, which runs along the outer border of the radius, beneath the Extensor tendons of the thumb ; it then passes beneath the posterior annular ligament of the wist, where it lies in a groove on the back of the radius common to it and the Extensor carpi radialis brevior, immediately behind the styloid process. It is inserted into the posterior surface of the base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger, on its radial ■-ide. The Extensor carpi radialis brevior (m. extensor carpi radialis brevis) IS shorter, as its name implies, and thicker than the preceding muscle beneath which it is placed. It arises from the external epicondyle of the humerus, by a tendon common to it and the three following muscles ; from the external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint; from a strong aponeurosis which covers its surface; and from the intermuscular septa between it and tiie adjacent muscles. The fibres terminate about the middle of the forearm m a flat tendon, winch is closely connected with that of the preceding muscle and accompanies it to the wrist; it passes beneath the Extensor tendons of tlie thumb, then beneath the annular ligament, and, diverging somewhat trom its fellow, is inserted into the posterior surface of the base of the meta- carpal bone of the middle finger, on its radial side. Under the posterior annular ligament of the wrist the tendon lies on the back of the radius in a s laUow gi-oove, to the ulnar side of the groove which lodges the tendon of ridge ' ^^"^^^ ^'^dialis longior, and separated from it by a faint rhe tendons of the two preceding muscles pass through the same com- membrane° ''annular ligament, and are lubricated by a single synovial 10. Posterior Radio-Ulnar Region (fig. 524) The muscles in this region are divided for purposes of description into two groups or layers, superficial and deep.MYOLOGY 546 Fig. 624.—Posterior sm-faoe of the forearm. Superficial muscles. A'xA ossis jnetacarpi /'otlicis KjcI. brevis poUlH •titton Superficial Layer Extensor communis digitorum. Extensor minimi digiti. Extensor carpi ulnaris. Anconeus. The Extensor communis digitorum (m. extensor digi- torum communis) is situated at tlie back part of the forearm. It arises from the external epi- condyle of tlie humerus, by tlie common tendon ; from tlie deejj fascia, and the intermuscular septa between it and the ad- jacent muscles. It divides belo\\- into four tendons, which pass, together with that of the Ex- tensor indicis, through a separate compartment of the annular liga- ment, lubricated by a synovial membrane. The tendons then diverge, and, after passing across the back of the hand, are in- serted mto the second and third phalanges of the fingers in the fol- lowing manner. Opposite the meta- carpo - phalangeal articulation each tendon is bomid by f ascicuh to the lateral hgaments and serves as the posterior ligament; after having passed the jomt.it spreads out uito a broad aponeinosis. which covers the dorsal surface of the first phalanx and is re- inforced, in this situation, by the tendons of the luterossei and Lumbricales. Opposite the first interphalangeal joint this apo- neurosis divides into three sUps, a middle and two lateral: the former is mserted into the base of the second phalanx ; and the two lateral, which are contuiued onwards along the sides of the second phalairx, unite by then- contiguous marguis, and are m- serted mto the dorsal surface of the last phalanx. As the tendons cross the interphalangeal jomts, they furnisli them with posterior hgaments. The tendon to the index finger is accompanied by the Extensor indicis, which lies on its mner side. On the back of the hand, the three inner tendons — those to the middle, ring, and httle fingers—are con- nected bv two obliquely placed bands, one from the third tendon passing downwards and oui- wards to the second tendon, and the other passing from theMUSCLES AND FASCI.^: OP THE FOREARM 547 In(. condyle Coronoid proc. Head of radius Olecranon same tendon downwards and inwards to the fourth. Occasionally the first tendon is connected to the second by a thin transverse band. The Extensor minimi digiti (m. extensor digiti quinti proprius) is a slender muscle placed on the inner side of the Extensor communis, witii which it is generally connected. It arises from the common Extensor tendon by a thin tendinous slip; and from the inter- muscular septa between it and Fig. 525.—Supinator brevis. (From a prepara- the adjacent muscles. Its tendon tion in the Museum of tlie Royal College of runs through a separate com- Surgeons of England.) partment in the annular liga- Tuent behind the inferior radio- ulnar joint, then divides into two as it crosses the hand, and is finally inserted into the expansion of the Extensor tendon on the dorsum of the first phalanx of the little finger. The Extensor carpi ulnaris is the most superficial muscle on the vdnar side of the foreann. It arises from the external epi- condyle of the humerus, by the common tendon; by an apo- neiu'osis from the posterior bor- der of the ulna in common with the Flexor carpi ulnaiis and the Flexor profundus digitorum; and from the deep fascia of the fore- arm. This muscle terminates in a tendon, which runs through a groove behind the styloid process of the ulna, passing through a separate compartment in the an- nular ligament, and is inserted into the prominent tubercle on the ulnar side of tlie base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. The Anconeus is a small tri- angular muscle, placed on the back of the elbow-joint, and appears to be a continuation of the ex- ternal portion of the Triceps. It arises by a separate tendon from the back part of the external epicondyle of the humenis, and is inserted into the side of the olecranon, and upper foui-th of tlie posterior surface of the shaft ot the ulna ; its fibres diverge from their origin, the upper ones being directed transversely, the lower obliquely inwards. Deep Layer (figs. 525, 526) Supinator brevis. Extensor brevis poUicis. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Extensor longus pollicis. Extensor indicis. The Supinator brevis (m. supmator) (fig. 525) is a broad muscle, of a nouow cylmdi-ical form, curved round the upper thii-d of the radius. It consists ot two distinct planes of muscular fibres, between which the posterior mterosseous nerve lies. The two planes arise in common, the superficial one by tendinous, and the deeper by muscular fibres: from the external epicondyle of the humerus ; from the external lateral ligament of the elbow- joint, and the orbicular ligament; from the ridge on the ulna, which runs ODiiquely downwards from the posterior extremity of tlie lesser sigmoid cavity ; N N 2548 MYOLOGY Fia. 526. -Posterior surface of the forearm. Deep muscles. External condyle from the triangular depression below that cavity ; and from a tendinous expansion which covers the surface of the muscle. The superficial fibres surround the upper part of the radius, and are inserted into the outer edge of the bicipital tuberosity and the oblique line of the radius, as low down as the insertion of the Pronator teres. The upper fibres of the deeper plane form a sling-like fasciculus, which encircles the neck of the radius above the tuberosity and is attached to the back part of its inner sur- face : the greater part of this portion of the muscle is inserted into the posterior and external surface of the shaft, midway between the oblique line and the head of the bone. The Extensor ossis meta- carpi pollicis (m. abductor poUicis longus) is the most ex- ternal and the largest of the deep Extensor muscles ; it lies immediately below the Supina- tor brevis, with which it is some- times united. It arises from the outer part of the posterior surface of the shaft of the ulna below the insertion of the Anconeus, from the interosse- ous membrane, and from the middle third of the posterior surface of the shaft of the radius. Passing obliquely downwards and outwards, it terminates in a tendon, which runs through a groove on the outer side of the lower end of the radius, accompanied by the tendon of the Extensor brevis poUicis, and is inserted into the outer side of the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. It occasionally gives off two slips near its insertion : one to the trapezium, and the other t.o blend with the origin of the Abductor pollicis. The Extensor brevis pollicis, the smallest muscle of this group, lies on the inner side of the ])receding. It arises from the posterior surface of the shaft of the radius below the Extensor Ossis metacar]M liollici.s, and from the intt-i- osseous membrane. Its dire tion is similar to that of tlu- Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, its t^ndoti passing thnuigli the sa^^^^^ groove on the outer side of the lower end of t^he 5f ^m-s to be m er ed hito the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. It is closely connectsci Extensor carpi nuliiilis brevior Extensor carpi radialis longior Extensor arpi ulnarisMUSCLES AJSri) FASCI/E OF THE FOREARM 549 with the Extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis, of which it is usually regarded as a segment. The Extensor longus pollicis is much larger than the jireceding muscle, the origin of wliicli it partly covers. It arises from the outer part of the middle third of the posterior surface of tlie sliaft of the ulna below the origin of the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and from the interosseous membrane. It terminates in a tendon, which passes through a separate compartment in the annular ligament, lying in a narrow, oblique groove at the bacit part of the lower end of tlie radius. It then crosses obliquely the tendons of the Extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior, being separated from the otlier Extensor tendons of the thumb by a triangular interval, in which the radial artery is found ; and is finally inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the thumb. The radial artery is crossed by the tendons of aU three Extensors of the thumb as they pass from the radius to the digit. The Extensor indicis (m. extensor indicis proprius) is a narrow, elongated muscle, placed on the inner side of, and parallel with, the preceding. It arises from the posterior surface of the shaft of the ulna below the origin of the Extensor longus pollicis, and from the interosseous membrane. Its tendon passes under the armular ligament in the same compartment as that which transmits the Extensor communis digitorum, and opposite the lower end of the corresjDonding metacarpal bone, joins the ulnar side of the tendon of tlie Extensor communis which belongs to the index finger. Nerves.^—The Brachio-radialis is suppUed by the fifth and sixth, the Extensores carpi radiaUs longior et brevior by the sixth and seventh, and the Anconeus b}' the seventh and eighth cervical nerves, all through the musculo-spiral nerve ; the remaining muscles are innervated through the posterior interosseous nerve, the Supinator brevis being supplied by the sixth cervical, and all the other muscles by the seventh cervical. Actions.—The muscles of the radial and posterior aspects of the forearm, which comprise all the Extensor and Supinator muscles, act upon the forearm, wrist, and hand ; they are the direct antagonists of the Pronator and Flexor muscles. The Anconeus assists the Triceps in extenduig the forearm. The Brachio-radiaHs is a flexor of the elbow-joint, but only acts as such when the movement of flexion has been initiated by the Biceps and Brachialis anticus. The Supinator brevis is a supinator : that is to say, when the radius has been carried across the uhia in pronation, and the back of the hand is directed forwards, this muscle carries the radius back again to the outer side of the ulna, and the palm of the hand is again directed forwards. The Extensor carpi radiaUs longior extends the wrist and abducts the hand. It may also assist in bending the elbow-joint; at all events it serves to fix or steady this articulation. The Extensor carpi radialis brevior assists the Extensor carpi radialis longior in extendmg the wrist, and may also act sHghtly as an abductor of the hand. The Extensor carpi ulnaris helps to extend the hand, but when acting alone inclines it towards the ulnar side : by its continued action it extends the elbow-joint. The Extensor communis digitorum extends the phalanges, then the wrist, and finally the elbow. It acts prmcipally on the proxknal phalanges, the middle and terminal phalanges being acted upon mainly by the Interossei and Lumbricales. It has also a tendency to separate the fingers as it extends them. The Extensor mnumi digiti extends the httle finger, and by its continued action assists in ex- tending the wrist. It is owing to this muscle that the little finger can be extended or pointed while the others are flexed. The chief action of the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis is to carry the thumb outwards and backwards from the palm of the hand, and hence it has been called the Abductor follicis lonqus. Bv its con- tinued action it helps to extend and abduct the wrist. The Extensor brevis pollicis extends the proximal phalanx of the thumb. By its continued action it helps to extend and abduct the wrist. The Extensor longus pollicis extends the terminal phalanx of the thmnb. By its continued action it helps to extend and abduct the wrist. The Extensor indicis extends the index finger, and by its continued action assists ui extending the wrist. Applied Anatomy.—The tendons of the Extensor muscles of the thumb fire liable to become strained, and their sheaths inflamed, after excessive exercise, producing a sausage- shaped swelling along the com-se of the tendons and giving a peculiar grating sensationMYOLOGY 550 to the finger when the muscles act. The condition is known as tenoaynovUis, and the coarse grating is quite distinctive. Paralysis of tlio Extensor muscles of the wists and fingers is common in acute or chronic lead-poisoning, and is known as ' wi'ist-drop.' The Brachio-radialis usually escapes in these cases, unless the muscles of the upper arm are paralysed also. Usually the different Extensor muscles are affected to different extents ; thus the thuml), or index, or little finger, may bo but slightly implicated, and may recover rapidly while the Extensors of the other fingers or the wrist remain powerless. Some paresis is often shown by the Flexors of the fingers also, these muscles being thrown into a state of ti'emor whenever extension of the fingers is attempted. Atrophy often foUows paralysis in lead j)oisoning. IV. Mxjsci;ES AND Fascia of the Hand The muscles of the hand are subdivided into three groups : 1, Those of the thumb, M hich occupy the radial side and produce the thenar eminc-nce ; Fig. 627.—Transverse section through the wrist, showing the annular ligaments and the canals for the passage of the tendons. Palnutru long. Flt^.v. car]}, rnd. iilii. diff. E.i-1. com. dig. Ext. long. poll, and Ext. iiidicis 2, those of the little finger, which occupy the uhiar side and give rise to the hypothenar emmence ; 3, those in the middle of the palm and withui the interosseous spaces. Fig. 528.—Transverse section through the carpus, showing the relative positions of the tendons, vessels, and nerves. (Henle.) .Atilerior annular ligament E.rl. 0.1 magnum The anterior annular ligament (Ug. carpi volare) (figs. 527, 528) is a strong, fibrous band, which arches over the carpus, converting (he dee]j grooxc on the front of the carpal bones into a tunnel, through xNhicli the i<lexoiMUSCLES AND FASCIA OP THE HAND 551 tendons of the digits pass. It is attaclied, internally, to the pisiform and the hook of the unciform ; externally, to the tuberosity of the scaphoid, and to tlie inner part of the anterior surface and the ridge of the trapezium. It is continuous, above, with the deep fascia of the forearm, and may be regarded as a thickened portion of this ; and below, with the palmar fascia. It is crossed by the ulnar vessels and nerve, and the cutaneous brandies of the median and ulnar nerves. At its outer extremity is the tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis, which lies in the groove on the trapezium between the attachments of the annular ligament to the bone. It has inserted into its anterior surface a part of the tendon of the Palmaris longus and part of the tendon of the Flexor carpi ulnaris, and has arising from it, below, the small muscles of the thumb and little finger. Beneath it pass the tendons of the Flexores sublimis et pro- fundus digitorum, the tendon of the Flexor longus pollicis, and the median nerve. The synovial membranes of the flexor tendons at the wrist.— There are two synovial membranes which enclose all the tendons as tliey pass beneath this ligament, one for the Fig. 529.—Diagram showing the arrangement of the synovial sheaths of the palm and Hnaers. Flexores sublimis et profimdus digitorum, the other for the Flexor longus pollicis (fig. 529). They extend up into the forearm for about an inch above the annular ligament, and occasionally communicate with each other under the ligament. The sheath which surrounds the Flexor ten- dons of the fingers extends down- wards about halfway along the metacarpal bones, where it ter- minates in blind diverticula around the tendons to the index, middle, and ring fingers. In the case of the little finger, it is pro- longed on its tendons, and usually communicates with the synovial sheath of that digit. The sheath w'iiich envelops the tendon of the Flexor longus pollicis is continued along the thumb as far as the insertion of the tendon. The posterior annular liga- ment (hg. carpi dorsale) (figs. 527, 528) is a strong, fibrous band, extending obliquely down- wards and inwards across the back of the \rast, and consisting of part of the deep fascia of the back of the forearm, strengthened by the addition of some transverse fibres. It binds down the Extensor tendons in theu' passage to the fingers, being attached, internally, to the styloid process of the ulna and to the cuneiform and pisiform; externally, to the outer margin of the radius; and, in its passage across the wrist, to the elevated ridges on the posterior sm"f ace of the radius. Between it and the bones are formed six compartments for the passage of tendons, each of which is lined by a separate synovial membrane. One LS found in each of the following positions: 1, on the outer side of the styloid process, for the tendons of the Extensor ossis metacarpi and Extensor brevis pollicis ; 2, behind the styloid process, for the tendons of the Extensores carpi radialis longior et brevior; 3, about the middle of the posterior surface of the radius, for the tendon of the Extensor longus poUicis; i, to the inner side of the latter, for the tendons of the Extensor communis digitorum and Extensor indicis ; 5, opposite the interval between the radius and uhia, for the Extensor minimi digiti; 6, grooving the back of the ulna, for the tendon of the Extensor carpi ulnaris. The synovial membranes lining these sheaths are usually very extensive, reaching from above the annular ligament, down upon the tendons for a variable distance on the back of the hand.552 MYOLOGY The deep palmar fascia (aponeurosis palmaris) (fig. 530) forms a common sheath which invests the muscles of the hand. It consists of a central and two lateral portions. The ceMlral portion occupies the middle of the palm, is triangular in shape, of great strength and thickness, and binds down the tendons and protects the vessels and nerves in this situation. It is narrow above, where it is attached to the lower margin of the annular ligament, and receives the expanded tendon of the Palmaris longus muscle. Below, it is broad and exijanded, and divides into four slips, one for each finger. Each slip gives off superficial fibres, which are inserted into the skin of the palm and finger, those to the Pig. 530.—Palmar fascia. (From a preparation in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England.) palm joining the skin at the furrow corresponding to the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation, and those to the fingers passing into the skin at the transverse fold at the base of the fingers. The deeper part of each sHp subdivides into two processes, which are inserted into the fibrous sheaths which confine tlu' Flexor tendons. From the sides of these processes offsets are sent backwards, to be attached to the transverse metacarpal ligament. By this arrangement short channels are formed on the front of the lower ends of the metacarpal bones, through which the Flexor tendons pass. Between the two processes into which each slip divides is attached the digital sheath. Ihe interval.- left between the four fibrous slips transmit the digital vessels and nerves, and the tendons of the Lumbricales. At the points of division ot the553 MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE HAND palmar fascia into the slips above mentioned, numerous strong, transverse fibres (fasciculi transversi) bind the separate processes together. The palmar fascia is intimately adlierent to the integument by dense fibro-areolar tissue forming the superficial palmar fascia, and gives origin by its inner margin to the Palmaris brevis. It covers the superficial palmar arch, the tendons of t lie Flexor muscles, and the branches of the median and ulnar nerves ; and on each side it gives off a vertical septum, which is continuous with the inter- osseous aponeurosis, and separates the lateral from the middle palmar group of muscles. The lateral portions of the palmar fascia are thin, fibrous layers, which l Over, on the radial side, the muscles of the ball of the thumb, and, on the uhiar side, the muscles of the little finger ; they are continuous witli the central portion of the palmar fascia and with the fascia on the dorsum of the hand. The superficial transverse ligament of the fingers is a thin band of transverse fibres (fasciculi transversi) ; it stretches across the roots of the four fingers, and is closely attached to the skin of the clefts, and internallj'' to the fifth metacarpal bone, forming a sort of rudimentary weh. Beneath it the digital vessels and nerves pass onwards to their destination. Applied Anatnmy.—The palmar fascia is liable to undergo contraction, producing a very inconvenient deformity, kno^vn as ' Dupuytren's contraction.' The ring and little fingers are most frequently implicated, but the others may also be involved. The 2)roximal phalanx is drawn down and cannot be straightened, and the two distal phalanges become similarly flexed as the disease advances. Owing to their constant exposure to injury and septic influences, the fingers are very liable to become the seat of serious inflammatory mischief. To this inflammation the term paronychia or whitlow is given, and this aft'ection may assume various degrees of severity. In the mildest cases the disease is confined to the superficial layer of the skin, and sujJiJuration takes place beneath it. This is known as subcuticular paronychia, and is a comparatively simple condition, for an incision through the epidermis will at once relieve it. The only compUcation is that the pus may burrow under the naO, causing increased pain. A more severe condition is the paronychia cellulosa, in which the pulp of the end of the finger is involved. This is attended with intense throbbing pain, owng to the fact that the inflamed area is covered by thick and often horny epithelium, when the disease occurs in the labouring classes, as it so frequently does. Ii) these cases, unless a timely incision is made, the inflammation is hable to involve the periosteum covering the phalanx, as there is least resistance in this direction, and sicbperiosteal paronychia is set up, which is followed by necrosis of a part or the whole of the ungual phalanx. In other cases, the inflammation may involve the theca of the Flexor tendons, and a thecal paronychia mav be set up. The inflammation then rapidly spreads up the sheath ; but the extent will depend upon the particular digit involved. From the description of the Flexor sheaths given above, it will be evident that inflammation of the sheath of the thumb and little finger may prove a far more formidable aSection than that of the other three digits, because the sheaths of these two digits communicate with the large sjmiovia] sheaths which surround the Flexor tendons (page 651), and the inflammation" may extend into the palm of the hand and beneath the annular Ugament into the forearm. In order to relieve these conditions, free and early incisions are necessary, and must be made vnih. discrimination, in order to avoid wounding important structures. In the pulp of the finger—i.e. over the distal phalanx—the incision should be made in the middle line and do^vn to the bone. In the rest of the finger, the incision should be made in the middle line over the phalanges, and not over the interphalangeal joints. In the palm of the hand, incisions may be made either on the distal or proximal side of the superficial palmar arch. On the distal sides the incisions should be made over the metacarpal bones, preferably those of the index and middle finger. On the proximal side, the safest line of masion is along the radial side of the hypothenar eminence, between the ulnar artery and nerve internally, and the median nerve externally. ^Vhen suppuration has extended under the annular ligament, and incisions are required in the forearm, the positions in which they should be made are over the tendons of the Flexor sublimis digitorum, between the median nerve and the ulnar artery, and over the tendon of the Flexor longus polUcis, between the radial artery and the tendon of the Flexor carpi racliahs. Chronic inflammation of the common flexor sheath is occasionally met with, consti- tuting a disease kno^vn as ' compound palmar gangUon ': it presents an hourglass outline, with a swelling in front of the wist and in the palm of the hand, and a constriction, corresponding to the annular ligament, between the two. Tlie fluid can be forced from the one s^yelling to the other under the ligament, and when this is done, a creaking sensation is sometimes perceived, from the presence of ' melon-seed' bodies in the mterior of the ganglion.564 MYOLOGY 11. Baclinl Beqion (figs. 531, 532) Abductor pollicis. Flexor brevis poUicis. Opponens pollicis. Adductor obliquus pollicis. Adductor transversus pollicis. The Abductor pollicis (m. abductor pollicis brevis) is a thin, flat muscle, placed immediately beneath the integument. It arises from the annular ligament, the tuberosity of the scaphoid, and the ridge of the trapezium, frequently by two distinct slips. Running outwards and downwards, it is inserted by a thin, flat tendon into the radial side of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb and the capsule of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation. The Opponens pollicis is a small, triangular muscle, placed beneath tlie preceding. It arises from the palmar surface of the ridge on the trapezium and from the annular ligament, passes do^A^^wards and outwards, and is inserted into the whole length of the metacarpal bone of the thumb on its radial side. The Flexor brevis pollicis consists of two portions, outer and nmer. The outer and more superjicial 'portion arises from the outer two-thirds of the lower border of the annular ligament and the lower part of the ridge on the trapezium : it passes along the outer side of the tendon of the Flexor longus poUicis, and, becoming tendinous, has a sesamoid bone developed in its tendon, and is inserted into the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the thum b. The inner and deeper portion of the muscle is very small, and arises from the ulnar side of the first metacarpal bone between the Adductor obliquus poUiei> and the outer head of the First dorsal interos.seous, and is inserted mto the inner side of the base of the first phalanx with the Adductor obliquii> ^'"^'Tho Adductor obliquus pollicis arises by several slips from the (- magnum, the bases ot tlie second and third metacarpal bones, the an erioi carpal ligaments, and the sheath of the tendon of the Flexor carpi racUahs.555 x\lUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE HAND From this origin the greater number of fibres pass obliquely downwards and converge to a tendon, which, uniting with the tendons of the deeper portion of the Flexor brevis poUicis and the Adductor transversus, is inserted into the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb, a sesamoid bone being developed in the tendon of insertion. A considerable fasciculus, however, Fig. 532.—Muscles of the left hand. Palmar sui'face. passes more obliquely outwards beneath the tendon of the long Flexor to join the superficial portion of the .short Flexor and the Abductor jjollicis. The Adductor transversus pollicis (fig. 531) is the most deeply seated of tiiis group of muscles. It is of a triangular form, arising by its broad base from the lower two-thirds of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger on its palmar surface ; the fibres, proceeding outwards, converge, to be inserted.MYOLOGY with the inner part of the Flexor brevis pollicis, and the Adductor obliquus poUiois, into the uhmr side of the base of the first plialanx of tlie tliuinb. Nerves—The Abductor, Oppoiieiis, and outer head of the Flexor brevis poUicis are supplied by the sixth cervical nerve through the median nerve ; the iimci head of the Flexor brevis, and the Adductors, by the eighth cervical through thr ulnar nerve. Actions.—The Abductor pollicis draws the thumb forwards in a plane at right angles to that of the palm of the hand. The Adductores pollicis are the opponents of this muscle, and approximate the thumb to the palm. The Opponens pollicis flexes the metacarpal bone : that is, draws it inwards over the palm and the Flexor brevis pollicis flexes and adducts the proximal phalanx. 12. Ulnar Regicn (fig. 532) Palmaris brevis. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Abductor minimi digiti. Opponens minimi digiti. The Palmaris brevis is a thin, quadrilateral muscle, placed beneath the integument of the ulnar side of the hand. It arises by tendinous fasciculi from the annular ligament and palmar fascia ; the fleshy fibres pass in\\'ard.s. to be inserted into the skin on the inner border of the palm of the hand. The Abductor minimi digiti (m. abductor digiti quinti) is .situated on the ulnar border of the palm of the hand. It arises from the pisiform bone and from the tendon of the Flexor carpi ulnaris, and terminates in a flat tendon, which divides into two slips ; one is inserted into the ulnar side of the base of the first phalanx of the little finger ; the other into the ulnar border of the aponeurosis of the Extensor minimi digiti. The Flexor brevis minimi digiti (m. flexor digiti quinti brevis) lies on tlie same plane as the preceding muscle, on its radial side. It arises from the convex surface of the hook of the unciform bone, and the anterior surface of the amiular ligament, and is inserted into the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the little finger. It is separated from the Abductor at its origin, by the deep branches of the ulnar artery and nerve. This muscle is sometimes wanting ; the Abductor is then, usually, of large size. The Opponens minimi digiti (m. oi^ponens digiti quinti) (fig. 522) is of a triangular form, and placed immediately beneath the precedOng muscles. It arises from the convexity of the hook of the unciform bone, and contiguous portion of the annular hgament ; its fibres pass downwards and uiAAards, tn be inserted into the whole length of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, along its ulnar margin. Nerves.—All the muscles of this group are supphed by the eighth cerNdcal nerve through the ulnar nerve. Actions.—The Abductor and Flexor brevis minimi digiti abduct the httlo finger from the ring finger and assist in flexing the proximal phalanx. The Opponens minimi digiti draws forwards the fifth metacarpal bone, so as to deepen the hollow of the palm. The Palmaris brevis corrugates the skin on the inner side of the palm of the hand. 13. Middle Palmar Region Lumbricales. Interossei. The Lumbricales (fig. 532) are four small fleshy fascicidi, accessories to the Flexor profundus digitorum. They arise from the tendons of this muscle : the first and second, from the radial side and palmar surface of the tendons of the index and middle fingers respectively ; the third, from the contiguous sides of the tendons of the middle and ring fingers ; and the fourth, from the contiguous sides of the tendons of the ring and little fingers. Each passes to the radial side of the corresponding finger, and opposite the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation is inserted into the tendinous expansion of the Extensor communis digitorum covering the dorsal aspect of the finger. The Interossei (figs. 533, 534) are so named from occupying the intervals between the metacarpal bones, and are divided into two sets, a dorsal and a palmar.557 MUSCLES AND FASCI.5: Oli' THE HAND The Dorsal interossei (iiiterossei dorsales) are four in number, larger than the Palmar, and occupy the intervals between the metacarpal bones. They are bipenniform muscles, each arising by two heads from the adjacent sides of the metacarpal bones, but more extensively from the metacarpal bone of the finger into which the muscle is inserted. They are inserted into the bases of the first phalanges and into the aponeuroses of the common Extensor tendons. Between the double origin of each of these muscles is a narrow triangular interval, through the first of which the radial artery passes ; through each of the other three a perforating branch from the deep palmar arch is transmitted. The First dorsal interosseous tmiscle, or Abductor indicis, is larger than the others. It is flat, triangular in form, and arises by two heads, separated by a fibrous arch, for the passage of the radial artery from the dorsum to the palm of the hand. The outer head arises from tlie upper half of the ulnar border of the first metacarpal bone ; the inner head, from almost the entire length of the radial border of the second metacarpal bone ; the tendon is inserted into the radial side of the index finger. The Second and Third dorsal interossei are Fig. 533.—The Dorsal interossei Fig. 534.—The Palmar interossei of left hand. of left hand. inserted into the middle finger, the former into its radial, the latter uito its ulnar side. The Fourth is inserted into the ulnar side of the ring finger. The Palmar interossei (interossei volares), three in number, are smaller than the Dorsal, and placed upon the palmar surfaces of the metacarpal bones, rather than between them. Each arises from the entire length of the meta- carpal bone of one finger, and is inserted into the side of the base of the first phalanx and aponeurotic expansion of the common Extensor tendon of the same finger. The First arises from the ulnar side of the second metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the same side of the first phalanx of the index finger. The Second arises from the radial side of the fourth metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the same side of the ring finger. The Third arises from the radial side of the fifth metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the same side of the little finger. From this account it may be seen that each finger is provided with two Inter- ossei, with the exception of tiie little finger, in which the Abductor muscle takes the place of one of the pair. Nerves.—The two outer Lumbricales are supplied by the sixth cervical nerve, through the third and fourth digital branches of the median nerve : the two inner568 MYOLOGY Luinbricales and all the luterossei are supplied, by the eighth cervical nerve, througli the deep palmar branch of the ulnar nerve. The third Lumbrical frequently receives a twig from the median. Actions.—The Palmar interosseous muscles adduct the fingers to an imaginary line drawn longitudinally through the centre of the middle finger ; and the Dorsal interossei abduct the fingers from that line. In addition to this the Interossei, in conjimction with the Lumbricales, flex the first phalanges at the metacarpo- phalangeal joints, and extend the second and third phalanges in consequence of their insertions into the expansions of the Extensor tendons. The Extensor communis digitorum is believed to act almost entirely on the first phalanges. Surface Form.—Tlie PedoraUs major largely influences surface form and conceals a considerable part of the thoracic wall in front. Its sternal origm presents a border, which bounds and determines the width of the sternal furrow. Its clavicular origin is somewhat depressed and flattened, and between the two portions of the muscle there is often an oblique depression. The outer margin of the muscle is generally well marked above, and forms the inner boundary of a triangular depression, the infraclavicular fossa, which separates the Pectorahs major from the Deltoid. It gradually becomes less marked as it aj)proaches the tendon of insertion, and is more closely blended wth the Deltoid muscle. The lower border of the Pectorahs major forms the rormded anterior axillary fold, and corresponds with the direction of the fifth rib. When the arm is raised, the lowest shji of origin of the PedoraUs minor produces a local fulness just below the border of the anterior fold of the axiUa, and serves to break the sharp outline of the lower border of the Pectorahs major muscle. The origin of the Serratus magnus causes a very characteristic surface marking. Wlien the arm is raised from the side, the lower five or six serrations are plainly discernible, forming a zigzag line, caused by the digitations, which diminish in size from above downwards, and have their apices arranged on a curve. When the arm is lying by the side, the first serration to appear at the lower margin of the Pectoralis major is the one attached to the fifth rib. The Deltoid, with the prominence of the upper extremity of the humerus, produces the rounded contour of the shoulder. It is rovmder and fuUer in front than behind, where it presents a somewhat flattened form. Above, its anterior border presents a rounded. sUghtly curved emmence, which forms the outer boundary of the infraclavicular fossa ; below, it is closely united with the Pectorahs major. Its posterior border is thin, flattened, and scarcely marked above ; below, it is thicker and more prominent. The insertion of the Deltoid is marked by a depression on the outer side of the middle of the arm. Of the scapular muscles, the only one which materially influences surface form is the Teres major ; it assists the Latissimus dorsi in forming the thick, rounded, posterior fold of the axiila. When the arm is raised, the Coraco-hrachialis reveals itself as a long, narrow elevation, which emerges from imder cover of the anterior fold of the axilla and runs internal to the shaft of the humerus. The front and imier part of the arm presents the prominence of the Biceps, boxmded on either side by an intermuscular depression. This muscle determines the contour of the front of the arm, and extends from the anterior margin of the axilla to the bend of the elbow. Its upper tendons are concealed by the Pectorahs major and the Deltoid, and its lo-n'er tendon sinks into the space at the bend of the elbow. When the muscle is in a state of complete contraction—that is to say, when the forearm has been flexed and supinated—it presents a roimded convex form. On either side of the Biceps, at the lower part of the arm, the Brachialis aniicn^ is discernible. On the outer side it forms a narrow emmence, which extends some distance up the arm ; on the inner side it shows itself only as a httle fulness just above the elbow. On the back of the arm the long head of the Triceps may be seen as a longitudinal enunenee emerging from under cover of the Deltoid, and gi-adually merging into the longitudinal flattened plane of the tendon of the muscle on the lower part of the back of the arm. The tendon of insertion of the muscle extends about halfway up the back of the arm, and forms an elongated flattened plane when the muscle is in action. Under simflar conditions the surface forms produced by the inner and outer heads of the muscle are well seen. . . On the anterior aspect of the elbow are two muscular elevations, one on either side, separated above, and converging below so as to form the inner and outer boundarie.-^ of a triangular space, the anticubital fossa. Of these, the inner elevation, consisting ol the Pionator teres and the Flexors, forms the pronunence along the inner side and front of the forearm. It is a fusiform mass, pointed above at the internal condyle, and gradually tapering off below. The Pronator teres, the outermost muscle of the group, forms the inner boundarv of the anticubital fossa. It is shorter, less prominent, and more obliqur than the outer boundary. The most prominent part of the emmence is produced by tlie Flexor carpi radialis. the muscle next in order on the inner side of the prec^dmg one. It forms a rounded prominence above, and may be traced downwards to its tendon, wlueii can be felt hung on the front of the wrist, nearer its radial than its ulnar border, and in the inner side of the radial arterv. The Palmaris hngus presents no surface markmi;SURFACE FORM OF MUSCLES OF UPPER EXTREMITY 559 above, but below, its tendon is the most in-ominent of the tendons on the front of the wrist, standing out, when the muscle is in action, as a sharp tense cord beneath the skin. The Flexor sublimis digUorum does not directly influence siu'face form. The position of its foiu' tendons on the front of the lower part of the forearm is indicated by an elongated deijression between the tendons of the Palmaris longus and the Flexor carpi ulnaris. Tlie Flexor carpi idnaris occupies a small part of the posterior siu-face of the forearm, and is separated from the Extensor and Supinator group, which occupies the greater part of this surface, by the ulnar furrow, produced by the subcutaneous i^osterior border of the ulna. Its tendon can be perceived along the ulnar border of the front of the forearm, and is most marked when the hand is flexed and adducted. The external group of muscles, consisting of the Brachio-radiaUs, the Extensors and Supinator brevis, occupies the outer, and a considerable portion of the posterior, surface of this region. It forms a fusiform mass, which is altogether on a higher level than that produced by the Pronator teres and Flexors. Its apex is between the Triceps and Brachialis anticus muscles some distance above the elbow-joint; it acquires its gi-eatest breadth opposite the external condyle, below which it shades off into a flattened surface. About the middle of the forearm it divides mto two longitudinal eminences which diverge from each other, leaving a triangular interval between them. 1'he outer of these eminences consists of the Brachio- radialis and the Extensores carpi radiaUs longior et brevior, and descends from the external condylar ridge in the direction of the styloid process of the radius. The inner consists of the Extensor commimis digitorum, the Extensor minimi digiti, and the Extensor carpi uhiaris ; it commences above as a tapering mass at the external condyle of the humerus ; above it is separated from the Anconeus by a well-marked furrow, and below, fi'om the Pronator teres and Flexor mass by the ulnar furrow. The only two muscles of this region which require special mention, as independently influencing surface form, are the Brachio- radialis and the Anconeus. The iimer border of the Brachio-radialis forms the outer boundary of the anticubital fossa. It commences as a rounded border above the condyle, and is longer, less obUque, and more prominent than the inner boundary. Lower do'wn the muscle forms a fuU fleshy mass on the outer side of the upper part of the forearm, and below tapers into a tendon, which may be traced to the styloid jwocess of the radius. The Ancone^ts presents a distinct and characteristic surface form in the shape of a tri- angular, slightly elevated area, immediately external to the subcutaneous posterior surface of the olecranon, and differentiated from the common Extensor group by an oblique depres- sion. The upper angle of the triangle corresponds to the external condyle, and is marked by a depression or dimple in this situation. In the interval, caused by the divergence from each other of the two masses into which the Extensor and Supinator group is divided at the lower part of the forearm, an oblique elongated eminence is seen, caused by the emergence of two of the Extensors of the thumb from their deep origin at the back of the forearm. This eminence, full above, flattened and j^artially subdivided below, rims dowiiwards and outwards over the back and outer surface of the radius to the outer side of the wrist-joint, where it forms a ridge, especially marked when the thumb is extended, and passing onwards to the posterior aspect of the thumb. The tendons of most of the Extensor muscles are to be seen and felt at the level of the wrist-joint. Most externally are those of the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and the Extensor brevis polUcis, forming a vertical ridge over the outer side of the joint, from the styloid process of the radius to the thumb. Internal to this is the oblique ridge produced by the tendon of the Extensor longus polhcis, very noticeable when the muscle is in action. The Extensor carpi radiaUs longior is scarcely to be felt, but the Extensor carpi radialis brevior can be perceived as a vertical ridge emerging from under the ulnar border of the tendon of the Extensor longus pollicis, when the hand is forcibly extended at the WTist. Internal to this the tendons of the Extensor indicis. Extensor communis digitoiiim, and Extensor minimi digiti can be felt; the last being separated from those of the Extensor commimis by a sUght furrow. The muscles of the hand are principally concerned, as far as regards surface form, in producing the thenar and hypothenar eminences, and cannot be individually distin- guished on the suiiace. The thenar eminence is larger and rounder than the hypothenar, which presents a long, narrow eminence along the ulnar side of the hand. When the Palmaris brevis is in action it produces a wrinklinsj of the skin over the hypothenar eminence, and a dimple on the ulnar border of the hand. On the back of the hand the Dorsal inter- ossei produce elongated swellmgs between the metacarpal bones. When the thumb is closely adducted to the hand, the First dorsal interosseous (Abductor mdicis) forms a prominent fusiform bulging ; the other Interossei are not so marked. The skin over the inner side and front of the forearm is thin, smooth, and sensitive ; it contains few hairs and many sweat-glands. Over the outer side and back of the arm and forearm it is thicker, denser, and less sensitive ; it contains more hairs and fewer sweat-glands. Over the olecranon the cuticle is thick and rough ; the skin is loosely connected to the underlying tissues, and transversely wi'inkled when the forearm is extended. At the front of the wrist, the skin presents three transverse furrows, which correspond from above do^vnwards to the position of the styloid process of the ulna, the -wrist- joint, and the mid-carpal joint respectively. Tlie skin of the palm of the hand differsMYOLOGY 560 Eia. 535.—Fracture of the middle of the clavicle. considerably from that of the forearm. At the wrist it suddenly becomes hard and dense and covered with a thick layer of cuticle. The skin in the thenar region presents the.se characteristics less than elsewhere. In spite of this hardness and density, the skin of the palm is exceedingly sensitive and very vascular. It is destitute of hair, and coatains no sebaceous follicles. It is tied down by iibrous bands along the lines of flexion of the digits, producing certain furrows of a permanent character. One of these starting from about the tubercle of the scaphoid, curves round the thenar eminence, and ends on the radial border of the hand, a little above the metacarpo- phalangeal joint of the index finger. It corre- sponds to the outer border of the central jjortion of the palmar fascia, and is produced by the movement of the thumb at the carpo-metacar|5iil joint. A second line begins at the end of the first, and extends obliquely across the |)alm, upwards and inwards, to the ulnar margin about the middle of the fifth metacarpal bone. A third commences at the ulnar border of the hand, about an inch below the termination of the second, and extends outwards across the palm over the heads of the third, fourth, and fifth metacarpal bones. The last two lines are caused by flexion of the fingers at the metacarpo-phalangeal joiats. Over the fingers the skin again becomes thinner, especially at the flexures of the joints ; and over the termiaal phalanges it is thrown into numerous ridges, in consequence of the an-angement of the papillsB in it. These ridges form, in different individuals, distinctive and permanent patterns, which may be used for purposes of identification. The superficial fascia in the palm is made up of dense fibro-fatty tissue. This tissue binds down the skin so firmly to the deep palmar fascia that very little movement is permitted between the two. Applied Anatomy.—In considering the actions of the various muscles upon fractures of the upper extremity, the most common foi-ms of injmy have been selected both for illus- tration and description. Fracture of the middle of the clavicle (fig. 535) is usually attended with considerable displacement of the outer fragment, which is di-a\vn downwards and inwards, and at the same time rotated, so that its outer end is carried forwards and its inner end backwards. The displacement is produced as follows : the outer fragment is drawn downwards by the weight Yig. of the arm, the Trapezius not being able to support the weight of the limb. It is drawn inwards by the Subclavius and Pectoral is minor, possibly assisted by the Pectoralis major and Latissimus dorsi; and is rotated on an axis drawn through its own centre by the Serratus magnus, which causes the scapula to rotate on the wall of the chest, and carries the acromion and outer end of the outer fragment of the clavicle forwards, and so carries the irmer end of the outer portion backwards. The depression of the whole outer fragment is produced by the weight of the arm and by the contraction of the Deltoid. The causes of displacement having been ascertained, it is easy to apply the appropriate treatment. The outer fragment is to be dra^^^^ outwards, and, together with the scapula, raised upwards to a level with the irmer fragment, and retained in that position. In fracture of the acromial end of the clavicle, between the conoid and trapezoid ligaments, only slight displacement occurs, as these ligaments, from their oblique msertion, serve to hold both portions , , .i of the bone in apposition. Fracture, also, of the sternal end mtornal to the clavicular ligament, is attended with only slight displacement, (his ligament serving retain the fragments in close apposition. . „ . r ■ i Fracture of the acromion process outside the ligaments usually arises from violem applied to the upper and outer part of the shoulder. There is great displacement 536.—Fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus. COStd-APPLIED ANATOMY OF MUSCLES OF UPPER EXTREMITY 561 Fia. 537.—Fracture of the humerus above the condyles. outer fragment being ch'awn downwards by the weight of tlie arm, and rotated forwards and inwards, so that it forms a riglit angle with the rest of the bone. Fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus (fig. .536) is very common, is attended with considerable displacement, and its appearances coiTespond somewhat with those of dislocation of the head of the humerus into the axilla. The upper fragment remains in its place under the coraco-acromial ligament ; the lower fragment is drawn inwards by the Pectoralis major, Latissimus dorsi, and Teres major ; and the humerus is thrown obliquely outwards from the side by the Deltoid, and occa- sionally elevated so as to cause the upper end of the lower fragment to project beneath and in front of the coracoid process. The deformity is reduced by fixing the shoulder, and drawing the arm out- wards and downwards. To counteract the opposmg muscles, and to keep the fragments in position, a cone-shaped pad should be placed in the axilla, and the arm bandaged to the side by a broad roller passed roimd the chest in such a manner that the elbo^v is carried slightly forwards, so as to throw the upper end of the lower fragment backwards and outwards towards the head of the bone. The whole is then covered with a carefully moulded guttajjercha or poroplastic shoulder-cap. In fracture of the shajt of the humerus below the insertion of the Pectoralis major, Latissimus dorsi, and Teres major, and above the insertion of the Deltoid, there is also considerable deformity, the upper fi'agment being diwvn inwards by the tirst-mentioned muscles, and the lower fragment upwards and outwards by the Deltoid. Shortening of the limb results, with a considerable prominence at the seat of fracture, from the fractured ends of the bone riding over one another, especially if the fracture take place in an obUque direction. The fi-agments may be brought into apposition by extension from the elbow, and retained in that position by adopting the same means as in the preceding injury. In fracture of the shajl of the humerus immediately below the insertion of the Deltoid, the amount of deformity depends greatly upon the direction of the fracture. If it occur in a transverse direction, only slight displacement takes ])laco, the upper fi-agment being dmn-n a little forwards ; but m oblique fi-actm-e, the combined actions of the Biceps and Brachialis antieus muscles m front and the Triceps behind draw upwards the lower fragment, causmg it to glide over the upper fragment, either backwards or forwards, according to the direction of the frac- FiG. 538.—Fi'acture of the olecranon. ture. Simple extension reduces the deformity, and the application of a shoulder-cap and splints to the arm will retain the fragments in apposition. Care should be taken not to raise the elbow ; but the forearm and hand may be supported in a sling. Fracture of the humerus (fig. 537) immediately above the condyles de- serves very attentive consideration, as the general ajjpearances correspond somewhat with those produced by separatioii of the epiph3^sis of the liumerus, and with those of disloca- tion of the radius and ulna backwards. If the direction of the fracture is oblique, from above, downwards and forwards, the lower fragment is drawn upwards by the Brachialis antieus and Biceps in front, and the Triceps same time is drawn backwards behind the upper fragment by injury may be diagnosed from dislocation by the increased crepitus, and the fact that the deformity is behind ; and at the the Triceps. This mobility in fracture, the existence ii inedied by extension, but is the patient is of importance in the epiphysis. In some eases elbow, the lower fragment is of reproduced on the discontinuance of it. The age of distinguishing this form of injury from separation of where the injury has been produced by falls on the drawn upwards and forwards, causing a considerable 0 OMYOLOGY 562 prominence in front; and the upper fragment projects backwards beneath the tendon of the Triceps. , , , , , , ■ , j In fracture of the olecranon process (fig. 538) the detached fragment is displaced upwards, by the action of the Triceps muscle, from half an inch to two inches ; tlie promi- nence of the elbow is consequontlj^ lost, and a deep hollow is felt at the back part of the joint whicli is much increased on flexing the limb. The patient at the same time loses, more or less, the power of extending the forearm. The treatment consists m wiring the fragments together ; but if for some reason this operation is not desirable, the fragments .should be approxuuated by strapping or a figure-of-8 bandage, and the arm put uj) m an extended pSsition in order to relax the Triceps. Massage and passive movements must be employed early, for fear of ankylosis. Union, when wirmg is not resorted to, is usually ^''^irfracture of the radius below the insertion of the Biceps, but above the insertion of the Pronator teres, the upper fragment is strongly supinated by the Biceps and Supinator bre\a8, and at the same tune Fxo. 539.-Eracture of the shaft of the radius. S:Ct;Taf4Tti"^^^^^^^^^^ inwards towards the ulna by the Pro- nators. Thus there is extreme displace- ment Mdth very Httle deformity. In treating such a fracture the arm must be- put up in a position of supination, other- wise union mil take place mth great impairment of the movements of the hand. In fractures of the radius below the insertion of the Pronator teres (fig. 539), the upper fragment is drawn upwards by the Biceps, and inwards by the Pronator teres, into a position midway between pronation and supmation, and a degree of fuMess in the upper half of the forearm is thus produced. The lower fragment is dra^vn downwards and inwards towards the ulna by the Pronator quadratus, and thro^m into a state of pronation by the same muscle ; at the same time, the Brachio- raS by elevating the styloid process, into which it is uiserted, will serve to depres., tteupper end of the lower fragment still more towards the uhia. In order to relax the oppS muscles the forearm should be bent, and the limb placed m a position midway Ee^ pronation and supination; the fracture is then 7-^ucf b^^^^^^^^ from the vvrist and elbow. Well-padded splints should be appUed on both ^ides of the forearm from the elbow to the wrist ; the hand bemg allowed to faU wdl, '^.Y its own weight co^^^ the action of the Pronator quadratus and Brachio-radialis, and elevate the lower fragment to the level of the upper one. , . .. i „^=;f,•r^„ hnt In fracture of the shaft of the ulna the upper fragment retams its usual position, but the lower fragment is drawn outwards towards the radius by the Pronator quadratus, Fig. 540.—Fracture of the lower end of the radius. of fulness on the dorsal or palmar surfaro of the ^o'^^^^y/"- -^^.^''^^T^.,^ l.eing in a state f ragments are drawn into contact ^> l'-^ ."^IJ'j^^^^^^^ by the of pronation. The upper fragment of f ^^^^^^ upper portion of the Biceps and Pronator t-eres to a higher level than tlic ulna, uio uh iMUSCLES AND FASCIAE OF LOWER EXTREMITY 563 ulna is slightly elevated by the Brachialis aaticus. The fracture may be reduced by extension from the wist and elbow, and the forearm should be placed in the same position as in fracture of the ulna. In fracture of the lower end of the radius (fig. 540) the displacement produced is very considerable, and bears some resemblance to dislocation of the carpus backwards, from which it should be carefully distinguished. The lower fragment is displaced back- wards and upwards, but this displacement is due to the force of the blow driving the portion of the bone into this position, and not to any muscular influence. The upjier frag- ment projects forwards, often lacerating the substance of the Pronator quadratus, and is drawn by this muscle into close contact with the lower end of the ulna, causing a projection on the anterior surface of the forearm, immediately above the carpus, from the Flexor tendons being thrust forwards. This fracture may be distinguished from disloca- tion by the relative positions of the styloid processes of the radius and ulna, the former of which is displaced upwards in fracture, and by the deformity being removed on making sufficient extension, when crepitus may be occasionally detected. The age of the patient wiU assist in determining whether the injury is fracture or separation of the epiphysis. The treatment consists in flexing the forearm, and makhig powerful extension from the wrist and elbow, depressing at the same time the radial side of the hand, and retaining the parts in that position by well-padded pistol-shai)ed splints. MUSCLES AND FASCIAE OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY The muscles of the lower extremity are subdivided into groups, correspond- ing with the different regions of the limb. I. Iliac Region Psoas magnus. Psoas parvus. Ilificus. II. Thigh 1. Anterior Femoral Region. Tensor fasciae femoris. Sartorius. [ Rectus femoris. Quadiiceps J Vastus externus. extensor j Vastus internus. iCrureus. Subcrureus. 2. Internal Femoral Region. Gracilis. Pectineus. Adductor longus. Adductor brevis. Adductor magnus. 3. Gluteal Region. Gluteus maximus. Gluteus medius. Gluteus minimus. Pyriformis. Obturator internus. Gemellus superior. Gemellus inferior. Quadratus femoris. Obturator externus. Hamstring muscles 4. Posterior Femoral Region. Biceps. Semitendinosus. Semimembr anos us. III. Leg 5. Anterior Tihio-fibular Region. Tibialis anticus. Extensor proprius haUucis. Extensor longus digitorum. Peroneus tertius. 6. Posterior Tihio-fibular Region Superficial Layer. Gastrocnemius. Soleus. Plantaris. Deep Layer. Popliteus. Flexor longus hallucis. Flexor longus digitorum. Tibialis posticus. 7. Fibular Region. Peroneus longus. Peroneus brevis. IV. Foot 8. Dorsal Region. Extensor brevis digitorum. 9. Plantar Region. First Layer. Abductor liallucis. Flexor brevis digitorum. Abductor minimi digiti. o o 2564 MYOLOGY Second Layer. Adductor obliquus hallucis. Adductor transversus hallucis. Flexor accessorius. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Lumbricales. Third Layer. ^^^^'-^^ Flexor brevis hallucis. Interossei. I. Muscles and Fascia of the Iliac Region (fig. 542) Psoas magnus. Psoas parvus. Iliacus. The fascia covering the Psoas and Iliacus is the layer which lines the back part of the abdominal cavity. It is thin above, and becomes graduaUy thicker below as it approaches Poupart's hgament. The vortion covering the Psoas is tliickened above to form the ligamentum arcuatum internum, which stretches from the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra to the body of tlie second ; mternaUy it is attached liy a series of arched processes to the intervertebral discs, and promment margins of the bodies of the vertebrae, and to the upper part of the sacrum ; the intervals left, opposite the constricted portions of the bodies, transmit Se lumbar krteries and veins and filaments of the sympathetic cord. Externally, above the crest of the ilium, this portion of the fascia is con- tinuous with the anterior lamella of the lumbar fascia covering the front of the Quadi-atus lumborum (see page 493), but below the crest of the ilium it is continuous with the fascia covering the Iliacus. . . u The vortion investing the Iliacus (fascia iliaca) is connected, externally to the whole length of the inner border of the crest of the ilium ; and internally. tft e brim of the true pelvis, where it is contmuous with the penosteum At the ilio-pectineal eminence it receives the tendon of msertion of the Psoas parvus, when that muscle exists. External to the femoral vessels, this fasda ?s StTmately connected to the posterior margm of Poupart's ligament, and I cont^Zous^with the fascia transversalis. Immechately to the outer sSe of the floral vessels the fascia iliaca is prolonged backwards and im_j^^^^^^ from Poupart's ligament as a band, the ilio-pectineal ligament which is attached to the XpecS eminence. This ligament divides the space between Pnu^LtTlSament and the innominate bone into two parts, the inner of wS trLsS th^^ femoral vessels, the outer the Ilio-psoas and the anterior crara neive^fig 444) Internal to the vessels the iliac fascia is attached to too-a vSsl telri attard to the ilio-poetineal lino beyond the hra>U o of the transverse processes of all the ^^'"'^'Y/ l ^f f^.oln^f thoracic and all the bodies and the corresponding i^terver eW discs of^ eat ^^^^^^ lumbar vertebree by five slips, each of w nch '^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ . (3) and lower margins of two vertebra, anc to ti e mt^^^^^ a series of tendinous arches which X ,!r;v.oi^ slip ■ tlie lumbar isK?e,':uKUi!565 MUSCLES AND PASCI.E OF THE ILIAC REGION Relations.—In" the abdomen the Psoas magnus is in relation by its anterior surface \\\th. the ligamentum arcuatum internum, the fascia covering the muscle, the extra- peritoneal fat and peritoneum, the kidney, Psoas parvus, rpnal vessels, ureter, spermatic vessels, and genito-crural nerve. In front of the right Psoas is the inferior vena cava and the terminal portion of the ileum, and in front of the left the ilio-pelvic colon. By its posterior surface it is in relation wth the transverse processes of the lumbar vortebrre, and the Quadratus lumborum from which it is separated by the anterior lamella of the lumbar fascia. The lumbar plexus is situated in the posterior part of the substance of the muscle. By its inner side, the muscle is in relation with the bodies of the lumbar vertebras, the lumbar arteries, the gangliated cord of the sympathetic, and the lumbar glands ; with the vena cava inferior on the right, and the aorta on the left side, and along the brim of the pelvis Mith the external iliac artery. In the thigh it is in relation, in front, with the fascia lata ; behind, with the capsular ligament of the hip, from which it is separated by a synovial bursa which frequently communicates \vith the cavity of the joint through an opening of variable size ; by its inner border, vnth the Pectineus and internal circumflex artery, and also with the femoral artery, which slightly overlaps it; by its outer border, with the anterior crural nerve and Iliacus. 'The Psoas parvus (m. psoas minor) is a long slender muscle, placed in front of the Psoas magnus. It arises from the sides of the bodies of the last thoracic and first lumbar vertebrae and from the intervertebral disc between them. It forms a small muscular bundle, which ends in a long flat tendon, inserted into the ilio-pectmeal line and eminence, and, by its outer border, into the fascia iliaca. This muscle is often absent, and sometimes double. The Iliacus is a flat, triangular muscle, which fills up the wliole of the niac fossa. It arises from the upper two-thirds of this fossa, and from the inner margin of the crest of the ilium ; beliind, from the anterior sacro-Hiac and tlie ilio-lumbar ligaments, and base of the sacrum ; in front, it reaches as far as the anterior superior and anterior inferior spinous processes of the ilium, and the notch between them. The fibres converge to be uiserted into the outer side of the tendon of the Psoas, some of them being prolonged on to the shaft of the femur for about an inch below and in front of the lesser trochanter.* Relations.—Within the abdomen the lUacus is m relation by its anterior surface \vith the iliac fascia, which separates the muscle from the extra-peritoneal fat and peritoneum, and with the external cutaneous nerve ; on the right side, with the ca3cum ; on the left side, with the ihac colon ; by its 'posterior surface, with the iliac fossa; by its inner border, w ith the Psoas magnus, and anterior crural nerve. In the thigh, it is in relation, by its anterior surface, with the fascia lata. Rectus, Sartorius, and profunda femoris artery ; behmd, with the capsule of the hip-joint, a synovial bursa common to it and the Psoas magnus being interposed. Nerves.—The Psoas magnus is supplied by branches of the second aud third lumbar nerves ; the Psoas parvus by a branch of the first hmibar nerve ; and the lUacus by branches of the second and third lumbar nerves through the anterior Actions.—The Psoas, acting from above, flexes the thigh upon the pelvis, being assisted by the Ihacus ; acting from below, with the femur fixed, the Psoas bends the lumbar portion of the vertebral column forwards and to its own side, and then, in conjunction with the Ihacus, tilts the pelvis forwards. When the muscles of both sides are acting ivom below, they serve to maintain the erect posture, by supporting the vertebral column aud pelvis upon the femora, or in continued action bend the trunk and pehds forwards, as in raising the trunk from the recumbent posture. The Psoas parvus is a tensor of the iUac fascia. Applied Anatomy.—There, is no definite septum between the portions of fascia covering the Psoas and Iliacus respectively, and the fascia is only connected to the subjacent muscles by a quantity of loose connective tissue. When an abscess forms beneatii this fascia, as it is very apt to do, the matter is contained in an osseo-fibrous cavity which is closed on all sides within the abdomen, and is open only at its lower part, where the fascia is prolonged over the muscle into the thigh. * The Psoas and Iliacns are sometimes regarded as a single muscle, the Ilio-pnoas, having two heads of origin and a single insertion.566 MYOLOGY Abscess •within the sheath of the Psoas muscle {psoas abscess) is generally due to tuberculous caries of the bodies of the lower thoracic or the lumbar vertebrsB. When the disease is in the tlioracio region, the matter tracks down the posterior mediastinum, in front of the bodies of the vertebnc, and, passing beneath the ligamentum arcuatum internum, enters the sheath of the Psoas muscle, down which it travels as far as the pelvic brim; it then gets beneath the iliac portion of the fascia, and fills up the iliac fossa. In con- sequence of the attachment of the fascia to the pelvic brim, it rarely finds its way into the pelvis, but passes by a narrow opening under Poupart's ligament into the thigh, to the outer side of the femoral vessels. It thus follows that a psoas abscess may be descriiied as consisting of four parts : (1) a somewhat narrow channel at its upper part, in the psoas sheath ; (2) a dilated sac in the iliac fossa ; (3) a constricted neck imder Poupart's ligament; and (4) a dilated sac in the upper part of the thigh. When the lumbar vertebrte are the seat of the disease, the matter finds its way directly into the substance of the Psoas. The muscular fibres are destroyed, and the nerves contamed in the abscess are isolated and exposed m its interior ; the iliac vessels which he m front of the fascia remain intact, and the peritoneum seldom becomes implicated. All psoas abscesses do not, however, pursue this course : the matter may leave the sheath of the muscle above the crest of the ilium, and tracking backwards may pouit in the loin (lumbar abscess) ; or it may point above Poupart's hgament in the inguinal region ; or it may follow the course of the ihac vessels mto the pelvis, and, passmg through the great sacro-sciatic notch, discharge itself on the back of the thigh. II. Muscles and Fascia of the Thigh 1. Anterior Femoral Region (figs. 541, 542) [Rectus femoris. Tensor fascise femoris. Quadriceps J Vastus externus. Sartorius. extensor ] Vastus internus. V Crureus. Subcrureus. The superficial fascia forms a continuous layer over the whole of the thi':^h • it consists of areolar tissue, containing in its meshes much fat and is capable of being separated into two or more layers, between which are found the superficial vessels and nerves. It varies in thickness m ditterent parts of the limb ; in the groin it is thick, and the two layers are separated from one another by the superficial inguinal lymphatic glands, the mternai saphenous vein, and several smaller vessels. One of these two layers, the superficial, is continuous above with the superficial fascia of the abdomen The deep layer of the superficial fascia is a very thm, fibrous layer, best marked on the inner side of the long saphenous vem and belo^^' Poupart s ligament. It is placed beneath the subcutaneous vessels and nerves and upoi^tlie surtace of the fascia lata. It is intimately adherent to the fascia lata a little below Poupart's ligament. It covers the saphenous opening in the fascia lata being closely united to its circumference, and is connected to the sheath ot the femoral vessels. The portion of fascia covering this aperture is perforated by the internal saphenous vem ahd by numerous blood and lymphatic vessels, hence it has been termed the cribriform fascia, the openings for these vesse s havmg been likened to the holes in a sieve. A large subcutaneous bursa is foundin the superficial fascia over the patella. ^ i. +i f„^^;n The deep fascia of the thigh is named, from its great extent, the jascia Zato ; it constitutes a uniform investment for the whole o tins regio;^ of he limb but varies in thickness in different parts. Thus it ,s thicker in the upper and outer part of the thigh, where it receives a fibrous expansion fiom he Suteus mSximus muscle,%nd wliere the Tensor fascioB femons msertod between its layers : it is very thin behind and at tlie upper and inuei pai. . where it covers the Adductor muscles, and again becomes stronger arou^ the Siee receivincr fibrous expansions from the tendon of the Biceps externaU.N. ?om the S?X;us internally! and from the Q-ficcps extensor cn^^^^ The fascia lata is attaclied, above and beInnd to the b^;^^ and coccyx ; externally, to the crest of tlie ihuui ; "{ ^« ^J^fS ,^ ligament, cand to the body of the P"bis ; and in enially to (1 c^^^^^^^^^^^ ramus of the pubis, to the ramus «"^V*^"?''''' '-^7 Frnm it^"^^ the lower border of the great sacro-sciatic lig«'"|ent. From '^ttacln^^ to the crest of the ihum it passes down over the Gluteus meduis toMUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE THIGH 567 upper border of the Gluteus maximus, where it splits into two layers, one passing superficial to and the other beneath this muscle ; at the lower border of the muscle the two layers reunite. Externally, the fascia lata receives the greater part of the tendon of insertion of the Gluteus maximus, and becomes proportionately thickened. The portion of the fascia lata attached to the front part of the crest of the ilium, and corresponding to the origm of the Tensor fascise femoris, passes down the outer side of the thigh as two layers, one superficial to and the other beneath this muscle ; these at the lower end of the muscle become blended together into a thick and strong band, having first received the insertion of the muscle. This band is continued downwards, under the name of the ilio-tibial band, to be inserted into the external tuberosity of the tibia. The part of the ilio-tibial band which lies beneath the Tensor fasciae femoris is prolonged upwards to the capsule of the hip, with the outer Fig. 541.—The saphenous opening. part of which it becomes continuous. Below, the fascia lata is attached to all the prominent points around the knee-joint, viz. the condyles of the femur, tuberosities of the tibia, and head of the fibula. On either side of the patella it is strengthened by transverse fibres given off from the lower part of the Vastus muscles, which are attached to and support this bone. Of these the outer are the stronger, and are continuous with the ilio-tibial band. From the inner surface of the fascia lata are given off two strong intermuscular septa, which are attached to the whole length of the linea aspera and its prolonga- tions above and below: the external and stronger one, which extends fi'om the insertion of the Gluteus maximus to the outer condyle, separates the Vastus externus in front from the short head of the Biceps behind, and gives partial origin to these muscles ; the inner one, the thinner of the two, separates the Vastus internus from the Adductor and Pectineus muscles. Besides these568 MYOLOGY there are numerous smaller septa, separating the individual muscles, and enclosing each in a distinct slieatii. Tlie saphenous opening (fig. 541).—At the upper and inner part of the thigh, a little below the inner end of Poupart's ligament, is a large oval-shaped aperture in the fascia lata; it transmits the internal saphenous vein, and other smaller vessels, and is termed the saphenous opening. The cribriform fascia, which is pierced by the structures passing through the opening, closes tlie aperture and must be removed to expose it. The fascia lata in this part of the thigh is described as consisting of an iliac and a pubic portion. The iliac portion of the fascia lata is the part on the outer side of the saphenous opening. It is attached, externally, to the crest and anterior superior spine of the ilium and to the whole length of Poupart's ligament, and to the pectineal line in conjunction M'itli Gimbernat's ligament. From the spine of the pubis it is reflected downwards and outwards, forming an arched margin, the falciform process, or boundary of the saphenous opening ; this margin overlies and is adherent to the anterior layer of the sheath of the femoral vessels : to its edge is attached the cribrifoim fascia. The upward and inward prolongation of the falciform process is named the superior cornu : its downward and inward prolongation, the inferior cornu. The latter is well defined, and is continuous behind the saphenous vein with the pubic portion of the fascia lata. The pubic portion is situated on the inner side of the saphenous openmg : at the lower margin of this aperture it is continuous with the iliac portion; traced upwards, it covers the Pectineus, Adductor longus, and Gracilis muscles, and, passing behind the sheath of the femoral vessels, to ^^ilich it is closely united, is continuous with the fascia iliaca, and is attached to the ilio-pectineal line. Prom this description it may be observed that the ihac portion of the fascia lata lies in front of the femoral vessels, and the pubic portion behind them, so that an apparent aperture exists betM^een the two, through which the internal saphenous passes to join the femoral vein. The Tensor fasciae femoris (m. tensor fasciae latse) arises from the anterior part of the outer lip of the crest of the ilium; from the outer surface of the anterior superior spine, and part of the outer border of the notch below it, between the Gluteus medius and Sartorius; and from the inner surface of the fascia lata. It is inserted between the two layers of the iho-tibial band of the fascia lata about the junction of the middle and upper thirds of the thigh. The Sartorius, the longest muscle in the body, is fiat, narrow, and ribbon- like ; it arises by tendinous fibres from the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the upper half of the notch below it. It passes obliquely across the upper and anterior part of the thigh, from the outer to the inner side of the limb, then descends vertically, as far as the inner side of the knee, passing behind the inner condyle of the femur to end in a tendon. Tiiis curves obliquely forwards and expands into a broad aponeurosis, which is inserted, in front of the Gracilis and Semitendinosus, into the upper part of the inner surface of the shaft of the tibia, nearly as far forwards as the crest. The upper part of the aponeurosis is curved backwards over tlie upper edge of the tendon of the Gracilis so as to be inserted behind it. An offset, derived from its upper margin, blends with the capsule of the knee-joint, and another, given off from its lower border, blends \viti\ the fascia on the inner side of the leg. The relations of this muscle to the femoral artery should be carefully examined, as it constitutes the chief guide in tying the vessel. In the iipjier third of the thigh it forms the outer side of a triangular space, Scarpa's triangle, the inner side of wliich is formed by the inner border of the Adductor longus. and the base, turned upwards, by PouiiartV ligament; the femoral artery ])asses perpendicularly through the middle of this space from its base to its apex. In the middle third of the thigh, the femoral artery is contained in Hunter's canal, on the roof of which lies the Sartorius. The Quadriceps extensor (m. quadriceps femoris) includes the four remaining muscles on (he front of the thigh. It is tlie great extensor muscle of the leg, forming a large fleshy mass, which covers the front and sides of the femur, being united below into a tendon, attached to the patella:669 MUSCLES AND OF THE THIGH and above, subdivided into separate portions, wliicl^ have received distinct names. Of these, one occupying the middle of the thigh, and connected above witli tlie iUum, is called the Rectus femoris, from its straight course. The other divisions lie in immediate connection with the shaft of the femur, which they cover from the trochanters to the condyles. The portion on the outer side of the femur is termed the Vastus exiernus ; that covering the inner side, the Vastus interims ; and that in front, the Crureus. The Rectus femoris is situated in the middle of the anterior region of the tliigh ; it is fusiform in shape, and its superficial fibres are arranged in a bipenni- form manner, the deep fibres running straight do\\ n to the deep aponeurosis. It arises by two tendons : one, the anterior or straight, from the anterior inferior spine of the ilium ; the other, the posterior or reflected tendon, from a groove above the brim of the acetabulum. The two unite at an acute angle, and spread into an aponeurosis which is prolonged doM n- M'ards on the anterior surface of the muscle, and from this the muscular fibres arise. The muscle terminates in a broad and thick aponeurosis, wliich occupies the lower two-thirds of its jjosterior surface, and, gradually becoming narrowed into a flattened tendon, is inserted into the patella in common with the Vasti and Crureus. The Vastus externus (m. vastus lateralis) is the largest part of the Quad- riceps extensor. It arises by a broad aponeurosis, which is attached to the upper part of the anterior intertrochanteric line, to the anterior and inferior border of the root of the gi'eat trochanter, to the outer lip of the gluteal ridge, and to the upper half of the outer lip of the linea aspera : this aponeurosis covers the upper three-fom-ths of the muscle, and from its inner surface many fibres take origin. A few additional fibres arise from the tendon of the Gluteus maximus, and from the external intermuscular septum between the Vastus externus and short head of the Biceps. The fibres form a large fleshy mass, which is attached to a strong aponeurosis, placed on the under surface of the muscle at its lower part : this becomes contracted and thickened into a flat tendon inserted into the outer border of the i^atella, blending with the Quadriceps extensor tendon, and giving an expansion to the capsule of the knee-joint. The Vastus internus and Crureus appear to be inseparably united, but when the Rectus femoris has been reflected a narrow interval will be observed extending upwards from the inner border of the patella between the two muscles. Here they can be separated, and the separation may be continued upwards as far as the lower part of the anterior intertrochanteric line, where, however, the two muscles are frequently continuous. The Vastus internus (m. vastus medialis) arises from the lower half of the anterior intertrochanteric line, the spiral line, the inner lip of the linea aspera, the upper part of the internal supracondylar line, the tendons of the Adductor longus and Adductor magnus and tlie internal intermuscular septum. Its fibres are directed downwards and forwards, and are chiefly attached to an aponeurosis which lies on the deep surface of the muscle and is inserted into the inner border of the patella and the Quadriceps extensor tendon, an expansion being sent to the capsule of the knee-joint. The Crureus (m. vastus intermedins) arises from the front and outer aspect of the shaft of the femur in its upper two-thirds and from the lower part of the external intermuscular septum. Its fibres end in a superficial aponeurosis, which forms the deep part of the Quadriceps extensor tendon. The tendons of the difi^erent portions of the Quadriceps extensor unite at the lower part of the thigh, so as to form a single strong tendon, which is inserted into the upper part of the patella, some'feAv fibres passing over it to blend with the ligamentum patellae. More properly, the patella may be regarded as a sesamoid bone, developed in the tendon of the Quadi'iceps ; and the ligamentum patella, which is continued from the lower part of the patella to the tuberosity of the tibia, as the proper tendon of insertion of the muscle, the lateral patellar ligaments (see page 430) being fascial expansions froin its borders. A synovial bursa, wliich usually communicates with the cavity of the knee-joint, is situated between, the femur and the portion of the Quadj-ieeps extensor tendon above the patella ; another is interposed between the tendon and the upper part of the front of the tibia ; and a third,MYOLOGY 570 Fia. 542.—Muscles of the .iliac and nntei'ior femoral regions. the pre-patellar bursa, is placed over the ])atella itself. The last often becomes en- larged, constituting ' liouseniaid's knee.' j The Subcrureus (m. articularis genu) » is a small muscle, usually distinct from the Crureus, but occasionally blended with it, which arises from the aiiterior surface of the lower part of the shaft of the femur, and is inserted into the upper part of tlie synovial membrane of the knee-joint. It sometimes consists of several separate muscular bundles. i Nerves.—The Tensor fasciae femoris is | supplied by the fourth and fifth lumbar and first sacral nerves through the superior gluteal nerve; the other muscles of this region, by the second, third, and fourth . lumbar nerves, through branches of the I anterior crural. Actions.—The Tensor fascia3 femoris is i a tensor of the fascia lata ; contmumg its action, the oblique direction of its fibres enables it to abduct the thigh and to rotate it inwards. In the erect postiure, acting from below, it wiU serve to steady the pelvis upon the head of the femur ; and by means of the ilio-tibial band it steadies the con- dyles of the femm- on the articular surfaces of the tibia, and assists the Gluteus maximu.? in sujjporting the knee in the extended posi- tion. The Sartorius flexes the leg upon the thigh, and, continuing to act, flexes the thigh upon the pelvis ; it next abducts and rotates the thigh outwards. It was formerly supposed to adduct the thi^h, so as to cross " one leg over the other, as in the squatting position, and hence received its name of Sartorius, or tailor's muscle. "WTien the j Imee is bent, the Sartorius assists the Semi- | tendinosus. Semimembranosus, and PopU- | teus in rotating the tibia inwards. Taking '• its fixed point from the leg, it flexes the pelvis upon the thigh, and, if one muscle acts, assists m rotating the peh-is. The 4j Quadriceps extensor extends the leg upon " the thigh. The Rectus muscle assists the Psoas and Ihacus in supporting the pelvic and trujik upon tlie femur. It also assist. in flexing the thigh on the peh-is, or if the thigh be fixed it will flex the pelvis. The Vastus internus draws the patella inwards well as upwards. Applied Anatomy. — A few fibres of the Rectus muscle are occasionally ruptured from severe strain. This accident is especially liable to occur during the games of football and cricket, and is sometimes knowi as ' crickei thigh.' The patient experiences a stidden pain in the part, as if he had been struck, and the Rectus muscle stands out and is felt to be tense and rigid. The accident is often followed hy considerable swelling from inllaramatory efi'u sion. Occasionally the Quadriceps extensoiMUSCLES AND FASCIA OP THE THIGH 571 may be torn away from its insertion into the patella ; or the tendon of the patella may be ruptured about an inch above the bone. This accident is caused in the same manner as fracture of the patella by muscular action, viz. bj' a violent muscular effort to prevent falling while the knee is m a position of semiflexion. A distinct gap can be felt above the patella, and, owing to the retraction of the muscular fibres, union may fail to take place. 2. Internal Femoral Region Gracilis. Adductor longus. Pectineus. Adductor brevis. Adductor magnus. The Gracilis (figs. 542, 544) is the most superficial muscle on the inner side of the thigh. It is tliin and flattened, broad above, narrow and tapering below. It arises by a thin aponeurosis from the anterior margins of the lower haK of the symphysis pubis and the upper half of the pubic arch. The fibres run vertically downwards, and terminate in a rounded tendon, which passes behind the internal condyle of the femur, and, curving round the inner tubero- sity of the tibia, becomes flattened, and is inserted into the upper part of the inner surface of the shaft of the tibia, below the tuberosity. A few of the fibres of the lower part of the tendon are prolonged into the deep fascia of the leg. At its insertion the tendon is situated immediately above that of the Semitendinosus, and its upper edge is overlapped by the tendon of the Sartorius, with which it is in part blended. As it passes across the internal lateral hgament of the Imee-joint, it is separated from it by a synovial bursa common to it and the Semitendinosus. The Pectineus (fig. 542) is a flat, quadrangular muscle, situated at the anterior part of the upper and inner aspect of the thigh. It arises from the ilio-pectineal line, and to a sUght extent from the surface of bone in front of it, between the pectineal eminence and spine of the pubis, and from the fascia covering the anterior surface of the muscle ; the fibres pass do^\'nwards, backwards, and outwards, to be inserted into a rough hne leading from the small trochanter to the linea aspera. Relations.—It is in relation by its anterior surface with the pubic portion 'of the fascia lata, which separates it from the femoral vessels and internal saphenous vein ; by its posterior surface, with the capsular ligament of the hip-joint and the Adductor brevis and Obturator externus muscles, the obturator vessels and nerve being interposed; by its otUer border, with the Psoas, a cellular interval separating them, through which pass the internal circumflex vessels ; by its inner border, with the margin of the Adductor longus. The Adductor longus (fig. 543), the most superficial of the tlu-ee Adduc- tors, is a flat, triangular muscle, Ijang in the same plane as the Pectineus. It arises by a flat, narrow tendon, from the front of the pubis, at the angle of junction of the crest with the symphysis ; and soon expands into a broad fleshy belly. Tliis passes downwards, backwards, and outwards, and is inserted, by an aponeurosis, into the linea aspera, between the Vastus internus and the Adductor magnus, with both of which it is usually blended. Relations.—It is in relation by its anterior surface with the fascia lata, the Sartorius, and, near its insertion, with the femoral artery and vein; by its posterior surface, with the Adductores brevis et magnus, the anterior division of the obturator nerve, and near its insertion with the profunda artery and vein; by its outer border, with the Pectineus ; by its inner border, with the GraciUs. The Adductor brevis (fig. 543) is situated immediately behind the two preceding muscles. It is somewhat triangular in form, and arises by a narrow origin from tiie outer surface of the body and descending ramus of the jiubis, between the Gracilis and Obturator externus. Its fibres, passing backwards, outwards, and downwards, are inserted, by an aponeurosis, into the line leading from the small trochanter to the linea aspera and into the upper part of the linea aspera, immediately behind the Pectineus and upper part of the Adductor longus.MYOLOUY Relations.—It is in relation by its longus, profunda femoris artery, and a Fig. 543.—Deep mxiscles of the internal femoral I'egion. Semitcndinosus, and Semimembranosus, the Quadratus femoris, tlic internal c erior surface -with the Pectineus, Adductor i-ior division of the obturator nerve; by its posterior sur face, with the Adductor magnus, and posterior division of the obturator nerve ; by its outer border, wth the internal cir- cumflex artery, the Obturator externus, and conjoined tendon of the Psoas and Iliacus; by its inner border, with the Gracilis and Adductor magnus. It is pierced near its insertion by the second or first and second perforating branches of the profunda femoris artery. The Adductor magnus (fig. 543) is a large triangular muscle, forming a septum bet«-een the muscles on the inner and those on the back of the thigh. It arises from a small part of the descending ramus of the pubis, from the ramus of the ischium, and from the outer margin of the inferior part of the tuberosity of the ischium. Those fibres Avhich arise from the ramus of tlie pubis are very short, liorizontal m direction, and are inserted into the rougli line leading from the great trochanter to the Imea aspera, internal to the Gluteus maximus ; those from the ramus of the ischium are directed do'^\•n^^-ards and out^\'ards with different degrees of obliquity, to be inserted, by means of a broad aponeurosis, mto the linea aspera and the upper part of its mternal pro- longation below. The internal portion of the muscle, composed principally of the fibres arising from the tuberosity of the ischium, forms a thick fleshy mass consisting of coarse bundles which descend almost vertically, and ter- minate about the lower thu-d of the thigh in a rounded tendon, Avhich is inserted into the adductor tubercle on the inner condyle of the femur, and is connected by a fibrous expansion to the line leading upwards from the tubercle to the linea aspera. At tlie insertion of the muscle, a series of osseo-aponeurotic openings, formed by tendinous arclies attached to tlie bone, is seen. The upper four openings are small, and give passage to tlie per- forating branches of the profunda femoris artery. The lowest is of larg(> sixe, and transmits the femoral vessels from Hunter's canal to the popliteal space. Relations.—It is in relation by its anterin, surface Avith the Pectineus. Adductor brovis, Adductor longus, and the femoral and profunda vessels and obturator ner\ c; by its posterior surface, with the great sciatic nerve, the Gluteus maximus. Biceps. Its superior or shortest border lies parallel with cumflex artery passing between them. ItsMUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE THIGH 573 intenml or loiigest border is in relation v.nth the Gracilis, Sartorius. and fascia lata. By its external or attached border, it is inserted into the femur, behind the Adductor brovis and Adductor longus wliich seiJarate it from the Vastus internus, and in front of the Gluteus maximus and short head of the Biceps which separate it from the Vastus oxternus. Nerves.—The three Adductor muscles and the Gracilis are supplied by the third and fourth lumbar nerves through the obturator nerve ; the Adductor magnus receiving an additional branch from the sacral plexus through the great sciatic. The Pectineus is supplied by the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves through the anterior crural, and from the third lumbar by the accessory obturator when it exists. Occasionally it receives a branch from the obturator nerve.* Actions.—The Pectineus and three Adductors adduct the thigh powerfully ; they are especially used in horse exercise, the sides of the saddle being grasped between the knees by the contraction of these muscles. In consequence of the obliquity of their insertions into the linea aspera, they rotate the thigh outwards, assisting the external Rotators, and when the limb has been abducted, they draw it inwards, carr\ang the thigh across that of the opposite side. The Pectineus and Adductores brevis et longus assist the Psoas and Iliacus in flexing the thigh upon the pelvis. In progression, also, all these muscles assist in drawing forwards the lower limb. The Gracilis assists the Sartorius in flexing the leg and rotating it inwards ; it is also an adductor of the thigh. If the lower extremities be fixed, these muscles, taking their fixed points below, may act upon the pelvis, serving to inaintain the body in an erect posture ; or, if their action be continued, flex the pelvis forwards upon the femur. Applied Anatomy.—The Adductor longus is liable to be severely strained in those who ride much on horseback, or its tendon may be ruptured by suddenly gripping the saddle. Occasionally, especially in cavalry soldiers, the tendon may become ossified, constituting the ' rider's bone.' 3. Gluteal Region (fig. 544) Gluteus maximus. Obturator internus. Gluteus medius. Gemellus superior. Gluteus minimus. Gemellus inferior. Pyriforrais. Quadratus femoris. Obturator oxternus. The Gluteus maximus, the most superficial muscle in the gluteal region, is a very broad and thick fleshy mass, of a quadi-ilateral shape, and forms the prominence of the nates. Its large size is one of the most charac- teristic points in the muscular system in man, connected as it is with the power he has of maintaining the trunk in the erect posture. In structure the muscle is remarkably coarse, being made up of muscular fasciculi lying parallel with one another, and collected together into large bundles separated by deep cellular intervals. It arises from the superior cui'ved line of the ilium, and the rough portion of bone, including the crest, immediately above and behind it; fi-om the posterior surface of the loM'er part of the sacrum and the side of the coccyx ; from the aponeurosis of the Erector spina;, the great sacro- sciatic ligament, and the fascia (gluteal aponeurosis) covering the Gluteus medius. The fibres are directed obliquel}' dow nwards and outwards ; those forming the upper and larger portion of the muscle, together with the super- ficial fibres of the lower portion, terminate in a thick tendinous lamina, which passes across the gi-eat trochanter, and is inserted into the fascia lata covering tlie outer side of the thigh ; the deeper fibres of the lower portion of the muscle are inserted into the rough line leading fi-om the great trochanter to the linea aspera between the Vastus externus and Adductor magnus. * Paterson describes the Pectineus as consisting of two incompletely separated strata ; the outer or dorsal stratum, which is constant, is supplied by a branch from tlie anterior crural nerve, or in the absence of this branch by the accessory obturator, with which it is intimately related ; while the inner or ventral stratum, when present, is supplied by the obturator nerve.—Jo urwd of Anatomy mid Phy^ialcgy, vol. xxvi. p. 43.MYOLOGY 574 Fio. 514 —Muscles of the hip and thigh. Inner liamalring tendms SortoriiiH — Gracilis Scmilendinusus Scmi- membranosua Oilier hdiiislring lenilon Biceps Tliree synovial bursce are usually found in relation with the deep surface of this muscle. One of these, of large size, and generally multilocular, separates it from the great trochanter. A second, often wanting, is situated on the tuberosity of the ischium. A third is found between the tendon of the muscle and that of the Vastus externus. Relations. — The Gluteus maximus is ia relation by its superficial surface with a thin fascia which separates it from the subcutaneous tissue; 1^3' its deep surface, from above down- wards, with the ilium, sacrum, coccyx, and great sacro-sciatic ligament, part of the Gluteu.s medius, Pyriformis, Giemelli. Obturator interniLs, Quaxiratus femoris, the tuberosity of the ischium, great trochanter, the origins of the Biceps, Semi- tendinosvLS, Semimembranosus, and the Adductor magnus. Tlie superficial part of the gluteal artery reaches the deep surface of the muscle by passing between the Pyriformis and the Gluteus medius; the sciatic and internal pudic vessels and nerves, and muscular branches from the sacral plexus, issue from the pelvis below the Pyriformis. The first per- forating artery and the terminal branches of the mternal circum- flex artery are also found under cover of the lower part of the muscle. Its upper border is thin, and connected mth the Gluteus medius by the fascia lata. Its lower border is free and promi- nent, and is crossed by the fold of the nates. The Gluteus medius is a broad, thick, radiating muscle, situated on the outer surface of the pelvis. Its pos- terior third is covered by the Gluteus maximus, its anterior two-thirds by the fascia lata, which separates it from the superficial fascia and integu- ment. It arises from the outer surface of the ilium, between the superior and middle curved lines, and from the outer lip of that portion of the crest M-hich is between them ; it also arises from the dense fascia (gluteal575 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE OF THE THIGH aponeurosis) covering its outer surface. The fibres converge to a strong flattened tendon, winch is inserted into the oblique ridge wliich runs down- wards and forwards on the outer surface of the great trochanter. A synovial bursa separates the tendon of the muscle from the surface of the trqchanter in front of its insertion. The Gluteus minimus, the smallest of the three Glutei, is placed immediately beneath the preceding. It is fan-shaped, arising from the outer surface of the ilium, between the middle and inferior curved lines, and beliind, from the margin of the great sacro-sciatic notch. The fibres converge to the deep surface of a radiated aponeurosis, which, terminating in a tendon, is inserted into an impression on the anterior border of the great trochanter, and gives an expansion to the capsule of the hip-joint. A synovial bursa is interposed between the tendon and the great trochanter. Between the Gluteus medius and Gluteus minimus are the deep branches of the gluteal vessels and the superior gluteal nerve. The deep surface of the Gluteus minimus is in relation Avitli the reflected tendon of the Rectus femoris and the capsular ligament of tlie liip-joint. The Pyriformis is a flat muscle, pyi-amidal in shape, lying almost parallel with the posterior margin of the Gluteus medius. It is situated partly witlain the pelvis against its posterior Avail, and partly at the back of the liip-joint. It arises from the front of the sacrum by three fleshy digitations, attached to the portions of bone between the first, second, third, and fourth anterior sacral foramina, and also to the grooves leading from the foramina : a few fibres also arise from the margin of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and from the anterior surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The muscle passes out of the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, the upper part of which it fills, and is inserted by a rounded tendon into the u^jper border of the great trochanter, behind, but often partly blended with, the tendon of the Obturator internus and Gemelli. Relations.—Within the pelvis the Pyriformis is in relation by its anterior surface with the rectum (especially on the left side), the sacral plexus of nerves, and the branches of the internal iliac vessels, and by its posterior stirface with the sacrum. External to the pelvis, its anterior surface is in contact with the posterior surface of the ischium and capsular ligament of the hip-joint ; and its posterior sxirface, with the Gluteus maximus ; its upper border is in relation with the Gluteus medius, and the gluteal vessels and superior gluteal nerve; its lower border, with the Gemellus superior and Coccygeus, the sciatic vessels and nerves, the internal pudic vessels and nerve, and muscular branches from the sacral plexus, passing from the pelvis in the interval between the two muscles. The muscle is frequently pierced by the external popliteal nerve. The obturator membrane (fig. 444) is a tliin layer of interlacing fibres, which almost completely closes the obturator foramen. It is attached, externally, to the margin of the foramen ; internally, to the posterior surface of the ischio-pubic ramus, below and internal to the margin of the foramen. At its upper and outer part it is deficient, leaving a srnall canal, which is bounded below by a thickened band of fibres, and gives passage to the obturator vessels and nerve (see page 326), Both Obturator muscles are connected with tliis membrane. Tlie Obturator internus, like the preceding muscle, is situated partly within the cavity of the pelvis, and partly at the back of the hip-joint. It arises from the inner surface of the antero-lateral wall of the pelvis, where it surrounds the greater part of the obturator foramen, being attached to thd descending ramus of the pubis and the ramus of the ischium, and at the side to the inner surface of the innominate bone below and beliind the pelvic brim, reaching from the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen above and behind to the obturator foramen below and in front. It also arises from the inner surface of the obturator membrane except at its posterior part, from the tendinous arch which completes the canal for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve, and to a slight extent from the obtm-ator layer of the pelvic fascia, which covers it. Tlie fibres converge rapidly towards the small sacro-sciatic foramen, and terminate in four or five tendinous bands, which are found on the deep surface of the muscle ; these bands are reflected at a right angle over the grooved surface of the ischium between its spine570 MYULUCIY and tuberosity. This bony surface is covered by smooth cartilage, whicli is separated from the tendon by a synovial bursa, and presents one or more ridges corresponding with the furrows between the tendinous bands. Tiiese bands leave the j)elvis by the small sacro-sciatic foramen and unite into a single flattened tendon, wliich passes liorizontally outwards, and, after receiving the attachments of the Gemelli, is insei-ted into the fore part of the inner surface of the great trochanter in front of the Pyi'iformis. A synovial bursa, narrow and elongated in form, is usually found between the tendon and the capsular ligament of the hip : it occasionally communicates with the bursa between tlie tendon and the tuberosity of the ischium. Relations.—Within the pelvis, this muscle is in relation, by its anterior surface, with the obturator membrane and inner surface of the anterior wall of the pelvis ; by its ■posterior surface, with the obturator fascia, and the origin of the Levator ani, and v\-ith the internal pudic vessels and nerve which cross it. The posterior surface forms the outer Ijoundary of the isohio-rectal fossa. External to the pelvis, the muscle is covered by the Gluteus maximus, crossed by the great sciatic nerve, and rests on the back part of the hip-joint. When the tendon of the Obtm-ator internus emerges from the small sacro- sciatic foramen it is overlapped both in front and behind by the two Gemelli which form a muscular canal for it; near its insertion the Gemelli pass in front of the tendon and form a groove in which it lies. The Gemelli are two small muscular fasciculi, accessories to the tendon of the Obturator internus which is received into a groove between them. They are called superior and inferior. The Gemellus superior, the smaller of the two, arises from the outer surface of the spine of the ischium, and passing horizontally outwards becomes blended with the upper part of the tendon of the Obturator internus, and is inserted with it into the inner surface of the great trochanter. It is sometimes wanting. The Gemellus inferior arises from the upper part of the tuberosity of the ischium, where it forms the lower edge of the groove for the Obturator internus tendon. Passing horizontally outwards, it blends with the lower jDart of the tendon of the Obturator internus, and is inserted with it into the inner surface of the great trochanter. The Quadratus femoris is a fiat, quadrilateral muscle, between the Gemellus; inferior and the upper margin of the Adductor magnus ; it is separated from the latter by tlie terminal branches of the internal cu'cumflex vessels. It arises from the upper part of the external lip of the tuberosity of the ischmra, and proceeding horizontally outwards, is inserted into the upper part of the linea quadrata—that is, the line which extends vertically down^^•ards from the posterior intertrochanteric line. A synovial bursa is often found between the front of this muscle and the small trochanter which it covers. The Obturator externus (fig. 545) is a flat, triangular muscle, which covers the outer surface of the anterior wall of the pelvis. It arises from tlie margin of bone immediately around the inner side of the obturator foramen . viz from the body and ramus of the pubis, and the ramus of the ischium : it also arises from the inner two-thirds of the outer surface of the obturator membrane, and from the tendinous arch which completes the canal for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerves. The fibres from the pubic arcii extend on to the inner surface of the bone, ^^'here they obtain a narro^^• ori.^in between the margin of the foramen and the attachment of the mem- brane. The fibres converge and pass backwards outwards, and upwards and terminate in a tendon which runs across the back part of the hip-joint and is inserted into tiie digital fossa of the fenuir. Tiie obturatnr vessel, lie between the muscle and the obturator membrane ; the supeHicial pait of the obturator nerve reaches the thigh by passing in front of the muscU. and the deep branch of tlie same nerve by piercing it. , ^ . i Nervel-The Gluteus maximus is supplied by the fifth lumbar and first and second sacral nerves through the inferior gluteal 'l^'T,*^/™'" .J' the Gluteus medius and nrinimus, by the f^urt i and fifth 1^"'?^ \ " ; nerves tlirough the superior gluteal; the Pyriformis is supplied by the hr.t am econd sacral nerves ; the Gemellus inferior and 9-^™*-, i'jvto us lumbar and first sacral nerves ; the Gemellus supomr and ^^"^'^T^^:^ the first, second, and third sacral nerves, and the Obturator externus hy the Ihn.l and fourth lumbar nerves through the obturator.577 IMUSCLES AND FASCMC OF THE THIGH Actions.—The Gluteus maximus, when it takes its fixed point from the pelvis, extends the femur and brings the bent thigh into a line with the body. Taking its fixed point from below, it acts upon the pelvis, supporting it and the trunk upon the head of the femur; this is especially obvious in standing on one leg. Its most powerful action is to cause the body to regain the erect position after stooping, by drawing the pelvis backwards, being assisted in this action by the Biceps, Semiteudinosus, and Semimemb ranosus. The Gluteus maximus is a tensor of the fascia lata, and by its connection with the ilio-tibial band steadies the femur on the articular surfaces of the tibia during standing, when the Extensor muscles are relaxed. The lower part of the muscle also acts as an adductor and ¥10. 645.—Obtujator extemus muscle. (From a preparation in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England.) Obturator Anterior division of obturator nerve artery Anterior inferior iliac sjiine Capsular ligament rtly cut away Posterior division of obturator nerve Internal circumfli artery external rotator of the limb. The Gluteus medius and minimus abduct the thi<^h when the limb is extended, and are principally called into action in supportmg the body on one limb, in conjunction with the Tensor fasciee femoris. Their anterior fibres, by dramug the great trochanter forwards, rotate the thigh inwards in which action they are also assisted by the Tensor fascije femoris. The remaiiline muscles are powerful rotators of the thigh outwards. In the sitting posture, when the thigh is flexed upon the pelvis, their action as rotators ceases, and they become abductors mth the exception of the Obturator externus, which still rotates tne lemur outwards. 4. Posterior Femoral Region (fig, 544) Biceps. Semitendinosus. Semimembranosus. .. Tj^^, Biceps (m. biceps femoris) is a large muscle, of considerable length, situated on the posterior and outer aspect of the thigh. It has two heads ot origin : one, the long head (caput longum), arises from the lower and mner impression on the back part of the tuberosity of the ischium by a tendon common to it and the Semitendinosus, and from the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic ligament; the other, or short head (caput breve) trom the outer lip of the linea aspera, between the Adductor ma^nus andMYOLOGY 578 Vastus exteriius, extending up almost as high as the insertion of the Gluteus raaximus ; from the outer prolongation of the linea aspera to within two inches of the outer condyle ; and from the external intermuscular septum. The fibres of the long head form a fusiform heWy, which passes obliquely down- wards and outwards across the great sciatic nerve to terminate in an apo- neurosis which covers the posterior surface of the muscle, and receives the fibres of the short head : this aponeurosis becomes gradually contracted into a tendon, Avhich is inserted into the outer side of the head of the fibula, and by a small slip into the lateral surface of the external tuberosity of the tibia. At its insertion the tendon divides into two portions, which embrace the long external lateral ligament of the knee-joint. From the posterior border of the tendon a thin expansion is given off to the fascia of the leg. The tendon of this muscle forms the outer hamstring ; the external popliteal nerve descends aloiig its inner border. The Semitendinosus, remarkable for the great length of its tendon, is situated at the posterior and inner aspect of the thigh. It arises from the lower and inner impression on the tuberosity of the ischium, by a tendon common to it and the long head of the Biceps ; it also arises from an apo- neurosis which connects the adjacent surfaces of the two muscles to the extent of about three inches from their origin. It forms a fusiform muscle, which, passing downwards and inwards, terminates a little below the middle of the thigh in a long round tendon which lies along the irmer side of tlie popliteal space ; it then curves around the inner tuberosity of the tibia and passes over the mternal lateral ligament of the knee-jouit, from which it is separated bv a bursa, and is inserted into the upper part of the inner surface of tlie shaft of the tibia, nearly as far forwards as its anterior border. At its insertion it wives off from its lower border a prolongation to the deep fascia of the leg. This tendon hes behind the tendon of the Sartorius, and below that^of the Gracilis, to w^hich it is united. A tendinous mtersection is usuaUy observed about the middle of the muscle. r ■ • The Semimembranosus, so called from its membranous tendon ot origin, is situated at the back part and inner side of the thigh. It arises by a thick tendon from the upper and outer impression on the back part of the tuberosity of the ischium, above and to the outer side of the Biceps and Semitendinosus, and is inserted into the groove on the inner and back part of the inner tuberosity of the tibia. The tendon of the muscle at its origin expands into an apo- neurosis, which covers the upper part of its anterior surface : from this aponeurosis muscular fibres arise, and converge to another aponeurosis which covers the lower part of its posterior surface and contracts into the tendon of insertion. The tendon of insertion gives off certain fibrous expansions : one of these, of considerable size, passes upwards and outwards to be inserted into the back part of the outer condyle of the femur, forming P^^^ «f the postemr ligament of the knee-joint; a second is contmued downWs J<> "^f ™ which covers the Popliteus muscle ; while a few fibres join the mternal lateral Hgament of the joint and the fascia of tlie leg. The muscle overlaps the unper part of the popliteal vessels. 4. • , ^ The tendons of the two preceding muscles form t^ie mnf l^ams ring. Nerves.-The muscles of this region are supplied by the fourth a id Wto lumbar and the first, second, and third sacral nerves through the great sciatic °''Actions.-The hamstring muscles flex the leg upon the thigh. ^^Z't knee is semiflexed, the Biceps, in consequence of its obhque ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ and outwards, rotates the leg shghtly outwards ; and the Sem t^ndmosu , and to a sUght extent the Semimembranosus, rotate the leg mwards, f J f ^'JJ Ponliteus Taking their fixed point from below, these muscles serve to suppoit ^:fX^ upon thi head of the'femur, and to draw the trunk dijec^y^back^^^^^ fls in riisiii" it iwm the stooping position or in feats of strength, when tlic dooj t: Wn ba Iwards in the forifa of an arch. As already i"^}-?*^^ on page 427, complete flexion of the hip cannot be effected unless the knee-jomt is also flexed, on account of the shortness of the hamstring muscles. Applied Anatomy.-ln disease of tlic knee-joint, eontraction of f t^^on'^^^^ is a frequent complication ; this causes flexion of the leg, and a partial dislocation579 MUSCLES AND FASCLE OF THE LEG tibia backwards, with a slight degree of rotation outwards, probably due to the action of the Biceps muscle. The hamstring tendons occasionally require subcutaneous division in some forms of spurious ankylosis of the knee-joint dependent upon permanent contraction and rigidity of the Flexor muscles, or from contracture of the ligamentous and other tissues sun'ounding the joint, the result of disease. This is effected by putting the tendon upon the stretch, and inserting a naiTow, sharp- pointed knife between it and the skin : the cutting edge being then turned towards the tendon, it should be divided, taking care that the wound in the skin is not at the same time enlarged. The relation of the external popliteal nerve, which lies in close apposition to the inner border of the tendon of the Biceps, must always be borne in miad in dividing this tendon, and a free incision with exposure of the tendon, before division, is the safer proceeding. III. Muscles and Fasciae of the Leg The muscles of the leg may be divided into three groups : those on the anterior, those on the posterior, and those on the outer side. 5. Anterior Tibio-fibular Region (fig. 546) TibiaUs anticus. Extensor proprius haUucis. Extensor longus digitorum. Peroneus tertius. The deep fascia of the leg forms a com- plete investment to the muscles, and is fused with the periosteum over the subcutaneous siirfaces of the bones. It is continuous above with the fascia lata, and is attached around the knee to the patella, the ligamentum patellig, the tubercle and tuberosities of the tibia, and the head of the fibula. Behind, it forms the popliteal fascia, covering in the popliteal space ; here it is specially thick, bemg strengthened by transverse fibres, and is perforated by the external saphenous vein. It receives an expansion from the tendon of the Biceps on the outer side, and from the tendons of the Sartorius, Gracilis, Semiten- dinosus, and Semimembranosus on the inner side ; m front, it blends with the periosteum covermg the subcutaneous surface of the tibia, and with that covering the head and external malleolus of the fibula ; below it is continuous with the annular Ugaments of the ankle. It is thick and dense in the upper and anterior part of the leg, and gives attach- ment, by Its deep surface, to the Tibialis anticus and Extensor longus digitorum muscles; but thinner behind, where it covers the Gastrocnemius and Soleus muscles. It gives off from its deep surface, on the outer % ^.u strong intermuscular •■'Cpta, the anterior and posterior peroneal Fio. 546.—^Muscles of the front of the leg. p P 2580 MYOLOGY septa, which enclose the Peronei longus et brevis, and separate them from the muscles on the anterior and posterior tibial regions, and several smaller and more slender processes which enclose the individual muscles in eacli region. At the same time a broad transverse intermuscular septum, called the deep transverse fascia of the leg, intervenes between the superficial and deep muscles in the posterior tibio-fibular region. The Tibialis anticus (m. tibialis anterior) is situated on the outer side of the tibia ; it is thick and fleshy at its upper part, tendinous below. It arises from the outer tuberosity and upper half or two-thirds of the external surface of the shaft of the tibia ; from the adjoining part of tlie interosseous membrane ; from the deep surface of the fascia ; and from the intermuscular septum between it and the Extensor longus digitorum. The fibres pass vertically downwards, and tei-minate in a tendon, which is apparent on the anterior surface of the muscle at the lower third of the leg. After passing through the innermost compartment of the anterior annular ligament, it is inserted into the inner and under surface of the internal cuneiform bone, and the base-of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. Tliis muscle overlaps the anterior tibial vessels and nerve in the upper part of the leg. The Extensor proprius hallucis (m. extensor hallucis longus) is a thin, elongated, and flattened muscle, situated between the Tibialis anticus and Extensor longus digitorum. It arises from the anterior surface of the fibula for about the middle two-fourths of its extent, its origin being internal to that of the Extensor longus digitorum ; it also arises from the interosseous mem- brane to a similar extent." The anterior tibial vessels and nerve lie between it and the Tibialis anticus. The fibres pass downwards, and terminate in a tendon, which occupies the anterior border of the muscle, passes tlirough a distinct compartment in the lower portion of the annular ligament, crosses, from without inwards, the anterior tibial vessels near the bend of the ankle, and is inserted into the base of tlie last phalanx of the great toe. Opposite the metatarso-phalangeal articulation, the tendon gives off a thin prolongation on each side, to cover the surface of the joint. An expansion, from the inner side of the tendon, usually passes across to be inserted uito the base of the first phalanx. The Extensor longus digitorum is an elongated, flattened, penniform muscle, situated at the outer part of the front of the leg. It arises from the outer tuberosity of the tibia ; from the upper three-fourths of the anterior surface of the shaft of the fibula ; from the upper part of the interosseous membrane ; from the deep surface of the fascia ; and from the intermuscular septa between it and the Tibialis anticus on the inner, and the Peronei on the outer side. Between it and the Tibiahs anticus are the upper portions of the anterior tibial vessels and nerve. The tendon passes under the aimular ligament in company with the Peroneus tertius, and divides into four slips which run forward on the dorsum of the foot, and are inserted into the second and third phalanges of the four lesser toes. Each of the three inner tendons, opposite the metatarso-phalangeal articulation, is joined, on its outer side, by a tendon of the Extensor brevis digitorum. The tendons are mserted in the following manner : each receives a fibrous expansion from tlie Interossei and Lumbricales, and then spreads out into a broad aponeurosis, which covers the dorsal surface of the first phalanx : this aponeurosis, at the articulation of the first with the second phalanx, divides into three shps, a middle one, which is inserted into the base of the second phalanx; and two lateral slips which, after uniting on the dorsal surface of the second phalanx, are continued onwards, to be inserted into the base of the third. The Peroneus tertius is a part of the Extensor longus digitorum, and might be described as its fifth tendon. The fibres belonging to this tendon arile from the third or more of the anterior surface of the fibula; trom the lower part of the interosseous membrane ; and froni an "^tf™niscular septum between it and the Peroneus brevis. The teiidon, after J'"^j.^^^^^"?^^^ the same canal in the annular ligament as tli% Extensor longus d^itorum is inserted into the dorsal surface of tlie base of the metatarsal bone ot the little toe. This muscle is sometimes wanting. Nerves.-Thesc muscles are supplied by the fourth and fifth hnnbar and first sacral nerves through the anterior tibial nerve.MUSCLES AND FASCLE OF THE LEG 581 Actions.—The Tibialis anticua and Peroneus tertius are the direct flexors of the foot at the ankle-joint; the former muscle, when acting in conjunction with the Tibialis posticus, raises the inner border of the foot (i.e. inverts the foot) ; and the latter,- acting with the Peronei brevis et longus, raises the outer border of the foot (i.e. everts the foot). The Fig. 547.—Muscles of the back of the leg. Superficial layer. Extensor lojigus digitorum and Extensor »vopropritts hallucis extend the phalanges of the toes, and, continuing their action, flex the foot upon the leg. Taldng their fixed points from below, ia the erect posture, all these muscles serve to fix the bones of the leg in the perpen- dicular position, and give increased strength to the ankle-joint. 0. Posterior Tibio-fibular Region The muscles in this region of the leg are subdivided into two layers— superficial and deep. Those of the superficial layer constitute a poM^erful muscular mass, forming the calf of the leg. Their large size is one of the most characteristic features of the muscular apparatus in man, and bears a direct relation to his ordinary attitude and mode of progression. Superficial Layer (fig. 547) Gastrocnemius. Soleus. Plantaris. The Gastrocnemius is the most superficial muscle, and forms the greater part of the calf. It arises by two heads, which are coimected to the condyles of the femur bj' two strong, flat tendons. The inner and larger head (caput mediale) takes its origin from a depres- sion at the upper and back part of the inner condyle and from the adjacent part of the femur. The outer head (caput laterale) arises from an impres- sion on the outer side of the external condyle and from the posterior surface of the femur immediately above the outer part of the condyle. Both heads, also, arise from the subjacent part of the capsular ligament of the knee. Each tendon spreads out into an aponeurosis, which covers the posterior surface of that portion of the muscle to which it belongs. Fi'om the anterior surfaces of these tendinous expansions, muscular fibres are given off; those of the inner head being thicker and extending lower than those of the outer. The fibres in the median line unite at an angle in a median tendinous raphe, which expands into a broad aponeurosis on the anterior surface of the muscle, and into this the remaining fibres are inserted. The aponeurosis, gradually contract- ing, unites with the tendon of the Soleus, and forms with it the tendo AchiUis. Teiuhns 0/ - Peronei longus et brevis582 MYOLOGY Relations.—The Gastrocnemius is in relation by its auperjicial surface with the fascia of the leg. which separates it from the external saphenous vein and nerve; by its deep surface with tho posterior ligauiont of the knee-joint, the Popliteus, Soleus, Plantaris, popliteal vessels, and internal popliteal nerve. Heneath the tendon of tho inner head is a synovial bursa, ^^hich, in some cases, communicates with the cavity of the knee-joint. The tendon of tho outer head sometimes contains a sesamoid fibro-cartilage or bone, where it plays over the corresponding outer condyle ; and one is occasionally found in the tendon of the inner head. The Soleus is a broad flat muscle situated immediately beneath the Gastro- cnemius. It arises by tendinous fibres from the back part of the head of the fibula, and from the upper third of the posterior surface of its shaft; from tlie oblique line of the tibia, and from the middle thu-d of its internal border ; some fibres also arise from a tendinous arch placed between the tibial and fibular origins of the muscle, beneath which the popliteal vessels and internal popliteal . nerve run. The fibres pass backwards to an aponeurosis which covers the posterior surface of the muscle, and this, gradually becoming thicker and narrower, joins with the tendon of the Gastrocnemius, and forms vnth it the tendo AchiUis. Relations.—By its superficial surface it is in relation with the Gastrocnemius and Plantaris ; by its deep surface, with the Flexor longus digitorum, Flexor longus hallucis, Tibiahs posticus, and posterior tibial vessels and nerve, from which it is separated by the transverse intermuscular septum or deep transverse fascia of the leg. The tendo AchiUis (tendo calcaneus), the common tendon of the Gastro- cnemius and Soleus, is the thickest and strongest tendon in the body. It is about six inches in length, and commences near the middle of the leg, but receives fleshy fibres on its anterior surface, almost to its lower end. Gradu- ally becoming contracted below, it is inserted mto the middle part of the posterior surface of the os calcis, a synovial bursa being mterposed between the tendon and the upper part of this surface. The tendon spreads out some- what at its lower end, so that its narrowest part is about an mch and a half above its insertion. Tlie tendon is covered by the fascia and the integument, and is separated from the deep muscles and vessels by a considerable interval filled up with areolar and adipose tissue. Along its outer side, but superficial to it, is the external saphenous vein. The Plantaris is an extremely diminutive muscle, placed between the Gastrocnemius and Soleus, and remarkable for its long and deUcate tendon. It arises from the lower part of the outer prolongation of the Imea aspera, and from the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. It forms a small fusuorm beUy, about tliree or four inches in length, terminatmg m a long slender tendon which crosses obliquely between the two muscles of the calf, and runs along the inner border "of the tendo AchiUis, to be inserted ^^;ith it mto tlie posterior part of the os calcis. This muscle is sometimes double, and at other times wantmg. OccasionaUy, its tendon is lost in the mternal annular ligament, or in the fascia of the leg. i i „ Nerves.—The Gastrocnemius is supphed by the first and second sacral nerves and the Plantaris by the fourth and fifth lumbar and first sacral nerves, through the^intmra^poplileal-. The Soleus is supplied by the fii'st and second sacral nerves •^a-^-^Silwigh thejfit«^^ , , , . -i,^ -^^A&t-ThTmisdes of the calf are the chief extensors of the foot at the ankle-joint. They possess considerable power, and are constantly called into use in standing, walkiti^, dancing, and leaping ; hence the large size they usua 3 present. In walking, these muscles draw powerfully upon the os calcis lais g the heel from the ground ; the body being thus supported on the raised ^oot. t k opposite limb can be carried forwards. In standing, the Soleus, taking it^ fixtd pomt from below, steadies the leg upon the foot and prevents tho bod} irom falUng forwards, to which there is"a constant tendency from the snperincun ber^ w3. The Gastrocnemius, acting from below, serves to Aex the femur upon the°tibia, assisted by the Popliteus. The Plantaris is tlie ^'^dimen* muscle which in some of the lower ammals is contmued inserted into the plantar fascia. In man it is an accessory extending the ankle if the foot be free, or bendmg the knee if the foot be hxert.583 MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE LEG Possibly, acting from below, by its attachment to the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, it may pull that ligament backwards during flexion, and so protect it from being compressed between the two articular surfaces. Deep Layer (fig. 548) Popliteus. Flexor longus digitorum. Flexor longus hallucis. Tibialis posticus. The deep transverse fascia of the leg is a transverseh' placed, inter- muscular septum, between the superficial and deep muscles in the posterior tibio-fibular region. On either side it is connected to the margins of the tibia and fibula. Above, where it covers the Popliteus, it is thick and dense, and receives an expansion from the tendon of the Semimembranosus ; it is thinner in the middle of the leg ; but below, where it covers the tendons passing behind the malleoli, it is tliickened and continuous with the hiternal armular ligament. The Popliteus is a thin, flat, triangular muscle, which forms the lower part of the floor of the popliteal space. It arises by a strong tendon about an inch in length, from a depression at the anterior part of the popliteal groove on the outer side of the external condyle of the femur, and to a small extent from the posterior ligament of the knee-joint; and is inserted into the inner two-thu'ds of the triangular surface above the oblique line on the posterior surface of the shaft of the tibia, and into the tendinous expansion covering the surface of the muscle. Relations.—The tendon of the muscle is covered by that of the Biceps and by the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint ; it grooves the posterior border of the external semilunar fibro-cartilage, and is invested by the synovial membrane of the knee-joint. The fascia covering the muscle separates it from the Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, popliteal vessels, and internal popUteal nerve. The deep siu'face of the muscle is in contact with the posterior Ugament of the knee-joint and the back of the tibia. The Flexor longus hallucis is situated on the fibular side of the leg. It arises from the lower two-tliirds of the posterior surface of the shaft of the fibula, with the exception of an inch at its lowest part ; from the lower jiart of the interosseous membrane ; from an intermuscular septum between it and the Peronei, externally ; and from the fascia covering the Tibialis posticus internally. The fibres pass obliquely downwards and backwards, and terminate in a tendon which occupies nearly the whole length of the posterior surface of the muscle. This tendon lies in a groove which crosses the posterior surface of the lower end of the tibia, the posterior sm-face of the astragalus, and the under sirrface of the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis ; in the sole of the foot it runs forwards between the two heads of the Flexor brevis hallucis, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. The grooves on the astragalus and os calcis, which contain the tendon of the muscle, are converted by tendinous fibres into distinct canals, lined by synovial membrane. As the tendon passes forwards in the sole of the foot, it is situated above, and crosses, from without inwards, the tendon of the Flexor longus digitorum, to which it is connected by a tendinous slip. Relations.—The Flexor longus hallucis is in relation by its superficial surface with the Soleus and tendo Achillis, from which it is separated by the deep tran-sverse fascia ; by its deep surface, with the fibula, Tibialis posticus, the peroneal vessels, the lower part of the interosseous membrane, and the ankle-joint; by its outer border, with the Peronei; by its inner border, with the Tibialis posticus and posterior tibial vessels and nerve. The Flexor longus digitorum is situated on the tibial side of the leg. At its origin it is thin and pointed, but it gradually increases in size as it descends. It arises from the posterior surface of the shaft of the tibia, from immediately below the oblique line to within three inches of its lower extremity, internal to the tibial origin of the Tibialis posticus ; it also arises from the fascia covering the TibiaUs posticus. The fibres terminate in a tendon, which runs nearly the whole length of the posterior surface of the muscle. This584 MYOLOGY * That is, in the order of dissection of the sole of the foot. tendon passes behind the internal malleohis, in a groove, common to it and tlie Tibialis posticus, but separated from tlie latter by a fibrous septum each tendon being contained in Fig. 548.—Muscles of the back of the leg. Deep layer. FemarM I' Inner Condyle OuieA ' Cortdi//ei a special sheath lined by a separate synovial membrane. It passes obliquely forwards and outwards, superficial to tiie mternal lateral hga- ment, into the sole of the foot (fig. 550), where it crosses tlie tendon of the Flexor longus hallucis,* lying on its plantar aspect and receiving from it a strong tendinous slip. It then becomes expanded and is joined by the Flexor accessorius, and finally divides into four tendons, which are inserted into the bases of the last phalanges of the four lesser toes, each tendon passing through an opening in the corresponding tendon of the Flexor brevis digitorum oi)posite the base of the first phalanx. 'V Relations.—In the leg this muscle is in relation by its superficial surface with the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, and the deep transverse fascia which separates it fi'om the Soleus ; by its deep surface, with the tibia and Tibialis posticus. In the foot, it is covered by the Abductor hallucis and Flexor brevis digitorum, and crosses superficial to the Flexor longus hallucis. The Tibialis posticus (m. tibialis posterior) lies between the two preceding muscles, and is the most deeply seated of all the muscles in the leg. It commences above by two pointed pro- cesses, separated by an angular interval, through which the anterior tibial vessels pass forwards to the front of the leg. It arises from the M'hole of the posterior surface of the interosseous membrane, excepting its lowest part; from the outer portion of the posterior surface of the shaft of the tibia, between the commencement of the oblique line above and the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the shaft below; and from the upper two-thirds of the internal surface of the filjula; some fibres also arise from the deep transverse fascia, and from the intermuscular septa separating it fi'om the adjacent muscles on either side. In the lower fourth of the leg it passes in front of the Flexor longus digitorum and terminates in a tendon, which lies in a groove behind the inner malleolus, with the tendon of that muscle, but enclosed in a separate sheath ; it then passes through another sheath, over the internal lateral liga- ment into the foot, and then beneath the inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament. The ten- don contains a sesamoid fibro-cartilage. as it runs under the inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament. It is inserted into the tuberosity of the navicular bone, and gives olT fibrous expan- sions, one of which passes backwards to tiie sustentaculum tali of the os calcis. others forwards and outwards to the tiirce cuneiforms, the cuboid, and the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones.585 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE OP THE LEG Relations.—The Tibialis posticus is in relation by its superficial surface with the Soleus, from which it is separated by the deep transverse fascia, the Flexor longus digitorum, the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, and the peroneal vessels ; by its deep surface, with the interosseous ligament, the tibia, fibula, and ankle-joint. Nerves.—The Popliteus is supplied by the fourth and fifth lumbar, and first sacral nerves, through the internal popUteal nerve; the Flexor longus digitorum and Tibialis posticus by the fifth lumbar and first sacral, and the Flexor longus hallucis by the fifth lumbar, and the first and second sacral nerves, througli the posterior tibial nerve. Actions.—The Popliteus assists in flexing the leg upon the thigh ; when the leg is flexed, it will rotate the tibia inwards. It is especially called into action at the beginning of the act of bending the knee, inasmuch as it produces the slight inward rotation of the tibia which is essential in the early stage of this movement. The Tibialis posticus is a direct extensor of the foot at the ankle joint; acting in conjunction with the Tibialis anticus, it turns the sole of the foot inwards (i.e. inverts the foot), antagonising the Peronei, which turn it outwards (evert it). In the sole of the foot the tendon of the Tibialis posticus lies directly below the inferior calcaneo-na^'icular ligament, and is therefore an important factor in maintaining the arch of the foot. The Flexor longus digitorum and Flexor longus hallucis are the direct flexors of the phalanges, and, continuing their action, extend the foot upon the leg; they assist the Gastrocnemius and Soleus in extending the foot, as in the act of walking, or in standing on tiptoe. Tn consequence of the oblique direction of the tendon of the Flexor longus digitorum, the toes would be drawn inwards, were it not for the Flexor accessorius muscle, \yhich is inserted into the outer side of its tendon, and draws it to the middle line of the foot during its action. Taldng their fixed point from the foot, these muscles serve to maintain the upright posture by steadying the tibia and fibida perpendicularly upon the ankle-joint. They also serve to raise these bones from the oblique position they assume in the stooping posture. 7. Fibular region Peroneus longus. Peroneus brevis. The Peroneus longus is situated at the upper part of the outer side of the leg, and is the more superficial of the two muscles. It arises from the head and upper two-tliii'ds of the outer surface of the shaft of the fibula, from the deep surface of the fascia, and from the intermuscular septa between it and the muscles on the front and back of the leg : occasionally also by a few fibres from the outer tuberosity of the tibia. Between its attach- ments to the head and to the shaft of the fibula there is a small area of bone from which no muscular fibres arise ; here the external popUteal nerve passes beneath the muscle. It termuiates in a long tendon, which runs behind the outer malleolus, in a groove common to it and the tendon of the Peroneus brevis, behuid which it hes; the gi-oove is converted into a canal by a fibrous band, and the tendons in it are invested by a common synovial membrane. The tendon then extends obliquely forwards across the outer side of the OS calcis, below the peroneal tubercle, in a separate fibrous sheath lined by a prolongation of the synovial membrane which lines the groove behind the malleolus. It crosses the outer side of the cuboid, and then runs on the under surface of that bone in a groove, which is converted into a canal by the long calcaneo-cuboid ligament and lined by a synovial membrane : the tendon then crosses the sole of the foot obliquely, and" is inserted into the outer side of the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe and the outer side of the mternal cuneiform. Occasionally it sends a sHp to the base of the second meta- tarsal bone. The tendon changes its direction at t-^A'o points : first, behind the external malleolus ; secondly, on the outer side of the cuboid bone ; in both of these situations the tendon is thickened, and, in the latter, a sesamoid fibro-cartilage, or sometimes a bone, is usually developed in its substance. The Peroneus brevis Hes under cover of the Peroneus longus, and is a shorter and smaller muscle. It arises from the lower two-thu-ds of the external surface of the shaft of the fibula, internal to the Peroneus lon<^us ;MYOLOGY 586 and from the intermuscular septa separating it from the adjacent muscles on the front and back part of the leg. The fibres pass vertically downwards, and terminate in a tendon which runs in front of that of the preceding muscle, through the same groove behind the external malleolus, in the same fibrous sheath, and lubricated by the same synovial membrane. It then passes tlirougli a separate sheath on the outer side of the os calcis, above that for the tendon of the Peroneus longus, the two tendons being here separated bj'^ the peroneal tubercle, and is finally inserted into the tuberosity at the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, on its outer side. Nerves.—The Peronei longus et brevis are supplied by the fourth and fifth lumbar and first sacral nerves through the niusculo-cutaneous branch of the external poi^liteal nerve. Actions.—The Peronei longus et brevis extend the foot upon the leg, in conjunction with the Tibialis posticus, antagonising the TibiaUs auticus and Peroneus tertius, which are flexors of the foot. The Peroneus longus also everts the sole of the foot, and from the oblique direction of the tendon across the sole of the foot is an important agent in the maintenance of the transverse arch. Taking their fixed points below, the Peronei serve to steady the leg upon the foot. This is especially the case in standing upon one leg, when the tendency of the super- incumbent weight is to throw the leg inwards: the Peroneus longus overcomes this tendency by drawing on the outer side of the leg, and thus maintains the perpendicular direction of the limb. Applied Anatomy.—The student should now consider the position of the tendons of the various muscles of the leg, their relation with the ankle-joiat and surrounding blood- vessels, and especially their actions upon the foot, as their rigidity and contraction give rise to one or other of the kinds of deformity loiown as club fool. The most simple and common deformity, and one that is rarely, if ever, congenital, is talipes equinus, the heel being raised by rigidity and contraction of the Gastrocnemius so that the patient walks upon the haU of the foot. In talipes varus, the foot is forcibly adducted and the inner side of the sole raised, sometimes to a right angle with the ground, by the action of the Tibiales anticus and posticus. In talipes valgus, the outer edge of the foot is raised by the Peronei, and the patient walks on the inner anlde. In talipes calcaneus tlie toes are raised by the Extensor muscles, the heel is depressed and the patient walks upon it. Other varieties of deformity are met with, as talipes equinovanis, equinovalgm, and calcaneovalgus, whose names sufficiently indicate their nature. Of these, taUpes equinovarus is the most common congenital form ; the heel is raised by the tendo AchiUis, the inner border of the foot di-awn upwards by the TibiaUs anticus, the anterior two-thirds twisted inwards by the TibiaUs posticus, and the arch increased by the con- traction of the plantar fascia, so that the patient walks on the middle of the outer border of the foot. Each of these deformities may sometimes be successfully reUeved by di\Tsion of the opposing tendons and fascia: by this means the foot regains its proper position, and the tendons heal by the organisation of lymph thro-mi out between the divided ends. The operation is easily performed by puttmg the contracted tendon upon the stretch, and dividing it by means of a narrow, sharp-pointed knife inserted beneath it. Rupture of a few of the fibres of the Gastrocnemius, or rupture of the Plantans tendon, not uncommonlv occurs, especiaUy in men somewhat advanced m life, from some sudden exertion, and frequently occurs during the game of lawn tennis, and is hence known as ' lawn-tennis leg.' Tlie accident is accompanied by a sudden pain, and produces a sensation as if the mdividual had been struck a violent blow on the part. The tendo AchiUis is also sometimes ruptured. It is stated that John Hunter ruptured his tendo Achillis while dancing, at the age of forty. The bursa beneath the tendo Achillis, between it and tue posterior surface of the os"calcis, sometimes becomes inflamed, especiaUy m pedestrians and ' long-distance ' walkers. It causes great and disabUng pain, and entirely prevents the sufferer from continuing his walk. IV. Muscles and Fasci.=e of the Foot The fibrous bands, or thickened portions of the fascia of the leg, which bind dovra tlio tendons in front of and behind the ankle in their passage to the foot, are termed tiic annular ligaments, and are three in number—anterior, internal and external. The anterior annular ligament (fig. 546) consists of a superior or tran>^ verse portion, which binds down the Extensor tendons as they descend on the front of the tibia and fibula ; and an inferior or Y-shnped portion, whi.' retains them in connection with the tarsus, the two portions being joino bv a thin intervening laver of fascia. The transverse por ion is attnchr i externaUy to the lower end of the fibula and internally to the tibia ; abo^i.MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE FOOT 587 it is continuous with the fascia of the leg ; it contains one synovial sheath for the tendon of tlie Tibiahs anticus ; the other tendons and the anterior tibial vessels and nerve joass beneatli it, but without any synovial sheaths. The Y-shaped portion is placed in front of the ankle-joint, the stem of the Y being attached externally to the ujDper surface of the os calcis, in front of the depression for the interosseous ligament; it is directed inwards as a double layer, one lamina passing in front of, and the other behind, the tendons of the Peroneus tertius and Extensor longus digitorum. At tlie inner border of the latter tendon these two layers join together, forming a sheatli in which tlie tendons are enclosed, surrounded by a synovial membrane. From the imier extremity of tin's slieath the two limbs of the Y diverge : one is directed upwards and inwards, to be attached to tlie internal malleolus, passing over the Extensor proprius liallucis and the vessels and nerves, but enclosing tlie Tibialis anticus and its synovial sheath by a splitting of its fibres. The other limb extends downwards and inwards to be attached to the inner border of the plantar fascia, and passes over the tendons of the Extensor proprius hallucis and Tibialis anticus and also the vessels and nerves. Tliese two tendons are contained in separate synovial sheaths situated beneath the ligament. The internal annular ligament is a strong fibrous band, which extends from the internal malleolus above to the margin of the os calcis beloM-, converting a series of grooves in this situation into canals, for the passage of the tendons of the Flexor muscles and the posterior tibial vessels and nerve into the sole of the foot. It is continuous by its upper border with the deep fascia of the leg, and by its lower border with the jilantar fascia and the fibres of origin of the Abductor hallucis muscle. The four canals which it forms transmit, from within outwards, the tendon of the Tibialis posticus ; the tendon of the Flexor longus digitorum ; the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, which run tlirough a broad space beneath the Hgament; and lastly, in a canal formed partly by the astragalus, the tendon of the Flexor longus hallucis. The canals for the tendons are lined bj'^ separate synovial membranes. The external annular ligament extends from the extremity of the external malleolus to the outer sui-face of the os calcis : it binds down the tendons of the Peronei longus et brevis in their passage beneath the outer ankle. The two tendons are enclosed in one synovial sheath. 8. Dcyrsal Region (fig. 546) Extensor brevis digitorum. The fascia on the dorsum of the foot (fascia dorsaHs pedis) is a thin membranous layer, continuous above with the anterior margin of the lower part of the annular ligament; on either side it blends with the lateral portions of the plantar fascia; anteriorly it forms a sheath for the tendons on the dorsum of the foot. The Extensor brevis digitorum (fig. 546) is a broad, thin muscle, which arises from the fore part of the upper and outer sui-faces of the os calcis, in front of the groove for the Peroneus brevis ; from the external calcaneo- astragaloid ligament; and from the common limb of the Y-shaped portion of the anterior annular ligament. It passes obliquely across the dorsum of the foot, and terminates in four tendons. The iimermost, which is the largest, is inserted into the dorsal surface of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, crossing the dorsalis pedis artery; the other three, into the outer sides of the long Extensor tendons of the second, tlurd, and fourth toes. Nerves.—It is supplied by the anterior tibial nerve. Actions.—The Extensor brevis digitormn extends the phalanges of the four inner toes, but in the great toe acts only on the first phalanx. The obliquity of its direction coimteracts the oblique movement given to the toes by the long Extensor, so that when both muscles act, the toes are evenly extended". 9. Plantar Region The plantar fascia (aponeurosis plantaris) is of great strength, and consists of pearly-white glistening fibres, disposed, for the most part, longitudinally: it is divided into a central and two lateral portions.MYOLOGY 588 * That is, in the order of dissection of tlie sole of the foot. The central portion, the thickest, is narrow behind and attaclied to the inuei- tubercle of the os calcis, posterior to the origin of the Flexor brevis digitoruin ; and becoming broader and thinner in front, divides near the heads of tlie metatarsal bones into five processes, one for each of the toes. Each of these processes divides opposite the metatarso-phalangeal articulation into two strata, supei'ficial and deep. The superficial stratum Ls inserted into the skin of the transverse sulcus which separates the toes from the sole. The deeper stratum divides into two slips which embrace the side of the Flexor tendons of the toes, and blend with the sheaths of the tendons, and laterally W'ith the transverse metatarsal ligament, thus forming a series of arclies through which the tendons of the short and long Flexors pass to the toes. The intervals left between the five processes allow the digital vessels and nerves, and the tendons of the Lumbricales to become superficial. At the point of division of the fascia, numerous transverse fibres (fascicuh trans- versi) are superadded, which serve to increase the strength of the fascia at this part by binding the processes together, and connecting them with the integument. The central portion of the plantar fascia is continuous with tlie lateral portions at either side, and sends upwards into the foot, at the lines of junction, two strong vertical intermuscular septa, broader in front than behind, which separate the middle from the external and internal plantar group of muscles ; from these again are derived thinner transverse septa which separate the various layers of muscles in this region. The upper surface of this fascia gives attachment behind to the Flexor brevis digitorum. The lateral portions of the plantar fascia are thinner than the central piece, and cover the sides of the foot. The outer portion covers the under surface of the Abductor minimi digiti; it is thin in front and thiclc behind, where it forms a strong band between the outer tubercle of the os calcis and the base of the fifth metatarsal bone ; it is continuous internally with the middle portion of the plantar fascia, and externally with the dorsal fascia. The inner portion is thin, and covers the under aspect of the Abductor haUucis ; it is attached behind to the internal annular ligament, and is continuous around the side of the foot with the dorsal fascia, and externally with the middle portion of the plantar fascia. The muscles in the j)lantar region of the foot may be divided into tlu-ee groups, in a similar manner to those in the hand. Those of the mternal plantar region are connected with the great toe, and correspond -n-ith those of the thumb ; those of the external plantar region are connected with the little toe, and correspond with those of the little fuiger ; and those of the middle plantar region are connected with the tendons intervening between the two former groups. But in order to facilitate the description of these muscles, it will be found more convenient to divide them into four layers, in the order in Mhich they are successively exposed. First Layer (fig. 549) Abductor liallucis. Flexor brevis digitorum. Abductor minimi digiti. The Abductor hallucis lies along the inner border of the foot and covers the origins of the plantar vessels and nerves. It arises from the inner tubercle on the under surface of the os calcis'; from the internal amiular ligament ; from the plantar fascia covering it; and from the intermuscular septum between it and the Flexor brevis digitorum. The fibres terminate in a tendon, which is inserted, together with the innermost tendon of the Flexor brexns hallucis, into the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. The Flexor brevis digitorum lies in the middle of the sole of the foot, immediately beneath * the central part of the plantar fascia, with which it is firmly united. Its deep surface is separated from the external plantar vessels and nerves by a thin layer of fascia. It arises by a narrow tendinous process, from the inner tubercle of the os calcis, from the central part of the589 MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE FOOT plantar fascia, and from the intermuscular septa between it and the adjacent muscles. It passes forwards, and divides into four tendons, one for eacli of the four outer toes. Opposite the bases of the first phalanges, each tendon divides into two slips, to allow of the passage of tlie corresponding tendon of the Flexor longus digitorum ; the two portions of the tendon then unite and form a grooved channel for the reception of the accompanying long Flexor tendon." Finally, it divides a second time, to be inserted into the sides of the second phalanx about its middle. The mode of division of the tendons of the Flexor brevis digitorum, and of their insertion into the phalanges, is analogous to that of the tendons of Fig. 549.—Muscles of the sole of the foot. First layer. the Flexor subliinis digitorum in the hand. Fibrous sheaths of the Flexor tendons.—Tliese are not so well marked as in the fingers. The Flexor tendons of the toes as they run along the phalanges are retained against the bones by fibrous sheaths. These sheaths are formed by strong fibrous bands, which arch across the tendons, and are attached on each side to the margins of the phalanges. Opposite the middle of tlie proximal and second phalanges the sheath is very strong, and the fibres pass transversely; but opposite the joints it is much thinner, and the fibres are directed obliquely. Each sheath is lined by a synovial membrane, ^vhich is reflected on the contained tendon. The Abductor minimi digiti (m. abductor quinti digiti) lies along the outer border of the foot, and is in relation by its inner margin with the external plantar vessels and nerves. It arises, by a very broad origin, from the outer tubercle of the os calcis, from the under surface of the os calcis between the two tubercles, from the fore part of the inner tubercle, from the plantar fascia, and from the intermuscular septum between it and the Flexor brevis digitorum. Its tendon, after gliding over a smooth facet on the under sur- face of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, is inserted, with the short Flexor of the little toe, into the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of this toe. Second Layer (fig. 550) Flexor accessorius. Lumbricales. The Flexor accessorius (m. quad- rats? plantae) is separated from the muscles of the first layer by the external plantar vessels and nerves. It a,rises by two heads, M-hich are separated from each other by the long plantar ligament : the inner or larger, which is muscular, is attached to the inner concave surface of the os calcis, below the groove which lodges the tendon of the Flexor longus hallucis ; the outer head, flat and tendinous, to the outer border of the inferior surface of tlie os calcis, in front of its lesser tubercle, and to the long plantar ligament. The two portions join at an acute angle, and are inserted into the outer margin and upper and under surfaces of the tendon590 MYOLOGY of the Flexor longus digitorum, forming a kind of groove, in which the tendon is lodged.* The Lumbricales are four small muscles, accessory to the tendons of the Flexor longus digitorum : they arise from the tendons of the long Flexor, as far back as tiieir angles of division, each arising from two tendons, except Fia. 550.—Muscles of the sole of the foot. Second layer. Fia. 551.—Muscles of the sole of the foot. Third layer. the innermost. Each muscle ends in a tendon, which passes for\\ards on the inner side of the four lesser toes, and is inserted into the expansion of the long Extensor tendon on the dorsum of the first phalanx of the corres]X)nding toe. Third Layer (fig. 551) Flexor brevis hallucis. Adductor transversus hallucis. Adductor obliquus hallucis. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. The Flexor brevis hallucis arises, bv a pointed tendinous process, from the inner part of the under surface of the cuboid bone, from the contiguous * Turner pointed out that the fibres of the Flexor accessorius end in aponeurotic bands, which contribute slips to the second, third, and fourth digits.591 MUSCLES AND FASCLE OP THE FOOT portion of tlie external cuneiform, and from the prolongation of the tendon of the Tibialis posticus whicli is attached to that bone. The muscle divides in front into two portions, which are inserted into tlie inner and outer sides of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, a sesamoid bone being developed in each tendon at its insertion. The inner portion of this muscle is blehded with the Abductor hallucis previous to its insertion ; the outer with the Adductor obliquus hallucis ; the tendon of the Flexor longus hallucis lies in a groove between them. The Adductor obliquus hallucis is a large, thick, fleshy mass, passing obliquely across the foot, and occupying the hollow space between the inner four metatarsal bones. It arises from the tarsal extremities of the second, tliird, and fourth metatarsal bones, and from the sheath of the tendon of the Peroneus longus, and is inserted, together with the outer portion of the Flexor brevis hallucis, into the outer side of tlie base of the fii-st phalanx of the great toe. The Adductor transversus hallucis {Tmnsversus 'pedis) is a narrow, flat, muscular fasciculus, stretched transversely across the heads of the metatarsal bones, between them and the Flexor tendons. It arises from the inferior metatarso-phalangeal ligaments of the three outer toes, sometimes only from the third and fourth, and from the transverse ligament of the metatarsus. It is inserted into the outer side of the base of the fii'st phalanx of the great toe, its fibres being blended with the tendon of insertion of the Adductor obliquus hallucis. The small muscles of the gi-eat toe, the Abductor, Flexor brevis. Adductor obliquus, and Adductor transversus, like the similar muscles of the thumb, give off, at their insertions, fibrous expansions to blend with the long Extensor tendons. The Flexor brevis minimi digiti (m. flexor brevis digiti quinti) lies on the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and much resembles one of the Inter- ossei. It arises from the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and from the sheath of the Peroneus longus ; its tendon is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little toe on its outer side. Occasionally some of the deeper fibres of the muscle are inserted into the outer part of the distal half of the fifth metatarsal bone ; these are described by some as a distinct muscle, the Opponens minimi digiti. Fourth Layer (figs. 552, 553) Interossei. The Interossei in the foot are similar to those in the hand, with this exception, that they are gi-ouped around the middle line of the second digit, instead of that of the third. They are seven in number, and consist of two groups, dorsal and plantar. The Dorsal interossei (inter ossei dorsales) (fig. 552), four in number, are situated between the metatarsal bones. They are bipenniform muscles, arising by two heads from the adjacent sides of the metatarsal bones between which they are placed ; their tendons are inserted into the bases of the first phalanges, and into the aponeurosis of the common Extensor tendon. In the angular interval left between the heads of each of the three outer muscles, one of the perforating arteries passes to the dorsum of the foot; through tlie space between the heads of the First interosseous muscle the communicating branch of the dorsalis pedis artery enters the sole of the foot. The First dorsal mterosseous muscle is inserted into the inner side of the second toe ; the other three are inserted into the outer sides of the second, tliird, and fourth toes. The Plantar interossei (interossei plantares) (fig. 553), tlu-ee in number, lie beneath rather than between the metatarsal bones, and each is connected with but one metatarsal bone. They arise from the bases and inner sides of the shafts of the thii'd, fourth, and'fifth metatarsal bones, and are inserted into the inner sides of the bases of the first phalanges of the same toes, and into the aponeuroses of the common Extensor tendons. Nerves.—The Flexor brevis digitorum, the Flexor brevis and Abductor hallucis, and the innermost Lumbrical are supphed by the internal plantar nerve; all592 MYOLOGY the other muscles in the sole of the foot by the external plantar. The First dorsal interosseous muscle frequently receives an extra filament from the internal branch of the anterior tibial nervo on the dorsum of the foot, and the Second dorsal interosseous a twig from tlie external branch of the same nerve. Actions.—All the muscles of the foot act upon the toes, and in describing their action they may be grouped as Abductors, Adductors, Flexors, or Extensors. The abductors are the Dorsal interossei, the Abductor hallucis, and the Abductor minimi digiti. The Dorsal interossei are abductors from an imaginary line passing through the axis of the second toe, so that the finst muscle draws the second toe inwards, towards the great toe, the second muscle draws the same toe outwards, the third draws the third toe, and the fourth draws the fourth toe in the same direction. Like the Interossei in the hand, each assists in flexing the proximal phalanx and extending the two terminal phalanges. The Abductor hallucis abducts the great toe from the others, and also flexes the proximal phalanx of this toe. In the same way the action of the Abductor minuni digiti is two- fold, as an abductor of this toe from the others, and also as a flexor of its proximal phalanx. The adductors are the Plantar interossei, the Adductor obliquus Fig. 552.—^The Dorsal interossei. Left foot. Fig. 553.—^The Plantar interossei. Left foot. hallucis and the Adductor transversus hallucis. The Plantar mterosseous muscles' addnct the third, fourth, and fifth toes towards the imagmary line passing through the second toe, and by means of their insertions into the aponeuroses of the Extensor tendons they assist in flexing the proximal phalanges and extending the middle and terminal phalanges. The Adductor obliquus hallucLs is chiefly concerned in adducting the great toe towards the second one, but also assists in flexing this toe. The Adductor transversus hallucis approximates all the toes and thus increases the curve of the transverse arch of the metatersus. The flexors are the Flexor brevis digitorum, the Flexor accessonus, the i^lexor brevis hallucis, the Flexor brevis minimi digiti, and the Lumbricales ilie Flexor brevis digitorum flexes the second phalanges upon the hrst, and, continuing its action, flexes the first phalanges also, and brings the tof together The Flexor accessorius assists the long Flexor of the toes and converts the oblique pull of the tendons of that muscle into a direct backward pull upon the t«es. Ihc Fkxor brevis minimi digiti flexes the little toe and draws its metatarsal bone doN - waks and inwards. The Lumbricales, like the corresponding muse es in the IZt aSt in flexing the proximal phalanges, and by their insertions into the longSURFACE FORM OF MUSCLES OF LOWER EXTREMITY 593 Extensor tendons aid that muscle in straightening the middle and terminal phalanges. The only muscle in the extensor group is the Extensor brevis digitorum. It extends the first phalanx of the great toe and assists the long Extensor in extending the next three toes, and at the same time gives to the toes an outward direction when they are extended. Surface Form.—The skin of the thigh, especially above in the hollow of the groin and on the inner side, is thin, smooth, and elastic, and contains few hairs, except in the neigh- bourhood of the pubes. Towards the outer side it becomes thicker, and the hahs are more numerous. The skin over the buttock is also fairly thick, with low sensibility and vascularity. As a rule, it is destitute of conspicuous hairs, except towards the post-anal furrow, where, in some males, an abundant development of hair is present. The skin over the front of the knee is covered by thickened epidermis ; it is loose and thrown into transvei"se wrinkles when the leg is extended : that of the leg is thin, especially on the inner side, and covered with numerous large hairs. On the dorsum of the foot the skin is thin, loosely connected to subjacent parts, and contains few hairs. On the sole, and especially the heel, the epidermis is of great thickness, and here, as in the palm of the hand, there are no hairs or sebaceous follicles. Of the muscles of the thigh, those of the anterior femoral region largely contribute to the surface form of this part of the limb. The Tensor fascioB femoris produces a broad elevation immediately below the anterior portion of the crest of the ilium and behind the anterior superior spinous process. From its lower border, a longitudinal groove, corre- sponding to the ilio-tibial band, extends to the outer side of the knee-joint. The Sartorius, when it is brought into action by flexing the leg on the thigh, and the thigh on the pelvis, and rotating the thigh outwards, presents a well-marked surface form. At its upper part, where it constitutes the outer boimdary of Scarpa's triangle, it forms a prominent oblique ridge, which becomes changed into a flattened plane below, and this gradually merges in a general fulness on the inner side of the knee-joint. When the Sartorius is not in action, a depression exists between the Quadriceps extensor and the Adductor muscles, and extends obUquely downwards and inwards from the apex of Scarpa's triangle to the inner side of the knee. In the angle formed by the divergence of the Sartorius and Teasor fascia? femoris muscles, just below the anterior superior spine of the ilium, the Rectus femoris muscle appears, and, below this, determines to a great extent the convex form of the front of the tliigh. In a well-developed subject, the borders of the muscle, when in action, can be clearly defined. The Vastus externus forms a long flattened plane on the outer side of the thigh, traversed by the longitudinal groove formed by the ilio-tibial band. The Vasliis internm, on the inner side of the lower half of the thigh, gives rise to a considerable prominence, which mcreases towards the knee and terminates somewhat abruptly in this situation with a full, curved outline. The CrurexLS and Subcrureus are completely hidden, and do not directly influence surface form. The Adductor muscles, constituting the internal femoral group, cannot be distinguished from each other, with the exception of the upper tendon of the Adductor longus and the lower tendon of the .4dductor magnus. When the Adductor longus is in action its upper tendon stands out a,s a prominent ridge, which runs obliquely downwards and outwards from the neighbour- hood of the pubic spine, and forms the inner boundary of Scarpa's triangle. The lower tendon of the Adductor magnus can be distinctly felt as a short ridge extenduig Aovm to the adductor tubercle on the internal condyle, between the Sartorius and Vastus internus. The Adductor group of muscles fills in the triangular space at the upper part of the thigh, between the oblique femur and the pelvis, and to them is due the contour of the inner border of the thigh, the Gracilis largely contributing to the smoothness of the outline. These muscles are not marked olT on the surface from the hamstrings by any intermuscular depression ; but on the outer side of the thigh the latter are defined from the Vastus externus by a distinct marking, ooiTcsponding to the external intermuscular septum. The Glutem maximus, and the Gbiteus medius in its upper part, are the only muscles of the buttock which influence surface form. The lower part of the Gluteus medms, the Gluteus minimus, and the External rotators are completely hidden. The Gluteus maximus forms the full rounded outline of the buttock ; it is more prominent behind, compressed in front, and terminates at its tendinous insertion in a depression immediately behind the great trochanter. Its lower border does not correspond to the gluteal fold, but is much more obhque, being marked by a line drawn from the side of the coccyx to tlie junction of the upper with the middle thhd of the thigh on the outer side. From beneath the lower margin of this muscle the Hamstring muscles appear, at first narrow and not well marked, but, as they descend, tliey become more prominent, and eventuaUy divide into two well-marked ridges formed by their tendons, which constitute the upper boundaries of the popliteal space. In the upper part of the thigh these muscles cannot be individually distinguished from each other ; but lower do%vn, the separation between the Semi- tendinosus and Semimembranosus is denoted by a slight intermuscular marking. The external hamstring tendon formed by the Biceps is seen as a thick cord running down to the head of the fibula. The inner hamstring tendons comprise the Semitendinosus and the Semimembranosus. The Semitendinosus is the more internal, and can be felt, in oertnin Q QMYOLOGY 594 positions of the limb, as a sharp cord, while the Semimembranosus is thick. The OraciUn is situated a little in front of them. The Tibialis anlicus presents a fusiform enlargement at the outer side of the tibia, and projoets beyond the crest of the shin bone. From the muscular mass, its tendon may be traced downward, standing out boldly, when tlie muscle is in action, on the front of the tibia and ankle-joint, and coursing down along the inner border of the foot to its insertion. The fleshy libres of the Peroneus longus are strongly marked at the upper part of the outer side of the leg, especiaUy when the muscle is in action. It forms a bold swelling, separated by furrows from the Extensor longus digitorum in front and the Soleus behind. Below, the fleshy fibres terminate abruptly in a tendon which overlaps the more flattened form of the Peroneus brevis. Below the external malleolus the tendon of the Peroneus brovis is more marked than that of the Peroneus longus. On the dorsum of the foot the tendons emerging from beneath the anterior annular ligament spread out, and can be distinguished, as follows : the innermost and largest is the Tibialis anticus; the next is the Extensor proprius hallucis ; then the Extensor longus digitorum, dividing into four tendons to the four outer toes ; and lastly, the Peroneus tertius. The flattened form of the dorsum of the foot is relieved by the rounded outline of the fleshy belly of the Extensor brevis digitorum, which produces a fulness on the outer side of the tarsus in front of the external malleolus, and by the Dorsal interossei, which bulge between the metatarsal bones. At the back of the knee is the popliteal space, bounded above by the tendons of the Hauistnng muscles ; below, by the two heads of the Gastrocnemius. Below this space is the promi- nent fleshy mass of the calf of the leg, produced by the Gastrocnemius and Soleus. When these muscles are in action, as in standing on tiptoe, the borders of the Gastrocnemius are well defined, presenting two curved lines, which converge to the tendon of mscrtion. Ut these borders, the inner is more prominent than the outer. The fleshy mass of the call terminates somewhat abniptly below in the tendo Achillis. which stands out prominently on the lower part of the back of the leg. It presents a somewhat tapering form m the upper three-fourths of its extent, but widens out slightly below. When the mu.scles ot tlie calf are in action, the lateral portions of the Soleus may be seen, forming curved cniinences, of which the outer is the longer, on either side of the Giustrocnemuis. Behind the inner border of the lower part of the shaft of the tibia, a well-marked ridge, produced by the tendon of the Tibialis posticus, is visible when this muscle is ni a state ot contraction. , . ., c c tko On the sole of the foot the superficial layer of muscles inHucnces surfacx* form, ine Abductor minimi dic/iti forms a narrow rounded cle\ ation along the outer border ot tiie foot, while the Abductor hallucis does tlie same, though to a less extent, on the inner siae The Flexor brevis digitorum, bound down by the plantar fa-scia, is not \ ery apparent; n produces a flattened form, and is covered by the thickened skin of the sole, which is htrc tlnown into numerous wrinkles.APPLIED ANATOMY OF MUSCLES OP LOWER EXTREMITY 596 Applied Anatomy.—The student should now consider the effects produced by the action of the various muscles in fractures of the bones of the lower extremity. The more common forms of fracture are selected for illustration and description. In fracture of the neck of the femur internal to the capsular ligament (fig. 554), the characteristic signs are sliglit shortening of the limb, and eversion of the foot, neither of which occurs, however, in some cases until some time after the injury. The eversion is caused by the weight of the limb rotating it outwards. The shortening is produced by the action of the Glutei, and by the Rectus femoris in front, and the Biceps, Semitendinosus and Semimembranosus behind. In fracture of the femur just helow the trochanters (fig. 555), the upper fragment is tilted forwards almost at right angles with the pelvis, by the lUo-psoas ; and, at the same time, everted and drawn outwards by the external rotator muscles and Glutei causing a marked prommence at the upper and outer side of the thigh, and much pain from the bruising and laceration of the muscles. The limb is shortened, because the lower Fig. 555.—Fracture of the femur below the trochanters. Fia. 556.—Fractui-e of the femur above the condyles. Fig. 557.—Fracture of the patella. Semimembranosus Semitendinosus fragment is drawn upwards by the Rectus in front, and the Biceps, Semunembranosus and Semitendmosus behind • it is, at the same time, everted. This fracture maybe reduced by relaxation of aU the muscles involved to effect which the Umb should be put up with the thigh flexed on the pelvis and the leg on the thigh. Oblique fracture of the femur" immediateh, above the condyles (fig. 556) is a formidable injury, and attended \yith considerable displacement. On examination of the limb, the lower fragment may bo felt deep in the popUteal space, bemg dra-wn backwards by the Gastrocnemius, and upwards by the Hamstring and Rectus muscles. The pomted end of the upper fi-agment is dra%vn inwards by the the Psoas and Tlinn,,. • ■ ^t?,'^^'^?,"^ '^"d Adductor muscles, and tilted forwards by RelaxXn^f ' ^"'i'""^ the Rectus muscle, and occasionally the integument effSbvnlacinrtt T"f^'' "''f^ approximation of the broken fragments are keeping tL"^ poiXd e« inclmed plane. The greatest care is fequisile in after imion of tKac^rr/h^ ^ upper fragment in proper position; otherwise, the Rectus muscle beW ifll.^ ? extension of the limb is partially destroyed, when Sted befn^XL fractured end of the bone, and the patilla ^ tmn~»T^ . ^ upwards agamst the projecting fragment. ^ action of ^rOuad'rWn" 1 ^"'ff ^'^^^ i^^grnZnt. are separated by the the extent of stpaStion oflbTr ""f *^ f'^'T ^^'^ P^^^ ' the ligamentou'Cirs'a'rLd ?htC ^^^^"^^^ "^"'^ ^'^'^^ obliquct'fZ awrdo^vil^^^^^^^ ft'.ken place ,y ben-"th ^ ^^Xl ^^l^ Q Q 2MYOLOGY 596 fracture a compound one. If the direction of the fracture is the reverse of that shown in the figure, the pointed extremity of the lower fragment projects forwards, rising up on the lower end of the upper one. By bending the knee, which relaxes the opposing muscles, and making extension from the ankle and counter-extension at the knee, the fragments may be brought into apposition. It is sometimes necessary, however, in compound FiO. 558.—Oblique fracture of the shaft of the tibia. Fig. 559.—Fracture of the fibula, with dislocation of the foot outwards—' Pott's fracture.' fracture to remove a portion of the projectmg bone ^x^th the saw before complete adaptation can be eaected. Fracture of the fibula toitli dislocation of the foot uid- M,ords (fig. 559), commonly known as 'Pott's fracture, _is one of the most frequent injuries in the region of the ankle-ioint. The fibula is fractured about three inches above the ankle ; in addition to this the internal ma leolus is broken off, or the deltoid ligament torn through, and the astragalus displaced fi-om the corresponding suxface of the tibia The foot is markedly everted and the sharp edge of the upper end of the fractured maUeolus P/X'^^^^fth^islSr^an'^^^^^ it g-irLt:r- - ftt ftX^:^ the a.kle,oint, and constant supervision is required to counteract this.ANGIOLOGY THE vascular system is divided for descriptive purposes into (a) the blood vascular system, which comprises the heart and blood-vessels for the circulation of the blood ; and {b) the lymph vascular system, consisting of lymphatic glands and vessels, through wliich a colourless fluid, the lymph, circulates. It must be noted, however, that the two systems communicate with each other and ai-e intimately associated developmentally. The heart is the central organ of the blood vascular system, and consists of a hollow muscle ; by its contraction the blood is pumped to all parts of the body tlu'ough a complicated series of tubes, termed arteries. The arteries undergo enormous ramification in their course throughout the body, and end in very minute vessels, called arterioles, which in tlieir turn open into a close- meshed net\\ork of microscopic vessels, termed capillaries. After tlie blood has passed through the capillaries it is collected into a series of larger vessels, called veins, by \\'hich it is again returned to the heart. The passage of the blood through the heart and blood-vessels constitutes what is termed the circulation of the blood, of M'liicli tlie following is an outline.* The human heart is divided by a septum into right and left halves, and each half is further divided into two cavities, an upper termed the auricle and a lower the ventricle. The heart therefore consists of four chambers, two, the right auricle and right ventricle, forming the right half, and two, the left auricle and left ventricle, the left half. The auricles are receiving chambers, and the ventricles distributing ones. The right half of the heart contains venous or impure blood ; the left, arterial or pure blood. From the cavity of the left Ventricle the pure blood is carried into a large artery, tlie aorta, through the numerous branches of which it is distributed to aU parts of the body, with the exception of the lungs. In its passage through the capillaries of the body the blood gives up to the tissues the materials necessary for their growth and nourishment, and at the same time receives from the tissues the waste products resulting from their metabolism. In doing so it becomes changed from arterial into venous blood, wliich is collected by the veins and through them returned to the right auricle of the heart. From this cavity the impure blood passes into the right ventricle, and is thence conveyed through the pulmonary arteries to the lungs. In the capillaries of the lungs it again becomes arteriahsed, and is then carried to the left auricle by the pulmonary veins. From the left auricle it passes into the left ventricle, from wliich the cycle once more begins. The course of the blood from the left ventricle through the body generally to the right side of the heart constitutes the gi-eater or systemic circulation, while its passage from the right ventricle througli the lungs to the left side of the heart is termed the lesser or pulmonary circulation. It is necessary, however, to state that the blood which circulates through the spleen, pancreas, stomach, small intestine, and the greater part of the large intestine is not returned directly from these organs to tlie heart, but is collected into a large vein, termed the portal vein, by which it is carried to the liver. In the liver this vein divides, after the manner of an artery, and ulti- ""ti J ^"^^^ capillary vessels, from which tlie rootlets of a series of veins, called the hepatic veins, arise ; these carry the blood into the inferior vena cava, whence it is conveyed to the right auricle. From this it will be seen that * The composition o£ the blood and the structure of the blood-vessels are described iu the section on Histology.AJS(J1UL0GY the blood contained in the portal vein passes thiougli two sets of capillary vessels : (1) tliose in the spleen, pancreas, stomach, &c., and (2) those in the liver. Speaking generally, the arteries may be said to contain pure, and the veins impure, blood. Tliis is true of the systemic, but not of the pulmonary vessels, since it has been seen that the impure blood is conveyed from the heart to the lungs by the pulmonary arteries, and the pure blood returned from the lungs to the heart by the pulmonary veins. Arteries, therefore, must be defined as vessels which convey blood from the heart, and veins as vessels w hich return blood to the heart. The heart and lungs are situated in the thorax, the walls of which afford them protection. The heart lies bet\veen the two lungs, and is enclosed within a membranous bag, the 'pericardium, while eacli lung is invested by a serous membrane, the pleura. The skeleton of the thorax, and the shape and boundaries of tlie cavity, have already been described (page 202). The cavity of the thorax.—The capacity of the cavity of the thorax does not correspond Avitli its apparent size extei-nally, because (1) the space enclosed by the lower ribs is occuiDied by some of the abdominal viscera ; and (2) the cavity extends above the first rib into the neck. The size of the thoracic cavity is constantly varying during life with the movements of the ribs and Diaphragm, and with the degree of distension of the abdominal viscera. From the collapsed state of the lungs as seen when the thorax is opened in the dead body, it would appear as if the viscera only partly filled the cavity, but during life there is no vacant space, that which is seen after death being filled up by the expanded lungs. The upper opening of the thorax.—The parts which pass through the upper opening of the thorax are, from before backwards in or near the middle line, the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyi'oid muscles, the remains of the thymus gland, the inferior thyroid veins, the trachea, oesophagus, thoracic duct, and the Longus colli muscles ; at the sides, the innominate artery, the left coinmon carotid and left subclavian arteries, the internal mammar3'- and superior inter- costal arteries, the innominate veins, the pneumogastric, cardiac, phi-enic, and sympathetic nerves, the greater part of the anterior primary divisions of the fijst thoracic nerves, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve of the left side. The apex of each lung, covered by the pleura, also projects through this aperture, a little above the level of the anterior end of the first rib. The lower opening of the thorax is wider transversely than from before backwards. It slopes obliquely downwards and backwards, so that the thoracic cavity is much deeper behind than in front. The Diaphragm (see page 501) closes the opening and forms the floor of the thorax. The floor is flatter at the centre than at the sides, and higher on the right side than on the left; in the dead bodv the right side reaches the level of the upper border of the fifth costal cartilage, while the left extends only to the corresponding part of the sixth costal cartilage. From the highest point on each side the floor slopes suddenly downwards to the costal and vertebral attachments of the Diaphragm ; this slope is more marked behind than in front, so that only a narrow space is left between the Diaphragm and the posterior wall of the thorax. The Pericardium The Pericardium (fig. 560) is a conical fibro-serous sac, in which the heart and the roots of the great vessels are contained. It is placed behind the sternum and the cartilages of the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs of the left side, in the mterval between the pleura;. In front, it is separated from the anterior wall of the thorax, m the greater part of its extent, by the lungs and pleura- ; but a small area somewhat variable in size, and usually corresponding with the left half of the lower portion of the gladiolus of the sternum and the inner extremities ot the cartilages of the fourtli and fifth ribs of the left side, comes into direct relation- ship with the chest-wall. The lower extremity of the thymus gland, m tlie child, is in contact with the front of the ui)pcr part of the pericardium. Behind, it rests upon the bronchi, tlie crsophagus, and the descending thoracic aorta. Laleralh/, it is covered by the pleura?, and is in relation with tlie umci599 THE PERICARDIUM surfaces of the lungs ; the phrenic nerve, with its accompanying vessels, descends between the pericardium and pleura on eitlier side. Structure of the Pericardium.—Although tlie pericardium is usually described as a single sac, an examination of its structure shows that it consists essentially of two sacs intimately connected with one another, but totally different in structure. The outer sac, known as the fibrous pericardium; consists of fibrous tissue. The inner sac, or serous pericardium, is composed of a delicate membrane which lies within the fibrous sac and lines its walls ; the heart invaginates the wall of the serous sac fi-om above and behind, and practically obliterates its cavity, tlie space being a potential one, except in front, where a small interspace exists below the apex of the heart. Fig. 560.—Posterior wall of the pericardial sac, showing the lines of reflection of the serous pericardium on the great Te.ssels. Superior vena cava Rif/ht plvrenic nerve Openings of right pulmonary veinn Venous ntesocardium Pericardium Opening of inferior vena cava Line of rejlection of serous pericardium Aorta Pulmonary ar/ery 'Praiisi erse sinus nf pericardium Openings of left pul- monary veins Left phrenic nerve The fibrous pericardium forms a flask-shaped bag, the neck of which is closed by Its fusion with the external coats of the great vessels, while its base IS attached to the central tendon and to the muscular fibres of the left side of the Diaphragm. In some of the lower mammals the base is eitlier completely separated from the Diaphragm or joined to it by some loose areolar tissue ; in man much of its diaphragmatic attachment consists of loose fibrous tissue whicii can be readily broken down, but over a small area the central tendon ot the Diaphragm and the pericardium are completely fused. Above, the tibrous pericardium not only blends with the external coats of the great vessels, but is continuous with the pretracheal layer of the deep cervical fascia. Dv means of these upper and lower connections it is securely anchored within the thoracic cavity. It is also attached to the posterior surface of the sternum Dy two fibrous bands, the superior and inferior sterno-pericardiac ligaments Ihgg. sternopencardiaca); the upper passing to the manubrium, and theANGIOLOGY 600 lower to the ensiform cartilage. On either side of the ascending aorta it sends upwards a diverticulum : the one on the left side, somewhat conical in shape, passes upwards and outwards, between the arcli of the aorta and the pulmonary artery, as far as the obliterated ductus arteriosus, where it terminates in a cajcal extremity which is attaclied by loose connective tissue to the obliterated duct. The one on the right side passes upwards and to the right, between the ascending aorta and vena cava superior, and also terminates in a blind extremity. The vessels receiving fibrous prolongations from this membrane are, the aorta, the superior vena cava, the right and left pulmonary arteries, the four pulmonary veins, and the obliterated ductus arteriosus. The inferior vena cava enters the pericardium through the central tendon of the Diaphragm, and receives no covering from tlie fibrous layer. The serous pericardium is, as already stated, a closed sac which lines the fibrous pericardium and is invaginated by the heart ; it therefore consists of a visceral and a parietal portion. The visceral portion, or epicardium, covers the heart and the great vessels, and from the latter is continuous with the parietal layer which lines the fibrous pericardium. The portion whicli covers the vessels is arranged in the form of two tubes. The aorta and pulnionary artery are enclosed in one tube, the arterial mesocardium-. The superior and inferior venae cavse and the four pulmonary veins are enclosed in a second tube, the venous mesocardium, the attachment of which to the parietal layer presents the shape of an inverted U. Tlie cul-de-sac enclosed between the limbs of the n is known as the oblique sinus, while the passage between the venous and arterial mesocardia—i.e. between the aorta and pulmonary artery in front and the auricles behind—is termed the transverse sinus (sinus trans- versus pericardii). The serous pericardium is smooth and glistening, and secretes a serous fluid, which serves to facilitate the movements of the heart. The vestigial fold of the pericardium. — BetAveen the left pulmonary artery and subjacent pulmonary vein is a triangular fold of the serous peri- cardium ; it is known as the vestigial fold of Marshall. It is formed by the duplicature of the serous layer over the remnant of the lower part of the left superior vena cava (duct of Cuvier), which becomes obliterated after bu-th, and remains as a fibrous band stretchmg from the left superior intercostal vein to the left auricle, where it is continuous with a small vein, the oblique vein of Marshall, which opens into the coronary sinus. The arteries of the pericardium are derived from the internal mammary and its musculo-phrenic branch, and from the descending thoracic aorta. The nerves of the pericardium are derived from the pneumogastrics, the phrenics, and the sympathetic. Applied Anatomy.—The efEusion of fluid into the pericardial sac often occurs in acute rheu- matism or pneumonia, or in patients with chronic vascular and renal disease, embarrassing the heart's action and giving rise to signs of cardiac distress, such as pallor, a rapid and teeble pulse, dyspnoea, and restlessness. On examination, the apical cardiac impulse is absent, or replaced by a more extensive indefinite and wavermg pulsation ; it may appear to be in the second, third, or fourth left space, and is then not an apex-impulse, as Potam has stated, but due to the impact of some portion of the heart-wall nearer its base. In children the precordial mtercostal spaces may bulge outwards. The most striking sign, however, is the great increase m aU directions of the pra>cordial duhiess on percussion 1 his becomes pear-shaped, the stalk of the pear reaching up to about the left sterno-clavicular articu- lation : the dulness also extends some distance to the right of the sternum particularly in the fifth interspace (Rotch). The fluid collects mamly on either side of the heart, and below it, especially on the left side, where the Diaphragm can yield more readily to pressure than it can on the right. Ewart has drawn attention to the presence of a square patd| o dulness over the base of the left lung behind, reachmg up to the level of the nm h or e tti rib, and extending out^^•ards as far as the lower angle of the scapula ; the underlymg lung- tissue gives the physical signs of compression or cohapse. „„,j:„^ Paracentesis of the pericardium is often required to relieve the urgent oard ao oi respiratory distress in these cases, and should be performed without hesitation a- d''e o e the patient is in extremis. It may also be required when t le P<=".^f'^^"'^l' ^^^^^^ tl c blood or pus, and as it is advisable to perform this operation without^ transhMng c pleu'a. the puncture should be made either in the fifth or s xth -J-^^"^^^^^^^^^^^^ loft side and close to the sternum, so as to avoid wounding t'^''"'X%n^^^^^^^ which descends about half an inch from the sternal margin; or the nee^dle '""y ,^^^^^^^ at the left costo-xiphoid angle and made to pass upwards and backwards behind tin lo^^tr601 THE HEART end of the body of the sternum into the pericardial sac. Curschmann,* however, argues that the heart itself necessarily lies almost in contact with the anterior wall of the thorax even in cases of the largest pericardial effusion, so tliat there is risk of piercing it if the puncture is made in the fourth or fifth left intercostal space within even so much as two or three inches of the sternal margin. He therefore advises that in moderately large peri- cardial effusions the trochar should be inserted in the left mamillary line, and outside it if the effusion is very large, in the fifth or sixth interspace. In consequence of the uncertain and varying position of the anterior reflexion of the pleura, transfixion of the pleural sac cannot always be avoided. Pericardiotomy is required when the effusion is of a purulent nature. In this operation a portion of the fifth or sixth costal cartilage is excised. An incision is made along the left border of the sternum from the upper border of the fourth cartilage to the seventh. Transverse incisions an inch long are then made outward.s from either extremity of this, and the rectangular flap thus formed reflected outwards. The fifth costal cartilage is now separated from the sternum by means of a gouge, great care being taken not to let the instrument sUp and penetrate too deeply. The cartilage is then seized with lion forceps and raised, the tissues beneatli it being peeled off, so as to avoid wounding the internal mammary artery or the pleura. The Triangularis sterni is now scratched through, wth a director or the nail of the index finger, close to the sternum, and the pericardium felt for and opened, the finger guarding the pleura and left internal mammary artery. The Heart The Heart (cor) is a lioUow muscular organ of a somewhat conical form ; it lies between the lungs in the middle mediastinum and is enclosed in the pericardium. Fig. 561.—Showing relations of opened heart to front of chest. Ao. Aorta. AI'. Anterior papillary muscle. In. Innominate artery. Inl. Infundibular segment of tricuspid valve. LCC. Left common carotid artery. LS. Left subclavian artery. LV. Lett ventricle. I'A. TuUnonary artery. RA. lUght auricle. HV. Ilight ventricle. VS. Ventricular septum. Position (fig. 561).—It is placed obliquely in tlie chest behind the gladiolus and adjoining parts of the rib cartilages, and projects farther into the left than into the right half of the thoracic cavity, so that about one- * Therapiv der (regcntvart, 1905.ANGIOLOGY 602 third of it is situated on the right and two-thirds on the left of the mesial plane. Size.—The heart, in the adiUt, measures about five inches in length, three inches and a half in breadth at the broadest part, and two inches and a lialf in thickness. Its weight, in the male, varies from ten to twelve ounces ; in the female, from eiglit to ten : the proportions to the body-weiglit being as 1 to 169 in males ; 1 to 149 in females. The heart continues to increase in weight and size up to an advanced period of life : this increase is more marked in men than in women. Component Parts.—As has already been stated (page 597), the heart is subdivided by a septum into right and left halves, and a transverse constriction subdivides each half of the organ into two cavities, the upper cavity being called the auricle, the lower the ventricle. The heart therefore consists of Fig. 562.—Base and postero-inferior surface of heart. Vena azygos major Posterior vein of left ventricle Middle cardiac vein four chambers, viz. right and left auricles, and right and left ventricles. The course of the blood through the heart cavities and blood-vessels lias already been described (page 597). The division of the heart into four cavities is indicated on its surface by grooves. The auricles are separated from the ventricles by the auriculo- ventricular groove (sulcus coronarius). It contains the trunks of the nutrient vessels of the heart, and is deficient in front, where it is crossed by tlic root of the pulmonary artery. The interauricular groove, separating the two auricles, is scarcely marked on the posterior surface, wliile anteriorly it is hidden bj^ the pulmonaiy artery and aorta. The ventricles are separated by tA\ o grooves, the interventricular grooves, one of which (sulcus longitudinalis anterior) is situated on the antero-superior surface close to the left margin of the heart, the other (sulcus longitudinalis posterior) on the postero-iirferior surface near the right margin ; these grooves extend from the base of the ventricular portion to a point a little to the right of the apex of the heart.THE HEART 603 The base (basis cordis) (fig. 562), directed upwards, backwards, and to the right, is separated from the fifth, sixth, seventli, and eighth thoracic vertebrae by the oesophagus, aorta, and thoracic duct. It is formed mainly by the left auricle, and, to a small extent, by the back part of the right auricle. Some- what quadrilateral in form, it is in relation above with the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, and is bounded below by the posterior part of the auriculo- ventricular sulcus, containing the coronary sinus. On the right it is limited by the sulcus terminalis of the right auricle, and on the left by the vestigial fold and oblique vein of Marshall. The four pulmonary veins, two on either side, open into the left auricle, whilst the superior vena cava opens into the upper, and the inferior vena cava into the lower, part of the right auricle. The apex (apex cordis) is directed downwards, forwards, and to the left, and is overlapped by the left lung and pleura : it lies behind the fifth left intercostal space, three and a half inches from the mid-sternal line, or about an inch and a half below and three-quarters of an inch to the inner side of the left nipple. Fia. 563.—Antero-superior surface of heart. The antero-superior surface (facies stemocostalis) (fig. 563) is dii-cctcd forwards, upwards, and to the left. Its lower part is convex, formed chiefly by the right ventricle, and is traversed near its left margin hy the anterior interventricular fm-T'ow. Its upper part is' separated from the lower by the iZu^iuriculo-ventricular groove ; it is formed by the auricles, and presents a deep concavity (fig. 566), occupied by the ascending aorta and the pulmonary artery. The postero-inferior surface (facies diapln-agmatica) (fig. 562), which looks downwards and slightly backwards, is formed by the ventricles, and rests upon the central tendon and a small part of the left muscular portion of the Diaphragm. It is separated from the base by the posterior part of the -.rg^auri,culo-Ypntrinn1ar furrow, and is traversed obliquely by the posterior iftter- • ventrioular gre&ye. ( P <r^y<f-.^-^<f~t ■d^-^t^^^c^.^^iL^*^ ~'0''^t.^oo<t\) The right margin of the heart is long, and is formed by the right auricle above and the right ventricle below. The auricular portion is almost vertical, and is situated behind the third, fourth, and fifth right costal cartilages about half an inch from the margin of the sternum. The ventricular portion, tliin and sharp, is named the margo acutus ; it is nearly horizontal, and extends from the sternal end of the sixth right costal cartilage behind the lower end of the gladiolus to the apex of the heart.604 ANGIOLOGY The left margin, or margo ohtusus, is short, thick, and rounded : it is formed mainly by the left ventricle, but to a slight extent, above, by the left auricle. It extends from a point in the second left intercostal space, about an incli from the steinal margin, obliquely downwards, with a convexity to the left, to the apex of the heart. The Right Auricle (atrium dextrum) is the larger of the two auricles, although its walls are somewhat thinner than those of the left, measuring about 2 mm. ; its cavity is capable of containing about two ounces. It consists of two parts : a principal cavity, or sinus venosus (sinus venarum), situated posteriorly, and an anterior, smaller portion, the appendix auriculae. The sinus venosxis is the large quadrangular cavity placed between the two venie cavae. Its walls, which are extremely thin, are connected below with the right ventricle, and internally with the left auricle, but are free in the rest of their extent. The appendix auriculce, so called from its fancied resemblance to a dog's ear, is a small conical muscular pouch, the margins of which present a dentated edge. It projects from the sinus forwards and to\^ards the left side, over- lapping the root of the aorta. The separation of the appendix from the sinus venosus is indicated externally by a groove, the sulcus terminalis (His), which extends from the front of the superior vena cava to the front of the inferior vena cava, and repre- sents the line of union of the sinus venosus of the embryo with the primitive auricle. On the inner wall of the auricle the separation is marked by a vertical, smooth, muscular ridge, the crista terminalis (His). Behind the crista the internal surface of the auricle is smooth, while in front of it the muscular fibres of the wall are raised into parallel ridges resembling the teeth of a comb, and hence named the musculi pectinati. Its interior (fig. 564) presents the following parts for examination : Openings fT 1 (Eustachian. Valves ^rphebesian; 7 Superior vena cava. Inferior vena cava. Coronary sinus. Foramina£fhebesii.J ^ Auriculo-ventricular. Fossa ovalis. . Annulus ovalis. o^t---~-^J-^ f*^* * , » Tubercle of Lower. /^^C^r*^*^ <^^^<^t/^ Musculi pectinati. Crista terminalis. The superior vena cava returns the blood from the upper half of the body, and opens into the upper and back part of the auricle, the direction of its orifice being downwards and forwards. Its opening has no valve. The inferior vena cava, larger than the superior, returns the blood from the low er half of the body, and opens into the lowest part of the auricle, near the ijiterauricular septum, its orifice being directed upwards and in\\ ards. and guarded by a rudimentary valve, the Eustachian valve. The blood \\ hich entei-s the auricle through the superior vena cava is directed downwards and forwards, i.e. towards the auriculo-ventricular orifice, whilst that entering it through the inferior vena cava is directed upwards and backwards towards the interauricular septum. This is tlie normal direction of the two currents in foetal life. The coronary sinus opens into the auricle, between the inferior veiia cava and the auriculo-ventricular opening. It returns blood from the substance of the heart, and is protected by a semicircular valve, the coronmy valve, or valve of Thebesius. The foramina Thehesii (foramina venai-um minimarum) arc depressions in the walls of the auricle : the majority of these are culs-de-sac, but about one-third are the orifices of minute veins {venae minimm cordis), which return blood directly from the muscular substance of tlie lieart. The auriculo-ventricular opeiiing is tlie large oval aperture of communica- tion between the auricle and the ventricle ; it will be described with the right ventricle.605 THE HEART The Eustachian valve (valvula venae cavse inferioris) is situated in front of tlie orifice of the inferior vena cava. It is semilunar in foiTO, its convex margin being attaclied to the anterior margin of the caval orifice ; its concave margin, wliich is free, terminates in two cornua, of which the left is continuous with the anterior edge of the annulus ovalis while the rigiit is lost on the wall of the auricle. The valve is formed by a duplicature of the lining membrane of the auricle, containing a iew muscular fibres. In the foetus this valve is of large size, and serves to direct the blood from the inferior vena cava, through the foramen ovale, into the left auricle. In the adult it occasionally persists, and may assist in preventing the reflux of blood into the inferior vena cava ; more commonly it is small, and may present a cribriform or filamentous appearance ; sometimes it is altogether wanting. The Thebesian valve (valvula sinus coronarii) is a semicircular fold of the lining membrane of the auricle, at the orifice of the coronary sinus. It prevents the regurgitation of blood into the sinus during the contraction of the auricle. Tliis valve may be double. The fossa ovalis is an oval depression on the posterior wall of the auricle, and corresponds to the situation of the foramen ovale in the foetus. It is situated at the lower part of the auricular septum, above and to the left of the orifice of the inferior vena cava. The annulus ovalis (limbus fossae ovalis) is the prominent oval margin of the fossa ovahs. It is most distinct above and at the sides of the fossa ; below, it is deficient. A small slit-like valvular opening is occasionally found, at the upper margin of the fossa ovalis, leading upwards, beneath the annulus, into the left auricle ; it is the remains of the foetal aperture between the two auricles. The tubercle of Lower (tuberculum intervenosum) is a small projection on the posterior wall of the auricle, above the fossa ovalis. It is distinct in the hearts of quadrupeds, but in man is scarcely visible. It was supposed by LoAver to direct the blood from the superior vena cava towards the auriculo-ventricular opening.ANGIOLOGY 606 The Right Ventricle (veutriculus dexter) is triangular in form, and extends from tlie right auricle to near tlie apex of the lieart. Its antero- superior surface is rounded and convex, and forms the larger part of tlie front of the heart. Its under surface is flattened, rests upon the Diaphragm, and forms a small part of the postcro-inferior surface of the heart. Its posterior wall is formed by the septum between the two ventricles, the septum ventri- culorum, which bulges into the right ventricle, so that a transverse section of the cavity presents a semilunar outline. Its upper and inner angle forms a conical pouch, the infmidibuhim, or conus arteriosus, from which the pulmonary artery arises. A tendinous band, which may be named the tendon of the conus arteriosus, extends upwards from the right auriculo-ventricular fibrous ring and connects the posterior surface of the conus arteriosus to the aorta. The wall of the right ventricle is thinner than that of the left, the proportion between them being as 1 to 3; it is thickest at the base, and gradually becomes thinner towards the apex. The cavity equals in size that of the left ventricle, and is capable of containing about three fluid ounces. Its interior (fig. 564) presents the following parts for examination : ^ . (Right auriculo-ventricular. tt„i„„„ (Tricuspid. Opemngs {p^t,^onary artery. |Pulmonary. -Golutnfiee-carnese. Chordae tendineaj. The right auriculo-ventricular orifice is the large oval aperture of com- munication between the right auricle and ventricle. Situated at the base of the ventricle, it measures about an inch and a half in diameter, and is surrounded by a fibrous ring, covered by the lining membrane of the heart; it is considerably larger than the corresponding aperture on the left side, being sufficient to admit the ends of four fingers. It is guarded by the tricuspid valve. The opening of the pulmonary artery is circular in form, and situated at the summit of the conus arteriosus, close to the septum ventriculorum. It is jilaced above and to the left of Fig. 566.—^Base of ventricles exposed by removal the amiculo-ventricular open- ing, and is guarded by the pulmonary valve. The tricuspid valve (valvula tricuspidaUs) (figs. 564, 565) consists of three somewhat triangular cusps or segments. The largest cusp is iirterposed between the auriculo-ventri- cular orifice and the infundi- bulum, and is termed the in- fundibular cusp. A second, the marginal ct(sp, is in relation to the right margin of the ven- tricle, and a third, the septal cusp, to the interventricular septum. They are formed by duplicatures of the fining mem- brane of the heart, strengthened b}^ intervening layers of fibrous tissue : their central parts are thick and strong, theii" marginal portions tliin and translucent, and in the angles between the latter small intermediate segments are sometimes seen. Their bases are attached to a fibrous ring surrounding the auriculo-ventricular orifice and are also joined to each other so as to form a contmuous annular membrane, while their apices project into tlie ventricular cavity. Their auricular surfaces, directed towards the blood current from the auricle, are smooth ; their ventricular surfaces, directed towards the wall of the ventricle, are rough and irregular and, together with the apices and margms of tlie cusps, give attachment to a number of delicate tendinous cords, the cJiord^e tendinece. of the auricles.607 THE HEART The coiumnos carnece (trabeculte carueae) are rounded or irregular muscular columns which project from the whole of the inner surface of the ventricle, with the exception of the conus arteriosus. They are of three kinds : some are attached along their entire length on one side and merely form prominent ridges, others are fixed at tlieir extremities but free in the middle, while a third set [musculi papillares) are continuous by their bases with the wall of the ventricle, while their apices give origin to the chordae tendinese which pass to be attached to the segments of the tricuspid valve. There are two papillary muscles, anterior and posterior : of these, the anterior is the larger, and its chordae tendineae are connected with the marginal and infundibular cusps of tlie valve ; the posterior sometimes consists of two or three muscular columns ; its chordae tendineae are connected with the septal and marginal segments. In addition to tliese, some chordae tendineae spring du-ectly from the ventricular septum, or from small papillary eminences on it, and pass to tlie septal and infundibular segments. A fleshy band, well marked in sheep and some otlier animals, frequently extends from the base of the anterior papillary muscle to the interventricular septum. From its attachments it may assist in Fig. 566.—Heart seen from above. Might auricular appeiidix Left auricular appendix j /^S^^ Uightpulmonary veins Left pulmonary veins preventing over-distension of the ventricle, and so has been named the moderator band. The pulmonary valve (fig. 566) consists of three semilunar segments (valvule semilunares a. pulmonalis), two in front and one behind, formed by a dupli- cature of the lining membrane, strengthened by fibrous tissue. "They are attached, by theii- outer convex margins, to the wall of the artery, at its junction with the ventricle, their inner borders being free and directed'upwards mto the lumen of the vessel. The free and attached margins of each are strengthened by tendinous fibres, and the former presents, at its middle, a small projecting thickened nodule, called the corpus Arantii (nodulus valvulaj semilunaris). From this nodule tendinous fibres radiate through the segment to its attached margin, but are absent from two narrow crescentic portions, thQ lwnulm (lunulas valvularum semilunarum)', placed one on either side of the nodule immediately adjoining the free margin. Between the semilunar segments and the wall of the pulmonary artery are three pouches or dilatations, the sinuses of Valsalva. Similar but larger sinuses exist between the semilunar segments of the aortic valve and the wall of the aorta.ANCIOLOGY The Left Auricle (atrium sinistruni) is ratlicr Hiualler than the liL'lit, but its walls are thicker, measuring about 3 mm. ; it consists, like the riglit, of two parts, a principal cavity and an appendix auriculae. The principal cavity is cuboidal in form, and concealed, in front, by the pulmonarj' artery and aorta ; in front and to the right, it is separated from the right auricle by the septum auricularuni ; behind, it receives on either side the two pulmonary veins. The appendix auriculae is somewhat coastricted at its junction with the principal cavity ; it is longer, narrower, and more curved than that of the right side, and its margins are more deeply indented. It is directed for\vardh< and towards the right and overlaps the root of the pulmonarj"^ artery. The interior of the left auricle (fig. 567) presents the following parts for examination : The openings of the four pulmonary veins. Left auriculo-ventiicular opening. Musculi peetinati. The pulmonary veins, four in number, open into the upper part of the l)osterior surface of the left auricle—two on either side of its middle hue : Fig. 567.—The left auricle and ventricle laid open, the posterior walls of both having been removed. they are not provided with valves. The two left veins frequently terminate by a common opening. xi i • i The left auriculo-ventricular opening is the aperture betw een the lett auncie and ventricae, and is rather smaller than the corresponding opening on the The musculi peetinati, fewer and smaller than in the right auricle, are confined to the inner surface of the appendix. . , On the septum auricularum may be seen a lunated impression, hounded below by a crescentic ridge, the concavity of which is turned upwards, iiie degression is just above the fossa ovalis of the right auricle. • , The Left Ventricle (ventriculus sinister) is longer and more cornea in shape than the right, and on transverse section its cavity pre.sents an oval or609 THE HEART nearly circular outline. It forms a small part of the antero-superior surface and a considerable part of the postero-inferior surface of the heart. It also forms the apex of the heart. Its walls are about three times as tliick as those of the right ventricle. Its interior (fig. 567) presents the following parts for examination : Openings {Left auriculo-ventricular. y^^^^^ j Bicuspid or Mitral. Chordae tendinere. Columns carnese. The left auriculo-ventricular opening is placed below "and to the left of the aortic orifice. It is a little smaller than the corresponding aperture of the opposite side, admitting only two fingers. It is surrounded by a dense fibrous ling, covered by the lining membrane of the heart, and is guarded by the bicuspid or mitral valve. The aortic opening is a circular aperture, in front and to the right side of the auriculo-ventricular, from which it is separated by the aortic cusp of the mitral valve. Its orifice is guarded by tlie aortic valve, which consists of three semilunar segments. The portion of the ventricle immediately below the aortic orifice is termed the aortic vestibule, and possesses fibrous instead of muscular walls. The bicuspid or mitral valve (fig. 565) is attached to the circumference of the auriculo-ventricular orifice in the same way that the tricuspid valve is on the opposite side. It consists of two triangular cusps, formed by duplicatures of the lining membrane, strengthened by fibrous tissue, and containing a few muscular fibres. The cusps are of unequal size, and are larger, thicker, and stronger thari those of the tricuspid valve. The larger cusp is placed in front and to the right between the auriculo-ventricular and aortic orifices, and is known as the aortic cusp ; the smaller is placed behind and to the left of the opening. Two smaller cusps are usually found at the angles of junction of the larger. The cusps of the mitral valve are furnished with chordaj tendine£e, \yhich are attached in a manner similar to those on the right side ; they are, however, thicker, stronger, and less numerous. Tlie aortic valve (fig. 566) consists of three semilunar segments, which surround the orifice of the aorta ; two are posterior (right and left) and one anterior. They are similar in structure, and in their mode of attachment, to those of the pulmonary valve, but larger, thicker, and stronger ; the lunulse are more distinct, and the corpora Arantii tliickerand more prominent. Opposite the segments the wall of the aorta presents slight dilatations {sinuses oj Valsalva), which are larger than those at the origin of tlie pulmonary artery. The columns carnece are of three kinds, like tho&e upon tlie right side, but they are more numerous, and present a dense interlacement, especially at the apex, and upon the posterior wall. I'he miisculi papillares are two in number, one being connected to the anterior, the other to the posterior wall; they are of large size, and terminate by free rounded extremities, from which the chordae tendinea? arise. The chordae tendinea; from each papillary muscle are connected to both cusps of the mitral valve. , ..'''^^^/"terventricular septum (septum ventriculorum) (fig. 568) is directed obhquely backwards and to the right, and is curved with the convexity towards the right ventricle : its margins correspond with the interventricular grooves llie gi-eater portion of it is thick and muscular (septum rausculare ventricu- lorum) but its upper and posterior part, wliich separates the aortic vestibule from tbe lower part of the right auricle and upper part of the right ventricle, IS thin and fabrous, and is termed the pars rnembranacea (septum membrana- ceura ventriculorum). An abnormal communication may exist between the ventricles at this part owing to defective development of the septum. btructure.—The heart consists of muscular fibres, and of fibrous rings which serve tor their attachment. It is covered by the visceral layer of the serous pericardium (cpxcardium), and lined by the endocardium. Between these two membranes is the muscular wall or myocardium. The endocardium is a thin, smooth membrane which lines and gives the ghstemng appearance to the inner surface of the heart; it assists in forming the valves by its reduplications, and is continuous with the lining membrane of the large blood-vessels. It consists of connective tissue and elastic fibres, and is R RANGIOLOGY 610 attached to the musciUar structure by loose elastic tissue which contains blood- vessels and nerves ; its free surface is covered by endothelial cells. The Jibrous rings (annuli fibrosi) surround the auriculo-ventricular and arterial orifices, and are stronger upon the left than on the right side of the heart. The auri- culo-ventricular rings serve for the attachment of the muscular fibres of the auricles and ventricles, and for the attachment of the mitral and tricuspid valves. The left auriculo-ventricular ring is closely connected, by its right margin, with the aortic arterial ring ; between these and the right auriculo-ventricular ring is a triangular mass of fibrous tissue (trigonum fibrosum) which represents the os cordis seen in the heart of some of the larger animals, as the ox and elephant. Lastly, there is the tendinous band, already referred to (p. 606), on the posterior surface of the conus arteriosus. The fibrous rings surrounding the arterial orifices serve for the attachment of the great vessels and semilunar valves. Each ring receives, by its ventricular margin, the attachment of some of the muscular fibres of the ventricles ; its opposite margin presents three deep semicircular notches, to which the middle coat of the Fig. 568.—Section of the heart showing the interventricular septum. artery is firmly fixed. The attachment of the artery to its fibrous ring is strengthened by the thin cellular coat and serous membrane externally, and by the endocardium internaUy. From the margins of the semicircular notches, the fibrous structure of the ring is continued into the segments of the valve, ilie middle coat of the artery in this situation is thin, and the wall of the vessel is dilated to form the sinuses of Valsalva. The muscular structure of the heart consists of bands of fibres, wJiicli present an exceedingly intricate iriterlacement. They consist of (a) the fibres ol the auricles, (6) the fibres of the ventricles, and (c) the aiuiculo-ventricular bundle of His The fibres of the auricles are arranged in two layers—a superficial common to both cavities, and a deep proper to each. The superficial fibres are more distinct on the front of the auricles, across the bases of which they run m a transverse direction, forming a thin and incomplete layer. Some of these fibres run into the septum auricularum. The deep fibres consist of looped and annular fibres, ilieTHE HEART 611 looped fibres pass upwards over each auricle, beiug attached by their two extremi- ties to the corresponding auriculo-ventricular ring, in front and behind. The annular fibres suiTound the appendices auricularum, and form annular bands aroimd the terminations of the veins and around the fossa ovalis. The fibres of the ventricles are arranged in a complex manner, and various accounts have been given of their course and connections. The following description is based on the work of McCallum.* They consist of superficial and deep layers, all of which, with the exception of two, are inserted into the papillary muscles of the ventricles. The superficial layers consist of the following, (a) Fibres which spring from the tendon of the conus arteriosus and sweep downwards and towards the left across the anterior interventricular furrow and around the apex of the heart, where they pass upwards and inwards to terminate in the papillary muscles of the left ventricle. Those which spring from the upper half of the tendon of the conus arteriosus pass to the anterior papillary muscle, those from the lower half to the posterior papillary muscle and the papillary muscles of the septum, (b) Fibres which arise from the right auriculo-ventricular ring and run diagonally across the back of the right ventricle and romid its right border on to its anterior surface, where they dip beneath the fibres just described, and, crossing the interventricular groove, TOnd around the apex of the heart and terminate in the posterior papillary muscle of the left ventricle, (c) Fibres which spring from the left am-iculo-ventricular ring, and, crossing the posterior interventricular furrow, pass successively into the right ventricle and end in its papillary muscles. The deep layers are three in number : they arise in the papillary muscles of one ventricle and, curving in an S-shaped manner, turn in at the interventricular furrow and end in the papillary muscles of the other ventricle. The layer which is most superficial in the right ventricle Hes next the lumen of the left, and vice versa. Those of the first layer almost encircle the right ventricle, and, crossing in the septum to the left, unite with the superficial fibres from the light auriculo-ventricular ring to form the posterior papillary muscle. Those of the second layer have a less extensive coui'se in the wall of the right ventricle, and a correspondingly greater course in the left, where they join with the superficial fibres from the anterior half of the tendon of the conus arteriosus to form the papillary muscles of the septum. Those of the third layer pass almost entirely round the left ventricle and unite with the superficial fibres from the lower half of the tendon of the conus arteriosus to form the anterior papillary muscle. Besides the layers just described there are two bands which do not end in papillary muscles. One springs from the right auriculo-ventricular mg and crosses in the auriculo-ventricular septum: it then encircles the deep layers of the left ventricle and ends in the left auriculo-ventricular ring. The second band is apparently confined to the left ventricle; it is attached to the left auriculo-ventricular ring, and encircles the portion of the ventricle adjacent to the aortic orifice. The auriculo-ventricular bundle of His is the only direct muscular connection known to exist between the auricles and the ventricles. It arises near the orifice of the coronary sinus in the annular and septal fibres of the right auricle, passes torvvards in the lower part of the pars membranacea septi, and divides into right and left fasciculi. These run down in the right and left ventricles, one on either side of the interventricular septum, just covered by endocardium. In the lower parts ot the ventricles they break up into numerous strands which end in the papillary muscles and in the ventricular muscle generally. The undivided portion of the amiculo-yentricular bundle consists of narrow, somewhat fusiform fibres, but its two divisions and their terminal strands are composed of Purkinje fibres. Applied Anaiomy.—CUmcal and experimental evidence go to prove that this bundle conveys the impulse to systolic contraction from the auricular septum to tho ventricles, ana much attention has recently been paid to it, because it appears to become fibrosed ana to^ lose much of its conducting power (heart-block) in many cases of Stokes- AUams disease. This condition is characterised by a slow pulse, a tendency to syncopal or epileptiform seizures, and tho fact that wliile the cardiac auricles boat at a normal rate, tlie ventricles contract much less frequently. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the heart are the right and left ' coronary from the aorta. ir o & * Johns Hoijkins' l/ospiial Ituimrts, vol. ix. E R 2612 ANGIOLOGY The veins termiuate in the right auricle, and will be described with the general venous system. The lymphatics end in the thoracic and right lymphatic ducts. The nerves arc derived from the cardiac plexuses, which are formed partly from the pnevmiogastrics, and partly from the sympathetic. They are freely distributed both on the surface and in the substance of the heart, the separate filaments being furnished with small ganglia. The cardiac cycle and the actions of the valves.—By the contractions of the heart the blood is pumped through the arteries to all parts of the body. These contractions occur regularly and at the rate of about seventy per minute. Each wave of contraction or 'period of aclivity is followed by a period of rest, the two periods constituting what is known as a cardiac cycle. Each cardiac cycle consists of three phases, which succeed each other as follows : (1) a short simultaneous contraction of both auricles, termed the auricular systole, followed, after a slight pause, by (2) a simultaneous, but more prolonged, contraction of both ventricles, named the ventricular systole, and (3) a period of rest, during which the whole heart is relaxed, i.e. in a state of diastole. The auricular contraction commences around the venous openings and sweeping over the auricles forces their contents through the auriculo-ventricular openings into the ventricles, regurgitation into the veins being prevented by the contraction of their muscular coats. When the ventricles contract the auriculo-ventricular valves are closed, and prevent the passage of the blood back into the auricles ; the musculi papillares at the same time are shortened, and, pulling on the chordae tendineaj, prevent the inversion of the valves into the auricles. As soon as the pressure in the ventricles exceeds that in the pulmonary artery and aorta, the valves guarding the orifices of these vessels are opened and the blood is driven from the right ventricle into the pulmonary artery and from the left into the aorta. The moment the systole of the ventricles ceases, the pressure of the blood in the pulmonary artery and aorta closes the pulmonary and aortic valves to prevent regurgitation of blood into the ventricles, the valves remaining shut until reopened by the next ventricular systole. Durmg the period of rest the tension of the auriculo-ventricular valves is relaxed, and blood is flowing from the veins into the auricles and slightly also from the auricles into the ventricles, being aspirated by negative intrathoracic pressure. The average duration of a cardiac cycle is about of a second, made up as follows : Auricular svstole, iV- Auricular diastole, xV- Ventricular systole, fV- Ventricular diastole, fV- Total systole, Complete diastole, i^. The rhythmical action of the heart is muscular in origin, that is to say, the heart muscle itself possesses the inherent property of contraction apart from any nervous stimulation. The more embryonic the muscle the better is it able to mitiate and propagate the contraction wave ; this explains why the normal systole of the heart starts at the entrance of the veins, for there the muscle is most embryonic m nature. At the auriculo-ventricular junction there is a slight pause in the wave of muscular contraction due to the tissue there being less irritable (i.e. less embryonic), lo obviate this as far as possible a peculiar band of marked embryonic type passes across the junction and so-carries on the contraction wave to the ventricles, ihis band, composed of special fibres, the fibres of Purkinje (p. 42), is the auriculo- ventricular bundle of His (p. 611). The nerves, although not concerned m origmating the contractions of the heart muscle, play an important role in regulating their force and frequency in order to subserve the physiological needs of the organism. Surface Marking.-To show the extent of the heart in relation to the f^nt of the chest (fig. 569), draw a line from the lower border of the second left costal cart age. one inch from the sternum, to the upper border of the third right costal cartilage, half aii mch from the sternum. This represents the base line, or upper hmit of the organ lake a point an inch and a half below, and three-quarters of an mcli mternal to the f t mpple-- thatis, about three and a halt inches to the left of the median hnc of the bod> Urn represents the apex of the heart. Draw a line from this ajicx point, witli a sbght con- S Sowrirrds, to the junction of the seventh right cost,al <=f ^''^.f^, -^t^nr: This represents the lower limit of the heart. Join the right extrem. y ^ /l'^; r^eht that is, the ba^e linc-with the right extremity o this Ime- hat is, /"^^^^ | chondi^sternal joint-with a slight curve outwards so that ,t F^ffj^"^^*^"/'^^^^^^ a half from the middle line of the sternum. Lastly, joui the left extremity of the base line and the ai)e,K point by a line curved slightly to the left.613 THE HEART Tlio position of the various orifices is as follows : the pulmonary orifice is situeated in tlie upper angle formed by the articulation of the third left costal cartilage with the sternum ; the aortic orifice is a little below and internal to this, behind the left border of the sternum, close to the tliird left chondi'osternal articulation. The left auriculo- rentricular opening is behind the sternum, rather to the left of the median line and opposite the fourth costal cartilages. The right auriciilo-ventricular opening is a little lower, opposite the fourth interspace and in the middle line of the body (fig. 569). A portion of the area of the heart thus mapped out is uncovered by lung, and therefore gives a dull note on percussion : the remainder, being overlapped by the lung, gives a more or less resonant note. The former ia known as the area of superficial cardiac dulness ; the latter, as the area of deep cardiac dulness. The area of superficial cardiac dulness is included between a line drawn from the centre of the sternum, on a level with, the fourth costal cartilages, to the junction of the body of the sternum with the ensiform cartilage : fi-om the two extremities of this line, two others are to be dra^vn to the position of the apex of the heart in the fifth intercostal space. Below, this area merges into the dulness which corresponds to the liver. Latham lays down the followng rule as a sufficient practical guide for the definition of the portion of the heart which is imcovered by lung or pleura: ' Make a circle of two inches in diameter round a point midway between the nipple and the end of the sternum.' Applied Anatomy.—Wounds of the heart are often immediately fatal, but not necessarily so. They may be non-penetrating, when death may occur from haemorrhage if one of the coronary vessels has been woxmded, or subsequently from pericarditis. Even a penetrating wound is not necessarily fatal, as a considerable number of cases have now been recorded in which the wound has been sutured.ANGIOLOGY fil4 Peculiarities in the Vascui.ar System of the Pcetus The development of the lieart and vascular system is described on pp. 135 to 150. The chief peculiarities of the foetal heart are the direct communication between the auricles tlirough the foramen ovale, and the large size of the Eustachian valve. Amongst otlier peculiarities the following may be noted. (1) In early foetal life it lies immediately below the mandibular arch, and as development proceeds is gradually drawn back M-itliin the thorax. (2) For a time the auricular portion exceeds tiie ventricular in size, and the walls of the ventricles are of equal thickness : towards the end of foetal life the ventricular portion becomes the larger and the wall of the left ventricle exceeds that of the right in thickness. (3) Its size is large as compared with that of the rest of the body, the proportion at the second month l)eing 1 to 50, and at birth 1 to 120, A\ hile in the adult the average is about 1 to 160. The foramen ovale is situated at the lower and back part of the auricular septum, forming a communication between the auricles. It remains as a free oval opening until the middle period of foetal life. The septum {septum secundum) A^'hich grows dovm from the upper wall of the auricle to the right of the foramen ovale advances over the opening, so as to form a sort gf valve, which allows the blood to pass only from the right to the left auricle, and not in the opposite direction. The Eustachian valve is directed upwards on the left side of the opening of the inferior vena cava, and serves to direct the blood from this vessel through the foramen ovale into the left auricle. The peculiarities in the arterial system of the foetus are the communication between the pulmonary artery and the descending aorta by means of the ductus arteriosus, and the continuation of the internal iliac arteries as the umbilical or hypogastric arteries to the placenta. The ductus arteriosus is a short tube, about half an inch in length at birth, and of the diameter of a goose-quill. In the early condition it forms the continuation of the pulmonary artery, and opens into the descending, aorta, just below the origin of the left subclavian artery ; and so conducts the chief part of the blood from the right ventricle into the aorta. Wkan the branches of the pulmonary artery have become larger relatively to the ductus arteriosus, the latter is chiefly connected to the left pulmonary artery ; and the fibrous cord, which is all that remains of the ductus arteriosus in later life, is attached to the root of that vessel. The umbilical or hypogastric arteries are continued from the internal iliacs, along the sides of the bladder to its apex ; they pass out of the abdomen at the umbilicus and are carried in the umbiUcal cord to the placenta. They convey the blood which has circulated through the foetus to the placenta. The peculiarities in the venous system of the foetus are the communica- tions established between the placenta and the hver and portal vem, through the umbilical vein ; and between the umbilical vein and the inferior vena cava through the ductus venosus. Foetal Circulation (fig. 570) The blood destined for the nutrition of the foetus is returned from the placenta to the foetus by the umbilical vein. This vein enters the abdomen at the umbilicus, and passes upwards along the free margm of the falciform ligament of the liver to the under surface of that organ, where it gives off two or three branches, one of whicli is of large size, to the left lobe, and others to the lobus quadratus and lobus Spigelii. At the transverse fissure it divides into two branches : of these, the larger is joined by the portal vein, and enters the right lobe ; the smaUer is continued upwards, under the name of tlie ductus venosus, and joins the left hepatic vein at the pomt of junction ot that vessel with the iiifcrior vena cava. The blood, therefore, which traverses the umbUical vein, passes to the inferior vena cava in three diiTercnt ways. The greater quantity circulates through the liver with the portal venous blood, before entering the vena cava by the hepatic veins ; some enters the liver directly, and is also returned to the inferior cava by the hepatic veins :FOETAL CIRCULATION 615 the Smaller quantity passes directly into the vena cava, by the junction of the ductus venosus with the left hepatic vein. In the inferior cava, the blood carried by the ductus venosus and hepatic veins becomes mixed with that returning from the lower extremities and Fig. 570.—Plan of the foetal circulation. In tliis plun the flgured arrows represent the kind of blood, as well as the du-cction wliicli it takes in the vessels. Thus—arterial blood is figured ^ •> ; venous blood, ; mbced (arterial and venous) blood, abdominal wall. It enters the right auricle, and, guided by the Eustachian valve, passes through the foramen ovale into the left auricle, where it mixes with a small quantity of blood returned from the lungs by the pulmonary veins. From the left auricle it passes into the left ventricle ; and from the left ventricle into the aorta, by means of which it is distributed almostANGIOLOGY 616 entirely to the licad and upper extremities, a Biiiall quantity being probably carried into the descending aorta. From the head and upper extremities the blood is returned by the superior vena cava to the right auricle, \\ here it becomes mixed with a small portion of the blood from the inferior cava. From the riglit auricle it descends over the Eustachian valve into the right ventricle ; and from the right ventricle passes into the pulmonary artery. The lungs of the foetus being inactive, only a small quantity of tlie' blood of the pulmonary artery is distributed to them by the right and left pulmonary arteries, and returned by the pulmonary veins to the left auricle : the greater part passes through the ductus arteriosus into the commencement of the descending aorta, where it becomes mixed with a small quantity of the blood transmitted by the left ventricle into the aorta. Through this vessel it descends to supply the lower extremities and the viscera of the abdomen and pelvis, the chief portion being, however, conveyed by the umbilical arteries to the placenta. From tlie preceding account of the cii'culation of the blood in the foetus, it will be seen : 1. That the placenta serves the purposes of nutrition and excretion, receiving the impure blood from the foetus, and returning it purified and charged with additional nutritive material. 2. That nearly the whole of the blood of the umbilical vein traverses the liver before entering the inferior cava ; hence the large size of this organ, esjiecially at an early period of foetal life. 3. That the right auricle is the point of meetmg of a double current, the blood in the inferior cava being guided by the Eustachian valve into the left auricle, while that in the superior cava descends into the right ventricle. At an early period of foetal life it is higlxly probable that the two streams are quite distinct ; for the inferior cava opens almost directly into the left auricle, and the Eustachian valve would exclude the current along the vein from entering the right ventricle. At a later period, as the separation between the two auricles becomes more distinct, it seems probable that some mixture of the two streams must take place. 4. The pure blood carried from the placenta to the foetus by the umbiMcal vein, mixed with the blood from the portal vein and inferior cava, passes almost directly to the arch of the aorta, and is distributed by the branches of that vessel to the head and upper extremities. 5. The blood contained ua the descending aorta, chiefly derived from that which has already circulated through the head and Umbs, together ^-ith a small quantity from the left ventricle, is distributed to the abdomen and lower extremities. Changes in the Vascular System at Birth At birth, when respiration is established, an increased amount of blood from the pulmonary artery passes through the lungs, and the placental circulation is cut off. The foramen ovale is closed by about the tenth day after bh'th : the valvular fold above mentioned adlieres to the margin of the foramen for the greater part of its circumference, but a slit-hke opening is left between the t\A'o auricles above, and this sometimes persists. The ductus arleriosus begins to contract immediately after respiration is established, becomes completely closed from the fourth to the tenth day, and ultimately degenerates into an impervious cord, which connects the left pulmonary artery to the arch of the aorta. Of the umbilical or hifpogasiric arteries, the portion of each continued on to the bladder from the trunk of the corresponding mternal iliac remains pervious, as the superior vesical artery ; the part extending from the side of the bladder to the umbilicus becomes obliterated between the second and fifth days after birth, and projects as a fibrous cord towards the abdominal cavity, "carrying on it a fold of peritoneum. The umbilical vein and ductus vcnosus are completely obliterated between the second and fifth days after birth, and ultimately dwindle to fibrous cords; the former becoming the ligamentura teres, the latter the hgamentum venosum of the liver.617 THE ARTERIES THE ARTERIES Arteries are cylindrical tubular ves!3els, which convoy blood from the ventricles of tlie heart to the different parts of the body. These vessels were named arteries from the belief entertained l^y tlie ancients that they contained air. Galen M-as the first to show that during life they contain blood. The distribution of the systemic arteries is like a highly ramified tree, the common trunk of which, formed by the aorta, commences at the left ventricle, while tlie smallest ramifications extend to the peripheral parts of the body and the contained organs. Arteries are found in all parts of the body, except in the hairs, nails, epidermis, cartilages, and cornea ; the larger trunks usually occupy the most protected situations, runnmg, in tlie limbs, along the flexor side, where they are less exposed to injury. There is considerable variation in the mode of division of the arteries : occasionally a short trunk subdivides into several branches at the same point, as may be observed in the coeliac and thyroid axes ; the vessel may give off several branches in succession, and still continue as the main trunk, as is seen in the arteries of the limbs ; or the division may be dichotomous, as, for instance, when the aorta divides into tlie two common iliacs, or the common carotid into the external and internal carotids. A branch of an artery is smaller than the trunk from which it arises ; but if an artery divides into two branches, the combined sectional area of the two vessels is, in nearly every instance, somewhat greater than that of the trunk ; and the combined sectional area of all the arterial branches greatly exceeds that of the aorta ; so that the arteries collectively may be regarded as a cone, the apex of which corresponds to the aorta, and the base to the capillary system. The arteries, in their distribution, communicate with one another, forming what are called anastomoses, and these communications are very free between the large as well as between the smaller branches. The anastomosis bet^^'een trunks of equal size is found where great activity of the circulation is requisite, as in the brain ; here the two vertebral arteries unite to form the basilar, and the two anterior cerebral arteries are connected by a short communicating trunk ; it is also found in the abdomen, the intestinal arteries having very ample anastomoses between their larger branches. In the limbs, the anasto- moses are most numerous and of largest size around the joints ; the branches of an arterj' above uniting with branches from the \^essels Ijelow. These anastomoses are of considerable interest to the surgeon, as it is by their enlarge- ment that a collateral circulation is established after the application of a ligature to an artery. The smaller branches of arteries anastomose more frequently than the larger ; and between the smallest twigs these anastomoses become so numerous as to constitute a close network that pervades nearly every tissue of the body. Throughout the body generally tlie larger arterial branches pursue a fairly straight course, but in certain situations they are tortuous. Thus the facial artery in its course over the face, and the arteries of the lips, are extremely tortuous to accommodate themselves to the movements of the parts. The uterine arteries are also tortuous, to accommodate themselves to the increase of size M hich the uterus undergoes during pregnancy. The arteries are dense in structure, of considerable strength, highly elastic, and, when divided, they preserve, although empty, their cylindrical form. Their structure has been described on page 55. Applied Anatomy.—All the arteries, and most of all the aorta, are liable to a degenerative process kno^TO as atheroma, arteriosclerosis, or, more recently, atherosclerosis (Marchand), that is of the greatest clinical importance. It is essentiallv a senile cliange, although it may begin at any age and is predisposed to by renal disease, gout, diabetes mellitus, lead poisoning, and a number of other morbid states, and results in the replacement of the arterial elastic tissue by fibrous tissue. Its chief ill effects are two. In the first place, it is associated with a permanent and often considerable rise in the arterial blood-pressure, entailuig a con'esponding hypertrophy of the heart ; in the second, it weakens the vessel Walls, rendering them more liable to rupture, while at the same time it is apt to lessen the calibre of the affected vessels.618 ANGIOLOGY The arteries are also frequently attacked by sypliilis, Avhich gives rise to inflammation and degeneration of their middle coats. Recent researches * go to prove tliat arterial aneurysms, other than those duo to direct injury, occur almost solely m syphilitic patients. Pulmonary Artery (fig. 571) The pulmonary artery (a. pulmonalis) conveys the venous blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs. It is a short, wide vessel, about 5 cm. in length and 30 mm. in diameter, arising from the left side of the base (conus arteriosus) of the right ventricle. It extends obliquely upwards and backwards, passing at first in front and then to the left of the ascending aorta, as far as the under surface of the arch, but on a plane posterior to it, where it divides, about the level of the intervertebral disc between the fifth and sixth thoracic vertebrae, into right and left branches of nearly equal size. Relations.—The whole of this vessel is contained within the pericardiimi. It is enclosed with the ascending aorta in a single tube of the visceral layer of the Pig. 571.—Transverse section of thorax, showing relations of pulmonary artery. Triangularis sterni Internal nmmmary vessels ^ Left j)hrenic nerve Pleura pulmonalis Pleura costalis serous pericardium, which is continued upwards upon them from the base of the heart. The fibrous layer of the pericardium becomes gradually lost upon the external coats of its two brandies. In front, the pulmonary artery is separated from the anterior extremity of the second left intercostal space by the pleura and left lung, in addition to the pericardium ; it rests at first upon the ascending aorta, and higher up lies in front of the left auricle on a plane posterior to the ascending aorta. On either side of its origin is the appendix of the corresponding auricle and a coronary artery, the left coronary artery passing, in the first part of its course, behind the vessel. The superficial cardiac plexus lies above its bifurcation, between it and the arch of the aorta. The right branch of the pulmonary artery (ramus dexter), longer and larger than the left, runs horizontally out\\'ards, behind the ascending aorta and superior vena cava and in front of the right bronclui-s, to the root of the right lung, where it divides into two branches. The lower and larger of these goes to the middle and lower lobes of the lung ; the upper an smaller is distributed to the upper lobe. * C. U. Aitcbison, AroJi. ofihe Pathnlogtcal InsHliiifl of the London JJonp., 1908, ii. p. 1.PULMONARY ARTERY 619 The left branch of the pulmonary artery (ramus sinister), shorter and some\\-hat smaller than the riglit, passes horizontally in front of the descending aorta and left bronchus to the root of the left lung, where it divides into two branches for the two lobes of the lung. The root of the left branch of the pulmonary artery is connected to the under surface of the arch of the aorta by a short fibrous cord, the lu/amentum arteriosum ; this is the remains of a foetal vessel, the ductus arteriosus. The terminal brandies of the pulmonary artery will be described with the anatomy of the lung. Ajjplied Anat(m!/.Steno5is of the pulmonary artery, either with, or, more rarely, wthout defective formation of the interventricular septum, is one of the commonest congenital defects of the heart. It may be due either to foetal endocarditis, or to mal- development of the bulbus cordis (p. 140).* As in most forms of congenital heart-disease, the child is cyanosed (morbus coeruleus), especially when excited or on exertion, and rarely lives to grow up, commonly dying of heart-failure in infancy, or of pulmonary tuberculosis or intercurrent disease in childhood. The chief signs of the condition are the loud, harsh systolic cardiac murmur best heard over the second left costal cartilage, cyanosis, clubbing of the finger-tips, and the presence of an excess of red corpuscles in the blood. Embolism of the pulmonary artery by a clot of blood coming from the right side of the heart in patients with heart-disease, or from a thrombosed vein in cases, for example, of influenza, enteric fever, puerperal sepsis, or fi-actured limbs, is a common cause of sudden or rapid death. The patient may cry out wth sudden excruciating pain in the prtecordia when the detached embolus lodges, and after a brief period of intense dyspncea, pallor, and anguish, die. The Aorta The aorta is the main trunk of a series of vessels which convey the oxy- genated blood to the tissues of the body for their nutrition. It commences at the upper part of tlie left ventricle, where it is about 30 mm. in diameter, and after ascending for a short distance, arches backwards, and to the left side, ov-er the root of the left lung ; it then descends within the thorax on the left side of the vertebral column, passes into the abdominal cavity through the aortic opening in the Diaphragm, and terminates, considerably diminished in size (about 17"5 mm. in diameter), opposite the lower border of the fourth lumbar vertebra, by dividing into the right and left common iliac arteries. Hence it is described in several portions, viz. the ascending aorta, the arch of the aorta, and the descending aorta, which-last is again divided into the thoracic and abdominal aortce.. Ascending Aorta The ascending aorta (aorta aseendens) (fig. 672) is about two inches in length. It commences at the upper part of the base of the left ventricle, on a level ■with the lower border of the third costal cartilage behind the left half of the sternum ; it passes obliquely upwards, forwards, and to the right, in the direction of the heart's axis, as high as the upper border of the second right costal cartilage, describing a slight curve in its course, and being situated, when distended, about a quarter of an inch behind the posterior surface of the sternum. At its origin it presents, opposite the segments of the aortic valve, three small dilatations called the sinuses of Valsalva. At the union of the ascending with the transverse part of the aorta the calibre of the vessel is increased, owing to a bulging outwards of its right Avail. This dilatation is termed the great sinus of the aorta (bulbus aortae), and on transverse section presents a somewhat oval figure. The ascending aorta is contained within the pericardium, and is enclosed in a tube of the serous pericardium, common to it and the pulmonary artery. Eelations.—The ascending aorta is covered at its commencement by the trunk of the pulmonary artery and the right auricular appendix, and, higher up, is separated from the sternum by the pericardium, the right pleura, and the anterior margin of the right lung, some loose areolar tissue, and the remains of the thymus gland ; behind, it rests upon the right pulmonary artery and left auricle. On the * Keith (Studies in Pathology, Aberdeen University, 1!)0G) believes that the great majority of cases which are classified as congenital stenosis of the pulmonary or of the aortic orifices are, in reality, due to an arrest of development or malformation of the bulbus cordis.620 ANGIOLOGY righl side, it is in relation with the superior vena cava and right auricle, the former lying partly behind it; on the left side, with the pulmonary artery. Branches.—The only branches of the ascending aorta are the coronary arteries which supply the heart. They are two in number, right and left, and arise near the commencement of the aorta immediately above the attached margins of the semilunar valves. The right coronary artery (a. coronaria [cordis] dextra), about the size of a crow's quill, arises from the anterior sinus of Valsalva. It passes forwards between the pulmonary artery and the right auricular appendix, then runs obliquely to the right side, in the groove between the right auricle and ventricle, and, curving around the right border of the heart, runs along the posterior surface as far as the posterior interventricular groove, where it divides into two branches. One of these (transverse) continues onwards in the groove between the left auricle and ventricle, and anastomoses with the left coronary ; the other (descending) courses along the posterior interventricular furrow, supplies branches to both ventricles and to the septum, and anastomoses at the apex of the heart with the descending branches of the left coronary. This vessel sends a large branch (marginal) along the thin margin of the right ventricle to the apex, and from this numerous small branches are given to the anterior and posterior surfaces of the ventricle. It also gives a branch close to its origin (right auricular), which passes upwards between the right auricle and the aorta, and distributes twigs to the right auricle, the auricular septum, the aorta, and the pulmonary artery. The left coronary artery (a. coronaria [cordis] sinistra), larger than the former, arises from the left posterior sinus of Valsalva ; it passes forwards between the pulmonary artery and the left auricular appendix, and divides into two branches. Of these, one (transverse) runs transversely outwards in the left auriculo-ventricular groove, and winds around the left border of the heart to the posterior surface, where it anastomoses with the transverse branch of the right coronary; the other (descending) passes along the anterior interventricular groove to the apex of the heart, where it anastomoses with the descending branch of the right coronary. The left coronary supplies the left auricle and its appendix, gives branches to both ventricles, and numerous twigs to the pulmonary artery and commencement of the aorta. In addition to the already mentioned anastomosis in the auriculo-ventricular and interventricular grooves there is a free anastomosis between the minute branches of the two coronary arteries in the substance of the heart. Peculiarities.—These vessels occasionally arise by a common trunk, or their numljer may be increased to three, the additional branch being of small size. More rarelj', there are two additional branches. Applied Anatomy.—The sudden blocking of a coronary artery by an embolus, or its more gradual obstruction by arterial disease or thrombosis, is a common cause of sudden death in persons past middle age. If the obstruction to the passage of blood is incomplete, true angina pectoris may occur. In this condition the patient is suddenly seized A^ith a spasm of agonising pain in the prsecordial region and do^vn the left arm, together with an indescribable sense of anguish. He may die in such an attack, or succumb a few hours or days later from heart failure, or survive a number of attacks. Arch of thk Aorta The arch of the aorta (arcus aortae) (fig. 572) begins at the upper border of the second chondro-stcrnal articulation of the right side, and runs at first upwards, backwards, and to the left in front of the trachea ; it is tlien directed backwards on the left side of the trachea, and finally passes dowTi- warcls on the left side of the body of the fourth thoracic vertebra, at the lower border of which it becomes continuous with the desceiiding aorta. It thus forms two curvatures : one with its convexity upwards, the other with its convexity forwards and to the left. Its upper border is usually about an inch below the upper margin of the sternum. Relations.—The arch of the aorta is covered in front by the pleurro and anterior margins of the lungs, and by the remains of the thymus gland. As the vessel runs backwards its left side is in contact with the left lung and pleura. Passing down- wards on the left side of this part of the arch are four nerves—in order from before621 ARCH OF THE AORTA backwards these are : the left phrenic, the inferior cervical cardiac branch of the left pneumogastric, the superior cardiac branch of the left sympathetic, and the trunk of the left pneumogastric. As the last nerve crosses the arch it gives off its recur- rent laryngeal branch, which hooks round below the vessel and then passes upwards on its right side. The left superior intercostal vein runs obliquely upwards and forwards, on the left side of the arch between the phrenic and pneumogastric nerves. On the right are the deep cardiac plexus, the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, the oesophagus, and the thoracic duct; the trachea lies behind and to the right of the vessel. Above are the innominate, left common carotid, and left subclavian arteries. Fig. 572.—The arch of the aorta, and its branches. which arise from the convexity of the arch and are crossed close to their origins by the left innominate vein. Below are the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, the left bronchus, the ligaraentum arteriosum, the superficial cardiac plexus, and the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. As already stated, the ligamentuni arteriosum connects the commencement of the left pulmonary artery to the aortic arch. Between the origin of the left subclavian artery and the attachment of the ductus arteriosus the lumen of the foetal aorta is considerably narrowed, forming what is termed the isthmus aortcB, while immediately beyond the ductus arteriosus the vessel presents a fusiform dilatation which His has named the aortic spindle —the point of j miction of the two parts being marked in the concavity of theANGIOLOGY C22 arch by tvu iiicloiitatioii or angle. These conditions persist, to some extent, in the adult, where His found that the average diameter of the spindle exceeded that of the isthmus by 3 mm. (about one-eighth of an inch). Distinct from this diffuse and moderate stenosis at the isthmus is the condition known as coarctation of the aorta, or marked stenosis often amounting to complete obHteration of its lumen, seen in adults and occurring at or near, oftenest a little below, the insertion of the ductus arteriosus into the aorta. According to Bonnet * this coarctation is never found in the foetus or at birth, and is due to an abnormal extension of the peculiar tissue of the ductus into the aortic wall, which gives rise to a simultaneous stenosis of both vessels as it contracts after birth—the ductus is usually obliterated in these cases. An extensive collateral circulation is set up, by the superior intercostals, internal mammaries, and the posterior scapular branches of the transversalis colli above the stenosis, and below it by the first four aortic intercostals, the phrenics, and the superficial and deep epigastrics. Peculiarities.—The height to which the aorta rises in the chest is usually about an inch below the upper border of the sternum ; but it may ascend nearly to the top of the bone. Occasionally it is found an inch and a half, more rarely two or even three inches below this point. Sometimes the aorta arches over the root of the right instead of over that of the left lung, and passes down on the right side of the vertebral column, a con- dition which is formd in birds. In such cases all the thoracic and abdominal viscera are transposed. Less frequently the aorta, after arching over the root of the right lung, is directed to its usual position on the left side of the vertebral column, this peculiaritj' not bemg accompanied by any transposition of the viscera. The aorta occasionally divides, as in some quadrupeds, into an ascending and a descending trunk, the former of which is directed vertically upwards, and subdivides into thi-ee branches, to supply the head and upper extremities. Sometimes the aorta subdivides soon after its origin into two branches, which soon reimite. In one of these cases the cesophagus and trachea were found to pass through the interval left by their division ; this is the normal condition of the vessel in the reptilia. Applied Anatomy.—Of all the vessels of the arterial system, the aorta, and more especially its arch, is most frequently the seat of disease; hence it is important to consider some of the consequences that may ensue from aneurysm of this part. Aneurysm of the ascending aorta, in the situation of the sinuses of Valsalva, in the great majority of cases, affects the anterior sinus ; this is mainly o^ving to the fact that the regurgitation of blood upon the sinuses takes place chiefly on the anterior aspect of the vessel. As the aneurysmal sac enlarges, it may compress any or all of the structures in immediate proximity with it, but chiefly projects towards the right anterior side ; and, consequently, interferes mauily with those structures that have a corresponding relation with the vessel. If it project forwards, it may absorb the sternum and the cartilages of the ribs, usually on the right side, and appear as a pulsatmg tumour on the front of the chest, just below the manubrium ; or it may bm-st into the pericardium, or may compress, or open into the right limg, the trachea, bronchi, or oesophagus. In the majority of cases it bursts into the cavity of the pericardium, the patient suddenly drops down dead, and, upon a post-mortem examination, the pericardial sac is found fuU of blood ; or it may compress the right auricle, or the pulmonary artery, and adjoining part of the right ventricle, and open into one or the other of these parts. It may press upon the superior vena cava or the innominate veins, causing great venous engorgement. The face becomes livid and swollen, the right arm and anterior thoracic wall oedematous, and the con- gestion of the brain gives rise to headache and vertigo. An aneurysm has occasionally perforated into the superior vena cava, setting up an arterio-venouB aneurysm. When this happens the patient suddenly becomes very short of breath, intensely congested Mid oedematous in the face and upper part of the body, and develops a palpable thriU and a continuous hummmg murmur, loudest during systole, over the sternum. Death follows a few days or weeks after such a perforation ; and somewhat similar sjnnptoms are occasioned ■when an aortic aneurysm erodes and bursts into the pulmonary artery. Regardmg the arch of the aorta, the student is reminded that the vessel hes agamst the trachea, oesophagus, and thoracic duct; that the recurrent larjoageal nerve winds around it; and that from its upper part are given off three large trunks, which supply the head, neck, and upper extremities. Now, an aneurysmal tumour taking origin irom tue posterior part of the vessel, its most usual site, may press upon the trachea and give rise to the sign known as "tracheal tugging," impede the breathing, or produce cough, dj^pmea, bronchiectasis, h£emoptysis, or stridulous breathing, or it may ultimately burst into that tube, producing fatal hemorrhage. Again, its pressure on the left recurrent lar>nigcal nerve may give rise to symptoms of laryngeal paralysis ; or it may press upon tlie thoracic duct and destroy life by inanition ; or it may involve the esophagus, producing d.^^pliagia. and has not infrequently been mistaken for esophageal stricture ; or it may burst into the oesophagus, when fatal haemorrhage will occur. Corapres.sion or stretchmg o^ J^ sym- pathetic filaments may, in the former case, produce dilatation of the pupil: m the latter. » mr. (Ir Mid., Paris, 1903.INNOMINATE ARTERY G23 contraction, if the conducting power is abolisiied, on the affected side. Tiiis lias proved to be an important diagnostic sign in this disease. Again, the innominate artery, or the subclavian, or left carotid, may be so obstructed by clots as to produce a weakness, or even a disappearance, of the pulse in one or the other wrist, or in the left temporal artery; or Ihe tumour may present itself at or above the manubrium, generally either in the median line, or to the right of the sternum, and may simulate an aneurysm of one of the arteries of the neck. It is important to remember that many of the physical signs of an aortic aneurysm may be simulated wth extraordinary fidelity by the preternatural pulsation or throbbing of a distended and elastic aorta, when no true aneurysmal dilatation exists. This condition may be met with in young persons with aortic reflux and greatly hypertrophied hearts, in patients who are of a neurotic or hysterical temperament, and in cases of Graves's disease or of marked anoemia. The condition is known as dynamic dilatation of the aorta, and in no way threatens life. Branches (figs. 572, 573).—The branches given off from tlie arch of the aorta are three in number : the innominate, the left common carotid, and the left subclavian. Peculiarities.—Position of the branches.—The branches, instead of arising from the highest part of the arch, may spring from the commencement of the arch or upper part of the ascending aorta ; or the distance between them at their origins may be increased or diminished, the most frequent change in this respect being the approximation of the left carotid towards the innominate artery. The number of the primary branches may be reduced to one, or more commonly two: the left carotid arising from the innominate artery; or (more rarely) the carotid and subclavian arteries of the left side arising from a left innominate artery. But the number may be increased to four, from the right carotid and subclavian arteries arising directly from the aorta, the innominate being absent. In most of these latter cases the right subclavian has been found to arise from the left end of the arch ; in other cases it is the second or third branch given off, instead of the first. Another common form in which there are four primary branches is that in which the left vertebral artery arises from the arch of the aorta between the left carotid and subclavian arteries. Lastly, the number of trunks from the arch may be increased to five or six ; in these instances, the external and internal carotids arise separately from the arch, the common carotid being absent on one or both sides. In some few cases six branches have been found, and this condition is associated with the origin of both vertebral arteries from the arch. Number usual, arrangement diff.erent.—When the aorta arches over to the right side, the three branches have an arrangement the reverse of what is usual, the innominate artery is a left one, and the right carotid and subclavian arise separately. In other cases, where the aorta takes its usual course, the two carotids may be joined in a common trunk, and the subclavians arise separately from the arch, the right subclavian generally arising from the left end of the arch. In some instances other arteries spring from the arch of the aorta. Of these the most common are the bronchial, one or both, and the thyreoidea ima; but the internal mammary and the inferior thyi'oid have been seen to arise from this vessel. Innominate Artery The innominate or brachio-cephalic artery (a. anonyma) (fig. 572) is the largest branch given off from tlie arch of the aorta. It arises, on a level witli tlie ui^per border of the second right costal cartilage, from the com- mencement of the arch of tlie aorta, on a plane anterior to the origin of tlie left carotid, and, ascending obUquely upwards, backwards, and outwards to the level of the upper border of the right sterno-clavicular articulation, divides into the right common carotid and right subclavian arteries. This vessel varies from an inch and a half to two inches in length. Relations.—/« /Voni, it is separated from the first piece of the sternum by the bterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, the remains of the thymus gland, the left innominate and right inferior thyroid veins which cross its root, and some- times the inferior cervical cardiac branch of the right pneumogastric. Behind, it lies upon the trachea, which it cresses obliquely. On the ricjht side are the right imiommate vein, the superior vena cava, the right phrenic nerve, and the pleura ; and on the left side, the remains of the thymus gland, the origin of the left carotid artery, the left inferior thyroid vein, and the trachea. ^'"^•nches.—The innominate usually gives off no branches ; but occasionally a small branch, the thyreoidea ima, arises from tliis vessel. It also sometimes gives off a thymic or bronchial branch.624 ANGIOLOGY The thyreoidea ima ascends in front of tlic trachea to the lower part of the thyroid body, wliicli it supjjlies. It varies greatly in size, and appears to compensate for deficiency or absence of one of the other thyroid vessels. It occasionally arises from the aorta, the right common carotid, the subclavian or the internal mammary. Peculiarities in point of division.—When the bifurcation of the innominate artery varies from the point above mentioned, the vessel sometimes ascends a considerable distance above the sternal end of the clavicle ; less frequently it divides below it. In cases of the former class, its length may exceed two inches ; and, in the latter, be reduced to an inch or less. Position.—When the aorta arches over to the right side, the innominate is directed to the left side of the neck instead of the right. Collateral Circvlation.—Allan Burns demonstrated, on the dead subject, the possibilitj- of the establishment of the collateral circulation after ligature of the innominate arterj', by tying and dividing that artery. He then found that ' Even coarse injection, impelled into the aorta, passed freely by the anastomosing branches into the arteries of the right arm, filling them and all the vessels of the head completely.'* The branches by which this circulation would be carried on are very numerous ; thus, all the communications across the middle line between the branches of the carotid arteries of oiDposite sides would be available for the supply of blood to the right side of the head and neck; while the anastomosis between the superior intercostal of the subclavian and the first aortic inter- costal (see infra on the collateral circulation after obliteration of the thoracic aorta) would bring the blood, by a free and direct course, into the right subclavian. The numerous connections, also, between the intercostal arteries and the branches of the axillary and internal mammary arteries would, doubtless, assist in the supply of blood to the right arm, while the deep epigastric from the external iliac would, hy means of its anastomosis with the internal mammary, compensate for any deficiency in the vascularity of the wall of the chest. Applied Anatomy.—Aneurysm of the innominate artery not infrequently occurs a-s an accompaniment to aneurysm of the arch of the aorta. It causes bulgmg of the right sterno-clavicular articulation, pushing forwards the Sterno-mastoid muscle and filling up the suprasternal notch. It produces serious pressure symptoms: from pressure on the innominate veins it may cause oedema of the upper extremities, and of the head and neck ; from pressure on the trachea it produces dyspnoea ; and from pressure on the right recurrent laryngeal nerve, hoarseness and laryngeal cough. Although the operation of tying the innominate artery has been performed by several surgeons, not many successes have been recorded. The chief danger of the operation appears to be the frequency of secondary haemorrhage; but in the present day, mth the practice of aseptic surgery and our greater knowledge of the use of the hgature, more favourable results may be anticipated. The main obstacles to the operation are, the deep situation of the artery behind and beneath the sternum, and the number of important structures which surround it in every part. In order to apply a hgature to this vessel, the patient is to be placed upon his back with the thorax shghtly raised, the head bent a little backwards, and the right shoulder strongly depressed, so as to draw out the artery from behind the sternum into the neck. An incision three or more inches long is then made along the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, terminating at the sternal end of the clavicle. From this point, a second mcision is carried about the same length along the upper border of the clavicle. The skin is then dissected back, and the Platysma divided on a director: the sternal end of the Sterno-mastoid is now brought into view, and a director being passed beneath it, and close to its under surface, so as to avoid any small vessels, it is to be divided : in hke manner the clavicular origin is to be divided throughout the whole or greater part of its attachment. By pressing aside any loose cellular tissue or vessels that may now appear, the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyi-oid muscles will be exposed, and niust be divided, a director being previously passed beneath them. The inferior thjToid veins may come into view, and must be carefully drawi either upwards or downwards, by means of a blunt hook, or tied with double ligatures and divided. After tearing through a strong fibro-cellular lamina, the right carotid is brought into view, and being traced downwards, the arteria innorainata is arrived at. The left innominate vein should no« be depressed; the right innominate vein, the internal jugular vein, and the pneumogastrie nerve drawn to the right side ; and a curved aneurysm needle may then be ]3assed arouiui the aorta for the formation of the coaguluin. Ihe importi plexus of veins during the priniury steps of the operation, and the^ pleural sac vhik including the vessel in the ligature, should be most carefully borne in mind. * Siirginal Anatomy ofthr Hind and yech, p. 02.COMMON CAROTID ARTERY 625 ARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK The principal arteries of supply to the head and neck are the two common carotids ; they ascend in the neck and each divides into two branches, viz. (1) the external carotid, supplying the superficial parts of the head and face, and the greater part of tlie neck ; (2) the internal carotid, supplying to a great extent the parts within the cranial cavity. Common Carotid Arteries The common carotid arteries differ in length and in theii- mode of origin. The ricjht (a. carotis communis dextra) begins at tlie bifurcation of tiie innominate artery behind the sterno-clavicular joint and is confined to the neclv. The left (a. carotis communis sinistra) springs from tlie highest part of the arch of tlie aorta to the left of and on a plane posterior to the innominate artery, and therefore consists of a thoracic and a cervical portion. The thoracic portion of the left common carotid artery ascends from the arch of the aorta through the superior mediastinum to the level of the left sterno-cla\dcular joint, wliere it is continuous with the cervical portion. Relations,—In front, it is separated from the first piece of the sternum by the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, the anterior portions of the left pleura and lung, the left inuommate vein, and the remains of the thymus gUxud ; behind, it hes on the trachea, oesophagus, left recurrent laryngeal nerve, and thoracic duct. To its right side below is the innominate artery, and above, the trachea, the inferior thyroid veins, and the remains of the thymus gland ; to its left side are the left pneumogastric and phrenic nerves, left pleura, and lung. The left subclavian artery is posterior and slightly external to it. The cervical portions of the two common carotids resemble each other so closely, that one description wiU apply to both (fig. 574). Each vessel passes obliquely upwards, from behind the sterno-clavicular articulation, to the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, opposite the lower border of the third cervical vertebra, where it divides into tlie external and internal carotid arteries. At the lower part of the neck the two common carotid arteries are separated from each other by a very small interval, which contains the trachea ; but at tlie upper part, the thyi'oid body, the larynx and pharynx project forwards between the two vessels, and give them the appearance of being placed farther back in this situation. The common carotid artery is contained in a sheath, which is derived from the deep cervical fascia and encloses also tlie internal jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve, the vein lying on the outer side of the artery, and the nerve between the artery and vein, on a plane posterior to both. On opening the sheath, these three structures are seen to be separated from one another, each being enclosed in a separate fibrous investment. Relations.—At the lower part of the neck the common carotid artery is very deeply se;itcd, being covered hy the integument, superficial fascia, Platysma, and deep cervical fascia, the Sterno-mastoid, Storno-hyoid, Sterno-th3Toid and Omo- hyoid muscles ; in the upper part of its course it is more superficial, being covered merely by the integument, the superficial fascia, Platysma, deep cervical fascia, and mner margin of the Sterno-mastoid. When the latter muscle is drawn backwards, the artery is seen to be contained in a triangular space, the carotid triangle, bounded behind by the Sterno-mastoid, above by the Stylo-hyoid and postenor belly of the Digastric, and below by the anterior belly of the Omo- nyoid. This part of the artery is crossed obliquely, from within outwards, by the sterno-mastoid artery; it is also crossed by the superior and middle thvi-oid veins which terminate in the internal jugular; descending on its sheath in iront IS the descendens hypoglossi nerve, this filament being joined by one or two branches from the cervical nerves, which cross the vessel from without mwards. Sometimes the descendens hypoglossi is contained within the sheath, ihe superior thyroid vein crosses the ai-tery near its termination, and the middle thyroid vein a little below the level of the" cricoid cartilage ; the anterior jugular vem crosses the artery just above the clavicle, but is separated from it by the fiterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles. Behind, the artery is separated from s s62G ANGIOLOGY the transverse processes of the cervical vertebraj by the Longus colli and Rectus capitis anticus major, the sympathetic cord being interposed between it and the muscles. The recurrent laryngeal nerve and inferior thyroid artery cross behind the vessel at its lower part. Internally, it is in relation with the oesophagus, trachea, and thyroid gland (which overlaps it), the inferior thyroid artery and recurrent laryngeal nerve being interposed ; higher up, with the larynx and pharynx. On its outer side are placed the internal jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve. Fig. 574.—Superficial dissection of the right side of the neck, showing the carotid and subclavian arteries. At the lower part of the neck, the internal jugular vein on the right side diverges from the artery, but on the left side it approaches it, and often oa trlaps its lower part. On the posterior aspect of the angle of bifurcation of the ^~\rsm.ctur??o the reddish-brown oval body, known as the carotid body It is similar m structuio coccygeal body, which is situated on the middle sacral artery. Peculiarities m to origin.-Tho ri,jhf. common carot.d may anse a1 o e (he "PP^^ '^^'^^^j of the sterno-clavicular articulation; this variation occurs in about 1- per627 COMMON CAROTID ARTERY cases. In other cases the arteiy arises as a separate branch from the arch of the aorta, or it may arise in conjunction with the left carotid. Tlie left commoyi carotid varies in its origin more than tlio right. In the majority of abnormal cases it arises with the irmominate artery, or, if the innommate artery is absent, the two carotids arise usually by a single trunk. It is rarely joined with the left subclavian, except in oases of trans- position of the arch. Pecttliarities as to point of division.—In the majority of abnormal cases, this occurs higher than usual, the artery dividing into two branches opposite the hyoid bone, or even higher ; more rarely, it occur sbelow, opposite the middle of the larynx, or the lower border of the cricoid cartilage ; and one case is related by Morgagni, where the common carotid, only an inch and a half in length, divided at the root of the neck. Very rarely, the common carotid ascends in the neck -nathout any subdivision, either the external or the internal carotid being wanting ; and in a few cases the common carotid has been found to be absent, the external and internal carotids arising directly from the arch of the aorta. This peculiarity existed on both sides in some instances, on one side in others. Occasional branches.—The common carotid usually gives off no branch previous to its bifurcation ; but it occasionally gives origin to the superior thyroid or its laryngeal branch, the ascending pharyngeal, the inferior thyi-oid, or, more rarely, the vertebral artery. Surface Marki7ig.—The course of the artery is indicated by a line cira-sra from the upper part of the sternal end of the clavicle below, to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process above. The portion of this line below the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage represents the course of the vessel. Applied Anatomy.—Aneurysms are not commonly met with on the common carotid ; when they do occur they are usually situated low down at the root of the neck, or just below the point of bifm-cation of the vessel. They do not frequently assume a large size, and are more commonly foimd on the right side. As they increase in size they cSsplace the trachea and larynx, and therefore dyspnoea becomes a prominent symptom. Dysphagia also may be present from pressure on the oesophagus, especially if the aneui-ysm is on the left side ; and pressure on the recm-rent laryngeal nerve may produce hoarseness and laryngeal cough. Pressure on the sympathetic v.'iU. cause pupillary changes—dilatation of the pupil when the sympathetic is kritated, contraction when it has become paralysed—and may also give rise to unilateral sweating. Pressure on the superficial branches of the cervical plexus may give rise to pain in the head, face, and neck ; pressure on the vagus to in-egular action of the heart and to asthmatic attacks. It is important to bear in mind that an enlarged gland in the superior carotid triangle, receiving a transmitted pulsation from the carotid artery, may simulate aneurysm of that vessel, but may be distinguished from it by the character of the pulsation, which is not distensile. Embolism of the left common carotid has been known to produce aphasia by inter- ference with the blood supply of the brain. Digital compression of the common carotid is sometimes required, and is best effected by compressmg the vessel ^v^th the thumb against the anterior tubercle of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra (see page 185). Ligature of the common carotid artery may be necessary in a case of wound of that vessel or its branches, in aneurysm, or in a case of pulsating tumour of the orbit or skull. If the wound involves the trunk of the common carotid, it will be necessary to tie the artery above and below the wounded part. In cases of aneurysm, the whole of the artery is accessible, and any part may be tied, except close to either end. ^Vhen the case is such as to allow of a choice being made, the lower part of the carotid should never be selected as the spot upon which to place a hgature, for not only is the artery in this situation placed very deeply in the neck, but it is covered by three layers of muscles, and, on the left side, the internal jugular vem, in the great majority of cases, passes obUquely in front of it. Neither should the upper end be selected, for here the superior thyroid vein and its tributaries would give rise to very considerable difficulty in the application of a ligature. The part of the vessel which is most favourable for the operation is that opposite the level of the cricoid cartilage. It occasionally happens that the carotid artery bifurcates below its usual position : if the artery be exposed at its pomt of bifurcation, both divisions of the vessel should be tied near their origin, in preference to tying the trunk of the artery near its termination ; and if, in consequence of the entire absence of the common carotid, or from its early division, two arteries, the external and internal carotids, are met with, the ligature should be placed on that vessel which is found on compression to be connected with the diseased area. In this operation, the direction of the vessel and the inner margin of the Sterno-mastoid are the chief guides to its performance. The patient should bo placed on his back with the head extended and turned slightly to the opposite side : an incision is to be made, three inches long, in the direction of the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, so that the centre corresponds to the level of the cricoid cartilage. After dividing the integument, superficial fascia, and Platysma, the deep fascia must be cut through on a director, so as to avoid wounding numerous small veins that are usually found beneath. The head may now bo brought forwards so as to relax the parts somewhat, and the margins of the wound lield asunder by retractoi-s. The descendens hypoglossi nerve may now bo exposed, and S S 2628 ANGIOLOGY must be avoided, and the shoath of the vessel having been raised by forceps, is to be opened to a small extent over the artery at its inner side. The internal jugular vein may present itself alternately distended and relaxed ; this should be compressed both above and below, and di-ami outwards, in order to facilitate the operation. The aneurysm needle is passed from the outside, care being taken to keep the needle in close contact with the arterjs and thus avoid the risk of injurmg the internal jugular vein, or including the vagus nerve. Before the ligature is tied, it should bo ascertained that nothing but the artery is included in it. Ligature of the common carotid at the lower part of the neck.—This operation is some- times required in cases of aneurysm of the upper part of the carotid, especially if the sac is of large size. It is best performed by divicling the sternal origin of the Stcrno- mastoid muscle, but may be done in some cases, if the aneurysm is not of very large size, by an incision along the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, extending down to the sterno-clavicular articulation, and by then retracting the muscle. The easiest and best plan, however, is to make an incision two or three inches long down the lower part of the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid muscle to the sterno-clavicular joint, and a second incision, startmg from the termination of the first, along the upper border of the clavicle for about two mches. This incision is made through the superficial and deep fasciai and the sternal origm of the muscle is exposed. This is to be divided on a director and turned up, with the superficial structures, as a triangular flap. Some loose comiective tissue is to be divided or torn through, and the outer border of the Sterno-hyoid muscle exposed. In doing this, care must be taken not to wound the anterior jugular vein, which crosses the muscle to reach the external jugular or subclavian vem. The Sterno- hyoid and Stemo-thyi-oid are to be drawn mwards by means of a retractor, and the sheath of the vessel exposed. This must be opened with great care on its mner or tracheal side, so as to avoid the internal jugular vein. This is especiaUy necessary on the left side, where the artery is commonly overlapped by the vein. On the right side there is usually an interval between the artery and the vem, and the risk of woundmg the vein is less. , . , , , ■ i^- i i The common carotid artery, being a long vessel without any branches, is particularly suitable for the performance of Brasdor's operation for the cure of an aneurysm of the lower part of the vessel. Brasdor's procedure consists in hgaturing the artery on the distal side of the aneurysm, and in the case of the common carotid there are no branches given ofi from the vessel between the aneurysm and the site of the Hgatm-e; hence the flow of blood through the sac of the aneui-ysm is cbminished, and cure takes place m the usual way by the deposit of lammated fibrm. ,., ^, „ ^ , • , 4--„„ Collateral Circ^dation.—Mtev ligature of the common carotid, the eoUateral circulation can be perfectly estabhshed, by the free communication which exists between the carotid arteries of opposite sides, both without and Avithin the cranium, and by enlargement of the branches of the subclavian artery on the side corresponding to that on which the vessel has been tied The chief communications outside the skull take place between the superior and inferior thyroid arteries, and the profunda cervicis and arteria princeps cervicis of the occipital; the vertebral takes the place of the internal carotid withm the cranium. ExTEENAL Carotid Artery The external carotid artery (a. carotis externa) (%• 574) commences opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartila|e and, takuig a .shghtly ciuved course, passes upwards and forwards, and then mchnes back^^ard. ?o the space behind the ieck of the mandible, where it divides mto the super- ficial temporal and internal maxillary arteries. It rapidly dmrmishes m in its course up the neck, owing to the number and large size o tl«^ biand^^^^^^ eiven off froin it. In the child, it is somewhat smaller than the internal carSid butTn the adult, the two vessels are of nearly equal size. At its origTn this artery is more superficial, and placed nearer the middle hue than the internal carotid, and is contained within the carotid tnangle. Relations.-The external carotid artery is covered 6?/ the skm supei hci. 1 fascia Platysma, deep fascia, and anterior margm of the Sterno-mastoid it is crossed by the h^pogllssal ne^vc, by the lingual, ranine, facial and superior thyro d veins and bv So Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles; higher up it passes deeply Into the substance of the parotid gland, where it lies beneath the facial nerve a^ d the imictbn of the temporal and internal maxillary veins. Internalh, are the In o d hnn^ the w ill of the pharynx, the superior laryngeal nerve, and a portion of the mrotid Ldand ExZrnll in tho lowSr part of its course, is the internal carotid Irte^v SuZ t carorigin, is the'superior laryngeal nerve ; and higher up JSpaSdt^nX intern^ carotid byke ^tylo-gl-us and St. o-j^ar^^ muscles, the glosso-pharyngeal ner^^e, the pharyngeal branch of the vagus, ana part of the parotid gland.629 EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY Surface Marking.—The position of the external carotid artery may be marked out with sufficient accuracy by a line dra\vn from the side of the cricoid cartilage to the front of the meatus of the external ear, arcliing the line slightly forwards. Applied Anatoniij.—The apphcation of a ligature to the external carotid may be required in cases of wound of this vessel, or of its branches when these cannot be tied, and in some cases of pidsating tumours of the scalp or face. It is also done as a preliminary measure to excision of the maxilla. The operation is to be preferred to ligature of the common carotid, as it does not interfere wth the cerebral circulation. The seat of election for ligature is between the origins of the superior tliyi-oid and lingual branches, about a finger's breadth below the tip of the great cornu of the hyoid bone. To tie the vessel, an incision is to be made from the angle of the mandible to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and the superficial tissues and the deep fascia di\aded. The anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid must be retracted and the lower border of the parotid gland raised, so as to expose the tendon of the Digastric and the hypoglossal nerve, which cross the artery. The great difficulty in doing this is due to the plexus of veins derived from the superior thyroid and lingual veins,which overhe the artery. If necessary, these must be ligatured and divided. Care must be taken not to mistake the Ungual and facial, when they arise by a common trunk, as they sometimes do, for the external carotid. Svhen the vessel is exposed, the needle is to be passed from without inwards, carefully avoiding the superior laryngeal nerve, which lies in close proximity to the artery. The circulation is at once re-estabUshed by the free communication between most of the largo branches of the artery (facial, lingual, superior thyroid, occipital) and the corresponding arteries of the opposite side, and by the anastomosis of its branches with those of the internal carotid, and of the occipital with branches of the subclavian, &c. Branches of the External Carotid Artery The external carotid artery gives off eight branches, which, for convenience of description, may be divided into four sets. (See fig. 575.) Anterior. Superior thyroid. Lingual. Facial. Posterior. Occipital. Posterior auricular. Ascending. Ascending pharyngeal. Terminal. Superficial temporal. Liternal maxillary. Fig. 575.—Plan of the branches of the ex- ternal carotid 1. The superior thyroid artery (a. thyreoidea superior) (fig. 574) arises from the external carotid artery just below the level of the great cornu of the hyoid bone and terminates in the thyroid gland. Relations.—From its origin under the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid it runs upwards and forwards for a short distance in the carotid triangle, where it is covered by the skin, Platysma, and fascia; it then arches downwards beneath the Omo-hyoid, Sterno-hyoid, and Sterno-thyroid. To its inner side are the Inferior constrictor of the pharynx and the external laryngeal nerve. Branches. — It distributes twigs to the adjacent muscles, and numerous branches to the thyroid gland, anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the inferior thyroid arteries. The branches to the glaud are generally two in nmnber : one, the larger, supphes principally the anterior surface of the gland ; it courses along the inner border of the lateral lobe to the isthmus, in which it anastomoses with the corre- sponding artery of the opposite side : a second branch descends on the posterior surface of the lateral lobe and anastomoses with the inferior thyroid artery. Besides the arteries distributed to the muscles and to the thyroid gland, the branches of tlie superior thyroid are : Infrahyoid. Sterno-mastoid. Superior laryngeal. Crico-thyroid. The infrahyoid branch (ramus hyoideus) is small and runs along the lower border of the hyoid bone beneath the Thyro-hyoid muscle; after supplying the muscles connected to the hyoid bone, it forms an arch, by anastomosing with the vessel of the opposite side.ANGIOLOGY 630 The sterno-mastoid branch (ramus steinocleidomastoideus) runs doAvnwards and outwards across tlic sheath of the common carotid artery, and supplies tlie Sterno-mastoid and neighbouring muscles and integument. There is frequently a separate branch from the external carotid distributed to the Sterno-mastoid. The superior laryngeal (a. laryngea superior), larger than cither of the preceding, accompanies the internal laryngeal nerve, beneath the Thyro-hyoid muscle; it pierces the thyro-hyoid membrane, and supplies the muscles, mucous membrane, and glands of the larynx, anastomosing with the branch from the opposite side. The crico-thyroid branch (ramus cricothyreoideus) is small and runs trans- versely across the crico-thyroid membrane, communicatuig with the artery of the opposite side. Applied Anatomy.—The superior thyroid, or one of its branches, is often divided in cases of cut throat, giving rise to considerable hasmorriiage. In such cases, the artery should be secured, the wound being enlarged for that purpose, if necessary. The operation may be easily performed, the artery being very superficial, and the only structures of importance covering it being a few small veins. The operation of tying the superior thyi'oid artery in bronchocele has been performed, but the collateral circulation between this vessel and the artery of the opjsosite side, and the inferior thyroid, is so free that the operation has been given up, especially as better results are obtained by other means. The position of the sterno-mastoid branch is of importance in connection with the operation of ligature of the common carotid artery. It crosses and lies on the sheath of this vessel and may chance to be wounded in opening the sheath. The jJosition of the crico-thyroid branch should be remembered, as it may prove the source of troublesome hsemorrhage during the operation of laryngotomy. 2. The lingual artery (a. lingualis) (fig. 580) arises from the external carotid between the superior thyroid and facial; it fii'st runs obliquely upwards and inwards to the great cornu of the hyoid bone ; it then curves downwards and forwards, forming a looip which is crossed by the hypoglossal nerve, and passing beneath the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles it runs horizontally forwards, beneath the Hyo-glossus, and finally, ascending almost perpendicularly to the tongue, turns forwards on its lower surface as far as the tip, under the name of the ranine artery. Eelations.—Its first, or obhque, portion is superficial, being contained within the carotid triangle ; it rests upon the Middle constrictor of the pharynx, and is covered by the Platysma and the fascia of the neck. Its second, or curved, portion also Hes upon the Middle constrictor, being covered at first by the tendon of the Digastric and by the Stylo-hyoid muscle, and afterwards by the Hyo-glossus. Its third, or horizontal, portion lies between the Hyo-glossus and Genio-hyo- glossus muscles. The fourth, or terminal, part, under the name of the ranine, runs along the irnder surface of the tongue to its tip : here it is very superficial, being covered only by the mucous membrane ; above it is the Lingualis inferior, and on the inner side the Genio-hyo-glossus. The hypoglossal nerve crosses the first part of the lingual artery, but is separated from the second part by the Hyo-glossus. " The branches of the lingual artery are : Suprahyoid. Sublmgual. Dorsales linguae. Ranine. The suprahyoid (ramus hyoideus) runs along the upper border of the hyoid bone, suppljang the muscles attached to it and anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side. The dorsales linguae consist usually of two or three small branches which arise beneath the Hyo-glossus muscle ; they ascend to the back part of the dorsum of the tongue, and supply the mucous membrane in this situation, the tonsil, soft palate, and epiglottis anastomosiiig with the vessels of the opposite side. • t 1 TT 1 The sublingual (a. sublinguahs) arises at the anterior margm of the Hyo-glossus muscle, and runs forward between the Genio-hyo-glossus and Mylo-hyoid to the sublingual gland. It supplies the substance of the gland, giving branches to the Mylo-hyoid and neighbouring muscles, and to the mucous membrane of the mouth and gums. One branch runs behind the alveolar process of the mandible in the substance of the gum to anastomose with a similar artery from the other side.631 LINGUAL ARTERY The ranine (a. profunda linguae) is the terminal portion of tlie lingual artery ; it pursues a tortuous course and runs along the under surface of the tongue, below the Inferior lingualis, and above the mucous membrane ; it lies on th6 outer side of the Genio-hyo-glossus, accompanied by the lingual nerve. On arriving at the tip of the tongue, it has been said to anastomose with the artery of the opposite side ; but this is denied by Hyrtl. In the mouth, these vessels are placed one on either side of the frEenulum. Applied ATiatomy.—The lingual artery may bo divided near its origin in cases of cut throat, a complication that not infrequently happens in wounds of this class ; or severe hemorrhage, which cannot be restramed by ordinary means, may ensue from a wound, or deep ulcer, of the tongue. In the former case, the primary wound may be enlarged if necessary, and the bleeding vessel secured. In the latter case, it has been suggested that the lingual artery should be tied near its origin. Ligature of the Imgual artery has been also occasionally practised, as a palhative measure, in cases of cancer of the tongue, in order to check the progi-ess of the disease by starving the growth, and it is sometimes tied as a preliminary measure to removal of the tongue. The operation is a difficult one on account of the depth of the artery, the number of important parts by which it is surroimded, the loose and yielding nature of the parts upon which it is supported, a,nd its occasional irregularity of origin. An incision is to be made in a curved direction from a finger's breadth external to the symphysis of the jaw downwards to the eornu of the hyoid bone, and then upwards to near the angle of the jaw. Care must be taken not to caiTy this incision too far backwards, for fear of endangering the facial vein. In the first incision the skin, superficial fascia, and Platysmawill be divided, and the deep fascia exposed. This is then to be incised and the submaxillary gland exposed and pulled upwards by retractors. A triangiilar space is now seen, bounded mternally by the posterior border of the BIylo-hyoid muscle ; below and externally, by the tendon of the Digastric ; and above, by the hypoglossal nerve. The floor of the space is formed by the Hyo-glossus muscle, beneath which the artery Ues. The parts are to be cb-awn forwards by a blunt hook inserted beneath the tendon of the Digastric muscle, and the fibres of the Hyo- glossus cut through horizontally just above the Digastric. The vessel will then be exposed ; and in passing the aneurysm needle, care must be taken not to open the pharynx. The hypoglossal nerve must also be avoided. Troublesome hfemorrhage may occur in the division of the frtenulum lingusein children, if the ranine arteries, which lie one on either side of it, be wounded. The operation should always be performed with a pair of blunt-pointed scissors, and only the mucous membrane divided by a very superficial cut. which cannot endanger any vessel. Any further liberation of the tongue which may be necessary can be effected by tearing. 3. The facial or external maxillary artery (a. maxillaris externa) (fig. 576) arises a little above the Ungual, and passes obliquely upwards, beneath the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles, and frequently beneath the hypoglossal nerve, and runs forwards under cover of the body of the mandible, lodged in a groove on the posterior surface of the submaxillary gland ; tliis may be called the cervical part of the artery. It then curves upwards over the body of the mandible at the antero-inferior angle of the Masseter muscle ; passes forwards and upwards across the cheek to the angle of the mouth, then upwards along the side of the nose, and terminates at the inner canthus of the eye, under the name of the angular artery. This vessel, both in the neck and on the face, is remarkably tortuous : in the former situation, to accommodate itself to the movements of the pharynx in degluti- tion ; and in the latter, to the movements of the mandible, lips, and cheeks. Relations.—In the neck, its origin is superficial, being covered by the integu- ment, Platysma, and fascia ; it then passes beneath the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles, and part of the submaxillary gland. It lies upon the Middle constrictor of the pharynx, and is separated from the Stylo-glossus and Hyo-glossus by a portion of the submaxillary gland. On the face, where it passes over the body of the mandible, it is comparatively superficial, lying immediately beneath the Platysma. In this situation its pulsation may be distinctly felt, and compression of the vessel against the bone can be effectually made. In its course over the face, it is covered by the integument, the fat of the cheek, and, near the angle of the mouth, by the Platysma, Risorius, and Zygomatici muscles. It rests on the Buccinator, the Levator anguli oris, and the Levator labii superioris (sometimes piercing or passing imder this last muscle). The facial vein hes to the outer side of the artery, and takes a more direct course across the face, where it is separated from the artery by a considerable interval. In the neck it lies superficial to theANGIOLOGY G32 Cervical Branches. Ascending palatine. Tonsillar. Submaxillaiy. Submental. Muscular. Inferior coronary. Superior coronarjr Lateral nasal. Angular. Muscular. those urteiy. The brandies of the facial nerve cross the artery, and the infra-orbital nerve lies beneath it. The branches of the facial artery may be divided into two sets given olf below the mandible (cervical), and those on the face (facial). Facial Branches. Inferior labial. The ascending palatine (a. palatina ascendeus) (fig. 580) passes up between the Stylo-glossus and Stylo-pharyngeus to the outer side of the pharynx, along Fig. 576.—The arteries of the face and scalp.* Angular ^Lateral nasal lor arlerp thi' M-pium Superior coronaru Iiiferior coronary Inferior labial which it is continued between the Superior constrictor and the Internal pterygoid to near the base of the skull. It divides, near the Levator palati, into two branches : one follows the course of the Levator palati, and, winding over the upper border of the Superior constrictor, supplies the soft palate and the palatine glands, anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side and with the posterior palatine branch of the internal maxillary artery ; the other ])icrccs the Superior constrictor and supplies the tonsil and Eustachian tube, anastomosing witli the tonsillar and ascending pharyngeal arteries. ♦ The rauscular tissue of the lips must be supposed to have been cut away, in order to show the course of the coronaiy arteries.633 FACIAL ARTERY The tonsillar brancli (ramus tonsillaris) (fig. 580) ascends between the Internal pterygoid and Stylo-glossus, and then along the side of the pharynx, perforating the Superior constrictor, to ramify in the substance of the tonsil and root of the tongue. The submaxillary or glandular branches (rami glandulares) consist of three or four large vessels, which supply the submaxillary gland, some being prolonged to the neighbouring muscles, lymphatic glands, and integument. The submental (a. submentalis), the largest of the cervical branches, is given off from the facial artery just as that vessel quits the submaxillary gland : it runs forwards upon the Mylo-hyoid muscle, just below the body of the mandible, and beneath the Digastric. After supplying the surrounding muscles, and anastomosing with the sublingual artery by branches which perforate the Mylo-hyoid muscle, it arrives at the symphysis menti, where it turns over the border of the mandible and divides into a superficial and a deep branch. The superficial branch passes between the integument and Depressor labii inferioris, suppUes both, and anastomoses with the inferior labial artery ; the deep branch runs between the muscle and the bone, supplies the lip, and anastomoses with the inferior labial and mental arteries. The inferior labial passes beneath the Depressor anguli oris, to supply the muscles and integument of the lower lip, anastomosing with the inferior coronary and submental branches of the facial, and with the mental branch of the inferior dental artery. The inferior coronary (a. labiaHs inferior) arises near the angle of the mouth ; it passes upwards and inwards beneath the Depressor anguh oris, and, penetrating the Orbicularis oris muscle, rims in a tortuous course along the edge of the lower lip between this muscle and the mucous membrane, anastomosing with the artery of the opposite side. It supplies the labial glands, the mucous membrane, and the muscles of the lower Hp ; and anastomoses with, the inferior labial, and the mental branch of the inferior dental aitery. The superior coronary (a. labialis superior) is larger and more tortuous than the preceding. It follows a simdlar course along the edge of the upper lip, lying between the mucous membrane and the Orbicularis oris, and anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side. It supphes the textures of the upper hp, and gives off in its course two or three vessels which ascend to the nose. One, named the inferior artery of the septum, ramifies on the nasal septum as far as the point of the nose ; another, the artery of the ala, supplies the ala of the nose. The lateral nasal is derived from the facial, as that vessel ascends along the side of the nose ; it supplies the ala and dorsum of the nose, anastomosing with its fellow, and with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, the inferior artery of the septum, the artery of the ala, and the infra-orbital. The angular (a. angularis) is the termination of the trunk of the facial; it ascends to the inner angle of the orbit, imbedded in the fibres of the Levator labii superioris alseque nasi, and accompanied by a large vein, the angular. It distributes branches on the cheek which anastomose with the infra-orbital, and, after supplying the lachrymal sac and Orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, terminates by anastomosing with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. The muscular branches (rami musculares) in the neck are distributed to the Internal pterygoid and Stylo-liyoid, and on the face to the Masseter and Buccinator. The anastomoses of the facial artery are very numerous, not only with the vessel of the opposite side, but, in the neck, with the sublingual branch of the lingual; with the ascending pharyngeal; with the posterior palatine branch of the internal maxillary, by its inferior or ascending palatine and tonsillar branches ; on the face, with the mental branch of the inferior dental as it emerges from the mental foramen ; with the transverse facial branch of the superficial temporal ; with the infra-orbital branch of the internal maxillary ; and with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic. Peculiarities.—The facial artery not infrequently arises by a trunk common to it and the lingual. It varies in its size and in the extent to which it sui^plies the face. It occasionally terminates as the submental, and not infrequently extends only as high as the angle of the mouth or nose. The deficiency is then compensated for by enlargement of one of the neighbouring arteries. Applied Anatomy.—The passage of the facial artery over the body of the mandible would appear to afford a favourable position for the application of pressure in cases of634 AA^GIOLOGY hromorrhago from the lips, the result either of an accidental wound or during an operation ; but its application is useless, except for a very sliort time, on account of the free communication of this vessel witli its fellow, and with numerous branches from diflerent sources. In a woimd involving the lip, it is better to seize the part between the fingers, and evert it, when the bleeding vessel may be at once secured with pressure-forceps. In order to prevent hajmorrhage in cases of removal of growths from tiic ]mrt, the lip should bo compressed on either side between the fingers and thumb, or by a pair of specially devised clamp-forceps, while the surgeon excises the diseased part. In order to stop hemorrhage when the lip has been divided in an operation, it is necessary, in uniting the edges of the womid, to pass the sutures through the cut edges, almost a.s deep as its mucous surface ; by these means, not only are the cut surfaces more neatly and securely adapted to each otlier, but the possibility of ha3morrhage is prevented by including in the suture the divided artery. If, on the contrary, the suture be passed through merely the cutaneous portion of the wound, hemorrhage occurs into the cavity ot the mouth. The student should, lastly, observe the relation of the angular artery to the lachrymal sac ; as the vessel passes up along the inner margin of the orbit, it ascends on the nasal side of the sac. In operating for fistula lacrimaUs, the sac should always be opened on its outer side, in order that this vessel may be avoided. 4. The occipital artery (a. occipitalis) (fig. 576) arises from the posterior part of the external carotid, opposite the facial, near the lower margin ot the posterior belly of the Digastric, and terminates in the posterior part ot the ^^^Relations.—At its origm, it is covered by the posterior helly of the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid, and the hypoglossal nerve winds aroimd it from behind iorwards , higher up, it crosses the internal carotid artery, the mternal jugular vem and the pneumogastric and spinal accessory nerves. It next ascends to the mterval betv.-een the tran'^sverse process of the atlas and the mastoid process of the emporal bone and passes horizontally backwards, groovmg the surface of the kttei bone, being ovei^ed by the Sterno-mastoid, Splenius, Trachelo-mastoid and D^^f --^tS and resting upon the Eectus laterahs, the Superior obhque, and Complexu. muse es. It then changes its course and runs vertically upwards, Pierces the fas a connecting the cranial Attachment of the Trapezius with the ^^^^^■'^^'^if'^'' ] ascends in a tortuous course in the superficial fascia o thejcai ^he,e ^ divides into numerous branches, which reach as high as the vertex of the skull and anastomose with the posterior auricular and superficial temporal arteries. Its terminal portion is accompanied by the great occipital nerve. The branches of the occipital artery are : Muscular. Sterno-mastoid. _ Auricular. Meningeal. Arteria prmceps cervicis. The muscular branches (rami musculares) supply the Digastric, Stylo-hyoid, (a. sternocleidomastoidea) is la^n^con^ The hyoglossal nerve, and enters the substance of the muscle, m company with the '^"iteauricX; branch (ramus auricularis) suppUes the back of the concha aiid frelentrg^^^^^^^^^ a braich, which enters the skull through tl^e mastoid foram n anrsupiJies the dura mater, the diploe, ^f.J^^^J^,„J^!^^i. sometimes arises from the occipital artery, and is ""^^^^^^^^^^ vein, The meningeal branches (rami memngei) ascend ^'i^V i -J ina^^^^^^^ and ente^the skull through the jugular and posterior condyloid foranima,to supph the dura mater in the posterior fossa. r,anWho largest branch ol The arteria princeps cervicis if'^'^ f Z^^^^^^ a superficial and the occipital, descends on the back of the l^^f^^^^^^^^ deep portion. The superficial P«^{^«lVrTrJnS tnd nnlZm!!^ wh h the sup.- which pierce that muscle to supply ^'^^^ T'-'^Pf.f ^^.^^Z';^^^ passes benenth ficial cervical branch of the transversahs «° Vol and aSa tomo eLvith branches i635 POSTERIOR AURICULAR ARTERY The cranial branches of the occipital artery are distributed upon the occiput: they are very tortuous, and He between the integument and Occipito-frontalis, anastomosing with the artery of the opposite side and with the posterior auricular and temporal arteries. They supply the back part of the Occipito-frontalis muscle, the integument, and pericranium. 5. The posterior auricular artery (a. auricularis posterior) (fig. 576) is small and arises from the external carotid, above the Digastric and Stylo- hyoid muscles, opposite the apex of the styloid process. It ascends, under cover of the parotid gland, on the styloid process of the temporal bone, to the groove between the cartilage of the ear and the mastoid process, immediately above which it divides into its auricular and mastoid branches. Besides several small branches to the Digastric, Stylo-hyoid, and Sterno- mastoid muscles, and to the parotid gland, this vessel gives off three branches : Stylo-mastoid. Auricular. . Mastoid. The stylo-mastoid branch (a. stylomastoidea) enters the stylo-mastoid foramen and supplies the tympanum, mastoid cells, and semicircular canals. In the young subject a branch from this vessel forms, with the tympanic branch from the internal maxillary, a vascular circle, which surrounds the membrana tympani, and from which delicate vessels ramify on that membrane. It anastomoses with the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal artery by a twig which enters the hiatus Fallopii. The auricular branch (ramus auricularis) ascends behind the ear, beneath the Retrahens auriculam muscle, and is distributed to the back part of the cartilage of the ear, upon which it ramifies minutely, some branches curving round the margin of the fibro-cartilage, others perforating it, to supply the anterior surface. It anastomoses with the posterior branch and also with the anterior auricular branches of the superficial temporal. The mastoid branch (ramus occipitalis) passes backwards, over the Sterno- mastoid muscle, to the scalp above and behind the ear. It supplies the posterior belly of the Occipito-frontalis muscle and the scalp in this situation. It anasto- moses with the occipital artery. 6. The ascending pharyngeal artery (a. pharyngea ascendens) (fig. 580), the smallest branch of the external carotid, is a long, slender vessel, deeply seated in the neck, beneath the other branches of the external carotid and under the Stylo-pharyngeus muscle. It arises from the back part of the external carotid, near the commencement of that vessel, and ascends vertically between the internal carotid and the side of the pharynx, to the under surface of the base of the skull, lying on the Rectus capitis anticus major. It ends by dividing into branches which supply the pharynx and soft palate. Its branches may be divided into five sets; Pharyngeal. Prevertebral. Palatine. Tympanic. Meningeal. The pharyngeal branches (rami pharjaigei) are three or four in number. Two of these descend to supply the Middle and Inferior cojistrictors and the Stylo- pharyngeus, ramifying in their substance and in the mucous membrane lining them. The palatine branch varies in size, and may take the place of the ascending palatuie branch of the facial artery, when that vessel is small. It passes inwards upon the Superior constrictor, sends ramifications to the soft palate and tonsil, and supphes a branch to the Eustachian tube. The prevertebral branches arc numerous small vessels, which supply the Recti capitis antici and Longi colli, the sympathetic, hypoglossal, and pneumo- gastric nerves, and the lymphatic glands ; they anastomose with the ascending cervical artery. The tympanic branch (a. tympanica inferior) is a small artery which passes through a minute foramen in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, in company with the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, to supply the inner wall of the tympanum and anastomose with the other tympanic arteries.636 ANGIOLOGY The meningeal branches consist of several small vessels, which supply the dura mater. One, the fodcrior memncjeal (a. meningea posterior), enters the cranium through the jugular foramen ; a second passes through the fonimeii lacerum medium; and occasionally a third through the anterior condyloid foramen. Applied Anatomy—The ascending pharyngeal artery has been wounded from the throat; as in the case in which the stem of a tobacco-pipe was driven mto the vessel, causing fatal hoomorrhage. 7. The superficial temporal artery (a. temporalis superficialis) (fig. 576), the smaller of the two terminal branches of the external carotid, appears, fi'om its direction, to be the continuation of that vessel. It commences in the substance of the parotid gland, behind the neck of the mandible and crosses over the posterior root of the zygoma. It then passes beneath the Attrahens auriculam muscle, lying on the temporal fascia, and divides, about two inches above the zygomatic arch, into two branches, an anterior and a posterior temporal. , , , . , • i Relations.—As it crosses the zygoma, it is covered by the Attrahens auriculam muscle and by a dense fascia : it is crossed by the temporo-facial division of the facial nerve and one or two veins, and is accompanied by the auriculo-temporal nerve, which lies behind it. j-. , • ■ i- Besides some twigs to the parotid gland, to the temporo-mandibular ]omt, and to the Masseter muscle, its branches are : Transverse facial. Anterior auricular. Middle temporal. Anterior temporal. Posterior temporal. The transverse facial (a. transversa faciei) is given ofE from the superficial temporal before that vessel quits the parotid gland ; running f^^^^'f .^f "^^^ the substance of the gland, it passes transversely across the side o face between Stenson's duct and the lower border of the zygoma, and dn ides into numerous branches, which supply the parotid gland, the Masseter muscle, and he integument, and anastomose with the facial, masseteric and ^^f^^-^^^'itf This vessel rests on the Masseter, and is accompamed by one or two branches of the facial nerve. It is sometimes a branch of the external carotid. The middle temporal (a. temporalis media) arises immediately above the zygomatSrh and,'perforating the'temporal fascia, gives b--ches to the^^^^^^ i^uscle, anastomosing with the deep temporal branches f ^^^^f f^^^^^J^^^^^ It occasionally gives off an orbital branch, which runs along the upper border oi tL zToma between the two layers of the temporal fascia, to the outer ang e o the orbit!^" Thl; branch, which ma/arise directly from the -l-^^^^lf ^Xl^ a d supplies the Orbicularis palpebrarum, and anastomoses with the lachrjmal and palpebral branches of the ophthalmic artery. .„f„,;„,.<.0 ire distributed ^ The anterior auricular branches (rami aunculares to the anterior portion of the pinna, the lobule, and part of the external meatu., anastomosing with branches of the posterior auricular. forwards The antenor temporal (ramus frontalis) runs tortuously upwards and forwards to the foiS SymgWe muscles integument, and pericramumm this region, and anastomoses with the supra-orbital and frontal arteries. ^, . curves The posterior temporal (ramus panota is), larger than .^."jt^ upwards and backwards along the side of the head, b W^^fi^i ^ « J terni^ a fascia, and anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, and with tne post auricular and occipital arteries. Applied Anaionu,-Tho temporal artery, ^-J,^]^^^^^^^^^^ beneath the skin, and its pulsations .nay be r<;^,^ '{/^^i^^f a^^ailab ; or it may be anesthetic, or under circunistances where ^^^^/'^ J'" ^4 Lrfrom the temporal region easily compressed against the bone the operation of of the scalp. When a flap is raised from his l «>t. of t e head a. »^ ^. trephining, the incision should be shaped hke a s„\,plv of L'^hat the flap shall contain the f/'^ ^^^^ blood. The same princip e is applied as f"/^^*^^ "f arteriotomy was per- lla,.H in other parts of the «calp. . formerly he o e^^^^^^ but this operation formed upon this vessel in cases of inflammation of the oyo or Dram, is now obsolete. I 1637 INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY 8. The internal maxillary artery (a. maxillaris interna) (fig. 577), the lai-'^er of the two terminal branches of the external carotid, arises behind the°neck of the mandible, and is at first imbedded in the substance of the parotid »land ; it passes inwards between the ramus of the mandible and the internal lateral ligament, and then upon the outer surface of the External pterygoid muscle to the spheno-maxillary fossa to supply the deep structures of the°face. For convenience of description, it is divided into maxillary, ptery- goid, and spheno-maxillary portions. , , . , The first or maxillary fortion passes horizontally forwards and mwards, between" the ramus of the mandible and the internal lateral ligament, where Fig. 577.—The internal maxillary artery, and its branches. Fig. 578.—Plan of the branches. Plerifijo-palaline it lies parallel to and a little below the auriculo-temporal nerve ; it crosses the inferior dental nerve, and runs along the lower border of the External pterygoid. The second or pterygoid portion runs obliquely forwards and upwards under cover of the ramus of the mandible, on the outer (very frequently on the inner) surface of the External pterygoid ; it then passes between the two iieads of origin of this muscle and enters the spheno-maxillary fossa. Tlie third or spheno-maxillary portion lies in the spheno-maxillary fossa m relation with Meckel's ganglion.638 ANGIOLOGY The branches of this vessel may be divided into three groups (fig. 578), corresponding with its three divisions. Branches of the First or Maxillary Portion Tympanic (anterior). Mddle meningeal. Deep auricular. Small meningeal. Inferior dental. The tympanic (a. tympanica anterior) passes upwards behind the temporo- mandibular articulation, enters the tympanum through the Glaserian fissure, and ramifies upon the membrana tympani, forming a vascular circle around the membrane with the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior amicular, and anastomosing with the Vidian and with the tympanic branch from the mternal carotid. . . • i i The deep auricular (a. auricularis profunda) often arises m common with the preceding. It ascends in the substance of the parotid gland, behind the temporo- mandibukr articulation, pierces the cartilaginous or bony wall of the external auditory meatus, and supplies its cuticular lining and the outer surface of the membrana tympani. It gives a branch to the temporo-mandibular joint. The middle meningeal (a. meningea media) is the largest of the branches which supply the dura mater. It ascends between the internal lateral hgament and the External pterygoid muscle, and between the two roots of the auriculo-temporal nerve to the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone, through which it enters the cranium ; it then rmis upwards and forwards in a groove on the greater wmg of the sphenoid'bone, and divides into two branches, anterior and posterior. The anterior branch, the larger, crosses the greater wing of the sphenoid, reaches the groove or canal in the antero-inf erior angle of the parietal bone, and then divides into branches which spread out between the dura mater and internal surface of the cranium some passing upwards as far as the vertex, and others backwards to the occipital region The posterior branch crosses the squamous portion of the temporal, and on the inner surface of the parietal bone divides into branches which supply the posterior part of the dura mater and cranium. The branches of this vessel are distributed partly to the dura mater, but chiefly to the bones ; they anastomose with the arteries of the opposite side, and with the anterior and posterior menmgeal. The middle meningeal on entering the cranium gives oS the following branches: 1. Numerous smaU vessels which supply the Gasserian gangUon and the dura mater in this situation. 2. A petrosal branch (ramus petrosus superficiahs), which enters the hiatus FaUopH supplies the facial nerve, and anastomoses with the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior aui-icular artery. 3. A minute tympanic branch (a. tympamca supenor), which CB [n the canal for the Tensor tympani muscle, and suppUes this muscle and the limng ^brane of the canal. 4. Orbital branches, which pass through the sphenoidal fissure Sough separate canals in the greater wing of the sphenoid to anastomose .^■lth the kchrZal or other branches of the ophthalmic artery 5. Temj^ml or aMwt,c brarSs! which pass through foramina m the greater^^dng of the sphenoid, and anastomose in thp temnoral fossa with the deep temporal arteries. ., • i Av3 Anatomy.-The middle meningeal is an artery of considerable surgical importance as it may be torn in fractures of the temporal region of he skull, or, indeed, b7iniSs causiiirBeparation of the dura mater from the bone without fracture. The SuTmay be followed by considerable haemorrhage between the bone and dura mater which m^v produce compression of the brain, and require trephmmg for it-s rehef. As The corpresKimplicates the motor region of the cortex, paralysis on the opposite . de of the bodv formT the prominent symptom of the lesion. The anterior branch of this artery cro sesX antero-inferior angle'of the parietal bone at a point H inch behind the external angular process of the frontal bone, and If inch above the zygoma 53). got rt/:i '^t,^«»^. .1.0 bi..d,„g ,»int««.. b, fou.d .„<. controlled.639 INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY The small meningeal (ramus meiiingeus accessorius) is sometimes derived from the preceding. It enters the skull through the foramen ovale, and supplies the Gasseriau ganglion and dura mater. The inferior dental (a. alveolaris inferior) descends with the inferior dental nerve to the foramen on the inner side of the ramus of the mandible. It runs along the dental canal in the substance of the bone, accompanied by the nerve, and opposite the first bicuspid tooth divides into two branches, incisor and mental. The incisor branch is continued forwards beneath the incisor teeth as far as the symphysis menti, where it anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side; the mental branch (a. mentalis) escapes with the nerve at the mental foramen, supplies the chin, and anastomoses with the submental, inferior labial, and inferior coronary arteries. Near its origin the inferior dental artery gives off a lingual branch, which descends with the lingual nerve and supplies the mucous membrane of the mouth. As the inferior dental artery enters the foramen, it gives off a niylo-hyoid branch (ramus mylohyoideus) which runs in the mylo-hyoid groove, and ramifies on the under surface of the Mylo-hyoid. The inferior dental artery and its incisor branch during their course through the substance of the bone give off a few twigs which are lost in the cancellous tissiie, and a series of branches which correspond in number to the roots of the teeth : these enter the minute apertures at the extremities of the fangs, and supply the pulp of the teeth. Branches of the Second or Pterygoid Portion Deep temporal. Masseteric. Pterygoid. Buccal. The deep temporal branches, two in number, anterior (a. temporalis profunda anterior) and posterior (a. temporalis profunda posterior), ascend between the Temporal muscle and the pericranium ; they supply the muscle, and anastomose with the middle temporal artery ; the anterior commmiicates with the lachrymal by means of small branches which perforate the malar bone and greater wing of the sphenoid. The pterygoid branches (rami pterygoidei), irregular in their number and origin, supply the Pterygoid muscles. The masseteric (a. masseterica) is a small branch which passes outwards, above the sigmoid notch of the mandible, to the deep surface of the Masseter. It supplies the muscle, and anastomoses with the masseteric branches of the facial and with the transverse facial artery. The buccal (a. buccinatoria) is a small branch which runs obliquely forwards, between the Internal pterygoid and the ramus of the jaw, to the outer surface of the Buccinator, to which it is distributed, anastomosing with branches of the facial artery. Branches of the Third or Spheno-maxillary Portion Alveolar. Vidian. Infra-orbital. Pterygo-palatine. Descending palatine. Naso- or Spheno-palatine. The alveolar or posterior dental (a. alveolaris superior posterior) is given off from the internal maxillary, frequently in conjunction with the infra-orbital just as the trunk of the vessel is passing into the spheno-maxillary fossa. Descending upon the tuberosity of the maxilla, it divides into numerous branches, some of which enter the posterior dental canals, to supply the molar and bicuspid teeth and the lining of the antrum, while others are continued forwards on the alveolar process to supply the gums. The infra-orbital (a. infraorbitalis) appears, from its direction, to be the continuation of the trunk of the internal maxillary, but often arises from that vessel in conjunction with the preceding branch. It runs along the infra-orbital canal with the superior maxiUary nerve, and emerges on the face through the infra-orbital foramen, beneath the Levator labii superioris. While in the canal, it gives off (a) branches which ascend into the orbit, and assist in supplying the640 ANGIOLOGY ^ Inferior rectus and Inferior oblique muscles and the lachrymal gland, and (b) anterior denial branches (aa. alveol. superiores anteriores) which descend through the anterior dental canals in the bone to supply the mucous membrane of the antrum and the front teeth of the maxilla. On the face, some branches pass upwards to the mneu angle of the orbit and the lachrymal sac, anastomosing with the angular branch of the facial artery ; others run inwards towards the nose, anastomosmg with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic; and others descend beneath the Levator labu superioris and anastomose with the transverse facial and buccal arteries. The four remaining branches arise from that portion of the internal maxillary which is contained in the spheno-maxillary fossa. The descending palatine (a. palatina descendens) descends through the posterior palatine canal with the anterior palatine branch of Meckel's ganglion, and, emergiu" from the posterior palatine foramen, runs forwards m a groove on the inner-side of the alveolar border of the hard palate to the anterior palatine canal. The terminal branch of the artery passes upwards through the foramen of Stenson to anastomose witb the naso-palatine artery Branches are distributed to the gums the mucous membrane of the hard palate, and the palatme glands. In the pklatine canal it gives off branches which descend m the accessory palatine canals to supply the soft palate and tonsU. anastomosmg with the ascending palatine artery. Avvlied Anatomy.-The position of the descending palatme artery on the hard palate should be bOTne in muxd in performing an operation for the closure of a c oft m the hard nahte as itTL danger of being wotmded, and may give rise to formidable haemoiThage ; ft il evL been found necessary to plug the posterior palatme canal m order to arrest the bleeding. The Vidian (a. canalis pterygoidei) passes backwards along the Vidian canal with the Vidian nerve. It is distributed to the upper part o the pharynx Ind to the Eustachian tube, sending iiato the tympanum a smaU branch which palatt^caS w'ith the 'pbaryigeal nerve, and is distributed to the upper part of tVip nharvnx and to the Eustachian tube. The snheno-palatine (a. sphenopalatina) passes through the spheno-palatme bTi^hll t^foH* *L nSer ar, districted to the lateral wall of the nose, the antrum, and the ethmoidal and sphenoidal eells. The Triangles oir the Neck (fig. 579) ftlSvtTn ceZn regirof the neek, in each of which important operat,o,« is subdivided into two large tpangles by ^ ^ ^^^^-^^^ l^elow, to the passes obliquely across tlie neck from the ste^i um^^^^ .^^ ^^^^^^ k^S^sr^aS^d JlTtLt feumd^t, the posterior triangle. Anteeior Triangle of the Neck The anterior triangle ^'^'-'-^'^''^-^J^ttA^^ri" the symphysis menti to the sternum ; boh.nd, bj the641 TRIANGLES OF THE NECK Sterno-mastoid ; its base, directed upwards, is formed by the lower border of the body of the mandible, and a line extending from the angle of the mandible to the mastoid process ; its apex is below, at the sternum. This space is subdivided into four smaller triangles by the Digastric muscle above, and the anterior belly of the Omo-hyoid below. These smaller triangles are named the inferior carotid, the superior carotid, the submaxillary, and the supra-hyoid triangles. The inferior carotid, or muscular triangle, is bounded, in front, by the median line of the neck from the hyoid bone to the sternum ; behind, by tlie anterior margin of the Sterno-mastoid ; above, by the anterior belly of the Omo-hyoid. It is covered by the integument, superficial fascia, Platysma, and deep fascia ; ramifying in which are some of the descend- ing branches of the superficial cervical plexus. Beneath these superficial structures are the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyi-oid muscles, which, together with the anterior margin of the Sterno-mastoid, conceal the lower part of the common carotid artery.* This vessel is enclosed within its sheath, together with the internal jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve ; the vein lies on the outer side of the artery on the right side of the neck, but overlaps it belo\\- Fig. 579.—The triangles of the neck. Supra-hyoid triangle Suhmaxillary triangle, Superior carotid triangle' Inferior carotid triangle Subclavian triangle on the left side ; the nerve lies between the artery and vein, on a plane posterior to both. In front of the sheath are a few filaments descendmg from the loop of commumcation between the descendens and communicantes liypoglossi ; beliind the sheath are the mferior thyroid artery, the recur- rent laryngeal nerve, and the sympathetic cord ; and on its mner side, the cesophagus, the trachea, the thyroid gland—much more prominent in the temale than m the male—and the loM-er part of the larynx. By cutting into t le upper part of this space, and slightly displacing the Sterno-mastoid muscle, tiie common carotid artery may be tied below the Omo-hyoid muscle. Ihe superior carotid, or carotid triangle, is bounded, behind, by the Gterno-mastoid ; below, by the anterior beUy of the Omo-hyoid ; and above, * Therefore the common carotM artery and internal jugular vein are not, strictly speaking, contained in thi.s triangle, since they are covered by the Sterno-mastoid muscle; that is to say cney lie under that muscle, which forms the posterior border of the triangle. I3ut as they lie very close to the structures which are really contained in the triangle, and whose position it is essential to remember in operating on this part of the artery, it is e.>cpedient to study the relations of all these parts together. T T642 ANGIOLOGY by the Stylo-hyoid muscle and the posterior belly of the Digastric. It is covered by the integument, superficial fascia, Platysma, and deep fascia ; ramifying in which are branches of the facial and superficial cervical nerves. Its floor is formed by parts of the ThjTO-hyoid, Hyo-glossus, and the Inferior and Middle constrictor muscles of the pharynx. This space when dissected is seen to contain the upper part of the common carotid artery, which bifur- cates opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage into the external and internal carotid. These vessels are somewhat concealed from view by the anterior margin of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, which overlaps them. The external and internal carotids lie side by side, the external being the more anterior of the two. The foUowmg branches of the external carotid are also met with in this space : the superior thyroid, running forwards and downwards ; the lingual, directly forwards ; the facial, forwards and upwards ; the occipital, backwards ; and the ascenduig pharyngeal, directly upwards on the inner side of the internal carotid. The vems met with are : the mterna iugular which hes on the outer side of the common and internal carotid arteries'- and vems corresponding to the above-mentioned branches of the external carotid—viz. the superior thyi-oid, the lingual, facial, ascending pharyngeal, and sometimes the occipital—all of wliich accompany their corre- sponding arteries, and terminate in the internal jugular. The nerves in this space are the following. In front of the sheath of the common carotid is the descendens hypoglossi. The hypoglossal nerve crosses both the mternal and external carotids above, curving round the origm of the occipital artery Within the sheath, between the artery and vem, and behind both, is tlie pneumogastric nerve; behind the sheath, the sympathetic On the outer side of the vessels, the spinal accessory nerve runs for a short distance betoie it pierces the Sterno-mastoid muscle ; and on the inner side of the external carotid lust below the hyoid bone, may be seen the mternal laryngeal nerve ; and, still more ixiferiorly, the external laryngeal nerve. The -PPer Portion of the larynx and lower portion of the pharynx are also found in the fiont ^"'Thltibmaxillary or digastric triangle con-esponds to the region of the neck immedSte?y beneath tSe body of the mandible It is bomided above by theTwer border of the body of the mandible and a ^^^f^^^^^J^ angle to the mastoid process; below, by the pos erior beUy of Digastr c and Stvlo-hvoid muscles ; in front, by the anterior belly of the Digastric It is coveS b7tlS hitegum^^^ superficial fascia, Platysma, and deep fascia ; Sytg in which a?e branches of the facial nerve and ascending filaiiiei ts ofThnuperficial cervical nerve. Its floor is formed by the Mylo-hyoid HySlossSs and Superior constrictor of the pharynx It is divided m o a^^^^ a/terior and a posterior part by tbe stylo-mandibular ligament^ i^the facS part contains the submaxillary gland, superficial to which J the t^ncia the sSstLe-ot the parotid gland; this vessd/es hete m - ° ; mammary branches: more deeply are the eternal earoM, fte m em. i-otjfe«i2«« ''''"Srsupr^iVoid triangle is Ihniled ^^^.^IS^tL^^ ir:t^. "^"^SL. i'„i^:t~l.°e a„.erior il,.,.ar glands vein. * Tho remark rna.le about the carotid ^^.^^^^ "Pl^'i^f^.f^'f" 'b^ ^.usdes^S enumerated a., con.ained in P-^--J- ^^^^ to bear in mind tl.eirPOSTERIOR TRIANGLE OF THE NECK 643 Posterior Triangle of the Neck The posterior triangle is bounded, in front, by the Steino-mastoid muscle ; behind by the anterior margin of the Trapezius ; its base corre- sponds to the middle third of the clavicle ; its apex, to the occiput. The space is crossed, about an inch above the clavicle, by the posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid, which divides it into two triangles, an upper or occipital, and a lower or subclavian. The occipital triangle, the larger division of the posterior triangle, is bounded, in front, by the Sterno-mastoid ; behind, by the Trapezius ; below, by the Omo-hyoid. Its floor is formed from above downwards by the Splenius capitis. Levator anguli scapulse, and the Middle and Posterior scaleni. It is covered by the integument, the superficial and deep fasciae, and by the Platysma below. The spinal accessory nerve is directed obliquely across the space from the Sterno-mastoid, which it pierces, to the under surface of the Trapezius ; below, the descending branches of the cervical plexus and the transversalis colli vessels and the upper part of the brachial plexus cross the space. A chain of lymphatic glands is also found running along the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, from the mastoid process to the root of the neck. These glands are frequently enlarged and often require removal; when this is the case particular care must be taken not to divide the spinal accessory nerve. The subclavian triangle, the smaller division of the posterior triangle, is bounded, above, by the posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid ; below, by the clavicle; its base is formed by the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid. Its floor is formed by the first rib with the first digitation of the Serratus magnus. The size of the subclavian triangle varies with the extent of attachment of the clavicular portions of the Sterno-mastoid and Trapezius, and also with the height at which the Omo-hyoid crosses the neck. Its height also varies according to the position of the arm, being diminished by raising the limb, on account of the ascent of the clavicle, and increased by drawing the arm downwards, when that bone is depressed. This space is covered by the integu- ment, the superficial and deep fascias and the Platysma, and crossed by the descending branches of the cervical plexus. Just above the level of the clavicle, the third portion of the subclavian artery curves outwards and downwards from the outer margin of the Scalenus anticus, across the first rib, to the axilla, and this is the situation most commonly chosen for ligaturing the vessel. Sometimes this vessel rises as high as an inch and a half above the clavicle ; occasionally, it passes in front of the Scalenus anticus, or pierces the fibres of that muscle. The subclavian vein lies behind the clavicle, and is not usually seen in this space; but in some cases it rises as high as the artery, and has even been seen to pass with that vessel behind the Scalenus anticus. The brachial plexus of nerves lies above the artery, and in close contact with it. Passing transversely behmd the clavicle are the supra- scapular vessels ; and traversing its upper angle in the same direction, the transversalis colli artery and vein. The external jugular vein runs vertically downwards behind the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, to terminate in the subclavian vein; it receives the transversalis colli and suprascapular veins, which form a plexus in front of the artery, and occasionally a small vein which crosses the clavicle from the cephalic. The small nerve to the Subclavius muscle also crosses this triangle about its middle, and some lymphatic glands are usually found in the space. Internal Carotid Artery The internal carotid artery (a. carotis interna) (fig. 580) supplies the anterior part of the brain, the eye and its appendages, and sends branches to the forehead and nose. Its size, in the adult, is equal to that of the external carotid, though, in the child, it is larger than that vessel. It is remarkable for the number of curvatures that it presents in different parts of its course. It occasionally has one or two flexures near the base of the skuU, while in its passage through the carotid canal and along the side of the body of the sphenoid bone it describes a double curvature and resembles the itaUc letter *Sf. t T 2ANGIOLOGY 644 Eelations.—In considering the course and relations of this vessel it may be divided into four portions : cervical, petrous, cavernous, and cerebral. Cervical Portion.—This portion of tbe internal carotid commences at tlie bifurcation of the common carotid, opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and runs perpendicularly upwards, in front of the transverse processes of the upper three cervical vertebra?, to the carotid canal in the petrous portion Fig. 580.—The internal carotid and vertebral arteries. Right side. First aortic inlcrcosict of the temporal bone. It is compara ively superficial at ^ .^^^^ X o it is contained in the carotid triangle, and lies behind and to ^'^y^^'';,^^ he external carotid, overlapped by the Sterno-nvastoid, ^^..Jjtid^.^^^^^^^ fascia, Platysma, and integuuTcnt: it then passes beneath the J^^'^ J' J being crossed by the hypoglossal nerve the /^^^"^tric^^uid btylo-h.oid m anrl tbo occinital and poster or auricular arteries. Higher up, it is separaicu Tom tL eXnil "arolid by the Stylo-glossus and Stylo-pharyngcus muscle.645 INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY the tip of the styloid process and the stylo-hyoid ligament, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and the pharyngeal branch of the pncumogastric. It is in relation, behind, with the Rectus capitis anticus major, the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and the superior laryngeal nerve; externally, with the internal jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve, the nerve lying on a plane posterior to the artery ; internally, with the pharynx, tonsil, the superior laryngeal nerve, and ascending pharyngeal artery. At the base of the skull the glosso-pharyngeal, vagus, spinal accessory, and hypoglossal nerves lie between the artery and the internal jugular vein. Petrous Portion.—'When the internal carotid artery enters the canal in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, it first ascends a short distance, then curves forwards and inwards, and again ascends as it leaves the canal to enter the cavity of the skull between the lingula and petrosal process of the sphenoid. The artery lies at first in front of the cochlea and tympanic cavity; from the latter cavity it is separated by a thin, bony lamella, which is cribriform in the yomig subject, and often partly absorbed in old age. Farther forwards it is separated from the Gasserian ganglion by a thin plate of bone, which forms the floor of the fossa for the ganglion and the roof of the horizontal portion of the canal. Frequently this bony plate is more or less deficient, and then the ganglion is separated from the artery by fibrous membrane. The artery is separated from the bony wall of the carotid canal by a prolongation of dura mater, and is surrounded by a number of small veins and by filaments of the carotid plexus, derived from the ascending branch of the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. Cavernous Portion.—The internal carotid artery, in this part of its course, is situated between the layers of the dura mater forming the cavernous sinus, but covered by the lining membrane of the sinus. It at first ascends towards the posterior clinoid process, then passes forwards by the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, and again curves upwards on the inner side of the anterior clinoid psocess, and perforates the dura mater forming the roof of the sinus. In this part of its coiurse it is svuTomided by filaments of the sympathetic nerve, and on its outer side is the sixth nerve. Cerebral Portion.—Having perforated the dura mater on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process, the internal carotid passes between the second and third cranial nerves to the anterior perforated space at the inner extremity of the fissure of Sylvius, where it gives o£E its terminal or cerebral branches. This portion of the artery has the optic nerve on its inner side, and the third nerve on its outer. Peculiarities.—The length of the internal carotid varies according to the length of the neck, and also according to the point of bifurcation of the common carotid. It arises sometimes from the arch of the aorta ; in such rare instances, this vessel has been found to be placed nearer the middle line of the neck than the external carotid, as far upwards as the larynx, when the latter vessel crossed the internal carotid. The com-se of the artery, instead of being straight, may be very tortuous. A few instances are recorded in which this vessel was altogether absent; in one of these the common carotid passed up the neck, and gave off the usual branches of the external carotid; the cranial portion of the internal carotid was replaced by two branches of the internal maxillary, which entered the skull through the foramen rotimdum and foramen ovale, and joined to form a single vessel. Applied Anatomy.—The cervical part of the internal carotid is very rarely woimded. It is, however, sometimes injured by a stab or gunshot woimd in the neck, or even occasionally by a stab from within the mouth, as when a person receives a thrust from the end of a parasol, or falls down with a tobacco-pipe in his mouth. Although the internal carotid hes about three-quarters of an inch behind and external to the tonsil, instances nave occurred in which the artery has been wounded during the operation of scarifying the toasil, and fatal hsemorrhage has supervened. The incision for ligature of the cervical portion of the internal carotid shoidd be made along the anterior border of the Sterno- mastoid, from the angle of the jaw to the upper border of the thyioid cartilage. The superficial structures being divided, and the Sterno-mastoid defined and dra^^^l outwards, the cellular tissue must be carefully separated and the posterior beUy of the Digastric and liypoglossal nerve sought for as guides to the vessel. AVhen the artery is found, the external carotid should be draivn inwards and the Digastric muscle upwards, and the aueuiysm needle passed fi-om without inwards. Obstruction of the internal carotid by embolism or thi-ombosis may give rise to symptoras of cerebral anemia and softening if the collateral circulation is ill-developed, the patient suffers from giddiness, with failure of the mental powers, and convulsions, coma, or hemiplegia on the opposite side of the body, may be observed.646 ANGIOLOGY Branches.—The cervical portion of the internal carotid gives off no branches. Those from the other portions are : jTympanic (internal or deep). I Vidian. Arteriae receptaculi. Pituitary. - Gasserian. Anterior meningeal. ,Ophthalmic. Aiiterior cerebral. Middle cerebral. Posterior communicating. Anterior choroidal. 1. The tympanic (ramus caroticotympanicus) is a small branch which enters the cavity of the tympanum, through a minute foramen in the carotid canal, and From the Petrous portion From the Cavernous portion From the Cerebral portion anastomoses with the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary, and with the stylo-mastoid artery. i wi„v;j;,„ 2 The Vidian is a small, inconstant branch which passes through the \ idian canai and anastomoses with the Vidian branch of the mternal maxillary artery. 3 The arterise receptaculi are numerous small vessels which supply tiie pituitary body, the Gasserian ganglion, and the walls of the cavernous and inferior petrosal sinuses. Some of them anastomose with branches of the middle mcmngeal. 4. The pituitary branches are one or two minute vessels supplying tnc pituitary body. , , ^ • r 5. The Gasserian branches are small vessels to the Gasserian ganghon. 6 The anterior meningeal is a small branch which passes over the lesser wing of the sphenoid to supply the dura mater of the anterior cranial fossa ; it anastomoses with the meningeal branch from the posterior ethmoidal artery.647 INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY 7. The ophthalmic artery (a. ophthalmica) (fig. 581) arises from the iiiterual carotid, just as that vessel is emerging from the cavernous sums, on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process, and enters the orbital cavity through the optic foramen, below and on the outer side of the optic nerve. It then passes over the nerve to the inner wall of the orbit, and thence horizontally forwards, beneath the lower border of the Superior obUque muscle, to a point behind the internal angular process of the frontal bone, where it divides into two terminal branches, the frontal and nasal. As the artery crosses the optic nerve it is accompanied, by the nasal nerve, and is separated from the frontal nerve by the Rectus superior and Levator palpebrae superioris muscles. The branches of the ophthalmic artery may be dixdded into an orUtal group, distributed to the orbit and surrounding parts ; and an ocular group, to the muscles and globe of the eye. Orbital Group. Ocular Group. Lachrvmal. Central artery of the retina. Supra-orbital. Short cihary. Posterior ethmoidal. Long ciliary. Anterior ethmoidal. Anterior ciliary. Internal palpebral. Muscular. Frontal. Nasal. The lachrymal (a. lacrinialis) arises close to the optic foramen, and is one of the largest branches derived fi-om the ophthalmic : not infrequently it is given oli before the artery enters the orbit. It accompanies the lachi-ymal nerve along the upper border of the External rectus muscle, and is distributed to the lachrymal gland. Its terminal branches, escaping from the gland, are distributed to the eyehds and conjunctiva: of those .supplying the eyelids, two are of considerable size and are named the external palpebral (aa. palpebrales laterales); they run inwards in the upper and lower lids respectively and anastomose with the internal palpebral arteries, forming an arterial circle in this situation. The lachrymal artery gives ofi one or two 77ialar branches, one of which passes through a foramen in the malar bone, to reach the temporal fossa, and anastomoses with the deep temporal arteries; another apjjears on the cheek through the malar foramen, and anastomoses with the transverse facial. A recmTent branch passes backwards through the sphenoidal fissure to the dura mater, and anastomoses with a branch of the middle meningeal artery. The lachrymal artery is sometimes derived from one of the anterior branches of the middle meningeal artery. The supra-orbital (a. supraorbitalis) springs from the ophthalmic as that vessel is crossing over the optic nerve. Ascending so as to rise above all the muscles of the orbit, it runs forwards, with the supra-orbital nerve, between the periosteum and Levator palpebraj; and, passing through the supra-orbital foramen, divides into a superficial and a deep branch, which supply the integument, the muscles, and the pericranium of the fore- head, anastomosing with the frontal, the anterior branch of the temporal, and the artery of the opposite side. This artery in the orbit supplies the Superior rectus and the Levator palpebrjB, and sends a branch inwards, across the puUey of the Superior oblique muscle, to supply the parts at the inner canthus. At the supra-orbital foramen it frequently transmits a branch to the diploe. The ethmoidal branches are two in number : posterior and anterior. The posterior (a. ethmoidalis posterior), which is the smaller, passes through the posterior ethmoidal canal, supplies the posterior ethmoidal cells, and, entering the cranivim, gives oil a meningeal branch to the adjacent dura mater, and nasal branches which descend into the nose through apertures in the cribriform plate, anastomosing with branches of the spheno-palatine. The anterior ethmoidal artery (a. ethmoidahs anterior) accompanies the nasal nerve through the anterior ethmoidal canal, supphes the anterior and middle ethmoidal cells and frontal sinuses, and, entering the cranium, gives oil a meningeal branch to the adjacent dura mater, and nasal branches. These latter descend into the nose through the sht by the side of the crista galli, and, running along the groove on the under siu-face of the nasal bone, supply the skin of the nose. The palpebral arteries (aa. palpebrales mediales), two in number, superior and inferior, arise from the ophthalmic, opposite the pulley of the Superior obhque muscle ; they leave the orbit to encircle the eyehct near their free margins, forming a superior and an inferior arch, which he between the Orbicularis muscle and tarsal jjlates. The superior palpebral anastomoses, at the outer angle of the orbit, with the orbital branch of the temporal artery, and with the upper of the two external palpebral branches from the lachrymal artery; the inferior palpebral anastomoses, at the outer angle of the orbit, wth the lower of the two external palpebral branches from the lachrymal and with the transverse facial artery, and, at the inner side of the lid, with a branch from the angular artery.648 ANGIOLOGY From this last anastomosis a branch passes to the nasal duct, ramifying in its mucous membrane, as far as the inferior meatus. The frontal artery (a. frontalis), one of the terminal branches of the ophthalmic, leaves the orbit at its imier angle with the supra-trochlear nerve, and, ascending on the forehead, supplies the integument, muscles, and pericranium, anastomosing with the supra-orbital artery, and with the artery of the opposite side. The nasal artery (a. dorsalis nasi), the other terminal branch of the ophthalmic, emerges from the orbit above the tendo oculi, and, after giving a branch to the upper part of tlie lachrymal sac, divides into two branches, one of which crosses the root of the nose, and anastomoses with the angular artery ; the other runs along the dorsum of the nose, supplies its outer surface, and anastomoses •with, the artery of the opposite side, and with the lateral nasal branch of the facial. The central artery of the retina (a. centralis retinae) is the first and one of the smallest branches of the ophthalmic artery. It runs for a short distance within the dural sheath of the nerve, but about half an inch behind the eyeball it pierces the optic nerve obUquely, and runs forward in the centre of its substance, and enters the globe of the eye through the porus opticus. Its mode of distribution -will be described in the account of the anatomy of the eye. The ciliary arteries are divisible into three groups, the long and short posterior, and the anterior. The short posterior ciliary arteries (aa. ciliares posteriores breves), from six to twelve in number, arise from the ophthalmic, or some of its branches ; they pass forwards aroruid the optic nerve to the posterior part of the eyeball, pierce the sclera around the entrance of the nerve, and supply the choroid coat and ciUary processes. The long posterior ciliary arteries (aa. cihares posteriores longse), two in number, pierce the posterior part of the sclera at some little distance from the optic nerve, and run forwards, along each side of the eyeball, between the sclera and choroid, to the eiUarj' muscle, where they divide into two branches ; these form an arterial circle, the circulits iridis major, around the circumference of the nis, from which numerous converging branches run inwards, in the substance of the ii'is, to its free margin, where they form a second arterial circle, the circulus iridis minor. The anterior ciliary arteries (aa. cihares anteriores) are derived from the muscular branches ; they run to the front of the eyeball in company with the tendons of the Recti, form a vascular zone beneath the conjunctiva, and then pierce the sclera a short distance from the cornea and terminate in the circulus major iridis. ■ t ■ The muscular branches (rami musculares), two in number, superior and inferior, frequently spring from a common trunk. The superior, the smaller, often wanting, suppUes the Levator palpebra?, Superior rectus, and Superior obUque. The inferior, more constantly present, passes forwards between the optic nerve and Inferior rectus, and is distributed to the External, Internal, and Inferior recti, and the Inferior obUque. This vessel gives off most of the anterior cihary arteries. Additional muscular branches are given off from the lachrymal and supra-orbital branches, or from the trunk of the ophthalmic. 8. The anterior cerebral artery (a. cerebri anterior) (fig. 582) arises from the internal carotid, at the inner extremity of the fissure of Syhaus. It passes forwards and inwards across the anterior perforated space, above the optic nerve, to the corn- mencement of the great longitudinal fissure. Here it comes into close relationship with the artery of the opposite side, and the two vessels are connected by a short trunk, the anterior communicating artery (a. communicans anterior). From this point, the two vessels run side by side in the longitudinal fissure, curve round the genu, and turning backwards continue along the upper surface of the corpus callosum to its posterior part, where they terminate by anastomosmg vnth the posterior cerebral arteries. „ , r „ • i i In its course the anterior cerebral artery gives o£E the following brandies : Antero-median ganglionic. Anterior internal frontal. Inferior internal frontal. Middle internal frontal. Posterior internal frontal. The antero-median ganglionic branches are a group of small arteries which arise at the commencement of the anterior cerebral artery ; they pierce the anterior perforated space and lamina terminalis, and supply the rostrum of the corpus callosum, the septum pellucidum, andthc head of the caudate nucleus. 'Iheinjerior internal frontal branches, two or three in number, are distributed to the orbital surlace of the frontal lobe, where they supply the olfactory lobe, gyrus rectus, and internal orbital convolution. The anterior internal frontal branches supply a part oi ne marginal convolution, and send branches over the edge of the hemisphere to tht superior and middle frontal convolutions and upper part of the ascending irontal convolution. The middle internal frontal branches supply the corpus callosum,649 INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY the callosal convolution, the inner surface of the superior frontal convolution, and the upper part of the ascending frontal convolution. The •posterior mternal frontal branches supply the lobus quadratus and adjacent outer surface of the hemisphere. Fig. 582.—^The arteries of the base of the brain. The right half of the cerebellum and pons have been removed. N.B.—It will be noticed that in the illusUaliou Uiu two anterior cerebral arteries have been ch-awn at a considerable distance fi'oin each other; this makes the anterior communicating artery appear longer than it really is. The anterior communicating artery is a short branch, about 4 mm. in length, but of moderate size, connecting together the two anterior cerebral arteries acrossANGIOLOGY 650 the lougitudinal fissure. Sometimes this vessel is wanting, the two arteries joining together to form a single tnmk, which afterwards divides ; or the vessel may be wholly, or partially, divided into two ; frequently it is longer and smaller than Fig. 683.—^The distribution of the middle cerebral artery, (After Charcot.) Fissure of Buhnido Perforating branches Middle ccrebra I arterij usual. It gives ofi some of the antero-median ganglionic vessels, but these are principally derived from the anterior cerebral. 9. The middle cerebral artery (a. cerebri media) (fig. 583), the largest branch of the internal carotid, passes obliquely outwards along the fissure of Sylvius, and divides into its terminal branches opposite the island of Reil. The branches of this vessel are the : Antero-lateral ganglionic. Inferior external frontal. Ascending frontal. The antero-lateral ganglionic branches, a group of small arteries which arise at the commencement of the middle cerebral artery, are arranged m two sets : Ascending parietal. Parieto-temporal. Temporal. Fig. 584.—Outer surface of cerebral hemisphere, sho\nng areas supplied by cerebral arteries. Anterior cerebral, blue ; middle cerebral, rod ; posterior cerebral, j-oUow. one, the internal striate, passes upwards through the inner segments of tlie lenticular nucleus and supplies it, the caudate nucleus and the mternal capsule ; the otlier, l^r^l^nd Se%soends through the outer segment of the lenticular nucleus.INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY 651 a ad supplies the caudate nucleus and the thalamus. One artery of this groiip is of larger size than the rest, and is of special importance, as being the artery in the brain most frequently ruptured ; it has been termed by Charcot, the ' artery Fig. 585.—Mesial surface of cerebral hemisphere, showing areas supplied by cerebral arteries. Anterior cerebral, blue ; middle cerebral, red ; posterior cerebral, yellow. of cerebral hcemorrhage.' It passes up between the lenticular nucleus and the external capsxile, and ultimately ends in the caudate nucleus. The inferior external frontal supplies the third or inferior frontal convolution (Broca's convolution) and Fig. 586.—Upper surface of cerebral Fig. 587.— Under sui-face of cerebral hemisphere, shomng areas supplied by hemisphere, showing areas supplied by cerebral arteries. cerebral arteries. Olfactory bulb Anterior cerebral, blue; middle cerebral, red; Anterior cerebral, blue; middlu cerebral, red; posterior cerebral, yellow. posterior cerebral, yellow. the outer part of the orbital surface of the frontal lobe. The ascending frontal supplies the ascending frontal convolution. The ascending parietal is distributed to the ascending parietal and the lower part of the superior parietal convolutions..^NGIOLOGY 652 The parieto-t&mporal supplies the supra-marginal and angular gyri, and the posterior parts of the superior and middle temporal convolutions. The temporal branches, two or three in number, are distributed to the outer surface of the temporal lobe. 10. The posterior communicating artery (a. communicans posterior) runs backwards from the internal carotid, and anastomoses with the posterior cerebral, a branch of the basilar. This artery varies in size, being sometimes small, and occasionally so large that the posterior cerebral may be considered as arising from the internal carotid rather than from the basilar. It is frequently larger on one side than on the other. From the posterior half of this vessel are given off a number of small branches, the fostero-median ganglionic branches, which, with similar vessels from the posterior cerebral, pierce the posterior perforated space and supply the internal surfaces of the thalami and the walls of the third ventricle. 11. The anterior choroidal (a. chorioidea) is a small but constant branch, which arises from the internal carotid, near the posterior communicating artery. Passmg backwards and outwards between the temporal lobe and the crus cerebri, it enters the descending horn of the lateral ventricle through the choroidal fissure and ends in the choroid plexus. It is distributed to the hippocampus major, fimbria, velum interpositum, and choroid plexus. THE ARTERIES OF THE BRAIN Investigations show that the mode of distribution of the vessels of the brain has an important bearing iipon a considerable number of the pathological lesions which may occur in this part of the nervous system ; it is therefore important Fig. 588.—Diagram of the arterial circulation at the base of the brain. (After Charcot.) ■ANTERIOR CEREBROL flRTERT INTERNAL CftROtlO ARTERY MIDDLE CEREBF\(\L ARTERY POSTERIOR CEREBRRL ABTERY VEIITKHUAL ABTEHY to consider a little more in detail the manner in which the cerebral vessels are Sr^ctebral arteries are derived from the internal carotid and vertebral which at the base of the brain fonn a remarkable anastomosis known as the arcle653 ARTERIES OF THE BRAIN of Willis (circulus arteriosus). It is formed in front by the anterior cerebral arteries, branches of the internal carotid, which are connected together by the anterior communicating ; behind by the two posterior cerebral arteries, branches of the basilar, winch are connected on either side with the internal carotid by the pos- terior communicating (figs. 582, 588). The parts of the brain included within this arterial circle are the lamina terminalis, the optic commissm-e, the infundibulum, the tuber cinereum, the corpora albicantia, and the posterior perforated space. The three trunks which together supply each cerebral hemisphere arise from the circle of Willis. From its anterior part proceed the two anterior cerebrals; from its antero-lateral parts the middle cerebrals, and from its posterior part the posterior cerebrals. Each of these principal arteries gives origin to two different systems of secondary vessels. One of these is named the central ganglionic system, and the vessels belonging to it supply the central ganglia of the brain ; the other is the cortical system, and its vessels ramify in the pia mater and supply the cortex and subjacent brain substance. These two systems do not communicate at any point of their peripheral distribution, but are entirely independent of each other, Fig. 589.—Distribution of the cortical arteries. (After Charcot.) 1. Sledullary arteries. 1'. Group of medullary arteries in Uie sulcus between two adjacent convolutions. 1'. Arteries situated among the sliort association fibres. 2, 2. Cortical arteries, a. Capillary network witli fairly wide meshes, situated beneath the pia mater, b. Network with more compact, polygonal meshes, situated in tlie cortex, c. Transitional network with wider meshes, d. Capillary network in the white matter. and there is between the parts supplied by the two systems a borderland of diminished nutritive activity, where, it is said, softening is especially liable to occur in the brains of old people. The central ganglionic system.—All the vessels of this system are given oS from the circle of Willis, or from the vessels close to it; so that if a circle be drawn parallel to and at a distance of about an inch from the ckcle of Willis, it will include the origins of all the arteries belonging to this system (fig. 588). These vessels form six principal groups : (i) the antero-median group, derived fi'om the anterior cerebrals and anterior communicating; (ii) the postero-median group, from the posterior cerebrals and posterior communicating ; (iii and iv) the right and left antero-lateral groups, from the middle cerebrals ; and (v and vi) the right and left postei-o-lateral groups, from the posterior cerebrals, after they have woimd round the crura cerebri. The vessels of this system are larger than those of the cortical system, and are what Cohnheim has designated ' terminal' arteries—that IS to say, vessels which from their origin to their termination neither supply nor receive any anastomotic branch, so that, through any one of the vessels only a654 ANGIOLOGY limited area of the central ganglia can be injected, and tte injection cannot be driven beyond the area of the part supplied by the particular vessel which is the subject of the experiment. The cortical arterial system.—The vessels forming this system are the terminal branches of the anterior, middle, and posterior cerebral arteries. These vessels divide and ramify iii the substance of the pia mater, and give off nutrient arteries which penetrate the brain cortex perpendicularly. The nutrient vessels are divisible into two classes, long and short. The long, or medullary artmes, pass through the grey matter and penetrate the subjacent white matter to the depth of about" an inch and a half, without intercommunicating othermse than by very fine capillaries, and thus constitute so many independent small systems. The short vessels are confined to the cortex, where they form with the long vessels a compact network in the middle zone of the grey matter, the outer and inner zones being sparingly supplied with blood (fig. 589). The vessels of the cortical arterial system are not so strictly ' terminal' as those of the central ganglionic system, but they approach this type very closely, so that injection of one area from the vessel of another area, though possible, is frequently very difficult, and is only efiected through vessels of small calibre. As a result of this, obstruction of one of the main branches, or its divisions, may have the effect of producmg softening in a limited area of the cortex. ARTERIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY The artery which supplies the upper extremity continues as a single trunk from its commencement do^vn to the elbow ; but different portions of it have received different names, accordmg to the regions thi'ough which they pass_ That part of the vessel which extends from its origm to the outer border ot the first rib is termed the subclavian ■ beyond this point to the lower border of the axiUa, the artery is termed the axillary ; and from the lower margin of the axillary space to the bend of the elbow, it is termed brachial; here, the trunk ends by dividing into two branches, the radial and ulnar. Subclavian Arteries (fig. 590) On the right side the subclavian artery (a. subclavia) arises from the innominate a?tery opposite the right sterno-clavicular articulation; on the Mt side it sprmgs fi^m the arch of the aorta. The two vessel, therefore, m ihe first l^S ot their course, differ in length, dii-ection, and relation witli ""^t^^^^cS: the description, more especiaUy from a surgical point of view each subclavian artery is divided mto three parts. The fi^^t POition on the riSit side, passes upwards and outwards from the origm of the ve.sel ?o the iSner border-of the Scalenus anticus. On the left side it ascends neail> verUcaUy to gain the inner border of that muscle. The second part .passe. nutwarS' behfnd the Scalenus anticus ; and the third part extends from he oSrx iSmifrtS beneath the clavicle, to the out^er border of the first rib Xie i becomes the axiUary artery. The first portions of the « ves el differ so much in their course and r;elations "^^^J^^^^^^^ that they will be described separately. The second and third parts practically alike on the two sides. First Part of the Right Subclavian Artery (figs. 572, 590) PWysm., deep fascia, the clavieolar ?' "^^^^^^ It is hyoid, and Stemo-thytoid ■""'"'"■.""''.T v. m L^d bv tt P iclioeastric erosai by the internal iigiilat and vertebral vcms, and by tlie pnei tSUBCLAVIAN ARTERY 655 nerve and the cardiac branches of the pneumogastric and sympathetic. A loop of the sympathetic trunk also crosses the artery, forming a ring {annulus Vieussenii) around the vessel. The anterior jugular vein passes outwards in front of the artery, but is separated from it by the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles. Kg. 590.—Superficial dissection of the right side of the neck, showing the carotid and subclavian arteries. Below and behind the artery is the pleura, which separates it fi'oni the apex of the lung; behind is the gangliated cord of the sympathetic, the Longus colU muscle and the first thoracic vertebra. The right recurrent laryngeal nerve winds round the lower and back part of the vessel. First Part of the Left Subclavian Artery (fig. 572) The first part of the left subclavian artery arises from the arch of the aorta, behind the left common carotid, and at the level of the fourth thoracic vertebra ; it ascends nearly vertically to the root of the neck and then arches outwards to the inner margin of the Scalenus anticus.nerve ; to its outer side, the left pleura and Imig. 65G ■ ANGIOLOGY Relations.—It is in relation, in front, with the pneumogastric. cardiac, and phrenic nerves, which lie parallel with it, the left common carotid artery, left internal jugular and vertebral veins, and the commencement of the left innominate vein, and is covered by the Sterno-thyroid, Sterno-hyoid, and Sterno-mastoid muscles ; behind, it is in relation with the "oesophagus, thoracic duct, inferior cervical ganglion'of the sympathetic, and Longus colli; higher up, however, the oesophagus and thoracic duct lie to its right side ; the latter ultimately arching over the vessel to join the angle of union between the subclavian and internal jugular veins. To its inner side are the cesophagus, trachea, thoracic duct, and left recurrent laryngeal Second and Third Parts of the Subclavian Artery (fig. 590) The second portion of the subclavian artery lies behind the Scalenus anticus muscle ; it is very short, and forms the highest part of the arch described by the vessel. ^ • w • -ni ^ i Relations.—It is covered, in front, by the skm, superficial fascia, i'laty.sma, deep cervical fascia, Sterno-mastoid, and Scalenus anticus. On the right side of tie body the phrenic nerve is separated from the second part of the artery by the Scalenus anticus while on the left side it crosses the first part of the artery unmediately to the inner edge of the muscle. Behind, it is in relation with the pleura and the Scalenus medius. Above it, is the brachial plexus of nerves ; below, the pleuxa ihe subclavian vein lies below and in front of the artery, separated from it by the Scalenus anticus. j ^ i. a The third portion of the subclavian artery runs do^TOwards and out\\ arclf- from the outer margin of the Scalenus anticus to the outer border of the first rib, where it becomes the axillary artery. This is the most superficial portion of the vessel, and is contained in the subclavian triangle (see ^^^Ke1ttions.-It is covered in front, by the skin, the superficial fascia, the Platvsma the descendmg clavicular branches of the cervical plexus, and the deep cervical fascia. The external jugular vem crosses its mner part and receives the suprascapular, transversahs colh and anterior jugular vems, which frequenth orm a pFexus in front of the artery. Behind the vems, the nerve to the Subclavius muscle descends m front of the artery. The outer part of the artery les behmd Se clavicle and the Subclavius muscle and is crossed by the suprascapular vessels. The ubclavian vem lies m front of and at a slightly lower level than the artery. BeM it hes on the lowest trmik of the brachial plexus, which mtervenes between 1^ and the Scalenus medius. . Above and to its outer side, are the upper trmiks of tlrbrachial plexus, and the Omo-hyoid muscle. Below, rests on the upper surface of the first rib, or on the cervical rib if one be present (page 210). Peculiarities.-The subcla^-ian arteries vary in theu- origin, their course, and the '"^Se orT^Vf^r^^^^ from the muominate takes place, in some cases between the oesophagus and trachea, to the uppe boid^^^^^^^ moro rarely it pnjsos i,, front of that muscle Soinei™» the .u M. 1,^^^^ ^ the bone, the right subclavian usually ascendmg ugher than the le t. ' \he left subclavian is occa-sionally joined a ^^s °r,gui^wi h tbe left^--^f ^ Surface Markin^.-Tho course of the subclav aitery^^^^^ out by describing a curve with its ^o'^^j^^'ty " ^^^^^^ end to the The iimcr end of this curve corresponds to Vp\t'^,^"l°to Kraw^^ such an amount ISUBCLAVIAN ARTERY 657 The left subclavian artery is more deeply placed than the right in the first part of its course, and, as a rule, does not reach quite as high a level in the nock. It should be borne in niind that the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid muscle corresponds pretty closely to the outer border of the Scalenus anticus, so that the third portion of the artery, the part most accessible for operation, lies immediately external to the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid. Applied Anatomy.—An aneurymi may foi'm on any part of the subclavian artery, except the intrathoracic portion of the left vessel, which is said never to be the seat of aneurysm. The most common site is, however, the third portion, especially on the right side, on account of the greater exposure to injury and the greater amouiit of use of the right upper extremity. In this situation it may cause pressure on the brachial plexus, producing pain and numbness in the arm and fingers, wth loss of power or paralysis of the muscles of these parts. CEdema of the arm may result from pressure on the sub- clavian vein. The external jugular vein may become distended and varicose. The treatment is unsatisfactory, since proximal Ugature cannot be undertaken with much chance of success. If constitutional treatment and direct pressure on the aneurysmal sac fail, the best treatment is excision of the sac, if it be small. In aneurysms of the first portion of this artery there is oedema of the head and face, vnth. Uvidity, congestion of the brain, and semi-consciousness from pressure on the internal jugular vein; and spasmodic action of the Diaphragm from pressure on the phrenic nerve. The collateral circulation is so good that blocldng of the subclavian artery by embolism or thrombosis often fails to give rise to any striking signs or symptoms, beyond occasional pains in the neck and shoulder and some degree of wealoiess and wasting in the muscles of the arm. Compression of the subclavian artery is required in cases of operations about the shoulder, in the axilla, or at the upper part of the arm ; and the student will observe that there is only one situation in which it can be effectually applied, viz. where the artery passes across the upper surface of the first rib. In order to compress the vessel in this situation,, the shoulder should be depressed, and the sm-geon grasping the side of the neck should press vnth. his thumb in the angle formed by the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid with the upper border of the clavicle, downwards, backwards, and inwards against the rib ; if from any cause the shoulder cannot be sufficiently depressed, pres-sure may be made from before backwards, so as to. compress the artery against the Scalenus medius and transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. In appropriate cases, a preliminary incision may be made through the cervical fascia, and the finger may be pressed down directly upon the artery. Ligature of the subclavian artery may be required in cases of wounds, or of aneurysm in the axilla, or in cases of aneurysm on the cardiac side of the point of ligature ; and the third part of the artery is that which is most favoui'able for an operation, on account of its being comparatively superficial, and most remote fi-om the origin of the large branches. In those cases where the clavicle is not displaced, this operation may be performed with comparative facility ; but where the clavicle is pushed up by a large aneurysmal tumour in the axilla, the artery lies at a great depth from the surface, and this materially increases the difficulty of the operation. Under these circumstances, it becomes a matter of importance to consider the height to which this vessel reaches above the bone. In ordinary cases, its arch is about half an inch above the clavicle, occasionally as high as an inch and a half, and sometimes so low as to be on a level ■with its upper border. If the clavicle be displaced, these variations will necessarily make the operation more or less difficult, according as the vessel is less or more accessible. The vessel is also ligatured as a prehminary measure to the complete interscapulo-thoracic amputation of the upper extremity, in which case the suprascapular and transverse cervical arteries may, if found, be Ugatured at the same time, making the ' fore-quarter ' amputation an almost bloodless procedure. The procedure in the operation of tying the third portion of the subclavian artery is as follows: The patient being placed on a table in the supine position, with the head dra^vn over to the opposite side, and the shoulder depressed as much as possible, the integument should be pulled do^\^lwa^ds over the clavicle, and an incision made through it, upon that bone, from the anterior border of the Trapezius to the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid. The object in drawing the skin do\vnwards is to avoid any risk of woimding the external jugular vein, for as it perforates the deep fascia above the clavicle, it cannot be drawn do\vnwards with the skin. The soft parts should now be allowed to glide up, and the cervical fascia divided upon a director, and if the interval between the Trapezius and Sterno-mastoid muscles be insufficient for the performance of the opera- tion, a portion of one or both may be divided. The external jugular vein will now bo seen towards the inner side of the wound ; this and the suprascapular and transverse cervical veins which terminate in it should be held aside. If the external jugular vein be at all in the way and exposed to injury, it should be tied in two places and cUvided. The suprascapular artery should be avoided, and the Omo-hyoid muscle held aside if necessary. In the space beneath this muscle, careful search must be made for the vessel a deep layer of fascia and some connective tissue having been divided carefully, the outer margin of the Scalenus anticus muscle must be felt for, and the finger being guided by it to the658 ANGIOLOGY lirst rib, the pulsation of the subclavian artery will be felt as it passes over the rib. The sheath of the vessels having boon opened, the aneurysm needle may then bo passed around the artery from above doAvnwards and inwards so as to avoid including any of the branches of the brachial plexus. If the clavicle be so raised by the tumour that the application of the ligature camiot be effected in this situation, the artery may be tied above the finst rib, or even behind the Scalenus anticus muscle ; the difficulties of the operation in such a case will be materially increased, on account of the greater depth of the artery, and the alteration in position of the surrounding parts. The second part of the subclavian artery, from being that portion which rises highest in the neck, has been considered favourable for the application of the ligature when it is difficult to tie the artery m the third part of its course. There are, however, many objections to the operation in this situation. It is necessary to divide the Scalenus anticus muscle, upon which lies the ])hrenic nerve, and at the inner side of which is situated the internal jugular vein ; and a wound of either of these structures might lead to the most dangerous consequences. Again, the artery is in contact, below, with the pleura, which must also be avoided ; and, lastly, the proximity of so many of its large branches arismg internal to this pomt must be a still further objection to the operation. In cases, however, where the sac of an axillary aneurysm encroaches on the neck, it may be necessary to divide the outer half or two-thirds of the Scalenus anticus muscle, so as to place the ligature on the vessel at a greater distance from the sac. The operation is performed exactly in the same way as ligature of the third portion, until the Scalenus anticus is exposed, when it is to be divided on a director (never to a greater extent than its outer two-thirds), and it immediately retracts. The operation is therefore merely an extension of the operation for ligatm-e of the third portion of the vcssgI In those cases of aneurysm of the axillary or subclavian artery which encroach upon the outer portion of the Scalenus anticus to such an extent that a ligature cannot be appUed in that situation, it may be deemed advisable, as a last resource, to tie the first portion ot the subclavian artery. On the left side, this operation is almost impracticable ; the great depth of the artery from the surface, its intimate relation with the pleura, and its close nroximitv to the thoracic duct and to so many important vems and nerves, present a series of difficulties which it is next to impossible to overcome.* On the right side, the opera- tion is practicable, and has been performed on several occasions. The mam objection to the operation in this situation is the smalhiess of the interval which usually ex3st.s between the commencement of the vessel and the origin of the nearest branch Th^ 0P«^f,t'0f,,^.^y be performed in the foUowing manner : The patient bemg placed on the table m the supine pos^ion, with the neck extended, an incision should be made along the upper border of the inner part of the clavicle, and a second along the inner border o the ''Stenio^^ meeting the former at an angle. The attachments of both heads of the Stfrno-masto.d must be divided on a director, and turned outwards ; a few smaU arteries and vein - and oceasionallv the anterior jugular, must be avoided, or, if necessary, hgatured in t^^o place.-, TdTS and the SterL'hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles di-;d^3d in the s^^^^^^^^ as the preceding muscle. After tearing through the deep fascia ^t^. internal jugular vein will be seen crossing the subclavian artery ; this should be pressed S de and the artery secured by passing the needle from below upwards, by ^hicfi the Sura is more efiectLuy avoided The exact position J^^^^ Lai the phrenic and sympathetic nerves should be borne m mind, and the hgaturt siiouia fe appUed near the ori^of the vertebral, in order to afford a.s much room as PO-^ble for the formation of a eoa|ulum betw^een the ligature and the origin of t^ie vesseL It bould be remembered that the right subclavian artery is occasionally deeply placed in " e nrs part STs course, when it Irises from the left side of the aortic arch, and passes in such cases behind the oesophagus, or between it and the trachea. , , • fi,^ """coUa^al CirMon^-Mtev Hgature of the third part of subcla^^ collateral circulation is established mainly by three sets of vessels, thus desciibed m *^'''f'°A posterior set, consisting of the suprascapular and postcM-ior scapular branches of the subclavian, anastomosing with the subscapular ^om the ajullary. ^ ' 2. An internal set, produced by the connection of the mt^rnal "^^^^^ hand, with the superior and long thoracic arteries, and the branches from the subscapular t middle or axillary set, consisting of a number oj small vess J de, J^^^^ branches of the subclavian, above, and, parsing through t^.«^l|«i/,Xefpresen ed in the main trunk, or some of the branches of the axillary below. ^^J^ '^^^^j^^ed arteries, most conspicuously the peculiar cliaracter ot newly ormed or, rather, dilated being excessively tortuous, and forming a complete plexus. f„mour was the * The operation^has, however, been performed by J. K. Rodgers, by Halsted, and by Schumpert.659 VERTEBRAL ARTERY scapular, and posterior scapular branches of the subclavian, from all of which it received so great an influx of blood as to dilate it to three times its natural size.' * Allien a ligature is applied to the first part of the subclavian artery, the collateral circulation is carried on by : 1, the anastomosis between the superior and inferior thyroid ; •2, the anastomosis of the two vcrtebrals ; 3, the anastomosis of the internal mammary with the deep epigastric and the aortic intercostals ; 4, the superior intercostal anasto- mosing with the aortic intercostals ; 5, the profunda cervicis anastomosing with the princeps cervicis ; 6, the scapular branches of the thyroid axis anastomosing vnth the branches of the axillary ; and 7, the thoracic branches of the axillary anastomosing with the aortic intercostals. Branches.—The branches given ofE from the subclavian artery are : Vertebral. Thyi-oid axis. Internal mammary. Superior intercostal. On the left side all four branches generally arise from the first portion of the vessel; but on the right side (fig. 591) the superior intercostal usually springs fi'om the second portion of the vessel. On both sides of the body, the first three branches arise close together at the inner margin of the Scalenus anticus ; in the majority of cases, a free interval of from half an inch to an inch exists between the commencement of tlie artery and the origin of the nearest branch. 1. The vertebral artery (a. vertebralis) is the first branch of the subclavian, and arises from the upper and back part of the first portion of the vessel. It is surrounded by a plexus of nerve fibres derived from the inferior cervical gangUon of the sympathetic trunk, and ascends through the foramina in the transverse processes of the upper six cervical vertebrae ; f it then winds behind the superior articular process of the Fig. 591.—Plan of the branches of the right subclavian artery. atlas and, entering the skuU through the foramen magnum, unites, at the lower border of the pons VaroUi, with the vessel of the opposite side to form the basUar artery. Relations.—The vertebral artery may be divided into four parts. The first fart runs upwards and backwards between the Longus colli and the Scalenus anticus. In front of it are the internal jugular and vertebral veins, and it is crossed by the inferior thyroid artery; the left vertebral is crossed by the thoracic duct also. Behind it are the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and the sympathetic cord. The second fart runs upwards through the foramina in the transverse processes of the upper six cervical vertebrae, and is surrounded by a plexus of veins which unite to form the vertebral vein at the lower part of the neck. It is situated in front of the trimks of the cervical nerves, and pursues an ahnost vertical course as far as the transverse process of the atlas, above which it runs upwards and outwards to the foramen in the transverse process of the atlas. The third fart issues from the latter foramen on the inner side of the Rectus lateralis muscle, and inclines backwards and inwards beliind the superior articular process of the atlas ; it lies in the groove on the upper surface of the posterior arch of the atlas, and enters the spinal canal by passing beneath the posterior occipito- atlantal ligament. This part of the artery is covered by the Complexus muscle and contained in the suboccifital triangle—a triangular space bounded by the Rectus capitis posticus major and the Superior and Inferior obhque muscles. The suboccipital nerve lies between the artery and the posterior arch * Guy's Hospital J/apnrts, vol. i. 1836. Case of axillary aneurysm, in which Aston Key had tied the subclavian artery on the outer edge of the Scalenus anticus, twelve years previously. t The vertebral artery sometimes enters the foramen in the transverse process of the fifth vertebra. Smyth, who tied this artery in the living subject, found it, in one of his dissections, passing into the foramen in the seventh vertebra. xr tr 2UGO ANUIOLUGY of the atlas. The fourth pari pierces the dura mater and inclines inwards to the front of the medulla oblongata ; it is placed between the hypoglossal nerve and the anterior root of the suboccipital nerve and beneath the first digitation of the ligamentum dcuticulatum. At the lower border of the pons Varolii it unites with the vessel of the opposite side to form the basilar artery. The branches of the vertebral artery may be divided into two sets—those given off in the neck, and those within the cranium. Cervical Branches. Cranial Branches. Spinal. Posterior meningeal. Muscular. Anterior spuml. Posterior spinal. Posterior inferior cerebellar. Bulbar. Spinal branches (rami spinales) enter the spinal canal through the inter- vertebral foramina, and each divides into two branches. Of these, one passes along the roots of the nerves to supply the spinal cord and its membranes, anastomosing with the other arteries of the spinal cord ; the other divides into an ascending and a descending branch, which unite with similar branches from the arteries above and below, so that two lateral anastomotic chains are formed on the posterior surfaces of the bodies of the vertebras, near the attachment of the pedicles. From these anastomotic chains branches are supplied to the periosteum and the bodies of the vertebras, and others form commmiications with similar branches from the opposite side ; from these communications small twigs arise ^vhich joui similar branches above and below, to form a central anastomotic chain on the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae. Muscular branches are given off to the deep muscles of the neck, where the vertebral artery curves round the articular process of the atlas. They anastomose with the occipital, and with the ascending and deep cervical arteries. The posterior meningeal (ramus meningeus) springs from the vertebral opposite the foramen magnum, ramifies between the bone and dura mater in the cerebellar fossa, and supplies the falx cerebeUi. It is frequently represented by one or two small branches. The anterior spinal (a. spinahs anterior) is a small branch, which arises near the termination of the vertebral, and, descending in front of the medulla oblongata, unites with its fellow of the opposite side at the level of the foramen magnum. One of these vessels is usually larger than the other, but occasionally they are about equal in size. The sin|jle trunk, thus formed, descends on the front of the spinal cord, and is reinforced by a succession of small branches which enter the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina ; these branches are derived from the vertebral and ascending cervical of the inferior thyroid m the neck; from the intercostals in the thorax; and from the lumbar, iho-lumbar, and lateral sacral arteries in the abdomen and pelvis. Tbey unite, by means of ascending and descending branches, to form a single anterior median artery, which extends as far as the lower part of the spinal cord, and is continued as a slender twig on the filum terminale. This vessel is placed m the pia mater along the anterior median fissure ; it supplies that membrane, and the substance of tlie cord, and sends off branches at its lower part to be distributed to the caudaeqmna. The posterior spinal (a. spinalis posterior) arises from the vertebral, at_ the side of the medulla oblongata ; passing backwards to the posterior aspect of the spinal cord, it descends on the spinal cord, Ijnng in front of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, and is reinforced by a succession of small branches, which enter the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina; by means of these it is continued to the lower part of the cord, and to the cauda equina, liranches from the posterior spinal arteries form a free anastomosis round the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, and communicate, by means of very tortuous transverse branches, with the vessels of the opposite side. _ Close to its ongm each gives off an ascending branch, which terminates at the side of the fourth ventncle. Avplicd Anaton,.!,.-Bhcdmg into the spinal membranes or «]^,X^'Sn InUlrr spinal cord it.solf is not common, but may occur from m]uries received at b>rth aU'^^^^^^^ is unduly prolonged or instruments are used. It is also met with m chrome msamty, and in tetanus or strychnine poisoning.BASILAR ARTERY 661 The posterior inferior cerebellar (a. cerebelli inferior posterior) (fig. 582), the hxrgest branch of the vertebral, winds backwards round the upper part of the medulla oblongata, passing between the origins of the pneumogastric and spinal accessory nerves, over the restiform body to the under surface of the cerebellum, where it di\ades into two branches. The internal branch is continued backwards to the notch between the two hemispheres of the cerebellum; while the external suppUes the under surface of the cerebellum, as far as its outer border, where it anastomoses with the anterior inferior cerebellar and the superior cerebellar branches of the basilar artery. Branches fi-om this artery supply the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle. The bulbar arteries are several minute vessels which spring from the vertebral and its branches and are distributed to the medulla oblongata. The basilar arteiy (a. basilaris) (fig. 582), so named from its position at the base of the skull, is a single trunk formed by the junction of the two vertebral arteries ; it extends from the posterior to the anterior border of the pons Varolii, lying in its median groove, under cover of the arachnoid. It ends by di^^ding into the two posterior cerebral arteries. Its branches, on either side, are the following : The transverse branches (rami ad pontem) are a number of small vessels which come off at right angles on either side of the basilar artery and supply the pons Varolii and adjacent parts of the brain. The auditory (a. auditiva interna), a long slender branch, arises from near the middle of the artery; it accompanies the corresponding auditory nerve into the internal auditory meatus, and is distributed to the internal ear. The anterior inferior cerebellar (a. cerebelli inferior anterior) passes back- wards, to be distributed to the anterior part of the uiider surface of the cerebellum, anastomosing with the posterior inferior cerebellar branch of the vertebral. The superior cerebellar (a. cerebelli superior) arises near the termination of the basilar. It passes outwards, immediately behind the third nerve, which separates it from the posterior cerebral artery, winds round the crus cerebri, close to the fourth nerve, and, arriving at the upper sirrface of the cerebellum, divides into branches which ramify in the pia mater and anastomose with the branches of the inferior cerebellar artery. Several branches are given to the pineal gland, the valve of Vieussens, and the velum interpositum. The posterior cerebral (a. cerebri posterior) is larger than the preceding, from which it is separated near its origin by the third nerve. Passing outwards, parallel to the superior cerebellar artery, and receiving the posterior communi- cating from the internal carotid, it winds round the crus cerebri, and reaches the mider surface of the occipital lobe of the cerebrum, where it breaks up into branches for the supply of the temporal and occipital lobes. The branches of the posterior cerebral artery are divided into two sets, ganglionic and cortical : Ganglionic.—The fostero-median ganglionic branches (fig. 582) are a group of small arteries which arise at the commencement of the posterior cerebral artery : these, viith similar branches from the posterior communicating, pierce the posterior perforated space, and supply the internal surfaces of the thalami and the walls of the third ventricle. The posterior choroidal branches enter the interior of the brain beneath the splenium of the corpus callosum, and supply the velum interpositum and the choroid plexus. The postero-laleral ganglionic branches are small arteries which arise from the posterior cerebral artery after it has turned roimd the crus cerebri ; they supply a considerable portion of the thalamus. Cortical.—The cortical branches are : the anterior temporal, distributed to the anterior parts of the uncinate and occipito-temporal gyii ; the posterior temporal, Transverse. Auditory. Anterior inferior cerebellar. Superior cerebellar. Posterior cerebral. (Postero-median. Ganglionic - Posterior choroidal. (Postero-lateral. Parieto-occipital.ANGIOLOGY 662 to the occipito-temporal and the third temporal convolutions ; the calcarine to the cuneate and lingual lobules and the back part of the outer surface of the occipital lobe ; and the farielo-occifilal to the cuncus and the quadrate lobe. 2. The thyroid axis (truncus thyreocervicalis) (fig. 590) is a short thick trunk, which arises from tlie front of the first portion of the subclavian artery, close to the inner border of the Scalenus anticus, and divides almost imme- diately into three branches, the inferior thyroid, suprascapular, and transverse cervical. The inferior thyroid artery (a. thyreoidea inferior) passes upwards, in front of the vertebral artery and Longus colli muscle ; then turns inwards behind tlie carotid sheath and its contents, and also behind the sjTupathetic cord, tfe^jjuidillsi- .^cervical ganglion tesjjing upon the vessel. Eeaching the lower border of the lateral lobe of the tlija-oidglauTit dr^ into two branches, which supply the postero- inferior parts of the gland, and anastomose with the superior thyroid, and with the corresponding artery of the opposite side. The recurrent lar}Tigeal nerve • passes upwards generally behind, but occasionally in front of, the artery. The branches of the inferior thyroid are : Inferior laryngeal. (Esophageal. Tracheal. Ascending cervical. Muscular. The inferior laryngeal branch (a. laryngea inferior) ascends upon the trachea to the back part of the larynx under cover of the Inferior constrictor, in company ^vith the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and supplies the muscles and mucous membrane of this part, anastomosing with the branch from the opposite side, and with the laryngeal branch from the superior thyroid artery. The tracheal branches (rami traeheales) are distributed upon the trachea, anastomosing below with the bronchial arteries. The oesophageal branches (rami oesophagei) supply the oesophagus, and anastomose with the oesophageal branches of the aorta. The ascending cervical (a. cervicaUs ascendens) is a small branch which arises from the inferior thyroid, just where that vessel is passing behind the carotid sheath, and runs up on the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae in the mterval between the Scalenus anticus and Rectus capitis anticus major. It gives to the muscles of the neck branches which anastomose with, branches of the vertebral, and it sends one or two twigs (rami spinales) into the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina to be distributed to the spmal cord and its membranes, and to the bodies of the vertebra', m the same manner as the lateral spmal branches from the vertebral. It anastomoses with the ascending pharyngeal and occipital arteries. The muscular branches supply the depressors of the hyoid bone, the Longus colli, the Scalenus anticus, and the Inferior constrictor of the pharynx. The suprascapular artery (a. transversa scapulffi) (fig. 592) passes at first down- wards and outwards across the Scalenus anticus and phrenic nerve, being covered by the Sterno-mastoid ; it then crosses the subclavian artery and the cords of the brachial plexus, and runs outwards, behind and parallel with the clavicle and Subclavius, and beneath the posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid, to the superior border of the scapula ; it passes over the transverse ligament of the scapula, which separates it from the suprascapular nerve, and enters the supraspinous fossa In this situation it lies close to the bone, and ramifies between it and the bupra spinatus, to which it supplies branches. It then descends behind the neck ol tli( scapula, through the great scapular notch, to reach the infraspinous fossa, where it anastomoses with the dorsalis scapulae and posterior scapular arteries. Besides distributing branches to the Sterno-mastoid, Subclavius, and neighbouring muscles, it gives off a suprasternal branch, which crosses over the sternal encl ol tiio clavicle to the skin of the upper part of the chest ; and a supra-acromral branch. which pierces the Trapezius and supplies the skin over the acromion, anasto- mosing with the acromio-thoracic artery. As the artery passes over 1:he transverse ligament of the scapula, a branch of it descends into the subscapular fossa ramifus beneath the Subscapularis, and anastomoses with the posterior and ^"Ij^C-^P"^, arteries. It also sends articular branches to the acromio-clavicular and shouldei joints, and a nutrient artery to the clavicle. The transverse cervical artery (a. transversa colli), larger than the sup a scapular, passes transversely outwards, across the upper part of the subclavian eFig. 592.—The scapular and circumflex arteries. INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY 663 and Scaleni muscles, and in triangle, to the anterior margin of the Trapezius muscle, beneath which it divides into two branches, the swperjicial cervical and the foslerior scapular. It crosses in front of the phrenic nerve front of or between the divi- sions of the brachial plexus, and is covered by the Platvsma, Sterno-mastoid, Omo-hyoid, and Trapezius muscles. The superficial cervical (ramus ascendens) ascends Ijeneath the anterior margin of the Trapezius, distri- buting branches to it, and to the neighbouring muscles and glands in the neck, and anastomoses with the super- ficial branch of the arteria princeps cervicis. The posterior scapular (ramus descendeus) (fig. 592) passes beneath the Levator angidi scapulae to the superior angle of the scapida, and then descends along the posterior border of that bone as far as the inferior angle. It is covered by the Rhomboid muscles, supplying them and the Latissimus dorsi and Trapezius, and anastomosing with the suprascapular and sub- scapular arteries, and with the posterior branches of some of the intercostal arteries. Peculiarities.—The superficial cervical frequently arises as a separate branch from the thyi'oid axis ; and the posterior scapular, from the third, more rarely from the second, part of the subclavian. 3. The internal mammary (a. mammaria interna) (fig. 593) arises from the under surface of the first portion of the subclavian artery, opposite the thyi-oid axis. It descends behind the cartilages of the upper six ribs at a distance of about half an inch from the margm of the sternum, and at the level of the sixth intercostal space divides into the musculo-phrenic and superior epigastric arteries. Relations.—It is directed at first downwards, forwards, and inwards behind the inner end of the clavicle, the subclavian and internal jugular veins, and the first costal cartilage. As it enters the thorax it is crossed from without inwards by the phrenic nerve, and passes forwards close to the outer side of the innominate vein. Below the first costal cartilage it descends almost vertically to its point of bifurcation. It is covered in front by the Pectoralis major and the cartilages of the upper six ribs with their intervening intercostal muscles, and is crossed by the terminal portions of the upper six intercostal nerves. Behind, it rests on the pleura, as far as the third costal cartilage ; below this level, upon the Triangularis sterni muscle. It is accompanied by a pair of veins : these unite above to form a single vessel, which passes to the inner side of the artery and ends in the corresponding innominate vein. The branches of the internal mammary are : Comes nervi phrenici. Anterior intercostal. Mediastinal. Perforating. Pericardial. Musculo-phrenic. Sternal. Superior epigastric. The comes nervi phrenici (a. perlcardiacophrenica) is a long slender branch, which accompanies the phrenic nerve, between the pleura and pericardium, to the Diaphragm, to which it is distributed ; it anastomoses with the other phrenic arteries from the internal mammary and abdominal aorta.664 ANGIOLOGY The mediastinal branches (aa. mediastinales anteriores) are small vessels, distributed to the areolar tissue and lymphatic glands in the anterior mediastinum, and to the remains of the thymus gland. Fig. 593.—^The internal mammary artery and its branches. ^Thyroid axis Scalenus anticus Muscido-phrcnic artery. Common carotid artery Innominate artery Internal mammary artery Perforating brandies iperior epigastric artery 'Deep epigastric artcnj External iliac artery The pericardial branches supply the upper part of the anterior surface of the peri- cardinm, the lower part receiving branches from the "^"f -.crni and The sternal branches (rami sternalcs) are distributed to the Triangularis sterni, and to the posterior surface of the sternum.SUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL ARTERY 665 The mediastinal, pericardial, and sternal branches, together with some twigs from the comes nervi phrenici, anastomose with branches from the intercostal and bronchial arteries, and form a miiiute plexus beneath the pleura, which has been named by iurner the sithpleural mediastinal flexus. , , , „ r The anterior intercostal branches (rami intercostales) supply the upper hvc or six intercostal spaces. Two in number in each space, these small vessels pass outwards one lying near the lower margin of the rib above, and the other near the upper margin of the rib below and anastomose with the intercostal arteries from the aorta. Ihey are at hrst situated between the pleura and the Internal intercostal muscles, and then between the Internal and External mtercostal muscles. They supply the Intercostal muscles and, by branches which perforate the External intercostal muscle, the Pectoral muscles and the mammarv gland. , , • • ^ The perforating branches (rami perforantes) correspond to the hve or six upper inlei- costal spaces. They pass forwards through the intercostal spaces, and, curving outwards, supply the Pectoralis major and the mtegument. Those which correspond to the second, third, and fourth spaces are distributed to the mammary gland, and during lactation are of large size. . , , ,. it j The musculo-phrenic (a. musculophremca) is directed obliquely downwards and outwards, behind the cartilages of the false ribs, perforates the Diaphragm at the eighth or ninth costal cartilage, and terminates, considerably redviced in size, opposite the last intercostal space. It gives ofi anterior intercostal arteries to the seventh, eighth, and ninth intercostal spaces ; these diminish in size as the spaces decrease in length, and are distributed in a manner precisely similar to the anterior intercostals from the internal mammary. The musculo-phrenic also gives branches to the lower part of the pericardium, and others which run backwards to the Diaphragm, and downwards to the abdominal muscles. The superior epigastric (a. epigastrica superior) continues in the original direction of the internal mammary ; it descends through the cellular interval between the costal and sternal attachments of the Diaphragm, and enters the sheath of the Rectus abdominis muscle, at first lying behind the muscle, and then perforating and supplying it, and anastomosing with the deep epigastric artery from the external iliac. Some vessels perforate the anterior wall of the sheath of the Rectus, and supply the muscles of the abdomen and the integument, and a small branch, which passes inwards upon the side of the ensiform appendix, anastomoses in front of that cartilage with the artery of the opposite side. It also gives some twigs to the Diaphragm, while from the artery of the right side small branches extend into the falciform Ligament of the liver and anastomose with the hepatic artery. Applied Anatomy.—The course of the internal mammary artery may be defined by a line drawn half an inch oiitside and parallel -with the sternal margin. The vessel is liable to be wounded in stabs of the chest-wall and in the operation of paracentesis pericardii (page 600). It is most easily reached by a transverse incision in the second intercostal space. 4. The superior intercostal (truncus costocervicalis) (fig. 580) arises from the upper and back part of the subclavian artery, behind the Scalenus anticus on the right side, and internal to that muscle on the left side. Passing backwards, it gives off the profunda cervicis, and then descends behind the pleura in front of the necks of the first and second ribs, and anastomoses with the first aortic intercostal. As it crosses the neck of the first rib it lies to the inner side of the anterior division of the first thoracic nerve, and to the outer side of the first thoracic ganglion of the sympathetic. In the first intercostal space, it gives off a branch which is distributed in a manner similar to the distribution of the aortic intercostals. The branch for the second intercostal space usually joins with one from the highest aortic intercostal. This branch is not constant, but is more commonly fomid on the right side ; when absent, its place is supplied by an intercostal branch from the aorta. Each inter- costal gives off a branch to the posterior spinal muscles, and a small one which passes through the corresponding intervertebral foramen to the spinal cord and its membranes. The profunda cervicis (a. cervicalis profunda) arises, in most cases, from the superior intercostal, and is analogous to the posterior branch of an aortic inter- costal artery : occasionally it is a separate branch from the subclavian artery. Passing backwards, above the eighth cervical nerve and between the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, it runs upANGIOLOGY 666 the back of the neck, between the Complexus and Semispinalis colli, as high as the axis, supplying these and adjacent muscles, and anastomosing with the deep branch of the arter ia princeps cervicis of the occipital, and with branches which pass outwards from the vertebral. It gives off a special branch which enters the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramen between the seventh cervical and first thoracic vertebrae. The Axilla The axilla is a pyramidal space, situated between the upper lateral part of the chest and the inner side of the arm. Boundaries.—Its u/pex, which is directed upwards towards the root of the neck, corresponds to the interval between the fii'st rib, the upper border of the scapula, and the clavicle, and through it the axillary vessels and nerves pass. The base, directed downwards, is formed by the integument and a tliick layer of fascia, the axillary fascia, extending between the lower border of the Pectoralis major in front, and the lower border of the Latissimus dorsi behind ; it is broad internally, at the chest, but narrow and jjointed externaUjr, at the arm. The anterior wall is formed by the Pectoralis major and minor muscles, the former covering the whole of the anterior wall, the latter only its central part. The space between the inner border of the Pectoralis minor and the clavicle is occupied by the costo-coracoid membrane. The posterior wall, wliicli extends somewhat lower than the anterior, is formed by the Sub- scapularis above, the Teres major and Latissimus dorsi belo^^■. On the inner side are the first four ribs with their corresponding Intercostal muscles, and part of the Serratus magnus. On the outer side, where the anterior and posterior walls converge, the space is narrow, and bounded by the humerus, the Coraco-brachialis, and the Biceps. Contents.—It contains the axillary vessels, and the brachial plexus of nerves, with their branches, some branches of the intercostal nerves, and a large number of lymphatic glands, together with a quantity of fat and loose areolar tissue. The axillary artery and vein, with the brachial plexus of nerves, extend obliquely along the outer boundary of the axilla, from its apex to its ijase, and are placed much nearer to the anterior than to the posterior wall, the vein lying to the inner or thoracic side of the artery and partiaUy concealing it. At .the fore part of the axHla, in contact with the Pectoral muscles, are the thoracic branches of the axillary artery, and along the lower margin of the Pectoralis minor the long thoracic artery extends to the side of the chest. At the back part, in contact with the lower margm of the Sub- scapularis, are the subscapular vessels and nerves ; winduag around the outer border of this muscle are the dorsalis scapulae vessels; and, close to the neck of the humerus, the posterior circumflex vessels and the circumflex nerve curve backwards to the shoulder. Along the inner or thoracic side no vessel of any importance exists, the upper part of the space being crossed merely by a few small branches from the superior thoracic artery. There are some important nerves, however, in this situation, viz. the posterior thoracic or external respiratory nerve, descending on the surface of the Serratus magnus, to which it is distributed : and the intercosto-humeral nerve or nerves, perforating the upper and anterior part of this wall, and passing across the axilla to the inner side of the arm. The position and arrangement of the lymphatic glands are described on a subsequent J)age. Applied Anatomy.—The axilla is a space of considerable surgical importance. It traasraits the large vessels and nerves to the upper extremity, and these may be the seat of injury or disease : it contains numerous lymphatic glands which may require removal ; in it is a quantity of loose connective and adipose tissue wliicii may be readily infiltrated \vith blood or inflammatory exudation ; and it maybe the scat of rapidly growing tumours. Moreover, it is covered at its base by thin skin, \\hich is largely supplied with sebaceous and sweat glands, and is frequently the seat of small cutaneous abscesses and boils. Penetrating wounds in the axilla are sometimes accompanied by extensive haemor- rhage, either from wound of the main vessels, or of one of the large branches of the axilUw artery, e.g. the long thoracic or the subscapular. Where the blood cannot find an eas> exit externally, it collects in the axillary space and forms a large swclbng whic i projeci.s in the floor of the axilla and also bulges forwards the Pectoralis major. Ihe treatmem consists in freely opening up the cavity and searching for and securing the bleeding xesscj.667 AXILLARY ARTERY In suppuration in the axilla, the arrangement of tlie fascia; plays a very important part in the direction which the pus takes. As described on page 529, the costo-coracoid membrane after covering in the space between the clavicle and the upper border ot the Pectoralis minor, splits to enclose this muscle, and, reblendijig at its lower border, becomes incorporated with the axillary fascia at the anterior fold of the axilla. This is known as the clavipectoral fascia. Suppuration may take place either superficial to or beneath this layer of fascia ; that is, either between the Pectorals or below the Pectoralis minor : in the former case, the abscess would point either at the anterior border of the axillary fold, or in the groove between the Deltoid and the Pectoralis major ; in the latter, the pus 'would have a tendency to surround the vessels and nerves, and ascend into the neck, that being the direction in which there is least resistance. Its progress towards the surface is prevented by the axiUary fascia ; its progress backwards, by the insertion of the Serratus magnus ; forwards, by the clavipectoral fascia ; inwards, by the wall of the thorax ; and outwards, by the upper limb. The pus in these cases, after extending into the neck, has been laiown to spread through the superior opening of the tliorax into the mediastmum. Some instances have been recorded where the pus found its way along the coiu-se of the vessels into the upper arm. In opening an axillary abscess, the knife should be entered in the floor of the axilla, midway between the anterior and posterior margins and near the thoracic side of the space. After an incision has been made through the skin and fascia it is well to use a director and dressing forceps in the manner directed by Hilton. The relations of the vessels and nerves in the several parts of the axilla are important, for it is the almost universal plan, in the present day, to remove the glands from the axilla in operating for cancer of the breast. In perfonning such an operation, it is necessary to proceed with much caution in the direction of the outer wall and apex of the space, as here the axillary vessels are in danger of being woimded. The subscapular, dorsalis scapulffi, and posterior circumflex vessels on the posterior wall and the thoracic branches along the anterior wall must be avoided. In clearing out the axilla, the axillary vein should be first defined and traced up to the apex of the space by means of an elevator or other blunt instrument. The Pectoralis major is retracted by an assistant; or, as is more commonly the practice in the present day, the sternal origin of this muscle is first removed. This proceeding not only lessens the chance of recurrence of the disease, but also enables the surgeon to clear out the axillary cavity more thoroughly. When the apex of the space is reached all fat and glands must be carefully removed and the whole axilla cleared by separatmg the tissues along the inner and posterior waUs, so that when the proceeding is completed the axilla is emptied of all its contents except the maux vessels and nerves. Axillary Abtery The axillary artery (a. axillaris) (fig. 594), the continuation of the subclavian, commences at the outer border of the first rib, and terminates at the lower border of the tendon of the Teres major muscle, where it takes the name of brachial. Its direction varies with the position of the limb : thus the vessel is nearly straight when the arm is directed at right angles with the trunk, concave upwards when the arm is elevated above this, and convex upwards and outwards when the arm lies by the side. At its commencement the artery is very deeply situated, but near its termination is superficial, being covered only by the skin and fascia. To facilitate the description of the vessel it is divided into three portions ; the fii'st part lies above, the second behind, and the third below the Pectoralis minor. The first portion of the axillary artery is in relation, in front, with the clavicular portion of the Pectoralis major, the costo-coracoid membrane, the external anterior thoracic nerve, and the acromio-thoracic and cephalic veins ; behind, with the first intercostal space, the correspondiag Intercostal muscle, the first and second digi- tations of the Serratus magnus, and the posterior thoracic and internal anterior thoracic nerves; on its outer side, with the brachial plexus, from which it is separated by a little areolar tissue ; on its inner, or thoracic side, with the axillary vein which overlaps the artery. It is enclosed, together with the axillary vein and the brachial plexus, in a fibrous sheath—the axillary sheath— continuous above with the deep cervical fascia. The second portion of the axillary artery is covered, in front, by the Pectorales major and minor ; behind it, is the posterior cord of the brachial plexus, and some areolar tissue which intervenes between it and the Subscapularis muscle; on the inner side is the axillary vein, separated from the artery by the inner cord of the brachial plexus and the internal anterior thoracic nerve; on the outer side is the outer cord of the brachial plexus. The brachial plexus of nerves thus surroundsANGIOLOGY 668 the artery on three sides, and separates it from direct contact with the vein and adjacent muscles. The third portion of the axillary artery extends from the lower border of the Pectoralis minor to the lower border of the tendon of the Teres major. In front., it is covered by the lower part of the Pectoralis major above, but only by the integument and fascia below ; behind, it is in relation with the lower part of the Subscapularis, and the tendons of the Latissimus dorsi and Teres major ; on its Fig. 694.—The axillary artery and its branches. outer side is the Coraco-brachialis, and on its inner, or thoracic side, the axillary vein. The nerves of the brachial plexus bear the following relations to this part of the artery : on the outer side are the outer head and trunk of the median, and the musculo-cutaneous for a short distance ; on the inner side the ulnar (between the vein and artery) and lesser internal cutaneous nerves (to the mner side of the vein); in front are the inner head of the median and the internal cutaneous, and behind, the musculo-spiral and circumflex, the latter only as far as the lower border of the Subscapularis. Surface Marking.—The course of the axillary artery may be marked out by raising the arm to a right angle and drawing a line from the middle of the clavicle to the point where the tendon of the Pectoralis major crosses the prominence caused by the Coraco- brachialis as it emerges from under cover of the anterior fold of the axilla, ilie tliira portion of the artery can be felt pulsatmg beneath the skin and fascia, at the junction ot the anterior with the middle third of the space between the anterior and posterior lolOs of the axilla, close to the inner border of the Coraco-brachialis. A vvlied Anatomy.-Compression ot the vessel maybe required in the reniova oi tumours, or in amputation of the upper part of the arm ; and the only situation in which this can be effectually made is in the lower part of its course ; by pressing on it in this situation from within outwards against the humcnis, the circulation may be effectually With the exception of the pophteal, the axillary artery is perhaps more fre:quentl.v lacerated than any other artery in the body by violent '^o^''^'^°"^f' ^^P^^'^^.l'^;" cases where its coats are diseased. It has occasionally been ruptured in attempts to669 AXILLARY ARTERY reduce old dislocations of the shoulder-joint. This lesion is moat likely to occur during the prehminary breaking do\^ n of adhesions, in cases where the artery has become fixed to the capsule of the joint. Aneurysm of the axillary artery sometimes occurs : a large number of the cases are traumatic in their origin, due to the injuries to which the artery is exposed in the varied, extensive, and often violent movements of the limb. The application of a ligature to the axillari/ arterij may be required in cases of aneurysm of theujiper part of the brachial, or as a distal operation for aneurysm of the subclavian ; and there are only two situations in which it can be secured, viz. in the first and in the third parts of its course ; for the axillary artery at its central part is so deeply seated, and, at the same time, so closel3' surrounded with large nervous trunks, that the application of a hgature to it there would be almost impracticable. In the third part of its course the operation is most simple, and may be performed in the following manner. The patient being placed on a bed, and the arm separated from the side, with the hand supinated, an incision about two inches in length is made through the integument forming the floor of the axilla, a little nearer to the anterior than to the posterior fold of the axilla. After carefully dissecting through the areolar tissue and fascia, the median nerve and axillary vein are exposed ; the former is displaced to the outer, and the latter to the inner side of the arm, the elbow being at the same time bent so as to relax the structures and facilitate their separation; the ligature may be passed round the artery from the ulnar to the radial side. This portion of the artery is occasionally crossed by a muscular sUp, the axillary arch (page 490), derived from the Latissimus dorsi. Tlie Jirst portion of the axillary artery may be tied in cases of aneurysm encroaching so far upwards that a ligature cannot be applied in the lower part of its course. Not- withstanding that this operation has been performed in some few patients with success, its perfoimance is attended with much difficulty and danger. The student ■will remark that, in this situation, it would be necessary to divide a thick muscle, and, after incising the costo-coracoid membrane, the artery would be exposed at the bottom of a more or less deep space, with the cephalic and axillary veins in such relation with it as must render the application of a hgature to it particularly hazardous. Under such circumstances, it is an easier and, at the same time, more advisable operation, to tie the third part of the subclavian artery. The first part of the axillary can be best secured by a curved incision with the convexity downwards from a point half an inch external to the sterno-clavicular joint to a point half an inch internal to the coracoid process. The hmb is to be well abducted and the head inclined to the opposite side, and the incision carried through the superficial structures, care being taken of the cephalic vein at the outer angle of the incision. The clavicidar origin of the Pectorahs major is then divided in the whole extent of the ^A'ound. The arm is now brought to the side, and the upper edge of the Pectorahs minor defined and dra-nTi do\vnwards. The costo-coracoid membrane is carefully divided on a director, close to the coracoid process, and the axillary sheath exposed ; this is to be opened with especial care on account of the vein overlapping the artery. Tlie needle should be passed from below, so as to avoid wounding the vein. Collateral circtdation after ligature of the axillary artery.—If the artery be tied above the origin of the acromio-thoracic, the collateral circulation will be carried on by the same branches as after the hgature of the subclavian ; if at a lower point, between the acromio-thoracic and subscapular arteries, the latter vessel, by its free anastomoses with the other scapular arteries, branches of the subclavian, will become the chief agent in carrying on the ckculation; the long thoracic, if it be below the hgature, will materially contribute by its anastomoses with the intercostal and internal mammary arteries. If the pomt included in the hgature is below the origui of the subscapular artery, it will most probably also be below the origins of the two circumflex arteries. The chief agents in restoring the circulation will then be the subscapular and the two circumflex arteries anastomosing with the superior profunda from the brachial. The cases in which the operation has been perfoi-med are few in number, and no pubhshed accoimt of dissections of the collateral circulation appears to exist. The branches of the axillary artery are : 1. The superior thoracic (a. thoracalis suprenia) is a small artery, which may arise by a common trunk with the acromio-thoracic. Running forwards and inwards along the upper border of the Pectoralis niinor, it passes between it and the Pectoralis major to the side of the chest. It supplies these muscles, and Acromio-thoracic. From first part, Superior thoracic. From second I Subscapular. From third part I Posterior circumflex. ' Anterior circumflex.ANGIOLOGY 670 Posterior scapvlm Acromial branch <^f ncroiiiio-f/ioracic the parietes of the thorax, anastomosing with the internal mammary and inter- costal arteries. 2. The acromio-thoracic (a. thoracoacromialis) is a short trunk, which arises from the fore part of the axillary artery, its origin being generally overlapped by the upper edge of the Pectoralis minor. Projecting forwards to the upper border of this muscle, it pierces the costo-coracoid membrane and divides into four branches—pectoral, acromial, clavicular, and humeral. The -pectoral branch (ramus pectoralis) runs forwards and inwards between the two Pectoral muscles, and is distributed to them and to the mammary gland, anastomosing with the inter- costal branches of the internal mammary. The acromial branch (ramus acromialis) is directed outwards towards the acromion, supplying the Deltoid muscle, and anastomosing, on the surface of the acromion, with tlae suprascapular and posterior circumflex arteries. The clavicular branch (ramus clavicularis) runs upwards and inwards to the sterno-clavicular joint, supplying this articulation, and the 8ub- clavius muscle. The humeral branch (ramus deltoideus) passes, in the same groove as the cephalic vein, between the Pectoralis major and Deltoid, and gives branches to })oth muscles. 3. The long thoracic (a. thoracalis lateralis) passes downwards and inwards along the lower border of the Pectoralis minor to the side of the chest, supplying the Serratus maguus, the ffiG. 595—The scapular and circumflex arteries. Pectoral muscles, and mam- mary gland, and sending branches across the axUla to the axillary glands and Sub- . scapularis; it anastomoses with the internal mammary and intercostal arteries. 4. The alar thoracic is a small branch, which sup- plies the glands and areolar tissue of the axilla. Its place is frequently taken by branches from some of the other thoracic arteries. 5. The subscapular (a. subscapularis), the largest branch of the axillary artery, arises opposite the lower border of the Subscapularis, and passes downwards and backwards along this border to the inferior angle of the scapula, where it anastomoses with the long thoracic and intercostal arteries and with the posterior scapular branch of the transversalis colli, and terminates by supplying branches to the muscles m the neighbourhood. Abo^t an inch and a half from its origin it gives off a branch, the dorsahsscav^iJa' The dorsalis scapula (a. circumflexa scapuloa) is generally larger than t ic continuation of the subscapular. It curves round the axillary border of the scapula, leaving the axilla through the space between the fl^l'^^^.^^":*^ I • the Teres major below, and the long head of the Triceps externallv (^8-f; enters the infraspinous fossa under "cover of the Teres minor, and ^^^^^^ with the posterior scapular and suprascapular arteries. In its course it gn^cs o l two branches : one (m/-m.capM/ar) enters the subscapular fossa f ^ S ih^ scapularis which it supplies, anastomosing with the posterior '^""^^^^^^ scapular arteries ; the other is continued along the "'^7;:°^f ^ ^^.^^j^^J^^^^^^^^ between the Teres major and minor, and at the dorsal f--ff^^^ "V^;;,;™^^ anastomoses with the posterior scapu ar. In addition to f^/^f <listributed to the back part of the Deltoid nuiscle and the ^^.^^ f anastomosing with an ascending branch o the superior P^J " ^.^ °/^'\V^ aH^^^^^ 6. The posterior circumflex (a. circumflexa humeri P««<^^"" of the S !> from the back part of the axillary artery opposite the ^.^'"J^^.^J/^Jf, scapularis muscle, and runs backwards with the circumflex veins and nerxc671 BRACHIAL ARTERY through the quaclraugular space bounded by the Teres major and minor, the scapuhir head of the Triceps and the humerus. It winds round the neck of the humerus and is distributed to the Deltoid muscle and shoulder-joint, anastomosing with the anterior circumflex and acromio-thoracic arteries, and with the superior profunda branch of the brachial artery. 7. The anterior circumflex (a. circumflexa humeri anterior) (fig. 595), con- siderably smaller than the preceding, arises nearly opposite it, from the outer side of the axillary artery. It passes horizontally outwards, beneath the Coraco- brachialis and short head of the Biceps, lying upon the fore part of the neck of the humerus. On reaching the bicipital groove, it gives off an ascending branch which ascends along the groove to supply the head of the liumerus and the shoulder-joint. The trunk of the vessel is then continued outwards beneath the Deltoid, which it supplies, and anastomoses with the posterior circumflex artery. Pecidiarities.—The branches of the axillary artery vary considerably in different subjects. Occasionally the subscapular, oiroumflex, and profunda arteries arise from a com- mon trunk, and when this occurs the branches of the brachial plexus surroimd this trunk instead of the maiavessel. Sometimes the axillary artery divides into the radial and ulnar arteries, and occasionally it gives origin to the anterior inter- osseous artery of the forearm. Fio. 596.—The brachial artery. Internal cutaneous nerve Miisciilo-spiral nerve Superior prof unda In ferior inofunda Anastomotica magna Brachial Artery (fig. 596) The Brachial artery (a. brachii) commences at the lower margin of the tendon of the Teres major, and, passing down the inner and anterior aspect of the arm, terminates about half an inch below the bend of the elbow, where it divides into the radial and ulnar arteries. At first the brachial artery lies internal to the liumerus ; but as it runs down the arm it gradually gets in front of the bone, and at the bend of the elbow it lies midway between the two condyles. Relations. — The artery is superficial throughout its entire extent, being covered, in front, by the integument and the superficial and deep fascias; the bicipital fascia lies in front of it opposite the elbow and separates it from the vena mediana cubiti; the median nerve crosses it from without inwards opposite the insertion of the Coraco-brachialis. Behind, it is separated from the long head of the Triceps by the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery. It then lies upon the inner head of the Triceps, next upon the insertion of the Coraco- brachialis, and lastly on the Brachialis anticus. By its outer side, it is in relation with the commencement of the median nerve, and the Coraco-brachialis and Biceps,ANGIOLOGY 672 the two muscles overlapping the artery to a considerable extent. By its inner side, its upper half is in relation with the internal cutaneous and ulnar nerves, its lower half with the median nerve. The basilic vein lies on its inner side, but is separated from it in the lower part of the arm by the deep fascia. Tlie artery is accompanied by two venfB comites, which lie in close contact with it, being connected together at intervals by short transverse communicating branches. Anatomy of the Bend of the Elbow (anticubital fossa) At the bend of the elbow the brachial artery sinks deeply into a triangular interval. The base of the triangle is directed upwards, and is represented by a line connecting the two condyles of the humerus ; the sides are bounded, externally, by the inner edge of the Brachio-radialis, internally, by the outer margin of the Pronator teres ; the floor is formed by the Brachialis anticus and Supmator brevis. This space contains the brachial artery, with its accom- panying' veins; the radial and ulnar arteries: the median and musculo-spiral nerves and the tendon of the Biceps. The brachial artery opcupies the middle line of the space, and divides opposite the neck of the radius mto the radial and ubiar arteries ; it is covered, in front, by the integument the superficial fascia, and the vena mediana cubiti, the vem bemg separated from direct contact with the artery by the bicipital fascia. Behind, it hes on the Brachialis anticus, which separates it from the elbow-jomt. The median nerve lies on the inner side of the artery, close to it above, but separated from it below by the coronoid origin of the Pronator teres. The tendon of the Biceps lies to the outer side of the artery, and stiU more externaUy is the musculo-spiral nerve which is situated upon the Supmator brevis, and concealed by the Brachio-radialis. Peculiarities of the hracUal artery as regards its Cowrsfi.—The brachial artery, accom- panied bv the median nerve, may leave the inner border of the Biceps, and descend towards the inner epicondyle of the humerus ; about two mches above the epicondyle it usuaUy in such cases curves round a prominence of bone, the sufracoiidylar process, from which a fibrous arch is in most cases thrown over the artery ; it then inchnes outwards, beneath or through the substance of the Pronator teres, to the bend of the elbo^-. This variation bears considerable analogy with the normal condition of the artery m some of the caraivora : it has been referred to m the description of the humerus (page 298) As renards Us division.-Oco^sMly, the artery is divided for a short distance at it. upper part into two trunks, which are united below. A similar peculiarity may occur m thfi main vessel of the lower limb. . , TTe^elsels concerned in the high division of the brachial artery ar^ three : ^ad^^^ uhiar and interosseous. Most frequently the radial is given off high up the other limb of the bSurSn consistmg of the ulnar and. interosseous. In some mstances the ulnar friSs S^rthHrachlS Xve the ordmary level, and the radial and mterosseous form the other limb of the division ; and occasionaUy the mterosseous ™ ^"f "P; ^^jj,^,^ Sometimes, long slender vessels, vasa aberrarUta, connect the brachial 'ixil ary artery with one of the arteries of the forearm, or branches from them. Ihese ve.sei, ^^^SS S —. ..a.on..*.-The brachial artery -^^ly^on.^^^ some part of its course, by muscular or tendmous slips derived from the Coiaco-brachiali.. ^'".e|cT!£S;'5h;''d^ artery is marlced by a hue drawn along it inn^r edge of the Biceps from the msertion of the Teres major muscle to a but httle protected'by surrounding tissues, it is seldom ^^""^^^-J^J , ^" Co „ir to its situation on the-imier side of the arm. which is ^ttle exposed to inpry^^^^^^^^^ of the brachial artery is required in cases of amputation and ^"^^^ °;;'f "/'^^^ If arm and forearm, and may be effected in almost any P.f t Je cour e of the a^^^^^ pressure be made in the upper part of the f ,f ""'^JiJ'^,^^^^^^^ on the inner Ltwards ; if in the lower part, from ^«tf f/;;^;'/^^^'^-,^^^^^^^^''^^^ is S^iftJlTiiSof Sirl^^Sl^cr^lSr J^^^^^ of the vessel, and in some cases of m ou.uI of I e P" ^^j^'^,^ arteries. The necessary in caaes of aneurysm of the brachial, radial, ulnar, or mtcrosseou " rge^^t^ers's Anafomioal and rhMghal OUerratim^.673 BRACHIAL ARTERY side and the hand supinated. An incision about two inches in length shoiild be niade on the inner side of the Coraco-brachialis muscle, and the subjacent fascia cautiously divided, so as to avoid wounding the internal cutaneous nerve or basilic vein, as the latter sometimes runs on the surface of the artery as high as the axilla. The fascia having been divided, it should be remembered that the uhiar and internal cutaneous nerves he on the inner side of the artery, the median on the outer side, the latter nerve bemg occasion- ally superficial to the artery in this situation, and that the venee comites are also ui relation vrith the vessel, one on either side. These being carefully separated, the aneurysm needle should be passed round the artery from the inner to the outer side. In the case of a high division, the two arteries are usually placed side by side ; and if they are exposed in an operation, the surgeon should endeavour to ascertain, by alter- nately pressing on each vessel, which of the two communicates with the wound or aneurysm, wlien a Ugature may be applied accordmgly ; or if pulsation or hemorrhage ceases only when both vessels are compressed, both vessels must be tied, as it may be concluded that the two communicate above the seat of disease, or are reunited. In the middle of the arm the brachial artery may be exposed by making an incision alone the inner margin of the Biceps muscle. The forearm bemg bent so as to relax the muscle, it should be drawn slightly aside, and the fascia carefully divided, when the median nerve -will be exposed lying upon (sometimes beneath) the artery ; this bemg drawTi inwards and the muscle outwards, the artery should be separated from its accom- panj-ing veins and secured. In this situation the inferior profunda may be mistaken for the'main trunk, especially if enlarged fi-om the collateral circulation having become established ; this may be avoided by du-ecting the incision externally towards the Biceps, rather than inwards or backwards towards the Triceps. The loiver part of the brachial artery is of interest from a surgical point of view, on account of the relation which it bears to the veins most commonly opened in venesection. Of these vessels, the vena mediana cubiti is the largest and most promment, and, consequently, the one usually selected for the operation. It should be remembered that this vem rims parallel mth the brachial artery, from which it is separated by the bicipital fascia, and that care should be taken, in opening the vein, not to carry the incision too deep, so as to endanger the artery. Collateral Ciradation.—After the application of a ligature to the brachial artery in the upper third of the arm, the cu-culation is carried on by branches from the circumflex and subscapular arteries anastomosing with ascending branches fi'Oin the superior profunda. If the brachial be tied below the origui of the profunda arteries, the cu'culation is maintained by the branches of the profunda anastomosing with the recurrent radial, ulnar, and interosseous arteries. The branches of the brachial artery are: 1. The superior profunda (a. profunda brachii) arises from the inner and back part of the brachial, just below the lower border of the Teres major, and passes backwards to the interval between the outer and inner heads of the Triceps muscle, accompanied by the musculo-spiral nerve. It winds round the back of the shaft of the humerus in the spiral groove, between the outer head of the Triceps and the bone, to the external intermuscular septum where it divides into two terminal branches. One of these pierces the septum, and descends, in company with the musculo-spiral nerve, to the space between the Brachialis anticus and Brachio-radiaUs, where it anastomoses with the recurrent branch of the radial artery; the other, much larger, descends behind the external intermuscular septum to the back of the elbow-joint, where it anastomoses with the posterior interosseous recurrent, the posterior ulnar recurrent, the anastomotica magna, and inferior profunda (fig. 597). The superior profmida suppUes the Triceps muscle and gives off a nutrient artery which enters the humerus at the upper end of the musculo-spiral groove. Near its commencement it sends a branch upwards Superior profunda. Nutrient. Inferior profunda. Anastomotica magna. Muscular. X X674 ANGIOLOGY between the external and long heads of the Triceps muscle to anastomose with the posterior circumflex artery ; and, while in the groove, a small branch which accompanies a branch of the musculo-spiral nerve through the substance of the Triceps muscle and ends in the Anconeus below the outer epicondyle of the humerus. 2. The nutrient artery of the shaft of the humerus arises about the middle of the arm and enters the nutrient canal near the insertion of the Coraco-brachialis muscle. 3. The inferior profunda (a. coUateralis ulnaris superior), of small size, arises^ a little below the middle of the arm. It pierces the internal intermuscular septum, and descends on the surface of the inner head of the Triceps muscle, to the space between the inner epicoiidyle and olecranon, accompanied by the ulnar nerve, and terminates by anastomosing with the posterior ubiar recurrent and anastomotica magna. It sometimes sends a branch in front of the internal epicondyle, to anastomose with the anterior ulnar recurrent. _ 4. The anastomotica magna (a. collateralis ulnaris inferior) arises about two inches above the elbow-joint. It passes transversely inwards upon the Brachialis auticus, and piercing the internal intermuscular septum, winds round the back part of the humerus between the Triceps and the bone, forming, by its junction with the posterior branch of the superior profunda, an arch above the olecranon fossa. As the vessel lies on the Brachialis anticus, branches ascend to join the inferior profunda ; others descend in front of the inner epicondyle, to anastomose -^nth the anterior ulnar recurrent. Behind the internal epicondyle a branch is given off to anastomose with the inferior profunda and posterior ulnar recurrent arteries and supply the Triceps. 5. The muscular are three or four large branches, which are distributed to the muscles in the course of the artery. They supply the Coraco-brachialis, Biceps, and Brachialis anticus. Fig. 597.—Diagram of the anastomosis around the elbow-joint. Siuperior profunda Inferior prof undo Brachial III I I Anterior branch of superior profunda I I g ^BitK—I Anastotnotica magna Posterior branch of superior profunda Badial recurrent Interosseous recii rrcnl liadial Anterior ulnar recurrent Posterior ulnar recurrent Interosseous Posterior interosseous Ulnar yhiterinr interosseous The Anastomosis around the Elbow-joint (fig. 597).-The vessels engaged in tht anastomosis may be conveniently divided into those situated tn front of,675 RADIAL ARTERY Eadial recurrent and those behind the iuternal and external epicondyles. The branches anasto- mosing in front of the internal epicondyle are : the anterior branch of the anastomotica magna, the an- terior nlnar recurrent, and the Fig- 598.—Tlie radial and ulnar arteries, anterior branch of the inferior profunda. Those behind the in- ternal epicondyle are: the ana- stomotica magna, the posterior ulnar recurrent, and the posterior terminal branch of the inferior profunda. The branches ana- stomosing in front of the external epicondyle are : the radial re- current and the anterior terminal branch of the superior profunda. Those behind the external epi- condyle (perhaps more properly described as being situated between the external epicondyle and the olecranon) are: the anastomotica magna, the in- terosseous recurrent, and the posterior terminal branch of the superior profimda. There is also a large arch of anastomosis above the olecranon, formed by the in- terosseous recurrent joining with the anastomotica magna and pos- terior ulnar recurrent (fig. 600). From this description it will be observed that the anasto- motica magna is the vessel most engaged, the only part of the anastomosis in which it is not employed being that in front of the external epicondyle. R.-vDiAL Artery (fig. 598) The radial artery (a. radi- alis) appears, from its dii-ection, to be the continuation of the brachial, but it is smaller in calibre than the ulnar. It commences at the bifurcation of the brachial, just below the bend of the elbow, and passes along the radial side of the forearm to the wrist. It then winds backwards, round the outer side of the carpus, be- neath the Extensor tendons of the thumb to the upper end of the space between the meta- carpal bones of the thumb and index finger, and, finally, passes forwards between the two heads of the First dorsal inter- osseous muscle, into the palm of the hand, where it crosses the metacarpal bones to the ulnar border of the hand, to form the deep palmar arch. At its termination, it anastomoses with the deep branch of the ulnar artery. The relations of this X X 2 Extensor brevis poinds Superficialis voice Veep brcmcJi of ulnar07U ANGIOLOGY vessel may thus be conveniently divided into three parts, viz. in the forearm, at the back of the wrist, and in the hand. Relations.—(a) hi the forearm the artery extends from opposite the neck of the radius to the fore part of the styloid process, being placed to the inner side of the shaft above, and in front of it below. It is overlapped in the upper part of its course by the fleshy belly of the Bracbio-radiahs muscle ; throughout the rest of its course it is superficial, being covered by the integument and the superficial and deep fasciae. In its course downwards, it hes upon the tendon of the Biceps, the Supinator brevis, the Pronator teres, the radial origin of the Flexor subhmis digitorum, the Flexor longus polhcis, the Pronator quadratus, and the lower extremity of the radius. In the upper third of its course it lies between the Brachio-radiahs and the Pronator teres ; in its lower two-thirds, between the tendons of the Brachio-radiahs and Flexor carpi radiahs. The radial nerve hes close to the outer side of the artery in the middle third of its course ; and some filaments of the musculo-cutaneous nerve, after piercing the deep fascia, run along the lower part of the artery as it winds round the wrist. The vessel is accompanied by veniE comites throughout its whole course. (6) At the wrist as it Avinds round the outer side of the carpus, from the styloid process to the first interosseous space, it hes upon the external lateral ligament, and then upon the scaphoid and trapezium, bemg covered by the Extensor tendons of the thumb, subcutaneous veins, some filaments of the radial nerve, and the integument. It is accompanied by two veins, and a filament of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. (c) In the hand, it passes from the upper end of the first interosseous space, between the heads of the Abductor indicis or First dorsal interosseous muscle, transversely across the palm, to the base of the metacarpal bone of the httle finger, where it anastomoses with the deep branch from the ulnar artery, completing the deef palmar arch (arcus volaris profundus). It hes upon the carpal extremities of the metacarpal bones and the Interossei, being covered by the Adductor obhquus polhcis, the flexor tendons of the fingers, and the Lumbricales. Alongside of it, but riuining in the opposite direction—that is to say, from vnthm outwards—is the deep branch of the ulnar nerve. Peculiarities.—The origin of the radial artery, according to Quam, is, in nearly one case m eight, higher than usual; more often it arises from the axiUary or upper part of the brachial, than from the lower part of the latter vessel. In the forearm it deviates less frequently from its normal position than the ulnar. It has been found lying on the deep fascia instead of beneath it. It has also been observed on the surface of the Brachio-radaahs, instead of under its inner border ; and in turning round the vaist, it has been seen lymg on, instead of beneath, the Extensor tendons of the thumb. • Surface Marking.—The position of the radial artery in the forearm is represented bv a line drawn from the outer border of the tendon of the Biceps m the centre of the hollow m front of the elbow-jomt to the mner side of the fore part of the styloid process of the radius, with the hmb m the position of supination. . . , .1 • j Applied Anatomy.—The radial artery is much exposed to m]ury m its lower tmrd. and is frequently wounded by the hand being driven through a pane of glass by the slipping of a knife or chisel held in the other hand, &c. The injury may be f oUowed by a traumatic aneurysm, for which the operation of laymg open the sac and securing the vessel above and below is required. . , ... , The operation of tying the radial artery is required in cases of wounds either ot its trunk, or of some of its branches, or for aneurysm: and the vessel may be esi>osed m any part of its course through the forearm without the division of any muscular fibres, the operation in the middle or inferior third of the forearm is easily performed; but 1? t,he upper third, near the elbow, it is attended Mith some difficulty from the greater depth of the vessel, and from its being overlapped by the Brachio-radiahs To tie the artery in the up]>er third, an incision three inches in length f^^o^ ^^^f.^^^J^ through the integument, in a Une drawn from the centre of the bend of *e o^bow to the front of the styloid process of the radius, avoiding the branches of t^e medmn em the fascia of the ^rm being divided, and the BrachK)-rad.al.s drawn ^J'^'^ artery will be exposed. The ven.-e comites should be carefuUy separated from the Nessel and the ligature passed from the radial to the ulnar side. ,„„!,;„„ „„ incision In the middle third of the forearm the artery may be exposed by "^^^"K/ of similar Icngtli on the inner margin of the Brachio-radiahs. In ^J^^ ^^^^^^^^^^ nerve lies in close relation wth the outer side of the artery, and should, as a^cU as llie ^^^^ ^ 'Z^&^X^t.ry is easily secured by dividing the ^^^^^^^^ in the interval between the tendons ot the Brachio-radiahs and 1'lexer carpi radiahs.677 RADIAL ARTERY The branches of the radial artery may be divided into three groups, coiTe- sponding with the three regions in which the vessel is situated. In the forearm. Radial recurrent. Muscular. Anterior radial carpal. Superficialis volae. At the wrist. Posterior radial carpal. First dorsal interosseous. Dorsales poUicis. Dorsalis indicia. In the hand. Princeps pollicis. Radialis indicis. Perforating. Palmar interosseous. Recurrent. The radial recurrent (a. recurrens radialis) is given o£E immediately below the elbow. It ascends between the branches of the musculo-spiral nerve, lying on the Supinator brevis and then between the Brachio-radialis and Brachiahs anticus, supplying these muscles and the elbow-joint, and anastomosmg with the anterior terminal branch of the superior profunda. The muscular branches (rami musculares) are distributed to the muscles on the radial side of the forearm. The anterior radial carpal (ramus carpeus volaris) is a small vessel which arises near the lower border of the Pronator quadratus, and, running inwards in front of the cai-pus, anastomoses with the anterior carpal branch of the ulnar artery, lu this way an arterial anastomosis, the anterior carpal arch, is formed in front of the WTrist: it is joined by branches from the anterior interosseous above, and by recurrent branches from the deep palmar arch below, and gives off twigs which descend to supply the articulations of the wrist and carpus. The superficialis volae (ramus volaris superficialis) arises from the radial artery, just where this vessel is about to -wind round the outer side of the wrist. Rimning forwards, it passes through, occasionally over, the muscles of the thumb, which it suppHes, and sometimes anastomoses with the terminal portion of the ulnar artery, completing the superficial palmar arch. Tliis vessel varies considerably in size : usually it is very small, and terminates in the muscles of the thiunb ; sometimes it is as large as the continuation of the radial. The posterior radial carpal (ramus carpeus dorsaUs) is a small vessel which arises beneath the Extensor tendons of the thumb ; crossing the carpus transversely towards the inner border of the hand, it anastomoses with the posterior carpal branch of the ulnar, forming the posterior carpal arch, which is joined by the termination of the anterior interosseous arter}'-. From this arch are given off two slender dorsal interosseous arteries, which run forwards on the Third and Fourth dorsal interossei and bifurcate into dorsal digital branches which supply the adjacent sides of the middle, ring, and little fingers respectively, communicating with the collateral digital branches of the superficial palmar arch. Near their origins they anastomose with the deep palmar arch by the superior perforating arteries, and near their points of bifurcation with the digital vessels of the superficial palmar arch by the inferior perforating arteries. The first dorsal interosseous arises beneath the Extensor tendons of the thumb, sometimes with the posterior radial carpal; running forwards on the Second dorsal interosseous muscle it divides into two dorsal digital branches, which supply the adjoining sides of the index and middle fingers ; it forms anastomoses similar to those of the other two dorsal interosseous arteries. The dorsales pollicis are two small vessels which run along the sides of the dorsal aspect of the thumb. They usually arise separately, but occasionally by a common trunk, near the base of the &xst metacarpal bone. The dorsalis indicis, also a small branch, rmis along the radial side of the back of the index finger, sending a few branches to the Abductor indicis. The princeps pollicis (a. princeps polhcis) arises from the radial just as it turns inwards to the deep part of the hand ; it descends between the Abductor indicis and Adductor obliquus polhcis, along the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the thumb to the base of the first phalanx, where it lies beneath the tendon of the Flexor longus polhcis and divides into two branches. These make their appearance between the inner and outer insertions of the Adductor obliquus polhcis, and run along the sides of the palmar aspect of the tliumb, forming on the palmar surface of the last phalanx an arch, from which branches are distributed to the integument and subcutaneous tissue of the thumb.678 ANGIOLOGY The radialis indicis (a. volaris indicis radialis) arises close to the preceding, descends between the Abductor indicis and Adductor transversus pollicis, and runs along the radial side of the index finger to its extremity, where it anastomoses witli the collateral digital artery from the superficial palmar arch. At the lower border of the Adductor transversus pollicis, this vessel anastomoses with the princeps pollicis, and gives a communicating branch to the superficial palmar arch. The perforating arteries Fig. 599.—Ulnar and radial arteries. Deep view. Badial recurrent Posterior interosseous Muscular Anterior carpal Superficialia volte Anasfomotica maffita Anterior ulnar recurrent ^Posterior ulnar recurrent (rami perforantes), three in number, pass backwards from the deep palmar arch, through the second, third, and fourth interosseous spaces and between the heads of the corresponding Interossei, to anastomose \vith the dorsal interosseous arteries. The palmar interosseous (aa. metacarpea3 v o 1 a r e s), three or four in number, arise from the convexity of the deep palmar arch; they run downwards upon the Interossei, and anastomose at the clefts of the fingers with the digital branches of the superficial arch. The recurrent branches arise from the concavity of the deep palmar arch. They ascend in front of the wrist, supplying the carpal articu- lations and anastomosing with the anterior carpal arch. Ulnak Arteky (fig. 599) ■Muscular Anterior carpal Deep branch of ulnar The ulnar artery (a. ulnaris), the larger of the two termiiral branches of the brachial, commences a little helow the bend of the elbow, and, passing obliquely downwards and inwards, reaches the inner side of the forearm at a point about midway be- tA^-een the elbow and the MTist. It tlieu runs along the ulirar border to the m-ist, crosses the annular ligament on the radial side of the pisiform bone, and immediately beyond this bone divides into two branches, which enter into the formation of tlie superficial and deep palmar arches. Relations, (a) In the forearm.-In its nvper half, covered bv all the superficial Flexor muscles, except the Flexor ^^'^Pi ""i''", ; 't hes upon the Brachialis anticus and Flexor profundus digitorum mi.scle Tbr median nerve is in relation with the inner side of the artery for - 'J " ^^^^^J E bosses the vessel, being separated from it by the deep head of the TionatorULNAR ARTERY 679 teres lu the lower half of the forearm, it Ues upon the Flexor profundus, being covered by the integument, and the superficial and deep fasciae, and is placed between the Flexor carpi ubiaris and Flexor subUmis digitorum muscles It is accompanied by two vena? comites, and is overlapped in its middle third by the Flexor carpi ulnaris ; the idnar nerve lies on its inner side for the lower two-thirds of its extent, and a small branch from the nerve descends on the lower part ot the vessel to the palm of the hand. ^ i Ih) 4t the wrist (fig. 598) the ulnar artery is covered by the integument and fascia, and lies upon the anterior annular ligament. On its inner side is the pisiform bone, and, somewhat behind the artery, the ulnar nerve. The nerve and artery are crossed by a band of fibres, which extends from the pisiform bone to the anterior annidar ligament. Peculiarities.—The uhiar artery has been found to vary in its origin nearly in the proportion of one m thhteen cases ; it may arise lower than usual, about two or three inches below the elbow, but usually much higher, the brachial being more often the som-ce of origin than the axiUary. Variations in the position of this vessel are more common than in the radial. When its origin is normal, the coiu'se of the vessel is rarely changed. When it arises high up, it is almost invariably superficial to the Flexor muscles in the forearm, lying commonly beneath the fascia, more rarely between the fascia and integument. In a few cases, its position was subcutaneous m the upper part of the forearm, and subaponeurotic in the lower part. Surface Marking.—On account of the curved direction of the uhiar artery, the Ime on the surface of the hmb which mdicates its course is somewhat comphcated. First, di-aw a line from the front of the internal epicondyle of the humerus to the radial side ot the pisiform bone ; the lower two-thkds of this line represent the course of the middle and lower thirds of the artery. Secondly, ch-aw a line from the centre of the hollow m front of the elbow-jomt to the jimction of the upper and middle thirds of the first hue; this represents the course of the upper third of the artery. Applied Anaiomij.—The application of a ligature to this vessel is requu-ed in cases of wound of the artery, or of its branches, or in consequence of aneurysm. In the upper half of the forearm the artery is deeply seated beneath the superficial Flexor muscles, and the apphcation of a ligature in this situation is attended ^vith some difficulty. An incision is to be made in the course of a fine drawn from the front of the internal epicondyle of the humerus to the outer side of the pisiform bone, so that the centre of the incision is three fingers' breadth below the mtemal epicondyle. The skin and superficial fascia having been divided, and the deep fascia exposed, the white fine which separates the Flexor carpi ulnaris from the other Flexor muscles is to be sought for, and the fascia incised in this hue. The Flexor carpi ulnaris is now to be carefully separated from the other muscles, when the ulnar nerve wll be exposed lymg on the Flexor profundus digitorum, and must be dra\vn aside. Some Httle distance below the nerve, the artery will be found accom- panied by its vente comites, and may be hgatured, the needle being passed from within outwards. In the middle and lower thirds of the forearm, this vessel may be easily secured by making an incision on the radial side of the tendon of the Flexor carpi ulnaris : when the deep fascia is divided, and the Flexor carpi uhiaris and the Flexor sublimis separated from each other, the vessel wall be exposed, accompanied by its venfe comites, the idnar nerve lying on its inner side. The veins being separated from the artery, the hgature should be passed from the ulnar to the radial side, taking care to avoid the ulnar nerve. The branches of the ulnar artery may be arranged in the following groups : In the forearm- ir, i (Anterior. Recurrent {posterior. (Anterior interosseous, interosseous I p^g^gj,j^^. interosseous. ^Muscular. ,, ■ , I Anterior ulnar carpal. At the w'nsfJp^g^g^.^j. ^i^^j. ^^^^^ T ji. 1 71 Profunda. In the Superficial palmar arch. The recurrent branches (aa. recurrentes ulnares) are two in number, anterior and posterior. The anterior ulnar recurrent arises immediately below the elbow- joint, runs upwards and inwards between the Brachialis anticus and Pronator teres, supplies twigs to those muscles, and, in front of the inner epicondyle, anastomoses with the anastomotica magna and inferior profmida. The posterior ulnar recurrent is much larger, and arises somewhat lower than the preceding.680 ANGIOLOGY It passes backwards and inwards, beneath the Flexor sublimis, and ascends behind the inner epicondyle of the humerus. In the interval between this process and the olecranon, it lies beneath the Flexor carpi ulnaris, and ascending between the heads of that muscle, in relation with the ulnar nerve, it suppUes Fig. 600.—Arteries of the back of the forearm and hand. the nei<;hliouring muscles and the elbow-joint, and anastomoses with the mfenoi profunda, anastomotica magna, and interosseous recurrent artenes (hg. bUU). The interosseous (a. interossca communis) (fig. 599) is a short trunk about half nn iiiH, in Icntrth. and of considerable size, which arises immediately belowULNAR ARTERY 681 the tuberosity of the radius, iincl. passing backwards to the upper border of the interosseous membrane, divides into two branches, the anterior and ■posterior interosseous arteries. The anterior interosseous (a. iuterossea volaris) (fig. 599) passes down tlie forearm on the anterior surface of the interosseous membrane. It is accornpanied by the interosseous branch of the median nerve, and overLappcd by the contiguous margins of the Flexor profundus digitorum and Flexor longus pollicis, giving oft" in this situation muscular branches, and the nutrient arteries of the radius and ulna. At the upper border of the Pronator quadratus, a branch descends beneath that muscle, to anastomose in front of the carpus with the anterior carpal arch. The continuation of the artery passes behind the Pronator quadratus, and, piercing the interosseous membrane, reaches the back of the forearm, and anastomoses vnth the posterior interosseous artery (fig. 600). It then descends, in company mth the terminal portion of the posterior interosseous nerve, to the back of the wrist to join the posterior carpal arch. The anterior interosseous gives off a long, slender branch, the comes nervi mediani (a. mediana), which accompanies the median nerve, and gives offsets to its substance ; this artery is sometimes much enlarged, and runs with the nerve into the palm of the hand. The posterior interosseous (a. interossea dorsalis) passes backwards through the interval between the oblique ligament and the upper border of the interosseous membrane. It appears between the contiguous borders of the Supinator brevis and the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and runs down the back of the forearm between the superficial and deep layers of muscles, to both of which it distributes branches (fig. 600). Where it lies upon the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and the Extensor brevis pollicis, it is accompanied by the posterior interosseous nerve. At the lower part of the forearm it anastomoses with the termination of the anterior interosseous artery, and with the posterior carpal arch. It gives off, near its origin, the interosseous recurrent branch (a. interossea recurrens), which ascends to the interval between the external epicondyle and olecranon, on or through the fibres of the Supinator brevis, but beneath the Aiiconeus, and anastomoses with the posterior branch of the superior profimda, and with the posterior ulnar recurrent and anastomotica magna. The muscular branches are distributed to the muscles along the ulnar side of the forearm. The anterior ulnar carpal (ramus carpeus volaris) is a small vessel which crosses the front of the carpus beneath the tendons of the Flexor profundus, and anastomoses with a corresponding branch of the radial artery. The posterior ulnar carpal (ramus carpeus dorsalis) arises immediately above the pisiform bone, and ^^^nds backwards beneath the tendon of the Flexor carpi ulnaris ; it passes across the dorsal surface of the carpus beneath the Extensor tendons, to anastomose with a corresponding branch of the radial artery, and complete the posterior carpal arch. Immediately after its origin, it gives off a small branch, which runs along the ulnar side of the fifth metacarpal bone, and supplies the ulnar side of the dorsal surface of the little finger. The profunda branch (ramus volaris profundus) (fig. 599) passes between the Abductor mininu digiti and Flexor brevis minimi digiti, near their origins ; it anastomoses with the termination of the radial artery, and completes the deep palmar arch. The superficial palmar arch (arcus volaris superficialis) (fig. 598) is formed by the ulnar artery in the hand, and is usually completed on the outer side by a branch from the radialis indicis, but sometimes by the superficialis voliB or by a branch from the princeps polUcis of the radial artery. The arch passes across the palm, describing a curve, with its convexity downwards. Relations.—The superficial palmar arch is covered by the skin, the Palmaris brevis and the palmar fascia. It lies upon the annular ligament, the Flexor brevis and Opponens minimi digiti, the tendons of the Flexor sublimis digitorum, the Lumbrical muscles, and the divisions of the median and ulnar nerves. Four digital arteries (aa. digitales volares communes) (fig. 598) are given off from the convexity of this arch. The innermost accompanies the inner digital branch of the ulnar nerve, and runs along the ulnar side of the little finger ; it is joined by a twig from the deep palmar arch or from the innermost palmar interosseous artery. The three outer run downwards in front of the three inner mterosseous spaces, superficial to the corresponding nerves and Lumbrical muscles.682 ANGIOLOGY A little above the iuterdigital clefts tliey are joined by the palmar interosBeous arteries, and by the inferior perforating branches of the dorsal interosseous arteries. Each then divides into collateral digital arteries (aa. digitales volares propria?) for the supply of the contiguous sides of the index, middle, ring, and little fingers. These collateral branches lie behind the corresponding digital nerves; they anastomose freely in the subcutaneous tissue of the finger-tip, and by smaller branches near the iuterphalangeal joints. Each gives off a couple of dorsal branches which anastomose with the dorsal digital arteries, and supply the soft parts on the back of the second and third phalanges, including the matrix of the finger-nail. Surface Marking.—The superficial palmar arch is represented by a curved line, starting from the outer side of the pisiform bone, and carried downwards and outwards as far as the base of the thumb, with the convexity towards the fingers. The lowest point of the arch is usually on a level %vith the lower border of the outstretched thumb. The deep palmar arch is situated about half an inch nearer to the carpus. Applied Anatomy.—Wounds of the palmar arches are of special interest, and are always difficult to deal ^vith. When the superficial arch is wounded it is generally possible, enlarging the wound when necessary, to secure the vessel and tie it on both sides of the bleeding point; or in cases where it is foimd impossible to encircle the vessel wth a Ugature, a pair of Wells's artery clips may be applied and left on for twenty-four or forty-eight hours. Failing this, the wound may be plugged with gauze and an outside dressing carefully bandaged on. The plug should be allowed to remain untouched for three or four days. It is useless in these cases to ligature one of the arteries of the forearm alone, and indeed simidtaneous ligature of both radial and ulnar arteries above the ivrist is often unsuccessful, on accoimt of the anastomosis carried on by the carpal arches. Therefore, upon the failure of pressure to arrest haimorrhage, it is expedient to apply a ligature to the brachial artery. Wlien an incision for deep-seated suppuration in the tendon- sheath is required, the situation of the superficial arch must alwaj^s be borne in mind, and the incisions placed either above or below it. The position of the digital branches of the artery must also be remembered, and incisions must be made opposite the heads of the metacarpal bones and not between them. ARTERIES OP THE TRUNK The Descending Aorta The descending aorta is divided into two portions, the Hwracic and abdominal, in correspondence with the two great cavities of the trunk in which it is situated. The Thoracic Aorta The thoracic aorta (aorta thoracalis) is contained m the back part of the posterior mediastinum. It commences at the lower border of the fourth thoracic vertebra, and terminates in front of the lower border of the twelfth at tlie aortic opening in the Diaphragm. At its commencement, it is situated on the left side of the vertebral column ; it approaches the median line as it descends ; and, at its termination, lies directly in front of the column, its direction being influenced by the vertebral column, upon which it rests, the vessel describes a curve which is concave forwards. As the branches given off from it are small, its diminution in size is inconsiderable. Relations.—It is in relation, in front, from above downwards, with the root of the left lung, the pericardium, the oesophagus, and the Diaphragm with the vertebral column, and the azygos minor vcms ; on the nght side, vcit\x the vena azygos major, and thoracic duct; on the sirfc, with the left pleura and lung. The oesophagus, with its accompanying nerves, hes on tlie right side of the aorta above ; but at the lower part of the thorax it is placed m front ot the aorta, and, close to the Diaphragm, is situated to its left side. PecicUarities.-The aorta is occasionally foimd to be obliterated the juncU^ of the arch .vith the thoracic aorta, just below the ductus arteriosus ^^^f ^^^J^,^^,J', the result of disease, or of congenital malformation, is immaterial to ^^.'^^^^^^'"[1'°^;' it affords an interesting opportunity of observing the resource^ of j.^^,^^ f r^^, ^ ^^^^^ The course of the anastomosing vessels, by ^vh.ch the blood is to the lower part of the artery, will be found well described m %\",^,;"""*Xv in the ' Pathological Transactions,' vols. viii. and x. In the thus sums up the detailed description of the nnnstomosmg vessels: The principalTHORACIC AORTA 683 communications by which the circulation was carried on, were—Fn-stly, the internal mammary, anastomosing wth the intercostal arteries, with the phreiuc of the abdommal aorta by means of the musculo-phrenic and comes nervi phrenici, and largely with the deep epigastric. Secondly, the superior intercostal, anastomosing anteriorly by means of a larae branch with the first aortic intercostal, and posteriorly with the posterior branch of the same artery. Thirdly, the inferior thyi'oid, by means of a branch about the size of an ordinary radial, forming a communication with the first aortic intercostal. 1 ourthly. Fig. 601.—Thoracic aorta from right side. the transversalis colli, by means of very large communications with the posterior branches of the intercostals. Fifthly, the branches (of the subclavian and axillary) going to the side of the chest were large, and anastomosed freely with the lateral branches of the intercostals.' In the second case Wood describes the anastomoses in a somewhat similar manner, adding the remark, that ' the blood which was brought into the aorta through the anastomoses of the intercostal arteries appeared to be expended principally in supplying the abdomen and pelvis ; while the supply to the lower extremities had passed through the internal mammary and epigastrics.'ANGIOLOGY 684 In a few cases an apparently double descending thoracic aorta has been found, the two vessels lying side by side, and eventually fusing to form a single tube in the lower part of the thorax or in the abdomen. One of them is the aorta, the other represents a dissecting aortic aneurysm which has become canalised, opening above and below into the true aorta, and at first sight presenting the appearances of a proper blood-vessel. Applied Anatomy.—The effects likely to be produced by aneurysm of the thoracic aorta, a disease of common occurrence, must now be considered. When the great depth of the vessel from the surface, and the number of important structures which surround it on every side are remembered, it may easily be conceived what a variety of obscure symptoms are likely to arise from disease of this part of the arterial system, and how they may be mistaken for those of other affections. Aneurysm of the thoracic aorta most usually extends backwards, along the left side of the vertebral column, producing absorption of the bodies of the vertebraj, with curvature of the column ; while the irrita- tion or pressure on the spinal cord will give rise to i^ain, either in the chest, back, or loins, with radiating pain in the left upper intercostal spaces, from pressure on the intercostal nerves; at the same time the tumour may project backwards on either side of the vertebral column, beneath the integument, as a pulsating swelling, simulating abscess connected w ith diseased bone ; or it may displace the oesophagus, and compress the Ivmgs on one or the other side. If the tumour extend forward, it may press upon and displace the heart, giving rise to palpitation and other syTuptoms of disease of that organ; it may displace or compress the cesophagus, causing pain and difficulty of swallowing, as in stricture of that tube; and ultimately even open into it by ulceration, producing fatal haemorrhage. If the disease extend to the right side, it may press upon the thoracic duct; or it may biu-st into the pleural cavity, or into the trachea or lung ; and lastly, it may open mto the posterior mediastinum. Pressure on one of the bronchi, usually the left, will cause cough, and in time set up bronchiectasis ; pressure on the left pulmonary plexus has been said to give rise to asthmatic attacks. Of late years, the diagnosis of thoracic aneurysm has been much faciUtated by the employment of the a;-rays, by means of which the outline of the sac may be demonstrated. Visceral - Branches of the Thobaoic Aorta Pericardial. f Intercostal. Bronchial. Parietal j Subcostal. CEsophageal. I Superior phrenic. .Mediastinal. The pericardial (rami pericardiaci) are a few small vessels, irregular in their origin, distributed to the pericardium. ■ • rri. The bronchial arteries (aa. bronchiales) vary m number, size, and origm. There is as a rule only one right bronchial aHery, which arises from the first aortic mter- costal, or from the upper left bronchial artery. The left bronchial arteries axe usually two m number, and arise from the thoracic aorta. The upper left bronchial arises opposite the fifth thoracic vertebra, the lower just below the level of the left bronchus. Each vessel runs on the back part of its bronchus, dividing and subdividing along the bronchial tubes, supplying them, the cellular tissue of the lungs, the bronchial glands, and the oesophagus. The oesophageal arteries (aa. resophageas), usually four or five in number, arise from the front of the aorta, and pass obhquely downwards to the a?sophagus forming a chain of anastomoses along that tube, anastomosing with the oesophageal branches of the inferior thyroid arteries above, and Avith asceudmg branches from the phrenic and gastric arteries below. The mediastinal branches (rami mediastinales) are numerous small vessels which supply the glands and loose areolar tissue in the posterior mediastinal space. Intercostal arteries (aa. intercostales). There are usually iime pairs of aortic intercostal arteries. They arise from the back of the aorta, and are distributed to the nine lower intercostal spaces, the first two spaces being supphed by the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian. The right aortic lutercostals are longer than the left, on account of the position of the aorta on the left side of the vertebral colunui; they pass across the bodies of the vertebrae behind the oesophagus thoracic duct, and vena azygos major, and are covered by the right lung and pleura. Ihe lejt aorric intcrcostals run backwards on the sides of the vertebra^ and are covered by the left lung and pleura ; the two upper vessels are crossed by the le t superior intercostal vein, the lower vessels by the azygos nnnor veins. Ihe further course of the intercostal arteries is practically the same on both sides. Opposite t le heads of the ribs the sympathetic cord passes downwards in front of them, and the splanchnic nerves also descend in front of the lower arteries. Each artery crosses685 THORACIC AORTA the correspoudiug intercostal space obliquely towards the angle of the upper rib, and thence is continued forward in the subcostal groove. It is placed at lirst between the pleura and the posterior intercostal membrane, then it pierces this membrane, and lies between it and the External intercostal muscle as far as the rib angle ; from this onward it runs between the External and Internal intercostal muscles, and anastomoses in front with the anterior intercostal branch of the internal mammary or niusculo-phrenic. Each artery is accompanied by a vein and a nerve, the former being above and the latter below the artery, except in the upper spaces, where the nerve is at first above the artery. The highest aortic intercostal artery anastomoses with the superior intercostal, and may form the chief supply of the second intercostal space. The two lower intercostal arteries are continued anteriorly from the intercostal spaces into the abdominal wall, and anastomose \vith the subcostal, superior epigastric and lumbar arteries. Each intercostal artery gives off the follo^ving branches : Posterior or dorsal. Collateral intercostal. Muscidar. Lateral cutaneous. The posterior or dorsal hrancli (ramus posterior) runs vnih. the posterior division of a spinal nerve and passes backwards through a small opening which is bounded above and below by the necks of the ribs and adjacent transverse processes, internally by the vertebral body, and externally by the anterior costo-transverse ligament. It gives off a spinal branch, which enters the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramen and is distributed to the spinal cord and its membranes, and to the bodies of the vertebrae, in the same manner as the lateral spinal branches from the vertebral. The collateral intercostal branch comes off from the intercostal artery near the angle of the rib, and descends to the upper border of the rib below, along which it courses to anastomose with the anterior intercostal branch of the internal mammary. Muscular branches (rami musculares) are given to the Intercostal and Pectoral muscles and to the Serratus magnus ; they anastomose with the superior and long thoracic branches of the axillary artery. The lateral cutaneous branches (rami cutanei laterales) accompany the lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves, and divide into anterior and posterior branches. Mammary branches are given oS by the intercostal arteries in the third, fourth, and fifth spaces. They supply the mammary gland, and increase considerably in size during the period of lactation. Applied Anatomy.—The position of the intercostal vessels should be borne in mind in performing the operation of paracentesis thoracis. The puncture should never be made nearer the middle line posteriorly than the angle of the rib, as the artery crosses the space internal to this point. In the lateral portion of the chest, where the puncture is usually made, the artery hes at the upper part of the intercostal space, and therefore the puncture should be made just above the upper border of the rib forming the lower boundary of the space. The subcostal arteries, so named because they lie below the last ribs, constitute the lowest pair of branches derived fi'om the thoracic aorta, and are in series with the intercostal arteries. Each passes along the lower border of the twelfth rib behind the kidney and in front of the Quadratus lumborum muscle, and is accompanied by the twelfth thoracic nerve. It then pierces the posterior aponeurosis of the Transversalis abdominis, and, passing forward between this muscle and the Internal oblique, anastomoses with the superior epigastric, lower intercostal, and lumbar arteries. The superior phrenic branches (aa. phrenicje superiores) are small branches arising from the lower part of the thoracic aorta; they are distributed to the posterior part of the upper surface of the Diaphragm, and anastomose with, the musculo-phrenic and comes nervi phrenici arteries. A small aberrant artery is sometimes fomid arising from the right side of the thoracic aorta near the origin of the right bronchial. It passes upwards and to the right behind the trachea and the oesophagus, and may anastomose with the right superior intercostal artery. It represents the remains of the right dorsal aortic trunk, and in a small proportion of cases is enlarged to form the first part of the right subclavian artery. The Abdominal Aorta (fig. 602) The abdominal aorta (aorta abdominalis) commences at the aortic opening of the Diaphragm, in front of the lower border of the body of theANCIOLOGY 686 last thoracic vertebra, and, descending a little to the left side of the vertebral column, terminates on the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, commonly a little to the left of the middle line,* by dividing into the two common Fig. 602.—The abdominal aorta and its branches. iliac arteries. It diminishes rapidly m size, »\f ^ , ^^^rb^ branches winch it gives off. As it lies upon the bodies of t^^/.^^^ ^^^^r^' ^ curve which it describes is convex forwards, the summit of the convexity corresponding to the third lumbar vertebra. ReFations.-The abdominal aorta is covered, in/™«/. by the oj^^^f "^^^ and stomach, behind which are the branches of the ccBliac a«s, and he solar plexus; below these, by the splenic vem, the pancreas, ^^^'^ f j^^^ ''^IjJ^^; third portion of the duodenum, the mesentery, and Pl^f" ' ^2^^;^ it is separated from the lumbar vertebras and mterveniiig discs by the anterior «1 Lister having accurately exannned 80 bodies in order to asccrlain the exact point nation of £\l.e^ found'it 'either absolutely, or '-^^-'ti^Wht'Si^^^^ 13 it deviated more or less to the left, and m two was slightly to the light. ysic * Lord of tcrminati while in .. ..^ - - of Surgery, edited by T. Holmes, 2nd ed. vol. v. p. ()52.687 ABDOMINAL AORTA common ligament and left lumbar veins. On the right side it is in relation above w^th the vena azygos major, receptaculum chyli, thoracic duct, and the right crus of the Diaphragm—the last separating it from the upper part of the inferior vena cava, and from the right semilimar ganglion; the inferior vena cava is in contact with the aorta below. On the left side are the left crus of the Diaphragm, the left semiUmar ganghon, the fourth part of the duodenum, and some coils of the small intestine. Surface Marking.—In order to map out the abdominal aorta on the surface of the abdomen, a line must be di-awn from the middle line of tlie body, on a level with the seventh costal cartilages, downwards and slightly to the left, so that it just skirts the umbilicus, to a zone dra%\'n round the body opposite the highest point of the crest of the ilium. This point is generally half an inch below and to the left of the umbilicus, but as the position of this structure varies with tlie obesity of the individual, it is not a reliable landmark for tlie situation of the bifurcation of the aorta. Applied Avatmny.—The abdominal aorta may be the seat of an aneurysm either at its upper part, close to and often involving the cojliac axis, or at its lower part, near the bifm'cation. Occasionally aneurysms are met witli on some of the branches of the aorta, the mesenteric or splenic, quite independent of the main trunk. When an aneurysmal sac is connected with the back part of the abdominal aorta, it usually produces absorption of the bodies of the vertebra;, and forms a pxilsating tumour that presents itself in the left hypochondriac or epigastric regions, and is accompanied by symptoms of disturbance in the ahmentary canal. Pain is invariably present, and is usually of two kinds—a fixed and constant j)ain in the back, caused by the tumoiu' pressing on or displacing the branches of the solar plexus and splanchnic nerves ; and a sharp lancinating pain, radiating along those branches of the lumbar nerves which are pressed on by the tumour ; hence the pain in the loins, the testes, the hjrpogastrium, and m the lower limb (generally of the left side). This form of aneurysm usuaUj'- bursts into the peritoneal cavity, or behind the peritoneum, in the left hypochondriac region ; or it may form a large aneurysmal sac, extending do^^Tl as low as Poupart's ligament. WTien an aneurj'smal sac is connected with the front of the aorta near the creliac axis, it forms a pulsating tumour in the left hypochondriac or epigastric regions, usually attended with symptoms of chsturbance of the ahmentary canal, as sickness, dyspepsia, or constipation, and accompanied by pain, which is constant, but nearly always fixed, in the loins, epigastrium, or some part of the abdomen ; the radiating pain being rare, as the lumbar nerves are seldom imphcated. This form of aneurysm may burst into the peritoneal cavity, behind the peritoneum, between the layers of the mesentery, or, more rarely, into the duodenum ; it rarely extends backwards so as to affect the spme. Occlusion of the abdominal aorta by thrombosis or embohsm is rare, but produces very severe symptoms when it does occur. The patient complams of intense pain in the legs ; pallor of the legs, followed by coldness, lividity, paresis, paralysis, and finally gangi'ene, are hkely to succeed, death usually supervening within a fortnight. The abdommal aorta has been tied several times, and although none of the patients permanently recovered, still, as one case lived forty-eight days, the possibihty of the re-estabUshment of the circulation may be considered to be proved. Collateral CircxiMion.—The collateral circulation would be can-ied on by the anasto- moses between the mternal mammary and the deep epigastric ; by the free communication between the superior and inferior mesenteries, if the hgature were placed above the latter vessel; or by the anastomosis between the inferior mesenteric and the internal pudic, when (as is more common) the point of ligature is below the origin of the inferior mesenteric ; and possibly by the anastomoses of the lumbar arteries with the branches of the internal' iliac. Branches op the Abdominal Aorta The branches of the abdominal aorta may be divided into three sets : visceral, parietal, and terminal. Visceral Branches. Parietal Branches. (Gastric. Inferior phrenic. Coeliac axis-Hepatic. Lumbar. i Splenic. Middle sacral. Superior mesenteric. Inferior mesenteric. Suprarenal. Renal. Terminal Branches. Spermatic or Ovarian. Common iliacs. Of the visceral branches, the coeliac axis and the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries are single, while the suprarenal, renal, and spermatic orANGIOLOGY e between the gastric and splenic ; m the foetus, it 6 G88 ovarian are paired. The inferior phrenic and lumbar are paired parietal branches ; the middle sacral is unpaired. CcELiAO Axis (fig. 603) The ccEliac axis artery (a. cceliaca) is a short thick trunk, about half an inch m length, which arises from the aorta, close to the margin of the openu)g in the Diaphragm, and, passing nearly horizontally forwards, divides Pig. 603.—The coeliac axis and its branches; the liver has been raised, and the lesser omentum and anterior layer of the great omentum removed. Cystic artery into three large branches, the gastric or coronary, the hepatic, and the splenic; it occasionally gives off one of the Pb^e^,;/!?";^;^ omentum On the right the lesser sac of the peritoneum, to ^^^^^.^.^^f^^f^ anastomose it distributes branches to the --P^^g"^^ - ' suTp^Y Xe -rdiac end of the with the aortic oesophagea aiteiies ^^^/"P/ ^ n then runs the hepatic. „j.;„„\ Jn tlip adult is intermediate in 2. The hepatic artery (a. ^l^ep^tica), m th*; f ^J^'.^ ^^^^ ^ e^t of the sizeCOELIAC AXIS 689 tlu-ee branches of the coeliac axis. It is first directed forwards and to the right, to the upper margin of the first part of the duodenum, forming the lower boundary of the foramen of Winslow. It then passes upwards between the layers of the lesser omentum, and in front of the foramen of Winslow, to the transverse fissure of the liver, where it divides into two branches, right and left, which supply tlie corresponding lobes of that organ, accompanying the ramifications of the portal vein and hepatic ducts. The hepatic artery, in its course along the right border of the lesser omentum, is in relation with the common bile-duct and portal vein, the duct lying to the right of the artery, and the vein behind. Its branches are : Pyloric. Gastro-duodenal|J^g^^.g^^*^°-^P^P/.°i'^-, , , (superior pancreatico-duodenal. Cystic. The pyloric (a. gastrica dextra) arises from the hepatic, above the pylorus, descends to the pyloric end of the stomach, and passes from right to left along its lesser curvature, supplying it with branches, and anastomosing with the gastric branches of the coronary artery. The gastro-duodenal (a. gastroduodenalis) (fig. 604) is a short but large branch, which descends, near the pylorus, behind the first portion of the duodenum, and Fig. 604.—The coeliac axis and its branches; the stomach has been raised and the peritoneum removed. Branches to great omentum dmdes at the lower border of this viscus into two branches, the riqhl gmtro-epifloic and the superior pancreatico-duodenal Previous to its division it gives o2 two Y Y690 ANGIOLOGY or three small inferior pyloric branches to the pyloric end of the stomach and The right gastro-epiploic (a. gastroepiploica dextra) runs fromrightto left along the greater curvature of the stomach, between the layers of the great omentum anastomosing about the middle of the lower border of the stomach mth the right aastro-epiploic from the splenic artery. This vessel gives off uumerous branches tome of which ascend to supply both surfaces of the stomach, while others descend to sunply the great omentum. • n j j The superior pancreatico-duodenal (a. pancreaticoduodenahs superior) descends between the contiguous margins of the duodenum and pancreas. It supplies both these organs, and anastomoses with the mferior pancreatico-duodenal branch of the superior mesenteric artery, and with the pancreatic branches of the splemc The cystic (a. cystica) (fig. 603), usually a branch of the right hepatic passes downwards and forwards along the neck of the gall-bladder and divides m o two bTanches, one of which ramfies on its free surface, the other between it and. thesm-facesof the Uvex^ ^ ^ ^^^^ ^^^^ three branches o" the cceliac axis, and is remarkable for the extreme toi-tuosity of Its course It passes horizontally to the left side, behind he peritoneum anfalo^ he upper border of the pancreas, accompanied by the splemc vein, which 1 et below it ; it crosses in front of the upper part of the left kidney Tnd on arrives near the spleen, divides into branches, some of M'hich enter tL hXs o Sit organ between the two layers of the lieno-renal ligament to be dStiiUtS tol^^ structure ; some are distributed to the pancreas, win e others pass to 4e greater curvature of the stomach between the layers of the gastro-splenic omentum. Its branches are : Pancreatic. _ . Vasa brevia. Left gastro-epiploic. splenic near the left e« ° ^^^^^^^ Let, and is posterior surface of the gland, louowiugtu , ^ ^th the pancreatic whieh arise either from the end of 'P'™'" «' ^^^^^^ and In its course it distributes several ascending stomach ; others descend to supply the omentum. A,pU.l Anatomy.-^^U^^ra of — f ^^^^^^^^^^^^ iMaSrd in heart disease, the embolus coming from the left sirte oi ^ ^.^^ ^LSloTeXSi „?rspSrihe fo^L of » iret ,„ SurERiOR Mesenteric Arteby (fig. 605) The superior mesenteric —^^HS^fL^ ex::jfti;; large size which supplies the whole * and the ascending firs! part of the duodenum : i also ^^^^^^JiXnt of the aorta, about and transverse parts of the colon 1^ ^.^f^'^^^^^d at its origin by the splenic half an inch below the coeliac ^"^1.;%';';;^^ ,i^,,nwa^ forwards m vein and the neck of the pancreas Passes clo^ ^ front of the lower part o^/^^ji^f^ °^*^,yro?the mesente^ to the right duodenum, and descends between the layers oiSUPERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY 691 iliac fossa, where, considerably diminished in size, it anastomoses with one of its own branches, viz. the ileo-colic. In its course it forms an arch, the convexity of which is directed forwards and downwards to the left side. Fig. 605.—The superior mesenteric artery and its branches. the concavity backwards and upwards to the right. It is accompanied by tlie superior mesenteric vem, which lies to its right side, and it is surrounded by the superior mesenteric plexus of nerves. Its branches are : Inferior pancreatico-duodenal. Ileo-colic. Vasa intestini tenuis. Right colic. Middle colic. The inferior pancreatico-duodenal (a. pancreaticoduodenalis inferior) is given oti trom the superior mesenteric or from its first intestinal branch, opposite the upper border of the third part of the duodenum. It courses to the right between the neacl of the pancreas and duodenum, and then ascends to anastomose vdth the superior pancreatico-duodenal artery. It distributes branches to the head of the pancreas and to the second and third portions of the duodenum. ilie vasa intestini tenuis (aa. intestiuales) arise from the convex side of the superior mesenteric artery. They are usually from twelve to fifteen in number, and are distributed to the jejunum and ileum. They run parallel with one another between the layers of the mesentery, each vessel dividing into two branches, w ucti umte with adjacent branches, forming a series of arches, the convexities of wuicii are directed towards the intestine. From this first set of arches branches Y Y 2ANGIOLOGY 692 arise, which unite with similar branches from above and below, and thus a second series of arches is formed ; and from these latter, a third, a fourth, or even a fifth series of arches may be constituted, diminishing in size the nearer they approach the intestine. From the terminal arches numerous small straight vessels arise which encircle the intestine, upon which they are distributed, ramifying between its coats. Throughout their course small branches are given off to the lymphatic glands and other structures between the layers of the mesentery. The ileo-colic (a. ileocolica) is the lowest branch given off from the concavity of the superior mesenteric artery. It passes downwards and to the right behind the peritoneum towards the right iUac fossa, where it dmdes into two branches. Of these the inferior division anastomoses with the termination of the superior mesenteric artery ; the superior division anastomoses with the right colic. The descending branch of the ileo-colic runs towards the upper border of the ileo-ceecal junction and supplies the following branches : (a) colic, which passes up^vards on the ascending colon ; (b) arUerior avd 'posterior ccBcaZ which are distributed to the front and back of the ^^^^"^ (a. appendicularis) which passes downwards behind the termmation of the ileum and Fig. 606.—Arteries of csecum and vermiform appendix. ^Terminal part of ileo-colic GcEcal branches Ileal branches <^/-/n appei' ™,. in the me.o-.ppe„di.otoe to its t™gi„ for the ^ |j ""I"'J/fS? Sit d ant! Id) ileal, wMeh runs upwMtk .iid to the left on tlie loitoi pari oi mo MMtimMo, >vitl, the termination of the enperiot mesenteric (flg. 606). Tl,„ ria-ht coUc (a colica deitra) arises from about the middle of the oonca\'il>- of t?e"?elr°mc,tt»ic artery i t passes to *e right Eiotws^ooS! v-|; =«o„:'S to the transverse colon.693 INFERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY Inferior Mesenteric Artery (fig. 607) The inferior mesenteric artery (a. mesenterica inferior) supplies the descending, ihac, and pelvic portions of the colon, and the greater part of the rectum. It is smaller than the superior mesenteric, and arises from the front and towards the left side of the aorta, between one and two inches above the division into the common iliacs. It passes downwards to the left iliac fossa, and then descends, between the layers of the pelvic mesocolon, into the pelvis, under the name of the superior hannorrhoidal artertj. It lies at first in Fig. 607.—^The inferior mesenteric artery and its branches. close relation with the left side of the aorta, and then passes as the superior hsemorrlioidal in front of the left common iliac artery. Its branches are: Left coUc. Sigmoid. Superior hjemorrhoidal. The left colic (a. colica sinistra) passes behind the peritoneum, in front of the left kidney, to reach the descending colon ; it divides into an ascending branch which runs between the two layers of the transverse mesocolon and anastomoses with the middle coUc, and a descending branch which anastomoses with the upper sigmoid artery. ' From the arches formed by these anastomoses branches are distributed to the descending colon. The sigmoid arteries (aa. sigmoideoe) run obhquely downwards and outwards behind the peritoneum and in front of the Psoas and ureter to the iliac colon. They divide into branches which supply the lower part of the descending colon, the694 ANGIOLOGY iliac colon, and the pelvic colon ; anastomosing above witli the left colic, and below with the superior htemorrhoidal artery. The superior hsemorrhoidal (a. hremorrhoidalis superior), the continuation of the inferior mesenteric, descends into the pelvis between the layers of the mesen- tery of the pelvic colon, crossing, in its course, the ureter and left common iliac vessels. It divides, opposite the third sacral vertebra, into two branches, which descend one on either side of the rectum, and about four or five inches from the anus break up into several small branches. These pierce the muscular coat of the l^owel and run downwards, as straight vessels, placed at regular intervals from each other in the wall of the gut between its muscular and mucous coats, to the level of the internal sphincter ; here they form a series of loops around the lower end of the rectum, and communicate wth the middle hsemorrhoidal branches of the internal iliac, and with the inferior hsemorrhoidal branches of the internal pudic. Avplied .4watowi?/.—Embolism of the mesenteric arteries produces acute and severe svmptoms of which the chief are abdominal pain and tenderness, nausea and vomitmg, (^arrhcBa or constipation, and intestinal obstruction; blood is found in the stools of nearly half the patients. SUPKAKENAL AbTEBIBS (fig. 602) The suprarenal arteries (aa. suprarenales) are two small vessels which arise, one from either side of the aorta, opposite the superior mesenteric artery. They pass obliquely upwards and outwards, over the crura of the Diaphragm, to the under surface of the suprarenal glands, to which they are distributed . anastomosing with suprarenal branches of the mferior phrenic and renal arteries. In the adult these arteries are of smaU size ; m the foetus they are as large as the renal arteries. Renal Arteries (fig. 602) The renal arteries (aa. renales) are two large trunks, which arise from the sides of the aorta, immediately below the superior mesenteric artery. Each is directed outwards across the crus of the Diapliragm, so as o form nearly a right angle with the aorta. The right is longer than the left on account of the position of the aorta ; it passes behmd the mferior vena cava The left is somewhat higher than the right. Before reaching the hdus of the kiSiey eLHrtery divides into four or five branches ; the greater number of these lie between the renal vein and ureter, the vein bemg m front, the IttTehtd'hut one branch is usually situated bf ^ the ureter^^^^^^^^ aives off some smaU branches to the suprarenal gland, the ^retei and the surrounding cellular tissue and muscles. One or two accessory renal artei le a e freJuentlv found, more especiaUv on the left side : they usually arise from the Sa and may come off above or below the main artery, the former being the more 'commo?^position. Instead of entering the kidney at the hilus, they usually pierce the upper or lower part of the gland. Spermatic and Ovarian Arteries The soermatic arteries (aa. spermaticse interna) (fig. 602) are distributed to the testes TherSe two slender vessels of considerabb length and arise It crosses obliquely over the ureter and the lower par o the ^^^ernal ihac a^^^^^^ anastomosing with the artery of the vas deferc , other f « the inguinal canal gives one or two twigs to the Ciemaster.OVARIAN, INFERIOR PHRENIC, AND LUMBAR ARTERIES 695 The ovarian arteries (aa. ovaricse) are the corresponding arteries in the female to tlie spermatic in the male. They supply the ovaries, are shorter than the spermatic, and do not pass out of the abdommal cavity. The oric^in and course of the first part of each artery are the same as those of the spermatic, but on arriving at the margin of the pelvis the ovarian artery passes inwards, between the two layers of the broad ligament of the uterus, to be distributed to the ovary. Small branches are given to the ureter and the Fallopian tube ; and one passes on to the side of the uterus, and anastomoses with the uterme artery. Other offsets are contmued along the round ligament, through the ingumal canal, to the integument of the labium and gi-oin. • i-- , -j At an early period of foetal life, when the testes or ovaries he by the side of the vertebral column, below the kichieys, the spermatic or ovarian arteries are short; but as these organs descend into the scrotum or pelvis, the arteries become gradually lengthened. Inferior Phrenic Arteries (fig. 602) The inferior phrenic arteries (aa. phrenicai inferiores) are t^yo small vessels, which present much variety in their origin. They may arise sepa- rately from the front of the aorta, immediately above the coeliac axis, or by a common trunk, which may spring either from the aorta or from the coeliac axis. Sometimes one is derived from the aorta, and the other from one of the renal arteries. In only one out of thirty-six cases examined did these arteries arise as two separate vessels from the aorta. They diverge from one another across the crura of the Diaphragm, and then pass obHquely upwards and outwards upon its under surface. The left phrenic passes behind the oesophagus, and runs forwards on the left side of the oesophageal opening. The right phrenic passes behind the inferior vena cava, and ascends along the right side of the apertui-e which transmits that vein. Near the back part of the central tendon each vessel divides into an internal and an external branch. The internal branch runs forwards, supplying the Diaphragm, and anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the musculo-phrenic and comes nervi phrenici branches of the internal mammary. The external branch passes towards the side of the thorax, and anastomoses with the lower intercostal arteries, and with the musculo-phrenic. The internal branch of the right phrenic gives off a few vessels to the inferior vena cava ; and the left one, some branches to the oesophagus. Each vessel also sends glandular branches to the suprarenal gland of its own side. The spleen and the liver also receive a few branches from the left and right vessels respectively. Ltijibar Arteries The lumbar arteries (aa. lumbales) are in series with the intercostals. They are usually four in number on either side, and arise from the back part of the aorta, opposite the bodies of the upper four lumbar vertebrae. A fifth pair, small in size, is occasionally present : it arises from the middle sacral artery. They run outwards and backwards on the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, behind the sympathetic cord, to the intervals between the adjacent transverse processes, and are then contmued into the abdominal wall. The arteries of the right side pass beliind the inferior vena cava, and the upper two on each side run behind the corresponding crus of the Diaphragm. The arteries of both sides pass beneath the tendinous arches which give origin to the Psoas magnus, and are then continued behind this muscle and the lumbar plexus. They now cross the Quadratus lumborum, the upper three arteries running behind, the last usually in front of the muscle. At the outer border of the Quadratus lumborum they pierce the posterior aponeurosis of the Trans- versahs abdominis and are carried forwards between this muscle and the Internal obhque. They anastomose with the lower intercostals, the subcostal, the iUo-lumbar, the deep ckcumflex iliac, and the deep epigastric arteries. Branches.—^In the interval between the adjacent transverse processes each lumbar artery gives oS a dorsal branch (ramus dorsaUs) which is continued backwards betweenANGIOLOGY 696 the transverse processes and is distributed to tlie muscles and skin of the back. It gives off a sphial hrancli (ramus spinalis) which enters the spinal canal and is distributed in a similar manner to the lateral spinal branches of the vertebral (page 600). 31usatlfir branches are supplied from each lumbar artery and from its dorsal branch to the neighbouring muscles. Middle Sacral Artery The middle sacral artery (a. sacralis media) is a small vessel, which arises from the back of the aorta, at or a little above its bifurcation. It descends upon the last lumbar vertebra, and along the middle line of the front of the sacrum, to the upper part of the coccyx ; it anastomoses with the lateral sacral arteries, and terminates in the coccygeal body. From it, minute branches pass to the posterior surface of the rectum. Other branches arc given off on each side, which anastomose with the lateral sacral arteries, and send offsets into the anterior sacral foramina. It is crossed by the left common iliac vein, and is accompanied by a pair of vense comites ; these unite to form a single vessel, which opens into the left common iliac vein. Common Iliac Aetebies (fig. 602) The abdominal aorta divides, on the left side of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, into the two common iliac arteries. Each is about two inches in length. They diverge from the termination of the aorta, pass downwards and outwards to the margin of the pelvis, and divide, opposite the intervertebral disc between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum, into two branches, the external and internal iliac arteries : the former supplies the lower extremity; the latter, the viscera and parietes of the pelvis. 1 1 f J The right common iliac (fig. 608) is somewhat longer than the left, and passes more obliquely across the body of the last lumbar vertebra. In front of it are the peritoneum, the small intestines, branches of the sympathetic nerves, and at its point of division, the ureter. Behind, it is separated from the bodies of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae, and the interverung disc, by the two common iliac veins. On its outer side, it is in relation, above, with the mferior vena cava and the right common ihac vein; and, below, with the Psoas magnus muscle. On its inner side, above, is the left common iliac vein. . , , 4.1 The left common iliac is in relation, m front, with the peritoneum, the smaU intestines, branches of the sympathetic nerves, and the superior hfemor- rhoidal artery ; and is crossed at its point of bifurcation by the ureter. It rests on the bodies of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae, and the mter- vening disc The left common iliac vein hes partly on the mner side of, and partly behind the artery ; on its outer side, the artery is in relation with the Psoas magnus muscle. . Branches—The common iliac arteries give off small branches to the peritoneum. Psoas magnus, ureters, and the surrounding cellular tissue, and occasionaUy give origin to the ilio-lumbar, or accessory renal arteries. Peculiarities—The point of origin varies accordmg to the bifurcation of the aorta In three-fourths of a large number of cases, the aorta bifiu^cated either upon the fourth lumbar vertebra, or upon the disc between it and the fifth ; the bifurcation ^em^ m one case out of nine, below, and in one out of eleven above this point. In about e gh^ ei cent, of the cases the aorta bifurcated within half an inch above or below the le^el of the crest of the ilium : more frequently below than above. W nf The point of division is subject to great variety. In two-thirds of a large number of cases it wa« between the last lumbar vertebra and the upper border of ^^^^^^^T^ above that point in one case out of eight, and below it in one case out of six. The left common iliac artery divides lower down more frequently than the right The relative lenqths, also, of the two common iliac arteries vary. Tlie right common iliac ^^LS^Wer in sixty-three cases; the left in fifty-two; ^^au e they were equal n fiftTthree The length of the arteries varied, in five-scvenths of the cases exammecK }rom Jn inch and a half'to three inches ; in about half of f^^^T^^^^^ wa-s longer, and in the other half, shorter: the minimum '^"S^^V^"!?J^f ^ f i,^ inch, the maximum four and a half inches. In rare '"^^.^'^^^-^^^J/,,;'!!;* has been found wanting, the external and internal iha^^s arising directly from the aorta.COMMON ILIAC AETERIES 697 Surface 3Iarking.—Draw a line between the highest points of the iliac crests : this is usually half an inch below the umbilicus; in this line take a point half an inch to the left of the middle line. From this draw two lines to points midway between the anterior superior iliac spines and the symphysis jnibis. These two diverging lines \yill represent the course of the common and external iliac arteries. Draw a second line corresponding to the level of the anterior superior spines of the ilium : the portion of the diverging lines bet^veen these two levels on either side will represent the course of the common iliac artery ; the portion below the lower zone, that of the external iliac artery. Applied Anatomy.—The application of a ligature to the common iliac artery may be required on account of aneurysm or hfemorrliage, implicating the external or internal iliacs. The easiest and best method of t}ing the artery is by a transperitoneal route. Tlie abdomen is opened, the intestines are dra^^^l' to one side and the peritoneum Fig. 608.—^Arteries of the pelvis. covering the artery divided ; the sheath is then opened and the needle passed from within outwards. On the right side great care must be exercised in ^oassing the needle, since both the common iliac veins lie behind the artery. After the vessel has been tied, the incision in the peritoneum over the artery should be sutured. Formerly there were two different methods by which the common iliac artery was tied, -nathout opening the peritoneal cavitj': (1) an anterior or iliac incision, by which the vessel was approached more directly from the front; and (2) a posterior abdominal or lumbar incision, by which the vessel was reached from behind. Collateral Circulation.—The principal agents in carrying on the collateral circulation after the application of a ligature to the common iliac are : the anastomoses of the hemor- rhoidal branches of the internal iliac with the superior hfemoiThoidal from the inferior mesenteric ; of the uterine, ovarian, and vesical arteries of the opposite sides ; of the IANGIOLOGY 698 lateral sacral with the middle sacral artery ; of the epigastric with the internal mammary, inferior intercostal, and lumbar arteries ; of the circumflex Uiac with the lumbar arteries ; of the ilio-lumbar with the last lumbar artery ; of the obturator artery, by means of its pubic branch, with the vessel of the opposite side and with the deep epigastric. Internal Iliac Artery (fig. 608) The internal iliac or hypogastric artery (a. hypogastrica) supplies the walls and viscera of the pelvis, the buttock, the generative organs, and the inner side of the thigh. It is a short, thick veseal, smaller than the external iliac, and about an inch and a half in length. It arises at the bifurcation of the common iliac, opposite the lumbo-sacral articulation, and, passing downwards to the upper margin of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, divides into two large trunks, an anterior and a posterior. Relations.—It is in relation in front with the ureter, which separates it from the peritoneum ; behind, with the internal ihac vein, the lumbo-sacral cord, and the Pyriformis muscle ; on its outer side, near its origin, with the external ihac vein, which hes between it and the Psoas magnus muscle ; lower down, with the obturator nerve. In the foetus, the internal iliac or hypogastric artery is twice as large as the external iliac, and is the direct continuation of the common iliac. It ascends along the side of the bladder, and runs upwards on the back of the anterior wall of the abdomen to the umbilicus, converging towards its fellow of the opposite side. Having passed through the umbilical opening, the two arteries, now termed umbilical, enter the umbilical cord, where they are coiled round the umbilical vein, and ultimately ramify in the placenta. At birth, when the placental circulation ceases, the pelvic portion only of the hypogastric artery remains patent and constitutes the internal iliac artery and the first part of the superior vesical artery of the adult ; the remainder of the vessel is converted into a solid fibrous cord, the obliterated hypogastric artery (ligamentum umbilicale laterale), which extends from the pelvis to the umbilicus. Peculiarities as regards length.—In two-thirds of a large number of cases, the length of the internal ihac varied between an inch and an inch and a half ; in the remainmg third it was more frequently longer than shorter, the maximum length bemg three mclies, the minimum, half an inch. . t- + The lengths of the common and mternal iUac arteries bear an mverse proportion to each other, the mternal iUac artery bomg long when the common iliac is short, and vice ^^'^^As regards its place of division.—The place of division of the mternal iliac varies between the upper margin of the sacrum and the upper border of the sacro-sciatic foramen. The right and left internal ihac arteries m a series of cases often differed m lengtn, but neither seemed constantly to exceed the other. , . , , ... , , „ k„ Applied Anatomy.-The apphcation of a Ugature to the mternal ihac artery may be required in cases of aneurysm or haemorrhage affectmg one of its branches. The vessel mav be best secured by an abdommal section in the median hue and reaclung the ^ e^sel through the peritoneal cavity. It should be remembered that the vem hes l^ehmd and on the right side, a httle external to the artery, and in close contact with it, t^e uretei which lie! in fro^t, must also be avoided. The degree of facihty in applying a h^gature to this vessel will mainly depend upon its length It has been seen f^^'^^^^^^^^^ majority of the cases examined, the artery was short, varying from an ^"^^^ f ^"^^"^I^ and a half ; in these cases, the artery is deeply seated m the pelvis : ^^Z^^"^'"'^^^^^Xlt the vessel is longer, it is found partly above that cavity. If the '^^[ery be cry short, a. occasionaUy happens, it would be preferable to apply a ligature to the common iLac. Collaierll Girculalion.-Tho circulation after hgature o the '•^terna\ihac^^^^^^^^^^ carried on by the anastomoses of the uterine and ovarian arteries ; of t'-^e^.^f'^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^ of the two sides ; of the hsemorrhoidal branches of tlie internal ihac -NAith those tro Jhe inferior mes<;nteric ; of the obturator artery, by means of '^V't^'^nSox if the vessel of the opposite side, and M'ith the epigastric and mternal cu-cumflcx , of he hcumflex and pei^fLting branches of the profunchx femons .. '^^.J^^^ ^ , fc. gluteal with the posterior branches of the sacral arteries ; of iho-lumbar «im fast lumbar ; of the lateral sacral witli the middle sacral; and of the circumflex ihac Avith the ilio-lumbar and gluteal.* - ♦ For a description of a ca.se in which Owen made a dissection ten years after ligature of the internal iliac artery, see Med.-Chir. Tram. vol. xvi.INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY 699 The branches of the internal iliac are : From the Anterior Trunk. From the Posterior Trunk. Superior vesical. Iho-lumbar. Middle vesical. Lateral sacral. Inferior vesical. Gluteal. Middle hsemorrhoidal. Obturator. Internal pudic. . , y tr ^^^^^^^^ In the female. The superior vesical (a. vesicalis superior) suppUes numerous branches to the upper part of the bladder. From one of these a slender vessel, the artery to the vas deferens, takes origin and accompanies the vas deferens m its course to the testis, where it anastomoses with the spermatic artery. Other branches supply the ureter. As already explained, the first part of the superior vesical artery represents the terminal section of the pervious portion of the hypogastric artery. The middle vesical (a. vesicaUs media), usually a branch of the superior, is distributed to the base of the bladder and under surface of the yesiculse semiiiales. The inferior vesical (a. vesicaUs inferior) frequently arises in common with the middle htemorrhoidal, and is distributed to the base of the bladder, the prostate gland, and the vesiculffi seminales. The branches to the prostate communicate Avith the corresponding vessels of the opposite side. The middle hsemorrhoidal (a. hsemorrhoidaUs media) usually arises together with the preceding vessel. It is distributed to the rectum, anastomosing with the inferior vesical and with the superior and inferior hEemorrhoidal arteries. It gives offsets to the seminal vesicle and prostate gland. The uterine (a. uterina) (fig. 609) springs from the anterior division of the internal iUac and runs inwards on the Levator ani towards the cervix uteri; about Fig. 609.—The arteries of the internal organs of generation of the female, seen from behind. (After Hyrtl.) Branches to tube Branches to f undus three-quarters of an inch from the cervix it crosses above and in front of the m-eter, to which it supplies a small branch. Reaching the side of the uterus it ascends700 ANGIOLOGY in a tortuous manner between the two layers of the broad ligament to the junction of the Fallopian tube and uterus. It then runs outwards towards the hilus of the ovary, and terminates by anastomosing with the ovarian artery. It supplies branches to the cer^dx uteri and others which descend on the vagina ; the latter anastomose with branches of the vaginal arteries and form with them two median longitudinal vessels—the azygos arteries of the vagina—which run down one in front and the other on the back of the vagina. It supplies numerous branches to the body of the uterus, and from its terminal portion branches are distributed to the Fallopian tube and the round ligament of the uterus. The vaginal (a. vaginalis) usually corresponds to the ii^erior vesical in the male ; it descends upon the vagina, supplying its mucous membrane, and sends branches to the bulb of the vestibule, the neck of the bladder, and the contiguous part of the rectum. It assists in forming the azygos arteries of the vagina, and is frequently represented by two or three branches. The obturator (a. obturatoria) passes forwards and downwards on the lateral wall of the pelvis, to the upper part of the obturator foramen, and, escaping from the pelvic cavity through a short canal, formed by a groove on the under surface of the ascending ramus of the pubis and the arched border of the obturator fascia, it divides into an internal and an external branch. In the pehac cavity this vessel is in relation, externally, with the obturator fascia ; internally, A\ith the ureter, vas deferens, and peritoneum ; while a little below it, is the obturator nerve. Branches.—Inside the 'pelvis, the obturator artery gives ofiE an iliac branch to the iliac fossa, which supplies the bone and the Iliacus muscle, and anastomoses with the ilio-lumbar artery ; a vesical branch, which runs backwards to supply the bladder ; and a pubic branch, which is given off from the vessel just before it leaves the pelvic cavity. The pubic branch ascends upon the back of the pubis, communicating vnth offsets from the deep epigastric artery, and with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side; it is sometimes placed on the inner side of the femoral ring. Outside the pelvis, the obturator artery divides into an internal and an external branch, which are deeply situated beneath the Obturator externus. The internal branch curves downwards along the inner margin of the obturator foramen, lying beneath the Obturator externus muscle ; it distributes branches to the Obturator externus, Pectineus, Adductors, and GraciUs, and anastomoses -nith the external branch, and with the internal circumflex artery. The external branch ciurves round the outer margin of the foramen, also lying beneath the Obturator externus muscle, to the space between the Gemellus inferior and Quadratus femoris, where it divides into two branches. One, the smaller, courses inwards around the lower margin of the foramen and anastomoses with the internal branch and vdth. the internal circumflex ; the other inclines outwards in the groove below the acetabulum, and suppUes the muscles attached to the tuberosity of the ischium and anastomoses with the sciatic artery. It sends through the cotyloid notch a branch to the hip-joint, which ramifies on the round ligament as far as the head of the femur. ■ Peculiarities.—The obturator artery sometimes arises from the main stem or from the posterior trunk of the internal iliac, or it may spring from the gluteal artery. Occasionally it arises from the external iliac. In about two out of every seven cases it sprmgs from the deep epigastric and descends almost vertically to the upper part of the obturator foramen. The artery in this course usually lies in contact with the external iliac vein. Fig. 610.—Variations in origin and com-se of obturator artery. and on the outer side of the femoral ring (fig. 010, a) ; in such cases it would not be endangered in the operation for femoral hernia. Occasionally, however, it curves "i^^ards along the free margin of Gimbernat's hgament (fig. 610, B), and if m s"ch circumstances a femoral hernia occurred, the vessel would almost completely encircle the neck of t lie hernial sac, and would be in great danger of being wounded if an operation were peitormea for strangulation.INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY 701 The internal pudic (a. pudenda interna) is the smaller of the two terminal branches of the anterior trunk of the internal iliac, and supplies the external organs of veneration. Though the course of the artery is the same in the two sexes, the vessel is much smaller in the female than in the male, and the distribution of its branches somewhat different. The description of its arrangement in the male ■will first be given, and subsequently the differences which it presents in the female will be meiitioned. The internal pudic artery in the male passes dowiiwards and outwards to the lower border of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and emerges from the pelvis between the Pyi'iformis and Coccygeus muscles ; it then crosses the spine of the ischium, and enters the perinreum through the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen. The artery now crosses the Obturator internus muscle, along the outer wall of the ischio- rectal fossa, being situated about an inch and a half above the lower margin of the ischial tuberosity. It gradually approaches the margin of the ramus of the ischium and passes forvvards between the two layers of the triangular ligament of the perinffium; it then nms forwards along the inner margin of the ramus of the pubis and about half an inch behind the sub-pubic ligament it pierces the superficial layer of the triangular ligament and divides into its two terminal branches, the dorsal artery of the -penis and the artery of the corpus cavernosum. Relations.—Within the pelvis, it lies in front of the Pyriformis muscle, the sacral plexus of nerves, and the sciatic ai-tery, and on the outer side of the rectum (on the left side). As it crosses the spine of the ischium, it is covered by the Gluteus maximus and overlapped by the gi-eat sacro-sciatic ligament. Here the pudic nerve lies to the inner side and the nerve to the Obturator internus to the outer side of the vessel. In the perinjeimi it lies on the outer side of the ischio- rectal fossa, in a canal {Alcock's canal) formed by the splitting of the obturator fascia. It is accompanied by the pudic veins and the pudic nerve. Peculiarities.—The internal pudic is sometimes smaller than usual, or fails to give ofi one or two of its usual branches ; ia such cases the deficiency is supplied by branches derived from an additional vessel, the accessory pudic, which generally arises from the internal pudic artery before its exit from the great sacro-sciatic foramen. It passes forwards along the lower part of the bladder and across the side of the prostate gland to the root of the penis, where it perforates the triangular Ugament, and gives ofi the branches usually derived from the pudic artery. The deficiency most frequently met with is that in which the internal pudic ends as the artery of the bulb, the artery of the corjjus caver- nosum and the dorsal artery of the penis being derived from the accessory pudic. The pudic artery may also terminate as the superficial perineal, the artery of the bulb being derived, with the other two branches, from the accessory vessel. Occasionally the accessory pudic artery is derived from one of the other branches of the internal iliac, most frequently the inferior vesical or the obturator. Branches.—The branches of the internal pudic artery are : Muscular. Transverse perineal. Inferior haemorrhoidal. Artery of the bulb. Superficial perineal. Artery of the corpus cavernosum. Dorsal artery of the penis. The muscxdar branches consist of two sets : one given off in the pelvis ; the other, as the vessel crosses the ischial spine. The former consists of several small offsets which supply the Levator ani, the Obturator internus, the Pyi'iformis, and the Coccygeus muscles. The branches given off outside the pelvis are distributed to the adjacent part of the Gluteus maximus and external rotator muscles. They anastomose with branches of the sciatic artery. The inferior JuemorrJioidal (a. hajmorrhoidalis inferior) (fig. 611) arises from the interna pudic as it passes above the tuberosity of the iscliium. Piercing the wall of Alcock's canal it divides into two or three branches which cross the ischio-rectal fossa, and are distributed to the muscles and integument of the anal region, and send offshoots round the lower edge of the Gluteus maximus to the skin of the buttock. They anastomose with the corresponding vessels of the opijosite side, with the suiserior and middle hasmorrhoidal, and \vith the transverse and superficial perineal arteries. The superjicial perineal (a. perinei) supplies the scrotum and the muscles and integument of the perinteum. It arises from the internal pudic, in front of the preceding branches, and turns upwards, crossing either over or under the Transversus jierinasi muscle, and runs forwards, parallel to the pubic arch, in the interspace between the Ejaculator urina; and Erector penis muscles, both of which it supplies, and is finally distributed to the skin and702 ANGIOLOGY dartos muscle of the scrotum. In its passage through the perineeum it lies under cover of the superficial perineal fascia. Fig. 611.—The superficial branches of the internal pudic artery. Fig. 612.—The deeper branches of the internal pudic artery. Artery of corpus caoernosiiin Dorsal arterij of iienls Artery of hulb Internal pudtc artery Cotrper's (/land or The transverse perineal is a small branch which arises either from the internal pudic f^Jm trsuperSl permcal artery as it crosses the Transversals perma.1 muscle. It703 INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY runs transversely inwards along the cutaneous surface of the Transversus perinaai muscle, and anastomoses with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side and with the super- ficial perineal and inferior hromon-hoidal arteries. It supplies the Transversus perma3i and the structures between the anus and the bulb of the urethra. The artery of the bulb (a. bulbi urethrfe) (fig. 612) is a short vessel of large calibre which arises from the"internal pudic between the two layers of the triangular ligament; it passes nearly transversely inwards through the fibres of the Compressor uretliTcne muscle, pierces the superficial layer of the triangular ligament, and gives FiG. 613.—The arteries of the gluteal and posterior off branches which ramify in femoral regions, the bulb of the urethra. It is then continued forwards in the corpus spongiosum to the glans penis. It gives off a small branch to Cowper's gland. The aHenj of the corpus cavernosum (a. profunda penis), one of the terminal branches of the internal pudic, arises from that vessel while it is situated between the two layers of the triangular Ugament ; it pierces the superficial layer, and, entering the eras penis obliquely, runs forwards in the centre of the corpus caver- nosum, to which its branches are distributed. The dorsal artery of the penis (a. dorsahs penis) ascends between the crus and the pubic symphysis, and, j>ierciag the triangular ligament, passes between the two layers of the suspensory ligament of the penis, and runs forwards on the dorsum of the penis to the glans, where it divides into two branches, which supply the glans and prepuce. On the penis, it Ues between the dorsal nerve and deep dorsal vein, the former being on its outer side. It supplies the integu- ment and fibrous sheath of the corpus cavernosum, send- ing branches through the sheath to anastomose with the pre- ceding vessel. Termination of internal circumflex Superior perforating Middle perforating Inferior perforating Termination of profunda Superior nmscular Superior internal articular Superior external articular Inferior m uscular The internal pudic artery in the female is smaller than in the male. Its origin and course are similar, and there is considerable analogy in the distribution of its branches. The superficial perineal artery supplies the labia pudendi; the artery of the bulb supplies the bulbus vestibuli and the erectile tissue of the vagina; the artery of the corpus cavernosum supplies the cavernous body of the clitoris ; and the arteria dorsalis clitoridis supplies the dorsum of that organ, and terminates in the glans and in the membranous fold corresponding to the prepuce of the male. The sciatic artery (a. glutsea inferior) (fig. 613), the larger of_ the two terminal branches of the anterior trunk of the internal iliac, is distributed chiefly on the buttock and back of the thigh. It passes down on the sacral plexus of nerves and theANGIOLOGY 704 Pyriformis muscle behind the internal pudic artery to the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, through which it escapes from the pelvis between the Pyriformis and Coccygeus. It then descends in the interval between the great trochanter of the femur and tuberosity of the ischium, accompanied by the sciatic nerves, and covered by the Gluteus maximus, and is continued down ■ the back of the thigh, supplying the sldn, and anastomosing with branches of the perforating arteries. Inside the pelvis it distributes branches to the Pyriformis, Coccygeus, and Levator ani muscles ; some heemorrhoidal branches, which supply the rectum, and occasionally take the place of the middle hsemorrhoidal artery ; and vesical branches to the base and neck of the bladder, vesicul^ seminales, aiad prostate gland. Outside the pelvis it gives off the following branches : Muscular. Anastomotic. Coccygeal. Articular. Comes nervi ischiadici. Cutaneous. The muscular branches supply the Gluteus maximus, anastomosing with the gluteal artery in the substance of the muscle; the external rotators, anastomosing with the internal pudic artery ; and the muscles attached to the tuberosity of the ischium, anastomosmg with the external branch of the obturator and the internal circumflex arteries. The coccygeal branch runs inwards, pierces the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and suppUes the Gluteus maximus, the integument, and other structm:es on the back of the coccyx. The comes nervi ischiadici (a. comitans n. ischiadici) is a long, slender vessel, which accompanies the great sciatic nerve for a short distance ; it then penetrates it, and runs in its substance to the lower part of the thigh. . The anastomotic is directed downwards across the external rotators, and assists m forming the so-called crucial anastomosis by anastomosing with the superior perforatmg and internal and external circumflex arteries. The articular branch, generally derived from the anastomotic, is distributed to the capsule of the hip-joint. The cutaneous branches are distributed to the skin of the buttock and back ot the tmgli. The ilio-lumbar artery (a. iliolumbalis), given ofi from the posterior trimk of the internal iliac, turns upwards and outwards behind the obtui-ator nerve and the external iliac vessels, to the inner margin of the Psoas muscle, behind which it divides into a lumbar and an iUac branch. The lumbar branch (ramus lumbahs) supplies the Psoas and Quadratus lumborum muscles, anastomoses with the last lumbar artery, and sends a small spmal branch through the mtervertebral foramen between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum, into the spinal canal, to supply the cauda equina. The iliac branch (ramus iliacus) descends to supply the Ihacus muscle ; some offsets, run- ning between the muscle and the bone, anastomose vnth the ihac branch of the obtvu-ator : one of these enters an obhque canal to supply the diploe, while others run along the crest of the ilium, distributmg branches to the gluteal and abdominal muscles, and anastomosmg in then: course with the gluteal, cu-cumflex iUac, and external circumflex arteries. The lateral sacral arteries (aa. sacrales laterales) (fig. 608) are usually two in number on either side, superior and inferior. . The superior, which is of large size, passes inwards, and, after anastomosmg with branches from the middle sacral, enters the first or second anterior sacral foramen, supplies branches to the contents of the sacral canal, and, escapmg b> the corresponding posterior sacral foramen, is distributed to the sknn and muscles on the dorsum of the sacrum, anastomosing with the gluteal. _ The inferior passes obliquely across the front of the Pyriformis muscle and sacral nerves to the inner side of the anterior sacral foramina, descends on the front of the sacrum, and anastomoses over the coccyx with the imddle sacxal am opposite lateral sacral artery. In its course it gives off branches, ^vbich entn the anterior sacral foramina; these, after supplying t^!^*f' 'f'^ canal, escape by the posterior sacral foraimna, and are distributed to the muscle, and skin on the dorsal surface of the sacrum, anastomosing with the gluteal. The gluteal artery (a. gluta^a superior) is the largest branch of the inteina u ar and appears to be the continuation of the posterior division of that vessel. It ^ «hort, thick trunk, which runs backwards between the '"'P^^^"'"" i .,lr of e first sacral nerve, and, passing out of the pelvis iihove the upper ^^"'rt^'' « ^^^^^^ Pyriformis muscle, immediately divides into a superficial and a deep hanch. W ithmINTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY 705 the pelvis it gives oft" a few muscular branches to the Iliacus, Pyriformis, and Obturator internus, and just previous to quitting that cavity, a nutrient artery which enters the Dium. The superficial branch enters the deep surface of the Gluteus maximus, and divides into numerous branches, some of which supply the muscle, while others perforate its tendinous origin, and supply the integument covering the posterior surface of the sacrum, anastomosing with, the posterior branches of the sacral arteries. The deep branch lies luider the Gluteus medius and almost immediately sub- divides into two. Of these, the superior division, continuing the original coiu'se of the vessel, passes along the upper border of the Gluteus minirnus to the anterior superior spine of the ihum, anastomosing \\ath the circumflex iUac and ascending branches of the external circumflex artery. The inferior division crosses the Gluteus minimus obliquely to the trochanter major, distributing branches to the Gluteus muscles, and anastomoses with the external circumflex artery. Some branches pierce the Gluteus minimus to supply the hip-joint. Surface Marking.—The three main branches of the internal iliac, the sciatic, internal pudic, and gluteal, may occasionally be the objects of surgical interference, and theu positions are indicated on the surface in the following way. With the limb slightly flexed and rotated inwards draw a line from the posterior superior iliac spine to the posterior superior angle of the great trochanter: the point of emergence of the gluteal artery from the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen will correspond with the junction of the upper with the middle third of this Une. Draw a second line from the f)osterior superior ihac spine to the outer part of the tuberosity of the ischium ; the junction of the lower with the middle third marks the point of emergence of the sciatic and jmdic arteries from the great sacro-sciatic foramen. Applied Anatomy.—Any of these three vessels may require ligaturing for a wound or for aneurysm, which is generally traumatic. The gluteal artery is ligatured by turning the jjatient two-thirds over on to his face and making an incision from the posterior superior spine of the Uium to the upper and posterior angle of the great trochanter. This must expose the Gluteus maximus muscle, and its fibres are to be separated through the whole thickness of the muscle and pulled apart with retractors. The contiguous margins of the Gluteus medius and Pyriformis are now to be separated from each other, and the artery will be exposed emerging from the sciatic notch. In Ugature of the sciatic artery, the incision should be made parallel with that for ligature of the gluteal but an inch and a half lower do'svn. After the fibres of the Gluteus maximus have been separated, the vessel is to be sought for at the lower border of the Pyriformis ; the great sciatic nerve, which lies just above it, forms the chief guide to the artery. External Iliao Ahtery (fig. 608) The external iliac artery (a. iliaca externa) is larger than the internal diac, and jiasses obliquely downwards and outwards along the inner border of the Psoas muscle, from the bifurcation of the common iliac to a point beneath Poupart's ligament, midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis, where it enters the thigh and becomes the femoral artery. Relations.—In front, the artery is in relation with, the peritoneum, subperitoneal areolar tissue, the termination of the ileum on the right side, and the ilio-pelvic colon on the left, and a thin layer of fascia, derived from the ihac fascia, which surrounds the artery and vein. At its origin it is crossed by the ovarian vessels ill the female, and occasionally by the ureter. The spermatic vessels he for some distance upon it near its termination, and it is crossed in this situation by the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve and the deep circumflex ihac vein ; the vas deferens in the rnale, and the round hgament in the female, curve down along its inner side. Behind, it is in relation with the inner border of the Psoas muscle, from which it is separated by the ihac fascia. At the upper part of its course, the external iliac vein hes partly behind it, but lower down lies entii'ely to its inner side. Externally, it rests against the Psoas magnus, fi-om which it is separated by the iliac fascia. Numerous lymphatic vessels and glands he on the front and on the inner side of the vessel. Surface Marking.—The svurface line indicating the course of the external ihac artery has been aheady given (see page 697). Applied Anatomy.—The appMcation of a ligature to the external ihac may be required m cases of aneurysm of the femoral artery, iho-femoral aneurysm, or for a wound of the Z Z706 ANGIOLOGY artery. The vessel may be secured in any part of its course, excepting near its upper end, which is to be avoided on account of the proximity of the internal iliac, and near its lower end. which should also be avoided on account of the proximity of the deep epieastric and circumdox iliac vessels. The operation may be performed by opening the abdomen and incising the peritoneum over the artery {transpenloneal) ; or by an incision in the iUac region, dividing all the structures down to the peritoneum, which is then rctlected inwards unopened from the iliac fossa until the artery is reached [retroperitoneal). j . xi. -i Transperitoneal ligature.—An incision four inches in length is made in the semilunai Une commencing about an inch below the umbiHcus, and carried tlirough the abdominal wall into the peritoneal cavity. The intestines are then pushed upwards and held out ot the way by a broad abdominal retractor, and an incision made through the peritoneuni at the margin of the pelvis in the course of the artery : the vessel is secured in any part ot its course which may seem desirable to the operator. The advantages of this operation appear to be, that if it is found necessary the common iliac artery can be ligatured instead of the external iliac mthout extension or modification of the mcision ; and secondly, that the vessel can be ligatured without in any way interfering with the sac of an aneurysm. ^ The retroperitoneal ligature may be performed either by the modified Abernethy s method, which consists m making an uicision from an inch above and mternal to the anterior superior spine of the ilium in a curved direction, with its convexity outwards and downwards to a point an inch and a half above the middle of Poupart s ligament; or by Astley Cooper's method, in which an incision is made in a curved direction from a little above and outside the external abdominal ring to an inch from the in^^er side o the anterior superior spmous process of the iUum. In both, the abdominal mascles and transversaUs fascia ha^g been cautiously divided, the peritoneum should ^ separated from the iliac fossa and raised towards the pelvis ; and on introducing t e fmger to the bottom of the wound, the artery may be fe t pulsating along the • muscle. The external iliac vem is generaUy found on the mnei side of the artery and must be cautiously separated from it by the finger-nail or handle of the kni^e and the aneurysm needle should be introduced on the inner side, between the artery and vem. Collateral Circulation.-The prmcipal anastomoses m carrymg on cu-culation after the application of a Ugature to the external ihac, are: the iho-lumba,r S the clrcumaex iUac ; the gluteal ^^th the external circumflex ; the obturator with Ifint-nar« ; the sci'atic with the -P-ior f rforatmg and c^^^^^^ of the profunda artery ; and the mternal pudic with the external pudic. \N hen tne obturator arises from the epigastric, it is supplied with blood by branches, from either the ^tlr^ Uac tie L sicrll, or the internal pudic. The ^tnc rece^^^^^ from the mternal mammary and inferior intercostal arteries, and from the mternal iliac by the anastomoses of its branches with the obturator.* Branches.-Besides several smaU branches to the Psoas magnus and the neighbou55ig lymphatic glands, the external ihac gives off t^-o branches of considerable size : Deep epigastric Deep ckcumflex ihac. The deep epieastric artery (a. epigastrica inferior) arises from the external ihac, i Jediat? IL Poupart^hUe^'• It -ves ^0™^^ Ih^^^^^^ and then ascends obhquely along the inner margin tl^J^^"^^^^;,^^^^^^ between the transversahs fascia and peritoneum ; ^"^^^i^^^f, f ^;°Xa?fo^^^^^^ it pierces the transversahs fascia, and, passing in ^.^^^^ ^ ^.^^^r^^.^/^Jf,,-^^ DoLlis ascends between the Rectus and the posterior lamella ot its apoueurom fheath ItTna ly divides into numerous branches, which a;-^stomose above the SLs'^ith tL superior epig-tri^^^^^^^^^^^^ the lower intercostal arteries (fig. 593 . As the aeep ^Pc" and inner obliquely upwards and inwards from its ^"g"/^^^*. f, J «^ ^, mar^n of the internal abdominal "^^g'. ^'^'^ ^^^^^^^ spermatic cord. This part of the vessel is crossed by the vas deterens and the round ligament of the uterus in the female ■ .sterna), which The branches of the vessel are : the crema,tenc (^^^f'^J^.^^^^^^ other accompanies the spermatic cord, and supplies ^^^^ ^remaster u^^^^^^ coverings of the cord, anastomosmg with ^^'^'^''^''^fjXrL^^^ very small and accompanies the round ligarae t) , f ,f^^ , J "i,e pubis to which runs along Poupart's ligament, and t^^;).; ^i^tets ro^^ the inner side of the femoral ring, and anastomoses with offsets from tne * Sir Astley Cooper describes in vol. i. of the Gu.'s Ho^ital lJ^orts the dissection of a limb eighteen yVrs after successful ligature of the external iliac arterJ^707 EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY artery; muscular branches, some of which are distributed to the abdominal muscles and peritoneum, anastomosing with the lumbar and circumflex. iliac arteries; branches which perforate the tendon of the External oblique, and supply the integument, anastomosing with branches of the superficial epigastric. Peculiarities.—The origin of the deei^ epigastric may take place from any part of the external iliac between Poupart's ligament and a point two inclios and a half above it; or it may arise below this ligament, from the femoral. It frequently arises from the external iliac, by a common trunk with the obturator. Sometimes it arises from the obturator, the latter vessel being furnished by the internal iliac, or it may be formed of two branches, one derived from the external iliac, the other from the internal iliac. Applied Anatomy.—Tlie deep epigastric arterj' follows a line drawn from the middle of Poupart's Mgament towards the nmbihcus ; but shortly after this line crosses the linea semilunaris, the dhection changes, and the course of the vessel is upwards along the line of junction of the inner with the middle third of the Rectus abdominis. It has important surgical relations, and is one of the principal means, through its anastomosis with the internal mammary, of establishing the coUateral circulation after ligature of either the common or external ihac arteries. It lies close to the internal abdominal ring, and is therefore internal to an obUque inguinal hernia, but external to a direct inguinal licrnia, as these emerge from the abdomen. It forms the outer boundary of Hesselbach's triangle, and is in close relationship with the spermatic cord, which lies in front of it in the mguinal canal, separated only by the transversalis fascia. The vas deferens hooks round its outer side. The deep circumflex iliac artery (a. circumflexa ilium profunda) arises from the outer side of the external iliac nearly opposite the deep epigastric artery. It ascends obliquely outwards behind Poupart's ligament, contained in a fibrous sheath formed by the junction of the transversalis and ihac fascite, to the anterior superior spine of the ilium, where it anastomoses with the ascending branch of the external circumflex ai^tery. It then pierces the transversalis fascia and passes along the inner surface of the crest of the ilium to about its middle, where it perforates the Transversalis, and runs backwards between that muscle and the Internal oblique, to anastomose with the ilio-lumbar and gluteal arteries. Opposite the anterior superior spine of the ilium it gives off a large branch, which ascends between the Internal oblique and Transversalis muscles, supplying them, and anastomosing with the lumbar and epigastric arteries. ARTERIES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY The artery which supplies the greater part of the lower extremity is the direct continuation of the external iliac. It continues as a single trunk from Poupart's ligament to the lower border of the Popliteus muscle, where it divides into two branches, the anterior and 'posterior tibial. The upper part of the main trunk is named the femoral, the lower part the popliteal. Femobai, Aeteey (figs. 617, 618) The ^ femoral artery (a. femoralis) commences immediately behind Poupart's hgament, midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis, and passes down the front and inner side of the thigh. It terminates at the junction of the middle with the lower third of the thigh where it passes through an opening in the Adductor magnus to become the popliteal artery. The vessel, at the upper part of the thigh, lies m front of the hip-joint, on a line with the innermost part of the head of the femur ; in the lower part of its course it lies to the inner side of the shaft, and between these two parts, where it crosses the angle between the head and shaft, the vessel is some distance from the bone. The first inch and a half of the vessel is enclosed, together with the femoral vein, in a fibrous sheath— the femoral sheath. In the upper third of the thigh the femoral artery is contained in a, triangular space, called Scarpa's triangle, and in the middle thu'd of the thigh, in an aponeurotic canal, named Hunter's canal. The femoral sheath (fig. 614) is formed by a prolongation downwards, behmd Poupart's ligament, of the fascia which line the abdomen, the fascia transversalis being contmued down in front of the femoral vessels and the z z 2708 ANUIOLOGY fascia transversalis behind them. The sheath assumes the form of a short funnol-sha])ecl tube, tlio wide end of which is directed upwards, while tlie lower, narrow end fuses with the fascial investment of the vessels, about an inch and a half below the level of Poupart's ligament. It is strengthened in front by a band termed the deep crural arch (p. 516). The outer wall of tlie sheath is vertical and is jierforated by the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve ; the inner wall is directed obUquely downwards and outwards and is pierced by the internal saphenous vein and by some lymphatic vessels. The sheath is divided by two vertical partitions wliich stretch between its anterior and posterior walls. The outermost compartment contains the femoral artery and the middle the femoral vein, while the innermost and smallest compartment is named the crural canal, and contains some lymphatic vessels and a lymphatic Fig. 614.—Femoral sheath laid opon to show its three compartments. aland imbedded in a small amount of areolar tissue The crural canal i.-, ScalTnd meiures about half an inch in length. Its base du^cted upwaid and named X crnmZ ring, is oval in form, its long diameter bemg dn-ccted transTSyand measuring about half an inch ^^^^^J"^^^^^^^ W bounded in front by Poupart's ligament, behmd by the Pectmeus muscie covered by the pJbic portion of the fascia lata, internally by the crescen ic rasrSaLbenfat's Ugament, and externaUy by the fibrous septum on the innpr side S the femoral vein. The spermatic cord in the male and the round hVame^ of tl^^^^^^^^^^^^ the female hi immediately above tlie anterior margin oiro rfngNti^le the deep epigastric artery is close f^-Pl-^-f.^^lSS The crural ring is closed by a somewliat condensed portion of S tv tisTue, nLed the siptum crurale, the -bdonunal sur a^^^^^^^^^^^^ a small lymphatic gland and is covered by the par e al ^y^J^\^^^^^ The septum crurale is pierced by numerous lymphatic vessels passmgFEMORAL ARTERY 709 deep inguinal to the external iliac glands, and the parietal peritoneum immediately above it presents a slight depression named femoral fossa. Fio. 615.—Structures passing behind Pouj)art's ligament. /'ottparl\i Artterlnr liijament crural iiervfi External cutaneous nerve Iliac portion of fascia lata Sliettlh Femoral vein Crural ring Femoral artery Fig. 616.—The relations of the crural and internal abdominal rings, seen from •nithin the abdomen. Right side.ANGIOLOGY 710 Scarpa's triangle (fig. 617 i corresponds to the depression seen immediately below the fold of tlie groin. Its apex is directed downwards, and the sides are formed externally by the inner margin of the Sartorius, internally by the inner margin of the Adductor longus, and above by Poupart's ligament. Tlie floor of the space is formed from without inwards by the Ihacus, Psoas, Pectineus, in some cases a small part of the Adductor brevis, and the Adductor longus ; and it is divided into two nearly equal parts by the femoral vessels, which extend from near the middle of its base to its apex : the artery giving off in this situation its cutaneous and profunda brandies, the vein receiving the deep femoral and internal saphenous tributaries. On the outer side of the femoral artery is the anterior crural nerve dividing into Fig. 617.—Scarpa's triangle. Superficial circumflex iliac vessels Anterior crural nerve Huperficial epigastric vessels Superficial externalpudic vessels Deep externalpudic vessels Internal saphenous vein its branches. Besides the vessels and nerves, this space contains some fat and lymphatics. ,po,,eurotic tunnel in the middle third of the thi.h extendi^ f?on the apex of Scarpa's triangle to the femoral opening in t ; AdduS magnus muscle. It is bounded, in front and externally v L Vafturinternus'; behind, by the Adductoi-es covered in by a strong aponeurosis which extends from the \ astus " '^i""'^ Toss the f Jmoral velsefs to the Adductores longus et magiiu ; ymg on the aponeurosis is the Sartorius muscle. It ^'^''^^'^11^^^^^^^^^ vein, the internal or long saphenous nerve, and the nerve to tiie > asi Relations (M 617) -In Scarpa's triangle the femoral artery is superficial In /ron! of ^t arf?he 8Mn ind superficial fa'scia. the superficial ingumal lymphaticFEMORAL ARTERY 711 glands, the superficial circumflex iliac vein, the iliac portion of the fascia lata and the anterior part of the femoral sheath. The genital branch of the genito-crural nerve courses for a short distance within the outer compartment of the femoral sheath, and lies at first in front and then on the outer side of the artery. Near the apex of Scarpa's triangle the internal cutaneous nerve crosses the artery from without inwards. Fig. 618.—The femoral artery. Behind the artery are the posterior part of the femoral sheath, the pubic portion of the fascia lata, the inner part of the tendon of the Psoas, the Pectineus and the Adductor longus. The artery is separated from the capsule of the hip-joint by the tendon of the Psoas, from the Pectineus by the femoral vein and profunda vessels, and from the Adductor longus by the femoral vein. The nerve to the Pectineus passes inwards behind the artery. On the outer side of the artery, but separated712 . ANGIOLOGY from it by some fibres of tlie Psoas, is tlie anterior crural nerve. The femoral vein is on tlie inner side of the upper part of the artery, but is behind the vessel in the lower part of Scarpa's triangle. In Hunter s canal the femoral artery is more deeply situated, being covered by the integument, the superficial and deep fascife, the Sartorius and the fibrous roof of the canal; it is crossed from without inwards by the long saphenous nerve. Behind the artery arc the Adductores longus et magnus ; in front and to its outer side is the Vastus internus. The femoral vein lies behind the upper part, and on the outer side of the lower part of the artery. That portion of the femoral artery which extends from Poupart's ligament to the origin of the profmida is sometimes named the common femoral. Peculiarities.—Several cases are recorded in which the femoral artery divided into two tnmks below the origin of the profunda, and became reunited near the opening in the Adductor magnus, so as to form a single popUteal artery. One oecuiTed in a patient who was operated upon for popliteal aneurysm. A few cases have been recorded in which the femoral artery was absent, its place being supphed by the sciatic artery which accompanied the areat sciatic nerve to the pophteal space. Tlie external iliac iu these cases was small, and "terminated in the profunda. The femoral vein is occasionally placed along the inner side of the artery, throughout the entire extent of Scarpa's triangle ; or it maybe spUt so that a large vein is placed on either side of the artery for a greater or lesser distance. Surface Marking.—The upper two-thirds of a line drawn from a point midway between the anterior superior spine of the iUum and the symphysis pubis to the adductor tubercle on the mner condyle of the femur, with the thigh abducted and rotated outwards, will indicate the course of the femoral artery. . Ap-pUed Anatomy.—Compression of the femoral artery, which Ls constantly requisite in amputations and other operations on the lower limb, and also for the cure of popliteal aneurysm, is most effectuallv made immediately below Poupart's Hgament. In this situation the artery is very superficial, and is merely separated from the ascendmg ramus of the pubis by the Psoas muscle ; so that the surgeon, by means of his thumb or a compressor, may efEectuaUy control the circulation through it. The vessel may also be controlled in the middle third of the thigh by placmg a pad over the artery, beneath the tourniquet, and directing the pressure from withui outwards, so as to press the vessel against the inner side of the shaft of the femur. ,• , i The superficial position of the femoral artery in Scarpa's triangle renders it particularly liable to be mjured m wounds, stabs, or gimshot injuries in the grom. On account of the close relationship between the artery and vem, the latter vessel is also hable to be wounOea m these injuries. In such cases, the arterv being compressed as it crosses the ramus ot the pubis, the skm wound should be enlarged and the wound in the vessel sought for, and a Ugature apphed above and below the bleeding point. The application of a Ugature to the femoral artery may be required m cases of wound or aneurysm of the pophteal or femoral, or arteries of the leg ; and the vessel may be exposed and tied m any part of its course. The great depth of this vessel '^t /ts lower part, its close connection with important structures, and the density of its sheath, render the operation in this situation one of greater difficult;^ than the apphcation of a ligature at its upper part, where it is more superficial. , , . , , j- t Ligature of the common femoral artery is not regarded with much favour, on ficcount of the near connection of large branches with it, viz. the deep epigastric and the dee chcumflex ihac arismg just above Poupart's ligament ; on account of the ^^^^^J^r o small branches which arise from it, in its short course, and on account of the uneeitau^^^^^^^ the origm of the profunda femoris, which, if it arise high up, would 1^°/°° ^^^^ ligature for the formation of a firm coagulum. It would appear, ^^^^^f.^^^/^^^jj favourable situation for the apphcation of a ligature to the femoral !lf "J Scarpa's triangle. In order to reach the artery in this situation an incision thiee inche.s lon7should be made in the course of the vessel the patient hnng - the reciiml^^.n poltion, with the limb shghtly flexed and abducted, and ro ated "^.^^f ,^Snou s frequentlv met vnth, passuig in the course of the artery to 3^" '''^^^^^^^^ vein ; this must be avoided, and the fascia lata havmg been cautiously ^mded a d e Sartorius cUsplayed, that muscle must be drawn o^^t^^'^^j^^/'V^''^^'-^*:^ sheath of the vessels. The finger havmg been introduced i^^"^/^f.^^^;" f •,'\"/J^„'St tion of the artery felt, the sheath is opened on the outer side of the vessel to a^™?*^^^ extent to alfow o^ the introduction of the aneurysm needle. In t^is part of thej.pera on the long saphenous nerve and the nerve to the Vastus internus, which ;™ '>^^ with the sheath, should be avoided. The aneurysm nce.llc 7f, -Xie S^n £ and kept close to the artery, to avoid the femoral vein, which lies behind the vessel part of its course, and is very closely bound up with it. j ^ To expose the artery in Hunter's canal, nn incsion ^^.^tyf" ^^^'t'^^ in length should be made through the intcgnment. a finger s bren 1 h n ernal to the Une of the artery, the centre of the incision being in the nuddlc of 5^.^'"f'\,^^^^^^ between the groin and the knee. The fascia lata havmg been divided, and the outer713 FEMORAL ARTERY border of the Sartorius exposed, this muscle should bo drawn inwards, when the strong fascia which is stretched across from the Adductors to the Vastus internus will bo observed, and must be freely divided ; the sheath of the vessels is now seen, and must be opened, and the artery seciffed by passing the aneurysm needle between it and the vein, in the direction froni \vithout inwards. In this situation the femoral vein lies on tlie outer side, and the long saphenous nerve iir front of the artery. It has been seen that the femoral artery occasionally divides into two trunks below the origm of the profunda. If, in the operation for tying the femoral, two vessels be met with, the surgeon should alternately compress each, in order to ascertain which is con- nected with the aneurysmal tumour, or with the bleeding from the wound, and that one only should be tied which is the source of the pulsation or htemorrhage. If, however, it be necessary to compress both vessels before the circulation is controlled, both should be tied, as it is probable that they become reunited, as in the instances referred to above. Collateral Circulalion.—After ligature of the femoral artery, the main channels for carrying on the circulation are the anastomoses between—(1) the gluteal and sciatic branches of the internal iliac with the internal and external circumflex and superior perforating branches of the profunda femoris ; (2) the obturator branch of the internal iliac with the internal circumflex of the profunda; (3) the internal pudic of the internal iliac with the superficial and deep external pudic of the femoral ; (4) the deep circumflex ihac of the external iliac with the external circumflex of the profunda and the superflcial circumflex iliac of the femoral ; and (5) the sciatic and comes nervi ischiadici of the internal iliac ■with the perforating branches of the profimda. Branches.—The branches of the femoral artery are : Superficial epigastric. Muscular. Superficial circumflex iliac. /External circumflex. Superficial external pudic. Profunda - Internal circumflex. The superficial epigastric (a. epigastrica superficiaHs) arises from the front of the femoral artery about half an inch below Poupart's ligament, and, passing through the femoral sheath and the cribriform fascia, turns upwards in front of Poupart's ligament, and ascends between the two layers of the superficial fascia of the abdomi- nal wall nearly as far as the umbilicus. It distributes branches to the superficial inguinal glands, the superficial fascia, and the integument; it anastomoses with branches of the deep epigastric, and with its fellow of the opposite side. The superficial circumflex iliac (a. circumfiexa ilium superficialis), the smallest of the cutaneous branches, arises close to the preceding, and, piercing the fascia lata, nms outwards, parallel with Poupart's ligament, as far as the crest of the iHum ; it divides into branches which supply the integument of the groin, the superficial fascia, and the superficial inguinal lymphatic glands, anastomosing with the deep circumflex iUac, and with the gluteal and external circumflex arteries. The superficial external pudic (a. pudenda externa superficiaUs) arises from the mner side of the femoral artery, close to the preceding vessels, and, after piercing the femoral sheath and cribriform fascia, courses inwards, across the spermatic cord (or round hgament in the female), to be distributed to the integument on the lower part of the abdomen, the penis and scrotum in the male, and the labium majus in the female, anastomosing with branches of the internal pudic. The deep external pudic (a. pudenda externa profimda), more deeply seated than the preceding, passes inwards across the Pectineus and Adductor longus muscles ; it is covered by the fascia lata, which it pierces at the inner border of the thigh, and is distributed, in the male to the integument of the scrotum and perinsoum, in the female to the labium majus ; its branches anastomose Avith those of the superficial perineal artery. Muscular branches are supplied by the femoral artery to the Sartorius, Vastus internus, and Adductors. The profunda (a. profunda femoris) (fig. 620) is a large vessel arising from the outer and back part of the femoral artery, from one to two inches below Poupart's ligament. At first it lies on the outer side of the femoral artery ; it then runs behind it and the femoral vein to the inner side of the femur, and, passing downwards behind the Adductor longus, terminates at the lower third of the thigh in a small branch, which pierces the Adductor magnus, and is distributed on the back of the thigh to the Flexor muscles. The terminal part of the profunda is sometimes named the fourth per/orating artery. Deep external pudic. (Three perforating. Anastomotica magna.714 ANGIOLOGY ' Relations.—B('/(/7i(?, it lies from above downwards upon the Iliacus, Pectineus, Adductor hvevis, and Adductor nuvguus. In front, it is separated horn the femoral artery by the femoral and ])rofunda veins above, and by the Adductor lonpus below. On its outer side, the origin of the Vastus internus intervenes between it and the femur. Pecvliarities.—This vessel sometimes arises from the inner side, and, more rarely, from the baclc of the femoral artery ; but a more important peculiarity, from a surgica! point of view, is that relating to the height at which the vessel arises. In three-fourths of a large number of cases it arose between one and two inches below Poupart s ligament; in a few cases the distance was less than an inch; more rarely, opposite the ligament ; and in one case above Poupart's ligament, from the external ihac. Occasionally the distance between the origin of the vessel and Poupart's ligament exceeds two mches. The profunda gives oS the following branches : External circumflex. Internal circumflex. Three perforating. Muscular. The external circumflex (a. circumflexa femoris lateraUs) suppUes the muscles on the front of the thigh. It arises from the outer side of the profunda, passes horizontally outwards, between the divisions of the anterior crural nerve, and behind the Sartorius and Rectus femoris, and diAades mto ascendnig, transverse, and descending branches. +1, To,i=r,r The ascending branch (ramus ascendens) passes upwards, beneath the iensor fasciae femoris muscle, to the outer side of the hip, and anastomoses with the terminal branches of the gluteal and deep circumflex ihac arteries. The descending branch (ramus descendens) runs downwards, behind the Kectus upon the Vastus externus to which it gives oflsets ; one long branch descends in the muscle as far as the Imee, and anastomoses with the superior external articular branch of the popliteal artery. It is accompamed by the branch ot tlie anterior crural nerve to the Vastus externus. over The transverse branch (ramus transversus), the smallest, passes o^^^^^f J?^^ the Crureus, pierces the Vastus externus and mnds round the f^?^^' 3^^^^^^^^ the great trochanter, anastomosing at the back of the thigh vnth the mternal circumflex, sciatic, and superior perforating arteries. The internal circumflex (a. circumflexa femoris medialis), ^.^^^Jf -^^^ external, arises from the inner and posterior aspect of the profimda and Ws round the inner side of the femur, passmg first between "^^^^^ muscles, and then between the Obturator externus and Adductor bre^a. A^ the upper border of the Adductor brevis, it gives ofi two branches, 9*;^^^^^ passes inwards to be distributed to the Adductor muscles, t^^/ ^^^"^^^^^^^^ Obturator externus, anastomosing witli the obturf or artery , beneath the Adductor brevis, to supply it and the Adductoi ^S^J^ continuation of the vessel passes backwards and dl^^<i^^ " *° -^"".'^U^^ transverse branch. The ascending branch (ramus P^,^" ^^^.^^ ^ QuaS^^ upwards upon the tendon of the Obturator externus ^"^ m front of t^^^^ Xe femoris towards the digital fossa, where it f^^'^^^'^'^'^^J'^g ^Ter tlau the and sciatic arteries. The transverse branch (ramus f P<^^fi"f^^fj' Idductor ascending, appears between the Quadratus fenions '^^.^iS^^^^'^d^^t^ magnus,\nlstomosing with the ^^.^f °' f:!^^ g ves forating arteries {crucial anastomosis) Opposite ^^^-l^^W";*'^^^^^^^^^ ofi an Articular vessel, which enters the ^"^^/^f.fJ^^^^K*^^^^^^ and, after supplying the adipose tissue, passes along the round ligament '^^TheTrforating arteries (fig. 613), usually three in --^^^er are so named becaus: ?hey perfo'rate the teUon of the Mductor magnus muscle t cad^the back of the thigh. They pass backwards close to ^^^'^^/^^'^^h.f/P^^t. „i,.en off under cover of' small tendinous arches m he muscle^ ^ f,,^ and the third above the Adductor brevis, the second in front of that musclt, ana immediately below it. ,,„;nin^ nasses backwards between the The first fcrforatinq artery (a. perfoi^-i"-! P""f) P^f;,^/"/;?.^^^^^ . it then pierces Pectineus and Adductor brevis (sometimes it P<^'-f--<^ fj^^^^*^^^^^^^ Adductor the Adductor magnus close to the Imea, aspera t^ue '^'"^^ ^^^^^^^^^ anastomoses brevis, Adductor magnus, Biceps, and Gluteus »^^'^ T 'S^^^^^^^^ arteries, with the sciatic, internal and external circumflex, and middle perioral g715 FEMORAL ARTERY The second perforating artery (a. perforans secunda), larger than the first, pierces the tendons of the Adductor bre\'is and Adductor magnus muscles, and divides into ascending and descending branches, which supply the flexor muscles of the thigh, anastomosing with the first and third perforating. The second artery frequently arises in common with the first. The nutrient artery of the femur (a. nutricia femoris) is usually given off from this branch. The third fcrfornling artery (a. perforans tertia) is given off below the Adductor brevis; it pierces the Adductor magnus, and divides into branches which supply the flexor muscles of the thigh; anastomosing above with the higher perforating arteries, and below with the terminal branches of the profunda and the muscular branches of the popliteal. The nutrient artery of the femur may arise from this branch. The termination of the profunda artery, already described, is sometimes termed the fourth perforating artery. Numerous muscular branches arise from the profunda ; some of these end in the Adductor muscles, others pierce the Adductor magnus, give branches to the hamstrings, and anastomose with the internal circumflex artery and with upper muscular branches of the popliteal. The anastomotica magna (a. genu suprema) (fig. 618) arises from the femoral artery just before it passes through the tendinous opening in the Adductor magnus muscle, and immediately divides into a superficial and a deep branch. The superficial branch (ramus saphenus) pierces the aponeurotic covering of Hunter's canal, and accompanies the long saphenous nerve to the inner side of the knee. It passes between the Sartorius and Gracilis muscles, and, piercing the fascia lata, is distributed to the integument of the upper and inner part of the leg, anastomosing with the inferior internal articular artery. The deep branch (ramus musculoarticularis) descends in the substance of the Vastus internus, lying in front of the tendon of the Adductor magnus, to the inner side of the knee, where it anastomoses with the superior internal articular artery and anterior recurrent branch of the anterior tibial. A branch from this vessel crosses outwards above the articular surface of the femur, forming an anastomotic arch with the superior external articular artery, and supplying branches to the knee-joint. The Popliteal Space (fig. 620) Boundaries.—The popliteal space, or ham, is a lozenge-shaped space, at the back jjart of the knee-joint. Above, it is bounded externally by the Biceps and internally by the Semitendinosus and Semimembranosus ; below, it is limited by the outer head of the Gastrocnemius and the Plantaris externally and by the inner head of the Gastrocnemius internally. The floor is formed by the lower part of the posterior surface of the shaft of the femur, the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, the upper end of the tibia, and the fascia covering the Popliteus muscle ; the space is covered in by the fascia lata. Contents.—The popliteal space contains the popliteal vessels and nerves, together with the termination of the external saphenous vein, the lower part of the small sciatic nerve, the articular branch from the obturator nerve, a few small lymphatic glands, and a considerable quantity of loose adipose tissue. The internal popliteal nerve descends in the middle line of the space, lying under the deep fascia and crossing the vessels from without mwards. The external popliteal nerve descends on the outer side of the upper part of the space, close to the tendon of the Biceps muscle. At the bottom of the space are the popliteal vessels, the vein being superficial to the artery and united to it by dense areolar tissue ; the vem is a thick-waUed vessel, and lies at first to the outer side of the artery, and then crosses it to gam the inner side below ; sometimes it is double, the artery lying between t\yo vena3 comites, which are usually comiected by short transverse branches. J-he articular branch from the obturator nerve descends upon the artery to supply the knee. The popliteal lymphatic glands, four or five in number, surround the artery : one usually lies sujoerficial to the vessel ; another is situated between it and the bone ; and the rest arc placed on either side 01 it. Arising from the artery, and passing off from it at right angles, are its articular branches. ^> F 6 6 = .716 ANGIOLOGY Popliteal Artery (figs. 619, 620) The popliteal artery (a. poplitea) is the continuation of the femoral, and courses through the popliteal space. It extends from the opening in the Adductor magnus, at the junction of tlie middle and lower thirds of the thigh, downwards and outwards to the intercondyloid notch of the femur, and then Fig. G19.—Side view of the po))liteal artery. (From a preparation in the Museum of the Royal College of Sui-geons of England.) vertically downwards to the lower border of the PopUteus muscle, where it divides into anterior and posterior tibial <^rten'^- .^^^^ ^^.f^ce of tho Ilelations.-In/roni from above d«^^-nward8 aie the popl^^^^^^^^^^^ femur (which is separated from the ^F^^/y ^^^^^^^^^^^ Tt is overlapped the knee joint, and the fa.cia ^^^^Iw itl cofer^ bf^^^^^ above by the Semimembranosus arid ^^^^J/J;''ij^ from the integu- Plantaris. In.the nriddle part «^ graJifcrS eTfrom w thout inwards by the ment and fascite by a quantity of fat, and is crosseaPOPLITEAL ARTERY 717 internal popliteal nerve and the popliteal vein, the vein being between the nerve and the artery and closely adherent to the latter. On its outer side, above, are the Biceps, the internal popliteal nerve, the popliteal vein, and the external coud3'le of the femur ; below; the Plantaris and the outer head of the Gastrocnemius. On its inner side, above, are the Semimembranosus and the internal condyle of the femur ; below, the internal popliteal nerve, the popliteal vein, and the inner head of the Gastrocnemius. As already stated, the popliteal lymphatic glands, four or five in number, are grouped aroimd the artery. Peculiar Hies in -point of division.—Occasionally the popliteal artery divides into its torminal branches opposite the knee-joint. The anterior tibial under these circumstances usually passes in front of the Popliteus muscle. Unusual branches.—The artery sometimes divides into the anterior tibial and peroneal, the posterior tibial being wanting, or very small. Occasionally it divides into three branches, the anterior and posterior tibial, and peroneal. Surface Marking.—The course of the upper part of the popliteal artery is indicated by a line drawn from the outer border of the Semimembranosus muscle at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the thigh—that is to say, from a point a little internal to the upper angle of the popliteal space—obliquely downwards to the middle of the pophteal space exactly behind the knee-joint. From this point it passes vertically downwards to the level of a line drawn through the lower part of the tubercle of the tibia. Applied Anatomy.—The popliteal artery is not infrequently the seat of injirry. It may be torn by direct violence, as by the passage of a cart-wheel over the Imee, or by hyper-extension of the knee. It may also be lacerated by fracture of the lower part of the shaft of the femur, or by antero-posterior dislocation of the knee-joint. It has been torn in breaking down adhesions in cases of fibrous ankylosis of the knee, and is in danger of being wounded, and in fact has been woimded, in performing JIacewen's operation of osteotomy of the lower end of the femur for genu valgum. The popliteal artery is more frequently the seat of aneurysm than any other artery in the body, with the exception of the thoracic aorta. No doubt this is due in a great measure to the amount of movement to which it is subjected, and to the fact that it is supported by loose and lax tissue only, and not by muscles as is the case with most arteries. Wlien the knee is acutely flexed the pophteal artery becomes bent on itself to such an extent as to entirely arrest the circulation through it. Ligature of the pophteal artery is requhed in cases of wound of the vessel, but for aneurysm it is preferable to tie the femoral. The pophteal may be tied in the upper or lower part of its course ; but in the middle of the ham the operation is attended -with considerable difficulty, from the great depth of the artery, and from the extreme degree of tension of the lateral boundaries of the space. In order to expose the upper part of the vessel, the patient should be placed in the supine position, with the knee flexed and the thigh abducted and rotated outwards, so that it rests on its outer surface ; an incision three inches in length, beginning at the j unction of the middle and lower thirds of the thigh, is to be made parallel to and immediately behind the tendon of the Adductor magnus, and the skin, superficial and deep fasciae divided. The tendon of the muscle is thus exposed, and is to be drawn forwards, and the hamstring tendons backwards. A quantity of fatty tissue wiU now be opened up, in which the artery wiU be felt pulsating. This is to be separated with the pouit of a director until the artery is exposed. The vein and nerve will not be seen, as they lie to tlie outer side of the artery. The sheath is to be opened and the aneurysm needle passed from before backwards, keeping its point close to the artery for fear of injuring the vein. The only structure to avoid in the superficial incision is the long saphenous vein. To expose the vessel in the lower part of its course, where the artery lies between the two heads of the Gastrocnemius, the patient should be placed in the prone position with the hmb extended. An incision should then be made through the integument in the middle hne. commencing opposite the bend of the knee-joint, care being taken to avoid the external saphenous vein and nerve. After dividing the deep fascia, and separating some dense cellular tissue, the artery, vein, and nerve will be exposed, between the two heads of the Gastrocnemius. Some muscular branches of the popliteal should be avoided if possible, or, if divided, tied immediately. The leg being now flexed, in order the more effectually to separate the two heads of the Gastrocnemius, the nerve should oe drawn inwards and the vein outwards, and the aneurysm needle passed between the artery and vein from without inwards. Branches.—The branches of the popliteal artery are : Muscular I ^^P^^ior. Superior external articular. 1 Inferior or Sural. Azygos articular. Cutaneous. Inferior internal articular. Superior internal articular. Inferior external articular.ANGIOLOUY 718 Fig. 620.—The poj^litoal, posterior tibial, and peroneal arteries. Suml arti'vien The superior muscular branches, two or three in number, arise from the upper part of the artery, and are distributed to the lower parts of the Adductor magnus and hamstring muscles, anastomosuig with the fourth perforating branch of the profunda. The inferior muscular or sural (aa. surales) are two large branches, which are distributed to the Gastrocnemius, Soleus, and Plantaris. They arise from tlie popli- teal artery opposite the knee-joint. The cutaneous branches arise either from the popliteal artery or from some of its branches ; they descend between the two heads of the Gastrocnemius muscle, and, piercing the deep fascia, are distri- buted to the integument of the calf. One branch usually accompanies the short, or external, saphenous vein. The superior articular arteries, two m number, arise one on either side of the popliteal, and wind round the femur im- mediately above its condyles to the front of the knee-joint. The superior internal articular (a. genu superior medialis) runs inwards beneath the inner hamstrmg muscles, to which it supplies branches, above the inner head of the Gastrocnemius, and passes beneath the tendon of the Adductor magnus. It di\ddes into^ two branches, one of which supplies the Vastus internus, anastomosing \vith. the anasto- motica magna and inferior internal articular; the other ramifies close to the surface of the femur, supplying it and the Imee-joint, and anastomosing with the superior external articular artery. The superior mternal articular artery is frequently of smaU size, a condition which is associated with an m- crease in the size of the anastomotica magna. The superior external articular (a. genu superior lateralis) passes above the outer condyle, beneath the tendon of the Biceps, and divides into a superficial and a deep branch ; the superficial branch supphes the Vastus externus, and anastomoses vdth the descending branch of the exter- nal circumflex and the inferior external articular arteries ; the deep branch supphes the lower part of the femur and knee- joint and forms an anastomotic arch across the front of the bone with the anasto- motica magna and the inferior mternal articular arteries. . The azygos articular (a. genu media) is a small branch, arising opposite the bend of the knee-joint. I* Pe^^f posterior ligament, and supplies the liga^ ments and spiovial membrane m the interior of the articulation. . The inferior articular arteries two in number, arise from the popliteal bene^t^ the Gastrocnemius. '^^ ^^rior iMern^ oHie^o^ descends along the upper margm of the Pophtcus muscle, to ^^ hich gu IPOSTIC nterior 'ronealPOPLITEAL ARTERY 719 it then passes below the inner tuberosity of the tibia, beneath the internal lateral lifjament, at the anterior border of which it ascends to the front and inner side of the joint, to supply the head of the tibia and the articulation of the knee, anastomosing with the inferior external articular and superior internal articular arteries. The inferior external articular (a. genu inferior lateralis) runs outwards above the head of the fibula to the front of the knee-joint, passing in its course beneath the outer head of the Gastrocnemius, the external lateral ligament, and the tendon of the Biceps muscle. It terminates by dividing into branches, which anastomose witli the inferior internal articular artery, the superior external articular artery, and the anterior recurrent branch of the anterior tibial. Circumpatellar anastomosis (fig. 621).—Around and above the patella, and on the contiguous ends of the femur and tibia, is a large network of vessels forming Fio. 621.—Circumpatellar anastomosis. a superficial and a deep plexus. The superficial plexus is situated between the fascia and skni round about the patella, and forms three well-defined arches : one, above the upper border of the patella, in the loose connective tissue over the Quadriceps extensor muscle ; the other two, below the level of the patella, are situated in the tat behind the hgamentum patella;. The deep plexus, which forms a close network of vessels, hes on the lower end of the femur and upper end of the tibia around their articular surfaces, and sends numerous offsets into the interior of the joint. The arteries from which this plexus is formed are the two internal and the two external articular branches of the popliteal : the anastomotica magna; the aescending branch of the external circumflex; and the anterior recurrent branch 01 the anterior tibial. Anterior Tibial Artery (fig. 622) The anterior tibial artery (a. tibialis anterior) commences at the bifur- cation of the popliteal, at the lower border of the Popliteu.s muscle, passes loi wards between the two heads of the Tibialis posticus, and throuc^h the720 large oval aperture to the deep part of of the neck of the Fig. 622.—Anterior pedis ar tibial and dorsalis teries. Inferior external articular Ant tibial reciM'rentjl J Inferior internal articular ANGIOLOGY above the upper border of the interosseous membrane, the front of the leg : it here lies close to the inner side fibula. It then descends on the anterior surface of the interosseous membrane, gradually approaching the tibia; and, at the lower part of the leg, lies on this bone, and then on the anterior Ugament of the ankle-joint to the bend of the ankle, where it is more superficial, and becomes the dorsalis pedis. Relations.—In the upper two-thirds of its extent, the anterior tibial artery- rests upon the interosseous rtiembraue, to which it is connected by deUcate fibrous arches thrown across it; in the lower third, upon the front of the tibia, and the anterior hgament of the ankle-] oint. In the upper third of its course, it hes between the Tibiahs anticus and Extensor longus digitorum; in the middle third between the Tibiahs anticus and Extensor proprius hallucis. At the bend of the ankle, it is crossed from without inwards by the tendon of the Extensor proprius hallucis, and hes between it and the mnermost tendon of the Extensor longus digitorum. It is covered, in the upper two-thirds of its com-se, by the muscles which he on either side of it, and by the deep fascia ; in the lower third, by the mtegument, anterior annular hgament, and fascia. The anterior tibial artery is accom- panied by two veins (vense comites) which lie one on either side of the artery; the anterior tibial nerve, coursing round the outer side of the neck of the fibula, comes into relation with the outer side of the artery shortly after it has reached the front of the leg; about the middle of the leg it is placed superficial to it; at the lower part of the artery the nerve is generally again on the outer side. Peculiarities in size. — This vessel may • be diminished in size, may be deficient to a greater or less extent, or may be entirely wanting, its place being supplied by per- foratini branches from the posterior tibial 0° by the anterior diN-ision of the peroneal "'^lurse-The artery occasionally deviates in its course towards the fil^">'^V;;J ^j^^^ leg, regaining its usual position beneath the ani ulai- ligament at the front of the ankle I two instances the vessel has been found to approach the surface in the imddle of the leg Sg covered merely by the antegument and fascia below that point. Svrface Marking.—T>r!i\v a, line irom tne inner side of the head of the f u a t o a pomt midwav between the two mallcoh. 1 his me from a point an inch and a quarter below the head of the fibula wiU mark the course ""'XpuT/Anatomy.-T^o anterior tibial artery fshable to be injured in fractures of theANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY 721 lower third of the tibia, on account of its close proximity to the bone. The application of a ligature to the vessel is rarely required, except in cases of wound or for traumatic aneurysm. The operation in the upper third of the leg is attended -with great difficulty on account of the depth of the vessel from the surface. An incision about four inches in length is made in the line of the artery to about a hand's breadth below the level of the knee-joint. The skin and superficial structures having been divided and the deep fascia exposed, the wound must be carefully dried, its edges retracted, and the white line separating the Tibialis anticus from the Extensor longus digitorum sought for. When this has been clearly defined, the deep fascia is to be divided in this line, and the Tibialis anticus separated from adjacent muscles with the handle of the scalpel or a director until the interosseous membrane is reached. The foot is to be flexed in order to relax the muscles, and upon drawing them apart the artery will be found lying on the interosseous membrane with the nerve on its outer side or on the top of it. The nerve should be drawn outwards, and the venee comites separated from the artery and the needle passed around it. To tie the vessel in the lower third of the leg above the ankle-joint, an incision about three inches in length should be made through the integument between the tendons of the Tibialis anticus and Extensor proprius hallucis muscles, the deep fascia being divided to the same extent. The tendon on either side should be retracted, when the vessel, accompanied by the venae comites, will be seen lying upon the tibia, with the nerve on the outer side. Branches.—The branches of the anterior tibial artery are: Posterior recun-ent tibial. Muscular. Superior fibular. Internal malleolar. Anterior recurrent tibial. External malleolar. The posterior recurrent tibial (a. recurrens tibiahs posterior), an inconstant branch, is given off from the anterior tibial before that vessel passes through the interosseous space. It ascends in front of the Popliteus muscle, which it supplies, and anastomoses with the lower articular branches of the pophteal artery, giving an offset to the superior tibio-fibular jomt. The superior fibular is sometimes derived from the anterior tibial, sometimes from the posterior tibial. It passes outwards, romid the neck of the fibula, through the Soleus, which it supplies, and ends in the substance of the Peroneus longus. The anterior recurrent tibial (a. recurrens tibialis anterior) arises from the anterior tibial, as soon as that vessel has passed through the interosseous space ; it ascends in the Tibialis anticus muscle, ramifies on the front and sides of the knee- joint, and assists in the formation of the circumpatellar plexus by anastomosing with the articular branches of the pophteal, and with the anastomotica magna. The muscular branches are numerous ; they are distributed to the muscles which He on either side of the vessel, some piercing the deep fascia to supply the mtegument, others passing through the interosseous membrane, and anastomosing with branches of the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries. The internal malleolar (a. malleolaris anterior mediahs) arises about two inches above the articulation, and passes beneath the tendons of the Extensor proprius hallucis and Tibialis anticus, to the inner side of the ankle, upon which it ramifies, anastomosing with branches of the posterior tibial and internal plantar arteries and with the internal calcanean from the posterior tibial. The external malleolar (a. malleolaris anterior lateralis) passes beneath the tendons of the Extensor longus digitorum and Peroneus tertius, and supplies the outer side of the ankle, anastomosing with the anterior peroneal artery, and with ascending twigs from the tarsal branch of the dorsahs pedis. DoRSAiis Pedis Artery (fig. 622) The dorsalis pedis artery (a. dorsalis pedis), the continuation of the anterior tibial, passes forwards from the bend of the ankle along the tibial side ot tlie dorsum of the foot to the back part of the first intermetatarsal space, ^^ here it divides into two branches, the dorsalis hallucis and communicating. ■Relations.—This vessel, in its course forwards, rests upon the anterior hga- a^T*i° r^^*' ankle-joint, the astragalus, navicular, and middle cuneiform bones, and the ligaments connecting them, being covered by the integument, fascia and anterior annular ligament, and crossed near its termination by the innermost tendon of the Extensor brevis digitorum. On its tibial side is the tendon of 3 A722 ANGIOLOGY the Extensor proprius liallucis ; on its fibular side, the innermoBt tendon of the Extensor longus digitorum, and the termination of the anterior tibial nerve. It is accompanied by two veins. Peculiarities in size.-Tho dorsal artery of the foot may be larger than usual, to compe^X or a deficient plantar artery; or its terminal branches to the toes ay be abS tte toes then being supplied by the internal plantar ; or its place may be taken ^^*°lSn'LVhTart^^^^^ lying external to the line between of the foot by a drawn from the centre of the space between the two malleoh to the side. Branches—The branches of the dorsalis pedis are: rjig^^g^j Dorsalis hallucis. Metatarsal—Interosseous. Communicating. The tarsal (a tarsea laterahs) arises from the dorsahs pedis, as that vessel crossi thrna^cular bone ; it passes in an arched direction outwards, lying upon Te tarsal bonrs and covered by the Extensor brevis digitorum; it supphes tins muscrand tL articulations of the tarsus, and anastomoses with branches from the metatarsal external malleolar, peroneal, and external plantar artenes. t'taWl la. arcuat;)'arises a httle -terior to the preceding , it passe uvon the outer three Dorsal interossei, and in the clefts between the t^^^^^^ the outer border of the first metatarBal J^.f Z JS. beneath the second toes divides mto two °"''„^'i"Sir^^^^^^ ^e°e.°'-^rXSTa.^ef i^"Vp^ l^S'S ^ides of the great and ''Thermmunicating dips do™ into heads of the Erst dorsal interosseoos mnsele and iel It here mves oS of the great and second toes. Posterior Tibial Artery (fig. 620) The posterior tibial artery (a. ^^V^^^ ^^^1^ border of the PopUteus muscle, opposite ^'^^^j;,;;^^^ it approaches fibula; it extends obliquely downwards anc^^^ as t descen^^^^^ n^^ the in^er side of the leg. lymg ^la, .m^^^^^ ^^^^ tuberosity Tth: it^'^^^^^-^^ ^^^"^"^ '^""^'^ into the internal and exterml planUir arteries.723 POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY Relations.—The posterior tibial artery lies successively upon the Tibialis posticus, the Flexor longus digitorum, the tibia, and the back part of the ankle- joint. It is covered by the deep transverse fascia, which separates it above from the Gastrocnemius and Soleus muscles : at its termination it is covered by the Abductor hallucis muscle. In the lower third of the leg, where it is more super- ficial, it is covered only by the integument and fascia, and runs parallel with the inner border of the tendo Achillis. It is accompanied by two veins, and by the posterior tibial nerve, which lies at first to the inner side of the artery, but soon crosses it, and is, in the greater part of its course, on its outer side. Behind the inner malleolus, the tendons and blood-vessels are arranged, under cover of the internal annular ligament, in the following order from within outwards : first, the tendons of the Tibialis posticus and Flexor longus digitorum, lying in the same groove, behind the inner malleolus, the former being internal. External to these is the posterior tibial artery, having a vein on either side; and, still more externally, the posterior tibial nerve. About half an inch nearer the heel is the tendon of the Flexor longus haUucis. Peculiarities in size.—The posterior tibial is not infi-equently smaller than usual, or absent, its place being supplied by a large peroneal artery, which passes inwards at the lower end of the tibia, and either joins the small posterior tibial artery, or continues alone to the sole of the foot. Surface Marking.—The course of the posterior tibial artery is indicated by a line drawn from a point an inch below the centre of the popliteal space to midway between the tip of the internal malleolus and the centre of the convexity of the heel. Applied Anatomy.—The apphcationof a ligature to the posterior tibial maybe required in cases of wound of the sole of the foot, attended with great haemorrhage, when the vessel should be tied at the inner ankle. In cases of wound of the posterior tibial, it will be necessary to enlarge the opening so as to expose the vessel at the wounded point, excepting where the vessel is injured by a punctured wound from the front of the leg. In cases of aneurysm from wound of the artery low down, the vessel should be tied in the middle of the leg. To tie the posterior tibial artery at the ankle, a semilunar incision, convex backwards, should be made through the Integument, about two inches and a half in length, midway between the heel and inner ankle, or a little nearer the latter. The subcutaneous cellular tissue having been divided, a strong and dense fascia, the internal annular ligament, is exposed. This ligament is continuous above with the deep fascia of the leg, covers the vessels and nerves, and is intimately adherent to the sheaths of the tendons. This having been cautiously divided upon a director, the sheath of the vessels is exposed, and, being opened, the artery is seen with one of the venae comites on either side. The aneurysm needle should be passed round the vessel from the heel towards the ankle, in order to avoid the posterior tibial nerve, care at the same time being taken not to include the venae comites. The vessel may also be tied In the lower third of the leg by making an incision about three inches in length, parallel vnth the inner margin of the tendo Achillis. The internal saphenous vein being carefully avoided, the two layers of fascia must be divided upon a director, when the artery is exposed along the outer margin of the Flexor longus digitorum, with one of Its venae comites on either side, and the nerve lying external to It. Ligature of the posterior tibial in the middle of the leg is a very difficult operation, on account of the great depth of the vessel from the surface. The patient being placed in the recumbent position, the injured limb should rest on its outer side, the knee being partially bent, and the foot extended, so as to relax the muscles of the calf. An incision about four mches in length should then be made through the Integument, a finger's breadth behind the inner margin of the tibia, care being taken to avoid the internal saphenous vein. The deep fascia having been divided, the margin of the Gastrocnemius is exposed, and must be drawn aside, and the tibial attachment of the Soleus divided. The artery may now be felt pulsating beneath the deep fascia, about an Inch from the margin of the tibia. The fascia ha^^ng been divided, and the limb placed in such a position as to relax A ^y^^^^^^ °^ ^^^f *8 much as possible, the veins should be separated from the artery and the aneurysm needle passed round the vessel from without inwards, so as to avoid woundmg the posterior tibial nerve. Branches.—The branches of the posterior tibial artery are: Peroneal. Muscular. Nutrient. Communicating. Internal calcanean. fib T^*^ peroneal (a. peronsea) lies, deeply seated, along the back part of the ubular side of the leg. It arises from the posterior tibial, about an inch below 3a2724 ANGIOLOGY the lower border of the PopUteus muscle, passes obliquely outwards to the fibula and then descends along the inner side of that bone, contained in a fibrous canal between the Tibialis posticus and the Flexor longus hallucis, or m the substance of the latter muscle. About two inches above the outer malleolus it dl^^des into two terminal branches, the anterior and posterior peroneal. , , , Re ationrThis vessel'lies at first upon the Tibialis posticus, and then for the greater part of its course, in a fibrous canal between the ongi"S ^he F exoi lon-us hallucis and Tibialis posticus, covered or surrounded by the fibres o the Flexor longus hallucis. It is covered, in the upper part of f course, by the Soleus and deep transverse fascia ; below, by the Flexor longus hallucis. Peculiarities in origin.-The peroneal artery may arise three inches below the PopUteus, ''''\t':^L7:^l'^l:ne.l is sometimes enlarged, and takes the place of the dorsal artery of the foot. The branches of the peroneal are : Muscular. Communicating. Nutrient. Posterior peroneal. Anterior peroneal. External calcanean. Muscular brar.ches.-The peroneal artery, in its course gives oS branches to the Soleus. Tibialis posticus. Plexor longus hallucis, and The mctrient artery (a. nutntia fibulae) f PPl^«\*^f^^^j;^-,33„^s membrane, about two The anterior peroneal (ramus Pf fo'^-^.^) P^^^^^^^^^^ ^leTand, pS do'wn beneath inches above the outer maUeolus reach the f^^* "f^*^^^',^^^^ out^r side ,.It'Z:rXZ'^^l raXlMrmlS^ting b^ranch of the posterior tibial- , K^i^jn^ thp inferior tibio-fibular articulation to the The pmtirior peroneal passes 'J»™>™°'™ back ot the ertemal malleolus, to 'f^^^'f »''^^"t^iS^^^^^ "'»«• -Virc*rrrL£rtrc'=t^^^^^^ rs»=toi'aSi ?uTi.rb'L?»:£ iS^^ ~ The nutrient (a. utttri.ta tibi») of the «WXtaSst£^^^^^^^ *lKlSSlr.Sor«^^^^ »te distributed to the Soleus and deep muscles along the back of -...^gX j^js transversely across .heKrir «oph| =35. end, heneath the Fie.or ^which arise from the posterior tibial 3^^^^JJ• J "^XTo^t th heel, and to the to the fat and integument behind the t'^'^'J" f;^^^ '^^^^^^^^ fhe peroneal and internal muscles on the inner ^ide of the sole, anas o^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^-^^^ malleolar and, on the back of the heel, with the jxternal ca ^^^^^ The internal plantar a. plantaris ^^'^^^'^^j^^^^^^ foot. It is at first than the external, passes forwards ^1°"? t^.?^" ,^Vand the Flexor brens situated above the Abductor hallucis, and the^^ef ^ metatarsal bone, digitorum, both of which it supplies At ^he ba e o tn ^^^^^^^ ^^^^EXTERNAL PLAOTAE, ARTERY 725 accompany the digital branches of the internal plantar nerve and join the plantar distal arteries of the three inner spaces. °The external plantar (a. plantaris lateralis), much larger than the internal, passes obUquely outwards and forwards to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. It then timis inwards to the interval between the bases of the first and second metatarsal bones, where it anastomoses with the communicating branch from the dorsalis pedis artery, thus completing the plantar arch. As this artery passes outwards, it is first placed between the os calcis and Abductor hallucis. Fig. 623.—The plantar arteries. FiQ. 624.—The plantar arteries. Superficial view. Deep view. and then between the Flexor brevis digitorum and Flexor accessorius ; as it passes forwards to the base of the little toe, it hes more superficially between the Flexor brevis digitorum and Abductor minimi digiti, covered by the deep fascia and integument. The remaining portion of the vessel is deeply situated ; It extends from the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe to the back part of the first interosseoiis space, and forms the plantar arch ; it is convex forwards, lies below the tarsal ends of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones and the corresponding Interosseous muscles, and upon the Adductor obliquus hallucis. Surface Harking.—The course of the internal plantar artei-y is represented by a line drawn from the mid-point between the tip of the internal malleolus and the centre of the convexity of the heel to the middle of the under surface of the great toe; the external plantar by a line from the same point to within a finger's breadth of the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal bone. The plantar arch is indicated by a line drawn from this point J-e. a finger's breadth internal to the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal bone, transversely across the foot to the back of the first interosseous space. Applied Anatomy.—Wounds of the plantar arch are always serious, on account of the depth of the vessel and the important structures which must be interfered with in an attempt to hgature it. They must be treated on similar lines to those of wounds of the palmar arches (see page 682). Pi-essure locally, combined with elevation of the hmb, may m some cases be suflacient to arrest the bleeding, but this faihng an attempt should be made to find the bleecUng point and hgature it. Should this prove unsuccessful, it may e necessary to ligature the superficial femoral, as ligature of the anterior and posterior tibial arteries may not be sufficient to control the haemorrhage, and it is safer and quicker to tie the femoral under the circumstances.726 ANGIOLOGY Branches.—The plantar arch, besides distributing numerous branches to the muscles, integument, and fascise in the sole, gives off the following branches : Posterior perforating. Digital—Anterior perforating. The posterior perforating (rami perforantes) are three small branches, which ascend through the back part of the outer three interosseous spaces, between the heads of the Dorsal interosseous muscles, and anastomose with, the mterosseoua branches from the metatarsal artery. . The digital branches (aa. metatarsese plantares) are four m number, and supply the outer three toes and half the second toe. The first anses from the outer side of the plantar arch, and is distributed to the outer side of the little toe, passing in its course beneath the Abductor and Flexor brevis minimi digiti. ilie second, third, and fourth rmi forwards along the interosseous spaces, and on arnving at the clefts between the toes divide into collateral branches (aa. digitales plantares), which supply the adjacent sides of the outer three toes and the outer side of the second. Near to its point of bifurcation, each digital artery sends upwards, through the fore part of the corresponding interosseous space, a small branch, tne anterior perforating miery, which anastomoses with the correspondmg mterosseous branch of the metatarsal artery. , , .j r 4. From the description given it mil be seen that both sides of the outer three toes and the outer side of the second toe, are suppUed by branches from the plantar arch ; both sides of the great toe, and the inner side of the second, are supplied by the arteria magna hallucis. THE VEINS The veins convey the blood from the capiUaries of the different parts of the body to the heart. They consist of two distinct sets of vessels, the ^"'Thr^uTmVn'aTveins are concerned in the circulation in the lungs. Unlke othe™sels^of this kind, they contain arterial blood, which they return from the lungs to the left auricle of the heart. . . thp^ The Systemic Veins are concerned in the general circulation , they return the venous blood from the body generaUy, to the right auricle of the ^^"^The Portal Vein, an appendage to the systemic venous system, is con- fined to the abdominal cavi??, ancf returns the venous ^lood from the spleen and the viscera of digestion to the liver This vessel ramifies in the sute of the Hver and breaks up into a minute network of capillaries, ^rom tnese capmarieT t^^^^^^^ is cLveyed by the hepatic vems to the inferior vena '^'ihe veins, like the arteries, are found in -early every tissue of the body They commeAce by minute plexuses which receive t^i^. bl«°dJrom laries The branches which have their commencement m these ^^^^s unjte together Sito trunks, and these, in their- passage towards he constan ^y infrease m size as they receive tributaries, J^^'^ ilVe entSe are larger and altogether more numerous than the ^^'ter^^^^^^^ the ^ter al t^e capacity of the venous system is much greater than t \f of the arterial capacity of the pulmonary veins, however, ""^^ pulmonary arteries. Since the combmed area of the ^maUer venous wancn STeater^than that of the main trunlcs, the venous sys em ma^^^^^^ to a cone, the summit of which corresponds to tl^e lifjt, its base w^^^ periphery'of the body. In form, the veins are ey^^i^^jA^'-^i;^^^^^^ ?hei?waUs, however, collapse when the vessels are ^^^'^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ of their surfaces is interrupted at I'^ f^i^^.^y.fsht const indicate the existence of valves in their ^"tenOT. ihey^ i however, the same calibre so long as they receive no branclies The veins communicate very freely with «^other espe^^^^^^ regions of the body ; and this <^ommun.caUon e^^^^^ asVeU as between the smaUer branches J^^f'XroUruction would be cranium, and between the vems of the ^c^.'^' ''^^^^^^^.^^ ^^^^^ large and attended with imminent danger to the cerebral venous sjstem, a g727 THE VEINS very frequent anastomoses are found. The same free communication exists between the veins throughout the whole extent of the spinal canal, and between the veins composing the various venous plexuses in the abdomen and pelvis, e.g. the spermatic, uterine, vesical, and prostatic. Veins have thinner walls than arteries, the difference in thickness being due to the smaller amount of elastic and muscular tissues. The superficial veins usually have thicker coats than the deep veins, and the walls of the veins of the lower limb are thicker than those of the upper. The minute structure of these vessels has been described in the section on Histology (pages 59 and 60). The systemic veins are subdivided into three sets, viz. superficial and deep veins, and venous sinuses. The Superficial or Cutaneous Veins are found between the layers of the superficial fascia, immediately beneath the integument; they return the blood from these structures, and communicate with the deep veins by perforating the deep fascia. The Deep Veins accompany the arteries, and are usually enclosed in the same sheaths with those vessels. With the smaller arteries—as the radial, ulnar, brachial, tibial, peroneal—they exist generally in pairs, one lying on each side of the vessel, and are called vence comites. The larger arteries— such as the axillary, subclavian, popliteal, and femoral—have usually only one accompanying vein. In certain organs of the body, however, the deeji veins do not accompany the arteries ; for instance, the veins in the skull and spinal canal, the hepatic veins in the Uver, and the larger veins returning blood from the bones. Venous Sinuses are channels wliich, in their structure and mode of distribution, differ altogether from the veins. They are found only in the interior of the skuU, and consist of canals formed by a separation of the two layers of the dura mater; the outer coat consists of fibrous tissue, the inner of an endothelial layer continuous with the lining membrane of the veins. THE PULMONARY VEINS The pulmonary veins (venae pulmonales) return the arterialised blood from the lungs to the left auricle of the heart. They are four in number, two for each lung, and are destitute of valves. They commence in a capillary network upon the walls of the au-sacs, where they are continuous with the capUlaiy ramifications of the pulmonary artery, and, joining together, form one vessel for each lobule. These vessels, uniting successively, form a single trunk for each lobe, three for the right, and two for the left lung. The vein fi'om the middle lohe of the right lung generally unites with that from the upper lobe, so that ultimately two trunks from each lung are formed ; they perforate the pericardium and open separately into the upper and back part of the left auricle. Occasionally the three veins on the right side remain separate. Not infrequently, the two left pulmonary veins terminate by a common opening. Within the lung, the branches of the pulmonary artery are in fiont, the veins behiad, and the bronchi between the two. At the root of the lung, the upper pulmonary vein lies in front of and a httle below the pulmonary artery ; the lower is situated below the other structures in the lung root, and on a plane posterior to the upper vein. Behind the pulmonary artery is the bronchus. Within the pericardium, their anterior surfaces are invested by the serous layer of this membrane. The right pulmonary veins pass behind the right auricle and superior vena cava; the left in front of the thoracic aorta. Applied Anatomy.—Thrombosis of larger or smaller branches of the pulmonary veins 18 common in inflamed areas of the lung, or as a consequence of pressure from tumours, but it does not give rise to any special symptoms.ANGIOLOGY 728 THE SYSTEMIC VEINS The systemic veins may be arranged into three groups : 1. The cardiac veins. 2. The veins of the head and neck, upper extremity, and thorax, wliicli termiiiate in the superior vena cava. 3. The veins of the lower extremity, abdomen, and pelvis, which terminate in the inferior vena cava. CARDIAC VEINS The coronary sinus (sinus coronarius) is a wide venous channel about an mch in length which receives the majority of the veins draining the blood from the substance of the heart. It is situated m the posterior part ot the auriculo-ventricular groove, and is covered by muscular fibres from the lett auricle. It terminates in the right auricle between the opening of the mfenor vena cava and the auriculo-ventricular aperture, its orifice being guarded by a semilunar valve, the wZw. o/T/^efeestMS. . Its tributaries are the great, small, and middle cardiac vems, the posterior vein of the left ventricle, and the oblique vem of MarshaU, all of which, except the last, are provided with valves at then- orifices. Fig. 625.—Base and postero-inferior surface of heart. Vena azygos major Left puVmonarij veins Oblique vein of Marshall Left coronary vein Left marginal vein Bight pulmonary veins Eight coronary vem Posterior vein of left ventricle Middle cardiac vein 1. The great cardiac or left coronary vein (v. cordis magiia) begms at the apex of the heart and ascends along the antenor ^^^-"l^,"^"}!^^^^^^^ base of the ventricles. It then curves to the left^m the f"/^^^^^ to the back of the heart, and opens mto the left ^^^^^'''^li E It receives tributaries from the left auricle and from ^^"^f 5^ Jargu^ the left marginal vein, is of considerable size, and ascends along the left margm '^^Thrsmall cardiac or right coronary vein (v. ^or^J>^:iJ^^ groove between the right auricle and ventricle; and opens mto the right cxtrenutyCAEDIAC VEINS 729 of the coronary siiius. It receives blood from the back of the right auricle and ventricle; its largest tributary, the right marginal vein, ascends along the right naargin of the heart and joins it in the auriculo-ventricular groove. 3. The middle cardiac vein (v. cordis media) commences at the apex of the heart, ascends in the posterior interventricular groove, and ends in the coronary sinus near its right extremity. 4. The posterior vein of the left ventricle (v. posterior ventriculi sinistri) ascends on the back of the left ventricle to the coronary sinus, but may end in the great cardiac vein. 5. The oblique vein of Marshall (v. obliqua. atrii sinistri) is a small vessel which descends obliquely on the back of the left auricle and ends in the coronary sinus near its right extremity; it is continuous above with the vestigial fold of Marshall, and the two structures form the remnant of the left Cuverian duct. The following cardiac veins do not terminate in the coronary sinus : (1) the anterior cardiac veins (vv. cordis anteriores), comprising three or four small vessels which collect blood from the front of the right ventricle and open into the right auricle. The right marginal vein frequently opens into the right auricle, and is therefore sometimes regarded as belonging to this group. (2) The veins of Thebesius {vy. cordis minimfe), consisting of a number of minute veins which arise in the muscidar wall of the heart; the majority open into the auricles, but a few terminate in the ventricles. VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK The veins of the head and neck may be subdivided into thi-ee groups : 1. The veins of the exterior of the head and lace. 2. The veins of the neck. 3. The veins of the diploe and the interior of the cranium. Veins of the Exterior of the Head and Face (fig. 626) The veins of the exterior of the head and face are: Frontal. Superficial temporal. Supra-orbital. Internal maxillary. Angular. Temporo-maxillary. Facial. Posterior auricular. Occipital. The frontal vein (v. frontalis) commences on the anterior part of the skull in a venous plexus which communicates with the anterior tributaries of the temporal vein. The veins converge to form a single trunk, which runs downwards near the middle line of the forehead parallel with the vein of the opposite side. The two veins are joined, at the root of the nose, by a transverse branch, called the naml arch, which receives some small veins from the dorsum of the nose. Occasionally the frontal veins join to form a single trunk, which bifurcates at the root of the nose into the two angular veins. At the root of the nose the veins diverge, and, each at the inner angle of the orbit, joins the supra-orhital vein, to form the angular vein. The supra-orbital vein (v. supraorbitalis) commences on the forehead, com- numicatmg -with the anterior temporal vein, and runs downwards and inwards, superficial to the Occipito-frontalis muscle; it receives tributaries fi-om the neighbouring structures, and joins the frontal vein at the inner angle of the orbit to form the angular vein. Previous to its junction with the frontal vein, it sends through the supra-orbital notch into the orbit a branch which communicates mth the ophthalmic vein. As this vessel passes through the notch, it receives a diploic vein from the diploe of the frontal bone, through a foramen at the bottom of the notch. The angular vein (v. angularis), formed by the junction of the frontal and supra-orbital veins, runs obliquely downwards and outwards, on the side of the root ot the nose, to the level of the lower margin of the orbit, where it becomes the lacial vein. It receives the veins of the ala nasi on its inner side, and the superior palpebral veins on its outer side ; it comnnmicates with the ophthalmic vein, tnus estabhshing an important anastomosis between the facial vein and the cavernous sinus.ANGIOLOGY 730 The facial vein (v. facialis anterior) commences at the side of the root of the nose, being a direct continuation of the angular vein. It hes behind the facial artery and follows a less tortuous course. It runs obliquely downwards and outwards, beneath the Zygomaticus major and minor muscles, descends along the anterior border of the Masseter, crosses over the body of the lower jaw, with the facial artery, and passes obhquely outwards and backwards, beneath the Platysma and cer^'ical fascia superficial to the submaxillary gland. It unites with the anterior division of the tempore-maxillary vein to form a large trunk, the common facial vein (v. facialis communis), which enters the internal jugular vein. Fig. 626.—^Veins of the head and neck. . Frontal Communicating branch itilh ophthalmic vein Angular ngual Pharyngeal Superior thyroid From near its termination a communicating ^^^-f^J^J^.'^l'^l^^^^^^ Tu^S border of the Sterno-mastoid to ]om the lower part of the anteno ] g ^^^Tributaries._The facial vein -eives, neaj M^^f tm Sl^^t^^ municating tributary of considerable size, ^^^,^J|i^^;";;Sr and inferior llabial, plexus. It is also joined by the inferior palpebral, the ^V'^^^^; submental: fhe buccal and the n^a««^t<^"'=/«"^^;, ^^tld trthe Sus around the tonsil l^dTor;:iatrthe t^J^^—^ the submaxillary gland ; and, generally, the ranine vein.VEINS OF THE HEAD AND FACE 731 Applied Anatomy.—There are some points about the facial vein which render it of great importance in surgery. It is not so flaccid as are most superficial veins, and, in consequence of this, remains more patent when divided. It has, moreover, no valves. It communicates freely with the intracranial circulation, not only at its commencement by the angular and supra-orbital veins which communicate -with the ophthalmic vem, a tributary of the cavernous sinus, but also by the deep facial vein, which communicates through the pterygoid plexus \vith the cavernous sinus by branches which pass through the foramen ovale and foramen laccrum medium (see page 730). These facts have an important bearing upon the surgery of some diseases of the face ; for on account of its patency the facial vein favours septic absorption, and therefore any phlegmonous inflam- mation of the face following a poisoned wound is liable to set up thrombosis in the facial vein, and detached portions of the clot may give rise to purulent foci in other parts of the body. On account of its communications mth the cerebral sinuses, these thrombi are apt to extend upwards into them, and so induce a fatal issue; this has been known to follow facial carbuncle. The superficial temporal vein (v. temporalis superficialis) commeuces on the side and vertex of the skuU in a plexus which commmiicates -with the frontal and supra-orbital veins in front, the corresponding vein of the opposite side, and the posterior auricular and occipital veins behind. From this network anterior and posterior branches arise, and imite above the zygoma to form the trmik of the vein, which is joined in this situation by a large vein, the middle temporal (v. temporalis media), from the substance of the Temporal muscle. It then crosses the posterior root of the zygoma, enters the substance of the parotid gland, and imites with the internal maxillary vein to form the tempore-maxiUary vein. Tributaries.—The temporal vein receives in its course some parotid veins, articular veins fi-om the temporo-mandibular joint, anterior auriciilar veins from the external ear, and a vein of large size, the transverse facial (v. transversa faciei), from the side of the face. The middle temporal vein, previous to its junction with the temporal vein, receives the orbital vein, which is formed by some external palpebral branches, and passes backwards betM^eeu the layers of the temporal fascia. The pterygoid plexus (plexus pterygoideus) is of considerable size, and is situated between the Temporal and External pterygoid, and partly between the two Pterygoid muscles. It receives tributaries corresponding wdth the branches of the internal maxillary artery. Thus it receives the middle meningeal, the deep temporal, the pterygoid, masseteric, buccal, alveolar, some palatine veins, and the inferior dental, and a branch which communicates with the ophthalmic vein through the spheno-maxillary fissure. This plexus communicates very freely with the facial vein ; it also communicates with the cavernous sinus, by branches through the foramen Vesalii, foramen ovale, and foramen lacerum medium, at the base of the skull. The internal maxillary vein (v. maxillaris interna) is a short trunk which accompanies the first part of the internal maxillary artery. It is formed by a confluence of the veins of the pterygoid plexus, and passes backwards between the internal lateral ligament and the neck of the mandible, and imites with the temporal vein to form the temporo-maxillar}^ vein. The temporo-maxiUary vein (v. facialis posterior), formed by the union of the temporal and internal maxillary veins, descends in the substance of the parotid gland, superficial to the external carotid artery but beneath the facial nerve, between the ramus of the mandible and the Sterno-mastoid muscle. It divides into two branches, an anterior, which passes inwards to join the facial vein, and a posterior, which is joined by the posterior auricular vein and becomes the external jugular. The posterior auricular vein (v. auricularis posterior) commences upon the side of the head, in a plexus which communicates with the tributaries of the temporal and occipital veins. It descends behind the external ear, and joins the posterior division of the temporo-maxillary vein to form the external jugular. It receives the stylo-mastoid vein, and some tributaries from the back part of the external ear. The occipital vein (v. occipitalis) commences in a plexus at the back part of the vertex of the skull. From the plexus emerges a single vessel, which pierces the cranial attachment of the Trapezius and, dipping into the sub-occipital triangle, joins the deep cervical vein. Occasionally it follows the course of theANGIOLOUY 732 occipital artery instead and terminates in the internal jugular ; in other instances, it joins the posterior auricular and passes into the external jugular. As it passes across the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, it receives the mastoid vein, and thus establishes a communication with the lateral sinus. Veins of the Neck (fig. 627) The veins of the neck, which return the blood from the head and face. are : External jugular. Posterior external jugular. Vertebral. Anterior jugular. Internal jugular. The external jugular vein (v. jugularis externa) receives the greater part of the blood from the exterior of the cranium and deep parts of the face, being formed by the junction of the posterior division of the temporo-maxillary with the posterior auricular vein. It commences in the substance of the parotid gland, on a level ^vith the angle of the mandible, and runs perpendicularly Fig. 627.—^The veins of the neck, viewed from ia front. (Spalteholz.) Siibinental Lingual Inferior palatine Sterno-cleido- mastoid tmiscle Superior thyroid Descendens hypoglossi nerve Temporo- maxillary Subclavian Cephalic down the neck, in the direction of a ^^^^^^^^^S^^, to the middle of the clavicle. In its couise terminates in and in the subclavian triangle Perfo^tes tl e ^e^P/^ "^^^/g^J^nus anticus the subclavian vein, on the outer side .^^^"^b?SI'^itw^^^^^^ l^Y^r muscle. It is separated from the Sterno-mastoid b^^ ^ the deep cervical fascia, and is covered by the Platysraa, tne sup733 VEINS OP THE NECK and the integument; it crosses the superficial cervical nerve, and its upper lialf runs parallel with the great auricular nerve. The external jugular vein varies in size, bearing an inverse proportion to the other veins of the neck ; it is occasionally double. It is provided with two pairs of valves, the lower pair being placed at its entrance into the subclavian vein, the upjDer pair in most cases about an inch and a half above the clavicle. The portion of vein between the two sets of valves is often dilated, and is termed the sinus. These valves do not prevent the regurgitation of the blood, or the passage of injection fi-om below upwards. Applied Anatomy.—Venesection used formerly to be performed on the external jugular vein, but is now probably never resorted to. The anatomical point to bo remembered in performing this operation is to cut across the fiisres of the Platysma in opening the vein, so that by theu- contraction they will expose the orifice in the vein and so allow the flow of blood. Tributaries.—This vein receives the occipital occasionally, the posterior external jugular, and, near its termination, the transverse cervical, suprascapular, and anterior jugular veins ; in the substance of the parotid, a large branch of commiiuication from the internal jugular joins it. The posterior external jugular vein commences in the occipital region and returns the blood from the integument and superficial muscles in the upper and back- part of the neck, lying between the Splenius and Trapezius muscles. It runs down the back part of the neck, and opens into the external jugular just below the middle of its course. The anterior jugular vein (v. jugularis anterior) commences near the hyoid bone from the confluence of several superficial veins from the submaxillary reoion. It descends between the median hne and the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, and, at the lower part of the neck, passes beneath that muscle to open into the termination of the external jugidar, or, in some instances, into the subclavian vein (figs. 626, 627). It varies considerably in size, bearing usually an inverse pro- portion to the external jugular ; most frequently there are two'anterior jugulars, a right and left; but sometimes only one. Its tributaries are some laryngeal veins, and occasionally a small thyroid vein. Just above the sternum, the two anterior jugular veins communicate by a transverse trunk, which receives tributaries from the inferior thyi'oid veins ; each also communicates with the internal juo-ular. There are no valves m this vein. " The internal jugular vein (v. jugularis interna) collects the blood from the interior of the cranium, fi-om the superficial parts of the face, and from the neck. It is directly continuous with the lateral sinus, and commences in'the posterior compartment of the jugular foramen, at the base of the skull (fig. 636). At Its origin it is somewhat dilated, and this dilatation is called the sinus, or 6?J6 (bulbus vense jugularis superior). It runs down the side of the neck in a vertical direction, lying at first on the outer side of the internal carotid artery, and then on the outer side of the common carotid, and at the root of the neck umtes with the subclavian vein to form the innominate vein. At its commence- ment It Ues upon the Rectus capitis lateralis, behind the internal carotid arterv and the nerves passing through tlie jugular foramen ; lower down, the vein and artery he upon the same plane, the glosso-pharvngeal and hypot^lossal nerves passing forwards between them ; the pneumogastric descends between and behmd them in the same sheath, and the spinal accessory runs obliquely outwards, behind or in front of the vein. At the root of the neck the ri'rht mternal jugular vein is placed at a little distance from the common carotid aitery, and crosses the first part of the subclavian artery, M-hile the left internal jugular vem usually overlaps the common carotid artery. The left vein is nsually smaller than the right, and each contains a pair of valves, which are placed about_an inch above the termination of the vessel. Tributaries.—The vem receives in its course the inferior petrosal sinus, rue common facial, lingual, pharyngeal, superior and middle thvi'oid veins, and sometimes the occipital. At its point of junction with the common facial vein m'^^™^** gi'eatly increased in size. tl,„ petrosal sinus (sinus petrosus inferior) leaves the skull through «ie anterior compartment of the jugular foramen, and joins the vein near its commencement.ANGIOLOGY 734 The lineual veins (vv. linguales) commence on the dorsum, sides, and under surface of the tongue, and, passing backwards along the course of the hngual artery and its branches, terminate in the internal^ ]ugular. The ramneymi a, branch of considerable size, commencing below the tip of the tongue, may ]oni the lingual • generally, however, it passes backwards on the Hyo-glossus muscle in company with the hypoglossal nerve, and joins the facial. The Dharyngeal veins (w. pharyngete) begin m the fharyngeal plexus on the wall of the pharynx, and, after receiving meningeal tributanes, and the Vidian and spheno-palatine veins, terminate in the internal jugular. They occaeionally open into the facial. Ungual, or superior thyroid vem. The superior thyroid vein (v. thyreoidea superior) (fig. 628) begins m the substance and on the surface of the thyroid gland, /"butanes corx;espondang with the branches of the superior thyroid artery, and terminates m the Wr part of the internal jugular vein. It receives the superior laryngeal and crico-thyroid veins. Fig. 628.—The veins of the thyroid body. Pneumogastnc nerve- External carotid artery Superior thyroid artery Superior thyroid vein ddle thyroid vein The middle thyroid vein (v thyreoidea media) ^^^^^^l^ ^ ^; soS: ix^ ^ «^ ^°*X^S'irocoipital veins have been described above. Applied AruUomy.-T^e internal ^^^^T^^ ^^^^ thrombosis of the lateral smus from supjrat^o^ ^^^^ performed septic emboU being «a^"«^,V^V ^^^^ S^rsatlfact^^^^^^^ The cases are generally those recently in many ca^es with the '^o^* ^.^^''^j'^^^^^^^^ pus which perhaps has existed for of chronic disease of the middle ^'^'"'/^ seSic i^ spreading to the many years. The patient is ^^'^^.^^ 7 the lateral sinus extending to the mastoid cells, and setting up septic735 VEINS OF THE NECK the surgeon should proceed to ligature the internal jugular vein, by an incision along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, the centre of which is on a level with the greater cornu of the hyoid bone. The vein should be ligatured in two places and divided between. After the vessel has been secured and divided, the lateral sinus is to be thoroughly cleared out, and by removing the ligature from the upper end of the divided vein, all septic clots removed by syringing from the sinus through the vein. If haemorrhage occur from the distal end of the sinus, it can be arrested by careful plugging with antiseptic gauze. The internal jugular vein is also surgically important, because it is surrounded by a large number of the deep chain of cervical lymphatic glands ; and when these are enlarged in tuberculous or maUgnant disease, they are apt to become adherent to the vessel, rendering their removal difficult and often dangerous. The proper course to pursue in these cases is to ligature the vessel above and below the glandular mass, and resect the included portion together wth the glands. Cardiac pulsation is often demonstrable in the internal jugular vein at the root of the neck. There are no valves in the innominate veins or superior vena cava; in consequence, the systole of the right auricle causes a wave to pass up these vessels, and when the conditions are favourable this wave appears as a somewhat feeble flicker over the internal jugular vein at the root of the neck, quite distinct from, and just preceding, the more forcible impulse transmitted from the underlying common carotid artery and due to the ventricular systole. This auricular systolic venous impulse is much increased in conditions in which the right auricle is abnormally distended with blood or is hypertrophied, as is often the case in disease of the mitral valves. In Stokes-Adams' disease (p. 611) it is this pulsation which gives evidence of the fact that the auricles are beating faster—often two or three times faster—than the ventricles. The vertebral vein (v. vertebralis) is formed in the suboccipital triangle, fi'om numerous small tributaries which spring from the intraspinal venous plexuses and issue from the spinal canal above the posterior arch of the atlas. They unite with small veins from the deep muscles at the upper and back part of the neck, and form a vessel which passes outwards and enters the foramen in the transverse process of the atlas, and descends, forming a dense plexus around the vertebral artery, in the canal formed by the foramina in the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae. This plexus unites at the lower part of the neck into a single trunk, which emerges from the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and terminates at the root of the neck in the back part of the innominate vein near its origin, its mouth being guarded by a pair of valves. On the right side, it crosses the first part of the subclavian artery. Tributaries.—The vertebral vein receives in its course a vein from the inside of the skull through the posterior condyloid foramen ; muscular veins, from the muscles in the prevertebral region ; posterior-spinal veins, from the back part of the cervical portion of the vertebral column ; intra-spinal veins, from the interior of the spinal canal; the anterior and posterior vertebral veins ; and close to its termination it is sometimes joined by the first intercostal vein. The anterior vertebral vein commences in a plexus around the transverse processes of the upper cervical vertcbraj, descends in company wdth the ascending cervical artery between the Scalenus anticus and Kectus capitis anticus major muscles, and opens into the vertebral vein just before its termination. The posterior vertebral or deep cervical vein (v. cervicaUs profunda) accompanies the profunda cervicis artery, lying between the Complexus and bemispinahs colli. It commences in the suboccipital region by communicating branches from the occipital vein and tributaries from tlje deep muscles at the back of the neck. It receives tributaries from the plexuses around the spinous processes of the cervical vertebrse, and terminates in the lower end of the vertebral vem. Veins of the Diploe (fig. 629) The diploic veins (venae diploicae) occupy channels in the cancellous tissue of the cranial bones. .They are large and exhibit at irregular intervals pouch-like dilatations ; tneir walls are thin, and formed of endothelium resting upon a layer of elastic tissue. In adult life, so long as the cranial bones are distinct and separable, these vems are confined to the particular bones ; but in old age, when the sutures are united, they communicate with each other, and increase in size. They736 ANGIOLOGY communicate, in the interior of the cranium, with the menmgeal veins and the sinuses of the dura mater ; and, on the exterior of the skull, with the veins of the pericranium. They consist of (1) frontal (v. diploica frontalis) which opens into the supra-orbital vein by an aperture in the supra-orbital notch • (2) the anterior temforal (v. diploica temporalis anterior), which is confined chiefly to the frontal bone, and opens into one of the deep temporal Fig. 629.—Veins of the diploe as displayed by the removal of the outer table of tlie skull. i^liipSiiii z^.,tt:'Ji:^^'^'oL:::iT^^ ss^^^^o *e occipital vrin oi intemaUy iSto the lateral sinus or lorcular HerophJi. Veins of the Bbain The veins of the brain (vena. ^^''^^^^'^^Zly^Sn T^y ptcTtt owing to the absence -^tLfoT mSrSfge^^^^^^^ tlie Iu?a mater, araclmoid membrane, and the "^^'^^'^.^^^ 4 divided into two sets, and open into the cramal venous sinuses, ihey may oe uix cerebral and cerebellar. mmerficial vems which are placed The cerebral veins ^o^^^^^ o (f, X^^^ - ¥rc '^S^^ "^^r^S^^^^^^- o,. ither sWe.rctur,> tlic blood from the ^--^To ™r*°^^^^^^^ hemisphere ; they pass forwards »™X.> ^rface of the hemsphere i fissure, where they receive the XXS .la "1 *e arachuo.d Zt:Z;:. of L current of the - .^^^^J' „„ ,„e lower part, of The inferior cerebral veins v». "'S^ O"" «' '"P"737 VEINS OF THE BRAIN the surface of the temporal lobe, and, running along the fissure of Sylvius, opens into the cavernous simis. Another large vein, the (jrcat anastomotic vein of Trolard, connects the superior longitudinal and cavernous sinuses, by becoming contiimous above with one of the superior cerebral veins, and below by joining the middle cerebral vein. A third, the posterior anastomotic vein of Ldbhc, connects the middle cerebral vein with the lateral sinus by coursing over the temporal lobe. A fourth, the basilar vein (v. basalis [Rosenthali]), is formed at the anterior perforated spot by the iinion of («) a small anterior cerebral vein which accompanies the anterior cerebral artery, (6) the deef Sylvian vein which receives tributaries from the island of Reil and neighbouring convolutions, and runs in the lower part of the Sylvian fissure, and (c) the inferior striate veins which leave the corpus striatum through tlie anterior perforated space. The basilar vein passes backwards round the crus cerebri, and ends in the vein of Galen ; it receives tributaries from the interpedun- cular space, the descending horn of the lateral ventricle, the uncinate gyi"us, and the mid-brain. Small inferior cerebral veins from the under surface of the frontal lobe end in the cavernous sinus; others from the temporal lobe terminate in the superior petrosal and lateral sinuses. The deep cerebral veins (vv. cerebri internee) are collected into two large trunks, named the veins of Galen. Each of these is formed by the union of two veins, the vena corporis striati and the choroid vein (v. choroidea). They run backwards, parallel with one another, between the layers of the velum interpositum, and beneath the splenium of the corpus callosum, where they unite to form a short trunk, the vena magna Galeni (v. cerebri magna), whicli ends in the anterior extremity of the straight sinus. Just before their union each receives the corresponding basilar vein. The vena corporis striati commences in the groove between the corpus striatum and thalamus, i-eceives numerous veins from both of these parts, and unites behind the anterior pillar of the fornix with the choroid vein, to form one of the vente Galeni. The choroid vein runs along the whole length of the outer border of the choroid plexus, and receives veins from the hippocampus major, the fornix and the corpus callosum. The cerebellar veins are placed on the surface of the cerebellum, and are disposed in two sets, superior and inferior. The superior cerebellar veins (vv. cerebelli superiores) pass partly forwards and inwards, across the superior vermis, to terminate in the straight sinus and venfe Galeni, partly outwards to the lateral and superior petrosal sinuses. The inferior cerebellar veins (vv. cerebelli inferiores), of large size, terminate in the lateral, supei-ior petrosal, and occipital sinuses. Sinuses of the Dura Mater The sinuses of the dura mater (sinus durse matris) are venous channels which dram the blood from the brain ; they are situated between the two layers of the dura mater and lined by endothelium continuous with that which lines the veins, rhey are fourteen in number, of which six are single and situated in the middle line ; ttie other eight are paired, four being placed on either side of the middle line. They may be divided into two gi-oups : (1) a postero-superior group situated at the upper and back part of the skull, and (2) an antero-inferior group at the base of the skull. The postero-superior group comprises the Superior longitudinal sinus. Straight sinus. Inferior longitudinal sinus. Two lateral sinuses. Occipital sinus. The superior longitudinal sinus (smus sagittalis superior) (fig. 630) occupies wie attached margin of tlie falx cerebri. Commencing at the foramen ca3cum, inrough which it communicates by a small brancii with the veins of the nasal loss^. It runs from before backwards, grooving the inner surface of the uontal, the adjacent margins of the two parietals, and the superior division ot the crucial ridge of the occipital; near the internal occipital protuberance 11 deviates to one or otiier side (usually the right), and is continued as the Loiresponcling lateral sinus. The sinus is triangular in section ; it is narrow in nont, and gradually increases in size as it passes backwards. Its inner surface 3 BANGIOLOGY 738 presents the openings of the superior cerebral vems, winch run, for the most part from behind forwards, and open chiefly at the back part of the smus, their orifices being concealed by fibrous folds; numerous fibrous bands (chordcB Willisii) extend transversely across the mferior angle of the sirius ; and lastly small openmgs communicate with venous lacunw m the dura mater, into' wliich small white bodies, the glandules Pacchionn, project. The FiO 630 —Superior longitudinal sinus laid open after removal of the 8kull-oap. The chorda3 VVillisu are clearly seen. The parasinoidal sinuses are also we 1 shown; from two of them probes are passed into the superior longitudmal sinus. (1 oiner and Charpy.) Dural vein Longiiudijial si7ius Para- sinoidal sinus Parasinoidal smas superior longitudmal siuu, receives the -P^r °eSr^"\hf ^^^^^^^^^ friSX'-pSaSuVtv^^^^^^^^^^^^ the ^..ieta, —. SotWe thiombosis from soppur.tive processes m these parts. The inferior longitudinal sinus (!™Jlf^J^'S^^^^ :-ht=Sc«io»^^^^ The straight s nus smus rectus) (figs. 631, ^•*^)triancular in juncUon ofSe falx cerebri with ^j-^^-^^^^X a'Xut obi ^uel^^^^^^^ section, increases in size as it proceeds wards-^^^^^ to the and backwards from the termmation of ^« "^^^^K^^^^^^^ longitudinal lateral sinus of the opposite side to t;^^;^ "V^^ ^/eross branch with sinus is prolonged, ts "al pa^^^^^^ ^.^^^^ tiie l~iraS&'and fhTi^it^S^Uar feins. A few transverse bands cross its interior.SINUSES OF THE DURA MATER 739 The lateral sinuses (figs. 631, 632) are of large size, and commence at the internal occipital protuberance; one, generally the right, being the direct Fig. 631.—Sagittal section of the skull, showing the sinuses of the dura mater. Torcular Herophili Fig, 632.—^Tentorium cerebelli from above. Opiic nerre Internal carotid arteri/ Torcular Heroph ili continuation of the superior longitudinal sinus, the otlier of the straight sinus. Jiach lateral sinus (sinus transversus) passes outwards and forwards, describing a slight curve with its convexity upwards, to the base of the petrous portion 3 B 2ANUIOLUGY 740 of the temporal bone, and is situated, in this part of its course, m the attached marcrin of the tentorium cerebelli ; it tlien leaves the tentorium and curves downwards and inwards to reach the jugular foramen, where it terminates in the internal jugular vein. In its course it rests upon the inner surface of the occipital, the postero-inferior angle of tlie parietal the mastoid portion of the temporal, and on the occipital, agam, just before its termination. The portion of the sinus which occupies the groove on the mastoid part of the temporal is known as the sigmoid sinus. The lateral smuses are frequently of unequal size, that formed by the superior longitudinal sinus being the larger; Jhey ^ncreas; in size as they proceed from behind forwai;ds. The horizontal portion is of a prismatic form, the curved portion semicylindrical. The inner Lrfaces are smooth, and not crossed by the fibrous bands fo^^d^^.the other sinuses They receive the blood from the superior petrosal smuses at the base of ihe petrouJportion of the temporal bone; they communicate with the veins of the pericranium by means of the mastoid and condyloid emissary veins , and thev ieceive some of the inferior cerebral and inferior cerebellar veins, and some veinl from the diploe. The petrosquamous .m«., when present runs backwards along the junction of the petrous and squamous portions of Se oiamen iSSn by several smaU veins, one of which joms the termmatioi ortlie Sal bSus ; i^^ communicates with the posterior spmal veins, and Xti'^^^^^^^^^^ of (oonfluens sinuum) is an? ^ connecred across the middle line .dth the commencement of the lateral sinus of the opposite side. . The antero-inferior group of smuses comprises the Two cavernous sinuses. Circular sinus. Tavo superior petrosal sinuses. Two inferior petrosal smuses. Basilar sinus. Internal carotid artery Cavernous sinus The cavernous sinuses are so -med Jecau^^^^^^^^^^ structure, due to then- being ^^^^ l^y n^er^^^^ They are of irregular form, larger behind than in nont,^ ^^J^^^^^ ^^^^ FXG. 633.-ObUque section thx-ough the BP^enoid extending from the cavernous sinus. tT U^^^s^t^^^^^ the temporal bone. Each cavernous sinus (sinus cavernosus) receives anteriorly the superior ophthal- mic vein through the sphenoidal fissure, and opens behind into the petrosal sinuses. On tlie inner wall of each sinus is the internal carotid artery, accompanied by filaments of tlie carotid plexus and by the sixth nerve ; and on tlie outer wall, the third and fourth nerves, and the ophthalmic and superior maxillary divisions of the fifth nerve (fig. Mo). These parts are sepa,.ted from the blood ^j^^^fS ^l^^^^n^ ^ lining iembrane, which <^«"t'nji^ an ith t^^^^^^^^ ^^^^ ,,,, U cavernous sinus receives some "fJ^f.^^f^Ji j^j;^ extends inwards on the splmio-parielal sinus (sinus sphenopaiietahs), ^^hlch cxic Third nerve Fourth nerve OphlJudmic nerve Sixth nerve Superior viaxillanj nerve741 SINUSES OF THE DURA MATER under aspect of the lesser wing of the sphenoid. It communicates with the lateral sinus by means of the superior petrosal sinus; with the internal jugular vein through the inferior petrosal smus and through a plexus of veins on the internal carotid artery ; with the pterygoid venous plexus through the foramen Vesalii or foramen ovale, and with the angular vein through the ophthalmic vem. The two sinuses also communicate with each other by means of the circular sinus. Applied Anatomy.—An arterio-venous communication may be established between the cavernous sinus and the internal carotid artery, giving rise to a pulsating tumour in the orbit. These communications may be the result of injury, such as a bullet wound, a stab, or a blow or fall sufficiently severe to cause a fracture of the base of the skull in this situation, or they may occur from the rupture of an aneurysm or a diseased condition of the internal carotid artery. The symptoms are sudden noise and pain in the head, followed by exophthalmos, swelling and congestion of the lids and conjunctivae, and development of a pulsating tumour at the margin of the orbit, with thrill and the characteristic bruit; accompanying these symptoms there may be impairment of sight, paralysis of the iris and orbital muscles, and pain of varying intensity. In some cases the opposite orbit becomes affected by the jjassage of the arterial blood into the opposite sinus by means of the circular sinus ; or the arterial blood may find its way through the emissary veins (see page 743) into the j)terygoid plexus, and thence into the veins of the face. Pulsating tumours of the orbit may also be due to traumatic aneurysm of one of the orbital arteries, and symptoms resembling those of pulsating tumour may be produced by pressure on the ophthalmic vein, as it enters the sinus, by an aneurysm of the internal carotid artery. Ligatm-e of the internal or common carotid artery has been performed in these cases with some degree of success. Of recent years more attention has been paid to thrombosis of the cavernous sinus than formerly, and it is now well established that caries in the upper parts of the nasal fossae and suppuration in certain of the accessory sinuses of the nose, are frequently responsible for septic thrombosis of the cavernous sinuses, in exactly the same way as lateral sinus thrombosis is due to septic disease in the mastoid process. Many deaths from meningitis, hitherto unaccounted for, are in reality due to the spread of an infection from an ethmoidal or sphenoidal air cell to the cavernous sinus, and thence to the meninges. It is obvious, therefore, that no case of chronic nasal suppuration should be left untreated. The ophthalmic veins (fig. 634) are two in number, superior and inferior. The superior ophtJialmic vein (v. ophthaknica superior) comiects the angular vein at the inner angle of the orbit with the cavernous sinus ; it pursues the Fig. 634.—^\''eins of orbit. (Poirier and Charpy.) same course as the ophthalmic artery, and receives tributaries corresponding to the branches derived from that vessel. Forming a short single trunk, it passes through the inner extremity of tlie sphenoidal fissure, and terminates m the cavernous sinus.742 ANGIOLOGY The inferior opthalmic vein (v. ophtlialmica inferior) receives the veins from the floor of the orbit, and either passes out of the orbit through the spheno- maxillary fissure to join the pterygoid plexus of veins ; or else, passing back- wards through the sphenoidal fissure, it enters the cavernous sinus, either by a separate opening, or more frequently in common with the superior ophthalmic vein The circular sinus (smus curcularis) (fig. 635) is formed by two transverse vessels, the anterior and posterior intercavernous sinuses, which connect together the two cavernous sinuses ; one passes m front of and the other behind the pituitary body, and thus they form with the cavernous smuses a venous circle around that body. The anterior one is usually the larger of the two and one or other is occasionally absent. _ _ . , i The superior petrosal sinus (smus petrosus superior) is situated along the superior border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, m the attached margin of the tentorium. It is small and naiTow, and connects the cavernous and lateral sinuses, opening into the latter as it curves down- wards on the inner surface of the mastoid part of the temporal bone. It receives Fig. 63.5.—The sinuses at the base of the skull. Torcular Herophili some cerebellar and inferior cerebral veins, and veins from ,he tympanic inferior petrosal sinus tZ^^T^^"^ t^^^ groove formed by the junction of the P°f ^^i,''""";;;?^ It begins in the It the temporal witir the ,P'°X the a^eS^^^^ °' S air. & aK vS f^m Ih? mc'dnBa, pons, and nndc surface of the cerebellum. „„nfi,pr in the iueular foramen is as The exact relation of the parts to "^f^.^^ "^-ith the menmgeal follows (fig. 636) : the inferior P^t'^^^^'jl ^"^ 'f,/^i3'Sii^^^^^^^ obUquely dowmvards branch of the ascending pharvngeal ^'^t^^y-^^^^.''^^ b^ck part of the foramen and backwards; the lateral sinus ^s. ^iff at l^^^J^ P ^j^, are the with a meningeal branch of the «^«l«*?\ff ' „^ glos80-pharyn|eal,pneumoga8tric, and spmal accessory nerves.743 SrNTJSES OF THE DURA MATER structures are divided from each other by two processes of fibrous tissue. The junctiou of the inferior petrosal sinus with the internal jugular vein takes place superficial to the nerves, so that these latter lie a little internal to the venous channels in the foramen. The basilar sinus (plexus basUaris) consists of several interlacing veins between the layers of the dura mater over the basilar process of the occipital bone, which serve to connect the two inferior petrosal sinuses. They communicate with the anterior spinal veins. Emissary veins.—The emissary veins are vessels which pass through apertures in the cranial wall and estabUsh commimications between the sinuses inside the skull and the veins external to it. Some of these are always present, others only occasionally so. They vary much in size in different individuals. The principal emissary veins are the following. 1. A vein (emissarium mastoideum), almost always present, runs through the mastoid foramen and unites the lateral sinus with the posterior auricular or with the occipital vein. 2. A vein (emissarium Fig. 636.—Relation of structures in jugular foramen. parietale) passes through the parietal foramen and connects the superior longi- tudinal sinus with the veins of the scalp. 3. A plexus of minute veins (rete canahs hypoglossi) traverses the anterior condyloid foramen and joins the lateral sinus with the vertebral vein and deep veins of the neck. 4. An inconstant vein (emissarium condyloideum) passes through the posterior condyloid foramen and connects the lateral sinus with the deep veins of the neck. 5. A plexus of veins (rete foraminis ovaHs) imites the cavernous sinus with the pterygoid aaid pharyngeal plexuses through the foramen ovale. 6. Two or three small veins run through the foramen lacerum medium and connect the cavernous sinus with the pterygoid and pharyngeal plexuses. 7. There is sometimes a small vein passing through the foramen of Vesalius connecting the same parts. 8. A plexus of veins (plexus venosus caroticus internus) traverses the carotid canal and unites the cavernous sinus with the internal jugular vein. 9. A vein is transmitted through the foramen cJEcum and connects the superior longitudinal smus with the veins of the mucous membrane of the nose.AJS'GIOLOGY 744 A'ppUed Anatomy.—These emissary veins together with the other communications between the intra- and extra-cranial circulation are of great importance in surgery. Inflammatory processes commencing on the outside of the skull may travel inwards through them, and lead to osteo-phlebitis of the diploe and inflammation of the membranes of the brain. To this in former days was to be attributed one of the principal dangers of wounds of the scalp. By means of these emissary veins blood may be abstracted almost directly from the intracranial circulation—e.g. leeches applied behind the ear di-ain blood almost directly from the lateral sinus, through the mastoid vein. Again, epistaxis in children will frequently relieve severe headache, the blood which flows from the nose being partly derived from the superior longitudinal sinus by means of the vein passing through the foramen caecum. VEINS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY AND THORAX The veins of the upper extremity are divided into two sets, superficial and deep. i .1 • i. l The superficial veins are placed immediately beneath the mtegument between the two layers of superficial fascia. Fig. 637.—The veins on the dorsum of the hand. (Bourgery.)745 VEINS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY Cephalic vein Both sets of vessels are provided with valves, which are more numerous in the deep than in the superficial. The superficial veins of the upper extremity 638.—The superBoial veins of the upper extremity. are. the Digital. Metacarpal. Cephalic. Basilic. Median. Digital veins.—The dorsal digital veins pass along the sides of the fingers and are joined to one another by oblique communicating branches. Those from the adjacent sides of the index, middle, ring, and little fingers unite to form three dorsal metacarpal veins (vv. metacarpete dorsales), which terminate in a dorsal venous arch (fig. 637) opposite the middle of the metacarpus. The arch is convex distally ; its radial extremity is joined by the dorsal digital vein from the radial side of the index finger and by the dorsal digital veins of the thumb, and is prolonged upwards as tlie cephalic vein. The ulnar extremity of the arcli receives the dorsal digital vein of the uhiar side of the little finger and is continued upwards as the basUic vein. A com- municating branch fre- quently connects the dorsal venous arch with the cephalic vein about the middle of the forearm. The palmar digital veins (vv. digitales volares) on each finger are connected to one another and to the dorsal digital veins by oblique vessels iy^'- intercapitulares). Ihey drain into a venous plexus which is situated over the tlienar andhypo- thenar eminences and ficross the front of the wrist. The cephalic vein (v dorsal Musculo- cutaneous nerve Accessory cephalic vein Cephalic vein Basilic vein Vena mediana cubiti Basilic vein Internal cuta- neous 7im've Median vein cephalica) (fig. 638) begins in tlie radial end of the venous arch and winds upwards round the radial border of the forearm,746 ANGIOLOGY receiving tributaries from both surfaces. Below tlie front of the elbow it gives off the vena mediana cubiii, which passes across to join the basilic. It then ascends in front of the elbow in the groove betw-een the Brachio-radialLs and the Biceps. It crosses superficial to the musculo-cutaneous nerve and ascends in the groove along the outer border of the Biceps. In the upper third of the arm it passes between the Pectoralis major and the Deltoid, where it is accom- panied by the descending or humoral branch of the acromio-thoracic artery. It pierces the costo-coracoid membrane and, crossmg the axillary artery, ends in the axillary vein just below the clavicle. The accessory cephalic vein (v. cephalica accessoria) arises either from a small tributary plexus on the back of the forearm or from the ulnar side of the dorsal venous arch ; it joins the cephalic below the elbow. In some cases the accessory cephalic springs from the cephalic above the Avrist and joins it agam higher up. A large oblique branch frequently connects the basilic and cephahc veins on the back of the forearm. j r The basilic vein (v. basilica) (fig. 638) beghis in the ulnar end of the dorsal venous arch. It runs up the posterior surface of the ulnar side of the forearm and inclines forw^ard to the anterior surface below the elbow, where it is joined by the vena mediana cubiti. It ascends «bUquely in the groove between the Biceps and Pronator teres across the brachial artery, from which it is separatedby the bicipital fascia; filaments of the internal cutaneous nerve pass both in front of and behind this portion of the vein. It then runs upwards along the inner side of the Biceps, perforates the deep fascia a little below the middle of the arm and, ascending on the inner side of the brachial artery to the lower border of the Teres major, is contmued onwards as the axii ary vein The median vein (v. mediana antibrachii) drams the plexus on the pahnar surface of the hand. It ascends on the ulnar side of the front of f^J^^^^ and ends in the basiUc vein or m the vena mediana cubiti; in a small P^oP^^f of cases it divides into two branches, one of which ]oms the basihc, the other the cephalic, below the elbow.* Applied Anatomy-Venesection is generaUy performed at the bend of ^l^ow and as a matter of practice the largest vein in this situation is commonly se ected Thu, is : uauTSe vlrr^ediana cubi'ti (median basiUc) and there -^f^^^^^^^^l^^^ and disadvantages in selecting this vem. The advantages .^^f beuig the largett vessel and therefore yielding a g^e^tf/^PP^^ °*J^,^°°f ^^ ^The movlble and%an be easily steadied on the bicipital ^^^^^^'.^^^^^^^^ disadvantages are, that it is m close relationship with the brachial artery separatea only by the bicipital fascia ; and formerly, when venesection was frequently practised, arterio-venous aneurysm was no uncommon result of this practice. modern IrUravenous infusion of normal saUne solution is very frequently requ^ed "^J^oj^^J surger^ for aU conditions of severe shock and after profuse l^^J^^f.^' ^^^m fs mffi of transfusion of blood l^a^^g quite sunk mto obh^^^^^ aS a'Smciln i next removed from the arm, and two three, or more P?^^ round the vein into the vem; when a sufBcient quantity has gone m, the upper ligature rouna la tied and a stitch put in the skin wound. The deep veins of th-pper extr-K^^^^^^ -fS these, unlt&g at the bases of t« flnf -, P»J "Hs ' ,„e the palm, and terminate m the tivo ,|,e radiil side of »iS%tSn:fni» ^in^tSo^o^s3= ■sn-^e&veins, and, at .he . Co.,.ltarticle b, Bo,, ..0 N.wt.a, ^'^■i'". •747 VEINS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY elbow, unite with tlie deep radial veins to form the venae comites of the brachial artery. The interosseous veins accompany the anterior and posterior mterosseous arteries. The anterior interosseous veins commence in front of the -vvrist, where they communicate with the deep radial and ulnar veins ; at the upper part of the forearm they receive the posterior interosseous veins, and terminate in the venee comites of the ulnar artery. The deep palmar veins accompany the deep palmar areh, being formed by tributaries which follow the ramifications of that vessel. They com- municate with the deep ulnar veins at the inner side of the hand, and on the outer side terminate in the venae comites of the radial artery. At the m-ist, they receive a dorsal and a palmar tributary from the thumb, and unite with the venae comites of the radial artery. The brachial veins (vv. brachiales) are placed one on either side of the brachial artery, receiving tributaries corresponding with the branches given off from that vessel; near the lower margin of the Subscapularis, they join the axillary vein ; the iimer of the two frequently joins the basilic vein. These deep veins have numerous anastomoses, not only with each other, but also with the superficial veins. The axillary vein (v. axillaris) is of large size, and is the continuation upwards of the basilic vein. It commences at the lower border of the Teres major, increases in size as it ascends, by receiving tributaries corresponding with the branches of the axillary artery, and terminates immediately beneath the clavicle at the outer border of the first rib, where it becomes the subclavian vein. This vessel is covered in front hy the Pectoral muscles and costo- coracoid membrane, and lies on the thoracic side of the axillary artery, which it partially overlaps. Near the lower margin of the Subscapularis it receives the venae comites of the brachial artery, and, near its termination, the cephalic vein. It is provided with a pan- of valves opposite the lower border of the Subscapularis muscle ; valves are also found at the terminations of the cephahc and subscapular veins. Applied Anatomy.—Since the axillary vein is superficial to and larger than the axillary artery, which it overlaps, it is more Uable to be wounded than the artery in the operation of extirpation of the axillary glands, especially as these glands, when diseased, are apt to become adherent to it. When it is wounded, there is always a danger of air being drawn iato its interior, and death resulting. To avoid wounding the axillary vein in the extirpation of glands from the axilla, it is always advisable to expose the vein as soon as possible ; no sharp cutting instruments should be used after the axiUary cavity has been freely exposed; and care should be taken to use no imduo force in isolating the glands (see page 773). Should the vein bo so imbedded in a malignant deposit that the latter cannot be removed without taking away a part of the vein, this must be done after the vessel has been hgatured above and below. The subclavian vein (v. subclavia), the continuation of the axillary, extends from the outer border of the fii'st rib to the inner end of the clavicle, where it unites with the internal jugular to form the innominate vein. It is in relation, in front, with the clavicle and Subclavius muscle ; behind and above, with the subclavian artery, from which it is separated internally by the Scalenus anticus muscle and phrenic nerve. Below, it rests in a depression on the first rib and upon the pleura. It is usually provided with a pair of valves, which are situated about an inch from its termination. The subclavian vein occasionally rises in the neck to a level with the third part of the subclavian artery, and in one or two instances has been seen passing with this vessel behind the Scalenus anticus. Tributaries.—This vein receives the external jugular vein, sometimes the anterior jugular vein, and occasionally a small branch from the cephalic. At its angle of junction with the internal jugular, the left subclavian vein receives the thoracic duct; while the right subclavian vein receives the right lymphatic duct. The innominate or brachio-cephalic veins (vv. anonymae dextra et sinistra) (fig. 639) are two large trunks, placed one on either side of the root of the neck, and formed by the union of the internal jugular and subclavian veins of the corresponding'side.ANGiOLUClY 74:8 The right innominate vein is a short vessel, an inch in length, %yhich commences at the inner end of the clavicle, and, passing almost vertically downwards, joins with the left innominate vein just below the cartilage of the first rib. close to the right border of the sternum, to form the suioerior vena cava. It lies superficial and external to the innominate artery ; on its right side is the phrenic nerve, and the pleura is here interposed between it and the apex of the lung. This vein, at the angle of junction of the internal jugular with the subclavian, receives the right vertebral vein ; and, lower down, the right internal mammary, right inferior thyroid, and sometimes the right superior intercostal veins. The left innominate vein, about two and a half inches m length, and larger than the right, passes from left to right across the upper part and front of the chest, at the same time inclining downwards, to unite with its fellow of the opposite side, and form the superior vena cava. It is in relation, m front, with the manubrium sterni, from which it is separated by the Sterno- hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, the thymus gland or its remams, and some loose areolar tissue. Behmd it are the three large arteries arising from the arch of the aorta, together with the vagus and phrenic nerves. This vessel is joined by the left vertebral, left internal mammary, left mfenor thyroid, and the left superior intercostal veins, and occasionally some thymic and pen- cardiac veins. There are no valves m the innominate veins. Peculiarities.—Som&tim.&s the innominate veins open separately into the right auricle ; ia such cases the right vem takes the ordmary course of the superior vena cava : but tne left vem—left siiperior vena cava, as it is termed-after commumcatmg by a smaU brancli ^yith the right one, passes m front of the root of the left lung, and turning to the back of the heart, receives the cardiac vems, and terminates in the back of the right auricle. Ihis occasional condition in the adult is due to the persistence of the early fcetal condition, and is the normal state of things in birds and some mammalia. The internal mammary veins (w. mammarise mtemse), two to each mternal mammary artery, follow the course of that vessel, and recei%'e tributaxies corre- sponding to its branches. The two veins unite into a single trunk, which terminates in the corresponding innominate vem. The superior phrenic vem (i.e. the vein accompanying the arteria comes nervi phrenici) usuaUy opens into the mternal ^'^ TbS'Sflrior thyroid veins (vv. thyreoidese inferiores) two frequently three or four, in number, arise in the venous plexus on the thyroid body, communicating ^tl the middle akd superior thyroid veins. They form a P^-- trachea, behind the Stemo-thyi'oid muscles. From this P^^^^^'f.-^^^l,^;" ^l^l^ and joins the left innominate trunk, and a right vem passes obhquely do^^nwards :nd oXards across the innominate artery to open into the nght umomin^ vein, just at its junction with the superior vena cava. The.e ^ ems rece ve oesophageal, tracheal, and inferior laryngeal veins, and are pro^1ded ^vlth Nahe. at, their termination in the innominate veins. . , ,, j r ^ The supSr intercostal veins (right and left) dram the blood from two o three of the iSercostal spaces below^he first. The rtght vein v. mtercostah suprema dextra) passes downwards and inwards opens into the vena az^o^ maior • the left vf intercostalis suprema simstra runs across the arch of the aort. ri o^ens iX Ihe left innominale vein. ^y-^VxT^lxXtT^^^ and left superior phrenic vein, and communicates belo^^ \Mth t^he \ eua azygob Snor superior The vein from the first intercostal space opens directly into the corresponding ^^^^^^^^^^^^Z blood which is conveyed to the heart from'tJre™:f%re'Ser half of .the body ^^^^^^ from two inches and a half to three mches m lengtb, fo™*?^, V'^ ^"^^^^^^ of the two innominate veins. It commences immediately b'^l^^V. ^•^^.J^i^J^f,^: Sf JiS first rib close to the sternum on the r^lii s,^, and descaid ng^^^ right costal cartilag of which is to the right side. of cervical fascia which is continuous with that sac, these sipar.ui749 VEINS OF THE THORAX thymus gland, and fi-oni the second and third costal cartilages ; behind, \vith the root of the right lung. On its right side, it is in relation wath the phrenic nerve Fio. 639.—The vense cavae and azygos veins, with their formative branches. 3_^.inierior juguliir Superior thyroid- Middle thyriiiil External jugular Mediastinal and perica rdia c Suprarenal and right pleura ; on its left side, with the commencement of the innominate itery and the ascending part of the aorta, the latter overlapping it. Just before it750 ANGIOLOGY enters the pericardium, it receives tlie vena azygos major and several small veius from the pericardium and parts in the mediastinum. The portion contamed within the pericardium is covered, in front and laterally, by the serous layer of that membrane. The superior vena cava has no valves. The azygos veins (fig. 639) are three in number ; they collect the blood from the majority of the intercostal spaces, and connect the superior and inferipr von;e cava5. . „ The vena azygos major (v. azygos) commences opposite the first or second lumbar vertebra, by a branch, the ascending lumbar vein (v lumbahs ascendens) connecting the right lumbar veins; sometimes by a branch froni the riaht renal vein, or from the inferior vena cava. It enters the thorax thi-ough the aortic opening in the Diaphragm, and passes along the right side of the vertebral column to the fourth thoracic vertebra, where it arches forward over the root of the right lung, and terminates in the superior vena cava just before that vessel enter! the pericardium. While passing through the aortic opemng. it herwith the thoracic duct on the right side of the aorta; and m the thorax it lies upon the intercostal arteries, on the right side of the aorta and thoracic duct and is partly covered by pleura. , , , , • , . , • Tributaries.-It receives the subcostal-vein and the lower ten intercostal veins of the right side, the upper two or three of these latter opemng first of all mto Jhe righf superior intercostal vein. It receives the azygos minor vems severa oesophageal, mediastinal, and pericardial veins; near its termination, the right Schial v^in ; andgen^rally the right superior intercostal vein Afewunper eet valves are fou^nd in this /ein; but its tributaries are provided with complete ""^^ The intercostal veins on the left side, below the three upper mtercostal spaces! usuaUy form two trunks, named vena azygos mmor inferior and vena ^'ThlvSialz^gts minor inferior (v. hemiazygos) commences iii the lumbar redon by a branch (ascendmg lumbar) comiecting the lumbar veins or by a branch from the left renal. It enters the thorax, through the left crus of the to join the vena a™ major or ends >" leKperirmtercostal receives the left bronchial vein. Applied Anato.ny.-J. obstruction of the ^^^^ Talr^l^TSeSg ~ of the'prmcipal meai^ by which the ^^^^Zml^Zi^R ^Z^^^ do the superior and inferior venje cavse, ^^^^ commumcat^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^ the ascending lumbar veins and with many ^^^^^ on the vessel Thrombosis of the superior vena cava is ofteuest due J^^ ^ from a by an aneurysm or a tumour; /^°^'^y/'l\«V°^,°"J .^le 2^^^^ superior cava takes place rapidly, and is rapidly fatal. The bronchial veins (vv. bronchiales) ret^^^^^^^^ J--J^^J ^fdTopeS m^o and from the structures at the roots "f^l^^l^^^gVuilf the c side, ii J the left the vena azygos major, near its termmat o^^^ .^^erior A considerable quantity superior intercostal vem "^^^'^'^/-^Y^ ^ iZ^^ arteries is returned of the blood which is earned to the lungs thiougli the promn to the left side of the heart through the pulmonary veins.751 SPINAL VEINS The Spinal Veins (figs. 640, 641) The spinal veins may be arranged into four groups, viz. : 1. The extra-spinal veins. 2. The iutra-spinal veins, between the vertebrae and the dura mater. 3. The veins of the bodies of the vertebrae. 4. The veins of the spinal cord. 1. The extra-spinal veins form an anterior and a posterior spinal plexus. The anterior spinal plexus (plexus venosi vertebrales anteriores) is situated on the front of the bodies of the vertebrae, and is best marked in the cervical region. It consists of relatively small Fig. 640.—Transverse section of a thoracic vertebra, showing the spinal veins. Posterior spinal plexus vessels, which anastomose with the intraspinal veins and the veins from the bodies of the vertebrae, and open into the deep cervical, intercostal, lumbar, and lateral sacral veins in the re- spective regions of the vertebral column. The posterior spinal plexus (plexus venosi vertebrales pos- teriores) receives tributaries fi'om the integument of the back and from the muscles in the vertebral grooves. It forms a complicated network, which surromids the spinous processes, the laminae, and the transverse and articular processes of all the vertebrae. It communicates with the intra- spinal veins by branches which perforate the ligamenta subflava and others which pass through the intervertebral foramina. It terminates by joining the ver- tebral veins in the neck, the intercostal veins in the thorax, and the lumbar and sacral veins in the loins and pelvis. 2. The intra-spinal veins (w. spinales internae) are situated between the dura mater and the vertebrae. They consist of two longitudinal plexuses, one of which runs along the posterior surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrae {anterior longitudinal spinal veins); the other (posterior Fig. 641.—Vertical section of two thoracic longitudinal spinal veins) is vertebriE, showing the spinal veins. pieced on the inner or anterior surfaces of the laminae of the vertebrae. The anterior longitudinal spinal veins consist of two large, tortuous veins, which extend from the foramen magnum to the base of the coccyx, being placed one on either side of the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae, along the mar- gin of the posterior common ligament. They commiinicate through the foramen magnum with the basilar and occipital , . . sinuses, and give off branches Which umte above the atlas to form the commencement of the vertebral vein. They W f""^™^'^^^^*^ '^^tli one another opposite each vertebra by a transverse trunk. Which passes beneath the posterior common ligament; these transverse branches receive the vena; basiverlebrales horn the interior of the vertebral bodies. The anterior longitudinal spinal veins are least developed in the cervical and sacral752 regions. They are not of uniform size througliout, being alternately enlarged and constricted. At the intervertebral foramina they communicate with the posterior spinal plexus, and with the vertebral veins in the neck, with the intercostal veins in the thoracic region, and with the lumbar and sacral vems m the corresponding regions. „ , , • v ^ i The posterior longitudinal sfinal veins, smaller than the antenor, are situatea one on either side, between the inner surfaces of the laminaj and the dura mater. Thev communicate (like the anterior), opposite the vertebrae, by transverse trunks ; and" with the anterior longitudinal veins, by lateral transverse branches, which pass from behind forwards. They join with the posterior spinal plexus by branches which perforate the ligamenta subflava, and communicate through the mterverte- bral foramina with the vertebral, intercostal, lumbar, and sacral vems. 3 The veins of the bodies of the vertebrae (w. basivertebrales) emerge from the foramina on the posterior sm-faces of the vertebral bodies. They are contained in larae tortuous channels in the substance of the bones, similar in every respect to those found in the diploc of the cranial bones. They communicate through small openings on the front and sides of the bodies of the vertebrae with the anterior spinal plexus, and converge to the principal canal which is sometimes double towards its posterior part, and open into the transverse branches which umte the anterior longitudinal veins. They become greatly enlarged in advanced age. 4 The veins of the spinal cord are situated in the pia mater and torni a minute, tortuous, venous plexus covering the entire surface of the cord. iJiey emerge chiefly fi'om the median furrows of the cord and are largest m the lumbar re-ion. In this plexus there are : (1) two median longitudmal vems, one m front of'the anterior fissure, and the other behind the posterior fissure of the cord and (2) four lateral longitudinal veins which run behind the nerve-roots. Wear the base of the skull they unite, and form two or three small trunks, ^t^^h com- rnunicate with the vertebral veins, and then terminate m the inferior cerebel ar W ' or in the inferior petrosal sinuses. Bach of the spinal nerves is accompanied by a branch as far as the intervertebral foramen; here this branch ]oms the other veins from the spinal canal. There are no valves in the spinal veins. VEINS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY, ABDOMEN, AND PELVIS The veins of the lower extremity are subdivided, Uke those of the upper, into'^to sSB,lperficial and deep :%he superficial veins are Placed benea h the integument, between the two layers of ^^P^^^^^f ^f^^e vessels Both accompany the arteries, and form the venae comites of those vessels J^om ?ets of veins are proVided with valves, which are more numerous in the deep iLn^ the superficial set. Valves are also more numerous m the ^ems t^Z^i^tSZi^^^^ren^ are the inter^l or ^nThe r'sl%T"t fa^St^h (arcus venosus dorsalis l^d^, &4&:^xtS5y iif tSrr^ s5^r r "'XTnternal or fon| saphenous vein (^-.^^tZ^^^^^ it a c-1 mences at the inner side of the venous arch on the doi sum of t e toot, it ^753 VEINS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY Fig. 642.—The internal or long saphenous vein and its tributaries. sometimes tliose on the outer side of the tliigh join to form another large vessel; so that occasionally three large veins are seen converging from different parts of the thigh towards the saphenous opening. The internal saphenous vein communicates in the foot with tiie internal plantar vein ; in the leg, witli the posterior tibial veins, by branches which perforate the tibial origm of the Soleus muscle, and also with the anterior tibial veins ; at the knee, with the articular veins ; in the thigii, with the femoral vein by one' or more branches. The valves in this vein vary from ten to. twenty in number; they are more numerous in the thigh than in the leg. The external or short saphen- ous vein (v. saphena parva) (fig. 644) commences at the outer side of the venous arch on tlie dorsum of the foot; it ascends behind the outer malleolus, and along the outer border of the tendo Achillis, across wliich it passes to reach the middle Une of the posterior aspect of the leg. Running chrectly upwards, it perforates the deep fascia in the loAver part of the popliteal space, and termmates in the popliteal vein, between the heads of the Gastrocnemius muscle. It receives numerous large tributaries from the back part of the leg, and communi- cates with the deeij veins on the dorsum of the foot, and beliind the outer malleolus. Before it perforates the deep fascia, it gives off a com- municating branch, which passes upwards and inwards to join the internal saphenous vein. The external saplienous vein contains from nine to twelve valves, one of which is always found near its termination in the popliteal vein. The external saphenous nerve lies close beside this vein. Applied Anatomy.—A varicose condition of the saphenous veins is more frequently met with than in the other veins of the body, except perhaps the spermatic and hsemorrhoidal veins. The main cause of this IS the high blood-pressure, determined chiefly by the erect position, and the length of the column of blood, which has to be propelled in an uphill direction. In normal vessels there is only just sufficient torce to perform this task ; and in those case.s where there is diminished resistance ot the walls of the veins, these vessels are liable to dilate and a varicose con- dition is set up. This diminished resistance may be due to heredity, the vein-walls oeing congenitally weak, or it may follow mnammatory conditions of the vessels. = veno*l'm w ^1°°^ pressure in the veins, caused by any obstacle to the return of'the mav nl ^ tlie pressure of a tumour, or the gravid uterus, or tight gartering, break n Pf°'^"°® ^anx. In the normal condition of the veins, the valves in their interior «■ up tue column of blood into a number of smaller columns, and so to a considerable 3cANGIOLOGY 754 extent mitigate the ill effects of the erect position ; but when the dilatation of the veins has reached a certain limit, the valves become incapable of supporting the overlying column of blood, and the pressure is increased, tending to emphasise also the varicose condition. Both the saphenous veins in the log are accompanied by nerves, the internal saphenous being joined by its companion nerve just below the level of the knee-jomt. No doubt much of the pain of varicose veins in the leg is due to this fact. Operations for the reUef of varicose veins are frequently required, portions of the veins being removed after having been ligatured above and below. It is important to note Fig. 643.—The internal saphenous vein and its tributaries at the saphenous opening. pSlnl°»here it pierces the tocial roof of th. popl.to.l .pace. The deep veins of the lower extremity accompany tlie arteries and theii braS, and are eaUed the 'f-'-'f^^J^^:^^:^^ t„e posterior tibil^eTn^™'S^JaiCo'J^^.S^^^ tinuation, of the vena, com.tes « ''.X'"„rBb„la over the interosseous Tm'brir SdXCTynSVn'neir ^"th" *e' posterior tibiai, the popliteal vein.755 VEINS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY Fig. 644.—External or short saphenous vein. The valves in the deep veins are very numerous. The popliteal vein (v. poplitea) is formed by the junction of the ven£e comites of the anterior and jjosterior tibial arteries at tlie lower border of the Popliteus muscle ; it ascends through the popliteal space to the tendinous aperture in the Adductor magnus, where it becomes the femoral vein. In the lower part of its course it is placed internal to the artery ; between the heads of the Gastrocnemius it is superficial to that vessel; but above the knee-joint, it is close to its outer side. It receives tributaries corresponding to the branches of the popliteal artery, and it also receives the external saphenous vein. The valves in this vein are usually four in number. The femoral vein (v. femoralis) accompanies the femoral artery through the upper two-thirds of the thigh. In the lower part of its course it lies external to the artery ; higher up, it is behind it; and at Poupart's ligament, it lies to its imier side, and on the same plane. It receives numerous muscular tributaries, and about an inch and a half below Poupart's liga- ment it is joined by the profunda femoris : near its termmation it is joined by the internal saphenous vein. The valves in the femoral vein are three in number. The profunda femoris vein (v. profunda femoris) receives tributaries corresponding to the per- forating branches of the profunda artery, and , through these estabhshes communications with the pophteal vein below and the sciatic vein above. It also receives the internal and external circumflex vems. The external iliac vein (v. iliaca externa) (fig. 645) commences at the termmation of the femoral, beneathPoupart'sligament, and, passing upwards along the brim of the pelvis, terminates opposite the sacro-Uiac articulation, by uniting with the internal iliac to form the common iliac vein. On the right side, it lies at fii'st along the inner side of the external Uiac artery ; but, as it passes upwards, gradually inclines behind it. On the left side, it lies altogether on the inner side of the artery. It receives, immediately above Poupart's ligament, the deep epigastric and deep circumflex iliac veins, and a small pubic vein corresponding to the pubic branch of the obturator artery. It frequently contains one, sometimes two, valves. Tributaries.—The external iliac vem receives the deep epigastric, deep circumflex iliac, and pubic veins. The deep epigastric vein (v. epigastrica inferior) IS formed by the imion of the venffi comites of the deep epigastric artery, which communicate above mth. the superior epigastric vein ; it joins the external iliac about half an inch above Poupart's hgament. The deep circumflex iliac vein (v. circumflexa ilium profunda) is formed by the union of the venas comites of the deep circumflex iliac artery, and joins the external Uiac vein about three-quarters of an inch above Poupart's ligament. the picbic vein communicates with the obturator vem in the th}Toid foramen, and ascends on the back of the pubis to the external ihac vein. ■the internal iliac vein (v. hypogastrica) (fig. 645) commences near the pper part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, passes upwards behind of t^ 1 ^^^^^ ^^^^ °* internal iliac artery and, at the brim pelvis, joins with the external iliac to form the common iliac vein. 3 c 2756 ANGIOLOGY Tributaries—With the exception of the foetal luiibiUcal vein which passes upwards and backwards from the umbilicus to the liver, and the ilio-lumbar vein which usually joins the common iliac vein, the tributaries of the internal iliac vein correspond with the branches of the internal iliac artery. It receives (a) the gluteal, sciatic, internal pudic, and obturator veins, which have their origins mitside the pelvis ; (h) the lateral sacral vems, which he in front of the sacrum , and (c) the middle hfcmorrhoidal, vesical, uterine, and vaginal vems, which originate in venous plexuses connected with the pelvic viscera. , ^ , , 1 The eluteal veins (vv. glutteEe superiores) or vena) comites of the gluteal artery, receive tributaries from the buttock corresponding with the branches of the artery ; Fig. 645.—Tlie veins of the right half of the male pehns. (Spalteholz.) Third lumbar /wmoniioid Deep \ . ciroumHe. iluic Prostatic ple.riis 'Itmurrhoida' plt.rlis £ Middle h- iiwrrtioida'. sKsar Inferior hemorrhoidal Deep dorsal vein qf penis Scrotal Vesical plexus I„ten,al pudv: they enter the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, above the ppiforuns, aiYfr': ueiW^'nite beforl ff-^^J^:^^^:^ of the sciatic arton- 2. The sciatic vems (vv glufceae in er^ anastomose with the begin on the upper part of the back of the thigh, w^iere y ^^^^^^^^ 'S::Z^^';:f:i^s^:^^ ^ n to form a sm^. stem which opens into the lower part «f .<^'^«/"*''";fj; ;j^lXrna») are the vena, comites of the ''''VEINS OF THE PELVIS 757 cavernosum, accompany the internal piidic artery, and miite to form a single vessel, which ends in the internal iliac vein. They receive the veins fiom the bulb of the m-ethra, and the superficial perineal and inferior hajmorrhoidal veins (vv. htemorrhoidales inferiores). The deep dorsal vein of the penis communicates with the internal pudic veins, but ends mainly in the vesico-prostatic venous plexus. 4. The obturator vein (v. obturatoria) begins in the upper portion of the adductor region of the thigh and enters the pelvis through the anterior part of the obturator foramen. It runs backwards and upwards on the lateral wall of the pelvis below the obturator artery, and then passes between the ureter and the internal iliac artery, to end in the internal iliac vein. 5. The lateral sacral veins (vv. sacrales laterales) accompany the lateral sacral arteries on the anterior surface of the sacrum and terminate ui the internal iliac vein. 6. The middle hsemorrhoidal vein (v. hsemorrhoidalis media) takes origin m the hajmorrhoidal plexus and receives tributaries from the bladder, prostate gland, and seminal vesicle : it runs outwards on the pelvic surface of the Levator ani to end in the internal iliac vein. The haemorrhoidal plexus surrounds the rectum, and communicates in front with the vesico-prostatic plexus in the male, and the utero-vaginal plexus in the female. It consists of two parts, an interiud in the submucosa, and an exlenuil outside the muscular coat. Below, the internal plexus presents a series of dilated pouches which are arranged in a circle around the tube immediately above the anal orifice and are connected by transverse branches. The lower part of the external plexus is drained by the inferior haemor- rhoidal veins into the internal pudic; its middle part by the middle hfemorrhoidal vein which joins the internal iliac; and its upper part by the superior haemorrhoidal vein which forms the commencement of the inferior mesenteric vein, a tributary of the portal vein. A free communication between the portal and systemic venous systems is established through the liifimorrhoidal plexus. The vesico-prostatic plexus surrounds the prostate gland and the neck of the bladder, and lies partly in the fascial sheath of the prostate and partly between the sheath and the capsule of the gland. In front it receives the deep dorsal vein of the penis ; behind, it communicates with the haemorrhoidal and vesical plexuses, and derives tributaries from the vasa deferentia and vesiculee seminales. It is di-ained into the internal iliac veins by one or more vessels on either side. The corresponding plexus in the female is named the vesico-vaginal. The vesical plexus lies on the muscular coat of the bladder, and is best marked towards -the base and sides of the viscus ; it drains into the vesico-prostatic plexus. Applied Anatomy.—The veins of the haemorrhoidal plexus are apt to become dilated and varicose, and form piles. This is due to several anatomical reasons : the vessels are contained in very loose, lax comiective tissue, so that they get less support from sun'ounding structures than most other veins, and are less capable of resisting increased blood pressure ; the condition is favoured by gi-avitation, being influenced by the erect posture, either sitting or standing, and by the fact that the superior hremorrhoidal and portal veins have no valves ; the veins pass through muscular tissue and are liable to be compressed by its contraction, especially during the act of defseoation ; they are aSected by every form of portal obstruction. The prostatic plexus of veins is apt to become congested in many inflammatory conditions in the neighbourhood, such as acute gonorrhceal prostatitis. It is owing to the free communication which exists between this and the middle htoraorrhoidal plexus that great reUef can be given by free saline purgation. Haamorrhage may be very free from the prostatic plexus after operations on that gland, but can usually be checked by hot fluid irrigation. Septic thrombosis sometimes occurs after operations, and infected emboli may find their way into the general circulation. The dorsal veins of the psnis are two in number, a superficial and a deep. The su2)erjicial vein drains the prepuce and skin of the penis, and, running backwards in the subcutaneous tissue, incHnes to the right or left, and opens into the corresponding superficial external pudic vein, a tributary of the internal or long saphenous vem. The deep vein receives the blood from the glans penis and corpora cavernosa :758 ANGIOLOGY it courses backwards in the middle line between the dorsal arteries, underneath the deep fascia, and near the root of the penis passes between the two parts of the suspensory ligament and then through an aperture between the subpubic ligament and the triaifgular ligament of the urethra, and divides into two branches, which enter the prostatic plexus. The deep vein also conmiunicates below the symph3-sis pubis with the internal pudic vein. The uterine plexuses lie along the sides and superior angles of the uterus between the two layers of the broad ligament, and communicate with the ovarian and vaginal plexuses. They are drained by a pair of uterine veins on either side : these arise from the lower part of the plexuses, opposite the OS uteri externum, and open into the corresponding internal iliac vein. The vaginal plexuses are placed at the sides of the vagma; they communicate with the uterine, vesical, and hsemorrhoidal plexuses, and are drained by the vagmal veins, one on either side, into the internal }hac vems. The common iliac veins are formed by the union of the external and internal iliac veins in front of the sacro-iliac articulation ; passing obliquely upwards towards the right side, they terminate upon the fifth lumbar vertebra, bv uniting with each other at an acute angle to form the inferior vena cava. The right common iliac (v. iliaca communis dextra) is shorter than the lett, nearly vertical in its direction, and ascends behind and then to the outer side of its corresponding artery. The left common iliac (v. ihaca communis sinistra), longer than the right and more oblique in its course, is at first situated on the inner side of the correspondmg artery, and then behmd the right common iliac. Each common iliac receives the ilio-lumbar, and sometimes the lateral sacral veins. The left receives, m addition, the middle sacral vem. No valves are found in these veins. ■,• _^ i ^.-u^, f^„„f The middle sacral veins accompanv the correspondmg artery along the tront of the sacrum, and join to form a single vein (v. sacralis media), ^^<=J in the left common ihac vein ; sometimes m the angle of junction of the two Uiac veins. Peculiarities—The left common ihac vein, instead of ioining with the right in its usuflpoSr occasionally ascends on the left side of the aorta - .^^^f - ^^J^^f.^^^ where after receivmg the left renal vem, it crosses over the aorta, and then joins ;et to form the vena cava. In these cases, the two common ihacs are comaected by a smaU communicatmg branch at the spot where they are usuaUy umted. The vena cava inferior (fig. 639) returns to the heart the blood from aU the parts beloTfhf Diaphragm. It is formed by the junction of the two fomSion^liat on the ri|ht !ide of the fifth l^-bar J^teb^^^^^^ nmvards alone the front of the vertebral column, on the right side ot tlie aorta, rrhaving reached the liver, is contained in a groove on its Posterior surf ace ?t then perorates the Diaphragm between the ^-^^ ^f,^"^^^^^^ central tendon; it subsequently mchnes fo^^^^'^^'ds f inch and piercing the fibrous pericardium, passes behind the serous pen carto t'o^pen Lo the lower Ld back part of tj-^^nght auricl^^^^^^^ of its auricular orifice is a semilunar valve, termed the valve of ?lVs LSmentary in the adult, but is of large size and exercises an important "ti^nsJ^T^'"^^^^^^^^^ Voriion of the inferior vena c-^a is ^^^^^^^^ in front, from below upwards, vdth the mesentery ''^^\ZZfZs£2'J^^SL verie portion of the duodenum, the pancreas, por a vein and he P««t«™^^^ of the liver, which partly and occasionally completely ^'^"^""^^V*'/T^-Sr^An the vertebr'al coluinn, the right Psoas ^--^e, the rightc^^^^^ ^ J\le £ p^^ the right renal and lumbar arteries, right semilunax ganglion' ^JVj J^*;"^" .^f,, of the right suprarenal body ; on the rtght side, vath the right kidney and uietei , on the Ze/i sirfe, with the aorta. • „i, ;« l^ncrth nnd is situated partlv . 8.. two o..» »hlch h.„ been ae.o,ibed by W.l.ban. i„ tbe S. H^p.'- llepoHs, vols. xvi. and xvn.VEINS OF THE ABDOMEN 759 below to the margin of the vena-caval opening in the Diaphragm, and above to the pericardium in front of and behind the root of the right lung. The intra-pericardiac part is very short, and is covered antero-laterally by the serous layer of the pericardium. Peculiarities.—In position.—This vessel is sometimes placed on the left side of the aorta, as high as the left renal vein, after receiving which it crosses over to its usual position on the right side ; or it may be placed altogether on the left side of the aorta, as far upwards as its termination in the heart: in such cases, the abdominal and thoracic viscera, together with the great vessels, are all transposed. Point of termination.—Occasionally the inferior vena cava joins the right azygos vein, which is then of large size. In such ciuses, the superior vena cava receives the whole of the blood from the body before transmitting it to the right auricle, except the blood from the hepatic veins, which passes directly into the right auricle. Applied Anatoviy.—Thrombosis of the inferior vena cava is due to much the same causes as that of the superior (see page 750). It usually causes cedema of the legs and back, without ascites ; if the renal veins are involved, blood and albumin will often appear in the lurine. An extensive collateral venous circulation is soon established by enlargement either of the superficial or of the deep veins, or of both. In the first case the epigastric, the circumflex iliac, the long thoracic, the internal mammary, the intercostals, the external pudic, and the lumbo-vertebral anastomotic veins of Braune effect the communication with the superior cava ; in the second, the deep anastomosis is made by the azygos and hemiazygos and the lumbar veins.* Tributaries.—It receives hi its course the following veins : Lumbar. ' Renal. Inferior phrenic. Right spermatic, or ovarian. Suprarenal. Hej)atic. The lumbar veins (vv. lurabales), four in number on each side, collect the blood by dorsal tributaries from the muscles and integument of the loins, and by abdominal tributaries from the walls of the abdomen, where they communicate with the epigastric veins. At the vertebral column, they receive veins from the spinal plexuses, and then pass forwards, round the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae, beneath the Psoas magnus, and terminate in the back part of the inferior cava. The left lumbar veins are longer than the right, and pass behind the aorta. The lumbar veins are connected together by a longi- tuduial vein which passes in front of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebras, and is called the ascending lumbar. It forms the most frequent origin of the corresponding vena azygos, and serves to connect the common iliac, iho-lurabar, lumbar, and azygos veins of its own side of the body. The spermatic veins (vv. spermaticse) emerge from the back of the testis, and receive tributaries from the epididymis ; they unite and form a convoluted plexus, called the spermatic plexus (plexus pampiniformis), which constitutes the greater mass of the cord : the vessels composing this plexus are very numerous, and ascend along the cord, in front of the vas deferens. Below the external abdominal ring they unite to form three or four veins, which pass along the inguinal canal, and, entering the abdomen through the mternal abdominal rmg, coalesce to form two veins, which ascend on the Psoas muscle, behind the peritoneum, lying one on either side of the spermatic artery. These unite to form a single vein, which opens on the right side into the inferior vena cava, at an acute angle ; on the left side into the left renal vein, at a right angle. The spermatic veins are provided with valves.f The left spermatic vein passes behind the iliac colon, and is thus exposed to pressure from the contents of that part of the bowel. Applied Anatomy.—The spermatic veins are very frequently varicose, constituting the condition known as varicocele. Though it is qiute possible that the originating cause of this affection may be a congenital weakness of the walls of the veins of the pampiniform plexus, still it must be admitted that there are many anatomical reasons why these veins should become varicose: viz. the imperfect support afforded to them by the loose tissue of the scrotum ; their great length ; their vertical course ; their dependent position ; * G. Blumer, in Osier and McCrae's Si/sicm of Medicine, Tjondon, IDOS, vol. iv. t Rivingtou has pointed out that val'vos are usually found at the orifices of both the right ^'^^^ spermatic veins. When no valves exist at the opening of the left spermatic vein into the left renal vein, valves are generally present in the left renal vein witliin a quarter of an inch from the orifice of the spermatic vein.—Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, vol. vii. p. 163.760 ANGIOLOGY their plexiform arrangement in the scrotum, with their termination in one small vein in the abdomen ; their few and imperfect valves ; and the fact that they may be subjected to pressure in their passage through the abdominal wall. Varicocele almost mvanably occurs on the loft side, and this has been accomited for by the facts that the left spermatic vein joins the left renal at a right angle ; that it is overlaid by the iliac colon, and that when this portion of the gut is full of ftecal matter, in cases of constipation, its weight impedes the return of the venous blood ; and that the left spermatic veins are somewhat longer than the right. . The operation for the removal of a varicocele consists m making a small mcision ]U8t over the external abdommal ring and passing an aneurysm needle round the mass of veins, taking care that the vas deferens is not included. The veins are isolated from the vas and ligatured above and below, as high and as low as possible, and the intermediate portion . cut away; the divided ends are fixed together with a suture, and the skm wound closed. The ovarian veins (vv. ovaricae) correspond with the spermatic in the male • they form a plexus in the broad Ugament near the ovary and Fallopian tube, and communicate with the uterine plexus. They terminate in the same way as the spermatic veins in the male. Valves are occasionally found m these veins. Like the uterine veins, they become much enlarged during pre^ncy^^^ veins (vv. renales) are of large size, and placed in front of the renal arteries. The left is longer than the right, and passes m front of the aorta, just below the origin of the superior mesenteric artery it receives the left spermatic, the left inferior phrenic, and generally, the left suprarenal vems. It opens into the vena cava at a sUghtly higher level than the right. The suprarenal veins (vv. suprarenales) are two m number : the right terminates in the vena cava ; the left, in the left renal or phremc vem. The inferior phrenic veins (vv. phrenicse mferiores) follow the course of the phrenic arteries ; the right ends in the mferior vena cava, the left m tne left renal vein. • .i i, 4. „„„ +v>o The hepatic veins (vv. hepatic^) commence m tlie substance ot tne liver, in the capillary termmations of the portal vem and hepatic artery and consist of two groups, upper and lower. The uvper graup / up of three large veins, wliich converge towards the posterior ^^f^J^ f ^he liver and open into the inferior vena cava, while that vessel is situated n the groove L the back part of the liver. Tl.e veins of f ^J^-^'^^JJ^^,^ number, and are of smaU size ; they come from the ''ig^^f^/J ^pigeh^^^^ The hepatic vems run smgly, and are m du-ect contact with tlie hepatic tissue. They are destitute of valves. Portal System of Veins (fig. 646) The nortal system mcludes aU the vems which dram the blood from the abdomilS part o?the alimentary canal (with ^-<^t^^e^''::Z\Zl of the rectum) and from the spleen, pancreas and fff^der. Fio^^^ viscera the blood is conveyed to the hver by the portal vein. In the substance S Siv^r the portal vein ramifies like an artery and termmates m the portnl passes through two sets of eapfflary vessels ™, (°) *1« « ™ btr^irttsSteeTO/ef fhi pSr^ei/an^d t S-huUes °'°Trr.'nortaWefn tvena port<e) is about three inehes in length and isformed at It&°Tol^Z^Zir^r«Lr vertebra by the » *? liver, where it divides into a right and ^ j« J^;,^^^^^; of S ven In corresponding branches of the hepa^^^^^^^^^^ duct and the smaU omentum it is placed behind and betxN een ^ surrounded tlie hepatic artery, the former lying to the 1 ight ot tiie i^^^^^- ivmphatic by thi hepatic plexus of nerves and is '-^^^XS inters vessels and some lymphatic glands. The right branch ot tlie portaiPORTAL SYSTEM OF VEINS 761 the risht lobe of the liver, but before doing so generaUy receives the cystic vein. '^The left branch, longer but of smaller calibre than the right, crosses tlie longitudinal fissure, gives branches to the caudate and Spigelian lobes, and then eriters the left lobe of the liver. As it crosses the longitudinal fissure it is joined in front hy a fibrous cord, the ligamentum teres of the liver or obliterated Fig. 646.—Portal vein and its tributaries. Note.—^In this diagram the right gastro-epiploic vein 0]Dens into the splenic vein ; generally it empties itself into the superior mesenteric, close to its termination. umbilical vein, and is united to the inferior vena cava by a second fibrous cord, the ligamentum venosum or obliterated ductus venosus. The tributaries of the portal vein are: Splenic. Pyloric. Superior mesenteric. Cystic. Coronaiy. Parumbilical. The splenic vein (v. lienalis) commences by five or six large branches ^■'^tum the blood from the spleen. These unite to form a single vessel, which passes from left to right, grooving the upper and back part of tlie7(52 ANGIULUUY pancreas, below the splenic artery, and terminates behind the neck oi the pancreas by uniting at a right angle witl\ the superior mesenteric to form the portal vein. The splenic vein is of large sixe, but is not tortuous like the artery. Tributaries.—The splenic vein receives the short gastnc veins, the left gastro-epiploic vein, the pancreatic veins, and the inferior mesenteric veins. (a) The short gastric veins (vv. gastrica? breves), some four or five in number, drain the fundus and left part of the greater curvature of the stomach, and pass between the two layers of the gastro-splenic omentum to terminate in the splenic vein or in one of its large tributaries. (6) The left gastro-epiploic vein (v. gastroepiploica sinistra) receives branches from the anterior and posterior surfaces of the stomach and from the great omentum ; it runs from right to left along the greater curvature of the stomach and ends m the commencement of the splenic vein. , i • , (c) The pancreatic veins (w. pancreatic^) consist of several small vessels which drain the body and tail of the pancreas, and open into the trunk of the splemc ^^^^(d) The inferior mesenteric vein (v. mesenterica inferior) returns blood from the rectum, and the pelvic, ihac, and descending parts of the colon. It begins in the rectum as the swperior hcemorrhoidal vein (v. hsemorrhoidahs superior), which has its origm in the hsemorrhoidal plexus, and through this plexus communicates with the middle and inferior hfemorrhoidal veins. The superior hsemorrhoidal vem leaves the pelvis and crosses the ihac vessels m company with the superior hemorrhoidal artery, and is continued upwards as the mferior mesenteric vein. This vein hes to the left of the inferior mesenteric artery, and ascends behmd tne peritoneum and ha front of the left Psoas ; it then passes behmd the body of the pancreas and opens mto the splenic vein ; sometimes it ternunates m the angle ot union of the splenic and superior mesenteric veius. Tributaries.—The mferior mesenteric vem receives the sigmoid veins (vv. sigmoideae) from the ilio-pelvic colon and the left colic vein (v. cohca sinistra) from the descending colon and splenic flexure. The superior mesenteric vein (v. mesenterica superior) returns the blood from the smaU intestine, and from the cecum and the ascending and transverse portions of the colon. It begms in the right iliac fossa by the union of the veSirwhich drain the terminal part of the ilium, the cecum and verm^ forrn appendix, and ascends between the two layers of ^^-^^^^^^t nasses right side of the superior mesenteric artery. In its "P^^^^d ^^^^.^ in front of the right ureter, the mferior vena cava, the thud part ot t ie duodenum and the lower portion of the head of the pancreas. Behmd the neck of th; pancreas it unities with the splenic vein to fo^^^/P^^f Tributaries-Besides the tributaries which correspond J^f^br^ches LYd Z Tddle colic (V. cohca media), the superior mesenteric vem is jomed by the riffht sastro-epiploic and pancreatico-duodenai veins. _ i,,„„^i,p<5 The r|V gallepivloicvcin (v. gastroepiploica dextra) receives b^^^^^^^^^ correBponding arteries ; the lower of the two frequently joms the nght g«stro °^"it cronary vein (v. ooron.ria ventrjculi, ^^^^^^^^ vein.763 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM The cystic vein (v. cystica) drains the blood from tlie gall bladder, and, ascending alongside the cystic duct, usually terminates in the right branch of tlie portal vein. Parumbilical veins (vv. parumbilicales).—In tlie course of the liga- mentum teres of the liver, and of the urachus, small veins (parumbilical) are found, which establish an anastomosis between tlie veins of the anterior abdominal Mall and tlie portal and iliac veins. The best marked of these small veins is one which commences at the umbilicus and runs backwards and upwards in, or on the surface of, the ligamentum teres between the layers of the falciform ligament to terminate in the left portal vein. Applied Anatomy.—Obstruction to the portal vein maj' produce ascites, and this may arise from many causes: as (1) the pressure of a tumour on the portal vein, such as cancer or hydatid cyst in the liver, enlarged lymphatic glands in the lesser omentum, or cancer of the head of the pancreas ; (2) from cirrhosis of the liver, when the i-adicles of the portal vein are pressed upon by the contracting fibrous tissue in the portal canals ; (3) from valvular disease of the heart, and back pressure on the hepatic veins, and so on the whole of the circulation through the liver. In this condition the prognosis as regards life and freedom from ascites may be much improved by the establishment of a good collateral venous circulation to relieve the portal obstruction in the liver. This is effected by com- munications between (a) the gastric veins, and the oesophageal veins emptying themselves into the vena azygos minor, which often project as a varicose bunch into the stomach ; (6) the veins of the colon and duodenum, and the left renal vein ; (c) the accessory portal sj'stem of Sappey, branches of which pass in the round and falciform ligaments (particularly the latter) to imite with the epigastric and internal mammary veins, and through the diaphragmatic veins with the azygos ; a single large vein, shown to be a parumbilical vein, may pass from the hilus of the liver by the round ligament to the umbilicus, producing there a bunch of prominent varicose veins known as the Caput Medusce ; {d) the veins of Retzius, which connect the intestinal veins with the inferior vena cava and its retroperitoneal branches ; (e) the inferior mesenteric veins, and the haemorrhoidal veins that open into the internal iliaos ; (/) very rarely the ductus venosus remains patent, affording a direct connection between the portal vein and the inferior vena cava. An operation for the relief of portal obstruction on these lines has been advocated by Rutherford Morison and by Talma. It consists in curetting the opposed surfaces of the hver and diaphragm and stitching them together, so as to secure vascular inflammatory adhesions between the two. The great omentum may with advantage be interposed between them, so as to increase the amount of the adhesions, and the spleen has been similarly scraped and sutured to or into the abdominal waU. The operation should not be deferred until the patient is moribund. Thrombosis of the portal vein, or pylethrombosis, is a very serious event, and is oftenest due to pathological processes causing compression of the vessel or injury to its wall, such as tumours or inflammation about the pylorus, head of the pancreas, or appendix, or to gall-stones or ciiThosis of the hver. If the thrombus is infected with bacteria, as is often the case when it is due to appendicitis, sej)tic or suppurative pylephlebitis results; this condition is known also as portal pycemia. Fragments of the infected clot break off and are carried away to lodge in the smaller veins in the hver, with the development of multiple abscesses in its substance and a rapidly fatal result. When the thrombus is sterile, the chief signs produced are enlargement of the spleen, recurrent ascites, and the establish- ment of a collateral venous circulation, the case clinically resembling one of atrophic cirrhosis of the hver. The symptoms of thrombosis of the mesenteric veins are very much the same as those of emboUsm of the mesenteric arteries (see p. 694). THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM Tile lymphatic system includes the lymphatic vessels and lymphatic glands. The lymphatic vessels of the small intestine receive the special designation of lacteals or chyliferous vessels ; they differ in no respect from the lymphatic vessels generally, excepting that during the j)rocess of digestion they contain a milk-white fluid, the chyle. The lymphatic vessels are exceedingly delicate, and their coats are so transparent that the fluid they contain is readQy seen through them. Tliey retaui a nearljr uniform size, being interrupted at intervals by constrictions, which give them a knotted or beaded appearance. These constrictions are Que to the presence of valves in their interior. Lymphatic vessels have Been found in nearly every texture and organ of the body which contains764 ANGIOLOGY blood-vessels. Such non-vascular structures as cartilage, the nails, cuticle, and hair have none, but with these exceptions it is probable that eventually all parts M ill be found to be permeated by these vessels. The lymphatic vessels are arranged into a superficial and a deep set. On the surface of the body the superficial lymphatic vessels are placed immediately beneath the integument, accompanying the superficial veins; they join the deep lymphatic vessels in certain situations by perforating the deep fascia. In the"interior of the body they He in the submucous areolar tissue, throughout the whole length of the gastro-pulmonary and genito-urinary tracts ; and in the subserous tissue of the thoracic and abdominal walls. The method of their origin has been described along with the details of their minute anatomy. Here it will be sufficient to say that a plexiform network of minute lymphatic vessels may be foimd interspersed among the proper elements and blood-vessels of the several tissues ; the vessels composmg the network, as well as the meshes between them, are much larger than those of the capillary plexus. From these networks small vessels emerge, which pass, either to a neighbourmg gland, or to join some larger lymphatic trunk. The dee'p lymphatic vessels, fewer in number, and larger than the superfacial, accompany the deep blood-vessels. Their mode of origin is probably similar to that of the superficial vessels. The lymphatic vessels of any part or organ exceed the veins in number, but in size they are much smaUer. iheir anastomoses also, especiaUy those of the large trunks, are more frequent, and are effected by vessels equal in diameter to those which they connect, the continuous trunks retamuig the same diameter. . j • .1 The lymphatic glands are small, sohd, glandular bodies, situated m the course of the lymphatic vessels. In size they vary from a hemp-seed to an almond, and theh- colour, on section, is of a pinkish-grey tmt, exceptmg m the bronchial glands, which in the adult are mottled with black. Each gland is invested by a fibrous capsule, from which prolongations dip mto its substance, fo/mmg partitions. Before entering a gland a lymphatic or lacteal vessel divides into several small branches, which are named a^erent vessels. As they enter, their external coat becomes contmuous ^y^i)l the capsule of the gland, and the vessels much thinned and consisting oiily of then: internal or endothelial coats pass into the gland and open mto the lymph sinuses. From these sinuses fine branches proceed to form a plexus, the vessels of which unite to form a single ejfermt vessel; this, on emerging from the hilus of the gland, is again mvested with an external coat. A'DvUed Anatomv.—1h& lymphatic channels and glands draining any infected area of the bS are very hable to Cme infected, with the production of acute or cte>mc ^phangUis andVpl^adenitis. In acute cases the paths of he -P-J-^^f^^P^^^^ are of ten marked out on the skin by the appearance over them of the four car^uiai Sns of inflammation-pam, rednessf heat and -^^i-g-J^^^^^^^^ may suppurate. Chronic inflammation leads to growth and fibrosis of tl^lympnat^^^^^ the connective tissue round them ; obstruction to the pa^ssage of the P^^^^^J^ as the librous tissue contracts and causes stenosis or obhteration of hygroml' of the neck, arm, trunk, or thigh, is a el^^^^^^^ or „t the body th,vt »,om not to b. directly ''5' &'CblvS rd Seined » seat of thi primary growth pt ,>"'™''°° Ho,-of Ivo.pb. s^^7t^iu^tS,?nTt>.»:s='j;5^ * BeTliner Mm. Wooh., 1905, Ko. 24, p. 743.THORACIC DUCT 765 Bight lymjihatic duct connections, whose existence normally remains unsuspected, develop to a surprising extent between groups of lymphatic glands that at first sight appear to bo unconnected u ith one another. Thoracic Duct The thoracic duct (ductus thoracicus) (fig. 647) conveys the great mass of the lymph and chyle into the blood. It is the common trunk of all the lymphatic vessels of the body, excepting those of the right Fig. 647.—The thoracic and riglit lymphatic ducts, side of the head, neck, and thorax, and right upper ex- tremity, the right lung, right side of the heart, and the convex surface of the liver. In the adult it varies in length from fifteen to eighteen inches, and extends from the second lumbar vertebra to the root of the neck. It commences in the abdomen by a triangular dilatation, the receptaculum chyli, which is situated on the front of the body of the second lumbar vertebra, to the right side of and beliind the aorta, by the side of the right crus of the Diaphragm. It enters the tiiorax througli the aortic opening of the Diaphragm, and is then placed in the posterior mediastinum be- tween the aorta and vena azygos major. Here it lies in front of the vertebral column, from which it is sepa- rated by the right intercostal arteries, and by the azygos minor veins as thej' cross the middle line to open into the vena azygos major. Opposite the fifth thoracic vertebra, it inchnes towards tlie left side, enters tlie superior mediasti- num, and ascends behind the arch of the aorta, on the left side of the oesophagus, and behind the first portion of the left subclavian artery, to the upper orifice of the thorax. Opposite the seventh cervical vertebra, it turns outwards in front of the vertebral vein and artery, behind the left common carotid artery and vagus nerve, and then curves downwards over the subcla- vian artery, and in front of the Scalenus anticus muscle and the phrenic nerve, so as to form an arch ; it terminates th \t ^"^^^ junction of the left subclavian vein with the left internal jugular vein. The thoracic uct, at Its commencement, is about equal in diameter to a goose-quiU, Intercostal glandsANGIOLOGY 766 but it cliniinishes considerably in calibre in the middle of the thorax, and is again dilated just before its termination. It is generaUy flexuous and con- stricted at intervals so as to present a varicose appearance. JS'ot intrequently it divides in the middle of its course into two branches of unequal size, which soon reunite or into several branches which form a plexiform mterlacemcnt. it occasionally divides at its upper part into two branches, right and left; the left terminates in the usual manner, while the right opens into the right subclavian vem, in connection with the right lymphatic duct. The thoracic duct has several valves: at its termination it is provided with a pair of valves, the fi-ee borders of which are turned towards the vem, so as to prevent the nassage of venous blood into the duct. „ . ^, , i u ^ Thereceptaculum chyli (cisterna chyli) (fig. 648 receives the two lumbar lymphatic trunks, right and left, and the intestinal lymphatic trunk. The imL lymvhatic tnmks (trunci lumbales) are formed by the union of the eXrent vessels from the lateral aortic lymphatic glands. They receive the lymph from the lower Umbs, from the walls and viscera of the pelvis from the kidneys and suprarenal bodies, and the deep lymphatics of the Fig. 648.—Modes of origin of thoracic duct. (Poirier and Charpy.) greater part of the abdominal waU. Th. ^J^-^j^^^^^^ff S^i^fS intestinrUs) receives the lymph from f«™ the liver, the pancreas and spleen. ^rom the ^^^^^^^.^ ^^^^ Tributaries.-Openmg f *^f^^^,*^Xe Sedor intercostal glands of the either side, is a descending trunk from the Posteno^^i ^ lower six or seven .^.P^^^.u/^pp^ lu X glands and pierces the either side by a trunk which ^ 7 . from the posterior crus of the Diaphragm ^^^f^^^^J^f intercostal glands of the upper six mediastinal glands and ^he posterior mtercos g subclavian and internal jugular veins. onmnosed of three coats, which diffe Structure.-The thoracic X. ivmphatic vessels. The intern^ in some respects from those of the other ^ mP^te endothelial cells, ^ntr coat consists of a single layer « .A^^^^.'^,"^ found in the arteries; sen-ated borders ; ^ sube^do helm^^^^^ ^ longitudinal direction and an elastic fibrous coat the "bres m connective tissue witLYMPHATICS OF THE HEAD, FACE, AND NECK 767 is composed of areolar tissue, vvitli elastic fibres and isolated fasciculi of muscular fibres. The right lymphatic duct (ductus lymphaticus dexter) (fig. 649), about iialf an inch in length, courses along the inner border of the Scalenus anticus at the root of the neck and terminates in the right subclavian vein, at its angle Fig. 649.—^Terminal collecting trunks of right .side. (Poirier and Charpy.) a. Jugular trunk. 6. Subclavian trunk, c. Bronoho-mediastinal trunk, d. Right lymphatic truuk. e. Gland o( internal mammary chain. /. Gland of deep cen-ioal chain. of junction with the right internal jugular vein. Its orifice is guarded by two semilunar valves, which prevent the passage of venous blood into the duct. Tributaries.—It receives the lymph from the right side of the head and neck through the right jugular trunk ; from the right upper extremity through tlie right subclavian trunk ; from the right side of the thorax, the right lung, and right side of the heart, and from part of the convex surface of the liver, through the right broncho-mediastinal trunk. These three collecting trunks frequently open separately in the angle of union of the two veins. Applied Anatomy.—Blockage of the thoracic duct by mature specimens of the minute parasitic worm Microfilaria nocturna gives rise to stasis of the chyle, and to its passage in various abnormal directions on its course jsast the obstruction. The neighbouring abdominal, renal, and pelvic lymphatics become enlarged, varicose, and tortuous, and chyle may make its way into the urine (chyluria), the tunica vaginalis (chylocele), the abdominal cavity (chylous ascites), or the pleural cavity (chylous pleural effusion), in consequence of rupture of some of these distended lymphatic vessels. The thoracic duct may be secondarily infected in intestinal or pulmonarj' tuberculosis, and may contain either miliary tubercles, caseating tuberculous masses, or even tuberculous ulcers. It is often the seat of secondary carcinomatous deposits in cases of cancer of some abdominal discus, becoming infiltrated throughout imtil it becomes a stiff monihform rod as thick as a pencil, with multiple stenoses and dilatations of its lumen ; in such cases the left supraclavicular glands often become infected and enlarged, while the lungs remain entirely free from secondary growths. LYMPHATICS OF THE HEAD, FACE, AND NECK The lymphatic glands of the head (fig. 650) are arranged in the following groups: V o / t. o Occipital. Facial. Posterior auricular. Internal maxillary. Parotid. Lingual. Retro-pharyngeal. The occipital glands (lymphoglandulse occipitales), one to three in number, are placed on tlie back of the head close to tlie margin of tiie Trapezius and resting on the insertion of the Complexus. Their afferent vessels drain tiie occipital region of the scalp, whUe their efferents pass to the upper glands of the deep cervical group. The posterior auricular or mastoid glands (lymphoglandulas auriculares n?H "q'^'^^' ^^"'■^l^y in number, are situated on the mastoid insertion 01 the Sterno-mastoid. Their afferent vessels drain the posterior part of the768 ANGIOLOGY temporo-parietal region, the upper part of the internal surface of tlie pinna, and the back of the external auditory meatus ; their efferents pass to the upper glands of the deep cervical group. ., . , The parotid glands (lymphoglandulse parotideae) form three groups m relation with the parotid salivary gland, viz. a superficial group, situated over the eland but under the parotid fascia (lymphoglandulae auriculares anteriores), a deeper group imbedded in the substance of the gland, and a group of sub- parotid glands lying on the lateral wall of the pharynx OccasionaUy small elands are found in the subcutaneous tissue over the parotid gland. The afferent vessels of the lymphatic glands under the fascia, and of those in the substance of the gland, dram the root of the nose, the eyelids, the fronto-temporal region, Fig. 650.—Superficial lymphatic glands and vessels of head and neck. Maxillary glands Parotid gUnds Buccal glands Mandibular glands SuhmaxiUary glands Suprahyoid glands Lower deep cervical glands the outer surface of the ptana. the ™f-tfr^^ortrfl"^^ roSo;^A*^~^ SLCIUJI Jjcuv ^"the facial glands i^^f^^^n^^^^^J^^ (a) maxillary, scattered over the "^^^^^/^^.^J /^^^^ on the the nose and cheek to the ^^^'f']/^ScT L°u^ tlie outer Buccinator opposite the angle of t e ^^^^'^^^^ (^i7£":ontact with the facial surface of the mancbblc.in front of the Masseter an ^j^^etiva, and the vessels. Their afferent vessels dram the eyelids, tne to j769 LYMPHATICS OF THE HEAB, PACE, AND NECK integument and mucous membrane of the nose and cheek; their efferents pass to the submaxillary glands. The internal maxillary glands (lymphoglandulse faciales profundaa) are deeply placed beneath the ramus of the mandible, on the outer surface of the External pterygoid, in relation to tlie internal maxillary artery. Their afferent vessels di'ain the temporal and zygomatic fossae and the naso-pharynx; their eiferents pass to the upper glands of the deep cervical grouiJ. The lingual glands (lymphoglandultB Imguales) are two or three small nodules lying on the Hyo-glossus, and under the Genio-hyoglossus. They form merely glandular sub-stations in the course of the lymphatic vessels of the tongue. The retro-pharyngeal glands (fig. 651) lie in the bucco-pharyngeal fascia, behind the upper part of the pharynx and in front of the arch of the atlas, being separated, however, from the latter by the Rectus capitis anticus major. Their afferents drain an extensive area, comprising the nasal fossa?, the naso-pharynx, and the Eustachian tubes ; their efferents pass to the upper glands of the deep cervical group. The lymphatic vessels of the scalp are divisible into (a) those of the frontal region, which terminate in the parotid glands ; (6) those of the temporo- FiG. 651.—^L5miphatics of pharynx. (Poirier and Charpy.) Affei'iiU vessel to (tfHj cerrictit glanUs Glandular nodule Gland of deep cervical chain Kffcient vessels of retro- 2'/iariin(je<il glands parietal region, which end in the parotid and posterior auricular glands ; and (c) those of the occipital region, which terminate partly in the occipital glands and partly in a trunk which runs down along the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid to end in the lower group of deep cervical glands. The lymphatic vessels of the pinna and external auditory meatus are also divisible into thi-ee groups : (a) an anterior, from the outer surface of the pinna and anterior wall of the meatus to the parotid glands ; (&) a posterior, trom the margin of the pinna, the upper part of its inner surface, the internal surface and posterior wall of the meatus to the posterior auricular and upper deep cervical glands ; (c) an inferior, from the floor of the meatus and from tlie lobule to the external jugular and upper deep cervical glands. Th f ^y^'P^^^'^ vessels of the face are more numerous than those of the scalp, inose from the eyelids and conjunctivae terminate partly in the submaxillary, out mainly in the parotid glands. The vessels from the posterior part of tho Cheek also pass to the parotid glands, while those from the anterior portion of tbe cheek, the side of the nose, the upper lip, and the lateral portions of the lower hp terminate m the submaxillary glands. The deeper vessels from tne temporal and zygomatic fossae pass to the internal maxillary and upper aeep cervical glands. The deeper vessels of the cheek and lips terminate, iiiie the superficial, m the submaxillary glands. Both superficial and deep vessels of the central part of the lower lip run to the suprahyoid glands. 3dAI^GIOLOGY 70 The lymphatic vessels of the nasal fossce can be injected from the subdural and subarachnoid spaces'. Those from the antenor parts of the foss^ communicate with the vessels of the nasal mtegument and termmate m the suWxillaiy glands; those from the posterior two-thirds of the fossae and horn the communicating air sinuses pass partly to the retropharyngeal and nnrtlv to the upper deep cervical glands. . ^ • ^ L„hatic vZels of the mouth.-The vessels of the gums termma e m the submaxillary glands ; those of the hard palate are continuous in front w th ? ose of the ulper gum, but pass backwards to pierce the Superior constrictor S eiid in tWpler deep cervical and subparotid glands ; those of the soft plte pass Z^Zds an! outwards, and terminate P-tty m the retropha^^^ geal and subparotid, and partly in the upper deep cervical glands^ to the lo^S of the anterior part of the floor of the mouth pass f/^^^f,^ ^ [^J^ly jrKnds of the upper deep cervical group, or indirectly through the suprahyoia gaSds from the rest oi the floo?of the mouth the vessels termmate m the -"^S^I^i ^TSXti^^ upper deep cervical glands. I^G. 652.—The lymphatics of the face. (After Kuttner.) Parotid glands External jugular glands Facial glands Suhi7iaxiU<irij glands Dee}) cervicalglanil^ The lymphatic vessels of the to^^ue iH^^ ^'^y^Ttft^^stS Ind'^S cervical glands lying between the posterioi belly ot tn ^ ^^^.^^ posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid ; vessels that it is iommon carotid artery is '^^timately associa^^^^^^^ the tongue have been known as the principal gland of the tongue^ ^Ttiv Tthe tongue to the supra- divided into four groups : ( ) ^''f^nZe (2) ateral, from the margin of the hyoid glands and n^ri-^The M^-?^^^^^ - ^« submaxillary tongue-some of these pieicc the Myio ny ^^^p cervical, elands, others pass do\TO on the Hyo g^ossu^ T.flnillffi to the upper deep basal, from the region of the cn-cumv^Ua^ V-^^J^^^ Mylo-fiyoid to •m.i 1 iiimilor Submaxillary. Suprahyoid. Deep cervical. External jugular. Anterior cervical.LYMPHATICS OF THE HEAD, PACE, AND NECK 771 The submaxillary glands (lymphoglandulfe submaxillares) (fig. 652), three to six in number, are placed beneath the body of the mandible in the submaxillary triangle, and rest on the superficial surface of the submaxillary salivary gland. One gland (the middle gland of Stahr), which lies on the facial artery as it turns over the mandible, is tlae most constant of the series. Small lymphatic glands are sometimes found on the deep surface of the submaxillary gland. Their afferents drain the imier canthus of the eye, the cheek, the side of the nose, the upper lip, the outer part of the lower lip, the gums, and the anterior part of the margin of the tongue; efferent vessels from the facial and suprahyoid glands also enter the submaxillary glands. Their efferent vessels pass to the upper glands of the deep cervical group. Fig. 663.—Lymphatics of the tongue. (Poirier.) Vessels from Vessels f rom base of tongue margin of The suprahyoid or submental glands are situated close to the middle line ot the neck between the anterior bellies of the two Digastric muscles. Their atterents dram the central portions of the lower Up and floor of the mouth and ine tip of the tongue ; their efferents pass partly to the submaxillary glands and partly to a gland of the deep cervical group situated on the internal jugular vein at the level of the cricoid cartilage. in 1 external jugular glands (lymphoglandulse cervicales superficiales) lie n Close relationship with the external jugular vein as it emerges from the parotid gland, and, therefore, superficial to the Sterno-mastoid. Then- afferents rof"!! fvf ^^^^^ °* pinna and parotid region, while their efferents pass glands ^'^^^^^^^ margin of the Sterno-mastoid to join the upper deep cervical 3d2772 ANGIOLOGY The anterior cervical glands form an irregular and inconstant group on the front of the larynx and trachea. They may be divided into : (a) a superficial set, placed on the anterior jugular vein ; (6) a deeper set, which is further subdivided into pre-laryngeal, on the crico-thyroid membrane, and pre-tracheal, on the front of the trachea. Tliis deeper set drains the lower part of the larynx, the thyroid body, and the upper part of the trachea ; its efferents pass to the lower glands of the upper deep cervical group. r , ,c cca The deep cervical glands (lymphoglandulae cervicales profundaj) (hgs. b5U, 653) are numerous and of large size; they form a chain along the carotid sheath, lying by the side of the pharynx, oesophagus, and trachea, and extending from the base of the skuU to the root of the neck. They are usually described m two groups • (1) an iipper or substerno-mastoid group (lymphoglandulae cervicales profundfe superiores) lymg under the Sterno-mastoid in close relation with the spinal accessory nerve and the internal jugular vein, some of the glands lying in front of and others behind the vessel; (2) a lower or swpradamcular^ow^ (Ivmphoglandula? cervicales profundse inferiores) extendmg beyond the posterior margm of the Sterno-mastoid mto the supraclavicular triangle, where they are closely related to the brachial plexus and subclavian vem. A few minute glands are situated alongside the recurrent laryngeal nerves on the lateral aspects of the trachea and oesophagus. The upper deep cervical glands drain the occipital portion of the scalp, the puma, and the back of the Lck, the tongue, larynx, thyroid body, trachea naso-pharynx, nasal fossae palate, and Esophagus. They receive also the efferent vessels from aU the other glands of the head and neck, except those from the ower deep cervical group. The lower deep cervical glands dram the back of the scali and neck, the superficial pectoral region, part of the arm (see page / /5), and occasionally part of the upper surface of the hver. In addition, the :rceWe veTsSs^fro^m the upper'^group. The efferents of^the up^er d^ep cervical glands pass partly to the lower group and partly to a tr,^ wine unites with the efferent trunk of the lower deep cervical glands and foi ?he jugular trur^k (truncus jugularis). This trunk, on the "ght side, ends the junction of the internal jugular and subclavian vems, while on the le side it joins the thoracic duct. , . .7 7 f^. +hp Hpp Ih^ lymphaiic vessels of the skin and muscles of the ^^fci pass to the dee cervici glands. From the upper part of the pharynx the lymphatic vess pasT to tie retropharyngeal, f^om the lower part to the d^^P ^Tse From the kr^/n/two sets of vessels arise, an upper and a lower. The ves^ of the upper set pierce the thyro-hyoid membrane ^^^^ ]oin the upp^^^ cervical glands. Of the lower set, some pierce the crico-thjTOid memDra and ToTn the pre-tracheal and pre-laryngeal glands ; ^^hers run betw een ^_ Scold and fir^t tracheal ring and enter the lower deeP cervical glands. T lymphatic vessels of the thyroid body consist of/^^^ «f f' deep ^ervic to the sS glands which accompany the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Th Mter glaSitcelve also the lyiSphltic vessels from the cervical portion the trachea. Applied Anatomy.-Tl.e cervical g^-ds are very freq^^^^^^^^^ disease'. This condition is most usually ^^^JX^Lretoe for the surgeon, in deaUng they receive their lymph. I* ^^/^^y irable theref^^^^^ theL eases, to POssess a knowledge of the r j^tion o^^^^^^^ the periphery, whUe in order to eradicate them by operation a long may be required. LYMPHATICS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY The lymphatic glands of the upper extremity (fig. 654) are divi into two sets, superficial and dee./). „ . q t The superficial lymphatic ?la"ds are few and^^^^^^^ ^^^.^.^ are placed above the internal ^P'-j^^f J^Vs ^i^^^ of the h Then- afferents drain the inner three hngers, tne yLYAIPHATICS OP THE UPPER EXTREMITY 773 and''the superficial area over the ulnar side of the forearm ; these vessels are, how'ever, in free communication with tlic other lymphatic vessels of the fore- arm. Tlieir efferents accompany the basilic vein and join the deeper vessels. One or two glands are found beside the cephalic vein, between the Pectoralis major and Deltoid, immediately below tlie clavicle. They are situated in the course of the external collecting trunks of tlie arm. The deep lymphatic glands arc chiefly grouped in the axilla, altliough a few may be found in the forearm, in the course of the radial, ulnar, and Fig. 654.—The superficial lymphatics of the upper extremity. Axillary glands interosseous vessels, and in the arm along the inner side of the middle part of the brachial artery. . The axillary glands (lymphoglandulse axiUares) (fig. 655) are of large size, vary from twenty to thirty in number, and may be arranged in the following groups: 1. An external group of from four to six glands lies in relation to the inner and posterior aspects of the axiUary vein; the afferents of these glands drain tue whole arm with the exception of that portion whose vessels accompany the cephahc vein. The efferent vessels pass partly to the central andANGIOLOGY 774 subclavicular axillary glands and partly to the lower deep cervical glands. . , „ 1 J 1 2. An anterior or pectoral group consists of four or bve glands along the lower border of the Pectoralis minor, in relation with the long thoracic artery Their afferents drain the skin and muscles of the anterior and lateral thoracic waUs, and the mammary gland ; their efferents pass partly to the central, and partly to the subclavicular axillary glands. 3 A posterior or subscapular group of six or seven glands is placed along the lower margin of the posterior wall of the axilla in the course of the sub- scapular artery. The afferents of tliis group dram the skin and muscles of the lower part of the neck and of the posterior thoracic wall; their efferents pass to the central group of axillary glands. ^ . • ■ -i ja ^ 4 A central or intermediate group of three or four large glands is milxsddeci in the adipose tissue near the base of the axilla. Its afferents are the efferent vessels of all the precedmg groups of axiUary glands ; its efferents pass to the subclavicular group. Fig. 655.—Lymphatics of the mamma and the axillary glands (semi-diagrammatic). (Poirier and Charpy.) 1 With cephalic vein External group Subclavicular group Central group Subscapular group Mammary lymphatic ending in subclavicular glands Pectoral group Cutaneous collecting trunk \ from the thoracic wall Pectoral group ^^Mammary collecting trunks — Subareolar plexus Cutaneous collecting trunks 'Collecting trunks passing to internal mamvtnry glands TheMvian trunk (tiuncuB .,ubclavu.s). "''fl;. °f ^'j'/i^^r^lS into the junction of tljo internal ^ » n«.McS.t^"^^^^ ffirlTel'"f;„r tt Mc-riiar u^nally p» to the lower deep cervical glands. of the axillary glands is very often found.LYMPHATICS OP THE UPPER EXTREMITY 775 Fig. 656.—Lymphatic vessels of the dorsal surface of the hand. (Sappey.) The lymphatic vessels of the upper extremity are divided into two sets, superficial and deep. • xi. i i 4.- The superficial lymphatic vessels (fig. 656) commence in the lymphatic plexus which everWhere pervades the skin ; the meshes of the plexus are much finer in the palm and on the flexor aspect of the digits than elsewhere. The dio-ital plexuses are dramed by a pair of vessels winch run on the lateral aspect of each digit, and incline backwards to reach the dorsum ot the hand. From the dense plexus of the palm, vessels pass in different directions, viz. upwards towards the wist, do^vnwards to jom the digital vessels, inwards to join the vessels on the ulnar border of the hand, and outwards to those on the thumb. Several vessels from the central part of the plexus unite to form a trunk, which passes round the meta- carpal bone of the index finger to join the vessels on the back of that digit and on the back of the thumb. Running upwards in front of and behind the wrist, the lymphatic vessels are col- lected into radial, median, and ulnar groups, which accompany respectively the cephalic, median and basilic veins in the forearm. A few of the ulnar lymphatics terminate in the supratrochlear glands, but the majority pass directly to the external group of axillary glands. Some of the radial vessels are collected into a trunk, which ascends with the cephalic vein to the glands between the Pectoralis major and Deltoid ; the efferents from this group pass either to the subclavicular axillary glands or to the lower deep cervical glands. The deep lymphatic vessels accompany the deep blood-vessels. In the forearm, they consist of four sets, corresponding with the radial, ulnar, and interosseous arteries; they communicate at intervals with the superficial lymphatics, and some of them end in the glands which are occasionally found beside the arteries. In their course upwards, a few end in the glands which lie upon the brachial artery ; but most of them pass to the external group of axillary glands. LYMPHATICS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY The lymphatic glands of the lower extremity consist of the anterior tibial gland, and the popliteal and inguinal glands. The anterior tibial gland (lymphoglandula tibialis anterior) is small and inconstant. It lies on the interosseous membrane in relation to the upper part of the anterior tibial vessels, and constitutes a sub-station m the course of the anterior tibial lymphatic trunks. The popliteal glands (lymphoglandulae poplitete) (fig. 657), small in size and some six or seven in number, ai-e imbedded in the fat contained in the popliteal space. One lies immediately beneath the popliteal fascia, near the776 ANGIOLOGY terminal part of the external saphenous vein, and drains the region from which this vein derives its tributaries. Another is placed between the popliteal artery and the posterior ligament of the knee ; it receives the lymphatic vessels from the knee-jomt together with those wliich accompany the articular arteries. Tlie others lie at the sides of the popliteal vessels, and receive as alierents the trunks which accompany the anterior and posterior tibial vessels. The efferents of the popliteal glands pass almost entirely alongside the femoral vessels to the deep inguinal glands, but a few may accompany tlie internal saphenous vein, and end in the glands of the superficial inguinal group. The inguinal glands vary from twelve to twenty in number, and are arranged in two groups, superficial and deep. The superficial inguinal glands (fig. 658) lie in front of Scai-pa's triangle, and are situated between the two layers of the superficial fascia. They may be divided into two groups, an upper and a lower, by a horizontal line at the level of the termmation of the internal saphenous vein. The glands of the upper group (lymphoglandulse inguinales) form a chain immediately below Fia. 657.—Lymphatic glands of popliteal space. (Poirier and Charpy.) --Internal popliteal nerve —Popliteal vein -- Popliteal artery - - Externa l popliteal nerve ■ Supracondyloid gland Intercondijloid gland Gland at termination of external saph. vein Poupart's ligament. They receive as afferents lymphatic vessels from the mtejument of the penis, scrotum, perineum, buttock and aMom^^^^^ below the level of the umbilicus. The glands of the lower group aympho- glandute submguinales) are placed on either side of the ^PP.^J. internal saphenous vein, and their afferents consist of the ^^f/^^f^^ 5',^^?^^,^^^^^ vessels of tlie lower extremity : they also receive some of the vessels uhicn drain the integument of the penis, scrotum perinseum and „ The deep inguinal glands (lympliogkndulse «"b|nguma es (fig 659) vary from one to three in number, and are placed under tl^e ^^sc * afa, on \he Inner side of the femoral vein. . Wh«^ ^^^f ^^.^^ ^1^^^^^^^^^ lowest is situated just below the junction of the mternal ^^^I'^^^^'J"^^^^^^^ veins, the middle in tlie crural canal, and the highest in he ""t^^ J f^^^^^^^^^^ crura ring. The middle is the most inconstant of the t'^ree but the highest one, the gland of Cloquet or RoscnmiilUr, is also ''^nuently absent ih^^^^ receive as afferents the deep lymphatic trunks f "I'J^^J^ ^1^'J'S tl^^ vessels, the lymphatics from theglans penis vel chtoridis, and also sonic ot tlie efferents from tlie superficial inguinal glands.glands LYMPHATICS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY 777 Applied Anatomy.—Inflammation and sup- jjuration of the popliteal glands are most commonly due to a sore on the outer side of the heel. The inguinal glands frequently become enlarged in diseases implicating the parts from which their lymphatics originate. Thus in malignant or syphilitic affections of the prepuce and penis, or labia majora, in cancer scroti, in abscess in the perinasum, or in similar diseases afifecting the integument and superficial structures in those parts, or the sub-umbihcal part of the abdominal wall, or the gluteal region, the upper chain of glands is almost invariably enlarged, the lower chain being implicated in diseases affecting the lower limb. The lymphatic vessels of the lower extremity consist of two sets, superficial and deep, and in their distribution corre- spond closely with tlie veins. The superficial lymphatic vessels lie in the superficial fascia, and are divisible into two groups : an internal, which follows the course of the internal saphenous vein ; and an external, which accompanies the external saphenous. The vessels of the internal group are larger and more numerous than those of the external group, and commence on the inner side and dorsum of the foot; they pass both in front of and behind the mner ankle, run up the leg with the internal saphenous vein, pass vnth. it behind the inner condyle of the femur, and accompany it to the groin, where they terminate in the infei'ior group of superficial inguinal lymphatic glands. The vessels of the external group arise from the outer side of the foot; some ascend in front of the leg, and, just below the knee, cross the tibia from without inwards, to join the lymphatics on the inner side of the thigh ; others pass behind the outer malleolus, and, accompanying the external saphenous vein, enter the popliteal glands. The deep lymphatic vessels are few in number, and accompany the deep blood-vessels. In the leg, they consist of thi-ee sets, the anterior tibial, posterior tibial, and peroneal, which accompany the corresponding blood-vessels, two or three with each artery ; they ascend alongside tlie blood-vessels, and enter the lymphatic glands in the popliteal space. The deep lymphatic vessels of the gluteal and ischial regions follow the course of the coiTesponding blood- vessels. Those accompanymg the gluteal vessels end in a gland which lies on the intrapelvic portion of the gluteal artery near the upper border of the Fig. 658.—The superficial lymphatics of the lower extremity. Hiiperflciaf iugidnal ■778 ANGIOLOGY great sacro-sciatic notch. Those following the sciatic vessels traverse one or two small glands which lie below the Pyriformis muscle, and end in tlie mternal iliac glands. LYMPHATICS OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS The lymphatic glands of the abdomen and pelvis may be divided from their situations, into (a) parietal, lymg behind the peritoneum and Fig. 659.—The deep lymphatic vessels and glands of the abdomen and pelvis. Luvibar glands External iliac glands Deep inguinal glands Deep lymphatics of penis in Otoe association with the larger blood-veasels; and (6) <nscral, which ^ . ... (Lateral aortic. «^-"f .J Lumbar I Pre-aortic. Internal il ac. ^ ^ Retro-aortic. Common mac.779 LYMPHATICS OP THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS The external iliac glands, from eight to ten ui number, lie along the external iliac vessels. They are arranged in three gi'oups, one on the outer, another on the inner, and a thnd on the anterior aspect of the vessels ; the tliird group is, however, sometimes absent. Their principal afferents are derived from the superficial and deep inguinal glands, the deep lymphatics of the abdominal wall below the umbilicus and of the adductor region of the thigh, and the lymphatics from the glans penis vel clitoridis, the membranous urethra, the prostate, the base of the bladder, the cervix uteri, and upper part of the vagina. Small chains of glands are sometimes found along the courses of the deep epigastric and deep circumflex iliac arteries, and an obturator gland is occasionally seen on the upper aspect of the obturator foramen. FiQ. 660.—Ilio-pelvio lympliatic glands. (Cuneo and Marcille.) The internal iliac or hypogastric glands (lymphoglanduloe hypo- gastricae) (figs. 660, 661) surround the internal iliac vessels, and receive the lymphatics corresponding to the distribution of the branches of the internal iliac artery : i.e. they receive lymphatics from all the pelvic viscera, from the deeper parts of the perinseum, includins the membranous and penile portions of the urethra, and from the buttock and back of the thigh. The sacral glands are an isolated set of this group, placed in the concavity of the sacrum, in relation to the middle and lateral sacral arteries ; they receive lymphatics from the rectum and posterior wall of the pelvis. The efferents of the internal iliac group terminate in the common iliac glands.ANGIOLOGY 780 The common iliac glands, four to sLx in number, are grouped in relation to the lateral and deep aspects of the common iliac artery, one or two being placed below the bifurcation of the aorta, in front of the fifth lumbar vertebra. They drain chiefly the internal and external iliac glands, and their effer(5nts pass to the lateral aortic glands. The lumbar glands (tymphoglandula; lumbales) are very numerous, and consist of right and left lateral aortic, pre-aortic, and retro-aortic groups. The right lateral aortic glands are situated partly in front of the inferior vena cava, near the termination of the renal vein, and partly behind it on the origin of the Psoas, and on the right crus of the Diaphragm. The lejt lateral aortic glands form a chain on the left side of the abdominal aorta in front of the origin of the Psoas and left crus of the Diaphragm. The glands on either side receive (a) the efferents of the common iliac glands, (b) the lymphatics from the testicle in the male and from the ovary, FaUopian tube, and body Fig. 661.—Ilio-pelvic glands (lateral view). (Cun6o and Marcille.) Gland in front of, sacral promontonj >^ ■Internal tliac Lateral sacra! External iliac glands Internal lymphatics of, bladder Lymphatic from glaiiK penis Lymphatics of bladd Internal ilioc Satellite trunk internal P" • vessels Trunk of mi>l' hwmorrhoiJ' vessels Prostatic collecttng mini Glandular nodule in front of symphysis I Crelhral cuUectmg trunks Prostatic collecting trunk derived from the viscera .uppM by "jroe ; ^ ZLYMPHATICS OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS 781 receive lymphatic trunks from the lateral and pre-aortic glands, while their efferents terminate in the receptaculum chj'-li. The lymphatic vessels of the walls of the abdomen and pelvis may be divided into'two sets, superficial and deep. The superficial vessels follow the course of the superficial blood-vessels and converge to the upper group of the superficial inguinal glands. Those derived from the integument of the front of the abdomen below the umbihcus follow the course of tlie superficial epigastric vessels, and those from the sides of the lumbar part of the abdominal waU pass along the crest of the Uium, with the superficial circumflex iliac vessels. The superficial lymphatic vessels of the gluteal region turn horizontally round the outer side of the buttock, and join the superficial inguinal glands. The deep vessels run alongside the principal blood-vessels. Those of the parietes of the pelvis, which accompany the gluteal, sciatic, and obturator vessels, foUow the course of the internal iliac artery, and ultimately join the lateral aortic glands. LympJiatic vessels of the perinceum and external genitals.—^The lymphatic vessels of the perinseum, of the integument of the penis, and of the scrotum Fig. 662.—^Lymphatics of stomach, &c. (Jamieson and Dobson.) Paracardial glands Might gastro-epi2>loic glands (or vulva), follow the course of the external pudic vessels, and terminate m the superficial inguinal glands. Those of the glans penis vel clitoridis terminate partly in the deep inguinal glands and partly in the external iliac glands. The visceral glands are associated with the branches of the coeliac axis, superior and inferior mesenteric arteries. Those related to the branches of the coeliac axis artery form three chains, coronary, hepatic, and splenic, which accompany the corresponding branches of the artery. The glands of the coronary chain (lymphoglandulse gastricse superiores) are divisible into three groups, viz. : (a) upper coronary, on the stem of the artery; (6) lower coronary, accompanying the descending branches of the artery along the cardiac half of the lesser curvature of the stomach, between the two layers of the small omentum ; and (c) paracardial ' outlying members of the coronary chain, disposed in a manner comparable to a chain of beads around the neck of the stomach' (Jamieson and Dobson).* T^e glands of the coronary chain receive their afferents from the stomach ; their efferents pass to the coeliac group of pre-aortic glands. * Lamoet, April 20 and 27,11)07.ANGIOLOGY 782 The elands of the hepatic chain (lymphoglandulie hepaticae) (fig. 662) consist of the following groups : (a) hevatic, on the stem of the hepatic artery and extending upwards along the common bile-duct, between the two layers'of the gastro-liepatic omentum, as far as the transverse fissure of the liver • tlie cystic gland, a member of this group, is placed near the neck of the c^all-bladder; (6) subpijloric, four or five in number, m close relation to the bifurcation of the gastro-duodenal artery, in the angle between the hrst and second parts of the duodenum ; an outlying member of tins group is sometimes found above the duodenum on the pyloric artery; (c) right gastro- evivloic (lymphoglandul* gastricse inferiores), four to seven in nuniber, betA\-een the two layers of the great omentum, along the pyloric half of the greater curvature of the stomach. The glands of the hepatic cham receive afferents from the stomach, duodenum, liver, gaU-bladder, and pancreas ; their efferents join the coeliac group of pre-aortic glands. Fig. 663.—Lymphatics of stomach, &c. The stomach has been turned upwards. (Jamieson and Dobson.) a >ic re " Siihpyloric glands The «;Dlenic elands (lymphoglandulaj pancreaticolienales) (fig. 663) accom- mnv the s SL^^Seiy and are situated in relation to the posterior ««rfaoe and boX of the plAcreas ; one or two members of tl"s group are found n the sastro-splenic omentum (Jamieson and Dobson, op. at.), iheir attertnts are cleri^edtom the stomach, spleen, and pancreas ; their efferents jom the ^"^^J/^^cJr^S^tl^c glands may be divided into three principalLYMPHATICS OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS 783 mesenteric artery ; a second, in relation to the loops and primary branches of the vessel; and a third along the trunk of the artery. Applied Anatomy.—Enlargement of the mesenteric lymphatic glands is seen in most diseased conditions of the intestinal tract, and is well marked in enteric fever, tuberculous ulceration or malignant gro\\i;hs of the 'bowel. The enlarged glands can often be palpated through the wall of the abdomen. The ileo-colic glands (fig. 665), from ten to twenty in number, form a chain around the ileo-colic artery, but show a tendency to subdivision into two groups, one near the duodenum and another on the lower part of the trunk of the artery. Where the vessel divides into its terminal branches the chain is broken up into several groups, viz. : (a) ileal, in relation to the ileal branch of the artery ; (6) anterior ileo-colic, usually of three glands, in the ileo-colic fold, near the wall Fig. 664.—Lymphatics of colon. (Jamieson and Dobson.) of the cHecum ; (c) posterior ileo-colic, mostly placed in the angle between the ileum and the colon, but partly lying behind the caecum at its junction with the ascending colon ; (d) appendicular, usually a single gland, between the layers of the meso-appendix, near its free edge ; (e) right colic, along the inner side of the ascending colon. The meso-colic glands are nimierous, and lie between the layers of the transverse meso-colon, in close relation to the transverse colon ; they are best developed in the neighbourhood of the hepatic and splenic flexures. One or two small glands are occasionally seen along the trunk of the riglit colic artery, and others are found in relation to the trunk and branches of the middle colic artery. The superior mesenteric glands receive afferents from the jejunum, ileum, cfficum, vermiform appendix, and the ascending and transverse parts of the colon ; their efferents pass to the pre-aortic glands.ANGIOLOGY 784 The inferior mesenteric glands (fig. 664) consist of : (a) small glands on the brandies of the left colic and sigmoid arteries; {b) a group m the pelvic mesocolon, around the superior ha?morrhoidal artery; and c) a pararectal group in contact with the muscular coat of the rectum, ihey dram the descending, iliac, and pelvic parts of the colon and the upper part of the rectum ; their eiferents pass to the pre-aortic glands. The h/mvhatic vessels of the abdominal and pelvic mscera consist ot . (1) those of the subdiaphragmatic portion of the alimentary canal and >ts associated glands, the liver and pancreas ; (2) those of the spleen and suprarenal bodies , (3) those of the urinary organs ; (4) those of the reproductive organs ^ (1) The lymphatic lessds of the subdiaphragmatic portion oj the ahmentary canal\re situated partly in the mucous membrane ^(^^ Pfffjy ^e two'ma v muscular coats, but as the former system drams mto the latter, the two may Tet^tl^t^^'^^ssels of the stomach (figs^ 662 663) - continu^^^^^^^^ cardiac end with those of the oesophagus, and at the pyloric end with those of Fig. 665.—The lymphatics of cffioum and vermiform appendix, from the front. (Jamieson and Dobson.) Duodenum Upper group of ileo-colic glands Lower group of ileo-colic glands CcBcum Vermiform appendix the duodenum. They mainly follow the Wood-^^sseb^a^^^^ rranged in four sets. Those of the first set accompany ^j^f bra^^^^^^^^^ Vhe stomach, artery, receiving tributaries from a large area ^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^ second set and terminate in the glands of the ^'^IP^^^'tl '^^^^^ verticaUy from drain the fundus of the stomach "^^J'^J^^l^l^^J^^^ the oesophagus ; they accompaiay, "f^^^f The vessels of the third gastro-ejiploic arteries, and end in the ^plen c g ands^ /^^ « . ^^nal. Ldrain the right portion of greater curv^tur^^^^^^^ ^^^^ and end in the right ga«tro-epiploic gla^^^^^^^ to subpyloric group. Those of the fourtli ««t dram ^^^^^ pyio ^ ^^^^.^^ the hepatic and ^"bpyloric glands, and to t^^^^^ ^^^^-^ tenor The lymphatic vessels o/ the duodenum on the anterior set, which ofen into a seriesof small V^ncrcaUc^^^^^^ ^^^^ S^cJS^r«-J-^^-^^^^ —s. upwards toLYMPHATICS OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS 785 the hepatic glands and downwards to the pre-aortic glands around the origin of the superior mesenteric artery. The lymphatic vessels of the jejunum and ileum are termed lacteals, from the milk-white fluid they contain during intestinal digestion. They run between the layers of the mesentery and enter the mesenteric glands, the efferents of which terminate in the pre-aortic glands. The lymphatic vessels of the vermiform appendix and ccecum (figs. 665, 666) are numerous, since in the wall of the appendix there is a large amount of adenoid tissue. From the body and tail of the appendix eight to fifteen vessels ascend between the layers of the meso-apiDcndix, one or two being interrupted ill the appendicular gland. On reaching the stem of the appendicular artery, they unite to form three or four vessels, which end partly in the lower and partly in the upper glands of the ileo-colic chain. The vessels from the root of the appendix and from the c£ecum consist of an anterior and a posterior group. The anterior vessels pass in front of the caecum, and end in the anterior ileo-colic glands, and in the upper and lower glands of the ileo-colic Fig. 666.—The lymphatics of caecum and vermiform appendix, from behind. (Jamieson and Dobson.) Ujijjer group of ■ileo-colic glands Lower grouj) of ileo-colic glands Vermiform appendix CcBcii/m chain; the posterior vessels ascend over the back of the caecum and termi- nate in the posterior ileo-colic glands and in the lower glands of the ileo-colic chain. Lymphatic vessels of the colon.—The lymphatics of the ascending and transverse parts of the colon finally terminate in the mesenteric glands, after traversing the right colic and meso-colic glands. Those of the descending and ilio-pelvic parts of the colon are interrupted by the small glands on the branches of the left colic and sigmoid arteries, and ultimately end in the pre-aortic glands around the origin of the inferior mesenteric artery (fig. 664). Lymphatic vessels of the anus, anal canal, and rectum.—The lymphatics from the anus pass forwards and end with those of the integument of tiie perineeum and scrotum in the superficial inguinal glands ; those from the anal canal accompany the middle and inferior haemorrhoidal arteries, and end in the internal iliac glands ; while the vessels from the rectum traverse the pararectal glands and pass to those in the pelvic meso-colon ; the efferents of the latter terminate in the pre-aortic glands around the origin of the inferior mesenteric artery. 3 s786 ANGIOLOGY The lymphatic vessels of the liver are divisible into two sets, superficial and deep The former arise "in the subperitoneal areolar tissue over the entire surface of the organ, and may be grouped into : (a) those on the convex surface, (b) those on the inferior surface. ^ , . t ^i,- t (a) On tlie convex surface.—The vessels trom the back part of this surface reach their terminal glands by three different routes : the vessels of the middle set five or six in number, pass through the caval openmg m the Diaphragm and end in one or two glands which are situated around the terminal part of the inferior vena cava ; a few vessels from the left side pass backwards towards the oesophageal opening, and terminate in the paracardial glands of the coronary chain ; the vessels from the right side, one or two m number run on the abdominal surface of the Diaphragm, and, after crossing its right crus, terminate in the pre-aortic glands which surround the origm of the ccelikc axis. From the portions of the right and left lobes adjacent to the falciform ligament, the lymphatic vessels converge to form two trunks, one of Fig. 667.—Lymphatics of the bladder. (Cuneo and Marcille.) Common iliac artery G^land in front of sa cral promon ionj -\'^- ■ ■ \ ■■•\ \ 1 \ iW\ \^^^^js^^^^__l7>ter,wl iliac Ureter Lymphatics from bladder External iliac glands Lymphatics from bladder Which accompanies the vena cava through th .D-pluj|^, ^ glands around the terminal part of his vessel \« °* liver, Ind forwards, and, turning round the ^'^^f, ^J^^l' ^^3', tx the uppe^ accompanies the upper part of the hgamentum ere« «M ^^f^turn round hepatic glands. From the anterior surface a ^JtimmW^^^ tur the anterior sharp margin to readi the "Pf ^^^P^^ ?/^^^^^ ,^ostly converge (h) On the m/mor .ur/ace.-The vessels f^-^* dLn i™^^^ emergutg '""The deep lymphaties eonverge to a--.'*''S and d«c-^^^^^^^^ ascending tamL accompany tke hepatic vc.„s and ^ glands.LYMPHATICS OP THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS 787 The lymphatic vessels of the gall-bladder pass to the hepatic glands in the I trans \'erse fissure of the liver ; those of tlie common bile-duct to the liepatic i glands alongside the duct and into the upjDer pancreatico-duodenal glands. The lymphatic vessels of the pancreas follow tlie course of its blood-vessels. ] Most of them enter the glands of the splenic chain, but some end in the I pancreatico-duodenal glands, and ollicrs in the pre-aortic glands, near the ( origin of the superior mesenteric artery. (2) The lympJuttic vessels of the spleen and suprarenal glands. The lymphatic vessels of the spleen, both superficial and deep, pass to the : splenic glands in the lieno-renal ligament. EiG. 668.—Lymphatics of the prostate. (Cuneo and Marcille.) <faiLYn"f nto ,i ^."^sseltirainms; into oxternalUiao glands, d. Retro-prostatic lymph-nodea. e. Vessels A ^ f ^^'""^ '» promontory, g. Lateral saoral glands A. Middle temorrhoidal gland. /. Middle lixcmorrhoidal lymphatic vessels. i aai.rai gmnaa^ The lymphatic vessels of the suprarenal glands usually accompany the ~ suprarenal vems, and end in the lateral aortic glands ; occasionaUv some 01 "lem pierce the crura of the Diaphragm and terminate in the glands of the !' posterior mediastinum. (3) The lympluitic vessels of the urinary organs. of .|"®/?/,^P/««<ic vessels of the kidney form three plexuses : one in the substance or cue kidney, a second beneath its fibrous capsule, and a third in the peri- ■ "eptinc tat; the second and third communicate freely with each other, or fi jessels from the plexus m the kidney substance converge to form four nve trunks which issue at the hilus. Here they are joined by vessels 3 B 2ANGIOLOGY 788 from the plexus under the capsule, and, following the course of the rena vem, end in the lateral aortic glands. The perinephric plexus is drained directly into the upper lateral aortic glands. . mi c The lymphatic vessels of the ureter run in different du-ections. iliose troin its upper portion end partly in the efferent vessels of the kidney and partly in tlic lateral aortic glands ; those from the portion immediately above th.- pelvic brim are di-ained into the common ihac glands ; while the vessels trom the intrapelvic portion of the tube join the efferents from the bladder, or terminate in the internal iliac glands. The lymphatic vessels of the bladder (fig. 667) originate m two plexuses, au intra- and an extra-muscular, it being generally admitted that the mucous Fig. 669.—Lymphatics of the uterus. (Cun6o and Marcille.) sacral glands. „.embra,« i. devoid of ^y^-Vt'^^'fJ^f^^^:^^'^:^ o'f VS (.roups, ono from the anterior and anotliei t™'" ' '» „,<.n.al iliM l adL. The vessels from the anUnor '7 '° *| p,„„d8 glands, but in their course minute tat of the bladder, Ire arranged in t;vo groups, an «»~'P^^'^^^^^^^^^ The vessels trom Paris, 1909).LYMPHATICS OP THE THORAX 789 i internal iliac and sacral glands, but one trunk from the posterior surface ends i in the external iliac glands, and another from the anterior surface joms the vessels which drain the membranous part of tlie urethra. Lymphatic vessels of the urethra.—The lymphatics of the pemle portion of the urethra accompany those of the glans penis, and terminate with them in • the deep higuinal and external iliac glands. Tliose of the membranous and prostatic portions, and those of the whole urethra in the female, pass to the ! internal iliac glands. (4) The lymphatic vessels of the reproductive organs. The lymphatic vessels of the testes consist of two sets, superficial and deep, • the former commencing on the surface of the tunica vaginalis, the latter in ■ the epididymis and body of the testis. They form several large trunks, which ascend with the spermatic cord, and, accompanying the spermatic vessels into the abdomen, terminate in the lateral aortic glands. The lymphatic vessels of the vas deferens pass to the external iliac glands ; those of the vesiculce seminales partly to the internal and partly to the external iliac glands. The lymphatic vessels of the ovary are similar to those of the testis, and , ascend with the ovarian artery to the lateral aortic glands. The lymphatic vessels of the Fallopian tube pass partly with those of the ovary and partly with those of the uterus. The lymphatic vessels of the uterus (fig. 669) consist of two sets, superficial and deep, the former being placed beneath the peritoneum, the latter m the substance of the organ. The lymphatics of the cervix uteri run in three directions : transversely to the external iliac glands, postero-laterally to f;he internal ihac glands, and posteriorly to tlie common iliac glands. The majority of the vessels of the body and fundus of the uterus pass outwards in the broad ligaments, and are continued up with the ovarian vessels to the lateral aortic glands ; a few, hoAvever, run to the external iliac glands, and one or two to the superficial inguinal glands. In the unimpregnated uterus, the lymphatic vessels are very small, but during gestation are greatly enlarged. The lymphatic vessels of the vagina are carried in three directions : those of the upper part to the external iliac glands, those of the middle part to the internal iliac glands, and those of the lower part to the common iliac glands. On the course of those from the middle and lower parts small glands are situated. Some lymphatics from the lower part of the vagina join those of the vulva and pass to the superficial inguinal glands. The lymphatics of the vagina anastomose with those of the cervix uteri, vulva, and rectum, but not with those of the bladder. LYMPHATICS OF THE THORAX The lymphatic glands of the thorax may be divided into parietal a,nd visceral—the former being situated in the thoracic waU, the latter in relation to the viscera. The parietal lymphatic glands include tlie internal mammary, intercostal and diaphragmatic glands. 1. The internal mammary glands are placed at the anterior extremities of the intercostal spaces, by the side of the internal mammary artery. They derive aflerents from the mammary gland, from the deeper structures of the anterior abdominal wall above the level of the umbilicus, from the upper surface of the liver tlirough a small group of glands which lie behind the ensi- form cartilage, and from the deeper parts of the anterior portion of the thoracic waU. Their efferents usually unite to form a single trunk on either side ; this may open directly into the junction of the internal jugular and subclavian veins, or that of the right side may join the right subclavian trunk, and that of the left the thoracic duct. 2. The intercostal glands (lymphoglandulse intercostales) occupy the posterior parts of tlie intercostal spaces, in relation to the intercostal vessels. They receive the deep lymphatics from the postero-lateral aspect of the chest ; some of these vessels are interrupted by small lateral intercostal glands. The efferents of the glands in the lower four or five spaces unite to form a trunk.790 ANGIOLOGY wliich descends and opens either into the receptacuhim chyli or into tin- comnieneement of the thoracic duct. The elTerents of the glands in the upper spaces of the left side terminate in the thoracic duct; those of tin correspondinsj; right spaces, in the right lymphatic duct. 3. The diaphragmatic glands lie on the thoracic aspect of the Dia- plu'agm, and consist of three sets, anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior set consists of (a) two or three small glands behind the base of the ensiform cartilage, which receive afferents from the convex surface of the liver, and (b) one or two glands on either side near the junction of tin seventh rib with its cartilage, which receive lymphatic vessels from the front part of the Diaphragm. The efferent vessels of the anterior set pass to the internal mammary glands. The middle set consists of two or three glands on either side close lo where the phrenic nerves enter the Diaphragm. On the right side some of the glands of this group lie withui the fibrous sac of the pericardmm, on the front of the termination of the inferior vena cava. The afferents of this set are derived from the middle part of the Diaphragm, those on the riglit side also receiving afferents from the convex surface of the liver. Then: efferenis pass to the posterior mediastinal glands. v i f The posterior set consists of a few glands situated on the back ot tne diaphragmatic crura, and connected on the one hand mth the lumbar glands and on the other with the posterior mediastmal glands. The superficial lymphatic vessels of the thoracic wall ramrfy beneath tire skin and converge to the axillary glands. Those over the Trapezius and Latissimus dorsi run forwards and unite to form about ten or twelve trunks which end m the subscapular group. Those over the pectoral region, includmg the vessels from the skm covering the peripheral part of the mamma, run backwards, and those over the Serratus magnus upwards, to the pectoral group. Others near the lateral margm of the sternum pass mwards between the rib cartilages and end in the internal mammary glands, while the vessels of opposite sides anastomose across the front of the sternum, a the few vessels from the upper part of the pectoral region pass upwards over clavicle to the supraclavicular group of cervical glands. The lymphatic vessels of the mammary gland origmate m a plexus m tue interlobular spaces and on the walls of the galactophorous ducts Those from the central part of the gland pass to an intricate plexus situated beneath the areola, a plexus which receives also the lymphatics from the skm over the central part of the gland and those from the areola and mpple. "s efferent^ are coUected into two trunks which pass to the pectoral group of axiUaiy glands. The vessels which drain the inner part of the mammary gland pierce the thoracic waU and end in the internal mammary S^^nds, while a % esse! has occasionaUy been seen emerging from the upper part of |he gW aiid piercin- the Pectoralis major, to termhiate m the subclavicular glands (fag. b55). The deep lymphatic vessels of the thoracic wall consist of : 1. The lymphatics of the muscles which he on the ribs : most of these termmate in. the axUlary glands, but some from the Pectorahs major pass to the internal mammary glands. , • , j • *i „ Tr,f-.,.nn«fnl muscles 2. The intercostal Ivmphatic vessels which dram the I^^f f "^f ^ and parietal pleura. Those draming the External "^^ercost^ musc^ ru^ backwards and, after receiving the vessels which «f branches of the intercostal arteries, terminate in t^ie P°«t«[\° '"f ^^^^ j{ glands. Those of the Internal intercostal muscles and P«"ff^\l^f J'^X^^^^^ li a suigle trunk in each space. These trunks run forwards >^J^^ ^^^l™ tissue and the upper six open separately into the "Eternal n^ ghmds or into the vessels which unite them : those of the lower '^Pf'.^^ "/"JXnds^ single trunk which terminates in t^ie lowest of the ^^^Z 3. The lymphatic vessels of the Diaphragm, Mx^ovnx <^ " 1 its thoracicInd another on its abdominal surface These lJ;;"«J«^!^ '^^^^^^^ freely with each other, and arc best marked on the P'^'-^^/X ™^ by the pleura, and peritoneum. That on the ^'/.^^^f f ^f^". w^th the lymphatics of the costal and diast.nal parts of li e P^^"^^- its efferents consist of three groups : (a «"\^Tv].HlTc^f • ^ft/niM^^^ which he near the junction of the seventh rib with its cartilage, [b) micime.LYMPHATICS OF THE THORAX 791 the glands on the oesophagus and to those around the termination of the mferior vena cava; and (c) posterior, to the glands which surround the aorta at the point where this vessel leaves the thoracic cavity. The plexus on the abdominal surface is composed of fine vessels, and anasto- moses with the lymphatics of the liver and, at the periphery of the Diapliragra, with those of the subperitoneal tissue. The efferents from the right half of this plexus terminate partly in a group of glands on the trunk of the corresponding inferior phrenic artery, while others end in the right lateral aortic glands. Those from the left half of tlie plexus pass to the pre- and lateral aortic glands and to the glands on tlie terminal portion of the oesophagus. ]7i(5. 670.—Disposition and relations of the tracheo-bronchial lymphatic glands. (From a figiure designed by M. Hall6, and printed in 'La Clinique M(5dicale,' tome iv.) 1. CEsopbagns. 2. Trachea. 3. Innominate arterj'. i. Arcli o£ aorta. 5. Left subclavian artery. 0. Left common carotid artery. 7. Thoracic aorta. 8. ffisophagus. 9. Right bronchus. 10. Left bronchus. 11. Right vagus nerve. 12. Right recurrent laryngeal nerve. 13, 14. Right posterior pulmonary plexus. 15. Oisophageal plexus. IG. Left vagus nerve. 17. Left recurrent laryngeal nerve. 18, 19. Left posterior pulmonary plexus. 20. Glands accom- panying right recurrent laryngeal nerve. 21. Glands accompanying left recurrent laryngeal nerve. 22. Right tracheo-bronchial glands. 23. Left tracheo-bronchial glands. 2-1, 25. Interbronchial glands. 20. Glands below bifurcation of trachea. The visceral lymphatic glands consist of three groups, viz. anterior mediastinal, posterior mediastinal, and tracheo-bronchial. The anterior mediastinal glands (lymphoglandulfB mediastinales an- teriores) are placed in the anterior part of the superior mediastinum, in front of the arch of the aorta and in relation to the innominate veins and the large arterial trunks which arise from the aortic arch. They receive afferents from the thymus gland and pericardium, and from the internal mammary glands ; their efferents unite with those of the tracheo-bronchial glands, to form the right and left broncho-mediastinal trunks.792 ANGIOLOGY The posterior mediastinal glands (lymphoglandulae mediastinales posteriores) lie behind the pericardium in relation to the oesophagus and descending thoracic aorta. Tiieir aft'erents are derived from the cesophagus, the posterior part of the pericardium, the Diaphragm, and the convex surface of the liver. Their efferents mostly terminate in the thoracic duct, but some join the tracheo-bronchial glands. The tracheo-bronchial glands (fig. 670) form three main groups in relation to the bifurcation of the trachea—one on either side of the trachea above the bronchi, and one in the angle .between the bronchi (lymphoglandulae tracheales) ; other glands, termed interbranchial (lymphoglandulae bronchiales), are found at the points of division of the larger bronchi. The afferents of the tracheo-bronchial glands drain the lungs and bronchi, the thoracic part of the trachea and the heart; some of the efferents of the posterior mediastmal glands also terminate in this group. Their efferent vessels ascend upon the trachea and unite with efferents of the internal mammary and anterior mediastinal glands to form the right and left broncho-mediastinal trunks. The right broncho-mediastinal trunk may join the right lymphatic duct, and the left the thoracic duct, but more frequently they open independently of these ducts into the junction of the internal jugular and subclavian veins of their own side. Apflied Anatomy.—In all town-dwellers there are continually being swept into these glands from the bronchi and alveoli large quantities of the dust and black carbonaceous pigment that are so freely inhaled in cities. At first the glands are moderately enlarged, firm, inky black and gritty on section ; later they enlarge still fui'ther, often becoming fibrous from the irritation set up by the minute foreign bodies with which they are crammed, and may break down into a soft slimy mass or may calcify. In tuberculosis of the lungs these glands are practically always infected ; they enlarge, being filled with tuberculous deposits that may soften, or become fibrous, or calcify. Not infrequently an enlarged tuberculous gland perforates into a bronchus, discharging its contents into the tube. When this happens there is great danger of acute pulmonary tuberculosis, the infecting gland-substance being rapidly spread throughout the bronchial system by the coughing its presence in the air-passages excites. The lymphatic vessels of the thoracic viscera consist of those of the heart and pericardium, lungs and pleura, thymus, and oesophagus. The lymphatic vessels of the heart consist of two plexuses, (a) deep, immediately under the endocardium, and (6) superficial, subjacent to the visceral pericardium. The deep plexus opens into the superficial, the efferents of which form right and left collecting trunks. The left trunks, two or three in number, ascend in the anterior interventricular furrow, receiving, m then- course, afferents from both ventricles. On reaching the auriculo-ventricular furrow they are joined by a large trunk from the back of the heart, and then unite to form a single vessel which ascends between the pubuonary artery and the left auricle and ends m one of the tracheo-bronchial glands. The right trunk receives its afferents from the right auricle and from the right border and posterior surface of the right ventricle. It ascends in the posterior auriculo-ventricular groove and then runs fom^ard m the auriculo-ventricular groove, and passes up behmd the pulmonary artery, to end m one of the tracheo-bronchial glands. The lymplmlic vessels of the lungs originate in two plexuses, a superhcial and a deep. The superficial plexus is placed beneath the viscej-al pleura. The deep accompanies the branches of the pulmonary vessels and the rami- fications of the bronchi. In the case of the larger bronchi the deep plexus consists of two networks, one, submucous, beneath the mucous membrane, and another, peribronchial, outside the walls of the bronchi. In the smaUer bronchi there is but a single plexus, which extends as far as the bronchioles but fails to reach the alveoli, in the walls of M'hich there are no traces oi lymi)hatic vessels. The su]jerficial efferents turn round the borders of thr lungs and the margins of their fissures, and converge to end in some glamN situated at the hUus ; the deep efferents are conducted to ^'^-^ '!'\"^,"^"^ the pulmonary vessels and bronchi, and end in the tracheo-bronchial glan K Little or no anastomosis occurs between the superficial and deep lymphatics of the lungs, except in the region of the hilus.793 LYMPHATICS OP THE THORAX Tlie lymphatic vessels of the pleura consist of two sets—one in the visceral and another in tlie parietal part of the membrane. Those of the visceral pleura dram into the superficial efferents of the lung, while the lymphatics of the parietal jjleura have three modes of ending, viz. : (a) those of the costal portion join the lymphatics of tlie Internal intercostal muscles and so reach the internal mammary glands ; (6) those of the diaphragmatic part are di'ained by the efferents of the Diaphragm ; while (c) those of the mediastinal portion terminate in the posterior mediastinal glands. The lymplmtic vessels of the thymus gland terminate in the superior mediastinal, tracheo-bronchial, and internal mammary glands. The lymphatic vessels of the oesophagus form a plexus round that tube, and the collecting vessels from the plexus drain into tlie posterior mediastinal glands.NEUEOLOGY mHE Nervous System is the most complicated and the most highly organised I of the various systems which make up the human body. It may be divided mto two parts, central and peripheral. The central nervous system consists of (a) an upper expanded portion the 6ra " contamed within the cranium, and (6) a lower, fonga ed nearly cy?mdrical portion, the svinal cord, lodged m the --tfral canal; the two portions are continuous with one another at the level of the upper border The^ peripheral nervous system consists of a series of nerves by which the cent?al nervous system is connected with the various tissues of the body. I^)r descript re purposes these nerves may be aiTanged in two groups, cerebra- ls;!^ :Sly^vlihl< the arrangement, however, ^emg an arb^tray^^^^^^^^^ the two eroups are intimately connected and closely mtermmgled. ihe ceieDro puSlnSv:?are forty-threJin number on -tl-side-tweW^^^^ to the brain, and thh-ty-one sfimil, to the spmal ; ^^^hey are ass^^^^^^ with the functions of the special and general ^^nses and w th the ^ o^^^^^ movements of the body. The sympathetic nerves ^^X^^^^l Se^te blood regulate the movements of the viscera, determine ^^le ^ahbre of the bioo^^ vessels and control the phenomena of secretion. .^'^J^^^^^^^^ Me iS front ftr4mj».<fc<», which reach from the ba,e of ^e ^\"J^to to c^^^^^ sympathetic nerves issumg from the gangha '"TX^fXia^^i relation ^"■^^.TeTervrs'system is built up of a,^ no^^^^^^^^^ former consisting of nerve-ceUs and nerve-fibres , the latter, oi neui g bwVessels, tolether with certain -velopmg men^^^^^^^^ The mmute structure of the nervous elements and of ^1 yej^^^g ^ ^ ^1^^ described in the chapter on Histology (PP- ^2 to 55 ^ ^^^^X^ to development of the nervous system f^^fj^ed in the to 128) It may be stated here ^^^^f J^^^^^; ^ nerve-fibres arise as nervous system consists of cells only, and that the ner^el.u outgrowths from the cells. ti,»-i7 nr<» termed are at first Sie embryonic nerve-cells, or ^^-rMa.is ^l^'^^^^^^'^^ each cell spherical, but soon become pear-shaped, and ^^^^ ^^^y of the ceU g^-ows out to form a slender process, ^^^^^^^^^ a shorter other processes, ternied dMs arise ^^J^i^'^^.f^^^av break up at once :L^"rem"toil;: .x^r 'sz:^^^'^^^ <« - K ?.,o Ph^of reception, the »"™„te«^^ire3X"what is tcnncd a The norve-cell and its processes colleetivcly eonstiim »,„ro.., and Waldeyer fom,ulatcd 'f "'X^^^^^^^^^^^ built up of numerous neurons, anatoimcally and gcncuca, ,796 THE SPINAL CORr> one another.' According to this theory (neuron theory) the processes of one neuron only come into contact, and are never in direct continuity, with those of other neurons ; while impulses are transmitted from one nerve-cell to another through these points of contact. This theory is based on the following facts, viz. : (1) embryonic nerve-cells or neuroblasts are entirely distinct from one another; (2) when nervous tissues are stained by the Golgi method no continuity is seen even between neighbouring neurons ; and (3) M'hen degenerative changes occur in nervous tissue, either as the I'esult of disease or experiment, they never spread from one neuron to another, but are limited to the individual neurons, or groups of neurons, primarily affected. It must, however, be added that within the past few years the validity of the neuron theory^las been called in question by certain eminent histologists, wlio maintain that by the employment of more delicate histological methods, minute fibrils can be followed from one nerve-cell into another. The Spinal Coed The spinal cord (medulla spinalis) forms the elongated, nearly cylindiical, part of the central nervous system which occupies the upper two-thirds of tlie vertebral canal. Its average length in the male is about eighteen inches (45 cm.), in the female about seventeen inches (42-43 cm.),w^hile Fig. 671.—Showing the relation of the spinal its weight amounts to a little cord to the dorsal surface of the trunk, over an ounce. It extends from The vertebra, &c., are outlined in red. the level of the upjDer border of the atlas to that of the lower border of the first, or upper border of the second, lumbar vertebra (fig. 671). Above, it is directly continuous with the hind-brain; below, it ends in a conical extre- mity, the conus medullaris, from the apex of which a delicate filament, the filum termivxile, is continued do\rawards as far as the first segment of the coccyx (fig. 672). The position of the spinal cord varies with the movements of the vertebral column, its lower extre- mity being drawn slightly upwards when the column is flexed. It also varies at different periods of hfe : up to the third month of fcBtal life the cord is as long as the canal in which it hes, but from this stage onwards the vertebral column elon- gates more rapidly than the cord, so that by the end of the fifth month the cord terminates at the base of the sacrum, and at birth about the level of the third lumbar vertebra. The spinal cord does not nearly fill the canal in which it lies, being enshcathed by three protec- tive membranes, separated from each other by two concentric spaces. The three membranes are named from without inwards tlie dura mater, the araclmoid membrane, and the pia mater. The dura mater is a strong, fibrous membrane whicli forms a wide, tubular sheath around the cord ; this sheath extends below^ the termina- tion of the cord and ends in a pointed cul de sac at the level of the lower796 NEUROLOGY border of the second sacral vertebra. The dura mater is separated from the wall of the vei-tebral canal by a quantity of loose areolar tissue and a plexus of veins while between it and the subjacent arachnoid membrane is a capiUary' interval, the subdural space, winch contains a small q^^^ntity of fluid probably of the nature of lymph. The arachnoid membrane is a thm Sparent sheath, separated from the pia mater by a comparatively ^^ ide nteX the subaracJmoid space, which is filled w.th cerebro-spinal fluid, ihe p a naiV closely invests the cord and sends delicate septa into its substance ; a Fig. 672.—Sagittal section of spinal canal to show the lower end of the spinal cord and the filum terminale. (Testut.) Fig G73.—Cauda equina and filum terminale seen from behind. The dura mater has been opened and spread out, and the arachnoid membrane has been removed. Dura mater Conns vieduUaris ■Posterior nerve-roots Filum terminale LI LV. First and fifth lumbar vertebra!. Sn. Second sacral vertebra. 1. Dura mater. 2 Lower part of tube of dura inat^. 3. Lower extremity of spinal cord. 4 lutra-dural, and 5, E.xtra-dural por- tions of fllum terminale. C. Attachment of mum terminale to first segment of coccyx. narrow band, the ligamentum denticulatum, extends along each of its lateral surfaces, and is attached by a series of pointed processes to the inner surface of the dura mater. Thirty-one pairs of spinal , j having nerves spring from the I'^^tcral a.pe^^^^^^^^^^^^ root, the latter being an anterior or ventral, and a P^^^^^^Y'^^^.'^i^.^^^^ spinal ganglion, which distinguished by Presence of ^^^^^of several bundles o atS Side of the cord. The parrs797 THE SPINAL CORD Decussation of the pyramids ' Anterior tnedian fissure Posterior 'intermediate sulcus _ Cervical enlargement Posterior nedian fissure Postero- lateral sulcus of spinal nerves are grouped as follows : cervical 8, thoracic 12, lumbar 5. sacral 5, coccygeal 1, and, for convenience of description, the cord is divided into cervical, thoracic, lumbar and sacral regions, corresponding with tliese different groups of nerves. Although no trace of trans- Fig. 674.—Diagrams of the spinal cord, verse segmentation is visible on the surface of the spinal cord it is convenient to regard it as being built up of a series of superimposed spinal segments or neuromeres, each of which has a length equivalent to the extent of attachment of a pair of spinal nerves. Since the distance between the successive pairs of nerves varies in differ- ent parts of the cord, it follows that the spinal segments are of varying lengths; thus, in the cervical region they average about thirteen millimetres, in the mid-thoracic region about twenty-six millimetres, while in the lumbar and sacral regions they diminish rapidly from about fifteen mUlunetres at the level of the first pair of lumbar nerves to about four miUimetres oppo- site the attachments of the lower sacral nerves. As a consequence of the unequal rate of growth of the spinal cord and vertebral column, the nerve-roots, which at first passed transversely outwards to reach their respec- tive intervertebral foramina, become more and more oblique in direction from above doAvn- wards, so that tlie lower part of the tubular sheath of dura mater is occupied by the lumbar and sacral nerves, which de- scend almost vertically to reach their points of exit. From the appearance these nerves pre- sent at their attachment to tlie cord and from their great length they are collectively termed the Cauda equina (fig. 673). The filum terminale is a delicate filament, about eight inches in length, prolonged down\vards from the apex of the conus medullaris. It con- sists of two parts, an upper and a lower. The upper part, or filum terminale internum, mea- sures about six inches in length and reaches as far as the lower border of the second sacral ver- tebra. It is contained within the tubular sheath of dura Ventral aspect Dorsal aspect Lumbar enlargement -Conus — Filum ■798 NEUROLOGY mater and is suiTOunded by the nerves forming the cauda equina, from which it can be readily recognised by its bluish-white colour. The lower part, or filum tenninale externum., is closely mvested by, and is adherent to, the dura mater • it extends downwards from the apex of the sheath and js attaclied to the back of the first segment of the coccyx. Tlie filum termmale consists mainly ot fibrous tissue, continuous above with that of the pia mater Adhering to its outer surface, however, are a few strands of nerve-fibres which probably represent rudimentary second and thud coccygeal nerves ; further, the central canal of the spmal cord extends do^™wards into it for two or three mches Enlargrements.-The spinal cord is not quite cyhndrical, being shghtly flattened from before backwards ; nor is it of uniform circumference throughout, but presents two swellings or enlargements, an upper or cervical, , '"'l^iS X-'£ SSmescentia cervicalis) is the more pronounced of the two and corresponds with the attachments of the large nerves which supply t e upper limbs. It extends from about the thud cervical to the second thorSc vertebra, its maximum circumference (about thirty-eight millmietres) beina on a level with the origm of the sixth pair of cervical nerve^s. IClumbar enlargement (mtumescentia lumbahs) gives attachment to he nerves which supply the lower limbs. It commences about the level of the Sr thoracic vertlbra and reaches its maximum eucumference, of abou tikty-thrce miUimetrc^^^ opposite the last thoracic vertebra, below which it tnnPT's ranidlv into the conus meduUaris. . ■ „a ^pLsures and sulci (fig. 675).-A pair of median fissures, anterior and poste Kr d!p^nto t\5 substance of the cord, and incompletely divide it Lto iwo symmetrical parts, which are joined across the middle Ime by a ^°^^^SlSl^Sr^mediana« ZrtS Zi^^ ior^^^^^^^ band of white substance, the wM. riLt Icommissura a^nterior alba) which is perforated by blood-vessel. r,Ti tVipir wav to or from the central part ot the cora. volerior rnedian fissure (sufcus -edianus postenor) is not an^^^^^^^^^^^^ this BulcuB and the posterior J! this column TeTo^iMoi" of "tl'r which ^f. are not attached in linear series, then osition ^^^^^ sulcus. They arise by separate .^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ emerge over of grey matter and, Pf ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ bundles is generally an area of some shght width ^^^^ ""^f/ °'^Jpro-lateral column into two taken as a dividing hne which J, ff^,^^ ."^^^^^ parts, viz. an anterior / ^nnterior ne^^^^^^^ and a lateral column _ fUo rMifprmnst of the allteilOl IILIM.. lU^Ji^ . 1„f„rnl parts, VIZ. ananu;,ou, ,,erve-roots :■ and a lateral coiumn Lsure and the ou ennost of e and the postero-latera ^^XS:^^^:^^ -s upwards and enters tne spinui pu.u wn.n-ifin inaenum.799 THE SPINAL CORD Internal STRtrcTUKE of the Spinal Cord On examining a transverse section of the cord (fig. 675) it is seen to consist of grey and white nervous matter, the former being enclosed \vithin the latter. Grey matter.—The grey matter (substantia grisea) consists of two symmetrical portions, one in each half of the cord : these are joined across the middle line by a transverse band, termed the grey commissure (com- missura grisea), through which runs a mmute canal, the canalis centralis of the cord, just visible to the naked eye. Each half of the grey substance is shaped in the form of a comma or crescent, the concavity of which is directed outwards ; and these, together with the intervening grey commissure, j)resent on transverse section the appearance of the letter H. An imaginary line drawn transversely through the central canal serves to divide each crescent into an anterior or ventral, and a posterior or dorsal cornu. The anterior cornu (columna anterior) is directed forwards, and is broad and of a roimded or quadrangular shape. Its posterior part is termed the base, and its anterior part the head, but these are not differentiated from each other by any well-defined constriction. It is separated from the surface of Fig. 675.—Transverse section of the spinal cord in the mid-thoracic region. Posterior median Anterior nerve-roots Anterior median fissivre the cord by a layer of white matter which is traversed by the bundles of the anterior nerve-roots. In the thoracic region, the postero-external part of the anterior cornu projects outwards as a triangular field, which is named the' lateral cornu (columna lateralis). The posterior cornu (columna posterior) is long and slender, and is directed backwards and outwards : it reaches almost as far as the postero- lateral sulcus, from which it is separated by only a thin layer of white sub- stance, the tract of Lissauer. It consists of a base, which is directly continuous with the corresponding part of the anterior horn ; a neck (cervix cohmmse post.) or slightly constricted portion, which is succeeded by an oval or fusiform area, termed the head (caput columnse post.), of which the summit (apex columnae post.) approaches the postero-lateral sulcus. The head is capped by a V-shaped or crescentic mass of translucent, gelatinous neurogUa, termed the substantia gelatinosa of Rolando, which contains not only neuroglia-cells, but numerous small nerve-ceUs. Between the anterior and posterior comua the grey matter extends as a series of processes for some distance into the lateral column, to form a network called the formatio reticularis.800 NEUROLOGY Fio. 67C.—Transverse sections of the spinal cord at dilTerent levels. C.l C2. C.5. The quantity of grey matter, as well as tlie form which it assumes on transverse section, varies markedly at different levels. It is small, not only in amount but relatively to the surrounding white substance, in the thoracic region. Its amount is greatly increased in the cervical and lumbar enlargements : in the latter, and especially in the conus meduUaris, its propor- tion to the white matter is greatest (fig. 676). In the cervical region its pcsterior cornu remains comparatively narrow, wliile its an- terior is broad and expanded ; in tlie tlioracic region, both cornua are attenuated, and the lateral horn is evident; in the lumbar enlarge- ment, both cornua are expanded ; while in tlic conus meduUaris the grey matter assumes the form of two oval masses, one in each half of the cord, connected together by a broad grey commissure. The central canal runs in the grey com- missure throughout the entire length of tlie cord. The part of the grey commissure in front of the canal is named the anterior grey commissure ; that behmd it, the posterior grey commissure. The former is thin, and is in contact anteriorly with the white commissure : it contains a couple of longitudinal vems, one on either side of the middle hne. The posterior grey commissure reaches from the central canal to the posterior median septum, and is thimiest in the thoracic region, and thickest in the conus meduUaris. The central canal is con- tinued upwards through the lower part of the meduUa oblongata, and opens into the fourth ventricle of the brain ; below, it reaches tor a short distance into the filum termuiale. in the lower part of the conus medullar is it exhibits a fusiform dUatation, the ventrtculus terminalis:* this has a vertical measurement of from eight to ten miUimetres, is trianguhir on cross section with its base directed fonvards, and tends to undergo obliteration after the age ^Throughout the cervical and thoracic regions the central canal is situated in the anterior third of the cord : in the lumbar enlargenient it is near the middle, and in the conus medul- laris it approaches the posterior surface, it is filled with cerebro-siDinal flmd.and is hned by ciUated, columnar epithelium, outside which is an encirclmg band of S^^^V-^""1.^",^^; Ihuo s substantia gelatinosa centralis This ge atino s substance consists mainb^ °* rT^'« contains a few nerve ceUs and fibres . it s traversed by processes from the deep ends of Jhe columnar ciUated ceUs which line the central ^^"iti^StSe^ofthe greymatter.-Thegi.y n.atter consists of "^urogha, together i i numerous nerve-ceUs ai^d nerve-fibres Thi^^^^^ out the greater part of the g^ey' 'natter t^ie neuroglia presents the appearance of a sponge C.8. Th2. Th8. T/iJ2 L.3. S.2. Coc AroJiiv fiir micro. Anat. 1875.801 THE SPINAL CORD like network, but around the central canal and on the heads of the posterior cornua it consists of the gelatinous substance already referred to (fig. 677). The nerve-cells in tlie grey matter are multipolar, and vary greatly in size and shape (fig. 678). They consist of : (1) motor cells of large size, which are situated in the anterior horn, and are especially numei'ous in the cervical and lumbar enlargements ; the axons of nearly all these cells pass out to form the anterior nerve-roots, but before leaving the white substance they frequently give off collaterals, which re-enter and ramify in the grey matter.* (2) Cells of small or medium size, whose axons do not emerge from the cord but pass into the wliite matter; here some assume an Fig. 677.—Section of central canal of spinal cord, showing ependymal and neuroglial cells, (v. Lenhossek.) EiG. 678.- -Cells of spinal cord. (Poirier.) —Ascending -Collateral -Descending ■ArborisaHon Neuroglial cells Spendymal cells ascending, and others a descend- ing course, but most of them divide in a T-shaped manner into descending and ascending pro- cesses. They give off collaterals which enter and ramify in the grey matter, and the termina- tions of the axons behave in a similar manner. The lengths of these axons vary gi'eatly : some are short and pass only between adjoining segments of the cord, while others are longer and con- nect more distant segments. These cells and their processes constitute a series of association or intersegmental neurons, which link together the different parts of the cord. The axons of most of these cells are confined to that side of the cord in which the nerve-ceUs are situated, but some cross to the opposite side through the anterior commissure, and are termed crossed commissural fibres. Some of these latter end directly in the grey matter, while others enter the white matter, in which they ascend or descend for varying distances, before finally terminating in the grey matter. (3) Cells of the type 11. of Golgi, limited to the posterior horn, and found in the substantia gelatinosa of Rolando, whose axons are short and entii-ely confined to the grey matter, in which they break up into numerous fine filaments. * Lenhossek and Cajal found that in the chick embryo the axons of a few of these nerve- cells passed backwards through the posterior cornu, and emerged as the motnr fibres of the postcrioT nvrve-Toots. These fibres are said to control the peristaltic movements of the intestine, ■their presence, in man, has not yet been determined. 3f Diagram showing in longitudinal section the inter- segmental neurons of tlie spinal cord. The grey and white parte correspond respectively to the grey and white substance of the spinal cord.NEUROLOGY 802 Most of the nerve-cells are arranged in longitudinal columns, which appear as groups on transverse section (figs. 679, 680). „ . , • , Nerve-cells in the anterior horn.—The nerve-cells in the anterior horn are arranged in columns of varymg length, and appear in groups in successive transversi sections of the cord. The longest of these ceU-columns occupies the mesial part of the anterior horn, and is named the antero-mesial: it is absent only in the fifth lumbar, the first sacral and the upper part of the second sacral segments (Bruce).* Behind it is a dorso-mesial column of small ceUs. which extends from the second thoracic to the first lumbar segment, and is also present in the first, sixth, and seventh cervical segments. In the cervical and lumbar enlargements, where the anterior horn is expanded m a lateral dkection, the foUowing additional columns are present : viz • (a) antero-lateral, in the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical and the second Fig. 679. -Mode of distribution of the nerve-cells in the grey matter. (Testut.) (Schematic.) 1, 2. Mesial-and lateral groups of nerve-csUs in anterior 3 Nerve-ceUs in^at^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^Z. o£ Clarke.- 5. Group of nerv^ceUs in ^ubstentia griatoosa o£ Romnao. ^^^^^^^ gelatinc^a centaUs ^■^^S'^^Soutytiui^^'Si^T'gigt^" the tract of Gowers. U. .Vntenor root. 12. Posterior root. 13. Spinal ganglion. thoracic segments, and in the lower four lumW ^^^^^^^^^ Td ui^Xle (6) postero-lateral, in the lower five f '^^^^l' JoY,^' ^Zt cervical first^ horacic, sacfal segments ; (c) po.i-po.iero-iaiera in t^^Jf^^^'iJ four lumbar and upper three sacral segments ; and (d) a "^^^^^^ throughout the and uSer two sacral ^^gment.^^ Sf^^^^^^^ base of the anterior horn, the axons of some otM men ^J"" j nervc-root. fibres, while others constitute the motor fibres of the posterior (See footnote, page 801). column which is best * Topographical Atla, of the ^Vynnl Cord^ 1001- ^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^ the t According to Bruce and l''""; (^{-^^^f " J^^VJt J muldle ot the eighth cervical segment to the lower part of the of the third lumbar segment.THE SPINAL CORD 803 Lateral column Postero- lateral column Antero-latcral column Dorso-mesial column ntero-mesial column Clarke's column Lateral column formatio reticularis. Tiie cells of this column are fusiform or star-shaped, and of a medium size : the axons of some of them pass into the anterior nerve-roots, by which they are carried to the sympathetic nerves ; Fxc,. 080.—Transverse sections of the spinal cord at while those of others pass different levels to show the arrangement of the into the anterior and lateral principal cell-columns, columns, where they become longitudinal. Nerve - cells in the posterior horn. — 1. The column of Clarke {posterior vesicular column). — This occupies the inner part of the base of the posterior horn, and appears on trans- verse section as a well- defined oval area. It com- mences below at the level of the second or thnd lumbar nerve, and reaches its maximum size opposite the twelfth thoracic nerve. Above the level of the ninth thoracic nerve its size diminishes, and the column terminates opposite the last cervical or first thoracic nerve. It is represented, however, in the other regions of the cord by scattered cells, which become aggre- gated to form a cervical nucleus opposite the third cervical nerve, and a sacral nucleus in the middle and lower part of the sacral region. Its cells are of medium size, and of an oval or pyriform shape; their axons pass into the peri- pheral part of the lateral column of the same side, and there ascend, under the name of the direct or ascending cerebellar tract. 2. Nerve-cells in the sub- stantia gelatinosa of Rolando. —These are arranged in three zones : a posterior or marginal zone, composed of large triangular or fusiform ceUs ; an intermediate zone of small fusiform cells ; and an anterior zone of star- shaped cells. The axons of these cells pass into the lateral and posterior columns, and there assume a vertical course. In the anterior zone some Golgi cells are found whose short axons ramify mthegi-ey matter. 3. Solitary cells of varying form and size are scattered throughout the posterior horn. Some of these are grouped to form 3 F 2 Postero- lateral column Antero-lateral column Anlero-mesial column Postero-lateral column Central cohi/mn804 NEUROLOGY the poslerior basal column in the base of the posterior horn and on tlie outer side of Clarke's column. The posterior basal column is well marked in the gorilla (Waldeyer), but is ill-defined in man. The axons of these cells pass partly to the posterior and lateral columns of the same side, and partly through the anterior commissure to the lateral column of the opposite side. Before leaving the grey matter, a considerable number run longitudmally for a varying distance in the head of the posterior horn, formnig what is termed the longitudinal fasciculus of the posterior liorn. , . ^, A few star-shaped or fusiform nerve-cells of varymg size are found m tlie substantia gelatinosa centralis. Their axons pass mto the lateral column of the same, or of the opposite side. ^ . ■ i. The nerve-fibres in the grey matter form a dense mteiiacement ot mmute fibrils amona the nerve-cells. This interlacement is formed partly of axons which pass from the cells in the grey matter to enter the white columns or nerve-roots ; partly of the axons of Golgi's ceUs which ramify only in the grey substance ; and partly of collaterals from the nerve-fibres m the white columns, w^hich, as alreadv stated, enter the grey matter and ramify withm it. White matter —The white matter of the spinal cord consists of meduUatert nerve-fibres imbedded in a sponge-like network of neuroglia, and is arranged in three columns : anterior, lateral, and posterior. The anterior column lies between the anterior median fissure and the outermost of the anterior nerve- roots ■ the lateral column between the outermost of the anterior nerve-roots and the postero-lateral sulcus; and the posterior <;«1^^, between tlie postero-lateral sulcus and the posterior median fissure (fig. 681). -L^e bf ies ?ary gi-eatly in thickness, the smallest being fmmd m the fasciculus gracihs the trac^tS Lissauer, and inner part of the lateral column ; wMe the largest situated in the anterior column, and m the peripheral part of the lateral column. Some of the nerve-fibres assume a more or less transverse du-ection. a. r example those which cross from side to side m tt«,.^^ter|orX«je^ but the majority pursue a longitudinal course and are divisible mto 1) those wliich connect the cord with the brain and convey impulses to or from the Jatte?, and (2) those which are confined to the spmal cord and hnk together its different segments (i.e. intersegmental or association fibres). Nerve-traS -Tl e longitudinal fibres are grouped mto more ^ less defiSte bundles or fasciculi! These are not recognisable from each other in ?he nSma^stte of the cord, and their existence has ^^-n de^™^^^ fnllnwinp methods • (1) A. Waller discovered that if a bundle ot neirve nores, be cXfh^por^^^^^ o the fibres which are separated from their cells rapidly d general Sd become atrophied while the ceUs the parte of the fibr^. connected wdth them undergo little alteration.* T^ii^ is j.n^^^^ l^he fibrJs degeneration. Similarly, if a group of nei;ve-ceUs b^/^^^£°Jf"^th^^^^^^ Wat It first ?he nerve-fibres are --^^f, J-^-^^^^;, f ^^^^^^^^^ do not all acquire their medullary sheaths at the time n can be grouped into different bundles a^^^^^^^^^ dates^^at^^v^l ^^^^^^^^ = a^T^S^^S hltl^ngSe^^U mode of termination of the L^^Se^io^ column.-The —^ =what later a change, tomed ^^^'"^'^^-^^^^^1:^^^:^ ^ a breaking down and a'V'''" r'*V^''''^'ln n^^^^^^ and the part of tlie ,e cell is swollen, U.en.,c .,s.hsr^^^ atrophied. I nder * Somewhat ^e cell is swollen, the nucleus ''Joshed hr^lze'^vl'^oSiat'atrophied, axon still attached to the altered cell is d.mnus^^^^^^^^ appearance, and its axon favourable conditions tlie cell is capable of reassuming may grow again.THE SPINAL COKD 805 to the anterior median fissure, and is present only in the upper part of the cord ; gradually diminishmg in size as it descends, it terminates about the middie°of the "thoracic region. It consists of descending fibres which arise from cells in the motor area of the cerebral hemisphere of the same side, and which, as they run doA\n\\'ards in the cord, cross in succession through the white commissure to the opposite side, where they end by arborismg around the motor cells m the anterior cornu. In addition to the direct pyramidal tract there are strands of fibres m the anterior column, which connect certain ganglia in the brain with the grey matter of the spinal cord. The most important of these is the vestibulospinal tract, which occupies chiefly the marginal part of the column and is mainly derived from the cells of Deiter's nucleus, i.e. the chief terminal nucleus of the vestibular division of the eighth cranial nerve. Of the other descending fibres some pass do\vnwards from the corpora quadrigemina and others are continuous with the posterior longitudinal bundle. The remaining fibres of the anterior column constitute what is termed the anterior basis bundle (fasciculus anterior proprius). It consists of (a) longi- tudinal intersegmental fibres which arise from cells in the grey matter, more especially from those of the mesial group of the anterior horn, and, after a longer or shorter course, re-enter the grey matter ; (b) fibres from the grey matter of the opposite side, which cross m the anterior commissure ; (c) fibres arising from cells of the cerebellum and extendmg down the cord to terminate round the cells of the anterior horn—these fibres constitute an irregular tract disposed in the peripheral portions of the anterior and lateral basis bundles (descending cerebellospinal tract of LiJiventhal) ; and (rf) fibres of the anterior nerve-roots which run obliquely forwards to reach the surface of the cord. Tracts in the lateral column.—1. Descending tracts.—(a) The crossed pyramidal tract (fasciculus cortico.spinaUs dorsaUs) extends throughout the entire lengtlx of the cord, and on transverse section appears as an oval area in front of the posterior horn and on the mesial side of the direct cerebellar tract. It consists of fibres which arise from cells m the motor area of the cerebral hemisphere of the opposite side. They pass downwards in company with those of the du-ect pyramidal tract through the same side of the brain as that from which they originate, but, unlike those of the direct pyramidal tract, they cross to the opposite side in the meduUa oblongata and descend m the lateral column of the cord ; they end by arborising around the motor cells in the anterior horn.* The crossed and direct pyramidal tracts constitute the motor fasciculi of the spinal cord and have their origins in the motor cells of the cerebral cortex. They descend through the internal capsule of the cerebrum, traverse the crus cerebri and pons Varolii and enter the anterior jiyramid of the medulla oblongata. In the lower part of the medulla some t\vo-thirds of them cross the middle line and run downwards in the lateral column as the crossed pyra- midal tract, while the remaining fibres do not cross the middle Ime, but are continued into the same side of the cord, where they form tlie direct pyra- midal tract. The fibres of the latter tract, however, have been .seen to cross the middle Ime in the anterior commissure of the cord and thus the motor fibres from one side of the brain ultimately reach the opposite side of the cord. The proportion of fibres which cross in the medulla oblongata is not a constant one and thus the direct and crossed pyi-amidal tracts vary inversely in size. Sometimes tlie dnect pyi-amidal tract is absent, and in such cases it may be presumed that the decussation of the pyramidal fibres in the medulla oblongata lias been complete. The fibres of these two tracts do not acquire their medullary sheaths until after birth. In some animals the pjramidal fibres are situated in the posterior column of the cord. (b) The rubrospinal tract (tract of Monakow) lies on the ventral aspect of the crossed pyramidal tract and on transverse section appears as a somewhat * It is probable (Schafer, Py•o^^ Physiolog. Soc. 1899) that the fibres of the direct and (■rossed pyramidal tracts are not related in this direct manner with the cells of the anterior horn. 'J hey terminate by arborising round the cells at the base of the posterior horn and the colls of Clarke's column, which in turn link them to the motor cells in the anterior horn, usually of several segments of the cord. In consequence of these interposed neurons the fibres of the pyramidal tracts correspond not to individual muscles, but to associated groups of muscles.806 NEUROLOGY triangular area. Its fibres descend from the mid-brain, where they have their origin in the red nucleus of the tegmentum of tlie opposite side. (c) The tectospinal tract originates in the upper quadrigeminal body of the opposite side, and its fibres are partly intermingled \\ ith those of the rubro-spinal tract, and are partly contained m the anterior column. (d) The olivospinal tract or tract of Hehveg arises in the vicinity of tlie inferior olivary body in the medulla oblongata and is seen only in the cervical region of the cord, where it forms a small triangular area at the periphery of the cord close to the outermost of the anterior nerve-roots. Its exact origm and its mode of ending have not yet been definitely made out. 2. Ascending tracts.—(a) The direct cerebellar tract of Flechsig (tractus spinocerebellaris dorsalis) is situated at the periphery of the posterior part of the lateral column of the cord, and on transverse section appears as a flattened band which extends as far forwards as a line drawn transversely through the central canal. Internally it is m contact with the crossed pja-amidal tract, Fig. 681.—Diagram of the principal tracts in the spinal cord. Anterior median figure Direct2>tiramidal tract Anterior basis bundle IMueg's tract Anterior nerve roots Goirer's trad Direct cerebellar trad Crossed pyramidal tract Lissatier's tract Posterior nerve roots Fascicuhit cuneatus Comma tract Fasciculus gracilis Cornu-commissural tract Posterior median fissure behind, with the tract of Lissauer. It commences below about the level of the second or third lumbar nerve and, mcreasuig in size as it ascends, passes to the cerebeUum through the inferior peduncle. Its fibres gf^^JJ^^ regarded as being formed by the axons of the ceUs of Clarke « ^ receive their medullary sheaths about the sixth or seventh month of foetal h e (h) The tract of Ooioers (fasciculus anterolateralis superficiahs) skirts tlie periphery of tlie lateral column in front of the du-ect ^^f^beUar tract In transveSe section it is shaped somewhat like a comma, * "l^tLwtds which lies in front of the crossed pyramidal tract while the tad inches {or^^ards into the anterior column. Its fibres come from the opposite side « ^he cord and cross in the anterior commissure; they "™807 THE SPINAL CORD Fig. 682. — Descending fibres in the posterior column, shown at dif- ferent levels. (Testut.) and is sometimes termed the secondary sensory tract; and (3) the spino-tectal <mc<, which passes to the corporca quadrigemina. ^ ^- . (c) The tract of Lissauer is a small strand situated m relation to the tip ot the posterior horn close to the entrance of the posterior nerve-roots. It con- sists of fine fibres which do not receive then: medullary sheaths until towards the close of fcetal Ufe. It is usually regarded as being formed by some of the fibres of the posterior nerve-root, which ascend for a short distance in the tract and then enter the posterior horn, but since its fibres are myelmated later than those of the posterior nerve-roots, and do not undergo degeneration in locomotor ataxia, they are probably hitersegmental in character. {d) The lateral basis bundle constitutes the re- mainder of the lateral column, and the portion of it which hes next the grey matter is sometimes named the lateral limiting zone. It is continuous in front with the anterior basis bundle, and the two together constitute the antero-lateral ground bundle. It con- sists chiefly of intersegmental fibres which arise from cells ui the grey matter, and, after a longer or shorter course, re-enter the grey matter and ramify in it. Some of its fibres are, however, continued upAvards into the brain under the name of the dorsal or posterior longitudinal fasciculus. Tracts in the posterior column.—This coluinn comprises two main tracts, viz. the fasciculus gracilis, and the fasciculus cuneatus. These are separated from each other in the cervical and upper thoracic regions by the postero-intermediate septum, and consist mainly of ascending fibres derived from the posterior nerve-roots. The fasciculus gracilis (tract of Goll) is wedge- shaped on transverse section, and lies next the pos- terior median fissure, its base bemg at the surface of the cord, and its apex directed towards the posterior grey commissure. It increases in size from below upwards, and consists of long thin fibres derived from the posterior nerve-roots, which ascend as far as the medulla oblongata, where they end in the nucleus gracihs. The fasciculus cuneatus (tract of Burdach) is triangular on transverse section, and lies between the fasciculus gracihs and the posterior comu, its base con-esponding with the surface of the cord. Its fibres, larger than those of the fasciculus gracilis, are mostly derived from the same source, viz. the posterior nerve-roots. Some ascend for only a short distance in the tract, and, entering the grey matter, come into close relationship with the cells of Clarke's column ; while others can be traced as far as the medulla oblongata, wliere they end in the gracile and cuneate nuclei. Occupying the ventral part of the posterior column is a strand of fibres termed the cornu- commissural tract. It is somewhat triangular on transverse section, and occupies the angle between the posterior grey commissure and the posterior comu. It is best marked in the lumbar region, but can be traced into the thoracic and cervical regions. Its fibres, derived from the cells of the posterior- horn, divide into ascending and descending branches which re-enter and ramify m the grey matter. It has been found to preserve its integrity in certain cases of locomotor ataxia. Descending fibres in the posterior column (fig. 682).—The posterior column contains some descending fibres which occupy different parts of the column at In the conus medullaris. 5 B. In the lumbar region. C. In the lower thoracic region. D. In the upper thoracic region. 1. Posterior horn. 2. Posterior nerve - roots. .3. Posterior median fissure. ■!. Triangular strand. 5. Oval area ot Flcclisig. G. Dorsal peripheral band. 7. De- scending comma tract.808 NEUROLOGY different levels. In the cervical and upper thoracic rec/ions, they appear as a comma-shaped strand (descending comma trad of Sclmltze) in the outer part of the fasciculus cuneatus, the blunt end of the comma being du^ected towards the posterior grey commissure; in the lower thoracic region they form a thm band (dorsal wripheral band) on the posterior sui-face of the column ; m the lumbar region, they are situated by tlie side of the posterior median fissure, and liere appear on section as a semi-eUiptical bundle, whicli, together with the correspondmg bundle of the opposite side, forms the oval area of Flechsuj ; while in tlie conus medullaris they assume the form of a triangular strand m the postero-mternal part of the fasciculus gracilis These descendmg fibres are mainly intersegmental m character, and derived from cells in the posterior horn, but some may consist of the descendmg branches of the posterior nerve- roots. The descending comma tract was supposed to belong to the sec-ond category, but against this view is the fact that it does not undergo descendmg degeneration when the posterior nerve-roots are destroyed. Roots of the spinal nerves.-As already stated, each spmal nerve possesses two roots, an anterior and a posterior, which are attached to the ^^rfac^e o t e cord opposite the correspondmg lioin Fig. 683.—A spinal nerve with its anterior and posterior roots. (Testut.) of grey matter (fig. 683) ; their fibres become medullated about the fifth month of foetal life. The anterior nerve-roots consist of efferent fibres, which are the axons of the nerve-cells m the ventral part of the anterior horn. A short distance from their origins, these axons are invested by medullary sheaths and, passing forwards and slightly outwards, emerge on the surface of the cord m two or three irregular rows over an area which measures about three millimetres in width. The 'posterior root of each spmal nerve comprises some six or eight fasciculi which are attached m Imear series along the postero-lateral sulcus. It consists of afferent fibres winch arise from the nerve-cells ui the spmal ganglia. Each ganglion-ceU, at first round or oval, is elongated into two IDrocesses, an internal (axon) and an external (dendrite), and so becomes a bipolar nerve-cell. These two pro- cesses graduaUv undergo approxima- tion, and finally arise from a smg e Ixternal are directed towards the penpl^ery. ^^. ,^1 ^^^^ mediate and an external bundle. Tl e inteynediate Dm ^^^^^^^^^ fibres, which enter the gelatmous -.^X-^^^ m tlie tract is composed of fine fibres, which «««"'"f , after birth, of Lissaucr; the latter do Having entered the cord, all the A'^^i^J^ ^ive off collaterals ascending and descendmg bijnche. '-^"^ th^se m t cni^^^ wliich enter the grey matter (fig^ 684^ T^^i^e^^^^ .^^^^ ^^^^^ , 7^-^ St^Hb- Am upw^ds for a distance 1 A nortioa o£ the spinal cord viewed from the left Bide 2 Anterior median fissure. 3. Anterior liom. ^ Posterior liom. 5. Lateral horn 6 Formatio ratSularis 7. Anterior root. 8. Posterior root, ^th 8', its ganglion. 9. Spinal nerve; 9', its posterior dirision.THE SPINAL CORD 809 of only five or six millimetres, and enter the grey matter ; while the inter- mediate fibres, after a somewhat longer course, have a similar destmation. All the fibres whicli enter the grey matter end by arborising around its nerve-cells, those of intermediate length being especially associated with tlie cells of Clarke's column. The course taken by the fibres of the posterior nerve-roots has been arrived at by dividing the nerve-roots between their ganglia and their entrance into Fig. 684.—Dorsal roots entering cord and dividing into Fig. 685.—Formation of the ascending and descending branches. (Van Gelinchten.) fascicuhis gracilis. (Poirier.) Lumbar nerves Sacral nerves a. stem-fibre, b, b. Ascending and descending limbs of bifurcation. c. CoUaterai arising from stem-fibre. the spinal cord, and by subsequently examining the degenerated areas. It has been determined that the fibres pursue an obhque course upwards, being situated at fu-st in the outer part of the fasciculus cuneatus : higher up, they occupy the middle of this fasciculus, having been displaced inwards by the accession of other entering fibres ; while still higher, they pass into, and are contmued upwards in, the fasciculus gracilis. The upper cervical fibres do not reach this fasciculus, but are entirely confined to the fasciculus cuneatus. The degeneration method proves that the localisation of these fibres is very precise : the sacral nerves lie in the inner part of the fasciculus gracilis and near its periphery ; the lumbar nerves to their outer side; the thoracic nerves still more laterally; while the cervical nerves are confined to the fasciculus cuneatus (fig. 685). The development of the spinal cord is described in the section on Embryology (page 115) A'pplied Anatomy.—Several cases have been recorded * in which a local doubling 01 the spinal cord has taken place. The condition is probablj' due to some interference with the development of the medullary tube in the embryo ; in a few it was associated * For a complete analysis of these cases consult paper by Bruce, Stuart McDonald, and 'l ie, Hevunv of Nexi/rology amd Psychiatry, Jan. 1906. Spinal cord viewed from beliind. To tlie left, tlie fasciculus gracilis is sliaded. To the riglit, the drawing shows that the fasciculus irraoilis is formed by tlu; long fibres of the posterior roots, and that in this tract the sacral nerves lie uest the mesial plane, the lumbar to their outer side, and the thoracic still more laterally.810 NEUROLOGY with spina bifida, while in one recent case * the two parts were separated by a dermoid tumour. Other congenital abnormalities of the spinal cord occur in connection with spina bifida (see page 201), and also in syrin„eKa. In this latter chronic condition an abnormal proliferation of the spinal neurogha takes Pl'^<=''. g^'^'^^-'^^y "^'^^^t^^";""^^^^^ canal and in the cervical enlargement, and later this mass becomes absorbed, leavmg an irregular cavity in its place This gives rise to a number of interesting signs and symiXm su^ as^ analgesia (or insensitiveness to pam), inability to dLstinguish between odd and heat, progressive atrophy in the muscles of the hands and arms, trophic changes in the bones ;nd j^oints, and pimless whitlows. Seveix. injunes to the cord may occur m fractures or fracture-dislocations of the vertebral column anywhere above the second lumbar vertebra If the cord is completely crushed or torn across total paralysis and anjesth^^^^^^^ of ill DM-ts of the body drawing their nerve supply from below the mjured spot ^v'lll follow, SC ofltrol ove^rtheactfonsoftheb^^ ,''!^\%3e ofthe'S occurs, the worse the prognosis. Thus, when the cord is crushed by ^^^f ^^^^^jf^^^ or axi^ the vital centres in the medulla ^^dll be injured, and death occurs at once. If the oriehfof the phrenic nerve-mainly the fourth cervical-just escape m a case ^here the nXis broken^^^^^^^^^^ ^vill ha/e to be carried on by the D-P^-g-j'^^^^^^^^^ Is lik-Plv to ensue before long from pulmonary complications, men the back is broken Z the loS^r Sadc reg on hfe is not immediately threatened; but un ess the patient is iXir^^rlT^^t^^^^^^^ at any time from tW^velopm^^^^^^^^ bed-sores in the as infantile spinal paralysis, or acute A^^S. Zide^^^ the motor mater that spreads into the cord along the f'f rapid and neurons aggregated in the anterior cornua^ ^^I'^^^^i of musc^^^^ permanent paralysis of the muscles innervated and gf^^Pf °^ paralysed. Lbs are commonly Picked out for attack. Theafieeted l^-^^.J^^^^^^^^^^^ i:^$^rS^rJ:^^'^:i^'^^^ - transWatlon of tendons, or even amputation. THE BRAIN General Considerations and Divisions The bram, or enoeptalon, is contamed wiftin —^ and^^ -RVp fisfi —Scheme showing the connections of the part of the central nervous ^ several^rt S the brain. (After Schwalbe.) J'ystem. In its early em- bryonic condition it consists of three hollow vesicles, termed the fore-brain, the mid-brain, and the hind- brain ; and the parts derived from each of these can be recognised in the adult (fig. 686). Thus, in the process of development the wall of the hind-bram (rhombencephalon) under- goes modification to form the medulla oblongata, the pons Varolii, and cere- bellum, while its cavity is expanded to form the fourth ventricle. The mid-brain (mesencephalon) forms but a small part of the adult CruH cerebri Superior cerebellar pedimcle Middle cerebellar peduncle Inferior cerebellar peduncle Medulla oblongata Harriehausen, D. mcUrftJ. NerunMm., Bd. 36, Hft. 3 and 4, S. 268.811 THE JiiiAIN brain : its cavity becomes the aqueduct of Sylvius, wliich serves as a tubular communication between the third and fourtli ventricles ; while its waUs are thickened to form the corpora quadrigemina and crura cerebri, which constitute the bond of union of the fore-brain \viththe limd-brain. The fore-brain under- goes great modification : its anterior part (telencephalon) expands laterally in the form of two hollow vesicles the cavities of which become the lateral ventricles, while the surrounding walls form the cerebral hemispheres and their commissures ; tl:e cavity of the posterior part of the fore-brain (diencephalon) forms the greater part of the third ventricle, and from its walls are developed most of the structures which bound that cavity. Further details regarding these important changes are given in the chapter on Embryology (page 118). THE HIND-BEAIN The hind-brain or rhombencephalon occupies the posterior fossa of the cranial cavity and lies below a fold of dura mater, the tentorium cerebelli. It consists of (a) the myeleyicefhalon, which comprises the nieduUa oblongata and the lower part of the fourth ventricle ; {b) the metencephalon, which includes the pons, cerebellum, and upper part of the fourth ventricle ; and (c) the isthmus rhombencepJiali, a constricted portion immediately adjoining the mesencephalon, which comprises the superior peduncles of the cerebellum and the valve of Vieussens. The Medtjlla Oblongata The medulla oblongata, or bulb, forms the lowest and smallest division of the brain ; its structure, however, is extremely complex, since it gives attachment to many of the cranial nerves, and forms the comiecting link between the spinal cord below and the cerebrum and cerebellum above. It extends from the lower margin of the pons Varolii to a plane passing transversely below the decussation of the pyramids and above the first pair of cervical nerves ; this plane corresponds with the upper border of the atlas behind, and the middle of the odontoid process of the axis in front, and at this level the medulla oblongata is continuous with the spinal cord. Its anterior surface is separated from the basi-occiput and the upper part of the odontoid process of the axis by the membranes of the brain and the occipito- axial ligaments. Its posterior surface is received mto the fossa between the hemispheres of the cerebellum, and the upper portion of it forms the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The vertebral arteries pass up-vA^ards and forwards in relation to its lateral aspects ; they then curve forwards on to its anterior surface and unite at the lower border of the pons Varolii to form the basilar artery. The medulla oblongata (fig. 687) is pyramidal in shape, its broad extremity being directed upwards towards the pons Varolii, while its nairow, lower end is ' contmuous with the spinal cord. It ' measures rather over an inch in length, ^ a little less than an inch in breadth at its widest part, and about half an inch ; in thickness ; while it weighs about a quarter of an ounce. The central canal of the spinal cord is prolonged into its lower half, and then opens into the cavity of the fourth ventricle ; and the medulla may therefore be divided into a lower closed part containing the central canal, and an upper open part corresponding ' wth the lower portion of the fourtli ventricle. Its anterior and posterior surfaces are marked by median fissures, which are continuous with the corresponding fissures of the spinal cord.NEUROLOGY 812 The anterior fissure (fissura mediana anterior) contains a fold of pia mater and extends along tlie entire length of the medulla : it terminates at the lower border of tlie pons Varolii in a small triangular expansion, the foramen cmcum. Its lower part is interrupted by bundles of fibres whicli cross obliquely from one side to the other, and constitute the fyramidul decussation. Some fibres, termed the anterior external arcuate fibres, emerge from the fissure above this decussation and curve outwards and upwards over the lateral aspect of the medulla. The posterior fissure (fissura mediana posterior) is a narrow groove which exists only in the closed part of the medulla ; it becomes graduaUy shaUower from below upwards, and finally terminates about the middle of the medulla, \yhere the central canal of the cord expands into the cavity of the fourth ventric e. These two fissures divide the closed Fig. 688.—Decussation of pyramids. Scheme showing passage of various tracts from cord to medulla. (Testut.) part of the medulla into symmetrical halves, each half presenting elongated eminences which, on surface vieM", are continuous M ith the columns of the cord. In the open part of the medulla. the halves are separated by the an- terior median fissure, and by a median raphe which extends from the bottom of the fissure to the floor of the fourth ventricle. Further, certain of the cranial nerves pass through the suIj- stance of the medulla, and are attached to its surface m series with the roots of the spinal nerves ; thus, the fibres of the hypoglossal nerve represent the upward continuation of the anterior nerve-roots, and emerge m linear series from a furrow termed the ^re-olivary or antero-lateral sulcus (sulcus laterahs an- terior). Similarly, the spmal accessor}-, vagus, and glosso-pharyngeal nerves correspond with the posterior nerve- roots, and are attached to the bottom of a sulcus named the postero-lateral sulcus (sulcus laterahs posterior). Advantage is taken of this arrangement to sub- divide each half of the medulla mto three areas, anterior, middle, and posterior. Although these three areas appear to be directly contmuous with the corresponding columns of the cord, it must be pointed out that they do not necessarily contam the same fibres, since some of the nerve-tracts of the cord terminate in the medulla, while others alter their course m passing through it. . The anterior area (fig- o»0 named the pyramid (pyramis), ana lies between the anterior fissure and the antero-lateral sulcus. Its "l>per extremiy is sUghtly -stneted ~ £E%SS-^^and t^"^ finSfta^Jf Int^t nUc. column of the cord, w.th Srat first sight, itWars to be directly continuoi^. ^. Tlie two pyramids constitute the grea 'J^^'^''''''^^^^^^ spinal cord. a Pons VarolU. b. Medulla from the front, c. De- "•cui^tion ot the pyramids. </. Section of ™^ nart o£ cord. 1. Direct pyramidal tract (m red). r Crossed pyranudal tract (In red) 3. Sensory tract ffasciculi trracUis et cuneatiis) (ni blue), i . Ufae^ I'S cSieaS nuclei, i. Antero-lateral ground bund e cin dotted line') 5. Praunid. 6. Fillet. }-°f- ^tSior lon^tuctnal fasdculus. 8 Gowers'tract (in blue). 9. Direct cerebellar tract (in yellow).THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA 813 derived from the opposite pyramid, forming what is termed the motor or pyramidal decussation (decussatio pyi-amidum). Having crossed the middle line, they pass down in the posterior part of the lateral column as the crossed pyramidal tract. The remaining fibres—i.e. those which occupy the outer part of tlie pyramid—do not cross the middle line, but are carried downwards as the direct pyramidal tract (fig. 688) into the anterior column of the same side. The greater part of the basis bundle of the anterior column of the cord is contmued upwards through the medulla oblongata as a strand, which is termed the posterior longittidinal fasciculus. The lateral area (fig. 689) is limited in front by the antero-lateral sulcus and the roots of the hypoglossal nerve, and behmd by the postero-lateral sulcus and the roots of the spmal accessory, vagus, and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. Its upper part consists of a prominent oval mass which is named the olivary body, while its lower part is of tlie same width as the lateral column of the Fig. 689.—Hind- and mid-brains ; postero-lateral view. External geniculate body Eleventh nerve^ cord, and appears on the surface to be a direct continuation of it. As a matter of fact, only a portion of the lateral column is continued upwards into this area, for the crossed pyramidal tract passes into the pyramid of the opposite side, and the direct or ascending cerebellar tract is carried into the restiform body in the posterior area. The remainder of the lateral column, which consists chiefly of the basis bundle and the tract of Gowers, can be traced into the lateral area. Most of these fibres dip beneath the olivary body and disappear from the surface ; but a small strand remains suiierficial, and passes up between the olivary body and the postero-lateral sulcus. At the upper end of this strand is a depression or fossa, in which the auditor}' nerve is seen. The olivary body (oliva) is situated on tiie outer side of the pjrramid, TOm which it is separated by the antero-lateral or pre-olivary sulcus, and the fibres of the hypoglossal nerve. Behind, it is separated from the postero- lateral sulcus by the small superficial strand of the lateral column already referred to. It measures about half an inch in lengtli, and between its upper end and the pons there is a slight depression to which tlie roots of the seventhNEUROLOGY nerve are attached. The external arcuate fibres wind across the lower part of the pyramid and olivary body to enter tlie restiform body The Dosterior area (fig. 690) lies behmd the postero-lateral sulcus and the roots of the spinal accessory, vagus, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerves, and like the lateral area, is divisible mto a lower and an upper portion. The loiver part is limited behind by the posterior median fissure, and consists of the fasciculus gracilis and the fasciculus cuneatus Tlie fasciculus ^acihs is a narrow white band placed parallel to and a ong the side of the posterior Sedian fissure, and separated from the fasciculus cuneatus by the postero- StSmediate furrow aAd septum. The gracile and cuneate fascicuh are at, first vertical m direction ; but at the lower part of the floor of the fourth Fia. 690.—Upper part of spinal cord and hind- and mid-brains ; posterior aspect, exposed in situ. Cms cerehri Fourth nerve Fifth nerve Seventh nerve Eighth nerve Cerebellar peduncles Ninth nerve Tenth nerve Eleventh nerve (bulbar part) Twelfth nerve Eleventh nerve, (spinal pari) Post, roots of first, cervical nerve S;pinal cord Dura mater (laid open) Vertebral artery Olava Fasciculus cuneatus Fascicuhis gracilis ventricle they diverge f-m the nnddle Ihie m presents an elongated sweUmg. That on ^^'lll^lf'^^^^^^^ the nuclens lava, and is produced by a ^^bjacen nucleus of g 7^^;^^\^^',H6erc/e, and gracilis; that on the ^^^^'^^^''^''''''''''^Z^iZT^^^^^^^ The fibres is likewise caused by a grey nucleus, ^fl^^^^'^.^l, their respective of these fasciculi termmatc by arborismg a ound ^Ije jHis i.^^ ^^^^ nuclei. A third elevation, termed the f^^^ cuius oj BolnMo^^^^^ ^815 THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA form the lower sensory, or spinal, root of the fifth nerve. Narrow below, the fasciculus gradually expands above, and terminates, about half an inch below the pons, in a tubercle, the tubercle of Rolando. The ufper part of the posterior area of the nieduUa is occupied by the restiform body {corptis restiforme), a thick rope-hke strand which is situated between the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle and the roots of the ninth and tenth nerves. The restiform bodies connect the cord and meduUa with the cerebellum, and are named the inferior peduncles of the cerebellum. As they pass upwards, they diverge from each other, and assist in forming the lower parts of the lateral boundaries of the fourth ventricle ; higher up, they are du'ected backwards, each passing to the corresponding cerebellar hemisphere. Near where they enter the cerebellum they are crossed by several strands of fibres, which extend inwards over the floor of the fourth ventricle, and are named the sirice acuslicce. At first sight the restiform body appears to be formed by the upward continuation of the fasciculus gracihs and fasciculus cuneatus ; this, however, is not so, as it is probable that all the fibres of these fasciculi end in the gracile and cuneate nuclei. The constitution of the restiform body will be subsequently discussed. Internal structure of the medulla oblongata.—Although the external form of the medulla oblongata bears a certain resemblance to that of the upper Fig. 691.—Section of the medulla through the lower part of the decussation of the pyramids. (Testut.) 1. Anterior median fissure. 2. Posterior median fissure. 3. Anterior horn (in red), witt 3', anterior root. 4. Posterior horn (in blue), with d', posterior roots. 5. Crossed pyramidal tract. 6. Posterior column. Tlie red arrow, a, o', indicates the course the crossed pyramidal tract takes at the level of the decussation o£ the pyramids ; the blue arrow, b, b', indicates the course which the sensory fibres take. Fig. 692.—Section of the medulla at the level of the decussation of the pyramids. (Testut.) . Anterior median fissure. 2. Posterior median fissure. 3. Motor roots, i. Sensory roots. 6. Base ol the anterior horn, from which the head (5') has been detached by the crossed pyramidal tract. G. Decussation of the crossed pyramidal tracts. 7. Posterior horns (in blue). 8. Gracile nucleus. part of the cord, its internal structure differs widely from that of the latter, and this for the following principal reasons : (1) certain tracts of fibres which extend from the cord to the brain, and vice versa, undergo a rearrangement in their passage through the medulla ; (2) others which exist in the cord terminate in the medulla ; (3) new strands originate in the grey matter of the medulla and pass to different parts of the brain ; (4) the grey matter, which m the cord forms a continuous H-shaped column, becomes greatly modified and subdivided in the medulla, in which also new masses of grey matter are added ; (5) on account of the opening-out of the central canal of the cord, certain parts of the grey matter, which in the cord were more or less centrally situated, are displayed in £he floor of the fourth ventricle ; (6) lastly, the medulla is intimately associated with many of the cranial nerves, some arising from, and others terminating in, nuclei within its substance. The internal structure of the medulla is best studied by examinmg series of transverse and of longitudinal sections (figs. 695, 696). A short description of the course taken by the principal tracts, and of the arrangement of the grey matter, will now be given. The pyramidal tracts.—The division of the pyramids of the medulla into direct and crossed pyramidal tracts, and the course of these tracts in the cord,NEUROLOGY 816 liave already been described. In passing to reacli the lateral column of the opposite side, the fibres of the crossed pyramidal tracts extend backw ards tliroug - thi anterior cornua, and the liead of each of these horns is separated from i hic,pmffs 691 692). The base retains its position in relation to the ventral aspec of the central canal, and, when the latter opens into the fourth ventric e appears in the floor of that cavity close to the middle line, where it forms 1 e SeTof ^he tW^ and sixth nerves; while above the level of the ventricle it exists as the nuclei of the third and fourth nerves m relation to the floor of the aaueduct of Sylvius. The head of the cornu is pushed outward.s and orms a^ SrgaS coTu^n^ the nucleus amhigurcs, which gives ongm from belo upwards to the bulbar part of the spinal accessory ^^d the motor fibres of the vagus and glosso-pharyiigeal, and still higlier to the motor fibres of the seventh and fifth nerves. Fig. 693.—Superior terminations of the posterior tracts of the spinal cord. (Testut.) Fig. 694.—Transverse section passing through the sensory decussation. (Schematic.) (Testut.) 7 6 2 1. Anterior median fissure. 2. Posterior median ^nre. S .r Head and base of antenor horn (in red). 4. Hji'O- elossalnerve. 6. Sracile nndeus. 7. Cuneatenucleuf. 1; 1! Fmet, or sensory tract. 9. Sensory decussation, lb. Pyramidal tract. The fasciculus gracilis and fasciculus cuneatus constitute the posterior sensory f ascicuU of the spinal cord ; they are prolonged upwards into the lower part of the medulla oblon- gata, where they termmate respec- tively in the nucleus graciUs and nucleus cuneatus. These two nuclei are con- tinuous, in front, witli the central grey matter of the cord, and may be regarded as dorsal projections of thi.s, each being covered superficially by the fibres of the correspondmg fasciculus. On trans- Md.\ the nucleus gracUis appears as a single, more or less verse section (fig. 694), tne nucleus fe"'^ insists of two parts: a around the cells of these nuclei, which tl^f ^ ""^qI]^ Yvom the cells of 'of termmation ^^be posterior sensoiy^^^^^^^ ^^^^ tenor the nuclei new fibres take ong n, through it to the cere- external arcuate fibres into tl^« ^^t^^^^ t Sugh the neck of the posterior bellum, but most «1 fr ^t^iL ba^ro tL hom. Curving forwards horn, thus cutting off the head ^ ^^^^ 1;,,^ with the correspondmg ^.:7A,^e :l^:^un uitrdrtmediately behind the pyramidal 1. Posterior median fissure 2. F'"^"™!';'^^ er'-'^l^: ^ ■PMcioulns cuneatus. 4. Gracile nucleus. 6. uu- 3. I'ascicmus ouuean . Q.nsorv fibres formmp neate nuolens. 6, 6 , b . ^ensor.v ul , ,, the fillet. 7. Sensory decussation. 8. Cerebellar fibres uncrossed (in "black). 9. Cerebellar fibres crossed (in black).THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA 817 fibres, as a flattened band, named the fillet or lemniscus. The decussation of these sensory fibres is situated above that of the motor fibres, and is named the sensory decussation or the decussation of the fillet (decussatio lemniscorura). The fillet is joined by the spino-thalamic tract or secondary sensory fasciculus Fig. 695.—Section of the medulla oblongata at about the middle of the olivary body. (Schwalbe.) Bypo. glossal "'"'^^ I Nucleus of funiculus teres nucleus Nucleus gracilis Baphe FormaHo reticularis grisea Formatio reticularis alba— Accessory olivary tiuclei £- Nucleus cuneatus Bestifortn body S2iinal rout of fifth nerve Vagus root Arcuate fibres ^Olivary nucleus Hypoglossal nerve Anterior median fissure Fig. 696.—Transverse section of medulla oblongata at the middle of the ohvary body. Ligula Nucleus intercalatus I/yporjlussnl !i)(c!eti.i Fourth veiilricle Nucleus of piieumogastric Posterior longitudinal fasciculus Fasciculus solUarius Descending root of vestibular nerve Resliform body yucleus lateralis ■Spinal root of fifth Pneumogastric nerve ■Nucleus ambiguus Dor!!(tl accfssurii oil vary nucleus Inferior olivary nucleus Hypoglossal nerve Pyramidal tract Fillet Jfesial accessory olivary nucleus Xucleus arcuatus 3qNEUROLOGY 818 (p. 806), the fibres of which are derived from the cells of the grey matter of the opposite side of the spinal cord. , , The base of the posterior horn at first lies on the dorsal aspect of the central cTnal but when the latter opens into the fourth ventricle it appears Tthe aSral pu-t of the floor of that cavity. It forms the nuclei of termmation of tl^^ sensory fibres of the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal, and is associated wi h ?L veSuS part of the auditory nerve and the sensory root of the seventh ne?ve (pars St^^^^^^ of Wrisberg). Still higher, it forms a mass of m^^^ f Sls-?he locus cruleus-m which some of the sensory fibi.s of l^e^fi^Oi ne^ve , . , ,.1, head of the posterior horn Fig. 697.—The cranial nerve nuclei schematically ^ contmuous centre, a.e not .-epre.ented.) Sot ol the ffith nerve largely terminate. The direct or ascendmg cerebellar tract leaves the lateral area of the medulla ; most of its fibres are carried backwards hito the restiform body of the same side, and through it are conveyed to the cerebellum; but some run upwards mth the fibres of the fiUet, and, reaching the inferior quadrigemmal bodies, undergo decussation, and are carried to the cere- bellum tlirough its superior peduncle. The basis bundles of the anterior and lateral columns largely consist of inter- segmental fibres, which hnk together the difierent seg- ments of the cord; they assist in forming the formatio reticularis of the medulla, and many of them are accu- mulated mto a strand which runs up close to the median raphe between the fillet and the floor of the fourth ven- tricle. This strand is named the dorsal or posterior longitu- dinal fasciculus, and wiU be again referred to. Grey matter of the me- dulla oblongata (figs. 69o, 696).—In addition to tlie grac'ile and cuneate nuclei, there are several others which require consideration, borne of these arc traceable from the grey matter of the spinal cord, while otliei> are unrepresented in the cord. , ^ f tlie anterior horn ; I. The hypoglossal nucleus is derive fiom ti e base o ^,^,,tro-laleral in the lowei closed part o .the jncdidla - f ^^^^^^^t a .proaches the floor aspect of the central ^'-^^l^^^ ' .J^"Vnln. to the m d^ of the fourth ventricle, where it lies close to midme ^ ^^^^^^ named the trigorvurn hypogloss^ ^Lhls^^^^^^ multipolar nerve^^cells. &:^f\£ tb^ =S the llypoglossal nerve. Thes. Nucleus amhiguus (IX and X) Nucleus of solitary tractTHE MEDULLA OBLONGATA 819 nerve-roots pass forward between the anterior and lateral areas of the medulla, and emerge from tlie preolivary sulcus. 2. The motornucleus (figs. 697, 698) common to the glosso-pharyngeal,vagus, and bulbar portion of the spinal accessory nerves, is named the nucleus ambiguus. It represents the head of the anterior horn, lies deeply in the formatio reticularis grisea, and extends thi-oughout nearly the whole length of the medulla. 3. The sensory nu£lev^ (figs. 697, 699), or nucleus of termination of the sensory fibres of the glosso-pharyngeal and vagus, represents the base of the posterior horn. It measures nearly three-quarters of an inch in length, and m the lower, closed part of the medulla is situated behind the liypoglossal nucleus ; whereas in the upper, open part it lies to the outer side of that nucleus, and corresponds to an eminence, named the irigonum vagi, in the floor of the fourth ventricle. Fig. 698.—Nuclei of origin of cranial motor nerves schematically represented ; lateral view. 4. The nuclei of the auditory nerve are described on page 825. 5. The olivary nuclei (fig. 695) are three in number on either side of the middle line, viz. the inferior olivary nucleus, and the mesial and dorsal accessory oUvary nuclei ; they consist of small, round, yellowish cells and Jiumerous fine nerve-fibres, (a) The inferior olivary nucleus (nucleus olivaris inferior) is the largest of these, and is situated within the olivary body. It consists of a grey folded lamina arranged in tiie form of an incomplete capsule, which opens internally by an aperture called the hilus, emerging from which are numerous fibres which collectively constitute the peduncle of the olive, (b) The mesial accessory olivary nucleus (nucleus olivaris accessoriiis medialis) lies between the inferior oUvary nucleus and the anterior pyramid, and forms a curved lamina, the concavity of wliicli is directed outwards. The fibres of the hypoglossal nerve, as they traverse the meduUa, pass between the mesial accessory and the inferior olivaiy nuclei, (c) The dorsal accessory olivary nucleus (imcleus olivaris accessorius dorsalis) is the smallest of the three, and 3 G 2820 NEUROLOGY appears on transverse section as a curved lamina on the dorsal aspect of the inferior oUvary nucleus. The inferior olivary nucleus is connected—(1) with that of the opposite side by fibres which cross throush the raphe ; (2) with the anterior lioni ol the same side of the spinal cord by a strand of fibres termed the spino-ohvar,/ tract ■ (3) with the thalamus of the cerebrum by the cerebro-ohvary trurl which passes through the pons Varolii and tegmentum ; (4) with the opposite cerebellar hemisphere by the cerebello-olivary tract, the fibres of which pa. across the raphe and turn backwards to enter the deep part of the restifoxu. body. Removal of one cerebellar hemisphere is followed by atrophy of the opposite olivary nucleus. 6. The nucleus arcuaius wiU be described Mith the anterior external arcuate fibres (page 821). ■^ra 699 — Primary terminal nuclei of the afferent (sensory) cranial nerves schematically represented ; lateral view. The olfactory and optic centres are not represented. Sensory root of T Oasseriaii ggl. Restiform bodies.-The position of the restiform bo^^/'g^ peduncles of the cerebellum, has already been desciibed (page »io)^^ Restiform body comprises: (1) the direct or '-^^^^V. "?4bi«^^^^^ the lateral column of the cord ; (2) descending cerebelW^^^^ are disseminated througliout the peripheral part of the '^^t^^^^'^ ; ^lie columns of the cord, while others are '^o'^ducted to tl e motor ^^^^ cranial nerves ; and (3) the arcuate fi^^'^V ^'W tl^ 1 Vo.i.^\or in three sets, viz. the internal arcuate fibres, and the anterior u i external arcuate fibres. , , •■ „a inr^^r nart of the restiform the cerebello-olivary tract akeady described (fig. tW).821 THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA The anterior external arcuate fibres vary as to theii- prominence in different cases : in some they form an aimost continuous layer covering the pyramid and olivary body, while in otliers they are barely visible on the surface. They arise from the cells of the gracile and cuneate nuclei, and passing forwards through the formatio reticularis, decussate in the middle line. Most of them reach the surface by way of the anterior median fissure, and arch outwards and backwards over tlie pyramid. Reinforced by others which emerge between the pyi-amid and olivary body, they pass backwards over the olivary body and lateral area of the medulla, and enter the outer part of the restiform body. They thus connect the cerebellum with the gracile and cuneate nuclei of tlie opposite side. As the fibres arch across the pyi-amid, they enclose a small nucleus which lies in front and to the inner side of the pyramid. This is named the nucleus arcuatus, and is directly continuous above with the nuclei pontis in the pons Varolii : it contains small fusiform cells, around which some of the arcuate fibres terminate, and from which others arise. The posterior external arcuate fibres also take origin iji the gracile and cuneate nuclei ; they do not undergo decussation, but pass to the restiform body of the same side. Fig. 700.—Diagram showing the coui'se of the arcuate fibres. (Testut.) I. Medulla, anterior surface. 2. Anterior median fissure. 3. Fourth ventricle. 4. Olivary body, witli t'nc accessory olivary nuclei. 5. Gracile nucleus. 0. Cuneate nucleus. 7. Trigeminal. 8. Inferior cerebellar peduncles, seen from in front. 9. Posterior external arcuate fibres. 10. Anterior external arcuate fibres. 11. Internal arcuate fibres. 12. Peduncle of olivary body. 13. Nucleus arcuatus. 14. rneumogastric. 16. Hypoglossal. Formatio reticularis (fig. 701). This term is applied to the coarse reticulum wliicli occupies the anterior and lateral areas of the meduUa, and is seen M'hen transverse sections are examined. It is situated behind the pyi-amid and olivary body, extending laterally as far as the restiform bodies, and dorsally to within a short distance of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The reticulum is caused by the intersection of bundles of fibres running at right angles to each other, some being longitudmal, others more or less transverse in direction. The formatio reticularis presents a different appearance in the anterior area from wiiat it does in the lateral area ; in the former, there is an almost entire absence of nerve-cells, and hence this part is known as the reticularis alba ; whereas nerve-cells are numerous in the lateral area, and as a consequence it presents a grey appearance, and is termed the reticularis cjrisea. In the substance of the formatio reticularis are two small nuclei of grey matter : one is situated near the dorsal aspect of the hilus of the inferior olivary nucleus, and is named the inferior central nucleus, or nucleus of Roller ; the other lies between the olivary body and the .spinal root of the fifth nerve, and is termed the nucleus lateralis.822 NEUROLOGY In the reticularis alba the longitudinal fibres form two well-defined strands, viz. : (1) the fillet, which lies close to tlie raphe, immediately behind the fibres of the pyramid "; and (2) tlie posterior loncjiludinal fasciculus, wliich is continued upwards from tlie antero-lateral ground bundle of the spinal cord, and, in tlie upper part of the medulla, lies between the fillet and the grey matter m the floor of the fourth ventricle. The longitudinal fibres in the reticularis gi-isea are Fig. 701.- -The formatio reticularis of the medulla, shown by a horizontal section passing through the middle of the oUvary body. (Testut.) 1. Anterior median fissure. 2. Fourth ventricle, 3 I'ormatio reticu arB w^h S' lts mtena alba), and 3", its external P^t (reticularis grisea) 4 B^^^^^^^ '■ ^ nucleus mth the two accessory ohvary nuclei. 8. H^ogl^ssal nerve m^^^ Nucleus ambiguas (nucleus s^^sittrbfr^^^ic^^^^^^^^^ of fasciculus teres. 19. Ligula. derived from the lateral column of ^he ^o^d after the crossed p^^^^^^^ has passed over to the opposite side, and the direct cerebellar tract has enteiea the ?estiform body. They form indeterminate fibres, with the exception of a runX nared the^.ci^^^^^ which is made up °f descendmg to the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. The transverse fibres of he formatio reticularis are the arcuate fibres akeady described (pages 820, 821). the trachea. The Pons passes into the cerebellum between 'li^; « "^.''^u^S^;'^^^^ ,vl,icb it and eighth cranial nerves ajipear.THE PONS 823 Its ventral or aiilerior siirface is very prominent, markedly convex from side to side less so from above downwards. It consists of transverse fibres arched Uke a bridge across the middle Une, and gathered on either side uito a compact mass which forms the middle peduncle of the cerebeUum. It rests upon the posterior surface of the basi-sphenoid, and is limited above and below by well-defined borders. It presents, in the middle line, a furrow [sulcus basiLans) for the lodgment of the basUar artery ; this furrow is bounded on either sicle by an eminence—the pyramidal emwence—caused by the passage ot tne pvi-amidal fibres downwards through the substance of the pons. Outside tliese eminences, near the upper border of the pons, the fifth nerves make then: exit, each consisting of a smaUer, internal, motor root, and a larger, external sensory root; a vertical line, drawn on either side immediately outside the fifth nerve, may be taken as the boundary between the ventral surface of the pons and the middle peduncle of the cerebeUum. Fig. 702.—^Vertical transverse section of the pons, at its upper part. (Testut.) 1. Fourth ventricle; its ependyma in yellow. 2. Valve o£ Vicussens, with 2', its white stratum (superior medullary velum), and 2", its grey stratum (lingula). 3. Superior or Sylvian root of trigeminal. 4. Nerve-cells associated with tllis root. 5. Posterior longitudinal fasciculus. 6. Formatio reticularis. 7. Lateral sulcus. 8. Section of superior cerebellar peduncle. 9. Mesial flllet. 9'. Lateral fillet. 10,10. Transverse fibres of pons. 11,11. Pyramidal fibres. 12. Baphe. V. Trigeminal. Its dorsal or posterior surface, triangular in shape, is hidden by the cerebellum, and is bounded laterally by the superior cerebellar peduncles. It forms the upper part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, with which it wiU be described. Structure (fig. 702).—Transverse sections of the pons show that it is composed of two parts which differ from each other in appearance and structure : thus, the ventral portion consists for the most part of fibres arranged in transverse and longitudinal bundles, together with a small amount of grey matter ; while the dorsal portion is a continuation of the reticular formation of the meduUa oblongata, and is called the tegmental portion, as most of its constituents are continued into the tegmentum of the crus cerebri. The ventral part of the pons (pars basilaris pontis) consists of—(a) super- ficial and deep transverse fibres, (b) longitudinal fibres, and (c) some small nuclei of grey matter, termed the nuclei pontis. Tlie superficial transverse fibres (fibrse pontis superficiales) constitute a rather thick layer on the ventral surface of the pons, and are collected into a large rounded bundle on either side of the middle hne. This bundle, with the addition824 NEUROLOGY of some transverse fibres from the deeper part of the pons, forms the middle peduncle of the correspondhig half of the cerebellum. The cZeep transverse fibres (fibrse pontis prof undse) partly intersect and partly lie on the dorsal aspect of the pyramidal fibres. They course to the lateral border of the pons, and assist the superficial transverse fibres in forming the middle peduncle of the cerebellum. The further connections of the transverse fibres will be discussed witli the anatomy of the cerebellum. The longitudinal fibres (fasciculi longitudinales) are derived from the crura cerebri, and enter the upper surface of the pons. They stream downwards on either side of the middle line in larger or smaller bundles, separated from each other by the deeper transverse fibres ; these longitudinal bundles cause a forward projection of the superficial transverse fibres, and thus give rise to the pyramidal eminences on the ventral surface. Some of these fibres end in tlie nuclei pontis, and others, after decussating, in the motor nuclei of the fifth, sixth, seventh, and twelftli nerves ; but most of them are carried throutili the pons, and at its lower surface are collected mto the pyramids of the medulla. The fibres which end in the motor nuclei of the cranial nerves are derived from the cells of the cerebral cortex, and bear the same relation to the motor cells of the cranial nerves that the pyramidal fibres bear to the motor cells m the anterior horn of the cord. i - i The nuclei pontis are continuous with the arcuate nuclei in the meduUa, and consist of small groups of multipolar nerve-ceUs which are scattered between the bundles of transverse fibres. The tegmental or dorsal part (pars dorsalis pontis) of the pons is chietiy composed of an upward continuation of the reticular formation and grey matter of the medulla. It is subdivided into lateral halves by a median raphe, which however does not extend into the ventral part of the pons, bemg obhterated by the transverse fibres. The tegmental portion of the pons consists of transverse and longitudmal fibres, and also contains important grey nuclei. The transverse fibres m the lower part of the pons are collected into a distinct strand, named the corpus trapezoideum. This consists of fibres wMch arise from the cells of the ventral or accessory auditory nucleus, and wiU be referred to in connection with the coclilear division of the auditory nerve. In the substance of the corpus trapezoideum is a coUection of nerve-cells, which constitutes the trapezoid nucleus. The longitudinal fibres, which are contmuous^-ith those of the medulla, are mostly collected mto two bundles on either side. One ot these lies between the corpus trapezoideum and the reticular foruiation, and forms the upward prolongation of the fillet; the second is situated near the floor of the fourth ventricle, and is the posterior longitudinal fasciculus Other longitudinal fibres, which are more diffusely distributed, arise from the ceils of the grey matter of the pons. . , The greater part of the dorsal portion of the pons is a contmuation upA^ard of the formatio reticularis of the medulla, and, Hke it, presents tl^e appearance of a network, in the meshes of which are numerous nerve-cells, besides t e^e scattered nerve-cells, there are some important masses of grey .^^atter ^^ l ich require mention, viz. the superior olivary nucleus and the nuclei of the fatth, sixth, seventh, and eighth nerves (fig. 697). 1. The superior olivary nucleus (nucleus ohvans superior) is ^ small inass of grey matte? situated on the dorsal surface of the outer part of the co pus ? alez^oideum. Rudimentary in man, but weU developed in certain an™a^ 't exhibits the same structure as the inferior olivary nucleus, and i. sitnated immediately above it. Some of the fibres of the coi-pus t^Pe^o'deum end by arborising around the ceUs of this nucleus, while otliers arise from these cells. 2 Nuclei of the fifth nerve.-The nuclei of the fifth -rve in tlie pon a e two in number : a motor and a sensory. The motor nucleus is situated in t e upper part of the pons, close under its dorsal surface and along the of t e latSal marsin of the fourth ventricle. Tlie axis-cylinder processes of its cells ffrnfa pSn of the motor root of the fifth nerve : the remaining fibres of the mot?r root of this nerve are formed by a tract -h.ch anses ^^^^^ matter of the floor of the Sylvian aqueduct, and hence \« ""^^^f^^^^^^^^ mesencephalic root. The sensory nucleus l^^s external to <; rs^Jsorv ilS beneath the superior peduncle of the cerebellum. Some of the sensory ntjreTHE CEREBELLUM 825 of the fifth nerve terminate in this nucleus ; but the greater number descend, under the name of the loAA-er sensory or spinal root, to end in the substantia gelatinosa of Rolando. The roots, motor and sensory, of the fifth nerve pass through the substance of the pons and emerge near the upper margin of its \ entral surface. 3. The nucleus of the sixth nerve is a circular mass of grey matter situated close to the floor of the fourth ventricle, above the striae acusticaj and subjacent to the eminentia teres : it lies a little external to the ascending part of the seventh nerve. The fibres of the sixth nerve pass forward through the entire tliickness of the pons on the mesial side of the superior olivary nucleus, and between the outer bundles of the pyramidal fibres, and emerge m the furrow betM-een the lo^^ er border ot the pons and the p_yi-amid of the medulla. 4. The nucleus of the seventh nerve is situated deeply in the reticular formation of the pons, on the dorsal aspect of tlie superior olivary nucleus, and the roots of tlie nerve derived from it pui'sue a remarkably tortuous course in the substance of the pons. At first they pass backwards and in\A ards until they reach the floor of the fourth ventricle, close to the median groove, where they ai'e collected into a round bundle. This passes upwards and forwards, producing an elevation (fasciculus teres) in the floor of the ventricle, and then takes a sharp bend, and arches outwards through the substance of the pons to emerge at its lower border in the interval between the olivary and restiform bodies of the medulla. 5. The nuclei of the auditory nerve.—The auditory nerve consists of a cochlear and a vestibular division. The fibres of the cochlear division end in two nuclei : (a) the lateral cochlear nucleus, which corresponds to the tuberculum acusticum on the dorso-lateral surface of the restiform body; and (6) the ventral ox accessory cochlear nucleus, which is placed between the Uyo divisions of the nerve, on the ventral aspect of the restiform body. The nuclei in wliich the vestibular di-vision ends are (a) the dorsal or chief vestibular nucleus, which corresponds to the trigonum acustici in the floor of the fourth ventricle ; the caudal end of this nucleus is sometimes termed the descending or spinal vestibular nucleus ; (b) the nucleus of Deiters, consisting of large cells and situated in the lateral angle of the floor of the fourth ventricle; the dorso-lateral j)art of this nucleus is sometimes termed the nucleus of Bechterew. Applied Anatomy.—Injury to the pons, such as may occur on the occlusion or riipture of one of its blood-vessels, often gives rise to a special train of symptoms that is almost diagnostic. Pontine lesions are characterised mainly by ' alternate paralyses ' ; that is to say, by paralysis of one of the motor cerebral nerves on one side, and of the limbs on the other side of the body. Thus a ha?morrhage into the lower part of the pons might cause paralysis of the face (' lower segment paralysis ') on the same side, from destruction of the facial nucleus or nerve-root, and paralysis of the arm and leg on the opposite side from injury to the adjacent pyramidal tract. In the same way, paralysis of the External rectus muscle of one eye and of the Internal rectus of the other (' conjugate paralysis ' of the muscles turning the two eyes in one direction) and often paralysis of one side of the face as well, together with palsy of the limbs on the opposite side of the body, may be found when the lesion occurs about the nucleus of the sixth nerve. Hearing is often unaffected in pontine lesions, possibly because the central auditory tract occupies a ventral and external position in the pons. The Cerebellum The cerebellum constitutes the largest part of the hind-brain. It lies behind the pons Varolii and medulla oblongata, while betAveen its central portion and the.se structures is the cavity of the fourth ventricle. It rests on the inferior occipital fossce, while above it is a fold of dura mater, named the tentorium cerebelli, which separates it from the tentorial surface of the cerebrum. It is somewhat oval in form, but constricted mesially and flattened from above downwards, its greatest diameter being from s'ide to side. Its surface is not convoluted like that of the cerebrum, but is traversed by numerous curved furrows or sulci, which vary in depth at different parts, and separate the laminae of which it is composed. Lobes of the cerebellum.—The cerebellum consists of three parts, a median and two lateral, -which are continuous with each other, and are substantially the same in structure. The median portion is constricted, and is cafled the worm or vermis, from the annulated appearance M-hich it presents o^dng to transverse ridges and furrows upon it; the lateral expanded portions are named theNEUROLOGY 826 hemispheres. On the upper surface of the cerebellum tlie vermis is elevated above the level of the hemispheres, but on the under surface it is sunk almost out of sio-ht in the bottom of a deep depression between them ; this depression is called the vallecula cerebelli, and lodges the medulla oblongata. The part of the vermis which lies on the upper surface of the cerebellum is named the superior vermis ; that on the lower surface, the inferior vermis. Below and behind the hemispheres are separated by a deep notch, the posterior cerebellar notch (incisura cerebeUi posterior), and in front by a broader shaUower notch the anterior cerebellar notch (incisura cerebelli anterior). The anterior notch lies close to the pons and upper part of the medulla, and its upper edge encircles the lower pair of corpora quadrigemina and the superior peduncles of the cerebellum. The posterior notch contains the upper part ot a tola ot dura mater, the falx cerebelli. „ ,. , j The cerebeUum is characterised by its lammated or fohated appearance: it is marked by deep, somewhat curved fissures, which he close together, and extend for a considerable distance uito its substance, dividmg it mto a series of layers or leaves. The largest and deepest fissure is named the greai horizhntal fissure (sulcus horizontalis cerebelh). It commences m front at the pons, and passes horizontally round the ree margm of the l^^misphere to the middle line behind, and divides the cerebellum mt^ an upper and ^lo^^^r po^tion^ Several secondary but deep fissures separate the cerebellum mto lobes, and Se are further subdivided by shaUower sulci, which separate the mdividual fohl or lamin^B from each other. Upon making sections across the lamm^B t wi5 be seen that the foha, though differing m ^VV^^^^^ce h^^^ convolutions of the cerebrum, are analogous to them masmuch as they consist of a central white substance with a covermg or cortex of grey matter The cerebellum is connected to tlie cerebrum, pons, and meduUa by thiee paii4 of peduncles : a superior pair connect it with the cerebrum ; a middle Tinlr wUh the r)ons • and an mferior pair with the medulla. , , • .1 ^ Thruppe?^ surface of the cerebellum (fig. 703) is elevated m the middle Hn? and sloped towards the ckcumference, the hemispheres bemg ^o^cted together by the superior vermis, which "^^^the mXn ridgf, most prominent in front, but not sharply defined lom the SsSherel This surface is traversed by four curved fissures, which extend acrTs its whole width and divide it into five lobes. Although each lobe Fig. 703.—Upper surface of the cerebellum. (Schafer.) Ala lohuli centralis Poslcentr PrecUval fissure Great horizontal fissure ^^^V Postclival extends continuously from side fde the porti^x c^^^^^^ has received a different name from that m ^J^^. ^^"^X 2) the lobvlnsTHE CEREBELLUM 827 crescentic, and (5) the poslero-superior. The four fissures are named from before backwards, the precentral, the postcentral, the preclival, and the postcUval. The arrangement of these lobes and fissures will be understood by a reference to the accompanying scheme, in wliich they are named in order from before backwards. Hemisphere Fraenulum. Ala lobuli centralis. Anterior crescentic lobe. Superior vermis Lingula. Precentral fissure Lobulus centralis. Postcentral fissure Culmen monticuli. Preclival fissure Posterior crescentic lobe. Clivus monticuli. Hemisphere Frsenulum. Ala lobuli centralis. Anterior crescentic lobe. Posterior crescentic lobe. Postero-superior lobe. PostcUval fissure Folium cacuminis. Postero-superior lobe. The lingula is a small tongue-shaped process, consisting of four or five foUa ; it lies in front of the lobulus centralis, and is concealed by it. Anteriorly, it rests on the dorsal surface of the valve of Vieussens, and its white matter is continuous with that of the valve. On either side, the lingula gradually shades ofiF, and is prolonged for only a short distance into the hemispheres, where it forms the fraenulum. This does not stretch beyond the superior peduncle of the cerebellum, over which it lies. The lobulus centralis is a small square lobe, situated in the anterior notch. It overlaps the lingula, and is in turn partially concealed by the culmen monticuli; laterally, it extends along the upper and anterior part of each hemisphere, where it forms a ^ving-like prolongation, the ala lobuli centralis. The culmen monticuli is much larger than the two lobes just described, and constitutes, with the succeeding lobe, the bulk of the superior vermis. In front, it partially overlaps and obscures the lobulus centralis ; and behind, it is separated from the clivus by the preclival fissure. It forms the most prominent part of the superior vermis, and is marked on its surface by three or four secondary fissures, which divide it into smaller lobules. Laterally, it is continuous with the anterior crescentic lobes of the hemispheres, which are separated from the posterior crescentic lobes by the preclival fissure. The culmen monticuli and the two anterior crescentic lobes form the lobus culminis. The clivus monticuli is of considerable size, and consists of a group of lammae which are separated in front from the culmen by the preclival fissure, but appear behind to be almost continuous with the folium cacuminis ; it will be found, however, on careful examination, to be separated from it by a well-defined fissure, the postcUval fissure. Laterally, this lobe is continued into the hemispheres as the posterior crescentic lobes, which are somewhat semilunar in shape, and form, Avith the anterior crescentic lobes, the gi-eater part of the upper surface of the hemispheres. The two posterior crescentic lobes and the intervening clivus monticuli constitute the lobus clivi. The folium cacuminis is a short, narrow, concealed band at the posterior extremity of the vermis, consisting apparently of a smgle folium, but in reality marked on its upper and under surfaces by secondary fissures. Laterally, it expands in either hemisphere into a considerable lobe, which is semilunar in shape, and is situated at the postero-superior part of the hemisphere, and bounded below by the great horizontal fissure. It is named the postero- superior lobe, and occupies the posterior third of the upper surface of the hemisphere, forrning its rounded postero-lateral border. The postero-superior lobes and the fohum cacuminis form the lobus cacuminis. The under surface of the cerebellum (figs. 704,705) presents, in the middle line, the inferior vermis, buried in the vallecula, and separated from the hemisphere on cither side by a deep groove, the sulcus valleculoe. Here, as on the upper surface, there are deep fissures, dividing it mto separate segments or828 NEUROLOGY lobes ; but the arrangement is more complicated, and the relation of the segments of the vermis to those of the hemispliere is less clearly marked. This smiace is divided into four lobes by three main fissures, whicli, however, are not so regularly disposed as those on the upper surface. The lobes on the vermis are named from before backwards: (1) the nodule, (2) the uvula, (3) the pyramid, and (4) the tuber valvulce or tuber posticum. On the hemispheres the corresponding lobes are: (1) the flocculus, {2) the amygdala j^) biventral or digastric lobe, and (4) the postero-tnfenor lobe ^^^f \ ^^Ty at least two-thirds of the under surface and is «^^J>dYided bj^ a fissure named the vostqracile fissure ; the anterior of the t^vo subdivisions is named ^Tdenderhbe (lobus gmciUs) ; and the posterior, the ^nfer^or semduna, Fig. 705.-Diacrram showing fissures on under sui-face of the cerebellum. F>occu.u. Kodulo. V. Uvu>„. rv. Pyra,nic.. .M. A.,ygc.ala. Bn-.xT. Biventral lo„o. or .o..,.-.^no. lobe. The -^^Sr'^^Sin^^^hJnoS^^^^ fisstcre which runs transversely ^^^^.f .^^^^^^^""^^^^^^^^^ it passes •from the uvula behind ^1^^^^^^^^ Ktween the flocculus in front and in front of tlie amygdala and then «^;"ff J "J^J];; ^f the great horizontal the biventral lobe behind, and puis ^^^^^'^'if "f^^ the uvula in fissure. (2) The prepyramidal fissure crosses the \ ermis ottx829 THE CEREBELLUM front and the pyi'amid behind, tlien curves laterally behind the amygdala, and passes for^^■ards along the outer border of tliis lobe, bet\\'een it and the biventral lobe, to join the postnodular fissure. (3) The postpyramidal fissure passes across the vermis behind the pyramid and in front of the tuber valvulae, and, in the hemispheres, courses behind the amygdala and biventral lobes, and then along the outer border of the biventral lobe to the postnodular sulcus. It forms the anterior boundary of the postero-inferior lobe, which, as already stated, is subdivided by the postgracile fissure. These fissures and lobes are here arranged, from before backwards, in a schematic form. Hemisphere Inferior vermis Hemisphere Flocculus. Nodule. Flocculus. Postnodular fissure Amygdala. Uvula. Amygdala. Prepyramidal fissure Biventral lobe. Pyramid. Biventral lobe. Postpyramidal fissure Lobus gracilis. i [ Lobus gracilis. Postgracile fissure. j Tuber valvules, i Postgracile fissure. Inferior semilunar lobe. ' ' Inferior semilunar lobe. The nodule and flocculus,—The nodule is a distinct prominence, forming the anterior extremity of the inferior vermis. It abuts against the roof of the fourth ventricle, and can only be distinctly seen after the cerebellum has been separated from the medulla and pons. On either side of the nodule is a thin layer of white substance, named the inferior medullary velum. It is semilunar in form, its convex border being continuous with the white substance of the cerebellum ; it extends on either side as far as the flocculus, which it connects with the nodule. The flocculus is a prominent, irregular lobule, situated just in front of the biventral lobe, between it and the middle peduncle of the cerebellum. It is subdivided into a few smaU laminae, and is connected to the inferior medullary velum by its central white core. The flocculi, together with the inferior medullary velum and nodule, constitute the lobus noduli. The uvula and amygdalae.—The uvula forms a considerable portion of the inferior vermis ; it is separated on either side from the amygdala by the sidcus valleculce, at the bottom of which it is connected to the amygdala by a ridge of grey matter, indented on its surface by shallow furrows, and hence called the furrowed band. It is marked on its surface by three or four trans- verse fissures. The amygdalae, or tonsils, are rounded masses, situated in the lateral hemispheres. Each lies in a deep fossa, termed the bird's nest (nidus avis), between the uvula and the biventral lobe. The uvula and tonsUs form the lobus uvulae. The pyramid and biventral lobes constitute the lobus pyramidis. The pjramid is a conical projection, forming the largest prominence of the mferior vermis. It is sej)arated from the hemispheres by the sulcus vaUeculae, across which it is connected to the biventral lobe by an indistinct grey band, analogous to tlie furrowed band already described. The biventral lobe is triangular in shape ; its apex points inwards and backwards, and is joined by the connecting band to the pyramid. The external border is separated from the slender lobe by the postpyramidal fissure. The base is directed forwards, and is on a line with the anterior border of the amygdala, and is separated from the flocculus by the postnodular fissure. The tuber valvulae and the postero-inferior lobes collectively form the lobus tuberis. The tuber valvulae is the most posterior division of the inferior vermis. It is of small size, and laterally spreads out into the large jaostero- inferior lobes of the hemispheres. These lobes, as stated above, comprise at least two-thirds of the inferior surface of the hemisphere, and are divided into two by the postgracile fissure. The anterior part is named the slender lobe (lobus gracilis) ; and the posterior, the inferior semilunar lobe. Each of them IS traversed by a curved fissure ; that in the slender lobe being weU marked and termed the intragracile fissure.830 NEUROLOGY Internal Steucttjre of the Cerebellum The cerebeUum consists of white and grey matter. White matter.-If a sagittal section (fig. 706) be made through either hemisphere, the interior will be found to consist of a central stem of white mXf in the interior of which is a grey mass, the nucleus dentatus From IS surface of this central stem a series of plates of medullary matter are detached; these are covered with grey matter and form the laminaj In coSeq^^^^^^^ of the main branches from the central stem dividmg and sub- Shig! the section presents a characteristic appearance, which ]^^^^^^^^^ arbm- vi m If the sagittal section be made through the middle of the vermis it w 11 be found that the central stem divides mto a vertical and a horizontal brai^ch The\er^*caZ branch passes upwards to the culmen, where it subdivides freely one of its ramifications passing forwards and upwards Fia. 706.-Sagittal section of the cerebellum, near the point of jimction of the vermis ^ with the hemisphere. (Schafer.) CRESCENT,c Ala lobidi centralis Linyula Sup. peduncle of cerebeUum Great horizontal '•° fissure Nodule Fourth ventricle white substance of the ^'^^^^^V^'^'^l^'l^^^^ across the middle part of the cerebellum. They are foUmvcd upv^^^^ as far as the line by the valve of Vieussens, '^"^ can be toho^^^^^^^ ^^^.^^ inferior quadrigeminal bodies, under -^^f^ ^^^J ^^^^t as they ascend they the upper lateral boundaries of the ^^^^ ^^^^.t in roofing it m. converge on the dorsal aspect of f;,f'^^'f^^^^^^^ derived from the cells of The fibres of the superior P^^^";;/; ."^[^ X this nucleus; a few arise the nucleus dentatus, and emerge fiom the nnus oiTHE CEREBELLUM 831 from the cells of the smaller grey nuclei in the cerebellar white substance, and others from the cells of the cerebellar cortex. They are continued upwards beneath the corpora quadrigemina, and the fibres of the two peduncles undergo a complete decussation in front of the Sylvian aqueduct. Having crossed the middle line they divide into ascending and descending groups of fibres, the former ending in the red nucleus, the thalamus, and the nucleus of the tlm-d nerve, while the descending fibres can be traced as far as the dorsal part of the pons ; Cajal believes them to be continued into the anterior column of the spinal cord. As ah-eady stated (page 806), the greater part of the tract of Gowers passes to the cerebellum, whicli it reaches by way of the superior peduncle. The middle peduncles are the largest, and are formed by the transverse fibres of the pons. They enter tlic cerebellum between the margins of the great horizontal fissure, and their fibres are grouped into two main bundles : one, consisting of the upper transverse fibres of the pons, spreads out in the infero-lateral part of the hemisphere ; the other, comprising the lower transverse fibres of the pons, radiates into the upi^er part of the hemisphere. The middle peduncle is composed entirely of centripetal fibres, which arise from tlie cells of the nuclei pontis of the opposite side and terminate in the cerebellar cortex. The inferior peduncles consist mainly of afferent fibres, and are continuous below with the restiform bodies of the medulla oblongata.* They pass at first upwards and outwards, forming part of the lateral walls of the fourth ventricle, and then bend abruptly backwards to enter the cerebellum between the middle and superior peduncles. The inferior peduncle contains the follo^^ang fasciculi : (1) the direct cerebellar tract of the spinal cord, wliich terminates mainly in the superior vermis ; (2) fibres from the nucleus gracilis and nucleus cuneatus of the same and of the opposite sides; (3) fibres from the opposite olivary body; (4) crossed and uncrossed fibres from the reticular formation of the medulla ; (5) vesti- bular fibres, derived partly from the vestibular division of the auditory nerve and partly from the nuclei in whicli this division terminates—these fibres occupy the inner segment of the peduncle and divide into ascending and descending groups of fibres ; the ascending fibres partly end in the roof nucleus of the opposite side of the cerebellum ; (6) cerebello-bulbar fibres which come from the opposite roof nucleus and probably from the nucleus dentatus, and are said to end in the nucleus of Deiters and in the formatio reticularis of the medulla oblongata. The valve of Vieussens, or superior medullary velum, is a thin, transparent lamina of white matter, which stretches across from one superior peduncle to the other; on the dorsal surface of its lower half the folia of the lingula are prolonged. It forms, together with the superior peduncles, the roof of the upper part of the fourth ventricle, and is continuous with the central white stem of the cerebellum. It is narrow above, where it passes beneath the corpora quadrigemina, and broader below, at its connection with the white substance of the superior vermis. A slightly elevated ridge, the froenulum veli, descends upon the upper part of the valve from between the lower corpora quadrigemiaa, and on either side of this the foixrth nerve emerges. The inferior medullary velum is a thin layer of white substance, which is prolonged from the white centre of the medulla above and on either side of the nodule, and assists in forming a part of the roof of the fourth ventricle. Somewhat semilunar in shape, it is continuous with the white substance of the cerebellum by its convex edge, while its thin concave margin is apparently free. In reality, however, it is continuous with the epithelium of the ventricle, which is prolonged downwards from the inferior medullary velum to the ligulse. The two medullary vela are in contact with each other along their line of emei-gence from the white substance of the cerebellum ; and this line of contact forms the summit of the roof of the fourth ventricle, wliich, in a vertical section through tlie cavity, appears as a pointed angle. yti-ictly speaking, each inferior peduncle consists of an inner and an outer segment, the ■ of which is the restiform body.NEUROLOGY 832 The fibrae propriae of the cerebeUum are of two kinds : (1) commissural fibres which cross tlie middle hne to connect tlie opposite halves of the cerebellum some at the anterior part, and others at the posterior part of the vermiform process; (2) arcuate or association fibres, which connect adjacent lamjnaj with each other. ■ <■ j ■ 4. Grev matter—The grey matter of the cerebellum is found m two situations : (1) on the surface, forming the cortex ; (2) as mdependent masses m the matter of the cortex presents a characteristic foliated appearance, due to the series of lammaj which are given off from the central Fig. 707.- -Transverse section of a cerebellar folium. Kolliker.) Cell of P (Diagrammatic, after Cajal and Axons of granule cells, cut trans versely Small cell of molecular layer Basket cell \Molecul<i I ' layer G-olgi cell Granular layer Neuroglia cell I 1^X0)1 of cell of Purkinje j Tendril fibre Mossfibi-e White matter ; these in their turn give off se«,ndajylamv„^v^^ with grey matter. Thi. 'T4eSlv tl'e cortex^^^^ by pia a foliated appearance (fig. /06). of nerve-fibres. The nerve-fibres are delicate hbriUaj, and are deuved Horn833 THE CEREBELLUM sources : (a) the dendrites and axon-ooUaterals of Purkinje's cells ; (6) fibres from cells in the granular layer ; (c) fibres from the central M'hite substance of the cerebellum ; {d) fibres derived from cells in the molecular layer itself. In addition to these are other fibres, which have a vertical direction. These are the processes of large neuroglia-cells, situated in the granular layer. They pass outwards to the periphery of the grey matter, where they expand into little conical enlargements which form a sort of limiting membrane beneath the pia mater, analogous to the membrana limitans interna m the retina, formed by the fibres of MiiUer. The cells of the molecular layer are small, and are arranged in two strata, an outer and an inner. They all possess branched axis-cylinder processes ; those of the inner layer run for some distance horizontally—i.e. parallel with the surface of the folium—giving off collaterals, which pass in a vertical direction towards the ceU-bodies of Purkinje's corpuscles, around which they become enlarged, and form a basket-like network. Hence these cells of the inner layer are named basket-cells. The cells of Purkinje form a single stratum of large, flask-shaped cells situated at the junction of the molecular and granular layers, their bases resting against the latter ; in fishes and reptiles they are arranged in several layers. The cells are fiattened in a direction transvei'se to the long axis of the folium, and thus appear broad in sections carried across the folium, and fusiform in sections parallel to the long axis of the folium. From the neck of the fiask one or more dendrites arise and pass into the molecular layer, where they sub- divide and form an extremely rich arborescence, the various subdivisions of the dendrites being covered by lateral spine-like processes. This arborescence is not circular, but, like the cell, is flattened at right angles to the long axis of the folium ; in other words, it does not resemble a round bush, but has been aptly compared by Obersteiner to the branches of a fruit tree trained against a treUis or a wall. Hence, in sections carried across the folium the arborescence is broad and expanded ; whereas in those which are parallel to the long axis of the folium, the arborescence, like the cell itself, is seen in profile, and is limited to a narrow area. From the bottom of the flask-shaped cell the axon arises ; this passes through the granular layer, and, becoming medullated, is continued as a nerve-fibre in the subjacent white substance. This axon as it passes through the granular layer gives off fine collaterals some of which run back into the molecular layer. Tlie internal rust-coloured, granular, or nuclear, layer (fig. 707) is characterised by containing numerous small nerve-cells or granules of a reddisli-brown colour, together with many nerve-fibrils. Most of the cells are nearly splierical and provided with short dendrites which spread out in a spider-like manner in the granular layer. Thek axons pass outwards into the molecular layer, and, bifurcating at right angles, run horizontally for some distance. In the outer part of the granular layer are some larger cells, of the type termed Golgi cells. Their axons undergo frequent division as soon as they leave the nerve-cells, and pass into tlie granular layer ; while their dendrites ramify chiefiy in the molecular layer. Finally, in the grey matter of the cerebellar cortex, there are fibres which come from the white centre and penetrate the cortex. The cell-origin of these fibres IS unknown, though it is believed that it is probably in the grey matter of the spuial cord. Some of these fibres end in the granular layer by dividing into numerous branches, on which are to be seen peculiar moss-like appendages ; hence they have been termed by Ramon y Cajal the moss-fibres ; they form an arborescence around the cells of the granular layer. Other fibres derived troni the medullary centre can be traced into the molecular layer, where their branches clmg around the dendrites of Purkinje's cells, and hence they have Deen named the clinging or tendril fibres. (2) The independent centres of grey matter in the cerebellum are TOur in number on either side : one is of large size, and is known as the nucleus <lentatus ; the other three, much smaller, are situated near the middle of the cerebellum, and are known as the nucleus emboliformis, nucleus globosus and nucleus fastigii. 3h834 NEUROLOGY The nucleus dentatus (fig. 708) is situated a little to the mner of the centre of the stem of the white matter of the hemisphere It consists of an krec^Xiy folded lamina, of a greyish-yellow colour, contammg white hi res and ™ on its antero-internal aspect an opening, the hilus, from ^^hlch most of the fibres of the superior cerebeUar peduncle emerge The nucleus emboliformis lies immediately to the inner side of the corpus denlaturand partlyIveri^ its hilus. The nucleus globosusis ^n elongated mis Scted anter J-posteriorV and placed to the mner side of he precedmg ThTnudeTfasti9^i> o"«°f ^^^^^"^ somewhat larger than the other FiQ. 708.-Sagittal section through right cerebellar hemisphere. The right olivary ° body has also been cut sagittally. S^iperior Nucleiis dentatus peduncle Corpora quadrigemina Inferior olive which it is separated by li\;fiy<'l°^ ^^^.^i^Mt m the male is about cerebrum being, according to Cruveilhier, 1 to 20. A,,Uea ^.a.o.,.-The.general functions of the -^^^^^^ appear to be the co-ordination of '^f^:'''^^^*^^^^^^^^^^^ its different parts are stiU quite '^'^^'^l^'^'^^^S^ aT(2^^ observations in man furnished by (1) ablation «^P^«"°^'''^*^,X°^J'JJ^3"^^^^^ different portions of the organ, of the effects produced by "^^.^Xlh^^^^^^^ ^vould therefore indicate According to W. A. Turner, The follo^ ng 1^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^le peduncle : the presence of a tumour i>^Pl^'='^t>"g ^J'^JX Se ear comphcations ; an unsteady and deafness in the right ear, ^^^^^f^f^f ^"^^^^^^laX the right side ; coarse nystag- tlic right cornea and side of the face. The Fourth Ventricle The fourth ventricle (ventricul^ SS'l;"v5;rohitd;w«tH STHE FOURTH VENTRICLE 835 with the central caiical of the medulla oblongata ; * above, it communioates by means of a passage termed the aqueduct of Sylvius, with the cavity of the third ventricle. It presents four angles, and possesses a roof or dorsal wall, a floor or ventral wall, and lateral boundaries. Ang-les.—The superior angle is on a level witli the upper border of the pons \ arolu, and is continuous with the lower end of the aqueduct of Sylvius The inferior angle is on a level with the lower end of tlie olivary body, and opens into the central canal of the medulla oblongata. Each lateral angle corresponds with the pomt of meetmg of the three cerebellar peduncles. A little below the lateral angles, on a level with the striae acusticse, tlie ventricular cavity is prolonged outw^irds in the form of two narrow passages, one on either side. These are named the lateral recesses, and are situated between the restiform bodies and the flocculi, reaching as far as the attachments of tlie glosso-pharvneeal and vagi nerves. o x- .7 & .-.■"l^'i^u^^ boundaries.—The lower part of each lateral boundary is con- stituted by the clava, the fasciculus cuneatus, and the restiform body • the upper part by the superior cerebellar peduncle. Fia. 709.—Scheme of roof of fourth ventricle. Corpora quadrigemina Ependymal lining of ventricle Fourth ventricle Inferior medullai-y velum Clioroid plexus / Ciiterna basalts of subarachnoid space Central canal The arrow is in the foramen of Majendie. Cistema jioniis of subarach7wid space by tlie tela choiSSSThet^^^^^^ --red '^^rlelS^iZ':'^^^^ -bstance of the of the upper part oT SaWtv bnf ' ^^^^'^f t lateral boundaries bodies, they CnvereraM iLh "^/^PP^'f.^^bmg the inferior quadrigeminal part of its Joof ^ ' ^"""^ "^^^^^^ Po^tiO"« overlap the cavity and form with the central white sXtanc^ nPf? P?f^»ncles, and is continuous behind aspect by the linguifof'^Xenor v^^^^^^^^^ ' '^'"'^ °" coniSLr-^rmvT^ds'tT iolT /'f ""^ P«-^t^^'^"«) (P-g« 831) is cerebellum in front of th^ nST^^^^^ white substance of the m iront ot the nodule and amygdalae, and ends inferiorly in a thin, ^ff^'oI't^oZc^^^^^^ y^'f'^y. vol. xl.) ha. pointed out that the central «left- ike form presented brtt Ski sninnl o ^""■■''"f, "1^° fourth ventricle, retains tlie lateral sulci. ^ 'I"°'^l °ana], and that it is marked by dorse- and ventro- 3 H 2NEUROLOGY concave, somewhat raged m„^^^^ :rZTe:tM:lS^" t^o whS £d>,, %y<,, appear ; these complete the lo^^'«\Pf i^,^"^. 'Vxl nart The vertical part is continuous below, vertical and an outer l^^^f'^^^^'^'^ ,. ^ tlie clava • the horizontal the obex, and is adherent by its "'^^te^^^^id^ei t^^ ^^^^^^J^^^^'^ody, below the portion extends transversely ou ^^^^^^^^^ y^^^,^^ ^^^^^^ f;'" TotTby its Z^r marL t^L r^^^ and partly encloses the It IS attached by its lowoi uiciij,iii K„„P,nrl like a cluster of grapes ; choroid plexus, whieh however P™^-^^^^^^^ J tecor::c:pia (Bocgdafek) and hence this part of the ligula J^f^'^^T^ ^ ^^^ofs in the lower angle of The obex is a thin, triangu ar, f ^^^^^^^^ the clava..* The the ventricle and is attached by its ^^^^^^t, "iTprl to the triangular fold of tela chorioidea ventricuU qn.rU - ^^'^^^eVfhe'^^^^^^ -^dulla pia mater which is °f"ed upwards bet^^^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^1^^^. oblongata. It consists of two ayeis ^^^^^^^^^J^^^ terior layer covers front, and are more or .^^he^^^^^^^Xm^^ w^^^^ anterior is applied to the antero-mferior surface f tl^^^eiel^eUum ^^^^ ventricle, and is tl^S^^^^^ — '''''''''' ^^^?^exuses.-The^ cons^tof two higdy v^^ ^ tela chorioidea inferior which "^^f^^f^^^^'^^^^^^^o^^^^^ : the former ventricle. Each consists of a ^^^K^al ^^^^^ Lsse into the lateral recess and lies close to the middle line th^f ^r^^^^^^ epithehal Iming projects beyond its apex ^^^fy ^^^^^ distinct from each other, of the ventricle. The vertical pai ts of J P^J^^^^^d hence the entire 'Swings in the roo.-In ^^^l^^^^ openings in the pia mater -yd^Jj^^^^^^^T^ above the inferior angle ofMaiendie, is situated in the middle ^^^f ^/^f ; j^.J q,. foramina of Key and o the ventricle ; the other two Uorannna o^ Lu^^f^^, oi j ^^^^^^^ ^ Retzius) are found at the ^^^tr^^mities o^^ ^^-^1 the these three foraimna he cavity of ^^th^^^^^ ^^^^ ^^.^^^^ ^^^^ subarachnoid space, and the cereoro spuici into this space, or wee versa vhomboidal in shape its upper Floor or ventral wall (fig. '\ .j^p pons Varohi, and its lower portion being formed by the f'ff ^^^'i^,^^^^'^^ oblongata. It is ?y the corresponding surface of the open p^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^ „f ,Ue covered by a layer of grey matter cont^^^^^^^^^ constitutes spinal cord ; superficial to tins is a t^ ^^^^^^^ efliated epithelium. It the ependyma of the ventricle and s pix^its^^^^ synmetrical halves, and is traversed by a median ^V^^;;^ recesses bv a number of white strands it is crossed at the level of the lateral recesses ov ^ j division of the the membranous fold in question.837 THE FOURTH VENTRICLE sulcus. Tliey divide the floor into two triangular areas, an ujDper and a lower, M-liich correspond, approximately, to the portions of the floor Ax liicli are formed by the back of the pons and medulla respectively. BeloM- the stria? acusticas, at a short distance from the median sulcus, on either side, is a small triangular depression, the inferior fovea, the apex of which is directed upwards, while its sides are prolonged downwards as divergent furrows. The inner of these furroM's is carried toM^ards the lower angle of tlie ventricle, the outer towards its lateral wall; and in this manner three small tri- angular areas are marked off on either side of the middle Ime. That which lies between the diverging furrows of the fovea is darker in colour than the other two, and is named the ala cinerea or irigoniim vagi ; it corresponds M'ith the position of the sensory nuclei of the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. The base of the trigonum vagi is crossed by a narrow translucent elevation named the :tuniculus separans, between which and the clava is a small tongue-shaped area, the area postrema. On section, it is seen that the funiculus separans IS formed by a strip of thickened ependyma, and that the area postrema is Fig. 710.—Floor of fourth ventricle. TSttilf^''''^!'''^^'^^''^^^^^^ contains neurons of a moderate size. The area which lies between the inner limb of the fovea upwards k'^nTfi' '"' ''.t^'-"^^^ the trigo„ hypoglossi; its base, directed X tlrt ^^-'th an elevation, the eminentia teres, which lies above elevS nn T' ''^P"^.*°™« ^^'ith that of the opposite side a pointed trSnnn^' - scrtptonus. When examined under water with a lens, the onfanoThlrlV f"^'^ "'"''''^ ''^"^ ^ ^^^'''''^ ^'^^ separated from the venl^Jj Tff ' '-^^'^'-^ corresponds with a snialTcolW ^'T'^ °^ ^^'"^ liypoglossal nerve, the lateral vrith oute .il f •''r^'^^ intercalatus. The third area, that on the corresDond.. Lfi fo^^a inferior is named the trigonum acusticum, and is iS ,r '^'"^ °^ '-^"f^it^i-y nerve. Its base em "P^™«^«' ^^'^d IS continuous witli a larger eminence, termed the eminentia ov area acustica, which is crossed by the strife acustic^ stri^Ycn^i.!: °^ tliat part of the floor of the ventricle which lies above the stn:e acusticse, a small depression, the superior fovea, is seen. Between it and838 NEUROLOGY the median sulcus is an elongated eminence, the eminenha teres, the nucleus of the sixth nerve, and is, in part at least, produced by the ascendmg portion of the root of the seventh nerve. This eminence becomes less dibtinct above, while below it is continuous with the tngonum hypoglossx Outside the superior fovea is the prominence of the area acustica {ahe^dy referred to) , and ab?ve it is a bluish, depressed spot, the locus cc^ruleus, which owes its colour to an underlying patch of deeply pigmented nerve-cells, termed ^^^J^i^^^l^f^ ferruginosa, in which a part of the sensory root of the fifth nerve termmates. THE MID-BRAIN The mid-brain, or mesencephalon (fig. 711), is the short constricted portion which cZects th^ pons Varohi and cerebellum with the tl-W^^^^ and cerebral hemispheres. It is directed upwards and forwards, and consists ot. n rventro-kteral portion, composed of a pair of cyhndrical bodies, named the cr^TcerX? (2) a dorsal portion, consisting of four romided emmences, Earned tL c^^^^^^^^^^ -d (3) an mtervening passage or^^^^ aqueduct of Sylvius, which represents the original cavity of the mid-biam and ^""^K^cr^^a^cS— two cyl^clrical masses situated a. tl Jb»ebrain, aSlargely hidden by the —Uo^^^^^^^^^^ Fig. 711.—Corpora quadi-igeinina and corpora geniculata. (Testut.) removed m order to expose them. They emerge from the upper surface of the pons Varohi. one on either side of the middle Ime, and, divergmg as they pass upwards and forwards, disappear into the substance of the cerebral hemi- spheres. The depressed area between the crura is termed the locus perforatus posticus or fossa inter peduncularis, and consists of a layer of greyisli matter (substantia perforata posterior) which is pierced by numerous small apertures for the transmission of blood- vessels. Its lower part hes on the ventral aspect of the mesial portions of the tegmenta, and contains a nucleus named the ganglion inter peduncular e (pag( 840) ; its upper part assists m forming the floor of the third ventricle. The ventral surface of each crus is crossed from within outwards by the superior cerebellar and posterior cerebral arteries ; its lateral surface ism relation to theuncuiatc convolu- tion of the cerebral hemispliere and is crossed from behuid forwards by the fom-th -J-'^^.^'^^.^^^i^^K^-j' disappearance into the cerebral l^^^^^P'^"^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^ Til orus forms around its ventro-lateral surface. ^ nf Hmce tomni as the interpedun- lateral boundary of the posterior V^'^^.^r^^^^^ cular space, and is marked by a ^o'V^'tudmal fu ^^^^ ^j^^ wliich the roots of the third or o^"^"''™ ^^^^^^^ the sulcus surface of eacli crus there ,e^^^^^ ( 7 uperior and middle 19. Inferior peduncle of cerebellum.THE MID-BRAIN 839 this sulcus, and pass backwards and upwards, to disappear under the loAver quadi'igeminal body. Structure of the crura cerebri (figs. 713,714-).—On transverse section, each crus is seen to consist of a dorsal and a ventral part, separated by a Fig. 712.—Vertical transverse section through deeply pigmented lamina of grey mid-brain. (Schematic.) (Testut.) matter, termed the substantia nigra. The dorsal part is named the tegmentum; the ventral, the crusta or pes; the two crustse are separated from each other, but the tegmenta are joined in the mesial plane by a forward pro- longation of the raphe of the pons Varolii. Laterally, the tegmenta are free, and are constituted by the fibres of the lateral fiUet; dorsaUy, they blend with the corpora quadrigemina. The crusta, or pes (basis pedmiculi) is semilunar on trans- verse section, and consists almost entnely of longitudinal bundles of efferent fibres, which arise from the cells of the cerebral cortex and are grouped into three prmcipal sets, viz. pyi-amidal, geniculate, and cortico-pontine (fig. 712). The pyramidal fibres occupy the middle three-fifths of the crusta, and are continued do-miwards through the pons into the pyramid of the medulla. The geniculate fibres—so named be- cause they are situated in the knee-shaped bend of the internal capsule—occupy the inner fifth of the crusta, and terminate, after decussatmg with the corresponding fibres of the Fig. 713.—Transverse section of mid-brain at level of inferior quadrigeminal bodies. Inferior quadrigeminal bodies Aqueduct of Sylvius Nucleus of third nerve Lateral fillet Posterior longitudinal fasciculus Mesial fillet 1. Corpora quadrigemina. 2. Aqueduct of Sylvius. 3. Central grey matter of aqueduct. 4. Interpeduncular space. 5. Sulcus lateralis. 6. Substantia nigra. 7. Red nucleus of tegmentum. 8. Third nerve, with 8', its nucleus of origin. a. Fillet (in blue), with a', the mesial or sensory fillet, and a', the lateral or auditory fillet, b. Posterior longitudinal fasciculus, c. Raphe, d. Posterior cortico-protuberantial tract, e. Portion of mesial fillet which passes to the lenticular nucleus and island of Reil. /. Pyramidal tract (in red). g. Geniculate bundle (in green). Baplie Other aide, in the motor nuclei of the cranial nerves. The cortico-pontine fibres termmate below m the nuclei pontis, and consist of anterior and posteriorNEUROLOGY 840 groups. Tlie iibies of the posterior group arise in the temporal and occipital lobes, and occupy the outer fifth of the crusta ; while those of the anterior group take origin in the frontal lobe, and are disseminated among the pyramidal and geniculate fibres. On the dorsal aspect of the cortico-pontine fibres a strand of the mesial fillet passes up in the crusta.* The substantia nigra is a layer of grey matter containing numerous deeply pigmented, multipolar nerve-ceUs. Like the crusta, it is semilunar on trans- verse section, its concavity being directed towards the tegmentum ; from its convex aspect, prolongations extend doAxnwards between the fibres of tli< crusta. Thicker internally than externally, it reaches from the oculo-motoi sulcus to the lateral sulcus, and extends from the upper surface of the pons to the subthalamic region ; its inner part is traversed by the fibres of the thu-d nerve as these stream forwards to reach the oculo-motor sulcus. The connec- tions of the substantia nigra have not been definitely established. The tegmentum is contmuous below with the reticular formation ot tlie pons, and, like it, consists of longitudinal and transverse fibres, together with a considerable amount of grey matter. The prmcipal grey masses of tlx- ¥10. 714.—Transverse section of mid-brain at level of superior quadrigeminal bodies. Superior quadrigeminal bodies Sylvian aqueduct Nucleus of third nerve Posterior longit udin a I fasciculus tegmentum are the red nucleus and the ganglion ^^te^^duncuk^^^^^^ its fibres the chief longitudinal tracts are the superior cerebellar peduncle, tlie posterior longitudinal fasciculus, and the fillet. , ■ ^, f„,.; ^ GrZ malr.-The red nucleus (nucleus ruber) is situated "\the ant«-.o nart of the tegmentum, and is continued upwards into the posterior part ot ?he snbthllamfc region.' In sections at the level of ^1- upij^^r quaf^^^^^^^^ body it appears as a circular mass which is traversed by the fibres of tlie t in nerve Most of the fibres of the superior cerebellar peduncle terminate in 1 rpaJe SSr The axons of its larger ceUs cross the middle fine and are con inu.a fc^vards into the lateral coluinn of the spinal cord -^he rubr^^ or tract of Monakow; those of its smaller cells end '"=^"^^57 f,^ ; ^^^^^^^^^^^ The ganglion inierpeduncularc is a median collection o ^^f, in the vLtral part of the tegmentum. The fibi;es ^^/l;,'; ^^^^^^^^j^^/^^^ of Meynert, wliich have their origin in tlie cells of the ganghon liaoenui ^^^SS nuclei mentioned, tliere are small coHections of^^Ols whi.-h form the dorsal and ventral nuclei and the central nucleus 01 nucleus ot raphe. s the frartuspedunrMs tTamvm is sometimes s-^^" ^"^'"f idrigenunaliocly ; it passes round „"ulcu -,.1 : ponrand tlic optic tract, and ^^P^^ ^.^^^^^l^^^t. of hu.„an * A band of fibres front of the upper quad-- -, a a- midway between the pons and the optic tract, 'P;'"";;^';^^^^^^^^^^^ of hunum is a constant structure in many mammals, but is ""'^ 1''f f t may be considered brains. Since it undergoes atrophy after enucleation of the cjcballs, may forming a path for visual sensations. ITHE CRURA CEREBRI 841 White matter.—(1) The origin and course of the superior cerebellar -peduncle liave ah'eady been described (page 830). (2) The dorsal or posterior longitudinal fasciculus (fig. 715) is continuous below M'ith the antero-lateral ground-bundle of the spinal cord ; and lias been traced by Edinger as far as a nucleus, the nucleus o f the posterior longitudinal fasciculus, situated in the hypothalamus, immediately in front of the aqueduct of Sjdvius. In the nieduUa oblongata and pons, it runs close to the middle line, near the floor of the fourth ventricle ; in the mid-brain, it is situated on the ventral aspect of the S3dvian aqueduct, below the nuclei of the thii-d and fourth nerves. Its connections are imperfectly kno\\n, but it consists largely of ascending and descending intersegmental or association fibres, which connect the various nuclei of the mid- and hind-brains to each other. Many of the descending Fig. 715.—Scheme of tlie posterior longitudinal fasciculus ; motor fibres in red, sensory, in blue. Xudt-us of post f nor longitiuiiiial fasdcuUis Superior i/undrinemiml bodii Xudeus of fourth nerve Nudeus of fifth nerve .Yudeus of sixth nerve Xudeus of seventh nerve Xudetis of ninth and tenth nerves Xudeus of twelfth nerve Nudeus of eleventh i 1 fibres arise in the superior quadrigeminal body, and, after decussating in the 'middle line, terminate in the motor nuclei of the pons and medulla. The '■ascending fibres arise from the cells of the grey matter of the upper part of the cord, and from the nuclei in the medulla and pons, and pass, without undergoing '■aecussation, to the liigher nuclei. Fibres are also carried tlirough the posterior longitudmal fasciculus from tlie nucleus of the sixtli nerve into the third nerve lot the opposite side, and througii this nerve to tlie Internal rectus of the eyeball. ^Again, fibres are said to be prolonged through this fasciculus from the nucleus ot the thu-d nerve into the seventh nerve, and are distributed to tlie Orbicularis '^palpebrarum, the Corrugator supercilii, and the Occipito-frontalis.* a,J p^' ""'^ f H^'i'^'^y ' On the Origrin of the Facial Nerve,' Jlcvicw of Xctirolom, IhtlTl I^«cember 1908, prorluce weighty evidence against the view that ine lacwl nerve derives fibres from the nucleus of the third nerveNEUROLOGY 842 (3) The lillei or lemniscus (fig. 716).—The fibres of the fillet have been seen to take origm in the gracile and cuneate nuclei of the medulla oblongata, and to cross to the opposite side in the sensory decussation (page 816). They then pass upwards tlirough the medulla, in which they are situated behind the pyramidal fibres and between the olivary bodies. Here they are joined by the fibres of Gowers' ascending tract, these having already undergone decussation in the spmal cord. As the fillet ascends, it receives additional fibres from the terminal nuclei of the sensory nerves of the opposite side. In the pons, it assumes a flattened, ribbon-like appearance, and is placed on the dorsal aspect of the trapezium. In the mid-brain, its outer part is folded backwards and Fig. 716.—Scheme showing the course of the fibres of the fillet; mesial fillet in blue, lateral fillet in red. CoTpora quadrigemina Superior olive Cochlear nucleus Sensory cranial nueltl Nucleus gracili'S Nucleus cuiwatus forms nearly a right angle with its mesia portion ; and hence it is customan to speak of the fillet as consistmg of lateral and "^e^ial parte The lateral fillet (lemniscus lateralis) has been seen the mid-brain .along its lateral sulcus, '^^^^ o dis^^^^^^^^^ quadriseminal body. It consists of fibres which dern ea uom ui Nuclei 'of the eochlelr division f the a^^^^^^^^ ,,ese to the middle and superior temporal convolutions.THE CORPORA QUADRIGEMINA • 843 - The mesial fillet (lemniscus medialis) comprises that portion of the fillet 'which commences in the gracile and cuneate nuclei of the opposite side, and I which is joined by Gowers' tract and by fibres from the'termiiial nuclei of ithe sensory nerves of the opposite side, excepting the cochlear division of the ; auditory. In the crus cerebri, a few of its fibres pass upwards in the outer ipart of the pes or crusta, on the dorsal aspect of the cortico-ponture fibres, ! and reach the lenticular nucleus and the island of Reil. The greater part of (the mesial fillet, on the other hand, is prolonged thi-ough the tegmentum, cand most of its fibres end in the thalamus ; probably some are continued I directly through the posterior part of the internal capsule to the cerebral (cortex. From the cells of the thalamus a relay of fibres is prolonged to tthe cerebral cortex. Besides these three tracts, there are the tectospinal tract from the upper cquadi-igeminal body and the rubrospinal tract from the red nucleus ; these tracts ccross the midcUe line and are continued downwards into the spinal cord. The corpora quadrigemina are four rounded eminences which form the cidorsal part of the mid-brain. They are situated above and in front of the valve oof Vieussens and superior peduncles of the cerebellum, and below and behind the I third ventricle and posterior commissure. They are covered by the splenium of I the coi-pus caUosum, and are partly overlapped on either side by the inner angle, nor pulvinar, of the posterior end of the thalamus ; on their lateral aspect,' iiunder cover of the pulvinar, is an oval emmence, named the internal geniculate hbodij. The corpora quadiigemma are aixanged in pairs (upper and lower), and lare separated from one another by a crucial sulcus. The longitudinal part of [this sulcus expands superiorly to form a slight depression which supports the vpmeal body, a cone-like structure which projects backwards from the thalam- •encephalon and partly obscures the upper quadrigemmal bodies. From the dower end of the longitudmal sulcus, a white band, termed the frcenulum veli, ds prolonged downwards to the valve of Vieussens ; on either side of this band the fourth cranial nerve emerges, and passes forwards on the lateral, aspect of Ithe crus to reach the base of the bram. The upper pair (coUiculi superiores) >are larger and darker m colour than the lower, and are oval in shape. The iloioer pair (colliculi inferiores) are hemispherical, and somewhat more pro- iminent than the upper. The upper quadrigemmal bodies are associated with Ithe sense of sight, the lower wdth that of hearing. From the lateral aspect of ■sacli of the four bodies, a white band, termed the brachium, is prolonged upwards land forwards. The superior brachium (brachium quadrigeminum superius) sxtends outwards from the upper quadrigeminal body, and, passing between itne pulvinar and internal geniculate body, is partly continued into an eminence called the external geniculate body, and partly into the outer ^portion of the optic tract. The inferior brachium (brachium quadrigeminum imtenus) passes forwards and upwards from the lower quadrigeminal body and imsappears under cover of the internal geniculate body. In close relationship with the corpora quadrigemina are the superior 'feauncles of the cerebellum, which emerge from the upper and mesial part of the l^erebellar hemispheres. They run upwards and forwards, and, passing under Itne corpora quadrigemina, enter the tegmenta as ah-eady described (page 830). hnri • 5^ ?^ corpora quadrigemina.—The lower quadrigemmal ^oouy consists of a compact nucleus of grey matter containing large and smaU Jimiipolar nerve-ceUs, and more or less completely surrounded by white fibres •lerived from the lateral fillet. Most of these fibres end m the grey nucleus of ■.r>t ' middle line and terminate in that of the opposite side From the ceUs of the grey nucleus, fibres are prolonged through i^ne interior brachium into the tegmentum of the crus cerebri, and are carried ■L • ?P'^i° thalamus and the cortex of the temporal lobe ; other fibres cross 'ae middle line and end in the opposite quadrigemmal body. 'Prm.!? li'x^^Z quadrigeminal body is covered by a thin stratum of white fibres, *rmed the stratttm zonule, the majority of whose fibres are derived from the '■^^Z ■^^'^°ath this is the siraiiim, cinereum, a layer of grey matter which tseniDies a cap : it is semilunar in shape, thicker in the centre than at the largins and consists of numerous multipolar nerve-cells, for the most part trn^. ^"^bedded in a fine network of nerve-fibres. Still deeper is the iraium opticum, which contains large multipolar nerve-ceUs, separated by' NEUROLOGY numerous fine nerve-fibres. Finally, there is the slralum lernnisci, wliich consists of fibres derived partly from the fiUet and partly from the cells of the stratum op cu.n ; interspersed among these fibres are many large multipo ar nerve- cells The two last-named strata are sometimes termed the grey-wMe Ixnje^ ivom the fact that they consist of both grey and white matter. Of the aftereu fibres which reach the superior quadrigeminal body, some are derived from the fillet but the majority have their origin in the retma and are conveyed to it through the superior brachium ; all of them terminate arbor.smg aroun^^^^^^^^ cells of the grey matter. Of the fibres which arise from the ce Ls o tlie g c> matter, some oLs the middle line to the opi--te quadrigeminal b^^^^^^^ ascend through the superior brachium, and finally reach the cortex ot t il ocei^Sal liKf the cere'brum ; while others after undergoing decussaUon (t e fountain decussation of Meynert) form the tfJo-^P^^^l ctj^hich d^^^^ throush the formatio reticularis of the mid-brain, pons, and meduUa in o the spfnal cord, where it is found partly in the anterior column and partly intermingled wth the fibres of the rubro-spinal tract. . ^ . . , x,^ Thrcorp^^^^ quadrigemina are larger in the lower animals than in man. In fishS r'eptCJnd bi?ds, they are Uow, and only f-o m nun^l- ^n^aie bic^emina) • they represent the superior quadi-igemmals of mammals, ana aie frfqSy terr^^ the optic lobes, because of theii- intimate connection ^^-ath the optic tracts. (aqua^ductus cerebri) is a narrow canal, seen in transverse sections, varies at ditteient levels, oemg »u i ' columnar epithelium, and i^s^^'^o^^]^^,^ .^J^^ thraoSdSct this is continuous ce«#aZ?reyma«er (stratum griseum centi ale) of t^^^^^^^^^ below with the grey substance m tlie ^0°^ from the of the tegmentum. Scattered tliroughout ^t^, ^^^^ ^^^^'Xes. Besides nucleus of the third nerve measures about t^^.'^f ^^^^^^^^''it ^ for a short THE FORE-BRAIN •„4.c r.f ■ ni the dienccphalon or inicr-brain, which The fore-brain consists » , 1) t'^^*^^"^^^^^^^^^^^ corresponds in a, large measure to t e ; ^ ^ ^lie largest part of tl| bound it; and (2) the <f «f ''^heT"^^ S are intimat# brain, viz. the cerebral l^'^^^'^P^^^f *J f fi,,r^^^^^^^^^ contains a largo connected with each otlier across he middle ^^^^^ J^^^ J^^^j^i.^ communi.at. cavity, named tlie lateral ventn^ e. The ate a^^^ o^^^ ^^^^^^^^1 througli the foramen of .Moni^ itb the tji d en ^^^^^ Mlli^S^S: wSiS^ rl^mmunication with the other brain ventricles. * The Diencephalon ? TU. diencephalon o. inter-b^^^^^^ T":^^:^:' ^^i^'UU the cerebral hemispheres, Ik lima ^^lul ^845 THE FORE-BRAIN is concealed by the corpus callosum, and is covered by a fold of pia mater, named the velum interpositum ; inferiorly it reaches to the base of the brain. The diencej^halon compiises : (1) the thalamencephalon : (2) the pars mamillaria h3'pothalarai ; and (3) the posterior part of the third ventricle. For descriptive purposes, however, it is more convenient to consider the whole of the third ventricle and its boundaries together : this necessitates the inclusion, under this heading, of the pars optica hypothalami and the corresponding part of the third ventricle—structures which properly belong to the telencephalon. The thalamencephalon consists of : (1) the thalamus : (2) the meta- thalamus or corjjora geniculata ; and (3) the epithalamus, whicli comprises the trigonum habenulfe, the pineal body, and the posterior commissure. Fig. 717.—^The tliii-d and fourth ventricles. The lower arrow has been placed in the aqueduct of Sylvius; the upper points to the foramen of Monro. Tile thalami or optic thalami (figs. 717, 718) are two large ovoid masses, situated one on either side of the third ventricle and reaching for some distance belund that cavity. Each measures about an inch and a half in lengtli, and presents two extremities, an anterior and posterior, and four surfaces, superior, interior, internal, and external. The anterior extremity is narrow, directed forwards and inwards, and lies Close to the middle line, where it forms the posterior boundary of the foramen of Monro. Che posterior extremity is expanded, directed backwards and outwards, and. overlaps tlie superior quadrigeminal body. Internally, it presents a velJ-inarlicd angular prominence, the posterior tubercle or pulvinar, wliich846 NEUROLOGY is continued externally into an oval swelling, the external geniculate body, while beneath the pulvinar, but separated by the superior brachiuni, is a second oval swelling, the internal geniculate body. , , , , The sitperior surface is free, sliglitly convex, and covered by a layer of white matter, termed the stratum zonule. It is separated externally from the caudate nucleus by a white band named the taenia semicircularis, and by the win of the corpus striatum. It is divided into an inner and an outer portion bv an oblique shallow furrow which runs from behmd for\\ards and inwardn and corresponds with the outer margin of the fornix. The part on the outer side of the furrow forms a portion of the floor of the lateral ventricle, and is covered by the epithelial lining of this cavity. The part on the inner side is covered by the velum interpositum, and excluded from the lateral and 7ig. Coronal seotion of brain immediately in front of pons. Thalamus Uileral ventricle Caudate Jiucleus Internal capsule lenticular nucleus C'laustrum Jtland of Reil Corpus callosnm Choroid plexus of lateral rentricle Fornix Choroid plexus of third ventricle Third ventricle Red nucleus Substantia nigra Locus perforalus posticus f CrusiH XucUus of Lum Twnia hippocampi Descending horn of lateral centridr Hippocampus major Gurus denlatus Caudate nucleus third ventricles, and is therefore ^^titute of a^^pitj^^ it is separated from the internal the cpitliehal contained the fibres of the stria Pin^^lis and along Uuc^^ ^^^1^ ^.^^^^^ lining of the third ventricle is i;eflected "{'f V croove, the snkvs interlositum. Behind, it is limited "^^^^^'^^y^i^r^X area, termed Jiabenulce, which intervenes between it and a smaU tnangu the triqonum Jiabenulce. nr>r>tinnnns witli the upward third ventricle, and is connected to the corresponding suriace847 THE THALAMUS thalamus by a flattened grey band, the middle or g)-ey commissure. This com- missure averages about one-third of an inch in its antero-posterior diameter : it sometimes consists of two parts and occasionaEy is absent. It contains nerve-cells and nerve-fibres : a few of the latter may cross the middle line, but most of them pass towards the middle line and tlien curve outwards on the same side. The external surface is in contact with a thick band of white matter which forms the posterior limb of the internal capsule and separates the thalamus from the lenticular nucleus of the corpus striatum. Structure.—The thalamus consists chiefly of grey matter, but its upper surface is covered by a layer of white matter, named the stratum zonale, and its outer surface by a similar layer termed the external medullary lamina. Fig. 719.—Coronal section of brain through middle commissure. Oindate nucleus Internal capsule GlobuHpallidus /'Ufa men Clnustrum Island ofEdl Corpus callosum Lateral ventricle Choroid plexus Fornix Third ventricle Internal medullary lamina- Middle commissure Third ventricU Optic tract Amygdaloid nucleus Its gi-ey matter is partially subdivided into three parts—anterior, inner and outer—by a white layer, the internal medullary lamina. The anterior part comprises the anterior tubercle, the inner part lies next the lateral wall or the tiurd ventricle, while the outer and largest part is interposed between tne internal and external medullary laminse and includes the pulvinar. The outer part is traversed by numerous fibres which radiate from the thalamus mto the mtemal capsule, and pass through the latter to the cerebral cortex, inese three parts are built up of numerous nuclei, the connections of many ot which are imperfectly known. Connections.—The thalamus may be regarded as a large ganglionic nass in which the ascending tracts of the tegmentum and a considerable proportion of the fibres of the optic tract end, and from the cells of whicliNEUROLOGY 848 numerous fibres (thalamo-cortical) take origin, and radiate to ahnost every part of tlie cerebral cortex. The fillet, together with the other longitudinal strands of the tegmentum,enters its ventral part: the bundle of Vicq d'Azyr, from the corpus albicans, ends in its anterior tubercle, while many of the fibres of the optic tract terminate in its posterior extremity. Tlie tlialamus also receives numerous fibres (cortico-thalamic) from the cells of the cerebral cortex The fibres which arise from the cells of the thalamus form four principal groups or stalks : (a) those of the anterior stalk pass through the anterior limb of the internal capsule to the frontal lol^e ; (b) the fibres of the posterior stalk or optic radiations arise in the pulvmar and are conveyed through the extreme posterior part of the internal capsule to tlie occipital lobe • (c) the fibres of the inferior stalk leave the under and mesial surfaces of the thalamus, and pass outwards beneath the lenticular nucleus to end in the temporal lobe and island of Reil; {d) those of the parietal stalk pass from the outer nucleus of the thalamus to the parietal lobe. Fibres also extend from the thalamus into the corpus striatum—those destined for the caudate j^Q, 720—Postero-lateral view of the hind- and mid-brains. External geniculate body Superior bradiium j juternal geniculate body Inferior brachium Pulvinar ' Pineal boilII \ \S I I Optic tract. Oplic commissure Superior corpora quadrigemvi Inferior corpora quadrigemimi Fra;nulum veli Fourth nerve Luleral flllel Superior peduncle of cerebellum Middle peduncle of cerebellum Floor of fourth ventricle Clava. Ninth and tenth nerves Eleventh nerve Third nerve Fifth nerve Eighth nerve Seventh nerve Sixth nerve Twelfth nerve nucleus leave the outer surface, and those for the lenticular nucleus, the inferior surface of the thalamus. ^nmnrises the corpora geniculata, which are The metathalamus (fig. /20) ^o'^lJ/J^^f^^J^ J'J^^h Ide and have already two in number-an internal and an ''^^^''^^yj^^^^^^ of the thalamus, been referred to in connection with the 1 °^ ° J,^^^^^^^^^^^ The internal geniculate body (corpu« gf "c^latum med ale) ik s ^ . -^^^ pulv nar of tlie tlialamus and on the lateral aspect of the co j^o^^a^^^ Sval in shape, with its long axis du-ct^d Wards and^ in colour and smaller in size '^.^J^ -.^ve^ while from its outer rfo„'^s:i^>';sr:,,::Ti.t. tit c ...... ",ro,,Ttho pOi.tc.ioi- part ot the opt.c ton... a" o^d ewtn'l/utS-f.£"1=0^0^^^^^^^^ .,..,an..,. andTHE EPITHALAMUS 849 is connected internally with the upper quadrigeniinal body by the superior brachium. It is of a dark colour, and presents a laminated arrangement consisting of alternate layers of grey and white matter. It receives numerous fibres from the optic tract, while other fibres of tliis tract pass over or through it into the pulvinar. Its cells are large and pigmented ; their axons pass to the visual area in the occipital part of the cerebral cortex. The upper quadi'igeminal body, the plilvinar and the external geniculate body receive many fibres from the optic tracts, and are therefore intimately connected with sight, constituting what are termed the lower visual centres. Extirpation of the eyes in new-ly born animals entails an arrest of the develop- ment of these centres, but has no effect on the internal geniculate or lower quadi-igeminal bodies. Moreover, the latter are well-developed in the mole, an animal in which the upper quadi-igeminal body is rudimentary. The epithalamus comprises tlie trigonum liabenulse, the pineal body, and the posterior commissure. The trigonum Imhenuloe is a smaU depressed triangular area situated in front of the upper quadrigeminal body and on the lateral aspect of the posterior part of the stria pineaHs. It contains a group of nerve-ceUs termed the ganglion Jiabenulce. Fibres enter it from the stria pinealis, and others, forming what is termed the superior commissure (commissura habenularum), pass across the middle line to the corresponding ganglion of the ojDposite side. Most of its fibres are, however, directed downwards and form a bundle, the fasciculus retroflexus of Meynert, which passes on the mesial side of the red nucleus, and, after decussating with the corresponding fasciculus of the opposite side, ends in the gangUon interpedunculare. The pineal body (corpus pineale) is a small, conical, reddish-grey body which lies in the depression between the upper quadrigeminal bodies. It is placed beneath the splenium of the corpus callosum, but is separated from this by the velum interpositum, the lower layer of which envelops it. It measures about one-third of an inch in length, and its base, directed forwards, is attached by a stalk or peduncle of white matter. The stalk of the pineal body divides anteriorly mto two laminae, a dorsal and a ventral, separated from one another by the recessus pinealis of the third ventricle. The ventral lamina is con- tinuous with the posterior commissure ; the dorsal lamina is continuous with the commissura habenularum and divides into two strands, named the stri* modullares, wliich run forwards, one on either side, along the junction of the mesial and upper surfaces of the thalamus to blend in front with the anterior pillars of the fornix. Structure.—The pineal body is destitute of nervous matter, and consists of follicles lined by epithehum and enveloped by connective tissue. These follicles contam a variable quantity of gritty material named brain sand, composed of phosphate and carbonate of calcium, phosphate of magnesia and ammonia, and a little animal matter. The pineal body is generally believed to be the bomologue of the pineal eye of lizards. In these animals it is attached by an elongated stalk and projects through an aperture in the roof of the cranium. Its extremity lies immediately under the epidermis, and, on microscopic examination, presents in a rudimentary fashion structures similar to those lound m the eyeball. Recent observations tend to the conclusion that the pineal body aiiaes as a paired structure, probably serially homologous with the paired eyes. P'^^^^^^o^ commissure (commissura posterior) is a rounded band of ■ white fibres which stretches across the middle line on the dorsal aspect of the ' upper end of the Sylvian aqueduct. Its fibres acquire their medullary sheaths I early, but their connections have not been definitely determined. Most of them nave their origm m a nucleus, the nucleus of the posterior commissure or nucleus < 0/ JJarkschewitsch, which lies m the central grey matter of the upper end of ine Sylvian aqueduct, in front of tlie nucleus of the tliird nerve. Some = are probably derived from the posterior part of the thalamus and the superior quadrigeminal body, while others are believed to be continued aoNvnwards mto the posterior longitudinal bundle. ir,^ M hypothalamus (fig. 721) includes the subthalamic tegmental region ma the structures which form the greater part of the floor of the third 3i850 NEUROLOGY ventricle, viz. the corpora mamillaria, tuber cinereum, infundibulum, pituitary body, and optic commissure. _ . . ^ t i?ho subthalamic tegmental region consists of the upward contmuation ot the tegmentum, which Ues on the ventro-lateral aspect of the thalamus and separates it from the fibres of the internal capsule. Tlie red nucleus and tlie substantia nigra arc prolonged into its lower part; m front it is contmuous with the substantia innominata of Meynert, internally with tlie grey matter of the floor of the third ventricle. . . j 7. It consists from above downwards of tliree strata : (1) slralum dorsale, directly apphed to the under surface of tlie thalamus and consisting of hne longitudinal fibres ; (2) zona incerta, a continuation forwards of the formatio reticularis of the tegmentum ; and (3) the corpus suUhalamicum or nucleus of Lmjs, a brownish mass presenting a lenticular shape on transverse section and situated on the dorsal aspect of the fibres of the crusta ; it is encapsuled Fig 721.—Mesial sagittal section of brain. The relations of the pia mater are indicated by the red colour. Velum inlerposilum Posterior commissure Middle commissure Foramen of Monro Corpora quadrlgemina Pineal body fiplentum Pia mater / Clenu Rostrum Anterior commissure lAimina lermmahs Optic recess Optic commissure Jnfundibidum Corpus mamillur Third nerve I Aqueduct of Sylvius Choroid plexus Fourth ventricle by a lamina of nerve-fibres and ^^^"^Z:^ tL connections of which are as yet i^otfuUy^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^ , t ,e The corpora mamillaria^re Uvo ionna ^^ matter of the size of a small pea, which he side by ^^^^^f ^erforatus'posticus. They floor of the third ventricle m fi^nt of t^e locu 1 eeUs of consist of white matter ex enially and o grey m ^^^^ ^ ^^^^^^^ the latter forming two nucle , a mcsmi oi^'^ ^^^^^^.^^ p^H^rs of the The white matter is mainly "^^d.^^i^f brain end partly in the corpora fornix, which descend to ^hf, ,fJ^'" ^^^^ of each mamillary body mamillaria. From the cells 8^^^ ^'-^zyr. passes upwards into theTHE PITUITARY BODY 851 The tuber cinereum is a hollow eminence of grey matter situated between the corpora mamillaria behind, and the optic commissure in front. Laterally it is continuous with the grey matter of the anterior perforated spaces and anteriorly with a thin lamina, tlie lamina terminalis. From the under surface of the tuber cinereum a hollow conical process, the infundihulum, projects downwards and forwards and is attached to the posterior lobe of the pituitary body. In the lateral part of the tuber cinereum is a nucleus of nerve-cells, the basal optic nucleus of Meynert, while close to the cavity of the third ventricle are three additional nuclei. Between the tuber cinereum and the corpora mamillaria a small elevation, with a corresponding depression in the third ventricle, is sometimes seen. Retzius has named it the eminentia saccularis, and Fig. 722.—^The pituitary body, in position. Shown in sagittal section. (Testut.) G regards it as the representative of the saccus vasculosus found in this situation in some of the lower vertebrates. 1.1'. Aiitciiur and posterior lobes of pituitary bodj-. 2. Inlimdi- bulum. 3. Optic commissure. I. Lamiim terminalis. 5. Optic recess. 6. Anterior commissure. 7, 7'. Circular sinus. 8. Anterior cerebral artery. 9. Basilar artery. 10. Posterior cerebral artery. 11. Corpus albicans. 12. Crus cerebri. 13. Tons Varolii. The 'pituitary body (hypo- physis) (fig. 722) is a reddish- grey, somewhat oval mass, measuring about half an inch in its transverse, and about one-third of an inch in its antero-posterior diameter. It is attached to the extremity of the infundibulum, and is situated in the pituitary fossa of the sphenoid bone, where it is retained by a circular fold of dura mater, the diaphragrna sellce. This fold almost com- pletely roofs in the pituitary fossa, leaving only a small central aperture through which the infundibulum passes. The pituitary body consists of an anterior and a posterior lobe, which differ froni one another in their mode of development and in their structure. The anterior lobe is the larger, and is someM-hat kidney-shaped, the concavity being directed backwards and embracing the posterior lobe. It is developed from a diverticulum of the ectoderm of the primitive buccal cavity or stoma- todseum (see page 155). It is highly vascular, and consists essentially of epithelial cells aiTanged in cord-like trabeculaj or alveoli, the latter sometimes containing a colloid material similar to that found in the alveoli of the thyi-oid body. The posterior lobe is developed as a downgrowtli from the floor of the embryonic brain, and during early fa?tal life contains a cavity continuous with that of the third ventricle. This cavity undergoes obliteration and, in the adult, the lobe consists of a reticulum of connective tissue with branched cells, some of which contain pigment. In nian this lobe contains no nervous elements, but in certain of the lower vertebrates (e.g. fishes) nervous structures are present, and the lobe is of large size. „4 ,- , . --- - The optic commissure consists of a flattened, somc- «nat quadrilateral band of fibres, which is situated at the junction of the floor ana anterior wall of the third ventricle. Most of its fibres have their origin in ne retina, and reach it through the optic nerves, which are continuous with its (fipfi ^^S^^^- tlie commissure, they undergo a partial decussation dp V ' ^^^^ which come from the nasal or inner half of tlic retina ecussate and enter the optic tract of the opposite side,while the fibres from the raporal or outer half of the retina do not undergo decussation, but pass back 3 I 2 Pig. 723.—Course of the fibres in the optic com- missure. Uncrossed fibres Crossed fibres CommUsure of Gudden Optic commissure.NEUROLOGY 852 into the optic tract of the same side. Occupying the posterior part of the CO mnissml however, is a strand of fibres winch is not derived from Uie optic nerves • this constitutes the commissure oj Oudden, and has already been referred to as forming a connecting hnk between the internal gemculate ^°^Dtic tracts —The optic tracts are continued backwards and outwards from the postero-iateral angles of the optic commissure. Each passes between the anteSor perforated sjace and the tuber cinereum, and, ^.anding romd the ventro-lateral aspect of the crus cerebri, dmdes into a mesial and a ateia root The former comprises the fibres of Gudden's commissure. The lateral rootconsfsts mainly ol afferent fibres which arise in the x^tina and undergo partial decussation in the optic commissure, as described ;, ^ut it also contams a few fine efferent fibres which have their origins in the bram and then ter ■ miSltions in tl\e retina. When traced backwards, the fibres of the lateral root Snouiid o end in the external geniculate body and pulvmar of the optic TalaZs and in tlie upper quadilgeminal body ; and these three structures constS the lower visual cmtres. Fibres arise from the nerve-cells in tliese LrpasTtlirough the Mndmost part of tl^^ int-n^capsule vmder the name of the opiic radiations, to the cortex of the occipital lobe of the cerebium where the higher visual centre is situated. Some «f/^/.f 3%°^*^ ^ the pons VaroUi. The Third Venteicle ' a pair of lateral walls. • Fig. 7.24.-Coronal section of lateral and third ventricles. (Diagrammatic.) Lateral / ventricle Epithelial lining of vcntricU Vein of corpus sli-iatiim Choroid 2>lcxus of lateral ventricle Velum interpositum Veins of Oalen Epithelial lining of ventricle- Choroid plexuses of third veii tricU Third ventricle the upper edg« of 1.0 ""Vis tvS by a^^ adliercnt to a told of remreitofrtS"une;La i,>vagU,.te tUe853 THE THIRD VENTRICLE epithelial roof into the ventricular cavity. When the velum interpositum is reflected, the epithelial roof is torn from its lateral attachments and removed with it, and the cavity of the ventricle is exposed. The floor slopes downwards and forwards and is formed mainly by the structures which constitute the hypothalamus : from before backwards these ^ are, the optic commissure, the tuber cinereum and infundibulum, and the corpora mamillaria. Behind the last, the floor is formed by the locus perforatus posticus and tlie tegmenta of the crura cerebri. The ventricle is prolonged downwards as a funnel-shaped recess, the recessus infundibuli, into the infundibulum, and to the apex of the latter the pituitary body is attached. The anterior boundary is constituted below by the lamina terminalis, a thin layer of grey matter which stretches from the upper surface of the optic YiQ. 725.—Base of brain. ■Frontal lobe Temporal lobe Occipital lobe commissure to the rostrum of the corpus callosum, and above by the anterior pillars of the- fornix and the anterior commissure. At the junction of the noor and anterior wall, immediately above the optic commissure, the ventricle presents a small angular recess or diverticulum, the optic or stipra- opttc recess. Between the anterior pillars of tlie fornix and above the anterior commissure is a second recess termed the vulva. At the junction ot tlie roof and anterior wall of the ventricle, and situated between the caalami behind and the anterior pillars of the fornix in front, is the foramen oj Monro (foramen interventriculare) through which the third communicates with the lateral ventricles. The posterior boundary is constituted by the pineal body, the posterior ommissure and the aqueduct of Sylvius. A small recess, the recessus pinealis.854 NEUROLOGY proiects into the stalk of the pineal body, whilst in front of and above the pineal body is a second recess, the recessus suprapinealis, consisting of a diverticulum of the epithelium which forms the ventricular roof. Each laleral wall consists of an upper portion formed by the inner surface of the anterior two-thirds of the thalamus and a lower consisting of an upward continuation of the grey matter of the ventricular floor These two parts correspond to the alar and basal laminse respectively o the lateral xrall of the fore-brain vesicle and are separated from each otlier by a furro^^ Te sia" 0/ ifo7iro which extends from the foramen of Monro to the aqueduct of SvMus (see p^^^^^^ The lateral wall is hmited above by a dehcate band of Se fitees^ tfe i^^na pinealis, which runs forwards along the junction of ?L mesLl and ™ surfaces of the thalamus to join the corresponding anterior piLT o the for^^ The anterior pillars of the fornix curve downwards in Front of the foramen of Monro, and then run m the lateral walls of the ventricle Xre at first, they form distmct prommences, but are subsequently lost to sSht The ateral walls are jomed to each other by a band of grey matter, lltt^ddllS grey commissure\m.s.. -termedia) which passes ac^^^^^^ cavity of the ventricle. This commissure varies much m size , it is sometimes ^'^fXleX^ncuTats^^^^ is a somewhat lozenge-shaped area of the ba^sf of the Sain Si ted m front by the optic commissure, behind by tt a2rTsupei^^^^^ of the pons, antero-laterally by the oonvergmg opt. tracts and postero-lateraUy by the divergmg ^^'^l^'f'Zvfav^^^^ oontained in it are, from behind forwards, the locus perforatus posticus, eorpra mamilfaria, tuber cinereum, mfundibulum and pitmtary body, all of which have already been described. The TELENCEPHAIiON and forms by far the larger part of the hemisphere. The Cerebral Hemispheres The cerebral hemispheres constitute t«S,f,f,^'*| SgfovS ^V|?s^^.!&ss^^ the cerebral hemisphei^s, and contams a J^^^^^^^^^^^^ from the upper the falx cerebri. In front and behmd f ^u ^ ^^/f ^^^^ tiieni, but its to the under surfaces of the ''^^ 1. f one .If ^ vertical extent; middle portion only separates theni for '^bou one^alt ot ^^^^^^.^ for at this part they are connected across the middle oy K white commissure, the corpiis callosum. oallosum presents the In a median sagittal section (fig. '^l) the cut cor^^^^^^^^^ end, termed tlic appearance of a broad, arched band. f^^^^^ it by the velum Jplnium, overlaps tlie mid-brain, but « JJP:^f^*^^.,rend, termed the gcn%855 THE CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES commissure to the under surface of the splenium is a second white band named the fornix : between this and the corpus callosum are the laminae of tlie septum pellucidum, enclosing between them the cavity of tlie so-called fifth ventricle. Surfaces of the Cbrebbal Hemispheres Each hemispliere presents three surfaces : an outer, a mesial, and a lower. The outer surface is convex in adaptation to the concavity of the corresponding half of tlie vault of the cranium. The mesial surface is flat and vertical, and is separated from that of the opposite hemisphere by the great longitudinal fissure and the falx cerebri. The lower surface is of an irregular form, and may be divided into three areas : anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior area, formed by the orbital surface of the frontal lobe, is concave, and rests on the roof of the orbit and nose ; the middle area is convex, and consists of the under surface of the temporal lobe : it is adapted to the corresponding half of the middle cranial fossa. The posterior area is concave, directed inwards as well as downwards, and is named the tentorial surface, since It rests upon the tentorium cerebelh, which intervenes between it and the upper surface of the cerebellum. These three surfaces are separated from each other by the folloM'ing borders : |a) supero-mesial, between the outer and mesial surfaces ; (b) infero-lateral, between the outer and inferior surfaces ; the anterior part of this border separating the outer from the orbital surface, is knoM^n as the superciliary border; {c) internal occipital, separating the mesial and tentorial surfaces; and W internal orbital, separating the orbital from the mesial surface. TheNEUROLOGY 856 anterior extremity of the hemisphere is named the frontal 'pole.; the posterior, the occipital pole; and the anterior end of the temporal lobe, the temporal pole. About two inches in front of the occipital pole on the infero-latcral border is an indentation or notch, named the pre-occipital notch. The surfaces of the hemispheres are moulded into a number of irregular eminences, named convolutions or ciyri, and these are separated by clefts or furrows, termed fissures or sulci. The fissures are of two kinds, complete and incomplete. The former appear early in foetal life, are few in number, and are produced by infoldings of the entire thickness of the brain-wall, and give rise to corresponding elevations in the interior of the ventricle. They comprise the hippocampal or dentate fissure, and parts of the calcarine and collateral fissures The incomplete fissures are very numerous, and only indent the central white substance, without producmg any corresponding elevations m tlie ventricular cavity. 4. • j-i • The convolutions and their intervenmg fissures are fauiy constant m their arrangement ; at the same time they vary withm certam hmits, not onty m different individuals, but on the two hemispheres of the same brain, ihe convoluted condition of the surface permits of a great mcrease of the grey Fig. 727.—Convolutions and sulci on the external surface of the cerebral hemisphere. matter without the sacrifice of much additional space. The ^^^er and extent of the convolutions, as weU as the depth of the intervenmg sulci, appear to bear a direct relation to the intellectual powers of the individual Certain of the fissures are utihsed for he purpose ^^^i idmg the en sphere into lobes and are therefore termed mterlohular ; included "ndei this SSry Ire tL fissure of Sylvius, the fissure of Rolando the l-^to-oc.^^^^^^^^^^ calclrine, calloso-marginal, and collateral fissures, and the sulcus circuiari The fissure of Sylvius (fissura cerebri lateralis) (fig. 727) ^^o^^titutes a ^jU- marked ckft on hfunder and outer surfaces of the hemisphei^, aud consis s S a short stem which divides into three limbs. The ./cm is «?tiiated o the base of ?he brain, and commences at the outer angle of the «"terjor pei oiated^^^^^^^ 'n a depression named the vallecula Sylvii. Froxn t^^-f ,°,tc^ between tlie anterior part of tlie temporal lobe and t e or^^^^^^^^^^^THE FISSURES OF THE CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES 857 ascendens) extends upwards into the same convolution for about an equal distance. The posterior limb (ramus jaosterior) is the longest; it is carried backwards and slightly upwards for about three inches, and terminates by an upward inflexion in the parietal lobe. The fissure of Rolando (sulcus centralis) (figs. 726, 727) is situated about the middle of the outer surface of the hemisphere, and commences in or near the great longitudinal fissure, a little behind its mid-point. It runs sinuously downwards and forwards, and terminates a Uttle above the posterior limb of the fissiu'e of Sylvius, and about an inch behind the ascending limb of the same fissure. It describes two chief curves : an upper or superior genu %\ ith its concavity directed forwards, and a lower or inferior genu with its concavity directed backwards. The fissure of Rolando forms an angle opening forwards, of about seventy degrees with the mesial plane. The parieto-occipital fissure (fissura parietooccipitalis) (fig. 729).—Only a small part of this fissure is seen on the outer surface of the hemisphere, its chief part being situated on the mesial surface. That on the outer surface is usually named the external, and that on the mesial aspect the internal parieto-occipital fissure. The external parieto-occipital fissure is situated about two inches from the posterior extremity or occipital pole of the hemisphere, and extends on to the outer surface for about half an inch. The internal parieto-occipital fissure runs downwards and forwards as a deep cleft on the mesial surface of the hemisphere, and joins the calcarine fissure below and behind the posterior end of the corpus callosum. On separating the hps of this fissure, it will be seen in most cases to contain a submerged • convolution. The calcarine fissure (fissura calcarina) (fig. 729) is situated on the mesial : sm-face of the hemisphere. It begins near the occipital pole in a bifid extremity, . and runs almost horizontally forward to a pomt a little below the splenium of ' the corpus callosum : it is jomed at an acute angle by the internal parieto- ' occipital fissure. The calloso-marginal fissure (sulcus cinguli) (fig. 729) is situated on the I mesial surface of the hemisphere ; it commences below the anterior end of the corpus callosum and runs upwards and forwards nearly parallel to the rostrum of : this body and, curving in front of the genu, is continued backwards above t the corpus callosum, and finally ascends to the upper margin of the hemisphere ^ a short distance behind the upper extremity of the fissure of Rolando. It " sepai-ates the margmal convolution from the callosal convolution. T^? collateral fissure (fissura coUateralis) (fig. 729) is situated on the r tentorial surface of the hemisphere, and extends from near the occipital to Mithin a short distance of the temporal pole. Behind, it lies below and to the outer side of the calcarme fissure, from M-hich it is separated by the gyrus imguahs ; m front, it is situated between tlie hippocampal convolution and ine anterior part of the temporo-occipital convolution. The sulcus circularis of Reil (fig. 731) is situated on the lower and lateral - ^urtaces of the hemisphere : it surrounds the island of Reil and separates It irom the frontal, parietal and temporal lobes. fprf • hemispheres.—By means of these fissures, assisted by ^ertam arbitrary Hnes, each hemisphere is divided into the following lobes • ine /ronton, the parietal, the temporal, the occipital, the limbic, and the insula, tL 1 u °J The first four of these lobes are named after the bones of \I JI^- T "^'"^^y relation, but it must be borne in mind ■ ^uai tiieirhmits do not correspond accurately with the margins of these bones. : tliJc 1 ^° , frontahs).—On tlie outer surface of the hemispliere '™ extends from the frontal pole to the fissure of Rolando, the latter . eparating it from the parietal lobe. Below, it is hmited by the posterior limb i ine nssure of Sylvius, which intervenes between it and the temporal lobe, fissn surface, it is separated from the limbic lobe by the calloso-marginal tha « i' .^"^"^ °" the under surface, it is bounded behind by the posterior limb of uie Sylvian fissure. ■ ^vlt^T-^l T-^"'^^ ^^"^ ^""^^ (^g- '^27) is traversed by three sulci which 8unprir^l. convolutions : the sulci are named the precentral, and the lienor and inferior frontal, while the convolutions are the precentral, and858 NEUROLOGY the superior, middle, and inferior frontal. The fvecmlral sulcus runs parallel to tliTfissure of Rolando, and is usually divided into an upper and a lowe part It forms the anterior limit of a convolution, which lies betxyeen rand^Se fissure of Rolando, and which is called the T^recenlral convoluUon. lorn it two sulci, the suverior and inferior frontal, run forvvards and downwards iid d vide the remainder of the outer surface of the lobe into three paralle :?itduiions lamed, respectively, the superior, middle, and ^nfer^or frontal oonvoMions ^ ( centralis anterior) is a simple convolution bounded S front by the precentral sulcus, behind by the fissure of Rolando and eSeSffiw the supero-mesial border of the hemisphere to the posterior ''"Tlie t^lT^Llt«^..:o. (gyrus frontahs superior) is situated betwe^ the mal-gin of the longitudinal fissure and the superior frontal sulcus. Fig. 728.- -Convohitions and sulci on the under surface of the frontal lobe. ANTE R lOrt PERFOR'^Te.D 5PAC& , • ^nf of the hemisphere xx-ith the marginal ^^:l^X .......859 THE FRONTAL LOBE and ascending limbs of the fissure of Sylvius into three parts, viz.: (1) the pars orbitalis, below the anterior limb of the fissure; (2) the pars triangularis ('cap' of Broca), between the two limbs ; and (3) the pars basilaris, behind the ascending limb. The left inferior frontal convolution is, as a rule, more highly developed than the right, and is named the convohdion of Broca, from the fact that in 1861 Broca discovered that it was the centre for speech. The %mder or orbital surface of the frontal lobe is concave, and rests on the orbital plate of the frontal bone (fig. 728). It is divided into four convolutions (gyri orbitales) by a well-marked H-shaped sulcus, the sulcus orbitalis. These are named, from their position, the internal, anterior, external, and posterior orbital convohitions. The internal orbital convolution presents a well-marked antero-posterior groove or sulcus, the sulcus olfactorius, for the oKactory tract ; the portion internal to this is named the gyrus recttis, and is continuous Avith the marginal gyrus on the mesial surface. The mesial or internal surface of the frontal lobe is occupied by a single curved convolution, which from its situation is termed the marginal gyrus (fig. 729). It commences in front of the anterior perforated space, runs along the margin of the longitudinal fissure on the mesial surface of the orbital Fig. 729.—Mesial surface of left cerebral hemisphere. lobe, where it is continuous with the internal orbital convolution ; it then ascends, and runs backwards to the point where the calloso-raarginal fissure turns up\vards to reach the superior border of the hemisphere. Tlie posterior part of this convolution is sometimes marked off by a vertical fissure, and is distinguished as the paracentral lobule (lobulus paracentralis), because it is continuous with those convolutions Maiich lie immediately in front of and oehmd the central fissure or fissure of Rolando. Parietal lobe.—The parietal lobe (lobus parietalis) forms a part of both the outer and mesial surfaces of the hemisphere. It is separated from tlie frontal lobe by the fissure of Rolando, but its boundaries below and behind are not so definite. Posteriorly, it is limited by the external parieto-occipital fissure, and by a line carried across tlie hemisphere from the outer end of this fissure towards tlie preoccipital notch. Below, it is separated from the temporal lobe oy the posterior limb of the fissure of Sylvius, and by a line carried backwards irom the horizontal part of this fissure to meet the Une passing do\A nwards to the pre-occipital notch. The outer surface of the parietal lobe (fig. 727) is cleft bv a \\'eU-marked furro^-, mtrajmnetal sulcus of Turner, which consists of an ofjlique and a horizontal hpl u ■^'^^ oblique part is named the sulcus postcentralis, and commences oeiow, about midway between the lower end of the fissure of Rolando and the860 NEUROLOGY upturned end of the fissure of Sylvius. It runs upwards and backwards, parallel to the fissure of Rolando, and is sometimes divided mto an upper and a loiver ramus. It forms the posterior hmit of tlie postcentral convolution. From about tlie middle of the postcentral sulcus, or from the upper end of its inferior ramus, the horizontal portion of the mtraparietal sulcus is carried backwards and shghtly upwards on the parietal lobe, and is prolonged under the name of the ramus occipitalis, on to tlie occipital lobe ; liere it divides into two parts, which form nearly a right angle with the main stem and constitute the sulcus occipitalis transversus. The part of the parietal lobe above the horizontal ramus is named the superior parietal convolution; the part below, the inferior parietal convolution. ^ ■ , ^ a t „v„a<- The postcentral convolution (gyrus centralis posterior) extends from the gi cat longitudinal fissure above to the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylviusbe om . It Ues paraUel with the ascending frontal or precentral convolution, Mith which it is connected below, and also, sometimes, above, the fissure The superioi- parietal convolution (lobulus parietahs superior) is bounded m front by the upper part of the postcentral sulcus which hes bet%^-een it and the prtcenUrcoZlutron,butitisLuaUycomxectedwU^^^ extremity of the sulcus ; behind, it is bounded by <^^tf ^^^^^^1 Xbv^ fissure, outside the termination of which it is jomed to the occipital 1^^^^^ bj^ narrow convolution, the arcus parieto-occ^p^tal^s ■ the inferior parietal convolution by the horizontal f ^^aon of he m^^^^^^^^ sulcus ; and above, it is contuiuous on the inner surface of the hemisphere witn %^h—^pa^^S:™^^^^^ lies below the horizontal ^/^^St the lower mrt of the post-central sulcus. It is divided from before back^v ards Sto t^L'^conWutioSs. One, the supranu^rginal ..c^es o.er l^^^^^^ end of the fissure of Sylvius ; it is continuous m ront with he PO^t-c^^^^^^^^^ Pnnvnlntion and behind with the superior temporal convolution, ihe secona the a»a«£r' arehes over the posterior end of the superior temporal or paraUel sSlc^ behinrwh ch it is continuous with the middle temporal convo ubon^ The thhrdX postparietal, curves round the end o the second temporal sulcus, and is continuous mth the third teniporal convolution continuous The i7iternal or mesial surface ot the parietal lobe (J§-^f^^ ^^^^^^ with the external surface, over the supero-mesial ^^/^er ^^^^^^^^^ the is bounded behind by the internal P^i-i^t«-°<^"P;*«t?rw it^rseT^^^^ upturned end of the calloso-margmal fissure ; and ^elow it^is sjai^^^^^^ ^ sulci. The sulcus occipitahs_ tramversus is upper part Ire continuous in frU with the Pf itllTsVoS/dlX^^^^ by the internal The mesial surface of the ?ecipital lobe is ^o^^ded^^^^^^^^^ ^^.^^.^^^ parieto-occipital fissure, and J^., ^ ^S mLri^te fissure (fissura Sivides it into the cuneus and the Imguai iobule xnc runs calcarina) commences near the "F'^^P'f'^^^f.^^J*' ^^tance of the limbic lobe, almost horizontaUy forwards and ^^f. "^^^.^^^'"^^^^^ It is joined at an a little below the posterior f ^^remity o^the eo^^^^^^^^ caUosun J „ a acute angle by the internal Vanetojcap'^^^^^^^ ,f Uie between the two fissures Prominence'of l e hippocanvpu. minor, ^861 THE TEMPORAL LOBE lingiialis) lies between the calcariiie fissure and the posterior part of the collateral fissure, and extends, therefore, on to the tentorial surface. Behind, it reaches the occipital pole ; in front, it is continued on to the tentorial surface of the temporal lobe, and joins the hippocainpal convolution. Tlie tentorial surface of the occipital lobe is limited in front by an imaginary Ime carried in-wards from the pre-occipital notch, and consists of the posterior part of the occipito-iemporal convolution and the lower part of the lingual lobule, \\ hich are separated from each other by the posterior segment of the collateral Jis.mre. Temporal lobe.—The temporal lobe (lobus temporalis) presents upper lower, and tentorial sui-faces. ^ ' The upper surface form the lower limit of the fissure of Sylvius, and overlaps the island of Rail. On opening out the fissure of Sylvius, three or four gvri wiU be seen sprmgmg from the depth of the hinder end of the fissure, and ruimmg obhquely forwards and out\A'ards on the posterior part of the upper surface of the first temporal convolution ; these are named the avri temporales iransverst or gyri of Heschl (fig. 730). Fig. 730.—Section of brain shoe ing upper sui-face of temporal lobe. ClaustriLv, Island of Beii Optic tract Lenticular nucleus Internal capsule I Thalamus Fimbria Tail of caudate nucleus Descending horn of lateral ventricle . fi„.^^%°c'T-^"''-^''''' (^g- '^27) is bounded above by the posterior limb of the tZ^T J7^ the infero-lateral border of the hemisphere. It is divided irito t Sst rd'Teool r. '""^"T r."^°ijti°^ by tvvo sulci, which are termed the sunl^^l ? temporal sulci. Tlie first temporal sulcus (sulcus temporalis superior) runs from before backwards through the tempora lobe so nri ttle andTenoeIr'' "^^f^^^^^/^^^^ t^e posterior Umb of the fissure of Sylv us (sulus teml^^^^^^^^ ^f-^'^"^- seco^^d temporal sukls « atTweHe^ve^^^^^^^ takes the same direction as the fii-st, but is situated ter^pTal conMi^ r^^^ P^^^^' The superior ^Crof the fiss ^nf ^T"' ^^^^P^l^^ ^"P?^'^^'') between the posterior ' wkh the Im. n ^^^r""' ^""^ P''^^^^^ '-^"d is continuous behind ■convolutLiT^^T^^''' ^^^"l^^; convolutions. The middle temporal •temponrsulT nn P^^'^^^ between the first and second •coZlutln? T^e y./J^''''/'^ posteriorly with the angular and postparietal ■placed below til t./nH T '"^^T^ convolution (gyrus temporalis inferior) is U'er oStal oontnl ? *^™P°^'^ «"1°"«> ^"d is connected behind with the occipital convolution ; it also extends round the infero-lateral bordergg2 NEUROLOGY on to the tentorial surface, where it is Umited by the occipito-temporal sulcus '^'jU'i^rTaf S/acc is concave, looks downwards and inwards and is ex Lirfrom near the ocdpital pole behind, to withm a short distance of e other by the three limbs of the Sylvian ^^^"f^^'J^^^J^ operculum hes below the Fig. 731.—The island of Keil. Left side. The overlapping parts of the hemisphere have been removed. 1, 2, 3. Gyri breves. 4 5 Gyrus long^.s bifurcated at its upper e^ctremity. Between tie gyri breves ^-atfthe g?f^ longus is seen the sulcus central.^. limbs, the ^on.o-.a...^^~tl.^^^ the posterior hmb, and the j^^^^^^^^V^r and ascending Umbs of the operculum is of small size '""^'^"^J'^^^^'^^^^^^ lies between the orbital fiisure of Sylvius arise from %^«™Xnd of Re 1 is surrounded by a deep and fronto-parieta opercula. Jhe ishind o^^^^^^ ^^^^ ^^.^^^^^^^ limiting sulcus (sulcus cn;cularis) ^ Jave been removed it presents and temporal lobes. When °Pf^;^"^^^,^*''; 'v ich is directed do^^•nward3 the form of a triangular eminence, t| J ai^^ex .^^^^ and inwards towards the '^i^terior perfo ated space^ .vhich runs backwards ^nd upwards from the apex ."^ ^l^e nsul convolutions, the gyn subdivided by shallow sulci into tinee m toui s^^^^ ^ ^^^^^^j Treves insula;, while the Postcentral lobe ^^^^^^^ gj^v matter of the insute863 THE RHINENCEPHALON tlie dentate or hipiDOcampal fissure. These he separated on tlie morphological ground that tliey are well developed in animals possessing a keen sense of smell (osmatic animals), such as the dog and fox. They were thus regarded as a part of the rhinencephalon, but it is now recognised that they belong to the neopallium ; the callosal convolution is thei-efore sometimes described as a part of tlie frontal lobe and the hippocampal convolution as a jDart of the temporal lobe. The callosal convolution (gyrus cinguli) is an arch-shaped convolution, lying in close relation to the superficial surface of the corpus callosum, from which it is separated by a slit-Uke fissure, the callosal fissure. It commences below the rosti-um of the corpus callosum, curves round in front of the genu, extends along the upper surface of the body, and finally turns downM-ards behind the splenium, where it is connected by a narrow isthmus with the gyrus hippocampi It is separated from the marginal convolution by the calloso-marginal sulcus, and from the quadrate lobe by the subparietal sulcus. The hippocampal convolution (gyrus hippocampi) is bounded above by the hippocampal or dentate fissure, and below by the anterior part of tlie collateral fissure. Behind, it is continuous superiorly, through the isthmus, M-ith the callosal convolution, and inferiorly with the linguaf lobule. Running in the substance of the callosal and hippocampal convolutions, and connecting them together, is a tract of arclied fibres, named the cingulum. The anterior extremity of the hippocampal convolution is recurved in the form of a hook, named the uncus, which is separated from the apex of the temporal lobe by a shglit fissure, the incisura temporalis. Although superficially continuous with the hippocampal convolution the uncus forms morphologically a part of tiie rhinencephalon. The dentate or hippocampal fissure commences immediately behind the posterior extremity of the corpus callosum, and runs forwards between the hippocampal and dentate convolutions to terminate in the uncus. It IS a complete fissure (see page 856), and gives rise to the prominence of the hippocampus major in the descending horn of the lateral ventricle. Rhinencephalon (fig. 732) The rhinencephalon comprises the olfactory lobe, the uncus, the sub- callosal, supracallosal, and dentate gyri, the septum pellucidum, the fornix, and the hippocampus major. Fig. 732.—Scheme of rhinencephalon. Gyrus supracallosus Gyrus dentatus Outer rout Xy'^ Anterior perforated space^ Uncus Band of Giacomini I In ^nJi^?^ situated on the under surface of the frontal lobe n many vertebrates it constitutes a well-marked portion of the hemisphere3(54 NEUKULOLIY expanded extremity ot the ^iiactory ticio cribriform plate from ""'(Ifflie oifocJo™ (mcl (tractus olfa«toria,) is a narrow >vWte band backwards is seen to divide into too roo s *'J5'„^t,d ^a^-e and then root is directed across the lateral °''^^''"'"^^^^^^^ Upnicampi. Tlie bends abruptly .-"''rf^XJ^rS's S aid ifn tbesnlallosS gyrus ; TZ:.7^ZT:'^:::t«S2\^'^> !'i-'---^^ backwards to the anterior ^ -S'k&^Scus. l^dSo^gSa« t-iirniiig baek Jards tbe Sr^ou^ beU'^^^tb »gSni'£ttl!tnd\^o,e and in front i..b the callosal convolution. h-reeularlv quadrilateral area in (e) The anterior per/orated is f;!^^^^^'^^^ torium, from which it front of the optic tract and the t^^^^^ coiitluous with the lamina is separated by the fisswm Pj"^™" ^ ^^^^^X^ju^ root of the olfactory tract, terminahs ; externally it is bounded by the o^^^^^^^ striatum, aiad is Its grey matter is continuous above ^^^^h that ot tne p osterior part perforated anteriorly by numerous ^^f^^^^^l^^^^^ assumes the form of \^bf sh^.^^flobe. , , like'portion of the hippocampal ^o^^oi^'^^'^^''. _„tate sryri form a rudimentary lamina on the mesial surface of the hem^^^^^^^ ^^^^ ^ , caUosum. behind the area of Broca and below the rost ^^ ^^^^^^^^ ^^.^^ ^j^^ ^^.,.,,3 S^pLTlS 2. t&i.^ , ,,,, ..ophic ^(6) The .upracatai S'^/^^^VitTe ^^^^^^^^^ of the corpus callosum layer of grey matter ^.^ ^^^'.^.^^^JS of the callosal convolution^ It and continuous l^teraUy wth tire gre^^ n respectively the r-Ss'Sosnl'ts^-SattStWio^ ^'-b is contnrnou in front with tlie dentate gy^^; ..-hich extends downwards and (c) The dentate r/yrt^ is a natio v bana it is separated by the {orwards above the hippocampal ^S>^Yri'l^^^^^^ otched and overlapped by hiiinocampal or dentate fissure. Its free ma^igm i^ Anteriorly the dentate tirfimlZ-the M&'-i<'-rf^'^to^-r''\b\'cS bv the recurving of the uncus, g^rus is continued into not. \pr^^^^^^^^^^^ ,ani h^::sr^:^^s" ~r s^^acc^f ^^^b u. ^s. "^^^rTer^ining parts of the ^b--^;^^^^^ fornix, and hippocampus major, will be mscriu ventricle.865 INTERIOR OF THE CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES Interior of the Cerebral Hemispheres If the upper part of either liemisphere be removed with a knife, at a level about half an incli above the corpus callosuni, the internal white matter will be exposed. It is an oval-shaped centre of white substance surrounded by a narrow convoluted margin of gi-ey matter of almost uniform thickness. The white central mass has been called the centrum ovale mimis. Its surface is studded with numerous minute red dots (puncta vasculosa), produced by the escape of blood from divided blood-vessels ; in inflammation or great congestion of the brain these are very numerous, and of a dark colour. If the remaining portions of the hemispheres be sHghtly dra^\■n apart a broad band of white substance M-ill be observed, connecting them at the bottom of the longitudinal fissm-e ; this .is the corpus callosum. The margins of the hemispheres which Fig. 733.—Corpus callosum from above. eonl^f ^ caUed the foftm cerebri. Each labium is part of the caUosal ulor T described ; and the slit-like interval between it and the 'Upper suiface of the corpus callosum js termed the caUosal fissure (fig. 729) If cauosum, the white substance of that structure wiU be seen connecting the 8urronnZPt''fv: "^P^"'" medullary matter now expSsed, oZe^fus 'convoluted margin of grey substance, is caUed the centrur^ iiuniSf f!:°''P"\^^,"?^""^ ^^^^ g^eat transverse commissure which ton hemispheres and roofs m the lateral ventricles. A good onception of its position and size is obtained by examining a mesial section tlie brain (fig. 721), when it is seen to form an arched structure about four 3 Kggg NEUROLOGY .1 -1 Tfa nntprlnr extremity reaches to within about an inch and Ttu SStnS^&trpoierior extremity about two and a half '"X'T."rrr4't l^d^rTrW i. bent downwards a^ faUrum^rSS-l^rw^dl r'aXlower parU being applied ::StS-ss ;^a^.« b^ir.^ftr»^^^^ FiQ. 734.-Schem6 showing relations of the ventricles to the surface of the brain. Aqueduct of Sylvius 4 Fourth ventricle and is in oonta«t po^^eriorlv with the lo^^^^^^^^^^ f >''S *| IS^nliTer'Se'T^e'^XTrtL .esSl and iateral Io„gUnd>nd 8tri«j, already described (page 864). ^^^^ the middle toe The lower surface is concave, and forms on ^ attached m front the roof of the lateral ventricle, Mesm^^^^^^^ ^tlled^t^ the upper sur aoe ^o^ te .Sthf spl^^^^^^^^^ is in contact with the velu. interpositura. , ^, „ rornus callosum radiate ^ white On either side, the fibres of the corpus c ^ ^ex. The part ot substance and pass to the vanous par s of the^^^^^^^^ .^^^ , f,ontel the corpus callosum which .^^^^^^^^^^^^rt curvis back^^;ards from^^^ lobes is called the forceps rninor. ^I'l^'^^"^]^^ forceps rmjor. Between theje sp?enium into the occipital lobes is (he U,pctum or mat, two parts is the mam ^ody of the hbres w867 THE LATERAL VENTRICLES this extends laterally on either side into the temporal lobe, and covers in the body of the lateral ventricle. The lateral ventricles (ventriculi laterales) (fig. 736).— The lateral ventricles, two in number, right and left, are irregular cavities situated in the lower and inner parts of the cerebral hemispheres, one on either side of the middle line. They are separated from each other by a mesial vertical partition, the septum pellucidum, but communicate with the third ventricle and indirectly with each other through the foramen of Monro. They are Hned by a thin, diaphanous membrane, the ependyma, which is covered by ciliated epithelium, and moistened by cerebro-spinal fluid, which, even in health, may be secreted in considerable amount. Each lateral ventricle consists of a central cavity or body, and three prolongations from it, termed cornua. The anterior cornu curves forwards and outwards into the frontal lobe ; the pos- terior backwards and inwards into the occipital lobe ; and the middle Fig. 735.—Drawing of a cast of the ventricular descends into the temporal lobe. cavities viewed from above. (Testut.) The body (pars centralis) (fig. 736) of the lateral ventricle extends from the foramen of Monro to the splenium of the corpus caUosum. It is an irregularly curved cavity, triangular in shape on transverse section, and presents a roof, a fioor, and an inner wall. Its roof is formed by the under surface of the corpus callosum ; its floor is formed by the following parts, enumerated in their order of posi- tion, from before backwards : the caudate nucleus of the corpus striatum, the ttenia semicircularis and the vein of the corpus striatum, the outer portion of the upper sur- face of the thalamus, the choroid plexus, and the lateral part of the fornix ; its iimer waU is the pos- terior part of the septum pelluci- dum, which separates it from the opposite ventricle, and connects the under surface of the corpus callosum with the fornix. Tiie anterior cornu (cornu anterius) passes forwards and out- wards, with a slight inclination downwards, from the foramen of Monro into the frontal lobe, curv- ing round the anterior extremity of the caudate nucleus. It is bounded above by the corpus caUosum, and below by the upper surface of the reflected portion of this, the rostrum. ' It is bounded internally by the anterior portion of the septum pellucidum, and externally by the head of the caudate nucleus of tlie corpus striatum. Its apex reaches the posterior surface of the genu of the corpus caUosum (fig. 741). 1 \. '^^^ posterior cornu (cornu posterius) (figs. 736,737) passes into the occipital lobe, its direction being backwards and outwards, and then mwards; its concavity 18 therefore directed inwards. Its roof is formed by the fibres of the corpus callosum passmg to the temporal and occipital lobes. On its inner wall is seen a longitudinal eminence, which is an involution of the ventricular wall pro- duced by the calcarme fissure ; this is called the hippocampus minor, or calcar Just above this the forceps major of the corpus callosum, sweeping round P^.^'^t^r the occipital lobe, causes another projection, which is Imown as the oulb of the posterior cornu. The hippocampus minor and bulb of the posterior cornu are extremely variable in then- degree of development; in some cases wicy are ill-defined, in others unusually prominent. 3k2 a', a'. The three horns—anterior, posterior, and middle—of the left lateral Tentricle. 6. Thu-d ventricle, c. Fourth ventricle, d. Commencement of central canal of cord. 1. In- ferior angle of fourtli ventricle. 2. Superior angle. 3. Lateral angle. 4. Sylvian aqueduct. 5. Recessus suprapinealis. 0. Vulva. 7. Jimction of descending and posterior horns.ggg NEUKOLOGY The middle or descending cornu (cornu inferius^ (fig. 738), the largest of the th?ee traverses the temporal lobe of the brain, forming m its courBo a Fio. 730.—Lateral ventricles of the brain. Fig. 737 .-Coronal section through posterior cornu of lateral ventricle. Bulb ofiiostBrior comu Posterior cornu Sippocanipua minor Emmentia collatcralis Calcarhie fismn I Collatrral fissure869 THE LATERAL VENTRICLES remarkable curve round the back of the thalamus. It passes at first backwards, outwards, and downwards, and then curves forwards, and inwards, to within Fig. 738.—Posterior and descending cornua of left lateral ventricle exposed from the side. Choroid plexus Bulb of posterior comu ' I Hippocampus minor Hip2)ocampus major an inch of the apex of the temporal lobe, its direction being fairly well indicated on the surface of the brain by that of the parallel sulcus. Its roof Fig. 739.—^Transverse section of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. (From a drawing by F. A. Barton.)NEUROLOGY the ventricular cavity opens on to the '''^^1^11^^''',^^^^^^ is a curved Fig. 740.—Horizontal section of riglit cerebral hemisphere. Gmu of corpus callosum Anterior cornu of lateral ventricle Caudate nucleus Seplnm pellucidum Internal capsule {anterior limb) Anterior pillar of fornix Genu of internal capsule Putamen Globus pallidas Internal capsule (posterior limb) Tlialamus Tail of caudate nucleus Hippocampus major Descending cornu of lateral ventricle Area striata Posterior cornu of lateral ventricle External capsule Claustrum \- Island of Beil ^ Optic radiations hippocampi) which give it a P-v-like appearance a,^^^^^^^ ^i™a^pus pes hippocampi. If a transverse .^^^^^^lon be ^^/^'^ folding of the wall maior it will be seen that this eminence is Pio^"'^f^^^^7."^^^^^ The main mass Sthehemisphere to form the dentf e or hippoc^^^^^^^^^^ fissm-^ Its ventricular of the hippocampus major consists of giey "^'^"^^ / is continuous ♦ Jourml o/Amiovi!/ and Phynology, vol. sxxiii.871 THE CORPUS STRIATUM its convexity, the ' core ' of the hippocamjDus, as he terms it, presents, in many cases, a corrugated or crimped appearance. The eminentia collateraiis is an elongated eminence lying to the outer side of and parallel with the hiiDpocampus major. It corresponds with the middle part of the collateral fissure, and its size depends on the deptli and direction of that furrow. It is continuous behind with a flattened triangular area which is situated between the posterior and descending eornua, and named the trigonum collaterale. The fimbria is a continuation of the posterior pillar of the fornix, and Mall be discussed with that body ; while a description of the choroid plexus will be found on page 877. The corpus striatum (figs. 740, 741, 742) has received its name from the striped appearance which a section of its anterior part presents, in consequence of diverging white fibres being mixed with the grey matter which forms the greater part of its substance. A part of this body is imbedded in the white Fig. 741.—Coronal section thi-ough anterior comua of lateral ventricles. Suj)erior frontal convolution Middle frontal convolution Corpus eallosum Anterior coritu Septum peltucidum Caudate nucleus Internal capsule lenticular nucleus Sulcus olfactoriua Island of Beil Temporal lobe Inferior frontal convolution substance of the hemisphere, and is therefore external to the ventricle. It IS termed the extra-ventricular portion, or the nucleus lenticularis ; a part, however, is visible in the ventricle, and is named the intraventricular portion, or the nucleus caudatus. The nucleus caudatus is a pear-shaped, highly arched mass of grey matter ; its broad extremity, or head (caput nuclei caudati), is directed lorwards mto the fore-part of the body and anterior cornu of the lateral ventricle, and is continuous with the grey matter of the anterior perforated apace and Mdth the anterior end of the lenticular nucleus ; its narrow end, or iazi (cauda nuclei caudati) is directed outwards and backwards on the outer a ? ?u thalamus, from which it is separated by the taenia semicircularis and the vein of the corpus striatum. It is then contmued downwardsNEUROLOGY 872 into the roof of the descending cornu, where it terminates in the nucleus amvqdalce. at the apex of the temporal lobe. It is covered by the limng of the ventricle/and crossed by some veins of considerable size. It is separated from the extra-ventricular portion, in the greater part of its extent by a lamina of white matter, which is called the internal capsule, but the two nortions of the corpus striatum are united m front (fig. 741). The nucleus lenticularis (nucleus lentiformis), or extra-ventricular portion of the corpus striatum, is placed outside the caudate nucleus and thalamus, and is seen only in sections of the hemisphere When divided hoxSontally. it exhibits, to some extent, the appearance of a biconvex lens hUe a vertical transverse section of its central part presents a somewhat Irianmilar outlme It does not extend as far forwards or backwards as the nuS ^audat^s It s bounded externally by a lamina of white matter caUed Ze ellrZ clpsule, on the outer surface of which is a thm layer of grey matter tiiSd the dauslrum. Its anterior extremity is continuous with the lower Fia. 742.—Coronal section of brain through anterior commissure. Corpus callosiuii Anterior cornu- Fifth ventricle Anterior pillars of fornix Anterior commissure Third ventricle Optic commissure Caudate nticleus Internal capsule Putamen Globus 2>alUdus Claustrum Island of Eeil part of the head of the caudate nucleus and with the grey matter of the anterior ^^^S^'iSg a transverse vertic^sectK^tl^^ nucleus lenticularis it is seen to be divided by tAvo AA hi^^^ lamince, into three zones. The outerniost and largest zone^^^^^ yellowish and is known as the putamen, while he two mnei PJ.'^^;;" ni are marked tint, and together constitute the globus pallidus. ^ tluee zones by fine radiating white fibres, -W^h are mos distmcUn ^ P^^l^es, some ^ The .grey matter of the corpus striatum s t;a^^el;ed bj '^^^^^^^ ^oth large of which are beUeved to originate in it. The ^^Us are mmr 1 and small; those of the lenticular ^^jf <^ ^^^^j ^^^^^^^ ,^ifh each other caudate and lenticular nuclei are "^t °nly d"^^^^ti> cm^^ ^^^^ anteriorly, but are connected to ^^^f ^ .^^/^^^^^^^ what are termed striatum is also connected : (1) to tnc ccituitu ^873 THE INTERNAL CAPSULE the cortico-striate fibres ; (2) to the thalamus, by fibres which pass through the internal capsule, and by a strand named the ansa Icnticularis ; (3) to tlie crus cerebri, by fibres which leave the lower aspect of the caudate and lenticular nuclei. The claustrum is a thin layer of grey matter, situated on the outer sur- face of the external capsule. On transverse section it is seen to be triangular, with its apex dh'ected upwards and its base downwards. Its inner surface, which is contiguous to the external capsule, is smooth, but its outer surface presents ridges and furrows which correspond with the convolutions and sulci of the island of ReU, with which it is in close relationship. The claustrum is regarded as a detached portion of the grey matter of the island of Reil, from which it is separated by a layer of white fibres, the capsula extrema or hand of Baillarger. Its cells are small and Fig. 743.—Horizontal section of the internal capsule. (Schematic.) (Testut.) Below the horizontal section, there is shown a transverse section of the corresponding eras cerebri. spindle-shaped, and contain yellow jjigment; they are similar to those found in the deepest layer of the cortex. The nucleus amygdalae is an ovoid mass of grey matter, situated in the roof of the descending horn, at its lower extremity. It is merely a locahsed thickening of the grey cortex, continuous with that of the uncus ; in front it is continuous with the putamen, behind with the taenia semicircularis and the tail of the caudate nucleus. The internal capsule is a flattened band of white fibres, which hes between the lenticular nucleus on the outer side and the caudate nucleus and thalamus on the inner side. In horizontal section (figs. 740, 743) it is seen to be somewhat abruptly curved, with its convexity inwards ; the prominence of the curve is called the genu, and pro- jects between the caudate nucleus and the thalamus. The portion in front of the genu is termed the anterior limb (pars frontalis), and separates the lenticular from the caudate nucleus; the portion be- hind the genu is the posterior hmb (pars occipitalis), and separates the lenticular nucleus from the thalamus. The anterior limb of the internal capsule contains: (I) fibres which pass fi-om the thalamus to the frontal lobe (cortico-thalamic) ; (2) fibres connecting the lenticidar and caudate nuclei (lenticulo-caudate); (3) fibres con- necting the cortex with the corpus striatum (cortico-striate); and (4) fibres P'j^'^sing from the frontal lobe to the nuclei pontis (cortico-pontine). The nbres which occupy the region of the genu are named the geniculate fibres; they originate in the motor part of the cerebral cortex, and, after passing downwards in the inner fifth of the crusta, undergo decussation and end in the motor nuclei of the cranial nerves of the opposite side. The anterior two-thirds of the posterior limb contains the pyramidal fibres, wliicli arise in the motor area of the cortex and, passing dowTiwards through the middle three-fifths of the crusta, are continued into the pyramids of the meduUa. The posterior third of the posterior limb contains : (1) sensory fibres, which are largely derived from the thalamus, but some of which may be continued 1. Thalamus. 3. Lenticular 0. Lateral thalamus. . 2'. Caudate nucleus, nucleus. 4, Claustrum. 5. Island of Reil. ventricle. 7. jVntorior stalk of optic 8. Optic radiations, a. Anterior segment of internal capsule. !>. Geniculate bundle (in green), c. Pyramidal fibres (in red). </. Posterior cortico-pontine fibres. e. Fillet.NEUROLOGY 874 upwards from the mesial fillet; (2) the fibres of optic radiation which pass ivmn tZ lower visual centres to the cortex of the occipital obe ; 3) auditory fibres from the lateral fillet to the temporal lobe; and (4) cortico-pontine fibres' wlXh pass from the occipital and temporal lobes to the nuclei pontis The fibres of the internal capsule radiate widely as they pass to and from the various parts of the cerebral cortex, forming the cororui radxaUi and interminghng with the fibres of the corpus callosum. , , .^^ The Ixtfrnal capsule is a lamina of white matter, situated on the outer side of the leSticula? nucleus, between it and the claustrum and continuous 'dth the internal capsule below and behmd the lenticular nucleus It pi-obably contains fibres derived from the thalamus, the anterior white commissure, and the subthalamic region. Fig 744 -The fornix and corpus callosum from below. (From a specimen in the Department of Human Anatomy of the University of Oxford.) ,Fifth ventricle Optic commissure Optic nerve ■Tuber dnereum Optic tract Corpora 'viamillaria Corpus allosum ler surface) Fimbria The substantia middle, and inferior. TIae s«»w layer .s its fibrU, derived from thf/^''"' Tnd 3>tw'mie re^^^^^^^^^ " otU inwards to end in the tlia amus and T ,e „iMe layer are said to terminate n> the tee'"™^""'^! „1ter [^^^^^^^^ the parietal lobe ^rJ:i^t:\^Z^ S bS;.vi't. ^e ten;„„ral lohe and the island of Reil. . . „„,.,,r,,v whitish band of medullary875 THE FORNIX thalamus. Anteriorly, its fibres are partly continued into the anterior pillar of the fornix ; some, however, pass over the anterior commissure to the grey matter between the caudate nucleus and septum pellucidum, while others are said to penetrate the caudate nucleus. Posteriorly, it is continued into the roof of the middle or descending horn of the lateral ventricle, at the extremity of which it enters the nudexis amygdala}. Superficial to it is a large vein, the vena corporis striati, which receives numerous tributaries from the corpus striatum and thalamus ; it runs forwards to the foramen of Monro and joins with the vein of the choroid plexus to form the corresponding ve7ia Oaleni. On the surface of the vein of the corpus striatum is a narrow band of white fibres, named the lamina cornea. The fornix (figs. 721, 744) is a longitudinal, arch-shaped lamella of white matter, situated below the corpus callosum, with which it is continuous behind, but from which it is separated in front by the septum pellucidum. It may be described as consisting of two symmetrical bands, one for either hemisphere. The two portions are not united to each other in front and behind, but their central parts are joined together in the middle line. The anterior parts are called the anterior pillars {columnce fornicis) ; the intermediate united portions constitute the body of the fornix; and the posterior parts are termed the posterior pillars {crura fornicis). The hody of the fornix is triangular, narrow in front, and broad behind. The mesial part of its upper surface is coimected to the septum pellucidum in front and to the corpus callosum behind. The lateral portion of this surface forms part of the floor of the lateral ventricle, and is covered by the ventricular epithelium. Its outer edge overlaps the choroid plexuses, and is continuous with the epithelial covering of these structures. The under surface rests upon the velum interpositum, which separates it from the epithelial roof of the third ventricle, and from the inner portions of the upper surfaces of the thalami. When viewed from below the lateral portions of the body of the fornix are seen to be joined by a thin triangular lamina, named the psalterium or lyra. This lamina contains some transverse fibres which connect the two hippocampi across the middle line and constitute the hippocampal commissure. Between the psalterium and the corpus callosum a horizontal cleft, the so-called ventricle of the fornix or ventricle of Verga, is sometimes found. The anterior pillars arch downwards m front of the foramen of Monro and beliind the anterior commissure, and each descends through the grey matter m the lateral waU of the third ventricle to the base of the bram, where it termmates in the corpus albicans. From the cells of the corpus albicans a fasciculus of fibres, termed the bundle of Vicq d'Azyr, takes origin and is prolonged into the anterior nucleus of the thalamus. The anterior pillar of the fornix and the bundle of Vicq d'Azyr together form a loop resembling the figure 8, but the continuity of the loop is broken in the corpus albicans, ihe anterior pillar of the fornix is jomed by the stria pinealis and by the : superficial fibres of the ttenia semicircularis, and is also said to receive fibres 1 from the septum pellucidum. Zuckerkandl describes an olfactory fasciculus winch becomes detached from the main portion of the anterior pillar of the I^^' passes downwards in front of the anterior commissure to the base . ot the brain, where it divides into two bundles, one joining the inner root • ot the olfactory tract; the other joms the subcallosal gyi'us, and through it 1 reaches the hippocampal convolution. . The posterior pillars are prolonged backwards from the body of the fornix. xiiey are flattened bands, and at their commencement are intimately con- 1 nected by then: upper surfaces with the under aspect of the corpus caUosum. 'iJivergmg from one another, each curves round the posterior extremity of 'tne thalamus, and passes downwards and forwards into the descending norn ot the lateral ventricle. Here it lies along the concavity of the hippo- . ^^Qipus major, on the surface of which some of its fibres are spread out to ^ 101 m the alveus, while the remainder are continued as a narrow white band, ■ ^e jimbna or tmnia hippocampi, which is prolonged into the uncus of the : S^ius hippocampi. Its inner edge overlaps the dentate convolution (page 864) ^^pch It IS separated hy the fimbrio-dentate fissure; from its outer margin, IS thin and ragged, the ventricular epithelium is reflected over the i-noroid plexus as the latter projects into the choroidal fissure.876 NEUROLOGY Foramen of Monro.—Between the anterior pillats of the fornix and tlie anterior extremities of the thalami, an oval aperture is seen on either side: tliis is the foramen of Monro and tlirough it tlie lateral ventricle communicates with the third ventricle. Behind the epithelial lining of the foramen the choroid plexuses of the lateral ventricles are joined across the iniddle line. The anterior commissure (commissura anterior) is a bundle ot white fibres w^iich connects the two cerebral hemispheres across the middle line, and is placed in front of the anterior pillars of the fornix. On sagittal section it is seen to be oval in shape, its long diameter being vertical m direction and measuring about one-fifth of an inch. Its fibres can be traced outwards and backwards on each side beneath the corpus striatum into the substance of the temporal lobe. It serves in this way to connect the two temporal lobes, Fig. 745.—The fornix, velum interpositum, and middle or descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. partition. ?t consi^sts of two cl^^«t -t lamni^, SK^^/ ^^.^ T ie oSer surface by a narrow chink or interval, t'^e «o-cf 1 j|-J^'^' aiSr cornu of the latcra^ of each lamina is directed towards tlie body ^^'l^ ,,.,,iie its mesial :lntricle, and is covered ^n^, l^^X voSlo I't a'lS.'sernVtranspareU^THE CHOROID PLEXUS OF THE LATERAL VENTRICLE 877 behind ; its inferior angle corresponds with the upper part of the anterior commissure. The cavum septi pellucidi or so-called fifth ventricle is generally regarded as part of the great longitudinal fissure, which has become shut "off by the union of the hemispheres in the formation of the corpus callosum above and the fornix below. Each half of the septum is therefore formed by the median wall of the hemisphere, and consists of a mesial layer of grey matter-, derived from the grey matter of the cortex, and an external layer of white substance continuous with the white matter of the cerebral hemispheres. The fifth ventricle differs from the other ventricles of the brain, inasmuch as it is not developed from the cavity of the cerebral vesicles, is not lined by ciliated epithelium, and does not communicate with the general ventricular cavity. The choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle (plexus chorioideus ven- triculi laterahs) (fig. 745) is a higldy vascular fringe-Uke process of pia mater, which ajipears as if it were contained within the ventricular cavity. The plexus, however, is not actually within the cavity, as it is everywhere covered by a layer of epithelium continuous with the epithelial Iming of the ventricle, which therefore shuts it out of the ventricular cavity. It extends from the foramen of Monro, where it is joined with the plexus of the opposite ventricle, to the extremity of the descendmg horn. The part in relation to the body of Fig. 746.—Coronal section of descending horn of lateral ventricle. (Diagrammatic.) Tail of cauda te nucleus Choroid plexus Epithelial lining of ventricle Pia mater Fimbria I' i mhrio-dentate. fissure Alveus Dentate gyrus Dentate fissure, I the ventricle forms the vascular frmged margm of a triangular process of pia I mater, named the velum interpositum, and projects from under cover of the * outer edge of the fornix. It lies upon the upper sm-face of the thalamus, from ' winch the epithehum is reflected over the plexus on to the edge of the fornix. Ihe portion in relation to the descending horn lies in the concavitv of the hippocampus major and overiaps the fimbria : from the outer edge of the latter the epithehum is reflected over the plexus on to the roof of the cornu (fig 746) i It consists of minute and highly vascular viUous processes, each witli an afferent ^ and an efferent vessel. The ceUs of the epitlieUum which covers it often contain .^yeUo^nsh fat molecules. The arteries of the plexus are: (a) the anterior icnoroidal, a branch of the internal carotid, which enters the plexus at the '^extremity of the descending horn; and (b) the posterior choroidal, one or wo smaU branches of the posterior cerebral, which pass forwards under the ^spienium. The veins of the choroid plexus unite to form a prominent vein, ■wmch courses from behind forwards to the foramen of Monro and joms with CMC vein of the corpus striatum to form the corresponding vein of Galen. When the choroid plexus is pulled away, the continuity of the epithehum V Which covers it, with that which Unes the yentricle, is severed, and a cleft-like ■Pvf*^/%P "f^'^- ™^ numed the choroidal fissure ; Uke the plexus, it ' Bxcenas trom the foramen of Monro to the extremity of the descending horng^g NEUROLOGY The upper TDart of this fissure, i.e. the part nearest the foramen of Monro is ItvUe^d betweeA the lateral edge of the fornix and the upper surface of the U riwus further baek, at the beginning of the descending horn it is « tUalamus luiw , fimbria and the posterior end of the thara'Zs white rtW^^^^^^ born it hes between the fimbria in the floor 1 tUnS semicircularis in the roof of the cornu : through this part of tbe &?ui the Sce^^^^^^^^ on to the tentorial surface of bemisphere. fissure tne aescoum g^^^^ r chor oidea ventnculi tertu (fig. /45), • ^1 w Si of T^iTSer triangular in shape, which h beneath the formx. IS a double fold of pia f'^^^^I^Sg f^^e rest upon the thalami, while its The lateral portions ^*\^\X^he epS^^^^^^^ the third ventricle. Its mesial Po/t-n is in con^^^^^^^^^ ^.^^^^^ apex IS situated at the foramen 01 mo , between that structure above of the corpus callosum, °f ^^'^^ J body below. This interval, together and the corpora q^\^drigemina Pg^f^^^^^^^^ spoken of Is the with the lower portions ^i^V^fJ^'^^nTtrW the two layers of the velum great transverse fissure t;^^^^^- -^^^^^ investing the separate from each is modified to form the highly ^^^^^,'f^3"st;ucfu^ choroid plexus of the lateral vascular f"°.f 4 ^^^^^^^^^^ tl,e anterior and posterior choroidal arteries ventricle It is ^uppJiea oy interpositum are named the ven^ abeady desc"^«^-, ;;'^ber and run backwards between its layers, each Galem; they ^^^iJ^l^^^Zn A^o by the union of the vein of the corpus being formed at the foram^^^^ ^ (.^^^^ ^ite posteriorly into a Se'SuS%J^ « -^-^ ^^^^^^^ and ends in the straight smus. Stbuctube of the Cebebeal Hemisphebes The cerebral I Jis^Slh^c^S *e may be <?i'i=!»d '^'''^ttrofnS^^^ 'rith the lower parU take. 1. Piojection fibres ITnai cord 2. TransveKe or commissural fibres, =l,^Sraltrtrs o-tSVoiSon fibrls. but others are the a.o„s of independent cells. ,„„«;«f nf efferent and afferent fibres which con- 1. The projection fibres ^^^^.^f and with the spinal cord. The nect the cortex with the lower part of ti^^^^ ^^^1.^^ ^^^^^^^ principalefferent strands are . (1 tl^^^^^ , le, and consists anterior two-thirds of the P^^ffand end in the motor nuclei of of (a) the geniculate fibres, ^^J^ffibres, which are the cranial nerves of the ^VVof ^^f^ ' ^^edui a into th« ^P^"'-^^ "^'"^ ' ^V^^ prolonged through the pyramid of ^^fj'^^^^^ The chief afferent fibres ?ortico^pontine fibres, which end m^^^^^^^ interrupted in the thalamiis ; are : (1) those fibres of the fillet ^^^^^^n^ are nu ^ ^ ^^^^ interrupted (2) those fibres of the superior cerebeUar^^ ^^^^^.^^^ ^^.^^ n tbe red nucleus and thalamus (3) the num of tbe cor e^ r ^Vtir^hVopUcS^^^^^^ ^0-- '-''''-'^ been described. 7<t7^—These connect diffeirnt parts of the 3. Association fibres (fig. n) tliose which umte adjacent same hemisphere, and arc of Jwo land • ^^^.^^^ ^^^^^.^^^ „,ore convolutions, short «^«''?\f„^^^.A7' ' ^ ' distant parts, long association fibres.879 STRUCTUEE OF THE CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES The short association fibres are situated immediately beneatli the grey substance of the cortex of the hemispheres, and connect together adjacent convolutions. The long association fibres include the following : (a) the uncinate fasciculus ; (6) the cingulum ; (c) the superior longitudinal fasciculus ; (cZ) the inferior longitudinal fasciculus ; (e) the perpendicular fasciculus ; (/) the occipito- frontal fasciculus ; and (gr) the fornix. (a) The uncinate fasciculus passes across the bottom of the Sylvian fissure, and connects the convolutions of the frontal lobe with the anterior end of the temporal lobe. (6) The cingulum is a band of white matter which is contained within the caUosal convolution. Commencing in front at the anterior perforated space, it passes forwards and upwards parallel with the rostrum, winds round the genu, runs in the convolution from before backwards, immediately above the corpus callosum, turns round its posterior extremity, and passes into the gyrus hippocampi, in the anterior extremity of which it ends. (c) The superior longitudinal fasciculus consists of fibres which pass backwards from the frontal lobe above the lenticular nucleus and island of Fig. 747.—Diagram showing principal systems of association fibres in the cerebrum. Reil; some of these terminate in the occipital lobe, while others pass down- wards and forwards into the temporal lobe. id) The inferior longitudinal fasciculus is a collection of fibres which connect the temporal and occipital lobes, running along the outer wall of the descending and posterior cornua of the lateral ventricle. (e) The perpendicular fasciculus runs vertically through the front part of the occipital lobe, and connects the inferior parietal lobule with the fourth temporal convolution. (/) The occipito-frontal fasciculus passes backwards from the frontal lobe along the outer border of the caudate nucleus, and on the mesial aspect of the corona radiata, and its fibres radiate in a fan-Uke manner and pass mto the occipital and temporal lobes on the outer aspect of the posterior and descending cornua. Dejerine regards the fibres of the tapetum as being derived from this lasciculus, and not from the corpus callosum. {g) The fornix connects the hippocampal convolution with the corpus albicans, and, by means of the bundle of Vicq d'Azyr, with the thalamus (see page 875). Through the fibres of the lyi-a it probably also unites the opposite hippocampal convolutions. The grey matter of the hemisphere is divided into : (1) that of the cerebral cortex, and (2) that of the nucleus caudatus, the nucleus lenticularis tne claustrum, and the nucleus amygdalse.NEUROLOGY 880 Structure of the Cerebral Cortex (fig. 748) The cerebral cortex differs in its thickness and in its minute structure in different parts of the hemisphere. For instance, it is thmner m the occipital reaion than in the pre- and postcentral gyri, and it is also much thinner at the bottom of the sulci than on the top of the convolutions. Again, the minute structure of the precentral differs from that of the postcentral gyrus, and areas Fig 748.-Cerebral cortex. (Poirier.) To the left, the groups of cells ; to the right, the systems of fibres. Quite to the left of the figure a sensory nerve-fibre is shown. Molecular layer Layer of small pyramidal cells Layer of large pyramidal cells Layer of polymorphous cells ■■■■Plexus of Exner Band of Bechterew Outer band of Bail larger, or band of Gennari Vertical fibres Internal band of Baillarger _.Dcep tangential fibres White medullary substance possessing a specialised type of cortex can be mapped out in the occipital ^^''^n examining a section through tl-^Uh a len.^ ^S"" of alternating white and grey layers «his disposed tiom t^ , (.3) a (1) a thin layer of white substance (2) '^^^^J^'^.'''jf^nLger or band o second layer of white substance ^"..i^i?'^^ .^^^^^^^^ Gennari) ; (4) a second grey layer; (5) a thnd ^^hlte laje ^STRUCTURE OP THE CEREBRAL CORTEX 881 Baillarger) ; (6) a third grey layer, which rests on the medullary substance of the convolution. Tlie cortex is made up of nerve-cells which vary in size and shape, and of nerve-fibres which are either medullated or naked axis-cylinders, imbedded in a matrix of neuroglia. Nerve-cells.—According to Cajal, whose description is now generally accepted, the nerve-cells are arranged m four layers, named from tlie surface inwards as follows ; (1) the molecular layer, (2) the layer of small pyramidal cells, (3) the layer of large pyramidal cells, (4) the layer of polymorphous cells. The molecular layer.—In this layer the cells are polygonal, triangular, or fusiform in sliape. Each polygonal cell gives off some four or five dendrites," while its axon may arise directly from the cell or from one of its dendi-ites.' The axons and dendrites of these cells ramify in the molecular layer. Each triangular cell gives off two or three dendrites, from one of which the axon arises, the dendrites and the axon ramifying in the molecular layer. Tlie fusiform cells are placed with their long axes parallel to the surface and are mostly bipolar, each pole being prolonged into a dendrite, which runs horizon- tally for some distance and furnishes ascending branches. Their axons, two or tlu-ee m number, arise from the dendrites, and, hke them, take a horizontal course, giving off numerous ascending collaterals. The distribution of the axons and dendrites of aU three sets of cells is limited to the molecular layer The layer of small and the layer of large pyramidal cells.—The"'celis in these two layers may be studied together, since, witJi the exception of the difference m size and the more superficial position of the smaller cells they resemble each other. The average length of the small cells is from 10 to'l5 a'- that of the large cells from 20 to 30 /x. The body of each cell is pyi-amidal in shape. Its base bemg directed to the deeper parts and its apex towards the surface. It contains granular pigment, and stams deeply with ordinary reagents. The nucleus is nucleolated, of large size, and round or oval in shape. 1 he base of the cell gives off the axis-cyhnder, and this passes into the central white substance, gmng off collaterals in its course, and is distributed as a pro- jection commissural, or association fibre. Both the apical and basal parts of the cell give off dendi-ites. The apical dendiite is directed towards the surface and ends m the molecular layer by dividing into numerous branches, all of which may be seen, when prepared by the silver or methylene-blue method, to be studded with projecting bristle-hke processes. The largest pyi-amidal cells are ound m the upper part of the precentral gyrus and m the paracentral lobule. These, which are often arranged in groups or nests of from tlu-ee to ' ^'"L"'™'^,^ giant-cells of Beiz. In the former situation they may exceed 50 in length and 40 /. in breadth, while m the paracentral lobule they may attain a length of 65 •'^ . Layer of polymorphous cells.—The cells in this layer, as theii- name implies, are very irregular m contour ; they may be fusiform, oval, triangular, oi s ai--shaped. Theu- dendi-ites are directed outwards, towards, but do not leach the molecular layer ; their axons pass into the subjacent white matter. r..J - r t-™ °* the cerebral cortex, but theii- axons pass m a direction opposite to that of the pyramidal and polymorphous cells T medullated, but divide, immediately after their origins, into a 6 ^tir.?/fuT^^f- ^^'^ '^'■'^'^"^ of "the cortex ; (6) t\m cells o Martinoth, ^yhloh are chiefly found in the polymorphous layer Se t'^t^l'J"^ short, and may have an aseendmg or dScending course cells^wf",!l^!^^f-~^''?'u?^''l' ^^'^^ P''^^*^ of the mtervals between the avnn. n ll, n °^ed"l^'^ted or non-meduUated-tlie latter comprising the the fib, o n^i''*^ pyramidal cells and the cells of Golgi. Li their direction fridi^n T^^^ either transverse (tangential or hSrizontal) or vertical in eispotin^ ^""""^l^^'fj^''' l'-'^'"^^^"^ to the surface of the hemisphere, of Xch ft fnl? ^^'^^ ' '^^'^ '^gl*^- They constitute several strata cLerVn^t « '"^1 ""'^ f V'*^ important : (1) a stratum of white fibres Cd of ^^i 1 ''''i^'P''.^* °^ t'^^ molecular layer (plexus of Exner) ; (2) the band of Bechterew, which is situated m the outer part of the layer of small 3 Lgg2 NEUROLOGY r^vramidal cells • (3) the external band of BaiUarger (band of Gennari or band vTn d'AzT) \vb eh runs through the layer of large pyrannda ceUs ; (4 the axons of the cells of Martinotti are also ascending fibres. Special Types of Cerebral Cortex It has been already pointed out that the mmute f ucture of the co^^^^^^ differs in different ^^^--^.Z^^l^^^^^ ^xaSnatio7of a senes endeavoured to prove, as the result ot an exnaustiv^ correlation examined microscopicaUy an additional ayer is seen to oe i the molecular layer and ^l'^ }^yj .^^^m cl.^^t^^^^ ^^'l^ch are at consists of two or three strata of fusffoim cehs tne long ^^^^^ ^^^^ right angles to the surface Eacli ceU gives off tw^^^ , ^.^.^^ internahfrom the latter of which the axon ^^i^^^^jf/^^^ fusiform cells, central substance. In the l^yf^ ^^^^ or stalr-hke cells with identical with the ^^^^^J'is Z visual area of the cortex, ascending axons ^"{^J^^^l^tdton t that in old-standing cases of optic :?r'o;Ly"irof'^^^^^^ is reduced by nearly 50 per cent. A. W. CaxnpbeU says : ' HistologicaUy, two ^stinct ^n^lol^^^ZX^i the occipital lobe. The first of. these coats t^^^^^^'^Sn'Taemiari or Vicq d'Azjnr ; calcarine fissure, and is d^^t^^S^f^^J^^^y ^ cTntimetror more broad around the hrs , the second area forms an mvestmg ^^^^^^^^Z ,s weU as by curious pyriform cells and is characterised by a remarkable wealth ot^n^ ^^.^^ ^^^^ ^^eaped of large size richly stocked with ^^^TX' andXrs who have worked at th,s region, the observation of Ramon 7 C^jal, Bolton and otne anatomical, embryo- Ab to the functions of these two ^g^ons there is aoi™ ^^^^ ^^^.^^ ] itgical, and pathological, to show that t^^^^fu^ to the effect that the sedations primarily pass, we are ^a^^^^^^^ of tbese lZ^Z'''&e::Tr:i::^^^ and ..«o...,..c. 2. The precentral gyi-us i-bax.cte^ed W f^f^, of Betz and by ' a weal h of ' '^^^^^^ the postcentral any other part' (CampbeU), and "\thf ,^,/^es^^^^^^^^^^ lobule, have long been gy^us. These two gyi-i, together ^^'^^^^^f .^"^ .^^u^^^e^^^ ; but Sherrmgton guarded as containmg the .^^^^^ ctoi^ the motor area never Jd Griinbaum have ^^o^^ t ^J^^^^"'but 'occupies extends on to the free face f f^^^^^^^^^^^^^ and in most cases unbrokenly the who e l^^g^h of t^^^^^ ^^^^^^^ tl^e depth of the the greater part or tl^ej^l^o « ^ the floor and fissure.' .SPECIAL TYPES OF CEREBRAL CORTEX 883 3. In the liippocampus major the molecular layer is very thick and contains a large number of Golgi cells. It lias been divided into three strata: (a) s. convolutum or s. granulosum, containing many tangential fibres ; (6) s. lacunosum, presenting numerous lymphatic or vascular spaces ; (c) s. radiatum, exhibiting a rich plexus of fibrils. The two layers of pyramidal cells are condensed into one, and the cells are mostly of large size. The axons of the cells in the polymorphous layer may run in an ascending, a descending, or a horizontal direction. Between the poljonorphous layer and the ventricular ependyma is the white substance of the alveus. 4. In the rudimentary dentate convolution the molecular layer contains some pyramidal cells, while the layer of pyramidal cells is almost entirely represented by smaU ovoid cells. 5. The olfactory bulb.—In many of the lower animals this contains a cavity which communicates through the hollow olfactory stalk with the lateral ventricle. In man the original cavity is filled up by neurogha and its wall becomes thickened, but much more so on its ventral than on its dorsal aspect. Its dorsal part contains a small amount of grey and white matter, but it is scanty and ill defined. A section through the ventral part (fig. 749) shows it to consist of the follo^ving layers from without inwards : (1) A layer of oKactory Ra. 749.—Coronal section of olfactory bulb, (Sohwalbe.) White substance (dorsal part] 'Neuroglia substance {ventral part) Medullary layer 'Mitral cells Molecular layer ^ - Glomerular layer Layer of olfactory nerve-fibres prolonged from the olfactory Sate of tLZT' ^'f'''^'^ 'tTi P^^^^g ^^^-o^gli cribriform ft i^^L i f '"'"''^ ''^^ei- tl^e bulb, and then penetrate to L i'"'?l^'^^'^P'^^'^H' dendrites of the mitral cells, presently SticulftpT .S' ^ layer.-This contains numerous spheroidal reticulated enlargements, termed glomeruli, which are produced by the Dranching and arborisation of the processes of the olfactory nerve-fibres with the of amaS ofl"*' f the mitral ceUs. (3) MolecularJayer.-Ti^ll^^:i Se nv^n fdn^ fJ'^^^g^^' '^j'!?^^ ^'-^ tl^e ^^^ral cells. These ceUs which^ S^Jnr.'^Pf;' ""^i basal part of each gives off a thick dendrite : TbovP tT^t^ u- f ■ fT'"''^^^. ^^y^^' it arborises as indicated . cells ' which interlace with similar dendrites of neighbouring mitral 1 S frnif P.f' l^y^^ i^to matte? of the ^ Sn, Pr?^nl!i''?i: u ^^^^T'g themselves at a right angle, they are ■ centS^n^ \ o factory tract. (4) Nerve-fibre layer.-This Mes next the ential core of neuroglia, and its fibres consist of the axons or afferent processes ■ howevP^ n? ^i'""^ f ^ P^'-'i^g *° brain ; some efferent fibres are, > l^Ssfo th^eLTa^t'^^^^^^^ ^"^^ 3 L 2NEUROLOGY Wpie-ht of the encephalon.-The average weight of the brain in the 53 oi. , '^i^*^' Z'"'^, f 278 cases was 65 oz. and the minimum weight 34 oz. (about 41 oz.) ; and accordmg to iViause i o/u gia y ^^^^^ to between sixteen and twenty, and ^^lU moie b o y ^ ^^^^^ Sk^ So^rr^rSs ^ L"tt;.tr«,e..... o, ..o. Fig. 750.—Areas of localisation on outer surface of hemisphere. Motor area in red. Area of ordinary sensation in blue. Auditory area in green. Tisual area in yeUovr. an ounce for each subsequent decennial period. These results apply alike to of the brain was " ^t^^f^Sl^^lS^S^^^^ inteUectual capacity of t^^e ^^dwiduaL C^^^^^^^^^ Dupuytrcn than 64 oz., that o the 1'^*^, f^'^^^^^^^"^^^^^^^^^^ ^ird it is well known that 62^ oz. But these facts are by ^ "^^J^^'^^^^^j'^^'of persons who never displayed these weights have bec^r equa^Ued b^^^^^ ^^^^ ,ecorded the any remarkable intellect. Jlaidennan, oi ^^^^^ ^ ^-^^^.^^ and of I mulatto, aged 45, ^^J^^l^^Jj^y giS^^^ was iUiterate, but is said was never regarded as particularly ^^S^^^^^i^^i, Ensor. district medical to have been reserved, meditative and cconomical^^^^^^^ ^^^^ ^^.^^^ officer at Port E^zabeth, report that the bmi ^ \ ,,eighs more weighed 61 oz. On the otlier hand the b am ^j^^ ^f the than 23 oz. M. Nikiforoff has pubhshcd V*-;^ , ■ tbe brain Sit of brains in the ' Novosti.' Accordin^^^^^^^ him the . eig^^^ a has°no hifluence whatever on t - ^-J^t.aH culti^^^^^^ tliat the signihcance of the weight o^/''/^ " , b^dy and to the age ot pISnortion ft bears to the di^i^icms of ^^^^^ ^lie cause of death. t bears to the dhnensions of the. wl^^^^ tlu/individual. It is equaUy ""P^^^a to lu «^^ degree oWEIGHT OF THE ENCEPHALON 885 the condition of the whole body ; and, as tliis is usually lacking, the mere record of weight possesses little significance. The human brain is heavier than tliat of any of the lower animals, except the elephant and whale. The brain of the former weighs from eiglit to ten pounds ; and that of a whale, in a specimen seventy-five feet long, weighed rather more than five pounds. Cerebral Localisation.—Physiological and pathological research have now gone far to prove that a considerable part of the surface of the brain may bo mapped out into a series of more or less definite areas, each of which is intimately connected •with, some well-defined function. Tlie chief areas are indicated in figs. 750 and 751. Motor areas.—The motor area occupies the precentral and frontal gyri and the para- central lobule. The centres for the lower limb are located on the uppermost part of the precentral gyrus and its continuation on to the paracentral lobule ; those for the trunk are on the upper portion, and those for the upper limb on the middle portion of the pre- central gyms. The facial centres are situated on the lo\\'er part of the precentral gjTUS, those for the tongue, larynx, muscles of mastication, and pharynx on the frontal opercula, while those for the head and neck occupy the posterior end of the mid-frontal region. Fia. 751.—Areas of localisation on inner surface of hemisphere. Motor area iu red. Area of ordinary sensation in blue. Visual area in yellow. Olfactory area in purple. Sensortj areas.—Tactile and temperature senses are located on the postcentral gyrus, while the sense of form and solidity is on the superior parietal gyrus and precuneus. With regard to the special senses, the area for the sense of taste is probably related to the uncus and luppocampal gyrus. The auditory area occupies the middle thii-d of the superior temporal gyrus and the adjacent gyri in the Sylvian fissure ; the visual area, the calcarine fissure and cuneus ; the ohactory area, the rhinencephalon. As special centres of much importance may be noted : the emissive centre for speech on the left inferior frontal and precentral gyn ; the auditory receptive centre on the marginal and superior temporal gyri, and the visual receptive centre on tlie angular gyrus. Cerebral Topography.—Tha relation of the principal fissures and convolutions of the cerebrum to the outer surface of the scalp has been the subject of much investigation, ana many systems have been devised by which one may locaUse these parts from an examination of the external surface of the head (fig. 752). These plans can only be regarded as approximately correct for several reasons : in the hrst place, because the relations of the convolutions and sulci to the surface vary iu different inchviduaLs ; secondly, because the surface area of the scalp is greater than the surface area ot the brain, so that lines drawn on the one cannot correspond exactly to sulci or convolutions on the other ; and thhdly, because the sulci and convolutions in two inaivicluals are never precisely ahke. Nevertheless, the prmcipal fissures and convolutions can be mapped out with sufficient accuracy for aU practical purposes, so that any particular convolution can bo exposed by removing witli the trephine a certain portion886 NEUROLOGY The various landmarks on the outside of the skull, which can be easily felt, and %shicl. serve as ind^cat onHf the position of the parts beneath, have been already referred to serve ^'^_re certain other points or landmarks which require alludmg to, Srorffi to falilSe tl^^^^ of the Nation of the fissures and convolutions of the '''^rUnt'^rhiroS^^^^ from the middle of the infra-orbital margin Fia 752.-Drawing of a cast by Cunningham to illustrate the relations of the brain to the skull. external angular process of ^^l^^^^ T Une a vertical line upwards for half an inch 5 ^„i„,. It marks ho second line is the point in ^^^^^''^^'^''^^llCll^^^^^^ the Sylvian spot where the SyMan fissure dmdes. Another and ^^^^^^ 1^^^^ ^.^^^^^^ ^nT^lSd point has been devised by E. H. Ta'>/°r„ J^,,^ ij^e from the junction of the third nasion and inion into four equal P^^s^^^^^ds « ^^^^ '^"8^''^" P™""'' °. and fourth parts, reckoning from before l-^^j^™;^';; ^ho first and second segments to frontal bone; and a second line, from t'^''^'^''^Xan point wll bo the spot where t ihe centre of the external auditory meatus^ U^J fro^ point onwards will lie over he two lines cross one another, and is to say, the line on the posterior limb of the fissure of Sylvius, «'^f j'^^^ fissure of Sylvius-is nsuaUy s^urface of the skull which ^^^^1^^^^^^^ the lower part of the parietal marked out by drawing a line from the toyivian pTOPOGRAPHY OF CEREBRAL CONVOLUTIONS 887 eminence. The ascending limb of the fissure of Sylvius may be marked out by drawing a line upwards, at right angles to the Sylvian line, for nearly an inch (two centimetres) ; and the horizontal limb by a line of the same length, drawn horizontally forwards from the same point. The fismireof Rolando.—Thane defines this fissure by taldng the centre of a line between the nasion and the inion and fixes the superior Rolandic ■point at half an inch behind this. The inferior Rolandic point is defined by drawing a line at right angles to the base-line of Reid, from the pre-auricular point to the Sylvian line; this it meets about an inch from the Sylvian point. By joLoing these two points, the Rolandic line, which overUes the fissure of Rolando, is mapped out. It forms an angle opening forwards, of about seventy degrees with the median line. Reid has devised another plan for mapping out this fissure. He draws two perpendicular hues from the base-line to the top of the head ; one from the pre-auricular point, and the other from the posterior border of the mastoid process at its root. A line drawn from the upper extremity of the posterior Fig. 753.—^Relations of the brain and middle meningeal artery to the surface of the skull. A 1, Nasion; 2, Imoa ; 3, Lambda ; 4, Fissure of Sylvius ; S, Fissare of Eolando. AA, Eeid's base line : B, Point for trepmnmg the antenor branch of the middle meningeal artery; C, Suprameatal triangle; D, Sigmoid bend 01 me lateral sinus ; E, Pomt for trephining over the straight portion of tbe lateral sinus, exposmg dura mater 01 Doth cerebrum and cerebeUum. OutUne of cerebral hemisphere indicated in blue ; course of middle meningeal artery m red. fine to the point where the Sylvian line crosses the anterior one would indicate the position of the fissure of Rolando. The external parieto-occipital fissure runs outwards at right angles to the great longi- tudinal fissure for about an inch, from a point one-fifth of an inch in front of the lambda (posterior fontanelle). Reid states that if the posterior Umb of the fissure of Sylvius be continued backwards to the sagittal suture, the last inch of this Une will indicate the position of the sulcus. The precentral and postcentral sulci are situated three-fifths of an inch in front of and behmd the Rolandic fissure respectively ; they are nearly parallel mth this fissure, and extend as low as the Sylvian line. The superior frontal fissure may be mapped out by drawing a line from the junction of the upper and middle third of the precentral sulcus, in a direction parallel with the longitudinal fissure, to a point midway between the middle line of the forehead and the temporal ridge, an inch and a half above the supra-orbital notch. The inferior frontal fissure follows the course of the superior temporal ridge, commencing at the junction of the middle and lower thkds of the precentral sulcus.888 NEUKOLOGY The ititraparietal fissure begins on a level with the junction of the middle and lower third of the fissure of" Rolando, on a line carried across the head from the back of the root of one auricle to that of the other. After passing upwards, it curves backwardfi, lying parallel to the longitucUnal Hssure, midway between it and the parietal emmonce ; it then curves downwards to end midway between the lambda and the parietal emmenco. The lateral ventricles may be circumscribed, according to Poirier, by describing a nuadrilatoral figure on the side of the head. The upper Umit is a honzontal lino drawn two inches above and parallel ^v'ith the zygoma: this defines the roof of the ventricular cavity The lower limit is a second horizontal Une drawn half an mch above the zygoma : this indicates the level of the extremity of the descending horn of the ventricle. Two vertical lines—one drawn through the junction of the anterior and middle thu:ds of the zygomatic arch, and the other two mches behmd the tip of the mastoid process—mdicate the extent of the anterior horn m front and the posterior horn behind. Avvlied Anatomy.—Hho internal ca'psule is of gi-eat mterest to the clmician because it is so often the seat of heemon-hage (from the lenticulo-striate and lenticulo-optic arteries, Charcot's ' arteries of cerebral hemorrhage '), or of thrombosis, m patients ^'^ose vessek are weakened by old age or disease. A ' stroke,' or ' apoplexy is the result; blood is effused from the ruptured vessel and tears up the surroundmg brain tLssue, and also mterferes with the neighbourmg fibres by the compression set up by its mass. If the hamoirhage s ^dden andlt all large, rapid and complete loss of consciousness foUows ^"^^h P-rdy«s of the opposite side of the body and loss of control over the sphincters. If it is the hmder part of the internal capsule thlt is involved, the paralysis ^iU be more ^^^^^ed m the leg than m the arm, and be associated with hemianesthesia, and also ^i h l^omonynious hemianopsia (or blindness of the corresponding halves of the two retmee, the patient being 3le to see objecte o^ the opposite side of the body). If the haemorrhage is very extensive Z)d ofterma^esits waymfo^he ventricles, and death may oUow - - without recovery of consciousness, and with hyperpyrexia. If the >^°J!^f g^'^l^;"; consciousness is soon regamed, and a fair degree of recovery ^f^"^P^4^SeSa°It9 nnrticularlv in the leg. If the hEemorrhage takes place very slowly, the hemiplegia sets ZT^XVil.lLnt apoplexy), with headache and gradual cloudmg o^he facid^^^^^^^ S i?the upper motor neuron (see page 889) that is mjured m ^^J,,^f^'^°"Jfl^^^^^^ ^^^^ the musclL on the affected side of the body become spastic, with increased reflexes, while such muscular atrophy as foUows is mamly due to disuse. Motor a^td Sensory Tracts The anatomy of the various parts of the central nervous system having complex subject have already been referred to (page 8U4). Motor Tract (fig. 754) The constituent fibres of this tract are the asis-cyUnder P^^o^^^f \ .^^^^^ Bituat^^dTthfmotor area of the cortex. At ^tf^tf S^^^^^^^^^ diffused, but as they descend through .^^^TcXr nSSs aSd th;iamus, ffi^u:^^S^SrJ:K^JSg^^ ^S^^=^p«p^SS^ the crusta or pes of the crus cerebri, the pyi-amidal ^i^rcs occupjm| u Sree-Sfths! a?id the geniculate fibres the umermost fifth « * - ^^^^^^^^^^^^ The geniculate fibres then decussate m the ^"l^dle hne ^^ t^^^^^ ^^^^^ fibre! of the opposite side, and end -^o^^. ^^^^^^^ downwards nuclei of the cramal nerves Ihe ^^i^d thr^^^^^^^ of the fibres from the into the anterior pyramids of the medulla, and the M ^^^.terior median medulla is effected by two paths. .T^e f/<^« ^^^^^^^^ and fissure cross the middle Ime. formmg the to^^^^^^^ descend in the opposite side of the cord, as ^j^^. "^^S co umn pass tract.. Throughout the length o of the anterior in the medulla, but descends as V'^^rrov horn o the opposi these fibres, however, end m the ^^^J^ comm ssure. There is spinal cord by passmg across ''^"^^^^'deeu^^^^^^^^ takes place in the considerable variation m ^he extent to which deci^ss^^i^^ two-thirds or meduUa, the commonest condition bemg that m ^Ullcn auMOTOR TRACT 889 tliree-fourths of the fibres decussate in the medulla and the remainder in the cord. Tlie axons of the motor cells in the anterior horn pass out as the fibres of the anterior roots of the spinal nerves, along which the impulses are conducted to the muscles of the trunk and limbs. From this it will be seen that all the fibres of the motor tract pass to the nuclei of the motor nerves on the opposite side of the brain or cord, a fact Fig. 754.—The motor tract. (Modified from Poirier.) Motor area of cortex Geniculate fibres Internal capsule Decussation of pyramids Direct pyramidal tract Crossed pyramidal tract \ — Anterior nerve roots which explains why a lesion m volving the motor area of one side causes paralysis ot the muscles of the opposite side of the body. Turther, it will be seen that tliere is a break in the continuity of the motor cham: in the case of the cranial nerves this break occurs in the nuclei of these nerves; and m the case of the spmal nerves, m the anterior horn of grey matter. For cUnical purposes it is con- venient to emphasise this break and divide the motor tract into two portions : U) a series of upper motor neurons which comprises the motor cells in the890 NEUROLOGY cortex and their descending fibres do^vn to the nuclei of the motor nerves ; H (2) a series of lower motor neurons which includes the cells of the nuclei of tlic motor cranial nerves or the cells of the anterior horns of the cord and their axis-cylinder processes to the periphery* Sensory Teact (fig. 755) Sensory impulses are conveyed to the spmal cord through the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. On entering the cord these root-fibres dmde into Fig. 755.—The sensory tract. (Modified from Poirier.) Fasciculus cuneatus Fasciculus gracilis Setisory decussation Nucleus cuneatus Nucleus gracilis ..Posterior nerve roots descending and ascending branches ^.ff'^^^'X^l^^Xo^^^^^^ of the latter some end m the grey matter aftei a longei * AS already mentioned (footnote, page 805) a nenron in tbe posterior horn of the . is probablyTnte?posed between each upper and lower motor neuron.891 SENSORY TRACT others are continued directly into the posterior columns of tiic cord, whore they form the fasciculus gracilis and fasciculus cuneatus. From tiie cells of the posterior horn, fibres arise ^\■hich cross the middle line and ascend in the peripheral part of tlie lateral column as the tract of Cod ers. Certain observers maintain that some of the sensory fibres ascend in the anterior column. The fibres of the fasciculus gracilis and fasciculus cuneatus end by arborising around the cells of the gracile and cuneate nuclei, and from these cells the fibres of the mesial fillet take origin and cross to the oi^ijosite side m the sensory decussation. The mesial fillet is then joined by the fibres of Cowers' tract, which have already crossed in the cord, and in its further course receives fibres from the cranial sensory nuclei of the opposite side, with the exception of the cochlear division of the auditory nerve. Ascending through the crus, the fiUet gives off some fibres to the lenticular nucleus and island of Reil, but the greater part of it is carried into the thalamus, where most of its fibres terminate—only a small proportion being continued directly into the cerebral cortex. From the grey matter of the thalamus the fibres of the third fink in the chain arise and pass to the cerebral cortex. The fibres from the terminal nuclei of the cochlear nerve pass upwards in the lateral fillet, and are carried through the posterior part of the internal capsule to the temporal lobe. Further, Gowers' tract gives off a fasciculus which reaches the cerebellum through its superior peduncles. It wOl be evident, therefore, that in most cases there are three cell-stations interposed in the course of the sensory impulses. For clinical purposes, therefore, three neurons are described. (1) The series of lower sensory neurons comprises the cells of the posterior root ganglia and their peripheral and central processes. Of the two upper sensory neurons, (2) the lower series includes the cells of the nuclei cuneati and graciles and their processes, while (3) the upper group contains the cells of the thalami and the fibres passmg from these to the cerebral cortex. Afjulied Anatomy.—The chief symptoms of diEcases of the brain and spinal cord depend upon the particular systems of neurons picked out for attack, and some of them may be briefly summarised as follows. Motor -paralysis of the spastic type, wth rigidity of the muscles and increased reflexes, foUows destruction of the upper motor nexurons ; flaccid paralysis, wth loss of the reflexes and rapid muscular atrophy, follows desti-uction'of the lower motor neuron. Sensory paralysis follows injury to any part of the sensory path ; in tabes it is due to injm-y of the lower sensory neuron, in hemiplegia to destruction of the upper sensory axon as it traverses the posterior part of the internal capsule. Dissociation of sensations, or the loss of some forms of sensation while others remain unimpau-ed, is seen in a number of conditions such as tabes or syringomyeUa ; it shows that the paths through which various forms of sensation travel to the brain are cUfferent. Abnormalities 0} rejle.v actions are of very great help in the diagnosis of nervous complaints. The nnmeToua superjicial or skin rejlexes {e.g. the scapular, imtation of the skin over the scapula produces contraction of the scapular muscles ; the abdominal, strokmg the abdomen causes its retraction ; the cremasteric, stroking the inner side of the thigh causes retraction of that side of the scrotum ; the plantar, ticklmg the sole of the foot brings on plantar flexion ot the toes), i£ present, show that the reflex arcs on whoso integrity their existence depends are intact; but they are often absent m health, and so cannot be trusted to indicate disease, ihe deep reflexes or tendon reactions, such as the Imee-jerk or the tendo AchiUis jerk aremcreased in chrome degeneration of, or gi-adually increasmg pressui-e on, the pyramidal hbres (upper motor neuron), in nervous or hysterical patients, and when the irritabihty of the anterior cornual cells (lower motor neuron) is increased, as happens in tetanus or in poisonmg by strychmne. They are lost when the lower motor or lower sensory neurons are diseased, and m a few other conditions ; absence of the knee-jerk is very rare in health anct suggests disease in some part of its reflex arc, in the third and fourth lumbar segments 01 the cord, or else, more rarely, grave intracrauial or spinal disease cutting off the lower irom the higher nervous centres. The organic reflexes of the pupil, bladder, and rectum, aie ot the greatest practical importance. The commonest defect in the reflexes of the pupu Ls reflex u-idoplegia, or failure to contract on exposure to light, wthout failure to contract on convergence or accommodation (' ArgyU Robertson ' pupil). The pupil is also contracted (miosis), and may or may not chlate when the skin of the neck is pinched tue ciuo-spinal reflex). Micturition is a spinal reflex much under the control of the brain ; u me centre for micturition in the second sacral segment is destroyed the sphincter and tne waUs ot the bladder are paralysed, the bladder becomes chstondod with urino and mcontinence from overflow results. If this centre escapes injury but is cut ofl: more or less completely from impulses descending to it from above, there will be more or less interference witu micturition. This varies in degree from the ' precipitate mictui-ition ' of tabetic patients, who must perforce hurry to pass water the moment the impulse seizes them to theg92 NEUROLOGY state of ' reflex incontinence,' when the bladder automatically empties itself from time to time, ?almost 4hout the patient's knowledge. Defalcation is a very sumlar spmal reflex, r,nr^ i« linhln to vcrv similar disorders of function. The ° S neuron (page 889) is affected in hemiplegia, the lower motor neuron /.ni snOH firS spinal pai-alysis /both these systems of neurons are diseased together (page 890 n m amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and progressive in tlie «°'"°:;^^'^,V The d^^^^ here is wastmg and weakness in certam groups "f mtcL tS^palsy w^ flSr^th loss of the Reflexes, or spastic, with increased rLres accorSilas the degeneration mamly involves the lower or the upper motor neuron. The sphincters are affected only in the later stages of these diseases^ Pathological changes in the lower sensory neuron are the cause of tabes dorsaiis or wmmmMi Supplied to the bones, tendons trachea, t-gu^^ ^/^^^^^^^^ Slffi^^r-Lt "cirprti^^^^^^^^^^^^^ -ea- or o? general P'tr™ is recognised as dependent upon degeneration of either or both of the two uf'per sensory neurons. MENINGES OF THE BRAIN AND SPINAL CORD and the pia mater. i The Dtjea Mateb f The dura mater is a thick dense inelastic m^^^^^^^ an external covering for the brain and ^P^JJ J^^^^^^^ the the brain differs m several essential Pai'ticulars from ^^^f ^^^^^^^.^^^i but at spmal cord, and therefore it is ^^f^^^^^Ct^od that the the same time it must ^f. distinctly undeisW^^^^^^ ^^^^^ membrane, and are contmuous with ^ .^wior oFthe sl^^ and%erves the The cranial dura mater lines f^^jfj^^^^^^^^^^s a membrane for twofold purpose of an mternal periosteum to ^Ij^ bon^^^'comiected the protection of the brain. It is composed of ^J^^J^e^B ^^^^^^ ^3.,^ together, except in certam situations, 'l^^^X^'^^^^^^^ they separate to form sinuses for Pa^sag^^^^^^^^^^^^ .,U,us, surface'of the cramal dura ^ft^J'-^f^^^^J^ihe glaUdcB PaccJiiomi. Its may be seen numerous s^^aU vhit sh bodies m^^^^^ ^^^^^^ outer surface is rough and ^^nUated and ato^ ^^^^^.^^ ^^^^ of the bones, the adhesion bemg most j^^^^^ ^ °nd lined by a layer of the base of the skull. Its ^^^^Y^^^'^^ZfJ^^M^^^^^^^ cavity of the endothelium. It sends i^^'^^'^^'''•Sf rommrt^^^^ the lodgment skull into a series of freely ^o^'^"^"^ J.^^^^^^^^ prolonged to the and protection of the different P'^^'t%«^ ^^^^^^^;Xforamina which exist at the outer surface of the skull, tlj^ough the vai ous ^^^^^^^ ^ base, and thus becomes continuous ft^^,. P \f \\"se apertures. At the form's sheaths for the nerves w nch pa^^^^ it base of the skull, it sends a fibrous p ol^^^^^^^^^ ^1^^ ,,lf„etory sends a series of tubular f'o ongatio s lound tli^^^^ -r^lf^r«t;;:?:i^fr;^a^^^^^^^^^ also continued893 MENINGES OP THE BRAIN AND SPINAL CORD tlirough the sphenoidal fissure mto the orbit, and another is carried into the same cavity tlu'ough the oj)tic foramen, forming a sheatli for the optic nerve, wliich is continued as far as tlie eyeball. In the posterior fossa it sends a process into the internal auditory meatus, ensheathing the facial and auditory nerves ; another through the jugular foramen, forming a sheath for the structures which pass through this opening ; and a third through the anterior condyloid foramen. Ai-ound the margm of the foramen magnum it is closely adherent to the bone, and is continuous with the spinal dura mater. Processes.—The processes of the cranial dura mater, which project mto the cavity of the skull, are formed by reduphcations of the inner or meningeal layer of the membrane, and are four in number: the falx cerebri, the tentorium cerebelli, the falx cerebelh, and the diapliragma sellse. The falx cerebri, so named from its sickle-Uke form, is a strong, arched process which descends vertically in the longitudinal fissure between the hemispheres of the brain. It is narrow in front, where it is attached to the crista galh of the ethmoid ; and broad behind, where it is connected with the upper surface of the tentorium cerebeUi. Its upper margin is convex, and attached to tlie inner surface of the skull in the middle line, as far back as the internal occipital protuberance ; it contains the superior longitudinal sinus. Its lower margin is free, concave, and presents a sharp curved edge, which contains the inferior longitudinal sinus. The tentorium cerebelli (fig. 756) is an arched lamina of dura mater, elevated in the middle, and inclining do-wnwards towards the circum- FiG. 756.—^Tentorium cerebelli seen from above. Free margin of lenlorium Optic nerve Internal carotid artery Diaphragma sellw \ I Third nerve Attacht-'tl marijin of tentorium 'J'urculur //erojt/tili ference. It covers the upper surface of the cerebellum, and supports the occipital lobes of the brain. Its anterior border is free and concave, and bounds a large oval opening, the incisura tentorii, for the transmission of the crura cerebri. It is attached, behind, by its convex border to the transverse ridges upon the inner surface of the occipital bone894 NEUROLOGY and there encloses the lateral sinuses ; in front, to the superior margin of the petrous portion of the temporal bone on either side, enclosmg the superior petrosal Minuses, and at the apex of this bone the free or anterior border and the attached or external border meet, and, crossing one another, are continued fm w-irds to be fixed to the anterior and posterior chnoid processes respectively. t^e mSdle line of its upper surface the posterior border of the falx cerebri is attached the straight sinus being placed at their hne ot junction. The falx ZelelU ?s a small triaSgW process of dura mater, received into the indentation between the two lateral lobes of ^l^^^^^beUum b^^^^^ I s hnsp is attached above, to the under and back part of the teritorium , its pSLi or maiS to tl.e ower division of the vertical crest on the inner surface & the occTpTtS bone. As it descends, it sometimes divides into two smaUer fn1rl=^ which are lost on the sides of the foramen magnum. is a small circular horizontal fold, which constitutes a roof for turcica. This ahnost completely covers ^1-F -tary ^ presenting merely a smaU central opening for the mfmidibulum to pass *^'''st?ucture.-The cranial dura mater consists of white fibrous tissue, with connective tissue ceUs and elastic fibres arranged m f tten^d la™ which nrP imnei-fectlv separated by lacunar spaces and blood-vessels into t^^o layers TndM^^ mZngeal. The endosteal layer is the internal periosteum for hfcllnial bones, and contams the. l^lood-vesse s for t^-;^ ^^J^^^^ these cells were formerly regarded, as "^^f ^S^e,n „„-,„u,.i the tentorium SoS i ^= Those in the f ^dle f ossa a., t^^^^^^ ^^^^^^ ,,^1 masiUary; a branch from ^^^^^^§^1' from the mternal carotid, tlrrough the foramen i^^^.^i^^^ymS^^^^^^^^ the posterior fossa are and a recurrent branch from .^^.^.^y^^'" i^ich enters the skull through =iS/hS?ngtl :hSnUr Z^t^^^^ condyloi- f"?:3;'and^a\ranch from t^^e middle me^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^ The veins which return the blood from the ^janiai a ^.^^ with the diploic veins. They terminate "^.^^^^J^^^^^^^ Txception of Ihe two which accomi-any the midcUe me^^^^^^^ out if the skull at the foramen ^P^^of "I ° ^,Lnal maxfuary vem ; above, which their contents are di-amed ^"^^^.J^S^s they communicate with the superior longitudin^^^ y ^ ^^^.^^ ^£ vei^s do not open directly mto % —^'f^^^^n JthL side of the superior ^^^^^ "^^^^^^ diploic and emissary veins. filaments from the Gasserian represent? only the inuer or "It m u" place being Uken by outerorendostenHnyor oeasesat the foiamen m ^ p separated torn :erSl'rS';;;a^iT.:;;:'^oF^anrtS,e peri..e„. of the .ertebr.895 THE B\JkA MATER Fig. 757.—The spinal cord and its membranes. corresponds therefore to that of the cranial sinuses between the meningeal and endosteal layei'S of the cranial dura mater. It is attached to the circumference of the foramen magnum, and to the second and third cervical vertebrae ; it is also connected to the posterior common hgament, especially near the lower end of the spinal canal, by fibrous slips ; it extends below as far as the lower border of the second sacral vertebra, where its cavity terminates ; below this level it closely invests the filum terminale and descends to the back of the coccyx, where it blends with the periosteum. The sheath of dura mater is much larger than is necessary for the accommo- dation of its contents, and its size is greater in the cervical and lumbar regions than in the thoracic. Its inner surface is smooth. On each side may be seen the double openings which transmit the two roots of the corresponding spinal nerve, the dura mater being continued in the form of tubular prolongations on them as they pass through the intervertebral foramina. These prolongations are short in the upper part of the spine, but gradually become longer below, form- ing a number of tubes of fibrous membrane, which enclose the lower spinal nerves and are contained in the spinal canal. Structure.—The spinal dura mater resembles in structure the meningeal or supporting layer of the cranial dura mater, consisting of white fibrous and elastic tissue arranged in bands or lamellae which, for the most part, are parallel with one another and have a longitudinal arrangement. Its internal surface is covered by a layer of endothehum, which gives this surface its smooth appearance. It is sparingly supplied with blood-vessels, and some few nerves have been traced into it. Subdural space.—The dura mater is separated from the arachnoid by a potential space, the subdural space. The two membranes are, in fact, in contact with each other, except where they are separated by a minute quantity of fluid, which just serves to keep the two opposing surfaces moist. The Abachnoid Membrane ^v^^- ^'■^chnoid membrane is a dehcate membrane which envelops both the brain and cord, lying between the pia mater internaUy and the dura mater ' cxtGrnciily. The cranial part of the arachnoid invests the brain loosely, and does not .dip mto the sulci between the convolutions, nor into the fissures, with the ■ exception of the longitudinal fissure. On the upper surface of the cerebrum the ; arachnoid is thin and transparent, and may be easily demonstrated by iniectmg 1 a stream of au- beneath it. At the base of the brain the arachnoid is thicker I and shghtly opaque towards the central part where it extends across between the two temporal lobes in front of the pons Varolii, so as to leave a considerable I interval between it and the brain. The spiml part of the arachnoid is a thin, delicate, tubular membrane which loosely invests the cord. Above, it is continuous with the cerebral ; ^^acnnoid ; below. It widens out and invests the cauda equina and the nerves proceeding from this. Its outer surface is in contact mth the inner surface of wie aura mater, but for the most part the membranes are not connected together, tnough here and tliere they may be joined together by isolated connective- wssue trabeculae, which are most numerous on the posterior surface of the cord. J-iie space between the two membranes is the subdural space. ihe arachnoid membrane surrounds the nerves which arise from the brain ; ana spinal cord, and encloses them in loose sheaths as far as their points of exit irom the skuU and spinal canal.NEUROLOGY 896 Structure —The araclinoid consists of bundles of white fibrous and elastic tissue intimately blended together. Its outer surface is covered with a layer of eXtl eliunr Vessels of considerable size, but few in number, and, according o Boc°S:iek a rich plexus of nerves derived from the -o^or dnnsion ^^^^^^ hftli, the facial knd the spinal accessory nerves, are found in the aiachnoid. The subarachnoid space is the interval betM^een the arachnoid and p.a mate It is not properly speakmg, a space, for it is occupied everywhere by a siooiSv tissue cons^isting of trabecula3 of dehcate connective tissue, and inter- £ji^nn?rnrclianne^^ in which the subarachnoid fluid is contamed. This L JJed spaclisl^ surface of the hemispheres of tlie bram ; on the summit of each convolution the pia mater and arachnoid membrane are m dose o ntact but in the sulci between the convolutions, tnangu ar spaces are left in ^^°ch the subarachnoid trabecular tissue is found, for the pia mater dips to the sulci whereas the arachnoid bridges across them from convolution to into the sulci, ^V'^jeas in certain situations, the arachno d is less abundant and the communicating channels larger than m those regions where the two membranes are more closely approximated. Fia. 758.-Diagram showing the positions of the three principal subarachnoid cisterns. Optic commissure Cisterna hasaUs Fourth ventricle Cisterna pontia Cisterna magna , principal spaces have been named the cisia.m «ra,m ^^^^^ h? cistlna Lalis (fig. 758) ; .^^ it should be de^^^^^^ The three pontis, and the cisterna oasMts {ng. • ""l^rir'^ther. The cislcrnu magna (hat these spaces ^o^^^^^^^^t^J^^/'^t^^^ arachnoid bridging is a space, triangular on sagittal section, nausea oy ^^^^^ over the interval between the ^"f^ulla and tlie vm ^^^i^.r^.^hnoid hemispheres of the f ^ebeUum; it is eontinu^^^^^ space of the cord at the leve of foiameii magni^ni ^^^^^^^^.^ ^le is a considerable interval between tlie pia mater is ventral aspect of the pons Varolii. contains ui ^^.,^1^ Lntinuous'behind with the -^^rf^'trSth t c\?s c^^ basalis. Tlie the cisterna magna ; and in fro»t of the PO^*^ 1^^^^^^^^^^ ^^.d tiie arachnoid cisterna basalis is a wide interval If between ho pu ma ex ^ where the latter membrane extends across "^et^^ee -^^^^ j,, tlie lobes. It encloses the crura cerebri and ^ «nuctui^ ^ ^ „;cf.rna peduncular space, aiid eontaiiis ^^^^^^^l In front, the cisterna for - space, and contains tne cmlr callosum, for basalis extends fcfrwards on to ^ - -Pt^^-J^S^af h mi^?^^^^^^^ to tlie other the arachnoid stretches across ^ /? ^T'^^^^^^ and thus leaves a space immediately beneath the free border of the talx cereori, a897 THE ARACHNOID MEMBRANE in which tlie anterior cerebral arteries are contained. Again, another space is formed in front of either temporal lobe by the arachnoid bridging across the fissure of Sylvius without dipping down to the bottom of the fissure. This space is a prolongation from the cisterna basalis, and contains the middle cerebral artery. Tlie subarachnoid space communicates with the general ventricular cavity of the brain by three openings : one of tliese, the foramen of Majendie is m the middle line at the inferior boundary of the "fourtli ventricle ; the otlier two are at the extremities of tlie lateral recesses of the fourth ventricle behind the upper roots of the glosso-pharyngeal nerves ; they are named the Joramina of Key and Retzius or of Laischka. It is stated by Meckel that the lateral ventricles also communicate with the subarachnoid space at the apices of tlieu- descending horns. There is no direct communication betAveen the subdural and subarachnoid spaces. The spinal part of the subarachnoid space is a very M'ide interval between the arachnoid membrane and the pia mater, and is largest at the lower part of the spinal canal, where the arachnoid membrane encloses the nerves which form the Cauda equina. Superiorly, it is continuous with the cranial subarachnoid Fig. 759.—Diagrammatic representation of a section across the top of the skull shomng the membranes of the brain, &c. (Modified from Testut.) Emiaaary vein Venom lacuna \ Sup. longitudinal sinus \ \ Cerebral vein Diploic vein \ Meningeal vein ^-V-"rTT.\-^ Pacchionian bodg Subdural space Subarachnoid space Falx cerebri Pia mater Dura mater Arachnoid Cerebral cortex ' SSn hi ^ * IJ*' communicates with the general ventricular cavity of the ■ of MaildTTA f °P^^;"|«' in the roof of the fourth ventviole ( foramen lonuS^^ /ommiria of Key and Retzius). It is partiaUy divided by a tESnnir?''"f^fr"' ^^'^ posticum, which serves to connect •sSL^ onT I f ^ P'"" °PP°'^*^ ^^^^ posterior median fissure of the I but rnZ ' f partition, which is incomplete and cribriform above, ffibio,^TL,f'J""-*''^ ^'^gi^^; it consists of bundles of white -snin-d .nK^ /nterlacing Avith each other. Each of these divisions of the ^S Imll n «Pa««/« further subdivided by the Ugamenta denticulata, ^ \Miicli will be described with the pia mater. ;iabnn lonf ^^'^P'^^'l ^"i"^ ^"'^ ^P subarachnoid space. In the spine it is so rmatP tf''' "iO^Pletely fill up the whole of the space included in the dura rreactL 'a ^ V ^'"^H '^'^^i'^g ^ ^^l<^i«^^ taste, and a slightly aUcaline rrem; nfn. to Lassaigne, it consists of 98-5 parts of water, the remainmg 1 5 per cent, being solid matters, animal and saline. It varies in 3 M398 NEUROLOGY nuantitv being most abundant in old persons, and is quickly secreted. Its S use is probably to afford mechanical protection to the nervous centres, ,nr1 in iTrevent the effects of concussions communicated from without ''%\?/XSu a Pacchionii, or arachnoid villi (fig. 759) are small, fleshy- InnHit fl^uAtionl usually ooUected into clusters of variable size which may b. seen upon the outer surface of tlie dura mater, in the vicinity of tlie supenor tl,e -'fX;^^^;^:l,JJ:£Z'^^^^^ tLue, which i- oontinuou. by which the Eaccliioman body is "f,''^''''*'° "f, tlie suli- tiLuc is . layer of arachnoid m^mbraiie vhi 1—^^ lacuna, arachnoid tissue. 3. Outside tms, '^B*"^' , , , , ce which ^.hich is separated from the arachnoid XTubdural spaL ^ 4 And finally, •corresponds to and is continuous with ^1^^ subdural spa^^^^^^ if the body projects ^^Jo ^he longitudina^^^^^^^ . g ^^^^^ thinned upper walls of the sinus^ SrrUs wS into the Pacchionian bodies. ^^^^^"^^^^^^ s^^reTtrbr^^^^^^^^ " ?stot rS or^Ln its quantity i----«tndTry Sy until the third year, increase in number as age advances. The Pia Mater The pia mater is a vascular V^fSaf titsr^^^^ blood-vessels, held together by between the pia rmter invests the entire .^f^V^^ as an invagination involutions and lamina, and IS prolong^^^^^^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^ ia forming the velum mterpositum over the roof of the plexuses of the lateral th rd ventnc^s- J ^^^^ ^^^^^.^ , fourth ventricle, it forms the tela cbouoidea ^^l^^ , ^^^^^^^^ it covei-s the of this ventricle Upon the suiiace of ^^^ni pher^^^^^^ ^^^^^^ ^ grey matter of the convolutions, gives ottlio perpendicularly for It Laths, which «'^r"^^^'lbstanc^(see fig 589, page 653). On the some distance into ^^^^^^^f^^^t^^^^^ vissels fil^m its inner surface cerebeUum the membrane is "l^^^^ f;^*^?^^;^^ not so intimate, are shorter, and its relations to ^^^^ ^^^^%^ss vascular than tliat of the The spi7ml pia mater f'ff.^^f'^^l'J^t,^ two layers, the outer or brain : this is due to the fact f ^Xonn^ctive-tissJie fibres, arranged additional one being composed of bundle^^^^^^ ^^.^ ^^^^^^^^ ,ee.s for the most part longitudinally. BetMeui m ^ ^^„a- which communicate with the subarachnoid spa^^^^ ^^^^ ^ p,a rssels which are enclosed in P^^^^^^^Xa^^t very intimately adherent mater covers the entire surface of ^^^^ tlie anterior fissure A Tit; in front it sends a process {f;^^;;'^'^^f; -^^^^^^ Iphndens, extends along longi udinal fibrous band, called by Hallei the ^"^^^^P,^,^^ ,i„,iiar band, the the middle line of the anterior surface ; and a ^^t where the cord A^en^l deniicuMurn., is Bit-ated on eitl^r sid^^^ oS"cd down as a long terminates, the pia mater beconj^ contoa^^ ^,,,t of he slender filament [filum termiimk), ^ '"^'^^f^J.^ds with the dura mater at the. mass of nerves forming the cauda equina. It blendsTHE PIA MATER 899 Fig. 760.—Transverse section of the spinal cord and its membranes. level of the lower border of the second sacral vertebra, and extends downwards as far as the base of the coccyx, where it blends witli tlie periosteum. It assists in maintaining the cord in its position dming the movements of the trunk, and is, from tliis circumstance, called the central ligament of the cord. The pia mater of botli the brain and the spinal cord forms sheaths for the nerves as they emerge from the central nervous matter. This sheath is closely connected mth the nerve, and blends with its common membranous investment. The lig-amentum denticulatum (figs. 757, 760) is a narrow fibrous band situated on either side of the spinal cord throughout its entire length, and separat- ing the anterior from the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. It has received its name from the serrated appearance which it presents. Its inner border is continuous with the pia mater at the side of the cord. Its outer border pre- sents a series of triangular tooth-Uke processes, the points of which are fixed at intervals to the dui'a mater. These processes are twenty-one in number, on either side, the fii'st being attached to the dura mater, opposite the margin of the foramen magnum, between the vertebral artery and the hypoglossal nerve ; and the last near the lower end of the cord. Its function Is to support the cord in the fluid by which it is surrounded. Applied Anatomy.—Evidence of great value in the diagnosis of meningitis may some- times be obtained by pimctuiing the membranes of the cord and TOthdrawing some of the cerebro-spmal fluid ; moreover the operation of lumbar puncture is in many cases curative, under the supposition that the draining of some of the cerebro-spinal fluid reheves the patient by diminishing the intracranial pressure. The operation is performed by inserting a trocar, of the smallest size, between the laminae of the third and fourth, or of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae, through the ligamentum subflavum. The spinal cord, even of a child at bu-th, does not reach below the third lumbar vertebra, and therefore the canal may be punctured between the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae without any risk of injuring this structure. The point of puncture is indicated by lajang the child on its side and droppmg a perpendicular line from the highest point of the crest of the ilium ; this will cross the upper border of the spine of the fourth lumbar vertebra, and mil indicate the level at which the trocar should be inserted a little to one side of the middle line. The puncture may require to be repeated more than once, and the greatest precaution must be taken not to allow septic infection of the meninges. If there be any appreciable increase of pressure, the fluid will flow through the trocar with the greatest freedom. In addition to the constitutional signs and symptoms of fever, aciUe spinal meningitis exhibits certam characteristic features. Pain and tenderness to pressure along the spinal ■ column are common, and so are pains in the limbs or round the trunk from irritation of the posterior nerve-roots by the inflammatory products. Irritation of the anterior nerve- roots IS shown by the increased tone of the muscles, which may go on to the point where they pass into a state of spasm with much increased reflexes ; this is often seen in the retraction of the head and neck. Later in the disease the reflexes are often lost when also, the urine and faeces may be passed involuntarily. CRANIAL NERVES (NERVI CEREBRALES) There are twelve pairs of cranial nerves ; they are attached to the brain and are transmitted through foramina in the base of the cranium. Taken in their order, from before backwards, the different pairs are named as foUoM-s • 1st. Olfactory. 2nd. Optic. 3rd. Motor oculi. 4th. Trochlear (Pathetic). 5th. Trifacial (Trigeminus). 6th. Abducent. 7th. Facial. 8th. Auditory. 9th. Glosso-pharyngeal. 10th. Pneumogastric or Vagus, nth. Spinal accessory. 12th. Hypoglossal. The area of attachment of a cranial nerve to the surface of the brain is termed its superficial or apparent origin. The fibres of the nerve can, in all 3 M 2900 NEUROLOGY cases be traced into the substance of the brain to a special centre of grey matter, termed the nucleus. The motor or efferent cranial nerves arise from erouns of nerve-cells situated within the brain, and such groups of cells constitute their nuclei of origin. The sensory or afferent cranial nerves arise outside the brain from groups of nerve-cells or gangha derived from tlie neural crest or ganglion ridge, and situated on the trunks of the ner^^es ; these gan-Ua must therefore be looked upon as tlieir nuclei of origin. The centi al e ° processes of these ganglion-cells Fia, 761.—Nerves of septum of nose. Right side. grow into the brain, and there end by arborising around the cells of certain nuclei or collections of nerve-cells, wliich are termed their nuclei of termination. Tlie nuclei of origin of the motor nerves and the nuclei of termination of the sensory nerves are brought into relationship with tlie cerebral cortex, the former through the geniculate bundle of the internal capsule, the latter through the fillet. The geniculate fibres arise from the cells of the motor area of the cortex, and, after crossing the middle line, end by arborising around the cells of the nuclei of origin of the motor nerves. On the other hand, fibres arise from the cells of the nuclei of termination of the sensory nerves, and after crossing the opposite side, join the fillet, and thus connect these nuclei, directly or indirectly, with the cerebra cortex. Is abeady stated in the chapter on Embryology (page 127), with the exception of the first and second, are developed in a similai manner to the sjDinal nerves. First Nerve (fig. 761) The Olfactory nerves (nn. olfactoru) are the nerves of smell, and are distriMtS to the^mucous membrane of the olfactory region of the nose : this Fig. 762.—Plan of olfactory neurons. Mitral cells ■Fibres of olfactory tract Olfactory cell Olfactory epithelium region comprises the superior turbinated process JJ^^^^ti^Jc^^^^^^ colresnonding part of the nasal septum. The nerves originate tro"i tm? c ^rS'^rSes of the olfactor^ cells of the 1-^^-^'", rcoll^901 SECOND CRANIAL NERVE from the dura mater and pia mater, the former being lost in the periosteum of the nose, the latter in the neurilemma of the nerve. Tlie olfactory nerves differ in structure from other nerves in being composed exclusively of non-raedullated fibres. They consist of axis-cylinders with distinct nucleated sheaths, in wliich there are, however, fewer nuclei than are found in ordinary non-medullated nerve-fibres. The olfactory centre in the cortex is generally associated with the rhinencephalon (p. 863). Applied Anatomy.—In severe injuries to the head involving the anterior fossa of the base of the skull, the olfactory bulb may become separated fi'om the olfactory nerves, thus producing loss of smell (anosmia), and with this there is a considerable loss in the sense of taste, since much of the perfection of the sense of taste is due to the substances being also odorous, and simultaneously exciting the sense of smell. Anosmia often occurs after influenza or other acute infection of the nose. Parosmia, or a perversion of the sense of smell, may occur in lesions of the cortical olfactory centres, or in insanity. Second Nerve (fig. 763) The Second or Optic nerve (n. opticus), the nerve of sight, is distributed exclusively to the eyeball. The nerves of opposite sides are connected together at the commissure, and from the back of the commissure they may be traced to the brain, under the name of the optic tracts. The optic tract, at its connection with the brain, is divided into two bands, external and internal. The external band is the larger ; it arises from the external geniculate body and from the pulvinar of the thalamus, and is partly continuous with the brachium of the upper quadrigeminal body. The internal band curves round the crusta, and ends in the internal geniculate body ; it.s fibres are merely commissural, forming Gudden's commissure. From these origms the tract winds obliquely across the imder surface of the crus cerebri in the form of a flattened band, and is attached to the crus by its anterior margin. It then Fig. 763.-The left optic nerve and assumes a cylindrical form, and, as it passes optic tracts, forwards, is connected with the tuber cine- reum and lamina terminahs. It finally joins with the tract of the opposite side to form the optic commissure. The optic commissure or chiasma, some- what quadrilateral in form, rests upon the olivary eminence and on the anterior part of the diaphragraa sellse, being bounded above, by the lamina terminahs ; behind, by the tuber cinereum ; on either side, by the anterior perforated space. Within the commissure, the optic nerves' of the two sides undergo a partial decussation. Tlie fibres which form the inner margin of each tract and posterior part of the commissure have no connection with the optic nerves. They simply pass across the commissure from one hemisphere of the brain to the other, and connect the internal geni- culate bodies of the two sides. They are known as the commissure of Oudden. The remaining and principal part of the commissure consists of two sets of fibres, crossed and uncrossed. The crossed, wliicli are the more numerous, occupy the central part of the commissure, and pass from the optic nerve of one side to the optic tract of the other, decussating in the commissure with similar f r \ opposite optic nerve. The uncrossed fibres occupy the outer part of the chiasma, and pass from the nerve of one side to the tract of the same side.* The great majority of the fibres of the optic nerve (fig. 764) consist of the afferent axons of nerve-ceUs in the retina ; a few, however, are efferent fibres, and grow out from the brain. They become medullated during the last month of <• ■^JjPecimen of congenital absence of the optic commissure is to be found in the Museum the Westminster Hospital. See also Henle, l^errenlelire, p. 393, ed. 2.NEUROLOGY 902 foetal life The afferent fibres end in arborisations around the cells in the external geniculate body, pulvinar, and upper quadrigeminal body, which constitute the loiver visual centres. From these nuclei otlier fibres are prolonged to the cortical visual centre, wliich, according to most observers, is situated m the cuneus and in the neighbourhood of the calcarme fissure. Some fibres are detached from the optic tract, and pass through the crus cerebri to the nucleus of the third nerve. These fibres are small, and may be recxarded as afferent branches for the Sphincter pupillai and Ciliary muscles. Other fibres pass to the cerebellum through its superior peduncles, while others, again, are lost in the pons. YiG. 764.—Scheme showing central connections of the optic nerve and optic tract. Optic nerve Crossed, fibres Uncrossed fibres Optic commissure Optic tract Commissure of Gudden Pidvinar External geniculate body Upper quadrigeminal body Internal geniculate body ■Nucleus of third nerve ■ Nucleus of fourth nerve Nucleus of fifth nerve Cortex of occipital lobes The optic nerves arise from the fore part o the ^^^-^rL^ex^^rt^^^^^^^^^ from one another, each becomes rounded Ts [he nerve enclosed in a sheath derived from '^l^.P^l^^^^^^^^ from the passes through the corresponding «P*;^. ° """i^^^^^^^ into two layers, dura mater ; and as it enters ^f^'^,^^^^^^^^^^^^ the orbit ; the otlicr one of whicli becomes continuous with ^J^,^ P™^^^;as far a.s the sclera, forms the proper slieath of the nerve and smo^^^^^^^^ as ^^^^ ^^^^.^^ The nerve passes forwards ""4 outwards thioug i tnc ^bout pi rccs the s^clera and the choroid J^^^'^:'\^,:^.ds into the kS^ll^rt StS: « :^^X arteria ^.ralis retin.,THIRD CRANIAL NERVE 903 perforates the optic nerve a little beliind the globe, and runs along its interior in a tubular canal of fibrous tissue. It supphes the inner surface of the retina, and is accompanied by corresponding veins. The retina is described with the anatomy of the eyebaU. Applied Anatomy.—The optic nerve is peculiarly liable to become the seat of neuritis or undergo atrophy in affections of the central nervous system, and as a rule the patho- logical relationship between the two affections is exceedingly difficult to trace. There arc, however, certain points in connection with the anatomy of this nerve which tend to throw light upon the frequent association of these affections with intracranial disease. (1) From its mode of development, and from its structure, the optic nerve must be regarded as a prolongation of the brain-substance, rather than as an ordinary cerebro-spinal nerve. (2) As it passes from the brain it receives sheaths from the three cerebral membranes, a perineural sheath from the pia mater, an intermediate sheath from the arachnoid, and an outer sheath from the dura mater, which is also connected with the periosteum as it passes through the optic foramen. These sheaths are separated from each other by spaces which commiuiicate with the subdural and subarachnoid spaces respectively. The innermost or perineural sheath sends a process around the arteria centralis retinte into the interior of the nerve, and enters intimately into its structure. Thus inflammatory affections of the meninges or of the brain may readily extend along these spaces, or along the interstitial connective tissue in the nerve. The course of the fibres in the optic commissure has an important pathological bearing, and has been the subject of much controversy. Microscopic examination, experiments, and pathology all seem to point to the fact that there is a partial decussation of the fibres, each optic tract supplying the corresponding half of each eye, so that the right tract supphes the right half of each eye, and the left tract the left half of each eye. At the same time Charcot beUeves, and his view has met with general acceptation, that the fibres which do not decussate at the optic commissure have already decussated in the corpora quadrigemina, so that the lesion of the cerebral centre of one side causes complete blindriess of the opposite eye, because both sets of decussating fibres are destroyed ; whereas if ono tract, say the right, be destroyed by disease, there will be blindness of the right half of both retinse. An antero-posterior section through the commissure would divide the decussating fibres, and would therefore produce blindness of the inner half of each eye ; while a section at the margin of the side of the optic commissure would produce bhndness of the external half of the retina of the same side. An early symptom of tumour-growth in the pituitary body would be pressure on the commissure. The optic nerve may also be affected in injuries or diseases involving the orbit ; in fractures of the anterior fossa of the base of the skull; in tumours of the orbit itself, or those invading this cavity from neighbouring parts. Third Nerve (figs. 765, 766, 767, 769) The Third or Motor oculi nerve (n. oculomotorius) supphes all the muscles of the orbit, except the Superior oblique and External rectus ; it also supphes, through its connection with the ciliary gangUon, the Sphincter muscle of the iris and the Cihary muscle. It is a rather large nerve, of rounded form and firm texture. The fibres of the third nerve arise from a nucleus which lies in the grey matter of the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius and extends in front of the aqueduct for a short distance into the floor of the third ventricle. From their nucleus of origin the fibres pass forwards through the tegmentum, the red nucleus and the inner part of the substantia nigra, forming a series of curves with their convexity outwards, and emerge from the oculo-motor sulcus on the inner side of the crus cerebri. The nucleus of the oculo-motor nerve does not consist of a continuous column of cells, but is broken up into a number of smaller nuclei, which may be arranged in two groups, anterior and posterior. Those of the posterior group are six in number, five of which are symmetrical on the two sides of the middle line, while the sixth is centrally placed and is common to the nerves of both sides. The anterior group consists of two nuclei, an antero-internal and an antero-external (fig. 765). The nucleus of the tliird nerve is said to give fibres to the seventh nerve, wliich probably supply the Orbicularis palpebrarum, Con-ugator supercilii, and anterior belly of the Occipito-frontahs.* It is also connected with the nuclei * See footnote, p. 841.904 NEUROLOGY of the fourth and sixth nerves, with the cerebellum, upper quadi'igeminal body and cortex of the occipital lobe of the cerebrum. The nucleus of the third nerve. Fig. 765.—Figure showing the dif- ferent grovips of cells, which consti- tute, according to Perlia, the nucleus of origin of the motor oculi nerve. (Testut.) 1 Posterior dorsal nucleus. 1'. Posterior ventral nucleus 2. Anterior dorsal nucleus, i . Jin- terior ventral nucleus. 3. Central nucleus. i Nucleus of Edinger and WestpUal. o. Antero- internal nucleus. G. Antero-extemal nu«eus. 8 Crossed fibres. 9. Trochlear nerve, with 9 , its nucleus of origm, and 9", its decussation. 10. Third ventricle. M, M. Median line. considered from a physiological stand- point, can be subdivided into several smaller groups of cells, each group controlling a particular muscle. The nerves to the different muscles appear to take their origin from behind for- wards, as follows : Inferior obUque, In- ferior rectus, Superior rectus, Levator palpebrse, and Internal rectus ; ^\•hile from the anterior end of the nucleus the fibres for accommodation and for the Sphincter pupillse take their origin. On emerging from the brain, the nerve is invested with a sheath of pia mater, and enclosed in a prolonga- tion from the araclinoid. It passes between the superior cerebellar and posterior cerebral arteries, and then pierces the dura mater in frorit of and external to the posterior clinoid process, passing between the free and attached borders of the tentorium, which are prolonged forwards to be connected ^^-ith the anterior and pos- terior clinoid processes of the sphenoid bone. It passes along the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, above the other orbital nerves, receiving ui its course one or two filaments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, and a communicating branch from the first division of the fifth. It then divides into two branches, which enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, between the two heads of the External rectus muscle. On passing Yia, 766.—Plan of the motor oculi nerve. (After Flower.) LeVATOI? PALPEBR'E. MOTOR OCULI placed between its two divisions.FOURTH CRANIAL NERVE The superior division (ramus superior), the smaller, passes inwards over the optic nerve, and supplies the Superior rectus and Levator palpebrse. Tlie inferior division (ramus inferior), the larger, divides into three branches. One passes beneath the optic nerve to the Internal rectus ; another, to the Inferior rectus ; and the third, the longest of the three, runs forwards between the Inferior and External recti to the Inferior oblique. From tliis latter a short thick branch (radix brevis ganghi ciliaris) is given off to the lower part of the lenticular gangUon, and forms its inferior root. All these branches enter the muscles on their ocular surfaces, with the exception of the nerve to the Inferior oblique, which enters the muscle at its posterior border. Applied Anatomy.—Paralysis of the thii-d nerve may be the result of many causes, such as cerebral disease ; or conditions causing pressure on the cavernous sinus ; or periostitis of the bones entering into the formation of the sphenoidal fissure. It results, when complete, in (1) ptosis, or drooping of the upper eyelid, in consequence of the Levator palpebr£e being paralysed ; (2) external strabismus, on account of the imopposed action of the External rectus and Superior oblique muscles, which are not supplied by the third nerve and are therefore not paralysed ; (3) dilation of the pupil, because the sphincter fibres of the iris are paralysed ; (4) loss of power of accommodation and of contraction on exposure to light, as the Sphincter pupillaa, the Ciliary muscle, and the Internal rectus are paralysed ; (5) shght prominence of the eyeball, owing to most of its muscles being relaxed ; (6) the patient v.-iW complain most of the diplopia, or double vision that occurs, the false' image being higher than the true, and the separation of the two images increasing mth movements inwards. Occasionally paralysis may affect only a part of the nerve—that is to say, there may be, for example, a dilated and fixed pupil, with ptosis, but no other signs. Irritation of the nerve causes spasm of one or other of the muscles supplied by it ; thus, there may be internal strabismus from spasm of the Internal rectus ; accom- modation for near objects only, from spasm of the Ciliary muscle ; or miosis (contraction of the pupil) from irrita- tion of the Sphincter of the pupil. The third nerve is particularly liable to become involved in a syphilitic periarteritis as it leaves the base of the brain, when passing between the posterior cerebral and superior cerebellar arteries ; associated vnth locomotor ataxia various partial or complete paralyses of the nerve are often seen. Fourth Nerve (fig. 767) Fig. 767.—Nerves of the orbit. Seen from above. The Fourth or Trochlear nerve (n. trochlearis), the smallest of the cranial nerves, supplies the Superior oblique muscle of the eyeball. It arises from a nucleus situated in the floor of the Sylvian aqueduct, opposite the upper part of the lower quadri- geminal body. From its origin the nerve runs outwards and dott-nwards through the tegmen- tum, and then turns backwards and mwards into the upper part of the valve of Vieussens. Here it decussates M-ith the corre- sponding nerve of the opposite side and emerges from the surface of the valve at the side of the freenulum veil, mimediately behind the lower quadrigemmal body. Motor ro Scnsorij root Recurrent filament to dura mater90G NEUROLOGY Emereing from the valve of Vieussens, the nerve is directed outwards across the superioi-peduncle of the cerebellum, and then winds forwards round the outer side of the crus cerebri, immediately above tlie pons Varohi, pierces the dura mater in the free border of the tentorium cerebelli, just behmd, and external to the posterior clinoid process, and passes forwards in the outer waU of the cavernous sinus, between the third nerve and the ophthalmic division of the S It crossed tlie third nerve, and enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure It now becomes the higliest of all the nerves, and lies at the inner eXmity of the fissure internal to the frontal nerve. In the orbit it passeB Swids, above the origin of the Levator palpebral, and finaUy enters the orbital surface of the Superior obhque. BVanches of communication.-In the outer M^all of ^Je cavernous sinus the fourth nerve forms communications with the oplithalmic division of the fifth and Si the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic. In the sphenoidal fissure it occa- Sonally Xes oft a^branch to the lachrymal nerve. Branches of d^sMo,u- it ltvl off a recurrent branch, which passes backwards between the layers of JheTentoi^ni dividing into two or three filaments which may be traced as far back as the wall of the lateral smus. Applied Anatomy.-When the fourth nerve is pars^lysed there is °* Fifth Nebve Th. Fifth or Trifacial nerve (n. trigemmus) is the largest cranial nerve. It res^embk a spinlf ner've • I) in alisingV two roots, a motor and a -^^^^^^^^ '"^T^^lhisVtTmo^ root arise from t^o nuclei, an -PP«^, a low^^^ The":ci consists of a strand jf^^vK - the lateral portion of the grey matter of .^/^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ to its dorsal chief nucleus is situated m the upper part of ^tie P^f J^^J^^.'^ ventricle. The surface, and along the lu.e of ^-^eral m^^^^^^^^^^^ . fibres from the upper nucleus constitute the J ^^^^ j^.^,^ ^^^JiJ: ^t^stf^trsr^^^^^^ anse th^^^^^^^^^^^^ which lies in a cavity of the dura ^^^f^^^^. petrosal temporal bone. They pass backwards ai^^^ sinus and tentorium cerebelh, and, entering thepons^^^^ VI ^j^^ roots. The upper root terminates partly in a n™\'''V^" ^Iv m the locus pons on the ^u^ter side of the l^tCS X pons .^^^^ and ends cceruleus ; the lower root fefcends tl iough the POJ^^ < ^^^^^^ ^ in the upper part of the substantia f ^{j^^J.'^e Medullation of the sometimes named the ascendir;^ TLf fif11 nioS of foetal life, but the fibres of the sensory root beg-^^s-aW ^^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^i,,,, whole of its fibres are not meduUated until ^'^^/""^^ „,,,,:„^ ^ cavity (cavum The Gasserian ganglion (g^g^^^" ^f™^"'^^^^ dSSn nkar die apex Meckelii) in the dura mater wliich .'f^, l^^^Jj^^^'^/^^It crescentic in shape of the petrous part of t >o tempom j ^ ,7 .q^t^ with its convexity directed orwards '^ '^^l^^^^^^, The motor root carotid artery and the P^^^^CTior pait of the ca^ em^^ ^^^^ sensory roo*. runs forwards and outwards in front '^"f^,^^,*^^''^^^^ comiection with it; and then passes below the ganglion without haMiig an>FIFTH CRANIAL NERVE 907 Fig. 768.—Plan of the fifth cranial nerve. (After Flower.)NEUROLOGY 908 it leaves the skuU through the foramen ovale, and, immediately below this foramen, joins the inferior maxillary nerve. Besides the motor root, the large superficial petrosal nerve lies underneath the ganglion. •, Branches of communication.—Th:\s ganglion receives, on its inner side, falar ments from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic. Branches of distribution.—\.t aives off minute branches to the tentorium oerebelli, and to the dura mater in tlie midcUe fossa of the cranium. From its convex border, which is directed for- wards and outwards, three large brandies proceed, viz. the ophthalmic, superior maxillary, and inferior maxillary. The ophthalmic and superior maxillary consist exclusively of fibres derived from the ganghon, and are solely nerves of common sensation. The third division, or inferior maxiUary, J^^f^^ outside the cranium by the motor root, and is, therefore, strictly speakmg, the only portion of the fifth nerve which can be said to resemble a spinal nerve ^ Assoc ated with the three divisions of the fifth nerve are four small gangha. The o^SSc ga^^lion is connected with the first division ; the sp^no-^aM^ne or iMeckeVs ganglion with the second; and the otic and '^^^^^^^'^^^ with the third. All the four receive sensory filaments from the fifth, and motor and sympathetic filaments from various sources; these filaments are called the roots of the ganglia. Ophthalmio Nekve (figs. 767, 768, 769) The Oohthalmic nerve (n. ophthalmicus), or first division of the fifth, is a sensorv ne?ve lT supplies sensory branches to the cornea, cihary muscle and LrTJtre lachrymal fland and conjunctiva ; to a part of tl^^ and o th nSIsll fossl ; a^d to the integument of the J^^^^ds ^^^^^^^^ nn^P It is the smallest of the three divisions of the fifth, and aiises irom Fie. 769.—Nerves of the orbit and ophthalmic ganglion. Side view Internal carotid artery jjppgy division and carotid lAexus nerve Sensory root Motor root through the sphenoidal fissure, it divides into three branches, la*y,«at, frontal, and nasal. . nnhthalmic nerve is joined by filaiiionts ''n'rr;is»..-Theo.^^^^ which passes between the layers of the tentouum . Lachrymal. Frontal. Nasal.FIFTH CRANIAL NER\1E 909 The lachrymal nerve (n. lacrimalis) is tlie smallest of the three branches of the ophthalmic. It sometimes receives a filament from the fourth nerve but this is possibly derived from the branch of communication which passes from the oplithalmic to the fourth. It passes forward in a separate tube of dura mater, and enters the orbit through the narrowest part of the sphenoidal fissure. In the orbit it runs along the ujiper border of the External rectus luuscle, with the lachrymal artery, and communicates with the temporo-malar branch of the superior maxillary. It enters the lachrymal gland and gives off several filaments, M'hicli supply the gland and the conjunctiva. FinaUv it pierces the superior palpebral ligament, and terminates in the integunient of the upper eyelid, joming with filaments of the facial nerve. The lachrymal nerve is occasionally absent, and in such eases its place is taken by the temporal branch of the superior maxillary. Sometimes the latter branch is absent, and a continuation of the lachiymal is substituted for it The frontal nerve (n. frontalis) is the largest division of the ophthalmic and may be regarded, both from its size and direction, as the continuation of the nerve. It enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and runs forwards along the middle Ime, between the Levator palpebri and the periosteum. Midway between the apex and base of the orbit it divides into two branches, supratrochlear and supraorbital. The supralrochlear nerve (n. supratrochlearis), the smaUer of the two loasses inwards, above the pulley of the Superior oblique muscle, and gives off a descending filament, which joins with the infratrochlear branch of the nasal nerve. It hen escapes from the orbit bet^veen the pulley of the SupeSor oblique and the supraorbital foramen, curves up on to the forehead cK S the bone, ascends beneath the Corrugator supercilii and Occipito frontalis muscles, and dividmg mto branches, which pierce these muscles^, it suwHes tr^r^? T'^'''\ the lower part of the forehead on either side of Se midcQe line and sends filaments to the conjunctiva and skin of the upper The supraorbital nerve (n. supraorbitalis) passes forwards throueh the supraorbital foramen, and gives off, in this situation, palpebral filamfnts to the upper eyelid. It then ascends upon the forehead and terminate^'f Iwo branches, an inner and an outer, which supply the integument o7X craSium reachmg nearly as far back as the parieto'-occipital suture. They ar^rSt situated beneath the Occipito-frontaHs, the inner branch perfoSti^i frontal portion of the muscle, the outer branch its tendinor apoSos s Prom Its two branches, small twigs pass to the pericranium ^PO^^^^osis. «nrl 1 ^Tf nasociliaris) is intermediate in size betM-een the frontal and lachrymal, .and is more deeply placed than the other branches of fit ophthalmic. It enters the orbit between the two heads of the ?VWn!i . and runs obUquely inwards across the optic nSve beSath ll w^^ and Superior oblique muscles, to the hSier S of the o Z > through the anterior ethmoidal foramen, Tnl en erL the ca^^^^^ o^t e oJ^"'"' uVmlrocS"''" "'^"^ OangUonic, long ciliary, and lleni^h^?s?flh^"' ^'T^ ^^u^"" g^^gl" ^bout half an inch in rectus T^l T ".^'^^ '^^^^^^^^'^ t^^ o '^^ads of the sSerna^ rectus. It passes forwards on the outer side of the optic nerve and on wNEUROLOGY 910 The long ciliary nerves (nn. ciliares longi), two or three m number, are g.ven off from the nasal, as it crosses the optic nerve. They accompany the sh rt ciliary nerves from the ciliary ganglion, pierce the posterior part of the sclerot^^^^ and running forwards between it and the choroid, are distributed to the Chary ""tIS ^^;toiLrS;.. (n. mfratroel^learis) is given off just before tire nasal nerve enters the anterior ethmoidal foramen. It runs forwards along the upj^er Wer of the Internal rectus, and is joined, near the pulley of the feuperior obUque by a fflament from the supratrochlear nerve It then passes to the ?nner aAgb of the eye, and supplies the mtegument o the eyelids and side of the noLrthe conjunctiva, lachrymal sac, and caruncula lacrimahs. OPHTHAI.MIC Ganglion (figs. 766, 769) Tlip onhthalmic or lenticular ganglion (ganglion cihare) is a small, quallSrgSar flaTteU ganglion, of S reddish-grey colour, and about the size 770.-Distribution of the second and third divisioas of the fifth nerve, and submaxillary ganglion. Sensory root Motor root Aiiriculo-iemporal nerve side of the ophthalmic artery. ^ ^ ^^,,^^^1^ enter its Its bra7iches '"^tot is derived from the nasal branch posterior border. One the long or «f ^ .^^d^^ The second, tlie short of the ophthalmic, and joins its PO^^^^^-^IXSod into two parts, winch or motoi root, is a short, t^^ok nerve, oceamo^^^^^ e, S^i^ tmSt-r^^^^^ ''''''FIFTH CRANIAL NERVE 911 sympatlietic root, is a slender filament from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic. This is frequently blended with the long root, though it sometimes passes to the ganglion separately. According to Tiedemann, this ganglion receives a filament of communication from the spheno-palatine ganglion. Its branches of distribution are the short ciliary nerves (nn. ciliares breves). Tliese are delicate filaments, from six to ten in number, which arise from the fore part of the ganglion in two bundles comiected with its superior and inferior angles ; the lower bundle is the larger. They run forwards with the ciliary arteries in a wavy com-se, one set above and the other below the optic nerve, and are accompanied by the long cihary nerves from the nasal. They pierce the sclera at the back part of the globe, pass forwards in delicate grooves on its inner surface, and are distributed to the Ciliary muscle, iris, and cornea. Tiedemann has described one small branch as penetrating the optic nerve with the arteria centralis retinae. Superior Maxillary Nerve (fig. 770) The Superior maxillary nerve (n. maxillaris), or second division of the fifth, IS a sensory nerve. It is mtermediate, both in position and size, between the ophthalmic and inferior maxillary. It commences at the middle of the Gasserian ganglion as a flattened plexiform band, and, passing horizontally forwards, it leaves the skull through the foramen rotundum, where it becomes more cylindrical in form, and firmer in texture. It then crosses the spheno- maxillary fossa, inclines outwards on the back of the maxUla, and enters the orbit tlirough the spheno-maxillary fissure ; it traverses the mfraorbital gi-oove and canal m the floor of the orbit, and appears upon the face at the infraorbital foramen.* At its termmation, the nerve lies beneath the Levator labii superioris muscle, and divides mto a leash of branches which spread out upon the side of the nose, the lower eyelid, and the upper lip, joming with filaments of the facial nerve. Branches of distribution.—The branches of this nerve may be divided into four groups, according as they are given off in the cranium, in the spheno- maxillary fossa, in the infraorbital canal, or on the face. In the cranium . . . Meningeal. I Orbital or temporo-malar. In the spheno-maxillary fossa Spheno-palatme. I Posterior superior dental. In the infraorbital canal j Middle superior dental. (Anterior superior dental. Palpebral. . \ Nasal. On the face Labial. T e meningea branch (n. meningeus medius) is given off from the nerve directly a tents origin from the Gasserian ganglion ; it accompanie^the mMcJe meningeal artery and supplies the dura mtter ^ The orbital or temporo-malar branch (n. zygomaticus) arises in the spheno-maxillary fossa enters the orbit by the spheno-maxilllry fissure and divides at the back of that cavity into two branches, temporal Sd inakr ' v.J^.T'^T -^"'"'"^' (ramus zygomaticotemporalis) !-uns along the outer vv^U of the orbit in a groove m the malar bone, receives a branch of coramunT cation from the lachrymal, and, passing through a foramen in tl e mX-bZ Tem^oarS^^^ aiJd is d sS bu^^^^^^^^ the temporal fascia about an inch above the zygoma, I, aistiibuted to the integument covering the temple and side of the br^thlrrSr"'^"^ ^^"^ the facial nerve Ld with tL auritbtmpo7a1 Tslender fwH. K "^^^"^^tl' I* ^he temporal fascia, it gives off Lgle of the ;jbi? the outer infeSraTrie^^Thf nthT"' ^^^''^^'^'^^^f^^^) Passes along the external mreiior angle ot the orbit, emerges upon the face through a foramen in the » After it enters the infraorbital canal, the nerve is frequently called the infTooTbital.912 NEUROLOGY malar bone, and, perforating the Orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, supplies the S on tlie prominence of the cheek. It joins with the facial nerve and with the naluebral branches of the superior maxillary. ■, ^ ^, , The spheno-palatine branches, two in number, descend to the spheno- ^^^The SsterTor superior dental branches (rami alveolares superiores poste ior^s) arise from the trunk of the nerve just as it is about to enter the nfram^b ta amove ; tliey are generally Uvo in number, but sometimes arise bv a SnX tmnk and immediatlly divide and pass doM-nwards on the tuberosity of^aiTSax lk They give off Several twigs to the gums and neighbourmg miS ofX mucous me!nbrane of the eheek. They then ent^r the posterior dental cana^ zygomatic surface of the maxilla, and, passing from Knd f™^^^^^ of the bone, communicate ^vrth the midcUe de tal nerve a^^ give ofl' branches to the lining membrane of the antrum and tSie t^%^to eac^^ tooth. These twigs enter the foramina at the apices tJSdtfsup^ell^rter^^^^^ (ramus alveolaris superior medius) is given ofTf om the supenor maxiUary nerve m the back P-VL'l\:e"ori-^il fanal, and runs dowmvards and forwards in a special ca.ial m e ^ute ^^^^^^ of th; antrum to supply the two ^iscupid teeth. It foim^^^^^^^^^ (piexu. dentalis superior) with the posterior and anterior dental branches. At its point of communication ^th the posterior branch ^^^^^^^^ Neither of these is a true ganglion. The anterior superior dental branch j^J^^J^'S^ anterior), of eonriderable '^^"■."e^ZtlfivZen 7en a speeii canal just before its exit from the SMi^^ of branches which L the anterior waU of the ^^^''^^^'^-J^" ^^^^^ middle dental s^?a'^dSt";^fr^.r^t^vSch^£^^^^ --*ti:^%f°tttwer efdS St^'"^ the facial nerve and malar branch of the oibitaL ^ nt'tbial branches <rami labiales ^^^J^^^ alsWhSd ^oThriSe.tr.l^orthri'^p'^l^UptThrJ of month, and '^"'K:branches are joined, ^■^'^J^t^Z^^'^ from the facial ner»e, forming an intricate plexus, rue J SPHENO-PALiTIKK QaNOLIOS (flg- "1) The spheno-palatine S^n^Uon (^n^on ^hen^^^^^ of Meckel, the largest of ^'^^ .^^'if^^^'Z^^'Y fossa, close to the spheno- fifth nerve, is deeply placed in tl ^^^^f,^^^^ shaped, of a reddish-grey colour, palatine foramen. It is ^n^n^ ° ^^^^^^^^^^ as it crosses the fossa and is situated just below the super oi "^^^^ f^ the fifth nerve, the Branches of commumcahon -Uke ihe^^^^ Its sen-so^y spheno-palatine possesses a motor, a ^P/^J";^'^f^^^^ its two spheno-palatnie 7oot is derived from the ^^l-^^!'! ^^^l^^^^^^ spheno-maxillary fossa branches. These branches of the neiN e,^^^^^^ en .^^ , j t h rlpqppnd to the gfinghon. iheu noies, lui inlate and nasal fossa, ano913 FIFTH CRANIAL NERVE enter the gajiglion, constituting its sensory root. Its motor root is probably derived from the facial nerve through the large superficial petrosal nerve but this nerve consists chiefly of sensory fibres, and its sympathetic root, from the carotid plexus, through the large deep petrosal nerve. These two nerves join together to form a single nerve, the Vidian, before their entrance into the ganglion. The large superficial petrosal branch (n. petrosus superficialis major) is given off from the geniculate gangHon of the facial nerve m the aqueductus Fallopii ; it passes through the hiatus Fallopii, enters the cranial cavity, and runs forwards contained in a groove on the anterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, lying beneath the dura mater. It then enters the cartilaginous substance which fills in the foramen lacerum medium, and joining with the large deep petrosal branch forms the Vidian nerve. The large deep petrosal branch (n. petrosus profundus) is given off from the carotid plexus, and runs through the carotid canal on the outer side of the internal carotid artery. It then enters the cartilaginous substance which fills in the foramen lacerum medium, and joins with the large superficial petrosal nerve to form the Vidian. Fig. 771.—The spheno-palatine ganglion and its branches. Tennination of >iaso-palatinc nerve The Vidian nerve (n. canalis pterygoidei), formed by the iunction of the rerStir- ^-bstance whLh fi'u^rthe midSe S tS same ™' f^•^'^^it' ^^^^^ ^'^^^ ^^e artery from thp nVi Joi'^ed by a smaU ascending branch, the sphenoidal S& a ^ spheno-maxiUrry fossa, ascerllZSS '^''^'1^^^^^^-'^^^^^^ are divisible into four groups, viz. l^ehettlTn^?^ *° Luschka some filaments pass through foramina in the mucous mrmbr/nr f Pl''^'^""? the ethmoid and frontal bone to supply the Thp *''f posterior ethmoidal and sphenoidal sinuses, of the mouth so';? ^ branches {nn. palatini) are distributed to the roof or tne mouth, soft palate, tonsil, and lining membrane of the nose. They are 3 NNEUKULOGY Sdc a recurrent (meningeal) branch, '" ^ the nerve to i .^^ almoBb a direct continuation of the spheno-palatine ^^^'^"^^'^ m ivilKrv nerve and are three in number : anterior, middle, and postcr or Lwnr^mZa<^•ne nerve (n. palatinus anterior descends through the and soft palate. It is occasionaUy wanting. • , ^,,^^^rrdH through The posterior palatine nerve (n. palatmus P^^™^ • behmd the the poste^'ior palatine canal, ft paE toXaS uvula, and posterior palatme foramen. It «^^PP|>^^;f^®/3^^^ and A/ygos uvulse muscles. , Ls formerly believed to ^^^y.^he L^^^^^^^^ SessoTy tt^o^h the pharyngeal ( the nasal fossa by the Bpheno-palatme ^[^j^Sed W and the Er:rth?;:SofethZSc:i;f. a-'K P->onged to the nppe,. %tiSlf''e«r|n.op.^^^^^^ the spheno-palatme foramen , it P^f , septum, and then runs below the orifice of the sphenoidal smus ^^J^/^^^.^'Pf the septum, to the obliquely downwards and f ^.^^^^^f^^^,^^^^^^^ and mucous membrane, anterior palatine foramen lying ^-^tween t^^^^^ ^^^^^ The It descends to the roof o mo^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^ canals, situated in the two nerves are here contained separate^ of Scarpa, the left nerve bemg intermaxillary suture, and termed ^ f -/oramt^a o^^ ^^^^^^ anterior to the right one. .In ^he mouth t^^ey ^ec^^e ^i 1P^^^ ^^^^.^^^ ^rn^o^'Snrir^^^^^^^^^ — - back part of the ganglion. I^ Passes through '^^ P^^^^^^^^ membrane of the IKITBRIOK Maxillaky Nehv. (figs. 768, 770, 772) The inferior maxillary nerve C^^ X^^^Lf^f^SiS to the teeth and gums of the lower aw the mtegum external ear, the lower part of th%;",^f the tongue. It is the largest of mastication;. it also suppbes a ^^^f ^^two foots : a large or sensory the three divisions of the fifth, and ;"''^':,7ri„„gpj,ian ganglion ; and a small root proceeding from the inferior '"{S'f, "^J;^;^^^^^ Nvith the sensory or mStor root, which passes benea^^ ttoShfcJamen ovale. Imniediately root, just after its exit from V/'^.T \i Trlfvides into two trunks, anterior and beneath the base of the skull, the •^^'^ ™ „ives off from its innor posterior. Previous to its division ^'^^ PV ^'^y^^'t^ The Internal pterygoid.915 FIFTH CRANIAL NERVE and supply the dura mater. The posterior branch also supplies the mucous lining of the mastoid cells. The anterior branch communicates with the meningeal branch of the superior maxillary nerve. The nerve to the internal pterygoid (n. pterygoideus internus), given off from the inferior maxillary before it divides, is intimately connected at its origin with the otic ganglion. It is a slender branch, which passes inwards and enters the deep surface of the Internal pterygoid. The anterior and smaller division, wliicli receives nearly the whole of the motor root, divides into branches which supply the muscles of mastication and the skin and mucous membrane of the cheek. They are the masseteric, deep temporal, long buccal, and external pterygoid. The masseteric branch (n. massetericus) passes outwards, above the External pterygoid, m front of the temporo-mandibular articulation, and behind Eio. 772.—The External pterygoid muscle and the branches of the inferior maxillary nerve in relation to it. Auriculo-temporal Temporal the tendon of the Temporal; it crosses the sigmoid notch with the masseteric artery, to the deep surface of the Masseter, in which it ramifies nearly as far as Its anterior border. It gives a filament to the temporo-mandibular joint. ihe deep temporal branches (nn. temporales profundi) are two in number anterior and posterior. They pass above the upper border of the External pterygoid and enter the deep surface of the Temporal. The posterior branch, of small size, is placed at the back of the temporal fossa. It sometimes arises m common with the masseteric branch. The anterior branch is frequentlv given off with the buccal nerve, and then turns upwards over the upper head i's present pterygoid. Frequently a third branch (middle deep temporal) The long buccal branch (n. buccinatorius) passes forwards between the two heads of the External pterygoid, and downwards beneath or through 3 N 2gjg NEUKULUUY the fibres of the Temporal; it emerges from under the anterior border of the iHsseter ramifies on the surface of the Buccinator, and unites with the buccal Massetcr ram r e ^^^^^^^ External pterygoid te?ts pa sag^^^^^^^ muscle, and may give off the anterior deep ?emZ-a n" The long buccal branch supplies the mtegument over the BSator muscle, and the mucous membrane hnmg its inner surface. TheIS^^ve to the external pterygoid (n pterygoideus ^^^ernus) frequent^^^ arises in conjunction with the long buccal, but it may be given off separately * fV,o nntPrim- trunk of the nerve. It enters the muscle on its inner surface. bv two roots betwe^i which the middle meningeal artery passes. It runs ScWrbeneath the External pterygoid muscle to the inner side of tbe 1 „f fi.o mnndiblp It then turns upwards with the temporal arieiy, wmmsmm temporal nerve are : . ^. i Anterior auricular. . ArU^f ^^- Branches to the meatus auditorius. Jr-arotia. Superficial temporal. A branch to the temporo-mandibular aiticutation is usuauy auriculo-temporal nerve. , • j i j the superior maxillary. «nT.T.Hpq the mucous membrane of the The lingual nerve n. lmgu^^^^^^^ ,,l,,le anterior two-thirds of the to^g^^',;^J'^/^.,'r'| pterygoid, to the mner of its course. It lies at fi/^trtf ^entS nS^^e an^^ ?^.a«ionally joined side and in front of the inferior maxiUary artery, to this nerve by a branch which may {^^^^^^^ situation. The The chorda tympani a so J^^^^^^j^^^^.^^^.ntlry^^^^ muscle and the imxer nerve then passes between the /^teinal pterygoiQ Bide of the ramus of the mandible ''^"dj,^°|,^^J^Xssus and then between tongue over the Superior ^^l^'YlfZZnJ^^^^^^^^^^ m^rt^ia^rt^ t5i^ri«ng immediately beneath tvmpani), the inferior dental and hypoglossal '^3^; ^^^.^ or three in ^^^^ a ,e.,„ . anterior margin of the Hyo-glossus. „„,„ous membrane of tlie mouth.917 FIFTH CRANIAL NERVE two-thirds of the tongue ; the terminal filaments communicate, at the tip of the tongue, with the hypoglossal nerve. The inferior dental nerve (n. alveolaris inferior) is the largest of the three branches of the inferior maxiUary nerve. It passes do-wnwards with the inferior dental artery, at fii'st beneath the External pterygoid muscle, and tlien between the internal lateral hgament and the ramus of the mandible to the dental foramen. It then passes forwards in the inferior dental canal, lying beneath the teeth, as far as the mental foramen, where it divides into two terminal branches, incisive and mental. Tlie branches of the inferior dental are the mylo-hyoid, dental, incisive, and mental. The mylo-hyoid nerve (n. mylohyoideus) is derived from the inferior dental just as that nerve is about to enter the dental foramen. It descends in a groove on the imier surface of the ramus of the mandible, and reaching tlie under surface of the Mylo-hyoid supplies this muscle and the anterior belly of the Digastric. The dental branches supply the molar and biscupid teeth. Tliey corresijond in number to the fangs of those teeth ; each nerve entering the orifice at the point of the fang, and supplying the pulp of the tooth. The incisive branch is continued onwards M'ithm the bone to the middle line, and suppUes the canine and mcisor teeth. The mental nerve (n. mentalis) emerges from the bone at the mental foramen, and divides beneath the Depressor anguli oris into three branches ; one descends to supply the skin of the chin, and two ascend to supply the skin and mucous membrane of the lower lip. These branches communicate freely with the facial nerve. Two small gangUa are connected with the inferior maxillary nerve : the otic with the trunk of the nerve ; and the submaxillary with its lingual branch. Otic Ganglion (fig. 773) The otic ganglion (ganglion oticum) is a small, oval-shaped, flattened ganglion of a reddish-grey colour, situated immediately belo\v the foramen ovale; it hes on the inner surface of the inferior maxillary nerve, and surrounds the origin of the internal pterygoid nerve. It is in relation, externally. Fig. 773.—The otic ganglion and its branches. with tlie trunk of the iirferior maxillary nerve, at the point where the motor root joins the sensory portion ; internally, with the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube, and the origin of the Tensor palati muscle ; behind, with the middle meningeal artery.918 NEUROLOGY Branches of communication.—It is connected by two or three short delicate filaments with the internal pterygoid branch of the uifenor maxiUary nerve, from which it may obtain a motor, and possibly also a sensory root, it communicates with the glosso-pharyngeal and facial nerves, through the smaU superficial petrosal nerve continued from the tympanic plexus, and through this cXmunication it probably receives a sensory root from the glosso-pharyngeal and a motor root from the facial; its communication with the sympathetic fs eft^cted by a filament from the plexus surrounding the middle meningeal artery The ganglion also communicates with the auriculo-temporal nerve by a bxS which^is I'robably derived from the glosso-phaiyngeal, and which passes to the JansUon and then through it and the auriculo-temporal nerve to the parotid gknd ' I slender fflament [sphenoidal) ascends from it to tlic Vidian Serve and a small branch communicates with the chorda tympani. ""''YiXLolZofdistrihution are, a filament to the Tensor tympa^^^^^^^^^ to tlie Tensor palati. The former passes backwards, on the outer side ot tlie Eustachian tube • the latter arises from the ganghon, near the origin of fhe nternS pterygoid nerve, and passes forwards. The fibres of these nerves Se/however!^ ma^&y derived from the nerve to the Internal pterygoid. Stjbmaxillaby Ganglion (fig. 770) ^^^^^^^^^ sublingual gland and the tongue. second through the infraorbi al f^^^^^^^^J, J *e j^ction of the iiiternal and foramen. The supraorbital foramen is ^J^^^Jj^J^i^^ l,e drawn from this pomt o middle thirds of the supraorbital arch If ,1,^ lower two bicuspid tee h thelowerborderof the mandible so that It pa^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^ ^^^.^^ tuated it will pass over t^e mfraorbita and m^^^^^ o?the jaw supplied by the ^^^^^f^^^'^SilS^^^^^^^^^ ("^---^ °" '"f '^'^"if mucous membrane of the nose, moiith and tongiia xa Pterygoid muscles. S Paralysis and atrophy follow m the Tempoml Masset^^ ^^^^ ^^^^^^.^^^^ possibly also'ki the Tensor tympani; wh^^^^^^^^^^ , the nasa over towards the paralysed side^ ^ ^ of the c^^^ membranes The mncns, and the saliva, causes ^r.^T^esB of ^°7;^^P^,1,, 4pMc changes that fol ow m senseof smell is gradually lost on the affecteclsiae^ i ^^^^^^ circumstance.s the Schneiderian membrane I^f.'™*'";;;; *| t ^ the drjnics and insensitive^ kno^vn asneuropara ytxc ^f'^^^^^Xov^^^^^ ^^P^"^' " S^l^^Sc the Mth cranial nerve are Fifth verve reJhxcs.-Vm^f^ 7^^' VnlJavs leadTo a careful examination m order to919 FIFTH CRANIAL NERVE of the nerve is at first confined to one only of the main divisions, and the search for the causative lesion should always commence with a thorough examination of all those parts which are supplied by that division ; although in severe cases pain may radiate over the branches of the other main divisions. The commonest example of this condition is the neuralgia which is so often associated with dental caries—here, although the tooth itself may not appear to be painful, the most distressing referred pains may be experienced, and these are at once relieved by treatment directed to the aSected tooth. Many other examples of ' fifth nerve ' reflexes could be quoted, but it will be sufficient to mention the more common ones. Dealing with the ophthalmic division, severe supra- orbital pain is commonly associated with acute glaucoma or with disease of the frontal or ethmoidal air-cells. Malignant growths or empyema of the maxillary antrum, or imhealthy conditions about the inferior turbinateds or the septum of the nose, are often found giving rise to ' second division ' neuralgia, and should be always looked for in the absence of dental disease in the maxUIa. It is on the third division, however, that some of the most striking reflexes are seen. It is quite common to meet with patients who complain of pain in the ear, in whom there is no sign of aural disease, and the cause is usually to be found in a carious tooth in the mandible. Moreover, with an ulcer or cancer of the tongue, often the first pain to be jB^g. 774.—Diagram showing cutaneous areas of face and spalp. experienced is one which radiates to the ear and temporal fossa, over the distribution of the auriculo-temporal nerve. The fifth nerve is often the seat of severe neuralgia for which no local cause can be discovered; each of the three divisions has been divided, or a portion of the nerve excised, for this affection, usually, however, with only temporary relief. The supraorbital nerve may be exposed by making an incision an inch and a half m length along the supra- orbital margin, below the eyebrow which is to be drawn upwards, the centre of the incision corresponding to the supraorbital notch. The skin and Orbicularis palpebrarum havmg been divided, the nerve can be easily found emerging from the notch, and lying in some loose cellular tissue. It should be drawn up by a blunt hook and divided, or, better, a portion of it removed. The infraorbital nerve has been divided at its exit by an mcision on the cheek ; or the floor of the orbit has been exposed, the infraorbital ^'^^ u ivT^"^ > ^""^ anterior part of the nerve resected ; or the whole nerve, together with Meckel's ganglion as far back as the foramen rotundum may be removed, but even then a return of the neuralgia in some other branches of the fifth nerve is the rule rather than the exception. The operation is performed as follows : the superior maxillary bone is first exposed by a T-shaped incision, one limb passing along the lower margin of the orbit, the other from the centre of this vertically down the cheek to the angle of the mouth. The nerve is to be found, divided, and a piece of silk tied to it as a "uide.NEUROLOGY 920 Fig. 775.—Figui-e showing the mode of innervation of the In- ternal and External recti muscles of the eye (after Duval and Laborde). (Testut.) A small trephine (half-inch) is applied to the bone, below, but including the mfraorbital foramen and the antrum opened. The trephine is then applied to the posterior wall of the antrum 'and the spheno-maxillary fossa exposed. The infraorbital canal is opened uj) from below, and the nerve di-awn down into the trephine hole, it being held on'the stretch bv means of the piece of silk ; it is severed with fine curved scissors as near the j^'^^?" rotundum as possible, any branches coming ofi from the ganglion being also divided, ihe inferior dental nerve can be reached by a transverse mcision over the ramus of the jaw placed so as to avoid injury to the facial nerve; the Masseter muscle havmg been divided, a small trephine is applied to the ramus immediately beneath the masseteric notch, and, when the bone has been removed, the nerve is found lying on the Internal pterygoid ]ust as it enters the inferior dental canal, and it can here be resected. , ,. • ^, The lingual (gustatory) nerve is occasionally divided with the view of relievmg the pain in canceroul disease of the tongue. This may be done in that part of its course where it Ues below and behind the last molar tooth. If a line be drawn from the middle of the crown of the last molar tooth to the angle of the jaw it will cross the nerve, which Ues about half an inch behind the tooth, parallel to the bulging alveolar ridge on the inner side of the body of the bone. The tongue should be pulled forwards and over to the opposite side, when the nerve can be seen standing out as a firm cord under the mucous niembrane by the side of the tongue, and can be easily seized with a sharp hook and divided ov a portion excised. This is a simple enough operation on the cadaver, but ^^en the ^ea^e is extensive and has extended to the floor of the mouth as is generally the case when division of a nerve is required, the operation IS not practicable. In severe cases of neuralgia of the fifth nerve, the Gasserian ganghon J^^^ removed in whole or in part with a considerable measure of success. Rose was the first removeumvvu i^. . perform this operation; and he reached the ganghon by trephining the base of the skull m the position of the foramen ovale, after dividing the zygomatic arch, in front and behind, and turmng it and the Masseter muscle downwards, and. cuttmg through the coronoid process of the lower jaw, and turning it and the Temporal muscle upwards. A moi-e efficient method appeal's to be that known as the Itrau^fe-Hartl^y method. The bone forming the temporal fossa having been removed to a sufficient extent, the temporal lobe of the brain with the ' dura mater, is gradually raised froni the mid^e fossa, until th« foramen spinosum, with the middle meningeal artery passing through it, is exposed This vessel is to he ligatured in two places, and divided inetween the ligatures ; and then by further raising the temporal lobe, the foramina ovale and rotundum will be exposed, with the second and third divisions of the fifth nerve passing through them. These nerves are to be clearly defined and divided. The dura mater Is then to be raised from the ganglion, when tiie^hthalmic nerve will be exposed and must be divided, and the ganglion by means of a httle careful dissection, raised froni its bed and removed. In some cases where the neuralgia has been limited to the second chvision of the nerve an intracranial resection of that division alone has been performed with great success. In other cases where the disease ha.s not affected the ophthalmic division, ^esec ion o the outer half of the ganglion only, mth ^^^J^'^''^ and inferior maxillary nerves, has been V^^iovm^ thus leaving the sensory nerve supply to the ^oinea intact The motor root is usually resected Mth third divL.ion of the nerve, leading ^ comp ete paralysis of the muscles of mastication on that side. Sixth Nerve (figs. 769, 775) The Sixth nerve (n. abducens) supplier the External rectus muscle of the e^e ^'"its fibres arise from a smaU nucleus situated in tlie upper part of tbe flooi of the fourth ventricle, close to the mMdle ^^^^^^ ^^^J^X^o. They pass downwards and forwards through the pons, ana emerg a. Lea eyeball. 6. Kight eyeball. 1-^"''^I' nal rectvLS muscle. 2. Internal recto muscle. 1 Floor of fourth ventricle. 4. Nucleus o£ ;ixtl. nerve. 6. ^Ulclem of tJiird nen-c fi Sixt'i nerve. 7. Nerve lo Internal rectu-s arising from the nucleus of the third nerve of ?he sfme side. V. Nerve to the Internal rectus of the other side arismg froni Uic opposite nucleus. 8. Decussation of the fibres of sixth nerve to Internal recti.921 SIXTH CRANIAL NERVE between the lower border of the pons and the upper end of the pyramid of the medulla oblongata. From the nucleus of the sixth nerve, fibres pass through the posterior longi- tudinal bundle to the oculo-motor nerve of the opposite side, along which they are carried to the Internal rectus muscle. The External rectus of one eye and the Internal rectus of the other may therefore be said to receive their nerves from the same nucleus—a factor of great importance in connection with the conjugate movements of the eyeball, and one that may explain certain paralytic phenomena of the Recti, which are often associated with lesions in the pons. The nerve pierces the dura mater on the basilar sui'face of the sphenoid bone, runs through a notch immediately below the posterior clinoid process, and enters the cavernous sinus. It passes forwards through the sinus, lying on the outer side of the internal carotid artery. It enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and lies above the ophthalmic vein, from which it is separated by a lamina of dura mater. It then passes between the two heads of the External rectus, and is distributed to that muscle on its ocular surface. Branches of communication.—The sixth nerve is joined by several filaments from the carotid and cavernous plexuses, and by one from the ophthalmic nerve. The sixth nerve, together with the thu-d, fourth, and the ophthalmic division of the fifth, as they pass to the orbit, bear a certain relation to eacli other in the cavernous sinus, at the sphenoidal fissure, and in the cavity of the orbit, which wiU now be described. In the cavernous sinus (fig. 776), the third and fourth nerves and the ophthalmic division of the fifth are placed on the outer waU of the sinus, in their numerical order, both from above dowi^ards, and from witliin outM'ards. The sixth nerve lies at the outer side of the internal carotid artery. As these nerves pass forwards to the splicnoidal fissure, the third and' fifth nerves become divided into branches, and the sixth approaches the rest ; so that their relative position becomes considerably changed. In the sphenoidal fissure (fig. 777), the fourth nerve, and the frontal and lachrymal divisions of the ophthalmic lie in this order from within outwards upon the same plane ; they enter the cavity of the orbit above the muscles. The remaining nerves enter the orbit between the two heads of the External rectus. The superior division of the third is the highest of tliese ; beneath this lies the nasal branch of the ophthalmic ; then the inferior division of the third ; and the sixth lowest of all. In the orbit, the fourth, and the frontal and lachrymal divisions of the ophthalmic lie on tlie same plane immediately beneath the periosteum, the Fig. 776.—Oblique section through the right cavernou.s sinus. Internal carotid artery Fig. 777.—Eelations of structures passing through the sphenoidal fissui-e. LachrymalNEUROLOGY 922 fourth nerve being internal and resting on the Superior obhque the frontal resting on the Levator palpebral, and the lachrymal on the External rectus. The superior division of tlie third nerve hes immediately beneath the buperior rectus while the nasal branch of the ophthalmic crosses the optic nerve to reach the inner side of the orbit. Beneath these is the optic nerve, surrounded in front by the ciUary nerves, and having the lenticular ganglion on its outer side between it and the External rectus. Below the optic nerve are the iSerior division of the third, and the sixth, the latter lymg on the outer side of the orbit. AvpUed Anatomy—The sixth nerve is more frequently involved in fracture of the basf of the skull than any other cranial nerve. The result of paralysis of this nerve is internal or convergent squint. Diplopia is also present. When mjured so that its ftmSfon is destroved there is, in addition to the paralysis of the External rectus muscle, £ a ce" alfamSt of contraction of the pupil, because some of the sympathetic fibres to the radiating musoje of. the iris are conveyed through this nerve. Seventh Nerve (figs. 778, 779, 780) The Seventh or Facial nerve (n. faciahs),hke the fifth, consists of a motor and rsenslrrpart, the latter being frequently described under the name of thevmTSmedia of Wrisberg. The two parts emerge separately at the fo^vefborder ™the po^ Varolii in the recess between the ohvary and restiform j^ie 778.—Plan of the seventh nerve. The course of the sensory fibres is represented by the blue lines. Geniculate yganglion. To Auditor h superf icial petro^gj Pet^ Great deep petrosal Otic ganglion Vidiaa Lingual To poiti: belly of _ Digastric ' To Stylo-hi/oid Cervhco facia ditriaion Cervical bodiea, the motor part being the more internal; immediately to the outer side of the sensory part is the auditory nerve. ^ ■ ^l,e The motor'part supplies ^he muscle^ o the f^^^^^^^^ Buccinator and Platysma, tjie Stylo-hyoid ^^^^^ poster.oi Deu}^^ ^^^fe ^^^^^ and the Stapedius muscle of the tympanic cavity , it also923 SEVENTH CRANIAL NERVE whicli constitute the vasodilator nerves of the submaxillary and sublingual glands, and are conveyed to these glands through the chorda tympani. The sensory part contains the fibres of taste for the anterior two-thirds of the tongue. The motor root takes origin from a nucleus which lies deeply in the reticular formation of the lower part of the jDons Varolii. This nucleus is situated above the nucleus ambiguus, behind the superior olive, and internal to the lower sensory root of the fifth nerve. From this origin the fibres pursue a curved course in the substance of the pons. They first pass backwards and inwards towards the floor of the fourth ventricle, and, reaching the posterior extremity of the nucleus of the sixth nerve, run upwards close to the middle line beneath the eminentia teres. At the anterior end of the nucleus of the sixth nerve they make a second bend, and run do^vnwards and forwards through the pons to their point of emergence between the olivary and restiform bodies. Some fibres from the nucleus of the third nerve are said to descend in the posterior longitudinal fasciculus and join the motor root of the facial nerve before it leaves the pons. These fibres are beheved to supply the Orbicularis palpebrarum, Corrugator supercilii, and anterior belly of the Occipito-frontalis, since these muscles have been observed to escape paralysis in lesions of the motor nucleus of the facial nerve.* The sensory root arises from the geniculate ganglion, which is situated on the genu of the facial nerve in the aqueductus Fallopii, behind the hiatus Fallopii. The cells of this gangUon are unipolar, and the single process given off from each divides in a T-shaped manner into a central and a peripheral branch. The central branches run inwards, and, leaving the trunk of the facial nerve in the internal auditory meatus, form the sensory root ; the peri- pheral branches are continued into the chorda tympani and great superficial petrosal nerves. Entering the brain at the lower border of the pons between the motor root internally and the auditory nerve externally, the fibres of the sensory root pass into the substance of the medulla and terminate in the upper part of the nucleus of the glosso-pharyngeal and in the fasciculus solitarius. From their superficial attachments to the brain, the two roots of the facial nerve pass outwards and forwards with the auditory nerve to the internal auditory meatus. In the meatus the motor root lies in a groove on the upper and anterior surface of the auditory nerve, the sensory root being placed between the two. At the bottom of the meatus, the facial nerve enters the aqueductus Fallopii, and follows the course of that canal through the petrous portion of the temporal bone, to its termination at the stylo-mastoid foramen. It is at first directed outwards between the cochlea and vestibule towards the inner wall of the tympanum ; it then bends suddenly backwards and arches downwards behind the tympanurn to the stylo-mastoid foramen. The point where it changes its direction is named the geniculum ; it presents a reddish ganghform swelling, the ganglion geniculi, or nucleus of the sensory root of the nerve (fig. 779). On emerging from the stylo-mastoid foramen, it runs forwards in the substance of the parotid gland, crosses the external carotid artery, and divides behind the ramus of the man- dible into two primary branches, temporo-facial and cermco-facial, from which numerous offsets are distributed over the side of the head, face, and upper part of the neck, supplying the superficial muscles in these regions. As tlie primary branches and their offsets diverge from each other, they present somewhat the appearance of a bird's foot or claws ; hence the name of pes anserinus is given to the divisions of the facial nerve in and near the parotid gland. * See footnote, page 841. Fig. 779.—The course and connections of the facial nerve in the temporal bone. Eai /I ranch to Join924 NEUROLOGY Branches of communication.—The communications of the facial nerve may be arranged as follows : In the internal auditory meatus .... With the auditory nerve. At the geniculate ganglion With Meckel's ganglion by the large superficial petrosal nerve. With the otic ganglion by a branch which joins the small superficial petrosal nerve. With the sympathetic on the middle meningeal by the external superficial ^ petrosal nerve. (With the auricular branch of the pneumo- In the Fallopian aqueduct . | g^gti-ic. /With the glosso-pharyngeal. At its exit from the stylo- ) „ „ pneumogastric. mastoid foramen 1 „ „ great auricular. [ „ auriculo-temporal. Behind the ear . . ■ With the small occipital. On the face • With the tliree divisions of the fifth. In the neck '. . ■ ■ With the superficial cervical. In the internal auditory meatus some minute filaments pass from the pars mtermedia and from the facial to the auditory nerve. S farac ?tt?^er/?aaZ petrosal nerve arises from the gemculate ganglion, and consists chTefl7of sens5ry branches which are distributed to tlie mucous rm£ntftUoft paJe ; but it probably also — a ^e^^^^^^^^^ which form the motor root of Meckel's ganghon. Pa^^«=^,f°™'^f/^.^^^^^ tl!; l!!ptiis FaUoTDii and runs in a groove on the anterior sui-face of the petrous porSo SSporal bone benfath the Gasserian ganglion, to the foramen its exit from the stylo-maatoid faSlftaL* ?t^e the gtao-pharyngeal and or^^'To'fl^lh of STc^m Z^us, with pneumogastrie, mth the great f'^'f nS™ in tlie pkrotid ?he aurilulo-temporal branch o{ the nleno, maxJlary neive J^^ SnaT^rl^ctf^f te Sth, and in the neck nerve may be thus arranged : Within the aqueductus ] Tympanic, to the Stapedius muscle. ^ Fallopii I Chorda tympani. ( Posterior auricular. At its exit from the stylo- digastric. mastoid foramen [ gtvlo-hyoid. (Temporal. Temporo-facial { Mal..^.^,^,, On the face . . ' j gSLl.r. \ I Cervical.925 SEVENTH CRANIAL NERVE The tympanic branch arises from the nerve opposite the pyramid ; it passes through a small canal in the pyramid, and supplies the Stapedius muscle. The chorda tympani is given off from the facial as it passes vertically downwards at the back of the tympanum, about a quarter of an inch before its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen. It runs from below upwards and forwards in a distinct canal, and enters the cavity of the tympanum, through an aperture (iter clwrdoe posterius) on its posterior wall, close to the inner aspect of the posterior border of the membrana tympani and on a level with the upper end of the handle of the malleus, and becomes invested with mucous membrane. It traverses the cavity of the tympanum, between the fibrous and mucous laj'ers of the membrana tympani, crosses over the handle of the malleus, and emerges from the cavity through a foramen situated at the inner end of the Glaserian fissure, and named the iter chordce anterius, or canal of Huguier. It then descends between the two Pterygoid muscles on the inner aspect of the spine of the sphenoid, which it sometimes grooves, and joins, at an acute angle, the posterior border of the lingual nerve. It receives a few efferent fibres from the motor root ; these enter the submaxillary ganglion, and through it are distributed to the submaxillary and sublingual glands ; the majority of its fibres are afferent and continued omvards through the muscular substance of the tongue to the mucous membrane covering its anterior two-thirds ; they constitute the nerve of taste for this portion of the tongue. Before joining the lingual nerve the chorda tympani receives a small communicating branch from the otic ganglion. The posterior auricular nerve (n. auricularis posterior) arises close to the stylo-mastoid foramen, and passes upwards in front of the mastoid process ; here it is joined by a filament from the auricular branch of the pneumo- gastric, and communicates with the mastoid branch of th© great auricular, and with the small occipital. As it ascends between the meatus and mastoid process it divides into auricular and occipital branches. The auricular branch supplies the Retrahens auriculam and the small intrinsic muscles on the cranial surface of the puma. The occipital branch, the larger, passes backwards along the superior curved line of the occipital bone, and suppUes the occipital portion of the Occipito-frontalis. The digastric branch ( ramus digastricus) arises close to the stylo-mastoid foramen ; it divides into several filaments, which supply the posterior belly of the Digastric ; one of these perforates that muscle to join the glosso- pharyngeal nerve. The stylo-hyoid branch (ramus styloliyoideus) frequently arises in con- junction with that to the posterior belly of the Digastric ; it is long and slender, and passes mwards to enter the Stylo-hyoid about its middle. The temporo-facial division, the larger of the two terminal branches, runs upwards and forwards through the parotid gland, crosses the external carotid artery and temporo-maxillary vein, and passes over the neck of the condyle of the mandible, being connected in this situation with the auriculo- temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. It breaks up mto branches, which are distributed over the temple and upper part of the face ; these are grouped mto three sets : temporal, malar, and infraorbital. Tlie temporal branches (rami temporales) cross the zygoma to the temporal region, supplying the Attrahens and Attollens auriculam muscles, and join with the temporal branch of the temporo-malar, a branch of the superior maxillary, and with the auriculo-temporal branch of tlie mferior maxillary. The more anterior branches supply the frontal portion of the Occipito-frontalis, the Orbicularis palpebrarum, and the Corrugator superciUi, and join mth the supraorbital and lachrymal branches of the oplitlialmic. The malar branches (rami zygomatici) run across the malar bone to the outer angle of the orbit, where they supply the Orbicularis palpebrarum, and jom wnth filaments from the lachrymal nerve and the malar branch of the superior maxillary nerve. The infraorbital branches (rami mfraorbitales), of larger size than the rest, pass horizontally forwards to be distributed between the lower margin of the orbit and the mouth. The superficial branches run beneath the skin and above the superficial muscles of the face which they supply : some branches are distributed to the Pyramidalis nasi, joining at the inner angle of the orbit926 NEUROLOGY with the infratrochlear and nasal branches of the ophthalmic. The da-p branches pass beneath the Zygomatici and the Levator labn superions supplying them and the Levator anguU oris, and form a plexus (mfraorbiial) by ]ommg with the infraorbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve and the buccal branches of the cervico-facial. These branches also supply the Levator labu superioris ateque nasi and the small muscles of the nose. The cervico-facial division passes obhquely downwards and forwards through the parotid gland, across the external carotid artery. In this situation it is iomed by branches from the great auricular nerve. Opposite the angle of the mandible it divides mto branches which are distributed on the Fig. 780.—The nerves of the scalp, face, and side of neck. Termination supratrochUar f infratrochlear of nasal lower half of the face and upper part of the neck. These may be grouped mto three sets : buccal, mandibular, and cervical. ^ ^ They supply the The buccal branches {rami buccales) cros the to^^^^^^^ Buccmator and Orbicularis oris -^^ij^^'^^^^iV^^^^^ of the long buccal the temporo-facial division of the nerve, ana AMtu branch of the inferior maxillary "^rve mandibular) passes forwards The mandibtclar branch (v^nm. i^!:^™^^^^^^^ muscles of the beneath the Platysma and Repressor anguhom.^u^^^^^^ ^^^^ lower Up and chin, and communicatmg with the mentai dental nerve.SEVENTH CRANIAL NERVE 927 The cervical branch (ramus colli) runs forwards beneath the Platysma, and forms a series of arches across the side of the neck over the suprahyoid region. One of the branches descends vertically to join with the superficial cervical nerve from the cervical plexus ; others supply the Platysma. Applied Anatomy.—Facial palsy is commonly unilateral, and may be either : (1) peri pheral, from lesion of the facial nerve ; (2) nuclear, from destruction of the facial nucleus ; or (3) central, cerebral, or supramiclear, from injury in the brain to the fibres passing from the cortex through the mterual capsule to the facial nucleus, or from injury to the face-area of the motor cortej itself. In supranuclear facial paralysis, which is usually part of a hemiplegia, it is the lower part of the face that is chiefly affected, wbile the forehead can be freely wTiiikled on the palsied side, the eye car be closed fairly well, and tbe eyeball is not rolled up under the upper lid ; emotional movements of the face are much better executed than voluntary ; and the electrical reactions of the muscles on the affected side are not altered. If the paralysis is due to lesion of the facial nucleus, the Orbicularis oris escapes, as the nuclear origin of the nerve to this muscle seems to be connected with that of the tongue-nerves ; otherwise the symptoms are identical with those of the common peripheral facial palsy, of which several types may be chstinguished according to the point in its course at which the facial nerve is injured. If the lesion occurs (a) ha the pons, facial paralysis is produced as m (</) below ; taste and bearing are not affected, but the sixth nerve also ^vill be paralysed because the fibres of the facial nerve loop round its nucleus in the pons. When the nerve is paralysed (li) in the petrous bone, in addition to the paralysis of the muscles of esjiression, there is loss of taste in the anterior part of the tongue, and the patient is unable to recognise the difference between bitters and sweets, acids and salines, from involvement of the chorda tympani. The mouth is dry, because the salivary glands are not secreting ; and the sense cf hearing is affected from paralysis of the Stapedius. When the cause of the jmralysis is (c) fracture of the base of the skull, the aurhtory and petrosal nerves are usually involved. But by far the commonest cause of facial palsy is (d) exposure of the nerve to cold or injury at or after its exit from the stylomastoid foramen (Bell's paralysis). Li these cases the face looks asymmetrical even when at rest, and more so m the old than in the yoimg. The affected side of the face and forehead remains motionless when voluntary or emotional movement is attempted. The lines on the forehead are smoothed out, the eye can be shut only by hand, tears fail to enter the lachrymal puncta because they are no longer in contact with the conjunctiva, the conjunctival reflex is absent, and efforts to close the eye merely cause the eyeball to roll upwards until the cornea hes under the upper hd. The tip of the nose is dra\TO over towards the sound side ; the naso-labial fold is partially obliterated on the affected side, and the ala nasi does not move properly on respiration. The hps remain in contact on the paralysed side, and cannot be put together for whistling ; when a smile is attempted the angle of the mouth is drawn up on the unaffected side ; on the affected side the hps remain nearly closed, and the mouth assumes a characteristic triangular form. Durmg mastication food accumulates in the cheek, from pai-alysis of the Buccinator, and dribbles or is pushed out from between the paralysed hps. On protrusion the tongiie seems to be thrust over towards the palsied side, but verification of its position by reference to the incisor teeth will show that this is not really so. The Platysma and the muscles of the pinna are paralysed ; in severe cases the articulation of labials is impaired. The electrical reactions of the affected muscles are altered (reaction of degeneration), and the degree to which this alteration has taken place after a week or ten days gives a valuable guide to the prognosis. Most cases of Bell's palsy recover completely. The facial nerve is at fault in cases of so-called ' histrionic spasm,' which consists in an almost constant and uncontrollable twitching of some or all of the muscles of the face. This t-witching is sometimes so severe as to cause great discomfort and annoyance to the patient, and to interfere with sleep, and for its rehef the facial nerve has been stretched. The operation is performed by making an incision behind the ear, from the root of the mastoid process to the angle of the jaw. The parotid is turned forwards and the dissec- tion carried along the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid muscle and mastoid process, until the upper border of the posterior belly of the Digastric is found. The nerve is parallel to this on about the level of the middle of the mastoid process. When found, the nerve must be stretched by passmg a blunt hook beneath it and pulling it forwards and outwards. Too great force must not be used, for fear of permanent injury to the nerve. Eighth Nerve Jl'tie Eighth or Auditory nerve (n. acusticus) is the special nerve of the sense of hearing, being distributed exclusively to the internal ear. It consists of two sets of fibres, which, although differing in their central connections, are botli concerned in the transmission of afferent impulses from the internal ear to the meduUa and pons, and from there, by means of new fibres which arise from collections of grey matter in these structures, to the cerebrum and cerebellum.928 NEUROLOGY One set of fibres forms the vestibular root of the nerve, and arises from the cells in the oanglion of Scarpa which is situated in the internal auditory meatus ; the other set c°onstitutes the cochlear root, and takes origin from the cells in the cran^lion spirale or ganghon of Corti, which occupies the spiral canal of the cljcWea. Both of these ganglia consist of bipolar nerve-cells ; one process from each of the cells passes inwards to the brain, the other outwards to the internal ear. At its connection with the brain the eighth nerve occupies the gi-oove between the pons and medulla, where it is situated between the restiform body which is behind, and the seventh nerve which is in front. Vestibular root (radix vestibularis) (fig. 781).—The fibres of this root enter the medulla to the inner side of those of the cochlear root, and pass between the restiform body which is to their outer side, and the inferior sensory root of the fifth which lies to their inner side. They then divide mto an ascending and a descending set. The fibres of the latter end by arborising round the cells of the internal nucleus, which is situated in the trigonum acusticum m the floor of the fourth ventricle. The ascending fibres either end in the same manner or in the external nucleus, which is situated to the outer side of the trigonum acusticum and farther from the ven- FiG 781-Terminal nuclei of the vestibular root of tricular floor. It is described the auditory nerve, with their upper connections. as consisting of two parts ;LWc.I (Testut.) S.«':n t£ nucleus of Bechterew. Some of the axons of the cells of the external nucleus, and possibly also of the mternal nucleus, are continued up- wards through the restiform body to the roof nuclei of the opposite side of the cere- bellum, to which also other fibres of the vestibular root are prolonged ^vithout inter- ruption in the nuclei of the medulla. A second set of fibres from the internal and external nuclei end partly in the tegmentum, while the remainder ascend in the pos- terior longitudinal bundle to arborise around the cells of the nuclei of the oculo-motor nerve. Cochlear root (radix cochlearis) (fig. 782).—TMs part of the nerve is placed external to the vestibular root. Its fibres end in two nuclei, one of ^^'l"^!;- t'^f ^ceZVy nucleus, lies immediately in front of the restiform body ; the other. the^.6e.c^^^^^^^^^^ ,f ,he cells of the tier^s uit.y yiiJ i ^ Thorp arp however other fibres, and these are r?rZftTndcro ed which d^^ «hc tegmental „u*L both d'f °' The ceUs of the accessory .racleus give origin to £ erX^pt" in the ^o^^^^^^S^^Z ''Vtl;i"XcSrcioronrctc^^^^^^^^ 1 i'osterior or cochlear root, with its two nuclei. 2 Accessory nucleus. ■) TubSculum acusticum. '1. Anterior or vestabular root. 5. Internal R Vnrlpiis of T)eiters. 7. Nucleus o£ Bechterew. 8. In- 18. Origin of striiE acasticse.929 EIGHTH CRANIAL NERVE left lateral fillet arise in the superior olive and trapezoid nucleus of the same or opposite side, wliile others are the uninterrupted fibres already alluded to, and these are either crossed or uncrossed, the former being tlie axons of the cells of the right accessory nucleus or of the cells of the right tuberculum acusticum, while the latter are derived from the same cells of the left side. In the upper part of the lateral fillet there is a collection of nerve-cells, the nucleus of the lateral fillet, around the cells of which some of the fibres arborise and from the cells of which axons originate to contmue upwards tlie tract of the lateral fillet. The ultimate ending of the left lateral fillet is partly in the opposite internal geniculate body, and partly in both inferior quadrigeminal bodies. From the cells of these bodies new fibres arise which ascend in the posterior limb of the internal capsule to reach the posterior three-fifths of the first left temporal convolution and the transverse temporal gyri of Heschl. Fig. 782.—^Terminal nuclei of the cochlear root of the auditory nerve, with their upper connections. (Schematic.) (Testut.) Tho Tcstibular root with ifr! terminal nuclei and their eilerent fibres have been suppressed. On the other hand, in order not to obscure the trapezoid body, the efferent fibres of the terminal nuclei on the right side have been resected in a coa^iderable portion o£ their extent. The trapezoid body, therefore, shows only one-half of its fibres, viz. those which come from the left. 1. Anterior or vestibular root of the auditory, divided at its entrance into the bulb. 2. Posterior or cochlear root. 3. Accessory nucleus of auditory nerve. -1. I'uberculum acusticum. 5. Efferent fibres of accessory nudeiis. 6. Efferent libres of tuberculum acusticum, forming the striie aoustica;, with 6', their direct bundle going to the superior olivary body of the same side; G", their decussating bundles going to the superior olivary body of the opposite side. 7. Superior olivary body. 8. Trapezoid body. 9. Trapezoid nucleus. 10. Central acoustic tract (lateralfillet). 11. Raphe. 13. Pyramidal tract. 13. i'ourth ventricle. 14. llestiform body. The auditory nerve contains a few efferent fibres which arise in the quadrigeminal bodies, the nucleus of the lateral fillet, the trapezoid nucleus, and superior olive. The auditory nerve after leaving the meduUa passes for\\-ards across the posterior border of the middle peduncle of the cerebellum, in company with the facial nerve, from which it is partially separated by the auditory artery. It then enters the internal auditory meatus with the facial nerve. At the bottom of the meatus it receives one or two filaments from the facial nerve, and then divides into its two branches, cochlear and vestibular. The auditory nerve is soft in texture, and is destitute of neurilemma; its distribution will be described with the anatomy of the ear. Applied Anatomy.—The auditory nerve is frequently injured, together with the facial nerve, in fractures of the middle fossa of the base of the skull implicating the internal auditory meatus. Tho nerve may be either torn across, producing permanent deafness, or it may be bruised or pressed upon by extravasated blood or inflammatory exudation, when the deafness will in all probability be temporary. The nerve may also be injured by violent blows on the head without any fracture of the bones of the skull taking place, 3 o930 NEUKULUGY and deafness may arise from loud explosions from dynamite &c probably f^m some Tesion of tht uelve, which is more liable to be injured than the other cramal nerves on (4)llre tum,,g.ioik p aoea o^^^ „jdencc that bona conduction is duiiim»h«d, ZvoSniS tntet.lSr^o^'S." tbe condnc.i.. i. rendered nerve itself. The sounds ^eara are o"fl patient's attention so completely rushing, bell-rmgmg, /°Zy even commit suicide in order that he is no longer able to attend to his ' , J delusions and hallucina- to escape from them. In the insane cure was effected tions of hearing; cases 0^.™^, ^^.^tusln^^^^^ by the removal of cerumen impacted in the meatus ana giv mg ik, i Ninth Nerve (figs. 783, 784, 786) 'ZS^^ZW^^ryt'-i^^^^l oU, an/*e n„.e of taste to tbe parts of the tongue to which it is distributea. connected together, LK2»'4S ^hL^gaS g^.^ hetween the o which are situated on the trunk of the f y^*'^^^^^^^ terminate by arbor- When traced into the medulla, some of ^h^^^^XusSi hes beneath the ala ising around the cells of f ^ ^PP^^ P^^* f thrfourth ventricle. Many of the cinerea in the lower part of the Aoo/ of named IwLcicwZ^^ sdituriu,, n rtcS around wteh the fibres of the f---/^^^^^^ which The motor fibres take ongm from * ^« ^^.'^/.^^J !"„fX in Ues some distance from the anterior the lateral area of the ^^^^nUa and is c^^^^^^ ^^^^^ directed grey cornu of the spinal cord, liom tliis 3'''^° . ^ ^oin the fibres of faiwards, and then tl-Y bend f^^^^^^^^^ the sensory root. The nucleus ambiguus g^^^^^^^ ^^^^ the glosso-pharyngeal and vagus, and to tne oui i accessory. . . , ainqso-nharvngeal nerve passes outwards From its superficial origm, ^^^f/^f P^ tKentral part of the jugular across the flocculus, and l^-^f, i;^^;tr e^tS to^"d in front of the foramen, in a separate sheath of the dura mater, exte ^^^^.^^^^j^ pneumoga-stric and spinal ^^«««f .^^^^ .^^^bord^^^^^^^^ PotrovJs portion of the the jugular foramen it ^^^^^^-^'^ J j^^^i'^^^^^^ passes 'forwards bet.veen the temporal bone ; ^'^d, at its ex t from the skm^^^^^^ ^^^^ ^^tt jugular vein and internal carotid ^f^f y ' ,'\r';^^J,les connected with it to Vessel, and beneath the styloid process and the muscles .^^^^.^^^.^^ The lo'wer border of the «tylo^pl^ryngei^^^ l^ng upon the Stylo-pharyiigeusNINTH CRANIAL NERVE 931 Fig. 783.—Plan of the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory nerves. (After Flower.) 3 o 2NEUROLOGY 932 Pjq_ 784.—Origins, ganglia, and communications of the ninth, tenth, and eleventh cranial nerves. Jugular Bangl. Petrous Oangl Tympanic br. PneaniQ-ga&br 'rlfeTurular KanKlion (gaMlion superius) i» situated in the upper part of foramen, it is oi veiy ^^^^^^ usuaUy regarded as a detached portion of the lower ganglion. The petrous ganglion (ganglion petrosum) is situated in a depression in the lower border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; it is larger than the superior, and mvolves the whole of the fibres of the nerve From this eanghon arise those filaments which connect the glosso-pharyngeal mth the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves. Branches of communication. — Ihe giosso- pharyngeal nerve commumcates with tne pneumogastric, sympathetic, and facial. The branches to the pneumogastric are two filaments which arise from the petrous ganglion one passing to the auricular branch, and the othertotheupperganglion,ofthepneumogastric The petrous ganglion is connected by a^^ment with the superior cervical ^-Kn^^h T^^r^^ facial P~ ^^^^^^^ the stylo-mastoid foramen. ^ranches of distribution of the glosso- phaf;^gfj\rt rir^-^"^^^^^^ —' —' ^"^^he tympanic branch (J-^--"^^" S^^^^ petrous gLgUon, and ^f^^^^f^rtL W * ThiSi separates the carotid portion of the temporal bone J^^JJ^;' tie tympanum, which it enters Lnal from the Pgu^ar fossa ^J^^^^^' ^se to the waU, and divides by an aperture tii^flo"^^ ^T.^tV^/J-nan^^^ into branches. These f orm the *?hrplexus gives off : (D the smaU upon the surface of the P^«Ta o i'e tymp^t cality, ah of which wiH be described in connection with the anatomy of the ear ^^^^ internal carotid The carotid branches ^^^^f^^^^^^^^ea^^^^ the pharyngeal branch artery as far as its commencement co«^^^^ of the pneumogastric and with bia^^^^^^ ^^^^^^ f,^, filamen s. The pharyngeal branches (lami pnai^ ; pharynx, with the which uiiite, opposite the ^idd^^^ and sympathetic nerves, to form pharyngeal branches of the P X^^f^^^^'^j^W^^^ perforate the muscular the phlryngeal plexus ; branches t^^ P ^3„,brane. coat of the pharynx and supply its mus^ a ^ ^ ^^^^ eus. The muscular branch is ^^^Vm^^^^^^^^^ ayoun^ The tonsillar branches ^'^^ .^^ are distributed to this body a plexus {ctrculus f^'^^^'^^Scate with the palatme nerves the soft palate and fauces, where ^^^ '^^^^^^'^'^'^.o in number : one supplies ,e'S;el%^S\rp«^a3S^^^^^^ S^d eommunieates with tlie lingual uorve. .-o„,._The e,™t ..a... ». thi, uerve . .«,. a„.U.,, .n^ . it alone cannot usually be diagnosed.TENTH CRANIAL NERVE 933 Tenth Nerve (figs. 783, 785, 786) The Tenth or Pneumogastric nerve (n. vagus) has a more extensive distribution than any of the other cranial nerves, since it passes through the neck and thorax to the upper part of the abdomen. It is composed of both motor and sensory fibres. It supplies the organs of voice and respiration with motor and sensory fibres ; and the pharynx, oesophagus, stomach, and heart ^vith motor fibres. , . , x £i The superficial origin of the pneumogastric nerve is by eight or ten hlaments from the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies, below the glosso- pharyngeal. The sensory fibres arise from the cells of the ganglion of the root and the ganglion of the trunk of the nerve, and, when traced into the medulla, Fig. 785.—Mid- and hind-brains and upper part of spinal cord exposed from behind. Fourth nerve- Fifth nerve- Orus cerehri Cerebellar peduncles Seventh nerve- Eighth nerve- Nintli nerve- Tenth nervt Eleventh nervt Ibitlbar part) Twelfth nerve Eleventh nerve {spinal part) Post, roots of first cervical nerve Spinal cord Dura mater {laid o])eni Vertebral artery Clava Fasciculus cuneatus Fasciculus gracilis mostly terminate by arborising around the cells of the inferior part of the nucleus which lies beneath the ala cinerea in the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. Some of the sensory fibres of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve have been seen to terminate in the upper part of this nucleus. A few of the sensory fibres of the vagus descend in the fasciculus solitarius and terminate around its cells. The motor fibres arise from the ceUs of the nucleus ambiguus, already referred to in connection with the motor root of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The filaments become united, and form a flat cord, which passes outwards beneath the flocculus to the jugular foramen, through which it emerges from the cranium. In passing through this opening, the pneumogastric is934 NEUROLOGY accompanied by the spinal accessory, and is contained in the same sheath of dum mater with it, a membranous septum separatmg them from the giosso- nharvnaeal which lies in f.'ont (fig. 636). The nerve in this situation presents ^liiaijiie, ^ well-marked ganglionic Yio. 786. Course and distributioii of the ninth, tenth, and eleventh cranial nerves. ai03io-pharii»ge<d Fneumogaslrie Spinal accessor enlargement, which is called the ganglion of the root (ganglion jugulare) ; to it the accessory part of the spinal accessory nerve is connected by one or two filaments. After its exit from the jugular foramen the nerve is joined by the accessory portion of the spinal accessory, and en- larges into a second gangU- form sweUing, called the ganglion of the trunk (gan- ghon nodosum) ; through this the fibres of the acces- sory portion of the spinal accessory pass unchanged, being i)rmcipally distri- buted to the pharyngeal and superior laryngeal branches of the vagus, but some of the filaments from it are contmued mto the trunk of the vagus below the ganglion, to be distri- buted with the recurrent laryngeal nerve and prob- ably also with the cardiac nerves. The vagus nerve passes vertically down the neck within the carotid sheath, lying between the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vem as far as the thyroid carti- lage, and then between the same vein and the common carotid artery to the root of the neck. From this dovni- wards, the course of the nerve difiers on the two sides of the body. On the right side, the nerve passes across the sub- clavian artery between it and the right innominate vem, and descends by the side of the trachea to the back part of the root of the lung, where it spreads out in a plexiform network {pos- terior imhnonary plcxits). From the lower part ot this two cords descend on the oesophagus, and divide nerve, the oesophageal plexus (P^^-^'"^^. bad part of the oesophagus, collected into a single cord, which 7'^%^^° » ^^^"^S^u^^ of the stomach, enters the abdomen, and is distributed to the posteuoxTENTH CRANIAL NERVE 935 joining the left side of the solar plexus, and sending filaments to the splenic plexus and a considerable branch to the coehac plexus. ^i, i jr. On the left side, the pneumogastric nerve enters the chest between the iett carotid and subclavian arteries, behind the left innominate vein. It crosses the arch of the aorta, and descends behind the root of the left lung, forming the voslerior pulmonary plexus. From this it runs along the anterior surface of the oesophagus, where it unites with the nerve of the right side m forming the plexus gulce, and is continued to the stomach, distributing branches over its anterior surface ; some of these extend over the fundus, and others along the lesser curvature. Filaments from these branches enter the gastro-hepatic omentum, and join the hepatic plexus. , . i . j. i, 4. The gang-lion of the root is of a greyish colour, spherical m form, about one sixth of an inch ia diameter. , • p . 1 Branches of communication.—To this ganghon the accessory portion of the spinal accessory nerve is cormected by several delicate filaments ; it also communicates by a twdg with the petrous ganghon of the glosso-pharyugeal, with the facial nerve by means of its auricular branch, and with the sympathetic by means of an ascending filament from the superior cervical ganglion. 1 • r The ganglion of the trunk is a plexiform cord, cyUndrical m form, ot a reddish colour, and about an mch m length ; it mvolves the whole of the fibres of the nerve. Passmg through it is the accessory portion of the spinal accessory nerve, which blends with the pneumogastric below the ganghon. Branches of commtmication.—This ganghon is connected with the hypo- glossal, the superior cervical ganghon of the sympathetic, and the loop between the first and second cervical nerves. Branches of distribution.—The branches of the pneumogastric are : T .1- • 1 * J Meningeal. In the jugular fossa . . • | Auricular. Pharyngeal. T ,, 1 Superior laryngeal. In the neck Recurrent laryngeal. Cervical cardiac. Thoracic cardiac. Anterior pulmonary, j Posterior pulmonary. ( (Esophageal. In the abdomen .... Gastric. In the thorax . . . . { The meningeal branch (ramus meniageus) is a recurrent filament given off from the ganghon of the root in the jugular foramen. It passes backwards, through the jugular foramen, and is distributed to the dura mater covering the posterior fossa of the base of the skuU. The auricular branch (ramus auricularis), or nerve of Ai-nold, arises from the ganghon of the root, and is joined soon after its origin by a filament from the petrous ganghon of the glosso-pharyngeal; it passes outwards behind the jugular vein, and enters a small canal on the outer wall of the jugular fossa. Traversing the substance of the temporal bone, it crosses the aqueductus FaUoph about one-sixth of an inch above the stylo-mastoid foramen, and here it gives off an ascending branch which joins the facial. The continuation of the nerve reaches the surface by passing through the auricular fissure between the mastoid process and the tympanic plate, and divides into two branches, one of which communicates with the posterior auricular nerve, while the other supphes the integument at the back part of the pinna and the posterior part of the external auditory meatus. The pharyngeal branch (ramus pharyngeus), the principal motor nerve of the pharynx, arises from the upper part of the ganghon of the trunk. It consists priacipaUy of fUaments from the accessory j)ortion of the spinal accessory ; it passes across the internal carotid artery to the uj)per border of the IVliddle constrictor, where it divides into numerous filaments, which join ■with those from the glosso-pharyngeal, sympathetic, and external laryngeal to form the pharyngeal plexus. From the plexus, branches are distributed to936 NEUROLOGY the muscles and mucous membrane of the pharynx and the muscles of the soft palate, except the Tensor palati. A minute filament descends and joins the hypoglossal nerve as it -winds round the occipital artery. The superior laryngeal nerve (n. laryngeus superior) is larger than the preceding, and arises from the middle of the ganglion of the trunk, in its course it receives a branch from the superior cervical ganglion ot the sympathetic. It descends, by the side of the pharynx, behind the internal carotid artery and divides into two" branches, the external and internal laryngeal. Tiie external laryngeal branch (ramus externus), the smaUer, descends on the larynx, beneath the Sterno-thyroid, to supply the Crico-thyroid muscle, it gives branches to the pharyngeal plexus and the Inferior constrictor and com- municates with the superior cardiac nerve, behmd the common carotid artery The internal laryngeal branch (ramus internus) descends to the thyro-hyoid membrane, pierces it in company mth the superior laryngeal artery, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the larynx. A smaU branch com- municates with the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Of the branches to the mucous membrane some are distributed to the epiglottis, the base of thie tongue and the epiglottic glands ; while others pass backwards, in the aryteno-epiglott c fold to supply the mucous membrane surroundmg the superior orihce ot the arynx? and^hat lining the cavity of the larynx as low do.-n ^^ f e vocal cord. The filament which joins with the recurrent aryngeal descends beneath the mucous membrane on the inner surface of the thyi-oid cartilage, where the two nerves become united. ^diArl frnm The inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerve (n. recurrens), so called from its reflected course, is the motor nerve of the larynx. It ^^^^f^!''^'^l'^^l '^l^ in front of the subclavian artery ; \vinds from before backwards round that vessel and ascends obUquely to^he side of the trachea behind the common carotid and either in front of or behind the mfenor thyroid artery. On the ey de,Tt arises in front of the arch of the aorta, Ws from befoi^ blckwa;ds below the aorta at the pom where oblite^^^^^^^^^ '^^The nerve rinsn<^ is attached and then ascends to the side of the trachea. xne ner%e of either sidrascen^^ in the groove between the trachea and esophagus, nasses undS the W Inferior constrictor muscle to enter the iCynrbeh^id tie articulation of the inferior cornu o the ,^^1^^-^/^^^^^^^^ with the cricoid and is distributed to aU the muscles of the larynx, excepting L pneumogastric and sympathetic. As 't asceiA m tta n^^^^^^^^ number, arise from the pneumogastric, at the upper and lOA^er par ""The suverior branches are smaU, and -mmunicate with the c^^^^^^^^^^ of the sympathetic. They can be traced to the great ^^ep cardi^^^^^^^^ The Vmor 6mncA arises at the lower P.^^^^ tiMhea, and from its recurrent '.'''yngf"!'^''X; ""J ™ the deep cardiac the recurrent nerve only; paasmg luwaids, tliej eim in ■"'Se anterior pulmonary branches g;mi^b^^^^^^^^ T'VT^'^ '^^'^ S:e'nt1rL the syurpathet.c, and tVrhllS&o'i^ (plexus pulmonaU, antenor).TENTH CRANIAL NERVE 937 The posterior pulmonary branches (rami bronchiales posteriores), more numerous and larger than the anterior, are distributed on the posterior sTrface oTthe rootof the lung ; they are joined by filaments from the third and foS (sometimes also from the first and second) thoracic gangha of the sym- pathetic, and form the posterior 'pulmonary plexus (plexus oio^'^li^PPff• Branches from this plexus accompany the ramifications of the bronchi through the substance of the lung. , ■ ^rt f,.^»v, The (Esophageal branches (rami oesophagei) are given iiom ^he pneumogastric both above and below the pulmonary branches The lower are more numerous and larger than the upper. They form, together with branches from the opposite nerve, the (ssophageal plexus, hvom tins plexus filaments are distributed to the back of the pericardium. ^ f The g-astric branches (rami gastrici) are the terminal filaments of the pneumogastric nerve. The nerve on the right side is distributed to the posterior surface of the stomach,_and joins the left side of the coehac plexus and the splenic plexus. The nerve on the left side is distributed over the anterior surface of the stomach, and along the lesser curvatm-e. It unites witn branches of the right nerve and wdth the sympathetic, some filaments passmg through the lesser omentum to the hepatic plexus. Applied Anatomy.—The trunk of the pneumogastric is rarely injured, but the functions of the nerve may be interfered mth by damage to its nucleus of origm m the medulla ; by thickening or grow-th from the meninges or bones, or aneurysm of the basilar artery, before its exit from the skull ; injuries such as giuishot or punctured wounds in the neck, or injuries during such operations as hgature of the carotid artery, removal of tuberculous glands or other deep-seated tumours. The pneumogastric may also be compressed by aneurysms of the carotid artery, and its deep crighi becomes afiected m bulbar paralysis. The symptoms produced by paralysis of the nerve are palpitation, with increased freqiiency of the pulse, constant vomitmg, slowing of the respiration, and a sensation of suffocation. ' Reflexes' on the branches of the vagus are not at all uncommonly met with. The ' ear cough ' is perhaps one of the commonest, where a plug of wax in the auditory meatus may by irritating the filaments of Arnold's nerve be responsible for a persistent cough. Syringing the external auditory meatus frequently produces cough, and, in children, vomiting is not uncommon as the result of such a procedure ; moreover, in people with weak hearts, syrmging the ear has been responsible for a sudden fatal syncope, by reflex in-itation of the cardiac branches. Another very common example is the persistent cough which is frequently due to enlarged bronchial glands in children, the irritation of which is referred to the superior laryngeal filaments. The anatomy of the laryngeal nerves is of considerable importance in considering some of the morbid conditions of the larynx. When the peripheral termmations of the superior laryngeal nerve are irritated by some foreigii body passing over them, reflex spasni of the glottis is the result. When its trunk is pressed upon by, for instance, a goitre or an aneurysm of the upper part of the carotid, there is a pecuhar dry, brassy cough. When the nerve is paralysed, there is anaesthesia of the mucous membrane of the larynx, 80 that foreign bodies can readily enter the cavity, and, as the nerve also supphes the Cricothyroid muscle, the vocal cords cannot be made tense, and the voice is deep and hoarse. Paralysis may be the result of bulbar paralysis ; may be a sequel to diphtheria, when both nerves are usually involved; or it may, though less commonly, be caused by the pressure of tumours or aneurysms, when the paralysis is generally unilateral. Irritation of the recun-ent or inferior laryngeal nerves produces spasm of the muscles of the larynx. When both these recurrent nerves are paralysed, the vocal cords are motionless, in the so-called ' cadaveric position '—that is to say, in the position in which they are foimd in ordinary tranquil respiration ; neither closed as in phonation, nor open as in deep inspiratory efforts. When one recurrent nerve is paralysed, the cord of the same side is motionless, while the opposite one crosses the middle line to accommodate itself to the affected one; hence phonation is present, but the voice is altered and weak in timbre. The nerves may be paralysed in bulbar paralysis or after diphtheria, when the paralysis usually affects both sides ; or they may be affected by the pressure of aneurysms of the aorta, innominate, or subclavian arteries ; by mediastinal tumours ; by gummata ; or by cancer of the upper part of the oesophagus, when the paralysis is often unilateral. Paralysis of the adductor muscles of the larynx on both sides is quite common, and is usually functional in nature. The voice is reduced to a whisper, but the power of coughing is preserved. Eleventh Nerve (figs. 783, 785, 786) The Eleventh or Spinal Accessory nerve (n. accessorius) consists of two parts : one, the accessory part to the vagus, and the other the spinal portion.NEUROLOGY 938 The bulbar or accessory part is the smaller of the two. Its fibres arise from the cells of the nucleus amUquus and emerge as four or five delicate filaments from the side of the medulla, below the roots of the vagus It passes outwards to the jugular foramen, where it mterchanges fibres sviWx the spmal portion or becomes united to it for a short distance ; it is also connected m the foramen, with the ganglion of the root of the vagus by one or two filaments, it then passes through the foramen, and becoming again separated from the spinal portion it is contmued over the surface of the ganghon of the trunk of the vagus, being adherent to its surface, and is distributed principaUy to the pharyngea and superior laryngeal branches of the pneumogastric. Through the pharyngeal branch it probably supphes the Azygos uvulae and Levator palati muscles (see page 486). Some few filaments from it are continued into the trunk of the vagus Yia. 181.—Plan of the hypoglossal nerve. TO DURA-MATER ' TO GANG.ON TRUNK OF VAGUS . HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE -BRANCH FROM ISTCERVICAL TO HYPOGLOSSAL TO LINGUAL NERVE TO GENIO-HYOID TO ANTERIOR BELLY OF OMO-HYOID ^TO STEBNO-HYOlO TO STERNO-THYROID TOPOSTERIOR BELLY OF*OMO-HYOID below the ganglion, to be distributed with the recurrent laryngeal nerve and probably also with the cardiac nerves. ^ ^j^^ ^^otor ^ The spinal portion is firm m t^xtui^, and its^^^^^ ^^^^ cells in the outer part of the anterior horn °J <^^he tlu-ough the as low as the fifth cervical nerve P-'^^^i'^g ^^V^;''^ and unite to form lateral white column of the cord they «"^X'meSu cS^^^^^^ -^^^^ '^'^ a single trunk, which ascends between tbe^ h^^^^^^^ ^^^^^ posterior roots of the spinal ''^^""^^^'il^^l^^^^^^ Siagnum, and is then du'ectcd outwards to th^^^^^ loi J'^^.,^ ^ut it passes, lying in the same sheatb of fl^y'-^^'^f ^^f' 'l' l^guiar foramen, it se-larated torn it by a fold of tl^e aradW^ In the j igi^^ ^ receives one or two filaments from the accessory poit o, ^ short distance and then separates from it again. At939 ELEVENTH CRANIAL NERVE foramen, it runs backwcards, either in front of or behind the mternal jugular vein and descends obUquely behind the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles to the upper part of the Sterno-mastoid. It pierces this muscle, and passes obliquely across the posterior triangle, to terminate in the deep surface of the Trapezius. During its passage tlu-ough the Sterno-mastoid it gives several branches to the muscle, and joins in its substance with branches from the second cervical. In the posterior triangle it joms wth the second and thii'd cervical nerves, while beneath the Trapezius it forms a plexus with the third and fourth cervical nerves, and from this plexus fibres are distributed to the muscle. Applied Anatomy—The functions of the spinal accessory nerve may be interfered with either by central changes ; or at its exit from the skull, by fractures running across the jugular foramen ; or in the neck, by inflamed lymphatic glands, &c. The acute wry neck in children is most commonly due to inflamed or suppurating glands, and rapidly subsides with appropriate treatment. Central hritation causes clonic spasm of the Sterno- mastoid and Trapezius muscles, or, as it is termed, spasmodic torticollis. In cases of this affection in which all previous palUative treatment has failed, and the spasms are so severe as to undermine the patient's health, division or excision of a portion of the spinal accessory nerve has been resorted to. This must be done from the anterior border of the Sterno- mastoid muscle. The operation consists in making an incision, three niches in length, from the apex of the mastoid process along the anterior border of the muscle, which is defined and pulled backwards, so as to stretch the nerve, which is then to be sought for beneath the Digastric muscle, about two inches below the apex of the mastoid process. Unfortu- nately, the operation does not yield a satisfactory or permanent cure, as the spasms tend to recur after an interval, either in the same muscles or in other groups of neck muscles. In cases where extensive dissections are undertaken for enlarged glands in the posterior triangle of the neck, it is essential that this nerve should be at once sought for and isolated from the mass of inflamed glands so as to maintain its continuity, as otherwise it would be very Uable to be divided, with resulting paralysis of the Trapezius. Twelfth Nerve (figs. 785, 787, 788) The Twelfth or Hypoglossal nerve (n. hypoglossus) is the motor nerve of the tongue. Its fibres arise from the cells of the hypoglossal nucleus, which is an upward prolongation of the base of the anterior horn of grey matter of the cord. This nucleus is about three-quarters of an inch in length, and its upper part corre- sponds with the trigonum hypoglossi, which is situated close to the middle line in the lower half of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The lower part of the nucleus extends downwards into the closed part of the medulla, and there Ues in relation to the ventro-lateral aspect of the central canal. The fibres run forwards through the entire thickness of the medulla, between its anterior and lateral areas, and emerge in the pre-olivary sulcus between the pyramid and the olivary body. The filaments of this nerve are collected into two bundles, which perforate the dura mater separately, opposite the anterior condyloid foramen, and unite together after their passage through it. In those cases in which the anterior condyloid foramen in the occipital bone is double, these two portions of the nerve are separated by the small piece of bone which divides the foramen. The nerve descends almost vertically to a point corresponding with the angle of the jaw. It is at first deeply seated beneath the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein, and intimately connected with the pneumogastric nerve ; it then passes forwards between the vein and artery, and lower down in the neck becomes superficial below the Digastric muscle. The nerve then loops round the occipital artery, and crosses tlie external carotid and lingual below the tendon of the Digastric. It passes beneath the tendon of the Digastric, the Stylo-hyoid, and the Mylo-hyoid muscles, lying between the last-named muscle and the Hyo-glossus, and communicates at the anterior border of the Hyo-glossus with the lingual nerve ; it is then continued forwards in the fibres of the Genio-hyo-glossus muscle as far as the tip of the tongue, distributing branches to its muscular substance. Branches of communication.—^The branches of communication are, with the Pneumogastric. First and second cervical nerves. Sympathetic. Lingual.NEUROLOGY 940 The communication with the pneumogastric takes place close to the exit of the nerve from the skull, numerous filaments passing between the hypoglossal and the "anglion of the trunk of the pneumogastric through the mass of con- nective tissue which unites the two nerves. It also communicates with the pharyngeal plexus by a minute filament as it winds round the occipital arteiy. The^communication with the sympathetic takes place opposite the atlas by branches derived from the superior cervical ganghon, and in the same situation the nerve is jomed by a filament derived from the loop connectmg the first two cervical nerves. , , , i.i i. • i j„„ The commmiication with the Ungual takes place near the anterior border of the Hyo-glossus muscle by numerous filaments which ascend upon it. Fig. 788.—Hypoglossal nerve, cervical plexus, and their branches. Branches of distribution.-The branches of distribution are, the Meningeal. Descendens hypoglossi. Thyro-hyoid. Muscular. Of these branches, the "-ningeal, descendens hypoglo^^^^^ ^'^^S^f ^b?a^c^s.^A. the hyp— ..on. pa^^^ anterior condyloid foramen it gives off, ^uig to Lusclilv^^^^ to the dura niter in the posterior fossa of the base ^^^e kuU ^^^^^^ The descendens hypoglossi (ranuis descendens) is a Jon^^^^^^^ which quits tlie hypoglossal where it turns round the occipital941 TWELFTH CRANIAL NERVE descends in front of the sheath of the carotid vessels, giving off a branch to the anterior belly of tlie Omo-liyoid, and then joins the descendens cervicis (ramus communicans hypoglossi) from the second and third cervical nerves, just below the middle of the neck, to form a loop, the ansa hypoglossi. From the con- vexity of this loop branches pass to supply the Sterno-hyoid, the Sterno- thyroid, and the posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid. Accordmg to Arnold, another filament descends in front of the vessels into the chest, and joins the cardiac and phrenic nerves. The thyro-hyoid branch (ramus thyreohyoideus) arises from the hypoglossal near the posterior border of the Hyo-glossus ; it runs obliquely across the great cornu of the Iiyoid bone, and supplies the Thyro-hyoid muscle. The muscular branches are distributed to the Stylo-gloss us, Hyo-glossus, Genio-hyoid, and Genio-hyo-glossus muscles. At the under surface of the tongue numerous slender branches pass upwards into the substance of the organ to supply its intrinsic muscles. Applied Anatomy.—^The hypoglossal nerve is an important guide in the operation of ligature of the lingual artery (see page 631). It runs forwards on the Hyo-glossus just above the great cornu of the hyoid bone, and forms the upper boundary of the triangular space in which the artery is to be sought for by cutting through the fibres of the Hyo- glossus. In cases where it has been injured on one side of the neck, or in some cases of bulbar paralysis, unilateral paralysis, together with hemiatrophy of the tongue, is the result ; the tongue, when protruded, being directed to the paralysed side owing to the unopposed action of the Genio-hyo-glossus of the opposite side. On retraction, the wasted and paralysed side of the tongue rises up higher than the other. The larynx may deviate towards the sound side on swallowing, from the unilateral paralysis of the depressors of the hyoid bone. If the paralysis is bilateral, the tongue Ues motionless in the mouth, while articulation and mastication are much interfered with. THE SPINAL NERVES (NERVI SPINALES) The spinal nerves spring from the spinal cord, and are transmitted through the intervertebral foramina. They number thirty-one pairs, which are grouped as follows : Cervical, 8 ; Thoracic, 12; Lumbar, 5; Sacral, 5 ; Coccygeal, 1. The first cervical nerve emerges from the vertebral canal between the occipital bone and the atlas, and is therefore called the suboccipital nerve (n. suboccipi- talis): the eighth issues between the seventh cervical and first tlioracic vertebrae. Nerve roots.—Each nerve is attached to the spinal cord by two roots, an anterior or ventral, and a posterior or dorsal, the latter being characterised by the presence of a ganglion, the spinal ganglion. The anterior root (radix anterior) emerges from the anterior surface of the cord as a number of rootlets or fasciculi (fila radicularia), which coalesce to form two bundles near the intervertebral foramen. The posterior root (radix posterior) is larger than the anterior owing to the greater size and number of its fasciculi ; these are attached along tlie postero- lateral furrow of the spinal cord and unite to form two bundles which join the spinal ganglion. The posterior root of the first cervical nerve is exceptional in tliat it is smaller than the anterior; it is occasionally wanting. The spinal ganglia (ganglia spinalia) are collections of nerve cells on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. Each ganglion is oval in shape, reddish in colour, and its size bears a proportion to that of tlie nerve root on which it is situated ; it is bifid internally where it is joined by the two bundles of the posterior nerve root. The ganglia are usually placed in the intervertebral foramina, immediately outside the points where the nerve roots perforate the dura mater, but there are exceptions to this rule; thus the ganglia of tlie first and second cervical nerves lie on the neural arches of the atlas and axis respectivel}!^ those of the sacral nerves are inside the vertebral canal, whUeNEUROLOGY 942 that on the posterior root of the coccygeal nerve is placed within the sheath ^sl^uch^re—The ganglia consist chiefly of unipolar nerve ceUs, and from these the fibres of the posterior root talce origin—the single process of each cell dividing after a short course mto a central fibre which enters the spinal cord and a peripheral fibre which runs outwards into the spinal nerve. Two other forms of ceUs are, however, present, viz. : (a) the cells of Dogiel, whose axons Tig. 789.—Distribution of cutaneous nerves. Ventral aspect Dorsal aspect • , hfi absent while small aberrant ganglia the spinal ganglia and the cord. Each nerve root „«ive, -,-«78,'STe;t,S;&"- i„ve»tca by the arac ,no,d '^'•^^■TZC^-.^'^T^tZ roote pierce, the dma t^Xr^rS^^^"- ^ o,e,nh.»e,.here .heSPINAL NERVES 943 roots join to form the spinal nerve this sheath is continuous with the epineurium of the nerve. Size and direction,—The roots of the upper four cervical nerves are small, those of the lower four are large. The posterior roots of the cervical nerves bear a proportion to the anterior of tlu-ee to one, which is greater than in the other regions ; their individual filaraents are also larger than those of the anterior roots. The j^osterior root of the first cervical is an exception to this rule, being smaller than the anterior root; in eight per cent, of cases it is wanting. The roots of the first and second cervical nerves are short, and run nearly horizontally outwards to their points of exit from the vertebral canal. From the second to the eighth cervical they are directed obli'quely downwards and outwards, the obliquity and length of the roots successively increasing ; the distance, however, between the level of attachment of any of these roots to the cord and the points of exit of the corresponding nerves never exceeds the depth of one vertebra. The roots of the thoracic nerves, with the exception of the first, are of small size, and the posterior only slightly exceed the anterior in thickness. They increase successively in length, from above doM'nwards, and in the lower part of the thoracic region descend in contact with the cord for a distance equal to the height of at least two vertebrae before they emerge from the vertebral canal. The roots of the lower lumbar and upjjer sacral nerves are the largest, and their individual filaments tlie most numerous of all the spinal nerves, while the roots of the coccygeal nerve are the smallest. The roots of the lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal nerves run vertically down- wards to their respective exits, and as the spinal cord ends near the lower border of the first lumbar vertebra it follows that the length of the successive roots must rapidly increase. As already mentioned (page 797), the term Cauda equina is applied to this collection of nerve roots. From the description given it will be seen that the largest nerve roots, and consequently tlie largest spinal nerves, are attaclied to the cervical and lumbar swellings of the cord ; these nerves are distributed to the upper and lower limbs. Points of emergence.—The following table, after Macalister, shows the relations whicli the places of attachment of the nerves to the cord present to the bodies and spinous processes of the vertebrae : Level of body of No. of Nerve Level of tip of spine of Level of body of ,No. of Nerve Level of tip of spine of C. 1 C. 1 T. 8 T. 9 7 T. 2 \l 9 10 8 T. 1 c. 10 11 9 T. 3 4 2C. 12 10 T. 4 5 3 C. 11 L. 11 T. 5 6 4C. 6 7 5 C. 12 1 r 8 6 0. 4 12 T. 7 T, 1 7 C. f 5 T. 1 2 1 T. S. 1 ■ 2 3 L. 1 - 2i 3 4 2 T. 3 4 5 3 t! 4 - IL. 5 6 4T. 5 6 7 5 T. C. li 7 8 6 T. L. 2 Connections with sympathetic. — Immediately beyond the spinal ganglion, the anterior and posterior nerve roots unite to form the spinal nerve which emerges through the intervertebral foramen. Each spinal nerve receives a branch {grey ramus communicans) from the adjacent ganglion of the sym- pathetic cord, while all the thoracic, and the first and second lumbar nerves each9^4 NEUROLOGY pontribute a branch (ivhite ramus communicans) to the adjoining sympathoUc coutr bute ^ , . fourtli sacral nerves also supply white ganghon ■r'\«,.^;f^^°'f^^^^^^^ are not connected with the ganglia of tlie rami; these ^^^^^^^^^^.^^un dhect^^^^^^^^ the pelvic plexuses of the sympathetic, synipathe^c coK^^^^^^^^ nerve contains librcs belonging to two syst?'4 v.rthe somaticVd the sympathetic or splanchmc, as well as fibres l^iQ. 790.-Scheme showing structure of a typical spinal nerve. Sympatlictit Cell of OogCel Spinal gan^LCon. Spinal nerve Po&tirior nerve root Sympathetic — cord Anterior nerve root Sympatketie - ' ngiion 1. somatic efferent. 2. Somatic aflerent. 3, d, 5. Splanchnic efferent. 0,' Splanchnic afferent. 1 Somatic efferent, a. .-^umiii-iv- continued up the co^ to 'J^J^fsr^.r^ylli^st^^^^^^^^^^^ gracilis and nucleus cuneatus J^^^Jthis way reflex arcs, fn the same or opposite side of ^^^^ ^X^^nTinS afferent. The cfcraH 2. The sympathe ic fibres^^^^^^^ sScord and are conveyed through fibres originate m l^^eml h^^ ^1^, corresponding the anterior nerve root W they may end by forming synapse, ganglion of the sympathetic ' , 'in another of the chain Lund its cells, or may run ^^''''ifJ^fSn^^^^^^ the sympathetic plexuses, ganglia or in a more distally P^f «^,"^1 ^.^^^^^^^^ other nerve cells. From !n all cases they termmate by o m.ng ^n^^^^ ^^^^^ „j these run inwards the cells of the chain g^ngl*^-^ ^nntes o [oh the spinal nerves, along which not conolnsive.946 CERVICAL NERVES to the viscera, either directly or after interruption in one of the distal ganglia. The afferent fibres are derived partly from the unipolar cells (type I.) and partly from the multipolar cells (type III.) of the spinal ganglia. Theii- periplieral processes are carried outwards through the white rami communicantes, and after passing through one or more sympathetic ganglia (but always without interruption in them) finally terminate in the tissues of the viscera. The central processes of the unipolar cells enter the spinal cord through the posterior nerve root and form synapses around either somatic or sympathetic efferent neurons, thus completing reflex arcs. The dendrites of the multipolar nerve cells form synapses around the cells of type II. (cells of Dogiel) in the spinal ganglia, and by this path the original impulse is transferred from the sym- pathetic to the somatic system, through which it is conveyed to the sensorium. Divisions.—After emerging from the intervertebral foramen, each spinal nerve gives off a small recurrent branch (ramus meningeus) which re-enters the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramen and supplies the vertebrae and their hgaments, and the blood-vessels of the spinal cord and its membranes. It then splits into a posterior or dorsal, and an anterior or ventral division, each division containing fibres from both nerve roots. POSTERIOR PRIMARY DIVISIONS OF THE SPINAL NERVES The posterior primary divisions are as a rule smaller than the anterior. They are directed backwards and, with the exceptions of those of the first cervical, the fourth and fifth sacral, and the coccygeal, divide into internal and external branches (rami mediales et laterales) for the supply of the muscles and skin of the posterior part of the trunk. Cervical Nerves The posterior division of the first cervical or suboccipital nerve is larger than the anterior division, and emerges above the posterior arch of the atlas and beneath the vertebral artery. It enters the subocciiiital triangle and supphes the muscles which bound this space, viz. tlie Rectus capitis posticus major, the Obliquus superior, and the Obliquus inferior ; it gives branches also to the Rectus capitis posticus minor and the Complexus. A filament from the branch to the Obliquus inferior joins the second cervical nerve. The nerve also occasionally gives off a cutaneous branch which accompanies the occipital artery to the scalp, and communicates with the great and small occipital nerves. The posterior division of the second cervical nerve is much larger than the anterior division, and is the greatest of all the posterior cervical divisions. It emerges between the posterior arch of the atlas and the lamina of the axis, below the Inferior oblique. It supplies a twig to this muscle, receives a communicating filament from the first cervical, and then divides into a large internal and a small external branch. The internal branch, called from its size tlie great occipital nerve (n. occipitalis major) ascends obliquely inwards between the Obliquus inferior and the Complexus, and pierces the latter muscle and the Trapezius near then attach- ments to the occipital bone. It is now joined by a filameirt from the posterior division of the third cervical and, ascending on the back of the head with the occipital artery, divides into branches which communicate with the small occipital nerve and supply the skin of the scalp as far fonvard as tiie vertex of the skuU. It gives off muscular branches to the Complexus, and occasionally a twig to the back of the pinna. The external branch supplies filaments to the Splenius, Trachelo-mastoid and Complexus, and is often joined by the con-esponding branch of the third cervical. The posterior division of the third cervical is intermediate in size between those of the second and fourth. Its internal branch runs between the Complexus and Semispinalis, and piercing the Splenius and Trapezius, ends in the skin. While under the Trapezius it gives off a branch called the tMrd 3pNEUROLOGY 946 occivital nerve (n. occipitalis tortius) whicli pierces the Trapezius and ends in Sfi o The lower part of the back of the head It lies to the .nner side of the great occipital and communicates witli it. The exterrml branch often joins that of the second. The posterior cli^^sion of the suboccipital, and the inner branches of tlie posterioi priJaiT'uSns of the second and third eervical nerves -J^^ZuT'^Ql] """" nicating loops to form the posterior cervical plexus (Cruveilhier) (hg. 7Ji). The posterior divisions of the lower five cervical nerves divide into inteW and external branches. The internal branches of tlie fourth Yio, 79i._pian of the posterior divisions of the upper cervical nerves. .!io cy and fifth run between the Semis^f ijComj^^^^ the spinous processes pierce the SP^^ "l^f Js to rS^^^^^^ skin. Tlie internal Sometimes the internal branch of the f^^^'^^^'J^/^^T^Vrin the Semispinalis. branches of the lower «"-<^ "™ XriTnls T^^ branches of fiT^SrS^^ '''' Trachelo-mastoid.GERVIOAL NERVES 947 Fia 792 —Superficial and deep distribution of the posterior divisions of the spinal nerves (after Hirsclifeld and Leveille). On the left side the cutaneous branches are represented \T. on the superficial layer of muscles. On the right side the superficial muscles have been removed, the Splenius capitis and Complexus divided in the neck, and the Erector spinse divided and partly removed in the back, so as to expose the posterior divisions of the spinal nerves near their origin. tor' a, a. Small occipital nerve from the cervical plexus. 1. External muscular branches of the first oenncal nerve, and union by a loop with the second. 2. Placed on the Eectu-s capitis posticus major muscle, marlts the great occipital nerve (2'), passing round the short muscles and piercing tlic Complexus : the external branoli is seen to the outeide. 3. External branch from the posterior division of the tliird nerve. 3'. Its internal brancli, sometimes called the tliird occipital. 4' to 8'. The internal branches of the several corresponding nerves on the left side. The external branches of these nerves, proceeding to muscles, are displayed on the right side, tl to t G and thence to t 12. External muscular branches of the posterior divisions of the 12 thoracic nerves on the right side. (I'totW. The internal cutaneous branches of the sbc upper thoracic ner%'e3 on the left side. « 7' to < 12'. Cutaneous twigs from the external branches of the six lower thoracic nerves. I, I. External branches from the posterior divisions of several lumbar nerves on the right side, piercing the muscles, the lower descending over the gluteal region. /'. The same, more superlicially, on the left side. jr. The issue and union by loops of the posterior divisions of four sacral nerves on the right side. s',s'. Some of those distributed to the .skin on the left side. 3 p 2NEUROLOGY 948 Thoracic Nerves (fig. 792) The internal branches of the posterior divisions of the upper six thoracic nerves run inwards between the Semispinalis dorsi and Multifidus spinae, which they supply ; they then pierce the Rhomboidei and Trapezius and reacli the skin by the sides of the spmous processes. The internal branches of the lower six are distributed chiefly to the Multifidus spinae and Longissimus dorsi; occasionally they give off filaments to the skin near the middle luie. The external branches increase in size from above downwards, ihey run through or beneath the Longissimus dorsi to the interval between it and the Ilio-costalis, and supply these muscles ; the lower five or six also give ott cutaneous branches which pierce the Serratus posticus inferior and Latissimus dorsi in a line with the angles of the ribs. The external branches of a variable number of the upper thoracic nerves also give filaments to the skin. The internal cutaneous branches of the posterior primary divisions of the thoracic nerves descend for some distance close to the spinous processes before reachmg the skm, while the external branches travel downwards for a considerable distance-it may be as much as the breadth of four ribs-before they become superficial ; the branch fro^ the Iwelfth thoracic, for instance, reaches the skm only a little way above the ihac crest. Lumbar Nerves The internal branches of the posterior divisions of the lumbar nenje^ pass inwards close to the articular processes of the vertebr* and end in the Multifidus spinse. j'jQ^ 793.—The posterior primary divisions of the sacral nerves. Anterior,' BR or LOWER 4ACRM. NERVES The e.ter,u.l branches supply the Erector Spina. T^- ujipe^^ cutaneous nerves whbh pierce the -l^-^^l^:'^^^^^^^ part of as the level of the great trochanter.SACRAL NERVES 949 Sacral Nerves The posterior divisions of the sacral nerves (fig. 793) are small and diminish in size from above downwards ; tliey emerge, except the last, through the posterior sacral foramina. The upper three are covered at their points ot exit by the Multifidus spinaj, and divide into internal and external branches. The internal branches are small, and end in the Multifidus spina?. The external branches jom with one another and with the last lumbar and fourth sacral to form loops on the posterior surface of the sacrum. From these loops branches run to the posterior surface of the great sacro-sciatic hgament and form a second series of loops under the Gluteus maximus. From this second series cutaneous branches, two or three in number, pierce the Gluteus maximus along a line drawn from the posterior superior iliac spme to the tip of the coccyx; they^supply the skin over the posterior part of the buttock. The posterior divisions of the lower two sacral nerves are small and lie below the Multifidus spins. They do not divide into internal and external branches, but unite with each other and with the posterior division of the coccygeal nerve to form loops on the back of the sacrum ; filaments from these loops supply the skin over the coccyx. Coccygeal Nerve The posterior division of the coccygeal nerve does not divide into an internal and an external branch, but receives, as already stated, a communicating branch from the last sacral; it is lost in the skin over the back of the coccyx. ANTERIOR PRIMARY DIVISIONS OF THE SPINAL NERVES The anterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves (rami anteriores) supply the antero-lateral parts of the trunk, and the limbs ; they are for the most part larger than the posterior divisions. In the thoracic region they run independently of one another, but in the cervical, lumbar, and sacral regions they unite near their origins to form plexuses. CERVICAL NERVES (NN. CERVICALES) The anterior primary divisions of the cervical nerves, with the exception of the first, pass outwards between the anterior and posterior Inter- transverse muscles, lying on the grooved upper surfaces of the transverse processes, and emerge between the muscles attached to the anterior and posterior tubercles of these. The anterior primary division of the first or sub- occipital nerve issues from the vertebral canal above the posterior arch of the atlas and runs forwards round the lateral aspect of its superior articular process, internal to the vertebral artery. In most cases it descends internal to and in front of the Rectus lateralis, but in some cases it pierces the muscle. The anterior primary divisions of the upper four cervical nerves unite to form the cervical plexus, and each receives a grey ramus communicans from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic cord. Those of the lower four cervical, together with tlie greater part of the first thoracic, form the brachial plexus. They each receive a grey ramus communicans, those for the fifth and sixth being derived from the middle, and those for the seventh and eighth from the lowest, cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. Cervical Plexus (Plexus Cervicalis) The cervical plexus (fig. 794) is formed by the anterior primary divisions of the upper four cervical nerves; each nerve, except the first, divides into an upper and a lower branch, and the branches unite to form three loops. It is situated opposite the upper four cervical vertebrae, in front of the Levator anguli scapulre and Scalenus medius, and covered by the Sterno-mastoid. Its branches are divided into two groups, superficial and deep, and are hereNEUROLOGY 950 given in tabular form : the figures foUcnying the names indicate tlie nerves from whicli the diffcrcut branches take origin: Superficial /Ascending Transverse Descending or Supraclavicular (Small occipital . .2,0. 1 Great auricular . . 2, 3, C. (Superficial or transverse) I cervical i Sternal / Internal - Deep \ External Clavicular Acromial With hypoglossal . „ vagus . ,, sympathetic . Rectus lateralis Anterior recti Communicantes hypo-) glossi I k Phrenic . (Communicating with Spinal accessory J (Sterno-mastoid 2, 3, 0. 3, 4, 0. Communicating Muscular (Muscular I Trapezius ' Levator anguli scapulae Scalenus medius 1. 2, C. 1, 2, C. 1, 2, 3, i, C. 1,C. 1, 2, 0. 2, 3, 0. 3, 4, 5, C. 2, 3, 4, C. 2, 0. 3, 4, C. 3, 4, C. 3, 4, C. Stjperficial Branches of the Cervical Plexus (fig. 795) The small occipital (n. occipitalis minor) arises ^^^^ ^ cervical nerve, sometimes also from the third ; it curves round the posteiior border of the Sterno-mastoid, and ascends along the posterior border of the muscle. Near the cranium it perforates the deep fascia, and is contmued Zvards along the side of the head behind the ear, supplymg the ^tegument aSd communicating with the great occipital, the great auricular, and the posterr^uricular\ranch of the facial. The smaU occipital varies m size, and is sometimes duplicated. +1,0 It gives oS an auricular branch, which supplies ^^je mtegument of the upper Ld back part of the auricle, communicatmg with the d branch of the great auricular. This branch is occasionally derived from the gieat occipital nerve. magnus) is the largest of the ascending branchef It arises from the second and third cervical nerves winds round thrpiterior bSder of the Sterno-mastoid, and, after perforatmg the deep tcir aBcTncls upon that muscle beneath the Platysma to the parotid gland, where it divides into facial, auricular, and mastoid branclies. The facial branches are distributed to the integument of the f^ce tl^e parotid gland ; others penetrate the substance of the gland, and commumcate "^^Thelltr— ascend to supply the integument of tlie back of the pinna, except at its upper part, o^^rn^gj^^ T^^^:^ l^t^^iS^^=?rtdiS;S.d^!riot& lo^lr part of the "^Tt mastoid branch communicates with ^--^^ o-jF^^^^^^ posterior auricular branch of the facial, and is distributed to the mtegumen '^'ittjSficial or transverse cervical (n. the second and third cervical nerves turns round t'^e P"/^^,^^^^^^^^^^ tjie Sterno-mastoid about its middle, and P^^J-^g/;^!;^;;^/^^^^^^ S^JS'dJvi^ ^ r - ^ -nches. which =chi, ^ KSchC;?: wisrs^s^i offa^ai951 CERVICAL PLEXUS nerve beneath the Platysma; others pierce that muscle, and are distributed to the intSument of the upper half of the neck, at its fore part, as high as the ohm ¥ileiZending branch (occasionaUy represented by two or more filaments pierces the Platysma, and is distributed to the integument of the side and front of the neck as low as the sternum. , . , , • The descending or supraclavicular nerves (nn. supraclaviculares) arise from the thu-d and fourth cervical nerves : emerging beneath the postei-ior border of the Sterno-mastoid, tliey descend in the posterior triangle ot the neck beneath the Platysma and deep cervical fascia. Near the clavicle tJiey Fig. 794.—Plan of cervical plexus. Small occipital- To pneumogastric G-reat auricular To Sterno-mastoid- To Lev. ang. acapulce Superficial cervical To Trapezius To Lev. ang. scapula To Scalenus uiedius To Beet us lateralis To Anterior recti To Mectiis cap. ant. major and Longus colli To Longus colli To Genio-hyoid To Thyro-hyoid Descendens Imjpoglossi Communicantes hi/j^oglossi To Longus colli Ansa hypoglossi Phrenic Descending superficial cervical perforate the fascia and Platysma to become cutaneous, and are arranged, according to their position, into three groups. The inner or sternal branches (im. supraclaviculares anteriores) cross obliquely over the external jugular vein and the clavicular and sternal attach- ments of the Sterno-mastoid, and supply the integument as far as the median line. They furnish one or two filaments to the sterno-clavicular joint. The middle or clavicular branches (nn. supraclaviculares medii) cross the clavicle, and supply the integument over the Pectoral and Deltoid muscles, communicating with the cutaneous branches of the upper intercostal nerves. The external or acromial branches (nn. supraclaviculares posteriores) pass obUquely across the outer surface of the Trapezius and the acromion, and supply the integument of the upper and back part of the shoulder.NEUROLOGY 952 Deep Branches of the Cervical Plexus. Internal Series The communicating branches consist of several filaments, which pass from the loop between the first and second cervical nerves to tlie pneuraogastric, hypoglossal, and sympathetic. The branch to the hypoglossal ultimately leaves that nerve as a series of branches, viz. the descendens hypoglossi. the nerve to the Thyro-hyoid and the nerve to the Genio-hyoid (see page 940). A communicating branch also passes from the fourth to the fifth cervical, while each of the first four cervical nerves receives a grey ramus coramunicans from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. YiG. 795.—The nerves of the scalp, face, and side of the neck. /) Termination of .lupratrochlear of infralrochhar of nnsal Mi.crnlar branches supply the Anterior recti and Rectus lateralis musdes proceed from Ihe^irst cervical nerve, and from the loop formed ci^iS^ hypoglossi ^g 79^ Xmti^^Sctir fiHmonts one derived from the second, and the other from the Urncl cenicai. page 941). Occasionally, the loop is formed witlun the sheath.CERVICAL PLEXUS 953 The phrenic (n. plirenicus), or internal respiratory nerve of Bell, arises chiefly from the fourth cervical nerve, but receives a filament from the tliird and a brancli from tlie fifth ; the fibres from tlie fifth nerve occasionally- come through tlie nerve to the Subclavius. It descends to the root of the neck, running obliquely across the front of the Scalenus anticus, and beneath the Sterno-mastoid, the posterior belly of the Omo-hyoid, and the transversalis colli and suprascapular vessels. It next passes over the first part of the sub- clavian artery, between it and the subclavian vein, and, as it enters the chest, crosses the internal mammary arteiy near its origin. Within tlie chest, it descends nearly vertically in front of the root of the lung, and then between the pericardium and tlie mediastinal portion of tlie j)leura, to the Diaphragm, wliere it divides into branches, which separately pierce that muscle, and are distributed to its under surface. In the tliorax it is accompanied by a brancli of the internal mammary artery, tlie arteria comes nervi plirenici. The two phrenic nerves dift'er in their length, and also in their relations at tlie upper part of the thorax. The right nerve is situated more deejDly, and is shorter and more vertical in direction than the left; it lies on the outer side of the right innominate vein and superior vena cava. The left nerve is rather longer than the right, from the inclination of the heart to the left side, and from the Diaphragm being lower on this than on the opposite side. At the root of the neck it is crossed by the thoracic duct; in the superior mediastinum it is placed between the left common carotid and left subclavian arteries, and crosses in front of the vagus on the left side of the arch of the aorta. Each nerve supplies filaments to the pericardium and pleura, and at the root of the neck is joined by a filament from the sympathetic, and, occasionally, by one from the ansa liypoglossi. Branches have been described as passing to the peritoneum. From the right nerve, one or two filaments pass to join in a small ganglion with phrenic branches of the solar jjlexus ; and branches from this ganglion are distributed to the hepatic plexus, the suprarenal capsule, and inferior vena cava. From the left nerve, filaments pass to join the phrenic plexus of the sympathetic, but without any ganglionic enlargement. Deep Beanches of the Cervical Plexus. External Series Communicating branches.—The deep branches of the external series of the cervical plexus communicate with the spinal accessory nerve, in the substance of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, in the posterior triangle, and beneath the Trapezius. Muscular branches are distributed to tlie Sterno-mastoid, Trapezius, Levator anguli scapulae, and Scalenus medius. The branch for the Sterno-mastoid is derived from the second cervical; the Trapezius and Levator anguli scapulae receive branches from the third and fourth. The Scalenus medius is supplied sometimes by the thii-d, sometimes by the fourth, and occasionally by both nerves. Applied Anatomy.—Pains referred to tlie terminal branches of the cervical plexus are not uncommon in caries of the cervical spine, where pain may be felt radiating over the occiput, if the disease is situated high up in the spine. The Brachial Plexus (Plexus Brachialis) The brachial plexus (fig. 796) is formed by the union of the anterior primary divisions of the lower four cervical nerves and the greater jjart of the anterior primary division of the first thoracic nerve; a fasciculus from the fourth cervical nerve usually contributes and frequently one from the second thoracic nerve. It extends from the lower part of the side of the neck to the axilla. The nerves which form the plexus are nearly equal in size, but their mode of communication is subject to some variation, so that no one plan can be given as applyingNEUROLOGY 954 to every case. The following is, however, tlie most constant arrangement. The fifth and sixtli cervical unite soon after their exit from the mtervertebral foramina to form a common trunk. The eighth cervical and first thoracic also unite to form one trunk, while the seventh cervical runs out alone. Three trunks are thus formed, an upper one, formed by the junction of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves ; a midcUe one, consisting of the seventh cervical nerve ; and a lower one, formed by the junction of the eighth cervical and first thoracic nerves. 4s they pass beneath the clavicle, each of these three trunks divides into two divisions an anterior and a posterior* The anterior divisions of the upper Fig. 796.—Plan of brachial plexus. from TV C. To Rhomboids- To join Hie phrenh Suprascapular To StibdaviuS' External anterior thoracic To Loitffus colli and IScaleiii To Lonijtts cclU and Scalt'iii To Aongns C"lli and Scalt iii posterior thoracic To I^ngus c"' and Scalfni Circumflex Mediati Ulnar j Lesser internal cutaneous Internal cutaneous and middle trunks then unite to form -^^^^^S"^^^^:^ side of the middle part of the axillary artery ^^/^^^^^^^ down on the brachial plexus. The anterior division of ^l^f, "^^^ .^^^^^gff ^nd the inner side of the axiUary artery m the middle ^^^^'J' ^^"^ trunks Sner cord of the brachial Pl^^-/ta^cMaT^Texu: S^^^ unite to form the posterior cord of the brachial plexus, waicu the second portion of the axillary artery. posterior triangle, Relations.-/^ the neck, the l^^achial plexus les in the l osrei^ being covered by the skin, Platysma and deep f^X" / Onio Iwoil tlie descLling superficial cervical nerves, the Poste™r beUy of the On o . ^^^^^^.^^ external jugular vem, and the Tf jn---«;:^^«^^^ usually passes scapular artery anses from the tl^^^^ between the roots of the plexus. -'^^i^ P^®^"'',^',iP« ibove the third part of tlie and Middle scalenus muscles; its upper P^F^ lies abo^^ t^c n j ^^^.^^ subclavian artery, wliile the trunk formed by the um^^^^^^^^ and first thoracic is placed behind the artery , it next passes . Tbe posterior division o£ the lower trunlc is very .uch .n.llcr than the others, and >s frequtl^Vderived entirely fron. ti>e eighth cervical ner^e.955 BRACHIAL PLEXUS tlie Subclavius muscle and suprascapular vessels, and lies upon the first serration of the Serratus magnus, and the Subscapuiaris. In the axilla it is placed on the outer side of the fii'st portion of the axillary artery ; it surrounds the second part of the artery, one cord lying upon the outer side of that vessel, one on tlie inner side, and oiie beliind it ; and at the lower part of the axillary space gives off its terinmal branches to the upper extremity. Branches of communication.—The brachial plexus communicates Avith the cervical plexus by a branch from the fourth to the fifth nerve, and with the phrenic nerve by a branch from the fifth cervical, which joins that nerve on the Scalenus anticus. Close to their exit from the intervertebral foramina the fifth and sixth cervical nerves are joined by filaments from the middle cervical ganglion of tlie sympathetic, the seventh and eiglith cervical by twigs from the inferior ganglion, and the first thoracic nerve by a branch from the first thoracic ganglion. Branches of distribution.—The branches of the brachial plexus may be arranged into two groups, viz. those given off above and those below the clavicle. SUPEACLAVICTJLAR BbANCHES ^ . ,. (with phrenic 5 C. Communicating I^^.^l^^yj^p^^j^g^i^ . 5, 6, 7, 8 C, 1 T. Rhomboids (posterior scapular) . 5 C. !?K?inatur I (suprascapular) . 5,6 0. Muscular to . , Subclavius 5, 6 C. Serratus magnus (posterior thoracic) 5, 6, 7 C. Longus colli 5, 6, 7, 8 C. ^Scaleni 5, 6, 7, 8 C. The communicating branch with the plu-enic is derived from the fifth cervical nerve or from the loop between the fifth and sixth ; it joins the phrenic on the Scalenus anticus. The communications with the sympathetic have already been referred to. The unnamed muscular branches supply the Longus colli, Scaleni, and Subclavius. Those for the Longus colli and Scaleni arise from the four lower cervical nerves at their exit from the intervertebral foramina. The nerve to the Subclavius is a smaU filament, which arises from the fifth cervical at its point of junction with the sixth nerve ; it descends in front of the third part of the subclavian artery and the lower trunk of the plexus, to the muscle, and is usually connected by a filament with the phrenic nerve. The posterior scapular (n. dorsalis scapula), or nerve to the Rhomboids, arises from the fifth cervical, pierces the Scalenus medius, and passes beneath the Levator anguli scapulse, which it occasionally supplies, to the Rhomboid muscles. The posterior thoracic (n. thoracalis longus), or external respiratory of Bell (fig. 801) supplies the Serratus magnus, and is remarkable for the length of its com-se. It usually arises by three roots from the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves ; but the root from the seventh nerve may be absent. The roots from the fifth and sixth nerves pierce the Scalenus medius, while that from the seventh nerve emerges from in front of the muscle. The nerve passes down behind tlie brachial plexus and the axillary vessels, resting on the outer surface of the Serratus magnus. It extends along the side of the chest to the lower border of that muscle, supplying filaments to each of its digitations. The suprascapular (n. suprascapularis) (fig. 802) arises from the trunk formed by the fifth and sixth cervical nerves ; running obliquely outwards beneath the Trapezius and the Omo-hyoid, it enters the suprasj^inous fossa through the suprascapular notch, below the transverse or suprascapular ligament; it then jmsses beneath the Supraspinatus muscle, and curves round the external border of the spine of the scapula to the infraspinous fossa. In the supraspinous fossa it gives off two brandies to the Supraspinatus muscle, and an articular filament to tlie shoulder-joint; and in the infraspinous fossa it gives off two branches to the Infraspinatus muscle, besides some filaments to the shoulder-joint and scapula.ggg NEUROLOGY Infraclavicular Branches Thfi infraclavicular branches are derived from the three cords of the brachial ..Ipxni. The which they are composed may be traced througli Jlexus to'S spi^^^^^ nerves fro^m which they originate. They are a.s follows : ~ a n fMusculo-cutaneous . ■ ^'^ Si" ^ Outer cord . . External anterior thoracic . ^. ^,7U 1 Outer head of median . . b / u. / Internal anterior thoracic . 8 0,1 i. I Internal cutaneous . • ^ C, 1 i- - Lesser internal cutaneous . i;^)/^ * Ulnar . . ■ • • ^oiT \ Inner head of median . . ° ^ ' /Upper subscapular . • ^' ^ n Inner cord I Middle Posterior cord . ^ Lower . 5, 6 C. I Circumflex . • • • J'^„^- « r. m rp^ imasculo-spiral . • . (5) 6, 7, 8 C (1 i). These branches may be arranged according to the regions they supply : ^ 1 , Internal and external anterior thoracic. To the chest . • • • , g^b,,^p^i^,s. To the shoulder . • • \ Circumflex. Musculo-cutaneous. (Internal cutaneous. I Lesser internal cutaneous. To the arm, forearm, and hand jyiedian. Uhiar. Musculo-spiral. The anterior thoracic nerves (nn. thoracales anteriores) (fig. 801), two in number, supply the Pectoral rnuscles. ^^^^^ ^^^^^ The external anterior thoracic, the ^''^f^Jl.^'^r ' ti-aced outer cord of the brachial PlX^'erS'Lve I Pa^^^^^ SwU^, across to the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervica nerv^^^^^^ niembrane, and is the axillary artery and P^^^f' fpe^t^^^^^^ It sends down a fooTiHiont oUhe first part of the axfllary a^^^^^^ %he internal anterior ^^^racic^vrs^s tv^^^^^ from the eighth cervica fir^.\\^^^^^^^ aSry and vem! and joins -ss^^^Sd^^^^ muscle to supply the Pectorahs majoi-^ number supply The subscapular nerves (^^;,/7Shnus tei muscles. The fascicuh the Subscapularis, Teres ^-^Yll.TtX^^to tl^e fifth, sLxth, and seventh of which they are composed may be tracea lo or snort subscapular, the -^^l-^^^S^^"^' SublapXis muscle; this nerve 1^^^^^^^^^^ the subscapular artery along ^ ^ i^.^-er border of the muse e.957 BRACHIAL PLEXUS Fig. 797.—Cutaneous nerves of right upper extremity. Anterior view. with the musculo-spiral nerve, and its fibres may be traced through the posterior cord to the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. It is at first placed behind the axillary artery, between it and the Subscapularis muscle, and jiasses downwards and outwards to the lower border of that muscle. It tlien winds backwards, in company \^-ith the posterior cu-cumflex artery, through a quadrilateral space bounded above by the Subscapularis, below by the Teres major, internally by the long head of the Triceps, and externally by the surgical neck of the humerus, and divides into two branches. The upper branch winds round the surgical neck of the humerus, beneath the Deltoid, with the posterior circum- flex vessels, as far as the anterior border of that muscle, supplying it, and giving oflE cutaneous branches, which pierce the muscle and ramify in the integument covering its lower part. The loiver branch, at its origin, dis- tributes filaments to the Teres minor and the back part of the Deltoid. Upon the filament to the former muscle an oval enlai'gement usually exists. The nerve then pierces the deep fascia, and supplies the integument over the lower two-thirds of the posterior part of the Deltoid, as well as that covering the long head of the Triceps. The circumflex nerve, before its division, gives off an articular filament which enters the shoulder-joint below the Subscapularis. The musculo-cutaneous (n. mus- culocutaneus) (fig. 801) arises from the outer cord of the brachial plexus, opposite the lower border of the Pec- toralis minor, its fibres being derived from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. It perforates the Coraco-brachialis muscle and passes obliquely between the Biceps and Brachialis anticus, to the outer side of the arm ; a little above the elbow it becomes cutaneous by perforating the deep fascia on the outer side of the tendon of the Biceps. In its course througli the arm it supplies the Coraco-brachialis, Biceps, and the greater part of the Brachialis anticus. The branch to the Coraco-brachialis is given off from the nerve close to its origin, and in some instances, especially in early life, as a separate filament from the outer cord of the plexus; it is derived from the seventh nerve, and is by some anatomists regarded as a separate nerve, more or less closely incorporated with the musculo-cutaneous. The branches to the Biceps and Brachialis anticus are given off after tlie musculo-cutaneous lias pierced the Coraco-brachialis. The nerve also sends a small branch to the bone, which enters the nutrient foramen with the accompanying artery, while the branch supplying the Brachialis anticus gives a filament to the elbow joint. The cutaneous portion of the nerve (n. cutaneus antibrachii lateralis) passes behind the median cephaHc vein, and divides, opposite the elbow-joint, into an anterior and a posterior branch.NEUROLOGY 958 Intercosto- umaral T.I The anterior branch descends along the radial border of the forearm to the wrist, and supplies the mtegument over the outer half of its anterior surface At the wrist-jomt it is placed in front of the radial artery, and some maments piercing the deep fascii, accompaiiy that vessel to the back of the wrist, and sinp V the carpus. The nerve then passes downwards to the ball of the thumb, wh^e^i^t te?mfnates m cutaneous filaments. It commumcates ;-th a branch from the radial nerve, and with the pahnar cutaneous branch of the medu^^^^^^^^^^^ 798.—Segmental distribution of the cutaneous nerves passes downwards, along of the rfght upper extremity. Anterior view. ^.j^g back part of the radial side of the forearm, to the wrist. It suppUes the integument of the lower two-thirds of the forearm, communicating with the radial nerve and the ex- ternal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral. The musculo-cutane- ous nerve presents fre- quent irregularities. It may adhere for some distance to the median and then pass outwards, beneath the Biceps, in- stead of through the Coraco-brachialis. Fre- quently some of the fibres of the median run for some distance in. the musculo-cutaneous and then leave it to jom their proper trunk. Less fre- quently the reverse is the case, and the median sends a branch to join the musculo - cutaneous. Instead of piercmg the Coraco - brachiaUs tlie nerve may pass under it or through the Biceps. OccasionaUy it gives a filament to the Pronator teres, and it has been seen to supply the back of the thumb when the radial nerve was absent. The internal cuta- neous (n. cutaneus anti- brachii mediaUs) (fig. 801) arises from the inner cord in common with the ulnar and internal head of tlie median, and, at its com- mencement, Ues on the It derives its fibres from the eighth cervica - off near the axilla, a filament, ^Ahicli liadial C.6.7 arises The nerve tneii \}<^^^^^'' , divides into two branches, an anterior and a posteiioBRACHIAL PLEXUS 959 Fig. 799.—Cutaneou.s nerves of right upper extremity. Posterior view. The anterior branch, the larger of the two, passes usually in front of, but occasionally behind, the median basilic vein. It then descends on tlio anterior surface of the ulnar side of the forearm, distributmg fUaments to the integument as far as the wrist, and communicating with the palmar cutaneous brancli of the uhiar nerve. The posterior branch passes obliquely downwards on the inner side of the basihc vein, in front of the internal epicondyle of the humerus, to the back of the forearm, and descends on the posterior surface of its ulnar side as far as the wrist, distributing filaments to the integument. It communicates with the lesser internal cutaneous, the lower external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral, and the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. The lesser internal cutaneous (n. cutaneus brachii medialis), or nerve of Wrisberg, is distributed to the integument on the inner side of the arm (fig. 801). It is the smallest of the ijranches of the brachial plexus, and arising from the inner cord receives its fibres from the first thoracic nerve, and sometimes from the eighth cervical. It passes through the axillary space, at fii'st lying behind, and then on the inner side of the axillary vein, and communicates with the intercosto-humeral nerve (lateral cutaneous branch of the second thoracic). It descends along the inner side of the brachial artery to tlie middle of the arm, where it pierces the deep fascia, and is distributed to the integument of the back part of the lower third of the arm, extending as far as the elbow, where some filaments are lost ui the integument in front of the inner epicondyle, and others over the olecranon. It communi- cates with the posterior branch of tlie internal cutaneous nerve. In some cases the nerve of Wrisberg and intercosto-humeral are connected by two or tiu'ce filaments, which form a plexus at the back part of the axilla. In other cases, the intercosto-humeral is of large size, and takes the place of the nerve of Wrisberg, receiving merely a filament of communication from the brachial plexus, which represents the latter nerve; in a few cases, this filament is wanting. The median (n. medianus) (fig. 801) extends along the middle of the arm and forearm to the hand. It arises by two roots, one from the outer and one from the inner cord of the brachial plexus ; these embrace the lower part of the axiUary artery, uniting either in front or on the outer side of tliat vessel. Its fibres are derived from the sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical and tirst tlioracic nerves. As it descends througli the arm, it lies at first on the outer side of the brachial artery, crosses that vessel in the middle of its course, usually m fi-ont of, but occasionally behind it, and Ues on its inner sideNEUROLOGY 960 at the bend of the elbow, where it is situated beneath the bicipital fascia, and is separated from the elbow-joint by the Brachialis anticus. In the forearm it passes between the two heads of the Pronator teres and crosses the ulnar artery, but is separated from this vessel by the deep head of the Pronator teres. It descends beneath the Plexor sublimis digitorum, lying on the ilexor profimdus digitorum, to within two inches above the anterior annular ligament of the wrist r here it becomes more superficial, and is situated between the tendons of the Plexor sublimis digitorum and Plexor carpi radialis. In this ^^^^^^^^j^ j^gg beneath, and rather to the radial Fig, 800—Segmental distribution of the cutaneous nerves gide of, the tendon of the of the right upper extremity. Posterior view. Intercosto humeral 1.1 Lesser internal^ cutaneous T.1.2 Median C5.(i.7.H Palmaris longus, and is covered by the integument and fascia. It then passes beneath the anterior annular ligament into the palm of the hand. In its course through the forearm it is accompanied by a branch of the anterior interosseous artery. Branches. — With the exception of the nerve to the Pronator teres, which sometimes arises above the elbow-joint, the median nerve gives off no branches in the arm. As it passes in front of the elbow, it supplies one or two articular twigs to the jomt. In the forearm its branches are, muscular, anterior mter- osseous, and palmar cutaneous. The muscular branches are derived from the nerve near the elbow and supply aU the superficial muscles on the front of the forearm, except the Plexor carpi ulnaris. The anterior interosseous (n. interosseus antibrachii volaris) supplies the deep muscles on the front of the forearm, except the inner half of the Plexor profundus digitorum. It accompanies the anterior interosseous artery along the inter- osseous membrane, m the interval between the Plexor longus poUicis and Flexor profundus digitorum. supplying the wliole ot the former and the outer half of the latter, and terminates below in the Pronator quadratus and ^^ "^^-Jo^f;^,,^,^^ ontaneus palmaris) arises from the The palmar cutaneous brmwh fascia above median ierve at the lower part of the foreain.^ ^^^^ divides into two Uie annular ligament, descendnig ovex^ that h^ cl^^^ branches; the outer suppies t^^^^J^'^^^^r^^^^^ communicates with the anterior cutaneous branch oi961 BRACHIAL PLEXUS nerve ; the inner supplies the integument of the palm of the hand, com- municating with the palmar cutaneous branch of the ulnar. Fig, 801.—Nerves of the left upper extremity. External anterior thoracic Internal anterior thoracic Musculo-cutaneous Median Musculo-sjjira I iTr— Posterior interosseous Badial Anterior interosseous962 NEUROLOGY In the palm of the hand, the median nerve is covered by the integument and palmar fascia, and crossed by the superficial palmar arch. It rests upon the tendons of the Flexor muscles. In this situation it becomes enlarged, somewhat flattened, of a reddish colour, and divides into two branches. Of these, the external supplies a muscular branch to some of the muscles of the thumb, and diaital branches to the thumb and radial side of the index finger ; the internal supplies digital branches to the contiguous sides of the index and middle, and of the middle and ring fingers. , . , t -j ^ i The branch to the muscles of the thumb is a short nerve, which divides to supply the Abductor, the Opponens, and the superficial head of the Flexor brevis poUicis ; the remaining muscles of this group are supplied by the uMar nerve The digital branches are five in number. The first and second pass along the borders of the thumb, the external branch communicating with branches ot tlie radial nerve. The third passes along the radial side of the index finger, and crives a filament to the First lumbrical. The fourth subdivides to supply the adjacent sides of the index and middle fingers, and sends a branch to the Second lumbrical. The fifth supplies the adjacent sides of the middle and ring fangers, and communicates with a branch from the ulnar nerve. . ^ i Each digital nerve, opposite the base of the first phalanx, gives off a dorsal branch, which joins the dorsal digital nerve from the radial, and runs along the side of the dorsum of the finger, to end in the integument over the last phalanx At the end of the finger, the digital nerve divides into a palmar and a doisai branch, the former of which supplies the extremity of the finger, and the lattei ramies round and beneath the nail. The digital nerves, as they nm along the fingers, are placed superficial to the digital arteries. _ The ulnSr (n. ulnaris) (fig. 801) is placed along the inner or ulnar side of the upper limb, and is distributed to the muscles and mtegument of the forearm aS hand It arises from the inner cord of the brachial plexus, m commSi wSh the inner head of the median and the internal cutaneous nerve and derives its fibres from the eighth cervical and first tiioracic nerves It Smaller than the median, and lies at first behind it, but diverges from 11 m its course down the arm. At its origm it lies to the inner side of the axillary artery and bears the same relatioit to the brachial artery as far as f^^^^^^ of the arm Here it pierces the internal intermuscular septum, runs obhquely foi oss STintSnal head of the Triceps, and descends to the groove between the in erLl epSondy^^^^^^^^^^ the olecranon accompanied by the interior profunda arterv Atthellbow. it rests upon the back of the inner epicondyle, and pas es fnJo the forearm Sween the two heads of the Flexor cai-pi ulnaris. In the /o ea m t desc'ndfin a perfectly straight course along tlie - > ^^-f nnon the Flexor profundus digitorum, its upper half being co^eied by tlie Eor tarp^Xar^its lower hllf lying on the outer- side oH^-nusd^^^^^^^^^^^ by the integument and fascia. In the upper third of it course it ^^J^^auate frr.m tliP nlnar arterv by a considerable interval, but in tne rest oi us Z.ufesto,e to tlJiuL side of the artery ^< * ^ rnr.Je%n:ra'iftrK:w^^^^^^^ thrboneVvides mto two branches, the superfieial and deep palmar. The branches of the ulnar nerve are : Articular (elbow) In the forearm Muscular. t i i ( Superficial palmar. Palmar cutaneous. In the liana ^ j^^^^ palmar. Dorsal cutaneous. Articular (wrist). The oracular branches to the elbow-joint consist of ^^X^^^'^f They arise from the nerve as it lies in tlie groove between the innei cpiconciji and olecranon. . . . trunk of the .nerve Wirlr;f7= te963 BRACHIAL PLEXUS ligament, it perforates the deep fascia and ends in the integument of the palm, communicating with the palmar branch of tlie median nerve. The dorsal cutaneous branch (ramus dorsaiis manus) arises about t\vo inches above the wrist; it passes backwards beneath the Flexor carpi ulnaris, perforates the deep fascia, and, running along the ulnar side of the back of the wrist and hand, divides into branches : one of these supplies the inner side of the little finger ; a second supplies the adjacent sides of the little and ring fingers ; a third joins the branch of the radial nerve wliicli supplies the adjoining sides of the middle and ring fingers, and assists in supplying them ; a fourth is distributed to the metacarpal region of the hand, communicating with, a branch of tlie radial nerve. On the Httle finger the dorsal digital branches extend only as far as the base of the terminal i^halanx, and on the ring finger as far as the base of the second phalanx ; the more distal parts of these digits are supplied by dorsal branches derived from the palmar digital branches of the ulnar. The superficial palmar branch (ramus superficialis) supplies the Palmaris brevis, and the integument on the inner side of the hand, and terminates in two digital branches, which are distributed, one to the ulnar side of the little finger, the other to the adjouaing sides of the little and ring fingers, the latter communicating with a branch from the median. The digital branches are distributed to the fingers in the same manner as the digital branches of the median. The deep palmar branch (ramus profundus), accompanied by the deep branch of the ulnar artery, passes betM-een the Abductor and Flexor brevis minimi digiti; it then perforates the Opponens mmimi digiti and follows the course of the deep palmar arch beneath the flexor tendons. At its origm it supplies the muscles of the little finger. As it crosses the deep part of the hand, it supplies aU the Interossei and the two inner Lumbricales ; it ends by supplymg the Adductores transversus et obliquus pollicis and the inner head of the Flexor brevis pollicis. It also sends articular filaments to the wrist-joint. It will be remembered that the inner part of the Flexor profundus digitorum is supplied by the ulnar nerve ; the two inner Lumbricales, which are connected with the tendons of this part of the muscle, are therefore supplied by the same nerve. In hke manner the outer part of the Flexor profundus and the two outer Lumbricales are suppUed by the median nerve. Brooks stated that in twelve iastances out of twenty-one he found that the Third lumbrical received a twig from the median nerve, in addition to its branch from the ulnar. The musculo-spiral (n. radialis) (fig. 802), the largest branch of the brachial plexus, su^iphes the muscles of the back part of the arm and forearm, and the integument of the same parts, as well as that of the back of the hand. It arises from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus, of which it may be regarded as the continuation. Its fibres are derived from tlie sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves, and sometimes also from the fifth cervical and first thoracic nerves. At its commencement it is placed first behind the axillary and then behind the upper part of the brachial artery, passing down in front of the tendons of the Latissimus dorsi and Teres major. It winds round from the inner to the outer side of the humerus in the musculo-spiral groove with tlie superior profunda artery, between the internal and external heads of the Triceps muscle. It pierces the external intermuscular septum, and descends between tlie Brachiahs anticus and Brachio-radialis to the front of the external epicondyle, where it divides into the radial and posterior interosseous nerves. The branches of the musculo-spiral nerve are : The muscular branches are derived from the nerve, at the inner side, back part, and outer side of the arm respectively; they supply the Triceps, Anconeus, Brachio-radialis, Extensor carpi radialis longior, and Brachialis anticus. The internal muscular branches supplv tlie inner and middle heads of the Triceps muscle. That to the inner head of the Triceps is a long, slender falament, which lies close to the ulnar nerve as far as the lower third of the arm, and is therefore frequently spoken of as tlie ulnar collateral. Muscular, Cutaneous. Radial. Posterior interosseous. 3 Q 2964 NEUROLOGY The posterior muscular branch, of large size, arises from the nerve in the groove between the Triceps and the humerus. It divides into branches, which supply the inner and outer heads of the Triceps and tlie Anconeus muscles. The branch for the latter muscle is a long, slender filament, which descends in the substance of tlie inner Fig. 802.—The suprascapular, circumflex, and musculo-spiral nerves. Suprascapular Circumflex head of the Triceps to the Anconeus. The external muscular branches supply the Brachio- radialis, Extensor carpi radi- alis longior, and (usually) the outer part of the Brachialis anticus. The cutaneous branches are three in number, one internal and two external. The internal cutaneous branch arises in the axillary space, with the inner muscular branch. It is of small size, and passes through the axilla to the inner side of the arm, supplying the integument on its posterior aspect nearly as far as the olecranon. In its course it crosses beneath the intercosto-humeral, with which it communicates. The two external cuta- neous branches perforate the outer head of the Triceps at its attachment to the humerus. The u'p'per and smaller one passfes to the front of the elbow, lying close to the cephalic vein, and supplies the inteeument of the lower half of the arm on its anterior aspect. The lower branch pierces the deep fascia below the insertion of the Deltoid, and passes down along the outer side of the arm and elbow, and then along the back part of the radial side of the forearm to the wrist, supply- ing the integument in its course, and joining, near its termination, with the pos- terior cutaneous branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The radial (ramus super- ficialisn.radialis) pn.sses along the front of the radial side of the forearm to the commence- ment of its lower third. It lies at first a little to the outer ciflp of the radial artery, concealed beneath the Brachio-radialis. In the r^Sdb Wrd oFthe fore^nn, it lies beneatli the same muscle m c ose rda^^.^^^^^ wiSf the outer side of the artery. It qu.ts -^^^^g^.Sro t^l^l^ = ^rS^^ lite^;&es into two branches. Posterior interosseous965 BRACHIAL PLEXUS The external branch, the smaller of the two, supplies the integument of the radial side and ball of the thumb, joining with the anterior branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The internal branch communicates, above the wrist, with the posterior cutaneous branch from the musculo-cutaneous, and, on the back of the hand, with the dorsal cutaneous branch of the ulnar nerve. It then divides into four digital nerves, which are distributed as follows : the first supplies the ulnar side of the thumb ; the second, the radial side of the index finger ; the tliird, the adjoining sides of the index and middle fingers ; and tlie fourth, the adjacent borders of the middle and ring fingers.* The latter nerve communicates with a filament from the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. The posterior interosseous (n. interosseus antibrachii dorsalis) winds to tlie back of the forearm round the outer side of the radius, passes between the two planes of fibres of the Supinator brevis, and is prolonged downwards between the superficial and deep layer of muscles, to the middle of the forearm. Considerably diminished in size, it descends on the interosseous membrane, beneath the Extensor longus poUicis, to the back of the carpus, where it presents a gangliform enlargement from \^'liich filaments are distri- buted to the ligaments and articulations of the carpus. It supplies all the muscles on the radial side and posterior aspect of the forearm, excepting the Anconeus, Brachio-radialis, and Extensor carpi radialis longior. Applied Anatomy.—The brachial plexus may be injured by falls from a height on to the side of the head and shoulder, whereby the nerves of the plexus are violently stretched ; the fifth cervical nerve sustains the gi'eatest amoiint of injury, and the subsequent paralysis may be confined to the muscles supplied by this nerve, viz. the Deltoid, Biceps, Brachialis anticus, and Brachio-radialis, with sometimes the Supra- and Infra- spinatus and the Supinator brevis. The position of the hmb, under such conditions, is characteristic : the arm hangs by the side and is rotated inwards ; the forearm is extended and pronated. The arm cannot be raised from the side ; all power of flexion of the elbow is lost, as is also supination of the forearm. This is kno-mi as Erb's paralysis, and a very similar condition is occasionally met with in new-born children, either from injury to the fifth nerve from the pressure of forceps used in effecting delivery, or from traction of the head in breech presentations. A second variety of partial palsy of the brachial plexus is known as the Klumpke paralysis. In this it is the eighth cervical and first thoracic nerves that are injured, either before or after they have joined to form the lower trunk. Atrophy follows in the intrinsic muscles of the hand, and in the flexors of the fingers and wrists ; the thenar and hypothenar eminences waste and flatten ; the fingers cannot be spread out or approximated, on accoimt of the paralysis of the Interossei, and become clawed. The injury to the nerves may follow dhect violence, or a gunshot wound. The brachial plexus may also be injured by violent traction on the arm, or by efforts at reducing a dislocation of the shoulder-joint ; and the amount of paralysis will depend upon the amoimt of injury to the constituent nerves. When the entire plexus is involved, the whole of the upper extremity will be paralysed and anfesthetic. In these cases the injury appears to be rather a tearing away of the roots of the nerves from their origin in the spinal cord, than a solution of continuity in the nerves themselves. The brachial plexus in the axilla is often damaged fr om the pressure of a crutch, producing the condition known as ' crutch paralysis.' In these cases the musculo-spiral seems most frequently to be the nerve chiefiy implicated ; the uhiar nerve suffers next in frequency. The median and musculo-spiral nerves often suffer from 'sleep palsies,' paralysis from pressure coming on while the patient is profoundly asleep under the influence of alcohol or some narcotic. Paralysis of the posterior thoracic nerve throws the Serratus magnus out of action, and may occur in porters in whom the nerve is exposed to injury in the shoulder as it crosses the posterior triangle of the neck. The lower angle of the scapula is di-awn inwards towards the middle line, by the unopposed action of the Rhomboids and Levator anguli scapulae, and tends to project out backwards when the arm is held horizontally forwards. The arm cannot be raised above the horizontal unless the lower angle of the scapula is pushed outwards for the patient. The circumflex nerve, on accoimt of its course round the surgical neck of the humerus, is liable to be torn in fractures of this part of the bone, and m dislocations of the shoulder- joint ; paralysis of the Deltoid, anaesthesia of the skin covermg that muscle, and the formation of adhesions in the shoulder-joint in consequence of injury to its trophic nerves, result. According to Erb, mflammation of the shoulder-jomt is hable to be followed by a neuritis of this nerve from extension of the inflammation to it. Paralysis * According to Hutchinson, tlie digital nerve to the thumb reaches only as high as the root of tho nail: the one to the forefinger as high as the middle of the second phalanx : and the one to the middle and ring fingers not higher than the first phalangeal ]omt.—London llns. Oaz. vol. iii. p. 319.NEUROLOGY 966 of the Deltoid renders abduction of the arm to the horizontal level impossible. The associated paralysis of the Teres minor is not easilj' demonstrated. Hilton takes the circumflex nerve as an illustration of a law which he lays down, that ' the same trunks of nerves whose branches supply the groups of muscles moving a joint, furnish also a distribution of nerves to the skin over the insertions of the same muscles, and the interior of the joint receives its nerves from the same souree.' In this way he explains the fact that an inflamed joint becomes rigid. The median nerve is liable to injury in wounds of the forearm. When it is paralysed, there is loss of flexion of the second phalanges of all the fingers, and of the terminal phalanges of the index and middle fingers. Flexion of the terminal phalanges of the ring and little fingers is effected by that portion of the Flexor profundus digitorum which is supplied by the ulnar nerve. There is power to flex the proximal phalanges through the Interossei. The thumb cannot be flexed or opposed, and is maintamed in a position of extension and adduction. There is loss in the power of pronating the forearm ; the Brachio-radialis has the power of bringmg the forearm into a position of mid-pronation, but beyond this no further pronation can be effected. The wist can be flexed, if the hand is first adducted, by the action of the Flexor carpi ukiaris. There is loss or impair- ment of sensation on the palmar surfaces of the thumb, index, middle, and outer half of vine fingers, and on the dorsal surfaces of the same fingers over the last two phalanges ; exc^ept in the thumb, where the loss of sensation would be limited to the back of the last phalanx In old cases the unopposed action of the Interossei produces backward dislocation of the interphalangeal jomts. The thumb is extended and adducted to the index, cannot be flexed or abducted, and cannot "be apposed to any one of the fingers; m consequence an 'ape-like' hand is produced. In order to expose the median nerve, for the purpose of unitmg the divided ends, supposing the injury to be just above the wrist, an incision should be made along the radial side of the tendon of the Palmaris longus, which serves as a guide to the nerve. , . , , -nn i The ulnar nerve is also liable to be injured m wounds of the forearm. WTien paralysKi, there is impaled power of ukiar flexion, and upon an attempt bemg made to Hex tlie wrist the hand is drawn to the radial side from paralysis of the Flexor carpi uhiaris : there is inability to spread out the fingers from paralysis of the Interossei and tor tlie same reason the fingers, especially the ring and little fingers, cannot be flexed at the meta- carpo-phalangeal jomts or extended at the interphalangeal joints, and the hand assumes a claw shape from the action of the opposing muscles ; there is loss of power of flexion in the little and rmg fingers ; and there is inability to adduct the thumb. The muscles of the hvpothenar eminence become wasted. Sensation is lost, or impau-ed, in the skm supplied by the nerve. U order to expose the nerve in the lower part of the forearm, an incision should be made along the outer border of the tendon of the Flexor carpi uhiaris, and the nerve will be found lying on the ulnar side of the ulnar artery. The musculo-spiral nerve is probably more frequently mjured than any other nerve of the upper extremity. In consequence of its close relationship to the ^^^merus as it lies in the musculo-spiral groove, it is often torn or mjured m fractures of this bone or subsequently involved in the callus that may be thrown out around a f'-actu e and thus pressed upon and its functions interfered ^dth. It is also liable to be contused against the bone by kicks or blows, or to be divided by wounds of the arm. When pai^lysed the hand is flexed at the wrist and lies flaccid. This kno^,'n as "'^jr^fX. ^^^^^ fingers are also fiexed, and on an attempt being made to extend hem, he last^t^^ o P^^^^^^ only ^vill be extended, through the action of the Interossei; the first plja fng^, j'S when flexed. There is no power of extending the w;ist. Supmation Jf, J '^f^.^'^^e the forearm is extended on the arm, but is possible to a certain ^^^^^^n ^f the forearm flexed so as to allow of the action of the Biceps. The power of extension of forearm I lost on account of paralysis of the Triceps, if the mjury o ^^^^ ^ ^^"^^^^^^^^^^ near its origin. In cases due to pressure, sensation is hard y affec ed evere injury to the nerve occasions aniesthesia over the area supplied by the radial "^ij^^- ^" lesion be high up, on the outer side of the upper arm and the back of the forearm (external and internal cutaneous branches) as well. border of the The nerve is best exposed by making an mcision along the inner °. , BraciTo-radialis, just Jo.e the level of the elbow-jomt. The f j;--J. ^P^^f structures are to be divided and the deep fascia exposed^ S the deep fascia this structure indicating the border of the^muscle '^^^^^ lying divided in this line. By now raising the Brachio-radialis, f "7;^ intcrosseoul between it and the Brachialis anticus. The muscles supplied by ;l^\P°;'g"^'°;d „ "l^ronic branch of the musculo-spiral nerve are also particularly hable to be aliectea in lead poisoning. THORACIC NERVES (NN. THORACALES) The anterior primary divisions of the thoracic nerves^e ^^elve in num^^^^^ on either side. Eleven of them are si uated bet^voe i ^^^^"^^f "^j;^^^^^^^^^^ termed intercostal; the tAvelfth lies below the last rib. Eacli ner\ e is967 THORACIC NERVES with the adjoining ganglion of tlie sympathetic by one or two filaments. The intercostal nerves are distributed chiefly to the parietes of the thorax and abdomen, and differ fx-oni tiie anterior divisions of the other spinal nerves, in tliat eacli pursues an independent course, i.e. there is no plexus formation. The first two nerves supply fibres to the upper limb in addition to their thoracic branches ; the next four are Hmited in their distribution to the parietes of the thorax ; the five lower supply the parietes of the chest and abdomen. The twelfth thoracic is distributed to the abdominal wall and the skin of the buttock. The first thoracic nerve.—The anterior division of the first thoracic nerve divides into two branches ; one, the larger, leaves the thorax in front of the neck of the first rib, and enters into the formation of the brachial plexus ; the otlier and smaller branch runs along the first intercostal space, forming the first intercostal nerve, and terminates on the front of the chest, by forming the first anterior cutaneous nerve of the thorax. Occasionally this anterior cutaneous branch is wanting. The fu'st intercostal nerve as a rule gives off no lateral cutaneous branch; but sometmies a small branch is given off, to communicate with the intercosto-humeral. It frequently receives a connecting twig from the second thoracic nerve, which passes upwards over the neck of the second rib. The upper thoracic nerves. — The anterior divisions of the second, third, fourth, fiftli, and sixth thoracic nerves, and the small branch from the fii-st thoracic, are confined to the parietes of the thorax, and are named thoracic intercostal nerves. They pass forwards (fig. 803) in the intercostal spaces below the intercostal vessels. At the back of the chest they lie between the pleura and the posterior intercostal membranes, but soon pierce the latter and run between the two planes of Intercostal muscles as far as the middle of the rib. They then enter the substance of the Internal intercostal muscles, and, running Fig. 803.—^Diagram of the course and branches of a typical intercostal nerve. Lateral cutaneous Anterior cutaneous amidst their fibres as tar as the costal cartilages, they gain the inner surfaces of the muscles and lie between them and the pleura. Near the sternuili, they cross in front of the internal mammary artery and Triangularis sterni muscle, pierce the Internal intercostal muscles, the anterior intercostal membranes, and Pectoralis major muscle, and supjDly the integument of the front of the chest and over the mammary gland, forming the anterior cutaneous nerves (rami cutanei anteriores) of the thorax ; the branch from the second nerve is joined with the supraclavicidar nerves of the cervical plexus.968 NEUROLOGY Branches.—Numerous slender muscular filaments supply the Intercostals, the Infracostales, the Levatores costarura, the Serratus posticus superior, and the Triangularis sterni muscles. At the front of the chest some of these branches cross the costal cartilages from one intercostal space to another. Lateral cutaneous nerves (rami cutanei laterales).—These are derived from the intercostal nerves, midway between the vertebrje and sternum ; they pierce the External intercostarand Serratus magnus muscles, and divide into anterior and posterior branches. The anterio7- branches (rami anteriores) are reflected forwards to the side and the fore part of the chest, supplying the integument of the chest and mamma ; those of the fiftli and sixth nerves supply the upper digitations of the External oblique. The posterior branches (rami posteriores) are reflected backwards, to supply the integument over the scapula and over the Latissimus dorsi. The lateral cutaneous branch of the second intercostal nerve is of large size, and does not divide, like the other nerves, into an anterior and a posterior branch. It is named, from its origin and distribution, the intercosio-humeral nerve (n. intercostobrachialis) (fig. 801). It pierces the External intercostal muscle and the Serratus magnus, crosses the axilla to the inner side of the arm, and joins with a filament from the nerve of Wrisberg It then pierces the fascia, and supplies the skm of the upper half of the inner and back part of the arm, communicatmg mth the internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve. The size of this nerve is in inverse proportion to the size of the other cutaneous nerves, especially the nerve of Wrisberg. A second intercosto-humeral nerve is frequently given off from the third intercostal. It supplies filaments to the armpit and inner side of the arm. . ^. . . , The lower thoracic nerves.—The anterior divisions of the seventh, eighth ninth, tenth, and eleventh thoracic nerves are continued anteriorJy from the intercostal spaces into the abdominal wall; hence these nerves are named thoracico-abclominal intercostal nerves. They have the same arrangement as the upper ones as far as the anterior extremities of the mtercostal spaces, where they pass beliind the costal cartilages, and between the Internal obhque and Transversalis muscles, to the sheath of the Rectus, which they perforate. Thev supply the Rectus muscle, and terminate in branches which become subcutaneous near the linea alba. These branches are named the anierwr cutaneous nerves of the abdomen. They are directed outward^ as far as t^^^^ lateral cutaneous nerves and supply the integument of the front of the belly. The lower intercostal nerves supply the Intercostal and Abdominal muscles- the last tliree send branches to the Serratus posticus f fe^i^/'-''^'^^; middle of their course, give off lateral cutaneous branches These pierce The External inters and the External obUque, m ^^-^^^'^.^ the lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax, and divide in o «"te™^^^^^ branches which are distributed to the integument of the abdomen and back thTaSior branches supply the digitations of ^1- External ob i que mu c^^^ and extend downwards and forwards nearly as far a. the margin f^f^^ ^ the posterior branches pass back^-ards to supply the skin over the Latissimus "^"'The anterior division of the last thoracic is larger than the others ; it runs aloncr the lower border of the last rib, often gives a ^7^°^""\^f;"f^^'^"^f ?o the first lumbar nerve, and passes under the external ^yf^^jt^^^^'^ the Diaphragm. It then runs in front of the Quadratus 1" "^XnafoblSue the Transversalis, and passes forwards between it and the to be distributed in the same manner as ,^l^Se^^^^^^^^ communicates with the ilio-hypogastric branch of the lumbar plexus, and gives a branch to the Pyramidalis muscle. , . . i „, i„ c^, \nrcre The lateral ctlneous branch of the last thoraac 'J'^^^^'^^^^^^^^ size. It does not divide into an anterior "'^^^ f^f^^X/tes cutaneous branches of tlie mtercostal '^^''^7^^'Ji^^.ff™^ External oblique muscles, passes downwards over ti e ^^'^f* "^^^^^^^ to the of the iliac branch of the ilio-hypogastric (fig. ^ll);'^^f f d.strU)"^^^^^^ integument of the front part of the gluteal region, some of its filaments extena g as low down as the trochanter major.969 THORACIC NERVES Applied A^iatomy.—The lower seven thoracic nerves and the ilio-hjrpogastric from the first lumbar nerve supply the skin of the abdominal wall. They run downwards and inwards fairly equidistant from each other. The sixth and seventh supply the skin over the ' pit of the stomach ' ; the eighth correspond.s to about the position of the middle linea transversa ; the tenth to the umbilicus ; and the ilio-hypogastric supplies the skin over the pubis and external abdominal ring. In many diseases affecting the nerve-trunks at or near their origms, the paui is referred to their peripheral terminations. Thus, in Pott's disease of the spine, children will often be brought to the surgeon suffering from pain in the belly. This is due to the fact that the nerves are irritated at the seat of disease as they issue from the spinal canal. When the in-itation is confined to a smgle pan- of nerves, the sensation complained of is often a feeling of constriction, as if a cord were tied round the abdomen, and in these cases the situation of the sense of constriction may serve to localise the disease in the spinal column. In other cases where the bone disease is more extensive, and two or more nerves are involved, a more general, diffused pain in the abdomen is felt. Agam, it must be borne in mind that the same nerves which supply the skin of the abdomen supply also the planes of muscle which constitute the greater part of the abdominal wall. Hence, it follows that any irritation applied to the peripheral terminations of the cutaneous branches in the skin of the abdomen is immediately followed by reflex contraction of the abdominal muscles. The supply of both muscles and skin from the same source is of importance in protecting the abdominal viscera from injury. A blow on the abdomen, even of a severe character, will do no injury to the viscera if the muscles are in a condition of firm contraction ; whereas in cases where the muscles have been taken unawares, and the blow has been struck while they were in a state of rest, an injury insufficient to produce any lesion of the abdominal wall has been attended with rupture of some of the abdominal contents. The importance, therefore, of immediate reflex contrac- tion upon the receipt of an mjury cannot be over-estimated, and the intimate association of the cutaneous and muscular fibres in the same nerve produces a much more rapid response on the part of the muscles to any peripheral stimulation of the cutaneous fila- ments than would be the case if the two sets of fibres were derived from independent sources. Again, the nerves supplying the abdominal muscles and skin, derived from the lower intercostal nerves, are intimately connected with the sympathetic supplying the abdominal viscera through the lower thoracic ganglia from which the sislanchnic nerves are derived. In consequence of this, in laceration of the abdominal viscera and in acute peritonitis, the muscles of the belly wall become firmly contracted, and thus as far as possible preserve the abdominal contents in a condition of rest. Inflammation of the ganglia on one or more of any of the posterior nerve-roots is the cause of shingles * or herpes zoster, in which there is a painful eruption of groups of cutaneous vesicles corresponding to the distribution of the nerves derived from the affected ganglia. It is commonest in the intercostal nerves ; the eruption is often preceded and followed, as well as accompanied, by girdle pains, and in old people these may be prolonged and serious in character. Herpes is the analogue on the sensory side to anterior poliomyelitis (page 810) on the motor side of the nervous system. LUMBO-SACRAL PLEXUS The anterior primaiy divisions of the lumbar, sacral and coccygeal nerves form the lumbo-sacral plexus, the first lumbar nerve being frequently joined by a branch from the twelfth thoracic. For descriptive purposes this plexus is usually divided into three parts—the lumbar, sacral and pudendal plexuses. LUMBAR NERVES (NN. LUMBALES) The anterior primary divisions of the lumbar nerves increase in size from above downwards. They are joined, near their origins, by grey rami communi- cantes from the lumbar ganglia of the sympathetic cord. These rami consist of long, slender branches which accompany the lumbar arteries round tlie sides of the vertebral bodies, beneath the Psoas magnus. Their arrangement is somewhat irregular : one ganglion may give rami to two lumbar nerves, or one lumbar nerve may receive rami from two ganglia. The first and second, and sometimes the third and fourtli lumbar nerves are each connected with the lumbar part of the sympatlietic cord by a tvhiie ramus communicans. The nerves pass obliquely outwards behind the Psoas magnus, or between its fasciculi, distributing filaments to it and the Quadratus lumborum. The first * From Lat. cimgulvm, a belt.NEUROLOGY 970 three and the greater part of the fourth are connected togetlier in this situation by anastomotic loops, and form the lumbar plexus. The smaller part of the fourth joins with the fifth to form the lumbosacral cord (truncus lumbosacralis), which assists in the formation of the sacral plexus. The fourth nerve is named the nervus furcalis, from the fact that it is subdivided between the two plexuses.* Lumbar Plexus (Plexus lumbalis) The lumbar plexus (fig. 804) is formed by the loops of communication between the anterior divisions of the first three and the greater part of the fourth lumbar nerves. The plexus is narrow above, and the first lumbar often receives a branch from the last thoracic nerve ; it is broad below, where it is joined to the sacral plexus by the lumbo-sacral cord. It is situated in the posterior part of the Psoas magnus, in front of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae. Fig. 804.—Plan of lumbar plexus. —From 12 thoracic 1 Lumbar Ilio-inguinal lUo-hypogastric Mxternal cutaneous To Psoas and Iliacus Anterior crural Accessory obturator Obturator 2 Lumbar 3 Lumbar 4 Lumbar 5 Lumbar Lumbo-sacral cord a twTg from the tat thoracic, and divides into aJi upper and 1°"" blanch the r^f'SaM^^^^^^^ givW at the same ^o'^'l *' ^fo ^^^^^^^^^^ When this occurs, the plexus is furcalis; or both the third and fourth may be fu'c^' "^^^'^f^ ^ V^^,^ between the lumbar and termed Mg,. or pre-Jixed. Ma,-e -Jl-"^f^^^/^^^ le^ this t.kes place, the plexus is ^^i^ra;TL:7;S5.3;=^^es:v^ P'-ocl-e corresponding modifications in the sacral plexus.971 LUMBAR PLEXUS the genito-crural nerve. The remainder of the second nerve, and the third and fourth nerves, divide into ventral and dorsal divisions. The ventral division of the second unites with tlie ventral divisions of the third and fourth nerves to form the obturator nerve. Tlie dorsal divisions of the.second and third nerves divide into two branches, a smaller branch from each uniting to form the external cutaneous nerve, and a larger branch from each joining with the dorsal division of the fourth lumbar nerve to form the anterior Fig. 80.5.—The lumbar plexus and its branches. crural nerve. The accessory obturator, when it exists, is formed by the union of two small branches given off from the third and fourth nerves. The branches of the lumbar plexus may therefore be arranged as follows : Ilio-hypogastric XL. Ilio-inguinal 1 L. Genito-crural 1, 2 L. Dorsal divisions. External cutaneous 2, .3, L. Anterior crural 2. 3, 4 L. Ventral divisions. Obturator . 2, 3, 4 L. Accessory obturator 3, 4 L. The ilio-hypogastric (n. iliohypogastricus) arises from the first lumbar nerve. It emerges from the outer border of tlie Psoas muscle at its upperNEUROLOGY 972 Fig. 806.—Cutaneous nerves of lower extremity. Front view. part, and crosses obliquely in tront of the Quadratus lumborum to the crest of the ilium. It then iDcrforates the Transversalis muscle at its posterior part, near the crest of the ilium, and divides between it and the Internal oblique into two branches, iliac and hypo- gastric. The iliac branch (ramus cutaneus lateralis) pierces the Internal and External oblique muscles immediately above the crest of the ilium, and is distributed to the integument of the gluteal region, behind the lateral cutaneous branch of the last thoracic nerve (fig. 811). The size of the nerve bears an inverse proportion to that of the lateral cutaneous branch of the last thoracic nerve. The hypogastric branch (ramus cutaneus anterior) (fig. 806) continues onwards between the Internal oblique and Trans- versalis muscles. It then pierces the Internal oblique, and becomes cutaneous by perforating the aponeurosis of the External oblique, about an inch above, and a little to the outer side of the ex- ternal abdominal ring, and is distributed to the integument of the hypogastric region. " The ilio-hypogastric nerve communi- cates with the last thoracic and ilio- inguinal nerves. . The ilio-inguinal (n. iliomgumalis), smaller than the preceding, arises with it from the first lumbar nerve. It emerges from the outer border of the Psoas just below the ilio-hypogastric, and, passing obliquely across the Quadi-atus lumborum and Iliacus muscles, perforates the Trans- versalis, near the fore part of the crest of the ilium, and communicates with the ilio- hypogastric nerve between that muscle and the Internal oblique. The nerve then pierces the Internal oblique, distributing filaments to it, and, accompanymg the spermatic cord through the external ab- dominal ring, is distributed to the in- tegument of the upper and inner part ot the thigh, to the skin over the root ot the penis and upper part of tlie scrotum in the male, and to the skin covering the mons Veneris and labium majus in the female. The size of this nerve is in inverse pro- portion to that of the iUo-hypogastric. Occasionally it is very small, and ends by ioining the ■ilio-hypogastric ; m such cases, a branch from the ilio-hypogastric tal^es the place of the ilio-inguinal, or the latter nerve may be altogether absent. The g-enito-crural (n. genitofemoralis) arises fiom tlie first and second lumbar nerves It passes obliquely through the substance of the Psoas, and emerges from its inner border, close to the vertebral ^^^J-^^^^^^PP^eny ^ between the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae ; it then descenas External saphenous Anterior tibialLUMBAR PLEXUS 973 Via. 807.—Segmental distribution of cutaneous nerves of right lower ex- tremity. Front view. surface of the Psoas muscle, under cover of tlie peritoneum, and divides into a genital and a crural branch. Occasionally the two branches emerge .separately througli the substance of tlie Psoas. The genital branch (n. sjjermaticus cxternus) passes outwards on the I'soas magnus, and pierces the fascia trans- ver&alis, or passes thi'ough the internal abdominal ring ; it then descends along the back part of the spermatic cord to the scrotum, supplies, in the male, the Cremaster muscle, and gives a few filaments to the skin of the scrotum. Li the female, it accompanies the round ligament, and is lost upon it. Tlie crural brarich (n. lumboinguin- alis) descends on the external iliac artery, sending a few filaments round it, and, j^assing beneath Poupart's ligament to the thigh, enters the sheath of the femoral vessels, lying superficial and a little external to the femoral artery. It pierces the anterior layer of the sheath of the vessels, and, becoming suj^erficial by isassing through the fascia lata, it supplies the skin of the anterior aspect of the thigh as far as midway between the pelvis and knee. On the front of the thigh it communicates with the outer branch of the middle cutaneous nerve, derived from the anterior crural. A few filaments from this nerve may be traced on to the femoral artery ; they are derived from the nerve as it passes beneath Poupart's ligament. The external cutaneous (n. cutaneus femoris lateralis) arises from the second and third lumbar nerves. It emerges from the outer border of the Psoas muscle about its middle, and crosses the Ihacus muscle obliquely, towards the anterior superior spine of the ilium. It then passes under Poupart's ligament and over the Sartorius muscle into the thigh, where it divides into two branches, an anterior and a posterior. The anterior branch descends in an aponeurotic canal formed in the fascia lata, becomes superficial about four inches below Poupart's ligament, and divides into branches which are dis- tributed to the integument along the anterior and outer part of the thigh, as far down as the knee. The terminai filaments of this nerve frequently com- municate with the middle and intej-nal cutaneous, and with the patellar branch of the long saphenous, forming with them tlie patellar plexus. The posterior branch jiierces the fascia lata, and subdivides into External sapheiioits- S. 1.2 Anturior -. tibial L. 4.5974 NEUROLOGY filaments which pass backwards across the outer and posterior surface of the thigh, supplying the integument from tlie level of the great trochanter to the ™^^Tlie°obturator (n. obturatorius) supplies the Obturator externus and the Adductor muscles of the thigh, the articulations of the hip and knee, and occasionally part of the integument of the thigh and leg It arises from tlie secJnd thiKl^ and fourth lumbar nerves. Of these, the branch from the third is the largest, while that from the second is often very small It descends through the inner fibres of the Psoas muscle, and emerges from its inner border near the brim of the pelvis ; it then passes behind the ^^^^'^^^J'^l^^^^^^ which separate it from the ureter, and runs along the lateral AVall of the pelvis, above tKbturator vessels, to the upper part of the obturator foramen Here t enters the thigh, and divides into an anterior and a posterior branch, ^aS^are separated at first by some of the fibres of the Obturator externus (fin- f^d.^^ and lower down by the Adductor brevis. , , ^, ^"^^The an'?ir« (ramus anterior) (fig. 808) passes down m front of he Adductor brevis being covered by the Pectmeus and Adductor longus at the bwe^bo del 0 the latter muscle it communicates with the internal cutaneous and internal saphenous branches of the anterior crural formmg a k^d of Xxuf It then descends upon the femoral artery, to which it is finally di.- trfbuted The nerve near the obturator foramen, gives off an articular branch to The hip^oLt B^^ the Pectineus, it distributes muscular branches to the Adducto; longus and Gracilis, and usually to the Adductor brevis and S rare cases to the Pectnxeus, and receives a communicatmg branch fi'om tbp arcpssorv obturator nerve when that nerve is present. OcSbSiy the communicating branch to the internal cutaneous and Obtu^a'to'r externus, sending ^^^-f^l'^.^^f^^^^^ I^J^^r^ r gitTfftraXi filament to the t^S^tZ^fp^ Ahteal space ,.t^^ d^cend. ^SSi^eS^nS^iS, to the syno4l membrane, ft gives filaments to the artery m accessorius) (fig. 805) is The accessory obturator (n ,^ present in about 29 per cent, o ca es J « ^^^^^^^^ ^aloAg the filaments from the third and ''^^s.^^^^^^ ramus of the pubis, inner border of the Psoas muscle ^^J^^j^^^^^^^^ ^vhere it divides and passes under the outer border of tl^^^^ supp^T thT Pectineus. penetratmg into numerous branches One ot the^se supi ^-^^-.^^ ,vhile a thiixi "'fe-'anterior crural (... SoS 4' ^! St „£ the lumbal- pta™. It *^ Tensor toc.ai neu», and all the ""'f 1™ °"'^^"iKont and i,mW side of the thigh, and to femoris ; eutaneous liip and knee. It .anses from Z Ih^ltlCSunir'nerves. It'deseend, throngh the flbros975 LUMBAR PLEXUS of the Psoas, emerging from the muscle at the lower part of its outer border, and passes down between it and the Iliacus behind the fascia iliaca ; it then runs beneatli Poupart's Fig. 808.—Nerves of tlie right lower extremity. Front view. ligament, into the thigh, where it becomes somewhat flattened, and divides into an anterior and a posterior part. Under Poupai't's Uga- ment, it is separated from the femoral artery by a portion of the Psoas. Within the abdomen the anterior crural nerve gives off from its outer side some small branches to the Iliacus, and a branch to the femoral artery, which is distributed upon the upper part of tliat vessel. The origin of this branch varies: it occa- sionally arises higher than usual, or it may arise lower down in the thigh. In the thigh the following branches are given oft' : From the Anterior Division Middle cutaneous. Internal cutaneous. Muscular. From the Posterior Division Long saphenous. Muscular. Articular. The middle cutaneous nerve (fig. 806) pierces the fascia lata (and generally the Sartorius) about three Indies below Poupart's liga- ment, and divides into two branches (rami cutanei an- teriores) which descend in immediate proximity along tiio fore part of the thigii, to supply the integument as low as the front of tlie knee. Here they communicate with the internal cutaneous nerve and the patellar branch of the internal saphenous, to form the patellar plexus. In the upper part of the thigh the outer division of tlie middle cutaneous communicates with tlie crural branch of the genito-crural nerve. The internal cutaneous nerve passes obliquely across the upper part of the Middle cutaneoun' Iliacus Anterior crural Psoas magnus Musculo- cutaneous Anterior tilud Anterior division of obturator _ Internal cutaneous Internal saphenous 4976 NEUROLOGY sheath of the femoral artery, and divides in front, or at the inner side of that vessel, into two branches, an anterior and a posterior or internal. The anterior branch runs downwards on the Sartorius, perforates the fascia lata at the lower third of tlie thigh, and divides into two branches : one supplies the integument as low down as the inner side of the knee; the otlier crosses to the outer side of the patella, communicating in its course with the patellar branch of the long saphenous nerve. The 'posterior or internal branch descends along the inner border of the Sartorius muscle to the knee, where it pierces the fascia lata, communicates with the long saphenous nerve, and gives o£E several cutaneous branches. It then passes down to supply the integument of the inner side of the leg. Beneath the fascia lata, at the lower border of the Adductor longus, it joms to form a plexiform network [subsartorial plexus) with branches of the long saphenous and obturator nerves (fig. 808). When the communicating branch from the obturator nerve is large and continued to the mtegument of the leg, the internal branch of the internal cutaneous is small, and terminates m the plexus, occasionally giving ofE a few cutaneous filaments. ^ i- . The internal cutaneous nerve, before dividing, gives off a few falaments, which pierce the fascia lata, to supply the integument of the mner side of the tliicrh accompanying the long saphenous vem. One of these filaments passes throucrh the saphenous opening ; a second becomes subcutaneous about the middle of the thigh ; a thu-d pierces the fascia at its lower third. Muscular branches of the anterior division.—The nerve to the Pectmeus arises from the anterior crural immediately below Poupart's ligament, and passes inwards behmd the femoral sheath to enter the anterior surface of the muscle ; it is often duplicated. The nerve to the Sartorius arises in common with the ^^^The7mq^m^nternal saphenous nerve (n. saphenus) is the largest cutaneous branch of the anterior crural. It approaches the femoral artery where this vessel passes beneath the Sartorius, and lies m front of it, beneath che aponeurotic covering of Hunter's canal, as far as the opening in the loM^er part of the Adductor magnus. It then quits the axtery, and descends verticaUy along the inner side of the knee beneath the Sartorius, pierces the fascia lata. oSe the interval between the tendons of the Sartorius and Gracilis, and Smes subcutaneous. The nerve then passes along the ---^Ff^^^ accompanied by the internal saphenous vem, descends behind the mternal borSf the tibia, and, at the lower third of the leg, divides mto two.branches one continues its course along the margm of the tibia, termmating at the Sier anUe ; the other passes in front of the ankle, and distributed t^^ ^ inteeument along the inner side of the foot, as far as the ball of the g^eat toe, c«nicating with the internal branch o£ the museulo-cutaneous nerve Bmnches.-The long saphenous nerve about the middle of the thigh, gives nff 1 onmmunicatins branch which joins the subsartorial plexus. ""^llZT^Z Sle of the loice it gives ^ ^^^,0 paM^^^^^^ mfrnnateUarisl wliich pierces the Sartorius and fascia lata, and is distributea S th^ettegulenriu f?ont of the patella. This nerve -""^--f ^J^^J^^^^^ 1 -.1 nr>fprior branch of the internal cutaneous and with tlie miaaie ^"^Sw tl^S? tS^'—^:S^;e long saphenous nerve —ibu^d to the in egument of the front and inner side of the 1"^?^ ^^"X^'XSo cutaneous branches from tlie internal ^.^t'-vneous, or f^^^^^^ ^^fSur pir s o the The muscular branches of the posterior division supply the tour pairs o ^^^aVcltT S^^femoris enters the under surface of the muscle high up, sending ofF a small filament to the hiP-JOl"* ^The branch to the Vastus extcrmcs, of ^^'^ll^-^i,^^^^^^^ of descending branch of tlic external circumflex outcry to the 1 the muscle. It gives off an articular filament to the knee joint.LUMBAR PLEXUS 977 Tlie branch to the Vastus internum is a long filament running down on the outer side of tlic femoral vessels in company with the internal saphenous nerve. It enters the muscle about its middle, and gives off a filament, which can usually be traced downwards, on the surface of the muscle, to the knee-joint. The branches to the Crureus are two or three m number, and enter tlie muscle on its anterior surface about the middle of the thigh ; a filament from one of these descends through the mu.scle to the Subcrureus and tlie knee-joint. The articular branch to the hip-joint is derived from the nerve to the Rectus. Fig. 809.—Plan of sacral and pudendal plexuses. Superior Inferior gluteal To Pynformis i Linnhrir 5 Lumbar 1 Sacral 2 Sacral isceral br. Sacral (Kxl. popliteal limsiun ^ Inl. popliteal division To Qiiadratus Jemoria and/ Inferior genicUus To Obturator internus and Superior gemellus Small sciatic Perforating cutaneoui,' To Levator ani, Coccygeus andi SjMncter ani externus i Sacral • Vtscrral br. 5 Sacral Coccygeal The articular branches to the knee-joint are three in number. One, a long slender filament, is derived from the nerve to the Vastus externus ; it penetrates the capsular ligament of the joint on its anterior aspect. Another is derived from the nerve to the Vastus internus. It can usually be traced downwards 3 R978 NEUROLOGY on the surface of this muscle to near the joint; it then penetrates the muscular fibres and accompanies the deep branch of the anastomotica magna artery, pierces the capsular ligament of the joint on its inner side, and supplies tlie synovial membrane. The third branch is derived from the nerve to the Crureus. SACRAL AM) COCCYGEAL NERVES (NN. SACRALES ET COCCYGEUS) The anterior primary divisions of the sacral and coccygeal nerves form tlie sacral and pudendal plexuses. The anterior divisions of the upper four sacral nerves enter the pelvis through the anterior .sacral foramina, that of the fifth between the sacrum and coccyx, while that of the coccygeal nerve curves forwards below the rudimentary transverse process of the hrst piece of the coccvx The first and second sacral are large ; the thu-d, tourth, and fifth diminish progressively from above downwards. Each nerve receives a qrey ramus communicans from the corresponding ganglion of the sympathetic iord, while from the third, and frequently from the second and fourth sac-ral nerves white rami communicantes are given to the pelvic plexuses of the sympathetic. Sacbal Plexus (Plexus Sacealis) The sacral plexus (fig. 809) is formed by the lumbo-sacral cord, the anterior primary Son of the first, and portions of the anterior primary divisions of the second and third sacral nerves. Fig. 810.—Side view of pelvis, showing sacral nerves.SACRAL PLEXUS 979 a lower branch, the former entering the sacral and the latter the pudendal ^^^Tlie nerves forming the sacral plexus converge towards the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and unite to form a flattened band, from tlie anterior and posterior surfaces of which several branches arise. The band itself is continued as the great sciatic nerve, which splits on the back of the thigh into the internal and external popliteal nerves ; these two nerves sometimes arise separate^ from the plexus, and in all cases their independence can be shown by dissection. Relations.—The sacral plexus lies on the back of the pelvis between the Pyriformis and the pelvic fascia (fig. 810) ; in front of it are the internal iliac vessels, the ureter and the pelvic colon. The gluteal vessels run between the lumbo-'sacral cord and the first sacral nerve, and the sciatic vessels between the second and third sacral nerves. All the. nerves entering the plexus, with the exception of the third sacral, split into ventral and dorsal divisions, and the nerves arising from these are as foUows : ... Ventral divisions. Dorsal divisions. Nerve to Quadratus femoris I 4. 5 l i g and Inferior gemellus I ' Nerve to Obturator internus 1. 5 l i 2 S and Superior gemellus . ) ' ' Nerve to Pyriformis (1)2S. Superior gluteal 4, 5 L, 1 S. Inferior gluteal • o Li, L, Z o. Small sciatic . . . . 2, 3 S . . 1, 2 S. Great (Internal popliteal 4, 5 L, 1, 2, 3 S. sciatic {External popliteal . . . . 4, 5 L, 1, 2 S. The nerve to the ftuadratus femoris and Inferior gemellus arises from the ventral divisions of the fourth and fifth lumbar and first sacral nerves : it leaves the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, below the Pyriformis. and runs down m front of the great sciatic nerve, the Gemelli and the tendon of the Obturator internus, and enters the anterior surfaces of the muscles ; it gives an articular branch to the hip-joiat. The nerve to the Obturator internus arises from the ventral divisions of the fifth lumbar and first and second sacral nerves : . it leaves the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen below the Pyriformis muscle, crosses the ischial spine, re-enters the pelvis through the small sacro-sciatic foramen, and ends, after entering the pelvic surface of the muscle, in the Obturator internus. The branch to the Gemellus superior enters the upper part of the posterior surface of the muscle. The nerve to the Pyriformis arises from the dorsal division of the second, or the dorsal divisions of the first and second, sacral nerves, and enters the anterior surface of the muscle : this nerve may be double. The superior gluteal (n. glutseus superior) arises from the dorsal divisions of the fourth and fifth lumbar and first sacral nerves : it leaves the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen above the Pyriformis, accompanied by the gluteal vessels, and divides into a superior and an inferior branch. The superior branch accompanies the upper branch of the deep division of the gluteal artery and ends in the Gluteus minimus. The inferior branch runs with the lower branch of the gluteal artery across the Gluteus minimus ; it gives filaments to the Gluteus medius and Gluteus minimus, and ends in the Tensor fascice femoris. The inferior gluteal (n. glutseus inferior) arises from the dorsal di^^sions of the fifth lumbar and first and second sacra! nerves : it leaves the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, below the Pyriformis, and divides into branches which enter the deep surface of the Gluteus maximus. The small sciatic (n. cutaneus femoris posterior) is distributed to the skin of the perinseum and posterior surface of the thigh and leg. It arises partly from the ventral and partly from the dorsal divisions of the first, second, and third sacral nerves, and issues from the pelvis through the great sacro- sciatic foramen below the Pyriformis. It then descends beneath the Gluteus maximus with the sciatic artery, and runs down the back of the thigh beneath 3 R 2NEUROLOGY 980 Fig. 811.—Cutaneous nerves of right lower extremity. Posterior view. \ / the fascia lata, and over the long head of the Biceps to the back of the knee : here it pierces the fascia and accompanies the external saphenous vein to about the middle of the back of tl)e leg, its terminal twigs communicating with the external saphenous nerve. Its branches are all cutaneous, and are grouped as follows : gluteal, perineal, and femoral. The gluteal branches, three or four in number, turn upwards round the lower border of the Gluteus maximus, and supply the skin covering the lower and outer part of that muscle. The perineal branches (rami perineales) are distributed to the skin at the upper and inner side of the thigh. One branch, longer than the rest, the inferior pudendal, curves forwards below and in front of the ischial tuberosity, pierces the fascia lata, and runs forwards beneath the superficial fascia of the peruiaium to the skin of the scrotum in the male, and of the labium majus in the female. It communicates with the inferior hsemorrhoidal and superficial permseal nerves. The femoral branches consist of numerous filaments derived from both sides of the nerve, and are distributed to the skin covering the back and mner side of the thigh, the popliteal space, and the upper part of the back of the leg. The great sciatic (n. ischiadicus) (fig. 813) supplies nearly the whole of the integument of the leg, the muscles of the back of the thigh, and those of the leg and foot. It is the largest nerve in the body, measuring three-quarters of an inch in breadth, and is the contmuation of the flattened band of the sacral plexus. It passes out of the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, below tlie Pyriformis muscle. It descends between the great trochanter of the femur and the tuberosity of the ischium, along the back part of the thigh to about its lower third, wliere it divides mto two large branches, the internal and e.rternal popliteal nerves. This division may take place at any point between the sacral plexus and tlie lower third of the thigh. When it occurs at the plexus, the ex- ternal popliteal nerve usually pierces the Pyriformis. -i i i As the nerve descends along the DacK of tlie tliis^h, it rests upon tlie posterior sui-face of' the ischium, the nerve to the Quadratus femoris, and the external rotator muscles of the thigh, m company with the small sciatic nerve and artery. ^ and is covered by the Gluteus maximus; lower down, it lies upon the Adductor magnus, and is covered by the long head of the Biceps. 1/ \SACRAL PLEXUS 981 Fig. 812.—Segmental distribution of the cutaneous nerves of the right lower extremity. Posterior view. «0 The branches of the nerve, before its division, are articular and muscular. The artiadar branches arise from the upper part of the nerve ; they supply the liip-joint, perforating the posterior part of its fibrous capsule, ihcse branches are sometimes deiived from the sacral plexus. The muscular branches are distributed to the flexors of the leg : viz. the Biceps, Semitendinosus, and Semimembranosus, and to the Adductor magnus. The nerve to the short head of the Biceps comes from the external popliteal part of the great sciatic, while the other muscular branches arise from the internal pophteal portion, as may be seen in those cases where the two popliteal nerves emerge separately on the buttock. The internal popliteal (n. tibiahs), the larger of the two terminal branches of the great sciatic, arises from the anterior branches of the last two lumbar and first three sacral nerves. It descends along the back part of the thigh, through the middle of the pophteal space, to the lower part of the Popliteus muscle, where it passes with the pophteal artery beneath the arch of the Soleus, and becomes the posterior tibial. It is overlapped by the hamstring muscles above, and then becomes more superficial, and hes to the outer side of, and some dis- tance from, the popliteal vessels ; opposite the knee-joint, it is in close relation with the vessels, and crosses to the inner side of the artery. Below, it is overlapped by the Gastrocnemius. The branches of this nerve are, articular, muscular, and a cutaneous branch, tbp. emmmmieans-Ubialis.''''^*-'^'^^''^^, The articular branches, usually thi-ee in number, supply the knee-joint; two of these accompany the superior and inferior internal articular arteries ; and a third, the azygos articular artery. The muscular branches, four or five in number, arise from the nerve as it Hes between the two heads of the Gastrocnemius muscle ; they supply that muscle, and tiie Plantaris, Soleus, and Pophteus. The branch which supphes the Popliteus turns round the lower border and is distributed to the deep surface of the muscle. The communicans tibialis (n. cutaneus surse medialis) descends between the two heads of the Gastrocnemius muscle, and, about the middle of the back of the leg, pierces the deep fascia, and joins a com- municating branch {communicans peronei) from the external popliteal nerve to form the external, or short, saphenous nerve (fig. 811). The external saphenous (n. suralis), formed by the communicating branches of the in- ternal and external popliteal nerves, passes downwards and outwards near the outer margin of the tendo Achilhs, lying close to Posteriii tibial S. l.'iNEUROLOGY 982 Pig, 813.—Nerves of the right lower extremity.* Posterior view. 8itperior_ / ^\ gluteal \^ Pudk_ ^/ Xei-oe to ohtiirator interim- Umall sciatic- Inferior pudendal ■ C.ff,it\ Descending cutaneoxis -f-^y^r^-^j^litt Coniviwiicans _ tibialis Posterior tibial- /'A Eieternal ■ jw^Ml-mi^ or peroneal Communicans peronei Plantar cutaneous the external saphenous vein, to the interval between tlie external malleolus and the os calcis. It winds round the outer malleolus, and is distributed to tlic integument along the outer side of the foot and little toe, communicating on the dorsum of the foot with the musculo- cutaneous nerve. In the leg, its branches communicate with those of tlie small sciatic. The posterior tibial (fig. 813), the direct continuation of the internal popliteal nerve, commences at the lo« er Ijorder of the PopHteus muscle, and passes along the back part of the leg with the posterior tibial vessels to the interval between the inner malleolus and the heel, where it divides beneath the internal annular ligament of the ankle into the internal and external 2^lantar nerves. It lies upon the deep muscles of the leg, and is covered in tlie upper part by the muscles of the calf, lower doOTi by the skin and the super- ficial and deep fascise. In the upper part of its course, it hes to the inner side of the posterior tibial artery; but it soon crosses that vessel, and lies to its outer side as far as the ankle. In the lower third of the leg, it is placed parallel with the inner margm of the tendo AchUlis. The branches of the posterior tibial nerve are muscular, internal calcanean, and articular. The muscular branches arise either separately or by a common trunk from the upper part of the nerve. Tliey supply the Soleus. Tibialis posticus. Flexor longus digitorum, and Flexor lougu.< hallucis muscles ; the branch to the last nuiscle accompanies the peroneal artery. The brancli from the posterior tibial nerve to the Soleus entci-s the deep surface of the muscle, while that from the internal popliteal enters the superficial surface. The internal calcanean branch (ramus calcaneus medialis) per- forates the internal annular hgament, and suppUes tlie in- tegument of the heel and inner side of the sole of the foot. innniicans )icroiioi are not in Iheii * N.B.-In this diagram the coninninicans til>iali.s and com. _ ^ .urerficial muscles, normal position. The/have been displaced by the removal of the .uiierhc.al mu.ciSACRAL PLEXUS 983 Fro. 814.—The plantar nerves. Ea-ternal idantar Deep hranch 'The articular branch is given off just above tlie bifurcation of the nerve, and supplies the ankle-jomt. The internal plantar (n. plantaris medialis) (fig. 814), the larger of the two termmal branches of the posterior tibial, accompanies the internal plantar artery along the inner side of the foot. From its origin at the inner ankle it passes beneath the Abductor hallucis, and then forwards between this muscle Internal^ and the Flexor brevis digitorum; it plantar divides opposite the bases of the meta- tarsal bones into four digital branches, and communicates with the external plantar nerve. Branches.—In its course, the internal plantar nerve gives off cutaneous branches, which pierce the plantar fascia, and supply the integument of the sole of the foot; muscular branches, which supply tlie Abductor hallucis and Flexor brevis digitorum; articular branches to the ^articulations of the tarsus and meta- tarsus; and four digitalbranches. The first (innermost) branch becomes cutaneous about the middle of the sole, between the Abductor hallucis and Flexor brevis digitorum; the three outer branches pass between the divisions of the plantar fascia in the clefts between the toes. They are distributed in the following manner: the first supplies the inner border of the great toe, and sends a filament to the Flexor brevis hallucis muscle ■ the second bifurcates, to supply the adjacent sides of the great and second toes, sending a filament to the First lumbricalis ; * the third digital branch suppUes the adjacent sides of the second and third toes ; the fourth suppUes the corresponding sides of the third and fourth toes, and receives a commmricating branch from the external plantar nerve. Each digital nerve gives off cutaneous and articular filaments ; and opposite the last phalanx sends a dorsal branch, which suppUes the structures around the nail, the continuation of the nerve being distributed to the ball of the toe. It will be observed that these digital branches are precisely similar in their distribution to those of the median nerve m the liand. The external plantar (n. plantaris lateralis), the smaller of the two, completes the nervous supply to the structures of the sole of the foot, being distributed to the little toe and outer half of the fourth, as well as to most of the deep muscles, its distribution being similar to that of the uhxar in the hand. It passes obliquely forwards with the external plantar artery to the outer side of the foot, lying between the Flexor brevis digitorum and Flexor accessorius ; and, in the interval between the former muscle and the Abductor Fig. 815.—Cutaneous distribution of plantar nerves. Internal saphenous L. 3.4 External ■saphenous S. 1.2 ♦ Consult article by Brooks, Joivrnal of Anat. amd Physiol., vol. xxi.NEUROLOGY 984 minimi digiti, divides into a superficial and a deep branch. Before its division, it supplies the Flexor accessorius and Abductor mmimi digiti. Ihe superficial branch (ramus superlicialis) separates into two digital nerves : one, the smaller of the two, supplies the outer side of the little toe, the Flexor brevis minimi digiti, and tlie two Interosseous muscles of the fourth metatarsal space ; the other and larger digital branch supplies the adjoining sides of the fourth and fifth toes, and communicates with the internal plantar nerve. Tlie deep branch (ramus profundus) accompanies tlie external x^lantar artery on the deep surface of the tendons of the Flexor muscles and the Adductor obliquus hallucis, and supplies all the Interossei (except thoi?e in the fourth metatarsal space), the three outer Lumbricales, the Adductor obhquus hallucis, and the Adductor transversus hallucis. The external popliteal or peroneal (n. peronseus commimis) (fig. 813), about one-half the size of the internal popliteal, is derived from the dorsal branches of the last two lumbar and first two sacral nerves. It descends obliquely along the outer side of the popliteal space to the head of the fibula, close to the inner margin of the Biceps muscle. It is easily felt beneath the skin behind the head of the fibula, at the inner side of the tendon of the Biceps. It lies bet^^'een the tendon of the Biceps and outer head of the Gastrocnemius muscle, winds round the neck of the fibula, between the Peroneus longus and the bone, and divides beneath the muscle into the anterior tibial and musculo- cutaneous nerves. The branches of the external -popliteal nerve, previous to its division, are^ articular and cutaneous. The articular branches are three in number ; two of these accompany the superior and inferior external articular arteries to the outer side of the knee. The upper one occasionally arises from the great sciatic nerve before its bifurcation. The third [recurrent) articular nerve is given off at the point of di^asion of the external popliteal nerve ; it ascends with the anterior recurrent tibial artery through the Tibialis anticus muscle to the front of the knee, which it supphes. The cutaneous branches, two or three in number, supply the integument along the back part and outer side of the leg ; one of these, larger than the rest the communicans peronei (ramus anastomoticus peronteus), arises near the head of the fibula, crosses the external head of the Gastrocnemius to the middle of the leg, and joins with the communicans tibialis to form the external saphenous. The communicans peronei is occasionally continued down as a separate branch as far as the heel. The anterior tibial (n. peronseus profundus) (fig. 808) commences at the bifurcation of the peroneal nerve, between the fibula and upper part of the Peroneus longus, passes obUquely forwards beneath the Extensor longus dif^itorum to the fore part of the interosseus membrane, and comes mto relation with the anterior tibial artery above the middle of the leg ; it then descends with the artery to the front of the ankle-joint, where it divides mto an external and an internal branch. It lies at first on the outer side of the anterior tibial artery, then in front of it, and again on its outer side at the ankle-joint. The branches of ihe anterior tibial nerve, in its course through the leg, are muscuUr to the Tibiahs anticus. Extensor longus digitorum, Peroneus tertius. and Extensor proprius hallucis muscles, and an articular bramh to the anKie- """^^The external terminal branch passes out^^'ards across the tarsus beneath the Extensor brevis digitorum, and, having become enlarged like tlie posterior interosseus nerve at the wrist, supplies the Extensor brevis digitorum i lo n the enlaraement three minute interosseous branches are given oH, wlncii suppiv tlie tarsal joints and the metatarso-phalangeal joints of second, ttod and fourth toes. The first of these sends a filament to the Second dorsal intei osseous The internal branch, the continuation of the nerve, accompames «o™s pedis artery along the inner side of the dorsum of the foot and at^ tbe ti st nterosseous space, divides into two branches, which supply '-^^J-^^^"*^^ of the great aid second toes, communicating with the innermost branch of the musculicutaneous nerve. Before it divides it gives ofE to the fiist space ^n interosseous branch wliicli supplies the metatarso-phalangeal joint ot (he great toe and sends a filament to the First dorsal interosseous muscle.985 SACRAL PLEXUS The musculo-cutaneous (n. peronfeus superficialis) (fig. 808) supplies the muscles on the fibular side of the leg, and the integument over the greater part of the dorsum of the foot. It passes forwards between the Peronei and the Extensor longus digitorum, pierces the deep fascia at the lower thu-d ot the leg, on its front and outer side, and divides into two branches. This nerve, in its'eourse between the muscles, gives off muscular branches to the Peronei longus and brevis, and cutaneous "filaments to the integument of the lower part of the leg. • x <. * 4.1 The internal branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve passes in tront ot tne ankle-joint, and divides into two branches, one of which supplies the inner side of the great toe, tlie other, the adjacent sides of the second and third toes. It also supplies the integument of the inner ankle and inner side of the foot, communicating with the internal saphenous nerve, and joining with the anterior tibial nerve, between the great and second toes. The external branch, the smaller, passes along the outer side of the dorsum of the foot, and divides into two branches, the inner being distributed to the contiguous sides of the third and fourth toes, the outer to the opposed sides of tlie fourth and fifth toes. It also suppb'es the integument of the outer ankle and outer side of the foot, communicating vnth. the short saphenous nerve. The branches of tlie musculo-cutaneous nerve supply all the toes excepting the outer side of the little toe, and the adjoining sides of the great and second toes, the former being supplied by the external saphenous, and the latter by the interna] branch of the anterior tibial. It frequently happens, however, that some of the outer branches of the musculo-cutaneous are absent, their places being tlien taken by branches of the external saphenous nerve. PuDENDAii Plexus (Plexus Pudendus) The pudendal plexus (fig. 809) is not sharply marked off from the sacral plexus, and as a consequence some of the branches which sprmg from it may arise in conjunction M-ith those of the sacral plexus. It lies on the posterior wall of the pelvis, and is usually formed by branches from the anterior primary divisions of the second and third sacral nerves, the whole of the anterior primary divisions of tlie fourtli and fifth sacral nerves and the coccygeal nerve. It gives off the following .branches : Perforating cutaneous 2, 3 S. Pudic 2, 3, 4 S. Visceral 3,4S. Muscular 4, S. Ano-coccygeal 4, 5, S. and Cocc. The perforating cutaneous usually arises from the posterior surface of the second and third sacral nerves. It pierces the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and winding round the inferior border of the Gluteus maximus supplies the skin covering the inner and lower parts of that muscle. The perforating cutaneous nerve may arise from the pudic or it may be absent: in the latter case its place may be taken by a branch from the small sciatic nerve or by a branch from the third and fourth, or fourth and fifth, sacral nerves. The pudic (n. pudendus) derives its fibres from the ventral branches of the second, third, and fourth sacral no;- It leaves tlie pelvis, below the Pyriformis, through tiie great r,acin-s(:iaiii foramen. It then crosses the spine of the ischium, and re-enters flie pelv'•: through the small sacro-sciatie foramen. It accompanies the pudic vessels upwards and forwards along the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa, being contained in a slieatli of the obturator fascia, termed Alcock^s canal, and divides into two terminal branches, viz. the perineal nerve, and the dorsal nerve of the penis or clitoris. Before its division it gives off the inferior liasmorrhoidal nerve. The inferior hcemorrhoidal nerve is occasionally derived separately from the sacral plexus. It passes across the ischio-rectal fossa, with its accompanying vessels, towards the lower end of the rectum, and is distributed to tlie Sphincter ani externus and to the integument round the anus. Branches of this nerve98G NEUROLOGY communicate with the/inferior pudendal yid superficial perineal nerves at the fore part of the perinajUm. , , , , • , r, i f The perineal nerve, the inferior and larger of the two termmal branches ot the pudic is situated below the pudic artery. It accompanies tlie superfacial permeal artery m the perinajum and divides into cutaneous and umscuiar The cutaneous branches (superficial perineal) are two m number posterior and anterior. The posterior or external branch pierces the base of the tria«gular ligament of the urethra, and passes forwards along the outer side of the uretliral triangle in company with the superficial permeal artery ; it is distributed to he skin of the scrotum. It communicates with the mferior hieinorrhoidal, the inferior pudendal, and the other superficial perineal nerve. The internal branch also pierces the base of the triangular hgament and pas^^^^ forwards nearer to the middle fine, to be distributed to the inner and back part of the scrotum. Both these nerves supply the labium majus in the temaie. The muscular branches are distributed to the Transversus p™i Accelerator urmaj, Erector penis, and Compressor urethral. A distmct branch give' off from the nerve to the Accelerator urina., pierces this muscle Ind supplies the corpus spongiosum, ending in the mucous membrane of the urethra. This is the nerve to the bulb. . u The dorsal nerve of the penis is the deepest division of the pudic nerve .^t accompanies the pudic artery along the ramus of the ischmm ; then runs forwards along the inner margin of the ramus of ^^^t^^^^^the S^^^^^^ superficial and deep layers of the triangular hgament. ^<;^g f Z^!^^^^^^^ Uver it sives a branch to the corpus cavernosum, and passes tonvaias, m XanyS the dorsal artery of thJpenis between J^^.^ J-^Sf^^S ligament, on to the dorsum of the perns, along which it is cairied as tax as tue ^^"TnTh^Sle tWorsal nerve is very small, and supphes the chtoris. ThP vi2?^al branches arise from the third and fourth, and sometiines fro "econd S ntrves and are distributed to the ^lad^^^^^^^^^ and, ui the female, to the vagma ; they commumcate with the pelvic plexuses TL'^mSscula?'branches are derived from the fourth sacral, and supply the L~^^^^^^^^^ Sphmcter ani ex^---,J~£t^ Levator ani and Coccygeus enter their pelvic ^^rf^Jf^^n f ossa hr SS' the externus (perineal branch) reaches the/schio-rectayossa by pie^^^^^ which pierce the great sacro-sciatic ligament to supply tlie skin me of the coccyx. which is most frequently "'^Pli«':^\^tflois emploved h^ tho iuve-stigatiou of dise.ases of in one of the principal ^^]V^'-^'''^}^'^^''^^J?'^^^^^ thespinajjorcl. Kff the skin over he "\"^^f\^^7^^^ftoS^ nerve, be gently tickled in .,^-TOFpE?r^pliec!n3y the cmral branch of 8^"!^°through the action of the JLji male child, the tcstici»^l be noticed to be d'^'^'";" 1''^"^^^^ The same result pubis, at or near the point where this ^^^''^^^J.^'^^^J^^ upon, and its functions , , in fractures and dislocations of the ^^l^^,; ^j, tloreover, on account of its superficial S/*^*-^.impaired, by some tumours growing in f^PfJJ^^ n he groin. It is also likely Jlu^rl position, it is exposed to jnj^'^^ -^"f fen £ ^ 4*J*^ ^ affected in cases of mfantile paralysis, w ncn miAPPLIED ANATOMY OF LUMBO-SACRAL PLEXUS 987 unable to flex his hip completely, on account of the paralysis of the Iliacus ; or to extend the Icnee on the thigh, on account of paralysis of the Quach-icops extensor cmri" ■ there is complete paralysis of the Sartorius, and partial paralysis of the Pectmeus. There is loss of sensation down the front and mner side of the thigh, except m that part supplied by the crural branch of the genito-crural, and by the iho-mguinal There is also loss of sensation down the inner side of the leg and foot as far as tlie ball ot the ^"^^The" obturator nerve is rarely paralysed alone, but occasionally in association with the anterior crural. The principal uiterest attached to it is in connection with its supply to the knee ■ pain in the knee being symptomatic of many diseases hi which the trunk of this nerve, or one of its branches, is irritated. Thus it Ls well known that m the earlier stages of hip-jomt disease the patient does not complam of pam m that articulation, but on the iimer side of the knee, or m the kuee-jomt itself, both these articulations bemg supplied by the obturator nerve, the final distribution of the nerve bemg to the knee-joint. Again, the same thing occurs m sacro-iliac disease: pam is complamed of m the knee-jomt, or on its inner side. The obturator nerve is in close relationship with the sacro-iliac articulation, passing over it, and, according to some anatomists, distributing filaments to it. Further, m cancer of the ilio-pelvic colon, and even in cases where masses of hardened fa;ces are impacted in this portion of the gut, pain is complamed of m the knee. The left obturator nerve lies beneath the pelvic colon, and is readily pressed upon and irritated when disease exists in this part of the intestme. Finally, pain in the knee forms an important diagnostic sign in obturator hernia. The hernial protrusion as it passes out through the openmg in the obturator membrane presses upon the nerve and causes pain m the parts supplied by its peripheral filaments. When the obturator nerve is paralysed, the patient is unable to press his knees together or to cross one leg over the other, on account of paralysis of the Adductor muscles. Rotation outwards of the thigh is impaired from paralysis of the Obturator externus. Sometimes there is loss of sensation in the upper half of the inner side of the thigh. [s^^^i The great sciatic nerve is liable to be pressed upon by various forms of pelvic tumour, givmg rise to pain along its trunk, to which the term sciatica is applied. Tumours gi-owing from the pelvic viscera, especially advanced cancer of the rectum, aneurysms of some of the branches of the internal iUac artery, calculus in the bladder when of large size, accumu- lation of faeces in the rectum, may all cause pressure on the nerve inside the pelvis, and give rise to sciatica. Outside the pelvis violent movements of the hip-joint, exostoses or other tumours growing from the margin of the sacro-sciatic foramen, may also give rise to the same condition. Most cases of sciatica, however, are due to neuritis of the sciatic nerve from exposure to cold, and it occurs more often in men than in women, in the latter half of life, and often in association with rheumatism, gout, or diabetes melUtus. The inflamed nerve is often sensitive to pressure, particularly in certain ' tender spots ' (e.g. near the posterior iliac spine, at the sciatic notch, about the middle of the back of the thigh, in the popliteal space, below the head of the fibula, behind the malleoli, on the dorsum of the foot), and pain is felt whenever extension of the leg is attempted, and the nerve is stretched. Paralysis of the sciatic nerve is rarely complete ; when the lesion occurs high up there is palsy of the Biceps, Semimembranosus, and Semitenduiosus, and of the muscles below the knee. If the lesion be lower down, there is loss of motion in all the muscles below the knee, and loss of sensation in the same situation, except the ujiper half of the back of the leg, which is supplied by the small sciatic, and in the upper half of the inner side of the leg, when the communicating branch of the obturator is large (see page 974). Lesions of the external popliteal nerve cause paralysis of the Tibialis anticus, the Peronei, the long Extensors of the toes, and the short Extensor on the dorsum of the foot. ' Foot-drop ' follows, dorsal flexion of the toes and abduction of the foot becoming impossible. Later on tahpes results, largely by the action of gravity and by the weight of the superincumbent bedclothes when the patient lies in bed. The great sciatic nerve has been fi-equently cut down upon and stretched, or has been acupunctured, for the relief of sciatica. In order to define it on the surface, a point is taken at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of a line stretching from the posterior superior spine of the ilium to the outer part of the tuber ischii, and a line di'awn from this to the middle of the upper part of the popliteal space. The line must be slightly curved with its convexity outwards, and as it passes dowTiwards to the lower border of the Gluteus maximus is slightly nearer to the tuber ischii than to the gi-eat trochanter, as it crosses a line drawn between these two points. The operation of stretching the sciatic nerve is performed by making an incision over the course of the nerve about the centre of the thigh. The skin, superficial structures, and deep fascia having been divided, the interval between the inner and outer hamstrings is to be defined, and these muscles pulled uiwards and outwards respectively \vith retractors. The nerve will be found a little to the inner side of the Biceps. It is to be separated from the sun-oimding structures, hooked up with the finger, and stretched by steady and continuous traction for two or three minutes. The sciatic nerve may also be stretched by what is knowTi as the ' di-y' plan. The patient is laid on his back, the foot is extended, the leg flexed on the thigh, and the thigh strongly flexed on the abdomen. While the thigh is maintamed in this position, the leg is forcibly extended to its fuU extent, and the foot a« fully flexed on the leg.988 NEUROLOGY The position of the external popliteal, close behind the tendon of the Biceps on the outer side of the ham, should be remembered in subcutaneous division of the tendon. After the tendon is divided, a cord often rises up close beside it, which might be mistaken for a small undivided portion of the tendon, and the surgeon might be tempted to reintro- duce his knife and cut it. This must never be done, as the cord is the external popliteal nerve, which becomes prominent as soon as the tendon is divided. Where this nerve winds' round the neck of the fibula, it is also liable to be severed accidentally if its exact situation is not kept in mind, and especial care must be used when dealmg wnth smuses leading do^™ to carious bone in this situation. Section of the nerve results m complete ' foot-drop ' from paralysis of the anterior tibial group of muscles and mversion of the foot from the unopposed action of the Tibialis posticus, the Peronei bemg paralysed, together with anesthesia of the parts supplied by the nerve, and, owmg to loss of nutrition, the limb frequently becomes blue and cold, and may develop ' trophic ' sores. THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES The sympathetic nerves (fig. 816 ) are distributed to tlie viscera and blood-vessels * and are intimately connected with the spmal and certam ot the cranial nerves. They are cliaracterised by tlie presence of numerous ganglia which may be divided into three groups, central, collateral, and ^^^^ehentral ganglia are arranged in two vertical rows, one on either side of the middle line, situated partly in front and partly at the sides of the vertebral column. Each ganglion is joined by intervening nervous trunks to adjacent ganglia so that two chains or cords are formed, the gangliated cords of the sympathetic. The collateral ganglia are found m connection with three great prevertebral plexuses, placed within the thorax, abdomen and pelvis respectively, while the terminal ganglia are located m the walls ot the ""'^ Tlfetangliated cords (trunci sympathici) extend from the base of the skull to the coccyx. The cranial end of each is continued upwards through the carotid canal into the skuU, and forms a plexus on the internal carotid artery ; the lower ends of the two cords converge and end in a smgle ganghon the ganglion impar, placed in front of the coccyx The gangha of each cord are distinguished as cervical, thoracic, lumbar, and sacral, ^'^d, except m the neck they closely correspond in number to the vertebrae. They are arranged thus : • Cervical portion 3 ganglia Thoracic , Lumbar ,, ^ r " Sacral „ 4 or 5 „ In the neck the ganglia he in front of the transverse processes of the vertebrL in the thortcif region in front of the heads of the ribs : m the lumbar r^gSn on the sides of the vertebral bodies ; and in the sacral region '^:l^:rSZ^t^e spinal nerve.-Commumcat^r. a^ e^^^^ between the sympathetic and spinal nerves through what aie knoM ii as tlie yrcy ''s^lZMtl.^.^^uLmunicantes W 7?0) ; the grey ^^-^^^^^St^ fibrps into the spinal nerves and the white rami transmittmg spmai noieb Tnto the svmt^ltlS^^ Each spinal nerve receives a grey ramus communicans r m the g^g?^^^^^^^^ of tlfe sympathetic, by all the sphial nerves. The white rami are derived fiom °V to^ the first lumbar nerves inclusive while tl^e ^^i^^^-l^^'j;;^^ * See footnote, p. !)l I. . j i ^^jiUrwo-Mno-li.T alvcndvilescribed in connection + The ciliary spheno-palatme, otic, and submaxillary ganglia an <:^"".> with the fUth cranial nerve, may'be regarded as belonging to the sympathetK.989 THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES The three great gangliated plexuses are situated in fi-ontof the spine in the thoracic, abdominal, and pelvic regions, and are named, respectively, the Fig. 816.—The riglit sympathetic chain and its connections with the thoracic, abdominal, and pelvic plexuses. (After Schwalbe.) Superior maxUlanj nerve Lenticular ganglion Ueckel't ganglion Superior eercieal ganglion of sumpalhetic Cervical plexus Brachial plexus Great splanchnic Lesser splanchnic- Lumbar plexus Sacralplexus Fliaryngeal plexus Middle cervical ganglion\of sympathetic Inferior cervical ganglion of mmpitthetic Mecurrent laryngeal Bronchial plexus Cardiac plexus (Esophageal plexus Coronary plexuses Left pneumogastric Gastric plex us Solar plexus Superior mesenteric 2>lexus Aortic plexus Inferior mesenteric jjlexus Hypogastric plexus Pel uic plexus Bladder Vesical plexus cardiac, the solar or epigastric, and the hypogastric plexiises^tThay consist of collections of nerves and gangha ; the nerves being derived from tiie gangliated cords and from the cerebro-spinal nerves. They distribute branches to the viscera.990 NEUROLOGY Cervico-cephalic Portion of the Gangliatbd Cord (fig. 817) The cervico-cephalic portion of each gangliated cord (pars cephaUca et cervicalis s. sympathici) consists of three ganglia distinguished, according to Iheir position as the superior, middle, and inferior cervical, connected by intervening coids. This portion of the sympathetic cord receives no white S n communicantes from the cervical spinal nerves, its spinal fbres being derived from the white rami of the upper thoracic nerves, w nch enter the cmTCsponding thoracic gangUa of the sympathetic, and through these ascend ''''The' superior cervical ganglion (ganglion cervicale superius) tlie largest of the three is placed opposite the second and thu'd cervical vertebr*. It is of a redS-grey ^oLur^Ld usually fusiform in shape sometimes broad and flattened and occasiona ly constricted at intervals ; it is beheved to be formed bv the coalescence of foiir ganglia, correspondmg to the upper four cervical by the «fi f°ont with the sheath of the mternal carotid Xy andNLrUtS^ behind, it lies on the Rectus capitis anticus '^'S ranches may be divided into superior, inferior, external, internal, and """^'he^'suDerior branch (n. caroticus mternus) appears to be a direct jL'l S tle'^temporal bone, divides into two branches, which he one on the -'^C^^t^l^ CllrXL filaments to the internal -t;fe l^C^^Z llltrZtf &s to the hrternal carotid artery, ^"^Tircts p^sl%" ^f^' --r: j^rthfiroi^irii^^^^^^^^ --^^ — Lve (the tympanic branch of the^ oss^plw^^^^^^ ^^^.^ The communicatmg branches ^^i^/Vif.northe outer side of the internal filaments which join that nerve as ^ ^^^f mStire 1^^^^ effected by carotid. The commimication with t^^^^^^P^ outer side 6t a branch, the large deep fetrosal f^^^'h uTJIUTS^^^^ up the foramen the artery; this bra^^^.P^^f^^^ to^form the Vidian lacerummedmm, and joms the S^f ^P^^^^^^^^ nerve. The Vidian nerve thenproceedsthrougli tlie \ i^^^^^ i^^ palatine ganglion. The commun^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^ ,,,,, two branches, one of '^'^^^fl'^.^f^^^^^ three delicate filaments tho carotico-tympamc- lattei may c^^^^^^^ situated below and internal The cavernous Plexus (plexus cave nosus s sn ^.^^ ^^^^ to that part of the internal ^^^V f ft^ed Sflv bv the internal sella turcica, in the «^?^^^7"^!^;m the su eHor cervlal" ganglion. Il division of tlie /^^^ti'^^f. JX Ju,^^^^ e ophthalmie division of the fifth, communicates with third hejou h^^ ^^^^ distributes filament, and the sixth nerves, and with t ic ciliai> y ^ communication with the to tlie wall of the internal ^l^*^. f JiVdJ^S on ; the branch to tlie fourth third nerve joins that nerve at t^s P«^j^ "^X^ti^ cavernous sinus ; other nerve joins it as ^ jj^ • « \, ^LuVace of the trunk of the ophthalmic filaments are connected " '^^^^^^ joins the sixth nerve. . nerve ; and a second filament ,^ Ganglion (radioes s^nnpathica^ The filaments of connection with ^'^e ciliaiy g ^ ^^^^ gaiiglii ciliaris) arise from ^be anterio part of^ ?he orbit througli the ^P^/^'^^' ^^^^^^^^^^ Is a separate branch. tlie ophthalmic nerve, or be CO U^^^^^^^ e.avernous plexuses are991 THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES Fig. 817.—Plan of tlie cervico-cephalic portion of the sympathetic. (After Flower.) PLEXUS SUR- ROUNOINS veR" ESRAL ARTERY TERNAL ,T0 OPHTHALMIC CANCLIUN TO FIFTH NERVE TO FOURTH NERVE TO GANGLION OF ROOT OF PNEUMOGASTRI TO PETROSAL GANGLION OF OLOSSO PHARVNSEAL FROM I" CERVICAL NERVE=S5J FROM 21° CERVICAL WERV! FROM 3"° CERVICAL NERVl 7 'ERflCI* VIDIAN NERVE TO "SPHENO-PALATINE GANGL LARGE SUPERFICIAL PETROSAL FROM FACIAL NERVE ■O GANGLION OF TRUNK OF PNEUMOGASTRIC ^.^O HYPOGLOSSAL ACCOMPANTINO- BRANCHES OF EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERV UNITINO Vi/ITH BRANCHES OF PNEUMOGflS- TRIC AND CLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL, TO FORM THE PHARYNGEAL PLEXUS INFERIOR THYROID BRANCHES SURROUNDtNG-ARTERY CARDIAC BRANCHES FROM PNEUMO- GA5TRIC AND RECURRENT LARVNG-- EAL NERVES TO LEFT AN- TERIOR PUL- MONARY NERVES992 NEUROLOGY tlie anterior and middle cerebral arteries and the ophthalmic artery : along the former vessels, they maybe traced to the pia mater ; along the latter, into the orbit where they accompany eacli of the branches of the vessel, l ie filaments' prolonged on to the anterior communicatmg artery connect the sympathetic nerves of the right and left sides The inferior branch communicates with the middle cervical ganghon. The external branches are communicating, and consist of grey rami communicantes to the upper four cervical nerves and to certain of the cranial nerves Sometimes the branch to the fourth cervical nerve may come from the cord connecting the upper and middle cervical ganglia The branches o the cranial nervts consist of delicate filaments, which run to the ganghon of the trunk of the pneumogastric, and to the hypoglossal nerve A separate filament (nervus jugularis) passes upwards to the base of the skuU and subdivides to join the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal, and the ffanslion of the root of the pneumogastric in the jugular foramen ^ Thrinternal branches are peripheral, and are the pharyngeal branches, and the i pm-o^ cardmc nerve. The' pharyr^geal branches (rami Wngopharjm^^^^^^^^ pass nwards to the side of the pharynx, where they join ^^nth branches fio the .losso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and external laryngeal nerves to form "^'^^fZiiao nerve (n. cardiacus superior) arises by two or more branches from the superior cervical ganglion, and occasionally receive a filament from the cord of communication between the first and second cervical filament ^^om iae coia u common carotid artery, lymg which small gangha are ^ J^^^^^ other neiVes^ and external laryngeal nerves medius) the largest of the three The middle cardiac nerve n. "^^^^^^ "'J^ ' or from the cord cardiac nerves, arises from the nndd^ ^^^^ ThJ i?3 f We it descends behind between the middle and inferior gang! a. On t ^ig ^^^^^^ f ont the common carotid artery, and at tl^« °f ^f^^J^'ds on the trachea, receives of or beliind the subclavian artery , it then aescenuTHE SYMPATHETIC NERVES 993 a few filaments from the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and joins the right half of the deep cardiac plexus. In the neck, it communicates with the superior cardiac and recurrent laryngeal nerves. On the left side, the middle cardiac nerve enters the cliest between the left carotid and subclavian arteries, and joins the left lialf of the deep cardiac plexus. The inferior cervical ganglion (ganglion cervicale inferius) is situated between the base of the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, on the inner side of the superior intercostal artery. Its form is irregular ; it is larger in size than the preceding, and is frequently joined with the first thoracic ganglion. It is probably formed by tlie coalescence of two ganglia which correspond to the last two cervical nerves. It is connected to the middle cervical ganglion by two or more cords, one of which forms a loop around tl\e subclavian artery and supplies offsets to it. This loop is named the ansa Vieussenii. Tlie ganglion is joined to the seventh and eightli cervical nerves by grey rami communicantes. It gives off the inferior cardiac nerve, and offsets to blood-vessels. The inferior cardiac nerve (n. cardiacus inferior) arises from the inferior cervical or first thoracic ganglion. It passes down behind the subclavian artery and along the front of the trachea, to join the deep cardiac plexus. It communicates freely behind the subclavian artery with the recurrent laryngeal and middle cardiac nerves. The offsets to blood-vessels accompany the vertebral arteiy, and form a plexus around it ; this plexus supplies filaments to the vessel, and is continued up the vertebral and basilar to the cerebral and cerebellar arteries. Thoracic Portion of the Gangliatbd Cord (figs. 816, 818) The thoracic portion of the gangliated cord (pars thoracaUs s. sympathici) consists of a Series of ganglia, which usually correspond m number to that of the vertebrfe ; but, from the occasional coalescence of two, their number is uncertain. The ganglia (ganglia thoracalia) are placed on either side of tlie vertebral coluima, resting against the heads of the ribs, and covered by the pleura costalis ; the last two, however, are more anterior than the rest, being placed on the sides of the bodies of the eleventh and twelfth thoracic vertebra. The ganglia are small in size, and of a greyish colour. The first, larger than the others, is of an elongated form, and frequently blended with the last cervical. They are connected together by the mtervenmg portions of the cord. Two rami communicantes, one white and the other gi'ey, connect each ganglion with its con-esponding spinal nerve. The branches from the xipper five ganglia are very small; they supply fila- ments to the tlioracic aorta and its branches, and to the bodies of the vertebrte and their ligaments. Branches from the second, thud, and fourth ganglia enter the posterior pulmonary plexus. The branches from the lower seven ganglia are large, and white in colour ; they distribute filaments to the aorta, and unite to form the three splanchnic nerves. These are named the great, the lesser, and tlie least splanchnic. The great splanchnic nerve (n. splanclinicus major) is white in colour, firm in texture, and is formed by branches from the fifth to the ninth or tenth thoracic ganglia ; but the fibres in the higher roots may be traced upwards m the sympatlietic cord as far as the first or second thoracic ganglion. These roots unite to form a cord of considerable size. It descends obhquely inwards in front of the bodies of the vertebrae along the posterior mediastinum, perforates the crus of the Diaphragm, and terminates in the semilunar ganglion of the solar plexus, distributing filaments to the renal and suprarenal plexuses. A ganglion (the ganglion splanchnicum) exists on this nerve opposite the eleventh or twelfth thoracic vertebra. The lesser splanchnic nerve (n. splanchnicus minor) is formed by filaments from the ninth and tenth, and sometimes the eleventh ganglia, and from the cord between them. It pierces the Diaphragm with the preceding nerve and joins tlie aortico-renal ganglion of the solar plexus. It communicates iA the ciiest with the great splanchnic nerve, and ends m the solar plexus. 3s994 NEUROLOGY The least splanchnic nerve, (n. splanchnicus inius) arises from the last thoracic ganglion, and, piercing the Diaphragm, terminates m the renal plexus. It occasionally communicates with the precedmg nerve. A striking analogy exists between the splanchnic and the cardiac nerves The cardiac nerves are three in number ; they arise from all three cervical g] 8—Thoracic portion of the gangliated cord. Right side. ganglia, and an, distributed to a largo "^f^^rCU'Sn^ctod pS^^^^ abdominal cavity. Lumbar Portion of the Gangliated Cord (fig. 819)THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES 9.95 magnus. It consists usually of four ganglia (ganglia lumbalia), connected together by interganglionic cords. It is continuous above with the thoracic portion beneath the internal arcuate ligament of tlic Diaphragm, and below Fig. 819.—Lumbar portion of the gangliated cord, with the solar and hypogastric plexuses. (After Henle.) Diaphragmatic ganglioyi Suprarenal gland Great splanchnic nerve Bight semilunar ganglioyi AoHico-renal gangl Small splai nerve Benal artery Gangliated cord Communicating branch Hepatic artery ^Left semilunar ganglion Superior mesenteric artery Great S2>lanchnic nerve Small splanchnic nerve Aortico-renal ganglion Benal artery Siqierior mesenteric ganglion Branch to aortic plexus Branch to aortic plexus —1—- Ganglia ted cord of sympathetic Inferior mesenteric artery Inferior mesenteric yanylion Sacro-vertebrul angle Common iUac vein Common iliac artery996 ■ NEUROLOGY with the sacral portion behind the common ihac arteiy. The gangha are of small size, and placed much nearer the median line than are the thoracic ^^"&rey rami communicantes connect all the ganglia with the lumbar spinal nerves There may be two from each ganglion, but the arrangement is not so uniform as in other regions. The first and second, and sometimes the third, lumbar nerves send white rami communicantes to the upper two or three ganglia From the situation of the lumbar ganglia, these branches are longer than in the other regions. They accompany the lumbar arteries around the sides of the bodies of the vertebraj, passuig beneath the fibrous arches from which some of the fibres of the Psoas arise. ^ ■ r ^ c Of the branches of distribution, some pass inwards, m tront ot the aorta, and help to form the aortic plexus. Other branches descend m front of the common ihac arteries, and, joming over the promontory of tlie sacrum, assist m forming the hypogastric plexus. Numerous delicate filaments are also distributed to the bodies of the vertebrae, and the ligaments connectmg them. Pelvic Portion of the Gangliated Coed The pelvic portion of the gangUated cord (pars pelvina s. sympathici) is situated in front of the sacrum, along the mner side of the an erior sacra foramma. It consists of four or five small gangha (ganglia sacraha) on eithei Ide, comiected together by mterganglionic cords, ^^\;^°'''r'2\heT^^^^ the lumbar portion. Below, these cords converge and unite on the front ot the coccyx by means of a small ganglion, the ganglion impar GreTr^mi communicantes pass from the ganglia to the sacral and coccygeal nerves No white rami communicantes join this part of the gaiighated cord, but he visceTal branches which arise from the third --^^-^^^^^l^'^Zi times from the second, sacral are regarded as homologous with ^hite rami ''Th"e1™t; of distribviion communicate on the front of ---- the corresponding branches from the opposite side ; some fi'om the fai==t t^^o taLli^ S to oin the pelvic plexus, and others form a plexus, which accom- faSSU r^iddj: "^^^^^ -nds filaments to the coccygeal body. THE GREAT PLEXUSES OF THE SYMPATHETIC ThP creat plexuses of the sympathetic are the large aggregations of nerves abdomuial, and pelvic viscera. Cabdiac Plexus (figs. 816, 817) The cardiac plexus (plexus cardiacus) ^ ^f^^ ^^:^]fS^ of the right pulmonary artery It is f^^^^d f^ ^^^^/^XS^^^^ tlie left of the A sympathetic ^-^-f-^. g'ti2cu^ vagus. A small ganghon, the dJ''>9!'^on Vjy n^^^ ^8 ^ junction, is Sccasionally found connected ^^itb these ner^^^^^^^^ beneath the arch of the This ganglion, when present, is f ^^^^^ed^^^^.^^ 1,^,,, aortafon the right side of the ductus a tei^^^^^^^^ gives branches {a) to the deep '^'^'^Jjl^; Pj^,^"" ^ ^^^^^^^ to the left anterior (b) to the right or anterior coronary plexus , ana (C) ""'SdeVp'Siac Plexus i, '^"^^^^^^/l^^997 THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES ganglia of the sympathetic, and the cardiac branches of the recurrent laryngeal and°vagus. The only cardiac nerves which do not enter into the formation of this'plexus are the superior cardiac branch of the left sympathetic, and the inferior cervical cardiac branch from the left vagus, which pass to tlie superficial plexus. The branches from the right side of this plexus pass, some in front ot, and others behind, the right pulmonary artery ; the former, the more numerous, transmit a few filaments to the anterior pulmonary plexus, and are then continued onwards to form part of the right coronary plexus ; tliose behind the puhuonary artery distribute a few filaments to tlie right auricle, and are then continued onwards to form part of the left coronary plexus. The left side of the plexus is connected with the superficial cardiac plexus, and gives filaments to the left auricle of the heart, and to the anterior pulmonary plexus, and is then continued to form the greater part of the left coronary plexus. The left coronary plexus (plexus coronarius posterior) is larger than the right, and accompanies the left coronary artery ; it is chiefly formed by filaments prolonged from the left side of the deep cardiac plexus, and by a few from the right side. It gives branches to the left auricle and ventricle. The right coronary plexus (plexus coronarius anterior) is formed partly from the superficial and partly from the deep cardiac plexus. It accompanies the right coronary artery, and gives branches to the right auricle and ventricle. Epigastric or Solar Plexus (figs. 819, 820) The epigastric or solar plexus supplies the viscera in the abdominal cavity. It consists of a great netM'ork of nerves and ganglia situated behind the stomach and lesser sac of the peritoneum, and in front of the aorta and crura of the Diaphragm. It surrounds the coeliac axis and root of the superior mesenteric artery, extending downwards as low as the pancreas, and outwards to the suprarenal glands. This plexus, and the ganglia connected with it, receive the great and small splanchnic nerves of both sides, and some filaments from the right vagus. It distributes filaments, which accomjiany, under the name of plexuses, all the branches from the front of the abdominal aorta. Of the ganglia of which the solar plexus is partly composed the principal are the two semilunar ganglia (ganglia cosliaca), which are situated one on either side of the plexus, and are the largest peripheral ganglia in the body. They are large irregular gangUform masses, formed by the aggregation of smaller ganglia, having interspaces between them. They are situated in front of the crura of the Diaphragm, close to the suprarenal glands, that on the right side lying behind the inferior vena cava. The upper part of each ganglion is joined by the great splanchnic nerve, and to the inner side of each the branches of the solar plexus are connected. The lower portion of each semi- lunar gangUon is segmented off, and is named the aortico-renal ganglion. This receives the lesser splanchnic nerve, and gives off the greater part of the renal plexus. From the epigastric or solar plexus are derived the following : Phrenic or Diaphragmatic plexus. ^Gastric plexus. Suprarenal plexus. Coeliac plexus ^ Hepatic plexus. Renal plexus. i Splenic plexus. Spermatic plexus. Superior mesenteric plexus. Aortic plexus. The phrenic plexus (plexus phrenicus) accompanies the inferior phrenic artery to the Diaphragm, some filaments passing to the suprarenal gland. It arises from the upper part of the semilunar ganglion, 'and is larger on thd right than on the left side. It receives one or two branches from the phrenic nerve. At the point of junction of the right phrenic plexus Avith the phrenic nerve is a small ganglion [ganglion phrenicum). This ganglion distributes branches to the inferior vena cava, the suprarenal gland, and the hepatic plexus. There is no ganglion on the left side. The suprarenal plexus (plexus suprarenalis) is formed by branches from the solar plexus, from the semilunar ganghon, and from the phrenic and great998 NEUROLOGY splanclinic nerves, a ganglion being formed at the point of junction with the latter nerve. The plexus suppUes the suprarenal gland, being distributed chiefly to its medullary portion ; its branches are remarkable for their large size in comparison with that of the organ they supply. The renal plexus (plexus renaUs) is formed by filaments from the solar plexus, the lower part of the semilunar ganglion (aortico-renal ganglion), and the aortic plexus. It is joined also by the smallest splanchnic nerve. The nerves from these sources, fifteen or twenty in number, have numerous ganglia developed upon them. They accompany the branches of the renal Fia. 820.—The semilunar ganglia wth the sympathetic plexuses of the abdominal viscera radiating from the ganglia. (From Toldt's ' Atlas,' published by Messrs. Rebman, Ltd., London.) Solar Left Phrenic plexus vagus plexus ■Bight pneumognsiric Gastric plexus Phrenic plexus Suprarenal plexus Splenic plexus Phrenic ganglion Great iplanchnic Semilunar ganglion Sepatic_ plexus ~ ^ Common ^ bile-duct ^ Superior mesenteric' plexus Aortic^ ■plexus Eenal plexus Superior mesenteric ganglion Spermatic plexus Lu mbar qanglia , Inferior ^mesenteric plexus artery into the kidney ; some filaments are dialribuled to the spermatie plexn, receiving branches from the aortic plexus. It accompanies the speima vessels to the testis. Allied Anutomy.-T^e ultimate connection ^vhicb ex^^^ j^tS catuluToJ pTi^ spermatic plexuses serves to explain the very frequent symptom m renal which is referred to the body of the testicle.999 THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES In the female, the ovarian plexus (plexus ovaricus) arises like the spermatic plexus and is distributed to the ovary, and fundus of the uterus. The ccEliac plexus (plexus coehacus), of large size, is a direct contmuation from the solar plexus : it surrounds the coeliac axis, and subdivides into the gastric hepatic, and splenic plexuses. It receives branches from the lesser splanchnic nerves, and, on the left side, a filament from the right vagus. _ The gastric or coronary plexus (plexus gastricus superior) accompanies the gastric artery along the lesser curvature of the stomach, and joins with branches from the left vagus. „ r i.u v The hefaiic flcxus (plexus hepaticus), the largest offset from the coeliac plexus, receives filaments from the left vagus and right phrenic nerves. It accompanies the hepatic artery, ramifying upon its branches, and upon those of the portal vein in the substance of the liver. Branches from this plexus accompany all the divisions of the hepatic artery. Thus there is a pyloric plexus on the pyloric branch of the hepatic, which joins with the gastric plexus and vagi nerves. There is also a gastro- duodenal plexus, subdividing mto the pancreaiico-duodenal plexus, which accompanies the superior pancreatico-duodenal artery, to supply the pancreas and duodenum, and joins with branches from the mesenteric plexus ; and the gastro-epiploic plexus, which accompanies the right gastro-epiploic artery along the greater curvature of the stomach, and unites with branches fiom the splenic plexus. A cystic plexus, Avhich supphes the gall-bladder, also arises from the hepatic plexus, near the hver. The splenic plexus (plexus lienalis) is formed by branches from the coeliac plexus, the left semilunar gangha, and from the right vagus nerve. It accom- panies the splenic artery and its branches to the substance of the spleen, giving off, in its course, filaments to the pancreas {pancreatic plexus), and the left gastro-epiploic plexus, which accompanies the left gastro-epiploic artery along the greater curvature of the stomach. The superior mesenteric plexus (plexus mesentericus superior) is a continuation of the lower part of the solar plexus, receiving a branch from the junction of the right vagus nerve with the ccehac jilexus. It surrounds the superior mesenteric artery, accompanies it into the mesentery, and divides into a number of secondary plexuses, which are distributed to all the parts supplied by the artery, viz. pancreatic branches to the pancreas ; intestinal branches to the smaU intestme ; and ileo-colic, right colic, and middle cohc branches, which supply the corresponding parts of the great intestine. The nerves composing this plexus are white in colour and firm in texture ; in the upper part of the plexus close to the origin of the superior mesenteric artery is a ganglion {ganglion mesentericum superius). The aortic plexus (plexus aorticus abdominahs) is formed by branches derived, on either side, from the solar plexus and the semilunar ganglia, and receives filaments from some of the lumbar ganglia. It is situated upon the sides and front of the aorta, between the origins of the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries. From this plexus arise j^art of the spermatic, the inferior mesenteric, and the hypogastric plexuses ; it also distributes filaments to the inferior vena cava. The inferior mesenteric plexus (plexus mesentericus inferior) is derived chiefly fi'om the left side of tlie aortic plexus. It surrounds the inferior mesen- teric artery, and divides into a number of secondary plexuses, which are distributed to aU the parts supplied by the artery, viz. tlie left colic and sigmoid plexuses, which supply the descending and ilio-pelvic parts of the colon ; and the superior hcemorrJioidal plexus (plexus ha?moiTlioida]is superior) which supplies the rectum and joins in the pelvis Mith branches from the pelvic plexuses. Hypogastric Plexus (fig. 816) The hypogastric plexus (plexus hypogastricus) is situated in front of the promontory of the sacrum, between the two common iliac arteries, and is formed by the union of numerous filaments, which descend on either side from the aortic plexus, and from the lumbar ganglia. This plexus contains no evident ganglia ; it bifurcates, below, into two lateral portions which form the pelvic plexuses.NEUROLOGY 1000 Pelvic Plexuses (fig. 816) The pelvic plexuses supply the viscera of the pelvic cavity, and are situated at the sides of tlie rectum in the male, and at the sides of the rectum and vagina in the female. They arc formed on either side by a continuation of the hypogastric plexus, by the visceral branches from the second, third, and fourth sacral nerves, and by a few filaments from the first two sacral gangha. At the points of junction of these nerves small ganglia are found. From these plexuses numerous branches are distributed to the viscera of the pelvis. They accompany the branches of the internal iliac artery. The middle haemorrhoidal plexus (plexus hsemorrhoidalis medius) arises from the upper part of the pelvic plexus. It supphes the rectum, and joins with branches of the superior hfemorrhoidal plexus. The vesical plexus (plexus vesicalis) arises from the fore-part of the pelvic plexus. The nerves composing it are numerous, and contain a large jiro- portion of spinal nerve-fibres. They accompany the vesical arteries, and are distributed to the side and base of the bladder. Numerous filaments also pass to the vesicula seminalis and vas deferens ; those accomjianying the vas deferens join, on the spermatic cord, with branches from the spermatic plexus. The prostatic plexus (plexus prostaticus) is continued from the lower part of the pelvic plexus. The nerves composing it are of large size. They are distributed to the prostate gland, vesiculse seminales, and erectile structure of the penis. The nerves supplying the erectile structure of the penis consist of two sets, the small and large cavernous nerves, which arise from the fore- part of the prostatic plexus, and, after joining Avith branches from the internal pudic nerve, pass forwards beneath the pubic arch. The small cavernous nerves (nn. cavernosi penis minores) perforate the fibrous covering of the penis, near its root. The large cavernous nerve (n. cavernosus penis major) passes fom^ards along the dorsum of the penis, joins with the dorsal nerve of the penis, and is distributed to the corpora cavernosa and corpus spongiosum. The vaginal plexus (plexus vagmalis) arises from the lower part of the pelvic plexus. It is distributed to the walls of the vagina, to the erectile tissue of the vestibule, and to the clitoris. The nerves composing this plexus contain, like the vesical, a large proportion of spinal nerve-fibres. The uterine plexus (plexus uterinus) accompanies the uterine artery to the side of the uterus, between the layers of the broad hgament; it communicates with the ovarian plexus. Applied Anatomy.—hittle is known as to the connection between the numerous micro- scopical alterations (pigmentation, atrophy, haemorrhage, fibrosis) that have been described in the sympathetic nervous system, and the functional changes that ensue therefrom. Grosser lesions due to stabs, bullet-wounds, or the pressure of new growths, may cause either irritative or paralytic symptoms. In paralysis of the cervical sympathetic on one side, the pupil is small and does not dilate when shaded or on the instillation of cocaine, although it contracts still further when brightly illuminated ; it also loses the cilio-spmal reflex, failing to dilate when the skm of the neck is pinched. The palpebral fissure narrows from paralysis of the involuntary muscle of the eyelid, and the eyeball sinks backwards into the orbit—enophthalmus—either from paralysis of Muller's orbital muscle winch closes the spheno-maxillary fissure, or from wasting of the intra-orbital fat. The super- ficial vessels of the face and scalp are at first dilated, but later they contract. Anidrosis or absence of sweatmg, is often noted on the affected side. Irntalwn of the cerAncal sympathetic produces signs mainly the converse of those d&scnbed above ^\e have no definite knowledge of the signs and symptoms that follow lesions of the thoracic or abdominal sympathetic systems. It is likely, however, that a number of nervous disorders characterised by persistent vascular disturbancas, such as dilatation of the vessels witii throbbing, flushing, sweating, and localised oedema, or contraction of the vessels wiiii pallor, chilliness, pain, and malnutrition of the affected parts, arc due to implication of the sympathetic nervous system. It is possible, too, that the rare condition of progressive facial hemiatrophy, coming on between the ages of ten and twenty, and producing marked unilateral'shrinkage of all the tissues of the face, is piimanly an affection of tlie sympathetic.ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE ri"^HE organs of the senses (organa sensuum) are five in number : viz. tliose i of Touch, of Taste, of Smell, of Sight, and of Hearing. The skin, which is the principal seat of the sense of touch, has been described in the section on Histology. The remaining four are the organs of special sense. PapillcB ORGANS OF TASTE The peripheral organs of the sense of taste consist of certain flask-shaped groups of modified epithelial cells termed taste-buds, Avhich are found on the tongue and adjacent parts. They occupy nests in the Fig. 821.—Section of part of the papilla foliata stratified epithelium, and of a rabbit. (Magnified.) are present in large numbers on the sides of the circum- vallate papillte (fig. 821), and to a less extent on their opposed walls. They are also found on the fungiform papillse over the back part and sides of the tongue, and in the general epithelial covering of the same areas. They are very plentiful over the fimbriae linguae, and are also present on the under aspect of the soft palate, and on the posterior surface of the epiglottis. Structure.—Each taste- bud is flask-like in shape (fig. 822), its broad base resting on the corium, and Taste- btids Fig. 822.—Taste-bud, highly magnified. Guatatort/ pore and gustatory hairs its neck opening by an orifice, the gustatory pore, between the cells of the epithelium. The bud is formed by two kinds of cells : supporting cells and gustatory cells. The supporting cells are mostly arranged like the staves of a cask, and form an outer envelope for the bud. Some, however, are found in the interior of the bud between the gustatory cells. The gustatory cells occupy the central portion of the bud ; they are spindle-shaped, and each possesses a large spherical nucleus near the middle of the cell. The peripheral end of the cell termi- nates at the gustatory pore in a fine hair-like filament, the gustatory hair. The central process passes towards the deep extremity of the bud, and there endsORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 1002 in a single or bifurcated varicose filament, which was formerly supposed to be continuous with the terminal fibril of a nerve ; the investigations of Lenhossek and others would seem to prove, however, that this is not so, but that the nerve-fibrils after losing their medullary sheaths enter the taste-bud, and terminate in fiine extremities between the gustatory cells. Other nerve-fibrils may be seen ramifying between the supporting cells and terminating in fine extremities ; these, however, are believed to be nerves of ordinary sensation and not gustatory. Nerves of taste.—The chorda tympani nerve, derived from the sensory root of the facial, is generally regarded as the nerve of taste for the anterior two-thirds of the tongue ; the nerve for the posterior third is the glosso-pharyngeal. THE NOSE The nose is the peripheral organ of the sense of smell: by means of the peculiar properties of its nerves, it protects the lungs from the inhalation of deleterious gases, and assists the organ of taste in discriminatmg the properties of food. The organ of smell consists of two parts : an external, the outer nose, which projects from the centre of the face ; and an internal, the cavum nasi, which is divided by a septum into right and left nasal fossoe. The outer nose (nasus externus) is pyramidal in form, and its upper angle or root is connected directly with the forehead. Its lase is perforated by two elliptical orifices, the nares, separated from each other by an antero-postenor Fig. 823.—Cartilages of the nose. Side view. Tig. 824.—Cartilages of the nose, seen from below. Lower lateral cartilage Sesamoid cartilages septum, the columna. The margms of the nares are provided with a number of stiff hairs, or vibrissce, which arrest the passage of foreign substances carried with the current of air m- tended for respiration. The lateral surfaces of the nose form, by their union m the middle line, the dorsum nasi, the direction of which varies considerably in different individuals ; the upper part of the dorsum is sii])ported by the nasal bones, and is named the bridge. The lateral surface terminates belo^^■ in a rounded emmence, the ala nasi. , , , , „,.f;i„o--.« Hip latter The nose is composed of a framework of bones and fl't^l^S^^'^^^^^,,^^^^7 bemg slightly acted ipon by certain muscles. It is covered by the integument. linecl by mucous membrane, and supplied with vessels a^^d nerves The bony framework occupies the upper part of the organ, it consists oi the nasal bones, and the frontal processes of the maxillae The cartilaginoics frameivork consists of Ave pieces, the t^^ o "PP«^ '"^^ J*^ two lower lateral cartilages, and the cartilage of the septum (Jg ;f 8^4, The upper lateral cartilage (cartilago na.si lateralis) is situated bUo^^ n free margfn of the nasal bone, and is flattened, and t^l^S^^^^^^^^'^^ai tl e anterior margin is thicker than the posterior, and is contmuous above vnth1003 THE NOSE cartilage of the septum, but separated from it below by a narrow fissure. Its posterior margin is attached to the nasal bone and the frontal process of the maxilla. Its inferior margin is connected by fibrous tissue with the lower lateral cartilage ; one surface is turned outwards, the other inwards towards the nasal cavity. ' The lower lateral cartilage (cartilago alaris major) is a thm, flexible plate, situated immediately below the preceding, bent upon itself in such a manner as to form the inner and outer walls of the naris of its own side. Tlie portion wliich forms the inner wall (crus mediate) is thicker than the rest, and loosely connected with the corresponding portion of the opposite cartilage, to form a part of the colunma ; the opposed inferior borders form, with the thickened integument and subjacent tissue, the septum mobile nasi. The part which forms the outer wall [crus laterale) is curved to correspond with the ala of the nose ; it is oval and flattened, narrow behind, where it is connected with the frontal process of the maxilla by a tough fibrous membrane, in Fig. 825.—Bones and cartilages of septum of which are foimd three or four nose. Right side, small cartilaginous plates, the cartilagines alares minores. Above, it is connected by fibrous tissue to the upper lateral cartilage and front part of the cartilage of the septum ; below, it faUs short of the margin of the nostril, the ala being completed by fatty and fibrous tissue covered by skin. In front, the lower lateral cartilages are separated by a notch which corresponds with the point of the nose. The cartilage of the septum (cartilago septi nasi) is somewhat quadrilateral in form, thicker at its margins than at its centre, and completes the separation between the nasal foss£e in front. Its anterior margin, thickest above, is connected with the nasal bones, and is continuous with the anterior margms of the two upper lateral cartilages ; below, it is connected to the inner portions of the lower lateral cartilages by fibrous tissue. Its posterior margin is connected with the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid ; its inferior margin with the vomer and the palatal processes of the maxillae. It may be prolonged backwards (especially in children) for some distance between the vomer and perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, forming what is termed the processus sphenoidalis. The septal cartilage does not reach as far as the lowest part of the nasal septum. This is formed by the imier portions of the lower lateral cartilages and by the skin ; it is freely movable, and hence is termed the septum mobile nasi. The various cartilages are connected to each other, and to the bones, by a tough fibrous membrane, which allows the utmost facility of movement between them. The muscles of the nose have been described on pages 463, 464. The integument covering the dorsum and sides of the nose is thin, and loosely connected with the subjacent parts ; but where it forms the tip and the aloe of the nose it is thicker and more firmly adherent, and is furnished with a large number of sebaceous follicles, the orifices of which are usually very distinct. The arteries of the outer nose are the lateralis nasi from the facial, and the infei-ior artery of the septum from the superior coronary, which supply the alto and septum ; the sides and dorsum being supplied from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic and the infra-orbital branch of the internal maxillary. The veins terminate in the facial and ophthalmic. The nerves for the muscles of the nose are derived from the facial, while the skin receives Ijranches from the infra-trochlear and nasal branches of the ophthalmic, and from the infra-orbital.ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 1004 Nasal fossae.—The nasal fossae are two irregular cavities situated one on either side of the mesial plane. They open in front through the nares, and communicate behind through the choanai with the naso-pharynx. The nares are somewhat pear-shaped apertures, each measuring about one inch antero- posteriorly and half an inch transversely at its widest part. Tlie choance are two oval openings which are smaller in the living or recent subject than in the skeleton, because they are narrowed by the mucous membrane. Each measures an inch in the vertical, and half an inch in the transverse direction in a well-developed adult skull. For the description of the bony boundaries of the nasal fossae, see page 275. Inside the aperture of the nostril is a slight dilatation, the vestibule (vestibulum nasi), bounded externally by the ala and outer plate of the lower lateral cartilage, and mternally by the mesial plate of the same cartilage. It is lined by skin, and contains hairs and sebaceous glands, and extends as a small pouch, the ventricle, towards the point of the nose. The fossa, above and behind the vestibule, is divided into two parts: an olfactory portion (regio olfactoria), consisting of the superior turbinated process and the opposed pari of the septum, and a respiratory portion (regio respu-atona), which comprises the rest of the fossa. • . li Outer wall (figs. 826, 827).—The sphenoidal air-sinus opens into the recessu^ spheno-ethmoidalis, a narrow recess above the superior turbinated process. The posterior ethmoidal cells open into the front and upper part ot t le superior meatus. On raising or cutting away the middle turbinated bone the outer wall of the middle meatus is fully exposed, and presents (1) a i-ounclecl elevation, the bulla cihmoidalis, opening on or immediately above wiucn ait the orifices of the middle ethmoidal ccUs ; (2) a deep, narrow, curved grooA C m front of the bulla ethmoidalis, termed the hiatus semilunaris, into tlie Iom ei part of which the antrum of Highmore opens, the orifice bemg placed tiio roof of the antrum. The middle meatus is prolonged, above and m i> to the infundibulum ; this leads mto the frontal smus, and mto it the anterioi 11005 THE NOSE ct limoidal cells open. The anterior extremity of tlie meatus is continued into a depressed area, lying above the vestibule and named the atrium meatus medn The nasal duct opens into the anterior part of the mterior meatus, the openinc^ being overlapped sometimes by a fold of mucous membrane. Inner ivall (fig. 825).—The inner wall or septum is frequently more or less deflected from the mesial plane, thus lessening the size of one fossa and mcreasmg t hat of the other. Ridges or spurs of bone growing outwards from the septum are also sometimes present. Immediately over the incisive foramen at the lower ccX^e of the cartilage of the septum a depression, the naso-palatine recess, may be°seen. In the septum close to this recess a minute orifice may be discerned : it leads backwards into a blind pouch, the rudimentary organ of Jacobson (orf^anon vomeronasal), which is supported by a strij) of cartilage, the cartilage of Jacobson (cartilago vomeronasalis). This organ is well-developed in many of the lower animals, where it apparently plays a part in the sense of smell. Fio. 827. -Outer wall of nasal fossa ; the turbinated processes of the ethmoid and the inferior turbinated bone have been removed. Ilrislle in infimdibulum Cut edge of middle turbinated process Hiatus semilunaris llulla ellimoidalis Oppuinfj of middle ethmoidnl O'lls Cut edge of superior turbinated process Dlien ings of jiotierior ethmoidal cells /Irtslle in openinij of sphenoidal sinus Bristle in nasal duel /Irtslle in openiuy of anlruin Cut edge of inferior turbinated bone Orifice of „„„„ „, '^"tir "ller since it is supplied by twigs of the olfactory nerve and lined by epithelium similar to that which lines the olfactory region of the nose. The mucous membrane lining the nasal fossse is sometimes called the Schneiderian membra7ie, from Schneider,* who first showed that the nasal secretion proceeded from the mucous membrane, and not, as was formerly imagined, from the brain. It is intimately adherent to the periosteum or perichondrium over which it lies. It is continuous with the skin through the anterior nares, and with the mucous membrane of the naso-pharynx through the posterior nares. From the nasal fossa3 its continuity witii the conjunctiva may be traced, through the nasal duct and lachrymal canals ; and with the frontal, ethmoidal, and .sphenoidal sinuses, and the antrum of Highmore, through the several openings in the meatuses. The mucous membrane is thickest, and most vascular, over the turbinated bones and processes. It is * Conrad Victor Schneider, 1614-1680, Professor of Anatomy at Wittemberg.1006 ORGANS OP SPECIAL SENSE also thick over the septum ; but it is very thin in the meatuses and on the floor of the nasal fossa3. Wliere it lines the various sinuses it is thin and pale. Fig. 828.—Coronal section of na,sal fossae. S^iperior lurhinaied process Ethmoidal air cell Superior meatus Middle turbinated process Middle meatus Septum nasi Inferior turbinated hone Antrum of Hitihimn Inferior meatus Owing to the great thickness of this membrane, the nasal fossae are much narrower, and the middle turbmated process and inferior turbinated bone appear larger and more prominent than in the skeleton. From the same circumstance, also, the various apertures communicatmg with the meatuses are considerably narrowed. Fig. 829.—Section of the olfactory mucous membrane. (Cadiat.) a. Epithelium, h. Glands o£ Bowman, c. Nen-c-bundlcs. Structure of the mucous membrane {^g. 829)^-Tlie epitheta mucous membrane differs m its character accordmg to the functions of the pari ITHE NOSE 1007 of the nose in which it is found. In the respiratory region it is coluinnar and ciliated Interspersed among the columnar cells are goblet or mucin cells, while between their bases are found smaller pyramidal cells. Beneath the epithelium and its basement membrane is a fibrous layer infiltrated with lymph-corpuscles, so as to form m many parts a diffuse adenoid tissue, and under this a nearly continuous layer of smaller and larger glands, some mucous and some serous, the ducts of which open upon the surface. In the olfactory region the mucous membrane is yellowish m colour and the epithelial cells are columnar and non- ciliated ; they are of two kinds, supporting cells and olfactory cells. The sup-porting cells con- tain oval nuclei, which are situated in the deeper parts of the cells and constitute the zone of oval nuclei; the outer part of the cell is columnar, and con- tains granules of yellow pigment, while its deeper portion is pro- longed as a delicate process which ramifies and communicates with similar processes from neighbour- ing cells, so as to form a network in the mucous membrane. Lying between these central processes of the supporting cells are a number of spindle-shaped cells, the olfactory cells, each consisting of a large spherical nucleus surrounded by a small amount of granular protoplasm, and possessing two processes, one of which runs outwards between the columnar epitheUal cells, and projects on the surface of the mucous membrane as a fine, hair-like process, the olfactory hair ; the other or deep process runs mwards, is frequently beaded, and is continuous with one of the filaments of the olfactory nerve. Beneath the epitheUum, and extendmg through the thickness of the mucous membrane, is a layer of tubular, often branched, glands, the glands of Boioman, identical in structure with serous glands. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the nasal fossa? are the anterior and posterior ethmoidal branches of the ophthalmic, which supply the ethmoidal cells, frontal sinuses, and roof of the nose; the spheno-palatine branch of the internal maxillary, which supplies the mucous membrane covering the turbinated processes and inferior turbinated bone, the meatuses and septum ; the inferior artery of the septum, from the superior coronary of the facial; the infra-orbital and alveolar branches of the internal maxillary, which supply the lining membrane of the antrum ; and the pterygo-palatine branch of the same artery, distributed to the sphenoidal sinus. The ramifications of these vessels form a close plexiform network, beneath and in the substance of the mucous membrane. The veins of the nasal fossae form a close cavernous network beneath the mucous membrane. This cavernous appearance is especially well marked over the lower part of the septum and over the middle turbinated process and inferior turbinated bone. Some of the veins open into the spheno-palatine vein ; others join the facial vein ; some accompany the ethmoidal arteries, and terminate in the ophthalmic vein ; and, lastly, a few communicate with the veins in the interior of the skull, through the foramina in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and the foramen cjecum. The lymfliMics have already been described (page 770). The nerves of ordinary sensation are, the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, filaments from the anterior dental branch of the superior maxillary, tlie Vidian, the naso-palatine, the large or anterior palatine, and nasal branches of Meckel's ganglion. The nasal branch-of the ophthalmic distributes filaments to the fore-part of the septum and outer wall of the nasal fossse. Filaments fi'om the anterior dental branch of the superior maxillary supply the inferior meatus and infei'ior turbinated bone. The Vidian nerve supplies the upper and back part of the septum, and superior spongy bone ; and the upper nasal branches from the spheno-palatine ganglion have a similai distribution. The naso-palatine nerve supplies the middle of the septum. The large, or anterior palatine, nerve supplies the lower nasal branches to the middle turbinated process and inferior turbinated bone. Theo/!/actor2/,the8pecialnerveof thesense of smell, is distributed to the olfactory region. Fig. 830.—^Nerves of septum of nose. Right side.ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 1008 Accessory Sinuses .of the Nose (figs. 826, 827, 828) The accessory sinuses or air-cells of the nose are the frontal, ethmoidal, sphenoidal and maxiUaiy; they vary in size and form in different individuals, and are lined by mucous membrane directly continuous with that of the nasal fossai. The frontal sinuses, situated behind the superciliary ridges, are rarely sym- metrical, and the septum between them frequently deviates to one or other side of the middle Ime. Their average measurements are as follows : height, 1} in. ; breadth, 1 in. ; depth from before backwards, 1 in. Each opens mto the anterior part of the corresponding middle meatus of the nose through the infundibulum which traverses the anterior part of the lateral mass of the ethmoid. Absent at birth, they are generally fairly well-developed between the idnth and twelfth years, but only reach their full size after puberty. The ethmoidal air-cells consist of numerous thin-walled cavities situated in the lateral masses of the ethmoid and completed by the frontal, maxilla, lachrymal, sphenoid, and palate. They lie between the upper parts of the nasal fosste and the orbits, and are separated from these cavities by thin bony laminaj. They are arranged in three groups, anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior and middle groups open into the middle meatus of the nose, the former by way of the infundibulum, the latter directly on or above the bulla ethmoidalis. The posterior cells open into the superior meatus under cover of the superior turbinated process; sometimes one or more of them opens into the sphenoidal sinus. The sphenoidal sinuses contained within the body of the sphenoid vary in size and shape; owing to the lateral displacement of the intervening septum they are rarely symmetrical. The following are their average measurements : vertical height I in.; transverse breadth | in.; antero-posterior depth ^ in. 'When exceptionally large they may extend into the roots of the pterygoid processes or greater Ayings, and may invade the basilar process of the occipital. Each sinus communicates wuth the recessus spheno-ethmoidalis by means of an aperture in the upper part of its anterior wall. Their development does not begin mitU about the eighth year. The maxillary sinus or antrum of Highmore, the largest of the accessory sinuses of the nose, is a pyramidal cavity in the body of the maxilla. Its base is formed by the outer wall of the nasal fossa, and its apex extends into the zygo- matic process. Its roof or orbital wall is frequently ridged by the mfra-orbital canal, while its floor is formed by the alveolar process and is usually on a level with the floor of the nose ; projecting into the latter are several conical elevations corresponding with the roots of the first and second molar teeth, and in some cases the floor is perforated by one or more of these roots. The size of the smus vanes in different skulls, and even on the two sides of the same skull. The followiiig measurements are those of an average-sized antrum : vertical height opposite the first molar tooth in. ; transverse breadth 1 in. ; antero-posterior depth IJ m. In the antero-siiperior part of its base is an opening through which it communicates with the lower part of the hiatus semilunaris ; a second orifice is frequently seen in or immediately behuad, the hiatus. The maxillary antrum appears as a shallow groove on the inner surface of the bone about the fourth month of fcetal liie, but does not reach its full size until after the second dentition.* AvvUed ^watomw.—Instances of congenital deformity of the nose are occasionally met with, such as complete absence of the outer nose, an aperture only bemg present : or perfect development on one side, and suppression or malformation on the other Deformities which have been acquired are much more common, such as fl«"<'"">g ot the nose, the result of syphilitic necrosis ; or imperfect development of th%^ones case.; of congenital syphihs ; or a lateral deviation of the nose may r^ult from fracture The skm over the ate and tip of the nose is thick and closely adherent to subjacen parts : inflammation of this part is therefore very painful, on account of the [ensiom it Krgelv supplied with blood, and, the ckculation here being terminal, vascular engorge- meK liaWe^o occur, especially in women at the menopause, and m both sexes rom Srders of digestion, ;xposure to cold, &e. The skm of the nose also ^''^^J^ ^^mber of sebaceous follides.and these, as the result of intemperance, are aI ^o^-;-^ affected and the nose reddened, congested, and irregtdarly swollen. "^"^ ^^j; 'grog-blossom ' is popularly applied. In some of these cases there is enormous hjper trophy of thJskll and subcutineous tissues. Epithelioma and rodent ulcermay_attack * The various measurements of the accessory sinuses of the nose given above are quoted from Aldren Turner's Accessory Sinuses of the Nose.THE NOSE 1009 the nose, the latter being the more common of the two. Lupus and syphilitic ulceration frequently affect the nose, and may destroy the whole of the cartilaginous portion. In fact, lupus vulgaris begins more frequently on the ala of the nose than in any other situation. To examine the nasal cavities, the head should be thrown back and the nose drawn upwards, the parts being dilated by some form of speculum. The posterior nares can be explored by reflected light from the mouth, through which they can be illuminated. The examination is very difficult to carry out, and, as a rule, sufficient information regarding the presence of foreign bodies or tumours in the naso-pharynx can be obtained by the introduction of the finger behind the soft palate through the mouth. The septum of the nose may be displaced or may deviate from the middle line ; this may be the result of an injury or of some congenital defect. Sometimes the deviation may be so gi'eat that the septum may come into contact with the outer wall of the nasal fossa, and may even become adherent to it, thus producing complete obstruction. Perforation of the septum is not an uncommon affection, and may arise from several causes : syphilitic or tuber- culoiis ulceration, blood-tumour or abscess of the septum. When small, the perforation may cause a peculiar whistling sound during respkation. When large, it may lead to the falling in of the bridge of the nose. Epistaxis is a very common affection in children. It is rarely of much consequence, and will almost always subside without treatment ; but in the more violent hsemorrhages of later life it may be necessary to plug the posterior nares. In performing this operation it is desirable to remember the size of the posterior nares. A ready method of regulating the bulk of the plug to fit the opening is to make it of the same size as the terminal phalanx of the thumb of the patient to be operated on. Foreign bodies, such as boot-buttons, are frequently inserted into the nostrils by children, and require some care in removal, as unskilled attempts only result in pushing the foreign body further into the nasal fossa. Bodies which remain in the nose for any length of time set up ulceration of the mucous membrane, sometimes spreading to the bone, and a profuse purulent discharge results. A condition of unilateral nasal discharge in a child is always suggestive of the presence of a foreign body. The removal of such objects is best effected by giving the child an ansesthetic, opening the mouth with a gag, and placing the left forefiiiger in the naso-pharynx, so as to prevent the escape of the body into the air-passages ; the foreign body is then removed through the anterior naris by a suitable scoop or forceps manipulated by the right hand. Enlargement of the mucous membrane covering the inferior turbinated bone or middle turbinated process is a very frequent accompaniment of chronic nasal catarrh. In old-standing cases the bones themselves may become enlarged, constituting the ' hypertrophied turbinals' which are so often the cause of nasal obstruction. In the case of the inferior turbinated the anterior or posterior extremity is usually more especially affected, giving rise to a reddened mass of tissue often confused with a nasal polypus r the appearances, however, are totally different, as the true nasal polypi appear as gUstening greyish-white bodies between the turbinates. Turbinal hypertrophy can be temporarily reduced to a great extent by the local application of cocaine, and if the reduction by this means is to practically the normal condition, then treatment by- application of the galvano-cautery will be sufficient; otherwise the enlarged portion of the bone or bones ^vill require removal by a wire snare after the attachment to the lateral wall of the nasal fossa has been freed, by special nasal scissors, in the case of enlargement of the anterior end, and by the spoke-shave when the posterior end is enlarged. It is highly inadvisable to remove more than is necessary, as too free removal results in a dry condition of the air-passages, which conduces to a chronic dry pharyngitis and laryngitis. Nasal polypi are of frequent occurrence ; in the common gelatinous form they spring from the outer wall of the nasal fossa and project down between the turbinateds, giving rise to obstructed nasal respiration. They are always accompanied by purulent dis- charge, and are due in all instances to small areas of carious bone in the region of the bulla ethmoidalis, or about the ethmoidal or sphenoidal air-cells. They appear as glistening greyish-white bodies swinging on a pedicle, and the larger ones can be encircled with a cold wire snare and thus removed ; usually, however, after the extirpation of the larger ones has been carried out, numerous small polypi can be seen springing from the region of their bases, and cauterisation of such affected areas must be thoroughly canied out if a recurrence of the trouble is to be avoided. In bad cases a free curetting of the ethmoidal air-cells maybe called for after removal of the middle turbinated process. Fibrous polypi are also more rarely met with, and these are of the nature of new growths ; they most frequently spring from the base of the skull behind the posterior nares and form pedunculated tumours occupying the naso-pharynx. Malignant polypi also occur, most commonly origmating in the antrum and projecting through its inner wall into the nasal fossa ; for such cases removal of the maxilla offers the only hope of cure. Suppuration in the accessory nasal sinuses is of frequent occurrence, and in connection with this it is advisable that the student should recollect the situations at which the various sinuses normally communicate with the nasal fossaj: thus one finds they fall into two main groups : the anterior, opening into the middle meatus and draining the maxillary 3t1010 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE antrum, the frontal sinus and the anterior etlimoidal air-cells, the two latter via the infuncUbulum; and the posterior group, opening into the superior meatus and spheno- ethmoidal recess and draining the posterior ethmoidal and sphenoidal air-cells. Suppura- tion in the anterior group is the more common, and the pus can be seen running down over the anterior end of the inferior turbinated, whereas in the case of the posterior group, the pus does not come forwards, but runs back into the naso-pharynx over the posterior end of the middle turbinated process. Again, it is of importance to notice that the middle meatus is of such a form that pus running down the infundibulum from the frontal sinus is directed by the groove beneath the bulla ethmoidalis straight into the ostium of the maxillary antram. So that the latter sinus may, in some cases, act as a secondary reservoir for pus discharged from the frontal sinus. All the accessory sinuses can be and are infected from the nasal fossa, but it should be noted that in the case of one sinus, viz. the maxillary antrum, the infection is frequently conveyed in another way, and that is from the teeth. This sinus is the one most frequently the seat of chronic suppuration and it often requires drainage. This drainage can be carried out by drilling a hole through the alveolus after removal of a tooth, preferably the first molar, or by gouging away the facial aspect of the maxilla, after having reflested the gum by mcision of the mucous membrane, or by remo\ang bone from the outer wall of the inferior meatus of the nose. Simple drainage, however, is not usually sufficient, and more extensive operations have often to be performed. THE EYE The eyeball (bulbus oculi) is contamed in the cavity of the orbit. In this situation it is protected from injury, while its position is such as to ensure an extensive range of sight; it is additionally protected m front by several appendages, such as the eyebrow, eyehds, &c. Fig. 831.—The right eye in sagittal section, showing the capsule of Tenon (semi-diagrammatic). (Testut.) Optic nerve Capmle of Tenon '—Upper tarsal plate Lower tarsal jilate The eyeball is imbedded in the fat of the orbit, but is «»^™";;^ded b>^'V^;^'^ membranous sac, the capsule of Tenon, which isolates it, so as to allo^^ of free "^S^capsule of Tenon (fascia, bulbi) (fig. 831) envelops the eyeball from the optic nerve to the ciliary region, separari g1011 THE EYE from the orbital fat and forming a socket in wliich it plays. Its inner surface is smooth, and is separated from the outer surface of the sclera by the periscleral lymph-space. This lymph-space is continuous with the subdural and subarachnoid spaces, and is traversed by deUcate bands of connective tissue wJiich extend between the capsule and the sclera. Tlie capsule is perforated behind by the cihary vessels and nerves and by the optic nerve, bemg continuous with the sheath of the latter. In front it blends with the ocular conjunctiva, and with it is attached to the ciliary region of the eyeball. It is perforated by the tendons of the ocular muscles, and is reflected backwards on each as a tubular slieath. The sheath of the Superior oblique is carried as far as the fibrous pulley of that muscle ; that on the Inferior obUque reaches as far as the floor of the orbit, to wliich it gives off a slip. The sheaths on the Recti are gradually lost in the perimysium, but they give off important expansions. The expansion from the Superior rectus blends with the tendon of the Levator palpebrse; that of the Inferior rectus is attached to the inferior tarsal plate. These Uvo Recti, therefore, will exercise some influence on the movements of the eyeHds. The expansions from the sheaths of the Internal and External recti are strong, especially that from the latter muscle, and are attached to the lachrymal and malar bones respectively. As they probably check the action of these two Recti they have been named the internal and external check ligaments. Lockwood has described a thickening of the lower part of the capsule of Tenon, which he has named the suspensory ligament of the eye. It is slung like a hammock below the eyeball, being expanded in the centre, and narrow at its extremities which are attached to the malar and lachrymal bones respectively.* The eyeball is composed of segments of two spheres of different sizes. The anterior segment is one of a small sphere ; it is transparent, and forms about one-sixth of the eyeball. It is more prominent than the posterior segment, which is one of a larger sphere, and is opaque, and forms about five-sixths of the globe. The term anterior pole is apphed to the central point of the anterior curvature of the eyeball, and that of posterior pole to the central point of its posterior curvature ; a Hne joining the two poles forms the axis optica. The axes of the eyeballs are nearly parallel, and therefore do not correspond to the axes of the orbits, wliich are directed forwards and outwards. The optic nerves follow the direction of the axes of the orbits, and are therefore not parallel; each enters its eyeball about 1 mm. below and 3 mm. to the inner or nasal side of the posterior pole. The eyeball measures rather more m its transverse and antero-posterior diameters than m its vertical diameter, the former amounting to about 24 mm., the latter to about 23-5 mm.; in the female all three diameters are rather less than in the male. At birth the eyeball has a diameter of about IT'o mm., while at puberty it measures from 20 to 21 mm. The eyeball is composed of tlu-ee tunics, and of three refracting media. Tunics op the Eye (fig. 832) From without inwards the three tunics are: (1) A fibrous tunic (tunica fibrosa ocuU), consisting of the sclera behind and the cornea in front ; (2) a vascular pigmented tunic (tunica vasculosa oculi), comprising, from behmd forwards, the choroid, ciliary body, and iris; and (3) a nervous tunic, the retina. I. The Sclera and Cornea The sclera and cornea (fig. 832) form the external tunic of the eyeball ■ they are essentially fibrous in structure, the sclera being opaque, and forming the posterior five-sixths of the surface of the globe ; the cornea forms the remaining sixth, and is transparent. Tlie sclera has received its name from its extreme density and hardness • It is a firm, unyielding, fibrous membrane, servmg to maintain the form of the globe It IS much thicker behind than in front. Its external surface is ot a white colour, and is in contact with tlie inner surface of the capsule of ienon; it is quite smooth, except at the points where the Recti and ObHqui * See a paper by C. B. Lockwood, Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, vol. xx. part i. p. 1 3t2' '1012 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE are inserted into it, and its anterior part is covered by the conjunctival mem- brane : hence the whiteness and briUiancy of the front of the eyeball. Its inner surface is stained of a brown colour and marked by grooves, in which are lodged the ciliary nerves and vessels ; it is separated from the outer surface of the choroid by an extensive lymph-space [s-patium perichorioideale) which is traversed by an exceedingly fine cellular tissue, the lamina suprachorioidea. Beliind, it is pierced by the optic nerve, and is continuous through the fibrous sheath of this nerve with the dura mater. At tlie point where the optic nerve passes through the sclera, the tunic forms a thin cribriform lamina, the lamina cribrosa sclerce ; the minute orifices in this lamina serve for the trans- mission of the nervous filaments, and the fibrous septa dividing them from one another are continuous with the membranous processes which separate the bundles of nerve-fibres. One of these openings, larger than the rest, occupies the centre of the lamella ; it transmits the central artery and vein of the retina. Around the cribriform lameUa are numerous small apertures for the transmission of the ciliary vessels and nerves, and about midway between Fig. 832.—Horizontal section of the eyeball. Canal of Schlemm c;i Posteriw chamber ^ Conjunctiva External/ rectus muscle - Ciliary processes Canal of Petit Canalis hyaloideus Internal rectus muscle Sclera Choroid Retina Fovea centralis Nerve sheath Central artery of retina Optic tierve the margin of the cornea and the entrance of the optic nerve are four or five large apertures, for the transmission of veins (venoB vorticosce) in front, tne fibrous tissue of the sclera is directly continuous with that of the cornea, but the opaque sclera sUghtly overlaps the outer surface of the transparent cornea Structure-The sclera is formed of white fibrous tissue intermixed with fine elastic fibres, and of flattened connective-tissue coi-pusc es, ^^^^^^ '^^'^^^ are pigmented, contained in cell-spaces between the fibres The ^^^res a e abated into bundles, which are arranged chiefly m a longitudinal direction. a" It numerous, the capillaries being of smaU "^^ "^^t"? and wide intervals. Its nerves are derived from the ciLary nerves, but their ''thrc?rn"fe p\^^^^^^ part of the external tunic of the evebaU and forms he^anterior sixth of the surface of the globe. It ,s almost cfrcuS m oXe, occasionally a Uttle broader in the trvansverse than 11 t c vert^cri direction. It is convex anteriorly, and projects forwards fjon the XlTln V^l^r^xe manner that a watch-gla,ss does from its cast^ degree curvatm-e in different individuals, and in the same individual at differenti013 THE EYE periods of life, being more pronounced in youth than in advanced life. The cornea is dense and of uniform thickness throughout; its posterior surface is perfectly circular in outline, and exceeds the anterior surface slightly in extent, from the latter being overlapped by the tissue of the sclera. Structure (fig. 833).—The cornea consists from before backwards of the four folloMdng layers, viz.: (1) a layer of stratified epithelium, continuous wdth that of the conjunctiva; (2) the substantia propria ; (3) a homogeneous elastic lamina ; and (4) a layer of endothehum. The stratified epithelium (epithelium cornese) covering the front of the cornea consists of several layers of cells. The cells of the deepest layer are columnar ; Fig. 833.—^Vertical section of human cornea from near the margin. (Waldeyer.) Magnified. 1. Epithelium. 2. Anterior liomogeneous lamina. 3. Substantia propria. 4. i'osterior homogeneous (elastic) lamina. 5. Endothelium of the anterior chamber, a. ObUque fibres in the anterior layer of the substantia propria, b. Lamellffi the fibres o£ which are out across, producuig a dotted appearance. c. Corneal corpuscles appearing fusiform in section, d. Lamelto the fibres of which are cut longitudinally. e. Transition to the sclera, with more distinct fibrillation, and surmounted by a thicker epitheUum. /. Small blood-vessels cut across near the margin of the cornea. then foUow two or three layers of polyhedral cells, the majority of which present finger-like processes (i.e. prickle-cells) similar to those found in the cuticle. Lastly, there are three or four layers of scaly epithelium, with flattened nuclei. The substantia propria is fibrous, tough, unyielding, perfectly transparent, and continuous with the sclera. It is composed of about sixty flattened lamellae, superimposed one on another. These lamellae are made up of bundlesORGANS OP SPECIAL SENSE 1014 of modified connective tissue, the fibres of \\hich are directly continuous with the fibres of the sclera. The fibres of each lamella are for the most part parallel with one another, but at right angles to those of adjacent lamellae. Fibres, however, frequently pass from one lamella to the next. The lamellae are connected with each other by an interstitial cement- substance, in which are spaces, the corneal spaces. These are stellate in shape and have numerous offsets, by which they communicate with each other. Each contains a cell, the corneal corpuscle, resembling in form the space in which it is lodged, but not entirely filling it. Immediately beneath the conjunctival epithelium, the cornea proper presents certain characteristics wliich have led some anatomists to regard it as a distinct membrane, and it has been named the lamina elastica anterior of Bowman. It differs, however, from the lamina elastica posterior, in presenting evidence of fibrillar structure, and in not having the same tendency to curl inwards, or to undergo fracture, when detached from the other layers of the cornea. It consists of extremely closely interwoven fibrils, similar to those found in the substantia propria, but contains no corneal corpuscles. It may be regarded as a part of the proper tissue of the cornea. The lamina elastica posterior {membrane of Descemet or Demours) covers the posterior sui-face of the substantia propria, and consists of an elastic, transparent homogeneous membrane, of extreme thinness, which is not rendered opaque by either water, alcohol, or acids. It is very brittle, but its most remarkable properties are its extreme elasticity, and the tendency wliich it presents to curl up, or roll upon itself, mth the attached surface innermost, when separated from the proper substance of the cornea. Its use appears to be ' to preserve the requisite permanent correct curvature of the flaccid cornea proper ' (Jacob). At the margin of the cornea the lamina elastica posterior breaks up into fibres which form a reticular structure at the outer angle of the anterior chamber, the intervals between the fibres forming small cavernous spaces, the spaces of Fontana (spatia anguh iridis). These spaces communicate \^ith a circular canal in the substance of the sclera close to its jmiction with the cornea. This is the canal of Schlemm (sinus venosus sclerae) ; it communicate^ internally mth the anterior chamber through the spaces of Fontana, and externally with the scleral veins. Some of the fibres of this reticulated struc- ture are continued into the substance of the iris, forming the ligamentum pectinatum iridis ; while others are connected with the fore-part of the sclera and choroid. . . The layer of endothelium (endothelium camerae anterioris) covers the pos- terior surface of the elastic lamina, is reflected on to the front of tlie ms, and also lines the spaces of Fontana. It consists of a single stratum of polygonal, flattened, nucleated cells, similar to those lining other serous ca%aties. Vessels and Nerves.—The cornea is a non-vascular structure, the capillary vessels terminating in loops at its circumference. Lymphatic vessels have not as yet been demonstrated in it, but are represented by the channels in which the bundles of nerves run ; these are lined by an endothehum. The nerves are numerous and are derived from the ciliary nerves. They form an annular j>lexiis around the periphery of the comea, from which fibres enter the substantia propria. They lose their medullary sheaths and rami y throughout its substance m a delicate network, and their termmal filaments form a farm and closer plexus on the surface of the cornea proper, beneath the epithelium ihis is termed the sub-epithelial plexus, and from it fibrils are given off which ramify between tne epithelial cells, forming an intra-epithelial plexus. ' II. The Vascular and Pigmented Tunic (figs. 832, 834, 835.) The middle tunic of the eye is formed from behind forwards by the choroid, the ciliary body, and the iris. , „..f„nrl« as The choroid invests the posterior five-sixths of the globe, and extends as far forwards as the ora serrata of the retina The ciliary b«dy co^ec^ts tl^ choroid to the circumference of the iris. The ms is a "i"^"!'-^ , f^'^l behind the cornea, and presents in its centre a rounded '^^P^^'^^^f';^'^^^;"f dark The choroid (chorioidea) is a thin, highly vascular i^^l^^brane, of a dark brou-n or chocolate colour, which invests the posterior fi^T-^'f^^^il,^;,^^^^^^^^^ it is pierced behind by the optic nerve, and in this situation is firmly adhcicnt1015 THE EYE to the sclera. It is tliicker behind than in front. Externally, it is loosely connected by the lamma fusca mth the inner sui'face of the sclera. Its inner surface is attached to the pigmented layer of the retina. Structure.—The choroid consists mainly of a dense capillary plexus, and of small arteries and veins carrying blood to and returning it fi-om this plexus. On its external surface, i.e. the sui-face next the sclera, is -pio, 834.—The choroid and iris. (Enlarged.) a thin membrane, the lamina suprachorioidea, composed of delicate non-vascular lamellaj —each lamella consisting of a network of fine elastic fibres among wliich are branched pigment-cells. The spaces between the lameUse are Imed by endothelium, and open freely into the perichoroidal lymph-space, which, in its turn, communicates Avith the periscleral space by the perforations in the sclera through wliich the vessels and nerves are transmitted. Internal to this lamina is the choroid 'proper, and in con- sequence of the small arteries and veins being arranged on the outer surface of the capil- lary network, it is customary to describe this as consisting of two layers : an outer, composed of small arteries and veins, with pigment-cells interspersed between them ; and an inner, consisting of a capillary plexus. The outer layer or lamina vasculosa consists, in part, of the larger branches of the short ciliary arteries which run forwards between the veins, before they bend inwards to terminate in the capillaries, but is formed principally of veins, Fig. 835.—^The arteries of the choroid and iris. The greater part of the sclera has been removed. (Enlarged.) named, from their arrangement, tiie venoe. vorlicosce. They converge to four or five equidistant trunks, which pierce the sclera midway between the margin of the cornea and the entrance of the optic nerve. Interspersed between the vessels are dark star-shaped pigment-cells, the processes of which, communicating1016 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE Fig. 836.- with those of neighbouring cells, form a delicate network or stroma, which, towards the inner surface of the choroid, loses its pigmentary character. The inner layer or lamina choriocapillaris consists of an exceedingly fine capillary X^lexus, formed by the short ciliary vessels ; the network is closer, and finer in the posterior than in the anterior part of the choroid. About half an inch behind the cornea its meshes become larger, and are contmuous with those of the ciliary processes. These two laminae are connected by a stratum inter- medium consisting of fine elastic fibres. On the imier surface of the lamina choriocapillaris is a very thin, structureless, or faintly fibrous membrane, called the lamina basalis {membrane of Bruch); it is closely connected vnth. the stroma of the choroid, and separates it from the pigmentary layer of the retina. Tapetum.—This name is applied to the outer and posterior part of the choroid, which in many animals presents an iridescent appearance. The ciliary body (corpus ciliare) comprises the orbiculus ciUaris, the ciliary processes, and the Ciliary muscle. The orbiculus ciliaris is a zone of about one-sixth of an inch (4 mm.) in width, directly continuous with the anterior part of the choroid ; it presents numerous ridges arranged in a radial manner. The ciliary processes (processus ciliares) are formed by the inward folding of the various layers of the choroid (i.e. the choroid proper and the lamina basahs), and are received be- -The veins of the choroid. (Enlarged.) ^Ween corresponding foldings of the suspensory ligament oi the lens, thus establishing a connection between the choroid and inner tunic of the eye. They are arranged in a circle, and form a sort of frill behind the iris, round the margin of the lens. They vary from sixty to eighty in number, lie side by side, and may be divided into large and small ; the former are about one-tenth of an inch (2-5 mm.) in length, and the latter, con- sisting of about one-third of the entire number, are situated in the spaces between them, but without regular arrangement. They are attached by then- periphery to three or four of the ridges of the orbiculus ciliaris, and are continuous with'the layers of the choroid: their opposite extremities are free and rounded, and'are directed towards the posterior chamber of the eyeball and circum- ference of the lens. In front, they are continuous with the periphery ot the iris. Their posterior surfaces are connected with the suspensory hgament ot Structure (fig. 837).—The ciliary processes are similar in structure to the choroid, but the vessels are larger, and have chiefly a longituduial direction. Their posterior surfaces are covered by abilaminar layer of black pigment-ceUs, which is continued forwards from the retina, and is named the pars a harts retince. In the stroma of the ciliary processes there are also steUatc pigment- cells, but these are not so numerous as in the choroid itself. The Ciliary muscle (m. ciliaris) consists of unstriped fibres it forms a greyish, semitransparent, circular band, about one-eighth of an "if| broad on the outcTr surface of the fore-part of the choroid. It is thickest m front, and consists of two sets of fibres, radial and circular - - ' e numerous, arise from the junction oi lue they The radial fibres (fibrse raeridionales), much the more . cornea and sclera, and from the ligamentum pectinatum mdis ; backwards, and are attached to the ciliary proces.ses '-^^^^ orbiculus ciliam bundle, according to Waldeyer, is continued be in^^^^^^ the sclera. Tiie circular fibres (fibra^ circulares) are internal to the radiating run OneTHE EYE 1017 ones and to some extent unconnected with them, and have a circular course around the attachment of the iris. Tliey are sometimes called the ring muscle of Miiller, and were formerly described as the ciliary ligament. They are well developed in hypermetropic, but are rudimentary or absent m myopic eyes. The Ciliary muscle is the cMef agent ua accommodation, i.e. in adjusting the eye to the vision of near objects. When it contracts, it draws forwards the ciliary processes, relaxes the suspensory ligament of the lens, and thus allows the anterior surface of the lens to become more convex; the pupil is at the same time slightly contracted. The iris has received its name from its various colours in different individuals. It is a thin, cu'cular, contractile disc, suspended in the aqueous humour between the cornea and lens, and perforated a little to the nasal side of its centre by a circular aperture, the pupil (pupiUa), for the transmission of light. By its periphery it is continuous with the ciliary body, and is also connected with the posterior elastic lamina of the cornea by means of the pectinate ligament ; Fig. 837.—Section of the eye, showing the relations of the cornea, sclera, and. iris, together with the Ciliary muscle and the spaces of Fontana near the angle of the anterior chamber. (Waldeyer.) its surfaces are flattened, and look forwards and backwards, the anterior towards the cornea, the posterior towards the cihary processes and lens. The iris divides the space between the front of the lens and the back of the cornea into two chambers—anterior and posterior. The anterior chamber (camera oculi anterior) is bounded in front by the posterior surface of the cornea ; behind by the front of the iris and the central part of the lens. The posterior chamber (camera oculi posterior) is a narrow cliink between the peripheral part of the Ms, the suspensory ligament of the lens and the ciliary processes. In the adult the two chambers communicate tlurough the pupil, but in the foetus of the seventh month, when the pupil is closed by tlie membrana pupillaris, the two chambers are quite separate. Structure.—The iris is composed of the following structures : 1. In front is a layer of flattened endothelial cells placed on a delicate hyaline basement-membrane. This layer is continuous with the epithelial layer covering the membrane of Descemet, and in men with dark-colotired iiides the cells contain pigment-granules.ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 1018 2. Stroma.—The stroma iridis consists of fibres and cells. The former are made up of delicate bundles of fibrous tissue, of which some few fibres have a circular direction at the circumference of the iris ; but the chief mass consists of fibres radiating towards the pupil. They form, by their interlacement, delicate meshes, in which the vessels and nerves are contained. Interspersed between the bundles of connective tissue are numerous branched cells with fine processes. In dark eyes many of them contain pigment-granules, but in blue eyes and the pink eyes of albinos they are unpigmented. Ha. 838.—Vessels of the choroid, ciliary processes, and iris of a child. (Arnold.) Magnified 10 times. Fig. 839.—Diagrammatic representation of the course of the vessels in the eye. Horizontal section. (Leber.) Arteries and capillaries red ; veins blue. a. Capillary network of the posterior part of the choroid, endiBg at 6, the ora serrata. c. Arteries of the corona ciliaris, supplying the ciliary processes, d, and passing into the iris, e. f. The caplUary network close to the pupillary margin of the iris. 3. The muscular fibres are involuntary, and consist of circular and radiating fibres. The circular fibres (m. sphincter pupillse) sur- round the margin of the pupil on the posterior surface of the iris, like a sphincter, forming a narrow band about one-thirtieth of an inch (1 mm.) in width; those near the free margin are closely aggregated; those more external, somewhat separated, form incom- plete circles. The radiating fibres (m. dilatator pupillse) converge. „;,,^,,inr fibrfs from the circumference towards the centre, and blend with the cucular fibres near the margin of the pupil. These fibres are regarded by some as elastic, "^V^The posterior surface (facies posterior) of the iris is of a deep l^rpl^^^^^^^^^^ being covei^d by two layers of pigmented -oh^nmav ev^thehnm co^^^ at the periphery of the iris with the pars ciliaris retinw. Tins P'gm^ntea epitheliSmTs nLed the pars iridica retinc. or, from the resemblance of its colour to that of a ripe grape, the uvea. ) Entrance of optic nerve, a. Short posterior ciliary artenes. 6 Long posterior ciliary arteries, c. .^Jltcrior ciliary vessels. d. Posterior conjunctival vessels, d'. Anterior conjunctivul vessels, c. Central vessels of the retina, f. ^ ffisels of tlie inner sheatli of the optic nerve, g. Vessels of tlie outer sheath, h. Vorticose vein. i. Short posterior cihary vein. Branches of Uie short posterior ciharj- arteries to the optic nerve I Anastomosis of choroidal vessels with those of optic nerve, m. Chorio-capUlaris. n. Kpi.-;deral vessels. 0 Becurrent artcivof tlie choroid, p. OrciUus indis major (in section). ?. VesscLs of iris. J-- Vessels of cihary pr^f.'j. s Branch from eiliarv muscle to vorticose vein. <. Branch from cUiary muscle to anterior ciliary vein. «. Canal of Schlemm. r. Capillarv loop at margin of coniea.THE EYE 1019 The colour of the iris is produced by the reflection of light from dark pigment- cells underlying a translucent tissue, and is therefore determined by the amount of the pigment and its distribution throughout the texture of the iris. The number and the situation of the pigment-cells differ in different irides. In the albino pigment is absent. In the various shades of blue eyes the pigment- cells are confined to the posterior surface of the iris, whereas in grey, brown, and black eyes pigment is found also in the cells of the stroma and in those of the epitheHal layer on the front of the iris. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the iris are derived from the long and anterior ciliary arteries, and from the vessels of the ciliary processes (see page 648). The long ciliary arteries, two in number, having reached the attached margin of the iris, divide each into an upper and lower branch; these anastomose with corresponding branches from the opposite side and thus encircle the iris ; into this vascular zone (ciradus arteriosus major) the anterior ciliary arteries pour their blood. From this zone vessels converge to the free margin of the iris, and there communicate by branches from one to another to form a second zone {circulus arteriosus minor) (figs. 838 and 840). Fig. 840.—^The iris, viewed from in front, with its great and small arterial chcles. (Testut.) 0. Choroid, b. Ciliary muscle, c. Iris. d. Pupil. 1 and 1'. Tlie two long ciliary arteries, with 2, their ascending branch of bifurcation; 3, their descending branch of bifurcation. 4. The anterior ciHary arteries. 5. Circulus major; C, its branches radiating through tlie iris. 7. Circulus minor around the pupil. The nerves of the clwroid and iris are derived from the ciliary branches of the lenticular gangUon, and the long ciliary from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth. They pierce the sclera around the entrance of the optic nerve, rvm forwards in the perichoroidal space, and supply the blood-vessels of the choroid. After reaching the iris they form a plexus around its attached margin ; from this are derived non-medullated fibres which terminate in the circular and radiating muscular fibres. Their exact mode of termination has not been ascertained. Other fibres from the plexus terminate in a network on the anterior surface of the iris. The fibres derived from the motor root of the lenticular ganghon (third nerve) supply the circular fibres, while those derived from the sympathetic supply the rachating fibres. Memhrana fufillaris.—In the foetus, the pupil is closed by a delicate vascular membrane, the memhrana fwpillaris, which divides the space in which the iris is suspended into two distinct chambers. This membrane contains numerous minute vessels, continued from the margin of the iris to those on the front part of the capsule of the lens. These vessels have a looped arrangement, 11020 ORGANS OP SPECIAL SENSE and converge towards each other w-ithout anastomosing. Between tlie seventh and eighth month tlie membrane begins to disappear by absorption from the centre towards the circumference, and at birth only a few fragments are present ; in exceptional cases it may persLst. III. The Retina The retina is a delicate nervous membrane, upon the surface of which the images of external objects are received. Its outer surface is in contact with the choroid ; its inner with the vitreous body. Beliind, it is continuous with the optic nerve ; it gradually diminishes in thickness from behind forwards, and extends nearly as far as the ciUary body, where it appears to terminate in a jagged margin, the ora serrata. Here the nervous tissues of the retina end, but a thin prolongation of the membrane extends forwards over the back of the ciliary processes and iris, forming the pars ciliaris reiince and pars iridica retinae already referred to. This forward prolongation consists of the pigment- ary layer of the retma together with a stratum of columnar epithehum. The retina is soft, semitransparent, and of a purple tint in the fresh state, o\\ang to the presence of a colouring material named rhodopsin or visual purple ; but it soon becomes clouded, opaque, and bleached when exposed to sunlight. Fig. 841.—The terminal portion of the optic nerve and its entrance into the eyeball, in horizontal section. (From Toldt's 'Atlas,' published by Messrs. Rebman, Ltd., London.) Collimlus nervi optici Lamina cnbrosa , of sclcrc Betina Choroid—£ Sclera Posterior ^ short ciliarv artery and vein Pialsheath Arachnoid sheath Dural sheath Intervaginal spaces- Bundles of optic nerve Centra i vei7i of retina Exactly in the centre of the posterior part of the retina, corresponding to the axis of the eye, and at a point in which the sense o vision is most perfect is an oval yello^nsh area, the yellow spot (macula lutea) ; in the SP?^ a centiai depression, the/ot;.a centralis. At the fovea centralis retina s exceeding^^ thin, and the dark colour of the choroid is distinctly seen tl^'^^,^^^;*- J^^j^fth only in man, the quadrumana, and some saurian reptiles. Abmit one eighty of an inch (3 mm.) to the inner side, and about 1 mm. below the level ot the yeUow spot is the point of entrance of the optic nerve iPory ofcn^^^ disc), the circumference of which is sUghtly raised so as to fo^^^^J^.^J^^^Xe {colLdus nervi optici) (iig. 841) ; the arteria centrahs ^'•'tmBe Fcrees^i^^^^^^^^^^ This is the only part of tlie surface of the retma from which the povver ot vision is absent, and is termed the ' blind spot. nnd when Structure figs. 842, 843).—The retina is exceedmgly complex and, wuen examS rcrosfopioaliy by means of sections made perpendicularly to itsTHE EYE 1021 surface, is found to consist of ten layers, named from within outwards as follows : 1. Membrana limitans interna. 2. Layer of nerve-fibres (stratum opticum). 3. Ganglionic layer, consisting of nerve-cells. 4. Inner j^lexiform layer. 5. Inner nuclear layer, or layer of inner granules. 6. Outer plexiform layer. 7. Outer nuclear layer, or layer of outer granules. 8. Membrana limitans externa. 9. Jacob's membrane (layer of rods and cones). 10. Pigmented layer (tapetum nigrum). 1. The membrana limitans interna is the innermost layer, and is in contact with the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous body. It is derived from the supporting framework of the retina, with which it will be described. 2. The layer of nerve-fibres is formed by the expansion of the optic nerve, the fibres of which pass through all the layers of the retina, except the mem- brana Mmitans interna. As the nerve passes through the lamina cribrosa scleras, its fibres lose their medullary sheaths and are continued onwards through the choroid and retina as simple axis cylinders. When these non- medullated fibres reach the internal surface of the retina they radiate from their point of entrance over the sm-face of the retina, grouped in bundles, and in many places arranged in plexuses. Most of the fibres in this layer are centripetal, and are the direct continuations of the axis-cylinder processes of the cells of the next layer, but a few of them are centrifugal and run through this and the next succeeding layer to ramify in the inner molecular and inner nuclear layers, where they terminate in enlarged extremities (fig. 843). The layer of nerve-fibres is thickest near the optic nerve disc, gradually diminishing towards the ora serrata. 3. The ganglionic layer consists of a single layer of large ganglion-cells, except in the macula lutea, where there are several strata. The cells are somewhat flask-shaped; the roimded internal surface of each resting on the preceding layer, and sending off an axon which is prolonged as a nerve-fibre into the fibrous layer. Prom the opposite extremity numerous dendrites extend into the inner plexiform layer, where they branch and form flattened ar- borisations at different levels (fig. 843). The ganglion-cells vary much in size, and the dendrites of the smaller ones as a rule arborise in the inner plexiform layer as soon as they enter it; wloile those of the larger cells ramify close to the inner nuclear layer. 4. The inner plexiform layer is made up of a dense reticulum of minute fibrils, formed by the interlacement of the dendrites of the ganglion-cells with those of the cells of the inner nuclear layer, immediately to be described. Witliin the reticulum formed by these fibrils a few branched spongioblasts are sometimes imbedded. 5. The inner nuclear layer or layer of inner granules is made up of a number of closely packed cells, of which there are three varieties, viz. bipolar cells, horizontal cells and amacrine cells. The bipolar cells are by far the most numerous, and are round or oval in shape, each cell being prolonged into an inner and an outer process. They are divisible into rod-bipolars and cone-bipolars. The inner processes of the 7-od- bipolars run through the inner plexiform layer and arborise around the bocUes of the cells of the ganglionic layer ; their outer processes end in tufts of fibrils around the button-Uke ends of a number of rod-fibres. The mner processes of Fig. 842.—Section of retina. (Magnified.) a. Membrana limitans interna. 5. Layer of nerre-flbres. c. Ganglionic layer. d. Inner plexiform layer, c. Inner nudear layer. /. Outer plexiform layer. g. Outer nuclear layer. Ii. Slembrana limitans externa, i. Layer of rods and cones, k. Pigmented layer, m. Fibres of Miiller.ORGANS OP SPECIAL SENSE 1022 the cone-bipolars ramify in the inner plexiform layer in contact with tlie dendrites of the ganglionic cells. The horizontal cells lie in the outer j^art of the inner nuclear layer and possess somewhat flattened cell bodies. Their dendrites divide into numerous branches in the outer plexiform layer wliile their axons run horizontally for some distance and finally ramify in the same layer. The arnacrine cells are placed in the inner part of the inner nuclear layer, and are so named because they have not yet been shown to possess axis-cylinder processes. Their dendrites undergo extensive ramification in tlie inner plexiform layer. 6. The outer plexiform layer is much thinner than the inner plexiform layer ; but, like it, consists of a dense network of minute fibrils derived from the processes of the horizontal cells of the preceding layer, and the outer processes of the bipolar cells, which ramify in it, forming arborisations around the ends of the rod-fibres and with the branched foot-plates of the cone-fibres. 7. The outer nuclear layer or layer of outer granules.—Like the inner nuclear layer, this layer contains several strata of clear oval nuclear bodies ; they are Fig. 843.—^Plan of retinal neurons. (After Cajal.) Memhrana limitana interna" Nerve-fibre layer" Ganglionic layer— Inner plexiform.. layer Centrifugal fibre ■' Inner nuclear la.yer Fibre of Miiller.. Outer p lexiform... I layer v Outer nuclear _ layer Membrana V limitatis externa Layer of rods and cones Diffuse arnacrine cell ''Arnacrine cells --Horizontal cell -?Bod bipolars — Cone bipolars ■■Pigmented layer of two kinds, and on account of their being respectively connected with the rods and cones of Jacob's membrane, are named rod-granules and cone-granules. The rod-qranules are much the more numerous, and are placed at dilierent levels throughout the layer. Their nuclei present a peculiar cross-striped appearance, and prolonged from either extremity of the cell is a fine process: the outer process is continuous with a single rod of Jacob's membrane ; the inner P^««^f ™^ towards the outer plexiform layer and termmates m an enlarged extremity andTs imbedded in the tuft into which the outer processes of the rod-bipolais wi uT In its course it presents numerous varicosities. The cone-granules fewer in number than the\od-granules, are placed close to the membj^^^^^ limitans externa, through wliich they are continuous with the cones of Jacob ^ membrane. Th^y do ^ot present any cross striping, but contam a pvnjom nucleus which almost completely fills the cell From the mner fx^-'-ty of the araAule a thick process passes inwards to the outer plexiform layei, ^^lleTe Jrelpands into a pyramidal enlargement or foot-plate, from which are givenTHE EYE 1023 off numerous &ie fibrils, wliich come in contact \vitli the outer processes of the cone-bipolars. 8. The membrana Umitans externa.—Tliis layer, like the membrana limitans interna, is derived from the supporting framework of the retina, with which it will be described. 9. Jacob's membrane {layer of rods ami cones).—The elements whicli compose this layer are of two kinds, rods and cones, the former being much more numerous than the latter. The rods are of nearly uniform size, and are arranged perpendicularly to the surface. Each rod consists of two segments, an outer and inner, of about equal lengths. The segments differ from each other as regards refraction and in tlieir behaviour with colouring reagents, the inner segment becoming stained by carmine, iodine, &c., the outer segment remaining unstained with these reagents, but staining yellowish-brown with osmic acid. The outer segment is marked by transverse striae, and tends to break up mto a number of tliin discs superimposed on one another. It also exhibits faint longituduial markings. The inner segment at its deeper part where it is joined to the outer process of the rod-granule, is indistinctly granular ; its more superficial part presents a longitudinal striation, being composed of fine, bright, highly refracting fibrils. The visual purple or rhodopsin is found only in the outer segments. The cones are conical or flask-shaped, their broad ends resting upon the membrana limitans externa, the narrow pointed extremity being turned to the choroid. Like the rods, each is made up of two segments, outer and inner ; the outer segment is a short conical process, which, like the outer segment of the rod, exhibits transverse striae. The inner segment resembles the inner segment of the rods in structure, presenting a superficial striated and deep granular jjart, but differs from it in size and shape, being bulged out laterally and flask-shaped. The chemical and optical characters of the two portions are identical with those of the rods. 10. The pigmented layer.—The most external layer of the retina, formerly regarded as a part of the choroid, consists of a single layer of hexagonal epithelial cells, loaded with pigment-granules. They are smooth externally, where they are in contact with the choroid, but internally they are prolonged into fine, straight processes, which extend between the rods, this being especially the case when the eye is exposed to light. In the eyes of albinos, the cells of the pigmented layer are present, but they contain no colouring matter. Supporting framework of the retina.—Almost all these layers of the retina are connected together by a supporting framework, formed by the fibres of Midler, or radiating fibres, from which the membranae limitans interna et externa are derived. These fibres stretch between the two limiting layers, ' as columns between a floor and a ceiling,' and pass through all the nervous layers, except Jacob's membrane. Each commences on the inner surface of the retina by an expanded, often forked, base, which sometimes contains a spheroidal body, staining deeply with haematoxylin, the edges of the bases of adjoining fibres being united to form the membrana limitans interna. As they pass thi-ough the nerve-fibre and ganglionic layers they give off few lateral branches ; in the inner nuclear layer tliey give oii numerous lateral processes for the support of the inner granules, wliile in the outer nuclear layer they form a, network around the rod- and cone-fibrils, and uxiite to form the external limiting membrane at the bases of the rods and cones. In the imier nuclear layer each fibre of Miiller presents a clear oval nucleus, which is sometimes situated at the side of, sometimes altogether within, the fibre. Macula lutea and fovea centralis.—The structure of the retina at the jrellow spot presents some modifications. In the macula lutea: (1) the nerve-fibres are wanting as a continuous layer ; (2) the ganglionic layer consists of several strata of cells, instead of a single layer ; (3) m Jacob's membrane there are no rods, but only cones, and these are longer and narrower than in other parts ; and (4) in the outer nuclear layer there are only cone-fibres, wliich are very long and arranged in curved lines. At the fovea centralis the only parts which exist are (1) the cones of Jacob's membrane ; (2) the outer nuclear la.yer, the cone-fibres of which are almost horizontal in direction ; (3) an exceedingly thin hmer plexiform layer ; (4) the pigmented layer, which is thicker and its pigment more pronounced than elsewhere. The colour of the macula seems toORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 1024 imbue all the layers except Jacob's membrane ; it is of a rich yellow, deepest towards the centre, and does not appear to be due to jpigment-cells, but is simply a stabling of the constituent parts. At the ora serrata the nervous layers of the retina terminate abruptly, and the retina is continued onwards as a single layer of columnar cells covered by the pigmented layer. This prolongation is known as the pars ciliaris retinae, and can be traced forwards from the ciliary processes on to the back of the iris, where it is termed the pars iridica relince or uvea. From the description given of the nervous elements of the retina it Avill be seen that there is no direct continuity between the structures which form its different layers except between the ganghonic and nerve-fibre layers, tlie majority of the nerve-fibres being formed of the axons of the ganghonic cells. In the inner plexiform layer the dendrites of the ganghonic layer interlace with those of the cells of the inner nuclear layer, while in the outer plexiform layer a hke synapsis occurs between the processes of the inner granules and the rod and cone elements. The arteria centralis retinae (fig. 844) andits accompanying vein pierce the optic nerve, and enter the globe of the eye through the poras opticus. The artery immediately bifurcates into an upper and a lower branch, and each of these again divides into an inner or nasal and an outer or temporal branch, which at first run between the hyaloid membrane and the nervous layer ; but they soon enter the latter, and pass forwards, dividing dichotomously. From these branches a mmute capillary plexus is given ofi, which does not extend beyond Fig. 844.—The arteria centrahs retinae, yellow spot, &c. ; the anterior half of the eyeball has been removed. (Enlarged.) the inner nuclear layer. The macula receives small twigs from the temporal branches and^hers (hrectly from the central artery ; these do not, however, reach as far as the fovea centraTi^! which has no blood-vessels. The branches of the arteria centralis retin^ do not Tnastomose with each other-m other words they are termmal arteries. In t fStus a small vessel passes forwards as a continuation of the -tena cen^^^^^^^^ retm.. through the vitreous humour, to the posterior surface of the capsule of the lens. Refbacting Media The refracting media are three, viz. : Aqueous humour. Vitreous body. Crystalline lens. I. Aqueous Humour The aqueous humour fills the anterior and Posterior chambers of the eyeball. It is small in quantity Y .^-^^^nig, accordm^^^^^ nr five grains in weight) and has an alkalmc reaction ; it consists "i<™"\^ Iter'S uian one-fiftieth of its weight being solid matter, chiefly chloride of sodium.1025 THE EYE II. ViTEEOtrs Body The vitreous body (corpus vitreum) forms about four-fifths of the globe of the eye. It fills the concavity of the retina, and is hollowed in front, forming a deep concavity, the fossa hyaloidea, for the reception of the lens. It is perfectly transparent, of the consistence of thin jelly, and is composed of an albuminous fluid enclosed in. a delicate transparent membrane, the membrana hyaloidea. It has been supposed, by Hannover, that from its inner surface numerous thin lamellae are prolonged inwards in a radiating manner, forming spaces in which the fluid is contained. In the adult, these lamellte cannot be detected even after careful microscopic examination in the fresh state, but in preparations hardened in weak chromic acid it is possible to make out a distinct lameUation at the periphery of the body ; and in the foetus a peculiar fibrous texture pervades the mass, the fibres joining at numerous points, and presenting minute nuclear granules at their point of junction. In the centre of the vitreous humour, running from the entrance of the optic nerve to the posterior surface of the lens, is a canal, the canalis hyaloideus, filled with fluid and fined by a prolongation of the hyaloid membi-ane. This canal, in the embryonic vitreous body, conveyed the minute vessel from the central artery of the retina to the back of the lens. The fluid from the vitreous body is nearly pure water ; it contains, however, some salts, and a Uttle albumen. The membrana hyaloidea encloses the whole of the vitreous body. In fi'ont of the ora sen-ata it is thickened by the accession of radial fibres and is termed the zomile of Zinn or zonula ciliaris. Here it presents a series of radially arranged furrows, in which the cifiary processes are accommodated and to which they adhere, as is shown by the fact that when they are removed some of their pigment remains attached to the zonule. The zonule of Zinn spfits into two layers, one of which is thin and lines the fossa hyaloidea, the other is named the suspensory ligament of the lens ; it is thicker, and passes over the ciliary body to be attached to the capsule of the lens a short distance in front of its equator. Scattered and dehcate fibres are also attached to the region of the equator itself. Tliis ligament retains the lens in position, and is relaxed by the contraction of the radial fibres of the Ciliary muscle, so that the lens is allowed to become more convex. Behind the suspensory ligament there is a sacculated canal, the canal of Petit, which encircles the equator of the lens and which can be easily infiated through a fine blowpipe inserted under the suspensory figament. No vessels penetrate the vitreous body ; so that its nutrition must be carried on b}' the vessels of the retina and ciliary processes, situated upon its exterior. III. Crystalline Lens The crystalline lens (lens crji-staUina), enclosed in its capsule, is situated immed-iately behind the iris, in front of the vitreous body, and encircled by the ciliary processes, which shghtly overlap its margin. The capsule of the lens (capsula lentis) is a transparent structureless membrane which closely sui-rounds the lens, and is thicker in front than behind. It is brittle I^g- 845.—The crystalline lens, but liiglily elastic, and wlien ruptured the edges hardened and divided, roll up with the outer surface innermost. It (Enlarged.) rests, behind, in tlie fossa hyaloidea in the fore-part of the vitreous body ; in front, it is in contact with the free border of the iris, but recedes from it at the cu-cumference, thus forming the posterior chamber of the eye; it is retained in its position cliiefly by the suspensory ligament of the lens, akeady described. The lens is a transparent biconvex body, the convexity of its anterior being less than that of its posterior surface. The central points of these surfaces are termed respectively the anterior and posterior poles. A, fine connectmg the poles constitutes the axis of the lens (axis lentis), while the marginal circumference is termed the equator (aequator lentis). 3uORGANS OP SPECIAL SENSE 1026 Struchire.—The lens is made up of an outer, soft part (substantia corticalis) and a central, firm part (nucleus lentis) (fig. 845). Faint lines (radii lentis) radiate from the poles to the equator. In the adult there may be six or more of these lines, but in tlie f(Btus they are only three in number and diverge from each other at angles of 120 degrees (fig. 846). On the anterior surface one line ascends vertically and the other two diverge downwards and outwards. On the posterior surface one ray descends vertically and the other two diverge upwards. They correspond with the fi'ee edges of an equal number of septa composed of an amorphous substance, which dip into the substance of the lens. When the lens has been hardened it is seen to consist of a series of concentrically arranged lamina), each of which is interrupted at the septa referred to. Each lamina is built up of a number of hexagonal, ribbon-like fibres (fibrse lentis) the edges of which are more or less serrated—the serrations fitting between those of neighbouring fibres, while the ends of the fibres come into apposition at the septa. The fibres run in a curved manner fi'om the septa on the anterior surface to those on the posterior surface. No fibres pass from pole to pole ; they are arranged in such a way that those which commence near the pole on one aspect of the lens terminate near the peripheral extremity of the plane on the Fig. 846.—Diagram to show the direction and arrangement of the radiating lines on the front and back of the foetal lens. A. From the front, b. From the back. other and vice versa. The fibres of the outer layers of the lens are nucleated and together form a layer (nuclear layer) on the surface of the lens, most distinct towards its circumference. The anterior surface of the lens is covered bv a layer of transparent, columnar, nucleated cells (epithehum lentis). At the equator the cells become elongated, and theh: gradual transition mto lens fibres can be traced (fig. 847). , . , j, r i+i„ .^^ri^oin tinf • In the foetus, the lens is nearly spherical, and has a slightly reddish tint , it is not perfectly transparent, and is so soft as to break down readily on the slightest pressure. A small branch from the arteria centrahs retm:e runs forwards, as already mentioned, through '^'^^^^^^^^ part of the capsule of the lens, where its branches radiate and form a plexiforn Ltwork, whiih covers its surface, and they are continuous ro^i^^d. "^J/" of the capsule with the vessels of the pupillary membrane, and ^Mth those ot ^^^^In%e adult, the posterior surface is more convex than the anterior ; it is colourless transparent, firm in texture, and devoid of vessels. 7n o5a™ becomes flattened on both surfaces, slightly opaque, of an amber tint, and increased in density. VesseU and Nerves.—The arteries of the globe oftheeye are the short, long'a'^'^.f^^^i^^ ciliarrarteHi and tke arteria centralis retm«. They have been aheady described (see ^"*°Tt!r «tn;™Tre derived from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve and from the ciliary or ophthalmic ganglion regarded as Applied Analmij/.-Yvom a surgical pomt of YTlnv^r Tveloned from the ecto- consistiiig of three layers: (1) an external epitheha l^.^f' f;;^^°P,"^,* ^odv. so that derm, and continuous uith the ^Pit^'^'^^'. the its lesions resemble those of the epidermis; (2) the cornea proper, aernc i1027 THE EYE mesoderm, and associated in its diseases with the fibro-vasoular structures of the body; and (3) the posterior elastic layer -ndth its endothelium, also derived from the mesoderm Fig. 847. — Section through the margin of the lens, showing the transition of the epithelium into the lens-fibres. (Babuchin.) and having "the characters of a serous membrane, so that inflammation of it resembles inflammation of the other serous and synovial membranes of the body. The cornea contains no blood-vessels except at its periphery, where numerous delicate loops, derived from the anterior ciliary arteries, may be demonstrated on its anterior surface. The rest of the cornea is nourished by lymph, which gains access to the proper substance of the cornea and the posterior layer through the spaces of Fon- tana. This lack of a direct blood-supply renders the cornea very apt to inflame in the cachectic and ill-noui-ished. In cases of granular lids, there is a peculiar affection of the cornea, called panmis, in which the anterior layers of the cornea become vascularised, and a rich network of blood-vessels may be seen upon it ; and in interstitial keratitis new vessels extend into the cornea, giving it a pinldsh hue to which the term ' salmon patch ' is applied. The cornea is richly supplied with nerves, derived from the ciliary, which enter the cornea through the fore-part of the sclera and form plexuses in the stroma, terminating between the epithelial cells by free ends or in corpuscles. In cases of glaucoma the ciliary nerves may be pressed upon as they course between the choroid and sclera, and the cornea becomes anaesthetic. The sclera has very few blood-vessels and nerves. The blood-vessels are derived from the anterior ciliary, and form an open plexus in its substance. As they approach the corneal margui the arrangement is peculiar. Some branches pass through the sclera to the ciliary body; others become superficial and lie in the episcleral tissue, and form arches, by anastomosing with each other some little distance behind the corneal margin. From these arches numerous straight vessels are given off, which nm forwards to the cornea, forming its marguial plexus. In inflammation of the sclera and episcleral tissue these vessels become con- spicuous, and form a pinkish zone of straight vessels radiating from the corneal margui. commonly known as the zone of ciliary injection. In in- flammation of the iris and ciliary body this zone is present, since the sclera speedily becomes involved when these structures are inflamed. But in in- flammation of the cornea the sclera is seldom much affected, though the two are structurally continuous. This would appear to be due to the fact, that the nutrition of the cornea is derived from a different source than that of the sclera. The sclera may be ruptured subcutaneously Avithout any laceration of the conjunctiva and the rupture usually occurs near the corneal margin, where the tunic is thinnest. It may be complicated with lesions of adjacent parts—laceration of the choroid, retina, u-is, or suspensory ligament of the lens— and is then often attended with haaraorrhage into the anterior chamber, which masks the nature of the injury. In some cases the lens has escaped through the rent in the sclera and has been found under the conjunctiva. Wounds of the sclera are always dangerous, and are often followed by inflammation, suppuration, and by sympathetic ophthalmia. One of the functions of the choroid is to provide nutrition for the retma, and to convey vessels and nerves to the ciliary body and iris. Inflammation of the choroid is therefore followed by grave dLsturbances in the nutrition of the retina, and is attended with early mterference with vision. Its diseases bear a considerable analogy to those which affect 3 u 21028 ORGANS OP SPECIAL SENSE the slcin, and it is one of the places from which melanotic sarcomata may grow. These tumours contain a large amount of pigment in their cells, and originate only in those parts where pigment is naturally present. The iris may be absent, either in part or altogether as a congenital condition, and in some instances the pupillary membrane may remain persistent, though it is rarely complete. Again, the iris may be the seat of a malformation, termed colohoma, which consists in a deficiency or cleft, clearly due in a great number of cases to an arrest in development. In these cases it is foimd at the lower aspect, extending directly downwards from the pupil, and the gap frequently extends through the choroid to the entrance of the optic nerve. In some rarer cases the gap is found in other parts of the iris, and is not then associated with, any deficiency of the choroid. Wounds of the iris, especiallj' if comphcated with injury to the ciliary body, may be followed by serious consequences. If septic matter is introduced, and a suppurative inflammation is set up, complete loss of vision may result; and, what is perhaps of greater consequence, similar inflammatory changes may be set up in the sound eye, from spreading of the infective process through the con- nective tissue surrounding the optic nerve to the commissure, and thence down the opposite nerve to the sound eye. The iris is abimdantly supplied with blood-vessels and nerves, and is very prone to become inflamed, and when inflamed, in consequence of the intimate relationship which exists between the vessels of the iris and choroid, this latter timic is very liable to participate in the inflammation. The iiis is covered with epithehum, and partakes of the character of a serous membrane, and, like these structures, is apt to pour out a plastic exudation, when inflamed, and contract adhesions, either to the cornea in front {synechia anterior), or to the capsule of the lens behind {synechia 'posterior). In iritis the lens may become involved, and the condition known as secondary cataract may be set up. Tumours occasionally commence in the iris ; of these, cysts, which are usually congenital, and sarcomatous tumours, are the most common. Gummata are not infrequently found in this situation. In some forms of mjury of the eyebaU, as from the impact of a spent shot, the rebound of a twig, or a blow with a whip, the iris may be detached from the CiUary muscle, the amount of detachment varying from the sUghtest degree to separation of the whole iris from its ciliary connection. The retina, with the exception of its pigment layer and its vessels, is perfectly transparent when examined by the ophthalmoscope, so that its diseased conditions are recognised by its loss of transparency. In retinitis, for instance, there is more or less dense and extensive opacity of its structure, and not infrequently extravasations of blood into its substance. HajmoiThages may also take place into the retma, fi-om rupture of a blood-vessel without inflammation. The retina may become displaced from effusion of serum between it and the choroid, or by blows on the eyeball, or may occur without apparent cause in progressive myopia, and in this case the ophthalmoscope shows an opaque, tremulous cloud. Glioma, a form of sarcoma, and essentially a disease of early life, is occasionally met with in connection -with the retina. The lens has no blood-vessels, nerves, or connective tissue in its structirre, and therefore is not subject to those morbid changes to which tissues contaming these structures are liable. It does, however, present certam morbid or abnormal conditions of various kinds. Thus, variations in shape, and displacements, are among its congenital defects. Opacities may occur from injury, senile changes, or mahiutrition. These opacities give rise to cataract, of which the senile variety is the most common. They vary as to the part of the lens m which the opacity commences, and are classified accordingly, as nuclear, cortical, lamellar, anterior and posterior polar. Senile changes may take place in the lens, impau-mg its elasticity and rendering it harder than in youth, so that it loses its power of altermg its curvature to suit the requirements of near vision. This condition is known as presbyopm. And finally, the lens may be dislocated or displaced by blows upon the eyeball; and its relations to surrounding structures altered by adhesions or the pressure of new growths. There are two particular regions of the eye which require special notice -. one ot tliese is known as the ' filtration area,' and the other as the ' dangerous area. The ^pUratton area is the circumcorneal zone immediately in front of the iris. Here are situated he cavernous spaces of Fontana, which communicate with the canal of Schlemm througli which the chief transudation of fluid from the eye is believed to take place. If any obstruc- tion to this transudation occur, increased intra-ocular tension is set up, and the disease known as glaucoma results. The dangerous area of the eye is the region m the "eighbourhooa of the ciliary body, and wounds or injuries in this situation are P«f"l^«;; ^ J^^l^gfJ^^ for inflammation of the ciliary body is apt to spread to many of of the eye, especially to the iris and choroid, which are mtimately connected with it by nervous and vascular supplies. Appendages of the Eye The appendages of the eye (organa oculi accessoria) include the ^J'^^^^^:^ the eyelids, the conjunctiva, and the lachrymal apparatus, viz. the lachrymal gland, the lachrymal sac, and tlie nasal duct.1029 THE APPENDAGES OF THE EYE The eyebrows (supercilia) are two arched eminences of integument, which surmount the upper circumference of the orbit on either side, and support numerous short, thick hairs, du-ected obliquely on the surface. In structure, the eyebrows consist of tliickened integument, connected beneath with the Orbicularis palpebrarum, Corrugator supercilii, and Occipito-frontalis muscles. These muscles serve, by their action on tliis part, to control to a certain extent the amount of light admitted into the eye. The eyelids (palpebrse) are two thm, movable folds, placed m front of the eye, protecting it from injury by the upper 848.—^Vertical section through eyelid. (After Waldeyer.) their closure. The upper lid is the larger, and the more movable of the two, and is fm-nished with an elevator muscle, the Levator palpebr£e superioris. When the eyelids are open, an elliptical space {rima palpebrarum) is left betAveen their margins, the angles of which correspond to the junctions of the upper and lower lids, and are called canthi. The outer canthus (commis- sura palpebrarum lateralis) is more acute than the inner, and the lids here lie in close contact with the globe : but the inner canthus (commissura palpebrarum medialis) is prolonged for a short distance inwards towards the nose, and the two lids are separated by a triangular space, the lacus lacrimalis. At the basal angles of the lacus lacrimalis, on the margin of each eyelid, is a small conical elevation, the lachrymal papilla, the apex of which is pierced by a small orifice, the puncttim lacrimale, the commencement of the lachrymal canal. The eyelashes {cilia) are attached to the free edges of the eyelids; they are short, thick, curved hairs, arranged in a double or triple row at the margin of the lids : those of the upper lid, more numerous and longer than those of the lower, curve upwards; those of the lower lid curve downwards, so that they do not interlace in closing the lids. Near the attach- ment of the eyelashes are the openings of a number of glands, glands of Moll, aiTanged in several rows close to the free margin of the lid. They are regarded as enlarged and modified sweat-glands. Structure of the eyelids.—The eyelids are composed of the following structm-es taken in their order from without inwards : integument, areolar tissue, fibres of the Orbicularis muscle, tarsal plate and its ligament, Meibomian glands and conjunctiva. The upper lid has, in addition, the aponeurosis of the Levator palpebrje (fig. 848). The integument is extremely thin, and continuous at the margins of the lids with the conjunctiva. The subcutaneous areolar tissiie, is very lax and delicate, seldom contains any fat, and is extremely liable to serous infiltration. . Skin. Ii. Orbicularis palpebrarum, of Orbicularis (ciliary bundle), d.; Conjunctiva, e. Tarsal plate. J Sebaceous gland, h. Ey elashes. Sweat-glands, k. Posterior tarsal glands. V. Marginal fasciculus c. Levator palpebrte. f. Meibomian gland, t. Small haire of skin.1030 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE The palpebral fibres of ihe Orbicularis muscle are thin, pale in colour, and possess an involimtary action. The tarsal plates (fig. 849) are two thin elongated plates of dense connective tissue, about an inch in length. They are placed one in each lid, and contribute to its form and support. The superior tarsal plate (tarsus superior), the larger, is of a semilunar form, about one-third of an inch in breadth at the centre, FiQ. 849.—^The tarsal plates and their ligaments. Right eye'; front view. (Testut.) and gradually narrowing towards each of its extremities. To the anterior surface of this plate the aponeurosis of the Levator palpebrse is attached. The inferior tarsal plate (tarsus inferior), the smaller, is thinner, and of an elliptical form. The free or ciliary margins of these plates are thick, and present perfectly straight edges. The attached or orbital margins are connected to the ckcum- ference of the orbit by the superior and inferior palpebral ligaments. The outer Fig. 850.—^The Meibomian glands, &c., seen from the inner surface of the eyelids. Puncta lacrimaliu angles are attached to the malar bone by the external tarsal ligament. The inner angles of the two plates end at the lacus lacrimalis, and are attached to the frontal process of the maxilla by the internal tarsal ligament or tendo oculi. The palpebral ligaments are membranous expansions situated one m each lid, and attached margmally to the edge of the orbit, where they are continuous with the periosteum. The superior ligament blends with the tendon ot tlie Levator palpebra3 and the superior tarsal plate, the inferior with the interior1031 THE APPENDAGES OF THE EYE tarsal plate. Externally the two ligaments fuse to form the external tarsal Ugament, just referred to ; internally they are much thmner and, becommg separated from the internal tarsal ligament, are fixed to the lachrymal bone immediately behind the laclnymal sac. Together the ligaments form an incomplete septum, the senium orbitale, which is perforated by the vessels and nerves which pass from the orbital cavity to the face and scalp. The Meibomian glands (glandular tarsales) (fig. 850) are situated upon the inner surfaces of the eyehds, between the tarsal plates and conjunctiva, and maybe distinctly seen through the mucous membrane on everting the eyelids, presenting an appearance like paraUel strings of pearls. They are about thu-ty in number in the upper eyelid, and somewhat fewer in the lower. They are imbedded in grooves in the inner surfaces of the tarsal plates, and correspond in length with the breadth of each plate ; tbey are, consequently, longer in the upper than in the lower eyelid. Their ducts open on the free margins of the lids by mmute foramina which correspond in number to the follicles. The use of their secretion is to prevent adhesion of the lids. Structure.—These glands are a variety of the cutaneous sebaceous glands, each consisting of a single straight tube or follicle, having a ctecal termination, and M-ith numerous small lateral diverticula opening into it. The tubes are supported by a basement membrane, and are hned at their mouths by stratified epithehum ; the deeper parts of the tubes and the lateral offshoots are lined by a layer of polyhedi-al cells. They are thus identical in structure vnth the sebaceous glands. .i, • The conjunctiva is the mucous membrane of the eye. It lines the inner surfaces of the eyelids, and is reflected over the fore-part of the sclera and cornea. In each of these situations its structure presents some pecuHarities. The palpebral portion is thick, opaque, highly vascular, and covered with numerous papillae, its deeper parts presenting a considerable amount of lymphoid tissue. At the margins of the Hds it becomes continuous wdth the Uning membrane of the ducts of the Meibomian glands, and, through the lachrymal canals, with the lining membrane of the lachrymal sac and nasal duct.' At the outer angle of the upper lid the lachrymal ducts open on its free surface ; and at the inner angle of the eye it forms a semilunar fold, the plica semilunaris. The line of reflection of the conjunctiva from the upper Hd on to the eyeball is named the fornix conjunctivce superior and that from the lower lid the fornix conjunctivae inferior. Upon the sclera the conjunctiva is loosely connected to the globe ; it becomes thinner, loses its papillary structure, is transparent, and only slightly vascular in health. Upon the corriea, the conjunctiva consists only of epithelium, constituting the stratified epithelium of the cornea, akeady described (see page 1013). Lymphatics arise in the conjunctiva in a delicate zone around the cornea, from which the vessels run to the ocular conjunctiva. In and near tlie fornices, but more plentiful in the upper than in the lower lid, a number of convoluted tubular glands open on the surface of the con- junctiva. Other glands, analogous to'lymphoid follicles, and called by Henle trachoma glands, are found in the conjunctiva, and, according to Strohmeyer, are chiefly situated near the inner cantiius of the eye. They were first described by Brush, m his description of Peyer's patches of the small intestine, as ' identical structures existing in the under eyelid of the ox.' The caruncula lacrimalis is a small, reddish, conical-shaped body, situated at the irmer canthus of the eye, and filling up the lacus lacrimalis. It consists of a small island of skin contaming sebaceous and sweat glands, and is the source of the whitish secretion which constantly collects at the inner angle of the eye. A few slender hairs are attaclied to its surface. On the outer side of the caruncula is a slight semilunar fold of mucous membrane, the concavity of which is dii-ected towards the cornea ; it is called the plica semihinaris. MiiUer found smooth muscular fibres in this fold, and in some of the domesticated animals a thin plate of cartilage has been discovered. This structure is considered to be the rudiment of the third eyeUd in birds, the membrana nictitans. The nerves in the conjunctiva are numerous and form rich plexuses. According to Krause they terminate in a pecuhar form of tactile corpuscle, -which he terms ' teiminal bulb.'1032 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE Lachrymal Appaeatus (fig. 851) The lachrymal apparatus (apparatus lacrimalis) consists of the lachrymal gland which secretes the tears, and its excretory ducts which convey the fluid to the surface of the eye ; the fluid is cariied away by the lachrymal canals into the lachrymal sac, and along the nasal duct into the cavity of the nose. The lachrymal gland is lodged in the lachrymal fossa, on the inner side of the external angular process of the frontal bone. It is of an oval form, about the size and shape of an almond, and consists of an upper and a lower portion. The upper portion {glandula lacrimalis suj^erior) is connected to the periosteum of the orbit by a few fibrous Fig. 851,—The lachrymal apparatus. Right side. bands, and rests upon the Superior and External recti, which separate it from the globe of the eye. The lower part [glandula lacrimalis inferior) Ls separated from the upper by a fibrous septum, and projects into the back part of the upper eyelid, where its deep surface is related to the conjunctiva. The ducts of the gland, from six to twelve in number, run obliquely beneath the mucous membrane for a short distance, and, separating from each other, open by a series of minute orifices on the upper and outer half of the conjunctiva, near the superior fornix. These orifices are arranged in a row, so as to disperse the secretion over the surface of the membrane. Structure of the laclirymal gland (fig. 852).—In structure and general appearance the lachrymal resembles the serous salivary glands (page 1112). In the recent state the cells are so crowded with granules that their limits can hardly be defined. They contain oval nuclei, and the cell protoplasm is finely fibrillated. The lachrymal canals (ductus lacrimales) commence at the minute orifices, puncta lacrimalia, on the summit of small conical elevations, the papillce lacrimales, seen on the margins of the lids, at the outer extremity of the lacus lacrimalis. The superior canal, the smaller and shorter of the two, at first ascends, and then bends at an acute angle, and passes inwards and downwards to the lachrymal sac. The inferior canal at first descends, and then passes almost horizontally inwards to the lachrymal sac. They are dense and elastic in structure and are dilated into ampullae at their angles. The mucous membrane is covered with stratified scaly epithelium, placed on a basement membrane. Outside the latter is a layer of striped muscle, continuous with the Tensor tarsi; at the bases of the lachrymal papilla) the fibres of this layer are circularly arranged and form a kind of sphincter. The lachrymal sac (saccus lacrimalis) is the upper dilated extremity ot tiie nasal duct, and is lodged in a deep groove formed by the lachrymal bone and frontal process of tlie maxilla. It is oval in form, its u])per extrauily being closed in and rounded, while below, it is continued mto tlie nasal duct. It is covered by a fibrous expansion derived from the tendo oculi, and on its deep surface it is crossed by the Tensor tarsi muscle (Horner s muscle, page 40u;. which is attached to the ridge on the lachrymal bone. Pig. 852.- -Alveoli of lachrymal gland.1033 THE APPENDAGES OF THE EYE Structure.—The lachrymal sac consists of a fibrous elastic coat, lined internally by mucous membrane : the latter being continuous, through the lachrymal canals, with the mucous lining of the conjunctiva, and through the nasal duct with the mucous membrane of the nose. The nasal duct (ductus nasolacrimalis) is a membranous canal, about three-quarters of an mch m length, which extends from the lower part of the laclirymal sac to the inferior meatus of the nose, where it terminates by a somewhat expanded orifice, provided with an imperfect valve, the flica lacri- malis (Hasneri), formed by a fold of the mucous membrane. It is contained in an osseous canal, formed by the maxilla, the lachrymal, and the uiferior turbinated, is narrower in the middle than at either extremity, and takes a direction downwards, backwards, and a little outwards. It is lined by mucous membrane which is continuous below with that of the nose. This membrane in the lachrymal sac and nasal duct is covered with columnar epithelium as in the nose ; this epithelium is in places ciliated. Surface Form.—^The palpebral fissure, or opening between the eyelids, is elliptical in shape, and differs in size in different incUviduals and in different races of mankind. In the Mongolian races, for instance, the opening is very small, merely a narrow fissure, and this makes the eye appear small in these races, whereas the size of the eyeball is relatively very constant. The normal form of the fissure is oblique, in a direction upwards and outwards, so that the outer angle is on a slightly higher level than the imier. This is exaggerated in the Mongolian races, in whom, o%ving to the upward projection of the malar bone and the shortness of the external angular process of the frontal bone, the tarsal plate of the upper lid is raised at its outer part, and gives a very oblique dhection to the palpebral fissure. When the eyes are directed forwards, as in ordinary vision, the upper part of the cornea is covered by the upper lid, and the lower margm of the cornea corresponds to the level of the lower lid, so that about the lower three-fourths of the cornea are exposed under ordinary circumstances. On the margins of the lids, about a quarter of an inch from the inner canthus, are two small openmgs, the pimcta lacrimalia, the commencement of the lachrymal canals. They are best seen by everting the eyehds. In the natural concUtion they are in contact with the conj\mctiva of the eyeball, and are maintained in this position by the Tensor tarsi muscle, so that the tears rimning over the surface of the globe easily fijid their way into the lachrymal canals. The position of the lachrymal sac into which the canals open is indicated by a little tubercle (page 282), which is plainly to be felt on the lower margin of the orbit. The lachrymal sac lies immediately above and to tlie inner side of this tubercle, and a knife passed through the skin in this situation would open the cavity. The position of the lachrymal sac may also be indicated by the tendo oculi, or internal tarsal ligament. If both lids be dra^vn outwards so as to tighten the skin at the uuier angle, a prominent cord vrAX be seen beneath the tightened skin. This is the tendo oculi, which lies directly over the lachrymal sac, bisecting it, and thus forming a useful guide to its situation. A knife entered immediately beneath the tense cord would open the lower part of the sac. A probe introduced through this opening can be readily passed do\\Tiwards, through the duct into the inferior meatus of the nose. The direction of the duct is downwards, outwards, and backwards, and thLs course should be borne in mind in passing the probe, otherwise the point may be cMven through the thin bony walls of the canal. A convenient plan is to direct the probe in such a manner, that if it were pushed onwards it would strike the first molar tooth of the manchble on the same side of the head. In other words, the surgeon stancUng in front of his patient should carry in his mind the position of the first molar tooth, and should push his probe onwards as if he desired to reach this structure. Beneath the internal angular process of the frontal bone, the pulley of the Superior oblique can be plainly felt by pushing the finger backwards between the upper and imier angle of the eye and the roof of the orbit; passing backwards and outwards from this pulley the tendon can be felt for a short distance. Applied Anatomy.—The eyelids are composed of various tissues, and consequently are liable to a variety of diseases. The skin which covers them is exceedingly thin and delicate, and is supported on a quantity of loose areolar subcutaneous tissue, which contains no fat. In consequence of this it is very freely movable, and is hable to be di'awn down by the contraction of neighbouring cicatrices, and thus produce an eversion of the lid, known as ectropion. Inversion of the lids (entropion) from spasm of the Orbicularis palpebrarum or from chronic inflammation of the palpebral conjunctiva may also occur. The eyehds are richly supplied with blood, and are often the seat of vascular growths, such as nsevi. Rodent ulcer frequently commences about the inner canthus. The loose cellular tissue beneath the slcin is liable to become extensively infiltrated either with blood or inflammatory products, producing very gi-eat swelling. Even from very slight injuries to this tissue, the extravasation of blood may be so great as to produce considerable swellmg of the lids and complete closure of the eye, and the same is the case1034 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE when inflammatory products are poured out. The follicles of the eyelashes, or the seba- ceous glands associated with these follicles may, be the seat of inflammation, constituting the oi-clinary ' stj'^.' The Meibomian glands are allocted in the so-called ' tarsal tumour ' : the tumour, according to some, being caused by the retained secretion of these glands; by others it is believed to be a neoplasm connected with the gland. The ciliary follicles are liable to become inflamed, constituting the disease knowi as blepluiritis ciliaris or ' blear eye.' Irregular or disorderly gi'owth of the eyelashes not infrequently occurs ; some of them being turned towards the eyeball and producing inflammation and ulceration of the cornea, and possibly eventually complete destruction of the eye. The Orbicularis palpebrarum may be the seat of s]5asm, either in the form of slight quivcrmg of the Uds ; or repeated twitchings, most commonly due to errors of refraction in children ; or more continuous spasm, due to some irritation of the fifth or seventh cranial nerve. The Orbi- cularis may be paralysed, generally associated with paralysis of the other facial muscles. Under these circumstances the patient is unable to close the lids, and, if he attempts to do so, rolls the eyeball upwards under the upper lid. The tears overflow from displacement of the lower lid, and the conjunctiva and cornea, bemg constantly exposed and the patient being unable to wink, become u-ritated from dust and foreign bodies. Ptosis, or dropping of the upper eyelid, may be congenital, or may be due to paralysis of the Levator palpebra; superiorLs, in which case there will probably be other symptoms of miplication of the third nerve. The eyelids may be the seat of bruises, wounds, or burns. Following burns, adhesion of the margms of the lids to each other, or adhesion of the lids to the globe, may take place. The eyelids are sometimes the seat of emphysema, after fracture of some of the thin bones forming the inner wall of the orbit. If shortly after such an uijury the patient blows his nose, an- is forced from the nostril through the lacerated structures into the connective tissue of the eyelids, which suddenly swell up and present the pecuhar crackling characteristic of tliis aSection. . . Foreign bodies frequently get mto the conjunctival sac and cause great pam, especially if they come m contact with the corneal surface, durmg the movements of the hd and the eye on each other. The conjunctiva is often mvolved m severe injuries of the eyeball, but is seldom ruptured alone; the most common form of mjury to the conjunctiva alone is from a burn, either from fire, strong acids, or lime. In these cases union is hable to take place between the eyelid and the eyeball. The conjunctiva is often the seat o inflammation arising from many different causes, and the arrangement of the conjunctival vessels should be remembered as aflordmg a means of diagnosis between this condition and injection of the sclera, which is present m mflammation of the deeper structures of the globe. The inflamed conjunctiva is bright red; the vessels are large and tortuous, ana greatest at the ckcumference, shadmg off towards the corneal margin ; they anastomose freely and form a dense network, and they can be emptied or displaced by gentle pressure. Inflammation of the underlying sclera, cihary body, or kis, is a far more serious condition; the mjection is m the deeper vessels of the eye, and as seen through tlie sclera presents a diflhise and dull purplish or.violet zone of circumcomeal discoloration The lachrymal gland is occasionally, though rarely, the seat of mflammation, either acute or chronic ; it is also sometimes the seat of tumours, benign or malignant, and for these may require removal. This may be done by an mcision through the skui, 1"^^ »elo ^ the eyebrow and the gland, bemg invested with a special capsule of ^^'l^l^T^^ isolated and removed, without openmg the general cavity of the orbit The canal^^^^^^^ may be obstructed, either as a congenital defect, or by some foreign body, as an ejelash or Tdacryolith, causing the tears to run over the cheek. The canahcuh may also became occludedL a result of burns or injury ; overflow of the tmrs may m addition t from deviation of the puncta, or from chronic inflammation of the '"'^l^'-y'^^l/^^,^;.. J^^^X- condition is set up by some obstruction to the nasal duct, frequently "^^"""^g "ij"^^ , culous subjects. In consequence of this the tears and mucus accumulate in the laoJ^.^;«| sac, distendmg it. Suppuration in the lachrymal sac is f'^'^^^'^^^ *^l^er^ be the sequel of a chronic mflammation ; or may occur a"er some o the «™Pt^!^ ^^J^" ■ in cases where the lachrymal passages were previously quite l^*^^ t^^" lead to lachrymal fistula from an abscess formmg in the sac, which bursts or is opened on surfa^; and this condition is often seen m badly nourished, tuberculous children. THE EAR the The organ of hearing (organon auditus) is divisible into three parts : tl: external efrthe middle eir or tympanum, and the internal ear or labyrinth. The External Ear The external ear consists of the expanded portion named the pinm or ««rLto aS^the auditory ca^url or meatus. The -^^^ the vibrations of the air by which sound is produced; the latter conducts tnob vibrations to the tympanum.1035 THE EAR Pig. 853.—^The pinna, or auricle. Outer surface. The pinna or auricula (fig. 853) is of an ovoid form, -with its larger end directed upwards. Its outer surface is irregularly concave, directed slightly forwards, and presents numerous eminences and depressions to which names have been assigned. Thus the external prominent rim of the auricle is called tl\e helix. Where the hehx turns downwards behind, a small tubercle, the tubercle of Darwin (tuberculum am-iculaj) is frequently seen. This tubercle is very evident about the sixth month of foetal Hfe ; at this stage the human pinna has a close resem- blance to that of some of the adult monkeys. Another curved prominence, parallel with and in front of the helix, is called the anlihelix ; this divides above into two crura, which enclose a triangular depression, the fossa of the antihelix (fossa triangularis). The narrow curved de- pression between the helix and the antihelix is called the fossa ofthehelix (scapha); the antihelix describes a cmve round a deep, capacious cavity, the conclut auriculae, which is partially divided into t^ o parts by the crus helicis or the commencement of the helix ; the upper part is termed the cyniba conchce, the lower part the cavum conchce. In front of the concha, and projecting backwards over the meatus, is a small pointed eminence, the tragus : so called from its being generally covered on its vmder surface with a tuft of hair, resembling a goat's beard. Opposite the tragus, and separated from it by a deep notch {incisura intertragica), is a small tubercle, the antitragus. Below this is the lobule (lobulus auriculae), composed of tough ai-eolar and adipose tissues, and v^-anting the firmness and elasticity of the rest of the pinna. The cranial surface of tlie pinna presents elevations M-hich correspond to the depressions on its outer surface and after wMch they are named, e.g. eminentia conchas, eminentia triangulai'is, &c. Structure of the pinna.—The pinna is composed of a thin plate of yellow fibro-cartilage, covered with, integument, and connected to the surrounding parts by the extrinsic ligaments and muscles ; and to the commencement of the external auditory canal l)y fibrous tissue. The integument is thin, closely adherent to the cartilage, and covered with hairs furnished with sebaceous glands which are most numerous in the conclia and scaphoid fossa. The hairs are most numerous and largest on the tragus and antitragus.ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 1036 The cartilage of the pinna (cartilage auriculae) (figs. 854, 855) consists of one single piece; it gives form to this part of the ear, and upon its surface are found all the eminences and depressions above described. It does not enter into tlie construction of all parts of the auricle; thus it docs not form a constituent part of the lobule ; it is deficient, Fig. 855.—The muscles of the pinna. also, between the tragus and beginning of the helix, the gap being filled up by dense fibrous tissue. At the front part of the pinna, where the helix bends upwards, is a small pro- jection of cartilage, called the spina helicis, wlule the lower part of the helix is prolonged downwards as a tail-like pro- cess, the Cauda helicis ; this is separated from the antihelix by a fissure, the fissura antitrago- helicina. The cranial aspect of the cartilage exhibits a trans- verse furrow, the sulcus anii- helicis transversus, which cor- responds with the inferior cnis of the antihelix and separates the prominence produced by the concha from that caused by the fossa triangularis. The eminentia conchas is crossed by a vertical ridge [ponticulus) which gives attachment to the Retrahens auriculam muscle. The cartilage of the pinna presents several intervals or fissures in its substance, which partially separate the different parts The fissure of the helix is a short vertical sUt, situated at the fore- part of the puma. Another fissure, the fissure of the tragus, is seen upon the anterior surface of the tragus. The cartilage of the pinna is of that form which is kno\TO as j^ellow fibro-cartilage. The ligaments of the pinna consist of two sets: (1) extrmsic, connecting it to the side of the head : (2) intrinsic, connecting various parts of its cartilage together. The extrinsic ligaments are two in number, anterior and posterior. The anterior ligament extends from the spma helicis and tragus to the root of the zygoma. The posterior ligament passes from the posterior surface of the concha to the outer surface of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. j ^ j. i • „ „„^^c= frnm The chief intrinsic ligaments are: (a) a strong fibrous band, stretchmg across from the tragus to the commencement of the helix, completing the meatus in front and part y encircling the boundary of the concha ; and (6) a band which extends between t^e antilieUx and the cauda helicis. Other less unportant bands are fomid on the cranial surface of the ^^The muscles of the pinna (fig. 855) consist of two sots : (1) .tb^,,^'"""!;^; jJ^t^nTens* it with the side of the head, movmg the pinna as a ^yhole, V^-"^"^-^.f'^^^^^^^^^^ and Retrahens auriculam (page 450); and (2) the intrinsic, wluch extend from one part ot the auricle to another , VIZ. Helicis major. Helicis minor. Tragicus. Antitragicus. Transversus auricula?* Obliquus auriculaj. The Helicis major is a narrow vertical band of muscular fibres, "^"'V*';^ anterior margin of the helix. It arises below, from the crus helicis, and is inserted mlo the anterior border of the helix, just where it is about to curve backwards. The Helicis minor is an oblique fasciculus, which covers the crus The Tragicn^ is a short, flattened vertical band of muscular fabres situated upon outer surface of the tragus.THE EAR 1037 The AiUitragicus arises from the outer part of the antitragus : its fibres are inserted into the cauda helicis and antihelix. Tliis muscle is usually very distinct. The Transversus auricula is placed on the cranial surface of the pinna. It consists of scattered fibres, partly tendinous and partly muscular, extending from the convexity of the concha to the prominence corresponding with the groove of the helix. i^G. 856.—A front view of the organ of hearing. Right side. The Ohliquus auriculce consists of a few fibres extending from the upper and back part of the concha to the convexity immediately above it. The arteries of the pinna are the posterior auricular from the external carotid, the- anterior auricular from the temporal, and an auricular branch from the occipital artery. The veins accompany the corresponding arteries. The nerves are: the great auricular, from the cervical plexus ; the auricular branch- of the pneumogastric ; the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve ; the small occipital from the cervical plexus, and the great occipital or internal branch of the posterior primary division of the second cervical nerve. The muscles of the pinna are- supplied by the facial nerve. Tlie auditory canal (meatus acusticus externus) extends from the bottom of the concha to the membrana tympani (figs. 856, 857). It is about an inch and.ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE; 1038 a half in length if measured from the tragus; from the bottom of the concha its length is about an inch. It forms a sort of S-shaped curve, and is directed at first inwards, forwards, and slightly upwards (pars externa) ; it then passes inwards and backwards (pars media), and lastly is carried inwards, forwards, and slightly downwards (pars interna). It forms an oval cylindrical canal, the greatest diameter being in the vertical direction at the external orifice, but nearly in the horizontal direction at the tympanic end. It presents two con- strictions, one near the inner end of the cartilaginous portion, and another, the isthmus, in the osseous portion, about three-quarters of an inch from the bottom of the concha. The membrana tympani, which closes the inner end of the meatus, is obUquely directed; in consequence of this the floor of the canal is longer than the roof, and the anterior wall longer than the posterior. The auditory canal is formed partly by cartilage and membrane, and partly by bone, and is lined by skin. The cartilaginous portion is about one-third of an mch (8 mm.) m length; it is continuous with the cartilage of the pinna, and firmly attached to the circumference of the auditory process of the temporal bone. The cartilage is deficient at its upper and back part, its place being suppUed by fibrous membrane. This part of the canal is rendered freely movable by two or three deep fissures (incisures Santorini) which extend through the cartilage ni a vertical direction. • i i.i j The osseous portion is about two-thirds of an inch (16 mm.) m length, and narrower than the cartilaginous portion. It is directed inwards and a httle forwards, forming in its course a slight curve the convexity of which is upwards and backwards. Its inner end, which communicates, in the dry bone, Mith the cavity of the tympanum, is smaller than the outer, and sloped, the anterior wall projecting beyond the posterior for about one-sixth of an mch ; it is marked, except at its upper part, by a narrow groove, the sulcus ty7npanicms, in which the circumference of the membrana tympam is attached, its outer end is dHated and rough in the greater part of its circumference, for the attach- ment of the cartilage of the pinna. Its transverse section is oval tlie greatest diameter being from above downwards and backwards, ihe front and lower parts of this canal are formed by a curved plate of bone, the tympanic plate, which, in the foetus, exists as a separate ruig (annulus tympamcus), incomplete at its upper part. See section on Osteology (page 231). The skin Uning the meatus is very thin, adheres closely to the cartilaginous and osseous portions of the tube, and covers the surface of the membrana tympani, forming its outer layer. After maceration, the thin POUch of epidermis, when withdra.^^l, preserves the form of the meatus. In the thick subcutaneous tissue of the cartilaginous part of the meatus are numerous ceruminous glands, which secrete the ear-wax. They resemble m structure sweat-glands, and then: ducts open on the surface of the skin. Relations of the meatus.-ln front of the osseous part is the condyle of the mandible, whiS hoTev/r t Larated from the cartUaginous part by the retro-mandibular part of the parltkl gland. ^The movements of the jaw influence to some extent the umen of this latter portion. Behind the osseous part are the mastoid air-cells, separated from *'^^TTetrL'L\?;j/S\h^ are branches from the posterior auricular, internal "'S'LTilrTTefly derived from the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve and the auricular branch of the pueumogastric. p^tonial Avvlied .4na^om2/.-Malformations, such as imperfect development of the externa^ parrs^absence of the meatus, or supernumerary auricles, are ^^fj^^f ^ „S skin of the auricle is thin and richly supplied with blood, but -^^^J'P^^^ ^Im ot on he seat of frost-bite, due to the fact that it is ^"^1;, f P^^^l A ollec L blood underlying subcutaneous fat found in most other parts of the ^.^^llV s sometimes found between the cartilage and P^"''l\°';d"""; (''^"^^^^^^^^^ the result of traumatism, but not necessarily due to this cause It is said to occ frequently in the ears of the insane. Keloid ^^-^^times grows m the puncture made for earrings, and epithelioma occasionally affects this part, uepo urate of soda are often met with in the pinna m examined by light reflected1039 THE EAR little outwards, so as to renderjrthe canal as straight as possible. The points to be noted are, the presence of wax or foreign bodies ; the size of the canal ; and the condition of the membrana tympani. Accumulation of wax is often a cause of deafness, and may give rise to very serious consequences, such as ulceration of the membrane, and it is best removed by s3Tinging. Foreign bodies are not infrequently introduced into tlie ear by children, and, when situated in the first portion of the canal, may be removed with toler- able facility by means of a minute hook or loop of fine wire, aided by reflected light ; but when they have slipped beyond the narrow middle part of the meatus, their removal is in no wLse easy, and attempts to effect it, in inexperienced hands, may be followed by destruction of the membrana tympani and possibly the contents of the tympanum. The calibre of the external auditory canal may be narrowed by inflammation of its lining membrane, rimning on to suppiu'ation ; by periostitis ; by polypi; or by exostoses. At the point of junction of the osseous and cartilaginous portions an obtuse angle, which projects into the tube at its antero-inferior wall, is formed. ThLs produces a sort of constriction in this situation, and renders it a narrow portion of the canal—an important point to be borne in mind in connection with the presence of foreign bodies in the ears. The cartilaginous is connected to the bony part by fibrous tissue which renders the outer part of the tube very movable, and therefore by drawing the pinna upwards and backwards the canal is rendered almost straight. At the external orifice are a few short, crisp hairs, which serve to prevent the entrance of small particles of dust, or flies and other insects. In the external auditory meatus the secretion of the ceruminous glands serves to catch any small particles which may find their way into the canal, and prevent their reaching the membrana tympani, where their presence might excite irritation. The shortness of the canal in children should be borne in mind in introducing the aural speculum, so that it be not pushed in too far, at the risk of injuring the membrana tympani; indeed, even in the adult the speculum should never be introduced beyond the constriction which marks the junction of the osseous and cartilaginous portions, and thus assist the operator in obtaining, by the aid of reflected light, a good view of the membrana tympani. Just in front of the membrane is a well-marked depression, situated on the floor of the canal, and bounded by a somewhat prominent ridge ; in this foreign bodies may become lodged. By aid of the speculum, combined mth traction of the auricle upwards and backwards, the greater part of the membrana tympani is rendered visible. It is a pearly-grey membrane, slightly glistening in the adult, placed obliquely, so as to form with the floor of the meatus a very acute angle (about fifty-five degi-ees), while with the roof it forms an obtuse angle. At birth it is more horizontal, situated in almost the same plane as the base of the skull. About midway between the anterior and posterior margins of the membrane, and extending from the centre obliquely upwards, is a reddish-yellow streak ; this is the handle of the malleus, which is inserted into the membrane. At the upper part of this streak, close to the roof of the meatus, a little white, rounded prominence is plainly to be seen ; this is the processus brevis of the malleus, projecting against the membrane. The membrana tympani does not present a plane surface ; on the contrary, its centre is di-awn inwards, on account of its comiection with the handle of the malleus, and thus the external surface is rendered concave. The connections of the nerves of the meatus explain the fact of the occuiTence, in cases of irritation of the meatus, of constant coughmg and sneezing, from implication of the pneumogastric, and the vomiting which may follow syi-inging the ears of children, and the occasional heart failure similarly induced in elderly people. No doubt also the association of earache with toothache or with cancer of the tongue is due to implication of the inferior maxillary, a branch of the fifth, which supplies also the teeth and the tongue. The upper half of the membrana tjTnpani is much more richly supplied with blood than the lower half. For this reason, and also to avoid the chorda tympani nerve ^^^^ ossicles, mcisions through the membrane should be made at the lower and posterior The Middle Ear, or Tympanxtm 1 4. "^^1? ^^^^^^ or tympanic cavity (cavum tympani) is an irregular laterally compressed cavity, situated \nthin the temporal bone. It is filled with air, and communicates with the naso-pharynx by the Eustachian tube. It contams a cham of movable bones, which connect its outer to its inner wall and serve to convey the \-ibrations communicated to the membrana tympani across the cavity to the internal ear. Tlie tympanic cavity consists of two parts : the airium or tympanic cavity proper, opposite the tympanic membrane, and the attic or recessus epitympani- cus, above the level of the upper part of the membrane ; tiie latter contains the upper half of the malleus and the greater part of the incus. Including tlie attic the vertical and antero-posterior diameters of the tympanic cavity each measures about fifteen millimetres. From mthout inwards it mea.surcs about six millimetres above and four millimetres below ; opposite the centre ot the tympanic membrane it is only about two mimmetres. It is boundedORGANS OP SPECIAL SENSE 1040 externally by the membrana tympani and meatus ; internally, by the outer wall of the internal ear ; it communicates, behind, with tlie mastoid antrum and through it with the mastoid cells, and in front with the Eustacliian tube. The roof (paries tegmentalis) is broad, flattened, and formed of a thin plate of bone [tegmen tympani), which separates the cranial and tympanic cavities. It is situated on the anterior surface of the petrous portion of tlie temporal bone close to its angle of junction with the squamous portion of the same bone, and is prolonged backwards so as to roof in the mastoid antrum ; it is also carried forwards to cover in the canal for the Tensor tympani muscle. Its outer edge corresponds with the remains of the petro-squamous sutui-e. The floor (paries jugularis) is naiTow, and is separated by a thin plate of bone {fundus ttjmpani) from the jugular fossa. It presents, near the inner wall, a small aperture for the passage of Jacobson's nerve. The outer wall (paries membranacea) is formed mainly by the membrana tympani, partly by the ring of bone uito which this membrane is inserted. Fig; 858.—Coronal section of right temporal bone. Mastoid antrum Tegmen tympani Prominence of external semicircular canal Prominence of canal for facial nerve Fenestra ovalia Bristle in canal for Tensor tympani Processus [coch learif ormis Bristle in liiatuit Fallopii Carotid canal Bony part of Eustachian tube Promontory Bristle in pyramid Fenestra rotunda ^ ^ Sulcus tympaniciis ,r , ., Brittle in stylo-7nastoid foramen Mastoid cells This ring of bone is incomplete at its upper part forming ^^^^.^V^jf''!" Sn5), close to which are three small apertures : the iter chorda, posterms, tlu Glaserian fissure, and the iter chordae anterms. ^^,r,rf\^\ \. situated The iter chordcB posterius (apertura tympamca ^'-^f ^, ^^^f^f J^^^^^^^^^^ in the angle of junction between the posterior and outer ^^''-^"^ 9^,^ ^^^^^^^^ ^^'^ ^ immediately behind the membrana tynr,.am and on a leve J^^^JIJ^ of the handle of the malleus ; it leads mto a nnnute canal, ^^ nch fi^^^scenas " ?,Vn of the aqua^ductus Fallopii, and terminates m that ^""^l "^^^^ mastoid foramin. Through it the cliorda tympam f^^^'^^f^^fj-^*^^^^^^^^ Tlie Olaserian fissure (fissura iietrotympamca) opens ]ust above a a i front of the ring of bone into whicli (he membrana tjmipani is in^ert.d m "J situation it is a mere slit about a hne in long h. It l^^^Sf and anterior-ligament of the malleus, and gives passage to the tjmpamc branch of the internal maxillary artexy. ^ ^ Tlie iter cJwrdm anterius (canal of Hugmer) is placed ^'^J'^^ "V'". " Glaserian fissure ; through it the chorda tympam nerve leaves tlie tympani1041 THE EAR The inner wall (paries labyrinthica) (fig. 858) is vertical in direction, and looks directly outwards. It presents for examination the following parts : Fenestra ovalis. Promontorium. . Fenestra rotunda. Prominentia canalis facialis. The fenestra ovalis (fenestra vestibuli) is a reniform opening leading from the tympanum into tlie vestibule of the internal ear ; its long diameter is directed horizontally, and its convex border is upwards. In the recent state it is occupied by the base of the stapes, the circumference of M'liich is fixed by the annular ligament to the margin of the foramen. The fenestra rotunda (fenestra cochleae) is situated below and a little behind the fenestra ovalis, from which it is separated by a rounded elevation, the promontorium. It is placed at the bottom of a funnel-shaped depression and, in the macerated bone, leads into the cochlea of the internal ear ; it is closed in the recent state by a membrane (memhrana iympani secundaria) which is concave towards the tympanum, convex towards the cochlea. This membrane consists of three layers : an external, or mucous, derived from the mucous lining of the tymjaanum ; an internal from the lining membrane of the cochlea ; and an intermediate, or fibrous layer. The promontorium is a rounded hollow prominence, formed by the projection outwards of the first turn of the coclilea ; it is placed between the fenestrse, and is furrowed on its surface by three small grooves,- wliich lodge branches of the tympanic plexus. A minute spicule of bone frequently connects the promontorium to the pyramid. The prominentia canalis facialis indicates the position of the bony canal (aquaeductus Fallopii), in which the facial nerve is contained; this canal traverses the inner wall of the tympanum above the fenestra ovalis, and behind that opening curves nearly vertically downwards along the posterior wall. The posterior wall (paries mastoidea) is \nder above than below, and j)resents for examination the Opening of the antrum. Pyramid. Fossa incudis. The opening of the antrum is a large irregular aperture, vc\\ic\\ extends backwards from the epitympanic recess and leads into a considerable air space; the mastoid antrum (antrum tympanicum) (see page 226). The antrum communicates with large irregular cavities contained in the interior of the mastoid process, the mastoid air-cells (cellulse mastoidese). These cavities vary considerably in number, size, and form; they are lined by mucous membrane, contmuous with that lining the cavity of the tympanum. On the inner wall of the opening into the antrum is a rounded eminence, situated above and behind the eminence of the aquaeductus Fallopii; it corresponds Mith the position of the ampullated extremities of the superior and external semicircular canals. _ The pyramid (eminentia pyramidalis) is a conical eminence, situated immediately behind the fenestra ovalis, and in front of the vertical portion of the Fallopian aqueduct; it is hollow in the interior, and contains the Stapedius muscle ; its summit projects forM'ards towards the fenestra ovalis, and presents a small aperture whicli transmits the tendon of the muscle. The cavity in tlie pyramid is prolonged downwards and backwards in front of the aquaeductus Fallopii, and communicates with it by a minute canal winch transmits a twis from the facial nerve to the Stapedius muscle. The fossa incudis is a small depression which is situated in the lower and back part of the epitympanic recess, and lodges the short process of the incus. Ihe anterior wall (paries carotica) is ^^^der above than beloAv; it corres- ponds with tlie carotid canal, from which it is separated by a thin plate of bone perforated by the tympanic branch of the internal carotid artery, and by a communicating branch which connects the sympathetic plexus on the internal carotid artery with the tympanic plexus on the promontory. At the upper part of the anterior wall are the orifice of the canal for the Tensor tympani and tlie orifice of the Eustachian tube, separated from each other by a tliin Horizontal plate of bone, the processus cochlear if or mis (septum canalis musculo- tubarn). These canals run from the tympanum for\N'ards, inwards, and a little downwards, to the retiring angle between the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal bone. 3 XORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 1042 The canal for the Tensor tympani (semicanalis m. tensoris tyinpani) is the superior and "the smaller of the two ; it is eylindrlcal and lies beneath the forward prolongation of the tegmen tympani. It extends on to the inner wall of the tynipanum and ends immediately above the fenestra ovalis. The processus coclileariformis passes backwards below this part of the canal, forming its outer wall and floor ; it expands above the anterior extremity of the fenestra ovalis and terminates by curving outwards so as to form a pulley over which the tendon passes. The Eustachian tube (tuba auditiva) is the channel through Avhich the tympanum communicates with the naso-pharynx. Its length is an inch and a half (36 mm.), and its direction is downwards, forwards, and inwards, forming an angle of about forty-five degrees with the sagittal plane and one of from thirty to forty degrees with the ^G. 859.-The membrana tympani viewed horizontal plane. It is formed part ly fromwitliin. (Testut.) of bone, partly of cartilage and fibrous tissue. The osseous fortion (pars ossea tubse auditivse) is about half an inch in length. It commences in the anterior wall of the tympanum, below the processus cochleariformis, and, gradually narrowing, terminates at the angle of junction of the petrous and squamous portions of the tem- poral bone, its extremity presenting a jagged margin which serves for the attachment of the cartilaguious portion. The cartilaginous portion (pars cartilaginea tubse auditivae), about an inch in length, is formed of a triangular plate of elastic fibro- cartilage, the apex of which is attached to the margin of the inner extremity of the osseous canal, wliile its base lies directly under the mucous membrane of the naso- pharynx, where it forms an eleva- tion or cushion behind the pharyn- geal orifice of the tube. The upper edge of the cartilage is curled upon itself, being bent out^\ards so as to present on'' transverse section the appearance of a hook ; a groove or furrow is thus produced, which opens below and externally, and this part of the canal is completed by fibrous membrane. The cartilage lies m a The malleus has been resected imme(3iately beyond its processus brevis, in order to show the malleolar folds and the membrane of Shrapnell. 1. Membrana tjTnpani. 2. Umbo or navel. 3. Hanaie of the maUeus. 4. Proce&sus brevw. 5. Anterior maUeolar fold. 6. Posterior malleolar fold. '•.Mem- brane of ShrapneU. 8. Anterior pouch of Troltsch. 9. Posterior pouch of Trbltsch. 10. Pibro-cartilagmous ring 11. Glnserian fissure. 12. Eustachian tube. 13 Iter chorda; posterius. 11. Iter chorda! antenus. 15. Fossa iucudis tor short process of the incus. IC. Prominentia styloidea. n«:iii..vi<vi.v.. groove between the petrous temporal and the greater wing of the sphenoid; this groove eaids opposite th<^ .'"/ff^;^^^ the internal pterygoid plate. The cartilaginous and ^^^^y ^y^'^'^^.f^^^^ 'Z^^ are not in the same plane, the former inchmng do^ym^■avds a hi lo inoie ^ the latter. The diameter of the tube is not ".^^'f«"n himij^^^ ouM^^ at the pharyngeal orifice, least at the junction of the ^^J" ^J^f/^^X^ portions, and again expanding as it approaches ^^'"1'"' ^^'^^Vel^^^ Lrrowe^t part of the tube is termexl the '}^^ Tiio nu^o s of the pharyngeal orifice are described with f ^^'^f ""^^'^'^V ^/^^ ^..^^^W membrane of the tube is continuous in front with that of the '^"^^^ r^V^j-^^.^ and behind with that of tlie tympanic cavity ; i is cove ed th^ o^^^^^^^^ epithelium and is thin in tlie osseous portion, "^^^^.^^'^^^V^^^^^^^ it contains many mucous glands and ik^t the V^'^'J'^^f^'}^'^^ amount of adenoid tissue, which has been named b> C-eilacli t'lc SJubet opened during deglutition by the Salpingo-pharyngeus and Dilatato.THE EAR 1043 tubaj. The latter arises from the hook of the cartilage and from, the membranous part of the tube, and blends below with the Tensor palati. The membrana tympani (fig. 859) separates the cavity of the tympanum from the bottom of the external meatus. It is a thin, semi-transparent mem- brane, nearly oval in form, somewhat broader above than below, and directed very obliquely do^^'nwards and inwards so as to form an angle of about fifty-five degrees with the floor of the meatus. Its longest diameter is directed from above and behind, downwards and fortt'ards, ^nd measures fi-om nine to ten millimetres ; its shortest diameter measures from eight to nine millimetres. The greater part of its circumference is tliickened to form an annular ring wliich is fixed in a groove, the sulcus tympanicus, at the inner extremity of the meatus. Tliis sulcus is deficient superiorly at the incisure or notch of Ri vinus. From the extremities of tliis notch two bands, the ctjiterior and posterior inalleolar folds, are prolonged to the short process of the malleus. The smaU, somewhat triangular part of the membrane situated above these folds is lax and tliin, and is named the pars flaccida of ShrapneU ; in it a small orifice is sometimes seen. The handle of the malleus is fii-mly attached to the inner aspect of the membrane as far as its centre, which it draws inwards towards the cavity of the tympanum. The outer surface of the membrane is thus concave, and the most depressed part of this concavity is named the umbo (umbo membranse tympani). Structure.—The membrana tympani is composed of three layers^ an external (cuticular), a middle (fibrous), and an internal (mucous). The cuticular layer (stratum cutaneum) is derived from the integument lining the meatus. The fibrous layer consists of two strata, an external (stratum radiatum) of radial fibres, which diverge from the handle of the malleus, and an internal (stratum circulare) of circular fibres, which are plentiful aroimd the cncumference but sparse and scattered near the centre of the membrane. Branched or dendritic fibres, as pointed out by Griiber, are also present, especially in the posterior half of the membrane. ' Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the membrana tjonpani are derived from the deep auricular branch of the internal maxillary, which ramifies beneath the cuticular layer: and from the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular, and tympanic branch of the mternal maxillary, which are distributed on the mucous surface. The superficial vems open into the external jugular ; those on the mucous surface di-ain partly into the lateral sinus and veins of the dura mater, and partly into a plexus on the Eustachian tube. The membrane receives its nerve supply from the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary, the auricular branch of the vagus, and the tympanic branch of the glosso- pharyngeal. Ossicles of the Tympanum (Ossicula auditus) The tympanic cavity contains a chaha of three movable bones the rmlUus, %ncus, and stapes. The first is attached to the membrana tympani the last to the cu-cumference of the fenestra ovalis, the incus hamc placed ^^r^TVA comiected to both by deUcate articulations. Ihe Malleus (fig. 860), so named from its fancied resemblance to a hammer consists of a head, neck, and three processes, viz. the handle or manubrium' the ^processus gracdis, and the processus brevis. The head (capitidum maUei) is the large upper extremity of the bone • it IS oval in shape, and articulates posteriorly Avith the incus,'being free in'the rest of Its extent. The facet for articulation witli the incus is constricted near the middle, and consists of an upper larger, and lower lesser part, which form nearly a right angle with each other. Opposite the constriction the lower Elalleus Pi-ojects in the form of a process, the cog-tooth or spur of ^T^}'"'^ contracted part just beneath the Head. ; belovv it is a prommence, to M'hich the various processes are attached. ihe handle (manubrium mallei) is connected by its outer margin vnih the membrana tympam. It is directed downwards, imvards, and backwards ; ? decreases in size towards its free extremity, whicli is cur;ed slightly forwa -ds and flattened from withm outwards. On the inner side, near its upper end 'TK.r^'''""' ^7*° l^'"" '''' ^^'^^^^^ Tenso; tvmp^ni Sseiied: ihe processus gracilis (processus anterior [Foliij) is a deUcate process, 3x21044 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE Head ■ Processus brevis Processus gracilis which springs from the eminence below the neck and is directed for%\ ards and outwards to the Glaserian fissure, to which it is connected by ligamentous fibres. In the fcetus this is the longest process of the malleus, and is in direct continuity witli the cartilage of Meckel. The processiis brevis (processus lateralis) is a slight conical projection, wluch springs from the root Fig. 860.—Left malleus, a. From behind, b. From mthin. of the manubrium ; it IS du-ected outwards, and is attaclied to the uppei" part of the tympanic membrane and, by means of the anterior and posterior malleolar folds, to the extremities of the notch of Rivinus. The Incus (fig. 861) has received its name from its supposed re- semblance to an anvil, ^ £ but it is more Uke a bicuspid tooth, with two roots, which differ in length, and are widely separated from each other. It consists of a body and two processes. The body (corpus incudis) is somewhat quadrilateral but compressed laterally. On its anterior surface is a deeply concavo-convex facet, which articulates with the head of the malleus. The two processes diverge from one another nearly at right angles. The sJiort process (crus breve) is somewhat conical in shape, Yig. 861.—Left incus, a. From within, projects almost horizontally b. From the front, backwards, and is attached to a depression, the fossa incudis, in the lower and back part of the epitympanic recess. The long process (crus longum), longer and more slender than the preceding, descends nearly vertically behind and parallel to the handle of the malleus, and, bending inwards, terminates , , i in a roSnded globular projection, the as orUculare or lenUc^ar process, which is tipped with cartilage, and articulates with the head of the stapes. In the foetus the OS orbiculare exists as a separate bone. ^fi,.,.„„ The Staoes (fig. 862), so called from its close resemblance to a stuiup. xiir, otapto V g, consists of a head, neck Fig. 862.—a. Left stapes, b. Foot-plate of stapes from within. Head Short process Body Facet for malleus Long process Os orbiculare Neck Crus imterius Crus posterius Foot-plate two crura, and a base. The head (capitulum stapedis) presents a de- pression, tipped witli cartilage, which articu- lates vvith the os orbi- culare. The neck (coUum stapedis), the constricted part of the bone suc- ceeding the head, receives the insertion of the Stapedius muscle. Thf two crura (crus anterius et crus posterius) diverge from t'^^ "<^^/y'^"5^"'^ connected at their extremities by a flattened oval-shaped V^^^^' Z'l^^l^ which forms tlie foot-plate of the stirrup and is fixed to the margin of the fencsti a ovalis by ligamentous fibres. Of the two crura the anterior is shorter and Jess curved than the posterior. B1045 THE EAR Ligaments of the Ossicula.—These small bones are connected with each other, and with the walls of the tympanum, by ligaments, and moved by small muscles. The articular surfaces of the malleus and incus, and the orbicular process of the incus and head of the stapes, are covered with cartilage and connected together by delicate capsular ligaments, lined by synovial membrane. The lifxaments connecting the ossicula with the walls of the tympanum are five in°number: three for the malleus, one for the incus, and one for the stapes. . The anterior ligament of the malleus (lig. mallei anterius) was tormeriy described as a muscle [Laxator tympani). It is noAv, however, believed by most observers to consist of ligamentous fibres only. It is attached by one extremity to the neck of the malleus, just above the processus gracilis, and by tile other to the anterior wall of the tympanum, close to the Glaserian fissure, some of its fibres being prolonged tlirough the fissure to reach the spine of the sphenoid. The superior ligament of the malleus (Hg. mallei superius) is a delicate, round bundle of fibres which descends perpendicularly from the roof of the epitympanic recess to the head of the malleus. The external ligament of the malleus (lig. mallei lateralis) is a triangular plane of fibres passmg from the posterior part of the notch in the tympanic ring (incisura Rivini) to the head of the malleus. The posterior ligament of the incus (lig. incudis posterius) is a short, thick, ligamentous band \vhich connects the extremity of the short process of the incus to the fossa incudis in the epitympanic recess. The vestibular surface and the circumference of the foot of the stapes are covered with hyaline cartilage; that encircling the base is attached to the margin of the fenestra ovalis by a fibrous ring, the annular ligament of the stapes (lig. annulare baseos stapedis). A superior ligament of the incus (lig. incudis superius) has been described, but it is little more than a fold of mucous membrane. The muscles of the tympanum are two : Tensor tympani. Stapedius. The Tensor tympani, the larger, is contained in the bony canal above the osseous portion of the Eustachian tube, from which it is separated by the processus cochleariformis. It arises from the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube and the adjoining part of the greater wdng of the sphenoid, as well as from the osseous canal in which it is contained. Passing backwards through the canal, it terminates in a slender tendon which enters the tympanum, makes a sharp bend outward round the extremity of the processus cochleari- formis, and is inserted into the handle of the malleus, near its root. It is supplied by a branch from the otic ganglion. The Stapedius arises from the side of a coniqal cavity, hollowed out of the interior of the pyramid ; its tendon emerges from the orifice at the apex of the pyramid, and, passing forwards, is inserted into the posterior surface of the neck of the stapes. Its surface is aponeurotic, its interior fleshy ; and its tendon occasionally contains a slender bony spine, which is constant in some mammalia. It is suppHed by a branch of the facial nerve. Actions.—The Tensor tympani draws the membrana tympani inwards, and thus increases its tension. The Stapedius dra^\■s the head of the stapes backwards, and thus causes the base of the bone to rotate on a vertical axis drawn through its own centre ; the back part of the base is pressed inwards towards the vestibule, while the fore part is drawn from it. It ^irobably compresses the contents of the vestibule. The mucous membrane of the tympanic cavity is continuous with that of the pharynx, through the Eustachian tube. It invests the ossicles, and the muscles and nerves contained in the tympanic cavity ; forms the internal layer of the membrana tympani, and the outer layer of the membrana tympani secundaria, and is reflected into the mastoid antrum and cells, Avhich it lines throughout. It forms several vascular folds, which extend from the A^-aUs of the tympanum to the ossicles ; of these one descends from the roof of the tympanum to the head of the malleus and upper margin of the body of the incus, a second invests the Stapedius muscle : other folds invest the chorda1046 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE tympani nerve and tlie Tensor tympani muscle. These folds separate off pouch-like cavities, and give the interior of the tympanum a somewhat lioney- comb appearance. One of these pouclies is weU marked, viz. the pouch of Prussak, \v hich lies between the neck of the malleus and tlie membrana flaccida. Two other folds may be mentioned : they are formed by the mucous membrane which envelops the chorda tymiiani nerve and are situated, one in front of, and the other behind the liandle of the malleus ; they are named the anterior and posterior recesses of Trvltsch. In the tympanum this membrane is pale, tliin, slightly vascular and covered for the most part with columnar ciliated epithehum, but over the pyramid, ossicula, and membrana tympani it possesses a flattened non-ciliated epithelium. In the antrum and mastoid cells its epithelium is also non-ciliated. In the osseous portion of the Eustachian tube the membrane is thin ; but in the cartilaginous portion it is very thick, highly vascular, and provided with numerous mucous glands ; the epithelium which lines the tube is columnar and ciliated. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries are six in number. Two of them are larger than the rest, viz. the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary, which suppUes the membrana tympani; and the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular, which supplies the back part of the tympanum and mastoid cells. The smaller arteries are—the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal, which enters through the hiatus Fallopii; a branch from the ascending pharjmgeal and another from the Vidian, which accompany the Eustachian tube ; and the tympanic branch from the internal carotid, given off in the carotid canal and perforating the thin anterior wall of the tympanum. The veins terminate in the pterygoid plexus, the superior petrosal sinus, and the middle meningeal vein. The nerves constitute the tympanic plexus, which ramifies upon the surface of the promontory. The plexus is formed by (1) the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal; (2) the smaU deep petrosal nerve ; (3) the small superficial petrosal nerve ; and (4) a branch which joms the great superficial petrosal. The tympanic branch of the glosso-'pharyngeal (Jacobson's nerve) enters the tympanic cavity by an aperture in its floor close to the inner wall, and divides into branches which ramify o"n the promontory and enter iato the formation of the plexus. The small deep petrosal nerve from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic passes through the waU of the carotid canal, and joins the branches of Jacobson's nerve. The branch to the great super- ficial petrosal passes through an opening on the inner wall, in front of the fenestra ovaUs. The sinall superficial petrosal nerve, from the otic gangUon, passes backwards through a foramen in the middle fossa of the base of the skuU (sometimes the foramen ovale), and enters the anterior surface of the petrous bone through a small aperture, situated external to the hiatus Fallopii; it courses downwards through the bone, past the geniculate ganghon of the facial nerve, receiving a connecting filament from it, and entei-s the tympanic cavity, where it communicates with Jacobson's nerve, and assists in forming the tympanic plexus. The branches of distribution of the tympanic plexus are supphed to the mucous membrane of the tympanic cavity ; a branch passes to the fenestra ovalis, another to the fenestra rotunda, and a thhd to the Eustachian tube. The small superficial petrosal may be looked upon as the contmuation of the nerve of Jacobson through the plexus to the otic ganglion. " , • i t\,^ In addition to the tympanic plexus there are the nerves supplymg the muscles, ilie Tensor tympani is supplied by a branch from the thhd division of the fifth through the otic ganglion, and the Stapedius by the tympanic branch of the facial. The chorda tympani nerve crosses the tympanic cavity. It is given off from the sensory part of the facial, about a quarter of an inch before the nerve emerges from the stylo- mastoid foramen. It runs from below upwards and forwards m a canal, and entere the tympanic cavity through the iter chordw posterius, aheady described (page 1040), and becomes invested mth mucous membrane. It traverses the tympanic cavity, crossmg mternal to the membrana tympani and over the upper part of the handle of the malleus to the anterior wall, where it emerges through the iter chordm anlertus or canal of Hvgmer. Applied AnatoMT/.-The tympanic cavity is very frequently the seat of disease botu suppurative and non-suppurative, and m practically every case the inflammation spreads upwards from the nose or throat along the Eustachian tube. The anatomy of the tympanic cavity is of the very greatest practical importance as regards its relatioiis t^o ore? parts. Its roof is forn/ed by a thin plate of bone which. -^tV^fo^'lmnSa "e V aU that separates it from the temporal lobe of the bram ; its floor is situated ^^^'J^l^^ above the jugular fossa behmd, and the carotid canal m ron ; its P<?«terior wall pre.^^^^^^ the openmg of the mastoid antrum, and on its anterior wall is the openmg of he E 'stachmn tube. Acute mflammatory troubles spreacUng up to the tympanum ^.V he attCT are usually Dissociated with so much mflammatory swelhng of the '^"'^^.^^^f Eustachian tube as to occlude it, and thus the products of "^A^^^'^*"? » the tympanic cavity and directly mvolve the mastoid antrum. Under such circumstances1047 THE EAR tlie only means of escape for the products is by rupture of the tympanic membrane, which iisually occurs spontaneously and is followed by a free discharge of pus and rehef to the acute pain which exists in these cases. Should the swelling of the walls of the Eustachian tube then subside, the normal ch-ainageof the cavity will be established and the perforation in the drum will heal, but if not—as is often the case because the opening of the tube may be occluded by adenoid growths m the naso-pharynx or other cause—the pus will continue to accumulate in the middle ear and will overflow through the perforation as a chronic otorrhcea. In the course of time the disease spreads beyond the mucous membrane to the walls of the tympanic cavity, to the ossicles, or to the bone of the mastoid process, and when this has occurred the condition Ls incurable except by the removal of the carious bone. Further severe intracranial complications are at this time often produced owing to purulent material bemg retamed ; thus an abscess may form between the bone and dura mater, (a) about the roof of the tympanum, and immediately beneath the dura covermg the temporal lobe, or (6) between the deep aspect of the mastoid process and the sigmoid bend of the lateral smus, possibly extendmg widely and surrounding the smus. In this latter tyioe of case, thrombosis of the lateral smus readily occurs, and the clot being also infected tends to dismtegrate and be carried into the general cu-culation, particles often becommg lodged m the capillaries of the lungs and setting up abscesses therem. Pyaimia from lateral sinus thrombosis is probably more common than from any other focus of origin. In addition, bone disease of the tympanum or mastoid antrum may be associated with severe and fatal septic meningitis, or with the formation of abscess in the encephalon, the most common sites being the temporal lobe and the hemisphere of the cerebellum. Less serious, but more common, is the formation of a subperiosteal mastoid abscess with great swellmg behmd the ear, and protrusion outwards of the auricle ; such a condition demands an early incision dow through all the structures, including the periosteum, over the whole length of the mastoid process, and then it will frequently be foimd that the underlying bone is carious or that a track leads through the bone into the mastoid antrum. In such conditions extensive operations for the removal of bone are often required. In many cases of chronic bone disease in the tympanic cavity the facial nerve becomes exposed as it hes m the aqueduct of Fallopius, and an mfiammatory process is set up in the nerve, leading to facial paralysis of the infranuclear type (see page 927). In other cases localised areas of bone disease, most often in the region of the attic, form the points from which aural polypi grow, and the ear polypus, lilce the nasal polypus, must be considered to have originated in a spot of carious bone, the removal of which is necessary if a cure is to be established. Fractm-es of the middle fossa of the base of the skull almost invariably involve the tympanic roof, and are accompanied by a rupture of the drum or fracture through the roof of the bony meatus. They are associated with profuse continued bleeding from the ear, and, if the dura has also been lacerated, with discharge of copious amomits of cerebro-spinal fluid. Here the avoidance of infection from the outside is of the vitmost importance, as should it occur septic meningitis must inevitably follow with a fatal issue. Of the non-suppurative conditions which affect the middle ear, chronic catarrh, leading to sclerosis of the whole of the tympanic contents, is again due to spread of inflammation from some nasal or pharyngeal condition. The progress is very slow, but leads to ever- increasing deafness—this deafness in the first instance is m no way connected with any defect in the auditory nerve, and this can be shown by the fact that the hearmg by bone conduction over the mastoid process remains normal. In chronic non-suppurative otitis, media treatment must be especially directed towards placing the nose and pharynx in a healthy condition; when this has been accomplished, the aural condition often improves of itself ; if not, however, improvement may be induced by forcing air up the Eustachian tube by means of the Politzer bag, or directly into the orifice of the tube by means of the Eustachian catheter. Internal Ear, or Labyrinth The internal ear (auris interna) is the essential part of the organ of hearing, receiving the ultimate distribution of the auditory nerve. It is called the labyrinth, from the complexity of its shape, and consists of two parts : the osseous labyrinth, a series of cavities channelled out of tlie substance of the petrous bone, and the memhranous labyrinth, the latter being contained within the former. The Osseous Labyrinth (fig. 863) The osseous labyrinth (labyrinthus osseus) consists of three parts : the vestibule, semicircular canals, and cochlea. These are cavities hollowed out of the substance of the bone, and Hned by periosteum ; they contain a clear fluid, the perilymph, in which the membranous labyiinth is situated. The vestibule (vestibulum) is the central part of the internal ear, and is situated on the inner side of the tympanum, behind the cochlea, and in1048 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE front of the semicircular canals. It is somewhat ovoid in shape, flattened froni within out\\^ards, and measures about one-fifth of an inch from before backwards, tlio same from above downwards, and about one-eighth of an inch from without inwards. On its outer or tympanic wall is the fenestra ovalis, closed, in the recent state, by the base of the stapes and annular ligament. On its inner wall, at the fore part, is a small circular depression, the recessus sphcericus, which is perforated, at its anterior and inferior part, by several minute holes (macula cribrosa media) for the passage of filaments of the auditory nerve to the saccule ; and behind this depression is an oblique ridge, the crista vesiibuli, the anterior end of which is named the pyramid (pyramis vestibuli). This ridge bifurcates below to enclose a small depression, the fossa cochlearis, which is perforated by a number of holes for the passage of filaments of the auditory nerve ^^'hich supply the posterior end of the ductus cochlearis. At the hinder part of the inner wall is the orifice of the aquceductus vestibuli, which extends to the posterior surface of the j)etrous x^ortion of the temporal bone. It transmits a small vein, and contains a tubular prolongation of the membranous labjTinth, the ductus endolymphaticus, which ends in a cul-de-sac between the layers of the dura mater within the cranial cavity. On Fig. 863.—The osseous labyrinth laid open. (Enlarged.) the upper wall or roof is a transversely oval depression, the recessus ellipUcm, separated from the recessus sphtericus by the crista vestibuli already mentioned. The pyx'amid and adjoining part of the i-ecessus ellipticus are perforated bv a number of holes {macula cribrosa superior) The apeit les in the pyram"id transmit the nerves to the utricle ; those in the recessus elhp- ticus the nerves to the ampullar of the superior and external semicircular canals Behind, the semicircular canals open into tl^^ vestibule by five orihces^^^^L^ front is an elliptical opening, which communicates with the scala vestibuli ^The^bonv semicircular canals (canales semicirculares ossei) are situated above anS"Lhind the vestibule. They are of unequal -.gt^, comp^^^^^^^^^ from side to side, and each describes the greater par of a circle Each n eyu, es about -8 mm. in diameter, and presents a dilatation at «J, .^^^ Xll^d '^e amr)ulla which measures more than twice the diameter of the tube, iiiej operinto ihe vestibule by five orifices, one of the apertures being common to ^'''"^The^uplH^^^^^^ canal (canalis semicircularissupeTior) 15to 20 mm- in length, is vertical in direction, and is placed tffn«versel> to u^^b^ the petrous portion of the temporal bone, on the anterioi suiface olTHE EAR 1049 Fig. 864.—Transverse section of a human semi- circular canal (after Riidinger). (Testut.) its arch forms a round projection. It describes about two-thu-ds of a circ e. Its outer extremity is ampullated, and opens mto the upper part of the vestibule : the opposite end joins with the upper part of the posterior canal to form the crus commune, whicli opens into the upper and inner part ot the ^^^The^^7)05/e?-ior semicircular canal (canalis semicircularis posterior), also vertical is directed backwards, nearly parallel to the posterior surface of the petrous bone ; it is the longest of the three, measurmg from 18 to 22 mm.; its lower or ampullated end opens into the lower and back part of the vestibule, its opposite opens into the crus commune already mentioned. The external or horizontal canal (canalis semicircularis lateralis) is the shortest of the three. It measures from 12 to 15 mm., and its arch is directed horizontally outwards and backwards ; thus each semicircular canal stands at right angles to the other two. Its ampullated end corresponds to the upper and outer angle of the vesti- bule, just above the fenestra ovalis, where it opens close to the ampuUary end of the superior canal; its opposite end opens by a distinct orifice at the upper and back part of the vestibule. ' The ex- ternal canal of one ear is very nearly in the same plane as that of the other ; while the superior canal of one ear is nearly parallel to the pos- terior canal of the other.' * The cochlea (figs. 865,866) bears some resemblance to a common snail-shell; it forms the anterior part of tlie laby- rinth, is conical in form, and placed almost horizontally m front of the vestibule ; its apex (cupula) is du-ected for- M'ards and outwards, with a slight inclination downwards, towards the upper and front part of the inner wall of the tympanum ; its base (basis cochleae) corresponds \^"ith the bottom of the internal audi- tory meatus, and is perforated by numerous apertures for the passage of the cochlear division of the auditory nerve. It measures about 5 mm. from base to apex, and its breadth across the base is somewhat greater (about 9 mm.). It consists of a conical-shaped central axis, the modiolus \ of a canal, the imier Mall of which is formed by the central axis, MOund spu'ally around it for two turns and three-quarters, from the base to the apex; and of a delicate lamina (the lamina spiralis ossea) which projects from the modiolus, and, foUo^dng the bindings of the canal, partially subdivides it into two. In the recent state a membrane, the membrana basilaris, stretclies from the free border of this lamina to the outer wall of the bony cochlea and completely separates the canal into two passages, which, however, communicate with each other at the apex of the modiolus by a small opening, named the kelicotrema. The modiolus is the central axis or pillar of the cochlea. It is conical in form, and extends from the base to the ajjex of the cochlea. Its base (basis 1. Bony semicircular canal. 2. Periosteum. 3. Membranous semi- circular canal, with 1, papillilorm prooes.ses on its internal surface. 5. Connective tLsiiue binding tlio membranous canal to tbc peri- osteum. 8, G. Fibrous hands muting tbe tree surface of the mem- branous canal to the periosteum. 7. Vessels. S. Endolymphatic space. !), 9. Perilymphatic space. * Crum Brown, Journal of Anatomy and Pliysiologtj, vol. viii.ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 1050 modioli) is broad, and. appears at the bottom of the internal auditory meatus, where it corresponds with the area cochleas ; it is perforated by numerous orifices, which transmit filaments of the cochlear division of tlie auditory nerve ; the nerves for the first turn and. a half pass through the foramina of the tractus spiralis forammosus ; those for the apical, turn through the foramen Fig. 865.—The cochlea and vestibule, viewed from above. (Testut.) AU the hard parts which form the roof of the mternal ear have been removed with tlie saw. A. Cochlea. end of external semichcular canal. 9. Scala tympani of the raohJea. 10. Scala vestibuh. II- Cupula. 12. Lamina spiralis ossea, with 12', its vestibular origm; 12", its external border. 13. Hehcotrema. 14. Bony wall of cochlea. centrale. The canals of the tractus spiralis forammosus pass up through the modiolus and successively bend outwards to reach the attached margm of the lamma spiralis ossea. Here they become enlarged, and by then- appo- sition form a spiral canal {canalis spiralis modioli), which follows the course of the attached margm of the lamina spiralis ossea and lodges the ganghon Fig. 866.—The cochlea laid open. (Enlarged.) spirale (ganglion of Gorti). The foramen centrale is continued i^to a canal which runs up tiie middle of the modiolus to its apex. The modiolus dimmislK s rapidly in size in the second and succeeding coil. „„nrfprs The bony canal of the cochlea takes two turns and /l^«^c-quaitci| round the modiolus. It is a little over an inch in length (about 30 mm.) ana1051 THE EAR diminishes eradually in size from the base to the summit, where it terminates in the cupula, which forms the apex of the cocldea. The commencement of this canal is about the tenth of an inch in diameter ; it diverges from the modiolus towards the tympanum and vestibule, and presents three openmgs. One the fenestra rotunda, communicates with the tympanum—m the recent state this aperture is closed by a membrane, the membrana tympani secun- daria • another, of an elliptical form, opens into the vestibule. The third is the aperture of the aqueductus cochleae, leading to a minute funnel-shaped canal, which opens on the basilar surface of the petrous bone and transmits a small vem, and also forms a communication between the subarachnoid space of the skull and the seala tympani. The lamina spiralis ossea is a bony shelf or ledge which projects outwards from the modiolus into the interior of the spiral canal, and, like the canal, takes two and tliree-quarter turns round the modiolus. It reaches about half- way towards the outer wall of the spiral tube, and partially divides its cavity into two passages or scalee, of which the upper is named the scala vestibuli, while the lower is termed the scala tympani. Near the summit of the cochlea the lamina terminates in a hook-shaped process, the hamulus lamina} spiralis, which assists in forming the boundary of a small openuig, the helicotrema, by which the two scal« communicate with eacli other. From the canalis spiralis modioli numerous canals pass outwards through the osseous spiral lamina as far as its free edge. In the lower part of the first turn a second bony lamina, the lamina spiralis secundaria, projects inwards from the outer wall of the bony tube ; it does not, however, reach the primary osseous spiral lamina, so that if viewed fi-om the vestibule a narrow fissure, the fissura vestibuli, is seen between them. The Membranous Labyrinth (figs. 867, 868, 869) The membranous labyrinth (labyrinthus membranaceus) is lodged within the bony cavities just described, and has the same general form as the cavities in which it is contained ; it is, ho\vever, considerably smaller, and is separated from the bony Avails by a quantity of fluid, the perilymph. It does not float loosely in this fluid, but in certain places is fixed to the walls of the caAdty. The membranous labyrinth contains fluid, the endohjmph, and on its walls the ramifications of the auditory nerve are distributed. Fig. 867.—The membranous labyrinth. (Enlarged.) END0LYMPHATICU3 Within the osseous vestibule the membranous labyrinth does not quite preserve the form of the bony cavity, but presents two membranous sacs, the utricle and the saccide. The utricle (utriculus), the larger of the two, is of an oblong form, com- pressed laterally, and occupies the upper and back part of the vestibule, lying in contact with the recessus eUipticus and the part below it. That jjortion which is lodged in the recess forms a sort of pouch or cul-de-sac, the floor1052 ORGANS OP SPECIAL SENSE and anterior wall of which are much thicker than elsewhere, and form the macula acustica uiriculi, which receives the utricular filaments of the auditory Fig. 868.—Right human membranous labyrinth, removed from its bony enclosure and viewed from the antero-lateral aspect. (G. Retzius.) 3 4 5' 0 7 8 9 U 10 12 Fig. 869.—The same from the postero-mesial aspect. (G. Retzius.) 23 11 8,9,10 10' 6' 6 3' 6 1. External son,i, ircula,- <■..,.«!; V, it« ampulla. 2. r<«tor or canal; 2\ ils ampu a. 3 Supermr cana 3 .t« am, ,ul^^. 4. Conjoi.KKl li.nb of .superior aud posterior cauals suu.s 2''™"'',f " „ g Verve to .,n,p»lb 5". SUL utriculi pc«torlor. «. Ductus culolymphnticus ^""^''^ "^^^'^^^^^^ifchfiic^ superior canal. 0. ^■ervo to ampulla of external canal 10 ^^"« "r^^;''f "^^^ cochlcic. 13. Nerve vt -iz^iirs;!Li^L^^^'T.?'='m= separation between tliem is not apparent in the section).THE EAR 1053 nerve and has attached to its internal surface a layer of calcareous particles (otoUths). The cavity of the utricle communicates behind with the mem- branous semicircular canals by five orifices. From its anterior wall is given off a small canal, the ductus utriculosaccularis, which opens into the ductus endolymphaticus. • • i r i The saccule (sacculus) is the smaller of tlie two vestibular sacs ; it is globumr in form, and lies in the recessus sphsericus near the opening of the scala vesti- buli of the cochlea. Its anterior part exhibits an oval thickening, the macula acustica saccuU, to which are distributed the saccular filaments of the auditory nerve. Its cavity does not directly communicate with that of the utricle. From the posterior wall is given off a canal, the ductus endolymphaticus ; this duct is joined by the ductus utriculo-saccularis, and then passes along the aquffiductus vestibuli and ends in a blind pouch (saccus endolymphaticus) on the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, where it is m contact with the dura mater. From the lower part of the saccule a short tube, the canalis reuniens of Hensen, passes doA\ nwards and outwards to open into the ductus cochlearis near its vestibular extremity (fig. 867). The membranous semicircular canals (ductus semicirculares) (fig. 864) are about one-fourth of the diameter of the osseous canals, but in number, sliape, and general form they are precisely similar, and each presents at one end an ampulla (ampulla membranacea). They open by five orifices into the utricle, one opening being common to the inner end of the superior and the upj)er end of the posterior canal. In the ampuUse the ^^•all is thickened, and projects into the cavity as a fiddle-shaped, transversely placed elevation, the septum transversum, in which the nerves end. The utricle, saccule, and membranous canals are held in position by numerous fibrous bands which stretch across the space between them and the bony walls. Structure.—The walls of the utricle, saccule, and semicircular canals consist of three layers. The outer layer is a loose and flocculent structure, apparently composed of ordinary fibrous tissue, containing blood-vessels and some pigment-cells. The middle layer, thicker and more transparent, forms a homogeneous membrana propria, and presents on its internal surface, especially in the semicircular canals, numerous papiUiform projections, which, on the addition of acetic acid, exhibit an appearance of longitudinal fibrillation and elongated nuclei. The inner layer is formed of polygonal nucleated epithelial cells. In the maculae of the utricle and saccule, and in the transverse septa of tlie ampuUse of the canals, the middle coat is thickened and the epithelium is columnar, and consists of supporting cells and hair-cells. The former are fusiform, and their deep ends are attached to the membrana propria, while their fi-ee extremities are united to form a thin cuticle. The hair-cells are flask-shaped, and then' deep, rounded ends do not reach the membrana propria, but lie betM'een the supporting cells. Tlie deep part of each contains a large nucleus, while its more superficial part is granular and pigmented. The free end is surmounted by a long, tapering, hair-like filament, which projects into the cavity. The filaments of the auditory nerve enter these parts, and having pierced the outer and the thickened middle layers, they lose their medullary sheaths, and then* axis cylinders ramify betAveen the haii'-cells. Two small rounded bodies termed otoconia (otoliths), and consisting of a mass of minute crystalline grains of carbonate of lime, held together in a mesh of delicate fibrous tissue, are contained in the \\ alls of the utricle and saccule opposite the distribution of the nerves. According to Bowman, a calcareous material is also sparingly scattered in the cells lining tlie ampullae of the .semicircular canals. The membranous cochlea, ductus cochlearis, or scala media consists of a spirally arranged tube enclosed in the bony canal of the cochlea and lying along its outer waU. As already stated, the osseous spiral lamina extends only part of the distance between tlie modiolus and the outer bony wall of the cochlea, while a membrane, the membrana basilaris, stretclies from its free edge to tlie outer wall of tlie cochlea, and completes the roof of the scala tympani (fig. 870). A second and more delicate membrane, the membrane of lleissner (membrana vestibularis) extends from the thickened periosteum covering tlie laminaORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 1054 spiralis ossoa to the outer wall of the cochlea, to wliich it is attaclied at some little distance from the outer edge of the membrana basilaris. A canal is thus shut off between the scala tympani below and the scala vestibuli above ; this is the membranous canal of the cochlea, ductus cochlearis. or scala media. It is triangular on transverse section, its roof being formed by the membrane of Reissner, its outer wall by the periosteum which lines the bony canal, and Fig. 870.—Floor of scala media, showing the organ of CJorti, &c. its floor by the membrana basilaris and the outer part of the lamina spiralis ossea. On the membrana basilaris is placed the organ of Corti. Reissner's membrane is thin and homogeneous, and is covered on its uxDper and \mder surfaces by a layer of epithelium. The periosteum, supporting the outer wall of the ductus cochlearis, is greatly thickened and altered in character, forming what is called the ligamentum spirale. It projects inwards below as a triangular Fig. 871.—The lamina reticularis and subjacent structures. (Schematic.) (Testut.) I.ten,a,pmarofCorti.with„,itsp,ato^ E Inner liuir-cplls. 1, 1'. Internal nnd external borders of the i circular boles (in hlue). .'i. First row of iilmlnngcs (in yellow), t, j', (in red) 0, C, «'. Tiie three rows of outer liriii-rolls (in blurt. (, • Second, third, and fourth rows of phalanges Cells of Deitcre. S. Cells of Claudms. prominence, the crista, basilaris, Mhicli gives attachnient to the outer edge of the membrana basilaris, and immediately above which is a ^o^^^'i^;, y;^^ sulcus spiralis externus. The upper portion of tlie ligamentum «Piif numerous capillary loops and small blood-vessels, and forms ^hat is termea the stria vascularis.1055 THE EAR Tlie lamina spiralis ossea (fig. 872) consists of two plates of bone extending outwards ; between tliese are the canals for tlie transmission of the filaments of the auditory nerve. On the upper plate of that part of the osseous spiral lamma which is outside Reissner's membrane the periosteum is thickened to form the limbus lamince spiralis, and this terminates externally in a concavity, the sulcus spiralis internus, whicli presents, on section, the form of the letter C; the upper part of the letter, formed by the overhanging extremity of the limbus, is named the lahium veslibulare ; the lower part, prolonged and tapering, is called the lahium tympanicum, and is perforated by numerous foramina [foramina nervosa) for the passage of the cochlear nerves. Exter- nall3^ the labium tympanicum is continuous A\ith the membrana basilaris. The upper surface of the labium vestibulare is intersected at right angles by a number of furro\\s, betw een -^^hich are numerous elevations ; these present the appearance of teeth along the free surface and margin of the labium, and have been named by Buschke the auditory teeth. The limbus is covered by a layer of what appears to be squamous epithehum, but tlie deejaer parts of the cells with their contained nuclei occupy the intervals betAveen the Fig. 872.—Limbus laminss spiralis and membrana basilaris. (Schematic.) (Testut.) 1, 1'. Upper and lower lamcU.'E o£ the laniina spiralis ossea. 2. Liinbus lamiiuc spiralis, with n, the teeth of the flist row ; 6', the auditor}^ teeth of the other rows ; c, c\ the interdental ji^rooves and the cells which are lodged in tbem. 3. Sulcus spiralis internus, with 3', its labium vestibulare, and 3*, itJ5 labium tympanicum. -1. Foramina nervosa, giving passage to the nerves from the ganglion spirale or ganglion of Corti. 5. Yas spirale. G. Zona arcuatjv, and (i', zona pectinata of the basilar membrane, with c, its hyaline layer, fi, its connective-tissue layer. 7. Arch of Corti, with 7', its inner rod, and 7", its outer rod. 8. Feet of tlie internal rods, from which the cells are removed. 9. Feet o£ the external rods. 10. Membrane of Eeissner, at its origin. elevations and betAveen the auditory teeth. This layer is continuous on the one hand with that which fines the sulcus spirafis internus, and on the other with that which covers the under aspect of Reissner's membrane. The basilar membrane may be divided into two areas, inner and outer. The inner is thin, and is named tlic zona arcuata : it supports the organ of C6rti. The outer is thicker and striated, and is termed the zona pectinata. The under surface of the membrane is covered by a layer of vascular connective tissue. One of the vessels in this tissue is someA\'hat larger than the rest, and is named the vas spirale ; it lies below Corti's tunnel. Organ of Corti (organon .spirale).—This organ (figs. 871, 873) is situated upon the inner part of the membrana basilaris, and appears at first sight as a papilla, Avinding spirally throughout tlie whole length of the ductus cochlearis, from which circumstance it has been designated the papilla spiralis. More accurately viewed, it is seen to be composed of a remarkable arrangement of cells, which may be likened to the keyboard of a pianoforte. Of these cells, the central ones are rodhke bodies, and are called the inner and outer rods of Corti. Their bases are expanded and placed on the basilar membrane, at some Uttle distance from each other, while their intermediate portions are1056 ORGANS OP SPECIAL SENSE inclined towards eacli other, so that the rods meet at their opposite extremities, and form a series of arches roofing over a minute tunnel, the tunnel of Corli, between them and the basilar membrane ; this tunnel ascends spirally tlirough the whole length of the cochlea. The inner rods, some 6,000 in number, rest by means of expanded foot-plates on the basilar membrane, close to the labium tympanicum; they project obliquely upwards and outwards, and terminate above m expanded extremities, each of whicli resembles in shape the upper end of the ulna, with its sigmoid cavitv, coronoid and olecranon processes. On tlie outer side of the ro'd, ha the angle formed between it and tlie basilar membrane, is a nucleated mass of protoplasm; while on the inner side is a row of epitheUal cells {inner hair-cells), each surmounted by a brush of fine, stiff, hair-like processes. On the inner side of these cells are two or three rows of columnar supporting cells, which are continuous with the cubical cells lining the sulcus spiraUs mternus. The outer rods, numbermg about 4,000, also rest by broad foot-plates on the basilar membrane; they uicUne upwards and inwards, and the upper extremity of each resembles the head and bill of a s^van ; the back of the head Fig. 873.—Section tlirough the organ of Corti. Magnified. (G. Retzius.) outer /tair cells meminzna lecloria Tierve 7fibres outer rod basilar memirane cells of Heitkrs fitting into the concavity—the analogue of the sigmoid ca^aty—of one or more of the internal rods, and the biU projecting outwards as a phalangeal process of the membrana reticularis, presently to be described. . , • , In the head of the outer rod is an oval portion where the fibres of a\1iic i the rod appears to be composed are deficient; it stams more deeply carmine than the rest of the rod. At the base of the rod, on its internal side —that is to say, in the angle formed by the rod ^^•ith the basilar membrane —is a similar protoplasmic mass to tliat found on the outer side of the base ot the inner rod; these masses of protoplasm are probably the undifferentia ed portions of th6 cells from which the rods are developed External to tlie outer rod are three or four successive rows of epithelial cells, more elonga ed than those found on the mternal side of the uiner rod, but, like them, furnis eel with mmute hairs or cilia. These are termed the outer hmr-cells, ""^ coim^- distinction to the inner hair-cells above referred to. I he outer hair-cells number about 12,000, the inner about 3,500. , .,rP on The hair-cells are somewhat oval in shape ; their free^'^tremities are on a level with the heads of Corti's rods, and from each some t^^cnty fiiiejiai cts project and are arranged in the form of a crescent, ^i^/^^^/^'^^^^, 7 opens mwards. The deep ends of the cells arr rounded and contain laige nuclei : they reach only as far as the middle of Corti's rods and «f ^^^^^^JJ with the ramifications of the nervous filaments. Betweeii the ^'^^^^^^^^^ hair-cells are roM s of supporting cells, called the cells of ^^^'^'"^ ^J^^^^^-^Jf""JS bases are planted on the basilar membrane, while the opposite end ot1057 THE EAR presents a clubbed exti-emity or phalangeal process. Immediately to the outer side of Deiters' cells are some five or six rows of columnar ceUs, the supporting cells of Hensen. Their bases are narrow, while their upper parts are expanded and form a rounded elevation on the floor of the ductus cochlearis. The columnar cells Ijang outside Hensen's cells are termed the cells of Claudius. A space is seen between the outer rods of Corti and the adjacent hair-cells ; this is called the space of Nuel. The lamina reticularis or membrane of Kulliker is a delicate framework perforated by roimded holes. It extends from the heads of the outer rods of Corti to the external row of the outer hair-cells, and is formed by several rows of ' minute fiddle-shaped cuticular structures,' called phalanges, between which are circular apertures containing the free ends of the hair-cells. The iimermost row of phalanges consists of the phalangeal processes of the outer rods of Corti; the outer rows are formed by, the modified free ends of Deiters' cells. Feg. 874.—Longitudinal section of the cochlea, showing the relations of the scate, the ganglion spirale, &c. S.V. Scala Testibuli. 3.T. Scala tympani. S.M. Soala media. L.s. Ligamentum spirale. G.s. GaugUon spirale. Covering over these structures, but not touching them, is the memhrana iectoria, or membrane of Corti, which is attached to the limbus laminae spu-alis close to the inner edge of the membrane of Reissner. It is thin near its mner margin, and overlies the auditory teeth of Huschke. Its outer half is tliick, and along its lower edge, opposite the inner hair-cells, is a clear band, named Hensen's stripe. Externally, the membrane becomes much thinner, and is attached to the outer row of Deiters' cells (Retzius). The osseous labyrinth is lined by an exceedingly thin fibro-serous membrane, analogous to a periosteum, from its close adhesion to the inner surfaces of these cavities, and performing the office of a serous membrane by its free surface. It lines the vestibule, and from this cavity is continued into the semicircular canals and the scala vestibuli of the cochlea, and through the helicotrema into the scala tympani. A delicate tubular process is prolonged along the aqueduct of the vestibule to the inner surface of the dura mater. This membrane is continued across the fenestra ovalis and rotunda, and consequently has no communication with the lining membrane of the tympanum. Its attached surface is rough and fibrous, and closely adherent to the bone ; its free surface is smooth and pale, covered with a layer of epithelium, and secretes a thin, limpid fiuid, the perilymph. The ductus cochlearis or scala media is closed above and below. The upper blind extremity is termed the lagena, and is attached to the cupula at the upper part of the helicotrema ; the lower end is lodged in the recessus cochlearis of the vestibule. Near this blind extremity, the scala media receives 3 YORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 1058 tlie canalis reuniens of Hensen (fig. 867), a very delicate canal, by which the ductus cochlearis is brought into continuity with the saccule. The auditory nerve, the special nerve of the sense of hearing, divides, at the bottom of the internal auditory meatus, into two branches, the cochlear and vestibular. The vestibular nerve, the posterior of the two, presents, as it lies in the internal auditory meatus, a ganglion, the ganglion of Scarpa, the cells of which constitute the real origin of the nerve ; it divides into three branches, which pass through minute openings at the upper and back part of the bottom of the meatus {area vestibularis superior), and, entermg the vestibule, are distributed to the utricle and to the ampullae of the external and superior semicircular canals. The nervous filaments enter the Pig. 875.—Part of the cochlear division of the auditory nerve, highly magnified. (Henle.) Ganglion Spiral spirale fibres Nerve-fibres passing out between the two layers of tlie lamina spiralis ossca ampullary enlargements opposite the septum transversum, and arborise around tlie hair-ceUs. In the utricle and saccule the nerve-fibres pierce the membrana propria of the maculae, and end in arborisations round the hair-ceUs. Tlie cochlear nerve gives off the branch to the saccule, the filaments of which are transmitted from the internal auditory meatus through the foramina of the area vestibularis inferior, which lies at the lower and back part of the floor of the meatus. It also gives off the branch for the ampulla of the posterior semicircular canal, wliich leaves the meatus through the foramen singulare. . ^ i „„„ The rest of the cochlear nerve divides into numerous filaments at the base of the modiolus ; those for the basal and middle coils pass through the foramma in the tractus foraminosus, those for the apical coil through the canalis cen- tralis and the nerves bend outwards to pass between the lameUse of the osseous spiral lamina. Occupying the spiral canal of the modiolus is the ganglion spirale cochlem (fig. 875), consisting of bipolar nerve-ceUs, w uch reaUy con- stitute the true cells of origin of this nerve, one pole bemg Prolonged central y to the brain and the other peripheraUy to the hair-cells of Corti s organ Reaching the outer edge of the osseous spiral lamma, they V^^_^ ^^'^oj^fl^lll foramina in the labium tympanicum; some end by arbonsmg ^^^"1^ ti e base, of the inner hair-cells, while others pass between Corti's rods and thiough the tunnel, to terminate in a similar manner in relation to the outer hair-cells. Vessels -The arteries of the lahyrinih are the internal auditory, from the basilar and the chronic suppuration of tlie latter, aesirucuou ui associated w th ' nerve nerves into the posterior fossa of the skull. j ^, ^ disorders, resulting Ht>morrha2e occasionally occurs into the labynnm m ceriam "'"^ , „._,,„(oms in com7e7e 'nerve deafnis,' and such conditions may be 'known as ' Meniere's disease,; vertigo, giddiness, and tinnitiis^ eommonlv e"n in pa'Tients ^ .^conglS^^^^^^^^^ l^inTl subiects-If this condition.SPLANCHNOLOGY UNDER this heading are inchided the respiratory, digestive and uro-genital organs, and the ductless glands. RESPIRATORY ORGANS The respiratory organs (apparatus respiratorius) consist of the larynx or organ of voice, the trachea, bronchi, lungs and pleurse. The Labynx The larynx, or organ of voice, is placed at the upper part of the air-passage. It is situated between the trachea and base of the tongue, at the upper and fore part of the neck, where it forms a considerable projection in the middle line. On either side of it lie the great vessels of the neck ; it forms the lower part of the anterior wall of the pharynx, and is covered behind by the mucous fining of that cavity. Its vertical extent corresponds to the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae, but it is placed somewhat higher in the female and also during childhood. In infants between six and twelve months of age Symington found that the tip of the epiglottis was a little above the level of the cartilage between the odontoid process and body of the axis, and that between infancy and adult life the larynx descends for a distance equal to two vertebral bodies and two intervertebral discs. According to Sappey the average measurements of the adult larynx are as follows : In males In females Length 44 mm. 36 mm. Transverse diameter ... 43 ,, 41 ,, Antero-posterior diameter. 36 ,, 26 ,, Circumference .... 136 ., 112 ,, Until puberty the larynx of the male and that of the female differ little in size. In the female its further increase at puberty is only slight, whereas in the male it is great; all the cartilages are enlarged and the thyroid becomes prominent in the middle line of the neck, while the length of the glottis is nearly doubled. The larynx is broad above, where it presents the form of a triangular box, flattened behind and at the sides, and bounded in front by a prominent vertical ridge. Below, it is narrow and cylindrical. It is composed of cartilages, which are connected together by ligaments and moved by numerous muscles. It is lined by mucous membrane which is continuous above with that of the pharynx and below with that of the trachea. The cartilages of the larynx (cartilagines laryngis) (fig. 876) are nine in number, three single, and three paired, as follows : Thyroid. Two Arytenoid. Cricoid. Two Cornicula laryngis. Epiglottis. Two Cuneiform. The thyroid cartilage (cartilago thyreoidea) is the largest cartilage of the larynx. It consists of two alte or laminae the anterior borders of which are fused with each other at a right angle in the middle line of the neck, and 3 Y 2lOGO SPLANCHNOLOGY Fig. 876.- EPIGLOTTIS -The cartilages of tbe larynx. Posterior view. THVBOID form a subcutaneous projection named the pornum Adaini (prominentia laryngea). This prominence is most distinct at its upper part, and is larger in tlie nialo than in the female. Immediately above it the alas are separated by a V-shaped notch, the thyroid notch (inci.sura thyreoidea superior). The altc are irregularly quadrilateral in shape, their posterior angles being prolonged into processes termed the swperior and inferior cornua. The outer surface of each ala presents an oblique ridge (linea obliqua) which runs dowinvards and forwards from a tubercle situated near the root of the superior cornu, to another on the lower border. This ridge gives attachment to the Sterno-thyroid and Thyro- hyoid, and from the portion of cartilage included between it and the posterior border a part of the Inferior constrictor muscle takes origin. The inner surface is smooth ; above and behind, it is slightty concave and covered by mucous mem- brane. In front, in the re- ceding angle formed by the junction of the alse, are attached the epiglottis, the true and false vocal cords, the Thyro-arytenoideus and Thyro-epiglottideus muscles, and the thyro-epiglottic liga- ment. The upper border is con- cave behind and convex in front; it gives attachmeiit to the corresponding half of the thyro-hyoid membrane. The lower border is con- cave behind, and nearly straight in front, the two parts being separated by the inferior tubercle. A small part of it in and near the median line is connected to the cricoid cartilage by the middle portion of the crico- thyroid membrane. " The posterior border, thick and rounded, receives the insertions of the Stylo- pharyngeus and Palato- pharyngeus muscle^. It terminates above, in the superior cornu, and below, in the inferior cornu. The superior cornu (conui supe- rius) is long and narrow, directed upwards, backwards, and inwards, and ends in a conical extremity, which gives attachment to the lateral thyro-hyoid ligament. The inferior cornu (corini inferius) is .short and thick ; it is directed downwards, with a slight inclination forwards and inwards, and presents, on its inner surface, a small oval articular facet for articulation with the side of the cricoid cartilage. . . i i 4.1 i n During infancy the alaj of the thyroid cartilage are joined to eacla otlior in a narrow, lozenge-shaped strip, named the inlraih/roid carlilfi^je. This s["P extends from the upper to the lower border of the cartilage in the middle Cuneiform cartilage Gomicula laryngis /\ ARYTENOID Insertion of Crico-arijtenoideus 2>osticus Posterior surface Arytenoid cartilages, liasc CRICOID Articular facet fo^' arytenoid cartilage Articular facet for inferior com ii of thyroid cartilageTHE LARYNX 1061 line, and is distinguished from the alse by being more transparent and more ^^^The cricoid cartilage (cartilago cricoidea) is so called from its resemblance to a signet ring. It is smaller, but thicker and stronger than the thyroid cartilage, and forms the lower and back part of the wall of the larynx, it consists of two parts : a quadrate portion, situated behmd, and a narrow ring or arch, one-fourth or one-fifth of the depth of the posterior part situated m front. The posterior square portion rapidly narrows at the sides of the cartilage, at the expense of the upper border, into the anterior portion. The posterior portion is very deep and broad, and measures from above downwards about an inch (2 to 3 cm.) ; it presents, on its posterior surface, in the middle hne, a vertical ridge for the attachment of the longitudinal hbres of the oesophagus ; and on either side of this a broad depression for the Crico-arytenoideus posticus muscle. 4.- n u + The anterior portion is narrow and convex, and measures verticaUy about one-fourth or one-fifth of an inch (7 to 5 mm.) ; it affords attachment externally in front and at the sides to the Crico-thyroid muscles, and behmd, to part of the Inferior constrictor. _ ■ , i. t t-i. At the junction of the posterior quadi-ate portion with the rest ot tne cartilage is a small round articular eminence on either side, for articulation with the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. , j ^^.v. The loiver border of the cricoid cartilage is horizontal, and connected to ttie upper ring of the trachea by a fibrous membrane. The upper border is directed obliquely upwards and backwards, owing the threat depth of the posterior surface. It gives attachment, in front, to the middle portion of the crico-thyroid membrane ; at the sides, to the lateral portions of the same membrane and to the Crico-arytenoideus laterahs muscles ; behind, it presents, in the middle, a shallow notch, and on either side of this is a smooth, oval, convex surface, directed upwards and outwards, for articulation with the base of an arytenoid cartilage. The inner surface of the cricoid cartilage is smooth, and uned by mucous membrane. The arytenoid cartilages (cartilagines arytsenoidese) are two in number, and situated at the upper border of the cricoid cartilage, at the back of the larynx. Each cartilage is pyi-amidal in form, and presents for examination three surfaces, a base, and an apex. The posterior surface is triangular, smooth, concave, and gives attachment to the Aj-ytenoideus muscle. The antero-external surface is somewhat convex and rough. It presents rather below its centre a transverse ridge, to the inner extremity of which is attached the false vocal cord ; to the outer part, as well as to the surfaces above and below it, the Thyro-arytenoideus muscle is inserted. The internal surface is narrow, smooth, and flattened, covered by mucous membrane, and forms the lateral boundary of the respiratory part of the glottis. The base of each cartilage is broad, and presents a concave smooth surface, for articulation with the cricoid cartilage. Two of its angles require special mention :■ the external, which is short, rounded, and prominent, projects back- wards and outwards, and is termed the processus muscularis ; it gives insertion to the Crico-arytenoideus posticus behind, and to the Crico-arytenoideus lateralis in front. The anterior angle, also prominent, but more pointed, projects horizontally forwards, and gives attachment to the true vocal cord. This angle is called the processus vocalis. The apex of each cartilage is pointed, curved backwards and inwards, and surmounted by a small conical, cartilaginous nodule, the corniculum laryngis. The cornicula laryngis or cartilages of Santorini (cartilagines corni- culatae) are two small conical nodules, consisting of yellow elastic cartilage, which articulate with the summits of the arytenoid cartilages and serve to prolong them backwards and inwards. They are situated in the posterior parts of the aryteno-epiglottic folds of mucous membrane, and are sometimes united to the arytenoid cartilages. The cuneiform cartilages or cartilages of Wrisberg (cartilagines cuneiformes) are two small, elongated pieces of yellow elastic cartilage, placed one on either side, in the aryteno-epiglottic fold, where they give rise to small1002 SPLANCHNOLOGY whitish elevations on the inner surface of the mucous membrane, just in front of the arytenoid cartilages. The epiglottis is a thin lamella of fibro-cartilage, of a yellowish colour, shaped like a leaf, and projecting behind the tongue, in front of the superior opening of the larynx. The projecting extremity is broad and rounded ; the attached part or apex is long, narrow, and connected to the receding angle between the two ala) of the thyroid cartilage, just below the median notch, by a ligamentous band, the thyro-epigloltic ligament (lig. thyreoepiglotticum). The lower part of its anterior surface is connected to the upper border of the body of the hyoid bone by an elastic ligamentous band, the hyo-epu/lotlic ligament. The anterior or lingual surface is curved forwards towards the tongue, and covered on its upper, free part by mucous membrane which is reflected on to the sides and base of the organ, forming a median and two lateral folds, the glosso-epiglottic folds; the lateral folds are partly attached to the wall of the pharynx. The depressions between the epiglottis and the base of the tongue on either side of the median fold, are named the valleculm. The lower part of the anterior surface lies behind the hyoid bone, the thvro-hyoid membrane, and upper part of the thyroid cartilage, but is separated from these structures bv a mass of fatty tissue. • j 4- -Jn ' The posterior or kvnjnqeal surface is smooth, concave from side to sme, concavo-convex from above downwards; its lower part urojects backwards as an elevation, the tubercle or cushion (tuberculum epiglotticum). \Vhen tnt mucous membrane is removed, the surface of the cartilage is seen to be incientea by a number of small pits, in which mucous glands are lodged, lo its smes the aryteno-epiglottic folds are attached. Strncture.-The cornicula laryngis and cuneiform carl ilnges tlie epiglottis and the apices of the arytenoids at first consist of hyaline cartilage, but later ^ f^*^'',.^^^'^ J,^" J from the perichondrium, and eventually they are converted mto yellow fabro-cartUage,1063 THE LARYNX completely converted into bone. Lieaments.-The ligaments of the larynx (figs. 877,. 878) are extrinsic i.e. Reconnecting the thyroid cartilage and ej^iglottis wrth the hyoid bone and the cricoid cartilage with the trachea ; and intrinsic, those which connect the several cartilages of the larynx to each other. . EMc ligaJents.-The ligaments connecting the thyroid cartdage ^^^^^ the hyoid bone are three in number-the thyro-hyoid membrane, and the two lateral thyro-hyoid ligaments. -i \ • „ i^.^ori fiKrn The thyro-hyoid membrane (membrana hyothyreoidea) is a broad tibio- elastic, membranous layer, attached below to the upper border of tbe thjnxnd cartilage, and above to' the upper margin of the Posterior surface o the l^ody and greater cornua of the hyoid bone, thus passing behmd the posterior surface Fig. 878.—Ligaments of the larynx. Posterior view. Hyoid hone Cartilago iriticea Thyro-hyoid membrane Cartilage of Santorini Arytenoid Posterior crico-arytenoid ligament Crico-thyroid articulation of the body of the hyoid, and being separated from it by a synovial bursa, which facilitates the upward movement of the larynx during deglutition. It is thicker in the middle hne than at either side, and is pierced, in the latter situation, by the superior larynaeal vessels and the internal laryngeal nerve. Its anterior surface is in relation wth the Thyro-hyoid, Sterno-hyoid, and Omo-hyoid muscles, and with the body of the hyoid bone. The lateral thyro-hyoid lujamenl (lig. hyothyreoideum laterale) is a round elastic cord, which passes between the superior cornu of the ala of the thyroid cartilage and the extremity of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone. A small cartilaginous nodule {cartilago triticea), sometimes bony, is frequently found in it.1064 SPLANCHNOLOGY Glosso-epiglottic fold The ligament connecting the epiglottis with the hyoid bone is the hyo- epigloUic. In addition to this extrinsic ligament, the epiglottis is connectecfto the tongue by the three glosso-epiglottic folds of mucous membrane, which may also be considered as extrinsic ligaments of the epiglottis. The hyo-epiglottic ligament (lig. hyoepiglotticum) is an elastic band, which extends from the anterior surface of the epiglottis to the upper border of the body of the hj'oid bone. Intrinsic ligaments.-—The ligaments connecting the thyroid cartilage to the cricoid are three in number—the crico-thyroid membrane, and the capsidar ligaments. The crico-thyroid membrane is composed mainly of yellow elastic tissue. It consists of three parts, a central, triangular portion and two lateral portions. The central part (lig. cricothyi-eoideum medium) is thick and strong, narrow above and broad below. It connects together the contiguous margins of the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. It is convex, concealed on either side ■ by the Crico-thyroideus, but Fig. 879.—Sagittal section of the larynx and subcutaneous in the roiddle upper part of the trachea. line ; it is crossed horizontally by a small anastomotic arterial arch, formed by the junction of the two crico-thyroid arteries. The lateral portions are thinner and lie close under the mucous membrane of the larynx; they extend from the superior border of the cricoid cartilage to the inferior margin of the true vocal cords, with which they are con- tinuous. These cords may there- fore be regarded as the free borders of the lateral portions of the crico-thyroid mem- brane ; they extend from the vocal processes of the arytenoid cartilages to the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage near its centre. The lateral por- tions are lined internally by mucous membrane, and covered externally by the Crico-ary- tenoideus lateralis and Thyro- arytenoideus muscles. ' Acapsular ligament,strength- ened posteriorly by a well- marked fibrous band, encloses the articulation of the inferior cornu of the thyroid with the cricoid cartilage on each side. The articulation is lined by synovial membrane. Each arytenoid cartilage is connected to the cricoid by a capsular and a posterior crico-arijtenoid ligament. The capsular ligament is thin and loose, and is attached to the margins of the articular surfaces, and hned by synovial membrane. The posterior crico-arytenoid ligament (lig. cncoarytaMioideum posterius) extends from the cricoid to the inner and back part of the base ot the arytenoid. . , , The thyro-epiglottic ligament (lig. thyreoepiglotticum) is a long, slenaer, elastic coril which connects the apex of the epiglottis with the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage, immediately beneath the median notch, above the attachment of the vocal cords. . ., The crico-tracheal ligament (lig. cricotracheale) connects the cricoid cartilage with the first ring of the trachea. It resembles the fibrous membrane wliion connects tlie cartilaginous rings of the trachea to each other. , , ■^ Movements.—The articulation between the hiferior cornu of the tliyroia cartilage and the cricoid cartilage on eitlier side is a diarthrodial one, ana Vocal cords, ventricle between, them Aryteno- epiglottic fold Arytenoid cartilage Arytenoideui muscle Orico-thyroid membrane1065 THE LARYNX Fio. 880.—Coronal section of larynx and upper part of trachea. permits of rotatory and gliding movements. The rotatory movement is one m Avhich the inferior cornua of the thyroid cartilage rotate upon the cricoid cartilage around an axis passing transversely through both joints. The gliding movement consists in a limited shifting of the cricoid on the thyroid in different dii-ections. The articulation between the arytenoid cartilages and the cricoid is also a diarthi-odial one, and permits of two varieties of movement : one a rotation of the arytenoid on a vertical axis, whereby the vocal process is moved outwards or inwards, and the opening of the rima glottidis increased or diminished ; the other is a gliding movement, and allows the arytenoid cartilages to approach or recede fi-om each other ; from the direction and slope of the articular surfaces outward ghding is accompanied by a forward and do\\Tiward movement. The two movements of gliding and rotation are associated, the gliding inwards being connected v>ith inward rotation, and the gliding outwards with outward rotation. The posterior crico-arytenoid ligaments Umit the forward movement of the arytenoid cartilages on the cricoid. Interior of the larynx (figs. 879, 880).—The cavity of the larynx (cavum laryngis) extends from its superior aperture to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. It is divided into two parts by the projection inwards of the true vocal cords, between which is a narrow triangular fissure or chink, the rima glottidis. Tlie portion of the cavity of the larynx above the true Ilyoiil bont Oulline of laryngeal saccul False vocal cord Venliicle. True local cord T/njro-arylenoid muscle Fig. SSI.—T.ni vnx, viewed from above. (Testut. True vocal cord' False vocal cord Lateral ylosso epiglotlic foUl Cornicultim laryngis Apex of superior horn of thy roid cartilage unciform cartilage Aryte7io-e2>iglottic fold Apex of grea t cornu of hyoid bone Cushion of epiglottis Middle glosso-epiglottic fold vocal cords, sometimes called the vestibule (vestibulum laryngis), is wide and triangular in shape, its base or anterior wall presenting, hoMever, about its centre the backward projection of the cushion of the epiglottis. It contains1066 SPLANCHNOLOGY the false vocal cords, and between these and the true vocal cords are the ventricles of the larynx. Tlie portion below the true vocal cords is at first of an elliptical form, but lower down it widens out, assumes a circular form, and is continuous with the tube of the trachea. The superior aperHire of the larynx (aditus laryngis) (fig. 881) is a triangular or cordiform opening, \Yide in front, narrow beliind, and sloping obliquelj^ downwards and backwards. It is bounded, in front, by the epiglottis ; behind, by the apices of tlie arytenoid cartilages and the cornicula larjmgis ; and on either side, by a fold of mucous membrane, enclosing ligamentous and muscular fibres, stretched between the side of the epiglottis and the apex of the arytenoid cartilage ; tliis is the aryteno-epiglottic fold (plica aryepiglottica), on the margin of which the cuneiform cartilage forms a more or less distinct whitish prominence. The superior or false vocal cords (plicae ventriculares), so called because they are not directly concerned in the production of the voice, are two thick folds of mucous membrane, each enclosing a narrow band of fibrous tissue, the superior ihyro-arytenoid ligament. This is attached in front to the angle of the thyroid cartilage immediately below the attachment of the epiglottis, and behind to the antero-external surface of the arytenoid cartilage, a short distance above the vocal process. The lower border of this ligament, enclosed in mucous membrane, forms a free crescentic margin, which constitutes the upper boundary of the ventricle of the larynx. The inferior or true vocal cords (plicae vocales), so called from their being concerned in the production of sound, are two strong bands, named the inferior thyro-arytenoid ligaments. Each ligament consists of a band of yellow elastic tissue, attached in front to the depression between the two alse of the thyroid cartilage, and behind to the vocal process of the base of the arytenoid. Its lower border is continuous Avith the thin lateral part of the crico-thyroid membrane. Its upper border forms the lower boundary of the ventricle of the larynx. Externally the Thyro-arytenoideus muscle lies parallel mth it. It is covered internally by mucous membrane, which is extremely thin, and closely adherent to its surface. The ventricle of the larynx or laryngeal sinus (ventriculus laryngis) is an oblong fossa, situated between the superior and inferior vocal cords on either side, and extending nearly their entire length. The fossa is bounded, above, by the free crescentic edge of the false vocal cord ; below by the straight margin of the true vocal cord ; externally, by the mucous membrane covering the corresponding Thyro-arytenoideus muscle. The anterior part of the ventricle leads up by a narrow opening into a ceecal pouch of mucous membrane of variable size, called the laryngeal saccule. The laryngeal saccule (appendix ventriculi laryngis) is a membranous sac, placed between the superior vocal cord and the inner surface of the tlijTOid cartnage, occasionaUy extending as far as its upper border or even higher ; it is conical in form, and curved slightly backwards. On the surface of its mucous membrane are the openings of sixty or seventy mucous glands, wliicli are lodged in the submucous areolar tissue. This sac is enclosed in a fibrous capsule, continuous below with the superior thyro-arytenoid ligament : its laryngeal surface is covered by a fe^- delicate muscular fasciculi whicli arise from the apex of the arytenoid cartilage and become lost in the fold of mucous membrane extending between the arytenoid cartilage and the side ot tne epiglottis (they were named by Hilton the compressor saccuh Jaryngrs) ; win e its exterior is covered by the Thyi-o-arytenoideus and Th^To-epiglottidci s muscles. These muscles compress the laryngeal saccule, and express tne secretion it contains upon the vocal cords to lubricate their surfaces. The rima qlottidis is the elongated fissure or chink between the "ifP"oi ?r true vocal cords in front, and the bases and vocal processes of ^he ary cm oia cartilages beliind. It is therefore frequently subdivided into a larger antnior inter-ligamentous or vocal portion, the glottis vocabs (Pf» i»tivanienibranace^ wliich measures about tliree-fifths of the length of the and a posterior intcrcartUaginous or rcsjnratory v^^xt, ^bi ane (pars intercartilaginea). Posteriorly it is limited by t'|<-. "?"^«"^^»^ "^^^^^^^ passing between the arytenoid cartilages. The rnna glotlidis ,s t'^, "'^I'Tu e part of the cavity of the larynx, and its level corresponds with the bases ot tneTHE LARYNX 1067 arytenoid cartUages. Its length, in the male, measures rather less than an - • —- - in the female it is shorter by 5 or 6 mm. The width and Fia. 882.—Side view of the larynx, shomng muscular attachments. inch (23 mm , , shape, of the rima glottidis vary with the movements of the vocal cords and aryte- noid cartilages during respiration and phonation. In the condition of rest, i.e. when these structures are uninfluenced by muscular action, as in quiet respiration, the glottis vocalis is triangular, with its apex in front and its base behind—the latter bemg represented by a line, about 8 mm. long, connecting the anterioj; ex- tremities of the vocal processes, while the inner surfaces of the arytenoids are parallel to each other, and hence the glottis respi- ratoria is rectangular. During extreme adduction of the cords, as in the emission of a high note, the glottis vocahs is re- duced to a Unear slit by the apposition of the cords, while the glottis respiratoria is triangular, its apex corresponding to the anterior extremities of the vocal processes of the arytenoids, which are approximated by the inward rotation of the cartilages. Conversely in extreme abduction of the cords, as in forced inspiration, the arytenoids and their vocal processes are rotated outwards, and the glottis respi- ratoria is triangular in shape but with its apex directed backwards. In this condition the entire glottis is some- what lozenge-shaped, the sides of the glottis vocalis diverging from before backwards, those of the Fig. 883.-Musc]es of larynx. Posterior vie^y. glottis respiratoria diverging from belund lorM-ards—the widest part of the aperture corresponding with the attachments of the cords to the vocal processes. Muscles.—The muscles of the larynx are extrinsic, passing between the larynx and parts around—these have been described in the sec- tion on Myology; and in- trinsic, confined entirely to the larynx. The intrinsic muscles Cushion of epiglottis Cartilage ofWrisberg Cartilage of Santorini lArytenoideus are Crico-arytenoiileus posticus Crico-thyroideus. Crico-arytenoideus posticus. Crico-arytenoideus lateralis. Arytenoideus. Thyro-arytenoideus. The Crico-thyroideiis (m. cricothyreoideus) (fig. 882) is triangular in form, and situated at tlie fore part and It arises from the front and lateral part side of the cricoid cartilage. of the cricoid cartilage ; its fibres diverge, passing obliquely upwards and1068 SPLANCHNOLOGY Oornicitlti laryiujh outwards, to be inserted into the lower border of the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and the anterior border of the inferior cornu. The inner borders of the two FiQ. 884.—Muscles of larynx. Side view. muscles are separated in tlie Right ala of thyroid cartilage removed. middle line by a triangular f^^S\ interval, occupied by the central part of the crico-thyroid membrane. The Crico-aryte.noideus posticvs (m. cricoarytajnoideus posterior) (fig. 883) arises from the broad depression on the corresponding half of the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage ; its fibres run upwards and outwards, and converge to be inserted into the posterior surface of the muscular process at the base of the arytenoid cartilage. The upper- most fibres are nearly horizontal, the middle oblique, and the lowest almost vertical. The Crico-arytenoideus lateralis (m. cricoaryta)noideus lateralis) (fig. 884) is smaller than the pre- ceding, and of an oblong form. It arises from the upper border of the side of the cricoid cartilage, and, passing obhquely upwards and backwards, is inserted into the front of the muscular process of the arytenoid cartilage. The ' Arytenoideus (m. ary- tsenoideus) (fig. 883) is a smgle muscle, filling up the posterior concave surfaces of the arytenoid cartilages. It arises from the posterior surface and outer border of one arytenoid cartilage, and is inserted into the correspond- Articular facet for inferior cornu of thyroid cartilage ing parts of the opposite cartilage. It consists of three planes of fibres, two oblique and one transverse. The oblique fibres (m. arytajnoideus obUquus), the more superficial, form two fasciculi, which pass from the base of one cartilage to the apex of the opposite one, and which therefore cross each other like the limbs of the letter X. The transverse fibres (m. ary tsenoideus trans versus), the deeper and more numerous, pass transversely across between the two cartilages. A few of the oblique fibres are continued round the outer margin of the cartilage, and are prolonged into the aryteno-epiglottic fold. They are sometimes described as a separate muscle, the Aryepiglotticus. The Thyro-arytr.noideus (m. thyreo- aryta>noideus) (figs. 880, 884, 885) is a broad, flat muscle, wliich lies parallel with the outer side of the true vocal cord and supports the wall of the ventricle. It arises Fig. 885.—Interior of the larynx, seen from above. (Enlarged.) in front from wall of the ventricle, it arises m iiuuu ""'V^^'-r ,brane receding angle of the thyroid cartilage, and from the cnco-th^roid mem1069 THE LARYNX Its fibres pass backwards and outwards, to be inserted into the base and anterior surface of the arytenoid cartilage. This muscle consists of two fasciculi an inner and an outer.* The inner portion (ra. vocalis) is a triangular band which is inserted into the vocal process of the arytenoid cartilage and into the adjacent portion of its anterior surface ; it lies parallel ^^■lth the true vocal cord to which it is adherent. The outer portion (m. tliyreoarytajnoideus externus) the tliinner, is inserted into the anterior surface and outer border of the arytenoid cartilage above the preceding fibres ; it lies on the outer side of the laryngeal saccule, immecUately beneath the mucous membrane. A considerable number of the fibres of the Thyro-ary tenoideus are prolonged into the aryteno-epigiottic fold, where some of them become lost, whUe others are continued forwards to the margin of the epiglottis. They have received a distinctive name, Thyro-epiglotticus (m. thyreoepiglotticus), and are sometimes described as a separate muscle. Actions.—In considering the actions of the muscles of the larynx, they may be conveniently divided into two groups, viz. : 1. Those which open and close the glottis. 2. Those which regulate the degree of tension of the vocal cords. 1. The muscles which open the glottis are the Crico-arytenoidei postici; and those which close it are the Crico-arytenoidei laterales and the Aryte- noideus. 2. The muscles wliich regulate the tension of the vocal cords are the Crico-thyroidei, which elongate and render them tense ; and the Thyro- arytenoidei, which relax and shorten them. The Posterior crico-arytenoid muscles .separate the vocal cords, and, consequently, open the glottis, by rotating the arytenoid cartilages outwards around a vertical axis passing through the crico-arytenoid joints ; so that their vocal processes and the vocal cords attached to them become widely separated. ThQ Lateral crico-arytenoid miiscles close the glottis, by rotating the arytenoid cartilages inwards, so as to approximate their vocal processes. The Arytenoid m uscle approximates the arytenoid cartilages, and thus closes the opening of the glottis, especially at its back part. The Crico-thyroid muscles produce tension and elongation of the vocal cords by di-awing down the lower border of the thyroid cartilage and slightly advancing its inferior' cornua ; the distance between the vocal processes and the angle of the thyroid is thus increased, and the cords are consequently elongated. The Thyro-arytenoid muscles, consisting of two parts having different attachments and different directions, are rather complicated as regards their action. Their main use is to draw the arytenoid cartilages forwards towards the thyroid, and thus shorten and relax the vocal cords. But, owing to the connection of the inner portion with the vocal cord, this part, if acting separately, is supposed to modify its elasticity and tension, and the outer portion, being inserted into the outer part of the anterior surface of the arytenoid cartilage, may rotate it inwards, and thus narrow the rima glottidis by bringing the two cords together. The manner in which the superior aperture of the larynx is closed during deglutition is referred to on page 486. Mucous Membrane.—The mucous membrane of the larynx is continuous above with that lining the mouth and pharynx, and is prolonged through the trachea and bronchi into the lungs. It lines the posterior surface and the upper part of the anterior surface of the epiglottis, to which it is closely adherent, and forms the aryteno-epigiottic folds which bound the superior aperture of the larynx. It lines the whole of the cavity of the larynx ; forms, by its reduplication, the chief part of the superior, or false vocal cord ; and, from the ventricle, is continued into the laryngeal saccule. It is then reflected over the trae vocal cords, where it is thin, and very intimately adherent ; covers the inner surface of the crico-thyroid membrane and cricoid cartilage ; and is ultimately continuous with the lining membrane of the trachea. The upper part of the anterior surface and the upper half of the posterior sui-face of the epiglottis, the upper part of the aryteno-epigiottic folds, and the true vocal cords are covered by stratified squamous epithelium ; all the rest of the laryngeal mucous membrane is covered by columnar ciliated cells. Glands.—The mucous membrane of the larynx is furnished with numerous muciparous glands, the orifices of which are found in nearly every part ; they are very plentiful upon the epiglottis, being lodged in little pits in its substance ; they are also foimd in large numbers along the posterior margin of the aryteno-epigiottic fold, in front of the arytenoid cartilages, where they are termed the arytenoid glands. They exist also in large numbers upon the inner surface of the sacculus laryngis. None are found on the free edges of the true vocal cords. * Henle describes these two portions as separate muscles, under the uanies of External and Internal thyro-arytenoids.SPLANCHNOLOGY 1070 Vessels and Nerves.—The arleries of the larynx are the laryngeal branches derived from the superior and inferior thyroid. The veins accompany the arteries : those accompanying the superior laryngeal artery join the superior thyroid vein which opens into the mternal jugular vein ; while those accompanying the inferior laryngeal artery join the inferior thyroid vein which opens into the innominate vein. The lymphatics consist of two sets, superior and inferior. The former accompany the superior laryngeal artery and pierce the thyro-hyoid membrane, to terminate in the glands situated near the bifurcation of the common carotid artery. Of the latter, some pass through the crico-thyroid membrane and open into a gland lying in front of that membrane or m front of the upper part of the trachea, while others pass to the deep cervical glands and to the glands which accompany the inferior thyroid artery. The nerves are derived from the internal and external larjoigeal branches of the superior laryngeal nerve, from the inferior or recurrent larjTigeal, and from the sympathetic. The internal laryngeal nerve is almost entkely sensory, but some motor filaments are said to be carried by it to the Ai-ytenoideus muscle. It divides into a branch which is distributed to both surfaces of the epiglottis, a second to the aryteno-epiglottic fold, and a third, the largest, wliich supplies the mucous membrane over the back of the larjmx and communicates with the recurrent laryngeal. The external laryngeal nerve supplies the Crico-thyroideus muscle. The recurrent laryngeal passes upwards under the lower bordei- of the Inferior constrictor, and enters the larynx between the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. It suppUes all the muscles of the larynx except the Crico-thyi'oideus, and perhaps a part of the Aiytenoideus. The sensory branches of the laryngeal nerves form subepithelial plexuses, from which fibres pass to end between the cells covering the mucous membrane. Over the posterior surface of the epiglottis, in the aryteno-epiglottic folds, and less regularly m some other parts, taste-buds, similar to those in the tongue, are found. The Trachea and Bbonchi (fig. 886) The trachea or windpipe, is a cartilaginous and membranous tube, which extends from the lower part of the larynx, on a level vnth the sixth cervical vertebra to the upper border of the fifth thoracic vertebra, where it divides into the two bronclii, one for each lung. The trachea is nearly but not qmte cylmdrical, being flattened posteriorly ; it measures about four mches and a half (11 cm ) in length ; its diameter, from side to side, is from tluree-quarters of an inch to an inch (19 to 25 mm.), being always greater m the male than in the female. , . , , ■ Relations —The anterior surface of the trachea is convex, and covered, !?i the neck, from above downwards, by the isthmus of the thyroid gland, the inferior thyroid veins, the arteria thyreoidea ima (when that vessel exists), the Sterno-thyroid and Sterno-hyoid muscles, the cer^acal fascia, and, more superficiaUy, by the anastomosing branches between the anterior jugular veins ; in the thorax, it is covered from before backwards by the first piece of the sternum, the remains of the thymus gland, the left innominate vein he arch of the aorta, the innominate and left common carotid arteries and the deep cardiac plexus. Posteriorly it is m relation mth the "^.^^Pl^.^f^^;j^^,"'; J; in the neck, it is in relation with the common carotid arteries, the l^teial lobes of the thyroid gland, the inferior thyroid arteries, and the recurrent laryngeal ner.e. X t^^ it lies in tlie upper part of the ";tef eura ^^P«^^ fsuperior mediastinum), and is in relation on the right side to tlje pleura a d riVht vaaus and near the root of the neck to the innominate artery , on its Teft sidS the recurrent laryngeal nerve, the aortic arch, and the left common carotid and subclavian arteries. , ^ , ., , ,„n^p vertical The rie-ht bronchus (bronchus dexter , wider, shorter, and more yei"(^ai in directKan tfie left, is about an inch in length, and enters tl^^ "ght lung neaAy opposite the fifth thoracic vertebra. The vena azygos ^apr ar he over it from behind • and the right pulmonary artery lies below and tlien m Tnnt nf i? About three-quartcil of an inch from its commencement it gn-e,s off a branch tt'tlie upper S of the right lung. This is termed the epr.te^ lanch (ramus broncWalis cparterialis), because i is gn^en off^^^^^ - -g^^* pulmonary artery. The bronchus now passes belo^^ t^^f ^^-^'-V'^S^^^^^ into is the hyparterial branch (ramus bronchialis hyparteriahs) , it dniclis two branches for tlic middle and lower lobes. The left bronchus (bronchus sinister) is smallei «"f^/^"g.7„ V'fnnne riglit be(ng neaSy two inches in length. ^^^-'^^^^J^^^^ ^ onnosite the sixth thoracic vertebra, about an inch lower .tli«;^Jf i -j^^ Ehus It passes beneath the arch of the aorta, crosses in ront^ of he Ssophagus, th? thoracic duct, and the descending aorta, and has the1071 THE TRACHEA AND BRONCHI pulmonary artery lying at first above, and then in front of it. The left bronchus lias no eparterial branch, and therefore it has been supposed by some that there is no upper lobe to the left lung, but that the so-called upper lobe corresponds to the middle lobe of the right lung. The further subdivision of the bronchi will be considered with the anatomy of the lung. If a transverse section be made across the trachea a short distance above its point of bifurcation, and a bird's-eye view taken of its interior (fig. 887), Fig. 886.—Front view of cartilages of larynx, trachea, and bronchi. the septum placed at the bottom of the trachea and separating the tAvo bronchi wdll be seen to occupy the left of the median line, and the riglit bronchus appears to be a more direct continuation of the trachea than the left, so tliat any solid body di'opping into the trachea would naturally be directed towards the right bronchus. This tendency is aided by the larger size of the right tube as compared M'ith its fellow. This fact serves to explain why a foreign body in the trachea more frequently falls into the right bronchus.*' * Reigel asserts that the entry of a foreign body into the left bronchus is by no moans ■so infrequent as is generally supposed. See also Mcd.-Cldr. Trans, vol. Ixxi. p. 121.SPLANCHNOLOGY 1072 structure (iig. 888).—The trachea is composed of imperfect rings of hyaline cartilage, fibrous tissue, muscular fibres, mucous membrane, and glands. The cartilages vstry from sixteen to twenty in number : each forms an imperfect ring, which occupies the anterior two-thirds or so of the circumference of the trachea, being deficient behhid, where the tube is completed by fibrous tissue and unstriped muscular fibres. The cartilages are placed horizontally above each other, separated by narrow intervals. They measure about 4 mm. Fia. 887.—Transverse section of the trachea, in depth, and 1 mm. in tliickness. Their just above its bifurcation, with a bird's-eye outer surfaces are flattened, but in- view of the interior. ternally they are convex, fiom bemg tliicker in the middle than at the margins. Two or more of the cartilages often unite, partially or completely, and they are sometimes bifurcated at theii- extremities. They are highly elastic, but may become calcified in advanced life. In the right bronchus the cartilages vary in number from six to eight ; in the left, from nine to twelve. They are shorter and narrower than those of the trachea. The peculiar tracheal cartilages are the fii'st and the last. The/r5< cartilage is broader than the rest, and often divided at one end ; it is connected by fibrous membrane with the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, with which, or with the succeeding cartilage, it is sometimes blended. The last cartilage is thick and broad in the middle, in consequence of its lower border being prolonged into a triangular hook-shaped process, which curves downwards and backwards between the two bronchi. It terminates on each side in an imperfect ring, which encloses the commence- "" Fig. 888.- ment of the bronchi. The carti- lage above the last is somewhat broader than the rest at its centre. The fibrous membrane. — The cartilages are enclosed in an elastic fibrous membrane, which consists of two layers ; one, the thicker of the two, passing over the outer siu-face of the ring, the other over the inner surface: at the upper and lower margins of the cartilages the two layers blend together to form a single mem- brane, which connects the rings one with another. They are thus, as it were, imbedded in the mem- brane. In the space behind, between the extremities of the rings, the membrane forms a single distinct layer. The muscular tissue consists of two layers of non-striated muscle, longitudinal and trans- verse. The longitudinal fibres are external, and consist of a few scattered longitudinal bundles. The transverse fibres (Trachealis muscle) are internal, and form a thin layer which extends trans- versely between the ends of the cartilages. Mucous membrane. — The mucous membrane is continuous above with that of the larynx, and below with that of the bronchi. It consists of areolar and lymphoid tLs-sue, and presents -Transverse section of trachea. stratified epithelium Longitudinal elastic fibres Submucous layer Mucous glands Fibrous embrane Hyaline cartilage Fibrous nicmbrniie '111e"submucous layer is composed oi blood-vessels, nerves, ana the ductVof the latter pierce the overlying layers and open on the surface. Beneath the bascmont-membranc there is with a small amount of intervening areolar tissue, a loose mesh-work of connective tissue, contammg large mucous glands;APPLIED ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA 1073 Vessels and Nerves.—The trachea is supplied with blood by the inferior thyroid arteries. The veins terminate in the thyroid venous plexus. The nerves are derived from the pneumogastric and its recurrent branches, and from the sympathetic. . Surface Form —In the middle line of the neck, some of the cartilages of the larynx can be'readily distinguished. In the receding angle below the chin, the hyoid bone can easily be made out (see page 261), and a finger's breadth below it is the pomum Adami the prominence between the upper borders of the two ate of the thyi'oid cartilage. About an inch below this, in the middle line, is a depression corresponding to the crico-thyroid space, in which the operation of laryngotomy is performed. This depression is bounded below by a prominent arch, the anterior part of the cricoid cartilage, below which the trachea can be felt, though it is only in the emaciated that the separate rings can be distincruished. The lower part of the trachea is not easily made out, for as it descends in the neck it takes a deeper position. The level of the vocal cords corresponds to the middle of the anterior margin of the thyroid cartilage. . , With the laryngoscope the following structures can be seen : the base of the tongue, and the upper surface of the epiglottis, with the glosso-epiglottic ligaments ; the superior aperture of the larynx, bounded on either side by the aryteno-epiglottic folds, m which may be seen two roiuided eminences, corresponding to the cornicula and cuneiform cartilages. Beneath these lie the false and true vocal cords with theventricle between them. Still deeper are seen the cricoid cartilage and some of the anterior parts of the rmgs of the trachea, and somethnes, in deep inspkation, the bifiu'cation of the trachea. Applied Anatomy.—Foveign bodies often find thek way into the au'-passages. These may consist of large soft substances, as pieces of meat, which may become lodged in the upper apertiu-e of the larynx, or in the rima glottidis, and cause speedy suffocation unless rapidly got rid of, or unless an opening is made into the air-passages below, so as to enable the patient to breathe. Smaller bodies, fi-equently of a hard nature, such as cherry or plum stones, small pieces of bone, buttons, &c., may find theii- way through the nma glottidis into the trachea or bronchus, or may become lodged in the ventricle of the larynx. The dangers then depend not so much upon the mechanical obstruction as upon the spasm of the glottis wliich they excite from reflex irritation. When lodged ua the ventricle of the larynx, they may produce very few symptoms, beyond sudden loss of voice or alteration in the voice sounds immediately after the inhalation of the foreign body. When, however, they are situated in the trachea, they are constantly striking against the vocal cords during expu-atory efforts, and produce attacks of dyspnoea from spasm of the glottis. When lodged in the bronchus, they usually become fixed there, and, occluding the lumen of the tube, cause a loss of the respiratory murmur on the affected side, and may subsequently lead to purulent bronchitis and gangrene of the lung. Foreign bodies in the air-passages should always be removed as soon as possible. In the less urgent cases a thorough examination of the pharynx, larynx, and bronchi should be made, using one or another of the modern forms of laryngoscope, tracheoscope, or bronchoscope ; when discovered, the foreign body should be removed by appropriately shaped forceps. In the cases where urgent dyspnoja is produced and death seems imminent from asphyxia, after digital examination of the back of the throat and mversion with shaking of the patient have failed to give relief, tracheotomy should be rapidly performed. Beneath the mucous membrane of the upper part of the air-passages there is a con- siderable amount of submucous tissue, which is liable to become much swollen from effusion in inflammatory affections, constituting the condition kno\ra as ' cedema of the glottis.' This effusion does not extend below the level of the vocal cords, on account of the fact that the mucous membrane is closely adherent to these structures without the intervention of any submucous tissue. So that, in cases of cedema of the glottis, in which it is necessary to open the air-passages to prevent suffocation, the operation of laryngotomy is sufficient. Laryngeal orglottidean cedema may be secondary to some local inflammatory affection, such as acute septic laryngitis, syphilitic laryngeal perichondritis, or to malignant disease. Or the oedema may be passive (non-inflammatory), consequent upon renal or cardiac mischief, angioneurotic oedema, or, in unusually susceptible persons, the administration of potassium iodide. Chronic laryngitis is an inflammation of the mucous glands of the larynx, which occurs in those who speak much in public, and is known as ' clergyman's sore throat.' It is due to the di-yness induced by the large amount of cold air diawn into the air-passages during prolonged speaking, which excites increased activity of the mucous glands to keej) the parts moist, and this eventually terminates in inflammation of these stractui'es. Ulceration of the larynx may occur from syphilis, either as a superficial ulceration, or from the softening of a gumma ; from tuberculous disease (larj'ngeal phthisis), or from malignant disease (epithelioma). The air-passages may be opened in three different situations : by a vertical incision through the centre of the thyroid cartilage {thyrotomy) ; through the crico-thyroid membrane (laryngotomy), or in some part of the tracliea {tracheotomy). Thyrotomy is usually performed for the purpose of removing growths from the vocal cords or for extracting foreign bodies from the ventricle of the larynx. A median incision 3 z1074 SPLANCHNOLOGY is made from the upper border of the body of the hyoid bone to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, and is carried through the subcutaneous tissues and deep fascia between the margins of the Sterno-hyoid muscles. An incision is then made iu the crico-thyroid membrane, and one blade of a stout, sharp-pointed pair of scissors is introduced beneatli the lower border of the thyroid cartilage, and this structure is divided from below upw^ards. Great care must be taken to cut exactly iu the middle line to avoid wounding the vocal cords. If the two halves of the cartilage are now drawn apart, a very good view of the interior of the larynx will be obtained. Laryngotomy is anatomically a simple operation : it can readily be performed, and should be employed iir those cases where the air-passages require opening in an einer- woncy for the relief of some sudden obstruction to respiration. The crico-thyroid membrane is very superficial, bemg covered only in the middle Ime by the skin, super- ficial fascia, and the deep fascia. On either side of the middle Ime it is also covered by the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, which diverge from each other at their upper parts, leaving a shght interval between them. On these muscles rest the anterior jugular vems. The only vessel of any importance in connection with this operation is the crico-thyi-oid artery, which crosses the crico-thyroid membrane, and may be wounded, but rarely gives rise to any trouble. Tlie operation is performed thus : the head being thrown back and steadied by an assistant, the finger is passed over the front of the neck and the crico-thyroid depression felt for. A vertical mcision is then made through the skin m the middle line over this spot, and carried down through the fascia until the crico-thyroid membrane is exposed. A cross-cut is then made through the membrane, close to the upper border of the cricoid cartilage, so as to avoid, if possible, the crico- thyi-oid artery, and a laryngotomy tube inserted. It has been recommended, as a more rapid way of performing the operation, to make a transverse mstead of a longitudmal cut through the superficial structures, and thus to open at once the air-passages. It will be seen, however, that in operating in this way the anterior jugular veins are in danger of ^^^Tracheo^y may be performed either above or below the isthmus of the thyroid body, or this structure may be divided and the trachea opened behind it. From the relations already described it must be evident that the trachea can be more readily opened above than below the isthmus of the thyroid body. Tracheotomy above the isthmus is performed thus : the patient should, if possible be laid on his back on a table in a good light. A pUlow is to be placed under the ^^oMers and the head thrown back and steadied by an assistant. The sui-geon standmg on the right side of his patient makes an incision from an inch and a half to two mches in length in the median Ime of the neck from the top of the cricoid cartilage The mcision must be made exactly in the middle line so as to avoid the anterior jugular vems, and after the Tperficial structures have been divided, the interval between ^1^2, S^r^O'^^^^l^^^^.t must be found, the raphe divided, and the muscles drawn apart. The lower border of the Sid cartilage must^now be felt for, and the upper part o^^/ noint downwMds in the middle line. Bose has recommended that the layer of fascia in Ct ofThe trachea should be divided transversely at the level of the bo^df , ^^^^^ cricoid cartUaee, and, having been seized with a pair of forceps, pressed downw ards with tfe hldle S^^^^ By this means the isthmus of the thyroid gland is depress^ and is saved from all danger of being wounded, and the trachea cleanly exposed. The trachea is now transfixed with a sha?p hook and drawn forwards m order to steady it W L then oTened by inserting the knSe into it and dividing the upper two or three rmgs bfcutSg Twards If the trachea is to be opened beneath the isthmus, the mcision must be mlde^from a little below the cricoid cartilage to the top of the sternum. In th^ child the trachea is smaller, more deeply placed, and more movable than in the adult In fat or short-necked people, or in those in whom the muscles of the neck t^mineX^veioved, the trachea is more deeply placed than m the opposite '°°i'nortion of the larynx or the whole of it may be removed for malignant disease The results^ wS have been obtained from the removal of the whole of it have not been .ery dissecting off the deeper structure from below upwards. The PLEURiE E.ch lung is invested by an e--dingly/etat6 J^^^^^^^^ u-bilP. that wliicl! lines tlie inner surface of the chest and co\ers fTHE PLEURiE 1U75 and pericardium, is caUed the parietal layer of the pleura (pleura panetahs). 1 he smce bet^yeen these two layers is caUed the cavity oj the pleura (cavum pleurae), buTft must be borne in mind that in the healthy condition the two layers are in contact and that there is no real cavity. When the lung becomes coUapsed a separation of it from the wall of the chest takes place and a cavity appears Each pleura is a shut sac, one occupying the right the other the left half of the tliorax • and they are perfectly separate from each other. The two pleural do not meet in the middle of the chest, excepting anteriorly opposite the second and thii-d pieces of the sternum. The space left between them contains aU the thoracic viscera excepting the lungs, and is named the mediastinum.. Different portions of the parietal pleura have received special names which indicate their position : thus, that portion which Unes the inner surfaces of the ribs and Intercostal muscles is the costal pleura (pleura costahs) ; that which Fig 889.—Front view of chest, showing relations of pleur£B and kings to the chest-wall The blue lines indicate the lines of the reflection of the pleurae ; the red, the outhnes ot the lungs and their fissures. A. Line of pleural reflection on to Diaphragm Lower edge of lung coats the convex surface of the Diaphragm is the diaphragmatic pleura (pleura diaphragmatica) ; tliat which rises into the neck, over the summit of the lung, is the cervical pleura (cupula pleuraj) ; and tliat which is applied to the adjacent structures in the mediastinum is tlie mediastinal pleura (pleura mediastinalis). Reflections of the pleura (figs. 889, 890).—Commencing at the sternum, the pleura passes outwards, lines the costal cartilages, the inner surfaces of the ribs and Intercostal muscles, and at the back part of the thorax passes over the gangliated cord of tlie sympathetic and its branches, and is reflected upon the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae, where it is separated by a narrow interval, the posterior mediastinum (cavum mediastinale posterius), from tlie opposite pleura. From the vertebral column the pleura passes to the side of 3 z 2SPLANCHNOLOGY 1076 the pericardium, which it covers to a sliglit extent; it then covers tlie back part of the root of the king, from the lower border of which a triangular slieet descends vertically by tlie side of the posterior mediastinum to the Diaphragm. This sheet is the posterior layer of a wide fold, l<nown as the broad ligament of the lung {ligamenlum fulmonah or ligamentum latum pulmonis). From tiie posterior aspect of the lung root, the pleura may be traced over the convex surface of tlie lung, the summit and base, and also over the sides of the fissures between the lobes, on to its inner surface and the front part of its root ; it is continued from the lower margin of the root as the anterior layer of the broad ligament, and from this it is Fig. 890.—^Lateral view of chest, showing relations of right pleura and lung to the chest-wail. The blue line indicates the line of pleural reflection; the red lines, the outline of the lung and its fissures. Subclavian artery reflected on to the pericardium, and from it to the back of tlie sternum. Below, it covers the upper surface of the Diaphragm, and extends, in front, as low as the costal cartilage of the seventh rib ; at the side of the chest, to the lower border of the tenth rib on the left side and to the upper border of the same rib on the right side ; and behind, it reaches as lo^^• as the twelfth rib, and sometimes even as low as the transverse process of the fu-st lumbar ver- tebra. Above, its apex ijrojects. through the superior opening of the thorax into the neck, ex- tending from one to two inches above the anterior extremity of the first rib ; this portion of the sac is strengthened by a dome- like expansion of fascia {Sib- so7i's fascia), attached in front to the inner border of the first rib, and behind to the anterior border of the transverse process of the seventh cer\'ical vertebra. TMs is covered and strength- ened by a few spreading mus- cular fibres derived from the Scaleni. In the fi-ont of the chest, where the parietal layer of the pleura is reflected backwards to the pericardium, the two pleural sacs are in contact for a short distance. At the upper part of the chest, behind the manu- brium, thev are not in contact: the point of reflection being re- presented bv a line drawn from the sterno-clavicular articula- tion to the mid-point of the , .rd^s d i^e^^^ of the sternum. From this point the l'^^^" ^f^^^f on the to the level of tlie fourth costal f ^-^.'^^g^^^'f ^^Sit line to the lower right side is continued downwards ni the left side end of tlie gladiolus and then '^''''^^'l'^^^^^^^^^ close the line of reflection diverges o^^^^^^ds 'ind is eonti ueaTHE PLEURA 1077 waU on to the Diaphragm the latter is in direct contact with the lib cartilages Ind the Internal hitercostal muscles. Moreover, m ordmary mspiration the thin marSi of the base of the lung does not extend as low as the hne of the nleurS -Section with the result that the costal and diaphragmatic pleurae SeTere in contact! the narrow slit between the two being termed the stnns IZ^TcocZalis. a' similar condition exists behind steniuni a^^^^ cartilaaes, where the anterior thin margin of the lung faUs short ot the line SXiil reflection, and where the slit-like cavity between the two layers of pleura forms what is sometimes called the sinus costomcdiashnahs The hne along which the right pleura is reflected from the c^iest-wall to the Diaphragm starti in front, immediately below the seventh cos o-stexnal joint and runs downwards and backwards behind the seventh costal carti age so as to cross the tenth rib in the mid-axiUary line, from which it is prolonged to the Uxelith dorsal spme. The reflection of the left pleura follows at first the ascending part of the sixth costal cartilage, and m the rest of its course is slightlv lower than that of the right side. j a The free surface of the pleura is smooth, pohshed, and moistened by a serous fluid ; its attached surface is intimately adherent to the surface ot the lune, and to the pulmonary vessels as they emerge from the pericardium ; it is also adherent to the upper surface of the Diaphragm : throughout the rest of its extent it may be separated from the adjacent parts with extreme facility. The right pleural sac is shorter, wider, and reaches higher m the neck tnan ^^^^Liqamentum latum pulmonis.—'Fvom the above description it ^^•ill be seen that the root of the lung is covered in front and behind by pleura, and that at its lower border the investing layers come into contact. Were tliey form a sort of mesenteric fold, the ligamentum latum -pulmonis (hg. pulmonale), which extends as far as the Diaphragm between the pericardium and the lower part of the inner surface of the lung, having a free falciform border below between the lung and the Diaphragm. It serves to retain the lo^ver part ot the lung in position. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the -pleura are derived from the intercostal, internal mammary, musculo-phrenic, thymic, pericardiac, and bronchial vesse s. The veins correspond to the arteries. The lymphatics are described on page 793. The nerves are derived from the phrenic and sympathetic (Luschka). Kolhker states that nerves accompany the ramifications of the bronchial arteries in the pleura pulmonahs. Applied Anatomy.—Acute inflammation of the pleura, or pleurisy, may be either di-y or wet, and, if wet, either serous or purulent. Dry pleurisy is common in pneumonia, and is often an early manifestation of tuberculosis. It gives rise to much pain, and to friction sounds due to the scraping to and fro over one another of the inflamed and roughened parietal and visceral pleurte. Wet pleurisy occurs if the inflammation causes the effusion of serum into the pleural cavity. The two pleui-al layers are now separated by the fluid effusion, so the friction sounds are no longer produced. Room is found for the fluid by shrinkage of the supernatant lung due to the retraction of its elastic tissue, and later, when the quantity of serum exceeds about three pints, by shifting over of the heart and unaffected lung towards the sound side. This shifting may be so extensive that the apex beat of the heart comes to lie under the right nipple. Any pleural effusion that is large enough to embaraass respiration seriously, or has remained unabsorbed for two or three weeks, should be removed by tapping (paracentesis thoracis). The trocar is pushed through the chest-wall into the fluid, in the sixth or seventh intercostal space in the mid-axillary line, or in the eighth or ninth space just outside the angle of the scainila. Aspiration is then performed, and as much fluid as possible di-awn off: it must be stopped, however, if the patient shows signs of collapse, or if fits of coughing occur and threaten to wound the expanding lung against the sharp end of the trocar. Non-inflammatory or passive effusion into tlie pleura, called hydrothorax, is often seen in the later stages of chronic renal or cardiac disease, and demands treatment on lines similar to the above. Purulent pleural effusion, or empyema, often occms after such diseases as pneumonia or measles. This condition requires di-ainage of the cavity, which usually necessitates excision of a portion of a rib. An incision is made down to the seventh or eighth rib in the mid- or posterior axillary line and the periosteum is incised, and separated from the shaft of the rib, carrying with it the stnictures in the subcostal groove. With bone-cutting forceps about one and a half or two inches of the rib are separated and removed, and the underlying pleura is incised. The pus having been evacuated, a large di-ainage tube is inserted into the cavity. The pleura should never be irrigated, as sudden death has followed this proceeding, and great care should be taken to prevent the tube from slipping into the cavity, an occurrence which is far from uncommon.1078 SPLANCHNOLOGY Pneumothorax, or the presence of gas in the pleural cavity, is a common terminal event in tuberculosis of the lungs ; less often it is due to trauma—rupture of the lung, for example, when the chest is crushed, or tearing of the lung tissue by the sharp projecting end of a broken rib. Aii- escapes from the lung into the pleural cavity ; the elastic tissue of the lung at once contracts, and finally that organ shrinks away to a dark rounded mass the size^of a fist, lying close against the vertebral column. The symptoms of pneumothorax are often very severe ; cyanosis, intense dyspnoea, great pain on the afTected side, and cardiac failure. Their severity is increased by the fact that the blood-vessels of the collapsed lung oii'er less resistance to the circulation of the blood than do those of the other lung. Not only, therefore, does the sound lung suddenly have to take over the work—the aeration of the blood—normally performed by both lungs, but it has to do so at the moment when the circulation of blood through it is partially short-cu:cuited by the collapsed lung. If the patient survives for a few days, empyema often complicates the pneumothorax, setting up the condition called fyofneumotliorax. In operations upon the kidney, it must be borne in mind that the pleura usually extends below the level of the inner portion of the last rib, and may therefore be opened in these operations, especially when the last rib is removed in order to give more room. The Mediastinum The mediastinum is the space left in and near the median line of the chest by the non-apposition of the two pleurae. It extends from the sternum in front to the vertebral column behind, and contains all the thoracic viscera exceptmg the lungs. The mediastinum may be divided for purposes of description into two parts : an upper portion, above the upper level of the pericardium, which is named the superior mediastinum (Struthers) ; and a lower portion, below the upper level of the pericardium. This lower portion is agam subdivided Fig. 891.—a transverse section of the thorax, showing the relative position of the viscera, and the reflections of the pleurae. Triangularis sterni Internal mammary vessels Left phrenic nerve Pleura pulmonalis Pleura costalis Ni/mpalhelic cord Thoracic duct Vena nzygos major Pncumogasiric nerves into three parts, viz. that which s m front of ^^^"^^^^^^^^ mediastinum; that whicli contains the V^:^^f^f^''l^^'f^^^^^ middle mediastinum ; and that which .s behind tlie pcncardmm, the fosi mediastinum (fig. 891). . „„f,-„Ti nf ihc internleural The superior mediastinum (fig. 892) is po^f« ^^^^^^^^^^^^ space which lies betwc<m tbc manabnum sterni in the vertebra behind. It is bounded below by a plane passing backNxaiclsTHE PLEURiE 1079 . f ^„ nianubrium and gladiolus sterni to the lower part of the Dv 0 tl' fourtlTSt" vertebra, and laterally by the pleuraa It eontams the originfof t^^^^^ and Sterno-thyroid muscles and the lower ends nf the Lon-us colli muscles; the arch of the aorta; the mnominate artery and til thmS pSions of the left common carotid and the subclavian ar eries ; e innoSate vems and the upper half of the superior vena cava; the left superio^ii^^^rcostal vem; the pneu^^ ff^Tearnerves ; the trachea, CBSophagus, and thoracic duct ; the remams of the thymus eland, and some lymphatic glands. , ^ i <.„,.„n„ Thl anterior mediastinum is bounded in front by the sternum laterally by the pleurae, and behind by the pericardium. It is nan-ow above, but u?dens out a little below, and, owing to the obhque course taken by the left pleuia it is directed from above downwards and to the le t. Its anterior wall Fs fo -med by the left Triangularis sterni muscle and the fifth, sixth, and seventh left costal cartilages. It contains a quantity of loose areolar tissue, some Fig. 892.—Transverse section through the upper margin of the second thoracic vertebra. (Braune.) Lt. carotid . Left innommale vein art. Thymus gland P^ieunwgastnc nerve Pneumogastric nerve . Vertebral art Lt. siibcla-.^ vian art. CEso-^,. pliagiis Int. mammary artery at. inno- ^^i^i.\vr\\- — minate v. ''/m^ t^^^^ - i 'irst rib f s^::^-. Trachea ^^Secnnd rib Third rib lymphatic vessels which ascend from the convex surface of the hver, two or three lymphatic glands (anterior mediastinal glands), and the small mediastmai branches of the internal mammary artery. The middle mediastinum is the broadest part of the interpleural space. It contains the heart enclosed in the pericardium, the ascending aorta, the lower half of the superior vena cava with the vena azygos major opening into it, the bifurcation of the trachea and the two bronchi, the pulmonary artery dividing into its two branches, the right and left pulmonary veins, the phrenic nerves, and some bronchial lymphatic glands. The posterior mediastinum (fig. 893) is an irregular triangular space running parallel mth the vertebral column; it is bounded m front by the pericardium above, and by the posterior surface of the Diaphragm below, behind by the vertebral column from the lower border of the fourth to the twelfth thoracic vertebra, and on either side by the pleura. It contains the descending thoracic aorta, the yen£e azygos major and minor, the pneumo- gastric and splanchnic nerves, the oesophagus, the thoracic duct, and some lymphatic glands.1080 SPLANCHNOLOGY Applied Anatomy.—Primary tumours of the mediastinum are usually lymphoma or lymphosarcoma arising from the thymus or from the bronchial or posterior mediastinal lymph-glands: sarcomata, dermoid cysts, and embryomata, occur more rarely. These tumours give rise to pain, deformity of the chest, and symptoms of pressure on the various nerves, blood-vessels, air-passages, lymphatics, and on the oesophagus, as these various structui-es pass through the thorax. They may produce physical signs very much like those of an aortic aneurysm, so that diagnosis between the two is often difficult. The Fig. 893.—The posterior mediastinum. prognosis is bad, life usually ending within a few months or a year of the onset of the STOiptomS. 1 f • a (inn Inflammation of the mediastinum due to wounds, or to the spread of inflammanou from adjacent parts (e.g. the oesophagus, the pericardium) is sometimes acute, len'^l"S to abscess-formation. A more chronic form associated with adhesions and inflammntioii of the pericardium—the so-called chronic adhesive mediastino-pericarditis—gives rise ro obscure symptoms suggesting gradual heart-failure, and leads to death slowly but surely.THE LUNGS 1081 The Lungs The lunffS (pulmones) are the essential organs of respiration ; they are two in number/placed one on either side of the chest and separated rom each other by the heart and other contents of the mediastinum. Each lung is conical in shape, and presents for examination an apex, a base, two borders, and two surfaces. ^ t • - tu^ The apex (apex pulmonis) is rounded, and extends into the root of the neck reaching from an inch to an inch and a half above the level of the anterior end of the fii-lt rib. A furrow produced by the subclavian artery as it curves outwards in front of the pleura runs upwards and outwards immediately below the apex. , Tlie base (basis pulmonis) is broad, concave, and rests upon the convex surface of the Diaphragm, ^x\nch separates the right lung from the right lobe of the liver, and the left lung from the left lobe of the liver, the stomach, and spleen. Since the Diaphragm extends higher on the right tlian on the lett side, it follows that the concavity on the base of the right lung is deeper than that on the left. Laterally and behind, the base is bounded by a thin, sharp maro-in AvMch projects for some distance into the phrenico-costal sinus ot tne pleura, between the lower ribs and the costal attachment of the Diaphragm. The base of the lung descends during inspiration and ascends during expu-ation ; its relation to the chest-wall is indicated in figs. 889 and 890. The external or costal surface (facies costaHs) is smooth, convex, ot con- siderable extent, and corresponds to the form of the cavity of the chest, being deeper bcMnd than in front. It is in contact M'ith the costal pleura, and presents in a hardened specimen slight gi-ooves corresponding mth the over- lying ribs. . . + f -fi The inner or mediastinal surface (facies mediastinalis) is in contact \yitn that portion of the pleura which forms tlie lateral boundary of the mediastinal space. It presents a deep concavity which accommodates the pericardial sac ; tliis is larger and deeper on the left than on the right lung, on account of the heart projecting farther to the left than to the right side of tlie mesial plane. Above and behind this concavity is a triangular depression named the hilus (hilus pulmonis), where the structures which form the root of the lung enter and leave the viscus. These structures are invested by pleural membrane, which, below the hilus, forms the Ugamentum latum pulmonis. On the right lung (fig. 894), immediately above the hilus, is an arched furrow whichSPLANCHNOLOGY 1082 accommodates the vena azygos major ; while runnmg uiiwards, and then arching outwards some little distance below the apex, is a wide groove for the superior vena cava and right innominate vein, and behind this, nearer the apex, is a second furrow for the innominate artery. Along the back part of the inner surface is a vertical groove for the oesophagus ; tliis groove becomes less distinct below, owing to the inclination of the lower part of the oesophagus to the left of the middle line. In front and to the right of the lower part of the cBSophageal groove, the inner surface is applied to the pleural covering of the right and posterior aspects of the thoracic part of the inferior vena cava—this Fig. 895.—Mediastinal surface of left lung. vessel being accommodated in a deep concavity. On the left lung (fig. 895). immediately above the hilus, is a weU-marked curved furro\\- produced by the aortic arch, and running upwards from tliis towards the apex is a gi'oove accommodating the left subclavian artery ; a slight impression m front of the latter and close to the margin of the lung lodges the left innominate vein. Behind the hilus and pericardial depression is a vertical furro\v produced by the descending thoracic aorta, and in front of this, near the base of the lung, the lower part of the oesophagus causes a shallow depression. The posterior border (margo posterior) is broad and rounded, and is received into the deep concavity on either side of the vertebral column. It is much longer than the anterior border, and projects, below, mto the upper part ot the phrenico-costal sinus. , The anterior border (margo anterior) is thin and sharp, and o%eilaps the front of the pericardium. The anterior border of the right ung is almost vertical, and projects into the costo-mediastmal smus of the pleura ; that ot the left preseAts, below, an angular notch, i\x^ mcisura ^^'•'^'^^"'.Jf ^y^'J pericardium is exposed. Opposite this notch the anterior "^^'-gi^.of the left lung is situated s5me Uttle distance to the outer side of the hne of reflection of the corresponding part of the pleura. • j- -j j • f^n Inbe*; Fissures and lobes of the lungs.-The ie/ '^/V^^^^ "f an upper and a lower, by an oblique Jissure ^vl"ch extends from the ^^^^^^^^l innef surface of the lung both above and below the hilus As see^.1 on tJ,e sur^ this fissure commences on the inner aspect of the lung /'^f ^^/^"f part of the hilus, and runs backwards and upwards |«the poste..oi bolder which it crosses at a point about two and a half "^"^'^^ .^jlj'^'^^^l^s the then extends downwards and forwards over ^l^^""^^""^^"; «7,;;t f/^^^^^^^^^ lower border a little behind its anterior extremity, and its further course1083 THE LUNGS be foUowed upwards and backwards across the inner surface as far as the lower part of the hilus. The upper lobe (lobus superior) lies above and ni front of lus Cure and includes the apex, the anterior border, and a «o-ff«-^^^^^ the outer surface and the greater part of the inner surface of the lung ihe lower lobus inferior), the larger of the two is situated below and bdimd the fissure and comprises almost the whole of the base a large portion of the outer surface, and the greater part of the posterior border. Tlie riqU Una is divided into tliree lobes, upper, middle, and lower, by an obHque and a horizontal fissure. The oblique Jissure separates the lower from the middle and upper lobes, and corresponds closely ^^ath the fissure in the left lung. Its direction is, however, more vertical, and it cuts the lower border about three inches behind its anterior extremity. The horizontal fissure separates the upper from the middle lobe. It begins m the obbque fissure near the posterior border of the lung, and, running horizontally forwards, cuts Fig. 896.—Front view of heart and lungs. Ductus ^arteriosus the anterior border on a level ^v ith the sternal end of the fourth costal cartilage ; on the inner surface it may be traced backwards to the hilus. The middle lobe (lobus medius), the smallest of the lobes of the right lung, lies between the horizontal fissure and the lower part of the oblique fissure ; it is wedge-shaped, and includes the lower part of the anterior border and the anterior part of the base of the lung. The right lung is the larger and heavier ; it is broader than the left, owing to the incUnation of tlie lieart to the left side ; it is also shorter by an inch, in consequence of the Diaplu-agm rising higher on the right side to accommodate the liver. The root of the lung (radix pulmonis).—A little above the middle of the inner surface of each lung, and nearer its posterior than its anterior border, is its root, by which the lung is connected to the lieart and the trachea. The root is formed by the bronchus, the pulmonary artery, the pulmonary veins, the bronchial arteries and veins, the pulmonary plexuses of nerves, lymphatics,SPLANCHNOLOGY 1084 bi'onchial glands, and areolar tissue, all of wliich are enclosed by a reflection of the pleura. Tlie root of the right lung lies beliind the suiJerior vena cava and part of the right auricle, and below the vena azygos major. That of the left lung passes beneath the arch of the aorta and in front of the descending aorta ; the phrenic nerve, with its accompanying artery and vein, and tlie anterior pulmon.ary plexus, lie in front of each, and the pneumogastric and posterior j)ulmonary plexus behind each ; below each is the ligamentum latum pulmonis. The chief structures composing the root of each lung are arranged in a similar manner from before backwards on both sides, viz. the upper of the two pulmonary veins in front ; the pulmonary artery in the middle ; and the bronchus, together with the bronchial vessels, behind. From above down- wards, on the two sides, their arrangement differs, thus : On the right side their position is—eparterial bronchus, pulmonary artery, liyparterial bronchus, pulmonary veins ; but on the left side their position is—pulmonary artery, bronchus, pulmonary veins. The lower of the two pulmonary veins is situated below the bronchus at the apex or lowest part of the hilus. Divisions of the bronchi.—Just as the lungs differ from each other in the number of their lobes, so the bronchi differ in their mode of subdivision. The rigid bronchus gives off, about an mch from the bifurcation of tlie trachea, a branch for the upper lobe. This branch arises above the level of the pulmonary artery, and is therefore named the eparterial bronchus. All the other divisions of the main stem come off below the pulmonary arter\', and consequently are termed liyparterial bronchi. The first of these is distributed to the middle lobe, and the mam tube then passes do^vn■wards and baclcM ards into tlie lower lobe, giving off in its course a series of large ventral and small dorsal branches. The ventral and dorsal branches arise alternately, and are usually eight in number—four of each land. The branch to the middle lobe is regarded as the first of the ventral series. The left bronchus passes below the level of the pulmonary artery before it divides, and hence all its branches are hyparterial ; it may therefore be looked upon as equivalent to that portion of the right bronchus which lies on the distal side of its eparterial branch. The first branch of the left bronchus arises about two inches from the bifurcation of the trachea, and is distributed to the upper lobe. The main stem then enters the lower lobe, where it divides into ventral and dorsal branches similar to those in the right lung. The branch to the upper lobe of the left lung is regarded as the first of tlie Aeby regarded the absence of a left eparterial bronchus as indicating the absence of the corresponding lobe of the lung, and considered the middle lobe of the right lung the homologue of the upper lobe of the left. His conclusions, however, are not universally accepted. • i + i „„ The weiqht of both lungs together is about forty-two ounces, the right lung being two ounces heavier than the left; but much variation is met ^Mtll according to the amount of blood or serous fluid they may contain, i he lungs are heavier in the male than in the female, their proport in the former, as 1 to 37, in the latter as 1 to 43. ■, ,^ rr „ HovL- The colour of the lungs at birth is a pinkish-Av liite ; in adult life it is a daiK slaty-grey, mottied in patches ; and as age advances, this motthng assumes a black colour. The colouring matter consists of granules of a carbonaceous substance deposited in the areolar tissue near the surface of the organ it increases in quantity as age advances, and is more abundant in ma cs ti a" in females. The posterior border of the lung is usually darker than the ''''^Thlsurface of the lung is smooth, shining, and '"^r^^^^ «"Vn!°JCTis polyhedral areas, indicating the lobules of the organ : each of these aieas crossed by numerous lighter lines. i.„^f,„.„ . if floats The substance of the lung is of a light, porous spongy textme . in water, and crepitates when handled, owmg to ^^^^ P^f f ^.^/''^ orUn^ air-sacs; it is also highly elastic; hence tlie retracted state of these organ when they are removed from the closed cavity of the thorax.THE LUNGS 1085 structure.—The lungs are composed of an external serous coat, a subserous areolar tissue, and the pulmonary substance or parenchyma. ^ j • The serous coat is the visceral layer of the pleura ; it is thm, transparent, and invests the entu-e organ as far as the root. Fig. 897.—Section of lung tissue. Epithelium llveoK ^ InfunAihtiluin The subserous areolar tissue contains a large proportion of elastic fibres ; it invests the entire sm-face of the lung, and extends inwards between the lobules. The parenchyma is composed of lobules which, although closely connected together by an interlobular areolar tissue, are quite distinct from one another, and may be teased asunder without much difaculty in the foetus. The lobules vary in size : those on the Fig. 898.—Section of a portion of an ateleotio lung of kitten, |t.^^*/.^fl':.if)^J^ Bronchial epitheliia, , : ' " ■ s , ;. Bronchial muscle Nodule of cartilage • Terminal bronchiole Alveoli Tnfundibulum surface are large, of pyramidal form, the base turned towards the surface ; those in tlie interior smaller, and of various forms. Each lobule is composed of one of the ramifications of a broncliial tube and its terminal aii--cells, and of the ramifications of the pulmonary and bronchial vessels, lymphatics, and nerves ; all of these structures being connected together by areolar ti.ssue.1086 SPLANCHNOLOGY The primary branches of the hronclms, upon entering the substance of tlie lung, dividfe and subdivide into smaller tubes throughout the entire organ. Each of the smaller sub- divisions of tlie bronchus enters a pulmonary lobule, and is termed an iniraldbular bronchus. This gives oS collateral branches and then bifurcates about the centre of the lobule; these bifurcations divide at right angles to the previous plane of division and the process is repeated until a large number of ultimate bronchi (bronchioles) are formed. Each bronchiole now becomes enlarged, and is termed the atrium or alveolar passage ; from it are given off, on all sides, ramifications, called injundibula, which are closely beset in all directions by alveoli or air-sacs. Changes in the structure of the bronchi in the lungs.—In the lobes of the lungs the following changes take place. The cartilages are not segments of rings, but consist of small oval or angular patches scattered kregularly along the sides of the tube, being most distinct at the points of division of the bronchi; as the bronchi approach their termina- tions the cartilages disappear. The muscular coat {bronchial muscle) is disposed in the form of a continuous layer of annular fibres, which may be traced upon the smallest bronchial tubes, and consists of the unstriped variety of muscular tissue ; at the termination of the bronchioles in the atria the muscle forms a definite circular band (Miller). The layers of epithelial cells diminish in number and in the terminal bronchioles only a single layer of non-ciliated flattened cells exists. The air-sacs are small polyhedral recesses, composed of a basement membrane sur- rounded by a few involuntary muscular and elastic fibres, and lined by flattened squamous epithelium, with sinuous outlines ; between these cells are seen small oval granular cells. Vessels and Nerves.—The pulmonary artery conveys the venous blood to the lungs ; it divides into branches which accompany the bronchial tubes and terminate in a dense capillary network upon the walls of the air-sacs. In the lung, the branches of the pulmonary artery are usually above and in front of a bronchial tube, the vem below. The pulmonary capillaries form plexuses which lie immediately beneath the mucous membrane, in the walls and septa of the au--sacs, and of the infundibula. In the septa between the ak-sacs the capillary network forms a smgle layer. The capillaries form a very minute network, the meshes of which are smaller than the vessels themselves ; their walls are also exceedingly thin. The arteries of neighbourmg lobules are independent of each other, but the veins freely anastomose. . The pulmonary veins commence in the pulmonary capillaries, the radicles coalescing into larger branches which run through the substance of the lung, independent y of the minute arteries and bronchi. After freely communicating with other branches they form large vessels, which ultimately come into relation with the arteries and bronchial tubes, and accompany them to the hilus of the organ. Fmally they open into the left auricle of the heart, conveying oxygenated blood to be distributed to all parts of the body by the aorta. The bronchial arteries supply blood for the nutrition of the lung; they are derived from the thoracic aorta or from the upper aortic intercostal arteries, and, accompanying the bronchial tubes, are distributed to the bronchial glands, and upon the walls of the larger bronchial tubes and pulmonary vessels. Tliose supplying the bronchial tubes foi-m a capillary plexus in the muscular coat, from which branches are given off to form a second plexus in the mucous coat. This plexus communicates with branches of the pulmonary artery, and empties itself into the pulmonary veins. Others are distributed in the inter- lobular areolar tissue, and terminate partly in the deep, partly m the superficial, bronchial veins. Lastly, some ramify upon the surface of the lung, beneath the pleui-a, where they ^"""^helrmSMldnt'iovmed at the root of the lung, receiving superficial and deep veins corresponding to branches of the bronchial artery. It does not, however, receive all the blood supplied by the artery, as some of it passes mto the pulmonary vems. It termiLtes on the^right side in the vena azygos major, and on the left side in the superior intercostal or vena azygos minor superior. The lymphatics are described on page 792. , , . i „„„^„ „i„vn«P.; Nerves.--The lungs are supplied from the anterior and posterior pulmonary P exuses formed chiefly by branches Ivom the sympathetic and 1—g^^^v'nrJtst^ S from these plexuses accompany the bronchial tubes, upon which they are lost. Small ''''iXl'FZt-^Z J/x oUheXng is situated in the neck, behind the interval between theTv^o heads of origin !.f the Sterno'mastoid. The height to .^nch it nses above 1 - clavicle varies very con.siderably, but is generally about an mch. It Sentas m" ch as an inch and a half or an inch and three-quarters, on on the o ^e^^^^^^^^^ it mav scarcely project, above the level of this bone. In order to maik out antenor maS of thl^ung a line is to be drawn from the apex point, an inch «bov« the lc^e of the elavic e and rather nearer the posterior than the anterior border of tl^^ Sterno Itm^rscV downwards and inwalds across ^^^Z he manubrium sterni until it meets, or almost ni<^ets, it^s fe lo« f^ J^^^^^ two level of the articulation of the manubrium and gladiolus. Iro n tins ])oim im ne are toLwn downwards, rather to the left of far as the level of the articulation of the fourth costal XVsl V^^ down- here the two lines diverge, the left at first passmg out^^ nrds ^^ ith a slight inclinai.o1087 APPLIED ANATOMY OF THE LUNGS wards, and then taking a bend downwards \vith a sUglit inclination outwards to the apex of the heart, and thence to tlie sixth costo-chondral articulation. The direction of the anterior border of this part of the left lung is denoted with sufficient accui;acy by a cm-ved line vdth its convexity directed upwards and outwards from the articulation of the fourth ri^rh't costal cartUage of the sternum to the fiftli intercostal space, an inch and a half below, and three-quarters of an inch internal to the left nipple. The continuation of the anterior border of the right lung is marked by a prolongation of its hne from the level of the fourth costal cartilages vertically downwards as far as the sixth, when it slopes ofl along the line of the sixth costal cartilage to its articulation with the rib. After expu-ation the lower border of the lung may be marked out by a slightly cm-ved line with its convexity downwards, from the articulation of the sixth costal cartilage with its rib to the spinous process of the tenth thoracic vertebra. If vertical Imes are diuwn downwards from the nipple, the mid-axillary hne, and the apex of the scapula, whUe the arms are raised from the sides, they should intersect this convex line, the first at the sixth, the second at the eighth, and the third at the tenth rib. It will thus be seen that the pleura extends farther down than the lung, so that it may be wounded, and a wound pass through both layers into the Diaphragm, and even injure the abdominal viscera, without the lung being involved. ,. , , ^, , i t The posterior border of the lung is indicated by a hne drawn from the level ot the spmous process of the seventh cervical vertebra, down either side of the vertebral column, corresponding to the costo-vertebral joints as low as the spinous process of the tenth thoracic vertebra. The trachea bifurcates opposite the spinous process of the fourth thoracic vertebra, and from this point the two bronchi are directed do\TOwards and outwards. The position of the oblique fissure in each lung may be uidicated by a hne drawn from the second thoracic spine round the side of the chest to the sixth rib in the nipple line. The horizontal fissure in the right lung is indicated by a line drawn from the preceding, where it bisects the mid-axillary line, to the junction of the fourth costal cartilage with the sternum. Applied Anatomy.—The lungs may be wounded or torn in three ways : (1) by com- pression of the chest, without any injury to the ribs; (2) by a fractured rib penetrating the lung; (3) by stabs, gunshot wounds, &c. The &-st form, where the lung is ruptured by external compression without any fracture of the ribs, is very rare, and usually occurs in young children, and affects the root of the lung, i.e. the most fixed part, and thus, implicating the great vessels, is frequently fatal. It would seem a priori a most unusual injury, and its exact mode of causation is difficult to interpret. In the second variety, when the wound in the lung is produced by the penetration of a broken rib, both the pleura costalis and pleura pulmonalis must necessarily be injured, and consequently the air taken into the wounded air-sacs may find its way through these wounds into the cellular tissue of the parietes of the chest, producing surgical emphysema. This it may do without collecting in the pleural cavity ; the two layers of the pleura are so intimately in contact that the au' passes straight through from the wounded lung into the subcutaneous tissue. Emphysema constitutes therefore the most important sign of injury to the lung in cases of fracture of the ribs. Pneumothorax, or air in the pleural cavity, is much more likely to occur in injuries of the third variety—that is to say, from external wounds, from stabs, gunshot injuries, and such like—in which case air passes either from the wound of the lung or from the external wound into the cavity of the plem-a during the resph-atory movements. In these cases there is generally no emphysema of the subcutaneous tissue \inless the external wound is small and valvular, so that the air is di'awn into the woimd during inspiration, and then forced into the cellular tissue around during expiration because it cannot escape from the external wound. Occasionally in wounds of the parietes of the chest no air finds its way into the cavity of the pleura, because the lung at the time of the accident protrudes through the wound and blocks the opening. This takes place where the wound is large, and constitutes one form of hernia of the lung. Another form of hernia of the lung occurs, though very rarely, after wounds of the chest-wall, when the wound has healed and the cicatrix subsequently yields from the pressure of the viscus behind. It forms a globular, elastic, crepitating swelling, which enlarges during expiratory efforts, falls in during inspiration, and disappears on holding the breath. An incision into the lung is occasionally required in cases of abscess the result of pneu- monia or the presence of a foreign body, and from an abscess in the liver which has made its way through the Diaplu-agm into the lung substance, and also in cases of hydatid disease. In these cases there is always risk of haemorrhage, and it has been recommended that the lung tissue should be penetrated by the actual cautery, rather than with the knife. Unless adhesions have formed between the two layers of the pleura, the pleural cavity must necessarily be opened, and there is the further risk of pneumothorax, and possibly of septic infection. It is therefore advisable to suture the lung to the opening in the thoracic wall, and wait for adhesions to form before perforating the lung. The routine methods of physical examination—inspection, palpation, percussion, and auscultation—are nowhere more important than they are in the diagnosis of diseases ofSPLANCHNOLOGY 1088 tho lungs. It is essential, too, that in every case the two sides of the chest should Ijo com- pared with one another, and that the wide variations that may be met with under normal conditions in dilTeront persons and at difl'erent ages should Ije kept in mind when the chest is beinji examined. On inspection the thorax will be seen to be enlarged and barrel-shaped in emi)hysema, in which the volume of the lungs is increased by dilatation of their alveoli, or in an acute attack of asthma, or when a large iileural effusion or mediastinal tumour is Ijresont. The chest-wall will be flattened or sunken, on the other hand, over an area of lung that has collapsed or become fibrosed, as often happens in chronic pulmonary tuber- culosis. The respiratory movements of the chest-wall will be lessened, or even absent, over a part or the whole of the affected side in such acute disorders as pleui-isy, pneumonia, or pleural eftusion, or in more chronic disease where the underlying lung is fibrosed, or Ls crushed to one side by a mediastinal tumour ; and by the use of the a:-rays a corresponding loss of movement or displacement of the Diaphragm on the affected side can often be observed. Under normal concUtions the intercostal spaces are a Httle depressed; but they may be obliterated or even bulgmg on that side when a large effusion or new growth fills up one of the pleui'al cavities. On polpation the hand can be used to verify the eye's impressions as to the degree ot movement on respiration of any part of the chest-wall. The facility with which the ^^bra- tions produced by the voice are conducted from the larynx by the underljong lung to the hand (in the form of vocal fremitus) can also be tested. The vocal fremitus is commonly much increased over the consolidated area ui pneumonia or in fibrosis of the lung, and much diminished over a pleural effusion when the lung is pushed up by the fluid towards the top of the pleural cavity. It is also diminished, but to a less extent, m emphysema, and in bronchitis when the "bronchi are blocked by secretion. In bronchitis the bubblmg of the secretion in the tubes can often be felt by a hand placed on the chest-waU as the patient breathes; and in chi-onic pleurisy the friction of the two roughened pleural surfaces against one another can sometimes be felt in the same way. ■, , , . j On vercussion, the normal resonance of the pulmonary tissue is found to be increased in emphysema, and in pneumothorax (page 1078) tHs hyper-resonance may be still further increased The resonance is lessened in any condition causing collapse or solidihcation of the lung-tissue, or when its place is taken by fluid (pleural effusion) or some sohd growth (mediastinal tumoiu-). Thus dulness on percussion at the bases o the lungs common n the hypostatic congestion of the bases seen in heart-failure ; dulness at the right base is often due to compilssion of the lung by enlargement of the hver ; some dulness at the apex of a lung is frequently met with in tuberculosis of that part, before the disease progressed vefy far. Comjlete dulness over one side of the chest, back and front ahke, ^cept at the Ipex, is common when a large pleural effusion has taken t^e lung s place Von Koranyi, Gi-occo, and others, have di-awn attention to a triangular patch of dulne^.. along the wtebral cdumn (the paravertebral triangle of dulness) on the uiiafiected side in pleural Iffusion ; tins triangle of dulness is said to be absent in other conditions cai^ ng KTulmonary I'esonance o'n percussion, and is due to ^^^^1%^^^''^,:^^^^^^ posterior mecUastinum towards the sound side. The apex ^^^^^^^^hes in £th line at the upper level of the fluid effusion ; its base, some two to foui inches m lengtn. luns hoitontally oSards from the middle Une at the level where the pulmonary resonance ^TfSl^Se lungs, both in healtli and disease ^^^^^^^^^^^ heard is very great. It is impossible to give adequate consideration to them l^ei^,; ^/^J furtherinformation reference should be made to the text-books dealing with the subject. OEGANS OF DIGESTION The apparatus for the digestion of the food (apparatus digestorius) consists of the alimentary canal and of certain accessory organs. Tbe alimentarv canal is a museulo-membranous tube, about tmuA icci in iS^th Stendi4 fi-oni the mouth to the anus, and hned througliout . rnil::tVnfbfmucous membrane. It has re.eh.d ^^1;^^;^::!,^ various parts of its course : at its commencement is the moutli, y/'^J^^^y, '• . made foi tlie mechanical division of tlie food (maslicalwn)^ ^^nd for its adm x ture with a flu d secreted by the salivary glands [insahvahon) ; beAX)nd his are tL organs of deglutitioir, the pharynx and the fj"^,'"^^^^.^n 1 ^he food i'nto the stomach in wWch ^^^t^'t:^'"^ Stomach is in u hicli the reduction and solution of the t.^j^y'"'l^X^^^^^^^ description followed by the small intestine, wiucli is divided for purposes ot ac ci Into Ihree Mparts, the dnodemm, the jejunum., and rleum, and J l^^'^ j^^^ » See especially Auscultaiion avd Percumov, by Samuel Gee. Erbt. 5, 190b. . Elder & Co.THE MOUTH 1089 mitritive principles of the food are separated and absorbed ; finally the small rntestine t^erminates in the large intestine^ which is ^th' rectum, and anal canal, the last terminatmg on the surface of the body at the The accessory organs are the teeth, for purposes of mas ication ; the Uiree pairs of salivary glands-the parotid, submaxillary, and subbngual-the secret&n fi-om which mixes with the food in the mouth and converts it into a bolus aJd acts chemically on one of its constituents .the Z^t;er and pancreas two larrre glands in the abdomen, the secretions of which, m addition to that of numerous minute glands in the waUs of the ahmentary canal, assist in the process of digestion. Alimentary Canal Mouth. Pharynx. (Esophagus. Stomach. Teeth. Salivary glands Small intestine Large intestine Accessory Organs Parotid. Submaxillary. Sublingual. Duodenum. Jejunum. Ileum; Csecum. Colon. Rectum. Anal canal. Liver. Pancreas. The Mouth The mouth (cavum oris) is placed at the commencement of the alimentary canal (fig. 899) ; it is a nearly oval-shaped cavity, in which the mastication of the food takes place. It consists of two parts : an outer, smaller portion, the vestibule (vestibulum oris), and an iimer, larger part, the cavity proper of the mouth (cavum oris proprium). , , . ^ ^ ■, , ^ ,i i, The vestibulum oris is a slit-like space, bounded in front and laterally by the lips and cheeks ; behind and internally by the gums and teeth. It com- municates with the surface of the body by the aperture of the mouth. Above and below, it is hmited by the reflection of the mucous membrane from the lips and cheeks to the gum covermg the upper and lower alveolar arch respec- tively. It receives the secretion from the parotid glands, and communicates, when the jaws are closed, with the cavum oris by an aperture on either side behind the wisdom teeth, and by narrow clefts between opposing teeth. The cavum oris proprium is bounded laterally and in front by the alveolar arches with their contained teeth ; behind, it communicates with the pharynx by a constricted aperture termed the isthmus faucitm. It is roofed in by the hard and soft palates, \\hile the greater part of the floor is formed by the tongue, the remainder being completed by the reflection of the mucous membrane from the sides and under surface of the tongue to the gum lining the inner aspect of the mandible. It receives the secretion from the submaxillary and sublingual glands. The muccms membrane lining the mouth is continuous with the integument at the free margin of the lips, and with the mucous hning of the pharynx behind ; it is of a rose-pink tinge during life, and very thick where it overUes the hard parts bounding the cavity. It is covered by stratified epithelium. ' The lips (labia oris) are two fleshy folds which surround the orifice of the mouth (rima oris), formed externally of integument and internally of mucous membrane, between which are found the Orbicularis oris muscle, the coronary vessels, some nerves, areolar tissue, and fat, and numerous small labial glands. The inner surface of each lip is connected in the middle line to the gum of the corresponding jaw by a fold of mucous membrane, the frenulum—the upper being the larger of the two. The labial glands are situated between the mucous membrane and the Orbicularis oris, round the orifice of the mouth. They are circular in form, and about the size of small peas; their ducts opening by minute orifices upon the mucous membrane. In structure they resemble the salivary glands. 4 ASPL.4N0HNOLOGY 1090 The cheeks (buccaj) form tlie sides of the face, and are continuous in front with the lips. Tiiey are composed externally of integument ; internally Fig. 899.—Sagittal section of nose, mouth, pharynx, and larynx. Pitmtary body Pharyngeal tonsil Orifice of Eustachian tube Nasal part of ■pharynx Anterior arch of_ atlas Odontoid process of axis Oral part of pharynx ~ Epiglottis~ Laryngeal pari of pharynx ~ Aryteno- epiglottic fold Oricoid cartilage- aSsophagus- ^Frenulum lingiuc ^Mylo-hyoid muscle '^Ryoid hone ^Thyroid cartilage ^False vocal cord ^True vocal cord ••Cricoid cartilage Isthtnus of thyroid gland Of mucous membrane ; and between the two of a muscular stratum besides a large quantity of fat, areolar tissue, vessels, nerves, and buccal glands. The mucous memhrune lining the cheek is -Aeoted above and b^^^^ is continuous behind with the hmng membrane X™THE MOUTH 1091 extremity of Stenson's duct; their ducts open in the mouth opposite the last molar tooth. They are called molar glands. The gums (gingiva;) are composed of a dense fibrous tissue, closely connected to the periosteum of the alveolar processes, and surroundiiig the necks of the teeth. They are covered by smooth and vascular mucous membrane, wliich is remarkable for its limited sensibUity. Around the necks of the teeth this membrane presents numerous fine papilla;, and is reflected into the alveoli, where it is continuous with the periosteal membrane limng these cavities. Applied Anat&tny.—The gums are occasionally the seat of considerable hypertrophy, forming a lobulated vascular fold growing up in front and behind the teeth, so as almost to bury them. They may also become swollen and congested, bleeding treely, and often becoming ulcerated. The condition is Imown as spongy gums, and may occur in scurvy, in stomatitis and dyspepsia, m ill-fed tuberculous children, and from the admmistration of mercury; the gums are veiy tender, mastication is painful, and there is often consider- able fcetor. The margm of the gum presents an interrupted blue line in cases of lead-poisoning. The collection of tartar, which consists of the secretion from the gums, mixed with fragments of food and salivary salts, may give rise to a condition kno\ra as pxjorrhosa alveolaris, which is an inflammatory condition of the gums, followed by the gradual absorption of the alveolus and the falling out of the teeth. Fibrous tumours (epulis), myeloid growths and epitheliomata are met with in the gums. The palate (palatum) forms the roof of the mouth : it consists of two portions, the hard palate in front, the soft palate behind. The hard palate (palatum durum) is bounded in front and at the sides by the alveolar arches and gums ; behind, it is continuous with the soft palate. It is covered by a dense structure formed by the periosteum and mucous membrane of the mouth, wliich are intimately adherent. Along the middle line is a linear ridge or raphe (raphe palati), wliich terminates anteriorly in a small papilla corresponding with the inferior opening of the anterior palatine fossa. On either side and in front of the raphe the mucous membrane is thick, pale in colour, and corrugated ; belund, it is tliin, smooth, and of a deeper colour : it is covered with squamous epithelium, and furnished ^vith numerous glands (palatal glands), which lie between the mucous membrane and the surface of the bone. The soft palate (palatum molle) is a movable fold, suspended from the posterior border of the hard palate, and forming an incomplete septum between the mouth and pharynx. It consists of a fold of mucous membrane enclosing muscular fibres, an aponeurosis, vessels, nerves, adenoid tissue, and mucous glands. When occupying its usual position (i.e. relaxed and pendent) its anterior surface is concave, continuous with the roof of the mouth, and marked by a median ridge or raphe, which indicates its original separation into two lateral halves. Its posterior surface is convex, and continuous with the mucous membrane covering the floor of the nasal fossae. Its upper border is attached to the posterior margin of the hard palate, and its sides are blended with the pharynx. Its lower border is free. Hanging from the middle of its lower border is a smaU, conical, pendulous process, the uvula (uvula palatina) ; and arching outwards and downwards from the base of the uvula on either side are two curved folds of mucous membrane, containing muscular fibres, called the arches or pillars of the soft palate or pillars of the fauces. The anterior pillar (arcus glossopalatinus) on either side runs down- wards, outwards, and forwards to the side of the base of the tongue, and is formed by the projection of the Palato-glossus muscle, covered by mucous membrane. The posterior pillar (arcus pharyngopalatinus) is larger and projects farther inwards than tlie anterior; it runs downwards, outwards, and backwards to the side of the pharynx, and is formed by the projection of the Palato-pharyngeus muscle, covered by mucous membrane. The anterior and posterior pillars are separated below by a triangular interval, in wliich the tonsil is lodged. The aperture by which the mouth communicates with the pharynx is called the isthmus faucium. It is bounded, above, by the soft palate ; below, 4 A 2SPLANCHNOLOGY 1092 by the dorsum of the tongue ; and on either side, by the anterior pillar of the fauces. The aponeurosis of the soft 'palate is a thin but firm fibrous layer attaclied . above to the posterior border of the hard palate, and becoming thinner towards the free margin of the soft palate. Laterally, it is continuous ^\dth the pharyngeal aponeurosis. It forms the framcM'ork of the soft palate, and is joined by the tendons of the Tensor palati muscles. The muscles of the soft palate are five on each side : the Levator palati. Tensor palati, Azygos uvulae, Palato-glossus, and Palato-pharyngeus (see pages 484, 485). The following is the relative position of the structures in a dis'section' of the soft palate from the posterior or pharyngeal to the anterior or oral surface. Immediately beneath the mucous membrane is a thin stratum of muscular fibres, the posterior fasciculus of the Palato-pharyngeus muscle, joining mth its fellow of the opposite side in the middle line. Beneath tins is the Azygos uvulae, consisting of two rounded fleshy fasciculi which are in contact with each other in the median line of the soft palate. Next comes the aponeurosis of the Levator palati joining with that of the muscle of the opposite side in the middle line. Pourtlily, is the anterior fasciculus of the Palato-pharyngeus, tMcker than the posterior, and separating the Levator palati from the next muscle, the Tensor palati. This muscle terminates m a tendon wliich, after winding round the hamular process, expands into a broad aponeurosis in the soft palate, anterior to the other muscles wliich have been enumerated. Finally there is a thin muscular stratum, the Palato-glossus muscle, placed in front of the aponeurosis of the Tensor palati, and separated from the oral mucous membrane by glands and adenoid tissue. The mucous membrane of the soft palate is thin, and covered with squamous epithelium on both surfaces, excepting near the orifice of the Eustachian tube, where it is columnar and ciUated.* Beneath the mucous membrane on the oral surface of the soft palate is a considerable amount of adenoid tissue. The palatine glands form a continuous layer on its posterior surface and round the uvula. Vessels and Nerves.-The arteries supplying the palate are the descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary, the ascending palatine branch of the facial, and tlie palatine branch of the ascending pharyngeal. The veins terminate chiefly m the pterygoid and tonsillar plexuses. The lymphatic vessels pass to the deep cervical glands, ibe motor nerves are chiefly derived from the pharyngeal plexus, the Tensor palati, hmvever receiving a special branch from the otic gangUon. Tlie sensory filaments are derived from the descendmg palatine and naso-palatine nerves and from the glo^so-P^^^^y"^,^*^^^^ Applied Anatomij.-The occurrence of a congenital cleft m the palat^e has been alread> referred to as a defect in development {page 285). Acquired perforatioiu« of the pa .^^^ are almost invariably the result of the breaking down of syphilitic g^'^'^t^-.^he ensuing ulceration may continue until practically the whole palate both hard and Boft> has bee destroyed Tumours of the palate, both innocent and malignant, are occasionally Paralysis of the soft palate often occurs after diphtheria. It gives rise to a change in the vSwhich becomes nasal, and to the regurgitation of fluids down the nose .^en hei swallowii^g is attempted. On inspection, the palate is seen to hang flaccid and motionless when phonation or deglutition are attempted ; it is also anaesthetic. The Teeth (Dentes) (figs. 900 to 903) The human subject is provided with two sets of teeth, ^^l^i^l^J^^'j^^l^Jif appearance at different periods of life. Those of the Sff .^^J/PI^^i^f^t hood, and are caUed the temporary, deciduous or ^ d second set, which also appear at an early period, contmue until old age, ana "^^hTLi?:r;S^^ are twenty in number : four incisors, two canines, and ''"Tr^^SrlJ^are thirty-two in number : four incisors, two canines, four bicuspids, and six molars, in each jaw. * According to Klein, the mucous mc-nbraiio on tj'^ --Jll^^f,^-^i^^^ ISani^sTirf a:;=;r StS cS:2 ^S^S^n^^cttea cA-il, except at its free margin, tliroiighout life.THE TEETH 1093 The dental formula may be represented as follows : Temporary Teeth Upper jaw mol. 2 cau. ill. 1 2 in. 2 cnii. 1 mol. 2 LoM'er jaw 2 1 2 2 1 2 Permanent Teeth Upper jaw mol. . 3 bic. 2 cuu. in. 1 2 in. 2 can. 1 bio. 2 mol. 3 Lower ja^\■ . 3 2 1 2 2 1 2 3 Total 20 — 1 Total 32 General characters.—Each.tooth consists of three portions : the crown, or hodxj (corona dentis), projecting above the gum ; the root (radix dentis), consisting of one or more fangs, entirely concealed within the alveolus ; and the neck (collum dentis), the constricted jDortion between the crown and root. The roots of the teeth are firmly implanted within the alveoli; these depres- sions are lined with, periosteum which is reflected on to the tooth at the point of tlie fang, and covers it as far as the neck. At the niargin of the alveolus, the periosteum becomes continuous with the fibrous structure of the gums. Fig. 900.—Permanent teeth of upper jaw, seen from below. F(rramina of Stenaon Horizontal plate of palate bone Accessory palatine canals In consequence of the curve of the dental arch, such terms as anterior, posterior, internal, and external, as applied to the teeth, are misleading and confusing. Special terms are therefore applied to the different surfaces of a tooth : that surface which is directed towards the lips or cheek is known as the labial surface (facies labialis) ; that which is directed towards the tongue is described as the lingual surface (facies lingualis) ; that surface which is directed towards the mesial line, supposing the teeth were arranged in a straight line outwards from the central incisor, is known as the proximal surface ; while that Avhich is directed away from the mesial line is called the distal surface.1094 SPLANCHNOLOGY The teeth in the maxillae form a larger arch than those in the mandible, so that they slightly overlap those of the mandible both in front and at the sides in the normal condition. Since the upper central incisors are wider than the lower, the other teeth in the upper jaw are thrown somewhat distally, and the two sets do not quite correspond to each other when the mouth is Fig. 901.—Side views of the teeth and jaws. (Cryer.) closed : thus the canine tooth of the upper ]aw rests partly the lower jaw and partly on the first premolar, and the cusps of the molai teeth of the upper jaw lie behind the correspondmg cusps of the molar teeth of the lower jaw. The two series, however, termmate at nearly the sarie point behind ; this is mainly because the molars in the upper ]aw are the smaller. Peemaijent Teeth (Denies pbbmanentes) The incisors, or cutting teeth (dentes i^^!^!^)''^ presenting a sharp cutting edge, adapted for bitmg the food. They are eiglit fn number, and form the four front teeth m each ]aw^ _ i^^^^n^H nt The crown is directed verticaUy, and is chisel-shaped, bemg b^J^^^^^ the exnense of its lingual surface, so as to present a sharp horizontal cutting edL wS before be!ng subjected to attrition, presents three small proininent ^Itstparat^^^^^ by tw'o slight notches. I-'""^fsu^re whtre S'e polished in its labial surface ; concave on its lingual f ^^^nc^l! teeth of the upper jaw, it is frequently marked by a V^^^^^^^ i^^r^^^ia:'^^^ in...» longitudinal direction. „ „„a ^frnnaor than those of the The incisors of the upper jaw ^ve arger ^'^^ stiongcr^^^ a^^^^^^ of th^ upper teeth. The cingulum is absentTHE TEETH 1095 Fig. 902.—Permanent teeth of right half of mandible seen from above. Incisora Canine Molars The crown is large and conical, very convex on its labial surface, a little hollowed and uneven on its lingual surface, and tapering to a blunted point or cusp, which projects beyond the level of the other teeth. The root is single, but longer and thicker than that of tiie incisors, conical in form, compressed laterally, and marked by a slight groove on each side. The upper canine teeth (popularly called mje-teeth) are larger and longer than the lower, and situated a little distaUyto them. They usually present | v a distinct basal ridge. i ^ a ( The lower canine teeth are placed mesially to the upper, so that their sum- mits correspond to the interval between the upper canine teeth and the neigh- bouring incisors on each side. The bicuspid teeth or premolars (dentes premolares) are eight in number : four in each jaw, two being placed dis- tally to each of the canine teeth. They are smaller and shorter than the canines. The crown is compressed proximo- distally, and surmounted by two pyra- midal eminences or cusps, a labial and a lingual, separated by a groove ; hence their name, bicuspid. Of the two cusps the labial is larger and more prominent than the lingual. Tlie neck is oval. The root is generally single, compressed, and presents on either side a deep groove, wliich indicates a tendency in the root to become double. The apex is generally bifid. The upper bicuspids are larger, and present a greater tendency to the division of their roots than the lower ; this is especially marked in the first upper bicuspid. Fig. 903.—Permanent teeth. Right side. (Burchard.) The molar teeth (dentes molares) are the largest of the permanent set, and are adapted from the great breadth of their crowns for grinding and pounding the food. They are twelve in number : six in each jaw, three being placed distally to each of the second bicuspids.SPLANCHNOLOGY 1096 Tlie crown is nearly cubical in form, convex on its labial and lingual surfaces, flattened on its proximal and distal aspects ; tlie upper surface is surmounted by four or five tubercles, or cusps (four in the upper, five in the lowei' molars) ,'sei)arated from eacli other by a crucial depression ; lience the molars are sometimes termed muUicuspids. The neck is distinct, large, and rounded. The root is subdivided into two or tlu'ee fangs : tlu-ee in the teetli of the upper jaw, and two in those of the lower. Each of these fangs presents an aperture at its summit. The crown of tlie first molar tooth in the upper jaw has usually four cusps ; the root consists of three fangs, widely separated from one another, two benig labial, the other lingual. . . , ^ r The crown of the first molar tooth in the lower jaw is larger than that ot tlie upper • it has five cusps, and its root consists of two fangs, one being placed ' proximally, the other distally : they Fig. 904.—Temporary teeth. Left side. are both compressed from before back- wards, and grooved on their contiguous faces, indicating a tendency to division. The second molar is a little smaller than the first. The crown has three or four cusps in the upper, and usually five in the lower jaw. The root has three fangs in the upper ]a.\v, and two in the lower, the characters of which are similar to those of the preceding tooth. The third molar tooth is called the wisdom-tooth or dens sapieniice (dens serotinus), from its late appearance through the gum. Its crown is nearly as large as that of the second molar, but is smaller than that of the first. In the upper jaw it is usually furnished with three cusps, the two lingual ones being blended ; in the lower jaw there are five cusps as m the other molars. The root is generaUy single, short, conical, slightly curved, and grooved so as to present traces of a subdivision into three fangs in the upper, and t^o in the lower jaw. Temporary Teeth (Dentes decidxh) (fig. 904) The temporary, or milk teeth, are smaller than, but, generaUy speaking, resemble in form, the teeth wliich bear the same names m the permanent set^ The hinder of the two temporary molars is the largest of all the milk teeth, and is succeeded by the second permanent bicuspid. The first upper molar has onl^ I'e cuspV-Uvo labial, oL lingual ; the second upper -Jl^ The first lower molar has four cusps ; the second loMcr mola J^as e li e fangs of the temporary molar teeth are smaUer and more divergent tban tho.e of the permanent set, but in other respects bear a strong resemblance to them. Structure of the Teeth On making a vertical section of a tooth (fig. 90o). a cavity will be found in the interi^ of tL c^own and the centre of each fang; it -nniute^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ "fot of the latter. In shape it corresponds ^'A^^^V^^^V^^^^^ is called the imlv cavity (cavum dentis , and contains a soft, highly '^^^"'^f' f ""z^" ^.,„ "ib^Unce, tlfe Lint A (pulpa dontis) The pulp ^^J.^nd ne w^^^^^^ consisting of fine fibres and colls ; it is richly supi.hed ^^'I'^^^^^f'^^"^ "T^,';';"^^ of the the cavity through the small aperture at the point of each fan^ ^^^^^^ ,^,^of e P"'!' pulp permeate the matrix, and others arc arranged as a layci on^"^ , ^i^veloi.- Lvity The latter cells are named the odonioh asts '^{^^^'^^^^^ i^'f lTv formed, ment of the tooth, are columnar in shape 1^" I'-^ter on. aftc> e f^^^l^^^^^;,^^^ they become flattened and resemble osteoblasts liie.v J''^;^' J"^. ' ""^ ' processes of the one passing into a dental tubule, the inner being contmuous with the piocesses connective-tissue cells of the i)ulp matrix. ^rnline which forms the bulk The solid ,.ortion of the tooth consists of (1) the (3) a thin of the tooth : (2) the cnmneL which covers the exposed part o'''*'''';"^ layer! Zcemeni or crusla peirosa, which is disposed on the surface of the fang.1097 THE TEETH The ivory, or denline (substantia ebiu-aea) (fig. 907), foruis the principal mass of a tooth • in its central part is the cavity enclosing the pulp. It is a modification of osseous tissue' from which it differs, however, in structure. On microscopic examination it is seen to consist of a number of minute wavy and brandling tubes, the dentinal tubules, "imbedded in a dense homogeneous substance, the matrix. The dentinal tubules (canaliculi dentales) (fig. 908) are placed parallel with one another, and open at thek inner ends into the pulp cavity. In their course to the periphery they present two or three curves, and are twisted on themselves in a spu-al direction, ihese tubes vary in direction : thus in a tooth of the mandible they are vertical in the upper portion of the crown, becoming oblique and then horizontal in the neck and upper part Fig. 905.—Vertical section of a tooth in situ. Fia. 906.—Vertical section of a (15 diameters.) " molar tooth. of the root, wliile towards the lower part of the root they are inclined downwards. In theu- course they divide and subdivide dichotomously, so as to give to the cut surface of the dentine a striated appearance. From the sides of the tubes, especially in the fang, ramifications of extreme minuteness are given off, which join together in loo]3S in the matrix, or terminate in small dilatations, from which branches are given off". Near the jjeriphery ot the dentine, the finer ramifications of the tubules terminate imperceptibly by free ends. The dentinal tubules have comparatively thick walls, consisting, in addition to the intertubular tissue, of an elastic homogeneous membrane, the dentinal sheath of Nexmuinn, which resists the action ot acids ; they contain slender cylindrical prolongations of the odontoblasts, first described by Tomes, and named Tomes's fibres or dentinal fibres.1098 SPLANCHNOLOGY The mairix is translucent, and contains the cliicf part of the earthy matter of the dentine. In it arc a number of fine fibrils, which are continuous with the fibrils of the dental pulp. After the earthy matter has been removed by steeping a tooth in weak acid, the animal basis remaining may be torn into lamina) which run parallel with the pulp cavity, across the direction of the tubes. A section of di-y dentine often displays a series of somewhat parallel lines—the incremenkil lines of Sailer. These lines are com])osed of imperfectly calcified dentine arranged in layers. In consequence of the imperfection in the calcifying process, little ii-regular cavities are left, termed interglobular spaces (spatia interglobularia). Normally a series of these spaces is found towards the outer surface of the dentine, where they form a layer, which is sometimes kno^vn as the granular layer (tig. 907). They have received their name from the fact that they are siu-rounded by mfnute nodules or globules of dentine. Other curved Imes may be seen parallel to the surface. These are the lines of Schreger, and are due to the optical effect of simultaneous curvature of the dentinal fibres. Chemical Composition.—^According to Berzelius and von Bibra, dentine consists of 28 parts of animal and 72 of earthy matter. The animal matter is converted by boiling into gelatin. The earthy matter consists of phosphate of lime, carbonate of lime, a trace of fluoride of calcium, phosphate of magnesia, and other salts. The enamel (substantia adamantina) is the hardest and most compact part of the tooth, and forms a thin crust over the exposed part of the crown, as far as Fig. 908.—Transverse section of a portion of the root of a canine tooth. (Magnified 300 diameters.) = Cement 2 Interglobulai '^1 spaces Dentine the commencement of the fang. It is thickest on the grinding surface of the crown, until worn away by attrition, and becomes thinner towards the neck. It consists of minute hexagonal rods or columns termed enamel fibres or enamel prisons (prismata adamantina). They lie parallel wdth one another, resting by one extremity upon the dentine, which presents a number of minute depressions for theii- reception ; and forming the free surface of the crown by the other extremity. The columns are dii-ected vertically on the summit of the crown, horizontally at the sides; they are about of an inch in diameter, and pursue a more or less wavy course. Each column is a six-sided prism and presents numerous dark transverse shadings; these shadings are probably due to the manner in which the columns are developed in successive stages, producing shallow constrictions, as will be sub- sequently explained. Another series of lines, having a brown appearance, the parallel slrim or coloured lines of Retzius, is seen on section. According to Ebncr, they are produced by air in the inter- prismatic spaces ; others believe that they are the result of true pigmentation. Numerous minute interstices intervene between the enamel fibres near their dentina ends, a provision calculated to allow of the permeation of fluids from the dentmal tubule into the substance of the enamel. , Chemical Composition.-kooovAing to von Bibra, ename cons sts « f P^^j^^"^ of earthy matter, and 3-5 per cent, of animal matter.* The earthy "^"^^ ° phosphate of lime, with traces of fluoride of calcuim, carbonate of Imie, phosphate ot '^^'Si::tXosto^ c^ner^i (substantia ossea), is f^osf -^^'^^X^^^^^ roots of the teeth, from the termination of the enamel to the apex of it is usually very thick. In structure and chemical composition it resembles bone It containrimrlngi, the lacuna and cnnaliculi which characten.se true bone; lac^n'^ iTced n;a? tL^S^^^ have the canaliculi radiating ^l^-^}^^^^^ the periodontal membrane ; and those more deep y placed ° " V^'' ^iXJci^Tan canals tubules. In the thicker portions of the crusta petrosa, the lamella; and ila^ eisian peculiar to bone are also found. . ~T^^ disputes Uns:;;d:says that'enamel isTm inorganic ^^^^^'^^.^t'''' been regarded as organic matter is in reality merely water in combmation «.th the .alt..THE TEETH 1099 As age advances, thecementin™ of the dental pulp, which shrinks, or even disappears. Development of the Teeth (figs. 909 to 912) In describing the development of the teeth, the mode of formation of the temporary •n f^^fl, Tvin,*- fircii- be considered, and then that of the permanent series, ''^ve oplenTof Se^ t development of these teeth begins at a verfearlyTeHod of fa>tal life-abo^ the sixth week. It commences as a thickening of SpUhelium a ong the line of the future jaw, the thickemng being due to a rapid multi- nlTcXn of the more deeply situated epithelial cells. As the cells multiply they extend FShe subjacen^^^esoderm, and thus form a semicircular ridge or strand of cells mibedded Fig 909 -Sagittal section through the first lower temporary molar of a human embryo 30 mm. long. (Rose.) J-^. L.E.L., labio-dentel lamina, here separated from and weU m advance of the dental l^inna ^ i., placed over the shaUow dental fmrow, points to the dental lamina, which is spread out below to form the enamel germ of the future tooth; P.p., bicuspidate papUla, capped by the enamel germ ; Z.S., oonaenaea tissue forming dental sac ; M.E., mouth-epithehum. Fig. 910.—Similar section through the canine tooth of an embryo 40 mm. long, (Rose.) L.F., labio-dental furrow. Tlie other lettering as in fig. 909. in mesoderm. About the seventh week a longitudinal splitting or cleavage of this strand of cells takes place, and it becomes divided uito two strands ; the separation begins in front and extends laterally : the process occupying four or five weeks. Of the two strands thus formed, the cmter or labial forms the futme labio-dental furrow, and is there- fore termed the labio-dental lamina; while the other, the inner ox lingual, is the ridge of cells in connection with which the teeth, both temporary and permanent, are developed. Hence it is known as the dental lamina or common dental germ. It forms a flat band of cells, which1100 SPLANCHNOLOGY glows into tlic substance of the emijrj'onic jaw, at lirst horizontally inwaids, and then, as the teeth develop, vertically, i.e. upwards in the upper jaw, and downwai'd.s in the lower jaw. While still maintaining a horizontal dii-ection, it has two edges ; one, the allached edge, which is continuous with the epithelium lining the raoutli ; the other, the free edge, projecting inwards, and imbedded in the mesodei-nial tissue of the embryonic jaw. Along its line of attachment to the buccal epithelium is a shallow groove, the denial furrow. About the ninth week the dental lamina begins to develop enlargements along its free border. These are ten in number in each jaw, and each corresponds to a future milk tooth. They consist of ma.sses of epitlielial cells; and the cells of the deeper part— that is, the 23art farthest from the margin of the jaw—increase rapidly and spread out in all directions. Each mass thus comes to assume a club shape, connected with the general epithelial lining of the moutli by a narrow neck, embraced by mesoderm. They are now knowTi as special dental germs. After a time the lower expanded portion inclines outwards, so as to form an angle with the superficial constricted portion, which is sometimes known as the neck of the special dental germ. About the tenth week the mesodermal tissue beneath these special dental germs becomes differentiated into jjapillse ; these grow upwards, and come in contact witli the ejjitlielial cells of the special dental germs, which become folded over them like a hood or cap. There is, then, at this stage a papilla (or papillae) which has already begun to assume somewhat the shape of the crown of the futm-e tooth, and from which the dentine and pulp of the tooth are formed, surmounted by a dome or cap of epitlielial cells, from which the enamel is derived. Fig. 911.—^Vertical section of the mandible of an early human foetus. (Magnified 25 diameters.) Dental furroiv Bemains of enamel germ —,jj^...„„„„„„„T-,i.>n-iiML _ti jil :. .il ,„s7,^^rft«NMw-9i™K!^'«Kj<A^»—Ln Enamcl OTgott _____ Dental germ Secondary enamel germ Meckel's cartilage Mandibl-e In the meantime, while these changes have been going on, the dental lamina has been extending backwards behind the special dental germ corresponding to the second molar tooth of the temporary set, and at about the seventeenth week it presents an enlargement, the special dental germ, for the first permanent molar, soon followed by the formation ot a papUla in the mesodermal tissue for the same tooth. This is followed, about the sixth month after bhth, by a further extension backwards of the dental lamina, with the formation of another enlargement and its corresponding papilla for the second moiai. And finally the process is repeated for the thii-d molar, its papUla appearing about the fifth year of life. , , , . j 4.„^ After the formation of the special dental germs, the dental lamina undergoes atropine changes and becomes cribriform, except on the lingual and lateral aspects of each ot tne special germs of the temporary teeth, where it undergoes a local tlnckcnmg, forming the special dental germ of each of the successional permanent teeth—i.e. the ten anteiior onas in each jaw. Here the same process goes on as has been described in connec on with those of the milk teeth: that is, they recede into the substance of he g^i"l'^fhind the germs of the temporary teeth. As they recede they become f'J^^Y'^n fln,^ in expansion at their distal extremity, and finally meet a papilla, which has been foimed n the mesoderm, just in the same manner as was the case m the temporary tec*^;- J apex of the papilla indents the dental germ, which encloses it and. fo'-"^ l,ecomes converted into the enamel, while the papilla forms the dentine and pulp ot the P"~Vr;'dental germs consist at first of rounded or polyhedral epitj-l.;! ->^^^^^ after the formation of the papiUiB, these cells undergo a dilTerentiation into three classes.THE TEETH 1101 Fig. 912.—Dental sac of a human embryo at an advanced stage of develoj)ment. Partly diagrammatic. Those which are in immecUate contact witli the pai)illa become elongated, and form a layer of well-marked columnar epithelium coating the pajjiila. They are the cells which form the enamel fibres, and are therefore termed enamel cells or adamantohlasla. The cells of the outer layer of the special dental germ, which are in contact with the inner surface of the dental sac, presently to be described, are much shorter, cubical in form, and are named the external enamel ejnthelmm. All the intermediate round cells of the dental germ between these two layers undergo a peculiar change. They become stellate in shape and develop processes, which unite to form a network into which fluid is secreted; this has the appearance of a jelly, and to it the name of enamel pulp is given. This transformed special dental germ is now known under the name of enamd organ. While these changes are going on, a sac is formed around each enamel organ from the sm-rounding mesodermal tissue. This is known as the denkd sac, and is a vascular membrane of coimective tissue. It grows up from below, and thus encloses the whole tooth germ ; as it grows it causes the neck of the enamel organ to atrophy and disappear ; so that all communication between the enamel organ and the superficial epithelium is cut off. At this stage there are vascular papilte svu-mounted by inverted caps of epithelial cells, the whole being surrounded by membranous sacs. The cap consists of an internal layer of cells—the enamel cells or adamantoblasts—in contact with the papilla ; of an external layer of cells—the external enamel epithelium—lining the interior of the dental sac; and of an intermediate mass of stellate cells, with anastomosing processes—the enamel pulp (fig. 912). Formation of the enamel.—The enamel is formed exclusively from the enamel cells or adamantoblasts of the special dental germ, either by direct calcification of the columnar cells, which become elongated into the hexa- gonal rods of the enamel; or, as is believed by some, as a secretion from the adamanto- blasts, ^\ithin which calcareous matter is subsequently deposited. The process begins at the apex of each cusp, at the ends of the enamel cells, in con- tact with the dental papilla. Here a fine globular deposit takes place, being apparently shed from the end of the adamantoblasts. It is known by the name of enamel droplet, and resembles keratin in its resistance to the action of mineral acids. This di-oplet then calcifies and forms the first layer of the enamel; a second di'oplet now appears and calcifies, and so on ; successive droplets of keratin-like material are shed from the adamantoblasts and form successive layers of enamel, the adamantoblasts gradually receding as each layer is produced, until at the termination of the process they have almost disappeared. The intermediate cells of the enamel pulp atrophy and disappear, so that the newly formed calcified material and the external enamel epithelium come into apposition. This latter layer, however, soon disappears on the emergence of the tooth beyond the gum. After its disappearance the crown of the tooth is still covered by a distinct membrane, which remains persistent for some time. This is known as the cuticula denlis, or NasmytJis membrane, and is believed to be the last-formed layer of enamel derived from the adamantoblasts, which has not become calcified. It forms a horny layer, which may be sejiarated from the subjacent calcified mass by the action of strong acids. It is marked by the hexagonal impressions of the enamel prisms, and, when stained by nitrate of silver, shows the characteristic appearance of epithelium. Formation of the dentine.—While these changes are taking place in the epithelium to form the enamel, contemporaneous changes occuiTing in the differentiated mesoderm of the dental papillae result in the formation of the dentine. As before stated, the first germs of the dentine are the papillae, corresponding in number to the teeth, formed from the soft mesodermal tissue whicli bounds the depressions containing the special enamel germs. The papilla; grow upwards into the enamel germs and become covered by them, both being enclosed in a vascular connective tissue, the dental sac, in the manner above described. Each papilla then constitutes the formative pulp from \\'hich the dentme and permanent pulp are developed ; it consists of rounded cells, and is very vascular, and soon begins to assume the shape of the future tooth. The next step is the appeai'ance of the odontoblasts, which have a relation to the development of the teeth similar to that of 0. Wall of the sac, formed of connective tissue, with its outer stratum, o', and its inner, a . i. Enamel organ, c. The external enamel epitheUum. d. The enamel cells, c. Dentine cells. /. Dental papilla. (/, i. Transition of the wall of the folUcle into the tissue of the dental germ.1102 SPLANCHNOLOGY the osteoblasts to the formation of bone. Tliey are formed from the cells of the periphery of the papilla—that is to say, from the cells in immediate contact with the adamantoblasts of the special dental germ. These cells become elongated ; one end of the elongated cell restme against the epithelium of the special dental germs, the other being tapered and often branched By the du-ect transformation of the peripheral ends of these cells, or by a secretion from them, a layer of uncalcified matrix is formed which caps the cusp or cusps, if there are more than one, of the papUl^. In this matrix islets of calcification make thek appearance, and coalescing give rise to a continuous layer of calcified material which covers each cusp and constitutes the fii-st layer of dentine. The odontoblasts, having thus formed the first layer, retu'e towards the centre of the papilla, and as they do so produce successive layers of dentine from their peripheral extremities—that is to say, they form the dentinal matrix in which calcification subsequently takes place. As they thus recede from the periphery of the papilla, they leave behind them filamentous Processes of ceU protoplasm,^provided with finer side processes; these are suiTOunded by calcified mater and thus form the dentinal tubules, and, by thek side branches, the anastomosmg tabules whereby the dentinal tubules communicate: the processes of protoplasm conSed within them, constitute the dentinal fibres (Tomes's fibres) which as mentioned above are found within the tubules. In this way the entke thickness of the dentme ^ developed, each tubule being completed throughout its whole length by a smgle odonto- blast The central part of the papilla does not undergo calcification, but persists the nulD of the tooth. In this process of formation of dentine it has been shown that an un- ified matrL is first devLped, and that in this matrix ^ ?L'llnn™Ee which subseauentlv blend together to form a cap to each cusp : in like manner successive Tavers ^re produe^^^ which\ltimately become blended with each other. In certain nllces thTs bSng is not complete, portions of the matrix remaimng uncalcified between ?ie successive^ ; this gives rise. In the macerated tooth, to little spaces, which are the "^'^^^^fZ clt^":-t of the tooth begins to be f ormed sborUy ^^^^^^^^^ Imp manner as in the ordinary intra-membranous ossification of bone. In this way tue -=:^^^=^-^!=^ ;=^STthnSSrmf^^^^^^ loculi.eachloculus contaimngth. specral d^^^^^^^^^^ ^3 ponding permanent tooth, f'^^^l^^j^^^,^^^'^.f,^^^^^ its corresponding permanent s%arat'e \oculi (the future alveoli) for he - 1^ ^^^^^^^^^ ^Sned fn\he cavity tooth. Although at one time the whole of f ™S ^1^^^^ is always an aperture of the alveolus, the latter never completely f ^1°?,^^, *^.'i"';^ ^^^^eIs con which, like them, are ten in number in each J*;^ ' ^^^^^^^^^^ ^^e superadded distal to ieeth ; and (2) those which have no te'^Jf ^^^T 1 y,^J,^^f in'^each jaw. and are the temporary dental series. These are three n number on either siae i J^^^^^^ ^^^^ termed superadded permanent teeth. They ai« Jje th ee mo'ars « ^^^^^ of the the molars of the temporary set being replaced by f^^. teeth-the ten anterior permanent set. The development of the detbpment the permanent ones in either jaw-has aheady been indicated J^^^^^f the tempoVary (ccth teeth, enclosed in their sacs, come to be l lf-^^^^V'^Ks already stated, are separated and more distant from the margin of he ^^^ure gum at^d as alr^^^^^ ^ absorption from them by bony partitions As the <=77"«/^., "'i;'^""S takes j^lace. through the1103 THE. TEETH afterwards subjected, eruption takes place, the tooth making its way through tlie gum. The gum is absorbed by the pressure of the crown of the tooth against it, which is itself pressed up by the increasing size of the fang. At the same time the septa between the dental sacs, at first fibrous in structure, ossify, and constitute the alveoli ; these firmly embrace the necks of the teeth, and afford them a solid basis of support. The eruption of the temporary teeth commences at the seventh month after birth, and is completed about the end of the second year, those of the lower jaw preceding those of the upper. The following, according to C. S. Tomes, are the most usual times of eruption : Lower central incisors 6 to 9 months. Upper incisors 8 to 10 months. Lower lateral incisors and fii'st molars . . 15 to 21 months. Canines 16 to 20 months. Second molars 20 to 24 months. Calcification of the permanent teeth proceeds in the following order in the lower jaw (in the upper jaw it takes place a little later) : the first molar, soon after birth ; the central and lateral incisors, and the canine, about six months after birth ; the bicuspids, at the second year, or a Mttle later ; the second molar, about the end of the second year ; the third molar, about the twelfth year. The eruption of the permanent teeth takes place at the following periods, the teeth of the lower jaw preceding those of the upper by a short interval : First molars 6th year. Two central incisors 7th year. Two lateral incisors 8th year. First bicuspids 9th year. Second bicusjDids 10th year. Canines 11th to 12th year. Second molars 12th to 13th year. ' Wisdom ' teeth 17th to 25th year. To\vards the sixth year, before the shedding of the temporary teeth begins, there are twenty-four teeth in each jaw, viz. the ten temporary teeth and the crowns of all the permanent teeth except the third molars. Applied Anatomy.—As a consequence of local irritation or of chronic digestive disturbances occurring during theii- eruption, both the temjjorary and the permanent teeth may show defective development or irregular transverse furrowing and erosions ; this is particularly the case with the incisors. Quite distinct from, and much less common than this, is a characteristic malformation of the two upper central permanent incisors seen in patients with inherited syphilis, and fu'st described by Hutchinson. Here there is a crescentic notch in the anterior surface and at the cutting edge of the tooth, which is peg-shaped, stunted, and often also set obUquely in the gum, pointing either inwards or outwards. Numerous forms of innocent iumour arising fi-om the teeth, or from their constituent layers, have been described under the general name of odontama. Injection of the pulp of a tooth by bacteria gaining access thereto in consequence of dental caries gives rise to the common and very painful alveolar abscess; starting in the apical space between the root of the tooth and its alveolar socket, the pus from such an abscess may make its way into the antrum, or burst through the hard palate or cheek. A more superficial abscess forming between the root of a tooth and the gum is kno\vn as a gum-boil. The Tongue The tongue is the principal organ of the sense of taste, and is an important organ of speech ; it also assists in the mastication and deglutition of tlie food. It is situated in the floor of the mouth, witliin the curve of the body of the mandible. Its base, or root (radix linguae), is directed backwards, and connected with the hyoid bone by the Hyo-glossi and Genio-hyo-glossi muscles and the liyo-glossal membrane ; with the epiglottis by three folds (glosso-epiglottic) of mucous membrane ; with the soft palate by means of the anterior pillars of the fauces ; and with the pharynx by the Superior constrictors and the1104 SPLANCHNOLOGY mucous membrane. Its apex (apex lingua;), thin and narrow, is directed forwards against the inner surfaces of the lower incisor teetii. Its under sicrface (facies inferior) is connected with the mandible by the Genio-hyo-glossus muscles ; from its sides, the mucous membrane is reflected to the inner surface of the gums ; and from its under surface on to the floor of the mouth, where, in the middle line, it is elevated into a distinct vertical fold, tlie frenulum linguce. To the outer side of the frenulum is a slight fold of the mucous membrane, the plica fimbriata, the free edge of which exhibits a series of fringe- like processes. The tip of the tongue, part of the under surface, its sides, and dorsum are free. The dorsum of the tongue (dorsum linguae) (fig. 913) is convex, marked along the middle line by a furrow (sulcus medianus), which divides it into symmetrical Fig, 913.—^Upper surface of the tongue. Pharynx Uvula Posterior pillar of fauces Tonsil Epiglotlis Anterior pillar of fauces Papillm VallatcB Fungiform papillce halves- this furrow terminates behind, about an inch from tlio base of the orgin in a depression, foramen caecum, ivom which a -^ll^ll^;; § ^r^^i^^l ^ S; terminalis, runs out4-ards and forwards ^i^.^^^h^^^ j^^^^^^^^^^ • margin of the tongue. The part of the dorsum of the tongue^m ^ "J , Toove, forming aLut two-thirds of its sux•^ac.^ oc>ks^u^^^^^^^ !nd covered with papillae ; the posterior t'^^d looLs bacU .ud^^^^^^^ the lower part of the duct. These are papillary1105 THE TONGUE two-thirds of its upper surface, giving to it its cliaracteristic roughness. The varieties of papUlae met wnth are tlie papUlse vallataj, j)apilise fungiformes, papillae filiformes, and papillte siniplices. Tlie papillm vallatce are of large size, and \'ary from eight to twelve in number. They are situated on the dorsum of the tongue immediately in front of the foramen caecum and sulcus terminalis, forming a row on either side ; the ty\'o row s run backwards and inwards, and meet in the middle line, like the limbs of the letter V inverted. Each papilla consists of a projection of mucous membrane from v,V to iV of a-n inch wide, attached to the bottom of a circular depression of the mucous membrane ; the papilla is shajjed like a truncated cone ; the smaller end being directed dowmvards and attached to the tongue, the broader part or base projecting a little above the surface of the tongue and being studded with numerous small secondary iDapillse and covered by stratified squamous epithelium. The cup-shaped depression forms a kind of fossa round the papilla, and the mucous membrane outside the fossa forms a circular elevation, named the wall (vallum). The papillce fungiformes, more numerous than the preceding, are found chiefly at the sides and apex, but are scattered irregularly and sparingly over the dorsum. They are easily recognised, among the other papilla, by their large size, rounded eminences, and deep red colour. They are narrow at their attachment to the tongue, but broad and rounded at their free extremities, and covered with secondary papiUse. Fig. 914.—^The thi-ee kinds of papillse. (Magnified.) Wilifnrm The papillce filiformes cover the anterior two-thirds of the dorsum of the tongue. They are very minute, more or less conical or filiform in shape, and arranged in lines parallel with the two rows of the papUlis circumvallatse ; excepting at the apex of the organ, where their direction is transverse. Pro- jecting fi'om their apices are numerous filiform processes, or secondary papillae; these are of a wiiitish tint, owing to the thickness and density of the epithelium of which they are composed, and whicli lias here undergone a peculiar modifica- tion, the cells having become cornified and elongated into dense, imbricated, brush-like processes. They contain also a number of elastic fibres, which render them firmer and more elastic than the papillse of mucous membrane generally. Simple papillce, similar to those of the skin, cover the whole of the mucous membrane of the tongue, as w^ell as the larger papillae. They consist of clcsely set microscopic elevations of the corium, contaming a papillary loop, covered by a layer of epithelium. Structure of the tongue.—The tongue is partly invested by mucous membrane and a suhmucoius fibrous layer. It con.sists of symmetrical halves, separated from each other m the middle line by a fibrous septum (septum linguaj). l-^aoh half is composed of muscular fibres arranged in various directions (page 480), containing much interposed fat, and supplied by vessels and nerves. The mucous membrane differs in different parts. Tliat covering the under surface of the organ is thin, smooth, and identical in structure with that lining the rest of the 4 BSPLANCHNOLOGY 1106 oral cavity The mucous membrane of tlie dorsum of the tongue behind the foramen CMCum and sulcus terminalis is thick and freely movable over the subjacent parts. It contains a large number of lymplioid follicles, which together constitute what is sometiiiios termed the lingual tonsil (tonsiUa hngualis). Each follicle forms a rounded eminence, the centre of wiiich is perforated by a minute orifice leadmg into a funnel- shaped cavity or recess ; around this recess are grouped numerous oval or rounded nodulers of lymphoid tissue, each enveloped by a capsule derived from the submucosa, while ooemne into the bottom of the recesses are also seen the ducts of mucous glands. Ihe mucous membrane on the anterior part of the dorsum of the tongue is thin, intunately adherent to the muscular tissue, and presents numerous minute surface eminences, the fafillcB of the tongue. It consists of a layer of connective tissue, the corium or muwsa, covered with epithelium. ., . , , . i • The epithehum is of the scaly variety, like that of the epidermis, but is much thmner than that of the skin: the intervals between the large papillae are not fi led up by it, but each papUla has a separate investment from root to summit. The deepest cdk may sometimes be detached as a separate layer, correspondmg to the rete mucosum, but they never contain colourmg matter. ... The cormm consist! of a dense felt-work of fibrous connective ti.ssue with numerous elastic fibres, firmly connected vvith the fibrous tissue forming the septa between the muscular bundles o^f the tongue. It contains the ramifications of the numerous vessels Fig. 915.—Section of papilla foliata of a rabbit. (Magnified.) PapillcB Taste- buds and nerves from which the papillas are supplied, large plexuses of lymphatic vessels, and the glands of the tongue. Structure of the papiUcc (fig. 915).—The papilla! appa- rently resemble ui structm-e those of the cutte, consistmg of cone- shaped projections of connective tissue, covered with a thick layer of squamous epithehum, and containing one or more capillary loops, among which nerves are distributed m gi-eat abundance. If the epithelium be removed, it mil be found that they are not sunple elevations Kke the papilla- of the skm, for the surface of each is studded with minute conical i)rocesses which form secondary papillae. In the papillffi ckcumvallatoe, the nerves are numerous and of large size : in the papillte fungiformes they _ are also numerous, and termi- nate in a plexiform network, from which brush-like branches proceed; in^Jhe papilte fihformes, theh mode of ^^^XSV^^^oS^^The tongue is provided with ~ "^^^ ^"%,ey are The mucous glands are similar in structm-e to the labial and l^"^^^'f'^'^f 'A^i^nt found especially at the back part behind the cu;cumvallate J"/^^VJ.V em^^^ at the apex and marginal parts. In this connection the glands f Bl^Khn o Js^^^^^^^^ le^ snecial notice. They are situated on the under surface of the apex oi J^n^ . , Sr sideof the fren'ulum, where they are covered by a f-----^^ Jo nearlv n1 from tlie Stylo-glossus and Inferior ^-^f'-.^'J^^ ^^J'^^^^ on inch long, and about the thkd oi an inch broad, and each opens i)> tmcc o the under surface of the apex (fig. 01(5). neishbourhood of (he The serms glands occur only at the back of the tongue in the "^'^ r' . „,.,^],„te taste-buds, their duct« opening for the ^^.t v^vt u.io _a.e io^^ o^^^^^^^^^^^^ papilla. These glands are racemose, the duct branclnng mlo .several m^^^^^^^^^ terminate in alveoli, lined by a single aycr of ']'^'^.^'^^^^^^^ o e sul3s(anee to secretion is of a watery nature, and probably assists in the distnbution oi be tasted over the ta.s'te area. (Ebner.) „f (ii.rmx, (issue extending throughout The tibrms scptuw. consists of a vertical layer of ''"''^^^X'^' ^U^. d^ouph not the entire length of the middle Hne of the tongue from the l^^^se to th^^^^^^^^ p^^^. quite reaching tlie doi^um. It is thicker '-In.ul ban m f'^'f r^'^^^VSa^^^ bv making a small fibro-cartilage. about a quarter of an inch m length. It is ^^ eii aisi . a vertical section across the organ. l„,„ina which connects the under The hipglossal membrane is a strong fi';T\'";"^"uo;7'"Sis membrane reed surface of the base of the tongue to the body of the hyoid bone, ims me in front, some of the fibres of the Gemo-hyo-glossus muscles.1107 THE TONGUE Muscles.—^The muscular fibres of the tongue run in various directions. These fibres are divided into two sets, extrinsic and intrinsic, which have aheady been described (pages 479 to 482). Vessels and Nerves.—The main artery of the tongue is the Ungual branch of the external carotid, but the facial and ascending pharyngeal also give branches to it. The veins open into the internal jugular. The lymphalics o f the tongue have been described on page 770. The nerves of the tongue are : (1) the lingual branch of the tliird division of the fifth, which is distributed to the papillas at the fore-part and sides of the tongue, and forms tlie nerve of ordinary sensibility for its anterior two-tliirds ; (2) the choi-da lympani branch of the facial nerve, which runs in the sheath of the lingual, and is generally regarded as the nerve of taste for the anterior two-tliirds ; tliis nerve is a continuation of the sensory root of the facial (pars intermedia of Wrisberg); (3) the lingual branch of the glosso-pharyngeal, which is distributed to the mucous membrane at the base and sides of the tongue, and to the papillae vallatae, and which supplies both sensory and gustatory filaments to this region; (4) the hypoglossal nerve, which is tlie motor nerve to the muscular substance of the tongue ; (5) the superior laryngeal, which sends some fine branches to the root near the epiglottis. Affiled Anatomy.—The diseases to which the tongue is liable are numerous, and any or all of the structures of which it is composed—muscles, connective tissue, mucous membrane, glands, vessels, nerves, and lymphatics—may be the seat of morbid cJianges. It IS not often the seat of congenital defects, tliough a few cases of vertical cleft have been recorded, and it is occasionally, though much more rarely than is commonly supposed, the seat of ' tongue tie,' fi-om sliortness of the frenulum. There is one condition which may be regarded as congenital, the so-called macroglossia, though sometimes it does not evidence itself until a year or two after birth. This is an enlargement of the tongue which is due primarily to a dilatation of the lympli-channels and a gi'eatly increased development of the lympliatic tissue throughout the oigan. This IS often aggravated by inflammatory changes induced by injm-y or exposure, and the tongue may assume enormous dimensions and hang out of the mouth, giving tlie child an imbecile expression. The treatment consists in excising a V-shaped portion and bringing the cut surfaces together with deeply placed sutm-es. Acute inflammation of the tongue, wliich may be caused by injury and the introduction ot some septic or irritating matter, is attended by gi-eat swelling from infiltration of Its connective tissue, which is in considerable quantity. This renders the patient incapable ot swallowing or speaking, and may seriously impede respu-ation. It may run on to suppuration, and the formation of an acute abscess. 4b 21108 SPLANCHNOLOGY In all ages the mucous membrane of the tongue has received much sedulous considera- tion in disease, and it is certain that the amount and the distribution of the ' fur' with which it may be covered often give valuable help in diagnosis. The fm' consists of lao- liferating or desquamated epithelium, bound up with insi)i8sated mucus, the debris of food, and bacteria of all sorts. The mucous membrane of the tongue may Ijecome chronically inflamed, and presents different appearances in the various stages of the disease, to which the terms leucoplakia and psoriasis lingua; have been given. They are usually the result ^The^ongue, being very vascular, is often the seat of najvoid growths, and these have a tendency to increase rapidly. _ The tongue is frequently the seat of ulceration, which may arise from many causes, as from the irritation of jagged teeth, dyspepsia, tuberculosis, syphilis, and cancer. Of these the cancerous ulcer is the most important and also the most common. The variety is the squamous epitheUoma, which soon develops into an ulcer with an indurated edge, it causes great pain, which speedily extends to all parts supphed wth seasation by the fifth nerve, especially to the region of the ear (amiculo-temporal branch). Cancer of the tongue may necessitate removal of a part or the whole of the organ and many different methods have been adopted for its excision. It may be removed from the mouth by the ecraseur or the scissors. Probably the better method is by the scissors, usually known as Whitehead's method. The mouth is \videly opened with a gag, the tongue transfixed with a stout silk ligatui-e, by which to hold and make traction on it; the reflection of mucous membrane from the tongue to the jaw, and the insertion of the Genio-hyo-glossusarefest divided with a paii' of '=f^ed, blunt.pomted scissors^ The Palato-glossus is also divided. The tongue can now be pulled well out of tjie mouth The bale of the tongue is cut through by a series of short smps, each bleeding vessel ,;Sng dealt with as soon as divided, until the situation of the mam arte^-J' is reached. •The remaining undivided portion of tissue is to be seized ^nth a paii of Wells forceps thTtongue removed, and the vessel secured. In the event of the artery being accidentally infZd, haemorrhage can be at once controlled by passing the forefinger over tS tong^e\m\t torches the epiglottis, and then tm-ning it f-rds he side on w^ch^h artery fs to be compressed, and pushing it forcibly against the jaw (Heath In case where the disease is confined to one side of the tongue t\m of^eratoon may be modihed bv shutting the tongue down the centre and removmg only the agected halt. ^^ rSs where'the submaxillary lymphatic glands are ^^^f^^'l^^^^^^^^^^^^ bout in the s,,bmaxill.t.y region and along S'''', *~*i„°le^^^^ o7Tl,e floor from the mouth. The Salivary Glands (fig. 917) The principal salivary glands -mmumcj^i.^ jvitl^^^ their secretion into its cavity, are ^Jj^ 1^ ° of the three Parotid gland.-The parotid f ^'J"; '^^"^^^^^^ announce. It lies salivary glands, varying m ^^"eigl}t f'oni halt .^^^^^^ upon tlie side of the face, immeduately be o ^ ^^^^^^^ .^„d c,uadri- The main portion of the gland is ^'^P^^^^^^l-^^^'^^ in front and lateral in form, and is placed between the i^"' ^^^^^^^ "veSappine, however, the mastoid process and Sterno-mastoKl "^"f Slow it extends to both boundaries. Above, it is l";"ted by th^ zygo'^^^^ bel fascia ; tlie layer covering the ou er Je ^,^e ^ the tlie gUnd ; a portion of the fascia attached « « ^ ^^^l,,,!,, li.anuMit1109 THE SALIVARY GLANDS The anterior surface of the gland is moulded on the posterior border of tlie ramus of the mandible, clothed by tlie Internal pterygoid and Masseter muscles. The inner lip of the groove dips, ifor a short distance, between tlie two Pterygoid muscles, wliile the outer lip extends for some distance over the superficial surface of the Masseter ; a small portion of this lip immediately below the zygoma is usually detached, and is named the socia parotidis. The outer or superficial surface, slightly lobulated, is covered by the integu- ment, the superficial fascia containing the facial branches of the great auricular nerve and some small lymphatic glands, and the fascia wliich forms the capsule of the gland. The inner or deep surface extends inwards by means of two processes, one of which lies on the styloid process and the styloid group of muscles and projects under the mastoid process and Sterno-mastoid muscle ; the other is situated in front of tlie styloid process, and passes into the posterior part of the glenoid fossa beliind the temporo-mandibular joint. The deep surface is in contact with the internal and external carotid arteries, the internal jugular vein, and the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. EiG. 917.—The salivary glands. The anterior border lies on the superficial surface of the Masseter ; the posterior abuts on the external auditory meatus and the mastoid process, and overlaps the anterior edge of the Sterno-mastoid. The superior border is in contact with the zygomatic arch, and the inferior overlaps the posterior beUy of the Digastric. The inner border, at the junction of the anterior and inner surfaces, is separated from the ])haryngeal wall by some loose connective tissue. Structures within the gland.—The external carotid artery lies at first on the deep surface, and then in the substance of the gland. The artery gives off its posterior auricular branch which emerges from the gland behind; it then divides into its terminal brandies, the internal maxillary and superficial temporal ; the former runs inwards behind the neck of tlie mandible ; the latter runs upwards across the zygoma, and gives off its transverse facial branch which emerges from the front of the gland. Superficial to the arteries are the temporal and internal maxillary veins, uniting to form theSPLANCHNOLOGY 1110 teinporo-inaxillary vein ; in tlie lower part of the gland this vein splits into anterior and posterior divisions. Tlio anterior division emerges from the gland to join the facial vein; the posterior unites in the gland with tlie posterior auricular to form the external jugular vein. On a still more superficial plane is the facial nerve, the branches of which emerge at the ujiper and anterior borders of the gland. Branches of the great auricular nerve pierce the gland to join the facial, wiiile the auriculo-temporal branch of tlie inferior maxillary nerve issues from the upper part of the gland. The duct of the parotid gland, or Stenson's duct (ductus parotideus), is about two inches and a half in length. It commences by numerous branches from the anterior part of tlie gland, crosses the Masseter muscle, and at its anterior border turns inwards nearly at a right angle and passes into the substance of the Buccinator muscle, which it pierces ; it then runs for a short distance obliquely forwards Tjetween the Buccinator and mucous membrane of the mouth, and opens upon the inner surface of the cheek by a small orifice, opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. While crossing the Masseter it receives the duct of socia parotidis ; in this position it has the transverse facial artery above it and some branches of the facial nerve below it. structure.—The parotid duct is dense, its wall being of considerable thickness; its canal is about the size of a crow-quill, but at its orifice on the inner aspect of the cheek its lumen is greatly reduced in size. It consists of a thick external fibrous coat which contains contractile fibres, and of an internal or mucous coat lined with short columnar epithelium. Surface Form.—The dii-ection of the duct corresponds to a line drawn across the face about a finger's breadth below the zygoma^that is, from the lower margin of the concha to midway between the red margin of the upper lip and the ala of the nose. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the parotid gland are derived from the external carotid, and from the branches given off by that vessel in or near its substance. The veins empty themselves into the external jugular, thi'ough some of its tributanes. The lymphatics terminate in the superficial and deep cervical glands, pa.ssing m then- com-se through two or thiee Ivmphatic glands, placed on the siu-face and m the substance of the parotid. The nerves are derived from the plexus of the sympathetic on the external carotid artery, the facial, the auriculo-temporal, and the great aui-icular nerves. It is probable that the branch from the auriculo-temporal nerve is derived from the glosso-pharyngeal through the otic gangUon. At all events, in some of the lower animals this has been proved experimentally to be the case. Submaxillary gland.—The submaxillary gland (gl. submaxillaris) is irregular in form and about the size of a walnut. A considerable part of it is situated in the submaxillary triangle, reaching forwards to the anterior beUy of the Digastric and backwards to the stylo-hyoid ligament, which intervenes between it and the parotid gland. Above, it extends under cover of the body of the mandible ; below, it usuaUy overlaps the hitermediate tendon of the Digastric and the insertion of the Stylo-hyoid, while from its deep surface a torigue-like deep process extends forwards and inwards above the Mylo-hyoid ^"^^Its's^lperficial surface consists of an upper and a lower part. The upper part is directed outwards, and lies against the submaxillary fossa^on the inner Surface of the body of the mandible. The loiver part is directed do^^•n^^■ards and outwards, and is covered by the skin, superficial f^'^'fl^^yfj'^'f X deep cervical fascia ; it is crossed by the facial vein and fil'-vnient^^^ facial nerve; in contact Avith it, near the mandible, are the submaxillaix lympluatic gands^^^^ is in relation with the Mylo-hyoid, Hyo-glossus, Styl.^- clossus, Stvlo-hyoid, and posterior belly of the Digastric ; in contact with it Sre the mylo-hyoid nerve and the mylo-hyoid and submental vessels The facial artery is imbedded in a groove in the posterior bordei of the ^^''"rhe deep process of the gland extends forv-ards and ""^"[d^'j^^;^'';';;;^!;; Mvlo-hvoid below and externally, and tiie Hyo-glos,sus and Stylo-glossus Xnaiiy; above it, is the lingual nerve; below it, the hypoglossal nene and the ranine vein. Tiru-,^4-^„'c rlnrf Mnotus The duct of the submaxillary gland, or ^Vharton s due ductu submaxillaris) is about two inches in length, and its ^ than that of the parotid duct. It begins by numerous blanches fiomTHE SALIVARY GLANDS 1111 deep surface of the gland, and runs forAvards and inwards between the Mylo- livoid and the Hyo-glossus and Genio-hyo-glossus muscles, then between the sublincrual gland and tlie Genio-hyo-glossus, and opens by a narrow onhce on the summit of a smaU papUla, at the side of the frenulum Imguse. On the Hyo-glossus muscle it lies between tlie lingual and liypoglossal nerves, but at the anterior border of the muscle it is crossed by the Ungual nerve. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the submaxillary gland are brandies of the facial and lingual. Its veins follow the coiu-se of the arteries Ihe nerves are derived from the submaxillary gangUon, through which it receives fi aments fi-om the chorda tjTiipani of the facial and Ungual branch of the inferior maxillary, sometimes from the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental, and from the sympathetic. Sublingual gland.—The sublingual gland (gl. sublingualis) is the smallest of the salivary glands. It is situated beneath the mucous membrane ot the floor of the mouth, at the side of the frenulum linguai, m contact with the inner surface of the lower jaw, close to the symphysis. It is narrow flattened, shaped somewhat like an almond, and weighs about a d^'achm. it is in relation, above, with the mucous membrane ; bdoiv, with the Mylo-hyoid muscle ; in front, \nth the mandible, and its fellow of the opposite side ; behijid, with "the deep part of the submaxillary gland ; and mternalhj, with the Genio-hyo-glossus, from which it is separated by the Imgual nerve and Wharton's duct. Its excretory ducts {ducts of Rivinus) are from eight to twenty in number ; some join Wharton's duct; others open separately into the mouth, on the elevated crest of mucous membrane [plica sublingualis), caused by the projection of the gland, on either side of the frenulum linguae. One or more join to form a tube, which opens into the Whartonian duct : this is called the duct of Bartholin. Vessels and Nerves.—The sublingual gland is suppUed with blood from the sub- lingual and submental arteries. Its nerves are derived from the lingual, the chorda tympani, and the sympathetic. Structure of the salivary glands.—The saUvary glands are compound racemose glands, consistmg of numerous lobes, which are made up of smaller lobules, connected together by dense areolar tissue, vessels, and ducts. Each lobule consists of the ramifications of a single duct, the branches terminating m dilated ends or alveoli on which the capillaries are distributed. The alveoli are enclosed by a basement-membrane, which is continuous with the membrana propria of the duct. It presents a peculiar reticulated structure, and consists of a network of branched and flattened nucleated cells. The alveoli of the salivary glands are of two kinds, which differ m the appearance of their secretmg cells, in theh size, and m the nature of theh- secretion. (1) The mucous Fig. 918.—a highly magnified section of the submaxillary gland of the dog, stained wdth carmine. (Kolliker.) rrscent of Gianuzzi Alveolim /i'^'' "^i ,^ "^^ \ variety secretes a viscid fluid, which contains mucin ; (2) the serous variety secretes a thinner and more watery fluid. The sublingual gland consists of mucous, the parotid of serous alveoli. The submaxiUary contains both mucous and serous alveoli, the latter, however, preponderating. The cells in the mucous alveoli are spheroidal in shape, glassy and transparent. The nucleus is usually situated near the basement-membrane, and is flattened. The cells contain a quantity of mucinogen, to which their clear, transparent appearance is due.1112 SPLANCHNOLOGY In some alveoli are seen peculiar cresceniic bodies, lying between the cells and the membrana propria. They are termed the cresrcnls of Giunuzzi, or the deifiilunes of Hddenhain (fig. 918), and are com])Osed ol ])olyhedral granular cells, which Heideiihai'n regards as young epithelial cells destined to sujiply the jjlace of those salivary cells which have undergone disintegration. This view, howevei', is not accepted by Klein. In the serous alveoli the cells almost com])letely fill the cavity, so that there is hardly anj' lumen perceptible; they contain granules imbedded in a closely reticulated protoplaism (tie. 919). The ducts are lined at tlieii- origins by epitlielium which difTers little from the pavement type. As the ducts enlarge, tlie epithelial cells change to the columnar type, and the part of the cell next the basement-membrane is finely striated. The lol)ules of the salivary glands are richly supplied with blood-vessels which form a dense network in the inter-alveolar spaces. Fine plexuses of nerves are also found in the interloljular tissue. The nerve-fibrils pierce the basement-membrane of the alveoli, and end in branched varicose filaments between the secreting cells. In the hilus of the submaxillary gland there is a collection of nerve-cells termed Langley's ganglion. Mucous glands.—Besides the salivary glands proper, numerous other glands are found in the mouth. Many of these glands are found at the posterior part of the dorsum of the tongue, behind the cii-cumvallate papillae, and also along its margiiLs as far forwards as the ¥iG. 919.—Section of a serous salivary gland. apex. Others lie around and in the tonsU between its crypts, and large numbers are present in the soft palate, the lips and cheeks. These glands are of the same structui-e as the larger sahvary glands, and are of the mucous or mixed type. Surface Form.—The orifice of the mouth is bounded by the lips, two thick, fleshy folds covered externally by integument and internally by mucous membrane, and con- sisting of muscles, vessels, nen^es, areolar tissue, and numerous small glands. The size of the orifice of the mouth varies considerably in different individuals, but seems to bear a close relation to the size and prominence of the teeth. Its corners usually correspond to the outer border of the canine teeth. In the Mongolian tribes, where the front teeth are large and inclined forward, the mouth is large ; and this, combmed with the thick and everted Hps, wliich appear to be associated ynth prominent teeth, gives to the Negro's face much of the peculiarity by which it is characterised. The smaller tcetti. and the slighter prominence of the alveolar arch of the more highly civilised races, render the oiifice of the mouth much smaller, and thus a small mouth is an indication of intelligence, and is regarded as an evidence of the higher civilisation of the indi\nd«al. Upon looking into the mouth, the first thing to be noted is the tongue, the ujiper surface of wliich will be seen occupying the floor of the ca^^ty. This sm-facc is convex and is marked along tlie middle line by a raphe, which divides it into two symmclricaf portions. The anterior two-thirds arc rough and studded ^rith papilla?; tlie posterior tliu-d, smooth and tuberculated, is covered l)y numerous glands wliich project li-om the surface. Upon raising the tongue, the mucous membrane which invests Us "I'li^r surface may be traced over its sides on to its under sm-face. from ^^•hlcll it is reflected o\ er the floor of the mouth on to the inner surface of the mandible, a part of which coveis. As it pas,ses over the borders of the tongue it changes its charactei-. I'^^^'l""?/'"" "J smooth, and losing the papilke which are to be seen on the upjier surface. In t'^c m^afe line the mucous membrane on the under surface of the tip of the tongue forms a distanct,THE SALIVARY GLANDS 1113 fold, the frenulum linguw, by which this organ is connected to the sympliysis nienti. Occasionally it is found that this frenulum is rather shorter than natui-al, and, acting as a bridle, prevents the complete protrusion of the tongue. When this condition exists and an attempt is made to protrude the organ, the tip will be seen to remain buried in the floor of the mouth, and the dorsum of the tongue is rendered very convex, and more or less extruded from the mouth ; at the same time a deep furrow will be noticed to appear in the middle line of the anterior part of the dorsum. Sometimes, a little external to the frenulum, the ranine vein may be seen immediately beneath the mucous membrane. The corresponding artery, being more deeply placed, does not come into view, nor can its pulsation be felt with the finger! On either side of the frenulum, in the floor of the mouth, is a longitudinal elevation or ridge, produced by the projection of the sublingual gland, which lies immediately beneath the mucous membrane. Close to the attachment of the frenulum to the tip of the tongue may be seen on either side the slit-like orifice of Wharton's duct, into which a fine probe may be passed without much difficulty. In the middle line, both of the upper and lower lip, small folds of mucous membrane pass from the lip to the bone, constituting the frenula ; these are not so large as the frenulum lingua;. By pulling outwards the angle of the mouth the mucous membrane lining the cheeks can be seen, and on it may be perceived a little papilla which marks the position of the orifice of Stenson's duct—the duct of the parotid gland. The exact position of the oi-ifice of the duct is opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The intro- duction of a probe into this duct is attended with considerable difficulty. At the back of the mouth is seen the isthmus of the fauces, or, as it is popularly called, ' the throat': this is the space between the pillars of the fauces on either side, and is the means by which the mouth communicates with the pharynx. Above, it is bounded by the soft palate, the anterior surface of which is concave and covered wth mucous membrane which is continuous with that lining the roof of the mouth. Projecting downwards from the middle of its lower border is a conical projection, the uvula. On either side of the isthmus of the fauces are the anterior and posterior pillars, foi-med by the Palato-glossus and Palato-pharyngeus muscles resjiectively, covered by mucous membrane. Between the two pillars on either side is situated the tonsil. When the mouth is wide open a prominent tense fold of mucous membrane may be seen and felt extending upwards and backwards from the position of the fang of the last molar tooth to the posterior part of the hard palate. This is caused by the pterygo- mandibular hgament which is attached by one extremity to the apex of the internal pterygoid plate, and by the other to the posterior extremity of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw. It intervenes between the Buccinator and the Superior constrictor of the pharynx. The fang of the last molar tooth indicates the position of the Ungual (gustatory) nerve, where it is easily accessible, and can wdth readiness be divided in cases of cancer of the tongue (see page 920). On the inner side of the last molar tooth one can feel the hamular process of the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone, around which the tendon of the Tensor palati jjlays. About one-third of an inch in front of the hamular process and the same distance directly inwards from the last molar tooth is the situation of the opening of the posterior jjalatine canal, through which emerges the posterior or descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary artery, and one of the descending palatine nerves from Meckel's ganglion. The exact position of the opening on the subject may be ascertained by driving a needle through the tissues of the palate in this situation, when it will be at once felt to enter the canal. The artery emerging from the oijening runs forwards in a groove in the bone, just internal to the alveolar border of the hard palate, and may be wounded in the operation for the cure of cleft palate. Under these circum- stances the palatine canal may requii'e plugging. By introducing the finger into the mouth the anterior border of the coronoid process of tlie jaw can be felt, and is especially prominent when the jaw is dislocated. By throwing the head well back a considerable portion of the posterior wall of the pharynx may be seen through the isthmus faucium, and on introducing the finger the anterior surface of the bodies of the upper cervical vertebra} may be felt immediately beneath the thin muscular stratum foi-mmg the wall of the pharynx. The finger can be hooked round the posterior border of the soft palate, and, by turning it forwards, the posterior nares, separated by the septum, can be felt, or the presence of any adenoid or other growths in the naso-pharynx ascertained. Applied Aiuilomy.—The parotid glands, and much less often the other salivary glands, are liable to an acute infectious inflammation, known in the case of tlie parotid as mumps. The affected glands swell up, becoming tense, tender, and painful; much pain is felt when swallo^^•ing or mastication is attempted, and salivation may or may not occur. The inflammation goes down after a few days ; suppui-ation in the affected glands is very rare. The Pharynx The pharynx is that part of the alimentary canal whicli is ijlaced behind the nose, mouth, and larynx. It is a musculo-membranous tube, somewhat conical in form, with the base ui3wards, and the apex do\vnA\-ards, extendingSPLANCHNOLOGY 11M from tlie under surface of tlie skull to the level of the cricoid cartilage in front, and that of the sixtli cervical vertebra beliind. The cavity of the pharynx (cavum pharyngis) is about five inches in lengtli, and broader in tlie transverse than in the antero-posterior diameter. Its m-eatcst breadth is immediately below the base of the skull, where it projects on either side, beliind the orifice of the Eustachian tube, as a recess termed the fossa of Rosenmuller ; its narrowest point is at its termination in tlie oesophagus. It is limited, above, by the body of the sphenoid and Ijasilar process °of the occipital bone ; below, it is continuous with the oesophagus ; posteriorly, it is connected by loose areolar tissue with the cervical portion of the vertebral column, and the Longus colli and Rectus capitis anticus muscles ; anteriorly, it is incomplete, and is attached in succession to the internal ptery<^oid plate, pterygo-mandibular ligament, mandible, tongue, hyoid bone, and thyroid and cricoid cartilages ; laterally, it is connected to the styloid processes and their muscles, and is in contact with the common and internal carotid arteries, the internal jugular veins, and the glosso-pharyngeal, pneu- mogastric, hypoglossal, and sympathetic nerves, and above \\^th a small part of the Internal pterygoid muscles. Seven opemngs commumcate with it, viz the two posterior nares, the two Eustachian tubes, the mouth the larynx, and the oesophagus. The cavity of the phafynx may be subdivided from above downwards into three parts : nasal, oral, and laryngeal (fag. 899). The nasal part, or naso-pharynx (pars nasaUs), lies behind the no.se and above the level of the soft palate : it differs from the two lower parts of the tube in that its cavity always remains patent. In front it commumcates through the choante mth the nasal fossae. On its lateral wall is the pharyjigeal orifice of the Eustachian tube (ostium pharyngeum tubse), somewhat triangular in shape, and bounded behind by a firm prominence, the cushion (torus tubarius), caused by the inner extremity of the cartilage of the tube which devates the mucous membrane. A vertical fold of mucous membrane, the plica salpingopharyngea, stretches from the lower part of the cushion ft contains the Salpingo-pharyngeus muscle A second and ^^^f Jf^^^ the plica salpingopalatina, stretches from the upper part of the cushion to the palate Behind the orifice of the Eustac uan tube is a deep recess the fossa of Rosenmiiller (recessus pharyngeus), which represents the remains of the upper part of the second visceral cleft. On the posterior wall is a prominence, best marked in childhood, P^'of^f ^ b^ a mass of lym^^^^^ tistue, which is known as the pharyngeal tonsil (^onsiUa pha™^^^ the pharyngeal tonsil, in the middle hue, an irregular flask-slmped depre^jio^^ Kg^SdU'LuschL as the remains of the ^^jj^t^e^trof^^ Fig. 920.—Section of tonsil. terior lobe of the pituitar\ body. Some anatomists believe it to be connected with the formation of the pharyngeal stratified i.^,,„:i The omi parMpars oralis) ''m-^^ - ^-v" / reaches from the soft palate to the level of the hyoid bone. It opens anteriorly, through ■Cnipt the isthmus faucium. into the mouth, whUe in its lateral wall, between the two pillars of the fauces, is the tonsil. The tonsils (tonsilhv pala- L,,,nvhoid time) are two prominent l)odics ■mnlutcs situated one on either side ■^^■''^m<i&¥^- V between the anterior and pos- terior piUars of tlie fauces^ Thev are of a rounded form, and vary considerably in J^^ljg ind vicluals A recess, the fossa supratonsillaris, may be seen, ^l^'^f "P^:'^^.^J a Id bS^^^^^^^^^ above the tonsil. His regards this as the remains of the lo^^ erTHE PHARYNX 1115 part of the second visceral cleft. It is covered by a fold of mucous membrane termed the plica triangularis. Externally the tonsil is in relation with the inner surface of the Superior constrictor, to the outer side of which are the ascending palatine and tonsillar arteries and the Internal pterygoid muscle Tlie internal carotid artery lies behind and to the outer side of the tonsil, and nearly an inch (twenty to twenty-five millimetres) distant from it. The outer surface of the tonsil corresponds in position to the angle of tlie mandible. Its inner surface presents from twelve to fifteen orifices, leading into small crypts or recesses, from which numerous folHcles branch out into the substance of the gland (fig. 920). These follicles are fined by a continuation of the mucous menibrane of the pharynx, covered with epithelium ; around each follicle is a layer of clo.sed capsules consisting of adenoid tissue imbedded in the sub- mucous tissue. Surrounding each follicle is a close plexus of lymphatics, from which the lymphatic vessels pass to the deep cervical glands in the neighbour- hood of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, behind and below the angle of the mandible ; these glands frequently become enlarged in affections of the tonsils. The tonsils form part of a circular band of adenoid tissue M'hich guards the opening into the digestive and respiratory tubes. The anterior part of the ring is formed by the submucous adenoid collections on the posterior part of the tongue ; the lateral portions consist of the tonsils and the adenoid collections in the vicinity of the Eustachian tubes, while the ring is completed behind by the pharyngeal tonsil on the posterior wall of the pharynx. In the intervals between these main masses are smaller collections of adenoid tissue. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the tonsil are the dorsalis linguae from the lingual, the ascending palatine and tonsillar from the facial, the ascending pharyngeal from the external carotid, the descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary, and a twig from the small meningeal. The veins terminate in the tonsillar plexus, on the outer side of the tonsil. Tlie nerves are derived from Meckel's gangUon, and from the glosso-pharyngeal. Applied Anatomy.—The tonsils can be easily inspected by instnicting the patient to throw the head back and open his mouth widely ; the tongrie at the same time being depressed by a spatula or tongue-depressor. Tlie normal tonsil should not project beyond the plane of the anterior piUar of the fauces. They are prone to become enlarged, especiaUy in tuberculous children ; and when much increased in size they cause great trouble, o\ving to obstruction to respiration and deglutition. The tonsils may be the seat of acute inflammation, which may run on to suppuration, requiring evacuation of the pus. The incision into the tonsil should always be made from in front backwards and inwards. Another form of acute inflammation of the tonsil is follicular tonsilUtis, due to the lodgment of micro-organisms in the crypts of the tonsil. The removal of an enlarged tonsil is, as a nile, a very simple operation, and is not usually attended with much hasmor- rhage, unless the patient is suffering from hoemophilia. The tonsil may be the seat of malignant growth, either an epithelioma or a Ijrmphosarcoma. The laryngeal part of the pharynx (pars laryngea) reaches from the hyoid bone to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, where it is continuous with the oesophagus. In front it presents the triangular aperture of the larynx, tlie base of which is directed forwards and is formed by the epiglottis, whUe its lateral boundaries are constituted by the aryteno-epiglottic folds. On either side of the laryngeal orifice is a recess, termed the sinus pyri/ormis ; it is bounded internally by the aryteno-epiglottic fold, externally by the thyroid cartilage and thyro-hyoid membrane. structure.—^The pharynx is composed of three coats: mucous, fibrous, and muscular. Thepharyngealaponeurosis,or fihrojiscoat, iasituated between the mucous and muscular layers. It is thick above where the muscular fibres are wanting, and is firmly con- nected to the basilar process of the occipital and petrous portions of the temporal bones. As it descends it diminishes in thickness, and is gradually lost. It is strengthened posteriorly by a strong fibrous band, which is attached above to the pharyngeal spine on the under sui-faceof the basilar portion of the occipital bone, and passes downwards, forming a median raphe, which gives attachment to the Constrictor muscles of the pharynx. The nmcouscoat is continuous with that lining the liustachian tubes, the nasal fossie, the mouth, and the larynx. In the naso-pharynx it is covered by columnar cihated epithelium ; in the buccal and laryngeal portions the epithelium is stratified. Beneath the mucous membrane are found racemose mucous glands ; they are especially numerous at the upper part of the pharynx around the orifices of the Eustachian tubes. The muscular coat has been already described (pages 482 to 484).ill6 SPLANCHNOLOGY Applied .4nf(to?H//.—Hypertroiihy of the lyinpliatic iLssue in llie naso-pliuiynx, com- monly known as ' adenoids,' is a frequent cause of moutli-breatliing and all its attendant disadvantages and dangers in children. It entails a pronencss to inflammation of all parts of the air-passages and of the Eustachian tui)es,and leads to deformed development of the palate and dental arch. In many cases adenoids tend to atrophy about the age of puberty, by which time their presence is likely to have caused permanent injury to the healtli and" development of the patient. No certain remedy for adenoids exists excepting operation. . . ... The pharynx is sometimes the seat of a pouch-like dilatation of its walls, in whicli the food collects when the patient swallows. A cure is effected by remo\dng the diverti- culum and accm'ately sutm-ing the opening in the pharynx which has been made. The internal carotid artery is in close relation with the pharynx, so that its pulsations can be felt through the mouth. It has been occasionally wounded by sharjj-pointed instruments, introduced into the mouth and thrust through the wall of the pharynx. In aneurysm of this vessel in the neck, the tumour necessarUy bulges into the pharynx, as this is the dii'ection in which it meets \vith the least resistance, nothing lying between the vessel and the mucous membrane except the thin Constrictor muscle, whereas on the outer side there are the dense cervical fascia, the muscles descending fi-om the styloid process, and the margin of the Sterno-mastoid. , . i^. t c The mucous membrane of the pharynx is very vascular, and is often the seat ot inflammation, freuuentlv of a septic character, since the numerous recesses are prone to lodge micro-organisms." And, in addition, owing to its exposed situation, the mucous membrane is liable to be mitated by agents introduced during in-spiration The inflam- mation may be attended with serious consequences : it may extend up the jLustacliian tube and involve the middle ear ; it may spread to the entrance of the larynx, causmg ojdema and seriously interfering ^yith respiration; or, invading the Ijmiphatics, it may spread to the loose areolar tissue surrounding the pharyngeal wall, and may extend tar and v^dde, sometimes into the posterior mediastinum along the oesophagus. Abscess may form in the connective tissue behind the pharynx, between it and the vertebra column, constituting what is known as reiro-pharynqeal abscess. This is most commonly due to caries of the cervical vertebra;; but may also be caused by suppm-ation of a Ijnnphatic aland which is situated in this position opposite the axis, and which receives lymphatics from the nasal fossa ; by a gumma ; or by acute pharyngitis In tl^e- -ses tje pus may be easily evacuated by incision with a guarded bistouiy, through mouth, but to asentic reasons, it is desirable that the abscess should be opened from the neck In some Sstances tWs i; perfectly easy: the abscess can be felt bulging at the side of the neck^ Lnd merely reqni-es an incision for its rehef ; but this is not always so and then an fncisi^n should be made along the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid and the deep fascia cUvided. A dii-ector is now to be inserted into the wound, the forefinger of the left Ed bSng introduced into the mouth and pressure made upon the -^.f^^'f- ^^i! as a giiide? and the director is to be pushed onwards until pus api^pars in tl^e g>-oove A pai^ S sinus forceps is now inserted along the dii-ector and the opemng mto the cavitj '^Itscess also occurs in children, underneath the mucous membrane between it and thethary^geal aponeurosis. The condition usually arises from a Pe-tonsillar ^"J—on^ which spreads backwards. In some cases an enormous swelling may /o™' ^^l^i^^ ]~ forwards the soft palate and gives rise to respu-atory obstruction. In such the abscess s^u^'e opened tC^^ the mouth with the child in the inverted position, so as to prevent the first 2ush of pus from entering the superior opemng of the larynx. Foreign bodies not infrequently become lodged in the pharynx, ^ijd most usuaib' a^ is about six inches. The (Esophagus The CESOohaeus or gullet, is a muscular canal, about nine or ten inches in llatlf eXS-'fronf the pharynx to the stomach. It commences at the u;p:^b X of the cricoid -rtulge, opposite the si.Kt t cerv^ .^r^ descends alone tlie front of the vertebral colunin, through the poste""' S astLum, lasses through the Diapln-agm, .enl^.ing tl^ ^S^^^^5t:^ge^Si^^^^^ Si:;;«iu.^= trraduaUv passes to the middle line again at tlie level ot the "'1'^"^ posterior flexures corresponding to tiie curvatuies ot the cervicai a1117 THE (ESOPHAGUS portions of the vertebral column. It is the narrowest part of the alimentary canal, and is most contracted at its commencement, and at the pomt where it passes through the Diaphragm. . ,. > n i . „ :„ Relations-The cervical portion (pars cervicalisl of the oesophagus is in relation, in front, with tlie trachea ; and at the lower part of the neck, wliere it proiects to the left side, with the thyroid gland ; beJmid, it vestH upon the vertebral column and Longus colU muscles ; on either side it is m relation with the common carotid artery (especially the left, as it inchnes to that side), and part of the lateral lobe of the thyroid gland ; the recurrent laiyngeal nerves ascend between it and the trachea ; to its left side is the thoracic duct. The thoracic portion (pars thoracahs) of the oesophagus is at hrst situated a httle to the left of the median line ; it passes behind the aortic arch, separated from it by the trachea, and descends in the posterior mediastinum, along the ri<rht side of the aorta, then runs in front and a little to the left of the aorta, and enters the abdomen through tlie Diaphragm at the level of the tenth tlioracic vertebra. Just before it perforates the Diaphragm it presents a distmct dilatation or bulb. It is in relation, in front, with the trachea, the left bronchus, tlie pericardium, and the Diaphragm ; behind, it rests upon the vertebral column the Longus colli muscles, the right intercostal arteries, the thoracic duct, and azyc^os minor veins ; and below, near the Diaphragm, upon the front of the aorta On its left side, in the superior mediastinum, are the terminal part of the arch of the aorta, the left subclavian artery, the thoracic duct^ and left pleura, while running upwards in the angle between it and the trachea is the left recurrent laryngeal nerve ; below, it is in relation wdth the descending thoracic aorta. On its right side are the right pleura, and the vena azygos major which it overlaps. The pneumogastric nerves descend in close contact with it, the right nerve passing down behind, and the left nerve in front of it ; the'two nei-ves uniting to form a plexus (the flexus gidce) around the tube. ' In the lower part of the posterior mediastinum the thoracic duct lies to tlie riglit side of tlie oesophagus ; higher up, it is placed beliind it, and, crossing about" the level of the fourth thoracic vertebra, is continued upwards on its left side. v • j-i. The abdominal portion (pars abdominalis) of the oesophagus hes in the oesophageal groove on the posterior surface of the left lobe of the liver. It measures about half an inch in length, and its front and left aspects only are covered by peritoneal membrane. It is somewhat conical with its base appUed to the upper orifice of the stomacli, and is known as the antrum cardiacum. Fig. 921.—Section of oesophagus. 'r^—Stratified epithclwn ^f.i—iliiscularvi miicosie Structure (fig. 921).—The oeso- phagus has three coats: an external or muscular ; a middle or areolar ; and an internal or mucous coat. The muscular coat is composed ol two planes of considerable thickness : an external longitudinal and an internal circular. The low/iiudincd fibres are arranged, at the commencement of the tube, in three fasciculi: one in front, which is attached to the vertical ridge on the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage; and one at either side, which is continuous with the muscular fibres of the pharynx : as they descend they blend together, and form a uniform layer, which covers the outer surface of the tube. Accessory slips of muscular fibres pass between the oesophagu where the latter covers the thoracic aorta, or the root of the left of the pericardium. Submucous coat f Glands Internal circular I muscular coat External lojigitudinal mtiscular coa t Fibrous sheath as and the left pleura, bronchus, or the backSPLANCHNOLOGY 1118 Tlio circuhir Jihres are coiiliauous above with tlie Inferior constrictor; their direction is transverse at the upper and lower parts of the tube, but obhque in the central part. 'J'he muscular iiljres in the ujjper part of the ccsophagus are of a red colour, and consist chielly of the striped variety ; but below, they consist for the most ))art of involuntary fibres. The areolar or mbmucous coal connects loosely the mucous and muscular coats. The mucous coal is thick, of a reddish colour above, and pale below. It is disposed in longitudinal folds, which disappear on distension of the tube. Its surface is studded wilh minute pai)ill;«, and it is covered throughout with a thick layer of stratified pavement epithelium. Beneath the mucous membrane, between it and the areolar coat, is a layer of longitudinally arranged non-stri]jed muscular fibres. This Ls the irtuscularis mucosas. At tho^conimencement of the ossophagus it is absent, or only represented by a few scattered bundles ; lower down it forms a considerable stratum. The cesophugeal glands are small compound racemose glands of the mucous type: they are lodged in the submucous tissue, and each opens upon the surface by a long excretory duct. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the oesophagus are derived from the inferior thyroid branch of the thyroid axis of the subclavian, from the descending thoracic aorta, from the gastric branch of the coeliac axis, and from the left inferior phrenic of the abdominal aorta. They have for the most part a longitudinal direction. The nerves are derived from the pneumogastric and from the sympathetic ; they fonn a plexus, in which are groups of ganglion-cells, between the two layers of the muscular coats, and also a second plexus in the submucous tissue. Afplied Anatomy.—The oesophagus may be obstructed by foreign bodies, and also by changes in its coats producing stricture, or by pressure on it from %vithout of new growths°or aneurysm, &c. The different forms of strictiure are: (1) the fibrous, due to cicatrisation following destruction of tissue, the result of swallowing boiling or corrosive fluids—here dilatation of the strictui-e may be carried out; and (2) maUgnant, usually epitheliomatous io its natui-e. This may be situated either at the upper end of the tube opposite the cricoid cartilage, or at its lower end at the cardiac orifice, but is most commonly found at that part of the tube where it is crossed by the left bronchus, in these cases, if the patient is losing weight from insufficient nourishment, the operation ot eastrostomymay be performed in order to avoid death from starvation ; death, however, most commonly occurs from ulceration of the growth into the mediastinum or au:-passages. In cases of strictm-e of the oesophagus it may be necessary to dilate the canal by a bougie, when it is of importance that the direction of the oesophagus and its relations to sm:rounding parts should be remembered. In cases of maUgnant disease of the oesophagus; where its tissues have become softened from infiltration o the gro\^'th the areatest care is requisite in directing the bougie thi-ough the strictured part, as a false passage may easily be made, and the instrument may pass into the mediastinum or mto one or other plem-al cavity, or even into the pericardium. In cases of obstniction of the oesophagus, and consequent symptoms of stricture, produced by an aneurysm of some part of the aorta pressing upon this tube, the passage of a bougie"could only hasten the fatal issue. , . , ^, „„a In pfssing a bou|ie the left forefinger should be introduced mto the mouth and the epiglottis felt for, carS being taken not to throw the head too far backwards. The bougie IS then to be passed beyond the finger until it touches the posterior wall of the pharynx patient is now asked to swallow? and at the moment of swallowmg the bougie is passed aentlv onwards, all violence being carefully avoided. ^ It occasionally happens that a foreign body becomes impacted in the oesophagus, which can Ser be brought upwards nor mSved downwards. When all ordinary means for its removal hive failed! excision is the only resource. This, of course, can only be performed vheH is not very L down. If the foreign body is allowed to -main, extensn^^inflam- mation and ulceration of the oesophagus may ensue. In one J^^/ ^he^^^^^^^^ ultimately penetrated the intervertebral substance, and destroj ed life by inflammation oi the membranes and substance of the cord. THE ABDOMEN The abdomen is the largest cavity in tlie body^ It is J" "^^^^^ the extreniities of the oval being directed upxvards and do^^n^^aids, ine mneTeXmitv is formed by the Diaphragm which extends as a dome mer ^HhCZX that the cavity extends high -to tlie l^ny J -f"'^? r.n tbo i-i.rlit sid(> in the nipple line, to the upper border of the nun no on ?he 1 ft side it ail. be ow th s level by about an inch. Tiie lower extremity is tmeS'bT tl e st uctures which clothe tiie inner surface of the bony i^ehis H- "■ipally tlie Levatores ani and Coccygei muscles ^^^tlier ide The e liiusclL are sometimes termed the Diaphragm fJ^JJ^/^^ticaT LTi - the wider above than below, and measures more in the vertical thanTHE ABDOIVIEN 1119 transverse diameter. In order to facUitate description, it is artificially divided into two parts : an upper and larger part, the abdomen propei- ; and a lower and smaUer part, the pelvis. These two cavities are not separated from each other, but the limit between them is marked by the brim ot the true pelvis. , r i.i i i • The abdomen proper differs from the other great cavities of the body in beinf' bounded for the most part by muscles and fascias, so that it can vary in capacity and shape according to the condition of the viscera wliich it contains ; but, in addition to this, the abdomen varies in form and extent wath age and sex.' In the adult male, wth moderate distension of the viscera, it is oval or barrel-shaped, but at the same time flattened from before backwards. In the adult female, with a fully developed pelvis, it is conical with the apex above, and in young children it is conical \vith. the apex belo\\'. It is bounded in front and at the sides by the lower ribs, the abdominal muscles, and the iliac fossae ; behind by the vertebral column and the Psoas and Quadratus lumborum muscles ; above by the Diaphragm ; below by the plane of the brim of the pelvis. The muscles forming the boundaries of the cavity are lined upon their inner surfaces by a layer of fascia, differently named according to the part it covers. The abdomen contains the greater part of the alimentary canal ; some of the accessory organs to digestion, viz. the liver and pancreas; the spleen, the kidneys, and suprarenal glands. Most of these structures, as well as the wall of the cavity in which they are contained, are more or less covered by an extensive and complicated serous membrane, the peritoneum. The apertures found in the walls of the abdomen, for the transmission of structures to or from it, are, the umbilicus (in the foetus), for the transmission of tlie umbilical vessels ; the caval opening in the Diaphragm, for the trans- mission of the inferior vena cava ; the aortic opening, for the passage of the aorta, vena azygos major, and thoracic duct ; and the oesophageal opening, for the oesophagus and pneumogastric nerves. Below, there are two apertures on either side : one for the passage of the femoral vessels, and the other for the transmission of the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. Regions.—For convenience of description of the viscera, as well as of reference to the morbid conditions of the contained parts, the abdomen is artificially divided into nine regions by imaginary planes, two horizontal and two sagittal, passing through the cavity, the edges of tlie planes being indicated by lines drawn on the surface of the body. Of the horizontal planes the upper or infracostal is indicated by a line encircling the body at the level of the lowest points of the tenth costal cartilages, the lower by a line earned round the trunk at the level of the highest points of the iliac crests as seen from the front. The latter is the interttibercular plane of Cunningham, who has pointed out* that its level corresponds -ndth the prominent and easilj^ defined tubercle .on the iliac crest about two inches behind the anterior superior iliac spine. By means of these imaginary planes the abdomen is divided into three zones, which are named from above doMTiwards the subcostal, umbilical, and hypo- gastric zones. Each of these is further subdivided into three regions by the two sagittal planes, w hich are indicated on the surface by lines drawn vertically through points halfway between the anterior superior iliac spines and the symphy.sis pubis.f The middle region of the upper zone is called the epigastric ; and the two lateral regions, the right and left hypochondriac. The central region of the * Journal of Anatomy and Phi/xiology, vol. x.wii. t Anatomists are far from agreed as to tlie best niethoil of subdividing the abdominal cavity, but that given above is the one which is generally adopted in this country. Addison,' in a careful analysis of the abdominal viscera in a large number of subiects, adopts the following linos: (1) a median, from the symphysis pubis to the cusiform cartilage; (2) two lateral lines each drawn vertically through a point midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the symphysis pubis ; (3) an upper transverse line halfway between the symphysis jiubis and the suprasternal notch; and (4) a lower transverse line midway between the last, and tlie upper border of the symphysis pubis. The upper transverse line corresponds with what he has termed the tranitpylorio 2>lano, from the fact that in most cases this plane cuts through the pylorus. ' Journal of Anatomy and Physiologu, vols, xxxiii., xxxiv., xxxv.SPLANCHNOLOGY 1120 Fia. 922.—Front view of the thoracic and abdominal viscera.THE ABDOMEN 1121 middle zone is the umbilical; and the two lateral regions, the right and left lumbar. The middle region of the lower zone is the hypogastric or pubic region ; and the lateral regions are the right and left iliac or inguinal (fig. 922). The pelvis is that portion of the abdominal cavity which lies below and behind a plane passing through the promontory of the sacrum, the ilio-pectineal lines, and the pubic crests. It is bounded behind by the sacrum, coccyx, Pyi-iforrais muscles, and the sacro-sciatic ligaments ; in front and laterally by the pubes and ischia and Obturator internus muscles ; above it communicates with the abdomen proper ; below it is closed by the Levatores ani and Coccygei muscles and the triangular ligament. The pelvis contains the bladder, the pelvic colon, a few coUs of the small intestine, and some of the generative organs. When the anterior abdominal wall is removed, the viscera are partly exposed as follows : above and to the right side is the liver, situated chiefly under the shelter of the right ribs and their cartilages, but extending across the middle Une and reaching for some distance below tlie level of the ensiform cartilage. To the left of the liver is the stomach, from the lower border of which an apron-like fold of - peritoneum, the great omentum, descends for a varying distance, and obscures, to a greater or lesser extent, the other viscera. Below it, however, some of the coils of the small intestine can generally be seen, wliile in the right and left iliac regions respectively the caecum and the iUac colon are partly exposed. The bladder occupies the anterior part of the pelvis, and, if distended, will project above the symphysis pubis ; the rectum lies in the concavity of the sacrum, but is usually obscured by the coils of the small intestine. The pelvic colon lies between the rectum and the bladder. If the stomach is followed from left to right it will be found to be continuous with the first part of the small intestine, or duodenum, the point of continuity being marked by a thickened ring which indicates the position of the pyloric valve. The duodenum passes tow-ards the under surface of the Hver, and then, curving downwards, is lost to sight. If, however, the great omentum be thrown upwards over the chest, the terminal part of the duodenum will be observed passing across the vertebral column towards the left side, where it becomes continuous with the coils of the jejunum and ileum. These measure some twenty feet in length, and if followed downwards will be seen to end in the right ihac fossa by opening into the caecum or commencement of tlie large intestine. From the caecum the large intestine takes an arched course, passing at first upwards on the right side, then across the middle line and downwards on the left side, and forming respectively the ascending, transverse, and descending parts of the colon. In the left iliac region and pelvis it assumes the form of a loop, the iho-pelvic colon or sigmoid flexure, and terminates in the rectum. The spleen hes behind the stomach in the left hypochondriac region, and may be in part exposed by pulling the stomach over towards the right side. The glistening appearance of the deep surface of the abdominal wall and of the exposed viscera is due to the fact that the former is lined, and the latter more or less completely covered, by a serous membrane, the peritoneum. The Peritoneum The peritoneum is the largest serous membrane in the body, and consists, in the male, of a closed sac, a part of wliich is applied against the abdominal parietes, wliile the remainder is reflected over the contained viscera. In the female the peritoneum is not a closed sac, since the free extremities of the Fallopian tubes open directly into the peritoneal cavity. The part which lines the parietes is named the parietal portion of the peritoneum ; that which is reflected over the contained viscera constitutes the visceral portion of the peritoneum.' The free surface of the membrane is smooth, covered by a layer of flattened endothelium, and lubricated by a small quantity of serous fluid. Hence the viscera can glide freely against tlie wall of the cavity or upon one another witli the least possible amount of friction. The attached surface is rough, being connected to the viscera and inner surface of the parietes by means of areolar tissue, termed the subserous areolar tissue. 4c1122 SPLANCKNOLOGY The parietal portion is loosely connected witli the fascial lining of tlie abdomen and pelvis, but is more closely adherent to the under surface of tlie Diaphragm and also in the middle line of the abdomen. The space between the parietal and visceral layers of the peritoneum is named the peritoneal cavity ; but it must be remembered that under normal conditions tliis cavity is a potential one, since the parietal and visceral layers are in contact. The peritoneal ' cavity ' is subdivided into a greater and a lesser sac, which communicate through the foramen of VVinslow (foramen epiploicum). The greater sac is opened when the abdominal wall Ls cut through ; tlie lesser is situated behind the stomach and adjoining structures, and may be regarded as a diverticulum from the greater sac. The"peritoneum differs from the other serous membranes of the body in presenting a mucli more complex arrangement, and one which can only be clearly understood by foUo^^dng the changes which take place in the alimentary Fig. 923.—Vertical disposition of the peritoneum. Superior layer of coronary ligament ^ I Bare area of liver \\\ ^( b I Inferior layer of ■ ' ' ' coronary licjavient Bristle in foramen, of Window Stomach Transverse colon Great omentimi Small intestine Utero-vesical pouch Bladder Urethra Uterus Recto-vaginal pouch Eectum canal during its development ; the student therefore is ^^.^^i^ed to prefac^ his study of the peritoneum by reviewing the chapter dealing M ith this subject in the section on Embryology (page 150). viscera To trace the membrane from one viscus to another, and from tiie v sceia to the parietes, it is necessary to foU"-'j^s continmty in U^^^ aiid horizontal directions, and it will be found simpler to describe the t^^o sacs """Vertkal disposition of the greater sac (fig.. 9f3).-iys co,™^^^^ trace the greater sac from the back of the '^Mominal ^^ aU at U^^^ t is seen to umbilicus On following the peritoneum upwards from this ev el it is seen lo be r fleeted around a fibrous Jord, the ligamentum. ^-rcs. -roMn.t^m^^ vein, which reaches from the umbilicus to the under ^^^"^"J^,^. reflection forms a somewhat triangular fold, the ya?c»A>m oi ^^ ligament of the liver, attaching the upper and ^f/mor surfaces c^^^ l e Ir^r to the Diaphragm and abdominal wall. With the exception /'i^ ""f ."J attachment of this ligament the peritoneum covers the whole of the unde,THE PERITONEUM 1123 surface of the anterior part of the Diapliragm, and is continued from it on to the upper surface of the right lobe of the liver as the superior layer of the coronary ligament, and on to the upper surface of the left lobe as the superior layer of the left lateral ligament of the liver. Covering the upper and anterior surfaces of the liver, it is continued round its sharp margin on to the under surface, where it presents the following relations : (a) It covers the under surface of the right lobe and is reflected from the back part of this on to the upper extremity of the right kidney, forming in this situation the inferior layer of the coronary ligament; from the kidney it is carried doM'n- wards to the duodenum and hepatic flexure of the colon and inwards to the inferior vena cava, where it is continuous mth the posterior w&Vl of the lesser sac. Bet^\'een the two layers of the coronary ligament there is a large triangular surface of the liver devoid of peritoneal covering : this Fig. 924.—Posterior view of the anterior abdominal wall in its lower halt. The peritonexim is in place, and the various cords are shining through. (After Joessel.) External inguinal fossa External iliac artery External iliac vein Femoral fossa Superior vesical artery Middle inguinal fossa Internal inguinal fo IS named the bare area of the liver, and is attached to the Diaphragm by areolar tissue. Towards the right margin of the liver the two layers of the coronary ligament gradually approach each other, and ultimately fuse to form a small triangular fold connecting the liglit lobe of the liver to the Diaphragm, and named the right lateral ligament of the liver. The apex of the triangular bare area corresponds with the point of meeting of the two layers of the coronary ligament, its base with the fossa for the mferior vena cava. (6) It covers the lower surface of the quadrate lobe, the under and lateral surfaces of the gall-bladder, and tlie under surface and posterior border of the left lobe ; it is then reflected from the upper surface of the hver to the Diaphragm as tlie inferior layer of the left lateral ligament, and from the transverse fissure and fissure for the ductus venosus to the Icsser^urvature of the stomach as the anterior Uyev of the gastro-hepatic, or 4 c 21124 SPLANCHNOLOGY small, omentum. If tliis layer of the small omentum be followed to tlie right it will be found to turn round the hepatic artery, bile-duct, and portal vein, and become continuous with tlie anterior wall of the lesser sac, forming a free folded edge of peritoneum. Traced downwards, it covers the antero-superior surface of°the stomach and the commencement of the duodenum, and is carried down from the greater curvature of the stomach into a large free fold, known as the gastro-colic or great omentum. Reaching the free margin of this fold, it is reflected upwards to cover the under and posterior surfaces of the trans- verse colon, and thence to the posterior abdominal wall as the inferior layer of the transverse mesocolon. It reaches the abdominal wall at the upper border of the third part of the duodenum, and is then carried down on the superior mesenteric vessels to the small intestine as the anterior layer of the mesentery. It encircles the intestine, and subsequently may be traced, as the posterior layer of the mesentery, upwards and backwards to the abdominal wall. From this it sweeps down over the aorta into the pelvis, where it invests the pelvic colon, its reduplication forming the pelvic mesocolon. Leaving first the sides and then the front of the rectum, it is reflected on to the base of the bladder and, after covering the upper surface of that vi-scus is carried along the urachus and obliterated hypogastric arteries (fig. 924) on to the back of the abdominal wall to the level from which a start was made. Between the rectum and the bladder it forms, in the male, a pouch the recto-vesical pouch, the bottom of which is about the level of the middle of the vesiculee seminales—i.e. about three inches from the orifice of the anus. When the bladder is distended, the peritoneum is carried up ^^^tll the expanded viscus so that a considerable part of the anterior surface of the latter Ues directly against the abdominal waU wdthout the intervention of peritoneal membrane In the female the peritoneum is reflected from the rectum on to the upper part of the posterior vaginal wall, forming the recto-vaginal pouc/i or vouch of Douglas. It is continued over the posterior surface and fundus of the uterus on to its anterior surface, which it covers as far as the junction of the body and cervix uteri, and then to the bladder, formmg here a second, but shallower, pouch, the utero-vesical pouch. It is also reflected from the sides of the uterus to the lateral waUs of the pelvis as two expanded folds, the broad ligaments of the uterus, in the free margin of each of which is the FaUopian ^''^Vertical disposition of the lesser sac (fig. 923) -A start may be made in this case on the posterior abdominal wall above the pancreas. From thl^ egion the peritoneum may be followed upwards on to tl- "^r surf^^^^^^^^^^ thi Diaphragm, and thence on to the Spigelian and caudate lobes of the In er to the fissure for the ductus venosus and the transverse fissure Traced laterally Tis continuous over the inferior vena cava with the posterior wall S the gr'eater sac. From the liver it is carried dow^rds to the lesser curva- ture of the stomach as the posterior layer of the gastro4iepa ic omen^^^^^^ and is continuous on the right, round the hepatic artery, bile-duct and poita vein 'vSh the greater sac. The posterior layer of the gastro-liepatie omentum IS carried down to the greater curvature of the stomach as a covering for the posters-infer or surface of tliis viscus, and from the greater curvature is ?oSed Ziwards as the deep layer of the g-«tro-colic or gre.^^^^^ From the free margin of this fold it is reflected upwards on itself ^ ^he anterior and superior surfaces of the transverse colon, and thence as ^^^^^ ^^P^^^^^ X of the transverse meso-colon to the upper ^^^l^^^' f^, f ^^^^^^^^^ duodenum, from which it may be followed over tlie front " * ^« P'J^;^ the level from wliich a start was made. It will be seen that tl e yornied 03 the wall of the lesser sac below the transverse colon folloA.s, -^"^ i*^ /■loselj intestine therefore consists of four layers, Uvo anteuoi and t^^o po.ie separated by the potential cavity of the lesser sac transverse in the two regions, viz. in the pelvis and in the abdomen propei.1125 THE PERITONEUM (I) In the pelvis.—The peritoneum here follows closely the surfaces of the pelvic viscera and the inequalities of the pelvic \\'alls, and presents important differences in the two sexes, (a) In the male it encircles the pelvic colon, from which it is reflected to the posterior wall of tlie pelvis as a fold, the pelvic mesocolon. It then leaves the sides and, finally, the front of the rectum, and is continued on to the bladder ; on either side of the rectum it forms a fossa, tlie pararectal fossa, which varies in size \vith the distension of the recturn. In front of the rectum the peritoneum forms the recto-vesical pouch, which is limited laterally by peritoneal folds extending from the sides of the bladder to the rectum and sacrum. These folds are known from their position as the recto-vesical or sacro-geniial folds. The peritoneum of the anterior pelvic waU covers the superior surface of the bladder, and on either side of this viscus forms a depression, termed the paravesical fossa, and limited externally by the fold of peritoneum covering the vas deferens. The size of this fossa is dependent on the state of distension of the bladder; when the bladder is empty, a variable fold of peritoneum, the plica vesicalis transversa, divides the fossa into two portions. On the peritoneum between the paravesical and pararectal fossee the only elevations are those produced by the ureters and the internal Uiac vessels. (6) In the female, pararectal and paravesical fossae similar to those in the male are present: the outer limit of the paravesical fossa is the peritoneum Fig. 925.—Horizontal disposition of the peritoneum in the lower part of the abdomen. Rectus Erector spinas investing the round ligament of the uterus. The recto-vesical pouch is, however, divided by the uterus and vagina into a small anterior utero-vesical and a large, deep, posterior recto-vaginal pouch. The sacro-genital folds form the margins of the latter, and are continued on to the back of the uterus to form a transverse fold, the torus uterinus. The hroad ligaments extend from the sides of the uterus to the lateral walls of the pelvis ; they contain in their free margins the Fallopian tubes, and in their posterior layers the ovaries. Below, the broad ligaments are continuous with the peritoneum on the lateral walls of the pelvis. On the lateral pelvic wall behind the attach- ment of the broad ligament, in the angle between the elevations produced by the diverging internal and external Uiac vessels, is a slight fossa, ovarian fossa, in which the ovary normally lies. (2) In the lower abdomen (fig. 925).—Starting from the linea alba, below the level of the transverse colon, and tracing the continuity of the peritoneum in a horizontal direction to the right, the membrane covers the inner surface of the abdominal wall almost as far as the outer border of the Quadratus lumborum ;1126 SPLANCHNOLOGY it encloses the caecum and vermiform appendix, and is reflected over the sides and front of the ascending colon ; it may then be traced over the Psoas muscle and inferior vena cava towards tlie middle Ime, whence it passes along tlie mesenteric vessels to invest the small intestine, and back again to the large vessels in front of the vertebral column, forming tlie mesmtery, between the layers of which are contained the mesenteric blood-vessels, lacteals, and glands. It is then continued over the left Psoas muscle ; it covers the sides and front of the descending colon, and, reaching the abdominal wall, is carried on it to the middle line. (3) In the topper abdomen (fig. 926).—Above the transverse colon the peritoneum can be traced, forming the greater and lesser sacs, and the communication of the two sacs with one another through the foramen of Winslow can be demonstrated. (a) Greater sac.—Commencing on the posterior abdominal Avall at the inferior vena cava, the membrane may be followed to the right over the front of the upper part of the right kidney on to the antero-lateral abdominal wall. From the middle of the anterior wall a backwardly directed fold encircles the obliterated umbilical vein and forms the falciform' ligament of the liver. Fis. 926.—Horizontal disposition of the peritoneum in the upper part of the abdomen. Small omentum Falciform ligament Gastro- splenic omentum Hepatic artery, bile-duct, and portal vein Foramen of Winslow Vena cava inferior Lieno-renal ligament Aorta Continuing to the left, the peritoneum lines the lateral f .domical ;vall and covers the outer part of the front of the left kidney, and is ''eflected to the posterior border of the hilus of the spleen as the P«f ^^^VSTslen to the knal ligament. It can then be traced over the surface of f^^^P^^^ach as front of the hilus, and thence to the cardiac extremity ^l^^'^^.^^^'^^^^^ the anterior layer of the gastro-splenic omen urn. It covers ^l^*^^ jt'?;^-^"^; surfaces of the stomach and first part o the duodenum and e^^^^ from the lesser curvature of the stomach to the liver, the latter portion forming the anterior laver of the gastro-hepatic omentum. . lb) Cesser sac.-On the posterior abdominal wall the P«"tjJJ"\2i*^r greater sac is continuous with that of the lesser sac ^J^l^*^;/^,^ ^^i^^;^ ?ena cava. Starting from liere, the lesser sac nmy be traced ' J and over the inner part of the front of the left l^^dney to he hjus spleen as the anterior layer of the 1 eno-renal l^^J^ ^^"^^^^[^^ "J [.'^^^^^^^^^ reflected to the stomach as the posterior layer of t'^^.f^^,^;"'f/^X^, of It covers the postero-inferior surfaces of the «f'?''^':^^ . "XdTup'^^^^^^^^ the duodenum and from the lesser curvature of the ^« J ^^^^^^^^ to the liver as the posterior layer of tlie gastro-hepatic omentum, tne rigTHE PERITONEUM 1127 mari^in of this layer is continuous round the hepatic artery, bile-duct, and portal vein, w ith the wall of the greater sac. _ Foramen of Winslow.—The foramen of Winslow is the passage ot communication between the greater and lesser sacs. It is bounded in front by the free border of the gastro-hepatic omentum, with the common bile- duct, hepatic artery, and portal vein between its two layers; behmd by the peritoneum covering the inferior vena cava ; above by the peritoneum on the caudate lobe of the liver, and below by the peritoneum covering the commencement of the duodenum and the hepatic artery, the latter passing forwards below the foramen before ascending between the two layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum. The boundaries of the lesser sac will now be evident. It is bounded m front, from above downwards, by the Spigelian lobe of the liver, the gastro-hepatic omentum, the stomach, and the anterior two layers of the gi-eat omentum. Behind, it is limited, from below upwards, by the two posterior layers of the great omentum, the transverse colon, and the ascending layer of the trans- verse mesocolon, the upper surface of the pancreas, the left suprarenal gland, and the upper end of the left kidney. To the right of the oesophageal opening of the stomach it is formed by that part of the Diaphragm which supports the Spigelian lobe of the liver. Laterally, the lesser sac extends from the foramen of Winslow to the spleen, where it is limited by the lieno-renal ligament and the gastro-splenic omentum. In the foetus the lesser sac reaches as low as the free margin of the great omentum, but in the adult its vertical extent is usually more limited o\Adng to adhesions between the layers of the omentum. During a considerable part of fcetal life the transverse colon is suspended from the posterior abdominal wall by a mesentery of its own, the two posterior layers of the great omentum passing at tliis stage in front of the colon. This condition occasionally persists throughout life, but as a rule adhesion occurs between the mesentery of the transverse colon and the posterior layer of the great omentum, with the result that the colon appears to receive its peritoneal covering by the splitting of the two posterior layers of the latter fold. In the adult the lesser sac intervenes between the stomach and the structures on which that \ascus Ues, and performs therefore the functions of a serous bursa for the stomach. Numerous peritoneal folds extend between the various organs or connect them to the parietes. They serve to hold them in position, and, at the same time, enclose the vessels and nerves proceeding to them. Some of these folds are called ligaments, such as the ligaments of the liver and the false ligaments of the bladder. Others, which coimect certain parts of the intestine with the abdominal wall, constitute the mesenteries ; and lastly, those which proceed from the stomach to certain viscera in its neighbourhood are called omenta. The ligaments, formed by folds of the peritoneum, include those of the liver, spleen, bladder, and uterus. They will be found described -with their respective organs. The omenta are : the small omentum, the gi-eat omentum, and the gastro-splenic omentum. The small or gastro-hepatic omentum (omentum minus) is the duplicature which extends bet\\een the liver and the lesser curvature of the stomach. It is extremely thin, and is continuous with the two layers of peritoneum which cover respectively the antero-superior and postero-inferior surfaces of the stomach. When these two layers reach the lesser curvature of the stomach, they join together and ascend as a double fold to the transverse fissure of the liver ; to the left of this fissure the fold is attached to the bottom of the fissure of the ductus venosus, along which it is carried to the Diaphragm, where the two layers separate to embrace the end of the oesophagus. At the right border the two layers are continuous, and form a free margin which constitutes the anterior boundary of the foramen of Winslow. Between the two layers, close to this free margin, are the hepatic artery, the common bile- duct, the portal vein, lymphatics, and the hepatic plexus of nerves—all these structures being enclosed in loose areolar tissue, called Olisson's capsule. Between the layers, where they are attached to the stomach, run the gastric artery and the pyloric branch of the hepatic artery.1128 SPLANCHNOLOGY The great ov gasiro-colic omentum (omentum majus) is the largest peritoneal fold. It consists of a double sheet of peritoneum, folded on itself so that it is made up of four layers. The two layers which descend from the stomach pass in front of the small intestines, sometimes as low down as the pelvis; they then turn upon themselves, and ascend again as far as the transverse colon, where they separate and enclose that part of the intestine. These individual layers may be easily demonstrated in the young subject, but in the adult they are more or less inseparably blended. The left border of the Fig. 927.—Diagram devised by Delepine to show the lines along which the peritoneum leaves the wall of the abdomen to invest the viscera. Uight lateral Falciform ligament Left lateral ligament of liver of licer ligament of liver I Vena cava inferior —"f^i (Esophagm — Right phrenic artery Coronary artery Hepatic artery - Splenic artcru Pancreas ■- Inf. panc.-duo. artery Middle coltc - Sttperior mesentcrtc •- Duodenum {3rd part) - Aorta Duodenum (2ndpart) - Right and left kidneys - Superior mesenteric — Aorta ' Left colic Right coltc - Vastt iniesttni | ■■ Sigmoid artery ■■ Sup. ht€Viorrhoidal artery - Common iliac artery . Internal iliac artery External iliac aiio-y Deep epigastric artery Bladder - Peritoneum '•• ExtrO'peritoneal ti^xue tDiaphragmatir end of >r 1 gastro-hepaUc tmt'ntitn ■f" Gastro-phratieUgariu'nt Gagiro-nplenic mit-'fj/um Foramen of Wxuyi :; Duodenum iUt p<i': . Phrnw-eolie ligament . (Dot betircen tiro anterior t Ixjycrs of great ovu'ntm Transceric mesocolon (Bare surface for deieend- \ ing colon (The tiro layt rt of the \ mcM^itcry proper (Bare surface for ascend- \ ing colon Pelvic mesocolon . Pelvic mesocolon ■ Bare surface for rectum, (Left lateral false ligo' \ ment of bladder great omentum is continuous with the gastro-splenic omentum ; its right bolder extends as far only as the duodenum. The great omentum is "sually tl n, presents a cribriform appearance, and always contains some^adipose tissue which in fat people accumulates in considerable quantitj' .f'^l'l.Z .nin oic anterior layers is the anastomosis between the right and left gastro-epiploic ""'^Thegaslro-splenic omentum (Ug. gastroUenale) is ^^^^^^^f J'^^f J^,^""';^^^^^ the margins of the hUus of the spleen to the «t«"\a^*^Vi T„f/w^^^^^ by its lower border with the great omentum. It contains the vasa brevia.1129 THE PERITONEUM The mesenteries are : the mesentery proper, the transverse mesocolon, and the pelvic mesocolon. In addition to these there are sometimes present an ascending and a descending mesocolon. The mesentery -proper (mesenterium) is the broad, fan-shaped fold ot peri- toneum which connects the convolutions of the jejunum and ileum with tlie posterior wall of the abdomen. Its roo<—the part connected with the structures in front of the vertebral column—is narrow, about six inches in length, and is directed obUquely from the duodeno-jejunal flexure at the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the right iliac fossa (fig. 927). Its intestinal border is about twenty feet in length ; and here the two layers separate to enclose the intestine, and form its peritoneal coat. Its breadth, between its vertebral and intestinal borders, is about eight inches. Its upper border is continuous mth the under surface of the transverse mesocolon : its lower border, mth the peritoneum covering the CBCcum and ascending colon. It serves to retain the small intestines in their position, and contains between its layers the rami intestini tenms of the superior mesenteric artery, with their accompanying veins and plexuses of nerves, the lacteal vessels, and mesenteric glands. In most cases the peritoneum covers only" the front and sides of the ascending and descending parts of the colon. Sometimes, however, these are surrounded by the serous membrane and attached to the posterior abdominal wall by an ascending and a descending mesocolon respectively. At the place where the transverse colon turns downwards to form the descend- ing colon, a fold of peritoneum is continued to the Diaphragm opposite the tenth and eleventh ribs. This is the phreno-colic ligament; it passes below the spleen, and serves to support tliis organ, and therefore it has received the name of sustentaculum lienis. The transverse mesocolon (mesocolon transversum) is a broad fold, Avhich connects the transverse colon to the posterior wall of the abdomen. It is continuous with the two posterior layers of the great omentum, which, after separating to surround the transverse colon, join behind it, and are continued backwards to the spine, where they diverge in front of the anterior border of the pancreas. This fold contains between its layers the vessels which supply the transverse colon. The pelvic mesocolon is the fold of peritoneum which retains the pelvic colon in connection with the pelvic wall. Its fine of attachment forms a V-shaped curve, the apex of the curve being placed about the point of division of the left common ihac artery. The curve begins on the inner side of the left Psoas, and runs upwards and backwards to the apex, from which it bends sharply dowmvards and inwards, and ends in the mesial plane at the level of the third sacral vertebra. Between the two layers of this fold run the sigmoid and superior hsemorrhoidal vessels. The appendices epiploicce are small pouches of the peritoneum filled ^\^th fat and situated along the colon and upper part of the rectum. They are cliiefly appended to the ti'ansverse colon. Retro-peritoneal fossae.—In certain parts of tlie abdominal cavity there are recesses of peritoneum forming culs-de-sac or pouches, which are of surgical interest in connection with the possibiUty of the occurrence of retro-peritoneal hernia. One of these is the lesser sac of the peritoneum, which may be regarded as a recess of peritoneum through the foramen of Winslow, in which a hernia may take place, but there are several others, of smaller size, which require mention. These recesses or fossaj may be divided into three groups, viz. : 1, the duodenal fossje ; 2, the circumcsecal fossae ; and 3, the intersigmoid fossa. 1. Duodenal fossm (figs. 928, 929).—Moynihan has described no less than nine fossae as occurring in the neighbourhood of the duodenum. Three of these are fairly constant, and are the only ones which require mention, (a) The inferior duodenal fossa is the most constant of all the peritoneal fossae in this region, being jDresent in from 70 to 75 per cent, of cases. It is situated oppo- site the third lumbar vertebra on the left side of the ascending portion of the duodenum. Its opening is directed upwards, and is bounded by a thin sharp fold of peritoneum Avith a concave margin, called the inferior duodeiial fold. The tip of the index finger introduced into the fossa under the fold passes1130 SPLANCHNOLOGY some little distance behind the ascending or fourth portion of the duodenum. (b) The superior duodenal fossa is the next most constant pouch or recess, being present in from 40 to 50 per cent, of cases. It often coexists \nth the inferior one, and its orifice looks downwards, in the opposite direction to tlie preceding fossa. It Ues to the left of the ascending portion of the duodenum. It is bounded by the free edge of the superior duodenal fold, which presents a semilunar margin ; to the right it is blended with the peritoneum covering the ascending duodenum, and to the left with the peritoneum covering the Fig. 929.—^Duodeno-jejimal fossa. (Poirier and Charpy.) Duodenum night duodeno- mesocolic ligament Inferior mesenteric vein Left duodena- mesocolic ligament Left colic artery Inferior mesenteric artery pcri-nephric tissues. The fossa is bounded in front by the f'JP^^^^^^ fold • behind by the second lumbar vertebra ; to the right hy ^ rtuoac^iu ^ its depth is t/o centimetres, and ^^^^^f^J^^^^i^t left renal vein crossing the aorta. Ihis tossa is oi luipuiut*THE PERITONEUM 1131 relation with the inferior mesenteric vein: that is to say, the vein almost always corresponds to the line of union of the superior duodenal fold with the posterior parietal peritoneum, (c) The duodcno-jejunal fossa can be seen by pulhng the jejunum downwards and to the right, after the transverse colon has been pulled upwards. It will appear as an almost circular opening, looking do\^'nwards and to the right, and bounded by two free borders or folds of peritoneum, the duodeno- mesocolic ligaments. The opening admits the little finger into the fossa, to the depth of from two to three centimetres. The fossa is bounded above by the pancreas, to the right by the aorta, and to the left by the kidney; beneath is the left renal vein. The fossa exists in from 15 to 20 per cent, of cases, and has never yet been found in conjunction with any other form of duodenal fossa. 2. Circumcoecal fossce (figs. 930, 931, 932).— There are at least three pouches or recesses termed circumccecal fossce to be found in the neighbour- hood of the caecum. (a) The ileo-colic fossa (superior ileo-csecal) is formed by a fold of peri- toneum, the ileo-cohc fold, arching over the branch of the ileo-cohc artery which supplies the ileo-colic junction. The fossa is a narrow chink situated Fig. 931.—Ileo-oascal fossa. The caecum and ascending colon have been drawn outwards and downwards, the ileum upwards and backwards, and the appendix downwards. (Poirier and Charpy.) between the ileo-cohc fold in front, and the mesentery of the small intestine, the ileum, and the small portion of the cascum behind. (&) The ileo-ccBcal fossa (inferior ileo-csecal) is situated behind the angle of junction of the ileum and caecum. It is formed by a fold of peritoneum (the ileo-csecal fold or bloodless fold of Treves), the upper border of wliich is attached to the ileum, opposite its mesenteric attachment, while the lower border, passing over the ileo-ca;cal junction, joins tlie mesentery of the appendix, and sometimes the appendix itself; hence this fold has been called the Ueo-appendicular. Between this fold and the mesentery of the vermiform Fig. 930.—Ileo-colic fossa. (Poirier and Charpy.) Anterior ■ileo-ccecal Ileo-cohc ■' Mesentery Anterior ileo-ciBcal fossa Inferior ileo-ciecal fold ■lie II 1)11132 SPLANCHNOLOGY appendix is the ileo-cascal fossa. It is bounded above by the posterior surface of the ileum and the mesentery ; in front and below by tlie ileo-cajcal fold, and behind by the upper part of the mesentery of the appendix, (o) The subcmcal fossa (retro-ctecal) is situated immediately behind the cajcum, whicli has to be raised to bring it into vi^w. It varies much in size and extent. In some cases it is sufficiently large to admit the index finger, and extends upwards behind the ascending colon in the direction of the kidney : in others it is merely a shallow depression. It is bounded and formed by two folds : one, the parieto-coUc, which is attached by one edge to the abdominal wall Fig. 932.—The sub-csecal fossa. The ileum and csecum are draw-n backwards and upwards. (Souligoux.) Ileo-a2>pendictilar fold Parieto-coUc fold Ileo-ccecal fossa Meso-appendix Mesenteri co-pa ricin I fold Eetroccecal fossa from the lower border of the kidney to the iUac fossa and by the other to the postero-external aspect of the colon ; and the other, mesentenco-pandal which is in reaHty the insertion of the mesentery into the ihac fossa, in some instances the subcsecal fossa is double. , j • • f K„f 3. The intersigmoid fossa is constant in the foetus and during infancy, but disappears in a certain percentage of cases as age advances. Lpon drawing the pelvic colon upwards, the left surface of the pelvic mesocolon is exposed and on it mU be seen a funnel-shaped recess of the peritoneAim, Ijang on the e Jtemal iliac vessels, in the interspace between tl-/«oa« f Ihacii^. m^^^^^^^ This is the orifice leading to the fossa intersigmoidea, ^^-l^^^^t fnsTa var es pelvic mesocolon, and in front of the parietal Pf'^toneum The o sa vane in size ; in some instances it is a mere dimple, whereas in others it mil admit the whole of the index finger. Avvliecl Analomy.-Any of these fossa may be the site of a retro-peritoneal hernia The cSimclal foi^-, are of especial interest, because hernia of the vermiform ,Mj]>end x frequent V takes place into one'of them, and it may there become «trang«la ed. Tl c presence'of these Wches also explain.s the course which J-.^^^ .^".^^^^^^^ cases of perforation of the appendix, where it travels upwards behind the ascencung as far as the Diaphragm.* The Stomach The stomach is the most dilated_part of SI The stomach is the most auatea pan i»i I'li. .^ixu....'^".-' ; .tuated between the end of the oesophagus and the beginning of the small On the anatomy of these fossae, see the ArrU Gale Lectures by Moynihan, 1899THE STOMACH 1133 Fig. 933.—Outline of stomach showing its anatomical landmarks. Antrum cardiactim Incisnm an^/ulariti Pylorus Pyloric cnvtt, Sulcus intermedins Piiloric vestibule intestine. It lies more or less horizontally in tlie epigastric, umbilical, and left liypochonclriac regions of the abdomen, and occupies a recess bounded by the upper abdominal viscera, and completed in front and on the left side by tlie anterior abdominal wall and the Diaphragm. The shape and position of the stomach are so greatly modified by changes within itself and in the surrounding viscera that no one form can be described as typical. The chief modifications are determined by (1) the amount of the stomach contents, (2) the stage which the digestive process has reached, (3) the degi-ee of development of the gastric musculature, and (4) the con- dition of the adjacent intestines. It is, however, possible by comparing a series of stomachs to determine certain markings more or less common to all. The stomach presents two open- ings, two borders or curvatures, and tw o surfaces. Openings. — The opening by wliich the oesophagus communicates with the stomach is known as the cardiac orifice, and is situated on the left of the middle Une at the level of the tenth thoracic vertebra. The short intra-abdominal portion of the oesophagus (antrum cardiacum) is conical in shape and curved sharply to the left, the base of the cone being continuous \y\t\\ the cardiac orifice of the stomach. The right margin of the oesophagus is continuous with the lesser curvature of the stomach, while the left margin joins the greater curvature at an acute angle, termed the incisura cardiaca. The pyloric orifice communicates v.'ith. the duodenum, and its position is usually indicated on the surface of the stomach by a circular groove, the duodeno-pyloric constriction. This orifice Ues to the right of the middle line at the level of the upper border of the first lumbar vertebra. Curvatures. — The lesser curvature, ex- tending between the cardiac and pyloric orifices, forms the right or posterior border of the stomach. It descends'as a continua- tion of the right margin of the oesophagus in front of the left crus of the Diaphragm, and then, turning to the right, it crosses the first lumbar vertebra and ends at the pylorus. Nearer its pyloric than its cardiac end is a well-marked notch, the incisura angularis, which varies somewhat in position with the state of distension of the viscus ; it serves to separate the stomach into a right and a left portion. The lesser curvature gives attach- ment to the two layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum, and between these two layers are the gastric branch of the coronary artery and the pyloric branch of the hepatic artery. The greater curvature is directed mainly forwards, and is four or five times as long as the lesser curvature. Starting from the cardiac orifice at the incisura cardiaca, it forms an arch backwards, upwards, and to the left ; the highest point of the convexity is on a level \dt\\ the sixth left costal cartilage. From this level it may be followed downwards and for\\ards, with a slight convexity to the left as low as the cartilage of the ninth rib ; it then turns to the right, to end at the pylorus. Directly opposite the incisura angularis of the lesser curvature the greater curvature presents a dilatation, the pyloric vestibule, which is Uraited on the right by a shght groove, the sulcus inter- medius ; this sulcus is about an incli from the duodeno-pyloric constriction. Fio. 934. — Outline of stomach at an early stage of gastric digestion. Incisurn auf/ularis Pylorus Muscular constriction between cardiac and pyloric portions1134 SPLANCHNOLOGY The portion between the sulcus intermedius and the duodeno-pyloric con- striction is termed the jnjloric canal. At its commencement the greater curvature is covered by peritoneum continuous with tliat covering the front of the organ. The left part of the curvature gives attachment to the gastro- splenic omentum, while to its anterior portion are attaclied the two layers of the great omentum, separated from each other by the gastro-epiploic vessels. Surfaces.—Wlien the stomacli is in the contracted condition, its surfaces are directed upwards and downwards respectively, but when tlie viscus is distended they are directed forwards and backwards. They may therefore be described as antero-superior and postero-inferior. Antero-superior surface.—The left half of this surface is in contact with the Diaphragm, which separates it from the base of the left lung, the pericardium, and the seventh, eighth, and ninth ribs and intercostal spaces of the left side. The right half is in relation vfith. the left and quadrate lobes of the liver and with the anterior abdominal wall. When the stomach is empty, the transverse colon may lie on the front part of this surface. The whole surface is covered by peritoneum. The postero-inferior surface is in relation wth the Diaphragm, the spleen, the left suprarenal gland, the upper part of the front of the left kidney, the anterior surface of the pancreas, the splenic flexure of the colon, and tlie upper layer of the transverse mesocolon. These structures form a shallow bed, the stomach bed, on which the viscus rests. The transverse mesocolon separates the stomach from the duodeno-jejunal flexure and small mtestme. The postero-inferior surface is coverecl by peritoneum, except over a small area close to the cardiac orifice ; tliis area is limited by the Unes of attachment of the gastro-phrenic ligament, and lies in apposition with the Diaphragm, and frequently the upper portion of the left suprarenal gland. Componeni parts of the stomach.—The stomach is capable of subdivision into distinctive parts, and the divisions may be made on either anatomical or physiological grounds. ATiatoniiml subdivisions.—A plane passing through the incisura angulai-LS on the lesser curvature and the left lunit of the opposed dilatation (pyloric vestibule) on the greater curvatm-e divides the stomach into a left portion or body and a right or pyloric portion. The left portion of the body is ]inown as the fundus, and is marked off from the remamder of the body by a plane passing through the cardiac orifice and a point on the greater curvature dkectly opposite. The pyloric portion is divided into a right part the pyloric canal, and a left, the pyloric vestibule, by a plane through the sulcus intermedius at right angles to the long axis of this portion (fig. 933). . , -, . ^, t j Physiological subdivisions.—li the stomach be exammed during the process of digestion it will be found divided by a muscular constriction into a large di ated left portion, and a narrow contracted tubular right portion. The constriction is in the body of the stomach and does not follow any of the anatomical landmarks; indeed it shifts gr^d^^^' the left as digestion progresses, i.e. more of the body is gradually absorbed into the ubula part. These two portions are knomi as the fimd^is and pyloric portions. It _^vlIl be seen therefore that the physiological fundus includes the anatomical fundus ^.l^^ he p oximal part o£ the body, while the physiological pyloric portion comprises the distal pait ol the body, the pyloric vestibule and the pyloric canal (fig. 934). fi,p Position of the stomach.-The position of the stomach vanes with the amount of he stomach contents and mth the condition of the intestines on which it rests. \ ana ion n ^he Lount S its contents affects only the physiological fundus, the py o^^^^ portion reraainincr in a more or less contracted condition during the i^rocess of digestion. As the TmLch fills iuTnds to expand forwards and downwards in the f -cU°n of leas^^ r^^^^^^^ but when this is interfered mth by a distended condition of ^o o» «; '"J^^^ fundus presses upwards on the liver and D aphragm and f'^^/'^^ °. ^^^f.fXX^^^^^^^^^^^ sion and palpitation complained of in such cases His* and C""'" phan by hardeiing the viscera in situ that the contracted stomach '^'^^ « f J^'^^ e looking directly backwards. The surfaces are directed "I'^^^'^.^s a"d do^^n.^^ upper surface having, liowever, a gradual downward slope to the uglit. Ihc g.earc curvature is in front and at a slightly higher level than the lesser. ^ , The position of the full stomach depends, a.s already tines • when the,se are empty the fundus expands vertically and IJ^'Xat Js dipkced towards the right, and the whole organ assumes an oblique position, so^t * ircliiv fiir Aiiatoiiiifl itnd Phynolngir. an/il. .IWA., 1903. t rramnUiom nfthr Uoynl Society of Minhnrgh, vol. xlv. part).1135 THE STOMACH its surfaces are directed more forwards and backwards. The lowest part of the stomach is at the pyloric vestibule, which reaches to the region of the umbilicus. Where the intestines interfere with the downward expansion of the fundus the stomach retains the horizontal position which is characteristic of the contracted viscus. Examination of the stomach during hfe by a;-rays has confirmed these findings, and has demonstrated that, in the erect posture, the full stomach usually presents a hook-like appearance, the long axis of the physiological fundus being du-ected downwards, inwards, and forwards towards the umbilicus, while the pyloric portion cm'ves upwards to the duodeno-pyloric junction. Interior of the stomach.—When examined after death, the stomach is usually fixed at some temporary stage of the digestive process. A common form is that shown in fig. 935. If the viscus be laid open by a section through the plane of its two curvatures, it is seen to Fig. 935.—Interior of the stomach. consist of two segments : (a) a large globular portion on the left and (6) a narrow tubular part on the right. These correspond to the physiological subdivisions of fundus and pyloric portions aheady described, and are separated by a constriction which indents the body and greater curvature, but does not involve the lesser cui-vature. To the left of the cardiac orifice is the incisura cardiaca : the projection of this notch into the cavity of the stomach increases as the organ distends, and has been supposed to act as a valve preventing regurgitation into the ossophagus. In the pyloric portion are seen: (a) the elevation corresponding to the incisura angularis, and (b) the circular projection from the duodeno- pyloric constriction which forms the pyloric valve. The separation of the pyloric vestibule from the pyloric canal is scarcely indicated, but the manner in which the pylorus is invaginated into the duodenum is evident. The pyloric valve is formed by a reduplication of the mucous membrane of the stornach, containing numerous circular muscular fibres, which are aggregated into a thick ring. Some of the deeper longitudinal fibres turn in and interlace mth the circular fibres of the valve. Structure.—^The wall of the stomach consists of four coats: serous, muscular, areolar, and mucous, together with vessels and nerves. The serous coat is derived from the peritoneum, and covers the entire surface of the organ, excepting along the greater and lesser cvurvatm-es, at the points of attachment of the greater and lesser omenta ; here the two layers of peritoneum leave a small triangular space, along which the nutrient vessels and nerves pass. On the posterior surface of the stomach, close to the cardiac orifice, there is also a small area uncovered by peritoneum, where the organ is in contact with the under surface of the Diaphragm. The muscular coal (figs. 936, 937) is situated immediately beneath the serous covering, to which it is closely connected. It consists of three sets of fibres : longitudinal, cu-cular, and oblique. The hngiludiml fires are the most superficial, and are arranged in two sets. The first set consists of fibres continuous with the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus ; they radiate in !i stellate manner from the cardiac oi-ifice and are practically all lost before the pyloricSPLANCHNOLOGY 1136 portion is reached. The second set commences on the body of the stomach and passes to the right, its Hbres becoming more thickly distributed as they approach the i)ylorus. Fig. 936.—^The longitudinal and circular muscular fibres of the stomach, viewed from above and in front. (Spalteholz.) Some of the more superficial fibres of this set pass on to the duodenum, but the deep fibres dip inwards and interlace with the cu-cular fibres of the pyloric valve. YiQ, 937 —The obUque muscular fibres of the stomach, \'iewed from above and in front. (Spalteholz.) CEsophagu The circuU.r .fibres form a uniform la,xr over the -'-je -t.nt oJJ^^Jo^^^^^^^ ,. , .. J. 1 r,K..o£. Af tlip iiv onia thev aic most aljundant, ana aie u^^i<.f-"'^^1137 THE STOMACH covering ita surface, the pyloric valve. They are continuous with the cu'cular fibres of the ojsophagus, but are sharply marked off from the circular fibres of the duodenum. The oblique fibres are limited chiefly to the cardiac end of the stomach, where they are cUsposed as a thick uniform layer, covering both surfaces, some passmg obliquely from left to right, others from right to left, round the cardiac end. The areolar or submucous coal consists of a loose, areolar tissue, connectmg the mucous and muscular layers. _ i,. T^ufi, The mucous membrane is thick and its surface is smooth, soft, and velvety. In the tresh state it is of a pinkish tinge at the pyloric end, and of a red or reddish-brown colour over the rest of its surface. In infancy it is of a brighter hue, the vascular redness being more marked. It is thin at the cardiac extremity, but thicker towards the pylorus. During the contracted state of the organ it is thrown into numerous plaits or rugne, which, for the most part, have a longitudinal direction, and are most marked towards the lessor end of the stomach, and along the greater curvature (fig. 935). These folds are entirely obliterated when the organ becomes distended. Structure of the Mucous Membrane.—When examined with a lens, the inner surface of the mucous membrane presents a peculiar honeycomb appearance from being covered Fig. 938.—Pyloric gland. Fig. 939.—Cardiac gland. with small shallow depressions or alveoli, of a polygonal or hexagonal form, which vary from Y?t!7 to uJi, of inch in diameter, and are separated by slightly elevated ridges. In the bottom of the alveoli are seen the orifices of minute tubes, the gastric glands, which are situated perpendicularly side by side throughout the entLre substance of the mucous membrane. The surface of the mucous membrane of the stomach is covered by a single layer of columnar epithelium ; it lines the alveoli, and also for a certain distance the mouths of the gastric glands. This epithelium commences very abruptly at the cardiac orifice, where the cells suddenly change in character from the stratified epithelium of the oesophagus. The gastric glands are of two kinds, (a) pyloric and (6) cardiac or oxyniic glands. They are both tubular in character, and are formed of a delicate basement-membrane, lined by epithehum; the basement-membrane consists of flattened transparent endotheUal cells. The pyloric glands (fig. 938) are most numerous at the pyloric end of the stomach, and from this fact have received their name. Tliey consist of two or three short closed tubes opening into a common duct or mouth, the external orifice of which is situated at the bottom of an alveolus. These tubes are wavy, and are about equal in length to the duct. The tubes and duct are lined throughout with epithelium, the duct being lined by columnar cells, continuous with the epithelium lining the surface of the mucous 4d1138 SPLANCHNOLOGY membrano o£ the stoniacli, the tubes with shorter and more cubical cells which are finely irranular. The curdiiic glands (fig. 939) are found all over the surface of the stomach, ljut occiu- most numerously "at the cardiac end. Like the pyloric glands they consist of a duct, into which open two or more closed tubes. The duct, however, in these glands is shorter than in the other variety, sometimes not amounting to more than one-sixth of the whole length of the gland; it is lined throughout by columnar epithelium. At the point where the terminal tubes open into the duct, and wliich is termed the neck, the epithehmn alters, and consists of short columnar or polyhedral, granular cells, which almost till the tube, so that the lumen becomes suddenly constricted, and is continued down as a very ime channel They are known as the chief or central cells of the glands. Between these cells and the basement-membrane, larger oval cells, which stain deeply with eosm, are found ; these cells are studded throughout the tube at intervals, giving it a beaded or varicose appearance. These are known as the parietal or oxyntic cells. Between the glands the mucous membrane consists of a connective-tissue framework, with lymphoid tLssue. in places, this latter tissue, especially in early life, is collected into little masses, which to a certain extent resemble the solitary glands of the intestine, and are termed the lenhcuhr elands of the stomach. They are not, however, so distinctly circumscribed as the solitary alands. Beneath the mucous membrane, and between it and the submucous coat, is a thin stratum of involuntary muscular fibre {muscularis mucosm), which in some parts consists only of a single longitudinal layer; in others of two layers, an inner circular, and an outer longitudinal. , . • it. i ■„ Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the stomach are : the gastric, the pyloric and right gastro-epiploic branches of the hepatic, the left gastro-epiploic and vasa brevia from the splenic. They supply the muscular coat, ramify in the submucous coat, and aie^mally distributed to the mucous membrane. The arrangement of the vessels m the mucous membrane is somewhat peculiar. The arteries break up at the base of the gastric ?ibulesinto a plexus of fine capillaries which run upwards between the t^^ules anastomos- ing with each other, and ending in a plexus of larger capillaries, winch t^'^.^^^^^ of the tubes and also form hexasonal meshes around the alveoli. From these the leins ake and ™e a straight course do^vnwards, between the tubules, to the submucous fesu^ theHerminate either in the splenic and superior mesenteric veins or directly m the portal vein. The lymvMtics are numerous : theyconsistof a superficial andadeepset and nass to the lymphatic glands found along the two curvatures of the organ. Tlie :lr".e the teSal branches of the right and left P™f^J-' ^'^^^^^^ distributed upon the back, and the latter upon the front part of the orgam A g^eat number of branches from the solar plexus of the ^y'^P^tl^.^t^^ ^^^/^^ f^^^^^^^^^^^ fe'^non Svrfare Form.—The stomach hes for the most part in the left hypochondiiac legion, but at SigSS^in the epigastric region, and is partly "--^ u'nh^^^^^^^ nartlv under cover of the lower ribs on the left side, and partly under the le t lo'^e or mi^ ver Ite caXc orifice corresponds to the seventh left costal cartilage, about an inch from the sternum The pyloric orifice would be pierced by a needle passed through the .^^vi^hv■^ ^Mflcalisterl The fundus of the stomach reaches as high as tlie levei or lue acces^sible for opening in the operations of f ^tro^omy and gas^^^^^^^ LI p oT he left side to the ends of the base line. the foreign body itself, where this can be felt, oi by f^^ Jwhich the stomach mentioned below. The peritonea ^^^'^^ is opened, a^^^^^^^^ is to be incised decided upon. This portion is ^1 ,^„ed bv a transverse and sponges are carefully packed round it The f "°^,2ch is then closed by inci.Jn and the foreign body extracted ^^^^f^ ^SoVeal" d muscular coats in Lerabert's sutures, i.e. by sutures passed ^^'''>'f'J^^^^^^ such a way that the peritonea surfaces on each ^^^i^V^^ith left intercostal space, tion. In gaslroslomy the incision ° '^ff^i tiiree d By this incision two inchcsfrom themedian line, and ^"^"-'^^l' "^f^^ s^^ the same line. Tlie the fibres of the Rectus mu.scle arc exposed, and these '^^'^J'^l'^^^^^^^^^ peritoneum arc posterior layer of the sheath, the Transversal.s ^^^^;JZ the Itomach is now then divided, and the peritoneal cavity ^I??"^^,,^^ H^^^^^ its muscular and .sei-ous seized and drawn out of the wound, andas.lk su me P^^^f "^'J^^^" ^„ assistant so that a coats at the point selected for opening the viscus. Ihis is heia oy a1139 THE STOMACH long conical diverticulum of the stomach protrudes from the external wound, and tho parietal peritoneum and the posterior laj'er of the sheath of the Rectus are sutured to it. A second incision is made through the skin, over the margin of the costal cartilage, above and a httle to the outer side of the first incision. A track is made under the skin through the subcutaneous tissue fi'om the one opening to the other, and the diverticulum of the stomach is di-awn along this track by means of the sutm'e inserted into it, so that its apex appears at the second opening. A small perforation is now made into the stomach through this protruding apex, and its margins are carefull3' and accurately sutm-ed to the edge of the external wound. The remainder of this incision and the whole of the fu-st incision are then closed in the ordinary way and the wound di'essed. In cases of gastric ulcer perforation sometimes takes place, and this was formerly regarded as an almost fatal complication. In the present day, by opening the abdomen and closing the perforation, which is generally situated on the anterior surface of tlie stomach, a considerable number of cases are cm'ed, provided the operation is done not longer than twelve or fifteen hours after the perforation has taken place. The opening is best closed by bringing the peritoneal surfaces on either side into apposition by means of Lembert's sutures. Excision of the pylorus has occasionally been performed, but the results of this operation are by no means favourable, and, in cases of cancer of the pylorus, before operative proceedings are undertaken, the tumoui- has become so fixed and has so far implicated sm-rounding parts that removal of the pylorus is impossible and gastro- enterostomy has to be substituted. The object of this operation is to make a fistulous communication between the stomach, on the cardiac side of the cUsease, and the small intestine, as high up as is possible. In cases of cancer of the stomach involving other parts than the pylorus, the question of removing the whole or greater part of the stomach has to be considered. This operation has been performed by Schlatter and others with success. Hypertrophy and spasm of the ckcumferential muscular coat of the pylorus coming on during the first few weeks or months of life, and somewhat erroneously described as congenital hypertrophic stenosis of the pylorus, is a rare but serious disorder of infancy. It is characterised by abdominal pains and obstinate vomiting coming on after food has been given, and gastric peristalsis can be observed by inspection of the child's epigastrium after it has been fed and before vomiting has occurred. Progressive wasting for want of nourishment, and death from exhaustion, tend to ensue. Treatment should be by washing out the stomach, and the administration at frequent intervals of small quantities of easily digested food, so as to minimise u-ritation of the gastric mucous membrane. Surgical interference — pyloroplasty or pylorectomy — entailing a severe operation, gives less favourable results. The stomach is seldom ruptured from external violence, on accoimt of its protected position. If it occurs, it is when the organ is distended with food. The stomach is some- times injured in gunshot wounds. Tliere is intense shock and severe pain, localised at first at the seat of the injury, but soon radiating over the whole abdomen. The treatment consists in opening the peritoneal cavity, clearing away all the extruded contents of the stomach, and repairing the rent. The Small Intestine (Intestinum tenue) The small intestine is a convoluted tube, extending from the pylorus to the ileo-caecal valve, where it terminates in the large intestine. It is about twenty feet in length,* and gradually diminislies in size from its commence- ment to its termination. It is contained in the central and lower parts of the abdominal cavity, and is surrounded above and at the sides by the large intestine ; a portion of it extends below the brim of the pelvis and lies in front of the rectum. It is in relation, in front, \ntli the great omentum and abdominal parietes, and is connected to the vertebral column by a fold of peri- toneum, the mesentery. The small intestine is divisible into three portions : the duodenum, the jejunum, and ileum. The duodenum (figs. 940, 970) has received its name from being about equal m length to the breadth of twelve fingers (ten inches). It is the shortest, the -ividest, and the most fixed part of tlie small intestine, and lias no mesentery, bemg only partially covered by peritoneum. Its course presents a remarkable curve, somewhat of the shape of an imperfect circle, so that its termination is not far removed from its starting-point. * Treves states that, in one hundred cases, the average length of the small intestine in tlie ailiilt male was 22 lect G inclies, and in the adult female 28 feet 4 inches ; but that it varies very much, the extremes in the male being 31 feet 10 inches in one case, and 15 feet 6 inches in another, a difference of over 15 feet. He states that he has convinced himself that the length of the bowel is mdependent, in the adult, of age, height, and weight. 4 D 2SPLANCHNOLOGY 1140 In the adult the course of the duodenum is as follows : commencing at the pylorus it passes backwards, upwards, and to the right, beneath the quadrate lobe of the liver to the neck of the gall-bladder, varying slightly in direction Fia. 940.—Relations of duodenum, pancreas, and spleen. (From a cast by Birmingham.*) Hepatic artery, portal vein, and hile-cluct Suprarenal glayid Diapliragm Bi. renal vessels Qasi/ric artery Splenic artery Splenic vein The dotted lines represent the attachment of the transverse mesocolon. according to the degree of distension .^1-.«!;^ pa\t"att^'a » In the subject from which the cast was taken the left kidney was lower than nonnal.1141 THE SMALL INTESTINE fourth lumbar vertebra. It now takes a second bend, and passes from right to left across the vertebral column, having a slight inclination upwards ; and on the left side of the vertebral column it ascends for about an inch, and then terminates opposite the second lumbar vertebra in the jejunum. As it unites mth the jejunum it turns abruptly forwards, forming the duodeno-jejunai flexure. From the above description it will be seen that the duodenum may be divided into four portions : superior, descending, transverse, and ascending. Relations.—The first or superior portion is about two inches m length. Bet^inning at the pylorus, it ends at the neck of the gall-bladder. It is the most movable of the four portions. It is almost completely covered by peritoneum derived from the two layers of the lesser omentum, but a small part of its posterior surface near the neck of the gall-bladder and the inferior vena cava is uncovered. It is in such close relation with the gall-bladder that it is usually found to be stained by bile after death, especially on its anterior surface. It is in relation above and in front ^dth the quadrate lobe of the liver and the gall-bladder ; behind with the gastro-duodenal artery, the Fig. 941.—Interior of a portion of the duodenum, showing bile papilla. Probe in duct of Wirsung Probe in common bile-duct common bile-duct, and the portal vein ; and below with the head and neck of the pancreas. The second or descending portion is between three and four inches in length, and extends from the neck of the gall-bladder on a level with the first lumbar vertebra along the right side of the vertebral column as low as the upper border of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra. It is crossed in its middle third by the transverse colon, the posterior surface of which is uncovered by peritoneum and is connected to the duodenum by a small quantity of con- nective tissue. The portions of the descending part of the duodenum above and below this interspace are named the supra- and infra-colic portions, and are covered in front by peritoneum ; the infra-coUc part is covered by the right leaf of the mesentery. Posteriorly the descending portion of the duodenum is not covered by peritoneum. It is in relation, in front, \nth the transverse colon, and above this with the Uver ; behind, with the inner part of the right kidney to which it is connected by loose areolar tissue, the renal vessels, the vena cava inferior, and the Psoas magnus below ; at its inner side is the head of the pancreas, and the common bile-duct ; to its outer side is the hepatic flexure of the colon. The common bile-duct and the pancreatic duct perforate tlie inner side of this portion of the intestine obliquely, some three or four inches below the pylorus (fig. 941). The relations of the second part of the duodenum to the right kidney present considerable variations.1142 SPLANCHNOLOGY The third or transverse 'portion (pro-aortic portion) is from two to tliree inches in length. It commences at the right side of tlie upper border of tlie fourth himbar vertebra and passes from riglit to left, witli a sliglit inclination upwards, in front of tlie great vessels and crura of the Diaphragm, and ends in tlie fourth portion in front of the abdominal aorta. It is crossed by the superior mesenteric vessels and the mesentery. Its front surface is covered by peritoneum, except near the middle line, wliere it is crossed by the superior mesenteric vessels. Its posterior surface is uncovered by peritoneum, except towards its left extremity, where the posterior layer of the mesentery may sometimes be found covering it to a variable extent. Tins surface rests upon the right crus of the Diaphragm, the vena cava inferior, and the aorta. The upper surface is in relation witli the head of the pancreas. The fourth or ascending portion of the duodenum is about an inch in lengtli. It ascends on the left side of the aorta, as far as the level of the upper border of the second lumbar vertebra, where it turns abruptly forwards to become the jejunum, forming the duodeno-jejunal flexure. It lies in front of the left Psoas muscle and left renal vessels, and is covered in front, and partly at the sides, by peritoneum continuous with the left portion of the mesentery. The' fu'St part of the duodenum, as stated above, is somewhat movable, but the rest is practically fixed, and is bound down to neighbouring viscera and the posterior abdominal wall by the peritoneum. In addition to this, the fourth part of the duodenum and the duodeno-jejunal flexure are fixed by a structure to which the name of musculus suspensorius duodeni has been given. This structure commences in the connective tissue around the coeUac axis and left crus of the Diaphragm, and passes downwards to be inserted into the superior border of the duodeno-jejunal curve and a part of the ascending duodenum, and from this it is continued into the mesentery. It possesses, according to Treitz, plain muscular fibres mixed mth the fibrous tissue of wliich it is principally made up. It is of little importance as a muscle, but acts as a suspensory ligament. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the duodenum are the pyloric and superior pancreatico-duodenal branches of the hepatic, and the infei-ior pancreatico-duodenal branch of the superior mesenteric. The veins terminate in the splenic and .superior mesenteric. The nerves are derived from the solar plexus. Jejunum and ileum.—The remainder of the small intestine from the termination of the duodenum is named jejunum and ileum ; the former term being given to the upper two-fifths and the latter to the lower three-fifths. There is no morphological line of distinction between the t^^-o, and the division is arbitrary ; but at the same time it must be noted that the character of the intestine gradually undergoes a change from the commencement of the jejunum to the termination of the ileum, so that a portion of the bowel taken from these two situations would present characteristic and marked differences. These are briefly as follows. . The jejunum (intestinum jejunum) is wider, its diameter being about an mcli and a half, and is thicker, more vascular, and of a deeper colour than the ileum, so that a given length weighs more. Its valvulte conniventes are large and thickly set, and its villi are larger than in the ileum. The glands ot Peyer are almost absent in the upper part of the jejunum, and m the lower part are less frequently found than in the ileum, and are smaller and tend to assume a circular form. By grasping the jejunum between the finger and thumb tlie valvulaj conniventes can be felt through the walls of the gut; these being absent in the lower part of the ileum, it is possible in this way to distingmsn the upper from the lower part of the small intestine. _ The ileum (intestinum ileum) is narrow, its diameter being an mch ana a quarter, and its coats thinner and less vascular than those of the lejunum. It possesses but few valvula; conniventes, and they are small and disappoai entirely towards its lower end, but Peyer's patches are larger and more numerous. The jejunum for the most part occupies the umbilical and ion iliac regions, while the ileum occupies chieHy the umbilical, hypogastric, rigm iliac, and pelvic regions. Its terminal part usually lies in the jiclvis, tiom which it ascends over the right ihae vessels and Psoas muscle ; it ends in i t right iliac fossa by opening into the inner side of the commencement ot tnc1143 THE SMALL INTESTINE large intestine. The jejunum and ileum are attached to tlie posterior abdominal waU bv an extensive fold of peritoneum, the mesentery, which allows the freest motion so that each coil can accommodate itself to changes in form and position. The mesentery is fan-shaped ; its posterior border or root about six inches in length, is attached to the posterior abdominal waU from the lett side of the body of the second lumbar vertebra to the right ihac fossa, crossing successively the third part of the duodenum, the aorta the inferior vena cava, the ureter, and right Psoas muscle (fig. 927). Its breadth betA^-een its vertebral and intestinal borders is about eight inches, and is greater in the middle than at its upper and lower extremities. According to Lockwood it tends to increase in breadth as age advances. Between the two layers ot which it is composed are contained blood-vessels, nerves, lacteals, and lymphatic glands, together \nth a variable amount of fat. MeckeUs diverticulum.—This consists of a pouch which projects from the lower part of the ileum in about 2 per cent, of subjects. Its average position is about three feet above the ileo-ciEcal valve, and its average length about two inches. Its calibre is generally similar to that of the ileum, and its blind extremity may be free or may be connected mth the abdominal wall or with some other portion of the intestine by a fibrous band. It represents the remains of the proximal part of the vitelline or omphalo-uiesenteric duct the duct of communication between the yolk sac and the alimentary canal in early foetal "structure.—Tlie wall of the small intestine is composed of four coats : serous, muscular, areolar, and mucous. . , The serous coat is derived from the peritoneum. The first or ascending portion ot the duodenum is almost completely siurounded by this membrane near its pyloric end, but is only covered in front at the other extremity ; the second or descending portion is covered by it in front, except where it is carried off by the transverse colon ; and the third or transverse portion lies behind the peritoneum, which passes over it, without being closely incorporated with the other coats of this part of the intestine, and is separated from it in and near the middle line by the superior mesenteric vessels. The remaimng portion of the small intestine is surrounded by the peritoneum, excepting along its attached or mesenteric border ; here a space is left for the vessels and nerves to pass to the gut. The muscular coal consists of two layers of fibres, an external, longitudinal, and an internal, chcular layer. The longiludinal fibres are thinly scattered over the sm-face of the intestine, and are more distinct along its free border. The circular fibres form a thick, uniform layer, and are composed of plain muscle-cells of considerable length. The muscular coat is thicker at the upper than at the lower part of the small intestine. The areolar or submucous coat connects together the mucous and muscular layers. It consists of loose, filamentous areolar tissue containing blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves. Tlie mucous membrane is thick and highly vascular at the upper part of the small intestine, but somewhat paler and thinner below. It consists of the following structures: next the areolar or submucous coat is a layer of longitudinal unstriped muscular fibres, the muscularis mucosa ; internal to this is a quantity of retiform tissue, enclosing in its meshes lymph-corpuscles, and in which the blood-vessels and nerves ramify; lastly, a basement-membrane, supporting a single layer of epithelial cells, which throughout the intestines are columnar in character. Tlie cells are granular in appearance, and each possesses a clear oval nucleus. At thek superficial or unattached ends they present a distinct layer of highly refractmg material, marked by vertical strise (the striated border). The mucous membrane presents for exammation the following structures, contained within it or belonging to it: Valvulse conniventes. i Duodenal glands. VilU. Glands ] Solitary glands. Sunple follicles, [ Peyer's or agmmated glands. The valvulse conniventes or valves of Kerkring (plicae cu'culares) are large folds or valvular flaps projecting into the lumen of the ho\\e\. They are composed of reduplications or folds of the mucous membrane, the two layers of the fold being bound together by sub- raucous tissue ; unlike the folds in the stomach, they are permanent, and are not obliterated when the intestine is distended. The majority extend transversely across the cylinder of the intestine for about one-half or two-thuds of its circumference, but some form complete circles, and others have a spiral direction ; the latter usually extend a little more than once round the bowel, but occasionally two or three times. The larger folds are about one-thud of an inch in depth at their broadest part; but the greater number are of smaller size. The larger and smaller folds alternate with each other. They are not found at the commencement of the duodenum, but begin to appear about one or two inches beyond the pylorus. In the lower part of the descending portion, below the point where the bile and pancreaticSPLANCHNOLOGY 1144 ducts enter the intestine, they are very large and closely approximated. In the transverse portion of the duodenum and upper half of the jejunum they are large and numerous, but from this point, down to the middle of the ileum, they diminish considerably in size. In the lower part of the ileum they almost entirely disappear ; hence the comparative thinness of this portion of the intestine, as compared with the duodenum and jejunum. The valvule conniventes retard the passage of the food along the intestines, and afford an increased surface for absorption. The villi {villi intestinales) are highly vascular processes, projecting from the mucous membrane of the small intestine throughout its wliole extent, and giving to its surface a velvety appearance. They are largest and most numerous in the duodenum and jejunum, and become fewer and smaller in the ileum. Structure of the villi (figs. 942, 943).—The essential parts of a villus are: the lacteal vessel, the blood-vessels, the epithelium, the basement-membrane, and muscular tissue of the mucosa, all being supported and held together by retiform lymphoid tissue. Fig. 942.—Diagrammatic section of a villus. (Watney.) from those of the lower part, in that they more nearly resemble the cella of the parenciiyma. These structm-es are arranged in the follo^ving manner Situated in th villus is the lacteal, terminating near the summit m a blind ' " S vessel are unstriped muscular fibres ; surrounding it ^j;^/^^^^ ^f^X the whole being enclosed by a baseraent-memhrane, and covered by f"'""™'^^'J"i^^ Those stnictui^s which are contained within the '-^^^-X'^^^^"^,^^^^^^ lacteal, the muscular tissue, and the Woo^^^ff'''^-"f ^""^'^^f^^^^^^^ delicate reticulum which forms the matrix of the villus, and >"J,^»^^^^;^i,^. Vumbcrs. found large liattened cells, each with f^" , .""f ""^1,f^"^^^ lymph-corpuscles. Nerve-fibres are contained within the villi, they loim lamnic throughout the reticulum. „ „„:,„„U ,«„lfhile Situated in the The Inrlml, are in some cases doulilo. and m some "1 f" „ot quite at, the axis of the villi, they commence by dilated c.ecal extremities near to, but not quite at,1145 THE SMALL INTESTINE summit of the ^^llns. The walls are composed of a single layer of endothelial cells, the interstitial substance between the cells being continuous with the reticulum of the matrix. Fig. 943.—Villi of small intestine. (Cadiat.) Capillaries Li/mpli-trunl- Capillaries -•Lymph-trunk] Small artery Lymphatic plexus Fig. 944.—Longitudinal section of crypts of Lieberkiihn. Goblet-cells seen among the columnar epithelial cells. (Klein and Noble Smith.) Fig. 945.—Transverse section of crypts of Lieberkiihn. (Klein and Noble Smith.) The muscular fibres are derived from the muscularis mucosfe, and are arranged in longitudinal bundles around the lacteal vessel, extending from the base to the summit of the villus, and giving oiT, laterally, individual muscle-cells, \\^\c\\ are enclosed by the reticulum, and by it are attached to the basement-mem- brane. Tlie blood-vessels form a plexus between the lacteal and the basement-membrane, and are enclosed in the reticular tissue. In the interstices of the capillary plexus are contained the cells of the villus. Tliese structures are suiTOunded by the basement-membrane, which is made up of a stratum of endothelial cells, and upon this is placed a layer of columnar epithe- lium. The reticulum of the matrix is con- tinuous through the basement-membrane (that is, through the interstitial substance between the individual endothelial cells) with the interstitial cement-substance of the columnar cells on the surface of the villus. Thus we are enabled to trace a direct continuity between the interior of the lacteal and the surface of1146 SPLANCHNOLOGY the villus by means of llie reticular tissue, and it is along this path that the chyle passes in tlie process of absorption by the villi. That is to say, it passes first of all into the columnar epithelial cells, and, escai)ing from them, is carried into the reticulum of the villus, and thence into the central lacteal. , , ,^ t i The simple follicles, or cry}7ls of Lieberkiihn (gl. intestmales) (figs. 944, 945), are found in considerable numbers over every part of the mucous memljrane of the small mtestme. Fig. 940.—Lymphoid nodule. Capsule Trabeculum M ©Cl©0*t>?ft©®'^'0 © ©00 ■ c. , . © 0 o Genn-centre Lymph-path Fig. 947.—Patch of Peyer's glands. From the lower part of the ileum. They consist of minute tuliular depressions of the mucous membrane, arranged perpen- dicularly to the sui-face, upon which they open by small cu-cular apertm-es. Tliey may be seen with the aid of a lens, their orifices appearing as minute dots scattered between the vilH. Theii- walls are thin, consisting of a basement-membrane hned by columnar epitheUum, and covered on theii- exterior by capillary vessels. , , , . ^ ' The duodenal or Brunner's glands (gl. duodenales) are limited to the duodenum, and are found in the submucous areolar tissue. Tliey are largest and most numerous near the pylorus, forming an almost complete layer in the fkst and upper half of the second portions of the duodenum. They then begin to diminish in number, and practically disappear at the junction of the duodenum and jejunum. They are small compound acino-tubular glands, consisting of a number of alveoli lined by short cohminar epithelium and opening by a single duct on the inner surface of the intestine. . The solitary glands (noduli lymphatici sohtaru) (fig. 94G) are found scattered throughout the mucous membrane of the small intestine, but are most numerous in the lower part of the ileum. They are small, round, lymphoid nodules ; then- free surfaces are covered with rudimentary villi, except at the summit, and each gland is surrounded by the open- ings of the follicles of Lieberkiihn. Each consists of a dense interlacing retiform tissue closely packed with lymi)h-corpuscles. and i)ermeated with an abundant ca])illary network. The interspaces oi the retiform tissue are continuous with larger iynii>li- snaces which sui-round the gland, through which they communicate with the lacteal system. Kv are Sia^d mrtly in the submucous tissue, partly in the mucous niembrane. > heie ThiWorm slllS piClionB of its e,.itheliai layer, after having penetrated the musculans ■^"peTer's glands (noduli lymphatici aggregati) (figs 947 to 949) ^^^^^^.^'^^^^^^ agaregations^f soliiary glands forming circular or oval patches, f^oni twen^ l^^^^l'l^ number, and varying in length from half an inch to four inches. Ihey aie largestTHE SMALL INTESTINE 1147 most numerous in the ileum. In the lower part of the jejunum they are small, circular, and few in number. They are occasionally seen in the duodenum. They are placed lengthwise in the intestine, and are situated in the portion of the tube most distant from Fig. 948.—Vertical section of one of Beyer's patches from man, injected through-its lymphatic canals. o. Tilli with their chyle-passages. 5. Follicles o£ Lieberklihn. c. Muscularis mucosa!, d. Cupula or apex of solitary glands, e. Mesial zone of glands. /. Base of glands, g. Points of exit of the chyle-passages from the villi, and entrance into the true mucous membrane, h. Eetiform arrangement of the lymphatics in the mesial zone. i. Course of the latter at the base of the glands, k. Confluence of the lymphatics opening into the vessels of the submucous tissue. I. FoUicular tissue of the latter. the attachment of the mesentery. Each patch is formed of a group of solitary glands covered with mucous membrane, but the patches do not, as a rule, possess vilU on their free surfaces. They are best marked in the young subject, become indistinct in middle age, and sometimes disappear altogether in advanced hfe. They are freely supplied Fiq. 949.—Transverse section through the with blood-vessels, which form an abun- dant plexus around each folhcle and give off fine branches which permeate the lym- phoid tissue in the interior of the folhcle. Tlie lymphatic plexuses are especially abundant around these patches (fig. 948). Vessels and Nerves,—The jejunum and ileum are supphed by the superior mesenteric artery, the branches of which, having reached the attached border of the bowel, run between the serous and mus- cular coats, with frequent inosculations to the free border, where they also anastomose with other branches running round the opposite surface of the gut. From these vessels numerous branches are given oft', which pierce the muscular coat, supply- ing it and forming an intricate plexus in the submucous tissue. From this plexus minute vessels pass to the glands andvilU of the mucous membrane. Tlie veins have a similar com'se and arrangement to the arteries. The li/mphcUics of the small intestine (lacteals) are arranged in two sets, those of the mucous membrane and those of the muscular coat. The lymph- atics of the villi commence in these struc- tures in the manner described above, and form an intricate plexus in the mucous and submucous tissue, being joined by the lymphatics from the lymjsh-spaces at the bases of the solitary glands, and from this pass to larger vessels at the mesenteric border of the gut. The lymphatics of the muscular coat are situated to a great extent between the two layers of muscular fibres, where they form a equatorial plane of three of Beyer's follicles from the rabbit.1148 SPLANCHNOLOGY close plexus, and throughout their course communicate freely with the lymijliatics from tlie mucous membrane, and empty themselves in the same manner into the origins of the lacteal vessels at the attached border of the gut. The nerves of the »mall inieslines are derived from the plexuses of sympathetic nerves around the superior mesenteric artery. From this source they run to a plexus of nei-\'es and gangha situated between the circular and longitudinal muscular fibres {Auerbnch'n plexus), from which the nervous branches are distributed to the muscular coats of the intestine. From this plexus a secondary plexus {Meissner's plexus) is derived, and is formed Fig. 950.—Meissner's plexus. (Klein and Noble Smith.) Multipolar ganglion-cells Single ganglion-cell bv branches which have perforated the cii-cular muscular fibres (fig. 950). This plexns Ss bXSn The muscula'r and mucous coats of the -testine ; .t also J^^^^ from which nerve-fibres pass to the muscularis mucosae and to the mucous membrane. The Large Intestine (Intestinum crassttm) The large intestine extends from the termination of the ileum to the anus Tt is about five feet in length, being one-fifth of the whole extent of the intestinal canal It is largestlit its commencement at the caecum, and gi-aduaU> Wnishes as far as the rectum, where there is a dilatation of considerable size ?, Sove the anal canal. It differs from the small intestine in its greater calibre rsL^d^JsTtL to its external coat, the aw^ndices cpiplorca;. Fuithei, its l^'^f^jf ^J^!^^^^^ cular fibres do not form a continuous layeT around the gut, "^"^Z^^? J'J^ g in three longitudinal bands or tceni^. The ^^^^^^^^^'^S^. describes an arch which surrounds the ^o'^^'ol"*^"^'^ , '"^^^^ It commences in the right ihac region, in a f^l-tcd pa t the J;* "^^^^ through the right lumbar and hypochondriac f g^o'^^.^^.^V'Vft Tnd passes of tlAver; it liere takes a bend if;-^^'^P'^^toiZS^ transversely across the abdomen on ^^^^'^S^^^^^^^^ spknic rftcrions to the left hyiiochondnac region; it then oenQs agnm ^ flTurl and descends^through t^ie loft whore it becomes convoluted and forms f^^^ 0»^ P^^^ > J^"/ large the pelvis, and descends along its posterior canal intestine is divided into the caecum, colon, rectum, and anal canal.THE LARGE INTESTINE 1149 The cjecum (intestinum ca3cum), the commencement of the large intesthae, is the large blind pouch situated below the ileo-csecal valve (fig. 951). Its blind end is directed downwards, and its open end upwards, communicating directly with the colon, of which this blind pouch appears to be the beginning or head, and hence the old name of cafut ccecum coli was applied to it. Its size is variously estimated by different authors, but on an average it may be said to be two and a half inches in length and three in breadth. It is situated in the right iliac fossa, above the outer half of Poupart's ligament : it rests on the Ilio-psoas muscle and lies immediately behind the anterior abdominal wall. As a rule, it is entirely enveloped by peritoneum, but in a certain number of cases (5 per cent;, Berry) the peritoneal covering is not complete, so that the upper part of the posterior surface is uncovered and connected to the iliac fascia by connective tissue. The caecum lies quite free in the abdominal cavity and enjoys a considerable amount of movement, so that it may become herniated down the right inguinal canal, and has occasionally been found in an inguinal hernia on the left side. The caecum varies in shape, but, according to Treves, in man it may be classified under one of four types. In early Fig. 951.—The cfecum and appendix, with their arteries. foetal life it is short, conical, and broad at the base, with its apex turned upwards and inwards towards the ileo-caecal junction. It then resembles the caecum of some monkeys, e.g. mangabey monkey. As the fcetus grows the caecum increases in length more than in breadth, so that it forms a longer tube than in the primitive form and without the broad base, but with the same inclination inwards of the apex towards the ileo-caecal junction. This form is seen in other monkeys : e.g. the spider mdnkey. As development goes on, the lower part of the tube ceases to grow and the upper part becomes greatly increased, so that at birth there is a narrow tube, the vermiform appendix, hanging from a conical projection, the caecum. Tliis is the infantile form, and as it persists throughout life in about 2 per cent, of cases, it is regarded by Treves as the first of liis four types of human caeca. The caecum is conical and the appendix rises from its apex. The three longitudinal bands start from the appendix and are equidistant from each other. In the seco7id type, the conical caecum has become quadrate by the growing out of a saccule on either side of the anterior longitudinal band. These saccules are of equal size, and the appendix arises from between them.1150 SPLANCHNOLOGY instead of from the apex of a cone. This type is found in about 3 per cent, of cases. The third type is the normal type of man. Here the two saccules, which in the second type were uniform, have grown at unequal rates : the right with greater rapidity than the left. In consequence of this an apparently new apex has been formed by the growing downwards of the right saccule, and the original apex, mth the appendix attached, is pushed over to the left towards the ileo-ca;cal junction. The three longitudinal bands still start from the base of the appendix, but they are now no longer equidistant from each other because the right saccule has grown between the anterior and postero- external bands, pushing them over to the left. Tliis type occurs m about 90 per cent, of cases. The fourth type is merely an exaggerated condition of the third ■ the right saccule'is still larger, and at the same time the left saccule has become atrophied, so that the original apex of the caecum, AMth the appendix, is close to the ileo-cffical junction, and the anterior band courses inwards to the same situation. This type is present in about 4 per cent, of cases. The vermiform appendix (processus vermiformis) is a long, narrow, worm-shaped tube, which starts from what was originally the apex of the csecum. and may pass in several directions : upwards behind the caecum ; to the left behind the ileum and mesentery ; or downwards into the true pelvis. It varies from one to nine inches in length, its average being a httle over three inches (8-3 cm.). It is retained in position by a fold of peritoneum the meso- appmdix, denied from the left leaf of the mesentery. This fo d, in the majority of cases, is more or less triangular m shape, and as a rule extends aloig the entire length of the tube. Between its two layers hes a ^c^^f^ f branch of the ileo-coUc artery, the appendicular artery (fig 951 . The canal of the appendix is small, extends throughout the whole ^^^g^j^ ° communicates with the csecum by an orifice which is placed belo^^ and behind ?h?iTeo^S opening. It is sometimes guarded by a semilunar valve formed by aloiroTmucous membrane, but this is by no means constant. I s coats afe the same as those of the intestine : serous, muscular, submucous, and mucous. structure -The serous coat forms a complete investment for the tube, except along the The ileo-caecal valve (valvula coli) (fig. 952) .-The lower end of tlie ileum TflateJ aAd dried, the segments \-'t\"oi ;eX.de^^ more concave, is attached to tiie line oi ]un<-, , coalesce, and are At the ends of the aperture the f g^^f^^^^^ii^^^^^^^^^^ continued as narrow membranous n(^ges aiound t e ^ ^^^^ forming the frenula or r^ac^ o - ; - T^e kit o ^^^ri^^X^^^ of a^sl^ or may be somewliat oval in shape. f^^^^H bv a rcdunlication of the mucousTHE LARGE INTESTINE 1151 may be drawn outwards, and all traces of the valve wiW be lost, the ileum appearing to open into the large intestine by a funnel-shaped orifice of large size. The surface of each segment of the valve directed tow ards the ileum is covered witli villi, and presents the characteristic structure of the mucous membrane of the smaU intestine ; while that turned towards the large intestine is destitute of villi, and marked with the orifices of the numerous tubular glands peculiar to the mucous membrane of the large intestine. These differences in structure continue as far as the free margin of the valve. When the csecum is distended, the margins of the opening are approximated so as to prevent any reflux into the ileum. This is believed to be due to tension or stretching of the retinacula of the valve. Tlie colon is di^^ded into five parts : the ascending, transverse, descending, iliac, and pelvic. The ascending colon (colon ascendens) is smaller in calibre than the caecum, with wliich it is continuous. It passes upwards, from its commencement at the cfficum, opposite the ileo-csecal valve, to the under surface of the right lobe of the Mver, on the right of the gall-bladder, where it is lodged in a shallow FiQ. 952.—Interior of the caecum and lower end of colon, showing ileo-caecal valve. depression, the impressio colica ; here it bends abruptly forwards and to the left, forming the hepatic flexure (flexura coli dextra). It is retained in contact mth the posterior wall of the abdomen by the peritoneum, which covers its anterior surface and sides, its posterior surface being connected by loose areolar tissue with the Quadratus lumborum muscle, and with the front of tlie lower and outer part of the right kidney (fig. 953). Sometimes the peritoneum completely invests it, and forms a distinct but narrow mesocolon.* It is in relation, in front, with the convolutions of the ileum and the abdominal parietes. The transverse colon (colon transversum), the longest and most movable part of the colon, passes transversely from the right hypochondriac region across the abdomen, opposite the confines of the epigastric and umbilical zones, into the left hypochondriac region, where it curves downwards beneath tlie lower end of the spleen, forming the splenic flexure (flexura coli sinistra). In Its course it describes an arch, the concavity of wliich is directed backwards and a little upwards. It is almost completely invested by peritoneum, and is connected to the posterior abdominal wall by a large and mde duplicature an*^^'^^''t^ ^^^^^^ ^ careful examination of one hundred subjects, he found that in htty-two there wa.s neither an ascending nor a descending mesocolon. In twenty-two there was a desoendnig mesocolon, but no trace of a corresponding fold on the other side. In tom-teen subjects there was a mesocolon to both the ascending and the descending segments 01 the bowel; while in the remaining twelve there was an ascending mesocolon, but no1152 SPLANCHNOLOGY of that membrane, the transverse mesocolon. It is in relation, by its upper surface, with the liver and gall-bladder, the great curvature of the stomach, and the lower end of the spleen ; by its under surface, with the small intestines; YiQ. 953. Dia<^ram of the relations of the largo intestine and kidneys, from behind. Anterior lamella of lumbar a2>oneurosis Posterior Middle lamella of lamella, of lumbar aponeurosis f ijitadratus lumborum lumbar aponeuros Latissimus dorsi Ureter by It, anterior surface, with the anterior layers of |«f "^'^^S'to 1* of the convolutions of the jejunum and ileum.THE LARGE INTESTINE 1153 The splenic flexure (flexura coli sinistra) is situated at the junction of the transverse and descending parts of the colon, and is in relation wdth the lower end of the spleen and the tail of the pancreas. It Hes at a higher level than, and on a plane posterior to, the hepatic flexure, and is attached to the Diaphragm, opposite the tenth and eleventh ribs, by a peritoneal fold, named the phrenocolic or costocolic ligament, which assists in supporting the lower end of the spleen (see page 1129). The descending colon (colon descendens) passes downwards through the left hypochondi-iac and lumbar regions along the outer border of the left kidney. At the lower end of the kidney it turns inwards to\\'ards the outer border of the Psoas muscle, along wMch it descends to the crest of the iUum, where it terminates in the ihac colon. It is retained in position by the peritoneum, wliich covers its anterior surface and sides, its posterior surface being connected by areolar tissue vdth. the outer border of the left kidney, and Avith the Quadratus lumborum muscle (fig. 953). It is smaller in calibre and Fig. 954.—Ilio-pelvic colon and rectum seen from the front, after removal of pubic bones and bladder. more deeply placed than the ascending colon, and is more frequently covered with peritoneum on its posterior surface than the ascending colon (Treves). The iliac colon (fig. 954) is situated in the left ihac fossa, and measures about five or six mches in length. It begins at the level of the ihac crest, where it IS continuous with the descending colon, and ends in the pelvic colon at the "^""1 of tlie pelvis. It curves downwards and inwards in front of the Iliacus and Psoas, and, as a rule, is covered by peritoneum on its sides and anterior surface only. • i"^^^^ pelvic colon (fig. 954) forms a loop which averages about sixteen inches in length, and normally Ues witliin the pelvis, but on account of its freedom of movement it is hable to be displaced into the abdominal cavity. It begins at the brim of the pelvis, where it is continuous ^vit\l the pelvic colon, and passes transversely across the front of the sacrum to the right side of the pelvis ; it then curves on itself and turns towards the left to reach the middle line at the level of the third piece of the sacrum, where it bends downwards and ends 4 ESPLANCHNOLOGY 1154 in the rectum. It is completely surrounded by peritoneum, which forms a mesentery (pelvic mesocolon) : the mesentery diminishes in length from the centre towards the ends of the loop, where it disappears, so that the loop is fixed at its junctions with the iUac colon and rectum, but enjoys a considerable range of movement in its central portion. Relations of the pelvic colon.—Behind the pelvic colon are the external iliac vessels, the left Pyriformis muscle, and left sacral plexus of nerves ; in front, it is separated from the bladder in the male, and the uterus in the female, by some coils of the small intestine. The rectum is continuous above with the pelvic colon, whilst below it ends in the anal canal. From its origin at the level of the tliird sacral vertebra it passes downwards, lying in the sacro-coccygeal curve, and extends for about an inch in front of, and a little below, the tip of the coccyx, as far as the apex of the prostate gland. It then bends sharply backwards mto the anal canal. It therefore presents two antero-posterior curves : an upper, with its convexity backwards, and a lower, with its convexity forwards. Two lateral curves are also described, one to the right opposite the junction of the third and fourth sacral vertebrae, and the other to the left, opposite the left sacro-coccygeal articulation; they are, however, of Uttle importance. The rectum measures about five inches in length, and at its commencement its calibre is similar to that of the pelvic colon, but near its termination it is dilated to form the rectal ampulla. The rectum has no sacculations comparable to those of the colon, but a sacculated condition, due to the presence m its interior of valves (shortly to be described) is sometimes seen. The peritoneum is related to the upper two-thirds of the rectum covering at first its front and sides, but lower down its front only ; from the latter it is reflected on to the seminal vesicles in the male and the posterior vagmal waU ^ *TheTvel at which the peritoneum leaves the anterior wa,U of the rectum to be reflected on to the viscus in front of it is of considerable importance from a surgical point of view, in connection mth removal of the lower part ot the rectuS It is higher in the male than in the female. In the former the heigh rectum, xti g of the recto-vesical pouch is about Fig. 955.-Coronal section through the anal three inches : that to say the canal. (Symington.) height to which an ordinary index finger can reach from the anus. In the female the height of the recto-vaginal pouch is about two and a quarter inches from the anal orifice. The rectum is sur- rounded by a dense tube of fascia derived from the fascia endopelvina, but fused beliind vAth. the fascia covering the sacrum and coccyx. The fascial tube is loosely attached to the rectal wall by areolar tissue in order to allow of distension of the viscus. Relations of the rectum.— The upper part of the rectum is in relation, behind, with the superior hasmorrhoidal vessels the left Pyriformis muscle, and left sacral plexus of nerves, which separate it from the anterior sur- faces of the sacral vertebra^ : m its lower part it lies directly on the sacrum, coccyx, and Lova- tores ani, a dense fascia alone intervening; in front, it is sepa- rated above, in the male, from the posterior -^^^^^.^^ppeS^^ female, from the posterior surface of the uterus and its appendages, oy B. Cavity o£ bladder. v.D. Vos deferens. 8.V. Seminal v^lde K. Second part of rectum. A.O. Anal canal. Levator a^ IS internal epliincter. B.8. External sphincter.THE LAEGE INTESTINE 1155 convolutions of the small intestine, and frequently by the peMc colon ; below, in the male, it is in relation with the triangular portion of the base of the bladder, the vesiculse seminales, and vasa deferentia, and more anteriorly mth the posterior surface of the prostate ; in the female, with the posterior wall of the vagina. The anal canal (fig. 955) or terminal portion of the large intestine begins at the level of the apex of the prostate, is directed downwards and backwards, and ends at the anus. It forms an angle with tlie loM'er part of the rectum, and measures from an inch to an inch and a lialf in length. It has no peritoneal covei-ing, but is invested by the SpMncter ani internus, supported by the Levatores ani, and surrounded at its termination by the Sphincter ani externus. In the empty condition it presents the appearance of an antero-posteiior longitudinal sUt. Behind it, is a mass of muscular and fibrous tissue, the ano- coccygeal body (Symington) ; in front of it, in the male, are the membranous portion and bulb of the urethra, and the base of the triangular hgament; and in the female it is separated from the lower end of the vagina "by a mass of muscular and fibrous tissue, named the perineal body. structure of the colon.—^The large intestine has four coats: serous, muscular, areolar, and mucous. The serous coat is derived from the peritoneum, and invests the different portions of the large intestine to a variable extent. The caecum is completely covered by the serous membrane, except in about 5 per cent, of cases where the upper part of the posterior surface is uncovered. The ascending, descending, and ihac parts of the colon are usually covered only in front and at the sides ; a variable amount of the posterior surface is uncovered.* The transverse colon is ahnost completely invested, the parts corresponding to the attach- ment of the great omentrun and transverse mesocolon being alone excepted. The pelvic colon is entirely surrounded. The rectum is covered above on its anterior surface and sides ; below, on its anterior aspect only ; the anal canal is entirely devoid of any serous covering. In the course of the colon the peritoneal coat is thrown into a number of small pouches filled with, fat, called appendices epiploicm. They are most numerous on the transverse colon. The muscular coat consists of an external longitudinal, and an internal circular, layer of non-striped muscular fibres. The longitudinal Jibres do not form a continuous layer over the whole sm-face of the large intestme. In the caecum and colon they are especially collected into three flat longitudinal bands {tmnice coli), each of about half an inch in width. The vermiform appendix is surrounded by a uniform layer of longitudinal muscular fibres, and these bands commence at the attachment of the appendix to the cacum ; one, the posterior, IS placed along the attached border of the intestine ; the anterior, the largest, corresponds along the arch of the colon to the attachment of the great omentum, but is in front in the ascending, descending and ihac parts of the colon, and in the pelvic colon; the third, or lateral band, is found on the inner side of the ascending and descending parts of the colon, and on the under aspect of the transverse colon. These bands are shorter than the other coats of the intestine, and serve to produce the saccuh which are characteristic of the caecum and colon ; accordingly, when they are dissected off, the tube can be lengthened, and Its sacculated character becomes lost. In the pelvic colon the longitudinal fibres become more scattered; and round the rectum they spread out and form a layer, which completely encu-cles this portion of the gut, but is thicker on the anterior and posterior surfaces, where It forms two bands, than on the lateral surfaces. In addition, two bands of plain muscular tissue arise from t;he second and third coccygeal vertebra, and pass down\vards and forwards to blend with the longitudinal muscular fibres on the posterior wall of the anal canal. Ihese are known as the recto-coccygeal muscles. ThQ circular fibres ioTm & thin layer over the caecum and colon, being especially accumulated in the mtervals between the sacculi; in the rectum they form a thick layer and m the anal canal they become numerous, and constitute the Internal sphincter. ihe areolar coat connects the muscular and mucous layers closely to<rether rni«^^ T"^*"*^ ill and colon, is pale, smooth, destitute of villi, and Tthe reSuTfr^'^ 'r^'''^ folds which correspond to the intervals between the ,^cn5. mu^nl«r .^f '^^^t'^^'"' °f a darker colour, more vascular, and connected loosely to the muscular coat, m m the oesophagus. When the lower part of the rectum is contracted tontal folcfs of *° f «.^'i«i°'i «f the gut. Besides these there are certain permanent norizontal tol ls, of a semilunar shape, known as Houston's valves (fia. 956) t Thev are Sr ''s tua^^^^^^^^ ' ^^-i^timesafourth is found, and occasionaU^^nly two are pres^^^^^^ One IS situated near the commencement of the rectum, on the right side ; a second exten,£ • See footnote, p. 1151. ^ DMir, Hasp. Iteporfs, vol. v. p. 163. 4 E 2SPLANCHNOLOGY 1156 inwards from the left side of the tube, opposite the middle of the sacrum; a third, the largest and most constant, projects backwards from the fore part of the rectimi, opposite the base of the bladder. When a fourth is present, it is situated nearly an inch above the anus on the left and posterior wall of the tube. These folds are about half an inch in width, and contain some of the chcular fibres of the gut. In the empty state of the intes- tines they overlai) each other, as Houston remarks, so effectually as to require considerable manoeuvring to conduct a bougie or the finger along to the canal of the intestine. Their use seems to be, ' to support the weight of fascal matter, and prevent its urging towards the anus, where its presence always excites a sensation demanding its discharge.' * The Ixmaen of the anal canal presents, in its upper half, a mmiber of vertical folds, produced by an infolding of the mucous membrane and some of the muscular tissue. They are known as the columns of Morgagni (fig. 956), and are separated from one another by furrows, which terminate below in small valve-hke folds, termed anal valves, which join together the lower ends of the columns of Morgagni. As in the small intestine, the mucous membrane consists of: a muscular layer, the muscularis mucosae; a quantity of retiform tissue in which the vessels rainify; a Ylq. 956.—Coronal section of rectum and anal canal. Houston's valves Fig. 957.—Transverse section of large intestine. S'' "i H^^^^—Gland of Lieherkiihn "r^7Kr-=—Muscularis mucosce ' "—~<—%—Solitary gland Circular inuscle fibres Columns of Moryagni Internal Sphincter ani External Sphincter ani Longitudinal muscle MUk^ [ifA^lnfi^^'iJjtr- ^ , fibres '>f?^';S5?f?f^^^#f2:~ Subperitoneal connective tissue basement-membrane and epitheUum which is of the columnar variety, and exactly resembles the epithehum found in the small intestine. The mucous membrane of the large intestine presents for examination simple folficles and ^°^'ThlfZple follicles (glands of Lieberkiihn) are minute tubular prolongations of the mucous membrane arranged perpendicularly, side by side, over its entire^ surface ; they are longer, more numeroiTs, and placed in much closer apposition than i^^^f °^}^,^JJ^^^ intestine ; and they open by minute rounded orifices upon the surface, gmng it a cr^^l-^^>fo"^ appearance. Each gland is lined by short colmnnar epithehum and contams numerous ^°^The'lt-tor2/ glands (fig. 957) of the large intestine are most abundant ^^J-^^^f^^^^^ vermiform appendix, but are irregularly scattered also over the rest of the mtestme. They are similar to those of the small intestine. •, • j fi,p mhr ind Vessels and Nerves.-The arteries suppljingthe colon are derived frcnu colic and sigmoid branches of the mesenteric arteries. They give off l^'"?^ ^^^^^^^.f V:^^^^^^^ n he between and supply the muscular coats, and after dividing mto smafi submucous tissui,Va3S to the mucous membrane. The rectum is supphed by tliesupenor ^* Pater^on (The form of the rectum, Journal of Anatomy ^''^ ^IfSVn^a I'S utilises the third fold for the purpose of dividing ^ portion ; he considers the latter ' to be ust as much a ^^n,. n f^^s exLpt duS the act and maintains that, under normal conditions, it doe.s not contain fajces except auring of defffication.SURFACE RELATIONS OP INTESTINE 1157 haemorrlioidal branch of the inferior mesenteric, and the anal canal by the middle hfemorrhoidal from the internal iliac, and the inferior ha;morrhoidal from the pudic artery. The superior hemorrhoidal, the continuation of the superior mesenteric, divides into two branches, which run down either side of the rectum to within about five inches of the anus ; they here split up into about six branches, which ])iorce the muscular coat and descend between it and the mucous membrane in a longitudinal direction, parallel with each other as far as the Internal sphincter, where they anastomose with the other hfcmorrhoidal arteries and form a series of loops around the anus. The veins of the rectum commence in a plexus of vessels which sm-rounds the anal canal. In the vessels forming this plexus are small saccular dilatations just within the margin of the anus ; from the plexus about six vessels of considerable size are given off. TTaese ascend between the muscular and mucous coats for about five inches, running parallel to each other; they then pierce the muscular coat, and, by their union, form a single trunk, the superior haamorrhoidal vein. This arrangement is termed the hcemorrhoidal plexus; it communicates wth the tribu- taries of the middle and inferior ha;morrhoidal veins, at its commencement, and thus a communication is established between the systemic and portal cu'culations. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic plexuses around the branches of the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries. They are distributed in a similar way to those found in the small intestine. The lymphatics of the large intestine are described on page 785. Surface Relations.—The coils of the small intestine occupy the front of the abdomen, below the transverse colon, and are covered more or less completely by the great omentiun. For the most part the coils of the jejunum occupy the left side of the abdominal cavity, i.e. the left lumbar and ihac regions and the left half of the umbilical region ; while the coils of the ilium are situated to the right, in the right lumbar and ihac regions, in the right half of the umbihcal region, and also in the hypogastric region. The csecum is situated m the right Uiac region. Its position varies slightly, but the mid-point of a line drawn from the anterior superior spinous process of the iUum to the symphysis pubis will about mark the middle of its lower border. It is comparatively superficial. From it the ascending colon passes upwards through the right lumbar and hyijochondiiac regions, and becomes more deejily situated as it ascends to the hepatic flexm-e, which is deeply placed under cover of the liver. The transverse colon crosses the belly transversely on the confines of the umbilical and epigastric regions ; its lower border being on a level sUghtly above the umbihcus, its upper border just below the greater cm-vatm-e of the stomach.* The splenic flexiu-e of the colon is situated behind the stomach in the left hypochondi-ium, and is on a higher level than the hepatic flexmre. The descending colon is deeply seated, passing down through the left hypochondriac and lumbar regions to the sigmoid flexm-e, which is situated in the left Uiac region and can be felt in thin persons, with relaxed abdominal walls, rolhng under the fingers when empty, and when distended forming a distinct tumour. The position of the base of the vermiform appendix is indicated by a point an inch and a half from the right anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, in a fine drawn from this process to the umbihcus. This is known as McBurneiJs spot. Another mode of defining the position of the base of the appendix is to draw a line between the anterior superior ihac spines, marking the point where this line intersects the right semilunar fine. Peristalsis of the coils of the small intestine can be observed in some persons with extremely thin abdominal walls, when some degree of constipation exists; it is, however, of great importance as a diagnostic sign of chronic intestinal obstmction, and when such is suspected, shoiild be always looked for. Owing to the resistance offered to the passage of the bowel contents for some period, hypertrophy of the muscular coats of the intestine takes place, and the peristaltic movements of the distended gut may become distinctly visible through the normal thickness of abdominal wall. In cases of obstruction near the ileo-c£ecal junction the distension of the small intestine gives rise to a marked prominence of the central portion of the abdomen, whereas if the obstruction be low down in the large gut, the whole course of the colon may be seen mapped out, thus giving rise to distension in the flanks and transversely about the level of the umbihcus. Thus valuable information as to the seat of the obstruction may often be obtained from simple inspection of the abdomen. Great distension of the intestines also occurs in peritonitis and in typhoid fever. Upon introducing the finger into the male rectum, the membranous portion of the urethra can be felt exactly in the middle line if an instrimient has been introduced into the bladder ; above this the prostate gland can be recognised by its shape and hardness and any enlarge- ment detected; behind the prostate the fluctuating wall of the bladder when full can be felt, and if thought desirable, can be tapped in this situation ; on either side of and behind the prostate the vesicula seminalis can be readily felt, especially if enlarged by tuberculous ^sease. ^ Behind, the coccyx is to be felt; and on the mucous membrane one or two of Houston s folds. The ischio-rectal fossa can be explored on either side, with a view to * The transverse colon frequently sags downwards, especially in those affected with chronic constipation; when the abdomen is opened it is not unusual to find the upper border of the colon distinctly below the umbilicus, and m some cases the convexity of this portion of the large intestine reaches the pelvic brim.1158 SPLANCHNOLOGY ascertaining the presence of deep-seated collections of pus. Finally, it will be noted that the finger is fii-mly gripped by tlie Sphincter for about an inch up the bowel. Applied Anatomy.—The small intestines are much exposed to injury, but, in con- sequence of their elasticity and the ease with which one coil glides over another, they are not so frequently ruptured as would otherwise be the case. Any jjart of the small intestine may be ruptured, but probably the most common situation is the transverse duodenum, on account of its being more fixed than other portions of the bowel, and because it is situated in front of the bodies of the vertebrae, so that if this portion of the intestine is struck by a sharp blow, as from the kick of a horse, it is unable to gUde out of the way, but is compressed against the bone and so lacerated. Wounds of the intestine sometimes OCCIU-. If the wound is a small puncture, under, it is said, three lines in length, no extravasa- tion of the contents of the bowel takes place; the mucous membrane becomes everted and plugs the httle opening. The small intestine, and most frequently the ileimi, may become strangulated by internal bands, or through apertures, normal or abnormal. The bands may be formed in several different ways: they may be old peritoneal adhesions from previous attacks of peritonitis ; or an adherent omentum from the same cause; or the band may be formed by Meckel's diverticulum, which has contracted adhesions at its distal extremity; or it may be the result of the abnormal attachment of some normal structure, as the adhesion of two appendices epiploicse, or an adherent vermiform appendix or Fallopian tube. Intussusception, most commonly an invagination of the small intestine into the large, may take place ; it may attain great size, and it is not uncommon in these cases to find the ileo-csecal valve projecting from the anus. Strictiu-e, the impaction of foreign bodies, and twisting of the gut {volvulus) may also lead to intestinal obstruction. Eesection of a portion of the intestine may be required in cases of gangrene ; for the removal of new growth in the bowel; in deahng with artificial anus ; and in cases of ruptm-e. The operation is termed entereciomy, and is performed as follows : the abdomen having been opened and the amount of bowel requiring removal having been determined upon, the intestine must be clamped on either side of this portion in order to prevent the escape of any of its contents during the operation. The portion of the bowel is then separated above and below by means of scissors. If the portion resected is small, it may be simply removed from the mesentery at its attachment, and the bleeding vessels tied; but if it be large it will be necessary to take away a triangular piece of the mesentery, and, having secmred the vessels, suture the cut edges of this structmre together. In doing this, care must be taken not to leave any intestine projecting beyond the hne of the section of mesentery, as gangrene is very hkely to occur in the projecting part if this is done. ITie surgeon then proceeds to unite the cut ends of the bowel together by what is termed end-to- end anastomosis. There are many ways of doing this, which may be divided into two classes, one where the anastomosis is made by means of some mechanical apphance, such as Murphy's button, or one of the fonns of decalcified bone bobbin ; and the other, where the operation is performed by suturing the ends of the bowel in such a manner that the peritoneum covering the two divided ends is brought into contact, so that speedy umon may ensue. The vermiform appendix is very liable to become inflamed, because it contains a relatively large amount of lymphoid tissue which is prone to bacterial infection. In many cases the inflammation is set up by the unpaction in it of a solid mass of faces or a foreign body, or by the inspissation of its mucous secretion in catarrhal conditions. The inflamma- tion may result in ulceration and perforation, or if very acute in gangrene of the appendix. These conditions generally require immediate operative interference, and in chrome cases with recurring attacks of inflammation it is generally advisable to remove this diverticulum of the bowel. In incising the abdominal wall for this operation, the muscles should be spht in the direction of their fibres rather than cut across in order to prevent subsequent weakening of the abdominal parietes and the occiu-rence of a ventral herma. After the appendix has been removed it is better to suture the planes of the abdominal wall IrTexternal hernia the ileum is the portion of bowel most frequently herniated. When a part of the large intestine is involved it is usually the c.TCum, and this may occur even on the left side. In some few cases the vermiform appendix has been the part miphcated in straneulated hernia. , ^ , Chronic ulcer ot the duodenum is sometimes met with, probably produced by tJie same causes as chronic ulcer of the stomach. It may perforate and set up a rapid y tata peritonitis, or it may open into one of the large duodenal vessels and cause death from haemorrhage. An acute ulcer sometimes, but rarely, follows extensive burns ot the slan. The calibre of the large intestine gradually diminishes from the wecum, the greatest diameter of any part of the bo^^•el, to the point of junction of fj' 1'^ 1";= colon with the rectum. At or a little below this point stricture most ^^^0"'^. and diminishes in frequency as one proceeds upwards to the cacum J^^^"^/^^^^^^^ by some obstiiiction low do^^•n, the outline of the large intestme can be def"ied t^roug^^ nearly the whole of its course-all, in fact, except the hepatic and ^P'^ ^^^^^ ;;;rof are more deeply placed ; the distension is most obvious in the flanks on the front « the abdomen just above the umbilicus. The crocum, however, is the portion of the boA^ei1159 APPLIED ANATOMY OF rNTESTTNE which becomes most distended. It may assume enormous dimensions, and has been known to give way from the distension, causing fatal peritonitis. The hepatic flexure and the right extremity of the transverse colon are in close relationship with the Uver, and abscess of this viscus sometimes bursts into the gut in this situation. The gall-bladder may become adherent to the colon, and gall-stones may find then- way through into it and may become mipacted or may be discharged per anum. The mobiUty of the pelvic colon renders it more Uable to become the seat of a volvulus or twist than any other part of the intestine. It generally occurs in patients who have been the subjects of habitual constipation, and in whom, therefore, the mesocolon is elongated. The gut at this part, being loaded with fseces, falls over the part below, and so gives nse to the ^^Hernia.—The two chief sites at which external hernia may take place are the inguinal region and the crural canal. The description of the inguinal canal and its relations will be found on page 1205 and that of the crural canal on pages 708 and 709. Some points in regard to the disposition of the peritoneum in these regions may, however, be recapitulated here. Between the upper margin of the front of the pelvis and the umbilicus, the peritoneum, when viewed from behind, will be seen to be raised into five folds,with intervening depressions, by more or less prominent bands which converge to the umbiUcus (fig. 924). The urachus, situated in the middle line, is covered by a fold of peritoneum known as the plica urachi. On either side of this a fold of peritoneum round the obliterated hypogastric artery forms the plica hijpogaslrica. To either side of these three cords is the deep epigastric artery covered by the plica epigastrica. Between these raised folds are depressions constituting the so-called fosste. The most internal, between the plica urachi and phca hypogastrica, is known as the internal inguinal fossa (fovea supravesicalis). The middle one is situated between the plica hypogastrica and phca epigastrica, and is termed the middle inguinal fossa (fovea ingumalis mesialis). The external one is external to the plica epigastrica, and is kno\vn as the external inguinal fossa (fovea inguinaUs lateralis). Occasionally the deep epigastric artery corresponds in position to the obliterated hypogastric artery, and then there is but one fold on each side of the middle line. In the usual position of the parts, the floor of the external inguinal fossa corresponds to the internal abdominal ring, and into this fossa an oblique inguinal hernia descends. To the inner side of the plica epigastrica are the two internal fossfe, and through either of these a direct hernia may descend. The whole of the space between the deep epigastric artery, the margin of the Rectus, and Poupart's ligament, is kno-mi as Hesselbach's triangle. Below the level of Poupart's hgament is a small depression corresponding to the position of the crural ring. It is known as the femoral fossa, and into it a femoral hernia descends. Inguinal hernia.—Inguinal hernia is that form of protrusion which makes its way through the abdomen in the inguinal region. There are two principal varieties of it: external or oblique, and internal or direct. In oblique inguinal hernia the intestiae escapes from the abdominal cavity at the internal ring, pushing before it a pouch of peritoneum which forms the hernial sac. As it enters the inguinal canal it receives an investment from the extra-peritoneal tissue and is enclosed in the infundibuliform fascia. In passing along the inguinal canal it displaces upwards the arched fibres of the Transversalis and Internal obhque, and receives a covering of Ci'emaster muscle and cremasteric fascia. It then passes along the front of the spermatic cord and escapes from the ingiiinal canal at the external ring, becoming invested by intercolumnar fascia. Lastly it descends into the scrotum, receiving coverings from the superficial fascia and the integument. The seat of stricture in oblique inguinal hernia is at either the external or internal abdominal ring ; most frequently in the latter situation. If it is situated at the external ring, the division of a few fibres at one point of the circumference is all that is necessary for the replacement of the hernia. If at the internal ring, it is necessary to divide the aponeurosis of the External oblique so as to lay open the inguinal canal; in dividing the aponeurosis the incision should be directed parallel to Poupart's ligament, and the constriction at the internal ring should then be divided directly upwards. When the intestine passes along the inguinal canal and escapes from the external ring into the scrotum, it is called complete obhque inguinal or scrotal hernia. If the intestine does not escape from the external ring, but is retained in the inguinal canal, it is called incomplete inguinal hernia or bubonocele. In each of these cases the coverings which invest it will depend upon the extent to which it descends in the inguinal canal. There are some other varieties of oblique inguinal hernia (fig. 958) depending upon congenital defects in the processus vaginalis, the pouch of peritoneum which precedes the descent of the testis. Normally this pouch is closed before birth, closure commencing at two points, viz. at the internal abdominal ring and at the top of the epididymis, and gradually extending until the whole of the intervening portion is converted into a fibrous cord. From failure in the completion of this process, variations in the relation of the hernial protrusion to the testis and tunica vaginalis are produced ; these constitute distinct varieties of inguinal hernia, viz. congenital, infantile, encysted, and hernia of the funicular process.SPLANCHNOLOGY 1160 Where the processus vaginalis remains patent throughout, the cavity of the tunica vaginalis communicates directly with that of the peritoneum. The intestine descends along this pouch into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis which constitutes the sac of the Fig. 958.—Varieties of oblique inguinal hernia. A. Oommon scrotal hernia. B. Congenital hernia. E. Hernia into the funicular process. hernia, and the gut lies in contact with the testis. Though this form of l^*"""'^^ cLgenM, the term does not imply that the hcx-nia ex sted at ^'^th ^.ut^ merc^^^ that a condition is present which may allow of the descent of the hernia at any moment. As matter of fact, congenital hernia- frequently do not appear till adult lUe.1161 APPLIED ANATOMY OF INTESTINE WTiere the processus vaginalis is occluded at the internal ring only and remains patent throughout the rest of its extent two varieties of oblique inguinal hernia may be produced, viz. infantile and encysted hernim. In the infanlile form (fig. 958, c) the bowel presses upon the peritoneum in the immediate neighbourhood of the septum and causes it to jneld and form a sac which descends behind the tunica vaginalis ; so that in front of the bowel there are thi-ee layers of peritoneum, the two layers of the tunica vaginalis and its own sac. In the encysted form (fig. 958, d) pressure at the occluded spot causes the septum to yield and form a sac which projects into the tunica vaginalis, forming thus a sac within a sac, so that in front of the bowel there are two layers of peritoneum, one from the tunica vaginalis, and one from its own sac. Where the processus vaginalis is occluded at the lower point only, i.e. just above the testis, the intestine descends into the pouch of peritoneum as far as the testis, but is pre- vented from entering the sac of the tunica vaginalis by the septum which has formed between it and the pouch. Tliis is known as hernia into Ihe funicular process; it resembles the congenital form except that instead of enveloping the testis it hes above it. In directinguinal hernia the protrusion makes its way tlu-ough some part of Hesselbach's triangle, either through (a) the outer part, where only extra-peritoneal tissue and trans- versalis fascia intervene between the peritoneum and the aponeurosis of the External oblique; or through (6) the conjoined tendon which stretches across the inner two-thii-ds of the triangle between the artery and the middle line. In the former the hernial protrusion escapes from the abdomen on the outer side of the conjoined tendon, pushes before it the peritoneum, extra-peritoneal tissue and transversalis fascia, and enters the inguinal canal. It passes along nearly the whole length of the canal and finally emerges from the external ring, receiving an investment from the intercolumnar fascia. The coverings of this form of hernia are similar to those of the obhque form, except that a portion derived from the general layer of transversalis fascia replaces the iniundibuUform fascia. In the second form, which is the more frequent, the hernia is either forced tlu-ough the fibres of the conjoined tendon, or the tendon is gradually distended in front of it so as to form a complete investment for it. The intestine then enters the lower end of the inguinal canal, escapes at the external ring, lying on the inner side of the cord, and receives additional coverings from the intercolumnar fascia, the superficial fascia and the integument. The coverings of this form therefore differ from those of the oblique form in that the conjoined tendon is substituted for the cremaster, and the infimdibuliform fascia is replaced by a portion of the general layer of the transversalis fascia. The seat of stricture in both varieties of direct hernia is usually found either at the neck of the sac or at the external ring. In that form which perforates the conjoined tendon it not infrequently occm-s at the edges of the fissure through whicli the gut passes. In all cases of inguinal hernia, whether direct or obhque, it is proper to divide the stricture dii'ectly upwards ; by cutting in this direction the incision is made parallel to the deep epigastric artery—external to it in the oblique variety, internal to it in the direct form of hernia ; all chance of wounding the vessel is thus avoided. Direct inguinal hernia is of much less frequent occurrence than obhque, and is found more often in men than in women. The main differences in position between it and the oblique form are : (a) it is placed over the pubis and not in the course of the inguinal canal ; (h) the deep epigastric artery runs on the outer or iliac side of the neck of the sac ; and (c) the spermatic cord hes along its external and posterior sides, not directly behind it as in obhque inguinal hernia. Femoral hernia.—In femoral hernia the protrusion of the intestine takes place through the crural ring. As already described (page 708), this ring is closed by the septum crurale, a partition of modified extra-peritoneal tissue ; it is therefore a weak spot in the abdominal wall, and especially in the female, where the ring is larger and where profound changes are produced in the tissues of the abdomen by pregnancy. Femoral hernia is therefore more common in women than in men. When a portion of intestine is forced through the crural ring, it carries before it a pouch of peritoneum, which forms the hernial sac. It receives an investment from the extra- peritoneal tissue or septum crurale, and descends along the crural canal, or inner compart- ment of the sheath of the femoral vessels, as far as the saphenous opening ; at this point it changes its course, being prevented from extending farther down the sheath on account of the narrowing of tlie latter, and its close contact with the vessels, and also the close attachment of the superficial fascia and femoral sheath to the lower part of the circum- ference of the saphenous opening. The tumour is consequently directed forwards, pushing before it the cribriform fascia, and then curves upwards over Poupart's ligament and the lower part of the External oblique, being covered by the superficial fascia and integument. Wliile the hernia is contained in the craral canal it is usually of small size, owing to the resisting nature of the surrounding parts, but when it escapes from the saphenous opening into the loose areolar tissue of the groin it becomes considerably enlarged. The direction taken by a femoral hernia in its descent is at first downwards, then forwards and upwards ; in the application of taxis for the reduction of a femoral hernia therefore, pressure should be directed in the reverse order. The coverings of a femoral hernia from within outwards are: peritoneum, septum crurale, femoral sheath, cribriform fascia, superficial fascia, and integument. Su- AstleySPLANCHNOLOGY 11G2 Cooper has described an investment for femoral hernia under the name of fascia propria, lying immediately external to the peritoneal sac but frequently separated from it by some adipose tissue. Surgically it is important to remember the frequent existence of this layer on account of the ease with which an inexperienced operator may mistake the fascia for the peritoneal sac and the contained fat for omentum, as there is often a great excess of subperitoneal fatty tissue enclosed in the ' fascia propria.' In many cases it resembles a fatty tumour, but on further dissection the true hernial sac will be found in the centre of the mass of fat. The fascia propria is merely modified extra-peritoneal tissue which has been thickened to form a membranous sheet by the pressure of the hernia. WTien the intestine descends along the femoral canal only as far as the saphenous opening the condition is known as incomplete femoral hernia. The small size of the protrusion in this form of hernia, on account of the firm and resisting nature of the canal in which it is contained, renders it an exceedingly dangerous variety of the disease, from the extreme difficulty of detecting the existence of the swelling, especially in corpulent subjects. The coveiings of an incomplete femoral hernia would be from without inwards : integument, superficial fascia, superior falciform process of fascia lata, femoral sheath, septum crurale and peritoneum. The seat of stricture of a femoral hernia varies : it may be in the peritoneum at the neck of the hernial sac ; in the greater number of cases it is at the point of junction of the superior falciform process with the free edge of Gimbernat's hgament; or it may be at the margin of the saphenous openuig. The stricture should in every case be divided in a direction upwards and inwards for a distance of about one-sixth to one-quarter of an inch. All vessels or other structures of importance in relation to the neck of the sac will thus be avoided. The spine of the pubis forms an important landmark in serving to differentiate the inguinal from the femoral variety of hernia. The inguinal protrusion is above and to the inner side of the spme, while the femoral is below and to its outer side. There are several details of practical interest in connection with the mesentery which merit notice. 1. The depth of the mesentery—that is to say, the distance from its parietal to its intestinal attachment—is normally less than eight inches, generally nearer six or seven; but under certain abnormal conditions it may become elongated, and this would appear to favour the occurrence of hernia of the intestine. 2. Not only may the depth of the mesentery be increased, but its point of attachment to the posterior abdominal wall may yield, and descend over the lumbar vertebrae. This condition, which is known under the name of enteroptosis, usually occurs in women who have borne many children, and is attended with general relaxation of the abdominal parietes. It produces a charac- teristic appearance, the abdomen being prominent and pendulous below, while above, it is flattened and constricted. 3. Holes are sometunes present in the mesentery, and these may be congenital, or may be the result of injury. They are of practical importance, since a knuckle of intestine may become herniated into one of them, causing acute strangulation. 4. The lymphatic glands contained between the two layers of the mesentery are frequently the seat of tuberculous deposit, especially in children. The surgical anatomy of the rectum is of considerable importance. There may be congenital malformations due to arrest of, or imperfection in, development. Thus, there mav be no proctodosal invagination (see page 161), and consequently a complete absence of the anusT or the hind-gut may be imperfectly developed, and there may be an absence of the rectum, though the anus is developed; or the ectodermal invagination may not communicate with the termination of the hind-gut from want of solution of continuity m the septum which in early fcetal life exists between the two. The mucous membrane is thick and but loosely connected to the muscular coat beneath, and thus favoiu-s prolapse, especially in children. The vessels of the rectum are arranged, as mentioned above loncdtudinally, and are contained in the loose cellular tissue between the mucous and mulcular coats, and receive no support from surrounding tissues, and this favours vancosi y Moreover, the veins, after running upwards in a longitudinal direction for about fr^^ '^^^J^ in the submucous tissue, pierce the muscular coats, and are liable to become constr cte 1 at his spot by the confection of the muscular wall of the gut. In addition to this here are no Xes in the superior ha^morrhoidal veins, and the vessels o the ^ecjim are placed in a dependent position, and are liable to be pressed iipon and "J'f ^^^e^i ^^y l^ar J f^ces. ^The anatomical arrangement, therefore, of the l^'-^'?^"!^"^^^.'j^^^ f-"^P^^^^^^^^^^^ great tendency to the occurrence of piles. The presence of the Spln'^fter am extern^ ft surgical importance, since it is the constant contraction of P^^^^.'f ischio^rectal abscess from healing, and causes it to • 'j^ traction of this muscle is the cause of the severe pain complained of in fissure ot the «mK^ Se relations of the peritoneum to the bowel are of importance m connection ^i^h th^ option of removal of the rectum for malignant disease. This membrane grad^alb °eaves the rectuS as it descends into the pelvis ; first leaving its Pf t^^f^^^^^^^^/^Jf^'^Ji^^^ sidls and then the anterior surface, to become reflected.in themale tl^''P°t^™•^;^^^^APPLIED ANATOMY OF INTESTINE 1163 have been done for the removal of cancer of the rectum, and in these the peritoneal cavity has necessarily been opened. If, in these cases, the opening is plugged with antiseptic gauze until the operation is completed and then the edges of the wound m the peritoneum are accurately brought together with sutm-es, no evil result appears to follow. For cases of cancer of the rectum which are too low to be reached by abdominal section, and too high to be removed by the perineum, Ki-aske has devised an operation which goes by his name. The patient is placed on his right side and an incision is made from the last piece of the sacrum to the anus. The soft parts are now separated from the back of the sides of the sacrum and coccyx, and the greater and lesser sacro-sciatic ligaments are separated. The coccyx is removed, and if necessary a small piece of the sacrum, and the edges of the wound being now forcibly di-awn outwards, a considerable length of the rectum is brought into view, and the diseased portion can be removed, leaving the anal portion of the gut, if healthy. The two divided ends of the gut can sometimes be approximated and sutured together, the posterior part being left open for diainage. The colon frequently requires opening in cases of intestinal obstruction, and by some surgeons this operation is performed in cases of cancer of the rectum as soon as the disease is recognised, in the hope that the symptoms may be reheved by removing the irritation produced by the passage of faecal matter over the diseased surface. The operation of colostomy may be performed either in the inguinal or lumbar region ; but inguinal colostomy has in the present day entkely superseded the lumbar operation. The main reason for preferring this operation is that a spur-shaped process of the mesocolon can be formed, which prevents any fascal matter finding its way past the artificial anus, and the greater ease in maintaining cleanliness. The pelvic colon being entirely surrounded by peritoneum, a coil can be dra^\n out of the wound and opened, leaving the attachment of the mesocolon to fonn a spm-, much as it does in an artificial anus caused by sloughing of the intestine after a strangulated hernia, and this prevents any ftecal matter finding its way from the gut above the opening into that below. The operation is performed by making an incision two or three inches in length from a point one inch internal to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, parallel to Poupart's hgament. The various muscular layers are cut through, and the peritoneum opened ; the pehic colon is now sought for, pulled out of the wound, and fixed by passing a needle threaded wth carbolised silk fu'st through the mesocolon close to the gut, and then through the abdominal wall. The wound is dressed, and about the second day the protruding coil of intestine is opened. The loose connective tissue roimd the rectum is occasionally the site of an abscess, the active focus of which, however, may be located elsewhere. This form of abscess may be described as the superior pelvic-reclal; it is placed above the pelvic diaphragm but beneath the peritoneum. The acute variety is generally due to ulceration or perforation of the bowel (possibly produced by a foreign body) above the level of attaclmient of the Levator ani. The abscess m.ay also occur above a stricture (simple or mahgnant) of the rectum ; occasionally it arises from suppuration around the prostate, and more rarely follows abscess of the vesiculfe seminales. Chronic abscesses also appear in the same region either from caries of the anterior surface of the sacrum or from caseation of the presacral lymphatic glands, whilst in other cases an abscess finds its way down into the pelvis from disease of the anterior surfaces of the bodies of the lumbar vertebras. The Liver The liver (hepar) is the largest gland in the body, and is situated in the upper and right parts of the abdominal cavity, occupying almost the whole of the right hypochondrium, the greater part of the epigastrium, and not uncommonly extending into the left hypochondi-ium as far as the mammary line. In the male it weighs from fifty to sixty ounces, in the female fi'om forty to fifty. It is relatively much larger in the foetus than in the adult, constitutiiig, in the former, about one-eighteenth, and in the latter, about one thirty-sixth of the entire body weight. Its greatest transverse measure- ment is from eight to nine inches. Vertically, near its lateral or riglit surface, it measures about six or seven inches, while its gi-eatest antero-posterior diameter is on a level with the upper end of the right kidney, and is from four to five inches. Opposite the vex'tebral column its measurement from before backwards is reduced to about three inches. Its consistence is that of a soft solid : it is, however, friable and easily lacerated ; its colour is a dark reddish- brown, and its specific gravity is 1-05. To obtain a correct idea of its shape it must be hardened in site, and it win then be seen to present the appearance of a wedge, the base of which is directed to the right and the thin edge towards the left. Symington describes its shape as that ' of a right-angled triangular prism Avith the right angle rounded off.'SPLANCHNOLOGY 1164 Surfaces.—The liver possesses five surfaces, viz. superior, inferior, anterior, posterior, and lateral. A sharp, well-defined margin divides the inferior from the anterior and lateral surfaces, but tlie other surfaces are separated fi'ora one another by thick, rounded borders. The superior and anterior surfaces are attached to the Diaphragm and anterior abdominal wall by a triangular or falciform fold of peritoneum, the suspensory or falciform ligament, in the free margin of wliich is a rounded cord, the ligamentum teres or obliterated umbilical vein. The line of attachment of the falci- form ligament divides the hver into two parts, termed the right and left lobes, the right bemg much the larger. The inferior and posterior suifaces are divided into five lobes by five fissures, which are arranged in the form of the letter H. The left limb of the H marks on these surfaces the division of the liver into right and left lobes : it is known as the longitudinal fissure, and consists of two parts, viz. the umbilical fissure in front and the fissure for the ductus venosus beliind. The right limb of the H is formed in front by the fissure or fossa for the gall-bladder, and beliind by the fissure for the inferior vena cava ; these Uvo fissures are separated from one another by a band of liver-substance, termed the caudate lobe. The bar connecting the two limbs Fig. 959.—The liver. Superior and anterior surfaces. His' model.) (SUghtly modified from lateral ligament Left ligament of the H is the transverse or fortal fissure ; in front of it is the quadrate lobe, behind it the Spigelian lobe. The superior surface (fig. 959) comprises a part of both lobes, and, as a whole, is convex, and fits under the vault of the Diaphragm ; its central part, however, presents a shallow depression, which corresponds with the position of the pericardium on the upper surface of the Diaphragm. It is separatea from the anterior, posterior, and lateral surfaces by thick, rounded borders. Its left extremitv is separated from the under surface by a prominent sliarp margin. Except along the lines of attachment of the falciform hgament it is completely covered by peritoneum. . The anterior surface is large, triangular in shape, and comprises also a part of both lobes. It is directed forwards, and the greater part of it is m contact with the Diaphragm, which separates it on the right from the sixth to the tentu ribs and their cartilages, and on the left from the seventh and eighth costal cartilages. In the middle Une it lies behind the ensiform cartilage, and m the angle between the diverging rib cartilages of opposite sides is in contact with the abdominal wall. It is separated from the inferior surface by a sharp margin, and from the superior and lateral surfaces by thick rounded boi-ders It is completely covered by peritoneum except along the Une of attaciimenT; of the falciform ligament.THE LIVER 1165 The lateral or right surface is covered by peritoneum, and is convex from before backwards and slightly so from above downwards. It is directed towards the right side, forming the base of the wedge, and hes against the lateral portion of the Diaphragm, which separates it from the lower part of the pleura and lung, outside \\\\ich. are the right costal arches from the seventh to the eleventh inclusive. The inferior or visceral surface (figs. 960, 961) is uneven, concave, directed downwards, backwards, and to the left, and is in relation -witli the stomach and duodenum, the hepatic flexure of the colon, and the right kidney and suprarenal gland. The surface is almost completely invested by peritoneum ; the only parts where tliis covering is absent are where the gall-bladder is attaclied to the Uver, and at the transverse fissure where the two layers of the lesser omentum are separated from each other by the blood-vessels and ducts of the Aascus. The inferior surface of the left lobe presents behind and to the left an impression (impressio cardiaca) where it is moulded over the cardiac part of the stomach, and to the right of this a rounded eminence, the tuber omentale, which fits into the concavity of the lesser curvature of the stomach Fig. 960.—The liver. Inferior surface. (Drawn from His' model.) Right lateral ligavicnt Ligamentum teres and lies in front of the anterior layer of the lesser omentum. The under surface of the right lobe is divided into tAvo unequal portions by a fossa, tlie fossa vesicalis (fossa vesicae fellese), which lodges the gaU-bladder ; the i^ortion to the' left, the smaller of the tAvo, is the quadrate lobe, and is in relation Mith the pyloric end of the stomach and the first portion of the duodenum. The portion of the under surface of the right lobe to the right of the fossa vesicalis presents two shallow impressions, one situated beliind the other, the two being separated by a ridge. The anterior of these two impressions, the impressio colica, is produced by the hepatic flexure of the colon ; the posterior, the impressio renalis, is occupied by the upper part of the right Iddney and lower part of the right suprarenal gland. To the inner side of the renal impression is a tliird and slightly marked impression, l3dng between it and the neck of the gall-bladder. This is caused by the second portion of the duodenum, and is known as the impressio duodenalis. Just in front of the inferior vena cava is a narrow strip of Uver tissue, the caudate lobe, which connects the right inferior angle of the Spigelian lobe to the under surface of the right lobe. It forms the upper boundary of the foramen of Winslow.SPLANCHNOLOGY 1166 The posterior surface (fig. 961) is rounded and broad behind the right lobe, but narrow on the left. Over a large part of its extent it is not covered by peritoneum ; this uncovered portion is about three inches broad at its widest part, and is in direct contact with the Diaphragm. It is marked off from tlie upper surface by the hne of reflection of the upper or anterior layer of the coronary ligament, and from the under surface by the line of reflection of the lower layer of the coronary hgament. Tlie central part of the posterior surface presents a deep concavity which is moulded on the vertebral column and crura of the Diaphragm. To the right of tliis the inferior vena cava is lodged in an indentation in the liver substance, lying between the uncovered area and the Spigelian lobe. Close to the right of this indentation and immediately above the renal impression is a small triangular depressed area {impressio suprarenalis), the greater part of which is devoid of peritoneum ; it lodges the right suprarenal gland. To the left of the inferior vena cava is the Spigelian lobe, wMch lies between the fissure for the vena cava and the fissure for the ductus venosus. Its lower end projects and forms part of the posterior boundary of the transverse fissure ; on the right, it is connected mth the Fig. 961.—The liver. Posterior surface. (Drawn from His' model.) Suprarenal impression 1 Oesophageal groove Fismre of the ductus venosus , .,, Tuber uapiUare Umbilical fissure under surface of the right lobe of the liver by the caudate lobe, and on the left it presents a tubercle, the tuber papillare. Its posterior surface rests upon the Diaphragm, being separated from it merely by the upper part of the lesser sac of the peritoneum. To the left of the fissure for the ductus venosus is a groove in which hes the antrum cardiacum of the oesophagus. The inferior border is thin and sharp, and marked opposite the attachment of the falciform Ugament by a deep notch, the wmbilical iwtch, and opposite tlie cartilage of the ninth rib by a second notch for the fundus of the gaU-bladder. In adult males tliis border generaUy corresponds A\ath the lower margm ot t]ie thorax in the right nipple Une ; but in women and chUdren it usuaUy projects below the ribs. , , , , ,^ The left extremity of the liver is thin and flattened from above downwards. Fissures (fig. 961).—As already described, five fissures are seen upon tiie under and posterior surfaces of the Uvor. They are, the umbihcal fissure and tlie fissure for the ductus venosus, forming together the longitudinal bssuie the transverse fissure ; the fissure for the gall-bladder ; and the fissure tor tne inferior vena cava.1167 THE LIVER The longitudinal fissure (fossa sagittalis sinistra) is a deep groove, M'^hieh extends from the notch on the anterior margin of tlie liver to the upper border of the posterior surface of the organ; it separates the right and left lobes. The transverse fissure joins it, at right angles, and divides it into two parts. The anterior part, or umbilical fissure (fossa venae umbilicalis), lodges the umbilical vein in the foetus, and its remains (the ligamentura teres) in the adult ; it lies between the quadrate lobe and tlie left lobe of the liver, and is often partially bridged over by a prolongation of the hepatic substance, the pons hepatis. The posterior part, or fissure for the ductus venosus (fossa ductus venosi), lies between the left lobe and the lobe of Spigelius ; it lodges in the foetus the ductus venosus, and in the adult a slender fibrous cord (lig. venosum), the obUterated remains of that vessel. The transverse or portal fissure (porta hepatis) is a short but deep fissure, about two inches in length, extending transversely across the under surface of the left portion of the right lobe, nearer its posterior surface than its anterior border. It joins nearly at right angles with the longitudinal fissure, and separ- ates the quadrate lobe in front from the caudate and Spigelian lobes behind. It transmits the portal vein, the hepatic artery and nerves, and the hepatic duct and lymphatics. The hepatic duct lies in front and to the right, the hepatic artery to the left, and the portal vein behind and between the duct and artery. The fissure for the gall-bladder (fossa vesicae feHese) is a shallow, oblong fossa, placed on the under surface of the right lobe, parallel with the longi- tudinal fissure. It extends from the anterior free margin of the liver, which is notched by it, to the right extremity of the transverse fissure. The fissure for the itiferior vena cava (fossa venae cavae) is a short deep fissui'e, occasionally a complete canal, in consequence of the substance of the liver surrounding the vena cava. It extends obliquely upwards on the posterior surface from the lobus caudatus wMch separates it from the transverse fissure, and is situated between the Spigelian lobe and the bare area of the Uver. On slitting open the inferior vena cava the orifices of the hepatic veins will be seen opening into this vessel at its upper part, after perforating the floor of this fissure. Lobes.—The lobes of the liver, like the Hgaments and fissures, are five in number—the right lobe, the left lobe, the lobus quadratus, the lobus Spigelii, and the lobus caudatus, the last three being merely parts of the right lobe. The right lobe is much larger than the left ; the proportion between them being as six to one. It occupies the right hypochondrium, and is separated from the left lobe on its upper and anterior surfaces by the falciform ligament; on its under and posterior surfaces by the longitudinal fissure ; and in front by the umbilical notch. It is of a somewhat quadrilateral form, its under and posterior surfaces being marked by three fissures : the transverse fissure, the fissure for the gall-bladder, and the fissure for the inferior vena cava, which separate its left part into three smaller lobes : the lobus Spigelu, lobus quadi-atus, and lobus caudatus. The impressions on the right lobe have already been desexibed. The lobus quadratus is situated on the under surface of the right lobe, bounded in front by the inferior margin of the liver ; behind by the trans- verse fissure ; on the right, by the fossa for the gall-bladder ; and on the left, by the umbilical fissure. It is oblong in shape, its antero-posterior diameter being greater than its transverse. The lobus Spigelii is situated upon the posterior surface of the right lobe of the liver, opposite the tenth and eleventh thoracic vertebrae. It is bounded, below, by the transverse fissure ; on the right, by the fissure for the inferior vena cava ; and, on the left, by the fissure for the ductus venosus. It looks backwards, being nearly vertical in position ; it is longer from above downwards than from side to side, and is somewhat concave in the transverse direction. The lobus caudatus, or tailed lobe, is a small elevation of the hepatic substance extending obliquely outwards, from the lower extremity of the lobus Spigelii to the under surface of the right lobe. It is situated beliind the transverse fissure, and separates the fissure for the gall-bladder from the commencement of the fissure for the inferior vena cava. _ The left lobe is smaller and more flattened than the right. It is situated in the epigastric and left hypochondriac regions. Its upper surface is slightly1168 SPLANCHNOLOGY convex and is moulded on to the Diaphragm ; its under surface j)resent8 the gastric impression and omental tuberosity, aheady referred to. Ligaments.—The liver is connected to tlie under surface of the Diaphragm and to the anterior wall of the abdomen by five ligaments, four of which are peritoneal folds ; the fifth is a round, fibrous cord, resulting from the obhtera- tion of the umbihcal vein. These ligaments are the falciform, coronary, two lateral, and round. It is also attached to the lesser curvature of the stomach by the gastro-hepatic or small omentum (see page 1123). Tlio falciform ligament (lig. falciforme hepatis) is a broad and thin antero- posterior peritoneal fold, falciform in shape, its base being directed downwards and backwards, its apex upwards and backwards. It is attached by one margin to the under surface of the Diaphragm, and the posterior surface of the sheath of the right Rectus muscle as low down as the umbilicus ; by its hepatic margin it extends from the notch on the anterior margin of the liver, as far back as the posterior surface. It is composed of two layers of peritoneum closely united together. Its base or free edge contains the round ligament between its layers. The coronary ligament (lig. coronarium hepatis) consists of an upper and a lower layer. The upper layer is formed by the reflection of the peritoneum from the upper margin of the bare area of the liver to the under surface of the Diaphragm, and is continuous with the right layer of the falciform hgament. The lower layer is reflected from the lower margin of the bare area on to the right kidney and suprarenal gland. The lateral ligaments, two in number, right and left, are triangular m shape. The right lateral ligament (hg. triangulare dextrum) is situated at the right extremity of the bare area, and is a small fold which passes to the Diaphragm, being formed by the apposition of the upper and lower layers of the coronary hgament. The left lateral ligament (hg. triangulare smistrum) is a fold of some considerable size, which connects the posterior part of the upper surface of the left lobe to the Diaphragm ; its anterior layer is continuous with the left layer of the falciform hgament. The round ligament (hg. teres hepatis) is a fibrous cord resulting from the obhteration of the umbihcal vein. It ascends from the umbihcus, m the free margin of the falciform hgament, to the notch in the anterior border of the hver from wliich it may be traced along the longitudinal fissui-e on the inferior surface of the hver ; on the posterior surface it is contmued upwards as the obliterated ductus venosus (hg. venosum) as far as the inferior vena cava. Vessels and Nerves.—The vessels connected with the hver are, the hepatic artery, the portal vein, and the hepatic veins. The hevatic artery and portaZ vein, accompanied by numerous nerves, ascend to tJje transverse fissure, between the layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum. The hile-ducl and lymphatic vessels descend from the transverse fissure between the layers of the same omentum. The relative positions of the three structures are as follows^^^^^^^^^ duct lies to the right, the hepatic artery to the left, and the portal vein behind and between the other two. They are enveloped in a loose areolar tissue, ^^IcapsuU ofOhsson which accompanies the vessels in their course through the portal canals, m the mtenor of ^^^Shepatic veins convey the blood from the hver, and are described on page 760 They have very httle cellular investment, and what there is bmds then panetes ^lo^ely to t^^ walls of the canals through which they run ; so that, on sec ion f^^^^^X'Jt^es 7Z widely open and are solitary, and may be easily distinguished ^^om the branches ot t^e portal vein, which are more or less collapsed, and always accompamed by an aitery and The lympliatics of the liver are described on page 786. ,„iUof,v »ntpr iSe Lves of the liver, derived from the left pneiunogastnc STm,mU^^^^^^^ at the transverse fissure and accompany the vessels and ducts to the mteilobular spaces. Heie accSg to Korolkow. the medullated fibres are distributwi almost exclusive y S the coaTs oTthe Sood-vessels ; while the non-meduUated enter the lobules and ramify "''ItTuct'i'e of the Iiver._The substance of the Hver is composed of lobules, held together by a^Sr mely fine areolar tissue, in which ramify the porta veui, ^^^^ic duct^^^^^^^^^ aJtery, hepatic veins, lymphatics, and nerves; the whole being invested by a serous and '"Srot coat is derived from the peritoneum and invests the greater part of the surface of the organ. It is intimately adherent to the fibrous coat.1169 THE LIVER The fibrous coal lies beneath the serous investment, and covers the entire siui'ace of the organ. It is difficult of demonstration, excepting where the serous coat is deficient. At the transverse fissure it is continuous «dth the capsule of Glisson, and. on the surface of the organ, with the areolar tissue separating the lobules. The lobules (figs. 962, 963) form the chief mass of the hepatic substance; they may be seen either on the surface of the organ, or by making a section through the gland, as small Fig. 962.—Longitudinal section of an Fio. 963—Longitudinal section of a small hepatic vein. (After liiernan.) portal vein and canal. (After Kiernan.) OrificeH of intralobular vaiits granular bodies, about the size of a millet seed, measuring fi-om one-twentieth tolone-tenth of an inch in diameter. In the human subject their outlines are very irregular; but in some of the lower animals (for example, the pig) they are well defined, and, when divided transversely, have polygonal outlines. The bases of the lobules are clustered round the smallest radicles (sublobular) of the hepatic veins, to which each is connected by means of a small branch which issues from the centre of the lobule {intralobular). The remaining part of the FiQ. 964.—Horizontal section of liver (dog). Iniralohular vein surface of each lobule is imperfectly isolated from the surrounding lobules by a thin stratum of areolar tissue, in which is contained a plexus of vessels (the interlobular plexus) and ducts. In some animals, as the pig, the lobules are completely isolated from one another by the interlobular areolar tissue. If one of the sublobular veins be laid open, the bases of the lobules may be seen through the thin wall of the vein on which they rest, arranged in a form resembling a tesselated 4 F1170 SPLANCHNOLOGY pavement, tlio centre of each polygonal space presenting a minute aperture, the mouth of an intralobular vein (lig. 962). Microscopic appearance {fig. 965).—Each lolnile consists of a mass of cells (hepalic cells), surrounded by a dense capillary ]3lexus, com|)Osed of vessels which penetrate from the circumference to the centre of the lobule, and terminate in the inlralobular vein, which runs through its centre, to open at its base into one of the sublohular veins. Between the cells are also the minute bile capillaries. Therefore, in the lobule there are all the essentials of a secreting gland ; that is to say : {I)cells, by which the secretion is formed ; (2) blood- vessels, in close relation with the cells, containing the blood from which the secretion is derived ; (3) ducts, by which the secretion, when formed, is carried away. (1) The hepatic cells are more or less s^jheroidal in form ; but may be rounded, flattened, or many-sided from mutual compression. They vary in size from y^jf to tji^Vo of an inch in diameter. They consist of a honeycomb network, and contain one or sometimes two distinct nuclei. Tlie nucleus contains an intranuclear network and one or two refractile nucleoh. Imbedded in the honeycomb network are numerous yellow particl&s, the colouring-matter of the bile, and fat globules. The cells adhere together by their surfaces so as to form rows, which radiate from the centre to the ckcumference of the lobules.* (2) The blood.vessels.-The blood in the capillary Pl^f^''^^^'^^JJ^^Jj^'Hw brought to the liver principally by the portal veni, but also to a certam extent b> the ^'"^"e artery, entering the liver at the transverse fissure with P-^^l ^/^n ^^^^ hepatic duet,, ramifies mth these vessels t^hrough the P^^^^^l ; fo^ branches which ramify in the capsule of Glisson, and appear to be destined cliiett> lor rnc nutnton :f the coats'^3f the vesLls and ducts It also g^-s oft reach the surface of the organ, terminating in its fibrous coat '"Y^VJ eaA lobu^^^^ to it gives off interlobular branches, which form a plexus on the outer f J ° /^^"^'^ ]° supply the walls of the interlobular y^i^s and the accompanying b^^^^^^^ pllius lobular branches enter the lobule and end m the ^^^^^ "^^^^^^^^ he Sa canals, The pcyrlal vein also enters at the transverse fissure, and tj.™"?';, ,,reak . D.16pino .tales Ih.. there e^videnee. ot the ''^S'T^rlcSaMif^i^^^^^^ clamn,, iblch form tubes with «»'''"Vr™,i ta^ so-callcr1 intralobular xeins.—Lancet, 18!)r,. vol. i. p. 1254.THE LIVER 1171 the liver by the portal vein and hepatic arterj' finds its way into the interlobular plexus. From this plexus the blood is carried into the lobule by fine branches which converge from the circumference to the centre of the lobule, and are connected by transverse branches (fiw. 964). In the interstices of the network of vessels thus formed are situated the liver-cells ; and here it is that, the blood being brought into intimate connection wdth the liver-cells, the bile is secreted. Ai-rived at the centre of the lobule, all these minute vessels empty themselves into one vein, of considerable size, which runs down the centre of the lobule from apex to base, and is called the intralobular vein. At the base of the lobule this vein opens directly into the suhlobular vein, with which the lobule is connected. The sublobular veins imite to form larger and larger tranks, and end at last in the hepatic veins, which converge to form three large trunks which open into the inferior vena cava, while that vessel is situated in the fissm-e appropriated to it at the back of the liver. (3) The hile-ducls.—Several views have prevailed as to the mode of origin of the hepatic ducts ; it seems, however, to be generally believed that they commence by little passages which are formed between the cells, and which have been termed intercellular biliary passages or bile capillaries, although some authorities maintain that they have an intra- cellular origin. These passages are merely little channels or spaces left between the contiguous surfaces of two cells, or in the angle where three or more liver-cells meet (fig. 966), and they are always separated from the blood capillaries by at least half the width of a liver-cell. The channels thus formed radiate to the cu'cumference of the lobule, and form a plexus (interlobular) between the lobules. From this plexus ducts are derived which pass into the portal canals, become enclosed in Glisson's capsule, and, accompanying the portal vein and hepatic artery (fig. 967), join with other ducts to form two main trunks, which leave the liver at the transverse fissm-e, and by their union form the hepatic duct. Structure of the ducts.—The walls of the biliary ducts consist of a connective-tissue coat, in which are muscle-cells, arranged both circularly and longitudinally, and an epithelial layer, consisting of short columnar cells resting on a distinct basement-membrane. ExcBETOBY Apparatus of the Liver The excretory apparatus of the liver consists of (1) the hepatic duct, formed, as we have seen, by the junction of the two main ducts, which pass out of the liver at the transverse fissure ; (2) the gall-bladder, which serves as a reservoir for the bUe ; (3) the cystic duct, or the duct of tlie gall-bladder ; and (4) the common bile-duct, formed by the junction of the hepatic and cystic ducts. The hepatic duct.—Two main trunks of nearly equal size issue from the liver at the transverse fissure, one from the right, the other from the left lobe ; these unite to form the hepatic duct (ductus hepaticus), which then passes downwards and to the right for about an inch and a half, between the layers of the lessor omentum, where it is joined at an acute angle by the cystic duct, and so forms the common bile-duct (ductus choledochus). The hepatic duct is accompanied by the hepatic artery and portal vein. 4 F 21172 SPLANCHNOLOGY Fig! !)68.—The gall-bladder and bile- diicts laid open. (Spalteholz.) Gall- bladchu Sepatic duct The gall-bladder (vesica fellea) (fig. 968) is a conical or pear-shaped musculo- mciubraiious sac, lodged in a fossa on the under surface of the right lobe of the livpr, and extending from near the light extremity of the transverse fissure to the anterior border of tlie organ. It is from tliree to four inches in lengtli, one incli in breadth at its widest part, and holds from eight to ten di-achms. It is divided into a fundus, body, and neck. The fundus, or broad extremity, is directed downwards, forwards, and to the right, and projects beyond the anterior border of the liver ; the body and neck lie in the fossa vesicaUs, and are directed upwards and backwards to the left. The upper surface of the gall-bladder is attached to the hver by connective tissue and vessels. The under surface is covered by peritoneum, which is reflected on to it from the surface of the hver. Occasionally the whole of the organ is invested by the serous membrane, and is then connected to the liver by a kind of mesentery. Relations.—The body (corpus vesicae fellese) is in relation, by its upper surface, with the hver, to which it is connected by areolar tissue and vessels ; by its under surface, with the commencement of the transverse colon ; and farther back usually with the upper end of the descending portion of the duodenum, but sometimes with the first portion of the duodenum or pyloric end of the stomach. The fundus (fundus vesicaj fellese) is completely in- vested by peritoneum; it is in relation, in front, vni\\ the abdominal ]5arietes, im- mediately below the ninth costal cartilage ; beliind ^ith the transverse arch of the colon. The nech (collum vesicae fellese) is narrow, and curves upon itself hke tlie letter S ; at its point of connection mth the cystic duct it presents a well-marked constriction. Structure (fig. 969).—The gall-bladder consists of three coats: serous, fibrous and muscular, and mucous. i i. i • „„(.„ The external or serous coat is derived from the peritoneum ; it completely mvests the fundus, but covers the body and neck only on their under surfaces. , , The tibro-muscular coat, a thin but strong layer forming the framewoi-k of the sac, consists of dense fibrous tissue, which interlaces in all directions, and is imxed with plain muscular fibres, disposed chiefly in a longitudinal direction, a few runmng *™ TheSr'ri«i or mucous coat is loosely connected with the fibrous layer. It is ge»erall.v of a yellovvish-brown colom-, and is elevated into minute ruga^ Opposite the ""^ck of the gall-bladder the mucous membrane projects inwards in the form of oblique ridges or folds, forming a sort of spnal valve (valvula spkalis). . , ^ -^i The mucous membrane is^ontinuous through the hepatic ^"^'t^hji^ mucous membrane lining the ducts of the liver, and through the common bile-duct ^Mtll tue Srous meSne of the alimentary canal. It is covered with -l^-r epithehum, and secretes mucin ; in some animals it secretes a nucleo-protem instead of mucin. The cystic duct (ductus cysticus), about an inch and a half in length, runs backwLi doNniwaixls, and to the left from tlie neck of the gall-bladder, and roTns th^tptdc duct to form the common bile-duct. r::'Z:r^Z lining its interior is thrown into a series o crescent.c fo ds. from fi^'^ to t^^e ^e in number, similar to those found in the neck of the g«jl-bMer ihe.^ project into the duct in regular succession, and arc directed obhquelj round Common bile- duct1173 THE LIVER tlie tube, presenting much the appearance of a continuous spiral valve. When the duct is distended, the spaces between the folds are dilated, so as to give to its exterior a t\\ isted ajipearance. The common bile-duct (ductus choledochus) is formed by the junction of the cystic and liepatic ducts; it is about tlu'ce inches in length, and of the diameter of a goose-quiU. It descends along the right border of the lesser omentum behind the first portion of the duodenum, in fi-ont of tlie portal vein, and to the right of Fig. 969.—Transverse section of gall-bladder. the hepatic artery ; it then passes between the head of the pancreas and descending portion of the duodenum, and, running for a short distance along the right side of the terminal part of the pancreatic duct, passes with it, obliquely between the mucous and muscular coats. The two ducts unite and open by a common orifice upon the summit of a pajiilla, situated at the inner side of the descending portion of the duodenum, a little below its middle and about three or four inches from the pylorus (fig. 941). The short tube formed by the union of the two ducts is dilated into an ampulla, the ampulla of Vater. structure.-—The coats of the large biliary ducts are an external or fibrous, and an internal or mucous. The fibrous coat is composed of strong fibro-areolar tissue, with a certain amount of muscular tissue, arranged, for the most part, in a circular manner around the duct. The mucous coat is continuous with the lining membrane of the hepatic ducts and gall-bladder, and also with that of the duodemun ; and, Uke the mucous membrane of these structures, its epithelium is of the columnar variety. It is provided with numeroiis mucous glands, which are lobulated and Open by minute orifices scattered uxegularly in the larger ducts. Surface Relations.—The liver is situated mainly in the right hypochondriac and the epigastric regions, and is moulded to the dome of the Diaphragm. In the greater part of its extent it lies tmder cover of the lower ribs and their cartilages, but in the epigastric region it comes in contact wth the abdominal wall, in the subcostal angle. The upper limit of the right lobe of the liver may be defined in the middle fine by the junction of the meso- sternum with the ensLform cartilage; on the right side the line must be carried upwards as far as the fifth rib cartilage in the line of the nipple, and then downwards to reach the seventh rib at the side of the chest. The tapper limit of the left lobe may be defined by continuing this line to the left, with an inclination downwards, to a point about two inches to the left of the sternxun on a level with the sixth left costal cartilage. The lotver limit of the liver may be indicated by a fine drawn half an inch below the lower border of the thorax on the right side, as far as the ninth right costal cartilage, and thence obliquely upwards across the subcostal angle to the eighth left costal cartilage. A slightly curved Ime with its convexity to the left from this point, i.e. the eighth left costal cartilage, to the tei-mination of the line indicating the upper limit, will denote the left margin of the liver. Birmingham teaches that the limits of the normal liver may be marked out on the surface of the body in the following manner. Take three points: 1, half an inch below the right nipple ; 2, half an inch below the tip of the tenth rib ; and 3, one inch below the left nipple. Join 1 and 3 by a line slightly convex upwards; join 1 and 2 by a lineSPLANCHNOLOGY 1174 slightly convex outwards, and 2 and 3 by a line slightly convex downwards. The fundus of the gall-bladder approaches the surface behind the anterior extremity of the ninth costal cartilage, close to the outer margin of the right Rectus muscle. It must be remembered that the liver is subject to considerable alterations in position, and the student should make himself acquainted with the different circumstances under which this occurs, as they are of importance in determining the existence of enlargement or other diseases of the organ. The position of the liver varies according to the posture of the body. In the erect position in the adult male, the edge of the liver projects al)out half an inch below the lower edge of the right costal cartilages, and its anterior border can often be felt in this situation if the abdominal wall is thin. In the supine position the liver gravitates backwards, and recedes above the lower margin of the ribs, and cannot then be detected by the finger. In the prone position it falls forward, and can then generally be felt in a patient with loose and lax abdominal walls. Its position varies also with the ascent or d&scent of the Diaphragm. In a deep insi^iration the Hver descends below the ribs ; in expiration it is raised behind them. Again, in emphysema, where the lungs are voluminous and the Diaphragm descends very low, the liver is pushed down : in some other diseases, as phthisis, where the Diaphragm is much arched, the liver rises very high up. Pressure from without, as in tight-lacing, by compressing the lower part of the chest, displaces the liver considerably ; its anterior edge frequentl}^ extending as low as the crest of the ilium ; and its convex surface is often at the same time deeply indented from the pressure of the ribs. Again, its position varies greatly according to the greater or less distension of the stomach and intestines. When the intestines are empty, the liver descends in the abdomen ; but when they are distended, it is pushed upwards. Its relations to sm-rounding organs may also be changed by the growth of tumoms, or by collections of fluid in the thoracic or abdominal cavities. Ptosis of the liver, or hepatoptosis, from abnormal laxity of its ligaments and failm-e of the support it usually receives from the subjacent viscera, is an occasional cause of various nervous and gastro-intestinal disturbances. It has been very fully described by Glenard and his pvipils. Applied Anatomy.—On account of its large size, its fixed position, and its friabihty, the liver is more frequently ruptui-ed than any of the other abdominal viscera. The ruptui-e may vary from a slight scratch to an extensive and complete laceration of its substance, dividing it into two parts. Sometimes an internal rupture, wdthout laceration of the peritoneal covering, takes place, and such injm-ies are most susceptible of repair; but small tears of the surface may also heal; when, however, the laceration is extensive, death usually takes place from haemorrhage, on account of the fact that the hepatic veins are contained in rigid canals in the liver-substance and are unable to contract, and are moreover unprovided with valves. The hver may also be torn by the end of a broken rib perforating the Diaphragm. It may be injured by stabs or other punctured wounds, and when these are inflicted through the chest-wall the pleui-al and peritoneal cavities may both be opened up, and both lung and hver wounded. In cases of wound of the hver fi-om the front, hernia of a part of this visous may take place, but generally can be easily replaced. In cases of laceration of the hver, when there is evidence that bleeding is going on, the abdomen must be opened, the laceration sought for, and the bleeding arrested. This may be done temporarily by introducing the forefinger into the foramen of \\inslow and placing the thumb on the gastro-hepatic omentum, and compressing the liepatic artery and portal vein between the two. Any bleeding points can then be seen and tied, and the margins of the laceration, if small, brought together and sutured by means of a blunt curved needle passed from one side of the wound to the other. All sutiu-es must be passed before any are tied, and this must be done %vith the greatest gentleness, as the liver substance is very friable. WTien the laceration is extensive it must be packed witli gauze, the end of which is allowed to hang out of the external wound. . , , Abscess of the liver is of not infrequent occurrence. The so-called tropical abscess is due to absorption from the intestine of the amreba of dysentery, which reaches the liver through the portal system and causes the formation of a large chronic abscess; this may open in many different ways on account of the relations of the liver t o otiier orgaiis. Ihus it has been known to burst into the lungs when the pus is coughed up, or into the stomacU when the pus is vomited ; it may burst into the colon, or duodenum ; or, by pertorat ing llie Diaphragm, it may empty itself into the pleural cavity. It often makes its way lorwards and points on the^antirior abdominal will, and finally it may burst into the pentonea or pericardial cavities. Abscesses of the liver frequently require opemng ^ must be done by an incision in the abdominal wall, in the thoracic ^ '™ region, according to the direction in which the abscess is tracking. The incision through the abdominal 4ll is to be preferred when possible. The abdomma wa is "--ed the swelling, and, unless the peritoneum is adherent, gauze is P'^'^k^^ a' round the c^^^^^^^^ liver surface and the abscess opened, and a large drainage tube inserted Hjdatid cysts are more often found in the liver than in any of the other viscera. .Tlie lea^on o IL is not far to seek. The embryo of the egg of the lo-nia echinococcus ^^mg J^^^™^^ the stomach by the disintegration of its .shell, bores its way g'^^^ "",;\Xrie^^ usually enters a blood-vessel, and is cnrried by the blood-stream to the hepatic capiUaues,1175 THE PANCREAS where its onward course is arrested, and where it undergoes development into the fully formed hydatid. , , The crall-bladder may become distended in cases of obstruction of its duct or the common bile-duct, or from a collection of gall-stones in its interior, thus forming a large tumour The swelling is pear-shaijed, and projects downwards and forwards to the umbilicus. It moves wth respiration, since it is attached to the liver. To relieve this condition, the gall-bladder must be opened (choiceysiotomij) and the gall-stones removed. 1 ho operation is performed by an incision, two or three inches long, through the outer part ot the riglit Rectus muscle, commencing at the costal margin. The peritoneal cavity is opened, and. tlio tumour having been found, gauze is packed round it to protect the peritoneal cavity, ana it is aspii-ated. men the contained fluid has been evacuated the flaccid bladder is drawn out of the abdominal wound and its wall incised ; any gall-stones in the bladder are now removed and the interior of the sac sponged di-y. If the case is one of obstruction of tlie duct, an attempt must be made to dislodge the stone by manipulation through the wall ot the duct; or it may be crushed from without by the fingers or carefully padded forceps. If this does not succeed, the safest plan is to incise the duct, extract the stone, and close the incision by fine sutmes in two layers. After all obstruction has been removed, the edges of the incision in the gall-bladder may be sutured to the anterior sheath of the Rectus and a fistulous communication established between the gall-bladder and the exterior ; this fistulous opening usually closes in the com'se of a few weeks. The gall-bladder niay be completely removed if it be quite certain that no cause for biUary obstruction remain : this is also done for primary malignant growth of the viscus. The Pancreas The pancreas is a compound racemose gland, analogous in its structure to the salivary glands, though softer and less compactly arranged than those Fig. 970.—The duodenum and pancreas. The liver has been lifted up and the greater part of the stomach removed. (Testut.) Abdominal ttorin Oatlric arleni Sppvmatic venffls A, B, 0, D. The four portions ot the duodenum. organs. It is long and irregularly prismatic in shape; its right extremity, being broad, is called tlie head, and is connected to the main portion of theSPLANCHNOLOGY 1176 organ, or body, by a slight constriction, the neck ; while its left extremity gradually tapers to form tlie tail. It is situated transversely across the posterior wall of the abdomen, at the back of the epigastric and left hypochondriac regions. Its length varies from five to six inches, and its weight from two to three and a lialf ounces. Relations (figs. 970, 971, 972).—The head (caput pancreatis) is flattened from before backwards, and is lodged within the curve of the duodenum. Its upper border is in contact with the first part of the duodenum and its lower overlaps the third part ; its right and left borders overlap in front, and insinuate themselves behind, the second and fourth parts of the duodenum respectively. The angle of junction of the lower and left lateral borders forms a prolongation, termed the processus uncinatus. In the groove between the duodenum and the right lateral and lower borders in front are the anasto- mosing superior and inferior pancreatico-duodenal arteries ; the common bile-duct descends behind, along the right border', to its termination in the second part of the duodenum. jRectus muscle Fig. 971.—Transverse section through the middle of the first lumbar vertebra, showing the relations of the pancreas. (Braune.) Eighth costal cartilage y/ Seventh costal cartilage Seventh rih Eighth rib .Ninth rib Tenth rib Abdominal ciorla Dia])hragh TwelfLh rib Eleventh rib Anterior surface.—The greater part of the right half of this surface is in contact with the transverse colon, only areolar tissue intervening. From its upper part the Jieck originates, its right limit being marked by a groove tor the gastro-duodenal artery. The lower part of the right half, below the transverse colon, is covered by peritoneum continuous with the inferior layer of the transverse mesocolon, and is in contact with the coils of the small intestine. The superior mesenteric artery ])asses down in front of the lett half across the processus uncinatus ; the superior mesenteric vein runs upwards on the right side of the artery and, behind the neck, joins Anth the splenic vein to form the portal vein. . . , ,1 • ,4!„^;^^ Posterior surface.—The posterior surface is in relation witli tlie interior vena cava, the renal veins, the right crus of tlie Diaphragm, and tlie aorta. The neck springs from the right upper portion of the front of the Head It is about an inch in length, and is directed at first upwards and forwards and then upwards and to the left to join the body; it is somewhat flattened troiii above downwards and backwards. Its antero-superior surface supports tne1177 THE PANCREAS iwlorus ■ its postero-infeiior surface is in relation with the commencement of the portal vein ; on the right it is grooved by tlie gastro-duoclenal artery. The body (corpus pancreatis) is somewhat prismatic in shape, and has three surfaces : anterior, posterior, and inferior. , • i- The anterior surface (facies anterior) is somewhat concave, and is clirectea forwards and upwards : it is covered by the postero-inferior surface of the stomach which rests upon it, the two organs being separated by the lesser sac of the peritoneum. Where it joins tlie neck there is a well-marked promi- nence, the tuber omentale, wliich abuts against the posterior surface of the smaU omentum. . i • ■ The posterior surface (facies posterior) is devoid of peritoneum, and is in contact AAdth the aorta, the splenic vein, the left kidney and its vessels, the left suprarenal gland, the origin of the superior mesenteric artery, and the crura of the Diaphragm. • , i The inferior surface (facies inferior) is narrow on the right but broader on the left, and is covered by peritoneum ; it lies upon the duodeno-jejunal Fig. 972.—The pancreas and duodenum from behind. (Drawn from His' model.) Superior mesenteric arteri/ Gmliao axis Area for diajilirar/m flexure and on some coils of the jejunum ; its left extremity rests on the splenic flexure of the colon. The superior border (margo superior) is blunt and flat to the right; narrow and sharp to the left, near the tail. It commences on the right in the omental tuberosity, and is in relation \vitli the cceliac axis, from which the hepatic artery courses to the right just above the gland, while the splenic artery runs towards the left in a groove along this border. The anterior border (margo anterior) separates the anterior from the inferior surface, and along this border the two layers of the transverse mesocolon diverge from one another : one passing upwards over the anterior surface, the other backwards over the inferior surface. The inferior border separates the posterior from the inferior surface ; the superior mesenteric vessels emerge under its right extremity. The tail (cauda pancreatis) is narrow ; it extends to the left as far as the lower part of the gastric surface of the spleen, and it is in contact with the splenic flexure of the colon. Birmingham describes the body of the pancreas as projecting forwards as a prominent ridge into the abdominal cavity and forming a sort of shelf onSPLANCHNOLOGY 1178 which the stomach lies. Ho says : ' The portion of tlie pancreas to the left of tlie middle line lias a very considerable antero-posterior thickness ; as a result the anterior surface is of considerable extent; it looks strongly upwards, and forms a large and important part of the shelf. As the jjancreas extends to tlie left towards the spleen it crosses tlie ujjper part of the kidney, and is so moulded on to it that the top of the kidney forms an extension inwards and backwards of the upper surface of the pancreas and extends the bed in this direction. On the other hand, the extremity of the pancreas comes in contact with the spleen in such a way that the plane of its upper surface runs with little interruption upwards and backwards into the concave gastric surface of the spleen, which completes the bed behind and to the left, and, running upwards, forms a partial cap for the wide end of the stomach.' * The pancreatic duct or canal of Wirsung (ductus pancreaticus) extends transversely from left to right through the substance of the pancreas (fig. 973). It commences by the junction of the small ducts of the lobules situated in the tail of the pancreas, and, running from left to right through the body, it receives the ducts of the various lobules composing the gland. Considerably augmented in size, it reaches the neck, and turning do\\ nwards, backwards, and to the Fig. 973.—The pancreas and its ducts. right, it comes into relation with the common bile-duct, which lies to its right' side ; leaving the head of the gland, it passes very obliquely through the mucous and muscular coats of the duodenum, and terminates by an orifice common to it and the common bile-duct upon the summit of an elevated papilla, situated at the inner side of the descending portion of the duodenum, three or four inches below the pylorus (fig. 941). Sometimes the pancreatic duct and the common bile-duct open sej)aratelv into the duodenum. Frequently there is an accessory duct, which is given oil from the canal of Wirsung in the neck of the pancreas and passes horizontally to the right to open into the duodenum about an inch above the orifice of the main duct. It receives the ducts from the lower part of the head, and is known as the ductus pancreaticus accessorius or ducitis Santonni. The pancreatic duct, near the duodenum, is about the size of an ordinary quill • its waUs are thin, consisting of two coats, an external fibrous and an internal mucous ; the latter is smooth, and furnished near its termmatjon witli a few scattered follicles. ♦ Journal of Anatomy and riujswlogy, vol. xxsi. pt. 1, p. 102.THE PANCREAS 1179 structure (fig. 974).—In structure, the pancreas resembles the salivary glands It differs from to certain particulars, and is looser and sof ter .n its textui-e. S is nJencosed in a distinct capsule, but is surrounded by areoar tissue, which dips Into its interior, and connects together the various lobbies ot wludi ^^ ^^^^0^0^ Each lobule, like the lobules of the salivary glands, consists of one of the ultima e ramifications of the main duct, terminating in a number of c^fical pouches or a yeoli wMch are tubular and somewhat convoluted. The minu e ducts connected mtl the riveoli are narrow and lined with flattened cells. The a veoli are ^I'^^^^^P'f y filled with secreting cells, so that scarcely any lumen is visible. In some animals those cells which occupy the centre of the alveolus are spindle-shaped and nie l^nown as the centro-acinar cells of Langerhans. The true secreting cells which Ime the wall of the alveolus are very characteristic. They are columnar in shape and present two zones. an outer one, clear and finely striated next the basement-membrane and an inner granular one next the lumen. During activity the granular zone gradually diminishes in size, and when exhausted is only seen as a small area sui-rounding the lumen. Dm-ing the resting stages it gradually increases until it fills nearly three-fourths of the cell. In some of the secreting cells of the pancreas is a spherical mass, staining more easily than the rest of the cell; this is termed the -paranucleus, and is believed to be an extension trom the nucleus. The connective tissue between the alveoh presents in certain parts collections of cells, which are termed inter-alveolar cell-islets, or islands of Langerhans. The cells stain h^htly and are more or less polyhedi-al in shape, forming a network m which ramily many capillaries. These cell-islets were formerly supposed to secrete an mternal secretion Fig. 974.—Section of a portion of the pancreas. which influenced carbohydrate metabolism, but have been demonstrated by Dale to be alveoli in a stage of exhaustion, which after a time become re-converted into fresh alveoli. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the -pancreas are derived from the splenic, and the pancreatico-duodenal branches of the hepatic and superior mesenteric. Its veins open into the splenic and superior mesenteric veins. Its hjmpJiatics are described on page 787. Its nerves are filaments from the splenic plexus. Surface Relations.—The pancreas Ues in front of the second lumbar vertebra, and can sometimes be felt, in emaciated subjects, when the stomach and colon are empty, by making deep pressui-e in the middle line about three inches above the umbiUcus. Applied Anatomy.—Inflammation of the pancreas has of late years received considerable attention. It appears to be due to infection of the pancreatic ducts by micro-organisras from the duodenum in cases of gastro-duodenal catarrh, or from the biliary passages in which a gall-stone is lodged. Acute cases usually terminate fatally and are frequently of the haemorrhagic type ; chronic inflammation of the pancreas produces few symptoms of disease unless it is extensive, when attacks of abdominal pain, loss of appetite, progressive weakness and wasting, and the passage of whitish fatty motions, are likely to follow. Extensive fibrosis of the pancreas is also one of the commonest lesions found post-mortem in cases of diabetes mellitus. Cysts of the pancreas are sometimes met with. They may be the result of traumatism, when they generally contain blood, or they may be due to retention from obstruction of a duct, or from pressure on the main duct by a gall-stone. They may attain a large size, and cause symptoms by pressing on the stomach. Diaphragm, or common bile-duct. They generally push their way forwards between the stomach and transverse colon, and may then be felt as a definite tumotur inSPLANCHNOLOGY 1180 the middle line of tho upper part of the abdomen. The tumour is fixed and does not move with respiiation. The treatment consists in opening tlie abdomen in the middle line, incising the cyst, evacuating its contents, and fixing its walls to the deej)er layers of the abdominal wall. Drainage in the left loin, just below the last rib, can sometimes be establi.shed. When they are situated in tlie tail of the pancreas they may be removed. The pancreas is often the seat of cancer ; this usually allects the head, and therefore speedily involves tho common bile-duct, leading to persistent jaundice ; or it may press uijon the poi-tal vein, causing ascites, or involve the stomach, causing pyloric obstruction. It has been said that the pancreas is the only abdominal viscus which has never been found in a hernial protrusion ; but even this organ has been found, in company \vith other viscera, in rare cases of diaphragmatic hernia. UROGENITAL OEGANS The urogenital organs (apparatus urogenitalis) consist of (a) the urinarj* organs for the secretion and discharge of the urine and (h) the genital organs, which are concerned with the process of reproduction. THE URINARY ORGANS The urinary organs comprise the kidneys, which secrete the urine ; the ureters, or ducts, which convey it to the bladder, Avhere it is for a time retained ; and the urethra, tlirough which it is discharged from the body. The Kidneys The kidneys (renes) are situated in the posterior part of the abdomen, one on eitlier side of the vertebral column, behind the peritoneum, and surrounded by a mass of fat and loose areolar tissue. Their upper extremities are on a level with the upper border of the tw^ehth thoracic vertebra, their lower extremities on a level with the third lumbar. The right kidney is usually sUghtly lower than the left, probably on account of the vicinity of the hver. The long axis of each kidney is directed from above downwards and outwards ; the transverse axis from -ndthin backwards and outwards. Each kidney is about four and a half inches in length, two to two and a half in breadth, and rather more than one inch in thickness. The left is somewhat longer, and narrower, than the right. The weight of the kidney in the adult male varies from four and a half ounces to six ounces, in the adult female from four to five and a half ounces. The combined weight of the two kidneys in proportion to that of the body is about 1 to 240. The kidney has a characteristic form, and presents for examination two surfaces, two borders, and an upper and lower extremity. Relations (figs. 975, 976, 977).—The anterior surface (facies anterior) of each kidney is convex, and looks forwards and outwards. Its relations to adjacent viscera differ so completely on the two sides tliat separate descriptions are necessary. {a) Anterior surface of right kidney.—A narrow portion at the upper extremity is in relation with the suprarenal gland. Immediately hciow this a large area, involving about three-fourths of the surface, lies in the renal impression on the inferior surface of the liver, and a narrow but some^liat variable area near the inner border is in contact with the second part of the duodenum. The lower part of the anterior surface is in contact externally with the hepatic flexure of the colon, and internally with the small intestme. The areas in relation \yii\\ the Hver and intestine are covered by peritoneum ; the suprarenal, duodenal, and colic areas arc devoid of peritoneum. (6) Anterior surface of left kidney.^A small area along tlie upper part of the inner border is in relation with tlie suprarenal gland, and close to the outer border is a narrow strip in contact with the renal impression on the spleen. A broad, somewhat quadrilateral field, about the middle of the anterior surface, marks the site of contact with the body of the pancreas, on the deep surface of which are the splenic vessels. Above this is a small1181 THE KIDNEYS ttiaiK^ular portion, between the suprarenal and splenic areas, in contact with the postero-inferior surface of the stoniacli. Below the pancreatic area the outer part is in relation with tlie splenic flexure of the colon, the inner wath the small intestine. Tlie area in contact with the stomach is covered by the peritoneum of the lesser sac. while that in relation to the small intestine is covered by the peritoneum of the greater sac ; behind the latter are some branches of the left colic vessels. . The posterior surface (facies posterior) of each kidney is directed back- wards and inwards. " It is entirelv devoid of peritoneal covering, and imbedded in areolar and fatty tissue. Italics upon the Diaphragm, the external and internal arcuate ligaments, the Psoas muscle, the anterior layer of the lumbar Pig. 975.—The relations of the kidneys, from behind. 1. Spleen. 2. Descending colon. 3. Line of pleural reflection. •!. Liver. 5. Subcostal artery. 0. Last thoracic nerve. 7. Line indicating outer edge of Quadratus luraborum. 8. Ilio-inguinal nerve. 9. Ilio- hypogastric nerve. 10. Ascending colon. 11. Psoas. aponeurcsis (which separates it from the Quadratus luraborum), and the tendon of the Transversalis muscle, one or two of the upper lumbar arteries, and the last thoracic, ilio-hypogastric, and ilio-inguinal nerves. The right kidney rests upon the twelfth rib, the left usually ori the eleventh and twelfth. The Diaphragm .separates the kidney from the pleura, ^\hich dips down to form the phrenico-costal sinus, but fiequently the muscular fibres of the Diaphragm are defective or absent over a triangular area immediately above the external arcuate ligament, and when this is the case the perinephric areolar tissue is in actual contact with the diaphragmatic pleura. The external border (margo lateralis) is convex, and is directed outwards and backwai-ds, towards the postero-lateral wall of the abdomen. On the left side it is in contact, at its upper part, with the spleen.SPLANCHNOLOGY 1182 The internal honler (margo medialis^ is concave in the centre and convex towards eitlicr extremity ; it is directed forwai'ds and a little downwards. Its central part presents a deep longitudinal fissure, bounded by prominent Fig. 970.—The anterior surfaces of the kidneys, showing the areas of contact of neighbouring viscera. Suprarenal area t; overhanging anterior and posterior lips. This fissure is named the hilm. and allows of the transmission of the vessels, nerves, and ureter. 977.—The posterior surfaces of the kidneys, showing areas of relation to the parietes. Eleventh rib The superior extremity (extremitas superior), dn-ectcd sliglit y mwards as well as upwards, is thick and rounded, and is surmounted by tlie suprarenal gland, whicli covers also a small portion of the anterior surface.THE KIDNEYS 1183 Tlie inferior extremity (extremitas inferior), directed a little outwards as ^^■ell as dmvinvards, is smaller and tliinner than the superior. It extends to within two inclies of the crest of the iUum. , „ ^, The relative position of the main structures m the hilus is as tollows : tlie vein is in front, the artery in the middle, and the ureter behind and directed downwards. Frequently, however, brandies of both artery and vein are placed behind the ureter. j -i. , Fixation of the kidney (figs. 978, 979).—The kidney and its vessels are imbedded in a mass of Fig. 978.—Sagittal section tkrough posterior abdo- minal wall, showing the relations of the capsule of the kidney. (After Gerota.) Eleventh rib Twi-lfth rib Posterior lamella of fascia' renalia Paranephric body Peritoneum Vessels ofliiliis of kichiei/ ) Section of colon fatty tissue, termed the capsula adiposa, which is thickest at the margin of the Iddney and is prolonged through the liUus into the renal sinus. The kidney and the capsula adiposa are en- closed in a sheath of fibrous ti.ssue continuous with the sub- peritoneal fascia, and named the fascia renalis. At the outer border of the kidney the fascia renalis splits into an anterior and a posterior layer. The anterior layer is carried inwards in front of the kidney and its vessels, and is continuous over the aorta with the corresponding layer of the opposite side. The posterior layer extends inwards beliind the kidney and blends with the fascia on the Quadratus lumborum and Psoas and through tliis fascia is attached to the vertebral column. At the upper margin of the suprarenal gland the two layers of the fascia renalis fuse, and unite with the fascia of the Diaphragm ; below they remain separate, and are gradually lost in the subperitoneal fascia of the iliac fossa. The fascia renalis is connected to the fibrous capsule of the kidney by numerous trabeculse, which traverse the capsula adiposa, and are strongest near the lower end of the organ. Behind the fascia renalis is a considerable quantity of fat, which constitutes tlie paranephric body. The kidney is held in position partly through the attachments of the fascia renalis and partly by the apposition of the neighbouring viscera. General structure of the kidney.—^The kidney is invested by a capsule of fibrous tissue (tunica fibrosa), which forms a firm, smooth covering to the organ. The capsule can be easily stripped off, but in doing so, numerous fine processes of connective tissue and small blood-vessels are torn through. Beneath this coat, a thin wide-meshed network of unstriped muscular fibre forms an incomplete covering to the organ. When the capsule is stripped off, the surface of the kidney is found to be smooth and even, and of a deep red colour. In infants, fissures extending for some depth may be seen on the surface of the organ, a remnant of the lobular construction of the gland. Tlie Iridney is dense in textm'e, but is easily lacerable by mechanical force. If a vertical section of the kidney be made from its convex to its concave border, and the loose tissue and fat removed from around the vessels and the excretory duct it will be seen that the kidney consists of a central cavity sm-rounded at all parts but one by the proper kidney-substance (fig. 980). This central cavity is called the renal sinus, and is lined by a prolongation of the capsule, which is continued round the lips of the hilus. Through the hilus the blood-vessels of the kidney and its excretory duct pass, and therefore these structures, upon entering or leaving the kidney, are contained within the sinus. The excretory duct or ureter begins by several short truncated branches termed calyces or infundibula (calyces renales), which unite to form two or three short tubes ; tliese in turn expand into a wde funnel-.shaped sac named1184 SPLANCHNOLOGY the pelvis of the kidney (]DelvLs renalis), from the neck of which the ureter issues. Tlie calyces and pelvis lie within the sinus; the blood-vessels of the kidney, after passing Fio. 979.—^Transverse section, showing the relations of the capsule of the kidney. (After Gerota.) of Erector spines Fig. 980.—Vertical section of kidney, through the hilus, are also contained in the sinus, lying between its lining membrane and the excretory apparatus. The kidney is composed of an internal medullary and an external cortical portion. The medullary portion (substantia medul- laris) consists of a series of red-coloured striated conical masses, termed the medullary pyramids or pyramids of Malpighi (pjTamides renales), the bases of which are directed towards the circumference of the kidney, while their apices converge towards the renal sinus, where they form prominent papillaj (papUlm renales) pro- jecting into the interior of the calyces ; each calyx receives from one to three papill.-e. The cortical portion (substantia corticahs) is reddish-brown in colour and soft and granular in consistence. It hes immediately beneath the capsule, arches over the bases of the pyi-amids, and diiis in between adjacent pyramids towards the renal sinus. The part« dipping in lietween the pyramids are named the cortical columns (columna3 renales fBertim]). while the portions which connect the cortical columns to eacli other and intervene between the bases of the pyramids and the capsule are called the corticM arches (indicated bet\yeen A and a' in fig. 980). If the cortex beexammed with a lens, it will be seen to consist of a series of lighter-coloured, conical are^s. termed medulhn/ rays (pars radiata) and a darker- colo^xred intervening substance, which from the -"M^lexity of its str^^^^^^ labyrinth (pars convoluta). Tlie medullary rays gradually taper towards the circum1185 THE KIDNEYS similar in Fia. 981.—Plan of uriniferous tubes. of the kidney, and consist of a series of outward prolongations from the base of each medullary pyi-amid. The cortical and medullary parts, so dissimilar in appearance, are very structure, being made up of m-inary tubes and blood-vessels, united and bound together by a connecting stroma. Minute Anatomy.—^The iubuli uriniferi (tubuli renales), of which the kidney is for the most jjart made up, commence in the cortical portion of the kidney, and after pursuing a very cir- cuitous course through the cortical and medul- lary parts, finally terminate at the apices of the medullary p5'ramids by open mouths (fig. 981), so that the fluid which they contain is emptied, through the calj'ces, into the pelvis of the kidney. If the sm-face of one of the papillfe be examined with a lens, it will be seen to be studded over %vith minute openings, the orifices of the tubuli uriniferi, from sixteen to twenty in number, and if pressm-e be made on a fresh kidney, m-ine wall be seen to exude from these orifices. The tubuli luiniferi commence in the labyrinth and cortical columns of the kidney as the Malpighian bodies, which are small rounded masses of a deep red colour, varjdng in size, but of an average of about jJn of an inch in diameter. Each of these little bodies is composed of two parts : a central glomerulus of vessels, called a Malpighian tuft; and a membranous envelope, the Malpighian capsule, or capsule of Botmnan, which is the small pouch-like commencement of a uriniferous tubule. The Malpighian tuft, or vascular glomerulus, is a network of convoluted capUlarj' blood- vessels, held together by scanty connective tissue. This capillary network is derived from a small arterial twig, the afferent vessel, which pierces the wall of the capsule, generally at a point opposite to that at which the latter is con- nected with the tube ; and the resulting vein, the efferent vessel, emerges from the capsule at the same point. The afferent vessel is usually the larger of the two (fig. 982). The Malpighian, or Bomnan's capsule, which sm'rounds the glomerulus, is formed of a hyahne membrane, supported by a small amoimt of connective tissue, which is continuous with the connective tissue of the tube. It is lined on its inner surface by a layer of squamous epithelial cells. A A. Malpighian bodies. B B. Margin of medullary structure. 0 0 0. Loops o£ Henle. D D D. Straiglit tubes cut oil. B. Oommencing straight tubes. F. Termination of straight tube. which are reflected from the lining membrane on to the glomerulus, at the point of entrance or exit of the afferent and efferent vessels. The whole sm-face of the glomerulus is covered with a continuous layer of the same cells, on a delicate supporting membrane (fig. 983). Thus between the glomerulus and the capsule a space is left, forming a cavity lined by a 4»SPLANCHNOLOGY 1186 Fig. 984.—^Uriniferous tube. continuous layer of squamous cells ; this cavity varies in size according to the state of secretion and the amount of fluid present in it. In the fojtus and young subject the cells are polyhedral or even columnar. The lubuU unni/eri, commencing in the Malpighian bodies, present, during then- course, many changes in shape and direction, and are contained partly in the medullary and partly in the cortical portions of the organ. At their junction with the Malpighian capsule they exliibit a somewhat constricted portion, which is termed the neck. Bej'ond this the tube becomes convoluted, and pursues a considerable course in the cortical structure constituting the 'proximal convoluted tube. After a time the convolutions disappear, and the tube approaches the medullary portion of the kidney in a more or less spiral manner; this section of the tube has been called the apiral tube. Throughout this portion of their coui'se the tubuli miniferi ai-e contained entkely in the cortical structure, and present a fairly uniform calibre. They now enter the medullary portion, suddenly become much smaller, quite straight in direction, and dip down for a variable depth into the pjTamids, constituting the descending limb of Henle's loop. Bending on themselves, they form what is termed the loop of Henle, and re-ascending, they become suddenly enlarged and again spiral in direction, forming the ascending limb of Henle's loop, and re-enter the cortical sti-uc- ture. This portion of the tube does not present a uniform calibre, but becomes narrower as it ascends, and is ii-regular in outline. As a narrow tube it enters the cortex and ascends for a short distance, when it again becomes dilated, irregular, and angular. This section is termed the zig-zag tvbule; it terminates in a convoluted tube, which exactly resembles the proximal convoluted tubule, and is called the distal convo- luted- tubule. This again ter- minates in a narrow junctional tube, which enters the straight or collecting tube. The straight or collecting tubes commence in the medullary rays of the cortex, where they receive the curved extremities of the distal convoluted tubules. They unite at short intervals mth one another, the resulting tubes presenting a considerable increase in calibre, so that a series of comparatively large tubes passes from the bases of the medullary rays into the medullary pyramids. In the medulla the tubes of each pyramid converge to join a central tube which finally opens on the summit of one of the papUlaj; the contents of the tube are therefore discharged into one of the calyces. It mil be seen from the above description that the tubes are continuous f^m tfie.' commencement in the Malpighian bodies to their termination at the °" of the pyramids of Malpighi; and that the urine, the secretion ° /^^ij^^^^-^'^f.^^"^,, " the capsule, will find its wly through these tubes into the calyces of th-^ ladney. ^nd o into the ureter. Commencing at the capsule, the tube first presents ^'^7°;^„ J"f "X portion, (1) the neck. (2) It forms a wide convoluted tube, the ™f .'^^X 3) It becomes spnal, the spiral tubule. (4) It enters '^edu lary struct.,re as a narro , straight tube, the descending limb o^' Henle's loop. (5) It forms ^^"^"'i^/'^^e aaai^e te^^ dilatid, it ascends somewhat spu-ally, and, gradually dmnmshing ^^^'l';;:-.^ar the cortical structiu-e, the ascending limb of Henle's loop. (6) It ']'>'^'J 'X ' }^^^^^^^^ angular in outline, the zig-zag tubule. (7) It then becomes convoluted, ' mS.lhT o ns tuhule. (8) Diminishing in size, it forms a curve, thejnncttonal ^"^ ^ throudi the a straight tube, the shaighl coUecting tube, which is continued dowuN^ards through medullary substance to open at the apex of a pj-ramid. DESCENDING LRVtB' OF HENLE'S LOOP, N.B.—For the sake of clearness the epithelial cells have been represented more highly magnified than the tubes in which they are contained.THE KIDNEYS 1187 Siructure of the tiibuU uriniferi.—The tubuli iiriniferi consist of basement-membrane lined with epithelium. The epithelium varies considerably in different sections of the m-iniferous tubes. In the neck the epithelium is continuous with that lining the Mal- pighian capsule, and like it consists of flattened cells each containing an oval nucleus (fig. 984, a). In the proximal convoluted tubule and the spiral tubule the epithelium is polyhedral in shape, the sides of the cells not being straight, but interlocking with each other, and in some animals so fused together that it is impossible to make out the lines of junction. In the human kidney the cells often present an angular projection of the surface next the basement-membrane. Tliese cells are made up of more or less rod-like fibres, which rest by one extremity on the basement-membrane, while the other projects towards the lumen of the tulbe. Tliis gives to the cells the appearance of distinct striation (Heiden- hain) (fig. 984, b). In the descending limb of Henle's loop the epithelium resembles that found in the Malpighian capsule and the commencement of the tube, consisting of flat, clear epithelial plates, each with an oval nucleus (figs. 984, a; 985). In the ascending limb, on the other hand, the cells partake more of the character of those described as existing in the proximal convoluted tubule, being polyhedi-al in shape, and jDresenting the same appearance of striation. The nucleus, however, is not situated in the centre of the cell, but near the lumen (fig. 984, c). After the ascending limb of Henle's loop becomes narrower upon entering the cortical sti-ucture, the striation appears to be confined to the outer part of the cell; at all events it is much more distinct in this situation ; the nucleus, which appears flattened and angular, being still situated near the Imnen (fig. 984, d). In the Fig. 985.*—Longitudinal section of Fig. 986.—Longitudinal section of Henle's descending limb. straight tube. a. Membrana propria. a. Cylindrical or cubical epithelium. b. Epithelium. b. Membrana propria. UTegular tubule, the cells undergo a still fm-ther change, becoming very angular, and pre- senting thick bright rods or markings, which render the striation much more distinct than in any other section of the luinary tubiiles (fig. 984, h). In the di.stal convoluted tubule the epithelium appears to be somewhat similar to that which has been described as existing in the proximal convoluted tubule, but presents a peculiar refractive appearance (fig. 984, b). In the junctional tubule, just before its entrance into the straight collecting tube, the epithelium varies greatly as regards the shape of the cells, some being angular with short processes, others spindle-shaped, others polyhedral (fig. 984, e). In the straight tube the epitheliiun is more or less columnar : in its papillary portion the cells are distinctly columnar and transparent (fig. 986); but as the tube approaches the cortex the cells are less uniform in shape: some are polyhedral, and others angular with short processes (fig. 984, r and g). The renal blood-vessels.—The kidney is plentifully supplied with blood by the renal artery, a large offset of the abdominal aorta. Before it enters the kidne}', each artery divides into four or five branches ; at the hilus these branches lie between the renal vein and ureter, the vein being in front, the ureter behind ; one branch usually lies behind the ureter. Each vessel gives off some small branches to the sujjrarenal glands, to the ureter, and to the siurounding cellular tissue and muscles. Frequently a second renal artery, termed the inferior renal, is given off from the abdominal aorta at a lower level, and supplies the lower portion of the kidney, whilst occasionally an additional artery enters the upper part of the Iddney. The branches of the renal artery, while in the sinus, give off a few twigs for the nutrition of the surrounding tissues, and terminate in the arlerias proprice renaUs, which enter the kidney proper in the columns of Bertin. Two of these * From the Handbook for the Physiological Luhoratory. 4g 21188 SPLANUHNULOGY pass to each medullary pyramid, and run along its sides for its entire length, giving off, as they advance, the afferent vessels of the Malpighian bodies in the columns. Having arrived at the bases of the pyramids, they form arterial arches or arcades which lie between the bases of the pyramids and the cortical arches, and break up into two distinct sets of branches devoted to the supply of the remaining portions of the kidney. Pig. 987. -Transverse section of pyramidal substance of kidney of pig, the blood-vessels of which are injected. a. Large collecting tube, cut across, lined witli cylindrical epitlielium. 6. Branch o£ collecting tube, cut across, lined with epithelium with shorter cylinders, c, d. Henle's loops cut across. c. Blood-vessels cut across. D. Oonnective-tissue ground-substance. The first set, the interlobular arteries (figs. 988, 989, b), are given off at right angles from the side of the arterial arcade looking towards the cortical substance, and pass directly outwards between the medullary rays to reach the fibrous capsule, where they termmate in the capillary network of this part. These vessels do not anastomose with, each other, but form what are called end-arteries. In their outward coui-se they give off lateral branches; Fig. 988.—^Diagrammatic sketch of the blood-vessels of the kidney. Fig, 989.—A portion of fig. 988 enlarged. (The references are the same.) A. o. Proper renal artery and vein, the former giving off the rctml allcrente, the '«tt?"^,X "^-ei.« am cfferents. B b. Interlobular artery and vein, the latt«r commencing from the st«Uat« ami receiving branches from the ple.viH around the tubuli contorti, tlie former giving off o Stra^ht tube, surrounded by tubuli contorti, witl, which it communicatj. Ug. 981. n. Margin of medullary substance. K E B. Receiving tubes, cut off. i f. Artcrioiic CL venic recta;, the latter arising from (0) the plexus at the medullary apex. these are the nfTerent vessels for the Malpighian bodies (see page 1185); t^^y pierce the capsule, and end in the Malpighian tufts. From each tuft ^'^'^^^V'^f'^lf'^^^^^ arises, and, having made its egress from the capsule near to the pomt ^re the affe.ent vessel enters, breaks up into a number of branches, which form a dense plexus around the adjacent urinary tubes (fig. 990).1189 THE KIDNEYS The second set of branches from the arterial arcades supi)ly the medullary pyramids, which they enter at their bases ; and, jmssing straight through their substance to theu;apices, terminate in the venous plexuses found in that situation. They are called the arUrtoe recice ^^^ThTr'enalvdL arise from three som-oes, viz. the veins beneath the capsule, the plexuses around the convoluted tubules in the cortical arches, and the plexuses situated at tlie apices of the pyramids of Malpighi. The veins beneath the capsule («ewce steUatoe) are stellate in arrangement, and are derived from the capillary network, into which the terminal branches of the interlobular arteries break up. These join to form the venm inlerlobulares, which pass in^vards between the medullary rays, receive branches from the plexuses around the convoluted tubules, and, having arrived at the bases of the Malpighian pyramids, join with the vena3 rectfe, next to be described (figs. 988, 989, h). The vence recice are branches from the plexuses at the apices of the medullary pyramids, formed by the terminations of the arteriai rectffi. They run outwards m a straight course between the tubes of the medullary structure, and joining, as above stated, the vente interlobulares, form venous arcades ; these in turn unite and form veins which pass along the sides of the pyramids (figs. 988, 989, f). These vessels, vence froprice renales, accompany the arteries of the same name, ruruung along the entke length of the sides of the pyramids ; and, having received m then- course the efferent vessels from the Malpighian bodies in the adjacent cortical structui-e, quit the kidney substance to enter the sinus. In this ca\nty they join the corresponding veins from the other pyramids to form the renal vein, which emerges from the Iddney at the hilus and opens into the inferior vena cava ; the left vein is longer than the right, and crosses in front of the abdominal aorta. Nerves of the kidney.—^Tlie nerves of the kidney, although small, are about fifteen in number. They have small gangha developed upon them, and are derived from the renal plexus, which is formed by branches from the solar plexus, the lower and outer part of the semilunar ganglion and aortic plexus, and from the lesser and smallest splanchnic nerves. They communicate with the spermatic plexus, a cu-cumstance which may explain the occurrence of pain in the testicle in affections of the kidney. So far as they have been traced, they seem to accompany the renal artery and its branches, but their exact mode of termination is not known. The lymphatics of the kidney are described on pages 787, 788. Connective tissue, or intertubtilar stroma.— Although the tubules and vessels are closely packed, a small amount of connective tissue, continuous with the capsule, binds them fu-mly together. This tissue was first described by Ludwig and Zawaryldn have observed distinct and Henle has seen them between the Fig. 990.—Diagrammatic representa- tion of the blood-vessels in the sub- stance of the cortex of the kidney. (From Ludwig, in Strieker's ' Hand- book.') l> m Ucgion of the medullary ray. b. Hegion of the tortuous portion of the tubules, ai. Arteria interlobularis. vi. Vena interlobularis. fo. Vas allerens. gl. Glomerulus, vc. Vas efferens. V. Venous twig of tlie interlobularis. Goodsir, and subsequently by Bowman, fibres passing around the Malpighian bodies ; straight tubes composing the medullary structure. Surface Marking.—Thekidneys, being situated at the back part of the abdominal cavity and deeply placed, cannot be felt unless enlarged or misplaced. The greater part of each kidney lies in the epigastric region, i.e. internal to the mid-Poupart plane, but a small part is situated outside this plane, viz. in the hypochondiiac region. The lower end of the left kidney is usually on a level with the subcostal plane : that of the right extends for about half an inch below this plane. The left is somewhat higher than the right. According to Morris, the position of the kidney may be thus defined : Anteriorly. ' 1. A horizontal line through the umbilicus is below the lower edge of each kidney. 2. A vertical hne carried upwards to the costal arch from the middle of Poupart's ligament has one-third of the kidney to its outer side, and two-thkds to its inner side, i.e. between this line and the median line of the body.' In adopting these lines it must be borne in mind that the axes of the kidneys are not vertical, but oblique, and if continued upwards would meet about the ninth thoracic vertebra. Posteriorly. The upper end of the left kidney would be defined by a line di-awn horizontally outwards from the spinous processes of the eleventh thoracic vertebra, and its lower end by a point two inches above the iliac crest. The right kidney would be half to three-quarters of an inch lower. Morris lays down the following iiiles for indicating the position of the kidney on the posterior surface of the body : 1. A line parallel with, and one inch from the vertebral column between the lower edge of the tip of the spinous processSPLANCHNOLOGY 1190 of the eleventh thoracic vertebra, and the lower edge of the spinous process of the third lumbar vertebra. 2. A line from the top of this first lino outwards at right angles to it for two and three-quarter inches. 3. A line from the lower end of the fi"rst transversely outwards for two and three-quarter inches. 4. A line parallel to the first and connecting the outer extremities of the second and third lines just described. The hilus of the kidney lies about two inches from the middle line of the back at the level of the spinous process of the fii-st lumbar vertebra. Applied Anatomy.—Malforjnations of the kidney are not uncommon. Tiiere may be an entire absence of one kidney, but, according to Morris, the number of these cases is ' excessively small' : or there may bo congenital atrophy of one kidney, when the kidney is very small, but usually healthy in structure. These cases are of great importance, and must bo duly taken into account when nephrectomy is contemplated. A more common malformation is where the two kidneys are fused together. Tliey may be joined together only at their lower ends by means of a thick mass of renal tissue, so as to form a horse-shoe-shaped body, or tliey may be completely united, forming a disc-like kidney, from which two m-eters descend into the bladder. These fused kidneys are generally situated in the middle line of the abdomen, but may be misplaced as well. In some mammals (e.g. ox and bear) the kidney consists of a number of distinct lobules ; this lobulated condition is characteristic of the kidney of the human foetus, and traces of it may persist in the adult. Sometimes the pehds is duplicated, while a double ureter is not ver}' uncommon. In some rare instances a third kidney may be present. One or both kidneys may be misplaced as a congenital condition, and remain fixed in this abnormal position. They are then very often misshapen. They may be situated higher, though this is very uncommon, or lower than normal or removed farther from the vertebral column than usual; or they may be displaced into the ihac fossa, over the sacro-diac joint, on to the promontory of the sacrum, or into the pelvis between the rectum and bladder or by the side of the uterus. In these latter cases they maj' give rise to very serious trouble. The kidney may also be misplaced as a congenital condition, but may not be fixed; it is then known as a floating kidney. It is believed to be due to the fact that the kidney is completely enveloped by j)eritoneum which then passes backwards to the vertebral column as a double layer, forming a mesonephron which permits of movement taking place. The kidney may also be misplaced as an acquired condition ; in these cases the kidney is mobile in the tissues by which it is surrounded, moving vfith the capsule in the perinephric tissues. This condition is known as movable kidney, and is more common in the female than in the male. It occurs in badly nom-ished people, or in those who have become emaciated from any cause. It must not be confounded with the floating kidney, which is a congenital condition due to the development of a mesonephron. The two conditions cannot, however, be distinguished until the abdomen is opened or the kidney explored from the loin. Injuries of the kidney are generally due to some severe crushing force, as from being run over by a heavy waggon or cart, or from the abdomen being compressed between the buffers of two railway carriages. When a laceration occurs on the posterior surface of the organ, infiltration of blood and m-ine takes place into the retro-peritoneal coimective tissue ; this is often followed by suppuration, and death may ensue from septic poisoning. When the laceration is in front, the peritoneum may be torn and extravasation of blood and urine take place into the peritoneal cavity. Death may occur from hsemorrhage or peritonitis. Occasionally, when rupture involves the pelvis of the kidney or the com- mencement of the ureter, this duct may become blocked, and hydronephrosis follow. Sometimes the kidney may be bruised by blows in the loin, or by being compressed between the lower ribs and the ilium when the body is violently bent forwards. This is followed by a little transient haimaturia, which, however, speedily passes off. The loose cellular tissue around the kidney may be the seat of suppuration, constituting perinephric abscess. This may be due to injury, to disease of the kidney itself, or to extension of inflammation from neighboui-ing parts. The abscess tends to point externally in the groin or loin. Timiours of the kidney, of which perhaps sarcoma, in children, is the most common, may be recognised by their position ; by the resonant colon lying in front of them; and by their rounded outline not presenting a notched anterior margin like the spleen, with which they are most likely to be confounded. The hypernephroma, a benign or malignant tumour arising from the suprarenal gland, or from suprarenal ' rests ' or inclusions in the cortex or medulla of the kidney, is not infrequent. When occurring in cluldren it is often associated with ])recocious growth of the body generally and of the hair and sexual organs in particular. Arising, as it often does, in the kidney, a hyi)ernephroma may be indistinguishable from a true renal tumour so far as the physical signs and symptoms go ; it is really, however, a tiunour of the suprarenal gland substance. ITie examination of the kidnev should be bimanual; that is to say, one hand should be placed in the flank and lirm ]iressure made forwards ; while the other hand is buried in the abdominal wall, over the situation of the organ. Manipulation of the kidney frequently produces a peculiar sickening sensation, with sometimes faintness.THE KIDNEYS 1191 The kidney may require exposure for exploration or the evacuation of pus (nepiuotomy); it may be incised for the removal of stone (nephio-hthotomy); it may KutuSvl enmovabte (nephrorrhaphy); or it maybe removed {nephrectomy). It may be exposed either by a lumbar or an abdominal incision; except in cases of veryla^e tuZL, a lumbar incision is best, as it has the advantages of not opemng the Pentoneum and of affording admkable di-ainage. An oblique incision shou d be made, starting at the outer border of the Erector spina=Thalf an inch below the last rib and du-ected dowTiwards and forwards towards a point an inch in front of the anterior superior spine of tlie ihum Thestructm-es di^^ded are the skin, the superficial fascia ^vlth the cutaneous nerves the deep fascia, the posterior border of the External oblique muscle of the abdomen and the outer bordei- of the Latissunus dorsi ; the Internal obhque and the posterior aponeurosis of the Transversalis muscle ; the outer border of the Quadratus lumborum ; the deep layer of the lumbar aponeurosis, and the transversahs fascia, ihe tatty tissue around the kidney is now exposed to view, and must be separated by the fingers, or a duector, in order to reach the kidney. The operations of nephro-lilholmny, for the removal of calculi from the kidney, and nephrotomy, or incision of the kidney for abscess, &c., are generally performed by the lumbar incision. This route is also generally chosen for nephrectomy. The abdominal operation is best performed by an incision through the outer part of the Rectus on the side of the kidney to be removed ; the kidney is then reached irom the outer side of the colon, ascending or descencUng, as the case may be, and the vessels of the colon are not mterfered with. The incision commencing just below the costal arch is made of varying length, according to the size of the kidney. The abdoniinal cavity is opened. The intestines are drawn inwards and the peritoneum over the ladney to the outer side of the colon incised, so that the fingers can be introduced behind the pentoneum. The kidney must now be enucleated, and the vessels fii-mly Ugatui-ed and divided with the m-eter, the latter being tied, or if thought necessary stitched to the edge of the wound. The particular advantage of the abdominal operation is that the condition ot the other kidney can be ascertained by manual examination, before the removal of the diseased kidney is finally decided upon. 11 i • j rm, Nephrorrhaphy is the name given to the operation for fixing a movable kidney, ihe kidney is reached by the lumbar incision, and its posterior surface denuded of its fatty capsule. Tliree stitches of medium thickness are passed through the transversahs fascia and muscles and through the cortical portion of the kidney, securing a good hold of it. WTien these sutures are tied, the kidney is tightly anchored in position; cases which are seen somethnes afterwards seem however to show that it does not always remain fixed. The Ueetbrs The ureters are the two tubes ^yhich convey the urine from the kidneys to the bladder. Each commences within the sinus of the corresponding kidney as a number of short cup-shaped tubes, termed calyces or infundibula, which encircle the renal pwpillce. Since a single calyx may enclose more than one papilla the calyces are generally fewer in number than the pyramids— the former varying from seven to thirteen, the latter from eight to eighteen. The calyces join to form two or three short tubes, and these unite to form a funnel-shaped dilatation, wide above and narrow below, named the pelvis of the kidney, which is situated behind the renal vessels and lies partly inside and partly outside the renal sinus. It is usually placed on a level with the spinous process of the first lumbar vertebra. _ . The ureter proper measures from ten to twelve inches in length, and is a thick-walled narrow cylindrical tube which is directly continuous near the lower end of the Iddney with the tapering extremity of the pelvis. It runs downwards and inwards in fr'ont of the Psoas muscle and, entering the pelvic cavity, finally opens into the base of the bladder. The abdominal part (pars abdominalis) lies behind the peritoneum on the inner part of the Psoas muscle, and is crossed obliquely by the spermatic vessels. It enters the pelvic cavity by crossing either the termination of the common, or the commencement of the external, iliac vessels. At its origin the right m-eter is usually covered by the second part of the duodenum, and in its course downwards Ues to the right of the infei-ior vena cava, and is crossed by the right coUc artery, wliile near the jDelvic brim it passes behind the lower part of the mesentery and the terminal part of the ileum. The left ureter is crossed by the left colic artery, and near the brim of the pelvis passes behind the pelvic colon and its mesentery. The pelvic part (pars pelvina) runs at first dowTiwards on the lateral wall of the pelvic cavity under cover of the peritoneum, lying in front of the internalSPLANCHNOLOGY 1192 iliac vessels and on the inner side of tlie obliterated hypogastric artery and the obturator nerve and vessels. Opposite the lower part of the great sacro- sciatic foramen it inclines inwards behind the vas deferens (which crosses to its inner side) and reaches the base of the bladder, where it is situated in front of the ujiper end of tl\e seminal vesicle and at a distance of about two inches from tlie opposite ureter. Finally, the ureters run obliquely for about tliree- quarters of an inch through the wall of the bladder and open by slit-like apertures into the cavity of the viscus at the lateral angles of the trigone. When the bladder is distended the openings of the ureters are about two inches apart, but when it is empty and contracted the distance between them is diminished by one-half. Owing to their oblique course through the coats of the bladder, their upper and lower walls become closely applied to each other when the viscus is distended, and, acting as valves, prevent regurgitation of urine from the bladder. Li the female, the ureter forms, as it lies in relation to the wall of tlie pelvis, the posterior boundary of a shallow depression named the fossa ovarii, in which the ovary is situated. It then runs inwards and forwards on the lateral aspect of the cervix uteri and upper part of the vagina to reach the base of the bladder. In tliis part of its course it is accompanied for about an inch by the uterine artery, wliich then crosses in front of the ureter and ascends between the two layers of the broad ligament. The ureter is distant about three- quarters of an inch from the lateral aspect of the neck of the uterus. The ureter is sometimes duplicated, and the two tubes may remain distinct as far as the base of the bladder. On rare occasions they open separately into the bladder cavity. Structure (fig. 991).—The ureter is composed of three coats: fibrous, muscular, aud mucous. The fibrous coat is continuous at one end with the capsule of the kidney on the floor of the sinus ; while at the other it is lost in the fibrous structure of the bladder. In the pelvis of the kidney the muscular coat consists of two layers, longitudinal and circular : the longitudinal fibres become lost upon the sides of the papUlas at the extremities of the cal5'ces; the circular Fig. 991.-Tran8verse section of ureter. ^^^^f^ "^^y , ^''^^^'^ surround- ing the medullary structure m the same situation. In the lu'eter proper the muscular fibres are very distinct, and are arranged in three layers: an external longitudinal, a middle circular, and an in- ternal, less distinct than the other two, but having a general longitudinal direction. Accord- ing to Kolhker this internal layer is found only in the neighboiu-hood of the bladder. The mucous coat is smooth, and presents a few longitudinal folds which become effaced bj' distension. It is continuous with the mucous membrane of the bladder below, while it is prolonged over the papilla; of the kidney above. Its epithe- lium is of a transitional cha- racter, and resembles that found in the bladder (see fig. 996, ])age 1197). It con.sists of several layers of cells, of which the innermost — that is to say, the cells in contact wiih the urine—are quadrilateral in shape, with concavities on their deep surfaces into which the rounded ends of the cells of the second layer fit. These, the intermediate cells, more or less resemble columnar epithelium, and are pear-shaped, with rounded internal extremities which fit into the concavities of the cells of the first layer, and narrow external extrcinities which are wedged in between the cells of the third layer. Tlie extei-nal or third layer Fibrous tissue I Longitudinal nimcular fibres \ Circular muscular fibres Sub-epithelial connective tissue Transitional epithelium — -a-1193 THE URETERS consists of conical or oval cells varying in number in different parts, and presentmg processes which extend down into the basement-membrane. Beneath the epithelium, and separating it from the muscular coats, is a dense layer of fibrous tissue contaimng many elastic fibres. i.- • j. i -r The arteries supplying the ureter are branches from the renal, spermatic, internal lUac, and inferior vesical. , The nerves are derived from the inferior mesenteric, spermatic, and pelvic plexuses. Applied ^wotojuy.—Rupture of the ureter is not a common accident, but occasionally occm-s. If it be torn completely across, the uiine collects in the retro-peritoneal tissues; if it be not completely di^^ded, the lumen of the tube may become strictured and hydronephrosis or pyonephrosis result. The ureter may be accidentally wounded in some pelvic operations, such as removal of the uterus ; if this should happen the divided ends must be sutured totrether, or failing to accomplish this an attempt may be made to implant the upper end into the bladder or rectum. If this cannot be carried out the only alternative is to remove the kidney immediately. Stones not uncommonly become impacted in the ureter. These may occur- at any part, but most commonly either at the point where the tube is crossing the pelvic brim or at the termination, where it is passing obliquely tlii-ough the muscular wall of the bladder. In the former case, an incision with its centre opposite, and one inch internal to, the anterior superior spine of the iliiun dividing all the structures down to tlie peritoneum, enables the operator to reach the lu-eter by pushing the unopened peritoneum inwards ; the stone can then be felt in the lu-eter, the wall of which is incised, and the stone extracted, free di'ainage being provided for the escaping urine. ^Vhen the stone is impacted at the vesical end of the tube a preluninary incision into the bladder is required, and by scratching through the mucous membrane overlying it the calculus can be removed. The Bladder (fig. 992) The bladder (vesica urinaria) is a musculo-membranous sac which acts as a reservoir for the urine ; and as its size, position, and relations vary according Fig. 992.—Median sagittal section of male pelvis. to the amount of fluid it contains, it is necessary to study it as it appears (a) when empty, and {h) when distended. In both conditions the position offrom the rectuiH me v by L t"«,"f»'^.r area, whieli is separated 1 iqj. SPLANCHNOLOGY which It is separated by the ZTo-TeL^^^^^^^ ^^^tu.^ the terminal portions of the vasa deferentin Tl «erainales, towards the upper part of the symXS^*^^^^^^ iT"-' ^^^'^^^^ foru ', contmued upwards on the back o^fXlnZSor lJ^''^- ^'T W ^ ^'^^^^ ^"O' " This cord IS named the urachus, and leTefZs f]^^''''^ ^^'^^^ "mbiHc earned by it from the apex of the bladder nn fFfi L "^"^ peritoneum what IS termed the anterior or superior faI^p l" ^bdominal M-all to fo superior surface is triangular, bounded on ^^-TT^ °f ^^^"^ ladder. 1 separates it from the infer oi ^Se and h i '^ ^ represented by a hne ioinin^ the t^.n' ? ^^"""^"^ ^ posterior bord and the base.^ The latS TorLrs e^tS S "t?''^ between apex, and from them the iDeritone l t - T ^^^^^rs to the blade the lateral false ligamel^^TtrbladL'^O^^^ '''' 1-1^^ peritoneum shows a depression, wlneh ^ na^ned f^^ ^^^^^'"^ ' superior surface is directed upwards 111^7 ^^^^ P'^'-^^^^ical fossa. T with the pelvi-c colon and soCe oFihe coTof t^^ff'^n'T' "-"^ ^ -l^t^* bladder is empty and firmly contracted J 1 ! f "^^^ mtestme. When tJ, and posterior borders are Cnder wWasTf^^ V^T^^''^ l^ter i concave, and the interior of the vi^cus n. ^ ^^l^^^d it , presents the appearance of a V-sW^^^^ ""''''^'^ "mesial sectio, anterior Hmb-the apex of the V correJnl^ ^f'"*f'' P««terior and a lono. The inferior surface is d^reSed dowSd.^^^^^^ the urethn.| It may be divided into a postenoiTr ptstatl uncovered by peritoneunJ surfaces. Tiie prostatic arL is somewlf.tf ""f ^ hifero-later. in direct eontinuity ^dth the base o7 fie ^ ^^f ^g^Ifr : it rests upon and i named the neck, oLer^^, of the Wad^^^ ^^^""^ \ tliis area is usuall- There is, however no ta^ewL , .' ""'^^ urethi-a emerges the bladder sud£%%tStl ^th'e "^^^^ ^^'^^a ateral portions of the inferiSIrfaoe L?^'"! The inferos m front, they are separated fTom Jifp ! .directed down^^ards and out^, ards which is named the reZ pticZd SS^^T ^ ^"^^ ^^^^ ^issu which covers the Levators ani nl' nt, I ^^^^^^'^ ^oiitact with the fasci.^ When the bladdJr is emTv^^ Obturator internus muscles. | the level of the obhSratedXLlstX''f '^'"""^'^^ ^^^"'^ P^l^'i^- ^^oJ portions of the vasa defe' entS aJS^ f'^ ^^^'^1 «f those n the pelvis ; after they cross tfe u^^^^^^ '""'"'ff ^^'^"^ ^he lateral waU of J with the base of the bladder aWZ ■ deferentia come into contact more or less fixed, is onlyXhtlv d.^ ^^T' ^^■?'''^^^ base, being ally rises into the abdominKvifv^^ ' '''^■'\^ '"P^"''^' ^^^'^^^^ g^^du- and at the same time i^Zd^nroff S'""'T'? ^^"^^h it its peritoneal covering. ^ The distended bladder-^i^n the ffiddT'-'"^ ^f''^^ l"''^'''- about a pint and assumes an oval fon^^^ is moderately full it contains about five inches and ircUreSed ^ ^'^^ ^^^g diameter of tlic oval measures it presents a postero superior nn n3!'^'^%""-'^ for^u^rds. Li this condition base and a summit The^oW^l "'^'"''i'- ^wo lateral surfaces, a backwards, and is covered b?neri;'?'"'' T "^'' ^'^^'^^^ "P^^-'-^^'ds and rectum by the recto-vesLai pou'crlrZ"J^ ''''""^i / ^-^ ''^"''''^'^ ^^'^^ ^lie contact with the coils ortirsmnll !.T "'""hm'' '"^' '^s anterior part is in devoid of peritoneum, and ists bl,u '-. ? antero-inferior surface is it is in contact M'itl (Te I 'c n ^ the pubic bones, above which parts of the lateral u ice a.; desH?"?^ T"' ^-"H- The lower with the lateral walls of tL nelvif Th P^^'^t""^"'"- are in contact the lateral surface is rahed to tSl !' i i . P"-'^""'^"! rofiection from The base or fundus unSoes i Hll h r ''' "bl't^^'/\t^^d ]>ypogastric arterv. lowered. It exhibit ho™- n "^'^^^*^^?" Position, being only slightiv ineieiy by the recto-vesical fascia. This area is boundedTtScHormUi 7" C.C. 6™ C.C. S|3lean Lunjg. 10™ Rib. II™ Rib. .Tr*.n» Abd Rut. Abd TVC c IITI1 Thor Vert ■lOT Rib "Li4Tri».nJJ)«xl Jr Rib Inlercost&IArt. InUrcofiUiVam. SLAB IX. Colon rrans SLAB XVI. M Red Abd HOUiqll) MObli<).lnt- M.TrjimAbd^ Pelvic Cojoir IliMColon Ureter - M.GIul lllin M OlulMed.-Vr-™ \1 SX^AB XVIII. 1Mrtcr. abd— M.glut max, N.Sm. M. obllq. ext. M.obliq. rnK M. tran&.abd. N. femoralia. A,iliac, exf. V. iliac ext. Lymph hypogast. UfCter. V. hypo^ast. A. haem sup -Vert sacral IL SLAB XIX, M.iydniid. PlexusSuial; Rwtom. VtrtSunLlf HRect Abd. Ileum. DeftniB Plic^ trans M.OIut.Mix SLAB XX. V. femoralis A f»moralis M 5a.rtoriu5 A.brofutid f«m M reel Fern m iliacus. T<ndo M.tJsoas 5 Glut.med Prostate M Glut min Urettira, Duct ejacuUt ' »K«ral belYlt • M. lev Am ■ Obturator fascij, '■ N ischiadicus. ' 1^. |3ud«ndua. i Ixhio r•c^al Fossa Rectum. funimlus sbemuit M.Adduct fonOus 'M addct brevis. -M.SArtorlu&. -M. fjectineus. 09 pubis ■M oW, «xl. -M obt in( •M tens f»5c laf Collum femoris •LiJ Teres femnris ■Trochanter m&j Ischium —7—M. <)uad Femons Bursa ■M.lev ani. M. ^lul max. Coccyx.Tunic S^ermaf M Add lon^ M gracilis M add breu M pecMneus Bulbos u^e^h^le M.add, niAj M. M ext. M. obt int. Anal Canal Tuber Ischiad M.5(jhincl exi -Cor^CAvemos -Penile Urelhra -Cor^ Stton^tM -A e) V femor«ln. -M Sartoriue ■N Femoralts ■M RacI f«m VcincumFI «xl. ■M Un& fa&c laK M.GIuh max. SLAB XXIII. For remaining sections see Ouain's Splanclinology. FIC. SLAB X. 309 XI 310 XII 311 XIII 317 „ XIV 314 XV 315 „ XVII 316 „ XXI 318 iTHE BLADDER 1195 below by the prostate, above by the recto-vesical fold of peritoneum, and laterally by the vasa deferentia. The vasa deferentia frequently come in contact with each other above the prostate, and under such circumstances tlie lower part of the triangular area is obliterated. The line of reflection of the peritoneuni from the rectum to the bladder appears to undergo Httle or no Fig. 993.—Sagittal section through the pelvis of a newly bom male child. change when tiie latter is distended ; it is situated about four inches from the anus The summit is dii-ected upwards and forwards above the point of attachment of the urachus, and hence the peritoneum, wliicli follows the urachus, forms a pouch of varying depth between the summit of tlie bladder and the anterior abdominal wall. Fig. 994.—Sagittal section thi-ough the pehis of a newly bom female child. Fallopian tube Cavity of uterus Pelvic colo7i Rectum Anal canal ■4I // Round ligament of '•''7 uterus Bladder Symphysis pubis Urethra Vagina ^t'J^^-^''' .?'u^¥. (^S^- ^^3' 99*)—the new-born child the urethral orifice of the bladder is at the level of the upper border of tl e symphysis pubis ; the bladder therefore lies relatively at a^CcMiSierl^^^^^^^ m the infant than in the adult. Its anterior surface is ' in contact Jth about the lower two-tlnrds of that part of the abdominal M-all which Ues between1196 SPLANCHNOLOGY the symphysis pubis and the umbilicus ' (Symington).* Its posterior surface is clothed with peritoneum as far as the level of the orifice of the urethra. Although the bladder of the infant is usually described as an abdominal organ, Symington has pointed out that only about one-half of it lies above the plane of the pelvic inlet. Disse maintains that the urethral orifice sinks rapidly during the first three years, and then more slowly until the ninth year, after which it remains stationary until puberty, when it again slowly descends and reaches its adult position. The female bladder (fig. 995).—In the female, the bladder is in relation behind with the uterus and tlie upper part of the vagina. It is separated from the anterior surface of the body of the uterus by the utero-vesical pouch of peritoneum, but below the level of this pouch it is connected to the front of the cervix uteri and the upper part of the anterior wall of the vagina by areolar tissue. When the bladder is empty the uterus rests upon its superior surface. Fig. 995.—Median sagittal section of female pelvis. Sacrum Coccyx Becto-vesical pouch or pouch of Douglas Os uteri extemmn Anal canal Utero-vesical pou ch Urethra The female bladder is said by some to be more capacious than that of the male, but probably the opposite is the case. Ligaments.—The bladder is retained in its place by ligaments, which are divided into true and false. The true ligaments are five in number : two anterior, two lateral, and the urachus. The false Ugaments, also five in number, are formed by folds of the peritoneum. The anterior true ligaments (pubo-prostatic) extend from the back of the pubic bones, one on either side of the symphysis, to the front of the neck of the bladder, over tlic anterior surface of" the prostate gland. These hganicnts are formed by the fascia cndopelvina, and contain a fcAV muscular fibres prolonged from the bladder. The lateral true ligaments, also formed by the fascia cndopelvina are broader and tliinner than tlie preceding. They are attached to the lateral parts of the prostate, and to the sides of the base of the bladder. * The Anaiomy of the child.1197 THE BLADDER The urachus is the fibro-muscular cord ah-eady mentioned, extending between the summit of the bladder and the umbilicus. It is broad below, at its attachment to tlie bladder, and becomes narrower as it ascends. The false ligaments of the bladder are two posterior, two lateral, and one anterior or superior. The two 'posterior ligaments form the sacro-genital folds, akeady described (page 1124); they pass forwards from the sides of the rectum to the posterior and lateral aspects of the vesiculae seminales, and form the lateral boundaries of the recto-vesical pouch of the iDeritoneum. The two lateral ligaments are reflections of the peritoneum, from the lateral walls of the pelvis to the sides of tlie bladder. The anterior or superior ligament (ligamentum suspensorium) is the fold of peritoneum extending from the summit of the bladder to the abdominal wall. It is carried oflf from the bladder by the urachus. serous, muscular. Structure (fig. 996).—The bladder is composed of four coats: submucous, and mucous. The serous coat is a partial one, and is derived from the peritoneum. It invests the superior sxu-face and the upper parts of the lateral surfaces, and is reflected from these on to the abdominal and pelvic walls. The muscular coal consists of three layers of unstriped muscular fibres : an external layer, composed of fibres having for the most part a longitudinal arrangement; a middle layer, in which the fibres are arranged, more or less, in a cii'cular manner; and an internal layer, in which the fibres have a general longitudinal arrangement. The fibres of the external longitudinal layer arise from the posterior surface of the body of the pubis in both sexes {musculi puho-vesicales), and in the male from the adjacent part of the prostate gland and its capsule. They pass, in a more or less longitudinal nna \7 t- i ^ i i 11 manner, up the anterior sm-face of the 996.-Vertical section of bladder, bladder, over its apex, and then descend along its posterior sm-face to its base, where they become attached to the prostate in the male, and to the front of the vagina in the female. At the sides of the bladder the fibres are arranged obliquely and inter- sect one another. This layer has been named the Detrusor urince mtiscle. The fibres of the middle circular layer are very thinly and irregularly scattered on the body of the organ, and, although to some extent placed transversely to the long axis of the bladder, are for the most part arranged obhquely. Towards the lower part of the bladder, round the neck and com- mencement of the urethra, they are disposed in a thick circular layer, forming the Sphincter vesicce, which is continuous with the mus- cular fibres of the prostate gland. The internal longitudinal layer is thin, and its fasciculi have a reticular arrange- ment, but with a tendency to assume for the most part a longitudinal direction. Two bands of oblique fibres, originating behind the orifices of the ureters, converge to the back part of the prostate gland, and are inserted by means of a fibrous process, into the middle lobe of that organ. They ^re the muscles of the iireters, descrihed by Sir C. Bell, who supposed that dm-ing the contraction of the bladder they serve to retain the obhque direction of the uretersf and so prevent the reflux of the m-ine into them. The subrriwous coat consists of a layer of areolar tissue, connecting together the muscular and mucous coats, and intimately united to the latter. Ihe rnucous coat is thin, smooth, and of a pale rose colour. It is continuous above thiough the ureters ynth the lining membrane of the m-iniferous tubes, and below with ti«L *f."''f.*^''^; ^\}^ connected loosely to the muscular coat by a layer of areolar tissue, and ,s therefore thrown into folds or rugce when the bladder is empty. Over the twl^^?nf!fln ^ '^'-f""^ i« «'o«<'ly attached to the muscular coat, and is not thio\vn into folds, but is smooth and flat. The epithelium covering it is of the transitional variety, consisting of a superficial layer of polyhedral flattened cells, each Jth one two Transitional epithelium ,Suhjnucous coat Inner layer of longitudinal m uscle fibres Circular Iuscle fibres Outer layer of longitudinal m uscle fibres1198 SPLANCHNOLOGY or three nuclei; beneath these is a stratum of large club-shaped cells, with their narrow extremities directed downwards and wedged in between smaller spindle-shaped cells. Fig. 997.—Superficial layer of the epi- tlieliimi of the bladder. Composed of polyhedral cells of various sizes, each with one, two, or three nuclei. (Klein and Noble Smith.) Fig. 998.—Deep layers of the ejiithelium of the bladder, shovNing large club- shaped cells above, and smaller, more spindle-shaped cells below, each with an oval nucleus. (Klein and Noble Smith.) containing oval nuclei (figs. 997, 998). There are no true glands in the mucous membrane of the bladder, though certain mucous follicles which exist, especially near the neck of the bladder, have been regarded as such. Interior of the bladder.—The mucous membrane lining the bladder is, over the greater part of the viscus, loosely attached to the muscular coat, and appears wrinkled or folded when the bladder is contracted : in the dis- tended condition of the bladder the folds are effaced. Over a small triangular area, termed the trigonum vesicce, immediately above and behind the orifice of the urethra, the mucous membrane is firmly boimd to the muscular coat, and is always smooth. Tlie anterior angle of the trigonum vesicae is formed by the opening of the urethra : its postero-lateral angles by the orifices of the ureters. Stretching beliind the latter openings is a sUghtly curved ridge, the torus uretericus, forming the base of the trigone and produced by an under- lying bundle of non-striped muscular fibres. The lateral parts of this ridge extend beyond the openings of the ureters, and are named the plicae uretericce ; they are produced by the terminal portions of the ureters as they traverse obHquely the bladder-wall. When the bladder is illuminated the torus uretericus appears as a pale band and forms an important guide during the operation of introducing a catheter into the ureter. The orifices of the ureters are placed at the postero-lateral angles of the trigonum vesicae, and are usually sHt-hke in form. In the contracted bladder they are about an inch apart and about the same distance from the orifice of the urethra ; in the distended viscus these measurements may be increased to about two inches. The urethral orifice is placed at the apex of the trigonum vesicae, and is usually somewhat crescentic in form; the mucous membrane immediately behind it presents a slight elevation, named the uvula vesicce. Vessels and Nerves,—The arteries supplying the bladder are the superior, middle, and inferior vesical, derived from the anterior trunk of the internal iliac. The obturator and sciatic arteries also supply small visceral branches to the bladder, and in the female additional branches arc derived from the uterine and vaginal arlerics. The veins form a complicated plexus round the neck, sides, and base of the bladder, and terminate in the internal iliac veins. The lymphatics are described on page 788. The nerves are derived from the pelvic plexuses of the sympathetic and from the third and fourth sacral nerves ; tiie former supplying the upper ])art of the organ, the latter its base and neck. According to F. Darwin, the sympathetic fibres have ganglia connected with them, which send branches to the vessels and muscular coat. Surface Form.—The surface forui of the bladder varies with its degree of distension and under other circumstances. In the young child it is rej)resented by a conical figure, the apex of which, even when the viscus is enii)ty, is situated in the hypogastric region, aljove the level of (he .symphysis pubis. In the adult, when the bladder is empty, its apex does not reach above the level of the \\\)\ter border of the symphj^sis pubis, and theTHE BLADDER 1199 whole organ is situated in the pelvis ; the neck, in the male, corresponding to a line drawn horizontally backwards through the symphysis, a Uttlc below its middle. As the bladder becomes distended it gradually rises out of the pelvis into the abdomen, and formsa swelhng in the hypogastric region, which is perceptible to the hand, as well as to percussion. In extreme distension it reaches into the umbilical region. Under these circumstances the lower part of its anterior surface, for a distance of about two inches above the symphysis pubis, is closely applied to the abdominal wall, without the intervention of iieritoneum, so that it can be tapped by an opening in the middle line just above the symphysis pubis, without any fear of wounding the serous membrane. VVlien the rectum is distended, the prostatic portion of the urethra is elongated and the bladder lifted out of the pelvis and the peritoneum pushed upwards. When distended the bladder can be felt in the male, from the rectum, behind the prostate, and fluctuation can be perceived by a bimanual examination, one finger being introduced into the rectum and the distended bladder tapped on the front of the abdomen with the finger of the other hand. This portion of the bladder—that is, the portion felt in the rectum by the finger—is also uncovered by peritoneum, and the bladder may here be punctured from the rectum, in the middle hne, without risk of wounding the serous membrane. Applied Anatomy.—defect of development, in which the bladder is impUcated, is known under the name of extroversion of the Madder. In this condition the lower part of the abdominal wall and the anterior wall of the bladder are wanting, so that the posterior surface of the bladder presents on the abdominal surface, and is pushed forwards by the pressure of the viscera mthin the abdomen, forming a red vascular tumour on which the openings of the ureters are visible. The penis, except the glans, is rudimentary and IS cleft on its dorsal sm-face, exposing the floor of the ui-ethra, a condition known as epispadias. The pelvic bones are also arrested in development (see page 331). The bladder may be ruptured by violence applied to the abdominal wall, when the jiscus IS distended, without any mjuiy to the bony pelvis, or it may be torn in cases of fracture of the pelvis. The rupture may be either intraperitoneal or extraperitoneal: that IS, may implicate the superior surface of the bladder in the former case, or one of the other surfaces in the latter. Until recently intraperitoneal ruptui-e was uniformly fatal but now abdommal section and suturing the rent mth Lembert's suture Ls resorted to with a very considerable amount of success. The sutures are inserted only through the' peri- toneal and muscular coats in such a way as to bring the seroiLS surfaces at the maro-ins of the wound mto apposition, and one is inserted just beyond each end of the wound" The bladder should be tested as to whether it is water-tight before closing the external incision I he muscular coat of the bladder undergoes hypertrophy in cases in which there is any obstruction to the flow of mine. Under these circumstances the bundles of which the muscular coat consists become much increased in size, and, interiacing in all directions give nse to what is known as the fasciculated bladder. Between these muscular bundles the mucous membrane may bulge out, forming sacculi, constituting the sacculated bladder, and m these little pouches phosphatic concretions may collect, forming encysted calculi. ihe mucous membrane is very loosely attached, except over the trigone, to allow of the distension of the viscus. Various forms of tumour have been found springing from the wall of the bladder The commonest innocent tumour is the villous papilloma. Of the malignant tumom-s, epi- thelioma IS the most common, but sarcoma is occasionally found in the bladder of children in doubtful cases the cystoscope proves a valuable aid in diagnosis. This instrument thf «Wf f i"* '^^'''^ T?^"^ * ^^^^^^■i'' tlie ^^'i^es of which run through be exam npH iffWl^'''"'^"*- ^pon introducing this down the m-ethra, the bladder ctn be exanuned with the eye, and a villous gi-owth or other tumour, a calculus, or an ulcer rwl °' the orifices of the ureters can be examined, and renal hiematuria diagnosed, and it can be definitely settled from which kidney the blood comes. Again the presence of minute tuberculous ulceration near the mouth of the ureter on theSc ed t f fif diagnosis, not only of tuberculous kidney, but also of the side in bv caui f"' 'r'^^- ^'P'^'^"^^^ '""^ cystoscope in catheterising the v^eter" by causmg a groove to be made on one side of the shaft of the instrument, alSng which a fine bougie can be passed. The mouth of the ureter is fir-st found by the siu-geon Tud the bougie then projected into the field of vision and guided directly into the opefng ^ '^I'^'lder may be performed either above the symphysis pubis or through tS be S;n"e^'-'' ""'^T' the peritoneum. ThTformer plan is generally .JnLFf punctm-e by the rectum a permanent fistula may be left from moreoveri^is^. T"i"'' ■'^^tmn and the bladder; or pelvic cellulitis may be set up^ moreover, it is exceedingly inconvenient to keep a canula in the rectum. In some cases ^J^l^72l Z^^^^ peritoneum has been wounded.' inaucing tatal peiitonitis. Puncture through tlie rectum, therefore has been almost completely abandoned in favour of the suprapubic route. '^^^ Acces.s to the bladder, for the purpose of removing calculi or an enlarced nmstate iS riS to "^n^^^''' r^^^'-^"'^^^ l-nnearopSfonCngtow laiely resorted to. In the female, omng to the shortness of the urethra, and its readySPLANCHNOLOGY 1200 dilatabilifcy, calculi and foreign bodies and new growths, when of small size, may be removed by the m-ethrai route. Suprapubic cystotomy is perl'oi'med by first injecting ten or twelve ounces of some weak antiseptic fluid into the bladder. Then, with or without distending the rectum, a vertical median incision, from three to fom- inches in length, is made in tlie hypo- gastric region immediately above the symphysis, and extended between the Pyramidales and Recti muscles until the transversalis fascia is reached. This is divided and some fatty tissue exposed (space of Retzius). Upon separating this, the anterior surface of the bladder will be exposed and will be recognised by its muscular fibres. A needle should be passed through its coats on either side of the spot selected for the opening, and two long pieces of silk inserted. The bladder is incised between these staj's, ^^■hich are held by an assistant and form a useful guide to the opening in the bladder when the fluid has escaped. It is imj)ortant that the bladder should be emptied by catheter as a routine measure in women, prior to operations on the lower part of the abdomen or pelvis. Neglect of this precaution has, not uncommonly, led to that viscus being opened by accident. Women especially are apt to acquii-e an atonic distension of the bladder, and the fact that some quantity of lu-ine has been passed immediately before operation is no guarantee that the viscus is not distended. If the accident should occm-, the bladder wall must be carefulh' sutured before the peritoneum is opened. The Male Ueethra The male urethra (urethra virihs) extends from the neck of the bladder to the meatus urinarius at the end of the penis. It presents a double curve in the ordinary relaxed state of the penis (fig. 992). Its length varies from seven to eight inches ; and it is divided into three portions, the 'prostatic, membranous, .^^jtt and _s^£gngy, the structure and relations of which are essentially different. Except during the passage of the urine or semen, the urethra is a mere trans- verse cleft or slit, wdth its uj)per and under surfaces in contact. At the meatus urinarius the sht is vertical, and in the prostatic portion somewhat arched. The prostatic portion (pars prostatica) (figs. 992, 999), the widest and most dilatable part of the canal, is about an inch and a quarter in length. It runs almost vertically through the prostate gland, from its base to its apex, lying nearer its anterior than its posterior surface ; the form of the canal is spindle-shaped, being -voider in the middle than at either extremity, and narrowest below, where it joins the membranous portion. A transverse section of the canal as it hes in the prostate is horseshoe-shaped, the convexity being directed forwards, since the direction of the canal is nearh^ vertical. Upon the posterior wall or floor is a narrow longitudinal ridge, the veru- montanum, or caput gallinaginis (crista urethrahs), formed by an elevation of the mucous membrane and its subjacent tissue. It is from 15 to 17 mm. in length, and about 3 mm. in height, and contains, according to Kobelt. muscular and erectile tissues. When distended, it may serve to prevent the passage of the semen backwards into the bladder. On either side of the veru- montanum is a sHghtly depressed fossa, the prostatic sinus, the floor of which is perforated by numerous apertures, the orifices of the prostatic ducts from the lateral lobes of the prostate gland ; the ducts of the middle lobe open behind the verumontanum. At the fore-part of the verumontanum, in the middle Une, is a depression, the sinus pocularis (utriculus prostaticus), upon or ^^•ithin the margins of which are the sht-like openings of the ejaculatory ducts. The sinus pocularis forms a cul-de-sac about a quarter of an inch in length, which runs upwards and backwards in the substance of tlie prostate behind tlie middle lobe ; its prominent anterior wall partly forms the verumontanum. Its walls are composed of fibrous tissue, muscular fibres, and mucous mem- brane, and numerous small glands open on its inner surface. It has been called by Weber, who discovered it, the utertis masculi7ius. from its benig developed from the united lower ends of the atrophied Miillerian ducts, and therefore homologous witli tlic uterus and vagina in the female. The membranous portion (pars inembranacea) (figs. 992, 999) extends between the apex of the prostate and the bulb of the .corpus ppoiigiQsum. It is the narrowest part of the canal (excepting tiic meatus), and measures three- quarters of an inch along its upper, but only half an inch along its lower .surface, in consequence of the bulb ]jrojecting backwards beneath it. Its anterior concave surface is placed about an incli below and behind the pubic1201 THE MALE URETHRA Fig. 999.—The male urethra, laid open on its anterior (upper) sui-face. (Testut.) Veru- montanum Prostate Cowper's gland Bulb Cms Corpus spongiosu n arch, from which it is separated by the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis, and some muscular fibres. Its posterior convex surface is separated from the rectum by a triangular space, which constitutes the perinseum. The membranous portion of the urethra lies between the inferior and superior layers of the triangular ligament. As it pierces the inferior layer, the fibres around the opening are pro- longed over the tube. It is surrounded by the Compressor lu'ethrse muscle. The spongy portion (pars cavernosa) (figs. 992, 999) is the longest part of the urethra, and is contained in the corpus spongiosum. It is about six inches in length, and extends from the termination of the membranous portion to the meatus urinarius. Commenc- ing just below the triangular ligament, it passes forwards for a short distance ; and then, in the flaccid condition of the penis, it bends downwards and forwards. It is narrow, and of uniform size in- the body of the penis, measuring about a quarter of an inch in diameter; it is dilated behind, ^-itliin the bulb, and again anteriorly within the glans penis, where it forms the fossa navicitlaris urethrce. The bulbous 'portion is a name sometimes given to the posterior part of the spongy portion contained within the bulb. The meatus urinarius (orificium urethrse externum) is the most contracted part of the urethra ; it is a vertical slit, about a quarter of an inch in length, bounded on each side by two small labia. Tlie inner surface of the lining membrane of tlie urethi-a, especially on the floor of the spongy portion, presents the orifices of numerous mucous glands and follicles situated in the submucous tissue, and named the glands of Litlre. Besides these there are a number of small pit-like recesses, or lacunce, of varying sizes. Their orifices are directed forwards, so that they may easily intercept lo^l^^i? i.'^ Its passage along the canal. One of these lacun^, aigei than the rest, is situated on the upper surface of the fossa navicularis; du^t^litw^er'?^^^^^ ^"^"^^"^ P'^^-*^*^^ f""'^^ °P^'^^"g tis8ul'Sch'7;;Jipntf f^'li" fof mucous membrane, supported by a submucous TlJ ? f "^'^^ structures through Avhich it passes, untl, tL f P^'^^^ "^"^ genito-urinary mucous membrane. It is continuous S~nt coTonrn 'T' °^ ^"-^t^^'^' kidneys; externally, with the onPn^to H r H? ^ ^'''o P®"^' ' i« prolonged into the ducts of the glands which dEntia and"vl£.'',' ^'^^ ^'T'\^^^'''^' P^^t'^t^ ; and into the vasa deteientia and vesicuL-e semmales, through the ejaculatory ducts. In the snouEV and membranous portions the mucous membrtne is arranged i^n longitudi^^al folJ when the 4h Glans Fossa 7iavicularis Meatus1202 SPLANCHNOLOGY tube is empty. Small papilte are found upon it, near the orifice ; in tlie uijjier tw^o-thirds its epithelial lining is of the transitional variety ; it then becomes columnar in shape until near the meatus, where it is squamous and stratified. The submucous tissue consists of a vascular erectile layer ; outside this is a layer of unstriped muscular hbres, arranged in a circular direction, which separates the mucous membrane and submucous tissue from the tissue of the corpus spongiosum. Apflied Analcnny.—The urethra may be ruptured by the patient falling astride of any hard substance and striking his perinajum, so that the m-ethra is crushed against the pubic arch. Bleeding will at once take place from the urethra, and this, together with the bruising in the perinteum and the history of the accident, will point to the nature of the injury. Rupture of the urethra is due in other cases to the perforation of a periurethral abscess. Extravasation of urine most frequently takes place into the perinasum in front of the triangular ligament, i.e. under the fascia of Colles. Both these layers of fascia are attached firmly to the ischio-pubic rami. It is clear, therefore, that when extravasation of fluid takes place between them, it cannot pass backwards, because the two layers are continuous with, each other around the Transversus perinaji muscles ; it cannot extend laterally, on account of the connection of both these layers to the rami of the pubis and ischium ; it cannot find its way into the pelvis, because the opening into this cavity is closed by the triangular ligament, and, therefore, so long as these two layers remain intact, the only direction in which the fluid can make its way is forwards into the areolar tissue of the scrotum and penis, and thence on to the anterior wall of the abdomen. Gonorrhoea is an acute inflammatory infection of the mucous membrane of the urethra which is very prevalent. The causative organisms (gonococci) pass through the mucous membrane into the submucous tissue, and most serious complications and results may follow. In most cases the disease remains limited to the part of the lu'ethra in front of the ' shut-oli muscle,' or Compressor urethrse, but in some (about 10 per cent.) the ' posterior urethra' becomes involved in the process, leading to an inflammation of the openings of the prostatic folHcles. Such a condition is apt to continue as a very chronic form of prostatitis, and in many cases the infection will spread along the vas, giving rise to epididymitis. The anatomy of the urethra is of considerable importance in coimection wth the passage of instruments into the bladder. Otis was the fkst to point out that the urethra is capable of great dilatability, so that, excepting through the external meatus, an instrument corresponding to 18 English gauge (29 French) can usually be passed -ndthout damage. The orifice of the m-ethra is not so dilatable, and therefore fi-equently requir-es shtting. A recognition of this dilatability caused Bigelow to very considerably modify the operation of lithotrity and introduce that of litholapaxy. In passing catheters, especially fine ones, the point of the instrimient should be kept as far as possible along the upper waU of the canal, as it is otherwise very hable to enter one of the lacunae. Stricture of the urethra is a disease of very common occurrence, and is generally situated in the spongy part of the urethra, most commonly in the bulbous portion, just in front of the membranous urethra, but in a very considerable mrmber of cases in the penile or ante-scrotal part of the canal. The strictui-e usually results from the contraction of inflammatory products in the submucous tissue, the result, in the vast majority of all cases, of a prolonged gleet following gonorrhoea. Urethral stricture, however, follows rupture of that tube resulting from falls on the perinteum, and in this variety is very dense, and is a most unsatisfactory condition with regard to treatment. C!ongcmtal stricture is also occasionally met with, and in such cases multiple strictm-es may be present throughout the whole length of the spongy portion. Conc^enital defects of the urethra occur occasionally. The one most frequently met with is where there is a cleft on the floor of the urethra o^dng to an arrest of umon m the middle line. This is known as hypospadias, and the cleft may vary m extent. The simplest and by far the most common form is where the deficiency is confined to the glans penis. The urethra ends at the point where the extremity of the prepuce joins the body of the penis, in a small valve-like opening. The prepuce is also cleft on its under sur ace and forms a sort of hood over the glans. There is a depression on the glans in the position of the normal meatus. This condition produces no disabiUty and requu-es no treatment. In more severe cases the penile portion of the uiethra is cleft throughout its entire lengtli, and the opening of the urethra is at the ])oint of junction of the penis and scrotum, ihe under surface of the penis in the middle line presents a furrow lined by a moist mucous membrane, on either side of which is often more or less dense fibrous tissue stretching from the glans to the opening of the urethra, which prevents complete erection taking place. Great discomfort is induced during micturition, and connection is imiiossible. Ihe con- ditionmay be remedied by a series of plasHc opcrarions. Thcworst forniof this condition is where the urethra is deficient as far back as the perineum, and the scrotum is cleit. llie penis is small and bound down between the two halves of the scrotum, so ns to i.esemble an hypertrophied clitoris. The testes are often retained. ^, f'*"; therefore, very much resembles the external organs of generation ot the female, and nian^ children the victims of this malformation have been biought^up as girls, ihe na'^j^^ the scrotum, deficient of testes, resemble the labia, the cleft between them looks hke theTHE FEMALE URETHRA 1203 orifice of the vagina, and the diminutive penis is taken for an enlarged clitoris. There is no remedy for this condition. A much more uncommon form of malformation is where there is an api)arent deficiency of the upper wall of the urethra ; this is named epispadias. The deficiency may vary in extent; when it is complete the condition is associated wth extroversion of the bladder (see page 1199). In less extensive cases, where there is no extroversion, there is an infundi- buhform openmg nito the bladder. The penis is usually dwarfed and turned upwards, so that the glans lies over the opening. The Female Urethra (fig. 995) The female urethra (urethra muliebris) is a narrow membranous canal about an inch and a lialf in length, extending from the neck of the bladder to the meatus unnarius. It is placed beliind the symphysis pubis, imbedded m the anterior wall of the vagina, and its direction is obliquely downwards and forwards; it is slightly curved with the concavity directed forwards and upwards. Its diameter when undilated is about a quarter of an inch. It pertorates the triangular Ugament, and its external orifice is situated directly m tront ot the vaginal opening and about an inch behind the glans clitoridis. structure.—The lu-ethra consists of three coats : muscular, erectile, and mucous. The muscular coat is continuous mth that of the bladder ; it extends the whole length of the tube, and consists of circular fibres. In addition to this, between the two layers as in thrmde ^« sm-rounded by the Compressor urethrse, A thin layer o f spongy ereciile tissue, containing a plexuo of large veins, intermixed with bundles of unstnped muscular fibres, hes immediately beneath the mucous coll with TLTT^^^'" ' 'V' ^°""nuous externally mth that of the vulva, and internally ^eVot of the o.nn I , f '^l""'^ longitudinal folds, one of which, placed along «fr.f;fi^ . ' T^T'?'''^ verumontanum in the male m-ethra. It is lined by stratified epithehum, which becomes transitional near the bladder. Its externa orifice 18 surrounded by a few mucous follicles. iis exteinai ounce MALE EEPEODUCTIVE OEGANS the^vn.^i^r^r^'^''^}''^ ^''''^^''^ genitalia virilia) include the testes, the vasa deferenha, the vesiculoe seminales, the ejaculaionj ducts and the X'X.i^s^''' '^""^''^^ ' '''^ Vros^'^lfnd The Testes and their Coverings (fig, 1000) sitn«l2l^n^^lf ^""^ glandular organs, which secrete the semen ; they are ner od f ? T.' «"«Pended by the spermatic cord . At an SL^ tip °i-t f' contained in the abdominal cavity, Song wWchTev^^^^^^^ ^''^^ *^^^y to the inguinal can.^ SmTnal rin.^t^»f the spermatic cord, and, emerging at the externa aoaominal iing, they descend into the scrotum, becomine invested in their course by covermgs derived from the serous, muscular^ anrfibrous lav^^^^^ of the abdominal parietes, as well as by the scrotum. ^ The coverings of the testes are, the TWr^c 1 Scrotum. Cremasteric fascia. TwirJ * • Infundibuhform fascia. Intercolumnar fascia. Tunica vaginalis. the^SSt?c"c'Jrd? lltT^-rr^' ^r^"^^ testes and parts of B^viJ^Tralhr^^^^^ '^^'^^"^ ^"to two lateral portions by of tfe nenis ?n^^^ scroti) which is continued forwards to the under surfaci Of theL two ?ati^n? 7^^^^ along the middle line of theperina^um to the anus wfth ti e greater longer than the right, to correspond under dilerenrcircfl?Lces thj^^"'^^' 'h^^- • ^^'^'"'^^ ^^P«^t varies in Old and debilitL^?^ , fen ^L^^T^^^^ 4h21204 SPLANCHNOLOGY the influence of cold, and in the young and robust, it is short, corrugated, and closely applied to the testes. The scrotum consists of two layers, the integument and the dartos. The integument is very thin, of a brownisli colour, and generally thrown into folds or rugte. It is provided with sebaceous follicles, the secretion of which has a peculiar odoui-, and is beset with thinly scattered, crisp hairs, the roots of \\'hich are seen through the skin. The dartos (tunica dartos) is a thin layer of non-striped muscular fibres, and is continuous, around the base of the scrotum, with the two layers of the superficial fascia of the groin and of the perinseum, and sends inwards a septum, septum scroti, which divides the scrotal pouch into two cavities for the testes, the septum extending between the raphe and the under surface of the penis, as far as its root. Fig. 1000.—Transverse section through the left side of the scrotum and the left testicle. The sac of the tunica vagmahs is represented in a distended condition. (Diagrammatic.) (Delepine.) Dartos Intel-columnar fascia ■ Cremasteric fascia- Infundibuliform fascia Parietal tunica vaginalis Visceral tunica vaginalis Tunica albuginea — A lobule of the testicle A septum Mediastinum testis Digital fossa Spermatic vein JipicHdymiS' Yas deferens- Arteri) to vas Spermatic artery Intertial muscular tunic, of KSlliker The dartos is closely united to the skin externally, but connected \vith the subjacent parts by delicate areolar tissue, upon M-hich it glides with the greatest ^*^tE' intercolumnar fascia is a thin membrane, prolonged downwards around the surface of the cord and testis (see page 509). It is separated from the dartos by loose areolar tissue. , , „ . i «i The cremasteric fascia consists of scattered bundles of muscular hbres {Gremaster muscle), connected together into a continuous covering by inter- mediate areolar tissue (see isage 511). ,., , , • 4. <K The infundibuliform fascia is a tliin layer, which loosely invests the cord; it is a continuation doM nwards of the fascia transversalis (see page 5lo). The tunica vaginalis is described with the testis. Vessels and Kerves.—The arteries supplying the coverings of the testes are : (he super- ficial and deep external pudic brandies of the femoral, the superhc.al P<^""7. V"^^^^^^^^^^ the internal pudic, and the cremasteric branch from 1 he deep ep.ga.stnc. The 5 o o>> the course of the corresponding arteries. Tlie hpnphaHrs (ernunate m he The nerves are the ilio-inguinai and penilo-crural branches of the lunibar ^^^^^^^ superficial perineal branches of the internal pudic nerve, and the mfcrior ,,udendal biancli of the small sciatic nerve. The inguinal or spermatic canal (canalis inguinalis) contains the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in tlie female, it is an1205 THE TESTES AND THEIR COVERINGS oblique canal, about an inch and a half in length, directed downwards and inwards, and placed parallel with, and a little above, Poupart's ligament. It commences, above, at the internal or deep abdominal ring, which is the point where the cord enters the inguinal canal; and terminates, below, at the external or superficial ring. It is bounded, in front, by the integument and superficial fascia, by the aponeurosis of the External oblique throughout its whole length, and by the Internal oblique for its outer third ; behind, by the triangular fascia, the conjoined tendon of the Internal oblique and Transversalis, tlie transversalis fascia, and the subperitoneal fat and peritoneum ; above, by the arched fibres of the Internal oblique and Transversalis ; below, by the union of the transversalis fascia with Poupart's ligament. The spermatic cord (funiculus spermaticus) extends from the internal or deep abdominal ring, where the structures of which it is composed con- verge, to the back part of the testicle. In the abdominal wall the cord passes obliquely along the inguinal canal, Ijring at first beneath the Internal oblique, and upon the fascia transversalis ; but nearer the pubis, it rests upon Poupart's ligament, having the aponeurosis of the External oblique in front of it, and the conjoined tendon beliind it. It then escapes at the external ring, and descends nearly vertically into the scrotum. The left cord is rather longer than the right, consequently the left testis hangs somewhat lower than its fellow. structure of the spermatic cord.—The spermatic cord is composed of arteries, veins, lymphatics, nerves, and tlie excretory duct of the testicle. These structures are connected together by areolar tissue, and invested by the layers brought down by the testis in its descent. The arteries of the cord are: the spermatic, from the aorta; the artery of the vas deferens, from the superior vesical ; and the cremasteric, from the deep epigastric. The spermaiic artery, a branch of the abdominal aorta, escapes from the abdomen at the internal or deep abdominal ring, and accompanies the other constituents of the spermatic cord along the inguinal canal and through the external abdominal ring into the scrotum. It then descends to the testis, and, becoming tortuous, divides into several branches, two or three of which accompany the vas deferens and supply the epididymis, anastomosing with the artery of the vas deferens: the others supply the substance of the testis. The cremasteric artery is a branch of the deep epigastric artery. It accompanies the spermatic cord and supplies the Cremaster muscle and other coverings of the cord, anastomosing with the spermatic artery. The artery of the vas deferens, a branch of the superior vesical, is a long slender vessel, which accompanies the vas deferens, ramifying upon the coats of that duct, and anastomosing with the spermatic artery near the testis. The spermatic veins emerge from the back of the testis, and receive tributaries from the epididymis: they unite and form a convoluted plexus (plexus pampiniformis), which forms the chief mass of the cord ; the vessels composing this plexus are very numerous, and ascend along the cord in front of the vas deferens ; below the external or superficial abdominal ring they unite to form three or four veins, which pass along the inguinal canal, and, entering the abdomen through the internal or deep abdominal rmg, coalesce to form two veins. These again unite to form a single vein, which opens on the right side into the inferior vena cava, at an acute angle, and on the left side into the renal vein, at a right angle. The lymphatic vessels terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are the spermatic plexus from the sympathetic, joined by filaments from the pelvic plexus which accompany the artery of the vas deferens. Applied Anatomy.—The sci'otum forms an admirable covering for the protection of the testes. These bodies, lying suspended and loose in the cavity of the scrotum and surrounded by serous membrane, are capable of great mobility, and can therefore easily shp about within the scrotum, and thus avoid injuries from blows or squeezes. The skin of the scrotum is very elastic and capable of great distension, and on account of the looseness and amount of subcutaneous tissue, the scrotum becomes greatly enlarged in cases of oedema, to which this part is especially liable as a result of its dependent position. The scrotiun is occasionally the seat of epithelioma ; this is no doubt due to the ruga; on its surface, which favour the lodgment of dirt, and this, producing irritation, is the exciting cause of the disease, which is especially common in chimney-sweeps from the lodgment of soot. The disease is very much less common than it used to be ; this is probably due to the better hygienic conditions of the working classes. The scrotum is also the part most frequently affected by elephantiasis. On account of the looseness of the subcutaneous tissue, large extravasations of blood may take place from very slight injuries. It is therefore generally recommended never to apply leeches to the scrotum, since they may lead to ecchymosis, but rather to puncture one or more of the superficial veins of the scrotum in cases where localSPLANCHNOLOGY 1206 Fig. 1001.—The testis in situ, the tunica vaginahs having been laid open. Si^ermatic cord Artery of cord Tunica v%jliialis, parietal layer Digital fossa blood-letting from this part is judged to be desirable. The muscular fibre in the dartos causes contraction and considerable diminution in the size of a wound of the scrotum, as after the operation of castration, and is of assistance in keeping the edges together, and covering the exposed parts. The testes are suspended in the scrotum by the spermatic cords the left testis hanging somewhat lower than its fellow." The average dimensions of the testis are from one and a half to two inches in length, an inch in breadth, and an inch and a quarter in the antero-posterior diameter; its weight varies from six to eight drachms. Each testis is of an oval form (fig. 1001), compressed laterally, and having an oblique position in the scrotum ; the upper extremity is directed forwards and a little outwards ; the lower, backwards and a httle inwards ; the anterior convex border looks forwards and downwards ; the posterior or straight border, to which the cord is attached, backwards and upwards. The anterior border and lateral surfaces, as well as both extremities of the organ, are convex, free, smooth, and invested by the visceral layer of the tunica vaginalis. The posterior border, to which the cord is attached, receives only a partial investment from that membrane. Lying upon the outer edge of this posterior border is a long, narrow, flattened body, named, from its relation to the testis, the epididymis. It consists of a central portion, or body (corpus) ; an upper enlarged extremity, the globus major, or head (caput) ; and a lower pointed extremity, the globus minor, or tail (cauda), which is continuous with the vas deferens or duct of the testis. The globus major is intimately connected with the upper end of the testis by means of the efferent ducts of the gland ; the globus minor is connected \\4th the lower end by cellular tissue, and a reflection of the tunica vaginalis. The outer surface and upper and lower ends of the ej)ididymis are free and covered by the serous membrane ; the body is also completely invested by it, excepting along its posterior border ; whjlst between the body and the testis is a pouch, named the digital fossa (sinus epididymidis). The epididymis is comaected to the back of the testis by a fold of the serous membrane. Attached to the ujiper end of the testis, close to the globus major, are two small pedunculated bodies. One of them is pear-shaped, and attached by its narrow stalk, the other is small and sessile ; they are believed to be the remains of the upper extremity of the Miillerian duct (page 170), and are termed the hydatids of Morgagni ; some observers, however, regard the stalked hydatid as bemg a rudiment of the pronephros. The testis is invested by three tunics : the tunica vaginalis, tunica albuginea, and tunica vasculosa. The tunica vaginalis is the serous covering of the testis. It is a pouch of serous membrane, derived from the peritoneum during the descent of the testis, in the foetus, from the abdomen into the scrotum. After its descent, that portion of the pouch which extends from the internal ring to near the upper part of the gland becomes obliterated ; the lower portion remains as a shut sac, which invests the outer surface of the testis, and is reflected on to the internal surface of the scrotum ; hence it may be described as consisting of a visceral and parietal portion. The visceral portion (lamina visceralis) covers the greater part of the testis and epididymis, connecting the latter to tlie testis by means of a distinct fold. From the posterior border of the gland it is reflected on to the internal surface of the scrotum.THE TESTES AND THEIR COVERINGS 1207 The parietal portion (lamina parietalis) is far more extensive than the visceral portion, extending upwards for some distance in front and on the inner side of the cord, and reaching below the testis. The inner surface of the tunica vaginahs is free, smooth, and covered by a layer of endothelial cells. The interval between the visceral and parietal layers of this membrane constitutes the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. The obliterated portion of the pouch may generally be seen as a fibro- cellular thi-ead lying in the loose areolar tissue around the spermatic cord ; sometimes this may be traced as a distinct band from the upper end of the inguinal canal, where it is connected with the peritoneum, down to the tunica vaginalis ; sometimes it gradually becomes lost on the spermatic cord. Occa- sionally no trace of it can be detected. In some cases it happens that the pouch of peritoneum does not become obliterated, but the sac of the peritoneum communicates with the tunica vaginalis. Tliis may give rise to one of the varieties of oblique inguinal hernia (page 1159). In other cases the pouch may contract, but not become entirely obliterated ; it then forms a minute canal leading from the peritoneum to the tunica vaginalis. The tunica albuginea is the fibrous covering of the testis. It is a dense membrane, of a bluish-white colour, composed of bundles of white fibrous tissue which interlace in every direction. Its outer surface is covered by the tunica vaginalis, except at the points of attachment of the epididymis to the testis, and along its posterior border, where the spermatic vessels enter the gland. Its iimer surface is applied to the tunica vasculosa over the glandular substance of the testis, and, at its posterior border, is reflected into the interior of the gland, forming an incomplete vertical septum, called the mediastinum testis [corpus Highmori). The mediastimcm testis extends from the upper, nearly to the lower extremity of the gland, and is wider above than below. From the front and sides of this septum numerous slender fibrous cords and imperfect septa [trabeculce) are given off, which radiate towards the surface of the organ, and are attached to the inner surface of the tunica albuginea. They therefore divide the interior of the organ into a number of incomplete spaces which are somewhat cone-shaped, bemg broad at their bases at the surface of the gland, and becoming narrower as they converge to the mediastinum. The mediastinum supports the vessels and ducts of the testis in their passage to and from the substance of the gland. The tunica vasculosa is the vascular layer of the testis, consisting of a plexus of blood-vessels, held together by deUcate areolar tissue. It covers the inner surface of the tunica albuginea and the different septa in the interior of the gland, and therefore forms an internal investment to aU the spaces of which the gland is composed. structure.—The glandular structure of the testis consists of numerous lobules {lobuli testis). Their number, in a single testis, is estimated by Berres at 250, and by Krause at 400. They differ in size according to their position, those in the middle of the gland being larger and longer. The lobules are conical in shape, the base being directed towards the circumference of the organ, the apex towards the mediastinum. Each lobule is contained in one of the intervals between the fibrous cords and the vascular processes which extend between the mediastinum testis and the tunica albuginea, and consists of from one to three, or more, minute convoluted tubes, the iubuli seminiferi. The tubes may be separately unravelled, by careful dissection under water, and may be seen to commence either by free csecal ends or by anastomotic loops. The total number of tubes is estimated by Lauth at 840, and their average length two feet and a quarter. Their diameter varies from ^Ij^ to rin of an inch. The tubuli are pale in colour in early life, but in old age they acquu-e a deep yellow tinge, from containing much fatty matter. Each tube consists of a basement layer, formed of epithelioid cells united edge to edge, outside which are other layers of flattened cells arranged in interrupted laminae, which give to the tube an appearance of striation in cross-section. The cells of the outer layers gradually pass into the interstitial tissue. Within the basement-membrane are epithehal cells arranged in several irregular layers, which are not always clearly separated, but which may be arranged in thi-ee different groups (fig. 1002). Among these cells may be seen the spermatozoa in different stages of development. 1. Lining the basement-membrane and forming the outer zone is a layer of cubical cells, with small nuclei; these are known as the lining cells or spermatogonia. The nucleus of some of them may be seen to bo in process of indirect division {karyokinesis, page 4), and in consequence of this daughter cells are formed, which constitute the second zone. 2. Within this first layer is to be seen a number of larger polyhedral cells, vdth clear1208 SPLANCHNOLOGY nuclei, arranged in two or tlu-ee layers ; these are the inlermediale cells or spermaloajies. Most of these cells are in a condition of karyokinetio division, and the cells which result Fig. 1002.—Transverse section of a seminiferous tubule. from this division form those of the next layer, the spermatoblasts or spermatids. 3. The third layer of cells consists of the spermatoblasts or spermatids, and each of these, without further subdivision, becomes a spermatozoon. They are ill-defined granular masses of protoplasm, of an elongated form, with a Fig. 1003.—Vertical section of the testicle, nucleus, which becomes the head of the to show the arrangement of the ducts. spermatozoon. In addition to these three layers or cells others are seen, which are termed the supporting cells, or cells of Sertoli. They are elongated and columnar, and pro- ject inwards from the basement-membrane towards the lumen of the tube. They give oil numerous lateral branches, wliich form a reticulum for the support of the three grouj)s of cells just described. As development of the spermatozoa proceeds the latter group themselves around the inner extremities of the suf)porting cells. The nuclear portion of the spermatozoon, which is partly imbedded in the supporting cell, is differentiated to form the head of the spermatozoon, while the cell protoplasm becomes lengthened out to form the middle piece and tail, the latter projecting into the lumen of the tube. Ultimately the heads are liberated and the spermatozoa are set free. The structm-e of the spermatozoa is described on page 81. In the apices of the loliules, the tubuli become less convoluted, assume a nearlj' straight course, and imite together to form from twenty to thirty larger ducts, of about of an inch in diameter, and these, from their straight course, arc called wsn rec/rt (fig. 1003). The vasa recta (tubuli recti) enter the fibrous tissue of the mediastinum, and pass upwards and backwards, forming, in their ascent, a close network of anastomosing tubes wliich are merely channels in the fibrous stroma, lined by fiattened epithelium, and having no proper walls ; this constitutes the rete testis. At the upper end of the mediastinum.1209 THE TESTES AND THEIR COVERINGS the vessels of the rete testis terminate in from twelve to fifteen or twenty ducts, the vasa effereniia (ductuli efferentes testis); they perforate the tunica albuginea, and carry the seminal fluid from the testis to the epididymis. Their course is at first straight; they then become enlarged, and exceedingly convoluted, and form a series of conical masses, the colli vasculosi, which together constitute the globus major of the ejiididymis. Each cone consists of a single convoluted duct, from six to eight inches in length, the diameter of wliich gradually decreases from the testis to the epididymis. Opposite the bases of the cones the efferent vessels open at narrow intervals into a single duct, which constitutes, by its complex convolutions, the body and globus minor of the epididymis. \ATien the convolutions of this tube are unravelled, it measures upwards of twenty feet in length ; it increases in diameter and thickness as it approaches the vas deferens. The convolutions are held together by fine areolar tissue, and by bands of fibrous tissue. The vasa recta have very thin walls ; like the channels of the rete testis they are lined by a single layer of flattened epithelium. The vasa efferentia and the tube of the epididymis have walls of considerable thickness, on account of the presence in them of muscular tissue, which is principally arranged in a cii-cular manner. These tubes are lined by columnar ciliated epithelium. Applied Anatomy.—The testis, developed in the lumbar region, may be arrested or delayed in its transit to the scrotum. It may be retained in the abdomen ; or it may be arrested at the internal abdominal ring, or in the inguinal canal; or it may just pass out of the external ring without finding its way to the bottom of the scrotum. When retained in the abdomen it gives rise to no symptoms, other than the absence of the testis from the scrotimi ; but when it is retained in the inguinal canal it is subjected to pressure and may become inflamed and painful. The testis when first formed is believed to be normal, but if retained it undergoes degenerative changes and becomes functionally useless ; so that a man in whom both testes are retained (anorchism) is sterile, though he may not be impotent. The absence of one testicle is termed monorchism. When a testis is retained in the inguinal canal it is often complicated with a congenital hernia, the funicular process of the peritoneum not being obliterated. In addition to the cases above described, where there is some arrest in the descent of the testis, this organ maj' descend through the inguinal canal, but may miss the scrotum and assume some abnormal position. The most common form is where the testis, emerging at the external abdominal ring, slips down between the scrotum and thigh and comes to rest in the perineum. This is known as perineal ectopia testis. With all varieties of abnormality in the position of the testis, it is very common to find concurrently a congenital hernia, or, if a hernia be not actually present, the funicular process is usually patent, and almost invariably so if the testis is in the inguinal canal. The testis, finally reaching the scrotum, may occupy an abnormal position in it. It may be inverted, so that its posterior or attached border is directed forwards and the tunica vaginalis is situated behind. Should a hydrocele occm-, and tapping be resorted to, the trocar may be thrust into the testis, if the operation is performed in the ordinary way, and care is not taken beforehand to ascertain the position of the gland. A number of instances of torsion of the spermatic cord, resulting in acute strangulation of the testis, have been recorded. In some it has been attributed to a strain or twist, and m several patients the condition has been associated with a late descent of the organ. Symptoms of this condition closely simulate those of a strangulated hernia. In consequence of the torsion the circulation is partly arrested and the organ swells and becomes acutely painful, and the condition may be accompanied with shock and vomiting. Gangrene of the testis, however, rarely follows, and the condition, if left without opera- tion, ends in atrophy of the organ. Torsion of the body of the testis also sometimes occurs within the tumca vaginalis in those cases in which a persistent mesorchium is present. hlmd collections of a serous character are very frequently found in the scrotum. To these the term hydrocele is applied. The most common form is the ordinary vaginal hydrocele, in which the fluid is contained in the sac of the tunica vaginalis, \\'hich is separated in Its normal condition, from the peritoneal cavity by the whole extent of the inguinal canal. In another form, the congenitfd hydrocele, the fluid is in the sac of the tunica vaginalis, but this cavity communicates uith the general peritoneal cavity, its tubular proce,ss remaining pervious. A third variety, known as an infantile hydrocele, occurs in those cases where the tubular process becomes obliterated only at its upper part, at or near the interna abdominal ring. It resembles the vaginal hydrocele, except as regards Its shape, the collection of fluid extending up the cord into the inguinal canal. Fourthly, tne tunicular process may become obliterated both at the internal ring and above the epiaidymis, leaving a central unobliterated portion, which may become distended wth mxia giving rise to a condition known as the encysted hydrocele of the cord. ILncysted hydrocele of the epididyinis or spermatocele is the name given to a cvst usually found m connection with the globus major of the epididymis. Among its contents are lound in many instances, a varying number of spermatozoa, and it is probably a retention cyst ot one of the tubules. The testis frequently requires removal for malignant disease ; in tuberculous disease : m oases of large herma testis, and in some instances of incompletely descended or misplaced1210 SPLANCHNOLOGY testes. The operation of castration was formerly performed for enlai-gement of the prostate, but has now been entirely abandoned in favour of the rlirect operation on the enlarged prostate. Castration is in most cases best carried out by the ' high ' operation, an incision being made through the skin and fascia in the region of the external abdominal ring. The testis, with its deeper coverings, is then pushed up into the wound and separated from the scrotal tissues. The cord is then isolated, and an aneurysm needle, armed with a ligatm-e, passed through it, as high as it is thought necessary, and the cord tied and divided. In cases of malignant and tuberculous disease, it is desirable to open the inguinal canal and tie the cord as near the internal abdominal ring as possible. When removing the testis in this manner the tunica vaginalis is not opened and its folds of reflection to the scrotal tissues do not need division. The whole of the tunica vaginalis Ls thus removed with the cord and its coverings. Acute inflammation of the testis, or orchitis, is common in gonorrhoea; a chronic fibrosing form of orchitis is frequent in syphihs, and leads to skrinkage and hardening of the testis. In tabes dorsalis the testis often becomes quite insensitive to pressure, which, in the healthy adult, readily produces a severe and peculiar sickening sensation. Vas Deferens The vas deferens (ductus deferens), the excretory duct of the testis, is the contuauation of the canal of the epididymis. Commencing at the lower part of the globus minor, it is at first very tortuous, but gradually becoming less twisted it ascends along the posterior border of the testis and mner side of the epididymis, and along the back j)art of the spermatic cord, through the inguinal canal to the internal or deep abdominal ring. Prom the ring it curves round the outer side of the deep epigastric artery, and ascends for about an inch in front of the external iliac artery. It is next directed backwards and sUghtly downwards, and, crossing the external Uiac vessels obhquely, enters the pelvic cavity, where it lies between the peritoneal membrane and the lateral wall of the pelvis, and passes on the inner side of the obliterated hypo- gastric artery and the obturator nerve and vessels. It then crosses in front of the ureter, and, reaching the inner side of tliis tube, bends to form an acute angle, and runs inwards and slightly forwards between the base of the bladder and the upper end of the seminal vesicle. Reaching the inner side of the seminal vesicle, it is directed do'O'nwards and inwards La contact with it, gradually approacliing the vas of the opposite side. Here it lies between the base of the bladder and the rectum, where it is enclosed, together with the seminal vesicle, in a sheath derived from the recto-vesical portion of the fascia endopelvina. Lastly, it is directed downwards to the base of the prostate, where it becomes greatly narrowed, and is joined at an acute angle by the duct of the seminal vesicle to form the ejaculatory duct, which traverses the prostate gland behind its middle lobe and opens into the prostatic portion of the urethra, close to the sinus pocularis. The vas deferens presents a hard and cord-Uke sensation to the fingers, and is of cylindrical form ; its walls are dense, and its canal is extremely small. At the base of the bladder it becomes enlarged and tortuous, and this portion is termed the ampulla. A small triangular area of the base of the bladder, between the^'vasa deferentia laterally and the bottom of the recto-vesical pouch of peritoneum above, is in contact with the rectum. . >r ^^ v r OLlA^-^^^ . '""c Structure.—The vas deferens consists of three coats : (1) an external or areolar coat; ^2) a muscular coat, which in the greater part of the tube consists of two layers of unstriped muscular fibre : an outer, longitudinal in direction, and an inner, circular ; but in addition to these, at the commencement of the vas deferens, there is a third layer, consisting of longitudinal fibres, placed internal to the cu-cular stratum, between it and the mucous membrane; (.3) an internal, or mucous coat, which is pale, and arranged in longitudinal folds. The mucous coat is lined by columnar epithelium which is non-ciliated throughout the greater part of the tube; a variable ])ortion of the testicular end of the tube is lined by two strata of columnar cells and the cells of the superficial layer are ciliated. A long narrow tube, the vas aberrans of Haller, is occasionally found connected with the lower part of the canal of the epididymis, or with the commencement of the vas deferens. It extends up into the cord for about two or three inches, where it terminates by a bhnd extremity, which is sometimes bifurcated. Its length varies from an inch and a half to fourteen inches, and it may become dilated towards its extremity ; more commonly it retains the same diameter throughout. Its structure is similar to that of the vas deferens. Occasionally it is found unconnected with the epididymis.1211 VAS DEFERENS Organ of Oiraldes.—This term is applied to a small collection of convoluted tulmles. situated in front of the lower part of the cord above the globus major of the epididymis. These tubes are lined with columnar ciliated epithelium, and probably represent the remains of a part of the Wolffian body. Vesictjl^ Seminales (fig. 1004) The vesiculae seminales are two lobulated membranous pouches, placed between the base of the bladder and the rectum, serving as reservoirs for the semen, and secreting a fluid to be added to the secretion of the testes. Eacli sac is somewhat jiyramidal in form, the broad end being directed backwards, upwards and outwards. It measures usually about two and a half inches in length, but varies in size, not only in different individuals, but also in the same individual on the two sides. The anterior surface is in contact with the base of the bladder, extending from near the termination of the ureter to the base of the prostate gland. The posterior siirface rests upon the rectum, from which it is separated by the rccto-vesical fascia. Their upper extremities diverge from each other, and are separated from the bladder by the vas deferens Fig. 1004.—Base of the bladder with the vesiculse seminales. and the lower end of the ureter, and are partly covered by peritoneum. Their lower extremities are pointed, and converge towards the base of the prostate gland, where each joins with the corresponding vas deferens to form the ejaculatory duct. Along the inner margin of each vesicle runs the enlarged and tortuous vas deferens. Each vesicle consists of a single tube, coiled upon itself, and givuig off" several irregular csecal diverticula ; the separate coils, as well as the diverticula are connected together by fibrous tissue. When uncoiled, the tube is about the diameter of a quill, and varies in length from four to six inches ; it termi- nates posteriorly in a cul-de-sac ; its anterior extremity becomes constricted into a narrow straight duct, which joins with the corresponding vas deferens to form the ejaculatory duct. structure —The vesicute seminales are composed of three coats : an external or areolar coat: a middle or muscular coat, thinner than in the vas deferens and arranged in two layers, an outer longitudinal and inner circular; an internal or rmicous coat, which is pale, ot a whiti.sh-brown colour, and presents a delicate reticular structure. The epithelium is columnar, and, in the diverticula, goblet-cells are present, the secretion of which increases the bulk of the seminal fluid.SPLANCHNOLOGY 1212 Vessels and Nerves.—Tlie arteries sujiplying the vesicvite seminales are derived from the middle and inferior vesical, and middle hajmorrhoidal. The veins and lymphatics accompany the arteries. The nerves are derived from the pelvic plexuses. Applied Anatomy.—The vesicuL-e seminales are often the seat of an extension of the disease in cases of tuberculosis of the testis, and should always be examined from the rectiun, before deciding to perform castration in this affection. They also become affected in chronic posterior urethritis of gonorrhceal origin. Ejaculatory Ducts (fig. 1005) The ejaculatory ducts are two in number, one on either side of the middle line. Each is Fig. 1005.—Vesiculse seminales and ampullae of vasa formed by the union of deferentia, seen from the front. The anterior walls the duct from the vesicula of the left ampulla, left seminal vesicle, and prostatic seminalis with the vas de- ferens, and is about three- quarters of an inch in length. They commence at the base of the prostate, and run forwards and domiwards between its middle and lateral lobes, and along the sides of the sinus pocularis, to terminate by separate slit- like orifices close to or just ^dthin the margins of the sinus. The ducts diminish in size, and also converge, towards their terminations. Structure.—The coats of the ejaculatory ducts are extremely thin. They are: a.n otder fibrous layer, which is almost entirely lost after the entrance of the ducts into the prostate; a layer of muscular fibres, consisting of an outer thin circular, and an inner longitudinal, layer; and mucous membrane. The Pbstis The penis is a pendulous organ susj)ended from the front and sides of the pubic arch and containing the greater part of the urethra. Li the flaccid condition it is cylindrical in shape, but when erect assumes the form of a triangular prism with rounded angles, one side of the prism forming the dorsum. It is composed of three cylindrical masses of cavernous tissue bound together by fibrous tissue and covered with skin. Two of the masses are lateral, and are known as the corpora cavernosa ; the third is median, and is termed the corf us spongiosum (figs. 1006, 1007). The corpora cavernosa (corpora cavernosa penis) form the greater part of the substance of the penis. For their anterior three-fourths they lie in intimate apposition wdth one another, but behind they diverge in the form of two tapering processes, known as the crura, which are firmly connected to the rami of the pubic arch. Traced from behind forwards, each crus commences by a blunt-jjointed process in front of the tuberosity of the ischium. Just before it meets its fellow it presents a slight enlargement, named by Kobelt the hulb of the corpus cavernosum. Beyond this point the crus undergoes a constriction and merges into the corpus cavernosum proper, which retains a uniform diameter to its anterior end. Each corpus cavernosum terminates abruptly in a rounded extremity some distance from the point of the penis. Tlie corpora cavernosa arc surrounded by a strong fibrous envelope consisting of superficial and deoi) fibres. The superficial fibres are longitudinal in direction, and form a single tube which encloses both corpora ; the deep fibres are arranged circularly round each corpus, and form by their junction urethra have been cut away.THE PENIS 1213 in the mesial plane a partition or septum (septum penis). This is thick and complete behind, but is imperfect in front, where it consists of a series of vertical bands arranged like the teeth of a comb ; it is Fig. 1006.—The constituent cavernous cylinders of therefore named the septum the penis. The glans and anterio)- part of the y ■/■ ytniJ corpus spongio.suui are detached irom the corpora 'pectmijorme. „^-^„^ cavernosa and turned to one side. The corpus spongiosum (corpus cavernosum urethraj) contains the urethra. BeMnd, it is expanded to form the urethral bulb (bulbus urethrje), and lies in apposition with the superficial layer of the trian- gular ligament, from which it receives a fibrous investment. The urethra enters the bulb nearer to the upper than to the ■ lower surface. On the latter there is a depressed median raphe (sulcus bulbi), from which a thin fibrous septum projects into the substance of the bulb and divides it imperfectly into two lateral lobes or hemispheres. The portion of the corpus spongiosum in front of the bulb lies in a groove on the under surface of the conjoined corpora cavernosa. It is cylindrical in form and tapers slightly from behind forwards. Its anterior extremity is expanded in the form of an obtuse cone, flat- tened from above downwards. This expansion, termed the glans penis, is moulded on the rounded ends of the corpora cavernosa, extending further on their upper than on their lower surfaces. At the summit of the glans is the slit-like vertical urethral orifice or meatus (orificium urethrse externum). The circumference of the base of the glans forms a rounded projecting border, the corona glandis, overhanging" Fig. 1007.—Transverse section of the penis. Dorsal veins Dorsal artery and nerve Integument Fibrous envelope Corjiora cavernosa a deep sulcus (sulcus retroglan- dularis), behind which is the neck (coUum penis) of the penis. For descriptive purposes it is convenient to divide the penis into three regions : the root, the body, and the extremity. The root (radix penis) of the penis is triradiate in form, con- sisting of the diverging crura, one on either side, and the mesial bulb of the corpus spongiosum. Each crus is covered by the Erector penis, while the bulb is surrounded by the Ejaculator urinse. The root of the penis lies in the perinajum between the superficial layer of the triangular ligament and the fascia of Colles. In addition to being attached to the pubic rami and triangular ligament, it is bound to the Urethra Corp us spmiijiosum1214 SPLANCHNOLOGY front of tlie symphysis jjubis by tlie suspensory lujamml (lig. suspensoriuni penis). Tlie upper fibres of tliis ligament pass downwards from the lower end of the linea alba, and the Jower fibres from the symphysis pubis • togetlier they form a strong fibrous band, which extends to tlie upper surface of the root, where it splits into two fasciculi and blends with the fascial sheath of the organ. Tiie body (corpus penis) extends from the root to the ends of the corpora cavernosa, and in it the corpora cavernosa are intimately bound to one another A shallow groove which marks their junction on the upper surface lodges the deep dorsal vein of the penis, while a deeper and mder groove between them on the under surface contains the corpus spongiosum. The body is ensheathed by fascia, which is continuous above with the fascia of Scarpa, and below with the dartos of the scrotum and the fascia of CoUes. The extremity is formed by the glans penis, the expanded anterior end of the corpus spongiosum. It is separated from the body by the constricted neck, which is overhung by the corona glancUs. The integument covering the penis is remarkable for its thinness, its dark colour, its looseness of connection mth the deeper parts of the organ and its absence of adipose tissue. At the root of the penis it is continuous with that over the pubes, scrotum, and perinseum. At the neck it leaves the surface and^ becomes folded upon itself to form the prepuce or foreskin (prseputium penis). The internal layer of the prepuce is directly continuous, along the line of the neck, with the integument over the glans. Immediately belund the urinary meatus it forms a small secondary reduplication, attached along the bottom of a depressed median raphe, which extends from the meatus to the neck ; tliis fold is termed the frenulum (frenulum prseputii). The integument covering the glans is continuous with the urethral mucous membrane at the meatus ; it is devoid of hairs, but projecting from its free surface are a number of small, highly sensitive papillae. On the corona and neck numerous small glands, the glandulce Tysonii odoriferoe (glandulse prseputii) have been described.* They secrete a sebaceous material of very peculiar odour, which probably contains casein, and readily undergoes decomposition. The prepuce covers a variable amount of the glans, and is separated from it by a potential sac—the preputial sac—wliich presents two shallow recesses (fossae frenuli), one on either side of the frenulum. Structure of the penis,—^Prom the internal surface of the fibrous envelope of the corpora. cavernosa as well as from the sides of the septum, numerous bands or cords are given off, which cross the interior of the corpora cavernosa in all directions, subdividing them into a number of separate compartments, and giving the entire structure a spongy appearance. These bands and cords are called trabecidoe (trabecule corporum cavernosorum), and consist of white fibrous tissue, elastic fibres, and plain muscular fibres. In them are contained numerous arteries and nerves. The component fibres which form the trabeculse are larger and stronger round the circumference than at the centres of the corpora cavernosa ; they are also thicker behind than in front. The interspaces (cavernous spaces), on the contrary, are larger at the centre than at the circumference, thek long diameters being du-ected transversely. They are filled with blood, and are lined by a layer of flattened cells similar to the endothelial lining of veins. The arteries bringing the blood to these spaces are the arteries of the corpora cavernosa and branches from the dorsal arteries of the penis, which ])erforate the fibrous capsule, along the upper surface, especially near the fore-part of the organ. On entering the cavernous structure the arteries divdde into branches, which are supported and enclosed by the trabeculfe. Some of these arteries terminate in a capillary network, the branches of which open dhectly into the cavernous spaces ; others assume a tendril-like appearance, and form convoluted and somewhat dilated vessels, which were named by Miiller helicine arteries. They ju-oject into the spaces, and from them are given ofi small capillary branches to supply the trabecular structure. They are bound down in the spaces by fine fibrous processes, and are most abundant in the back part of (he corjjora cavernosa (fig. 1008). The blood from the cavernous spaces is returned by a series of vessels, some of which emerge in considerable numbers from the base of the glans penis and converge on the ♦ Stieda (Conijjteii-rendufi du, XII Congrh International de Mddooitw, Moscow, 18!17) asserts that Ty.son's glands arc never found on the corona glandis, and that what have hitherto been mistaken for glands are really large papillie.1215 THE PENIS dorsum of the organ to form the deep dorsal vein ; others pass out on the upper surface of the corpora cavernosa and join the same vein ; some emerge from the under surface of the corpora cavernosa and, receiving branches from the corpus spongiosum, wind round the sides of the penis to terminate in the deep dorsal vein ; but the greater number pass out at the root of the penis and join the prostatic plexus. The fibrous envelope of the corpus spongiosum is thinner, whiter in colour, and more elastic than that of the corpora cavernosa. The trabeculas are moi'e delicate, nearly uniform in size, and the meshes between them smaller than in the corpora cavernosa : their long diameters, for the most part, corresponding with that of the penis. The external envelope or outer coat of the corpus spongiosum is formed partly of unstriped muscular fibre, and a layer of the same tissue immediately surrounds the canal of the m-ethra. The lympJiatics of the penis are described on page 789. The nerves are derived from the intefnal pudic nerve and the pelvic plexuses. On the glans and bulb some filaments of the cutaneous nerves have Pacinian bodies connected with them, and, according to Ki-ause, many of them terminate in peculiar end-bulbs (see page 60). Applied Anatomij.—The penis occasionally requires removal for malignant disease. Usually, removal of the ante-scrotal portion is all that is necessary, but sometimes it is requisite to remove the whole organ from its attachment to the rami of the pubes and ischia. The former operation is performed by cutting through the corpora cavernosa from the dorsum, and then separating the corpus spongiosum from them, dividing it at a level nearer the glans penis. The mucous membrane of the urethra is then sht up, and the edges of the flap attached to the external skin, in order to prevent contraction of the orifice, which might otherwise take place. The vessels which requke ligature are the two dorsal arteries of the penis, the arteries of the corpora cavernosa, and the artery of the septum. When the entire organ requires removal, the patient is placed in the lithotomy position, and an incision is made through the skin and subcutaneous tissue round the root of the penis, and carried down tlu-ough the median line of the scrotum as far as the perinseum. The two halves of the scrotum are then separated from each other, and a catheter having been introduced into the bladder as a guide, the spongy portion of the urethra below the triangular ligament is separated from the corpora cavernosa and divided, the catheter having been withdrawn. The suspensory ligament is now severed and the rura separated from the bone with a periosteum scraper, and the whole penis removed. The membranous portion of the urethra, which has not been removed, is now to be attached to the sldn at the posterior extremity of the incision in the perina3um Tlae remamder of the wound is to be brought together, free drainage being provided for. The Prostate Gland The prostate gland (prostate) is a firm, partly glandular and partly muscular body, wliich is placed immediately below tlie neck of the bladder and around the commencement of the urethra. It is situated in tiie pelvic cavity, below the lower part of the symphysis pubis, above the superior layer ot the triangular ligament, and in front of the rectum, through which it niay be distinctly felt, especially when enlarged. It is about the size of a chestnut and somewhat conical in shape, and presents for examination a base, an apex, an anterior, a posterior, and two lateral surfaces. The base (basis prostata) is directed upwards, and is ajiplied to the under surface of the bladder. The greater part of this surface is directly continuous1216 SPLANCHNOLOGY ■with the bladder w all: the urethra penetrates it nearer its anterior than its posterior border. The a/pex (apex i^rostatse) is directed downwards, and is in contact with the deep layer of the triangular ligament. The posterior surface (facies posterior) is flattened from side to side and convex from above downwards ; it rests on the rectum, and is distant about an inch and a half from the anus. Near its upper border there is a depression through wliich the two common ejaculatory ducts enter the prostate. This depression serves to divide the posterior surface into a lower larger and an upper smaller part. The upper smaller part constitutes the middle lobe of the prostate and intervenes between the ejaculatory ducts and the urethra ; it varies greatly in size, and in some cases is destitute of glandular tissue. The lower larger portion sometimes presents a shallow median furrow, wliich imperfectly separates it into a right and a left lateral lobe : these form the main mass of the gland and are directly continuous with each other beliind the urethra. Fig. 1009.—Transverse section of normal prostate through the middle of the verumontanum, fi'om a subject aged nineteen years. (Taylor.) a longitudinal section of ducts leading from the lobules of the prostatic glands ; 6, verumontanum; e, sums pocularis ; d, uretlira ; e, ejaculatory ducts ; f, arteries, veins, and venous sinuses in sheath of prostate; g, nerve trunks in sheath ; h, point of origin of fibro-muscular bands encircling urethra; i, zone of striated voluntary muscle on superior surface. In front of the urethra they are connected by a band wliich is named the anterior commissure : this consists of the same tissues as the capsule and is devoid of glandular substance. The anterior surface (facies anterior) measures about an inch from above downwards, but is narrow and convex from side to side. It is placed about three-quarters of an incli behind the pubic symphysis, from which it is separated by a plexus of veins and a quantity of loose fat. It is connected to the pubic bone on either side by the pubo-prostatic ligaments. The urethra emerges from this surface a little above and in front of the apex of the gland. Tlie lateral surfaces (facies laterales) are prominent, and are covered by the anterior portions of the Lcvatores ani muscles, which are, however, separated from the gland by a plexus of veins. The prostate measures about an inch and a half transversely at the base, three-quarters of an inch in its antero-posterior diameter, and an inch and a quarter in its vertical diameter. Its weight is about four and a half drachms. It is held in its position by the anterior ligaments of tlie bladder (pubo-1217 THE PROSTATE GLAND prostatic) ; by the deep layer of the triangular ligament, which invests the comraencement of the membranous portion of the urethra and prostate gland; and by the anterior portions of the Levatores ani muscles, which pass backwards from the pubis and embrace the sides of the prostate. These portions of the Levatores ani, from the support they afford to the prostate, are named the Levatores prostatce. The prostate gland is perforated by the urethra and the ejaculatory ducts. The urethra usually lies along tlie junction of its anterior with its middle third. The ejaculatory ducts pass obUquely downwards and forwards through the posterior part of the prostate, and open into the prostatic portion of the urethra. structure.—The ijrostate is immediately enveloped by a thin but fii'm fibrous capsule, distinct from that derived from the fascia endopelvina, and separated from it by a plexus of veins. This capsule is firmly adherent to the prostate and is structurally continuous with the stroma of the gland, being composed of the same tissues, viz. non-striped muscle and fibrous tissue. The substance of the prostate is of a pale reddish-grey colour, of great density, and not easily torn. It consists of glandular substance and muscular tissue. The muscular tissue, according to KolUker, constitutes the proper stroma of the prostate ; the connective tissue being very scanty, and sunply forming, between the muscular fibres! thin trabeculce, in which the vessels and nerves of the gland ramify. The muscular tissue is arranged as follows : immediately beneath the fibrous capsule is a dense layer, which forms an investing sheath for the gland ; secondly, around the lu-ethra, as it hes in the prostate, is another dense layer of ckcular fibres, continuous above with the internal layer of the muscular coat of the bladder, and below blending mth the fibres surrounding the membranous portion of the urethra. Between these two layers strong bands of muscular tissue, which decussate freely, form meshes in which the glandular structure of the organ is imbedded. In that part of the gland which is situated in front of the urethra the muscular tissue IS especially dense, and there is here httle or no gland tissue ; while in that part which IS behind the uretlira the muscular tissue presents a wide-meshed structui-e, which is densest at the base of the gland—that is, near the bladder—becoming looser and more sponge-like towards the apex of the organ. The glandular substance is composed of numerous folhcular pouches, opening into elongated canals, which join to form from twelve to twenty small excretory ducts The tollicles are connected together by areolar tis.sue, supported by prolongations from the fibrous capsule and muscular stroma, and enclosed in a deficate capillary plexus. The epithelium vvhich lines the canals and the terminal vesicles is of the columnar variety. The prostatic ducts open into the floor of the prostatic portion of the urethra, and are fined by two layers ot epithelumi, the inner layer consisting of columnar and the outer of small cubical cells Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the prostate are derived from the internal pudic, vesical, and haBmorrboidal. Its veins form a plexus around the sides and base of the gland ; they receive m front the dorsal vein of the penis, and terminate m the internal Uiac veins. The nerves are derived from the pelvic plexus. Applied Anatomy.—Ry means of the finger introduced mto the rectum, the sur<.eon detects enlargement or other disease of the prostate; he can feel the apex of the gfand, which IS the guide to Cock's operation for strictm-e; he is enabled also by the same melns to cuiect the point of a catheter, when its introduction is attended \vith difficulty either from 'u^l^A T\ i 1 membranous or prostatic portions of the urethra. When the finger IS mtioduced into the bowel, the sm-geon may, in some cases, especially in boys, learn the remo'vTl' 7 '''''' '^^'T' °^ ^ i° '^'^ ladder; and in the operation for its orrtn^l IS not infrequently the case, it should be lodged behhid an enlarged bLcl le f nn? displaced from its position by pressing upwards the base of the Sue to e th- Jnnn":, • ^^1'"'" ^t"^' Occasionally the seat of suppiuution, due to either gonorrhoja or tuberculous disease. The gland is enveloned in a dense trS^rl'',"'"' ^'^^r'T ' and also explah" freauontlv Cf ? It ^'""'tu* ^he acute form of the disease. The abscess most maTSrst iZ t,? '^"'T""" ''^'''^ ^^'^"^ '^^st resistance, but may burst into the rectum, or more rarely in the perinmum. In advanced life the Z fo LT.ZZ" becomes considerably enlarged and projects into trX der o at GreemWoh Sl^TT^> °^ According to Messer's researches, conducted at (, teenwioh Hospital, it would seem that such obstruction exists in 20 per cent lite iuoberwhi^f ^ f ^V'^r '^''^ «°'^dition aftects principally the venlnce ik oK """^ undergo considerable enlargement without causing much incon- Sl eniarient of tir! f r""^"^ seem that the middle lobe enlarges most, and even a sma 1 enlaigement of this lobe may act injuriously, by forming a sSrt of valve over the thf mot°cSpl^ --^-^ ^l^'' the ;atnt I'ait Svn.ementT KnTf block the opening into the urethra. In con.sequence of the emaif,ement ot the pi estate, a pouch is formed at the base of the bladder behind the nroiec tion, m which ui-ine collects, and cannot be entirely expelled. It becomt dSomposedSPLANCHNOLOGY 1218 and ammoniacal, and lends to cystitis. For this condition ■proslaleclmn.y is sometimes done. The bladder is opened by an incision above the sym|)hysis j)ubis, the mucous membrane of the post-prostatic jjouch is scratched through, and the finger is then introduced into the space between the true capsule of the prostate and outer capsule formed Ijy the fascia cndopelvina. Separation in this plane is then carried out below and laterally until the apex of the gland is reached. The whole of the work is done with the finger, \i hich is graduall}' swept round the sides until the anterioi- surface is reached and freed. The gland is then, by traction, displaced into the bladder and removed, usually carrying with it the greater portion of the mucous membrane of the pi-ostatic urethra. Haemorrhage, which may be considerable at times, is checked by hot irrigations, and the bladder is temporarily drained. Very satisfactory results have followed this operation. The prostate can be reached from the perinjeum, and in some cases the enlarged gland has been removed by this route, but the perineal approach is not usually emploj'ed except in the case of abscess of or about the gland. Cowper's Glands Cowper's glands (glandulse bulbo-urethrales) are two small, rounded, and somewhat lobulated bodies, of a yellow colour, about the size of peas, placed behind the membranous portion of the urethra, between the two layers of the triangular ligament. They lie close above the bulb, and are enclosed by the transverse fibres of the Compressor urethrse muscle. Their existence is said to be constant : they gradually diminish in size as age advances. The excretory duct of each gland, nearly an inch in length, passes obHquely forwards beneath the mucous membrane, and opens by a minute orifice on the floor of the bulbous portion of the urethra. ■ Structure—Each gland is made up of several lobules, held together by a fibrous investment. Each lobule consists of a number of acini, lined by colmnnar epithelial cells, opening into one duct, which joins with the ducts of other lobules outside the gland to form the single excretory duct. FEMALE EEPKODUCTIVE OEGANS The female reproductive organs (organa genitalia muliebria) consist of an internal and an external group. The internal organs are situated ^^•itllin the pelvis, and consist of the ovaries, the Fallopian tubes, the uterus, and the vagina. The external organs are placed below the triangular ligament of the urethra and below and in front of the pubic arch. They comprise the mons Veneris, the labia majora et minora, the clitoris, the bulbus vestibuh, and the glands of Bartholin. The Ovaeies The ovaries are homologous with the testes in the male. They are two nodular bodies, situated one on either side of the uterus in relation to the lateral wall of the pelvis, and attached to the back of the broad ligament of the uterus, behind and below the Fallopian tubes (fig. 1010). The ovaries are of a greyish- pink colour, and present either a smooth or a puckered uneven surface. Tiiey are each about an inch and a half in length, three-quarters of an mcli m width, and about a third of an inch in thickness, and weigh from one to two drachms Each ovary (ovarium) presents an outer and an inner surface, an upper and a lower extremity, and an anterior and a posterior border. It lies ui a shalloy depression, named the fossa ovarii, on tiie lateral wall of the pelvis ; this fossa is bounded above by the external iliac vessels, in front by tlio obliterated liypogastric artery, and behind by the ureter. The exact position ot the ovary has been the subject of considerable difference of opinion, and the desciiption liere given applies to the ovary of the nulliparous woman. Ihe ovary becomes displaced during the first pregnancy, and ]irobably never again returns to its original position. Li tlic erect posture the long axis ot the ovary is vertical. Tlie ujiper or tubal extremity is near the external iliac vein ; to it is attaciied the ovarian fimbria of the Fallopian tube and a fold ot peritoneum, the suspensory ligament of the ovary, which is directed upwards over tile iliac vessels and contains tiie ovarian vessels. 'Ihe loiver or uterine1219 THE OVARIES end is directed downwards towards the pelvic floor ; it is usually narrower than the upper, and is attached to the lateral angle of the uterus, immediately behind the Fallopian tube, by a rounded cord termed the lirjameni of the ovary, which lies within the broad ligament and contains some non-striped Fio. 1010.—Uterus and right hroad ligament, seen from behind. The broad ligament has been spread out and the ovary drawn downwards. EpoOphoron or pa/rovarium mu.scular fibres. The outer surface is in contact with the parietal peri- toneum, which lines the fossa ovarii ; tlie inner surface is to a large extent covered by the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube. The anterior or straight border is directed towards the obliterated hypogastric artery, and is attached to the back of the broad ligament by a short fold named the mes- Fia. 1011.—Adult ovary, epoophoron, and Fallopian tube. (From Farre, after Kobelt.) ovarium. Between the two layers of this fold the blood-vessels and nerves pass to reach the hilus of the ovary. The posterior or convex border is free, and IS directed towards the ureter. The Fallopian tube arches over the ovary, running upwards in relation to its anterior border, then curving over its upper or tubal pole, and finally passing downwards on its posterior border and inner surface. 4i 2SPLANCHNOLOGY 1220 Epobphoron and paroophoron (figs. 1010, 1011).—Lying in the broad ligament, botwoon tlio ovary and the Fallopian tube, is the epoophoron or 'parovarium, also called the orgaii of Rosenmilller. This consists of a few closed convoluted tubes, lined with epithelium, which converge towards the ovary at one end and at tlie other are united by a longitudinal tube, the duel of Gartner. In the human fenrale this duct terminates in a bulbous enlargement ; in the cow it attains a greater development and opens into the vagina. The paroophoron consists of a few scattered rudimentary tubules, best seen in the child, situ- ated in the broad ligament between the parovarium and the uterus. The epoophoron and paroophoron are remnants of the Wolffian body or meso- nephros, and the duct of Giirtner is a persistent portion of the Wolffian duct. In the foetus, the ovaries are situated, hke the testes, in the lumbar region, near the kidneys. They ma}'- be distinguished from those bodies at an early period by their elongated and flattened form, and by their position, which is at first oblique and then nearly transverse. They gradually descend into the pelvis. structure (fig. 1012).—The siu-face of the ovary is covered Ijy a layer of columnar cells which constitute the germinal epithelium of Waldeyer. This epithelium gives to the ovary a dull grey colour as compared with the shining smoothness of the peritoneum ; and the transition between the pavement epithelium of the peritoneum and the columnar cells which cover the ovary is usually marked by a line around the anterior border of the ovarj'. The ovary consists of a number of Graafian follicles imbedded in the meshes of a stroma or framework. The stroma is a loecuhar soft tissue, abundantly supphed with blood-vessels, consisting for the most part of spindle-shaped cells with a small amount of ordinary connective tissue. These cells have been re- FiG. 1012.—Section of the ovary. (After Schron.) garded by some anatomists as un- striped muscle-cells, which, indeed, they most resemble ; by others as connective-tissue cells. On the siu-- face of the organ this tissue is much condensed, and forms a layer (tunica albuginea) composed of short con- nective-tissue fibres, with fusiform cells between them. Graafian follicles.—Upon making a section of an ovary, numerous round transparent vesicles of various sizes are to be seen ; they are the Graafian follicles, or ovisacs con- taining the ova. Immediately beneath the superficial covering is a layer of stroma, in which are a large number of minute vesicles, of uniform size, about j-irr of an inch in diameter. These are the follicles in their earliest condition, and the layer where the.y are found has been termed the cortical layer. They are • especialh' numerous in the ovary of the young child. After puberty, and during the whole of the child-bearing ]ieriod. large and mature, or almost matui-e. Graafian follicles are also found in the cortical layer in small numbers, and also ' corpora lutea,' the remains of follicles which have bm-st and are undergoing atrophy and absorption. Beneath this superficial stratum, other large and more mature follicles are found imbedded in the ovarian stroma. Tliese increase in size as they recede from the surface towards a highly vascular stroma in the centre of the organ, termed the medullary substance {zona vasculosa, Waldeyer). This stroma forms the tissue of the hilus by which the ovary is attached, and through which the blood-vessels enter : it does not contain any Graafian follicles. The larger Graafian follicles consist of an external fibro-vascular coat, connected with the surrounding stroma of the ovary by a network of blood-vessels ; and an internal coat, named the ovirnpsvle, which is lined by a layer of nucleated cells, called the memhrana grnmilosa. In that i)art of the mature Graafian follicle which is nearest the surface of the ovary, the cells of the memhrana granulosa are connected into a mass which ]irojects into the cavity of the follicle. This is termed the discus proligerua, and in it the ovum is imbedded.* Tlie follicle contains a transparent albuminous fiuid. 1. Outer covering. 1'. Attaolicd border. 2. Central stroma. 3. Peripheral stroma. d. Blood-vessels. 5. Graafian follicles in their earliest stage. 6, 7, 8. More advanced follicles. 9. An almost mature follicle. D'. Volliclc from which the ovum has escaped. 10. Corpus luteum. * For a description of the ovum, see page 78.1221 THE OVARIES The ova are usually regarded as being formed from the germinal epithelium on the surface of the ovary. This becomes thickened, and in it are seen some cells which are larger and more rounded than the rest: these are termed the -primordial ova. The germinal epithelium grows downwards in the form of tubes or columns, termed the egg tubes of Pfliiger, into the ovarian stroma, which grows outwards between the tubes, and ultimately cuts them oi? from the germinal epithelium. These tubes are fm-ther subdivided into rounded nests or groups, each containing a primordial ovum which undergoes further development and growth while the surrounding cells of the nest form the epithelium of the Graafian follicle. The development and maturation of the Graafian follicles and ova continue uninter- ruptedly from puberty to the end of the fi-uitful period of woman's life, while their formation commences before birth. Before puberty the ovaries are small, the Graafian follicles contained in them are disposed in a comparatively thick layer in the cortical substance ; here they present the appearance of a large number of minute closed vesicles, constituting the early condition of the Graafian follicles ; many, however, never attain full development, but shrink and disappear. At puberty the ovaries enlarge and become more vascular, the Graafian follicles are developed in greater abundance, and their ova are capable of fecundation. Discharge of the ovum.—^The Graafian folhcles, after attaining a certain stage of develop- ment, gradually approach the surface of the ovary and biu-st; the ovum and fluid contents of the folhcle are liberated on the exterior of the ovary, and carried into the Fallopian tube by peritoneal cmTents set up by the movements of the eiha covering the mucous membrane of the fimbria3. Vessels and Nerves.^—The arteries of the ovaries and Fallopian tubes are the ovarian from the aorta. Each enters the attached border, or hilus, of the corresponding ovary. The veins emerge from the hilus in the form of a plexus, the pampiniform plexus ; the ovarian vein is fonned from this plexus, and leaves the pelvis in company with the artery. The nerves are derived from the hypogastric or pelvic plexus, and from the ovarian plexus, the Fallopian tube receiving a branch from one of the uterine nerves. Applied Anatomy.—Tlie inflammations which aSect the ovary are merely an extension of those from the tube. Ovarian new formations are of common occurrence, and are either solid or cystic ; the former being the less common. The ' ovarian cysls ' in the majority of cases are cystadenomata which may assume enormous dimensions ; in rarer instances they form from the tubules at the hilus of the ovary or those of the organ of Rosenmiiller ; in other instances a clear watery cyst forms between the layers of the broad ligament. An ovarian cyst, once diagnosed, should always be removed, as it is hable to become affected by suppru-ation, torsion of its pedicle, or other serious complications. The operation for its removal, badly termed ovariotomy, consists in opening the abdomen, and reducing the size of the cyst when large by tapping it before its withdi'awal from the abdomen ; the pedicle is then clamped with a large forceps, and the cyst is cut free. This pedicle must then be transfixed and secm-ely ligatured by an interlocking ligature, which will not slip off. The pedicle consists of an elongated part of the broad ligament, including the Fallopian tube and ovarian artery, and a great number of large veins. Ovariotomy for a simple uncomplicated cyst presents no special difficulties, but, in cases where there are old adhesions implicating the small intestines, it may present very great difficulties. The Fallopian Tubes (figs. 1010, 1013) The Fallopian tubes, or oviducts, convey the ova from the ovaries to the cavity of the uterus. They are two in number, one on either side, situated in the upper margin of the broad ligament, and extending from either superior angle of the uterus to the side of the pelvis. Each tube is about four inches in length ; and is described as consisting of three portions : (1) the isthmus, or inner constricted third ; (2) the ampulla, or outer dilated portion, which curves over the ovary ; and (3) the infundibulum, with its ostium abdominale, surrounded by fimbrim, one of which, the fimbria ovarica, is attached to the ovary. The Fallopian tube is directed outwards as far as the lo\\-er or uterine pole of the ovary, and then ascends along the anterior border of the ovary to the upper or tubal pole, over which it arclies ; finally it turns down- wards and ends in relation to the posterior border and inner surface of the ovary. The uterine opening is minute, and will only admit a fine bristle; the abdominal opening is somewliat larger. In cormection with the fimbriae of the Fallopian tube, or with tlio broad hgament close to them, there are frequently one or more small pedunculated vesicles. These are termed the hydatids of Morgagni. structure.—^The Fallopian tube consists of three coats: serous, muscular, and mucous. The external or serotis coat is peritoneal. The middle or muscular coat consists ofSPLAl^CHNOLOGY 1222 an oxtornal longitudinal and an internal circular layer of non-striped muscular fibres continuous with those of the uterus. The inltrmil or mucous coat is continuous with the mucous lining of the uterus, and. at the free extremity of the tube, with the peritoneum It IS thrown into longitudinal folds, which in the outer, larger part of the tube, or amijulla are mucli more extensive than in the narrow canal of the isthmus. The lining eijithelium IS columnar and ciliated. This form of epithelium is also found on the inner surface of the timbrife ; while on the outer or .serous surfaces of these proce.sses the epithelium gradually merges into the endothelium of the peritoneum. Applied Analomy.—Tho majority of the diseases of the Fallopian tube are due to infec- tions which have spread by way of the vagina and uterus, and the disease often does not stop at the Fallopian tube, but ]msses on to the peritoneum, giving rise to acute general peritonitis, or a localised condition termed perimetrilis that may be acute or chronic Perimetritis is often followed by various ]minful conditions, which are due to the peritoneal adliesions resulting from the inflammation of the serous membrane, and which ijersist throughout life. Tubal inflammation (salpingilis) is u.sually the result of an infection either by the gonococcus or by septic orgam.sms implanted at the time of labom- or abortion In many cases the fimbriated ends of the tubes become clo.sed by adhesions, pus collects in the tubes, and a pyosalpinx results. Fertihsation of the ovum has been stated (page 83) to occur in the tube, and the fertilised o\Tim is then normally jsassed on into the uterus ; the ovum, however, mav segment whilst it is still in the Fallopian tube, giving rise to the commonest variety of ectopic gestation. In such cases the amnion and chorion are formed, but a true decidua is never present; and the gestarion usually terminates by extrusion of the ovum through the abdominal ostium, although it is not uncommon for the tube to ruptm e into the peritoneal cavity, this being accompanied by severe hajmorrhage, and needing sm-gical interference. The Uterus (figs. 1010, 1013, 1014) The uterus, or womb, is a hollow, thick-walled, muscular organ situated deeplj^ in the pelvic cavity between the bladder and rectum. Into its upper part the Fallopian tubes open, one on either side, wliile below, its cavity communicates with that of the vagina. When the ova are discharged from Fig. 1013.—Female pelvis and its contents, seen from above and in fi'ont. the ovaries they are carried to tlie uterine cavity tin-ough tlie Fallopian lubes. If an ovum be fertilised it imbeds itself in the uterine wall and is normally retained in the uterus until ])re-nalal developmont is completed, the uterus undergoing changes in size and structure to accommodate itself to the needs of the growing embryo (see page 97). After parturition tlie uterus returns1223 THE UTERUS almost to its former condition, but certain traces of its enlargement remain. It is necessary therefore to describe as the type-form the adult virgin uterus, and then to consider the modifications which are eflfected as a result of pregnancy. In the virgin state the uterus is flattened antcro-posteriorly and is pyriform in shape, with the apex directed downwards and backwards. It lies between the bladder in front and the pelvic colon and rectum behind, and is completely within the pelvis, so that its base is below the level of the pelvic brim_. Its upper part is suspended by the broad and the round ligaments, while its lower portion is imbedded in the fibrous tissue of the pelvis. The long axis of the uterus usually lies approximately in the axis of the pelvic brim, but as the organ is freely movable its position varies with the state of distension of the bladder and rectum. Except w^hen much displaced by a fully distended bladder, it forms an angle with the vagina, since the axis of the vagina corresponds to the axes of the cavity and outlet of the pelvis. Fig. 1014.—Median sagittal section of female pelvis. Sacntim< Ooccyai' Pouch of Douglas- Os uteri externum- Anal canal Utero-veaical pouch Urethra The uterus measures about three inches in length, two inches in breadth at its upper part, and nearly an inch in thickness ; it weighs from an ounce to an ounce and a half. It is divisible into two portions. On the surface, about midway between the apex and base, is a slight constriction, known as the isthmus (isthmus uteri), and corresponding to this in the interior is a narrowing of the uterine cavity, the internal os (orificium internum uteri). The portion above the isthmus is termed the body, and that below, the cervix. The part of the body which lies above a plane passing through the points of entrance of the Fallopian tubes is known as the fundus (fundus uteri). Body (corpus uteri).—The body gradually narrows from the fundus to the isthmus. The anterior surface (facies vesicaUs) is flattened and covered by peri- toneum, which is reflected on to the bladder to form the utero-vesical pouch. The surface lies in apposition with the bladder. The 'posterior surface (facies intestinalis) is convex transversely, and is covered by peritoneum, wliich is continued down on to the cervix and vagina.1224 SPL.\NCHNOLOGY It is in relation with tlio pelvic colon, from which it is usually separated bv some coils ot small intestine. ' The superior surface is part of the fundus. It is sligiitly convex in all directions, and covered by peritoneum continuous with that on the anterior and posterior surfaces. On it rest some coils of small intestine, and occasion- ally the distended pelvic colon. The lateral margins (margines laterales) arc slightly convex At tlie ui)per end of each the Fallopian tube pierces the uterine wall. Below and in front of this point the round ligament of the uterus is attached, while behind it is the attachment of the ligament of the ovary. These three structures lie 'within a fold of peritoneum which is reflected from the inargrn of the uterus to the M^all ot the pelvis, and is named the broad ligament. Cervix (cervix uteri).—The cervix is the lower constricted segment of the uterus. It is somewhat conical in shape, with its truncated apex directed downwards and backwards, but is slightly Mdder in the middle than either above or below. Owing to its relationships, it is less freely movable than the body, so that the latter may bend on it. The long axis of the cervix is there- fore seldom in the same straight line as the long axis of the body. The long axis of the uterus as a whole presents the form of a curved line with its concavity forwards, or in extreme cases may present an angular bend at the region of the isthmus. The vaginal wall is attached round the cervix, and di\ades it into two portions: an upper, supravaginal portion, and a lower, vaginal portion. The supravaginal portion (portio supravaginalis) of the cervix is separated in front from the bladder by fibrous tissue {parametrium), w hich extends also on to its sides and outwards between the layers of the broad ligaments. The uterine arteries reach the margins of the cervix in tliis fibrous tissue, w hile on either side the ureter runs downwards and forw^ards in it at a distance of about three-quarters of an inch from the cervix. Posteriorly, the supra- vaginal cervix is covered by peritoneum, which is prolonged below^ on to the posterior vaginal wall, whence it is reflected on to the rectum, forming the recto- vaginal pouch or pouch of Douglas. It is in relation with the rectum, from which it may be separated 1015.—^Vertical transverse section of uterus and upper part of vagina. Fig. Fallnpian tube Interior of the uterus (fi^,. ,. in comparison with the size of the organ. hy coils of small intestine. The vaginal portion (portio vaginalis) of the cer^dx projects free into the roof of the vagina between the anterior and posterior fornices. On its rounded extremity is a small, depressed, some- what circular aperture, the external os (orificium externum uteri), through which the cavity of the cervix communicates with that of the vagina. The external os is bounded by two lips, an anterior (labium anterius cervicis) and a ijosterior (labium posterius cervicis), of whicli tlic anterior is the sliorter and thicker, although, on account of the slope of the cervix, it projects lower than the posterior. Normally botli lips arc in contact with the posterior vaginal wall. 1015).—The cavity of the uterus is small External osTHE UTERUS 1225 The cavity of the body is a mere slit, flattened antero-posteriorly. It is triangular in shape, the base being formed by the internal surface of the fundus between the uterine orifices of the Fallopian tubes, the apex by the internal os through wMch the cavity of the body communicates with the cavity of the cervix. The cavity of the cervix (canalis cervicis uteri) is somewhat fusiform, flattened from before backwards, and broader at the middle than at either extremity. It communicates above through the internal os with the cavity of the body, and below through the external os witJa the vaginal cavity. The wall of the canal presents an anterior and a posterior longitudinal ridge, from each of which proceed a number of small oblique columns, giving the appearance of branches from the stem of a tree ; to this arrangement the name arbor viice uierina is applied. The longitudinal ridges are not exactly opposed, but fit against one another so as to close the cervical canal. The total length of the uterine cavity from the external os to the fundus is about two and a half inches. Ligaments.—The ligaments of the uterus are eight in number : one anterior ; one posterior ; two lateral or broad ; two utero-sacral ; and, lastly, two round ligaments. The anterior ligament consists of the utero-vesical fold of peritoneum, which is reflected on to the bladder from the front of the uterus, at the junction of the cervix and body. The posterior ligament consists of the recto-vaginal fold of peritoneum, which is reflected from the back of the upper fourth of the vagina on to the front of the rectum. It forms the bottom of a deep pouch called Douglas's pouch, wliich is bounded in front by the posterior M-all of the uterus, the supravaginal cervix, and the upper fourth of the vagina ; behind, by the rectum ; and laterally by two crescentic folds of ijcritoneum which j)ass back- wards from the cervix uteri on either side of the rectum to the posterior wall of the pelvis. These folds are named the sacro-genital, or recto-uterine folds. They contain a considerable amount of fibrous tissue and non-striped muscular fibres which are attached to the front of the sacrum and constitute the utero- sacral ligaments. The tioo lateral or broad ligaments pass from the sides of the uterus to the lateral walls of the pelvis. Together with the uterus they form a septum across the female pelvis, which divides that cavity into two portions. In the anterior part is contained the bladder ; in the posterior part, the rectum, and in certain conditions some coils of the small intestine and a part of the pelvic colon. Between the two layers of each broad ligament are contained : (1) the Fallopian tube superiorly ; (2) the round ligament ; (3) the ovary and its ligament ; (4) the parovarium, or organ of Rosenmiiller ; (5) connective tissue ; (6) unstriped muscular fibre ; and (7) blood-vessels and nerves. The portion of the broad Hgament which stretches from the Fallopian tube to the level of the ovary is known by the name of the mesosalpinx. Between the fimbriated extremity of the tube and the lower attachment of the broad ligament is a concave rounded margin, called the infundibulo-pelvic ligament. The round ligc ments are two flattened bands between four and five inches in length, situated between the layers of the broad ligament in front of and below the Fallopian tubes. Commencing on either side at the superior angle of the uterus, this ligament is directed forwards, upwards, and outwards over the pelvic brim. It then passes through the internal abdominal ring and along the inguinal canal to the labium majus, in which it becomes lost. The round Ugament consists principally of muscular tissue, prolonged from the uterus ; also of some fibrous and areolar tissue, besides blood-vessels and nerves, enclosed in a duplicature of peritoneum, which, in the foetus, is prolonged in the form of a tubular process for a short distance into the inguinal canal. This process is called the canal of Nuck. It is generally obliterated in the adult, but sometimes remains pervious even in advanced life. It is analogous to the processus vaginalis wMch precedes the descent of the testis. In addition to the ligaments just described, there is a band named the Ugamentum transversalis colli (Mackenrodt) on either side of the cervix uteri. It is attached to the lateral aspect of the cervix uteri and to the vault and lateral fornix of the vagina, and isSPLAJSOHNOLOGY 1226 continuous externall.y with the fibrous tissue wliicli surrounds the pelvic ijlood-vesselft. (Consult a note on the lateral lixation ol' the uterus by Ella G. A. Ovenden, ' Journal oi Anatomy and Physiology,' vol. xli., part iv., ]). 308.) The I'orni, size, and situation of the uterus vary at different periods of life and under dilTorent eircunistances. In the Jailus the uterus is contained in the abdominal cavity, piojecting beyond the brim of the pelvis (fig. 1017). The cervix is considerably larger than the body. At puharty the uterus is pyiuform in shajie, and weighs from eight to ten drachms. It has descended into the pelvis, the fundus being just below the level of the brim of this cavity. The arbor vitaj is distinct, and extends to the upper part of the cavity of the organ. The position of the uterus in the adult is liable to considei'able variation, depending chiefly on the condition of the bladder and rectum. When the bladder is empty the entire uterus is directed forwards, and is at the same time bent on itself at the junction of the body and cervix, so that the body lies upon the bladdei-. As the latter fills, the uterus gradually becomes more and more erect, until \vith a fully distended bladder the fundus may be directed backwards towards the sacrum. Fig. 1016.—The arteries of the internal organs of generation of the female, seen from behind. (After Hyrtl.) During menstruation the organ is enlarged, and more vasculai', its surfaces rounder : the OS externum is rounded, its labia swollen, and the hning membrane of the body thickened, softer, and of a darker coloiu-. According to Sir J. ^^"iIliams, at each recurrence of menstruation, a molecular disintegration of the mucous membrane takes place, which leads to its complete removal, only the bases of the glands imbedded in the muscle being left. At the cessation of menstruation, by a proliferation of the remaining structures, a fresh mucous membrane is formed. During pregnancy the uterus becomes enormously enlarged, and in the eighth uionth reaches the epigastric region. The increase in size is partly due to growth of pre-existing muscle, and partly to development of new fibres. After ■partvrilion the uterus nearly regains its usual size, weighing about an ounce and a half; but its cavity is larger than in the virgin state, its vessels are tortuous, and its muscular layers are more defined ; the external orifice is more marked, and its edges present one or more fissures. In old age the uterus becomes atrojAied, and paler and denser in texture; a more distinct constriction separates the body and cervix. Qlic ostium internum is frequently, and the ostium externum occasionally, obliterated, wliile the labia almost entirely disappear. Structure.—The uterus is composed of three coats : an external or serous coat, a middle or muscular coat, and an internal or mucous coat.1227 THE UTERUS The sermis coat is derived from the jjeritoneum ; it invests the fundus and the whole of the posterior surface of the uterus ; but covers the anterior surface only as far as the junction of the body and cervix. In the lower fourth of the posterior surface the peritoneum, though covering the uterus, is not closelj' connected with it, being separated from it by a layer of loose cellular tissue and some large veins. The muscular coat forms the chief bulk of the substance of the uterus. In the virgin it is dense, firm, of a greyish colour, and cuts almost like cartilage. It is thick opposite the middle of the body and fundus, and thin at the orifices of the Fallopian tubes. It consists of bundles of unstriped muscular fibres, disjjosed in layers, intermixed with areolar tissue, blood-vessels, l5rmphatic vessels, and nerves. During pregnancy the muscular tissue becomes more prominently developed, and is disposed in three layers : external, middle, and internal. The external layer, placed beneath the peritoneum, is disposed as a thin plane on the anterior and posterior surfaces. It consists of fibres which pass transversely across the fundus, and, converging at each superior angle of the uterus, are continued on to the Fallopian tube, the round ligament, and the ligament of the ovary : some passing at each side into the broad ligament, and others running backwards from the cervix into the sacro-uterine ligaments. The middle layer of fibres, which is thickest, presents no regu- larity in its arrangement, being disposed longitudinally, obliquely, and transversely. It contains most blood-vessels. The internal or deejs layer consists of circular fibres arranged in the form of two hollow cones, the apices of which surround the orifices of the Fallopian Fig. 1017.—Sagittal section tlu-ough the j)elvis of a newly born female child. tubes, their bases interminghng with one another on the middle of the body of the uterus. At the internal os these circular fibres form a distinct sphincter. The mucous membrane is thin, smooth, and closely adherent to the subjacent tissue. It IS continuous, through the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tubes, with the peritoneum ; and, through the os uteri, with the lining of the vagina. In the body of the uterus the mucous membrane is smooth, soft, of a pale red colour, lined by columnar ciliated epithelium, and presents, when viewed \vith a lens, the orifices of numerous tubular follicles, arranged perpendicularly to the surface. It is unprovided with any submucosa, but is intimately connected wdth the innermost layer of the mus- cular coat, which by some anatomists is regarded as the muscularis mucosEe". The structure of the corium differs from that of ordinary mucous membranes, and consists of an embryonic nucleated and highly cellular form of connective tissue in which run munerous large lymphatics. In it are the tube-like uterine glands, which are of small size in the unimpreg nated uterus, but shortly after impregnation become enlarged and elongated, presentina a contorted or waved appearance (see page 97). They consist of a delicate membrane" lined by an epithelium, which becomes ciliated towards the orifices. In the cervix the mucous membrane is sharply differentiated from that of the uterine cavity. It is thrown into numerous oblique ridges, which diverge from an anterior and posterior longitudinal raphe, presenting an appearance which has received the name of aroor vilm. In the upper two-thirds of the canal, the mucous membrane is provided with numerous deep glandular follicles, which secrete a clear viscid alkaline mucus ; and. in addition, extending through the whole length of the canal is a variable number of little cysts, presumably follicles which have become occluded and distended with retained1228 SPLANCHNOLOGY secretion. They are called the ovula Nabolhi. The mucous membrane covering the lower half of the cervical canal presents numerous papilte. The epithelium of the upper two- thirds is cylindrical and ciliated, but below this it loses its cilia, and gradually chantres to squamous einthelium close to the external os. On the vaginal surface of the cervix the epithelium is similar to that lining the vagina, viz. stratified squamous. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the uterus are the uterine, from the internal iliac • and the ovarian, from the abdominal aorta (fig. 1016). They are remarkable for their tortuous course in the substance of the organ, and for their frequent anastomoses. The termination of the ovarian artery meets the termination of the uterine artery, and forms an anastomotic trunk from which branches are given oil to supply the uterus, their disposition being, as shown by Sir John Williams, circular. The veins are of large size, and correspond with the arteries. They terminate in the uterine plexuses. In the impregnated uterus the arteries carry the blood to, and the veins convey it away from, the maternal blood-sinuses of the placenta (see page 100). The lymphatics are described on page 789. The nerves are derived from the hypogastric and ovarian plexuses, and from the third and fourth sacral nerves. Applied Anatomy.—A certain amount of anteversion and retroversion can take place without the condition being regarded as pathological, but when the degree of flexion becomes considerable it must be regarded as a morbid condition. This is especially true of retroversion and retroflexion. The former is a falling back of the whole uterus, so that the cervix points upwards towards the pubes, and the latter is a bending backwards of the body, the cervix remaining in its normal position. The two conditions are usually combined. Prolapse of the uterus is another common infii-mity. The organ sinks to an abnormally low level in the pelvis, and sometimes protrudes beyond the vulva. This is due to the supporting mechanism of the uterus being insufficient to sustain the strain thrown upon it. The uterus may require removal in cases of mahgnant disease or for fibroid tumours. Carcinoma is the most common form of mahgnant disease of the uteras, though cases of sarcoma do occur. It may show itself either as a columnar carcinoma or as a squamous carcinoma ; the former commencing either in the cervix or body of the uterus, the latter always commencing in the epithehal cells of the mucous covering of the vaginal surface of the cervix. Cancer of the body or of the cervix may be treated in the early stage, before fixation has taken place, by removal of the uterus, either through the vagina or b\' means of abdominal section, but if the body be much enlarged the former operation is impossible. Vaginal hysterectomy is performed by placing the patient in the hthotomy position and introducing a large duckbill speculum. The cervix is then seized with a volsellum and pulled down as far as possible, and the mucous membrane of the vagina incised around the cervix and as near to it as the disease vidll allow, especially in front, where the m-eters are in dan:;er of being wounded. Douglas's pouch is tlien opened sufficientl}' to allow of the introduction of the two forefingers, by means of which the opening is dilated laterally as far as the sacro-uterine ligaments. A somewhat similar proceeding is adopted in front, but here the bladder has to be separated from the anterior wall of the uterus for about an inch before the vesico-uterine fold of peritoneum can be reached. Tliis is done by carefully burrowing upwards with a director and stripping the tissues off the anterior uterine wall. When the vesico-uterine pouch has been opened and the aperture dilated laterally, the uterus remains attached only by the broad ligaments, in which are contained the vessels that supply the uterus. Before division of the ligaments, these vassels have to be dealt with. The forefinger of the left hand is introduced into Douglas's pouch, and an aneurysm needle, armed wdth a long silk ligatiu-e, is inserted into the vesico-uterine pouch, and is pushed through the broad ligament about an inch above its lower level and at some distance from the uterus. One end of the ligature is now pulled through the anterior oijening. and in this way we have the lowest inch of the broad ligament, in which is contained the uterine artery (fig. 1016), enclosed in a ligature. This is tied tightly, and the operation is repeated on the other side. The broad ligament is then divided on either side, between the ligature and the uterus, to the extent to which it has been constricted. By traction on the volsellum which grasps the cervix, the uterus can be pulled considerabl)' further down in the vagina, and a second inch of the broad ligament is treated in a similar way. This second ligature will embrace the pampiniform plexus of veins, and, when the broad ligament has been divided on either side, it will be found that a third ligature can be made to pass over the Fallopian tube and top of the broad ligament, after the uterus has been dragged down as far as possible. After the third ligatm-e has been tied and the structures between it and the utei-us divided, this organ will be freed from all its con- nections and can be removed from the vagina. The third ligature \\\\\ contain the ovarian artery, between the ovary and the uterine cornu, as it lies below the Fallopian tulie. The vagina is then sponged out and lightly dressed with gauze ; no sutures being u-sed. In the treatment of uterine fibroids which require ojicrative interference, renioval of the whole of the uterus together with the tumours through an abdominal incision gives the most satisfactory results ; for, if the tumour is large, its size acts as a barrier to its safe delivery through the pelvis and genital passages. After the abdomen has been opened the uterine vessels are secured and the broad ligaments divided in a manner similar to that1229 THE VAGINA employed in vaginal hysterectomy, except that the proceeding is commenced from above. When the first two ligatures have been tied, and the broad ligament divided, it will be found that the uterus can be raised out of the pelvis. A transverse incision is now made through the peritoneum, where it is reflected from the anterior surface of the uterus on to the back of the bladder, and the serous membrane peeled from the surface of the uterus until the vagina is reached. The anterior wall of this canal is then cut across. The uterus is now turned forwards and the peritoneum at the bottom of Douglas's pouch incised transversely, and the posterior wall of the vagina cut across, until it meets the incision on the anterior wall. The uterus is now almost free, and is held only by the lower part of the broad ligament on either side, containing the uterine artery. A third ligature is made to encircle this as close to the uterus as possible, the position of the xu'eter being always kept in mind, and, after having been tied, the structures are divided between the hgatm-e and the uterus. The organ can now be removed. The vagina is plugged with gauze, and the external wound closed in the usual way. The vagina acts as a drain, and therefore the opening into it is not sutm-ed. Inflammation of the cellular tissue surrounding the cervix occasionally takes place. Laceration of the cervix by instruments or by the foetal head frequently occurs, opening up the cellular planes and so exposing them to any infection that may be present. An inflammatory mass forms in the cellular tissue between the layers of the broad ligament or of the utero-sacral ligaments, and the condition is termed pelvic celluhtis, or para- metritis. Tliis condition is usually confined to one side of the pelvis, forming a large inflammatory mass which pushes the uterus over to the opposite side. It does not alwaj's remain locaUsed, however, but may spread widely, surrounding the rectum or the neck of the bladder, or mounting into the iliac fossa, or even to the perinephric cellular tissue. The condition may resolve or an abscess may form. In the former condition the cicatrisation of the inflammatory products often produces displacements of the uterus towards the affected side of the pelvis, or stricture of the rectum when that viscus has been surrounded by the process. "When suppuration ensues, the pus may burst into the bladder, vagina, or rectum, or it may present above Poupart's ligament, or it may movmt to the anterior abdominal wall in front of the bladder or to the posterior abdominal w^all between the iliac crest and last rib. The abscess may, moreover, make its way into the buttock by passing out of the pelvis thi-ough the great sacro-sciatic foramen, or it may pass down between the fibres of the Levator ani and appear as a secondary ischio-rectal abscess. The Vagina (fig. 1014) The vagina extends from the vestibule to the uterus, and is situated behind the bhadder and in front of the rectum ; it is directed upwards and backwards, its axis forming with that of the uterus an angle of over 90°, opening forwards. Its walls are ordinarily in contact, and the usual shape of its lower part on transverse section is that of an H, the transverse limb being sUghtly curved forwards or backwards, while the lateral hmbs are some- what convex towards the median line ; its middle part has the appearance of a transverse slit. Its length is two and a half to three inches along its anterior wall, and three and a lialf inches along its posterior wall. It is constricted at its commencement, dilated in the middle, and narrowed near its uterine extremity ; it surrounds the vaginal portion of tlie cervix uteri, a short distance from the os, its attachment extending higher up on the posterior than on the anterior wall of the uterus. To the recess behind tlie cervix the term posterior fornix is applied, while the smaller recess in front is termed anterior fornix. The anterior surface of the vagina is in relation with the base of the bladder, and with the urethra. Its posterior surface is connected for the middle two fourths of its extent to the anterior wall of the rectum, the upper fourth being separated from that tube by tlie recto-vaginal pouch of peritoneum, or pouch of Douglas. The loM-er fourth is separated from the anal canal by the perinzeum. Its sides are enclosed between the Levatores ani muscles. As the terminal portions of the ureters pass forwards and inwards to reach the base of the bladder, they run one on either side of the lateral aspect of the upper part of the vagina. structure,—The vagina consists of an internal mucous Uning, and a muscular coat, separated by a layer of erectile tissue. The mucous membrane is continuous above with that lining the uterus. Its inner surface presents two longitudinal ridges, one on its anterior and one on its posterior wall, ihese ridges are called the colmnns of the vagina, and from them numerous transverse ndges or rugas extend outwards on either side. These rugaj are divided by furrows of variable depth, giving to the mucous membrane the appearance of being studded over with corneal projections or papilte ; they are most numerous near the orifice of the vagina, especially m females before parturition. The epithelium covering the mucous membraneSPLANCHNOLOGY 1230 is of the stratified squamous variety'. The submucous tissue is very loose, and contains numerous large veins, which l)y their anastomoses form a ])iexus, together with smooth muscular fibres derived from the muscular coat; it is regarded by Gussenbauer as an erectile tissue. It contains a numljcr of mucous crypts, but no true glands. The muscttlur coal consists of two layers : an external longitudinal, which is by far the stronger, and an internal circular layer. The longitudinal fibres are continuous with the sui)erlicial muscular fibres of the uterus. The strongest fa.sciculi are tho.se attached to the recto-vesical fascia on each side. The two layers are not distinctly separable from each other, but are connected by obhque decussating fasciculi, which pass from the one layer to the other. In addition to this, the vagina at its lower end is surrounded by a band of striped muscular fibres, the Sphincter vagince (see page 526). External to the muscular coat is a layer of connective tissue, containing a large plexus of blood-vessels. The erectile tissue consists of a layer of loose connective tissue, situated lietween the mucous membrane and the muscular coat; imbedded in it is a plexus of large veins, and numerous bundles of unstriped muscular fibres, derived from the cu-cular muscular layer. The arrangement of the veins is similar to that found in other erectile tissues. External Organs (fig. 1018) The external genital organs of the female are : the mons Veneris, the labia majora et minora, the clitoris, the bulbus vestibuli, and the glands of Bartholin. The term vulva or pudendum (pudendum muliebre), as generally applied, includes all these parts. Fig. 1018.—External genital organs of female. The labia minora have been drawn apart. The mons Veneris is the rounded ominence in front of the pwhk symphysis, formed by a collection of fatty tissue beneati> the integument. It becomes covered vvith hair at the time of puberty. Tlie labia majora (labia, majora ]nidendi) are two prominent longitudinal cutaneous folds wiiicii extend downwards and backwards from the monsEXTERNAL ORGANS 1231 Veneris and form tlie lateral boundaries of a fissure or cleft, the uroge7iital cleft (rima pudendi) into \\'hich the vagina and urethra open. Eacli labium lias two surfaces, an outer, i^igmented and covered with strong, crisp hairs ; and an inner, smooth and beset with large sebaceous follicles. Between the two there is a considerable quantity of areolar tissue, fat, and a tissue resembling the dartos of the scrotum, besides vessels, nerves, and glands. The labia are thicker in front, M'here they form by their meeting the anterior commissure (eommissura labiorum anterior). Posteriorly they are not really joined, but appear to become lost in the neighbouring integument, terminating close to, and nearly parallel with, each other. Together with the connecting skin between them, they form the posterior commissiire (eommissura labiorum posterior), or posterior boundary of the vulval orifice. The interval between the posterior commissure and the anus, from an inch to an inch and a quarter in length, constitutes the permjeum. The labia majora correspond to the scrotum in the male. The labia minora, or nymphae (labia minora pudendi), are two small cutaneous folds, situated within the labia majora, and extending from the clitoris obUquely downwards, outwards, and backwards for about an inch and a half on each side of the orifice of the vagina, between M'hich and the labia majora they are lost ; in the virgin the posterior ends of the labia minora are usually joined across the middle line by a fold of skin, named the fourchette (frenulum labiorum pudendi). Anteriorly, each labium minus divides into two portions : the upper division passes above the clitoris to meet its fellow of the opposite side, forming a fold which overhangs the glans cHtoridis and is named the prceputium clitoridis ; the lower division passes beneath the clitoris and becomes united to its under surface, forming, with its fellow of the opposite side, the frenulum clitoridis. On the internal surfaces of the labia minora are numerous sebaceous follicles. The clitoris is an erectile structure, homologous with the penis. It is situated beneath the anterior commissure, partially hidden between the anterior extremities of the labia minora. It consists of two corpora cavernosa, composed of erectile tissue enclosed in a dense layer of fibrous membrane, united together along their inner surfaces by an incomplete fibrous pectiniforra septum ; these are connected to the rami" of the pubis and ischium on either side by a crus ; the free extremity, or glans clitoridis, is a small rounded tubercle, consisting of spongy erectile tissue, and highly sensitive. The clitoris is provided, like the penis, with a suspensory ligament, and with two small muscles, the Erectores clitoridis, which are inserted into the crura of the clitoris. The vestibule.—The cleft between the labia minora and behind the glans clitoridis is named the vestibule (vestibulum vagina;) : in it are seen the urethral and vaginal orifices and the openings of the ducts of Bartholin's glands. The urethral orifice (orificium urethrcc externum) is placed about an inch behind the glans clitoridis and immediately in front of that of the vagina ; It usually assumes the form of a short, sagittal cleft with slightly raised margins. The vaginal orifice (orificium vaginae) is a mesial slit below and behind the openmg of the urethra; its size varies inversely with the degree of develop- ment of the hymen. The hymen is a thin fold of mucous membrane situated at the orifice of the vaguia ; the inner surfaces of the fold are normally in contact with each other, and the vaginal orifice appears as a cleft between them. The hymen varies much in shape. When stretched, its commonest form is that of a ring generally broadest posteriorly ; sometimes it is represented by a semilunar told, with its concave margin turned towards the pubes. Occasionally it is cribriform, or its free margin forms a membranous fringe. It may be entirely absent or may form a complete septum across the lower end of the vagina : tlie latter condition is known as an imperforate hymen. It may persist after copulation, so that it cannot be considered as a test of virginity. When the hymen has been ruptured, small rounded elevations known as the carunculce liymencales are found as its remains. Between the hymen and the fourchette is a sliallo\\- depression, named the fossa navicularis. The buibus vestibuii is the homologue of tlie bulb and adjoining part of the corpus spongiosum of the male, and consists of two elongated massesSPLANCHNOLOGY 1232 of erectile tissue, placed one on either side of the vaginal orifice and united to each other in front by a narrow median band termed the pars intermedia. Each lateral mass measures a little over an inch in length. Their posterioi ends are expanded and are in contact with the glands of Bartholin ; tlieir anterior ends are tapered and joined to one another by the pars intermedia ; their deep surfaces arc in contact Mith the triangular ligament; superficially they are covered by the Bulbo-cavernosus muscle. The glands of Bartholin (glandulse vestibularos majores) are the homo- logues of Cowper's glands in the male. They consist of two small, roundish bodies of a reddish-yellow colour, situated one on either side of the vaginal orifice in contact with the posterior end of each lateral mass of the bulbus vestibuli. Each gland opens by means of a duct, about three-quarters of an inch in length, immediately external to the hymen, in the groove between it and the labium minus. Mammary Glands The mammae, or breasts, secrete the milk, and are accessory glands of the generative system. They exist in the male as well as in the female ; but in the former only in the rudimentary state, unless their growth is excited by peculiar circumstances. In the female they are two large hemispherical eminences lying witliin the superficial fascia and situated to\i^ards the lateral aspects of the pectoral region ; they correspond to the intervals between the second and sixth ribs, and extend from the side of the sternum to near the mid-axillary line. Their weight and dimensions differ at different periods of life, and in different individuals. Before puberty they are of small size, but enlarge as the generative organs become more completely developed. Fig. 1019.—Dissection of the lower half of the female breast during the period of lactation. (Luschka.) Lobule iinravplh il hacliferoiis duct Lobules Lonili in connective tissue They increase during pregnancy, and especially after delivery, and become atrophied in old age. The left mamma is generally a little larger than the right. The base of each is nearly circular, flattened, or slightly concave, and has its long diameter directed upwards and outwards towards the axuUa ; it is separated from the fascia covering the Pcctoralis major and Serratus magnus muscles by loose connective tissue. The outer surface of tlie mamma is convex, and presents, just below the centre, a small conical prommence, the nipple. ,, The nipple (papilla mamnunp) is a cylindrical or conical emnience, capawe of undergoing a sort of erection from m'echanical excitement, a change mamJyMAMMARY GLANDS 1233 due to the contraction of its muscular fibres. It is of a pink or brownish hue, its surface wrinkled and provided with papilla ; and it is perforated by from fifteen to twenty orifices, the apertures of the lactiferous ducts. Tlie surface of the nipple is dark-coloured, and surrounded by an areola having a coloured tint. In the virgin the areola is of a delicate rosy hue ; about tlie second month after impregnation it enlarges and acquires a darker tinge, which increases as pregnancy advances, becoming in some cases of a dark brown, or even black colour. This colour diminishes as soon as lactation is over, but is never entirely lost throughout life. These changes in the colour of the areola are of importance in forming a conclusion in a case of suspected first pregnancy. Near the base of the nipple, and upon the surface of the areola, are numerous large sebaceous glands (glands of Montgomery), which become much enlarged during lactation, and present the appearance of small tubercles beneath the skin. These glands secrete a peculiar fatty substance, which serves as a protection to the integument of the nipple during the act of sucking. The nipple consists of numerous vessels, intermixed with plain muscular fibres, wliich are principally arranged in a circular manner around the base : some few fibres radiating from base to apex. The nijjple and areola are closely attached to the sldn. structure (figs. 1019,1020).—The mamma consists of gland-tissue; of fibrous tissue, connecting its lobes ; and of fatty tissue in the intervals between the lobes. The gland- tissue, when freed from fibrous tissue and fat, is of a pale reddish colour, firm in texture, flattened from before backwards and thicker in the centre than at the circumference. The anterior surface of the mamma presents numerous irregular processes which project towards the skin and are joined to it by bands of connective tissue. It consists of numerous lobes, and these are composed of lobules, connected together by areolar tissue, blood- vessels, and ducts. The smallest lobules consist of a cluster of rounded alveoli, which open into the smallest branches of the lactiferous ducts ; these ducts unite to form larger ducts, and these terminate in a single canal, corresponding \vith one of the chief subdivisions of the gland. The number of excretory ducts varies from fifteen to twenty ; they are termed the tubuli lacliferi. They converge towards the areola, beneath which they form dilatations, or ampullce, which serve as reservoirs for the milk, and, at the base of the nipple, become contracted, and pursue a straight coxu-se to its summit, perforating it by separate orifices considerably narrower than the ducts themselves. The ducts are com- posed of areolar tissue containing longitudinal and transverse elastic fibres ; muscular fibres are entirely absent; they are lined by columnar epithelium resting on a basement- membrane. The epithelium of the mammary gland differ^ according to the state of activity of the organ. In the gland of a woman who is not pregnant or suckling, the alveoli are very small and soUd, being filled with a mass of granular polyhedral cells. During pregnancy the alveoli enlarge, and the cells undergo rapid multiplication. At the commencement of lactation, the cells in the centre of the alveolus undergo fatty degeneration, and are eliminated in the first milk, as colostrum corpuscles. The peri- pheral cells of the alveolus remain, and form a single layer of granular, short columnar cells, with sphe- rical nuclei, lining the basement- membrane.* The cells, during the state of activity of the gland, are capable of forming, in their interior, oil-globules, which are then ejected into the lumen of the alveolus, and constitute the milk-globules. The fibrous tissue invests the entire surface of the breast, and sends down septa between its lobes, connecting them together. The fatty tissue covers the sm'- face of the gland, and occupies the mterval between its lobes. It usually exists in considerable abundance, and determmes the form and size of the gland. There is no fat immediately beneath the areola and nipple. * According to Lacvoix and Benda, there is a thin layer of non-striped muscle between the basement-membrane and the secreting cells. 1 K FiQ. 1020.—^Transverse section of portion of mammary gland.SPLAiJCHNOLOGY 1234 Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the mamm;e are derived from the thoracic branches of the axillary, the intercostals, and the internal mammary. The veins describe an anastomotic circle round the base of the nipple, called by Haller tlie circulus venoms From this, large branches transmit the blood to the cu-cumference of the gland, and end in the axillary and internal mammary veins. The lympJiatics are described on page 790. The nerves are derived from the anterior and lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax. Applied Analomy.—The ducts descending from the nipple radiate through the'gland, and when an incision is made into the breast the scalpel should be dii-ected radially, frorn the centre to the periphery, so that it may not pass aci'oss the ducts. A milk duct may become obstructed and distended, forming a tumour known as a galactocele. Abscess frequently occurs about the breast, and most often in women who are lactating, especially those who have cracks or fissures about the nipple. The abscess may lie between the septa, in the breast-tissue itself ; or it may he Jbeneath the skin by the side of the nipple and superficial to the breast; or it may form beneath it, between the breast and the deep fascia. Free incision, radiating from the nipple, is requii-ed in such cases. Cystic formation of many different kinds is commonly seen in the mamma : in .some cases it is due to dilatation of the larger ducts or of the lymph spaces throughout the gland; in others the cysts occur in new growths of the mamma, or as the result of obstruction of the smaller ducts by chi-onic inflammatory processes. Malignant growths are seen more often in the breast than in any other organ; they are of great variety, but the commonest is the spheroidal-celled cancer, the cells of which are intermingled with a varying amount of fibrous tissue. A hard contractmg tumour-mass results, which drags on the fibrous septa between the lobes so that fixation or retraction of the nipple ensues, and sooner or later the malignant infiltration invades the surrounding breast-tissues, the skin, the deep fascia and Pectorals, and even the chest wall and pleura. The lymphatic glands beneath the Pectorals and those situated towards the apex of the axilla become early involved with secondary malignant deposit, and later the supraclavicular glands enlarge. In other cases the mediastinal glands may be involved, when the disease is situated on the inner side of the nipple. The operation for removal of a breast affected with malignant disease should be an extensive procedure, with the object of extu-pating all fascial planes and lymphatic struc- tures that may be infected. The incision commences below, over the upper part of the sheath of the Rectus, encloses the mamma by an ellipse, and is then continued on towards the apex of the axilla. The skin is reflected on both sides of the incision ; anteriorly, till the sternum is reached, and posteriorly to the posterior boundary of the axilla. The origin of the sternal portion of the Pectorahs major is then divided and turned backwards. The Pectoralis minor is next seen, and its origin is then divided in a similar manner. The whole of the muscular and fascial planes of the front of the chest are thus separated en masse, carrying with them the mamma and the skin covering it. The insertions of the two Pectorals have next to be divided, and finally the axillary lymphatic glands and fat are removed from the axillary vessels in one piece with the mass of tissue alread}' detached. This is done by first freely exposing the whole length of the axillary vein and then, with a blunt instrument, peehng the structures off the vein from above downwards, from the point where they are crossed by the Subclavius muscle to the lower border of the axilla. In this part of the operation many branches of both vein and artery require ligature. The only thing which then remains to be divided is the deep fascia along the posterior axillary wall. The wound is then closed, drainage is provided, and fu-m pressure is applied with the dressings. It will be noted that the clavicular portion of the Pectoralis major is left intact, as it is of considerable service for the subsequent movements of the arm, the utUity of which is but slightly impaired. THE DUCTLESS GLANDS There are certain organs which are very similar to secreting glands, but differ from them in one essential particular, viz. tliey do not possess any ducts by which their secretion is discharged. These organs are knomi as ductless glands. They are capable of internal secretion—that is to say, of forming, from materials brought to them in tlie blood, substances whicli have a certain influence upon the' nutritive and other changes going on in the body. This secretion is carried into the blood-stream, cither directly by the veins or indirectly tlirougli tlic medium of the lymphatics. These glands include the thyroid and the paratliyroids, the thymus, tlie spleen, the suprarenal glands, and tlio small carotid and cocc,ygeal bodies, which will be described in this section. Tliey also include the lymphatic glands, which have already been described m the section on Angiology ; and the pineal gland and pituitary body desciibed in tlie section on Neurology.1235 THE THYROID BODY The Thyroid Body (fig. 1021) The thyroid body is a highly vascular organ, situated at the front and sides of the nock ; it consists of tw o lateral lobes connected across the middle line by a narro\^' transverse portion, the isthmus. The weight of the thyroid body is somewhat variable, but is usually about one ounce. It is slightly heavier in the female, in whom it becomes enlarged during menstruation and pregnancy. The lobes are conical in shape, the ajaex of each being directed upwards and outwards as far as the junction of the middle with the lower third of tlio thyroid cartilage ; the base looks downwards, and is on a level witli the fifth or sixth tracheal ring. Each lobe is about two inches in length ; its greatest width is about an inch and a quarter, and its thickness about three-quarters of an inch. The external or superficial surface is convex, and covered by the skin, the superficial and deep fasciae, the Sterno-niastoid, the anterior belly of the Fig. 1021.—The thyroid gland and its relations. Omo-hyoid, the Sterno-liyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, and beneath the last muscle by the pre-tracheal layer of the deep fascia, which forms a capsule for the gland. The deep or internal surface is moulded over the underlying structures, viz. the thyi'oid and cricoid cartilages, the trachea, the Inferior constrictor and posterior part of the Crico-thyroid muscles, the oesophagus (particularly on the left side of the neck), the superior and inferior thyroid arteries, and the recurrent laryngeal nerves. The anterior border is thin, and inclines obliquely from above downwards and inwards towards the middle line of the neck, while the posterior border is thick and overlaps the common carotid artery. The isthmus connects together the lower thirds of the two latei-al lobes ; it measures about half an inch in breadth, and the same in depth, and usuallv covers the second and third rings of tlie trachea. Its situation and size present, however, many variations, and this must be remembered in performing tracheotomy. In the middle line of the neck it is covered by tiie skin and 4 K /;1236 SPLANCHNOLOGY fascia, and close to the raiddlo line, on either side, by the Sterno-hyoid. Across its upper border runs a branch of tlie superior thyroid artery ; at its lower border are the inferior thyroid veins. Sometimes the isthmus is altogether wanting. A third lobe, of conical shape, called the 'pyramid, frequently arises from the upper part of the isthmus, or from the adjacent portion of either lobe but most commonly the left, and ascends as high as the hyoid bone. It is occasionally quite detached, or may be divided into two or more parts! A fibrous or muscular band is sometimes found attached, above, to the body of the hyoid bone, and below to the isthmus of the gland, or its pyramidal process. When muscular, it is termed the Levator glandulce thyreoideoe. Small detached portions of thyroid tissue are sometimes found in the vicinity of the lateral lobes or above the isthmus ; they are called accessory thyroids. Structure.—The thyroid body is invested by a thin cap.sule of connective tissue, whicli projects into its substance and imperfectly divides it into masses of irregular form and size. When the organ is cut into, it is of a brownish-red colour, and is seen to be made up of a number of closed vesicles, containing a yellow glairy fluid, and separated from each other by intermediate connective tissue. According to Baber, the vesicles of the thyroid of the adult animal are generally closed cavities ; but in some young animals (e.g. young dogs) the vesicles are more or less tubular and branched. This appearance he supposes to be due to the mode of growth of the gland, and merely indicating that an increase in the number of vesicles is taking place. Each vesicle is composed of a fine basement-membrane, lined by a single layer of cubical epithehum, sm-rounding a large lumen ; between the epithelial cells exists a deUcate reticulum. The vesicles are of various sizes and shapes, and contain as a normal product a viscid, homo- FiG. 1022.—Minute structure of thyroid. From a transverse section of the thyroid of a dog. (Semi-diagrammatic.) (Baber.) Lymphatic vessel Vesicle Artery Wall of fflaiid-vesirle geneous, semi-fluid, slightly yellowish, colloid material; red corpuscles are found in it in various stages of disintegration and decolorisation, the j'ellow tinge being probably due to the h.nemoglobin, which is thus set free from the coloured corpuscles. The colloid material contains an iodine comjjound, thyroidin, readilj' stained bj' eosin. It passes out between the cubical cells and is absorbed into the blood or lymph. The capillary blood-vessels form a dense plexus in the connective tissue around the vesicles, between the epithelium of the vesicles and the endothelium of the Ivmpliatics, which surround a greater or smaller part of the circumference of the ve.sicle. The lymphatic vessels run in the interlobular connective tissue, not uncouimouly surrounding the arteries which they accompany, and communicate with a network in (he capsule of the gland. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries sup])lying the thyroid are the superior and inferior thyroid, and sometimes an additional branch (thyreoidea media oi- inia) from the innomi-THE THYROID BODY 1237 nate artery or the arch of the aorta, which ascends upon the front of the trachea. The arteries are remarkable for their large size and frequent anastomoses. The veins form a • plexus on the surface of the gland and on the front of the trachea ; from tliis plexus the superior, middle, and inferior thyroid veins arise ; the superior and middle terminate in the internal jugular, the inferior in the innominate vein. The lympfuitics arc numerous, of large size, and end in the thoracic and right lymphatic ducts. The nerves are derived from the middle and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. Applied Anaiomy.—An enlargement of the thyroid gland is called a goitre. The swelling may take the form of a diffuse hypertrophy of the whole gland, giving rise to the parenchymalous goitre, this being mainly due to the hypertrophy of the thyroid follicles themselves ; in other cases a fibroid form of goitre is produced o\ving to the increase in the interstitial connective tissue ; in others, again, the vascular changes may preponderate, and many large pulsating vessels may be present. Much more commonly, however, the enlargement is due to adenomatous new growth in the substance of the thyroid ; these tumours are always innocent, and tend to destroy life only by pressure on the air passages. A single tumour is the rule, but in some instances a very large number may be present. They tend to show marked mucoid degeneration, and so become converted into cyst- adenomata, and finally into what appear to be simple cysts. These tumours may attain an enormous size and may involve practically the whole gland. Malignant tumour-growth also, more rarely, attacks the organ. \Vhen, in spite of treatment, a goitre continues to grow, and especially when there are commencing symptoms of tracheal pressure, operative interference becomes necessary. This is not difficult, if an encapsuled tumour- is to be dealt with, provided the anatomical layers covering it are remembered. In such a case it is necessary to make an incision suited to the size and situation of the tumour, and having divided the deep cervical fascia, to retract the Sterno-mastoid or divide it if necessary. The Sterno-hyoid and Sterno- thyroid muscles next require division, or in some cases their fibres may be separated and drawn asunder, and beneath is found the ensheathing capsule derived from the pre- tracheal fascia ; this requires division, and exposes the true capsule of the thyroid gland. In the case of an adenoma or cyst, this true capsule then needs incision before the tumour can be effectually shelled out, and this is usually accomplished with very little haemorrhage, and without any of the main vessels of the gland requiring ligature. Partial extii-pation of the thyroid, viz. the removal of one lateral lobe with division of the isthmus, may be required in cases of parenchymatous goitre, and possibly in early cases of malignant disease. It is a more radical proceeding, and carries with it a much greater risk from hajmorrhage ; there is also a danger of wounding the recurrent laryngeal nerve. The whole gland must never be removed, as such a procedure is followed by the development of myxoedema. In hemi-thyroidectomy a free incision is indicated—dividing muscles, if necessary—to expose the true gland capsule, but at the same time avoiding injury to the large vessels which lie beneath it. The superior and inferior pedicles containing the respective thyroid arteries are then isolated and clamped on either side and divided between the clamps. The half gland is then turned over towards the middle line, and the isthmus ligatured and divided. Some venous bleeding is apt to occur from connections with the tracheal veins, and must be stopped. The pedicles are then securely ligatured and the wound closed. In dealing with the inferior thyroid artery, the position of the recurrent laryngeal nerve must be borne in mind, so as not to ligature or divide it. Temporary aphonia not uncommonly follows from bruising of the nerve, and if nothing more serious has occurred soon passes off. The Parathyroid Glands The parathyroid glands are small brownish-red bodies, situated near the thyroid gland, but differing from it in structure, being composed of masses of cells arranged in a more or less colunmar fashion with numerous intervening capillaries. They measure on an average about a quarter of an inch in length, and from a sixth to an eighth of an inch in breadth, and usually present the appearance of flattened oval discs. They are divided, according to their situation, into superior and inferior. Tlie superior, usually two in number, are the more constant in position, and are situated, one on either side, at the level of the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, behind the junction of the pharynx and oesophagus, and in front of the prevertebral fascia. Tlie inferior, also usually two in number, may be applied to the lower edge of the lateral lobe, or placed at some little distance below the thyroid body, or found in relation to one of the inferior thyroid veins.* In man, they number four as a rule ; fewer than four were found in less * Consult an article ' Concerning the Parathyroid Glands,' by D. A. Welsh, Journal of Anatomy and Phyaiologij, vol. xxxii.1238 SPLANCHNOLOGY ^ than 1 per cent, of over a thousand persons (Pepere *), but more than four in over 33 per cent, of 122 bodies examined by Civalleri. In addition, numerous minute islands of paratliyi'oid tissue may be found scattered in the connective tissue and fat of the neck round the parathyroid glands proper, and quite distinct from them. structure.—Microscopically the parathyroids show great variety in structure. Masses of gland cells, gland cells in networks, columns, or alveoli, and in follicles containing a colloid secretion, all occur normally. In addition, the amount and disposition of the fat, blood-vessels, and fibrous tissue all vary widely, not only in different parathyroids, but even in different parts of the same parathyroid gland. Applied Anatomy.—No doubt the parathyroid glands produce an internal secretion essential to the well-being of the human economy ; but it is still a matter of disimte what symptoms of disease are produced by then- removal and suppression of their secretion. Pepere believes that they show signs of exceptional activity during pregnancy, and that parathyi-oid insufficiency is a main factor in the production of tetany in infants and adults, of eclampsia, and of certain sorts of fits. The Thymus Gland (fig. 1023) The thymus gland is a temporary organ, attaining its full size at the end of the second year, when it ceases to grow, and gradually dwindles, imtil at puberty it has almost disajapeared. If examined when its growth is most active, it wiU be found to consist of two lateral lobes placed in close contact along the middle Hne, situated partly in the thorax, partly in the neck, and extending from the fourth costal cartilage upw^ards, as high as the lower border of the thyroid gland. It is covered by the sternum, and by the origins of the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles. Below, it rests upon the Fig. 1023.—The thymus gland of a full-time foetus, exposed in situ. Trachea Thyroid veins Right vagus Superior vena, cava Thyroid body Left common carotid artery Left infrrnat Jugular vein Left subcjanun vessels pericardium, being separated from the arch of the aorta and great vessels by a layer of fascia. In the neck it lies on the front and sides of the trachea, behind the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles. The two lobes generally differ in size ; they are occasionally united, so as to form a single mass ; and sometimes separated by an intermediate lobe. The thymus is of a pinkish- grey colour, soft, and lobulated on its surfaces. It is about two inches in length, one and a half in breadth below, and about three or four lines in thickness. At birth it weighs about half an ounce. Structure.—Each lateral lobe is composed of numerous lobules held together by delicate areolar tissue ; the entire gland being enclosed in an investing cnjisule of a similar but denser structure. The primary lobules vary in size from that of a ])in's head to that of a small pea. and are made up of a nunii)er of small nodules or follicles, which arc u-regular in shape and are more or less fused logcther, especially towards the interior of the gland. Each follicle consists of a medullary and a cortical portion, and these differ in many essential * Consult Lr OhUwdnleparaiiroidec, by A. Pepere, Turin, inOG.THE THYMUS GLAND 1239 particulars from each other. The cortical porlion is mainly composed of lymphoid cells, supported by u delicate reticulum. In addition to this reticulum, ot whicli only traces arc foiind in the medullary jjortion, there is also a network of finely branched cells, which is continuous with a similar network in the medullary portion. This network forms an adventitia to the blood-vessels. In the medullary porlion there are but few lym])hoid cells, but there are, especially towards the centre, granular cells and concentric cor|niscle8. The -rranular cells are rounded or flask-shaped masses, attached (often by libnllated extremities) to blood-vessels and to newly formed connective ti.ssue. The concentric cor- puscles are composed of a central mass, consisting of one or more granular cells, and of a capsule which is formed of epithelioid cells ; these latter are continuous with the branched cells forming the network mentioned above. Fig. 1024.—.Minute structure of thymus gland. Follicle of injected thymus from calf, four days old, slightly diagrammatic, magnified about 50 diameters. The large vessels are dis|D0sed in two rings, one of which surrounds the folUcle, the other lies just within the margin of the medulla. (Watney.) A and B. From thymus of camel, examined without addition o£ any reagent. Magnified about -100 diameters. A. Large colourless cell, containing small oval masses of hajmoglobin. Similar cells are found in the Ijinph-glands, spleen, and medulla of bone. B. Coloured blood-corpuscles. Each follicle is surrounded by a capillary plexus, from which vessels pass into the interior, and radiate from the peri[)hery towards the centre, forming a second zone just within the margin of the medullary portion. In the centre of the medulla (here are very few vessels, and they are of minute size. Watney has made the imjiortant observation that huemoglobin is found in the thymus, eitlier in cysts or in cells situated near to, or forming part of, the concentric corpuscles. This haemoglobin occurs as granules or as circular masses exactly resembling coloured blood-corpuscles. He has also discovered, in the lym])h issuing from the thymus, similar cells to those found in the gland, and, like them, containing hiemoglobin in the form of either granules or masses. From these facts he arrives at the conclusion that the thymus is one source of the coloured blood-eoriiuseles. Vessels and Nerves.-—The arteries supplying the thymus are derived from the internal mammary, and from the superior and inferior thyroid. The veins terminate in the leftSPLANCHNOLOGY 1240 innominate vein, and in the tliyroid veins. The hjmpkalics are described on naue 703 ihe nerve^ are exceedingly minute ; they are derived from the pneumogastric and sympal thetic. Branches from the descendens hypoglossi and phrenic reach the investing capsule but do not penetrate into the substance of the gland. Applied Anatomy.—Sudden death—' thymus death'—with heart-failure, and with or without acute respiratory embarrassment, has been recorded in a number of infants and children ui w-hom the thymus gland was considerably enlarged and the lymphatic tissues tliroughout the body showed general hypertrophy, but ^^■ho showed no other evidence of disease. Such deaths have often occurred during the administration of anaisthetics particularly chloroform. How far the enlarged thymus was responsible for the death of these patients, and, if it was responsible, how far its action was mechanical, arc points that have been much disputed. Short of producing this sudden death, it appears that thymic enlargement may cause attacks of respiratory stridor, or noisy and difficult breathing and spasmodic attacks of asthmar—' thymic asthma '—wliich may be frequently repeat(S and may even result in death. Primary tumours of the thymus are rare forms of mediastinal new growth, and are usually dermoids or lymphosarcomas. The Spleen The spleen (lien) is situated principally in the left hypochondriac region, but its upper and inner extremity extends into the epigastric region ; it lies between the fundus of the stomach and the Diaphragm. It is the largest of the ductless glands, and is of an oblong, flattened form, soft, of very friable consistence, higlily vascular, and of a dark purpUsh colour. Relations.—The external or diaphragmatic surface (facias diaphragm atica) is convex, smooth, and is directed upwards, backwards, and to the left, except at its upper end, where it is directed slightly inwards. It is in relation with the under surface of the Diaphragm, which separates it from the ninth, tenth, Fig. 1025.—The spleen, showing its gastric and renal surfaces. Sihis and eleventh ribs of the left side, and the intervening lower border of the left lung and pleura. The internal surface is divided by a ridge into an anterior or gastric, and a posterior or renal portion. The gastric surface (facies gastiica), wliich is directed forwards and inwards, is broad and concave, and is in contact witli the posterior wall of tlie fundus of tlie stomacli ; and below this with tlie tail of tlie ])ancreas. It presents near its inner border a long fissure, termed the liilus. This is pierced by several irregular apertures, for tlie entrance and exit of vessels and nerves. The renal surface (facies rcnalis) is directed inwards and downwards. It is somewhat flattened, is considerably narrower tlian tlic gastric surface, andTHE SPLEEN 1241 is in relation with the upper part of the outer surface of the left kidney and occasionally with the left suprarenal gland. The upper end is directed inwards, towards the vertebral column, where it lies on a level -\^'ith the eleventh thoracic vertebra. The lower end, sometimes termed the basal surface, is flat, triangular in shape, and rests upon the splenic flexure of the colon and the phreno-colic b'gament, and is generally in contact A\itli the tail of the pancreas. The anterior border is free, sharp, and thin, and is often notched, especially below ; it separates the diaphragmatic from the gastric surface. The posterior border, more rounded and blunter than the anterior, separates the renal from the diaphragmatic surface ; it corresponds to the lower border of the eleventh rib and lies betA^een the Diapliragm and left kidney. The internal border or intermediate margin is the ridge which separates the renal and gastric surfaces. The inferior border separates the diaphragmatic from the basal surface. The spleen is almost entirely surrounded by peritoneum, which is firmly adherent to its capsule. It is held in position by two folds of this membrane. One, the lieno-renal ligament, is derived from the layers of peritoneum forming the greater and lesser sacs, where they come into contact between the left kidney and the spleen ; the splenic vessels pass between its two layers (fig. 926). The other fold, the gastro-splenic omentum, is also formed of two layers, derived from the greater and lesser sacs respectively, where they meet between the spleen and stomach (fig. 926) ; the vasa brevia and left gastro- epiploic branches of the splenic artery run between its two layers. The lower end or basal surface of the spleen is supported by the phreno-colic ligament (see page 1129). The size and weight of the spleen are liable to very extreme variations at different periods of life, in different individuals, and in the same individual under different conditions. In the adult, it is usually about five inches in length, three inches in breadth, and an inch or an inch and a half in thickness, and weighs about seven ounces. Ai birth, its weight, in proportion to the entire body, is almost equal to what is observed in the adult, being as 1 to 350 : while in the adult it varies from 1 to 320 and 400. hi old age, the organ not only diminishes in weight, but decreases considerably in proportion to the entire body, being as 1 to 700. The size of the spleen is increased during and after digestion, and varies according to the state of nutrition of the body, being large in lughly fed, and small in starved animals. In malarial fever it becomes much enlarged, weighing occasionally even from eighteen to twenty pounds. Frequently in the neighbourhood of the spleen, and especially in the gastro- splenic and great omenta, small nodules of splenic tissue may be found, either isolated or connected to the spleen by thin bands of splenic tissue. They are known as supernumerary or accessory spleens. They vary in size from that of a pea to that of a plum. Structure.—The spleen is invested by two coats : an external serous and an internal nbro-elastic coat. The external or serous coal is derived from the peritoneum ; it is thin, smooth, and in the human subject intimately adherent to the fibro-elastic coat. It invests the entire organ, except at the hilus and along the lines of reflection of the lieno-renal ligament and gastro-splenic omentum. The Jibro-elaslic coat invests the organ, and at the hilus is reflected inwards upon the vessels m the form of sheaths. From these sheaths, as well as from the inner surface of the hbro-elastic coat, numerous small fibrous bands, irabeculcB (fig. 1026), are given off in all directions ; these uniting, constitute the framework of the spleen. The spleen therefore consists of a number of small spaces or areola:, formed by the trabecute ; in these areolaa IS contamed the splenic pulp. The fibro-elastic coat, the sheaths of the vessels, and the trabecule, are composed of wmte, and yellow elastic, fibrous tissues, the latter predominating. It is owing to the presence ot the elastic tissue that the spleen possesses a considerable amount of elasticity, wmcn allows of the very great variations in size that it presents under certain cu-cumstances. In addition to these constituents of this tunic, there is found in man a small amount of non-striped muscular fibre; and in some mammaha (e.g. dog, pig, and cat) a large amount, so that the trabecules appear to consist chiefly of muscular tissue. Ihe splenic pulp IS a soft mass of a dark reddish-brown colour, resembhng grumous blood ; It consists of a number of branching cells and of an intercellular substance. The cells are connective-tissue corpu.scles, and are termed the suatentacular or supporting cells OS the pulp. The processes of these cells communicate with each other, thus forming aSPLANCHNOLOGY 1242 delicate reticulated tissue in the interior of the areolae, so that each areola may be con- sidered to be divided into a number of smaller spaces by the junction of the processes of the branching corpuscles. These secondary spaces are full of Ijlood, in which, however, the white corpuscles are found to be in larger proportion than they are in ordinary blood! Large rounded cells, termed splenic cells, are also seen ; these are capable of amoeboid movement, and often contain pigment and red blood-corpuscles in theu- interior. The sustentacular cells are either small uni-nucleated, or large multi-nucleated cells ; they do not stain deeply with carmine, and in this respect differ from the cells of the Malpighian bodies, but like these cells they exliibit amoeboid movements. In many of them may be seen deep red or reddish-yellow granules of various sizes, also blood-corpuscles in all stages of disintegration. Klein has pointed out that sometimes these cells, in the young spleen, contain proliferating nuclei; that is to say, the nucleus is of large size, and presents a number of knob-hke projections, as if small nuclei were budding from it by a process of gemmation. This observation is of importance, as it may explain one possible source of the colourless blood-corpuscles. Blood-vessels of the spleen.-—The splenic artery is remarkable for its large size in proportion to the size of the organ, and also for its tortuous course. It divides into six or more branches, which enter the hilus of the spleen and ramify throughout its substance (fig. 1027), receiving sheaths from an involution of the external fibrous tissue. Sunilar sheaths also invest the nerves and veins. Fig. 1026.—Transverse section of the spleen, showing the trabecular tissue and the splenic vein and its tributaries. Each branch runs in the transverse axis of the organ, from wdthin outwards, diminisliing in size during its transit, and giving off in its passage smaller branches, some of which pass to the anterior, others to the posterior part. These ultimately leave the trabecular sheaths, and terminate in the proper substance of the spleen in small tufts or pencils of minute arterioles, which open into the interstices of the reticulum formed by the branched susten- tacular cells. Each of the larger branches of the artery supplies chiefly that region of the organ in which the branch ramifies, having no anastomosis with the majority of the other branches. The arterioles, supported by the minute trabeculas, traverse the pulp in all directions in bundles of straight vessels. Their external coats, on leaving the trabecular sheaths, consi.st of ordinary connective tissue, but they gradually undergo a transformation, become much thickened, and converted into adenoid material.* This change is elTected by the conversion of the connective tissue into adenoid tissue ; the bundles of connective ti.ssue becoming looser and their fibrils more delicate, and containing in their interstices an abundance of lymph-corpuscles (W. Miiller). The altered coat of the arterioles, consisting of adenoid tissue, presents here a^nd there thickenings of a spheroidal shape, the Malpighian bodies of the spleen. These bodies vary * According to Klein, it is the sheath of the small vessel which undergoes this trans- formation, and forms a 'solid mass of adenoid tissue which surrounds the vessel like a cylindrical sheath.'—Atlas of Histology, p. 424.1243 THE SPLEEN in size from about i,!,-; of an inch to Jt; of an inch in diameter. They are merely local expansions or hyperplasife of the adenoid tissue of wliich the external coat of the smaller arteries of the spleen is formed. They are most frequently found surrounding the arteriole, which thus seems to tunnel them, but occasionally they grow from one side of the vessel only, and present the appearance of a sessile bud growing from the arterial wall. Klein, however, denies this, and says it is incorrect to describe the Malpighian bodies as isolated masses of adenoid tissue, that they are always formed around an artery, though there is generally a greater amount on one side than on the other, and that, therefore, in trans- verse sections, the artery, in the majority of cases, is found in an eccentric position. These bodies are visible to the naked eye on the surface of a fresh section of the organ, appearing as minute dots of a semi-opaque whitish colour in the dark substance of the pulp. In Fig. 1028.—Transverse section of a portion of the spleen. Trabeculum Malpighian body Spleen pulp minute structure they resemble the adenoid tissue of lymphatic glands, consisting of a delicate reticulum, in the meshes of which he ordinary l3nnphoid cells (fio-. 1028). The reticulum of the tissue is made up of extremely fine fibrils, and°is comparatively open m the centre of the corpuscle, becoming closer at its periphery. The cells which it encloses, like the sujiporting cells of the pulp, are possessed of amoeboid movements, but when treated with carmine become deeply stained, and can be easily distinguished from those1244 SPLANCHNOLOGY The arterioles terminate in capillaries, which traverse the pulp in all directions; their walls become much attenuated, lose their tubular character, and the cells of the adenoid tissue of which they are composed become altered, presenting a branched appearance, and acquiring processes which are directly connected with the processes of the sustentacular cells of the pulp (fig. 1029). In this manner the capillary vessels terminate, and the blood flowing thi-ough them finds its way into the interstices of the reticulated tissue formed by the branched connective-tissue corpuscles of the splenic pulp. Thus the blood passing tlu-ough the spleen is brought into intimate relation with the elements of the pulp, and no doubt undergoes important changes. After these changes have taken place the blood is collected from the interstices of the tissue by the rootlets of the veins, which commence much in the same way as the arteries terminate. WTiere a vein is about to commence, the connective-tissue corpuscles of the pulp arrange themselves in rows, in such a way as to form an elongated space or sinus. They become changed in shape, being elongated and spindle-shaped, and overlap each other at their extremities. They thus form a sort of endothelial linmg of the path or sinus, which is the radicle of a vein. On the outer surface of these cells are seen delicate transverse lines or markings, which are due to minute elastic fibrillae arranged in a circular manner around the sinus. Thus the channel obtains an external investment, and gradually becomes converted into a small vein, which after a time attains a coat of ordinary connective tissue, lined by a layer of fusiform epithelial cells which are continuous with the supporting cells of the pulp. The smaller veins unite to form larger ones ; these do not accompany the arteries, but soon enter the trabecular sheaths of the capsule, and by their junction form six or more branches, which emerge from the hilus, and, uniting, constitute the splenic vein, the largest radicle of the portal vein. Fig. 1029.—Section of the spleen, showing the termination of the small blood-vessels. Supiiortinq cells Vessel undergoing hjmphoid change The veins are remarkable for their numerous anastomoses, while the arteries hardly anastomose at all. The IjTuphatics are described on page 787. The nerves are derived from branches of the right and left semilunar ganglia, and from the right pneumogastric nerve. Surface Marking.—The spleen is situated under cover of the ribs of the left side, being separated from them by the Diaplu-agm, and above by a small portion of the lower margin of the left lung and pleura. Its position corresponds to the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. It is placed very obliquely. ' It is oblique in two directions, viz. from above down- wards and outwards, and also from above downwards and forwards ' (Cunningham). ' Its highest and lowest points are on a level respectively with the ninth dorsal and first lumbar spines ; its inner end is distant about an inch and a half from the median plane of the body, and its outer end about reaches the mid-axillary line ' (Quain). Applied Analomy.—Injury of the spleen is less common than that of the liver, on account of its protected situation and connections. It may be ruptured by direct or indirect violence; torn by a broken rib ; or injin-ed by a punctured or gunshot wound. When the organ is enlarged, the chance of rupture is increased. The great risk is hajmorrhage, owing to the vascularity of the organ, and the absence of a proper system of capillaries. The injury is not, however, necessarily fatal, and this would appear to be due, m a great measure, to the contractile ]iower of the capsule, which narrows the wound and jarevents the escape of blood. In ca.ses where the diagnosis is clear, and the symptoms nidicate danger to life, laparotomy must be perfonned, and if the bajmorrhage cannot be stayed by ordinary surgical methods, the spleen must be removed.1245 SUPRARENAL GLANDS The spleen may become enormously enlarged in cectain diseased conditions, such as ague, leukffimia, syphilis, valvular disease of the heart, or \vithout any obtainable history of previous disease. It may also become enlarged in lymphadenoma, as a part of a general blood-disease. In these cases the tumour may fill a considerable part of the abdomen and extend into the pelvis, and may be mistaken for ovarian or uterine new growth. The spleen is sometimes the seat of cystic tumours, especially hydatids, and of abscess. These cases require treatment by incision and drainage ; and in abscess great care must be taken, if there are no adhesions between the spleen and abdominal wall, to prevent the escape of any of the pus into the peritoneal cavity. If possible the operation should be performed in two stages. Sarcoma and carcinoma are occasionally found in the spleen, but very rarely as a primary disease. Extirpation of the spleen has been performed for wounds or injuiies, in floating spleen, in simple hypertrophy, and in leukasmic enlargement; but in the last condition the opera- tion is now regarded as unjustifiable, as every case in which it has been performed has terminated fatally. The incision is best made in the left semilunar line ; the spleen is isolated from its surroundings, and the pedicle transfixed and Hgatured in two portions, before the tumour is turned out of the abdominal cavity, if possible, so as to avoid any traction on the pedicle, which may cause tearing of the splenic vein. Care must be taken in applying the ligature not to include the tail of the pancreas, and in lifting out the organ to avoid rupturing the capsule. The suprarenal glands (glandulse suprarenales) are two small flattened bodies of a yellowish colour, situated at the back part of the abdomen, beliind the peritoneum, and immediately above and in front of the upper end of each kidney ; hence their name. The right one is somewhat triangular in shape, bearing a resemblance to a cocked hat ; the left is more semilunar, usually larger and placed at a higher level than the right. They vary in size in different individuals, being sometimes so small as to be scarcely detected : their usual size is from an inch and a quarter to nearly two inches in length, rather less in width, and from two to three lines in thickness. Their average weight is from one to one and a half drachms each. Relations.—The relations of the suprarenal glands differ on the two sides of the body. The right suprarenal is situated beliind the inferior vena cava and right lobe of the liver, and in front of the Diaphragm and upper end of the SUPEARBNAL GlANDS Fig. 1030.—Suprarenal glands viewed from the front. Area covered by inferior vena ca va Hepatic area — Pancreatic area Gastric area Capsular vein RlQHT. Left.SPLANCHNOLOGY 1246 is a short furrow termed the hilus, from which the suprarenal vein emerges to join the inferior vena cava. The 'posterior surface is divided into upper and lower parts by a curved ridge : the upper, slightly convex, rests upon the Diaphragm ; the lower, concave, is in contact with the upper end and tlie adjacent part of the anterior surface of the kidney. The left suprarenal, slightly larger than the right, is crescentic in shape, its concavity being adapted to the inner border of the upper part of the left Iddney. It presents an inner border which is convex, and an outer which is concave ; its upjier border is narrow, and its lower rounded. Its anterior surface has two areas : an upper one, covered by the peritoneum forming the lesser sac, Avhich separates it from the cardiac end of the stomach and some- times from the superior extremity of the spleen ; and a lower one, which is in contact with the pancreas and splenic artery, and is therefore not covered by the peritoneum. On the anterior surface, near its lower end, is a furrow or hilus, directed downwards and forwards, from which the supra,renal vein emerges. Its posterior surface presents a vertical ridge, which divides it into two areas ; the outer area rests on the kidney, the inner and smaller, on the left crus of the Diaphragm. The surface of the suprarenal gland is surrounded by areolar tissue containing much fat, and closely invested by a thin fibrous capsule, which is difficult to remove on account of the numerous fibrous processes and vessels entering the organ tlirough the furrows on its anterior surface and base. Small accessory suprarenals are often to be found in the connective tissue round the suprarenals. The smaller of these, on section, show a uniform surface, but in some of the larger a distinct medulla can be made out. Structure.—On section, the suprarenal gland is seen to consist of two portions: an external or cortical, and an internal or medullary. The former constitutes the chief part of the organ and is of a deep yellow colour ; the medullary substance is soft, pulpy, and ot a dark red or brown colom-. i ■ u • • K„^^„,q The cortical portion consists of a fine connective-tissue network, m which is imbeddea the glandular epithelium. The epithelial cells are polyhedral in shape aiid possess rounded nuclei ; many of the cells contain coarse granules, others fat globules. Owing to differences in the arrangement of the cells three distinct zones can be made out: (1) the zona glomerulosa, situated beneath the capsule, consists of cells arranged in rounded groups with here and there indications of an alveolar structm-e ; the cells of this zone are ^ely granular and stain deeply. (2) The zorw. fascicuUila, continuous ^vltll the zona glome™losa. is composed of quadrilateral groups of cells arranged in a radia manner; the^e cells contTn finer granules and in many instances fat globules. (3 The zona '■r'<'-"'«7;;" contact mth the medulla, consists of cylindncal ma.sses of cells ^"XK\irea ancc these cells often contain pigment granules wluch give thus zone a darkci appearance J^l^S^^S:^ is extremely vascular, and is. comp^ed oi^^^^^ of connective tislue surrounding a large plexus of veins and "^^^^^[^^ muscular fibres. In addition to the veins. 'n"l<'-'"'<^'<^«^«V''T„L? TontdnS scattered throughout the medulla as well as many irregular-shaped cells contammg pigment The cell-protoplas„i has an especial affinity for chromic salts, wl^ich stain it a rown colour. Such eel s are therefore termed chromaffin rdh. This PO'-tJ"" gland is richly supplied with non-medullated nerve-fibres, and here and there sympathetic ganglia are found.1247 SUPRAEENAL GLANDS Vessels and Nerves.-- The arteries supplying the suprarenal glands are numerous and of comparatively large size ; tliey arc derived from the aorta, the inferior phrenic, and the renal. They subdivide into minute brandies previous to entering the cortical part of the gland, where they break up into capillaries which end in the venous plexus of the medullary portion. The mfrarenal vein returns the blood from the medullary venous plexus and receives several branches from the cortical substance ; it emerges from the liilus of the gland and on the right side opens into the inferior vena cava, on the left into the renal vein. The lymphatics terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are exceedingly numerous, and are derived from the solar and renal plexuses, and, according to Bergmann, from the Fig. 1032.—Section of a part of a suprarenal gland. (Magnified.) Capsule Zona gtomerulosa Z ona fasciculata Zona reticidaris Multi-niLcleated mass of protoplasm /Medulla Ganglion phrenic and pneumogastric nerves They enter the lower and inner part of the capsule, traverse the cortex, and terminate around the cells of the medulla. They have numerous small ganglia developed upon them, from which circumstance the organ has been conjectured to liave some function in connection with the sympathetic nervous system. Applied Anatomy.—^The suprarenal cortex is derived from the coelomic epithehum of the Wolffian ridge, and is connected with the sexual glands ; it is related to growth and develop- ment in some way, and is often found to be hypertrophied in patients with clu'onic kidney disease and high blood- pressure. The medulla, on the other hand, is neuro-ectodermal in origin, and closely connected with the sym- pathetic nervous system. It supplies the body with an internal secretion called adrenalin, that tends to raise the blood-pressure by stimulating the vaso - constrictor fibres of the sym- patlietic. When the suprarenal medulla is destroyed by tuberculosis, to which the glands are prone, or by the pressure of a new growth, the secretion of adi-enalin becomes inadequate, and Addison's disease develops. Patients with Addison's disease become pigmented in various parts of the body, possibly from u-ritation of the sympathetic, and complain of great weakness, lack of energy, nausea, and severe attacks of vomiting. Their blood-pressure is low, the whole nervous system is depressed, and death follows after a period of months or years, usually from asthenia. Tumours derived from the suprarenal itself, or from misplaced suprarenal ' rests ' occurring in such organs as the kidney or Uver, may be either benign or malignant, and are classed together under the name ' hypernephroma.' In childi-en the malignant hypernepliroina IS often associated vnth obesity and precocity. The benign hypernephroma, or suprarenal adenoma, appears to produce no symptoms except those due to its slow enlargement. The carotid bodies, two in number, are situated one on eitlier side of the neck, behind the common carotid artery at its point of bifurcation into the external and internal carotid trunks. They are reddish-brown in colour and oval m shape, the long diameter measuring about one-fifth of an inch Each IS invested by a fibrous capsule and consists largely of spherical or irregular masses of cells—the masses being more or less isolated from one another by septa which extend inwards from the deep surface of the capsule. The cells are polyhedral m shape, and each contains a large nucleus imbedded in finely granular protoplasm which is stained yellow by chromic salts. Numerous nerve-hbres, derived from the sympathetic plexus on the carotid artery, are distributed throughout the organ, and a network of large capillaries ramifies amongst the cells. The coccygeal body or gland of Luschka is placed in front of, or imme- diately below, the tip of the coccyx. It is about the size of a millet-seed and IS irregularly oval m shape ; several smaller nodules arc found around or near the main mass. It consists of irregular masses of round or polyhedral cellsSPLANCHNOLOGY 1248 the cells of each mass bemg grouped around a dilated capillary vessel. Each cell contains a large round or oval nucleus, the protoplasm surrounding which is clear and is not stained by chromic salts.* Besides the ductless glands mentioned, reference may be made to a pair of small bodies, the aortic bodies of Zuokerkandl. These are found in the embr3'0 and persist until shortlj' after bhth; they lie one on either side of the abdominal aorta close to the origin of the superior mesenteric artery. They consist essentially of masses of polj'gonal or cuboidal, chromaffin, cells imbedded in a wide-meshed capillary plexus. * Consult the following article: ' Uber die Menschliche Steissdriise,' von J. W. Thomson Walker, ArcJdvfiir mikrosltopische Anatomie und Entiviokolungsgcsohivhte, Band G4. 1904.INDEX Abdomen, 1118 apertures in walls of, 1119 boundaries of, 1118 fascia of, 506 lymphatic glands of, 778 muscles of, 506 regions of, 1119 Abdominal aorta, 685 applied anatomy of, 687 branches of, 687 surface marking of, 687 muscles, 506 ring, external, 508 internal, 510 viscera, lymphatic vessels of, 784 position of, 1056 wall, lymphatic vessels of, 781 Abdomino-thoracic arch, 212 Abductor hallucis muscle, 588 indicis muscle, 557 longus pollicis muscle, 549 minimi digiti muscle, (hand) 556, (foot) 589 pollicis muscle, 554 Aberrant duct of testis, 1210 Accelerator urinse muscle, 524 Accessorius ad ilio-costalem muscle, 496 pedis muscle, 589 Accessory obturator nerve, 974 olivary nuclei, 819 palatine canals, 252 processes, 191 pudio artery, 701 sinuses of nose, 1008 applied anatomy of, 1008 spleens, 1241 thyroids, 1236 Acetabuli, fossa, 326 OS, 327 Acetabulum, 325 Achromatic spindle, 4 Achro matin, 4 Acromial end of clavicle, 288 region, muscles of, 533 Acromio-clavicular joint, 401 applied anatomy of, 403 surface form of, 403 Acromio-thoracic artery, 670 Acromion process, 292 Actions of Muscles. See. each Group of Miuscles Adamantoblasts, 1101 Adductor brevis muscle, 571 longus nmsolc, 571 magnus muscle, 572 obliquus hallucis muscle, 591 l)ollicis muscle, 554 Adductor transversus hallucis muscle, 591 pollicis muscle, 555 tubercle, 336 Adenoid tissue, 20 Adipose tissue, 17 development of, 18 Adminiculum lineas albffi, 514 AdrenaKn, 1247 I AiEerent nerves, 49 vessels of kidney, 1185 After-birth, 101 Agger nasi, 245 Air-cells of nose, 1008 Ala cinerea, 837 lobuli centralis, 827 nasi, 1002 AL-c of sacrum, 194 of vomer, 254 Alar lamina, 117 processes of ethmoid, 238 thoracic artery, 670 Aleock, canal of, 518 Alimentary canal, 1088 development of, 150 subdivisions of, 1088 Allantoic vessels, 94 AUantois, 94 Alveolar arch, 245 artery, 639 point, 279 process, 245 Alveoli, formation of, 1102 of mandible, 250 of maxiUa, 245 of stomach, 1137 Alveus, 870, 875 Amacrine cells of retina, 1022 Amnion, 93 false, 94 Amniotic cavity, 94 primitive, 86 ectoderm, 94 fold, 93 Amphiarthrosis, 369 Ampulla of vas deferens, 1210 of Fallopian tube, 1221 of rectum, 1154 of Vater, 1173 AmpuUaj of semicircular canals, 1048 of tubuli lactiferi, 1233 Amygdala? of cerebellum, 829 Anal canal, 1155 coluimis of Moreagni of, 1150 development of, 160 Anal canal, lymphatic vessels of, 785 membrane, 161 fascia, 518 valves, 1156 Anaphase of karyokinesis, 5 Anastomosis of arteries, 617 around elbow-joint, 674 circumpatellar, 719 Anastomotic branch of sciatic artery, 704 Anastomotica magna of bra- chial, 674 of femoral, 715 Anatomical neck of humerus, 296 fracture of, 300 Anconeus muscle, 547 Andcrsch, ganglion of, 932 Aneurysms of abdominal aorta, 687 of arch of aorta, 622 Angiology, 597 Angle of Ludwig, 204 of mandible, 257 of pubis, 325 of rib, 208 sacro-vertebral, 191 subscapular, 289 Angular artery, 033 convolution, 860 movement, 370 process, external, 221 internal, 221 vein, 729 Angulus Ludovici, 204 Animal cell, 3 Ankle-joint, 440 applied anatomy of, 444 relations of tendons and vessels to, 442 surface form of, 443 Annular ligament of ankle, anterior, 586 external, 587 internal, 587 of radius and uhia, 413 of wrist, anterior, 550 posterior, 551 Annulus fibrosus, 374 ovalis, 005 Ano-coccygeal body, 1165 nerves, 986 raphe, 520 Ansa hypoglossi, 941, 952 lenticularis, 873, 874 Vicusseni, 993 Anterior annular ligament of ankle, 586 of wrist, 550 4 LINDEX 1250 Anterior basis bundle, 805 ] cerebral artery, 048 cervical lymphatic glands, 772 chamber o£ eye, 1017 columns of spinal cord, 804 commissure of brain, 876 of prostate, 1216 common ligament, 373 cornu of lateral ventricle, 867 of spinal cord, 800 crescentic lobe, 827 crural nerve, 974 dental canal, 243 ethmoidal cells, 239 fontanelle, 277 fossa of skull, 271 internal frontal arteries, 648 interosseous nerve, 960 jugular vein, 733 median fissure of medulla, 812 of spinal cord, 798 mediastinum, 1079 nasal spine, 246 nerve roots, 808, 941 palatine fossa, 246, 262 perforated sxjace, 864 primary divisions of cervical nerves, 949 of lumbar nerves, 969 of sacral and coccy- geal, 978 of spinal nerves, 949 of thoracic nerves, 966 pulmonary plexus, 936 thoracic nerves, 956 tibial artery, 719 nerve, 984 triangle of neck, 640 Antero-lateral ganglionic arteries, 650 ground bundle, 807 Antero-median ganglionic arteries, 648 Anticlinal vertebra, 188» Anticubital fossa, 672 Antihelix, 1035 fossa of, 1035 Antitragious muscle, 1037 Antitragus, 1035 Antrum cardiacum, 1117, 1133 of Highmore, 244, 1008 mastoid, 226 opening of, 1041 Anus, 1089 development of, 101 lymphatic vessels of, 785 Aorta, 619 abdominal, 085 applied anatomy of, 687 branches of, 087 arch of, 020 applied anatomy of, 622 branches of, 623 peculiarities of, 022 of branches of, 023 ascending, 619 descending. (182 devcloi)nKMit of, 142 great sinus of, 019 thoracic, 082 ap])lie<l anatomy of, 684 branches of. 684 Aortse, dorsal, 130. 142 Aortto, primitive, 135 ventral, 130 Aortic arches, 141 bodies of Zuckerkandl, 1248 isthmus, 143 lymphatic glands, 780 opening of diaphragm, 603 of heart, 009 plexus, 999 semilunar valves, 009 septum, 140 vestibule, 609 Aortico-renal ganglion, 997 Aperture, anterior nasal, 277 superior, of larynx, 1066 Apertures in walls of abdomen, 1119 Aponeuroses, 455 epicranial, 458 of external oblique, 506 lumbar, 493 palatine, 484 phar3rngeal, 1115 of soft palate, 1092 A^jpendages of eye, 1028 applied anatomy of, 1033 of embryo, 92 of skin, 07 Appendices epiploicss, 1129 Appendicular artery, 692 Appendix of left auricle, 608 of right auricle, 604 lymphatic vessels of, 785 vermiform, 1150 xiphoid, 204 Applied Anatomy— of abdominal aorta, 687 of abducent nerve, 922 of acromio-olavicular joint, 403 of adductor longus muscle, 573 of ankle-joint, 444 of anterior tibial artery, 720 of arch of aorta, 622 of arteries, 017 of ascending pharyngeal artery, 630 of auditory nerve, 929 of auriciilo - ventricular bundle. Oil of axUla, 666 of axUlary arterj', 008 fascia. 529 glands, 774 vein, 747 of azygos veins, 750 of biceps of arm. 583 of bladder, 1199 of bone, 34 of bones of forearm. 308 of foot. 3(i3 of hand. 320 of log. 349 of jiclvis. 331 of skull, 282 of brachial artery, 072 plexus. 905 of brain. 891 of branches of internal iliac artery, 705 of carpnl bones. 320 of cavernous sinus. 741 of cerebellum, 834 I'l.IED An ATOM V (coiU.) of cervical fascia, 474 glands, 772 plexus, 953 ribs, 210 of clavicle, 289 of common carotid artery, 027 iliac artery, 097 of coronary arteries, 020 of deep epigastric artery, 707 of deltoid muscle, 534 of descending aorta, 084 palatine artery, 640 of dorsalis pedis artery, 722 of eighth nerve, 929 of elbow-joint, 412 of eleventh nerve, 939 of enrissary veins, 744 of Eustachian tube, 1046 of extensor tendons of fingers, 549 of external carotid artery, 629 ear, 1038 iliac artery, 705 jugular vein, 733 of eye, 1020 of eyelids, 1033 of facial artery, 633 nerve, 927 vein, 731 of Fallopian tube, 1222 of fascia of axilla, 529 of Psoas and Iliacus, 565 of femoral artery, 712 hernia, 1101 of femm', 340 of fibula, 349 of fifth nerve, 918 of fingers, 553 of first nerve, 901 of flexor sheaths of fingers, 553 of foot, bones of, 303 of forearm, bones of, 308 of fourth nerve, 906 of gall-bladder. 1175 of glosso-pharj'ngeal nerve, 932 of gluteal artery, 705 of hsemorrhoidal venous ])lexus. 757 of hamstring tendons. 575 of hand, bones of, 320 of heart, 013 of hip-joint, 428 of humerus, 300 of hyoid bono. 261 of hypoglossal norvc. 941 of iliac fascia, 565 of inferior oaloaneo-navi- cular ligament. 447 vena cava. 759 of inguinal glands, 777 iicrnia. 1159 of innominate artery, 624 of intercostal arteries, 685 nerves. 9(i9 of internal capsule, 888 carotid arterj', 645 car, 1058Applied Anatomy (cont.) j of internal iliac artery, i 698 ! jugular vein, 734 ' mammary artery, 665 pudic arteiy, 705 1 of intervertebral discs, 375 of intestines, 1158 of ischio-rectal fossa, 522 of kidneys, 1190 of knee-joint, 438 of labyrinth, 1058 of laohiymal apparatus, 1034 of laryngeal nerves, 937 of laryngo-traoheal region, 1073 of larynx, 1073 of leg, bones of, 349 of lingual artery, 631 of liver, 1174 of lumbar plexus, 980 of lungs, 1087 of lymphatic system, 704 of mammary glands, 1234 of mastoid antrum, 226 of mediastinum, 1080 of medulla oblongata, 822 of meninges, 899 j of mesenteric arteries, 694 lymphatic glands, 783 of metacarpal bones, 320 of metatarsal bones, 364 of metatarso - phalangeal joint of great toe, 452 of middle ear, 1046 meningeal artery, 638 of motor-oculi nerve, 905 of muscles, 454 of eyeball, 463 of lower extremity, 595 of soft palate, 486 of upper extremity, 560 , of vertebral column, 500 I of musculo-spii-al nerve, 966 of nasal fossae, 1008 | of ninth nei-ve, 931 of nose, 1008 of oesophagus, 1118 of olfactory nerve, 901 of optic nerve, 903 ! of ovaries, 1221 of palate, 1092 I muscles of, 486 of palmar arches, 682 fascia, 553 of pancreas, 1179 of parametrium, 1229 of parathyroid glands, 1238 of patella, 343 i of pelvis, 331 I of penis, 1215 of pericardium, 600 of peritoneal fossae, 1132 of peroneal or external popliteal nerve, 988 of phalanges of hand, 320 of foot, 364 of pharynx, 1116 of pigment, 36 j of plantar arch, 725 ] INDEX Applied Anatomy {conl.) of pleura, 1077 of pons, 825 of pneumogastric nerve, 937 of popliteal artery, 717 lymphatic glands, 777 of portal system of veins, 763 I of posterior tibial artery, 723 of pronator teres muscle, | 540 of prostate gland, 1217 of prostatic venous plexus, 757 of psoas magnus muscle, 566 of pulmonary artery, 019 , veins, 727 of radial arteiy, 670 of radius, 308 of recti muscles of eye, 463 ; of rectus femoris muscle, 570 of ribs, 212 of salivary glands, 1113 | of saphenous veins, 753 j of scalp, 458 j of scapula, 294 of sciatic artery, 705 nerve (great), 987 of second nerve, 903 of serratus magnus muscle, 533 of seventh nerve, 927 of sheath of psoas muscle, 566 of shoulder-joint, 407 of sixtli nerve, 922 of skull, 282 of spermatic veins, 759 of spinal accessory nerve, 939 arteries, 660 cord, 809 of spleen, 1244 of splenic arteiy, 690 of sterno-olavicular joint, 401 [ of sterno-mastoid muscle, 475 of sternum, 212 of stomach, 1138 of subclavian artery, 657 of superior radio-idnar joint, 413 thyroid artery, 030 vena cava, 750 of suprarenal glands, 1247 of sympathetic nerves, 1000 of synovial membrane, 367 sheaths of tendons of wrist, 553 of tarsal bones, 303 joints, 4-19 of teeth, 1103 of temporal artery, 636 of temporo - mandibular joint, 385 of tendons of leg and foot, 580 of tenth nerve, 937 of testis, 1209 1251 Applied Anatomy (com/.) of third nerve, 905 of thoracic aorta, 084 duct, 707 nerves, 909 of thorax, 212 of thymus, 1240 of thyroid body, 1237 of tibia, 349 of tongue, 482 of tonsils, 1115 of trachea, 1074 of tracheo - bronchial glands, 792 of triceps, 539 of trifacial nerve, 918 of troclilcar nerve, 900 of twelfth nerve, 941 of tymjjanic cavity, 1046 of ulna, 308 of ulnar arteiy, 679 of m-eter, 1193 of urethra, 1202 of uterus, 1228 of vagus, 937 of veins in front of elbow, 740 of vena mediani cubiti, 746 of vertebral column, 201 joints, 382 of vesiculos seminales, 1212 of wrist-joint, 417 Aquaeductus cochleje, 228, 1051 Fallopii, 228 Sylvii, 844 vestibuU, 228, 1048 Aqueous humour, 1024 Arachnoid membrane, 895 cisterna2, 890 viUi, 898 Arantii, corpora, 007 Arbor vitae of cerebellum, 830 uterinae, 1225 Arch, alveolar, 245 of aorta, 020 applied anatomy of, 622 branches of, 623 peculiarities of, 622 axillary, 490 crural, deep, 510, 708 palmar, deep, 076 superficial, 681 plantar, 725 posterior carpal, 081 of pubis, 329 of a vertebra, 183 zygomatic, 200 Arches, aortic (foetal), 141 branchial or visceral, 107 of foot, 452 of soft palate, 1091 Arcuate fibres, anterior ex- ternal, 821 mtemal, 820 posterior external, 821 ligaments, 502 nucleus, 821 Aicus paricto-occipitalis, 860 Ai-ea acustica, 837 anterior, of medulla, 812 of Broca, 864 bucco-pharyngeal, 687 cribrosa media, 227 superior, 227 embryonic, 86 4 L 2INDEX 1252 Area, extra-embryonic, 86 facialis, 228 lateral, of medulla, 813 j olfactory, 110 oval, of Flechsig, 808 , pericardial, 87 posterior, of medulla, 814 postrema, 837 j proamniotio, 87 vestibularis inferior, 1058 superior, 1058 ! Areas of Colurheim, 38 motor, of cerebral cortex, 885 sensory, of cerebral cortex, 885 Areola of breast, 1233 . AreolsB of bone, primary, 32 secondary, 32 Areolar tissue, 16 Arm, muscles of, 533 bones of, 286 fascia of, 533 lympbatic glands of, 772 lymphatics of, 775 veins of, 744 Arnold's nerve, 935 Arrectores pilorum, 70 Arteria centralis retinse, 648, 1024 hyaloidea, 131 magna ballucis, 722 princeps cervicis, 634 Arterise propriae renales, 1187 receptaculi, 646 rectsB, 1189 Arterial mesocardium, 600 Abteeies, Histology of, 55 anastomoses of, 617 applied anatomy of, 617 development of, 141 distribution of, 617 mode of division, 617 of origin of branches, 617 nerves of, 57 sbeaths of, 56 structure of, 55 subdivision of, 617 systemic, 617 Aetebies or Abteby, Descrip- tive Anatomy of, 617 accessory pudic, 701 acromio-thoracic, 670 alar thoracic, 670 alveolar, 639 anastomotic branch of sciatic, 704 anastomotica magna, of brachial, 674 of femoral, 715 angular, 633 anterior cerebral, 648 choroidal, 652 ciliary, 648 circumflex, 671 communicating, 648 dental, 640 inferior cerebellar, 661 intercostal, 665 internal frontal, 648 spinal, 660 tibial, 719 anlero-lateral ganglionic.,650 antero-median ganglionic, 648 aorta, 619 abdominal, 685 Arteries ok Artery (conl.) Arteries or Artery (conl.) aorta, arch of, 620 ascending, 619 descending, 682 thoracic, 682 ajjpendioular, 692 articular, of knee, 718 ascending cervical, 662 frontal, 651 parietal, 651 pharyngeal, 636 auditory, 061 auricular, anterior, 636 , deep, 638 of occipital, 634 posterior, 635 right, of heart, 620 axillary, 667 azygos, of knee, 718 basilar, 661 brachial, 671 brachio-cephalic, 623 bronchial, 684 buccal, 639 of bulb, 703 bulbar, 661 caecal, of Ueo-colic, 692 calcanean, external, 724 internal, 724 carotid, common, 625 external, 628 mternal, 643 carpal, anterior radial, 677 posterior radial, 677 anterior ulnar, 681 posterior ulnar, 681 carpal arch, anterior, 677 posterior, 677, 681 central, of retina, 648 cerebellar, anterior inferior, 661 posterior inferior, 661 superior, 661 cerebral, 648, 650, 661 of cerebral haemorrhage, 651 cervical, ascending, 662 princeps, 634 profunda, 665 superficial, 663 transverse, 662 | choroidal, anterior, 652 j posterior, 661 ciliary, 648 circle of WiUis, 652 circumflex, of arm, 670, 671 iliac, deep, 707 superficial, 713 external, of tliigh, 714 internal, of thjgh, 714 coccygeal branch of sciatic, 704 cochlear, 1058 cooliac axis, 688 colic, left, 693 middle, 692 right, 692 comes nervi ischiadici, 704 niediani, 681 phrcuici, 663 common carotid, 625 iliac, 696 communicating, of anterior cerebral, 648 of dorsalis pedis, 722 of posterior cerebral, 652 coronary, of heart, ()20 coronary of lip, 633 of stomach, 688 of corpus cavernosum, 703 cremasteric, 700 crico-thyroid, 630 cystic, 690 deep auricular, 638 branch of ulnar, 681 cervical, 665 circumflex iliac, 707 epigastric, 706 external pudic, 7)3 palmar arch, 676 temporal, 639 dental, anterior, 640 inferior, 639 posterior, 639 descending aorta, 682 coronary, 620 palatine, 640 digital, palmar, 681 plantar, 726 of uhiar, 681 dorsal, of penis, 703 dorsales hnguae, 630 dorsalis hallucis, 722 indicis, 677 pedis, 721 poUicis, 677 scapulae, 670 epigastric, deep, 706 superficial, 713 superior, 665 ethmoidal, 647 external carotid, 628 circumflex, 714 iliac, 705 maxillary, 631 plantar, 725 pudic, deep, 713 superficial, 713 facial, 631 transverse, 636 femoral, 707 frontal, 648 ganglionic, antero-lateral, 650 antero-median, 648 postero-lateral, 661 postero-median, 661 Gasserian, 646 gastric, 688 gastro-duodenal, 689 gastro-epiploic, right,']^690 left, 690 gluteal, 704 hsemorrhoidal, inferior, 701 middle, 699 superior, 694 helicine, 1214 hepatic, 688 hypogastric, in fa3tus,^614 ileal of ileo-colic, 692 ileo-colic, 692 iliac, common, 696 external, 705 internal, 698 flio-lumbar, 704 inferior artictilar of knee. 718 cerebellar, anterior, 661 posterior, 661 dental, 639 external frontal, 651 hponiorrhoidnl, 701 internal frontal, 648 labial, 633Arteries or Artery (cont.) inferior laryngeal, 662 mesenteric, 693 pancreatico-duodenal, 691 profunda, 674 thyroid, 662 infrahyoid, 029 infraorbital, 039 innominate, 023 intercostal, 684 anterior, 605 superior, 065 interlobular, of kidney, 1188 iatcmal auditory, 661, 1058 carotid, 643 iliac, 698 mammary, 603 maxillary, 037 plantar, 724 pudic, 701 interosseous, of foot, 722 of hand, 077. 678 ulnar, 080 ' intcstini tenuis, 691 | labial, inferior, 633 of labyrinth, 1058J lachrymal, 647 lateral nasal, 633 j sacral, 704 lingual, 030 long ciliary, 048 | thoracic, 070 of lower extremity 70/ lumbar, 095 magna haliucis, 722 malar, 647 malleolar, 721 "mammary, internal, 603 marginal, 620 i masseteric, 039 mastoid, 035 maxillary, external, 031 internal, 037 mediastinal, from aorta, 084 from internal mammary,' 664 meningeal, anterior, 046 middle, 638 from occipital, 634 from pharyngeal, 630 small, 039 from vertebral, 660 mesenteric, inferior, 093 superior, 090 metatarsal, 722 middle cerebral, 050 hsemorrhoidal, 099 internal frontal, 648 meningeal, 038 sacral, 090 musculo-phrcnic, 665 mylo-hyoid, 039 nasal, of ophthalmic, 648 of nasal septum, inferior, 033 naso-palatme, 040 nutrient, of femur, 715 of fibula, 724 of humerus, 674 of tibia, 724 obturator, 700 occipital, 634 oesophageal of uifcrior tliyroid, 662 of aorta, 084 ophthalmic, 647 INDEX Arteries or Artery {cont.) ovarian, 695 palatine, ascending, 632 descending, 040 of pharyngeal, 035 palmar arch, deep, 076 superficial, 681 interosseous, 678 palpebral, 647 pancreatic, of splenic, 690 pancreatico-duodenal, in- ferior, 091 superior, 090 parieto-temporal, 052 perforating, of foot, 726 of hand, 078 of internal mammary, 065 of thigh, 714 pericardiac, 064, 684 perineal, superficial, 701 transverse, 702 peroneal, 723 anterior, 724 posterior, 724 pharyngeal, ascending, 635 phrenic, inferior, 695 superior, 085 pituitary, 646 plantar, 724, 725 popliteal, 710 posterior auricular, 635 cerebral, OOl circumflex, 670 communicating, 652 dental, 639 inferior cerebellar, 661 internal frontal, 649 meningeal, from vertebral, 660 scapular, 663 tibial, 722 prevertebral, 635 princeps cervicis, 034 pollicis, 677 profunda, of arm, inferior, 674 superior, 673 cervicis, 665 femoris, 713 of ulnar, 681 pterygoid, 639 pterygo-palatine, 640 pudic, deep external, 713 internal, in fejnale, 703 in male, 701 superficial external, 703 pulmonary, 618 pyloric, 089 radial, 075 recurrent, 077 carpal, 077 radiaUs indicis, 678 ranine, 631 recurrent interosseous, 681 of hand, 078 radial, 677 tibial, anterior, 721 posterior, 721 ulnar, anterior, 679 posterior, 679 renal, 094 inferior, 1187 sacral, lateral, 704 middle, 696 scapular, posterior, 663 sciatic, 703 1253 Arteries or Artery (cont.) short ciliary, 048 sigmoid, 093 small meningeal, 039 spermatic, 094 spiieno-palatine, 040 spinal, anterior, 060 posterior, 660 splenic, 090 sternal, 664 sterno-mastoid, 630, 634 stylo-mastoid, 635 subclavian, 654 subcostal, 685 sublingual, 030 submaxillary, 633 submental, 633 subscapular, 670 superficial cervical, 603 circumflex Uiac, 713 epigastric, 713 external pudic, 713 palmar arch, 081 perineal, 701 temporal, 630 superficialis volse, 677 superior articular of knee, 718 cerebellar, 661 epigastric, 665 fibular, 721 htemorrhoidal, 094 intercostal, 005 laryngeal, 030 mesenteric, 090 phrenic, 685 profunda, 673 thoracic, 669 thyroid, 629 supra-acromial, 662 suprahyoid, 630 supraorbital, 647 suprarenal, 694 suprascapular, 662 suprasternal, 602 sural, 719 tarsal, 722 temporal, anterior, 036 deep, 639 middle, 636 of middle cerebral, 652 posterior, 630 superficial, 030 thoracic, acromio-, 070 alar, 670 aorta, 682 long, 670 superior, 669 thyreoidea ima, 624 thyroid axis, 662 inferior, 602 superior, 629 tibial, anterior, 719 posterior, 722 recrn'rent, 721 tonsillar, 633 transverse cervical, 662 coronary, 620 facial, 636 of the trunk, 682 tympanic, from internal carotid, 646 from internal maxillary, 638 ulnar, 678 recurrent, anterior, 6791254 INDEX Arteries or Artery (coiU.) ulnar, recurrent, posterior, 079 umbilical, in fastus, ()14 of upper extremity, 654 uterine, 099 vaginal, 700 of vas deferens, 099 vasa aborrantia, of arm, 072 brevia, 090 intestini tenuis, 091 vertebral, 059 vesical, inferioi', 699 middle, 099 superior, 099 .yestibidar, 1001 Vidian, of internal maxUlary. 040 of ophthalmic, 646 Arthrodia, 370 Articular arteries from popli- teal, 718 cartilage, 22 end bidbs, 50 lamella of bone, 366 processes of vertebra;, 183 synovial membranes, 307 Articulations, 360 acromio-clavicidar, 401 ankle, 440 astragalo-navicular, 445 atlanto-axial, 377 calcaneo-astragaloid, 444 calcaneo-cuboid, 446 calcaneo-navicular, 447 carpal, 416 carpo-metacarpal, 420 chondro-sternal, 388 classification of, 368 coccygeal, 396 condyloid, 370 costo-central, 386 oosto-chondral, 390 costo-transverse, 386 costo-vertebral, 385 cuboideo-navicular, 448 cuneo-cuboid, 448 cuneo-navicular, 447 elbow, 409 hip, 423 immovable, 308 intercentral, 373 intercuneiform, 448 intermetacarpal, 422 intermetatarsal, 450 intemeural, 375 interphalangeal, 242, 451 intertarsal, 444 knee, 430 of larynx, 1003 metacarpo-phalangeal, 422 metatarso-phalangeal, 451 mixed, 309 movable, 309 movements of, 370 occipito-atlantal, 380 occipito-axial, 382 of pelvis, 393 with vertebral column, 392 pubic, 396 I radio-carpal, 415 I radio-ulnar, inferior, 414 ] superior, 413 I by reciprocal reception, 370 siicro-coccygcal, 396 sacro-iliac, 393 RTICULATIONS (cont.) saoro-vertebral, 392 shoulder, 404 sterno-clavioular, 399 of sternum, 390 tarsal, 444 tarso-metatarsal, 449 temporo-mandibular, 382 tibio-fibular, inferior, 440 middle, 439 superior, 439 of trunk, 372 of vertebral column, 372 with cranium, 380 with pelvis, 392 wrist, 415 Aryepiglotticus, 1068 Aryteno-epiglottic folds, 1066 Arytenoid cartilages, 1061 glands, 1069 muscle, 1068 Ascending aorta, 019 cervical artery, 062 colon, 1151 frontal artery, 651 lumbar vein, 759 palatine artery, 032 loharyngeal artery, 635 applied anatomy of, 636 Association fibres of cerebral hemispheres, 878 neurons, 801 Asterion, 279 Astragalo - navicular liga- ment, 445 Astragalus, 363 ossification of, 362 Atlanto-axial articulation, 377 Atlas, 185 development of, 103 ossification of, 196 Atrium of bronchi, 1086 of nasal fossa, 1005 of tympanic cavity, 1039 Attic or epitympanic recess, 226, 1039 Attollens auriculam muscle, 459 Attraction particle, or centro- some, 4 sphere, or centrosphere, 4 Attrahens auricidam muscle. 459 Auditory artery, 661 canal, 1037 meatus, external, 230, 1037 development of, 134 lymphatic vessels of, 709 relations of, 1038 internal, 227 nerve. 927, 1058 apjjhed anatomy of, 929 nuclei, 825 ossicles, development of, 134 process, external, 229 teeth, of Huschlce, 1055 veins, 1058 vesicle, 133 Aucrbach's plexus, 1148 Auricle of heart, appendix of, 080 principal cavity of, 608 | primitive, 130 left. 008 I riglit, 604 ' Auricle of heart, light, open- ings in, 004 sinus venosus of, 604 valves in, 604 Auricula of ear. 1035 cartilage of, 1036 ligaments of, 1036 muscles of, 1036 vessels and nerves of, 1030 Auricular artery, anterior, 030 deep, 038 of occipital, 634 posterior, 635 canal, 139 fissure, 228 nerve, anterior, 916 great, 950 posterior, from facial, 925 of vagus, 935 I)oint, 279 surface of Uiuni, 322 of sacrum. 193 vein, posterior, 731 Auriculo-temporal nerve, 910 Auriculo-ventricular bundle of His, 611 groove of heart, 602 opening, left, 009 right, 000 Auscultation, triangle of, 492 Axes of pelvis, 329 Axial filament of spermatozoon, 82 Axilla, 666 applied anatomy of, 666 fascia of, 529 lymphatic glands of, 773 AxUlary arch, 490 arteiy, 667 applied anatomy of, 668 branches of, 669 surface marking of, 668 lymphatic glands, 773 vein, 747 applied anatomy of, 747 Axis, cerebro-spinal, 763 coeliac, 688 optica, 1011 vertebra, 186 development of, 104 ossification of, 190 thyroid, 662 Axis-cyUnder of nerve-fibre, 45 process, 44 of Purkinje, 45 Axon of nerve-cells, 44 Azygos arteries of vagina, 700 arteiy, articular, 718 uvula; muscle, 484 veins, 750 Back, muscles of, fiflh laver, 497 first layer, 489 fom-th layer, 494 second layer. 492 third layer. 493 Baillarger, band of, 873 inner, 880 outer, 880 Balbiani, body of, 79 Ball-and-socket joint, 370 Band of Baillarger, 873 inner, 880 outer, 880 of Beohterew, 8811255 INDEX Band of Gennari, 880 of (iiacomini, 804 ilio-tibial, 567 moderator. 607 of Vicq d'Azyr, 882 Bare area of liver, 1123 Bartholin, duct of, 1111 glands of, 1232 Basal column, posterior, 804 knobs of Engelmann, 14 lamina, 117 optic nucleus of Meynert, 851 plate of decidua, 100 ridge, or cingulum of tooth, i094 Base of sacrum, 193 of skull, inferior surface, 262 upper surface, 271 Basement membranes, 20 Basi-hyal of hyoid bone, 260 Basilar artery, 661 groove, 217 process, 216 Basilic vein, 746 Basion, 279 Basket cells of cerebellum, 833 Bauhin, valve of, 1083 Bechterew, band of, 881 nucleus of, 825 Bell, external respiratory nerve of, 955 Bend of elbow, 672 i Betz, giant cells of, 881 ! Biceps flexor crui-is muscle, 577 flexor cubiti muscle, 537 Bicipital fascia, 538 groove, 295 ridges, 295 tuberosity, 306 Bicuspid teeth, 1095 valve, 609 Bigelow, Y-shaped ligament of, 425 Bile ducts, 1171, 1172 structure of, 1171 Bipolar cells of retina, 1021 Bird's nest of cerebellum, 829 Biventer cervicis muscle, 497 Biventral lobes, 829 Bladder, 1193 applied anatomy of, 1199 in child, 1195 development of, 175 distended, 1194 empty, 1194 female, 1196 interior of, 1198 ligaments of, 1190 lymphatic vessels of, 788 structure of, 1197 surface form of, 1198 trigone of, 1198 vessels and nerves of, 1196 Blandin, glands of, 1106 Blastodermic vesicle, 85 Blastopore, 80 Blood, Qeneral Composition of, 7 circulation of, in adult, 597 in foetus, 135, 614 coagulation of, 10 corpuscles, 7 crystals, 11 development of, 135 plasma of, 10 platelets, 9 Blood-corpuscles, origin of, 9, 135 Blood-islands, 135 Blood-sinuses, maternal. 99 Blood-vessels of brain, 652 Bochdalek, cornucopia of, 836 ganglion of, 912 • Bodies, aortic, of Zuckerkandl, 1248 Malpighian, of kidney, 1185 of spleen, 1242 Pacchionian, 898 polar, 80 Body, ano-coccygeal, 1155 of Balbiani, 79 carotid, 1247 | coccygeal, 1247 ' of lateral ventricle, 867 olivaiy. 813 of penis, 1214 perineal, 1155 of stomach, 11.34 restiform. 815 thyroid, 1235 of a tooth, 1093 of the uterus, 1223 of a vertebra, 183 vitreous, 1025 Body-cavity or ccelom, 91 Body-stalk of mesoderm, 95 Bone, Histology of. 24 animal constituent of, 29 articular lamella of, 366 canaliculi of. 29 cancellous tissue of, 24 cells, 29 chemical composition of, 29 compact tissue of, 24 development of, 30 diploe of, 182 earthy constituent of, 30 eminences and depressions of, 182 Haversian canals of, 27 systems of, 27 lacunaj of, 29 lamellse of, 28 lymphatics of, 27 marrow of, 25 medullary canal of, 181 membrane of, 25 nerves of, 27 ossification of, 30 perforating fibres of, 28 periosteum of, 25 vessels of, 26 Bones, classes of, viz. long, flat, mixed or irregular, short, 181 number of, in the body, 181 Bones or Bone, Descriptive Anatomy of, 181 of arm, 286 astragalus, 353 atlas, 185 axis, 186 carpal, 311 clavicle, 286 coccyx, 194 cranial, 214 cuboid, 354 cuneiform, of carpus, 312 of tarsus, 350 of ear, 1043 ethmoid, 238 Bones or Bone {cont.) facial, 241 femur. 332 fibula. 347 of foot, 349 frontal. 220 of hand, 311 humerus. 295 hyoid, 260 ilium, 320 incus, 1044 inferior maxillary, 255 turbinated. 253 innominate, 320 intei-parietal, 217 ischium, 323 laclirymal, 247 of leg, 320 lesser lachrymal, 248 malar. 248 maUeus, 1043 mandible, 255 niaxUla, 242 maxillary, inferior, 255 superior, 242 metacai-pal, 316 metatarsal, 358 nasal, 241 of nose, outer, 1002 navicidar, 356 occipital, 214 orbicular, 1044 OS calcis, 349 magnum, 314 palate, 250 parietal, 218 patella, 341 pelvic, 327 phalanges of foot, 361 of hand, 318 pisiform, 313 pubis, 324 radius, 306 ribs, 206 sacrum, 191 scaphoid, 311 scapiila, 288 semilunar, 312 sesamoid, 364 sphenoid, 232 sphenoidal turbinated, 236 stapes, 1044 sternum, 203 superior maxUlaiy, 242 tarsal, 349 temporal, 223 tibia, 343 trapezium, 313 trapezoid, 313 triquetral, 240 turbinated, inferior, 253 sphenoidal, 236 ulna, 301 unciform, 314 vertebra prominens, 187 vertebra;, cervical, 184 lumbar, 190 thoracic, or dorsal, 187 vomer, 254 I Wormian, 240 I zygomatic, 248 Bowman, glands of, 1007 lamina elastica anterior of, , 1014 sarcous elements of, 35 Bowman's capsule, 11851256 INDEX Braohia of corpora quadri- gemina, 843 Brachial artery, 071 applied anatomy of, 672 branclies of, 073 peculiarities of, 672 surface marking of, 672 plexus, 953 applied anatomy of, 905 veins, 747 Braohialis anticus muscle, 538 Brachio-cephalio veins, 747 Brachio-radialis muscle, 545 Bb.un, Hisloloriy of, 47 development of, 118 divisions of, 810 hemispheres of, 854 lobes of, 857 meninges of, 892 veins of, 730 weight of, 884 Brain-sand, 849 Breasts, 1232 development of, 115 Bregma, 279 Bregmatic fontanelle, 277 Bridge of nose, 1002 Brim of pelvis, 327 Broad ligaments of uterus, 1225 formation of, 1124 Brooa, area of, 864 convolution of, 859 diagonal baud of, 864 limbic lobe of, 862 Bronchi, left, 1070 changes in structure of, in lung, 1086 divisions of, 1084 right, 1070 Bronchial arteries, 684 veins, 750 Broncho-mediastinal trunk, left, 792 right, 792 Bruch, membrane of, 1016 Brunner's glands, 1146 Bryant's triangle, 428 Buccal arteries, 639 glands, 1090 lymphatic glands, 768 nerve of facial, 926 lona, of inferior maxillary, 9l5 Buccinator muscle, 467 Bucco-pharyngeal area, 87 fascia, 473 Bulb, or medulla oblongata, 811 artery of, 703 of corpus cavernosum, 1212 spongiosum, 1213 of internal jugular vein, 733 of oesophagus, 1117 olfactory, 864, 883 of the posterior horn, 867 Bulbar arteries, 061 portion of spinal accessory nerve, 938 Bulbous portion of urethra, 1201 Bulbus cordis, 137 vestibuli, 1231 Bulla etlimoidalis, 276, 1004 Bundle of Vicq d'Azvr, 850, 875 ovnl, 117 Burdach's tract, 807 Burns' space, 473 Bursa omen talis, 158 pharyngea, 1114 Bursae of knee, 435 of Gluteus maximus, 574 mucosae, 307 of shoulder, 405 synovise, 367 Bursal synovial membranes, 367 Caecal arteries, 692 Caecum, 1149 lymphatic vessels of, 785 Calamus scriptorius, 837 Calcanean arteries, external, 724 internal, 724 facets, 354 nerve, internal, 982 Calcaneo-astragaloid ligaments, 444 Calcaneo-cuboid ligaments, 446 Calcaneo-navicular ligaments, 447 Calcar avis, 860, 867 femorale, 339 Caloarine fissure, 857 CaUosal convolution, 863 fissure, 863 CaUoso-marginal fissure, 857 Calyces of kidney, 1183 Camper, fascia of, 506 Canaliculi of bone, 29 CauaHs centralis cochleae, 227 hyaloideus, 131, 1025 reuniens of Hensen, 1053 spiralis modioli, 1050 Cakals oe Canal— accessor}' palatine, 252 Alcock's, 518 alimentary, 1088 for Arnold's nerve, 228 auditory, 1037 carotid, 228 cranio-pharyngeal, 155, 237 crural, 708 dental anterior, 243 inferior, 257 middle, 243 posterior, 242 ethmoidal, 222 Haversian, of bone, 27 of Huguier, 224, 1040 Hunter's, 710 infraorbital, 243 inguinal or spermatic, 1204 for Jacobson's nerve, 228 lachrymal, 1032 malar, 248 neural, 89 nourentcric, 89 of Nuck, 175, 1225 palatine, accessory, 252 anterior, 246 posterior, 244, 261 of Petit, 1025 plcrygo-palatine, 236 of Schlemm, 1014 semicircular, bony. 10-18 membranous, 1053 Canals ou Canal (cont.) spermatic, 1204 of spinal cord, 800 spiral of modiolus, 1050 for tensor tympani muscle. 229, 1042 vertebral, 200 Vidian, 236 of Wirsung, 1178 Cancellous tissue of bone, 24 Canine eminence, 242 fossa, 242 teeth, 1094 Canthi of eyelids, 1029 Cap of Broca, 859 Capillaries, 57 structure of, 58 OapiteUum of humerus, 298 CapsvJa adiposa of kidney, 1183 extrema of brain, 873 Capsule of Bowman, 1185 of brain, external, 874 internal, 873 fibrous of kidney, 1183 of Glisson, 1168 of lens, 1025 of Tenon, 1010 Caput caecum coli, 1149 gaUinaginis, 1200 Cardiac cycle, 612 ganglion of Wrisberg, 996 glands of stomach, 1138 lymphatics, 792 muscular tissue, 41 nerves from pneumogastric, 936 from sympathetic, 992,993 orifice of stomach, 1133 plexuses of nerves, 996 veins, 728 Cardinal veins, foetal, 146 Carotico-clinoid foramen, 235 ligament, 237 Carotico-tympanic nerve, 990 Carotid arch, 142 artery, common, 625 applied anatomy of, 627 branches of (occasional), 627 peculiarities of, 626 surface marking of, 627 external, 628 applied anatomy of, 629 branches of, 629 surface marking of, 629 internal, 643 applied anatomy, 645 branches of, 646 pccuUarities of, 645 body, 626, 1247 canal, 228 ganglion, 990 groove, 233 nerves from glosso-pharyn- geal, 932 plexus, 090 triangle, inferior, 641 superior, 641 tubercle, 185 Carjial arch, antcrioi-, 677 posterior, 681 arteries, from radial, 077 from ulnar, 081 bones, 311 ligaments, 417INDEX 1257 Carpo - metacarpal articula- tions, 420 Carpus, 311 applied anatomy of, 320 articulations of, 417 ossification of, 319 surface form of, 319 Cartilace, Histology of, 21 articular, 22 cellular, 21 costal, 22 cricoid, 1061 of ear, 1036 ensiform, 204 of epiglottis, 1062 epiphysial, 31 ethmo-vomerine, 255 hyaline, 21 intrathyroid, 1060 of Jacobson, 1005 permanent, 21 of the pinna, 1036 of septum of nose, 1003 temporary, 21 thyroid, 1059 white fibro-, 23 xiphoid, 204 . yellow elastic, 24 Cartilage cells, 22 lacunae, 22 Cartilages, arytenoid, 1061 of bronchi, 1086 costal, 211 cuneiform, 1061 of larynx, 1059 Meckel's, 108, 258 of the nose, 1002 parachordal, 106 of Santorini, 1061 semilunar of knee, 434 of trachea, 1072 of Wrisberg, 1061 CartUagines alares minores, 1003 Cartilaginous ear capsule, 106 vertebral column, 103 Cartilago triticea, 1063 Caruncula lacrimalis, 1031 Carunculee hymeneales, 1231 Cauda equina, 797 helicis, 1036 Caudal fold of embi'yo, 92 Caudate nucleus, 871 Cava, inferior, 758 peculiarities, 759 superior, 748 Cavernous nerves of penis, 1000 plexus, 990 sinuses, 740 ajjplied anatomy of, 741 nerves in, 921 Cavity, amniotic, 93 body, or coolom, 91 cotyloid, 325 glenoid, 292 of larynx, 1065 of pelvis, 328 peritoneal, 1122 sigmoid, of radius, "307 greater, of ulna, 304 lesser, of ulna, 304 of thorax, 598 tympanic, 1039 of uterus, 1224 Cavum concha;, 1035 Meckelii, 906 Cavum oris proprium, 1089 septi pellucidi, 877 Cell, animal, 3 definition of, 3 division of, direct, 7 indirect, 4 nucleus of, 4 reproduction of, 4 structure of, 3 CeU-mass, inner, of ovum, 85 intermediate, 90 CeU-waU, 7 Cells of bone, 29 oentro-acinar, of Langerhans, 1179 chalice, 13 chromaffin, 1246 of Claudius, 1057 of Deiters, 1056 of Dogiel, 942 enamel, 1101 ethmoidal, 239 fat, 17 germinal, 115 giant, 26 of Betz, 881 goblet, 13 • of Golgi, 881 gustatory, 1001 of Martinotti, 881 mastoid, 226 nerve, 44 nerve-epithelium, 52 olfactory, 1007 prickle, 15 of Purkinje, 833 of Sertoli, 1208 of spinal ganglia, 942 splenic, 1242 supporting, of jEensen, 1057 wandering, 16 Cellular cartilage, 21 Cement, intercellular, 4 of teeth, 1098 formation of, 1102 Central canal of cord, 800 ganglionic system of arteries, 653 grey matter of aqueduct of Sylviiis, 844 ligament of cord, 899 tendinous point of perinseuiu, 524 tendon of diaphragm, 503 Centre, higher visual, 852 of ossification, 31 Centres of ossification, number of, 33 lower visual, 852 Centrifugal nerve-fibres, 49 Centripetal nerve-fibres, 49 I Centro-acinar cells of Langer- hans, 1179 Centrosome, 4 bodies of spermatozoon, 82 of ovum, 79 Centrosphere, 4 Centrum ovale majus, 865 minus, 865 of vertebra, 183 Cephalic flexui'e of embryonic brain, 119 fold of embryo, 92 vein, 745 accessory, 746 Ceralo-hyal of hyoid bone, 261 Cerebellar arteries, anterior inferior, 661 posterior inferior, 661 superior, 661 direct tract, 806 notches, 826 veins, 737 Cerebello-olivary tract, 820 Cerebellum, 825 applied anatomy of, 834 development of, 120 fibrpe propria; of, 832 great horizontal fissui'e of, 826 grey matter of, 832 hemispheres of, 826 laminiE of, 832 lobes of, 825 nucleus dentatus, 834 peduncles of, 830, 831 structure of, 830 under surface of, 827 upper surface of, 826 vermis of, 826 weight of, 834 white matter of, 830 Cerebral arteries, anterior, 648 middle, 650 posterior, 661 cortex, nerve-ceUs of, 881 nerve-fibres of, 881 special types of, 882 sti'ucture of, 880 hemispheres, 854 association fibres of, 878 borders of, 855 commissural fibres of, 878 convolutions, 856 development of, 124 fissures of, 856 grey matter of, 879 gyri of, 856 interior of, 865 lobes of, 857 localisation of, 885 poles of, 856 projection fibres of, 878 structure of, 878 sulci of, 856 surfaces of, 855 transverse fibres of, 878 white matter of, 878 topography, 885 veins, 736, 737 ventricles, 834, 852, 867 vesicles, 118 Cerebro-olivary tract, 820 Cerebro-spinal fluid, 897 Ceruminous glands, 1038 Cervical artery, ascending, 662 superficial, 663 transverse, 662 enlargement of spinal cord, 798 fascia, 471 ganglion, inferior, 993 middle, 992 superior, 990 lymphatic glands, anterior, 772 deep, 772 apxalied anatomy of, 772 nerve, superficial or trans- verse, 950 of facial, 927 nerves, 945INDEX 1258 Cervical nerves, anterior divi- sions of, 94!) posterior divisions of, f)45 cardiac, 036 plexus, 949 deep branches of, 953 posterior, 940 superlicial bi'anches of, 960 rib, 187 applied anatomy of, 210 vertebrre, 184 Cervicalis asoendens muscle, 496 Cervicis princeps artery, 634 profunda artery, 665 Cervico-cephalic portion of sympathetic cord, 990 Cervico-facial nerve, 926 Cervix uteri, 1224 Chalice cells, 13 Chambers of the eye, 1017 Chassaignao's tubercle, 184 Check ligaments, 382 of eye, 1011 Cheeks, structure of, 1090 Chest, applied anatomy of, 212 surface form of, 211 Chiasma, or optic commissure, 901 Choanse, 277, 1004 Cholesterin, 7 Chondrin, 24 Chondro-cranium, 105 Chondro-glossus muscle, 480 Chondro-mucoid, 24 Chondro-sternal ligaments, 388 Chondro-xiijhoid ligament, 390 Chorda tympani nerve, 925 Chordse tendineaa, of left ven- tricle, 608 of right ventricle, 606 WiUisii, 738 Chordal furrow, 89 portion of base of skull, 106 Chorion, 97 froudosum, 97 IfBve, 97 Chorionic vUli, 97 Choroid, 1014 development of, 133 plexus of fourth ventricle, 836 of lateral ventricle, 877 of third ventricle, 852 vein of brain, 737 Choroidal arteries, anterior, 652 posterior, 661 fissure, 129, 877 Chromaffin cells, 1246 Chromatin, 4 Chromatolysis, 45 Chromoplasm, 4 Chromosomes, 5 Chyle, 12, 763 Chylifcrous vessels, 763 Cilia, or eyelashes, 1029 Ciliary arteries, 648 body. 1016 muscle, 1016 nerves, long, 910 short, 911 processes of eye, 1016 Ciliated epithelium, 13 Cingulum, 863, 879 of teeth, 1094 Circle of Willis, 052 Circular sinus, 742 Circulation of blood in adult, 597 in foetus, 614 Circulus major of iris, 048 minor, ()48 tonsillaris, 932 venosus of mamma, 1234 CircumciEcal fossaj. 1131 Circumduction, 370 Giro u mf erential fi bro - cartilage, 24 ^ Circumflex artery of arm, anterior, 671 posterior, 672 artery of thigh, external, 714 internal, 714 Uiac artery, deep, 707 superficial, 713 vein, deep, 755 superficial, 752 nerve, 956 Circumpatellar anastomosis. 719 Cisterna basalis, 896 magna, 896 •pontis, 896 Cisternte of arachnoid, 896 Clarke's column, 803 Classification of joints, 368 Claudius, cells of, 1057 Claustrum, 873 Clava of fasciculus gracilis, 814 Clavicle, 286 applied anatomy of, 289 ossification of, 288 peculiarities in sexes, 288 structure of, 288 sm'face form of, 288 Clavi-pectoral fascia, 667 Cleft palate, 285 Clefts, visceral, 107 Clinging fibres of cerebellum, 833 Clinoid processes, anterior, 235 middle, 232 posterior, 232 Clitoridis, prseputium, 1231 Clitoris, 1231 frenulum of, 1231 muscles of, 527 Clivus, 233 monticuli of cerebellum, 827 Cloaca, ectodermal, 161 entodermal, 101 Cloacal membrane, 161 Cloquet,lymphatic gland of,776 Clot, 10 Coagulation of blood, 10 Coccygeal artery. 704 body, 1247 nerve, anterior primaiy divi- sions of, 978 posterior primary divisions of, 949 plexus, 986 Coccygeus muscle, 621 Coccyx, 194 ossification of. 108 Cochlea, 1040 aqueduct of. 228 oanalis spiralis of, 1050 cupula of. 1049 hannilus lamina: spiralis of, 1051 lielicotrcma, 1051 Cochlea, lamina spiralis of 1051 lamina spiralis secundaria. 1051 membranous canal of, 1053 modiolus of, 1049 nerves of, 1058 scalae of, 1051 veins of, 1058 Coclilear artery, 1058 nerve, 928. 1058 Cochlear nuclei. 825 root of eighth nerve, 928 Cochleariform process, 229, 1041 Coeliac axis, 688 plexus, 999 Coelom, 91 Cog-tooth of malleus, 1043 Cohnheim, areas of, 38 Colic, left, 693 middle, 692 right, 692 Colic arteries of Ueo-colic, 692 Collateral circulation. Sec Applied An atom J' of each artery . eminence, 871 fissure, 857 intercostal artery, 685 Collecting tubes of kidney, 1186 CoUes, fascia of, 506, 523 CoUiculus nervi optici, 1020 Colon, 1151 ascendmg, 1151 descending, 1152 hepatic flexxu-e, 1151 iliac. 1153 lymj)hatic vessels of, 785 pelvic, 1153 S23lenic flexure of, 1153 Colostrum coi-puscles, 1233 Colomed lines of Retzius, 1018 Coloiu-ed or red corpuscles, 7 Colourless corpuscles. 8 Column, vertebral. 182, 198 Columna nasi, 1002 Columnse canicfe of left ven- tricle. 609 of right ventricle, 607 Columnar epithelium, 13 Columns of external abdominal ring. 508 4 of llorgagni. 1156 of spinal cord. 798 of vagina, 1229 Comes nervi ischiadic!, 704 nervi mcdiani, 681 nervi phrcnici, 063 Comma tract, descending. 801 Commissural fibres of brain, 878 Commissure of brain, anterior. 127. 870 middle or .soft, 122 posterior, 123 superior. 849 of Gucldcn, 901 of labia majora, anterior. 1231 posterior. 1231 optic, 851, 901 of prostate, anterior. 1210 of spinal cord. grcv. 800 white, 8001259 INDEX Common bile duct, 1173 lymphatics of. 787 carotid aiteiy, ()2u iliac artery, 096 glands. 780 veins, 758 ligaments of vertebra;, 373 Coinmunicans pcronei nerve, 984 tibialis nerve, 981 Communicantes hypoglossi nerve. 952 Comnumioating artery of brain, anterior, MS posterior. 652 from dorsalis pedis, 722 Compact tissue of bone, 24 Comparison of bones of hand and foot, 362 Complexus muscle, 497 Compressor naris muscle, 464 narium minor muscle, 464 urethra; muscle, 526 in female, 528 Concha, 1035 cavum conchfe, 1035 eymba conchie, 1035 Condylar process of mandible, 257 Condyles of femur, 337 mandible, 257 Condyloid articulations, 370 foramina, 216 fossa, 216 Cone of attraction of ovum, 83 Cone-bipolars of retina, 1021 Cone-granules of retina, 1022 Cones of retina, 1023 ConQueuoe of the sinuses, 740 Congenital fissures in cranium, 240 hernia, 1160 Coni vasoulosi, 1209 Conjomcd tendon of internal oblique and transversalis muscles, 512 Conjunctiva, 1031 Connecting Qbro-cartilages, 24 Connective tissues, 15 development of, 21 lymphatics of, 21 nerves of, 21 vessels of, 21 Connective-tissue corpuscles, 15 Connective tissue of kidney, 1189 e.xtra-peritoneal, 516 Conoid ligament, 402 tubercle, 287 Constrictor muscle, inferior, 482 isthmi faucium muscle, 479 muscle, middle, 483 superior, 483 urethra; muscle, in female, 528 in male, 526 Contractile libre-cclls, 41 Conus arteriosus, 60() medullaris, 795 Convoluted tubes of kidney, 1186 tubular gland, 75 Convolution of Broca, 859 Convolutions, angular, 860 Convolutions, ascending frontal or |irecentral, 858 parietal or postcentral, 860 callosal, 863 of cerebrum, topography of, 885 cuneus. 860 dentate, 864 frontal, 858 of Hesclil. 861 hippooampal. 863 inferior parietal, 860 marginal, 859 occipital, 861 occipito-temporal, 861, 862 orbital, 859 parietal, 8()0 postcentral, 860 postparietal, 860 preoentral, 858 precuneus, 860 quadrate, 8()0 superior parietal, 860 supramarginal, 860 temporal, 861 Cooper, ligament of. 510 Coraco-acromial ligament, 403 Ooraco-brachialis muscle, 537 Coraco-clavicular ligament, 402 Coraco-humeral ligament, 404 Coracoid process, 293 Cord, spermatic, 1205 spinal, 795 umbilical, 95 Coriura of mucous membrane, 74 of skin, 60 Cornea, 1012 Corneal corpuscles, 10)4 spaces. 1014 Cornicula lai-yngis, 1061 Cornua of the coccyx, 195 of the hyoid bone, 261 of the lateral ventricles, 867 of the sacrum, 192 of the spinal cord. 799 of the thyroid cartilage, 1060 Cornu Ammonis, 870 Cornu-commissural tract, 807 Cornucopia of Bochdalek, 836 Corona glandis. 1213 radiata of brain. 874 of ovum, 79 Coronal suture, 219 Coronary arteries of heart, 620 peculiarities of, 620 of lip, 633 artery of stomach, 688 ligament of liver, 1123 ligaments of knee, 434 lymphatic glands, 781 plexuses, 997 sinus. 728 opening of, 604 vein of stomach, 762 veins of heart, 728 Coronoid fossa, 298 process of mandible, 257 of ulna, 301 Corpora Arantii, 607 cavernosa clitoridis, 1231 penis, 1212 bulbs of, 1212 crura of, 1212 geniculata, 848 Corpora mamillaria, 850 quailiigcmina, 843 lirachia of, 843 structure of, 843 Corpus callosum, 865 dcvelo])ment of, 127 genu of, 866 rosti-um of, 860 splenium of, 866 cavernoKiim, artery of, 703 Highmori, 1207 spongiosum, 1213 striatum, 124, 871 vein of, 737 subthalamicum, 850 trapezoideum. 824 Corpuscles, coloured, 7 colourless, 7 development of, 135 origin of, 9 colostrum, 1233 connective-tissue, 15 genital, 50 of Herbst, 51 Pacinian, 51 tactile, 50 of Vater, 51» CoiTugator cutis ani muscle, 522 supercilii muscle, 460 Cortex of cerebellum, 832 of cerebrum, 880 of kidney, 1184 of suprarenal glands, 1246 Corti, ganglion of, 1050 organ of, 1055 rods of, 1056 tunnel of, 1056 Cortical arches, 1184 arterial system of brain, 654 columns, 1184 visual centre, 882 Cortico-pontine fibres of crusta, 839 Cortico-striate fibres, 873 Costal cartilages, 22, 211 articulation with ribs, 390 process, 184 Costo-central articulation, 386 Costo-chondral articulation, 390 Costo-clavicular ligament, 400 Costo-coraeoid ligament, 531 membrane, 530 Costo-mediastinal sinus, 1077 Costo-transverse articulations, 386 Costo-vertebral articulations, 385 Cotyloid cavity, 325 ligament, 425 notch, 326 Coverings of direct inguinal hernia, 1161 of femoral heinia, 1 Uil of oblique inguinal hernia, 1159 of testes, 1203 Cowper's glands, 1218 Cranial bones, 214 fossa;, 271 nerves, 899 development of, 127 eighth pair, 927 eleventli, 937 fifth, 90612G0 INDEX Cranial nerves, firsfc, 900 fourth, 905 nintli, 930 second, 901 seventh, 922 sbcth, 920 tenth, 933 third, 903 twelfth, 939 Craniology, 278 Cranio-jjharyngeal canal, 115, 237 Cranium, 213 bones of, 214 congenital fissures in, 240 development of, 105 Cremaster muscle, 511 Cremasteric artery, 706 fascia, 512 Crescentic lobe, anterior, 827 posterior, 827 Crescents of Gianuzzi, 1112 Crest, frontal, 221 of ilium, 323 incisor, 246 infratemporal, 234 lachrymal, 248 nasal, 246 of nasal bone, 242 neural, 89 obturator, 325 occipital, 215 internal, 216 of pubis, 325 of spine of scapula, 291 supramastoid, 223 of tibia, 344 turbinated, of maxilla, 244, 245 of palate, 251 Cribriform fascia, 566 plate of ethmoid, 238 Crico-arytenoid ligament, pos- terior, 1064 Crico-arytenoideus lateralis muscle, 1068 posticus muscle, 1068 Crico-thyroid artery, 630 membrane, 1064 muscle, 1067 Crico-traoheal ligament, 1064 Cricoid cartUage, 1061 Crista basilaris, 1054 falciformis, 227 galli, 238 lacrimalis, 245 sphenoidalis, 233 terminalis of His, 138, 604 vestibuli, 1048 Crossed commissural fibres, 801 pyramidal tract, 805 Crown of a tooth, 1093 Crucial anastontosis, 704, 714 ligaments of knee, 432 ridgo of occipital, 215 Cruciform ligament, 378 Crura cerebri, 838 structure of, 839 of clitoris, 1231 of corpora cavernosa, 1212 of diaphragm, 602 fornicis, 875 of pciiis, 1212 of stapes, 1044 Crural aroii, deep, 616, 708 canal, 708 Crural nerve, anterior, 974 ring, 708 septum, 708 Crureus muscle, 569 Crus commune of semiciroular canals, 1049 helicis, 1035 laterale, 1003 mediale, 1003 penis, 1212 superior and inferior, of transverse ligament, 378 Crusta or pes, 839 petrosa of teeth, 1098 Crypts of Lieberiiiihn, U46 Crystalline lens, 1025 development of, 129 Crystals, blood, 11 Cuboid bone, 355 Cuboideo-navicular articula- tion, 448 Culmen monticuli of cere- bellum, 827 Cuneate fasciculus, 807 nucleus, 814 tubercle, 814 Cuneiform bone, external, of foot, 358 internal, of foot, 356 middle, of foot, 357 of hand, 312 cartilages, 1061 Cuneo-cuboid articulation, 448 Cuneo-navicular articulation, 447 Cuneus, 860 i Cupula of cocUea, 1061 ! Curvatures of stomach, 1133 j Curved lines of Uium, 320, 321 ' of occipital, 214 j Curves of the vertebral column,' 198 j Cusliion of epiglottis, 1062 of Eustachian tube, 1114 Cusps of bicuspid valve, 609 of tricuspid valve, 606 Cutaneous nerve of thigh external, 973 internal, 975 middle, 975 Cuticle of skin, 64 Cuticula dentis, 1101 Cutis plate, 102 vera, 00 Cuvier, ducts of, 146 Cycle, cardiac, 612 Cylindrical epithelium, 13 Cymba conchas, 1035 Cystic artery, 690 duct, 1172 plexus of nerves, 999 vein, 703 Cytoblast, 86 Cytoplasm, 3 Dacryon, 279 Dangerous area of cveball, 1028 Dartos, 1204 Darwin, tubercle of, 1035 Daughter chromosomes, 5 skeins, 5 Dccidua, 97 basalis, 99 capsularis, 98 placentalis, 99 I Decidua vera, 99 Decidual cells, 98 Decussation of fillet, 817 of optic nerves, 901 of pyramids, 813 Deep abdominal ring, 510 auricular artery, 638 cervical lympiiatic glands. 772 crural arch, 610 epigastric artery, 706 vein, 755 external pudic artery, 713 palmar arch, 670 fascia, 552 temporal artery, 639 nerves, 915 transverse fascia of leg, 583 Degeneration, Wallerian, 46, 804 Deglutition, 486 Deiters, cells of, 1056 nucleus of, 825 Deliraitation of embryo, 91 Deltoid ligament, 441 muscle, 534 tubercle, 287 tuberosity, 298 Demilunes of Heidenhain, 1112 Demours, memljrane of, 1014 Dendrites, 794 Dendrons of nerve-cells, 45 Dens sapientis, 1096 Dental artery, anterior, 640 inferior, 639 j)osterior, 639 canal, anterior, 243 inferior, 257 middle, 243 posterior, 242 furrow, 1100 germ, common, 1099 special, 1100 lamina, 1099 nerves, inferior, 917 superior, 912 pulp, 1096 sacs, 1101 Dentate gyrus, 864 fissure, 863 Dentmal tubules, 1097 fibres, 1097 sheath of Neumann, 1097 Dentine, 1097 formation of, 1101 secondar3% 1099 Depressions for Pacchionian bodies, 218, 221 Depressor alee nasi muscle, 404 anguli oris muscle, 466 labii infcrioris muscle, 460 Dermal bones, 107 Dermatoma, 102 Dermic coat of liair follicle, 69 Dermis, or true skin, 66 Descemet, membrane of, 1014 Descendens hypoglossi nerve, 940 Descending aorta, 682 cerebcUo-spinai tract, 805 colon, 1153 comma tract, 808 cornu of lateral ventricle, 808 palatine artery, 640 Descent of testis, 173 Detrusor urino! muscle, 11971261 INDEX Doutoplasm, 79 Development of adipose tissue, 18 alimentary canal and appendages, 150 arteries, 141 atlas, 103 axis, 104 bone, 30 brain, 118 connective tissue, 21 cranial nerves, 127 cranium, 105 Diaphi-aam, 107 ear, 133^ ethmoid, 107 external organs of genera- tion, 175 eye, 128 face, 110 frontal bone, 107 generative organs, 167 glands of skin, 114 heart, 137 hyoid bone, 108 joints, 114 kidnev, 174 limbsi^ 113 liver, 164 lymphatics, 149 mammse, 115 mouth, 151 muscle fibres, 42 muscles, 114 nerve cells and fibres, 47 nervous system, 115 nose, 110 ovaries, 172 palate, 111 pancreas, 165 parietes, 102 pericardium, 150 permanent teeth, 1102 pharynx, 155 pituitary body, 155 pleuraj, 107 prostate, 175 respiratory organs, 166 ribs, 104 salivary glands, 153 sense organs, 115 skeleton, 102 skin, 114 skuU, 105 spinal cord, 115 spleen, 106 sternum, 104 suprarenal glands, 169 temporary teeth, 1099 testis, 173 thymus gland, 154 thyroid body, 154 tongue, 153 tonsUs, 154 urethra, 175 m'inary bladder, 175 organs, 167 vascular system, 135 veins, 145 vertebral column, 102 visceral arches, 107 vomer, 112 Diagonal band of Broca, 864 Diaphragm, 501 development of, 167 lymphatics, vessels of, Diaphragm, pelvic, 517 trefoil tendon of, 503 Diaphragraa scUse, 894 urogenitale, 525 Diaphragmatic lymphatic glands, 790 Diaphysis, 33 Diarthrosis, 369 Diaster, 5 Dicncephalon, 122, 844 Digastric fossa, 225 muscle, 477 nerve, from facial, 925 triangle, 642 Digestion, organs of, 1088 Digital arteries from palmar arch, 681 of anterior tibial, 984 of external plantar, 984 of internal plantar, 983 fossa of epididymis, 1206 fossa of femur, 334 nerves of musculo-cutaneous, 985 of median, 962 of radial, 965 of ulnar, 903 sheaths of fingers, 552 of toes, 589 veins of hand, 745 Dilatator naris anterior, 464 posterior, 464 pupUlae muscle, 1018 tubse, 1043 Diploe, 182 veins of, 735 Direct cerebellar tract of cord 800 inguinal hernia, 1101 course of, 1161 coverings of, 1161 pyramidal tract, 804 Discharge of ovum, 1221 Disc, interpubic, 397 Discs, intervertebral, 374 Discus proligerus, 1220 Dispirem or daughter skeins, 5 Distal convoluted tubule, 1186 Diverticulum, Meckel's, 93, 1143 Division of bronchi, 1084 of cells, 4 direct, 7 indii'ect, 4 Dobie's line, 38 Dogiel, cells of, 942 Dorsal artery of penis, 703 auditory nucleus, 825 lamina, 117 longitudinal fasciculus, 841 nerve of penis, 986 peripheral band, 808 vems of penis, 757 vertebra;, 187 peculiar, 188 Dorsales poUicis arteries, 677 Dorsalis hallucis artery, 722 indicia, 077 liiigiue, 630 pedis, 721 applied anatomy of, 722 branches of, 722 peculiarities of, 722 surface marking of, 722 ! scapulae, 670 I Dorso-epitroohlearis muscle, 492 Dorsum ilii, 320 of scapula, 289 sella;, 232 Douglas, pouch of, 1225 semilunar fold of, 513 Ductless glands, 1234 aortic bodies of Zuckei- kandl, 1248 cai'otid bodies, 1247 coccygeal body, 1247 parathyroids, 1237 spleen, 1240 suprarcnals, 1245 thymus, 1238 thyroid, 1235 Ducts or Duct— accessory jjancreatic, 1178 of Bartholin, 1111 common bile duct, 1173 of Cowpcr's elands, 1218 of Cuvier, 146 cystic, 1172 ejaculatory, 1212 of Giirtner, 1220 hepatic, 1171 lactiferous, 1233 of liver, 1171 lymphatic, right, 767 Miillerian, 170 nasal, 1033 pancreatic, 1178 parotid, 1110 perinephric, 108 prostatic, orifices of, 1200 , of Rivinus, 1111 Stenson's, 1100 sublingual, ill! submaxillaiy, 1110 thoracic, 705 thyroglossal, 154 vitelline, 93 1 Wharton's, 1110 of Wirsung, 1178 Wolilian, 108 Ductus arteriosus, 014 how obliterated in foetus, 016 choledochus, 1173 cochlearis, 1053 endolyniphaticus, 133, 1053 pancreaticus aocessorius, 1178 Santorini, 1178 utriculo-saccularis, 1053 venosus, 146, 014 development of, 140 fissure foi', 1107 Duodenal fold, inferior, 1129 superior, 1130 fossa, inferior, 1129 superior, 1130 glands, 1140 Duodeno-jcjunal flexure, 1142 fossa, 1131 Duodeno-mesoeolic ligaments, 1131 Duodeno-pyloric constriction, 1133 Duodenum, 1139 first portion, 1141 second portion, 1141 third portion, 1142 fourth portion, 1142 lymphatic vessels of, 7841262 Duodenum, vessels aud nerves of, 1142 Dura mater, 892 arteries of, 8!)4 eraiiiiil, 892 endosteal layer of, 894 meningeal layer of, 894 nerves of, 894 processes of, 893 spinal, 894 struotiiro of, 894, 895 veins of, 894 Ear, 1034 arteries of, 1037, 1043, 1058 auditory canal, 1037 applied anatomy of, 1038 cochlea, 1019 development of, 133 external, 1034 internal, or labyi'inth, 1047 meatus acustious extemus, 1037 middle or tympanum, 1039 membranous labyrinth, 1051 muscles of pinna, 1036 of tympanum, 1045 osseous labyrinth, 1047 ossicles of tympanum, 1043 pirma or auricle of, 1035 semicircular canals, 1048 tymimnum, or middle ear, 1039 applied anatomy of, 1046 vessels and nerves of, 1046 vestibule, 1047 Ectoderm, 87 amniotic, 94 embryonic, 86 j)rimitive, 85 Ectodermal cloaca, IGl Efierent nerves, 49 Egg-tubes of PHiiger, 1221 Eighth cranial nerve, 927 applied anatomy of, 929 nuclei of, 825 Ejaculator urinte, 524 Ejaculatory ducts, 1212 Elastic cartilage, 24 lamina of cornea, 1014 tissue, yellow, 19 Elastin, 19 Elbow, bend of, 672 joint, 409 anastomoses around, 674 applied anatomy of, 412 surface form of, 411 vessels and nerves of, 410, 411 Eleidin, 66 Eleventh cranial nerve, 937 applied anatomy of, 939 Embryo, delimitation of, 91 membranes and appendages of, 92 Embryonic area, 80 ectoderm, 86 pole, 15 Eminence, canine, 242 frontal, 220 hypothenar, 550 ilio-pectineal, ,323 parietal, 218 pyramidal, of pons, 823 thenar, 550 INDEX Eminences and depressions bones, 182 Eminentia acustica, 837 arcuata, 227 articularis, 223 coUateralis, 871 cruciata, 215 saeeularis, 851 teres, 838 Emissary veins, 743 Enamel cells, 1101 di-oplet, 1101 epithelium, 1101 organ, 1101 prisms or fibres, 1098 of teeth, 1098 formation of, 1101 Enarthrosis, 370 Enceijhalon, 810 weight of, 884 End-bulbs of Krausp, 50 articular, 50 End-piece of spermatozoon, 82 End-plates, motor, of Kiihne, 53 Endings of Ruffini, 50 Endocardial cushions, 139 Endocardium, 609 Endognathion, 285 Endolymph, 1051 Endomysium, 37 Endoneurium, 48 Endoskeleton, 181 Endosteal layer of dura mater, 894 Endothelium, 13 Ensiform process, 204 Entoderm, 86, 88 Entodermal cloaca, 161 Eosinophil corpuscles, 8 Eparterial branch of bronchus, 1070 Ependyma, 867 Ependymal layer, 116 Epicardium, 600 Epicondyles of humerus, 299 Epicranial aponeurosis, 458 Epidermic coat of hair follicle, 69 Epidermis, development of, 114 structure of, 64 Epididymis, 1206 development of, 169 Epigastric artery, deep, 706 ajoplied anatomy of, 707 peculiarities, 707 superficial, 713 superior, 665 fossa, 212 plexus, 997 region, 1119 vein, deep, 755 su])erfieial, 752 Epiglottis, 1002 Epihyal, 478 Epimysium, 36 Epineurium, 47 E])iotio centre of temporal bone, 231 i Epiphysial cartilage, 31 , Epiphysis, 33 Epistropheus, 180 E|)ithalanius. 123. 849 fasciculus rctroflexus of Meynert, 849 Epifchalamus, ganglion liabe- nuliu, 849 pineal body, 849 homologies of, 849 stalk of, 849 structure of, 849 posterior commLssure, 849 nucleus of, 849 superior commissure, 849 trigonum habenuUo, 849 Epithelial cells, 12 Epithelium, 12 ciliated, 13 columnar, 13 cylindrical, 13 enamel, 1101 germinal, of A\ aldeyer, 172, 1220 pavement, 12 simple, 12 spheroidal or glandular, 13 stratified, 14 of cornea, 1013 transitional, 15 Epitympanic recess, 226, 1039 Eponychium, 68 Epo5phoron, 169, 1220 Equator of lens, 1025 Erector clitoridis nmscle, 527 penis muscle, 524 spintfi muscle, 495 Eruption of the teeth, 1102 Erythroblasts, 10, 26 Erythrocj'tes, 7 Ethmo-vomerine cartilage, 255 Ethmoid bone, 238 articulations of, 240 cribriform plate of, 238 development of, 107 lateral masses of, 239 OS planum of, 239 ossification of, 240 perpendicidar plate of, 239 uncinate process of, 239 Ethmoidal arteries, 647 canal, anterior, 222 posterior, 222 cells, 239, 1008 notch, 222 plate, 106 process of inferior turbinated. 253 spine, 232 Eustachian tube, 1042 cushion of, 1114 isthmus of. 1042 pharj^ngeal oriliee of, 1114 tonsil of. 1042 valve, 605 in foetal heart. 614 Exner, plexus of, 881 Exognatliion, 285 Exoskeleton. 181 Extensor brevis digitorum muscle, 587 brevis jDoUicis. 549 carpi radialis brevior muscle 545 longior. 545 ulnaris. 547 coccygis, 498 coninnmis digitorum (hand). 546 indicis, 549 longus digitorum (foot), 580 poUicis. 5491263 INDEX Extensor miiiiiiu digiti, 547 ossis nietacarpi pollicis, 549 proprhis hallucis, 580 External abdominal ring, 508 annular ligament, 587 capsule of brain, 874 carotid artery, 028 cutaneous nerve, 973 iliac artery, 705 lymphatic glands, 779 vein, 755 jugular vein, 732 maxillary arterj', 631 medullary lamina, 847 organs of generation, de- velopment of, 175 female, 1230 lymphatic vessels of, 781 OS uteri, 1224 plantar artery, 725 nerve, 983 popliteal nerve, 984 pterygoid plate, 236 respiratory nerve of Bell, 955 saphenous nerve, 981 vein, 753 spermatic fascia, 509 sphincter ani, 494 Extra-embryonic area, 86 Extra-peritoneal connective tissue, 516 Extra-spinal veins, 751 Extremities, 286 bones of the lower, 320 upper, 286 Extremity of penis, 1214 Extrinsic muscles of tongue, 480 Eye, 1010 apiJendages of, 1028 applied anatomy of, 1026 aqueous humour, 1024 capsule of Tenon, 1010 chambers of, 1017 choroid, 1014 ciliary body, 1010 muscle, 1016 processes, 1016 conjunctiva, 1031 cornea, 1012 crystalline lens, 1025 . development of, 128 hvaloid membrane, 1025 ins, 1017 membrana hyaloidea, 1025 pupillaris, 1019 orbiculus ciliaris, 1010 pupil, 1017 refracting media, 1024 retina, 1020 sclera, 1011 tunics of, 1011 uvea, 1018 vascular and pigmented tunic, 1014 vessels and nerves of globe of, 1026 vitreous body, 1025 Eyeball, muscles of, 462 Eyebrows. 1029 Eyelashes, 1029 Eyelids, 1029 development of, 133 Meibomian glands of, 1031 muscles of, 459 X^alpebral ligaments of, 1030 structure of, 1029 Eyelids, tarsal plates of, 1030 Eye-teeth, 1095 Face, arteries of, 631 bones of, 241 development of, 110 lymphatics of, 769 muscles of, 456 Facial artery, 631 applied anatomy of, 633 peculiarities of, 633 transverse, 036 bones, 241 nerve, 922 vein, 730 applied anatomy of, 731 common, 730 deep, 730 transverse, 731 Falciform ligament of liver, 1168 of pelvis, 395 process of fascia lata, 508 Fallopian tubes, 1221 applied anatomy of, 1222 development of, 170 fimbriated extremity of, 1221 lymphatic vessels of, 789 structure of, 1221 False ligaments of bladder, 1197 pelvis, 327 ribs, 206 vocal cords, 1000 Falx cerebelli, 894 cerebri, 893 Fangs of teeth, 1093 Fascia, anal, 518 axillaris, 529 of arm, 533 of back, 489 bicipital, 538 bucco-pharyngeal, 473 of Camper, 506 cervical, deep, 472 superficial, 471 clavi-pectoral, 667 of CoUes, 506, 523 of cranial region, 450 cremasteric, 512 cribriform, 506 deep, 455 dorsal, of foot, 587 endopolvina, 519 of forearm, 539 general description of, 455 of hand, 550 iliac, 504 infraspinata, 536 infundibuliform, 510 intercolumnar, 509 intercostal, 500 iachio-rectal, 521 lata, 500 falciform process of, 508 iliac portion, 508 pubic ])ortion, 508 of leg, 579 deep transverse, 583 lumbar, 493 of mamma, 529 masseteric, 467 of Obturator internus, 517 Fascia {cont.) of orbit, 463 palmar, 552 parotid, 473 pelvic, 517 of pelvic diaphragm. 518 plantar, 587 pretracheal, 473 prevertebral, 473 propria of femoral hernia, 1162 of psoas and iliacus, 564 of pyriformis, 518 of Quadratus lumborum, 517 rectal, 519 recto-vesioal, 519 renalis, 1183 of Scarpa, 506 semilunar, 538 spermatic, external, 509 subscapularis, 534 superficial, 455 supraspinata, 535 temporal, 408 of thigh, 566 of thoracic region, 528 transversalis, 515 triangular, 510 vertebral, 493 vesical, 519 Fasciiu, general description of, 455 Fasciculus cuneatus, 807, 816 gracilis, 807, 816 inferior longitudinal, 879 occipito-frontal, 879 perpendicular, 879 posterior longitudinal, 841 retrofiexus of Meynert, 849 of Rolando, 814 solitarius, 822 spino-cerebellaris ventralis, 806 superior longitudinal, 879 Fasciola cinerea, 864 Fat, 17 cells, 17 Fauces, isthmus of, 1091 pillars of, 1091 Female Reproductive Or- gans— bulbus vestibuli, 1231 caruncute hynieneales, 1231 clitoris, 1231 development of, 167 fossa navicularis, 1231 fourchette, 1231 glands of Bartholin, 12.32 hymen, 1231 labia niajora, 1230 minora. 1231 mons Veneris. 1230 nympha;, 1231 uterus, 1222 vagina, 1229 vestibule, 1231 Femoral artery, 707 applied anatomy of, 712 branches of, 713 common, 712 peculiarities of, 712 surface marking of, 712 hernia, 1161 region, muscles of anterior, 5()6 internal, 571INDEX 1264 Femoral region, rTposteiior, 577 sheath, 707 spur, 339 vein, 755 Femur, 332 applied anatomy of, 340 articulations of, 339 condyles of, 337 head of, 332 neck of, 332 ossification of, 339 structure of, 338 surface form of, 340 trochanters of, 333 Fenestra ovalis, 1041 rotunda, 1041 Fenestrated membrane of Henle, 55 Fertilisation of ovum, 83 Fibras propria of cerebellum, 832 Fibre-cells, contractile, 41 Fibres, arcuate, 820 dentinal, 1097 intercolu:unar, 509 of MiUler, 1023 of muscles, 37 of nerves, 45 of Purkinje, 42 of Remak, 47 of Tomes, 1097 FibrillsB, termination of nerves in, 49 Fibrin, 10 ferment, 10 Fibrinogen, 10 Fibro-eartUage, 23 connecting, circumferential, and stratiform, 24 interarticular, 23 yellow, 24 Fibro-cartilages— acromio-clavicular, 402 intervertebral, 374 of knee, 434 pubic, 397 radio-ulnar, 414 sacro-coccygeal, 39R stemo-clavicular, 400 temporo-raandibular, 383 Fibro-serous membranes, 72 Fibrous cartilage, 23 pericardium, 599 rings of heart, 010 tissue, white, 18 Fibula, 347 applied anatomy of, 349 articulations of, 348 ossification of, 348 surface form of, 348 Fibular artery, superior, 721 region, muscles of, 565 Fifth cranial nerve, 906 applied anatomy of, 918 nuclei of, 824, 844 surface marking of, 918 ventricle jf brain, 877 Filiform papilloe of the tongue, 1105 Fillet. 842 lateral, 842 mesial, 843 Filtration area of eyeball, 1028 Filuni tcrminale of cord, 797 Fimbria or taenia hippocampi, 875 ovarica, 1221 Finibriee of Fallopian tube, 1221 Fimbrio-dentate fissure, 864 First nerve, 900 applied anatomy of, 901 Fission of cells, 7 Fissura antitragohelicina, 1036 petro-occipitalis, 264 l^etro-squamosa, 264 IJetro-tympanica, 1040 prima of cerebellum, 121 of rhinencephalon, 864 secunda of cerebellum, 121 vestibuli, 1051 Fissure, auricular, 228 choroidal, 129 for ductus venosus, 1167 Glaserian, 224 longitudinal of liver, 1167 transverse, 1167 portal, 1167 pterygo-maxillaiy, 268 spheno-maxillary, 267 sphenoidal, 235 of spinal cord, 798 umbilical, 1167 for vena cava, 1167 Fissures of cerebellum, 827, 828 great horizontal, 826 intragracile, 829 postcentral, 827 postclival, 827 postgracile, 829 postnodular, 828 postpyramidal, 829 precentral, 827 preclival, 827 prepyramidal, 828 of cerebrum, 856 calcarine, 857, 860 callosal, 863 calloso-marginal, 857 collateral, 857 dentate, 863 fimbrio-dentate, 864 great longitudinal, 854 hippocampal, 863 parieto-occipital, 857, 869 Rolando, 857 Sylvius, 856 transverse, 878 of the cerebelliuu (embrj'- onic), 120 of the cerebrum (embryonic), 126 congenital (of skull), 240 of the lung, 1082 of the medulla, 812 of the spinal cord, 798 Fixation muscles, 454 of the kidney, 1183 Flat bones, 181 Flechsig, oval area of, 808 tract of, 806 Flexor accessorius muscle, 589 brevis digitorum, 588 haUucis, 590 minimi digiti of foot, 591 of hand, 556 | pollicis, 654 | carpi radial! s. 540 j ulnaris, 541 ' Flexor longus digitorum, 583 hallucis, 583 pollicis, 544 profundus digitorum, 543 sublimis digitorum, 541 Flexure, hepatic, 1151 splenic, 1151 Flexures of embryonic brain, cephalic, 119 cervical, 119 pontine, 119 Floating ribs, 207 Flocculus, 829 Floor plate, 115 Fluid, cerebro-spinal, 897 Fluids, nutritive, 7 Foetus, circulation in, 614 Eustachian valve in, 614 foramen ovale in, 140 vascular system in, pecu- liarities, 014 Fold of Douglas, 513 vestigial, of pericardium, 600 Folds, amniotic, 93 aryteno-epiglottic, 1060 caudal and cephalic, 92 genital, inner, 176 outer or labio-scrotal, 175 glosso-epiglottic, 1062 recto-uterine, 1225 reoto-vesical, or sacro-genital, 1125 Folium cacuminis, 827 Follicle of hair, 68 simple, of intestine, 1146 Follicles, Graafian. 1220 Fontana, spaces of, 1014 Fontanelles, 277 Foot, arches of, 452 arteries of, 721, 724, 725 bones of, 349 applied anatomy of, 363 ossification of, 362 surface form of, 363 dorsum, fascia of. 587 muscles of, 587 ligaments of, 444 sole of, fascia of. 587 muscles of, 589 Foramen caecum of frontal bone, 221 of medulla oblongata, 812 of tongue, 154, 1104 carotico-clinoid. 235 condyloid, anterior, 216 posterior, 216 dental, inferior. 256 of Husohke, 230 incisor, 246 infraorbital, 242 intervertebral, 183 jugular, 264 lacerum medium, 264 magnum. 217 of Majendic, 836, 897 mastoid, 225 mental, 255 of jNIonro, 870 development of, 122 obtm'alor, 326 optic, 232 ovale of heart. 140. 614 of sphenoid. 234 palatine, accessory, 252 posterior, 2521265 INDEX Foramen, parietal, 218 rotundum, 234 saoro-sciatio, 395, 396 singulare, 227 spheno-palatine, 252 spinosuni, 234 sternal, 204 stylomastoid, 228 supraorbital, 221 supratrochlear, 299 thyroid, 326 transversarium, 184 vertebral, 183 Vesalii, 234 of Winslow, 158, 1127 Foramina of Diaphragm, 503 ethmoidal, 270 intervertebral, 183 of Key and Retzius, 836, 837 of Luschka, 836, 897 malar, 248 nervosa, 1055 olfactory, 238 sacral, 191 of Scarpa, 246 of Stenson, 246 Thebesu, 604 Forceps, major, 866 minor, 866 Forearm, bones of, 301 fascia of, 539 muscles of, 539 Forebrain, 122, 844 Foregut, 150 Foreskin, 1214 Form of embryo at different stages, 177 Forraatio reticularis alba, 821 of cord, 799 grisea, 821 of medulla, 821 Formation, hippocampal, 120 Formative yolk, 79 Fornices of vagina, 1229 Fornix of brain, 875 body of, 875 development of, 127 pillars of, 875 conjunctivae, 1031 Fossa acetabuli, 326 anticubital, 672 of antihelix, 1035 canine, 242 cochlearis, 1048 condyloidea, 216 coronoidea, 298 digastric, 225 digital, of epididymis, 1206 of femur, 334 duodenal, inferior, 1129 superior, 1130 duodeno-jejunal, 1131 femoral, 709 glenoid, 224 of helix, 1035 hyaloidea, 1025 ileo-ca;oal, 1131 ileo-colic, 1131 iliac, 322 incisive, 242 incudis, 1041 infraspinous, 289 infratemporal, 267 interpeduncularis, 838 intcrsigmoid, 1132 Fossa, ischio-rectal, 522 jugular, 228 lachrymal, 221, 245 navicularis of urethra, of vulva, 1231 occipital, 215 olecranon, 298 ovalis, 605 ovarii, 1218 palatine, anterior, 240 pararectal, 1125 paravesical, 1125 pituitary, 232 pteiygoid, 236 radialis, 298 retrocsecal, 1132 of RosenmiiUer, 1114 scapha, 1035 scaphoidea, 236 of skuU, anterior, 271 middle, 273 posterior, 274 spheno-maxillary, 268 subarcuata, 228 suboffical, 1132 sublingual, 256 submaxillary, 256 subscapular, 289 supraspinous, 289 supratonsOlaris, 1114 Sylvian, 126 temporal, 266 triangularis, 1035 trochanteric, 334 zygomatic, 267 Fossae, nasal, 275, 1004 retroperitoneal, 1129 of skuU, 271 Fountain decussation of Mey- nert, 844 Fourchette, 1231 Fourth cranial nerve, 905 applied anatomy of, 906 ventricle, 834 Fovea centralis retinae, 1023 inferior of fourth ventricle, 837 inguinahs lateralis, 1159 mesialis, 1159 superior of fourth ventricle, 837 supravesicalis, 1159 I trochlearis, 221 Fbactube of acromion process, 560 of clavicle, 560 of femur above condyles, 695 below trochanters, 595 of fibula, with dislocation of tibia, 596 of humerus, shaft of, 661 surgical neck, 561 of neck of femur, 595 of olecranon process, 562 of patella, 595 of pelvis, 332 Pott's, 596 of radius, 562 lower end of, 563 shaft of, 562 and ulna, 562 of ribs, 212 of skull, 282 of sternum, 212 of tibia, shaft of, 595 of ulna, shaft of, 562 Frenulaofilca-ca;cal valve, 1150 of lips, 10S9 Frerulum of cerebellum, 827 clitoridis, 1231 linguae, 1104 praeputii, 1214 veli, 831 Frontal artery, 648 bone, 220 articulations of, 223 ossification of, 223 structure of, 223 convolutions, 857 crest, 221 eminence, 220 lobe, 857 nerve, 909 operculum, 862 sinuses, 222, 1008 suture, 220 vein, 729 Fronto-ethmoidal suture, 272 Fronto-malar suture, 265 Fronto-maxUlary suture, 271 Fronto-nasal process, 110 Fronto-parietal operculum, 862 Fronto-sphenoidal process of malar, 248 Fundus of stomach, 1134 tympani, 1040 of uterus, 1223 Fungiform papOlae of tongue, 1105 Funicular process, 173 Funiculus of nerve, 47 separans, 837 FurcaUs, nervus, 970 Furcula, 154 Furrow, chordal, 89 dental, 1100 Uiac, 331 sternal, 211 Furrowed band of cerebellum, 829 Galen, veins of, 737 GaU-bladder, 1172 applied anatomy of, 1175 fissure for, 1167 lymphatic vessels of, 787 structure of, 1172 Gangliated cord of sympa- thetic, 988 cei-vico-cephalic portion, 990 lumbar portion, 994 pelvic portion, 996 thoracic portion, 993 Ganglion or Ganqlla, Hi&lology of, 53 of Andeisch, 932 aortic-renal, 997 of Bochdalek, 912 cardiac, 906 carotid, 990 cervical, inferior, 993 middle, 992 I superior, 990 diaphragmatic, 997 on facial nerve, 923 of fifth nerve, 908 Gasscrian, 906 gcniculi, 923 of glosso-pharyngeal, 932 habcnula;, 849 I impar, 996 4 M1266 INDEX Ganglion ou Ganglia (cont.) intei'peduiiculfti'c, 840 jugular, 932 Langley's, 1112 lenticular, 910 lumbar, 995 Meckel's, 912 mesontpric, 999 ophthalmic, 910 otic, 917 petrous, 932 phrenicuiu, 997 of piieuiiiogastrio, 935 of root of vagus, 935 sacral, 996 of Scarpa, 1058 semilunar, of abdomen, 997 spheno-palatine, 912 spinal, 941 spirale coclilete, 1058 splanchnicum, 993 submaxillary, 918 suprarenal, 998 thoracic, 993 of trunk of vagus, 935 of Valentin, 912 of Wrisberg, 998 Ganglion ridge or neural crest, 89, 118 Ganglionic branch of nasal nerve, 909 arteries, antero-lateral, 650 antero-median, 648 j)3St3ro-lateral, 601 postero-median, 661 layer of retina, 1021 Giirtiier, duct of, 109, 1220 Gasssriau ganglion, 908 depression for, 227 artery, 646 Gastric arteries (vasa brevia), 690 ■ artery, 688 glands, 1137 nerres from vagus, 937 plexus, 999 veins, short, 702 Gastrocnemius muscle, 581 Gastro-colic omentum, 1128 Gastro-duodenal artery, 689 Ijlexus, 999 Gastro-epiplaic plexus, 999 veins, 762 Gastro-epiploic artery, right, 690 left, 690 vein, left, 762 Gastro-hepatic omentum, 1127 Gastro-phronic ligament, 1134 Gastro-splenic omentum, 1128 (icmsllus inferior muscle. 576 superior muscle, 576 Gemmation of cells, 7 Generative Groans, develop- ment of, 167 female, 1218 male, 1203 Geniculate bodies, 848 fibres of crusta, 839 of internal capsule. 873 Gjniculum of facial nerve. 923 Genio-hyo-glosius muaalc. 479 (Jonio-hyoid muscle. 479 (Jeriital cord, 170 corpuschs, 50 folds, inner, 170 I Genital folds, outer, 175 I gland, 170 groove, 170 ridge, 170 tubercle, 175 Genito-crui'al nerve, 972 Gennari, band of, 880, 882 Genu of corpus caUosum, 866 of internal capsule, 873 Gerlach, tube-tonsil of, 1042 Germ, common dental, 1099 special dental, 1100 Germ-centres, 63 Germinal cells, 115 epithelium of Waldeyer, 172, 1220 path, 173 spot, 78 vesicle, 79 Qiacomini, band of, 864 Giant-cells, 26 of Betz, 881 Gianuzzi, crescents of, 1112 Gimbernat's ligament, 610 Ginglymus, 369 Giraldes, organ of, 169, 1211 Girdle, pelvic, 286 shoulder, 286 GlabeUa of frontal bone, 220 Gladiolus, 204 Gland or Glands— arytenoid, 1069 of Bartholin, 1232 of Blandm, 1108 of Bowman, 1007 Brunner's, 1146 buccal, 1090 ceruminous, 1038 Cowjaer's, 1218 ductless, 1234 duodenal, 1146 gastric, 1137 genital, 170 labial, 1089 lachrymal, 1032 of larynx, 1069 lingual, 1106 of Littre, 1201 of Luschka, 1247 lymphatic, 61 mammary, 1232 Meibomian, 1031 molar. 1091 of Moll, 1029 of Montgomerv, 1233 of Nuhn, 1106" oesophageal, 1118 palatal, 1091 parathyroid, 1237 parotid, 1118 Peyer's, 1146 prostate, 1215 salivary. 1108 sebaceous, 71 secreting, 74 racemose or saccular, 75 simple, 74 tubular. 74 compound. 75 convoluted. 75 solitary, 1146 spleen, 1240 sublingual, 1111 submaxillary, 1110 ' sudoriferous, 71 suprarenal, 1245 I Gland or Gland.s (cotil.) sweat, 71 thymus, 1238 thyroid. 1235 of tongue, HOC of Tyson, 1214 uterine, 1227 Glandulse Paccliioni, 898 Tysonii odoriferae, 1214 Glandular epithelium, 13 Glans clitoridis, 1231 penis, 1213 Glaserian fissure, 224, 1040 Gleno-humeral ligaments, 404 I Glenoid cavity, 292 fossa, 224 ligament of Cruveilhier, 422, 451 of shoulder, 405 Gliding movement, 370 Glisson's capsule, 1168 Globular processes of His, 111 Globus major of epididymis. 1206 minor, 1206 paUidus of lenticular nucleus, 872 Glosso-epiglottic folds, 1062 Glosso-pharyngeal nerve. 930 applied anatomy of, 932 Glottis respiratoria, 1066 rima of, 1066 vocalis, 1066 Gluteal artery, 704 nerve, inferior, 979 superior, 979 region, muscles of, 573 ridge, 336 veins, 756 Gluteus masimus muscle, 573 medius muscle, 574 minimus muscle, 575 Goblet cells, 13 Golgi, ceUs of, 881 organ of, 52 GoU, tract of. 807 Gomphosis. 368 Gonion, 279 Gowers, tract of. 806 Graafian foUicles. 1220 structure of. 1220 Gracile nucleus, 814 Gracilis muscle, 671 Grande lobe limbique of Broca. 862 Grandry. tactile corpuscles of. 50 Granular or rust-coloured layer of cerebellar cortex. 833 layer of dentine, 1098 Granide cells. 15 Great auricular ]ierve. 950 horizontal fissure. 826 longitudinal fissure. 854 occipital nerve. 945 omentum. 1128 ] sacro-sciatic foramen, 394 ■ sciatic nerve, 980 I sinus of aorta. 619 ti'ansvcrse fissure. 878 Great,er curvature of stomach, I 1133 wings of sphenoid. 234 (J rev commissure of spinal I ■ cord. 800 ol third ventricle, 854INDEX 1267 Grey matter of cerebelluni, 832 of cerebral hemispheres, 879 of medulla oblongata, 818 of spinal cord, 799, 800 Grey or gelatinous nerve-fibres, 47 Groove, anriculo-ventricular, 002 bicipital, 29.5 carotid, 233 infraorbital, 243 interauricular, 002 interventricular, 602 lachrymal, 244 rausculo-spiral, 297 mylo-hyoid, 256 nasal, 242 neural, 89 occipital, 255 optic, 232 primitive, 86 subclavian, 288 subcostal, 208 vertebral, 200 Grooves, interventricular, 602 Ground bundle, antero-lateral, 807 Gubernaculum dentis, 1102 testis, 173 Gudden, commissure of, 901 Gums, 1091 Gustatory cells, 1101 hair, 1001 pore, 1001 Gyri, or convolutions of brain, 856 breves insula?, 802 of Heschl, 801 Gyrus dentatus, 864 hippocampi, 803 longus insulie, 862 marginal, 859 rectus, 859 subcallosal, 864 supracallosal, 864 temporalis transversi, 861 Ha;matoidin crystals, 11 Hsemin crystals, 11 Hajinoglobin, 7 crystals, 11 Hcemorrhoidal artery, inferior, 701 middle, 699 superior, 694 nerve, inferior, 985 plexus of nerves, 999, 1000 vein, inferior, 762 middle, 757 venous plexus, 757 applied anatomy of, 757 Hair-cells of internal ear, 1056 Hairs, 68 cuticle of, 70 follicles of, 68 gustatory, 1001 olfactorv, 1007 shaft of" 70 structure of, 08 Haller, vas aberrans of, 1210 Hallucis magna artery, 722 Ham, region of the, 715 Hamstring tendons, applied anatomy of, 578 Hamular process of lachrymal, 248 of sphenoid, 230 Hamulus laminae spiralis, 1051 Hand, arteries of, 681 bones of, 311 fascia of, 550 muscles of, 550 nerves of, from median, 962 from radial, 965 from ulnar, 962, 963 surface form of, 319, 659 veins of, 745 Hard palate, 1091 Harrison's sulcus, 213 Hasner, plica lacrimalis of, 1033 Haversian canals of bone, 27 systems of bone, 27 Head, arteries of, 625 lymphatics of, 707 muscles of, 456 veins of, 729 Head-cap of spermatozoon, 81 Head-kidnc}-, 168 Heakt, 601 applied anatomy of, 613 arteries of, 611, 620 component parts of, 602 development of, 137 endocardium, 609 fibres of the auricles, 610 j of the ventricles, 611 \ fibrous rings of, 610 ' infundibuluni of, 600 left auricle, 608 ventricle, 008 lymphatic vessels of, 792 muscular fibres of. 610 structure of, 41 nerves of, 612, 930, 990 position of, 601 right auricle, 604 ventricle, 600 septum ventriculorum, 009 size and weight, 602 structure of, 009 surface marking of, 612 veins of, 612 Heidenhain, demilunes of, 1112 Helicine arteries, 1214 HelicLs major muscle, 1030 minor muscle, 1030 Helicotrema of cochlea, 1049, 1051 Helix, 1035 fossa of, 1033 muscles of, 1036 spine of, 1030 Hemispheres of cerebelluni, 826 development of, 120 of cerebrum, 854 development of, 124 Henle, ligament of, 513 loop of. 1186 Henle's layer of hair-follicle, 70 Hensen, canalis reuniens of, 1053 lines of, 39 supporting ceUs of, 1057 Hensen's stripe, 1057 Hepatic artery, (588 cells, 1170 cylinders, 164 duct, 1171 lymphatic glands, 782 I Hepatic plexus, 999 veins, 700 Herbst, corpuscles of, 51 Hernia, congenital, 1160 direct inguinal, 1161 encysted, 1161 femoral, 1101 into funicular process, 1101 infantile, 1101 inguinal, 1159 oblique inguinal, 1159 scrotal, 1159 Herophilus, torcular of, 740 Heschl, gyri of, 861 Hesselbach, ligament of, 513 triangle of, 1159 Hiatus Faliopii, 227 semilunaris, 270, 1004 Higher visual centres, 852 High more, antrum of, 244, 1008 Hilus of kidney, 1182 of lung, 1081 of spleen, 1240 Hind-brain, 119, 811 Hind-gut, 150 Hinge-joint, 309 Hip-joint, 243 applied anatomy of, 428 muscles in relation with, 420 surface form of, 428 Hippooampal convolution, 803 fissure, 863 formation, 126 Hippocam])us major, 870 minor, 807 His, auriculo-ventricular bundle of. Oil sulcus terminalis of, 604 Horizontal cells of retina, 1022 fissure, great, 826 plate of palate, 250 Horner's muscle, 460 Houston's valves of rectum, 1155 Howship's laounie, 26 Huguier, canal of, 224, 1040 Humerus, 295 applied anatomy of, ,300 articulations of, .300 head of, 295 neck of, 295 nutrient artery of, 674 ossification of, 299 structure of, 299 surface form of, 300 tuberosities of, greater, 295 lesser, 295 Humour, aqueous, 1024 Hunter's canal, 710 Huschke, auditory teeth of, 1055 foramen of, 230 Huxley's layer of hair-follicle, 70 Hyaline cartilage, 21 cell, 8 Hyaloid membrane of eye, 1025 Hyaloplasm, 3 Hydatids of Morgagni, 1()8. 1206, 1221 Hymen, 1231 Hyo-epiglottic ligament, 1(101 Hyo-glossal membrane, I Hyo glossus muscle, 480 Hyoid arch (foetal), 108 bone, 200 4 M 2INDEX 1268 Hyoid bone, cornua of, 2G1 ossilication of, 201 muscles of infrahyoid region, 470 of suprahyoid region, 477 Hypartcrial bronchi, 1084 Hypochondriac regions, 1119 Hypochordal bar, 103 Hypogastric arteries in foetus, 614 how obliterated, 010 lymphatic glands, 779 plexus, 999 zone, 1119 Hypoglossal nerve, 939 applied anatomy of, 941 nucleus of, 818 Hypothalami, pars mamUlaria, 123 pars optica, 123 Hypothalamus, 849 corpora mamillaria, 850 infundibulum, 851 optic commissure, 851 pituitary body, 851 subthalamic tegmental re- gion, 850 corpus subthalamicum,850 nucleus of Luys, 850 stratum dorsale, 850 zona mcerta, 850 tuber cinereum, 851 Hypothenar eminence, 550 Eeo-CMoal fossa, 1131 valve, 1150 Ileo-colic artery, 692 fossa, 1131 Ileum, 1142 lymphatic vessels of, 785 Iliac arteries, common, 696 applied anatomy of, 697 peculiarities of, 696 surface marking of, 697 external, 705 applied anatomy of, 705 surface marking of, 705 internal, 698 applied anatomy of, 705 at birth, 698 peculiarity in the foetus, 698 colon, 1153 fascia, 564 fossa, 322 furrow, 331 lymphatic glands. 779, 780 portion of fascia lata, 568 region, muscles of, 5(U spines, 323 veins, common, 758 peculiarities of, 758 external, 755 internal. 755 Iliacus muscle, 565 fascia of, 564 Ilio-coccygeus muscle, 521 Ilio-costalis muscle, 49(5 Ilio-fcMioral ligament, 425 Ilio-bypogastric nerve. 971 llio-inguinnl nerve, 972 Ilio-lumhar arterv, 704 ligament, 393 ' vein, 758 Ilio-pcctineal eminence, 323 Ilio-pectineal ligament, 504 Ilio-sacralis muscle, 521 Ilio-tibial band, 567 llio-trochantcric ligament, 425 Ilium, 320 crest of, 323 dorsum of, 320 spines of, 323 tubercular point of, 323 Immovable articulations, 308 Impressio cardiaoa, 1165 colica, 1165 duodenalis, 1165 renalis, 1165 suprarenalis, 1166 Impression, rhomboid, 288 Licisive bone, 246 fossa, 242 Incisor crest. 246 teeth, 1094 Incisura angularis, 1133 cardiaca, 1133 cerebelli anterior, 826 posterior, 826 intertragica, 1035 parietalis, 225 Rivini, 1040 temporalis, 863 tentorii, 893 Incisuraj Santorini, 1038 Incremental lines of Salter, 1098 Licus, 1044 development of, 134 ligaments of, 1045 Index, cephalic or breadth, 279 gnathic or alveolar, 280 nasal, 280 orbital, 279 vertical or height, 279 Indusium griseum, 864 Infantile hernia, 1161 Inferior carotid trangle, 641 central nucleus, 821 coronary artery, 633 dental artery, 639 canal, 257 nerve, 917 external frontal artery, 650 fovea of fourth ventricle, 837 hEBmorrhoidal artery, 701 internal frontal artery, 648 labial artery, 633 laryngeal artery, 662 nerve, 936 longitudhral fasciculus, 879 maxillary nerve, 914 meatus of nose, 276 medullary velum, 829, 831 mesenteric artery, 639 glands, 784 vein, 762 phrenic artery, 695 profunda artery. 674 thyroid artery, 602 veins, 748 turbinated bone. 253 articulations of, 254 ethmoidal processof, 253 lachrymal jirocessof, 253 maxillary jirocess of, 254 ossification of, 254 vena cava, 758 development of, 146 opening of, 004 Infracostal muscles, 501 Infracostal piano, 1119 Infraglenoid tubercle, 292 Infrahyoid artery, 292 Infraorbital artery, 039 branches of facial, 925 canal, 243 foramen, 242 groove, 243 nerve, 9IIre plexus of nerves, 912, 926 Infrapatellar pad of fat, 431 Infraspinatus inuscle, 536 Intraspinous fascia. 536 fossa, 289 Infrastemal notch, 212 Infratemporal crest, 234 fossa, 267 Infratrochlear nerve, 910 Infundibula of kidney, 1183 Infundibuliform fascia, 516 Infundibulo-pelvic ligament, 1225 Infundibulum of brain, 851 of Fallopian tube, 1221 of heart, 606 of nasal fossa, 1004 Inguinal canal, 1204 glands, deep, 776 applied anatomy of, 777 supeificial, 776 hernia, 1159 Liion, 279 Inlet of pelvis, 327 Innominate artery, 623 applied anatomy of, 624 peculiarities of, 624 bone, 320 articulations of, 327 ossification of, 326 veins, 747, 748 peculiarities of, 748 Insertion of muscles, 454 Insula, 862 Interalveolar cell-islets, 1179 Interarticular chondro-stemal ligaments, 389 costo-central ligaments, 386 tibro-cartilage, 23 of acromio-clavicular joint, 402 of knee, 434 of radio-uhiar joint, 414 of stemo-clavicular joint, 400 of temporo-mandibular jomt, 383 ligament of rib, 386 Intcraurieular groove, 602 Inter-brain, 844 Intercavernous smuses, 742 Intercellular biliary passages, 1171 Litercentral articulations, 373 Interchondral ligaments, 390 Interclavicular ligament. 400 Interclinoid ligament. 237 Intercolunmar fascia, 509 fibrcs. 509 Intcrcondyloid notch, 337 Intercostal arteries, 684 anterior, 665 superior, 665 fasciaj, 500 lymphatic glands. 789 membranes, 500 muscles, 500INDEX 1269 Intercostal nerves, 966 spaces, 207 veins, 750 superior, 748 Intoroosto-humeral nerves, 968 Intercuneiform articulations, 448 Interglobular spaces, 1098 Interior of bladder, 1198 of larynx, 1065 of uterus, 1223 Interlobular arteries of kidney, 1188 biliary plexus, 1171 Intermediate cell-mass, 90 Intermetacai-pal articulations, 422 Intermotatarsal articulations, 450 Intermuscular septa, 456 of arm, 537 of thigh, 567 Internal abdominal ring, 510 annular ligament, 587 calcanean nerve, 982 capsule of brain, 873 carotid artery, 643 cutaneous nerve, 958 ear, 1047 iliac lymphatic glands, 779 vein, 755 jugular vein, 733 mammary artery, 663 branches of, 638 glands, 789 veins, 748 maxillary artery, 637 branches of, 638 medullary lamina, 847 oblique muscle, 510 occipital crest, 216 03 uteri, 1223 plantar artery, 725 nerve, 983 popliteal nerve, 981 pterygoid plate, 236 pudic nerve, 701 saphenous nerve, 976 vein, 752 secretion, 76 sphincter of anus, 523 Interneural articulations, 375 Internodal segments of nerves, 46 Interossei muscles, dorsal, of foot, 591 of hand, 557 palmar, 557 plantar, 591 Interosseous arteries of hand, 077, 078 of foot, 722 , of forearm, 680 recurrent, 081 Interosseous membrane of fore- arm, 414 of leg, 439 nerve, anterior, 960 posterior, 965 veins of forearm, 747 Interparietal bone, 217 Interpeduncular space, 854 Interphalangeal articulations, 423, 451 Literpubic disc, 397 Intersegmental neurons, 801 Intersigmoid fossa, 1132 Interspinales muscles, 498 Interspinous ligaments, 376 Intersternal ligaments, 390 Intertarsal articulations, 444 Intertransversales muscles, 498 laterales, 498 mediales, 498 Litertransverse ligaments, 376 Intertrochanteric line, anterior, 334 posterior, 335 Intertubercular plane, 1119 Intertubular stroma of kidney, 1189 Interventricular grooves, 602 , septum, 609 Intervertebral discs, 374 foramina, 183 notches, 183 Intervillous spaces, 99 I Intestine, applied anatomy of, 1158 development of, 155 large, 1148 coats of, 1155 lymphatics of, 784 snmU, 1139 coats of, 1143 surface relations of, 1157 vessels and nerves of, 1147 Intracartilaginous ossification, 31 Intraepithelial plexus of cornea, 1014 Intragracile fissure, 829 Intrajugular process, 216 Intralobular veins, 1169 Iritramembranous ossification, 30 Intranuclear network, 4 Intraparietal sulcus, 859 Intraspinal veins, 751 Intrathyroid cartilage, 1060 Intrinsic muscles of tongue, 480 Involuntary muscle, 40 Iris, 1017 Irregular bonos, 182 Ischio-capsular ligament, 424 Ischio-rectal fascia, 521 fossa, 522 applied anatomy of, 522 Ischium, 323 body of, 323 ramus of, 324 spins of, 323 tuberosity of, 324 Island of Reil, 862 convolutions of, 862 development of, 126 limiting sulcus of, 862 Islands of Langerhans, 1179 Isthmus, aortic, 621 of auditory canal, 1038 of Fallopian tube, 1221 faucium, 1091 of limbic lobe, 863 of thyroid gland, 1235 rhombencephali, 119 Iterchordso anteriua, 1040 chordiE posterius, 1040 Ivory of tooth, 1097 Jacob's membrane, 1023 Jacobson, cartilage of, 1005 foramen for nerve of, 228 nerve of, 932. 1046 organ of, 112, 1005 Jaw, lower. See. Mandible upper. (See MaxiUa Jejunum, 1142 lymphatic vessels of, 785 JeUy of Wharton, 19 Joint. iSee Syndesmology Jugular foramen, 264 fossa, 228 ganglion, 932 lymphatic glands, 771 process, 216 vein, anterior, 733 external, 732 applied anatomy of, 733 internal, 733 applied anatomy of, 734 posterior external, 733 primitive, 146 sinus or bulb, 733 surface, 228 Jugum sphenoidale, 237 Junctional tube, 1186 Karyokinesis, 4 Karyomitosis, 4 Karyoplasm, 79 Keratin, 14 Kerkring, valves of, 1143 Key and Eetzius, foramina of, 836, 897 Kidneys, 1180 applied anatomy of, 1190 calyces of, 1183 cortical substance of, 1184 development of, 174 fascia renalis, 1183 fixation of, 1183 hilus of, 1182 infundibula of, 1183 lymphatic vessels of, 787 Malpighian bodies of, 1185 tufts of, 1185 medullary substance of, 1184 minute anatomy of, 1185 nerves of, 1189 paranephric body, 1183 pelvis of, 1184, 1191 renal artery, 694, 1187 sinus, 1183 surface marking of, 1189 tubuli uriniferi, 1185 veins of, 1189 weight and dimensions of, 1180 Knee-joint, 430 applied anatomy of, 438 bursoe of, 435 surface form of, 438 Kolliker, membrane of, 1057 Krause, end-bulbs of, 50 membrane of, 38 Kiihne, motor end plate of, 53 Labb6, posterior vein of, 737 Labia cerebri, 865 majora, 1230 minora, 1231 Labial artery, 633 anastomotioINDEX 1270 Labial glands, 1089 nerves from superior jnaxil lary, 912 Labio-dental strand, 1099 Labium tympanicuni, 1055 vestibulare, 1055 Labyrinth, membranous, 1051 arteries of, 1058 osseous, 1047 Lachrymal apparatus, 10,32 applied anatomy of, 1033 development of, 133 artery, 647 bone, 247 articvdations of, 248 lesser, 248 ossification of, 248 canals, 1032 ampulla; of, 1032 caruncula, 1031 crest, 248 fossa, 221, 245 gland, 1032 inferior part, 1032 superior part, 1032 groove, 244 nerve, 909 notch, 243 papilla, 1029, 1032 process of inferior tm'binated bone, 253 puncta, 1032 sac, 1032 tubercle, 245 Lac teals, 763 Lactiferous ducts, 1233 Lacmia magna, 1201 Lacunte of bone, 27 Howship's, 26 laterales, 898 of urethra, 1201 Lacus lacrimalis, 1029 Lagena, 1057 Lambda, 219 Lambdoid sutui-e, 217 Lamella of bone, articular, 366 Lamellse of bone, 28 circumferential, 27 interstitial, 27 primary, 27 secondary, 27 Lamellar cells, 15 Lamina basalis, 1016 chorio-capiUaris, 1016 I cornea of corpus striatum, I 875 cribrosa, 227 sclerse, 1012 dental, 1099 dorsal or alar, 117 elastica anterior of cornea, 1014 posterior of cornea, 1014 reticularis, 1057 spiralis ossea of cochlea, 1051 spiralis secundaria, 1051 suprachorioidea, 1012, 1015 terminalis, 122, 851 vasculosa, 1015 ventral or basal, 117 of the vertcbrcc, 183 Larainaj, nasal (fcetal), 111 Lancisi, strife of, 864 Langerhans, centro-aoinar cells of, 1179 islands of, 1179 Langhans, layer of, 80 Langley's ganglion, 1112 Lantermann, segments of, 40 Lanugo (fcetal hairs), 115 Large cavernous nerve, 1000 deep petrosal nerve, 913 intestine, 1148 crecum, 1149 colon, 1151 ileo-csecal valve, 1150 rectum, 1154 superficial petrosal nerve, 913, 924 Laiyngeal artei-y, inferior, 062 superior, 630 nerve, external, 936 inferior, 936 internal, 936 recmTcnt, 936 superior, 936 saccule, 1166 sinus, 1066 Laryngotomy, 1074 Larynx, 1059 actions of muscles of, 1069 applied anatomy of, 1073 arteries of, 1070 cartilages of, 1059 cavity of, 1065 glands of, 1069 ligaments of, 1063 lymphatic vessels of, 772 mucous membrane of, 1069 muscles of, 1067 nerves of, 1070 rima glottidis of, 1066 superior apertme of, 1066 sm-face form of, 1073 veins of, 1070 ventricle of, 1066 vestibule of, 1065 voeal cords of, false, 1066 true, 1066 Lateral area of medulla, 813 basis bundle, 807 oornua of spinal cord, 799 nerve-ceUs in, 802 ligaments of liver, 1168 limiting zone, 807 longitudinal stria;, 864 mass of ethmoid, 239 mesoderm, 90 nasal artery, 633 processes, 110 occipital sulcus, 860 recesses of fourth ventricle, 835 sacral arteries, 704 sinuses of brain, 739 ventricles of brain, 807 Latissimus dorsi muscle, 490 Layer of Langhans, 86 of rods and cones, 1023 Layers of cerebral cortex, 880 Lecithin, 7 Left lobe of liver. 1167 Leg, bones of, 320 fascia of, 579 deep transverse, 583 muscles of, 679 back of, 581 front of, 678 Lcnmiscus, 842 Lens, crystalline, 1025 capsule of, 1025 Lens, changes produced in, by age. 1020 development of, 131 equator of, 1025 poles of, 1025 structure of, 1020 suspensory ligament of, 1025 vascular capsule of, 131 vesicle, 128 Lenticular ganglion, 910 nucleus, 872 process of incus, 1044 Lesser curvature of stomach, 1133 internal cutaneous nerve, 959 lachrymal bone, 248 omentum, 1127 sac of ijcritoneum, 1126 boundaries of, 1127 wings of sphenoid, 235 Leucocytes, 8 development of, 10 Levator anguli oris, 464 scapulae, 492 ani, 519 glandula; thyreoideae, 1236 labii inferioris, 466 superioris, 464 alseque nasi, 464 menti, 466 palati, 484 palpebrte, 461 prostatse, 520 Levatores costarum, 501 Lieberkiihn, crypts of, 1146 Lieno-renal ligaraent, 1126 Ligament or Ligaments— acromio-clavicular, inferior, 401 superior, 400 alar of knee, 434 of ankle, anterior, 441 lateral, 441 annular, of ankle, 586 external, 587 internal, 587 of radius, 413 of wrist, anterior, 550 posterior, 551 arcuate. 502 astragalo-navioular, 445 atlanto-axial. anterior, 377 posterior. 378 of bladder, false. 1197 true, 1196 broad ligaments of uterus, 1225 calcanco - astragaloid, an- terior, 444 external. 444 internal, 444 interosseous, 445 posterior, 445 calcauco-cuboid, intomal, 44() long, 440 siiort, 446 superior, 440 calcaneo-navicular. inferior, 447 s\ii)erior, 447 capsular, see Individual Joints carotico-clinoid, 237 carpo - metacarpal, dorsal, 420Ligament or Ligaments (cont.) carpo-motacarpal, interos- seous, 421 palmar, 421 of carpus, 418 central, of spinal cord, 899 check, 382 of eye, 1011 chondro-sternal, anterior, 388 posterior, 389 ohondro-xiphoid, 390 ooiunion vertebral, anterior, 373 posterior, 373 conoid, 402 of Cooper, 510 coraco-acromial, 403 coraoo-clavicular, 402 coraco-humeral, 404 coronary, of knee, 434 of liver, 1123 costo-clavicular, 400 costo-coracoid, 531 costo-transversc, 387 costo-vertebral, or stellate, 386 cotyloid, 425 crico-arytenoid, 1064 crico-tracheal, 1064 crucial, of knee, 432 cruciform, 378 cuboideo-navicular, 448 cuneo-cuboid, 448 cuneo-navicular, 447 deltoid, 441 of elbow, 409 anterior, 409 external lateral, 410 internal lateral, 410 posterior, 409 falciform, of liver, 1122 of pelvis, 395 gastro-phrenic, 1134 Gimbernat's, 510 gleno-humeral, 404 glenoid, 405 of Henle, 513 of Hesselbach, 513 of hip, 423 hyo-epiglottic, 1064 Uio-femoral, 425 ilio-lumbar, 393 ilio-pectineal, 504 Llio-trochanteric, 425 of incus, 1045 infundibulo-pelvic, 1225 interarticular, of ribs, 380 interchondral, 390 interclavicular, 400 interolinoid, 237 intercuneiform, 448 intermetacarpal, 422 intermetatarsal, 450 interphalangeal, 423, 451 interspinous, 376 intersternal, 390 intertarsal, 444 intertransverse, 376 ischio-capsular, 424 of Itnce, 430 of larynx, 1063 lateral patellar, 430 left lateral of liver, 1168 lieno-renal, 1126 long plantar, 446 INDEX Ligament or Ligaments (cont.) lumbo-sacral, 393 of malleus, 1045 metacarpo-phalangeaJ, 422 metatarso-plialangeal, 451 mucosum, of l<nee, 434 nucha;, 370 oblique, 414 sacro-iliac, 394 oocipito-atlantal, anterior, 380 lateral, 381 posterior, 380 occipito-axial, 382 odontoid, 382 orbicular, 413 of ovary, 1219 palpebral, 1030 of patella, lateral, 430 of pelvis, 393 phrenico-pericardiac, 758 phreno-colic, 1153 of the pinna, 1036 plantar, 4'16 posterior, of linee, 431 Poupart's, 509 pterygo-mandibular, 467 pterygo-spinous, 237 pubic, anterior, 396 posterior, 397 superior, 397 pubo-femoral, 424 pubo-prostatic, 1196 quadrate, 413 radio-cai-pal, 415 of radio-ulnar joint, inferior, 414 middle, 413 superior, 413 rliomboid, 400 right lateral of liver, 1168 round, of hip, 425 of liver, 1168 of uterus, 1225 sacro-coccygeal, 396 sacro-iliac, anterior, 394 sacro-sciatic, great, 394 smaU, 395 sacro-vcrtebral, 392 of scapula, 403 of shoulder, 404 spheno-inandibular, 382 spino-glenoid, 404 spring, 447 stellate, 386 sterno-clavicular, anterior, 400 posterior, 400 sterno-pericardiac, 600 of sternum, 390 structure of, 3()6 Stylo-hyoid, 478 stylo-mandibular, 384 subpubic, 397 supcificial transverse, of lingers, 553 suprascapular, 403 supraspinous, 375 suspensory of axilla, 529 of eye, 'lOll of lens, 1025 of liver, 1122 of mamma, 529 of ovary, 1218 of penis, 1214 sutural, 368 1271 LiGAM ent or Ligaments (com*.) synovial, 307 tarsal, of eyelids, 460 tarso-nietatarsal, 449 of tarsus, 444 teres, of hip, 425 tliyro-arytenoid, 1006 thyro-epiglottic, 1064 tiiyro-hyoid, lateral, 1063 tibio-fibular, 430 transversalis colli uteri, 1225 transverse, of ankle, 440 of atlas, 378 of hip, 426 humeral, 405 of luiee, 434 metacarpal, 422 metatarsal, 450 of scapula, 403 trapezoid, 402 triangular, of urethra, 525, 527 utero-sacral, 1225 of uterus, 1225 of vertebrae, 372 of Winslow, 431 of Wrisberg, 434 of wrist, anterior, 416 lateral external, 416 internal, 416 posterior, 416 Y-shaped of Bigelow, 425 of ZiNN, 462 Ligamenta alaria, 434 brevia, 544 longa, 544 subflava, 375 suspensoria of mamma, 529 Ligamentous action of muscles, 372 Ligamentum apicis dentis, 382 arcuatum externum, 502 internum, 502 medium, 503 arteriosum, 619 denticulatum. 899 latum pulmonis, 1077 mucosum, 434 nucha;, 376 patellfe, 431 pectinatuni iridis, 1014 posticum Winslowii, 431 spirale, 1054 teres, 425, 1168 Ligature of arteries, fee each Arteiy LigulK, 836 Limbic lobe, 862 Limbs, bones of the, 286 development of, 113 Limbus lamina; spiralis, 1055 Limiting zone, lateral, 807 Line or lines— coloured, of Retzius, 1098 curved, of ilium, 320 of occipital, 214 incremental of Salter, 1098 intertroclianteric, 334 N^Iaton's, 428 oblique of fibula, 347 j of mandible, external, 255 internal, 256 of radius, 300 of tibia, 344 of Schreger, 10981272 INDEX Liuo or lines (cont.) spiral of femur, 334 Linea alba, 514 aspera, 335 ilio-peotinea, 322 iatercondyloidoa, 337 quadrata, 335 splendens, 898 suprema, 214 Liiieaa somilunares, 514 transv^ersse of abdomen, 513 Lingual artery, 630 applied anatomy of, 631 branches of glosso-ijharyn geal nerve, 932 lobule, 860 nervo, 916 strand, 1099 tonsil, 1108 veins, 734 Lingualis muscle, inferior, 482 superioi', 481 transverse, 481 vertical, 481 Liugula of cerebellum, 827 of mandible, 256 of sphenoid, 233 L-ps, 1089 arteries of, 633 Liquor amnii, 94 sanguinis, 10 Lissauer, tract of, 807 Littre, glands of, 1201 LiVEE, 1163 applied anatomy of, 1174 bile ducts of, 1171 development of, 164 fissures of, 1166 hepatic artery, 688, 1168 cells, 1170 duct, 1171 veins, 760, 1168 ligaments of, 1168 lob3S of, 1167 lobules of, 1169 lymphatic vessels of, 786 microscopic appearance of, 1170 nerves of, 1168 portal vein, 760 situation, size, and weight, 1163 structure of, 1168 surface relations of, 1173 surfaces of, 1164 vessels of, 1168 Lobes of cerebral hemisphere, 857 cuneus, 860 frontal, 857 insula, or island of Reil, 862 limbic, 862 occipital, 860 olfactory, 863 parietal, 859 precuneus, 860 quadrate, 860 temporal, 861 Lobes of cerebellum, 825 of liver, 1167 of lung, 1082 of proitato, 1216 of thymus, 1238 of thyroid, 1235 Lobule of the ear, 1035 Lobule, lingual, 860 paracentral, 859 Lobules of liver, 1169 of lung, 1085 Lobuli testes, 1207 Lobulus centralis, 827 Lobus cacuminis, 827 caudatus, 1107 clivi, 827 oulminis, 827 gracilis, 829 noduli, 829 pyramidis, 829 quadratus, 1167 Spigelu, 1167 tuberis, 829 uvulae, 829 Localisation, cerebral, 885 Lookwood, superior tendon of, 462 Locus cajruleus, 838 perforatus anticus, 864 jjosticus, 838 Long bones, 181 buccal nerve, 915 ciliary nerve, 910 saphenous nerve, 976 saphenous vein, 752 thoracic artery, 670 Loagissimus dorsi muscle, 496 Longitudinal fasciculus, inferior, 879 perpendicular, 879 posterior, 841 superior, 879 fissure of brain, 854 of liver, 1167 sinus of brain, inferior, 738 supsrior, 737 striaj, lateral, 864 mesial, 864 Longus colli muscle, 487 Loop of Henle, 1186 Lowenthal, tract of, 805 Lower extremity, arteries of, 707 articulations of, 423 bones of, 320 fascisB of, 563 lymphatic vessels of, 777 muscles of, 563 surface form of, 593 nerves of, 970 veins of, 752 Lower visual centres, 852 Lower, tuborcle of, 605 Ludwig, angle of, 204 Lumbar arteries, 695 enlargement of spinal cord, 798 fascia or aponeurosis, 493 ganglia of sympathetic, 995 lymijhatic glands, 780 ' nerves, anterior divisions of, 969 posterior divisions of, 948 plexus of nerves, 970 portion of symj^athetio cord, 994 applied anatomv of, 986 rcgio.is of abdomen, 1121 vein, ascending. 759 veins, 759 vertobr,T3, 190 ossilioation of, 197 Lumbo-sacral cord, 970 ligament, 393 plexus, 959 Lumbricales muscles of fool, 590 of hand, 556 Lung-buds, 106 Lungs, 1081 air-sacs of, 1086 applied anatomy of, 1087 capOlaries of, 1086 development, 166 lobes and fissures of, 1082 lobules of, 1086 lymphatic vessels of, 792 nerves of, 1086 root of, 1083 structure of, 1085 surface marking of, 1086 weight, colour, &c., 1084 Lunulae of nails, 68 of semilunar valves, 607 Lusohka, foramina of, 836, 897 gland of, 1247 Luys, nucleus of, 850 Lymph, 11 capillaries, 11 path or sinus, 62 sacs (foetal), 149 Lymphatic duct, right, 766 Lymphatic glands of abdomen, 778 aortic, 780 applied anatomy of, 764 auricular, posterior, 767 axillary, 773 bronchial, 792 buccal, 768 cervical, anterior, 772 deep, 772 applied anatomy of. 772 Cloquet, gland of, 776 coronary, 781 diaphragmatic, 790 facial, 768 of head, 767 histology of, 61 hypogastric, 779 iliac, common, 780 external, 779 internal, 779 inguinal, 776 applied anatomy of, 777 intercostal, 789 jugular, external, 771 lingual, 769 of lower extremity, 775 lumbar, 780 mammary, internal, 789 mandibular, 768 mastoid, 767 maxillary. 768 internal, 769 mediastinal, anterior, 791 posterior, 792 mesenteric, 782, 784 of neck, 770 obturator, 779 occipital. 757 pancreatico-duodenal, 784 pararectal, 784 parotid, 768 of pelvis, 778 popliteal, 775INDEX 1273 Lymphatic glands, principal gland ot tongue, 770 retro-pharyngeal, 769 of Rosenmiiller, 776 sacral, 779 of small intestine, 760 splenic, 782 Stahr, middle gland of, 771 of stomach, 759 submaxillary, 771 submental, 771 suprahyoid, 771 of thorax, 789 tibial, anterior, 775 tracheo-bronchial, 792 of upper extremity, 772 Lymphatic vessels of abdo- minal viscera, 784 of abdominal wall, 781 of anal canal, 785 of anus, 785 of appendix, 785 applied anatomy of, 764 of bladder, 788 broncho - mediastinal trunk, left, 766 right, 767 of ciecum, 785 of clitoris, 781 of colon, 785 of common bile-duct, 787 of diaphragm, 790 of duodenum, 784 of external genitals, 781 of face, 769 of Fallopian tubes, 789 of gaU-bladder, 787 of gluteal region, 777 of head, 769 of heart, 792 histology of, 60 of Ueuin, 785 intestinal trunk, 766 of jejunum, 785 jugular trunk, left, 766 right, 767 of kidneys, 787 of labia, 781 lacteals, 763 of large intestine, 785 of larynx, 772 of liver, 786 of lower extremity, 777 lumbar trunks, 766 of lung, 792 of mammary gland, 790 of mouth, 770 of nasal fossae, 770 of neck, 772 of nymphse, 781 of oesophagus, 793 of ovary, 789 of pancreas, 787 of pelvis, 781, 784 of penis, 789 of perinajum, 781 of pharynx, 772 of pinna, 769 of pleura, 793 of prostate, 788 of rectum, 785 of reproductive organs, 789 of scalp, 769 of scrotum, 781 of small iutestiae, 785 Lymphatic vessels of spleen, 787 of stomach, 784 subclavian trunk, left, 766 right, 767 j of suprarenal glands, 787 ; of testes, 789 of thoracic viscera, 792 of thoracic wall, 790 of thyroid body, 772 of tongue, 770 of tonsil, 770 of upper extremity, 775 of ureter, 788 of urethra, 789 of xirinary organs, 787 of uterus, 789 of vagina, 789 of vas deferens, 789 of vermiform appendix, 785 of vesiculte seminales, 789 Lymphocyte, 8 Lymphoid tissue, 20 Lyra of fornix, 875 McBurney's spot, 1157 Macula acustica sacculi, 1053 utriculi, 1052 cribrosa media, 1048 i superior, 1048 lutea, 1023 Majendie, foramen of, 836, 897 Malar artery, 647 bone, 248 articulations of, 260 foramina of, 248 fronto-sphenoidal process of, 248 maxUIary process of, 250 orbital process of, 248 ossification of, 250 temporal process of, 250 tubercle, 248 canals, 248 nerves, from facial, 925 from temporo-malar, 911 process of maxUla, 245 Male urethra, 1200 Malleolar arteries, external and internal, 721 folds, anterior and posterior, 1043 Malleolus, external, 348 internal, 345 Malleus, 1043 development of, 134 ligaments of, 1045 Malo-maxiUary suture, 271 Malpighi, pyramids of, 1184 Malpighian bodies of kidney, 1185 bodies of spleen, 1242 capsules, 1185 tufts, 1185 Mamillary process, 191 Mamma!, 1232 applied anatomy of, 1234 development of, 115 lymphatic vessels of, 790 nipple of, 1232 structure of, 1233 vessels and nerves of, 1234 Mammary artery, internal, 663 glands, 1232 lymphatic vessels of, 790 veins, internal, 748 Mandible, 255 articulations of, 200 body of, 255 changes in, due to age, 260 condylar process of, 257 coronoid process of, 257 ossification of, 258 ramus of, 256 Mandibular arch, 108 nerve, 927 Mantle layer, 116 Manubrium mallei, 1043 of sternum, 204 Margin, supraorbital, 221 Marginal gyrus, 859 layer or veU, 116 Marrow of bone, 25 red, 26 yellow, 25 Marshall, vestigial fold of, 148, 600 Martinotti, cells of, 881 Masseter muscle, 408 Masseteric artery, 639 fascia, 467 nerve, 915 Mastoid antrum, 226 opening of, 1041 ceUs, 226, 1041 foramen, 225 portion of temporal bone, 225 process, 225 Mat or tapetum, 866 Maternal blood-sinuses, 99 Matrix of naU, 68 of tooth, 1098 Maturation of ovum, 79 ! MaxiUa, 242 ] articulations of, 247 I changes in, due to age, 247 i ossification of, 247 Maxillary artery, external, 631 t internal, 637 bone, inferior, 255 superior, 242 nerve, inferior, 914 superior, 911 process of inferior turbi- nated, 254 of malar bone, 250 of palate bone, 252 processes of foetus. 111 sinus, 244,-1008 tuberosity, 242 vein, internal, 731 Meatus acusticus internus, 227 externus, 230, 1037 applied anatomy of, 1038 urinarius, 1201 Meatuses of the nose, 276 Mechanism of pelvis, 397 of respiration, 505 of thorax, 391 Meckel's cartilage, 108, 258 diverticulum, 93 ganglion, 912 Media, refracting of eye, 1024 Median nerve, 959 vein, 740 Mediastinal arteries, from in- ternal mammary, 664 lymphatic glands, anterior, 791 posterior, 792 subpleural plexus, 665INDEX 1274 Mediiistinuni, 1078 anterior, 1079 ai)i)licd anatomy of, 1080 middle, 1079 posterior, 1079 superior, 1078 testis, 1207 Medio-tarsal joint, 443, 447 Medulla Oblongata, 811 applied anatomy of, 822 arcuate fibres of, 830 areas of, 812, 813, 814 development of, 119 fasciculus cuneatus of, 816 gracilis of, 816 of Rolando, 815 fissures of, 812 formatio reticularis of, 821 grey matter of, 818 lateral area, 813 olivary body of, 813 posterior area of, 814 pyramids of, 812, 815 raphe of, 812 restiform bodies of, 815 structui-e of, 815 Medulla of hair, 70 Medullary artery of bone, 26 canal of bone, 26 formation of, 33 centre of hemispheres of brain, 878 folds, 88 lamina, external, 847 internal, 847 laminae of nucleus len- ticularis, 872 membrane of bone, 26 portion of kidney, 1184 of suprarenal glands, 1246 segments of nerves, 46 sheath of nerve-fibres, 46 spaces of bone, 29 ■ velum, inferior, 829, 831 superior, 831 Medullated nerve-fibres, 45 Meibomian glands, 1031 Meissner's plexus, 1148 tactile corpuscles, 50 Melanin, 36 Membrana basUaris, 1049, 1055 granulosa of Graafian follicle, 1220 hyaloidea, 1025 limitans externa of retina, 1021 interna of retina, 1023 nic titans, 1031 propria, 17 pupUIaris, 131, 1019 sacciformis, 415 teotoria, 836 tyftipani, 1043 structure of, 1043 secundaria, 1041 Membrane, arachnoid, 895 of Bruch, 1016 of Corti, 1057 costo-coracoid, 530 crico-thyroid, 1064 of Desccract, 1014 external limiting, 1023 fenestrated, 55 hyaloid, 1025 Membrane, hyoglossal, 1106 intercostal, 500 internal limiting, 1021 interosseous, of forearm, 414 of leg, 439 Jacob's, 1023 of Kolliker, 1057 of Krause, 38 medullary of Ijone, 26 of Nasmyth, 1101 nuclear, 4 obturatoi', 575 pupillary, 1019 of Eeissner, 1053 Sohneiderian, 1005 thyro-hyoid, 1063 vitelline, 83 Membranes— basement, 20 of brain and spinal cord, 892 of embryo, 92 mucous, 73 serous, 72 synovial, 73, 367 Membranous primordial cra- nium, 105 canal of cochlea, 1053 labyrinth, 1051 portion of urethra, 1200 semicircular canals, 1053 vertebral column, 103 Meningeal arteiy, from ascend- ing pharyngeal, 636 anterior, from internal carotid, 646 middle, from internal maxUlaiy, 638 from occipital, 634 posterior, from vertebral, 659 small, from internal maxil- lary, 639 layer of dura mater, 894 nerves from hypoglossal, 940 from superior maxiUary, 911 Meninges of brain and spinal cord, 892 Menisci, 369 Mental foramen, 255 nerve, 917 point, 279 protuberance, 255 tubercles, 255 Mesencephahc root of fifth nerve, 906 Mesencephalon, 121, 838 Mesenteric artery, inferior, 693 superior, 690 lymphatic glands, 782, 784 plexuses of nerves, 999 vein, inferior, 762 superior, 762 Mesenterico-parietal fold, 1065 Mesenteries, 1129 development of, 158 meso-appendLx, 1150 pelvic mesocolon, 1129 transverse mesocolon, 1129 Mesentery proper, 1129 Mesial fillet, 843 longitudinal striae, 864 Mcso-appcndix, 1150 Mesoblast, 87 Mesocardium, arterial, 600 venous, 600 Mesocolon, fo8tal, 158 pelvic, 1129 transverse, 1129 Mesoderm, 88 formation of, 87 lateral, 90 paraxial, 90 Mesodermic somites, 91 Mesogastrium, dorsal, 158 I ventral, 157 ) Mesognathion, 285 Mesonephros, 108 Mesorchium, 172 Mesosalpinx, 1225 Mesosternum, 203 Mesovarium, 172, 1219 Metacai pal artery, 664 bones, 315 applied anatomy of, 320 articulations of, 317 common characters of, 315 1 ossification of, 319 j peculiar characters of, 316 I Metacai-po-phalangeal articu- lations, 422 j Metacarpus, 315 Metanephi'os, 174 Metaphase of karyokinesis, 5 Metasternum, 203 Metatarsal artery, 722 bones, 358 common characters of, 358 peculiar characters of, 359 Metatarso-phalangeal articu- lations, 451 Metatarsus, 358 ossification of, 362 ' Metathalamus, 122, 848 Metencephalon, 119 1 Metopic suture, 220 1 Meynert, basal optic nucleus j of, 851 fasciculus retroflexus of, 849 fountain decussation of, 844 substantia innominata of, 874 Microcytes, 7 Micropyle, 79 Mid-brain, 121, 838 ventricle of, 844 ilid-carpal joint, 418 Mid-gut, 150 Middle cerebral artery, 650 cervical ganglion. 992 cliuoid processes, 232 commissure, 854 cornu of lateral ventricle, 868 ear, or tympanum, 1039 fossa of skull. 273 frontal convolution, 858 haimorrhoidal arteiy. 699 internal frontfll arterj-. 648 meatus of nasal fossa, 276 mediastinum, 1079 meningeal artery, 638 odontoid ligament, 382 sacral artery, 696 veins, 785 Milk teeth. 1096 Mitochondrial sheath, 82 Mitral cells, 883 valve, 609 Mixed articulations. 369 Moderator band, 607 Modiolus of cochlea, 1049Molar glands, 1091 I teeth, 1095 I Molecular layer of cortex of| cerebellum, 832 of cerebrum, 881 ' MoU, glands of, 1029 ' Monakow, tract of, 805 Monaster, or mother star, 5 Monro, foramen of, 122, 87(5 sulcus of, 122, 854 Mons Veneris, 1230 Montgomery, glands of, 1233 Morgagni, hydatid of, 168, 1206, 1221 columns of, 1156 sinus of, 483 Morula, 84 Moss-fibres, 833 Mother stai-, or monaster, 5 Motor areas of cerebral cortex, 885 decussation, 813 end-plates, 53 nerves, 53 oculi nerve, 903 applied anatomy of, 905 tract, 888 Mouth, 1089 development of, 151 lymphatics of, 770 mucous membrane of, 1090 Movable articulations, 369 Movement admitted in joints, 370 Mucigen, 13 Mucous glands of tongue, 1106 membrane, 73 tissue, 19 Mucus, 73 Miiller, fibres of, 1023 ring muscle of, 1017 Miillerian ducts, 170 eminence, 170 Multicuspid teeth, 1096 Multifidus spinje muscle, 497 Muscle or Muscles, Histology of, 36 applied anatomy of, 454 arrangement of fibres of, 37 bipenniform, 453 blood-vessels of, 40 cardiac, 41 columns, 38 derivation of names, 453 development of, 42, 114 fasciculi of, 36 fibres of, 30 fixation, 454 form of, 453 fusiform, 453 insertion of, 454 involuntaiy, 40 lymphatics of, 40 meaning of the terms ' origin ' and ' insertion,' 454 mode of connection of, with bone, cartilage, sliin, &c., 454 nerves of, 40 origin of, 454 penniform, 453 plates, 102 quadrilateral, 453 rhomboidal, 453 sarcous elements of, 39 sheath of, 37 INDEX Mtjsolb ok Muscles (cont.) skeletal, 36 striped, 36 structure of, 36 synergic, 454 tendons of, 455 triangular, 453 unstriped, 40 voluntary, 36 Muscle or Muscles, Descrip- tive Anatomy — of abdomen, 506 abductor haUucis, 588 indicis, 557 minimi digiti (foot), 589 (hand), 556 poUicis, 549 accelerator in'infe, 524 accessorius ad ilio-costalem, 496 pedis, 589 adductor brevis, 571 longus, 571 magnus, 572 obliquus haUucis, 591 poUicis, 554 transversus hallucis, 591 poUicis, 555 anconeus, 547 j antitragicus, 1037 ' aryepiglotticus, 1008 arytenoideus, 1068 attollens auriculam, 459 attrahens amuculam, 459 axillary arch, 490 azygos uvulae, 484 biceps, of arm, 537 of thigh, 577 biventer cervicis, 497 brachialis anticus, 538 brachio-radialis, 545 buccinator, 467 cervicalis ascendens, 496 chondro-glossus, 480 ciliary, of eye, 1016 coccygeus, 521 complexus, 497 compressor naris, 4G4 uarium minor, 464 urethrte, in female, 528 in male, 526 constrictor isthmi faucium, 479(1 pharyngis inferior, 482 medius, 483 superior, 483 i coraco-brachialis, 537 corrugator cutis ani, 522 supercilii, 461 cremaster, 511 crico-arytenoideus lateralis, 1068 posticus, 1068 crico-thyroideus, 1067 crureus, 569 deltoid, 534 depressor ala; nasi, 464 anguli oris, 466 labii inferioi'is, 466 detrusor urina;, 1197 diaphragm, 501 digastric, 477 i dilatator naris, anterior, 4641 posterior, 464 tubse, 1042 dorso-epitrochlearis, 492 1275 Muscle or Muscles {cont.) ejaculator urinte, 524 erector clitoridis, 527 penis, 524 spina;, 495 extensor brevis digitorum, 587 poUicis, 548 cai-pi radialis brevior, 545 longior, 545 ulnaris, 547 coccygis, 498 communis digitorum, 546 indicis, 549 longus digitorum, 580 poUicis, 549 minimi digiti, 547 ossis metacarpi poUicis, 548 proprius haUucis, 580 external sphincter ani, 522 of face, 456 of femoral region, anterior, 566 internal, 571 posterior, 577 of fibular region, 585 flexor accessorius, 589 brevis digitorum, 588 haUucis, 590 minimi digiti, of foot,591 of hand, 550 poUicis, 554 carpi radialis, 540 ulnaris, 541 longus digitorum, 583 haUucis, 583 poUicis, 544 profundus digitorum, 543 subUmis digitorum, 541 frontalis 457 gastrocnemius, 581 gemeUus inferior, 576 superior, 576 genio-hyo-glossus, 479 genio-hyoid, 479 gluteus maximus, 573 medius, 574 minimus, 575 gracilis, 571 of hand, 550 of bead and face, 456 helicis major, 1036 minor, 1036 Horner's, 460 hyo-glossus, 480 of iUao region, 564 Uiacus, 565 iUo-coccygeus, 521 Uio-costalis, 496 Uio-sacralis, 521 incisivus inferior, 467 superior, 467 infracostal, 501 infraspinatus, 536 intercostal, 500 internal sphincter ani, 523 interossei, of foot, 591 of hand, 556 interspinales, 498 intcrtransversales, 498 of larynx, 1067 latissimus dorsi, 490 of leg, 579 levator anguU oris, 464 scapiUte, 492INDEX 1276 Muscle oxt Muscles (cont.) levator ani, 519 glandulse thyreoideaj, 1236 labii inferioris, 406 superioris, 464 alseque nasi, 464 menti, 466 palati, 484 palpebraj, 461 prostatae, 520 levatores costarum, 501 lingualis, 481 longissimua dorsi, 496 longus colli, 487 lumbricales, of foot, 590 of hand, 556 masseter, 468 multifidus spinas, 497 musoulus accessorius ad ilio- costalem, 496 mylo-hyoid, 478 obliquus abdominis exter- nus, 506 internus, 510 auriculae, 1037 capitis inferior, 498 superior, 498 oculi inferior, 462 superior, 462 obturator externus, 576 internus, 575 occipitalis, 457 occipito-frontalis, 456 omo-hyoid, 476 opponens minimi digiti, 556 pollicis, 554 orbicularis oris, 466 palpebrarum, 459 of palate, 484 palato-glossus, 485 palato-pharyngeus, 485 palmaris brevis, 556 longus, 641 pectineus, 671 pectoralis major, 529 minor, 631 of perinaeum, 521 peroneus brevis, 685 longus, 585 tertius, 580 pharyngo-glossus, 480 of pharynx, 482 of pinna, 1036 plantaris, 582 jjlatysma, 471 popliteus, 583 pronator quadratus, 544 teres, 540 psoas magnus, 564 parvus, 565 pterygoid, external, 469 internal, 470 pubo-coccygeus, 521 pubo-rectalis, 521 pyramidalis abdominis, 514 nasi, 463 pyriformis, 575 quadratus femoris, 576 lumborum, 517 menti, 466 quadriceps extensor cruris, 568 recto-coccygeal, 1155 rectus abdominis, 513 capitis anticus major, 480 minor, 486 Muscle oe Muscles {cont.) rectus capitis lateralis, 486 posticus major, 498 minor, 498 externus, inferior, internus, and superior of eyeball, 462 femoris, 569 retrahens auriculam, 459 rhomboideus major, 492 minor, 492 risorius, 467 rotatores spinae, 497 salpingo-pharyngeus, 485 sartorius, 668 scalenus anticus, 488 medius, 488 posticus, 488 semimembranosus, 578 semispinalis coUi, 497 dorsi, 497 semitendinosus, 578 serratus magnus, 532 posticus, inferior, 493 superior, 493 of sole of foot, 587 first layer, 588 fourth layer, 591 second layer, 589 thii-d layer, 590 soleus, 582 sphincter ani, externus, 522 internus, 523 recti, 621 vaginae, 526 vesicae, 1197 spinalis coUi, 497 dorsi, 496 splenius, 494 capitis, 494 colli, 494 stapedius, 1045 sterno-cleido-mastoid, 475 sterno-hyoid, 476 sterno-thyroid, 476 stylo-glossus, 480 stylo-hyoid, 478 stylo-pharyngeus, 484 subanconeus, 539 subclavius, 532 subcrureus, 570 subscapularis, 534 supinator brevis, 547 longus, 545 supraspinatus, 536 temporal, 469 tensor fasciae femoris, 568 palati, 484 tarsi, 460 tympani, 1045 teres major, 530 minor, 536 of thigh, 566 thyro-arytenoideus, 1068 thyro-opiglotticus, 1069 thyro-hyoid, 476 tibialis anticus, 580 posticus, 584 of tongue, 479 trochealis, 1072 traclielo-mastoid, 490 tragicus, 1036 transversftlis abdominis, 612 cervicis, 490 transversus auriculae, 1037 perinici, in male, 524 Muscle or Muscles {cont.) transversus perinsei, in female, 526 trapezius, 490 triangularis sterni, 501 triceps extensor cubiti, 538 of tympanum, 1045 of ureters, 1197 vastus externus, 569 internus, 569 zygomaticus major, 464 minor, 465 Muscles of expression, 470 of pelvic outlet, 521 Muscular fibres of heart, 41, 610 process of arytenoid, 1061 substance of tongue, 480 tissue, 36 triangle of neck, 641 Muscularis mucosae, 74 Musculi papUlares of left ven- tricle, 009 of right ventricle, 007 pectinati of left auricle, 008 of right auricle, 604 pubo-vesicalis, 1197 Musculo-cutaneous nerve of arm, 967 of leg, 985 Musculo-phrenic artery, 665 Musculo-spiral groove, 297 nerve, 963 Musculus accessorius ad ilio- costalem, 496 incisivus inferior, 467 superior, 467 naso-labialis, 407 suspensorius duodeni, 1142 Myelencephalon, 119, 811 Myelocytes, 20 Myeloplaxes, 20 Myelospongium, 115 Mylo-hyoid artery, 639 groove, 256 muscle, 478 nerve, 917 ridge, 256 Myocardium, 609 Myoccel, 91 Myology, 453 Myotome, 102 Nails, 67 limula of, 68 matrix of, 08 Nares, anterior, 1002 posterior, 277 Nasal aperture, anterior, 277 artery, lateral, 633 of ophthalmic, 648 bones, 241 articulations of. 242 ossification of, 242 cartilages, 1002 crest, 242, 246 duct, 1033 fossa;, 275, 1004 applied anatomy of, 1008 arteries of, 1007 lymphatic vessels of, 770 mucous membrane of, 1006 nerves of, 1007 veins of, 1007 vestibule of, 1004Nasal groove, 242 laminae (foetal), 111 nerve, 909 nerves from Meckel's gan-1 glion, 912 notch of frontal, 221 of maxilla, 242 process, 221 processes of foetus, 110 septum, 275 spine, 221 anterior, 242 posterior, 251 Nasion, 279 Nasmyth's membrane, 1101 Naso-labialis muscle, 467 Naso-palatine nerve, 914 artery, 640 recess, 1005 Naso-pharynx, 1114 Navicular bone of foot, 356 Neck, lymphatic glands of, 770 lymphatic vessels of, 772 muscles of, 471 of tooth, 1093 triangles of, 640 veins of, 732 Nelaton's line, 428 Neopallium, 125 Nerve-cells, 44 of cerebellar cortex, 833 of cerebral cortex, 881 of spinal cord, 802 Nerve-epithelium cells, 52 Nerve-fibres, 45 medullated, 45 non-medullated, 47 of cerebral cortex, 881 Nerve-roots, anterior, 941 posterior, 941 Nerve-tracts of cord, 804 Nerves, Histology of, 42 cerebro-spinal, 47 development of, 47, 118 endoneurium of, 48 epineurium of, 47 fasciculi of, 47 funiculi of, 47 origins of, 49 perineurium of, 48 plexus of, 48 sheath of, 47 spinal, roots of, 941 sympathetic, 49 terminations of, 49 vessels of, 48 Nerves or Nerve, Descrip live Anatomy of: abducent, 920 accessory obturator, 974 ano-coccygeal, 986 anterior crural, 974 interosseous, 960 superior dental, 912 thoracic, 956 tibial, 984 Arnold's, 935 auditory, 927, 1058 auricular, great, 950 posterior, 925 of auriculo-temporal, 916 of vagus, 935 auriculo-temporal, 916 of brachial plexus, 953 buccal, long, 915 INDEX Nerves or Nerve (ron/.) buccal of facial, 926 calcanean, internal, 982 cardiac, cervical, of vagus, 936 of sympathetic, 992, 993 thoracic, of vagus, 936 carotico-tympanic, 990 cavernous, of penis, 1000 cervical, anterior primary divisions of, 949 cardiac, 936 of facial, 927 posterior primary divi- sions of, 945 superficial or transverse, 950 cochlear, 1058 cervico-facial, 926 chorda tympani, 925 ciliary, long, 910 short, 911 circumflex, 956 coccygeal, anterior primary division of, 978 posterior primary division of, 949 cochlear, 928, 1058 communicans peronei, 984 I tibialis, 981 communicantes hy^oglossi, I 952 i cranial, 899 t crural, anterior, 974 I deep palmar, of ulnar, 963 temporal, 915 dental, anterior superior, 912 inferior, 917 middle superior, 912 posterior inferior, 912 descendens hypoglossi, 940 digastric, from facial, 925 digital, of median, 962 of radial, 965 of ulnar, 963 of anterior tibial, 984 of external plantar, 984 of internal plantar, 983 of musculo-cutaneous, 985 dorsal, of penis, 986 of dura mater, 894 eighth cranial, 927 eleventh cranial, 937 external cutaneous of thigh, 973 plantar, 983 popliteal, 984 respiratory, of Bell, 955 saphenous, 981 facial, 922 fifth cranial, 906 first cranial, 900 fourth cranial, 905 frontal, 909 ganglionic branch of nasal, 909 gastric branches of vagus, 937 genito-crural, 972 glosso-pharyngeal, 930 gluteal, inferior, 979 superior, 979 great auricular, 950 occipital, 945 sciatic, 980 I splanchnic, 993 1277 Nerves or Nerve {conl.) hsemorrlioidal, inferior, 985 of heart, 936, 992, 993 hepatic, 999 hypoglossal, 939 Uio-hypogastric, 971 ilio-inguinal, 972 incisive, 917 inferior dental, 917 gluteal, 979 hsemorrhoidal, 985 maxillary, 914 infraorbital, 911?!. of facial, 925 infra trochlear, 910 internal cutaneous, of arm, 958 lesser, 959 of thigh, 975 calcanean, 982 plantar, 983 popliteal, 981 intercostal, 966 intercosto-humeral, 968 interosseous, anterior, 960 posterior, 965 Jacobson's, 932 labial, 912 of labyrinth, 1058 lachrymal, 909 large deep petrosal, 913 superficial petrosal, 913 laryngeal, external, 936 inferior, 936 internal, 936 recurrent, 936 superior, 936 least splanchnic, 994 lesser splanchnic, 993 lingual, of fifth, 916 of glosso-pharyngeal, 932 long buccal, 915 ciliary, 910 saphenous, 976 lumbar, anterior primary divisions of, 969 posterior primary divisions of, 948 lumbo-sacral cord, 978 malar branch of facial, 925 of temporo-malar, 911 mandibular, of facial, 926 masseteric, 915 maxillary, inferior, 914 superior, 911 median, 959 meningeal, of hypoglossal, 940 of superior maxillary, 911 mental, 917 middle cardiac, 992 cutaneous, 975 superior dental, 912 motor-oculi, 903 musculo-cutaneous, of arm, 957 of leg, 985 musculo-spu'al, 963 mylo-hyoid, 917 nasal, of ophthalmic, 909 from Meckel's ' ganglion, 914 of superior maxillary, 912 naso-palatine, 914 ninth cranial, 930 ol)turator, 974INDEX 1278 Nervks or Nerve (cont.) obturator, accessory, 974 occipital, groat, 945 small, 950 of third cervical, 945 oesophageal, 937 olfactory, 900 ophthalmic, 908 optic, 901 orbital, their relation, in cavernous sinus, 921 in orbit, 921 in sphenoidal fissure, 921 of superior maxUlary, 911 palatine, anterior or large, 914 middle, 914 posterior, 914 palmar cutaneous, of me- dian, 960 of ulnar, 982 palpebral, 912 pars intermedia of Wrisberg, 922 perforating cutaneous, 985 perineal, 986 superficial, 986 peroneal, 984 petrosal, deep, large, 913, i 990 ' small, 990 superficial, external, 992 large, 913 I small, 1046 pharyngeal, of glosso-pharyn- geal, 932 of Meckel's ganglion, 914 j of pneumogastric, 935 of sympathetic, 992 phrenic, 953 plantar, external, 983 { internal, 983 ' pneumogastric, 933 popliteal, external, 984 internal, 981 ! posterior auricular, 925 scapular, 955 superior dental, 912 tibial, 982 pterygoid, 915, 916 pudendal, inferior, 980 pudic, 985 pulmonary, from vagus, 936, 937 radial, 964 rami communicantes, 943 recurrent laryngeal, 936 of inferior maxillary, 914 respiratory, external, 955 to rhomboids, 955 roots, 941 sacral, 978 plexus, 978 saphenous, long or internal, 976 short or external, 981 sciatic, great, 980 small, 979 second cranial, 901 seventh cranial, 922 short ciliary, 911 sLxth cranial, 920 small occipital, 950 sphcno-i)alatinc, 912 88 Nerves oh Nerve (cont.) Neural groove, spinal, 941 tube, '88 anterior primary divisions Neurentoric canal, 89 of. 949 Neurilemma, 46 posterior primary divisions Neuroblasts, 47, 115, 794 of, 945 spinal accessory, 937 splanchnic, great, 993 least, 994 lesser, 993 stylo-hyoid of facial, 925 to subclavius, 955 suboccipital, 945, 949 subscapular, 956 superficial cervical, 950 su^jerior cardiac, 992 gluteal, 979 laryngeal, 936 maxiliary, 911 nasal, 914 supraclavicular, 951 supraorbital, 909 suprascapular, 955 supratrochlear, 909 symjjathetic, 988 of taste, 1002 temporal, of auriculo-tem- poral, 916 deep, 915 of facial, 925 middle, 915 of temporo-malar, 911 temporo-facial, 925 temporo-malar, 911 tenth cranial, 933 third cranial, 903 thoracic, anterior primary divisions of, 966 posterior primary divisions of, 948 external anterior, 956 internal anterior, 956 thyro-hyoid, 941 thyroid, 992 tibial, anterior, 984 posterior, 982 of tongue, 1107 tonsillar, 932 transverse cervical, 950 trifacial, 906 trochlear, 905 twelfth cranial, 939 tympanic, of facial, 925 of glosso-pharyngeal, 932 ulnar, 962 collateral, 963 uterine, 1000 vaginal, 1000 vagus, 933 vestibular, 1058 Vidian, 913 of ^Vrisberg, 959 Nervi-nervorum, 48 Nervous systom, development of, 115 description of, 794 Nervous Tissue, Histology of, 42 Ncrvus furcalis. 970 jugularis, 992 Neumann, dentinal sheath of, 1097 Neural arch, 183 canal, 89 crest. 89 folds, 88 Neurocentral synchondrosis. 195 Neuroglia, 43 of cord, 800 Neurokeratin, 40 Neurology, 794 Neuromeres, 797 Neuro-muscular spindles, 52 Neuron theory, 54, 794 Neurons, 794 Neuro-tendinous spindles, 52 Nidus avis cerebelli, 829 Ninth nerve, 930 Nipple, 1232 Nissl's granules, 45 Nodes of Ranvier, 46 Nodule of cerebellum, 829 Non-medullated nerve-fibres,45 Normae of skull— I basaUs, 262 ' frontalis, 268 lateralis, 265 occipitalis, 268 [ verticalis, 261 ! Normoblasts, 26 Nose, 1002 accessory sinuses of, 1008 applied anatomy of, 1008 arteries of, 1003 cartUage of septum of, 1003 development of, 110 fossae of, 275 lateral cartilages of, 1002 mucous membrane of, 1006 muscles of, 463 nerves of, 1003 outer, 1002 * vems of, 1003 Notch, cotyloid, 326 ethmoidal. 222 intercondyloid, 337 lachrymal, 243 nasal, 221 popliteal, 344 presternal, 204 pterygoid, 230 sacro-sciatio, great. 324 small, 324 sigmoid, 258 spheno-palatine. 252 supraorbital, 221 suprascapular, 292 suprasternal. 489 thyroid, 1060 Notches, cerebellar, 826 intervertebral, 183 Notochord. 89 NucK, canal of, 174. 1225 Nuclear layers of retina. 1021, 1022 membrane, 4 substance. 4 Nucleated sheath of Schwann, 46 Nuclei of auditorv nerve. 825, 928 cochlear, 825 of cranial nerves, 900 of fifth nerve. 824. 844 of glosso-pharyngeal and vagus nerves, 819INDEX 1279 Nuclei, olivaiy, 819 of origin of motor nerves, 900 pontis, 824 of sensory nerves, 900 of termination of sensory nerves, 900 of thii'd nerve, 903 vestibular, 825 Nuelein, 4 Nucleoli, -t ' pseudo-, 4 true, 4 Nucleo-protein, 7 Nucleus anibiguus, 819 amygdalte, 873 arcuatus, 821 of Bechterew, 825 caudatus, 871 of a cell, 4 of Darksohewitsoh, 849 of Deiters, 825 dentatus of cerebellum, 834 emboliforniis, 834 of the facial nerve, 825 fastigii, 834 of the fourth nerve, 844 globosus, 834 inferior central, 821 intercalatus, 837 lateralis, 821 lenticularis, 872 lentis. 102G of Luys, 850 olivary, accessory, 819 inferior, 819 I of posterior commissui'e, 849 longitudinal fasciculus, 841 pulposus, 374 red, 840 resting, 5 of Roller, 821 roof, of Stilling, 834 segmentation, tirst, 84 1 of the seventh nerve, 825 of the sixth nerve, 825 of the si)inal accessory nerve, 819 superior olivary, 824 trapezoid, 824 of the twelfth nerve, 818 of vagus, 819, 933 Nuel, space of, 1057 Nuhn, glands of, 1106 Nutrient artery of bone, 26 Nutritive fluids, 7 yolk, 79 Nymphie, 1231 Obelion, 279 Obex, 836 Oblique inguinal hernia, 1159 coverings of, 1159 ligament, 414 line of the fibula, 347 of mandible, 255, 256 of radius, 306 of tibia, 344 ridge of clavicle, 287 of ulna, 304 sinus of pericardium, 600 Obliquus abdominis externus, 508 internus, 510 auriculce, 1037 Obliquus capitis, inferior, 498 superior, 498 i ocidi, interior, 462 superior, 462 i Obturator artery, 700 peculiarities of, 700 relation of, to crural ring, 700 externus muscle, 576 foramen, 326 internus muscle, 575 [ fascia of, 517 lymphatic gland, 779 membrane, 575 nerve, 974 accessory, 974 vein, 757 Occipital artery, 634 bone, 214 articulations of, 217 ossification of, 217 structure of, 217 convolutions, 860 crests, 215, 216 fissure, transverse, 860 fossae, 215 groove, 225 lobe, 860 lymphatic glands, 767 nerve, great, 945 small, 950 point, 279 protuberance, external, 214 internal, 215 sinus, 740 sulcus, lateral, 860 transverse, 860 triangle of neck. 640 vein, 731 Oocipito-atlantal articulation, 380 Occipito-axial articulation, 382 Occipito-frontal fasciculus, 879 Oooipito-frontalis muscle, 456 Ocoipito-mastoid suture, 274 Ocoipito-temporal convolution, 861 Oculo-motor sulcus, 838 Oculo-nasal sulcus, 111 Odontoblasts, 1101 Odontoid ligaments, 382 process of axis, 186 OEsophageal arteries. 662, 684 glands, 1118 } nerves, 937 ] opening in diaphragm, 503 plexus, 937 OEsophagus, 1116 applied anatomy of, 1118 lymphatic vessels of, 793 structure of, 1117 Olecranon fossa, 298 process, 301 Olfactory areas, 110 bulb, 864 structure of, 883 ceUs, 1007 fasciculus, 875 foramina. 238 hairs, 1007 lobe, 863 nerves, 900 applied anatomy of, 901 development of, 128 pits, 110 sulcus, 859 Olfactory tract, 864 Olivary bodies of medulla oblongata, 813 eminence, 232 nucleus, dorsal accessory, 819 inferior, 819 mesial accessory, 819 superior, 824 peduncle, 819 Olive, peduncle of, 819 Omentum, gastro-coUc, 1127 gastro-hepatic, 1128 gastro-splenic, 1128 great, 1128 smaU, 1127 Omo-hyoid muscle, 476 Ontogeny, 77 Oocytes, primary, 78 secondary, 80 Oogonia, 78 Opening of aorta in left ven- tricle, 609 aortic, in diaphragm, 503 caval, in diaphragm, 503 of coronary sinus, 604 of inferior cava, 604 left auricido-ventricular, 609 oesophageal, in diaphragm, 503 of pulmonaiy arteiy, 606 veins, 008 right auriculo-ventricular, 606 saphenous, 568 of sujjerior cava, 604 of thorax, lower, 598 upper, 598 Opercula of the insula, 862 Ophryon, 279 Ophthalmic artery, 647 ganglion, 910 nerve, 908 vein, 741 Opisthion, 279 Opisthotic centre of tempoi'al bone, 231 Opponens minimi digiti muscle, 556 pollicis muscle, 554 Optic axis, 1011 chiasma, 851, 901 commissure, 851, 901 cup, 128 disc, 1020 foramen, 232 groove, 232 nerve, 901 applied anatomy of, 903 I'adiations, 848, 852 recess, 853 stalks, 122 thalamus, 845 tracts, 852, 901 vesicle, 122 Ora serrata, 1024 Orbicular ligament, 413 Orbicularis oris muscle, 406 palpebrarum muscle, 459 Orbiculus ciliaris, 1016 Orbit, 270 muscles of, 461 relation of nerves in, 921 Orbital convolutions, 859 fascia, 463 nerve, 911 operculum, 862INDEX 1280 Orbital plates, 221 process of malar, 248 of palate, 252 sulcus, 859 Orbitalis muscle, 403 Orbito-sphenoids, 235 Organ of Corti, 1056 enamel, 1101 of Giraldes, 169, 1211 of Oolgi, 52 of hearing, 1034 of Rosenmiiller, 169, 1220 of sight, 1010 of smell, 1002 Organs of digestion, 1088 external genital, of female, 1230 of Jacobson, 112, 1005 reproductive, of female, 1218 of male, 1203 respiratory, 1069 of special sense, 1001 of taste, 1001 Orifice, auriculo-ventricular, right, 606 left, 609 cardiac, of stomach, 1133 pharyngeal of Eustachian tube, 1114 pyloric, of stomach, 1133 urethral, 1198 vaginal, 1231 Orifices of ureters, 1198 Origin of lymphatics, 61 of muscles, 454 of nerves, 49 Os acetabuli, 327 calcis, 349 ossification of, 362 cordis, 610 incisivum, 246 innominatum, 320 linguiB, 260 magnum, 314 orbiculare of incus, 1044 planum of ethmoid, 239 trigonum, 356 uteri externus, 1224 internus, 1223 Ossa cranii, 214 faciei, 241 triquetra, 240 Ossicles of tympanum, 1043 development of, 134 ligaments of, 1045 Ossification, intracartilaginous, 31 intramembranoua, 30 Ossification of atlas, 196— axis, 196 clavicle, 288 coccyx, 198 ethmoid, 240 femur, 339 fibula, 349 foot, 362 frontal, 223 hand, 319 humerus, 299 hyoid, 261 inferior turbinated, 254 lachrymal, 248 lumbar vertebrre, 197 malar, 250 mandible, 258 maxilla, 247 Ossification, nasal, 242 occipital, 217 OS innominatum, 326 palate, 253 parietal, 219 patella, 342 radius, 307 ribs, 210 sacrum, 197 scapula, 294 seventh cervical vertebra, 197 sphenoid, 236 sternum, 206 temporal, 230 tibia, 346 ulna, 305 vertebral column, 195 vomer, 255 Osteoblasts, 25 Osteoclasts, 26 Osteodentine, 1099 Osteogenetic fibres, 30 Osteology, 181 Ostium abdominale of Fallo- pian tube, 1221 primum of heart, 139 secundum of heart, 140 Otic ganglion, 917 vesicle, 133 Otoconia or otoliths, 1053 Outlet of pelvis, 329 Ova, primitive, 172 Oval area of Flechsig, 808 bundle, 117 Ovarian arteries, 695 fossa, 1125, 1218 plexus of nerves, 999 veins, 760 Ovaries, 1218 development of, 172 Graafian follicles of, 1220 ligaments of, 1218, 1219 lymphatic vessels of, 789 stroma of, 1220 tunica albuginea of, 1220 vessels and nerves of, 1221 Ovicapsule of Graafian follicle, 1220 Oviducts, 1221 Ovula Nabothi, 1228 Ovum, 3, 78 coverings of, 79 discharge of, 1221 fertilisation of, 83 germinal spot of, 78 vesicle of, 79 maturation of, 79 segmentation of, 84 structure of, 78 yolk of, 79 zona pellucida of, 79 Oxyntic cells, 1138 glands, 1138 Pacchionian depressions, 218, 221 bodies, 898 Pacinian corpuscles, 61 Pad, retropubic, 1194 Palatal processes of fojtus, 111 process of maxilla. 245 Palate, arches of, 1091 bone, 250 articulations of, 263 Palate bone, horizontal plate of, 250 orbital process of, 252 ossification of, 253 sphenoidal process of, 252 vertical plate of, 251 development of. 111 hard, 1091 muscles of, 484 soft, 1091 Palatine aponeurosis, 484 artery, ascending, 632 of ascending pharyngeal, descending, 640 canal, posterior, 244, 251 accessory, 252 fossa, anterior, 246 nerves, 913 veins, inferior, 730 Palato-glossus muscle, 485 Palato-pharyngeus, 485 Palmar arch, deep, 676 superficial, 681 surface marking of, 682 cutaneous nerve, of median, 960 of ulnar, 962 fascia, 552 interossei arteries, 678 nerve, deep, of ulnar, 963 superficial, 963 veins, deep, 747 Palmaris brevis muscle, 556 longus muscle, 541 Palpebrse, 1029 Palpebral arteries, 647 hgameuts, 1030 muscles, 459 nerves from superior maxU- lary, 912 veins, inferior, 730 superior, 729 Pampiniform plexus of vems, 759 Pancreas, 1175 appUed anatomy of, 1179 development of, 165 lymphatic vessels of, 787 structure of, 1179 surface relations of, 1179 vessels and nerves of, 1179 Pancreatic arteries, 690 duct, 1178 accessoiy, 1178 plexus of nerves, 999 veins, 762 Pancreatica magna artery, 690 Pancrcatico-duodenal arten,\ inferior, 691 superior, 690 lymphatic glands, 784 plexus of nerves, 999 Papilla spiralis, 1055 Papilla2 lacrimalcs. 1032 of kidney. 1184 of sldn, 67 of tongue. 1104 of tooth. 1100 Papillary layer of skin, 67 Paracentral lobule, 859 Parachordal cartilages, 106 ParaUnin, 4 Parallel striae of Retzius. 1098 sulcus, 861 Paramastoid process, 216INDEX 1281 Paranephric body, 1183 Paranucleus, 1179 Paraplasm, 4 Pararectal lymphatic glands, 784 fossa, 1125 Parathyroid glands, 1237 development of, 155 Paravesical fossa, 1125 Paraxial mesoderm, 90 Parietal bone, 218 articulations of, 220 development of, 107 eminence, 218 foramen, 218 ossification of. 219 cells of gastric glands, 1138 lobe, 859 convolutions of, 860 veins, 146 Parieto-oolic fold, 1132 Parieto-mastoid suture, 266 Parieto-occipital fissui-e, 857 Parieto-temporal artery, 652 Parolfactory area, 864 Paroophoron, 169, 1220 Parotid duct, 1110 fascia, 473 gland, 1108 accessory portion of, 1109 applied anatomy of, 1113 nerves of, 1110 structure of, 1109 vessels of, 1110 lymphatic glands, 768 Parovarium, 1220 Pars basalis, 859 ciliaris retinae, 1016, 1020 externa, interna, et media of auditory canal, 1038 flaccida of membrana tym- pani, 1043 intermedia of Wrisberg, 922 iridica retinae, 1018, 1020 laryngea of pharynx, 1115 maraillaria hypothalami, 123 membranaoea septi, 609 nasalis of pharynx, 1114 optica hypothtdami, 123 oralis of pharynx, 1114 orbitalis, 859 triangularis, 859 ParumbUical veins, 763 Patella, 341 applied anatomy of, 343 articulations of, 342 movements of, 437 ossification of, 342 structure of, 342 surface form of, 342 Patellar ligaments, 430 plexus, 973 Pavement epithelium, 12 Pectineus muscle, 571 Pcctiniform septum, 1213 Pectoralis major, 529 minor, 531 Peculiar thoracic vertebrte, 188 Peculiarities of foetal heart, 148 Pedicles of a vertebra, 183 Peduncles of cerebellum, 830 831 of the olive, 819 Pelvic colon, 1153 diaphragm, 517 Pelvic diaphragm, fascia of, 517 fascia, 517 girdle, 286 mesocolon, 1129 plexuses, 1000 portion of sympathetic cord, 996 Pelvis, 327, 1121 applied anatomy of, 331 arteries of, 698 articulations of, 393 axes of, 329 boundaries of, 327 brim of, 327 cavity of, 328 false, 327 | in foetus, 331 inlet of, 327 of kidney, 1191 ligaments of, 369 lymphatic glands of, 778 vessels of, 781 male and female, differences between, 329 j mechanism of, 397 | outlet of, 329 position of, 329 surface form of, 331 true, 327 Penis, 1212 applied anatomy of, 1215 body of, 1214 corona glandis, 1213 corpora cavernosa, 1212 corpus spongiosum, 1213 crura of, 1212 dorsal artery of, 703 veins of, 757 extremity of, 1214 glans, 1213 nerves of, 986 prepuce or foreskin of, 1214 root of, 1213 septum peotiniforme of, 1213 structure of, 1214 suspensory ligament, 1214 Penniform muscle, 453 Perforated space, anterior, 864 posterior, 838 Perforating arteries, of hand, 678 from internal mammary, 665 from plantar, 726 from profunda, 714 cutaneous nerve, 985 fibres of Sharpey, 29 Perforator of spermatozoon, 81 Pericardiac arteries, 664, 684 Pericardial area, 87 Pericardium, applied anatomy of, 600 development of, 150 diverticula of, 600 fibrous, 599 nerves of, 600 obUque sinus of, 600 relations of, .598 serous, 600 structure of, 599 transverse sinus of, 600 vessels of, 600 vestigial fold of, 600 Perichondrium, 21 Perilympli, 1051, 1057 Perimysium, 36 Perinajum, boundaries of, 521 central tendinous point of, 524 lymphatic vessels of, 781 muscles of, 621 Perineal artery, superficial, 701 transverse, 702 body, 1155 branch of fourth sacral nerve, 986 nerve, 986 superficial, 986 Perinem-ium, 48 Periosteum, 25 internal, 25 Peripheral end-bulbs, 50 organs, 49 termination of nerves, 49 Perisclerotic lymph space, 1011 Peritoneal cavity, 1122 Peritoneum, attached surface of, 1121 foramen of Winslow, 1127 free surface of, 1121 greater sac of, 1122 horizontal disposition of, in lower abdomen, 1125 in upper abdomen, 1126 in pelvis, 1125 lesser sac of, 1122 ligaments, 1127 mesenteries, 1129 omenta, 1127 parietal portion of, 1121 vertical disj)osition of greater sac, 1122 of lesser sac, 1124 visceral portion of, 1121 Permanent cartUage, 21 teeth, 1094 development of, 1102 Peroneal artery, 723 peculiarities of, 724 anterior, 724 posterior, 724 nerve, 984 septa, 579 tubercle, 352 Peroneus brevis muscle, 585 longus muscle, 586 tertius muscle, 680 Perpendicular fasciculus, 879 line of ulna, 304 plate of ethmoid, 239 Pes anserinus, 923 or crusta of crus cerebri, 839 hippocampi, 870 Petit, canal of, 1025 triangle of, 492 Petro-mastoid portion of tem- poral bone, 225 Petro-occipital suture, 274 Petro-squamous sinus, 740 suture, 227 Petrosal nerve, large super- ficial, 913, 924 large deep, 913 small superficial, 1046 process, 233 sinus, inferior, 742 •superior, 742 Petrous ganglion, 932 portion of temporal bone, 227 Peyer's glands, 1146 Pfluger, egg tubes of, 1221 4 N1282 INDEX Phalanges of cochlea, 1057 of foot, 301 ossittcation of, 362 of hand, 318 ossification of, 319 Phai'yngcal aponeurosis, 1115 artery, ascending, 636 nerve, from external laryn- geal, 936 from glosso-pharyngeal, 932 from Meckel's ganglion, 914 from sympathetic, 992 from vagus, 935 orifice of Eustachian tube, 1114 plexus of nerves, 992 septum, 151 tonsil, 1114 tubercle, 217 veins, 734 Pharyngo-glossus muscle, 484 Pharynx, 1113 aponeurosis of, 1115 applied anatomy of, 1116 development of, 155 lymphatic vessels of, 772 mucous membrane of, 1115 muscles of, 482 Philtrum, 467 Phrenic artery, superior, 685 inferior, 695 nerve, 953 plexus of nerves, 997 vein, superior, 748 inferior, 760 Phrenico-costal sinus, 1077 Phrenico-pericardiac ligament of Teutleben, 758 Phreno-colic ligament, 1153 Phylogeny, 77 Pia mater, 898 Pigment, 35 of iris, 1018 of skin, 66 Pigmentary layer of retina, 1023 ; Pigmented connective - tissue ceUs, 35 epithelial cells, 35 i PiUars of external abdominal ring, 508 j of fauces, 1091 Pineal body, 849 ! development of, 123 strife of, 854 i structure of, 849 eye of lizards, 849 recess, 123 Pinna, 1034 development of, 134 ligaments of, 1036 lymphatic vessels of, 769 muscles of, 1036 nerves of, 1057 vessels of, 1037 Pisiform bono, 313 Piso-metacarpal ligament, 418 Piso-uncinate ligament, 418 Pit of the stomach, 212 , Pits, olfactory, 110 j Pituitary body. 851 arteries of, 64() development of, 155 lobes of, 851 Pituitary fossa, 232 Pivot-joint, 370 Placenta, 99 , circulation through, 101, 014 cotyledons of, 101 foetal, 99 maternal, 100 separation of, 101 Placental circulation, 101, 014 Plane, infracostal, 1119 intertubercular, 1119 transpyloric, 1119)i Plantar arch, 725 artery, external, 725 internal, 724 fascia, 587 ligaments, 446 nerve, external, 983 internal, 983 veins, external, 754 internal, 754 Plantaris muscle, 682 Planum nuchale, 215 i j occipitale, 214 Plasma, 10 j cells, 15 j Plasmodioblast, 86 Plate or plates—- cribriform, 238 ethmoidal, 106 perpendicular, 239 pterygoid, 236 tarsal, 1030 Platelets of blood, 9 Platysma, 471 Pleura, 1074 applied anatomy of, 1077 cervical, 1075 costalis, 1075 development of, 167 diaphragmatic, 1075 lymphatic vessels of, 793 mediastiual, 1075 pulmonalis, 1075 reflections of, traced, 1075 vessels and nerves of, 1077 Plexiform layers of retina, 1021, 1022 Plexus of Nerves, 48 aortic, 999 brachial, 953 cardiac, 996 carotid, 990 cavernous, 990 cervical, 949 posterior, 946 coccygeal, 980 coeliac, 999 of cornea. intraepithelial, 1014 subepithelial, 1014 coronary, 997 cystic, 999 epigastric or solar, 997 of Exner, 881 gastric, 999 gastro-duodenal, 999 gastro-epiploic, 999 hremorrhoidal. inferior, 1000 superior. 999 hepatic, 999 liypogastric, 999 infraorbital. 912, 920 lumbar. 070 lumbo-sacral. 969 | mesenteric, inferior, 999 I Plexus of Nerves (conl.) mesenteric, superior, 999 oesophageal, 937 ovarian, 999 jjancreatic, 999 pancreatico-duodenal, 999 patellar, 973 pelvic, 1000 pharyngeal, 992 phrenic, 997 prostatic, 1000 pudendal, 985 pulmonary, 930, 937 pyloric, 999 renal, 998 sacral, 978 solar, 997 spermatic, 998 splenic, 999 subsartorial, 970 superficial cardiac, 990 suprarenal, 997 tonsillar, 932 tympanic, 1040 uterine, 1000 vaginal, 1000 vesical, 1000 Plica epigastrica, 1159 fimbriata of tongue, 1104 gubernatrix, 173 hypogastrica, 1159 lacrimalis of Hasner, 1033 salpingo-palatina, 1114 salpingo-pharyngea, 1114 semilunaris, 1031 triangularis, 1115 uracM, 1159 vascularis, 173 vesicalis transversa, 1125 PUcaa irretericfe, 1198 Pneumogastric nerve, 933 applied anatomj- of, 937 Polar bodies, 80 Poles of eye, 1011 of lens, 1025 Polymorphonuclear leuco- cytes, 8 Polyspermy, 84 Pomum Adami, 1060 Pons hepatis. 1167 Varolii, 822 applied anatomy of, 825 development of, 120 structure of, 823 . Ponticulus of piiuia, 1030 Pontine flexure of embryonic brain, 119 Popliteal artery, 716 applied anatomy of, 717 branches of, 717 peculiarities of, 717 surface marking of, 717 lymphatic glands. 775 nerve, external, 984 internal. 981 notch, 344 space, 715 surface of femur. 336 vein. 755 Popliteus muscle. 583 Pore, gustatory. 1001 Portal canals. "1168 fissure. 1167 vein, 760 applied anatomy of^ 703 development of, 145Porus opticus, 1020 Post-allantoic gut, 162 Post-anal gut, 102 Post-branchial bodies, 155 Post-central fissure, 827 lobe of insula, 862 sulcus, 859 Post-olival fissure, 827 Post-glenoid process, 224 Post-gracile fissure, 829 Post-nodular fissure, 828 Post-parietal convolution, 860 Post-pyramidal fissure, 829 Post-splienoid part of sphenoid, 237 Posterior annular ligament, 551 auricular artery, 635 basal column, 804 cer\aoal plexus, 946 chamber of eye, 1017 choroidal artery, 661 clinoid process, 232 commissure of brain, 840 nucleus of, 849 common ligament, 373 communicating artery, 652 j cornu of lateral ventricle,; 867 I crescentic lobe, 827 I inferior cerebellar artery, 661 internal frontal artery, 649 interosseous artery, 681 nerve, 965 longitudinal fasciculus, 841 median fissure of cord, 798 of medulla, 812 | mediastinum, 1079 nerve root, 941 perforated space, 838 primary divisions of cervical nerves, 945 of coccygeal nerve, 949 of lumbar nerves, 948 of sacral nerves, 949 of thoracic nerves. 948 pulmonary plexus, 937 scapular artery, 603 nerve, 955 thoracic nerve, 955 tibial artery, 722 nerve, 982 triangle of neclc, 043 vesicular column, 803 Postero-inferior lobe, 829 Postero-lateral ganglionic arte- ries, 601 Postero-median ganglionic arte- ries, 061 Postero-superior lobe, 827 Pott's fracture, 596 Pouch of Douglas, 1124, 1225 ' of Prussak, 1046 of Rathlie, 155 recto-vaginal, 1124 recto-vesical, 1124 Poupart's ligament, 509 Prseputium clitoridis, 1231 I Preauricular point, 281 Precentral convolution, 858 fissure, 827 sulcus, 858 Preoliordal portion of base of foetal sliull, 100 Preclival fissure, 827 Precuneus, of brain, 8()0 Premaxilla, 240 INDEX [ Premolar teeth, 1095 Preolivary sulcus, 812 ' Prepatellar bursa, 570 Prepuce, 1214 of clitoris, 1231 development of, 177 Prepyramidal fissure, 828 Presphenoid part of sphenoid, 237 Presternal notcli, 204 Presternum, 203 Pretracheal fascia, 473 Prevertebral arteries, 636 fascia, 473 Priclde ceUs, 15, 65 Primary areolae of bone, 32 cephalic flexure, 119 cerebral vesicles, 89 oocytes, 78 spermatocytes, 82 Primitive alimentary canal, 92 amniotic cavity, 86 aort£e, 135 aortic stem, 140 auricle, 139 ectoderm, 85 fibrillsB of Schultze, 46 groove, 80 jugular veins, 146 ova, 172 segments, 91 sheath of nerve-fibre, 46 sperm-cells, 173 streak, 86 ventricle of heart, 140 vertebral bow, 103 Primordial cranium, 105 ova, 1221 Princeps cervicis artery, 634 polliois artery, 677 Proamnion, 87 Processes or Peocess— accessory, 191 acromion, 292 alar, 238 alveolar, 245 angular, external, 221 internal, 221 articular, of vertebrre, 183 basilar, 216 ciliary, 1016 clinoid, anterior, 235 middle, 232 posterior, 232 oochleariform, 229 condylar, of mandible, 257 coracoid, 293 coronoid, of mandible, 267 of ulna, 301 costal, 184 of dura mater, 893 ensiform, 204 ethmoidal, of inferior tur- binated, 253 external auditory, 229 frontal, of maxilla, 245 fronto-nasal, 110 fronto-sphenoidal, 248 funicular, 173« globular, of His, 111 hamular, of lachrymal, 248 of sphenoid, 230 jugular, 228 lachiymal, of inferior tur- binated bone, 253 lateral nasal, 110 1283 Pbgoesses oe Peocess {cont.) malar, 245 mamillary, 191 mastoid, 225 maxillary, of foetus. 111 of inferior turbinated, 254 of malar bone, 250 of palate bone, 252 nasal, of frontal bone, 221 of maxilla, 245 odontoid, of axis, 180 olecranon, 301 orbital, of malar, 248 of palate, 252 palatal, of foetus. 111 of maxilla, 245 paramastoid, 216 petrosal, 233 post-glenoid, 224 pterygoid, of sphenoid, 236 sphenoidal, of palate, 242 spinous, of Uium, 323 of sphenoid, 234 of tibia, 343 of vertebrae, 183 styloid, of fibula, 347 of radius, 307 of temporal, 230 of ulna, 305 temporal, of malar, 250 transverse, of vertebrae, 183 turbinal, of lachrymal, 248 turbinated, of ethmoid, 240 unciform, 314 imcLnate, of ethmoid, 239 vaginal, of sjihenoid, 236 of temporal, 228 zygomatic, of maxilla, 245 of temporal, 223 Processus brevis of malleus, 1044 cochleariformis, 229, 1041 gracilis of malleus, 1043 intrajugularis, 216 jugularis, 210 muscularis, of arytenoid, 1061 pyramidalis, of palate bone, 252 sphenoidalis, 1003 tubarius, 236 uncinatus, of ethmoid, 239 vocalis, of arytenoid, 1061 Proctodoeum, 161 Profunda cei;vicis artery, 665 femoris artery, 713 vein, 755 arteiy, inferior. 674 superior, 073 of ulnar, 681 Projection fibres of liomi- spheres, 878 Prominentia canalis facialis, 1041 Promontory of tympanum, 1041 Pronator teres muscle, 540 quadratus muscle, 544 ridge, 304 Pronephric duct, 108 Pronephros, 108 Pronucleus, female, 81 male, 84 Prootic centre of temporal bone, 230 Prophase of karyokinesis, 5 4n 21284 INDEX Prostate gland, 1215 applied anatomy of, 1217 development of, 175 lobes of, 1210 lymphatic vessels of, 788 vessels and nerves of, 1217 Prostatic ducts, orifices of, 1200 plexus of nerves, 1000 portion of urethra, 1200 sinus, 1200 Prosthion, 279 Protoplasm, 3 Protoplasmic process of nerve- cells, 45 Protovertebral somites, 91 Protuberance, mental, 255 occipital, external, 214 internal, 215 Proximal convoluted tube, 1186 Prussak, pouch of, 104G Psalterium, 875 Pseudo-nucleoli, 4 Pseudopodium, 9 Pseudostomata of serous mem- branes, 73 Psoas magnus muscle, 564 applied anatomy of, 565 parvus muscle, 565 Pterion, 279 ossicle, 240 Pterygoid arteries, 639 fossa of sphenoid, 236 muscles, 469 nerves, 915, 916 notch, 236 plates, 236 plexus of vein, 731 processes of sphenoid, 236 tubercle, 236 Pterygo-mandibular ligament, 467 Pterygo-maxillary fissure, 268 Pterygo-palatine artery, 640 canal, 236 sulcus, 236 Pterygo-spinous ligament, 237 Pubic arch, 329 ligaments, 396 portion of fascia lata, 568 spine, 325 Pubis, 324 angle of, 325 body of, 324 crest of, 325 rami of, 325 spine of, 325 symphysis of, 396 Pubo-coccygeus muscle, 521 Pubo-fenioral ligament, 424 Pubo-prostatic ligaments, 1196 Pubo-rectalis muscle, 521 Pudendal plexus, 985 Pudendum, 1230 Pudic artery, accessory, 701 deep external, 713 internal, in male, 701 peculiarities of, 701 in female, 703 superficial external, 713 nerve, 985 vein, internal, 750 Pulmonary artery, 018 opening of, in right ven- tricle, 006 nerves from vagus, 936, 937 Pulmonary valves, 007 veins, 727 openings of, in left auricle, 008 Pulp, dental, of teeth, 1096 of spleen, 1241 Pulp-cavity of teeth, 1096 Pulvinar of thalamus, 845 Puncta lacrinialia, 1032 vasculosa, 865 Pupil, 1017 Pupillary membrane, 131,1019 Purkinje, cells of, 833 fibres of, 42 Putamen, 872 Pyloric artery, 689 canal, 1134 glands, 1137 orifice of stomach, 1133 plexus, 999 portion of stomach, 1134 valve, 1135 vein, 762 vestibule, 1133 Pylorus, 1133 Pyramid of cerebellum, 829 of thyroid gland, 1236 of tympanum, 1041 of vestibule, 1048 Pyramidal cells of cerebral cortex, 881 eminence of pons, 823 fibres of crusta, 839 of internal capsule, 873 tracts, 815 PyramidaHs muscle, 514 nasi muscle, 463 Pyramids of Malpighi, 1184 of medulla, 812 decussation of, 813 Pyriformis muscle, 675 fascia of, 518 Quadrate lobe, 860 Quadratus femoris muscle, 576 lumborum muscle, 517 fascia covering, 517 menti muscle, 466 tubercle of, 335 Quadriceps extensor cruris muscle, 568 j Quadrigeminal bodies, 843 ! Racemose glands, 75 Radial artery, 676 applied anatomy of, 676 branches of, 677 peculiarities of, 676 surface marking of, 670 fossa, 298 head of humerus, 298 nerve, 904 recurrent artery, 077 region, muscles of. 545 Radialis indicis artery, 678 j Radiating fibres of retina, 1023 Radio-carpal articulation, 416 applied anatomy of, 417 surface form of. 417 Radio-iilnar articulations, in- ferior, 414 I middle, 414 , superior, 413 ' region, anterior, miiscles of, 540 Radius, .300 applied anatomy of, 308 articulations of, 307 grooves in lower end of, 307 ol)lique line of, 306 ossification of, 307 sigmoid cavity of, 307 surface form of, 308 tuberosity of, 306 Rami communicantes. 943 of the ischium, 324 of the mandible, 256 of the pubis, 325 Ramus occipitalis, 860 Ranine artery, 631 vein, 730 Ranvier, nodes of, 46 Raphe, ano-coccygeal, 520 of medulla, 812 of palate, 1091 of scrotum, 1203 Rathke, pouch of, 155 Receptaculum chyU, 766 Recess, epitympanic, 226 naso-palatine, 1005 optic, 863 pineal, 853 spheno-ethmoidal, 276 supraoptic, 853 Recesses of Troltsch, 1046 Recessus ellipticus, 1048 epitympanicus, 1039 labyrinth!, 133 pinealis, 123 sphaericus, 1048 suprapinealis, 854 Reciprocal reception, articu- lations by, 370 Rectal ampulla, 1154 fascia, 519 Recto-coccygeal muscles, 1155 Recto-uterine folds, 1225 Recto-vesical fascia. 519 folds, 1126 pouch, 1124 Rectum, 1154 ampulla of, 1164 development of, 160 Houston's valves of, 1155 lymphatic vessels of, 785 relations of, 1154 surgicol anatomy of, 1162 Rectus abdominis, 613 sheath of, 613 capitis auticus major, 486 minor, 486 latcraUs, 486 posticus major, 498 minor, 498 external, inferior, internal, and superior of cycbaU, 462 femoris muscle, 669 Recurrent artci^', radial, 677 tibial, anterior. 721 ])OSterior. 721 ulnar, anterior. 079 posterior, 679 laryngeal nerve, 936 nerve of inferior maxillary, 914 Rocmrcnt branches from deep palmar arch. 078 interosseous artery. 681 Retl cor])uscles, 7 nucleus, 8401285 INDEX Reflections of pleurse, 1075 Refracting media of eye, 1024 Region— abdominal, muscles of, 50C acromial, muscles of, 533 auricular, 458 back, muscles of, 489 cervical, superficial, muscles of, 461 cranial, 456 epigastric, 1119 femoral, muscles and fasciae of, anterior, 566 internal, 571 posterior, 544 fibular, 575 foot, dorsal region of, 587 plantar region of, 587 gluteal, muscles of, 573 hand, muscles and fasoise of, 550 humeral, anterior, 536 posterior, 538 hypochondiiac, 1119 hypogastric, 1121 iliac, muscles and fasciae of, 564 infrahyoid, 476 inguinal, 1121 intermandibular, muscles of, 466 ischio-rectal, muscles and fasciae of, 521 lingual, muscles of, 479 mandibular, muscles of, 466 maxillary, muscles of, 464 nasal, muscles of, 463 orbital, muscles of, 461 palatal, muscles of, 484 palpebral, muscles of, 459 pelvis, muscles and fasciae of, 517 perinEeum, muscles and fas- ciae of, 521 pharyngeal, muscles of, 482 popUteal space, 715 pterygo-mandibular, muscles of, 469 radial, muscles of, 540 radio-ulnar, anterior, muscles of, 540 posterior, 545 scapular, anterior, muscles of, 354 posterior, 535 Scarpa's triangle, 710 suprahyoid, muscles of, 477 temporo-mandibular, mus- cles of, 467 thoracic region, anterior, muscles and fasciae of, 528 lateral, muscles and fasciae of, 532 thorax, muscles and fasciae of, 500 tibio-fibular, anterior, mus- cles of, 579 posterior, 581 umbilical, 1121 urogenital region in male, ^ muscles and fasciae of, 523 in female, muscles and fasciae of, 526 \ Region (cont.) vertebral, anterior, muscles of, 486 lateral, 488 Regions of abdomen, 1119 ReU, island of, 862 convolutions of, 862 sulcus circularis of, 857 Renal afferent vessels, 1185, 1188 artery, 694 inferior, 1187 efierent vessels, 1185, 1188 plexus, 998 veins, 760 Reproductive organs, female, 1218 male, 1203 Rbspibation, mechanism of, 505 organs of, 1059 Respiratoi-y nerve of Bell, ex- ternal, 955 organs, development of, 166 Restiform bodies of medulla,815 Resting nuclei, 5 Rete mucosum of sldn, 64 testis, 1208 Reticular lamina of Kolliker, 1057 layer of sldn, 67 tissue, 19 Reticularis alba, 821 grisea, 821 Retiform tissue, 19 Retina, 1021 central artery of, 1024 development of, 129 fovea centralis of, 1023 layers of, 1021 macula lutea of, 1023 membrana limitans interna, 1021 externa, 1023 ora serrata of, 1020 structm'e of, 1020 supporting framework of, 1023 Retinacula of hip-joint, 424 of ileo-caecal valve, 1150 Retrahens auriculam muscle, 459 Retro-peritoneal fossae, 1129 circumcaeoal, 1131 duodenal, 1129 intersigmoid, 1132 Retro-pharyngeal space, 473 Retro-pubic pad, 1194 Retzius, coloured lines of, 1098 Rliinonoephalon, 124, 863 Rhodopsin, or visual purple, 36, 1020 Rhombencephalon, 119, 811 Rhombic lip, 120 Rhomboid impression, 288 ligament, 400 Rhomboideus major, 492 minor, 492 Rhomboids, nerve to, 955 Ribs, 206 angles of, 208 apphed anatomy of, 212 development of, 104 heads of, 207 ligaments of, 385 necks of, 207 Ribs, ossification of, 210 peculiar, 209 structure of, 210 tubercles of, 208 Ridge, bicipital, 295 ganglion, 89, 118 gluteal, 336 mylo-liyoid, 256 pronator, 304 superciliary, 220 temporal, 221, 223 trapezoid or oblique, 287 Right lobe of liver, 1167 Rima glottidis, 1066 palpebrarum, 1029 Ring, abdominal, external, 508 internal, 516 crural, 708 muscle of MUller, 1017 tympanic, 231 Rings, fibrous, of heart, 610 Risorius muscle, 467 Rivinus, ducts of, 1110 inoism-e of, 1040 Rod-bipolars of retina, 1021 Rod-granules of retina, 1022 Rods of Corti, 1055 of retina, 1023 Rolando, fasciculus of, 814 fissure of, 857 substantia gclatinosa of, 799 tubercle of, 815 Roller, nucleus of, 821 Roof nucleus of Stilling, 834 plate, 115 Root of lung, 1083 of penis, 1213 of tooth, 1093 Root-sheath of hair, 09 Roots of spinal nerves, 808 of zygomatic process, 223 RosenmiUler, lymphatic gland of, 776 fossa of. 1114 organ of, 169, 1220 Rostrum of corpus caUosum, 866 sphenoidale, 234 Rotation, 371 Rotatores spinae muscles, 497 Round ligament of liver, 1168 , of uterus, 1225 Rufiini's endings, 50 Rust-coloured layer of cere- bellar cortex, 833 Sac, lachrymal, 1032 greater, of peritoneum, 1122 lesser, of peritoneum, 1124 Saccular glands, 74, 75 Saccule of vestibule, 1053 laryngeal, 1066 Sacral arteries, lateral, 704 artery, middle, 096 canal, 193 cornua, 192 foramina, 191 ganglia, 990 1 groove, 192 lymphatic glands, 779 nerves, anterior primary divisions of, 978 posterior primary divi- sions of, 949 nucleus of spinal cord, 8031286 INDEX Sacral plexus, 978 a])i)liccl anatomy of, 980 veins, lateral, 757 middle, 758 peculiarities of, 758 Saoro-coccygeal ligaments, 39G Sacro-genital folds, 1125, 1225 Sacro-iliac articulation, 393 ligaments, 394 Sacro-sciatic foramen, great, 395 small, 396 ligament, great, 394 small, 395 notch, great, 324 small, 324 Sacro-vertebral angle, 191 Sacrum, 191 articulations of, 194 ossification of, 197 structure of, 194 variations of, 194 Sacs, dental, 1101 Saddle joint, 370 Sagittal sulcus, 216, 218, 221 suture, 219 Salivary glands, 1108 development of, 153 parotid, 1108 structure of, 1111 sublingual. 111 submaxillary, 1110 Salpingo-pharyngeus muscle, 485 Salter, incremental lines of, 1098 Santorini, cartilages of, 1061 duct of, 165, 1178 Saphenous nerve, long or in- ternal, 976 external, 981 opening, 568 vein, applied anatomy of, 753 external or short, 753 internal or long, 752 Sarcolemma, 37 Sarcomere, 39 Sarcoplasm, 38 Sarcostyles, 38 Sarcous elements of muscle, 39 Sartorius muscle, 568 Scala media of cochlea, 1053 tympani, 1051 vestibuli, 1051 Scalene tubercle, 210 Scalenus antic us, 488 medius, 488 posticus, 488 Scalp, lymphatic vessels of, 709 Scaphoid bone (hand), 311 (foot), 350 fossa of sphenoid, 236 Scapula, 289 appUed anatomy of, 294 articulations of, 294 dorsum of, 289 glenoid cavity of, 292 head of, 292 ligaments of, 403 ossification of, 294 spine of, 290 surface form of. 294 venter of, 289 Scapular artery, posterior, 603 nerve, posterior, 955 Scapular notch, groat, 292 region, anterior, muscles of, 534 posterior, 535 Scarf-skin, 64 Scarpa, fascia of, 506 foramina of, 246 ganglion of, 1058 Scarpa's triangle, 710 Schindylesis, 368 Sohlemm, canal of, 1014 Sohneiderian membrane, 1005 Schreger, lines of, 1098 Schultze, descending comma tract of. 808 primitive fibiiUffi of, 46 Schwann, nucleated sheath of, 46 white substance of, 46 Sciatic artery, 703 nerve, great, 980 appUed anatomy of, 987 small, 979 veins, 756 Sclera, 1011 development of, 133 structiu-e of, 1012 Scleratogenous layer, 103 Sclerotome, 102 Scrobioulus cordis, 212 Scrotum, 1203 applied anatomy of, 1205 dartos of, 1204 develox^ment of, 177 septum of, 1204 vessels and nerves of, 1204 Sebaceous glands, 71 Second cratual nerve, 901 applied anatomy of, 903 Secondary areolae of bone, 32 oocytes, 80 sensory tract, 807 spermatocytes, 82 Secreting glands, 74 Secretion, internal, 76 Segment, internodal, 46 of Lantermann, 46 medullary, 46 Segmentation of cells, 7 of ovum, 84 nucleus, first, 84 Segments, primitive, 91 spinal, 797 Sella turcica, 232 Semicircular canals, bony, 1048 membranous, 1053 structure of, 1053 Semilunar bone, 312 fascia, 538 fibro-cartilages of knee, 434 fold of Douglas, 513 ganglion of abdomen, 997 lobe, inferior, of cerebellum, 829 Semimembranosus muscle, 578 Seminal vesicles. 121] ScrnispinaUs muscle, 497 Semitendinosus muscle, 578 Sensiss, organs of special, 1001 develo])mcnt of, 115 Sensory tract, 890 decussation, 817 epithelium cells. 62 nerves. 49, 886 Septum, aortic, 140 aurieularum, 597 I Septmn crurale, 708 inferius, 140 intermedium. 139 interventricular, 609 linguiB, 1105 lucidum, 870 mobUe nasi, 1003 of nose, 276 orbitale, 1031 peotmiforme, 1213 pellueidum, 876 pharyngeal, 161 postero-median, of spinal cord, 798 posticum, 897 primum, 139 secundum, 140 spunum, 138 of tongue, 1105 transversum, 157 of semicircular canals, 1053 ventriculorum, 609 Serosa, or false amnion, 94 Serous glands of tongue, 1106 membranes, 72 liericardium, 600 Serratus magnus, 532 posticus inferior, 493 superior, 493 Sertoli, cells of, 1208 Serum, 11 albumen, 10 globulin, 10 Sesamoid bones, 364 Seventh cranial nerve, 922 apphed anatomy of, 927 nucleus of, 825 Shaft of a bone, its structure, 181 of a hair, 70 Sheath of arteries, 56 dentinal, of Neimiann, 1097 digital, of fingers, 552 of toes, 589 femoral, 707 mitochondrial, 82 of muscles, 36 of nerves, 46 of rectus muscle, 513 synovial. 367 Shin, 344 Short bones, 181 saphenous vein, 753 Shoulder, muscles of. 533 girdle, 280 joint, 404 appUed anatomy of, 407 bursa; of. 405 surface form of. 407 vessels and nerves of, 406 Shrapnell, pais flaccida of. 1043 Sigmoid artery. 693 cavity of radius. 307 greater, of whin. 304 lesser, of idna. 304 notch of mandible. 258 sinus. 740 8im|)le epithelium. 12 ]iai)illa! of tongue. 1105 Sinus, aortic, 619 basilar. 743 circular. 742 coronary. 728 costo-mediastinal, 1077INDEX 1287 Sinus of external jugular vein, ' 73S great, of aorta, 619 of internal jugular vein, 733 [ of kidney, 1183 laryngeal, 1066 longitudinal, inferior, 738 superior, 737 of Morgagni, 483 oblique, of pericardium, 60U petro-squamous, 740 phrenico-costalis, 1077 pooularis, 1200 prrecervicalis, 109 prostatic, 1200 pyriforrais, 1115 rhomboidalis, 89 spheno-parietal, 740 tarsi, 352 transverse, of pericardium, 600 venosus, 138, 604 sclerse, 1014 Sinuses, accessory of nose, 1008 cavernous, 740 cranial, 22 Iw of dura mater, 737 frontal, 222, 1008 intercavernous, 742 lateral, 739 maxiUary, 244, 1008 occipital, 740 petrosal, inferior, 742 superior, 742 petro-squamous, 740 sigmoid, 740 sphenoidal, 233, 1008 spheno-parietal, 740 straight, 738 of Valsalva, aortic, 609 pulmonary, 607 Sixth cranial nerve, 920 applied anatomy of, 922 nucleus of, 825 Skein, or spirem, 5 Skeletal muscles, 36 Skeleton, 181 development of, 102 Skin, Histology of, 64 appendages of, 67 arteries of, 67 corium of, 66 cuticle of, 64 derma, or true skin, 66 development of, 114 epidermis of, 64 furrows of, 64 hairs, 68 muscular fibres of, 70 nails, 67 nerves of, 67 papillary layer of, 67 rete muoosum of, 64 reticular layer of, 67 sebaceous glands of, 71 sudoriferous or sweat glands of, 71 tactile corpuscles of, 50 vessels of, 67 Skull, 213 applied anatomy of, 282 base of, external surface, 262 internal surface, 271 development of, 105 differences in, due to age, 277 exterior of, 261 Skull (cont.) fossa of, anterior, 271 middle, 273 posterior, 274 from above, 261 behind, 268 below, 262 in front, 268 m profile, 265 interior of, 271 normse of, 261 sexual differences in, 278 surface form of, 280 tables of, 182 vitreous table of, 182 Skull-cap, interior of, 271 Slender lobe of cerebellum, 829 Small cavernous nerve, 1000 intestine, 1139 areolar or submucous coat of, 1143 duodenal glands of, 1146 duodeniuu, 1139 i ileum, 1142 jejunum, 1142 lymphatic vessels of, 785 mucous membrane of, 1143 muscular coat of, 1143 Peyer's glands of, 1146 serous coat of, 1143 solitary glands of, 1146 valvulsB conniventes of, 1143 vessels and nerves of, 1147 villi of, 1144 occipital nerve, 950 sciatic nerve, 979 ' Smell, organ of, 1002 Socia jjarotidis, 1109 Soft palate, 1091 aponeurosis of, 1092 arches or pillars of, 1091 muscles of, 1092 parts, development of, 114 Solar plexus, 997 Sole of foot, muscles of, first layer, 588 fourth layer, 591 second layer, 589 thii-d layer, 590 Soleus muscle, 582 SoUtaiy cells, 803 glands, 1146 Somatic fibres of spinal nerves, 944 layer of mesoderm, 91 Somatopleure, 91 Somites, protovertebral, 91 Space, anterior perforated, 864 of Burns, 473 intercostal, 207 interpeduncular, 854 of Nuel, 1057 popliteal, 715 posterior perforated, 838 retropharyngeal, 473 ofRetzius, 1200 subarachnoid, 896 subdmal, 895 suprasternal, 473 Spaces of Fontana, 1014 interglobular, 1098 Spatium perichorioideale, 1012 Special sense, organs of, 1001 types of cerebral cortex, 882 Spermatic Artery, 694 canal, 1204 cord. 1205 arteries of, 1205 lymphatics of, 1205 nerves of, 1205 veins of, 1205 fascia, external, 509 • plexus of nerves, 998 applied anatomy of, 998 of veins, 759 structure of, 1205 veins, 759 applied anatomy of, 759 Spermatids, 82, 1208 Spermatoblasts, 1208 Spermatocytes, 82, 1208 Spermatogonia, 82, 1207 Spermatozoon, 81 body of, 82 formation of, 1208 head of, 81 neck of, 82 perforator of, 81 taO of, 82 Spheno-ethmoidal recess, 276, 1004 suture, 272 Spheno-frontal suture, 272 Sphenoid bone, 232 articulations of, 238 body of, 232 development of, 107 greater wdngs of, 234 lesser wings of, 235 ossification of, 236 pteiygoid processes of, 236 rostrum of, 234 spinous processes of, 234 vaginal processes of, 236 Sphenoidal fissure, 235 structures in, 921 process of palate, 252 sinuses, 233, 1008 turbinated bones, 236 Spheno-malar suture, 266 Spheno-mandibular ligament, 382 Spheno-maxiUary fissure, 267 fossa, 268 Spheno-palatine artery, 640 i foramen, 252 ! ganghon, 912 nerves, 912 notch, 252 Spheno-parietal sinus, 740 suture, 266, 273 Spheno-petrosal suture, 266, 273 Spheno-squamosal suture, 266, 273 Spheroidal epithelium, 13 Sphincter ani externus, 522 intemus, 523 muscle of bladder, 1199 of vagina, 526 pupilla;, 1018 recti muscle, 521 Spina bifida, 201 heUcis, 1036 vestibuli, 139 Spinal accessoiy nerve, 937 ajjplied anatomy of, 939 bulbar part of, 938 ^ nucleus of, 819 \ spinal part of, 9381288 INDEX Spinal arteries, OGO canal, 200 column, 182 Spinal Cord, 795 applied anatomy of, 809 central canal of, 800 columns of, 798 development of, 115 distribution of nerve-oells in, 802 enlargements of, 708 fissures of, 798 foetal peculiarity of, 795 ganglia, 941 structure of, 942 grey commissui-e of, 800 matter of, 799 ligameutum denticulatum of, 898 meninges of, 892 applied anatomy of, 899 nerve-tracts in, 804 neuroglia of, 800 sulci of, 798 wliite commissure of, 800 matter of, 804 veins of, 752 Spinal nerves, 941 anterior primary divisions of, 949 arrangement into groups, 941 coimections with sympa- thetic, 943 development of, 118 divisions of, 945 points of emergence of, 943 posterior primary divi sions of, 945 roots of, 808, 941 size and direction, 943 structure of, 944 segments, 797 veins, 751 longitudinal, anterior, 751 posterior, 752 plexuses of, 751 SpinaUs colli muscle, 497 dorsi muscle, 496 Spindle, achromatic, 4 aortic, 621 neuro-muscular, 52 neuro-tendinous, 52 Spine or spines, ethmoidal, 232 genial, 256 of ilium, 323 of ischium, 323 mental, 256 nasal, 221 anterior, 242 posterior, 251 of pubis, 325 of scapula, 290 sphenoidal, 234 suprameatal, 230 of tibia, 343 Spino-glenoid ligament. 404 Spino-ohvary tract, 820 Spino-tectal tract, 807 Spino-thalamic tract, 800 Spinous process of vertcbrte, 183 Spiral canal of cochlea, 1050 lino of femur, 334 thread of spermatozoon, 82 tubes of kidney, 1180 Spirom or skein, 5 Splanchnic layer of mesoderm. 91 fibres of spinal nerves, 944 nerve, greater, 993 least, 994 lesser, 993 Splanchnology, 1059 Splanohnopleui'e, 91 i Spleen, 1240 I applied anatomy of, 1244 blood-vessels of, 1242 development of, 106 lymphatic vessels of, 787 ' Malpighian bodies of, 1242 relations of, 1240 size and weight, 1241 structure of, 1241 surface marldng of, 1244 Spleens, accessory, 1241 Splenial centre of ossification, 258 Splenic artery, 690 I distribution of, 1242 ! flexure of colon, 1153 lymphatic glands, 782 I i plexus, 999 vein, 761 ] Splenium of corpus callosum, I 866 ' Splenius muscle, 494 Spongioblasts, 115 Spongioplasm, 3 Spongy portion of ui-ethra, 1201 Spring ligament, 447 Spur of malleus, 1043 Squamous portion of temporal bone, 223 suture, 266 Stahr, middle'gland of, 771 Stalks of thalamus— anterior, 848 inferior, 848 parietal, 848 posterior, 848 Stapedius muscle, 1045 I Stapes, 1044 ' annular ligament of, 1045 development of, 134 Stellate ligament, 386 veins of kidney, 1189 Stenson, foramina of, 246 Stenson's duct, 1110 Stephanion, 279 Sternal end of clavicle, 288 foramen, 204 furrow, 211 Sternebrse, 203 Sterno-clavicular articulation, 399 appUed anatomy of, 401 surface form of, 401 Sterno-hyoid muscle, 470 Sterno-mastoid artery, 030, 634 muscle, 475 Sterno-pericardiac ligaments, 699 Stcrno-thyroid muscle, 476 Sternum, 203 articulations of, 206 development of, 104 ligaments of, .390 ossification of, 200 structure of, 200 Stilling, roof nucleus of, 834 Stomach, 1132 alveoli of, 1137 anatomical subdivisions of 1134 applied anatomy of, 1138 areolar or submucous coat of, 1137 bed, 1134 body of, 1134 cardiac glands of, 1138 orifice of, 1133 component parts of, 11.34 curvatures of, 1133 development of, 155 fundus of, 1134 incisui-a angularis of, 1133 interior of, 1135 lymphatic vessels of, 784 mucous membrane of, 1137 muscular coat of, 1135 orifices of, 1133 physiological subdivisions of, 1134 position of, 1134 pyloric canal of, 1134 glands of, 1137 orifice of, 1133 vestibule of, 1133 pylorus, 1135 serous coat of, 1135 shape and position of, 1133 structure of, 1135 sulcus intermedins of, 1133 surface form of, 1138 sm-faces of, 1134 vessels and ner^'es of, 1138 Stomatodosum, 161 Straight sinus, 738 tubes of kidney, 1180 Strand, labio-dental, 1099 lingual, 1099 Strands, lateral and mesial, of I posterior nerve-root, 808 t Stratified epithelium, 14 I Stratiform fibro-cartUage, 24 i Stratum cinereum, 843 compoctum of decidua, 98 corneum, 06 dorsale, 850 germinativum, 65 I granulosum, 65 ! intermedium of choroid. 1016 lemnisci. 844 lucidum, 60 Slalpighii, 65 opticum, 843 spongiosum, 98 zonalc, 843 Streak, primitive, 80 Stria pinealis. 854 vascularis, 1064 StriiB acustioae, 836 gravidarum, 516 Lancisi, 864 longitudinales, 864 Striate veins, inferior, 737 Stripe of Hensen, 1057 Striped muscle, 36 Stroma of iris, 1018 of ovary, 1220 inlertubular, of kidney, 1189 Stylo-glossus muscle, 480 Stylo-iiyoid ligament, 478 muscle, 478 nerve, from facial, 925Stylo-niandibiilar ligament, 384 Stylo-mastoid artery, 63() foramen, 228 vein, 732 Stylo-pharyngeus muscle, 484 Styloid process of fibiila, 347 of radius, 307 of temporal bone, 230 of ulna, 305 Subanconeus muscle, 539 Subaraolinoid space, 896 Subcallosal gyrus, 864 Subcardinal veins, 146 Subclavian arteries, 654 applied anatomy of, 657 branches of, 659 first part of left, 655 of right, 654 peculiarities of, 656 second portion of, 656 surface form of, 656 third portion of, 656 groove, 288 triangle, 643 vein, 747 Subclavius muscle, 532 nerve to, 955 Subcostal angle, 208 artei-y, 685 zone, 1119 Subcrureus muscle, 570 Subdural space, 895 Subepithelial plexus of cornea, 1014 Sublingual artery, 630 fossa, 256 gland, 1111 vessels and nerves of, 1111 Sublobular veins, 1169 Submaxillary artery, 633 fossa, 256 ganglion, 918 gland, 1110 vessels and nerves of, 1111 lymphatic glands, 771 triangle, 642 vein, 730 Submental artery, 633 vein, 730 Submucous tissue, 74 Subnasal point, 279 Suboccipital nerve, 945 triangle, 499 Subparietal sulcus, 860 Subperitonealcoimective tissue, 516 Subpleural mediastinal plexus, 665 Subpubic ligament, 397 Subsartorial plexus, 976 Subscapular angle, 289 artery, 670 fascia, 534 fossa, 289 nerves, 956 Subscapularis muscle, 534 Subserous areolar tissue, 1121 Substantia corticalis, 1026 ferruginosa, 838 gelatinosa centralis, 800 of Rolando, 799 • nerve-cells in, 803 innominata of Meynert, 874 nigra, 840 propria of cornea, 1013 INDEX Subthalamic tegmental region, ' 850 Suctorial pad, 467 Sudoriferous glands, 71 Sulci of cerebral hemisphere, 856 I of spinal cord, 798 ' Sulcus, antoro-lateral of me- didla, 812 antihelicis transversus, 1036 basUaris, 823 i centralis of insula, 862 circularis of ReU, 857 frontal, inferior, 858 superior, 858 intermedins of stomach, 1133 intraparietal, 859 lateralis, 838 lunatus, 860n of Monro, 122, 854 occipitalis lateralis, 860 transversus, 860 occipito-temporal, 862 oculo-motor, 838 ooulo-nasal. 111 olfactorius, 859 orbitalis, 859 parallel, 861 postcentral, 850 postero-lateral of medulla, 812 precentral, 858 preolivary, 812 pterygopalatinus, 236 sagittalis, 215, 218, 221 sigmoideus, 226 spiralis externus, 1054 internus, 1055 subparietalis. 860 I tali, 353 1 temporal, first, 861 second, 861 terminalis of light auricle, 604 of tongue, 1104 tuba;, 235 tympanicus, 1038, 1043 vaUeculse, 827 Supercilia, 1029 Superciliaiy ridge, 220 Superficial abdominal ring, 508 cervical artery, 663 nerve, 950 circumflex Uiac artery, 713 epigastric artery, 713 external pudic artery, 713 palmar arch, 081 perineal arteiy, 701 temporal artery, 636 applied anatomy of, 636 vein, 731 transverse ligament of fin- gers, 553 Supcrficialis voIdb artery, 677 Superior aperture of larynx, 1066 carotid triangle, 641 commissure of brain, 849 coronary artciy, 633 epigastric artery, 065 fovea of fourtli ventricle, 837 laryngeal artery, 630 nerve, 936 ligament of incus, 1045 I of malleus, 1045 1289 Superior longitudinal fascicu- lus, 879 maxUlary bone, 242 nerve, 911 meatus, 276 mediastinum, 1079 medullary velum, 831 mesenteric artery, 690 lymphatic glands, 782 olivaiy nucleus, 824 phrenic vein, 748 profunda artery, 673 thoracic artery, 669 thyroid artery, 629 turbinated crest of maxilla, 245 of palate bone, 251 vena cava, 748 development of, 148 opening of, 604 vocal cords, 1066 Supernumerary spleens, 1241 Supinator brevis muscle, 547 longus muscle, 545 Supporting cells of Hensen, 1057 framework of retina, 1023 Supracallosal gyrus, 864 Supraclavicular nei-ves, 951 Supracondylar process, 298w ridge, external, 297 internal, 297 Supraglenoid tubercle, 292 ! Suprahyoid lymphatic glands, \ 771 i artery, 630 triangle, 642 Supramarginal convolution, 860 Supramastoid crest, 223 Suprameatal spine, 230 triangle, 224 Supraoptic recess, 853 Supraorbital artery, 647 foramen, 221 margin, 221 nerve, 909 notch, 221 vein, 729 Suprarenal arteries, 694 glands, 1245 development of, 169 lymphatic vessels of, 787 structure of, 1246 plexus, 997 veins, 760 Suprascapular artery, 662 ligament, 403 nerve, 955 notch, 292 Supraspinatus muscle, 536 Supraspinous fascia, 535 fossa, 289 ligaments, 375 Suprasternal notch, 489 space, 473 Supratrochlear foramen, 299 nerve, 909 Sural arteries, 718 StTKFACB Form ob Marktno— of abdominal aorta, 687 of acromio-clavicular joint, 403 of ankle-joint, 443 of anterior tibial artery, 7201290 INDEX Surface Toum oe Marking (cont.) of axillary artery, 668 of bladder, 1198 of bones of foot, 363 of pelvis, 331 of skull, 280 of thorax, 211 of wrist and hand, 319 of bracMal artery, 672 of brain, 885 of clavicle, 288 of common carotid artery, 627 iliac artery, 697 of dorsalis pedis artery, 723 of elbow, 411 of external carotid artery, 629 iliac artery, 705 plantar artery, 725 of femoral arteiy, 712 of femm-, 340 of fibula, 348 of fifth cranial nerve, 918 of fissures of brain, 886 of gall bladder, 1174 of gluteal artery, 705 of heart, 612 of hip-joint, 428 of humerus, 300 of hyoid boue, 261 of inferior radio - ulnar joint, 415 of internal isudic arteries, 705 plantar artery, 725 I of intestines, 1157 of joints of fingers, 423 of foot, 451 of kidney, 1189 of knee-joint, 438 of larynx, 1073 of hver, 1173 of lungs, 1086 of mouth, 1112 of muscles of abdomen, 516 of back, 499 of head and face, 470 of lower extremity, 593 of neck, 488 of upper extremity, 558 of palmar arches, 682 of palpebral fissure, 1033 of pancreas, 1179 of patella, 342 of pelvis, 331 of plantar arch, 725 of pophteal artery, 717 of posterior tibial artery, 723 of radial artery, 676 of radius, 308 of sacro-iliac joint, 394 of scapula, 294 of sciatic artery, 705 of shoulder-joint, 407 of skull, 280 of spleen, 1244 of stcrno-olavicular joint, 401 of stemo-mastoid, 475 SuEFAOE Form or Marking (cont.) of stomach, 1138 of subclavian arteiy, 656 of superior radio-ulnar joint, 413 of tarsus and foot, 363 of tempore - mandibular joint, 385 of thorax, 211 I of tibia, 346 of trachea, 1073 of ulna, 305 I of ulnar artery, 679 I of ventricles of brain, 888 of vertebral column, 200 of wrist and hand, 319 of wi-ist-joint, 417 Suspensoiy Ugament of axilla, 529 of eye, 1011 of lens, 1025 of ovaiy, 1218 of penis,. 1214 Sustentacular cells of spleen, 1241 Sustentaculum tali, 353 Sutura, 368 dentata, 368 harmonia, 368 limbosa, 368 notha, 368 serrata, 368 squamosa, 368 vera, 368 Sutm-al ligament, 368 .Suture, coronal, 219 frontal, 220 fronto-ethmoidal, 272 fronto-malar, 265 fronto-maxUlai-y, 271 inteii^aiietal, 219 lambdoid, 217 malo-maxiUary, 271 metopic, 220 occipito-mastoid, 274 parieto-mastoid, 266 petro-occipital, 274 petro-squamous, 227 sagittal, 219 spheno-ethmoidal, 272 spheno-frontal, 266 spheno-malar, 266 spheno-parietal, 266 spheno-petrosal, 273 spheno-squamosal, 266 squamous, 266 zygoniatico-temporal, 265 Sweat-glands, 71 Sylvian fossa, 126 root of fifth nerve, 906 vein, deep, 737 superficial, 736 Sylvius, aqueduct of, 844 fissure of, 856 Syjepathetic Nerves, 49, 988 connections wdth spinal nerves, 988 fibres of spinal nerves, 944 system, applied anatomy of, 1000 gangliated cords of, 988 cervico-cephalio portion, 990 lumbar portion, 994 pelvic portion, 995 Sympathetic system, gangliated thoracic portion, 993 plexuses, 996 cardiac, 996 epigastric, 997 hypogastric, 999 pehac, 1000 solar, 997 Symphysis, 369 I menti, 255 I pubis, 396 ' Synarthrosis, 368 Synchondrosis, 369 neurocentral, 195 I Syncytium, 86 I Syndesmology, 366 Syndesmosis, 369 Synergic muscles, 454 Synovia, 73, 367 Synovial Ugaments, 367 sheaths, 367 of flexor tendons (hand), I 551 I Synovial Membrane, 73, 367 articular, 367 bursal, 367- vaginal, 367 See aho Lidividual Joints System, Haversian, 27 Systemic circulation, 597 veins, 728 Tables of the skull, 182 Tactile corpuscles of Grandry, 50 of Wagner and Meissner, 50 Taenia hippocamisi, 875 pontis, 822 semicircularis, 874 Tsenise of muscular coat of large intestine, 1148 tectse, 864 Tangential fibres of cerebral cortex, 881 Tapetum of choroid, 1016 of corpus oaUosum, 866 Tarsal art«ry, 722 bones, 349 ligaments of eyelids, 460 plates of eyeh'ds, 1030 Tarsi, smus, 352 Tarso-metatarsal articulations, 449 Tarsus, 349 applied anatomy of, 363 articulations of, 444 ossification of, 362 surface form of, 363 S3'novial membranes of, 450 Taste, nerves of, 1002 organs of, 1001 Taste-buds, 1001 Teeth, 1092 applied anatomj- of, 1103 bicuspid, 1095 body of, 1093 canine, 1094 cement of, 1098 crown of, 1093 crusla ]ietrosa of, 1098 dentinal tubules of, 1097 dentine of, 1097 develoiinient of, 1099 enamel of, 10981291 INDEX Teeth {cont.) eruption of, 1102 eye, 1095 fang of, 1093 general characters of, 1093 incisors, 1094 ivory of, 1097 milk, 1096 molar, 1095 multicuspid, 1095 neck of, 1093 permanent, 1094 premolars, 1095 pulp-cavity of, 1096 root of, 1093 structure of, 1096 temporary, 1096 Avisdom, 1090 Tegmen tympani, 226, 1040 Tegmental part of pons, 824 Tegmentum of cms cerebri, 840 Tela chorioidea ventriculi quarti, 836 tertii, 878 Telencephalon, 123, 854 Telophase of karyoldnesis, 5 Temporal artery, anterior, 636 deep, 639 middle, 636 posterior, 636 superficial, 636 bone, 223 articulations of, 232 development of, 106 mastoid portion, 225 ossification of, 230 petrous portion of, 227 squamous portion of, 223 structure of, 230 branch of temporo - malar nerve, 911 \ convolutions, 861 fascia, 468 fossa, 266 hues, 218, 221 lobe, 861 muscle, 469 nei-ves of auriculo-temporal, 916 deep, 915 of facial, 925 operculum, 862 ridge, 221, 223 sulci, 861 vein, superficial, 731 Temporary teeth, 1096 Temporo-facial nerve, 925 Temporo-malar nerve, 911 Temporo-mandibular articula- tion, 382 applied anatomy of, 385 surface form of, 385 Temporo-maxillary vein, 731 Tendo Achillis, 582 oculi, 460 Tendon, central, of diaphragm, 503 conjoined, of internal ob- lique and transversalis, 512 structure of, 455 superior, of Lockwood, 462 Tendons on back of wrist, rela- tions of, 551 Tendril fibres of cerebellum, 833 Tenon, capsule of, 1010 Tensor fasciso femoris muscle, 568 palati muscle, 484 tarsi muscle, 460 tympani niuscle, 1045 canal for, 229,1042 Tenth cranial nerve, 933 surgical anatomy of, 937 Tentorium cerebelli, 893 Teres major muscle, 536 minor muscle, 536 Terminations of lymjphatics, 61 of nerves, 49 Testes, 1203, 1206 applied anatomy of, 1209 coni vasculosi of, 1209 coveiinga of, 1203 descent of, 173 development of, 173 gubernaeulum testis, 173 lobules of, 1207 lymphatic vessels of, 789 mediastinum testis, 1207 mode of descent, 173 rete testis, 1208 structure of, 1207 tubuli seminiferi of, 1207 tunica albuginea, 1207 vagmalis, 1200 vasculosa, 1207 vas deferens of, 1210 vasa efferentia of, 1209 vasa recta of, 1208 Thalamencephalon, 845 Thalamus, 122, 845 anterior extremity of, 845 connections of, 848 posterior extremity of, 845 stalks of, 848 structure of, 847 suiiaces of, 845, 846 Thebesius, veins of. 729 foramina of, 604 valve of, 605, 728 Thenar eminence, 550 Thigh, fascia lata of, 566 muscles of back of, 577 of front of, 566 superficial fascia, 56() Third cranial nerve, 905 applied anatomy of, 905 ventricle of the bram, 852 choroid plexuses of, 852 Thoracic aorta, 682 applied anatomy of, 684 artery, acromio-, 070 alar, 670 I long, 670 superior, 669 I duct, 149, 765 apphed anatomy of, 767 portion of gangUated cord, 993 nerves, anterior primary divisions of, 966 posterior primary divisions of, 948 applied anatomy of, 969 region, muscles and fascia of anterior, 528 j lateral, 532 1 vertebrae, 187 Thokax, General Description of, 598 bones of, 202 boundaries of, 202 Thorax (cont.) cavity of, 598 lower opening of, 202, 598 lympliatic glands of, 789 vessels of, 790, 792 mechanism of, 391 muscles of, 500 parts passing through upper opening of, 598 lower opening of, 598 surface form of, 211 upper openmg of, 202, 598 Thrombogen, 10 Thrombokinase, 10 Thumb, carpo-metacarpal arti- culation of, 420 muscles of, 548, 554 Thymus gland, 1238 applied anatomy of, 1240 development of, 154 lymphatic vessels of, 793 structure of, 1238 vessels and nerves of, 1239 Thyreoidea ima artery, 624 Thyro - arytenoid ligaments, 1066 Thyro - arytenoideus muscle, 1068 Thyro-epiglottic ligament, 1064 muscle, 1069 Thyro-glossal duct, 154 Thyro-hyal of hyoid bone, 261 Thyro-hyoid arch of foetus, 108 Ugaments, lateral, 1063 membrane, 1063 muscle, 476 nerve, 941 Thyroid artery, inferior, 662 superior, 629 applied anatomy of, 630 axis, 602 body, 1235 applied anatomy of, 1237 development of, 154 isthmus of, 1235 lobes of, 1235 lymphatic vessels of, 772 pyramid of, 1236 structure of, 1236 vessels and nerves of, 1236 branches of sympathetic, 992 cartilage, 1059 foramen, 326 notch, 1000 veins, inferior, 748 middle, 734 superior, 734 Thyroidin, 1236 Thyroids, accessory, 1236 Tibia, 343 applied anatomy of, 349 articulations of, 346 crest of, 343 nutrient artery of, 714 ossification of, 346 spine of, 343 surface form of, 346 tubercle of, 344 tuberosities, 343 Tibial artery, anterior, 719 applied anatomy of, 720 branches of,-721 peculiarities of, 720 surface marking of, 720 posterior, 722 applied anatomy of, 7231292 INDEX Tibial artery, jjostorior, branches of, 723 peculiarities of, 723 surface marking of, 723 lymphatic gland, 775 norve, anterior, 984 posterior, 982 surfaces of femur, 337 veins, 754 TibiaUs anticus muscle, .580 posticus muscle, 584 Tibio-fibular articulations, 439 region, anterior, muscles of, 579 posterior, 581 Tissue, adenoid, 20 adipose, 17 areolar, 16 connective, 15 lymphoid, 20 mucous, 19 muscular, 36 nervous, 42 reticular, 19 retiform, 19 submucous, 74 white fibrous, 18 yellow elastic, 19 Tomes' fibres, 1097 Tongue, 1103 apphed anatomy of, 1107 arteries of, 1107 development of, 153 fibrous septum of, 1105 frenulum of, 1104 glands of, 1106 lymphatic vessels of, 770 mucous membrane of, 1105 muscles of, 480 nerves of, 1107 papillae of, 1104 principal lymphatic gland of, 770 structure of, 1105 Tonsil, lingual, 1106 pharyngeal, 1114 Tonsillar artery, 633 nerves, 932 Tonsils, 1114 apphed anatomy of, 1115 development of, 154 lymphatic vessels of, 770 nerves of, 1115 structure of, 1115 vessels of, 1115 Topography, cerebral, 885 Torcular Heropliih, 216, 740 Torus uretericus, 1198 uterinus, 1125 Trabecute cranLi, 106 of spleen, 1241 of testis, 1207 Tracuea, 1070 applied anatomy of, 1073 structure of, 1072 vessels and nerves of, 1073 j Tracheahs muscle, 1072 Trachelo-mastoid muscle, 496 Tracheo-bronohial glands, 792 Tracheotomy, 1074 Trachoma glands, 1031 Tract, anterior basis bundle, 805 of Burdach, 807 cerebello-olivary, 820 cerebro-olivary, 820 Tract, cornu-comniissural, 807 crossed pyramidal, 805 descending cerebello-spmal, 805 comma, 808 direct cerebellar, 806 pyramidal, 804 dorsal peripheral band, 808 of Goll, 807 of Gowers, 806 lateral basis bundle, 807 of Lissauer, 807 of Lowenthal, 805 motor, 888 oKactory, 864 olivo-spinal, 806 optic, 901 rubro-spinal, 805 secondary sensory, 807 sensory, 890 spino-olivary, 820 spino-tectal, 807 spino-thalamic, 806 vestibulo-spinal, 119 Tractus solitarius, 805 spiralis foraminosus, 227 1050 Tragicus muscle, 1036 Tragus, 1035 Transitional epitheUum, 15 Transpyloric plane, 1119 TransversaUs abdominis muscle, 512 cervicis muscle, 496 fascia, 515 Transverse arteries of basilar, 661 cervical artery, 662 nerve, 950 colon, 1151 facial artery, 636 vein, 731 fibres of hemispheres, 878 fissure of brain, 878 of liver, 1167 humeral ligament, 405 ligament of ankle, 440 of atlas, 378 of hip, 426 of knee, 434 metacarpal, 422 metatarsal, 450 | of scapula, 403 superficial, of fingers, 553 tibio-fibular, 440 mesocolon, 1129 occipital sulcus, 860 process of a vertebra, 183 j sinus of pericardium, 600 I temporal gyri, 861 Transversus auriculos muscle, 1037 perinaei muscle, m female, 526 in male, 526 Trapezium, 313 Trapezius muscle, 490 Trapezoid, 313 ligament, 402 nucleus, 824 Triangle of auscultation, 492 Bryant's, 428 digastric, 642 of Hcssclbach, 1159 interior carotid, 641 muscular, 641 Triangle of neck, anterior, 640 posterior, 643 occipital, 643 of Petit, 492 Scarpa's, 710 subclavian, 643 submaxillary, 642 suboccipital, 499 superior carotid, 641 suj)rahyoid, 642 . suprameatal, 224 Triangular fascia of abdomen, 510 ligament, 525, 527 Triangularis menti muscle, 466 sterni muscle, 501 Triceps extensor cubiti muscle, 538 Tricuspid valve, 606 Trifacial or trigeminus nerve, 906 apphed anatomy of, 919 nuclei of, 906 surface marking of, 918 Trigonum acusticum, 837 coUaterale, 871 habenulaa, 849 hypoglossi, 837 olfactorium, 864 vagi, 837 vesicse, 1198 Trilaminar blastoderm, 87 Trochanter, great, 333 small, 334 tertius, 336 Trochanteric fossa, 334 Trochlea of femur, 337 of humerus, 298 Trochlear nerve, 905 apphed anatomy of, 905 Trochoid joint, 370 Trolard, anastomotic vein of, 737 Troltsch, recess of, 1046 Trophoblast, 85 True hgaments of bladder, 1196 nucleoli, 4 pelvis, 327 ribs, 206 vocal cords, 1066 Trunk, arteries of, 682 articulations of, 372 muscles and fascioa of, 489 Tube, Eustachian, 1042 Fallopian, 1221 neural, 89 tonsil, 1042 Tuber cinereum, 851 omen tale, 1165 papillare, 1166 valvuliB of cerebellum, 829 Tubercle, adductor, 336 carotid or Chassaignac's, 184 conoid, 287 cuneatc, 814 of Darwin, 1035 deltoid, 287 of epiglottis, 1062 of femur, 334 of hyoid bone, 260 infraglonoid, 292 lachrymal, 245 of Lower, 605 malar, 248 mental, 255 of navicular, 3501293 INDEX Tubercle for odontoid liga ment, 216 peroneal, 353 pharyngeal, 217 pterygoid, 236 of the Quadi-atus, 334 of rib, 208 of Rolando, 815 scalene, 210 supraglenoid, 292 of the tibia, 344 of ulna, 301 | of zygoma, 224 j Tuberculum acusticum, 825 anteiius, 184 caroticum, 185 impar, 153 jugulare, 216 posterius, 184 Tuberosities of femur, 337 of humerus, greater, 295 lesser, 295 of tibia, 343 Tuberosity, bicipital, 306 deltoid, 298 of ischium, 324 maxillary, 242 of palate bone, 252 of scaphoid, 311 Tubular membrane of nerves, 48 glands, 74 Tubules, dentmal, 1097 Tubuli lactiferi, 1233 seminiferi, 1207 uriniferi, 1185 Tuft, Malpighian, 1185 Tunica adventitia, 56 albuginea of ovary, 1220 of testis, 1207 elastiea externa, 56 iiitiuta of arteries, 55 media, 56 vaginalis, 1206 development of, 173 vasculosa testis, 1207 Tunnel of Corti, 1056 Turbinal process, 248 Turbinated bone, inferior, 253 sphenoidal, 236 crest, inferior, 244, 251 superior, 245, 251 processes, 240 Turner, intraparietal sulcus of, 859 Twelfth cranial nerve, 939 applied anatomy of, 941 Tympanic artery, from ascend- ing pharyngeal, 635 from internal carotid, 646 from internal maxillary, 638 nerve (Jacobson's), 932 of facial, 925 plate, 229 ring, 231 Tympanic cavity, 1037 anterior wall of, 1041 applied anatomy of, 1046 arteries of, 1043 atrium of, 1039 inner wall of, 1041 membrane, 1043 structure of, 1043 mucous membrane, 1045 Tympanum, muscles of, 1045 nerves of, 1046 ossicles of, 1043 outer wall of, 1040 posterior wall of, 1041 recessus epitympanicus of, 1039 roof of, 1040 tegmen tympani of, 1040 veins of, 1046 Tyson's glands, 1214 Ulna, 301 applied anatomy of, 308 articulations of, 305 coronoid process of, 301 olecranon process of, 301 ossification of, 305 sigmoid cavities of, 304 j structure of, 305 . styloid process of, 305 I surface form of, 305 | tubercle of, 301 Ulnar artery, 678 applied anatomy of, 679 branches of, 679 peculiarities of, 679 recurrent, anterior, 679 posterior, 679 surface marking of, 679 collateral branch of musculo- spiral, 963 nerve, 962 Umbilical arteries in foetus, 100, 614 how obliterated, 616 cord, 95 fissure of liver, 1167 notch of liver, 1166 veins, 100, 145 zone, 1119 UmbUicuR, 514 Umbo of membrana tympani, 1043 Unciform bone, 314 Uncinate fasciculus, 879 Uncus, 863 Ungual phalanges, 361 Unstriped muscle, 40 Upper extremity, arteries of, 654 applied anatomy of, 560 articulations of, 399 bones of, 286 lymphatics of, 772 muscles and fascije of, 528 nerves of, 953 surface form of muscles of, 558 veins of, 744 Urachus, 95 Ureters, 1191 arteries of, 1193 lymphatic vessels of, 788 muscles of, 1197 nerves of, 1193 structure of, 1192 Urethra, development of, 175 male, 1200 applied anatomy of, 1202 . bulbous portion of, 1201 caput gallinaginis of, 1200 lymphatic vessels of, 789 membranous portion of, 1200 Urethra, male, prostatic por- tion of, 1200 sinus pocularis of, 1200 spongy portion of, 1201 structure of, 1201 verumontanuni of, 1129 female. 1203 Urethral bulb, 1213 Urinaiy organs, 1180 development of, 169 lymphatic vessels of, 787 Urogenital cleft, 1231 organs, 1180 Uterine artei-ies, 699 glands, 1227 plexus of nerves, 1000 plexuses of veins, 758 Uterus, 1222 applied anatomy of, 1228 arbor vita? of, 1225 body of, 1223 broad ligaments of, 1225 cavity of, 1224 cervix of, 1224 development of, 170 in foetus, 1226 ligaments of, 1225 lymphatic vessels of, 789 maseulinus, or sinus pocu- laris, 170, 1200 during menstruation, 1226 in old age, 1226 after parturition, 1226 I during pregnancy, 1220 ' at puberty, 1226 round ligaments of, 1225 shape and position of, 1223 structure of, 1226 vessels and nerves of, 1228 virgin state of, 1223 Utricle of vestibule, 1051 Uvea, 1018 Uvula of cerebellum, 829 of throat, 1091 vesicfe, 1198 Vagina, 1229 columns of, 1229 fornices of, 1229 lymphatic vessels of. 780 structure of, 1229 Vaginal arteries, 700 orifice, 1231 plexus of nerves, 1000 plexuses of veins, 758 process of temporal bone, 228 processes of sjihenoid bone, 236 synovial membranes, 367 Vagus nerve, 932 ganglion of root of, 935 of trunk of, 935 nuclei of, 819, 933, 934 Valentin, ganglion of, 912 Vallecula of cerebellum, 826 ValleculEe of tongue, 1062 Valsalva, sinuses of, 607, 609 Valve, aortic, 609 coronaiy, 605 Eustachian, 605 of Hasner, 1033 ileo-ca;cal, 1150 of Kerkring, 1143 mitral, or bicusjrid, 609 : pulmonary, (i071294 INDEX Valve, Tliobesian, 605, 728 tricuspid, iiOti of Vioussens, 831 Valves, anal, H5() of lymphatics, (il in right auricle, ()04 of veins, 00 ValvuliE conniventes, 1143 Vas aberrans of HaUer, 1210 deferens, 1210 ampulla of, 1210 . lymphatic vessels of, 789 structure of, 1210 spirale, 1055 Vasa aberrantia, from braoMal artery, 072 afferentia of lymphatic glands, 764 brevia arteries, 690 j ellerentia of lymphatic glands, 764 of testis, 1209 intestiiii tenuis arteries, 691 recta of testis, 1208 vasorum of arteries, 56 of veins, 60 Vascular area of yolk-sac, 93 capside of lens, 131 system, Histology of, 55 changes in, at birth, 616 peculiarities in foetus, 614 Vastus externus muscle, 569 internus muscle, 569 Vater, ampulla of, 1173 coriDuscles of, 51m- Veins, Histology of, 59 anastomoses of, 717 coats of, 59 development of, 145 muscular tissue of, 60 plexuses of, 726 size, form, &c., 726 structm-e of, 59 valves of, 60 vessels and nerves of, 60 visceral, 145 Veins or Vein, Descriptive Anatomy of, 726 of abdomen, 752 anastomotic, of Labbe, 737 of Trolard, 737 angular, 729 j auditoi-y, 1058 I auricular, posterior, 731 axillary, 747 azygos minor inferior, 750 superior, 750 major, 750 , basilar, 737 basUic, 746 basivertebral, 752 I brachial, 747 brachio-ccphalic or inno- minate, 747 of brain, 73() bronchial, 750 | cardiac, 728, 729 ' cardinal, ]4() j cava, inferior, 758 r superior, 748 cephalic, 745 ' accessory, 746 cerebellar, 737 ' cerebral, 73(i anterior, 737 deep, 737 , Veins or Vein (cont.) cerebral inferior, 736 middle, 736 superficial, 736 superior, 736 cervical, deep, 735 choroid, of brain, 737 circumflex iliac, deep, 755 superficial, 752 common facial, 730 coronary, of stomach, 762 of corpus striatum, 737 cystic, 763 deep, or venae comites, 727, 746 cerebral, 737 cervical, 735 facial, 730 digital, of hand, 745 of diploe, 735 dorsal of penis, 757 emissary, 743 aj)plied anatomy of, 744 epigastric, deep, 755 extraspinal, 751 facial, 730 common, 730 deep, 730 transverse, 731 femoral, 755 of fingers, 745 frontal, 729 of Galen, 737 gastric, short, 762 gastro-epiploic, left, 762 right, 762 gluteal, 766 hsemorrhoidal, inferior, 757 middle, 757 superior, 757 of hand, 745 of head and neck, 729 hepatic, 760 iliac, common, 758 external, 755 internal, 755 ilio-lumbar, 758 inferior cava, 758 innominate, 747, 748 intercostal, superior, 748 interlobular, of kidney, 1189 of liver, 1170 interosseous, of forearm, 747 intralobular, of liver, 1169 intraspinal, 751 jugular, anterior, 733 external, 732 posterior, 733 | internal, 733 [ of Labbe, posterior anasto- motic, 737 labial, 730 lateral sacral, 758 lingual, 734 of lower extremity, 752 lumbar, 759 j ascending, 759 mammary, internal, 748 masseteric, 730 maxillary, internal, 731 median, 746 mediana cubili, 746 mesenteric, inferior, 762 superior, 762 of neck, 732 . oblique, of Marshall, 729 Veins oe Vein (cont.) obturator, 757 occipital, 731 ophthalmic, superior, 741 inferior, 742 orbital, 731 ovarian, 760 palmar, deep, 747 palpebral, inferior, 730 superior, 729 pancreatico-duodenal, 762 parumbilical, 763 of pelvis, 752 penis, dorsal of, 757 peroneal, 754 pharyngeal, 734 phrenic, inferior, 760 plantar, 754 popHteal, 755 portal, 760 applied anatomy of, 763 profunda femoris, 755 pterygoid plexus, 731 pudio, external, 752 internal, 756 pulmonary, 727 pyloric, 762 ranine, 730, 734 renal, 760 sacral, lateral, 757 middle, 758 saphenous, external, or short, 753 internal, or long, 752 applied anatomy of, 753 sciatic, 756 spermatic, 759 spinal, 751 plexus, anterior, 751 posterior, 751 veins, longitudinal, 751 of spinal cord, 752 splenic, 761 striate, inferior, 737 stylo-mastoid, 731 subcardinal, 146 subclavian, 747 sublobular, 1169 submaxillary, 730 submental, 730 superficial, 727 sujiraorbital, 729 suprarenal, 760 suprascapular, 733 Sylvian, deep. 737 superficial, 736 systemic, 726 temporal, sujierficial. 731 middle, 731 temporo-maxillary, 731 of thorax. 744 thyroid, inferior, 748 middle, 734 superior, 734 tibial, 754 transverse cervical, 733 facial, 731 Trolard. great anastomotic of, 737 umbilical. 100, 145 of upper extremity, 744 uterine plexuses, 758 vaginal plexuses, 758 of liver, 1170 vertebral. 735 anterior, 7351295 INDEX Veins or Vein {cont.) vertebral, posterior, 735 vesical plexus. 757 vesico-prostatic plexus, 757 Vidian, 722 vitelline, 136, 145 Veins, plexuses of, ovarian, 760, 1221 pampiniform, 759, 1206, 1221 pharyngeal, 734 pterygoid, 731 spermatic, 759, 1205 uterine, 758 vaginal, 758 vesico-prostatic, 757 Velum interpositum, 878 medullary, inferior, 829, 831 superior, 831 Vena caval opening in dia- phragm, 503 capitis lateralis, 148 cava, inferior, 759 applied anatomy of, 759 development of, 146 fissure for, 1167 peculiarities of, 759 superior, 748 development of, 148 Galeni, 737, 878 magna Galeni, 878 Venae comites, 727 hepaticfe advehentes, 145 revehentes, 145 interlobulares of kidney, 1189 proprijE renales, 1189 rectae of kidney, 1189 Thebesii, or minimse cordis, 729 vortdcosae, 1015 Venesection, 746 Venous lacuna of dura mater, 894 sinuses of dura mater, 737 mesocardium, 600 Ventral aorta, 136 auditory nucleus, 781 lamina, 117 Ventricle of fornix, 875 of nasal fossa. 1004 of Verga, 875 Ventricles of brain— fifth, 876 fourth, 834 lateral, 867 third. 852 of heart— left, 608 primitive, 140 right, 606 of larynx, 1066 Ventriculus terminalis of spinal cord, 800 Verga, ventricle of, 875 Vermicular motion, 45 Vermiform appendix, 1150 Vermis of cerebellum, inferior, 826 superior, 826 Vernix caseosa, 115 Vertebra prominens, 187 ossification of, 197 Vertcbrse, 182 anticlinal. 188/t cervical, 184 Vertebrae, development of, 102 dorsal or thoracic, 187 general characters of, 183 ligaments of, 373 lumbar, 190 I ossification of, 195 sacral and coccygeal, 191 structure of, 183 thoracic or dorsal, 187 Vertebral arteiy, 659 bow, primitive, 103 canal, 200 column, 182, 198 articulation of, 372 cartilaginous, 103 development of, 102 membranous, 103 ossification of, 195 surface form of, 200 fascia, 493 foramen, 183 groove, 200 Egaments, 373 i-egion, muscles of, anterior, 486 lateral, 488 veins, 735 Vertical plate of palate bone, 251 Verumontanum, 1200 Vesical artery, inferior, 699 middle, 699 superior, 699 I fascia, 519 | plexus of nerves, 1000 i of veins, 757 Vesicle, blastodermic, 85 1 germinal, 79 optic, 122 j otic, 133 I Vesicles, cerebral, 89 Vesico-prostatic plexus of veins, 757 Vesiculae seminales, 1211 lymphatic vessels of, 789 structm'c of, 1211 vessels and nerves of, 1212 Vesicular column, posterior, of Clarke, 803 Vestibular artery, 1058 nerve, 1058 [ nuclei of, 825 root of eighth nerve, 928 Vestibule, aortic, 609 of internal ear, 1047 aqueduct of, 1048 ' fissure of, 1051 of larynx, 1066 of nasal fossa, 1004 of vagina, 1231 Vestibulo-spinal tract, 805 Vcstibulum oris, 1089 Vestigial fold of pericardium, 600 Vicq d'Azyr, band of, 882 bundle of, 850-875 Vidian artery froni internal maxillary, 640 canal, 236 nerve, 913 Vieussens, ansa of, 993 valve of, 831 Villi of intestine, 1144 arachnoid, 898 of the chorion, 97 I Vincula accessoria, 544 Visceral arches, 107 clefts, 107 veins, 145 Visual area of cortex, 885 centres, higher, 852 lower, 852 purple, 36 Visuo-psychic area, 882 Visuo-sensory area, 882 Vitelline circulation, 93, 130 duct, 93 fluid, 92 membrane, 83 veins, 136, 145 ViteUus, 79 Vitreous body of the eye, 1025 development of, 132 table of the skuU, 182 Vocal cords, inferior or true, 1066 superior or false, 1060 process of arytenoid, 1061 Voice, organs of, 1059 Voluntary muscles, 36 Vomer, 254 alae of, 254 articulations of, 255 ossification of, 255 Vulva, 1231 development of, 176 of third ventricle, 853 Wagner, tactile corpuscles of, 50 Waldeyer, germinal epithelium of, 172, 1220 Wallerian degeneration, 46, 804 Wandering cells, 16 Weight of organs. See In- dividual Organs • Wharton's duct, 1110 White fibro-cartilage, 23 fibrous tissue, 18 line of pelvic fascia, 519 matter of cord, 804 of cerebellum, 830 of cerebral hemispheres,878 nervous, 43 of Schwann, 46 WiUis, circle of, 652 Winslow, foramen of, 158, 1127 ligament of, 431 Wirsung, canal of, 1178 Wisdom teeth, 1096 Wolffian body, 168 duct, 168 tubules, 168 Womb, 1222 Worm or vermis, 826 Wormian bones, 240 Wrisberg, cartilages of, 1061 ganglion of, 990 ligament of, 434 nerve of, 959 pars intermedia of, 922 Wrist-joint, 415 appUcd anatomy of, 417 surface form of, 417 Wry-neck, 475 Xiphoid appendix, 204 Y-shaped cartilage of aceta- bulum, 327 Y-shaped ligament, 4251296 IN.DP]X Yellow elastic tissue, 19 cartilage, 24 spot of retina, 1020 Yolk, 79 formative, 79 nutritive, 79 Yolk-sac, 92 Yolk-stalk, 156 Zigzag tubule, 1186 Zinn, ligament of, 462 zonule of, 1026 Zona arouata, 1055 fasciculata, 1246 glomerulosa, 1246 incerta, 850 orbicularis, 424 pectinata, 1055 pellucida, 79 reticularis, 1246 stiiata, 79 vasoulosa, 1220 Zones of abdomen, 1119 Zonula ciliaris, 1025 Zonule of Zinn, 1026 Zygoniatio arch, 266 bone, 248 fossa, 2C7 process of maxilla, 245 temporal, 223 tubercle, 224 : Zygomatico-temporal suture. J 265 Zygomaticus major muscle, 464 minor muscle, 465 Zuckerkandl, aortic bodies of, 1248 8a rniNTKn nv BPOTTIRWOODK AND CO. LTD., LONDON COLCnF.STr.Il AND IVIONA LIST OF WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY AND GENERAL SCIENCE CONTENTS ANATOMY BACTERIOLOGY BIOLOGY CHEMISTRY HEALTH AND HYGIENE INDEX MEDICINE MISCELLANEOUS MONOGRAPHS ON BIOCHEMISTRY OPTICS PHOTOGRAPHY PHYSIOLOGY PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY SURGERY TEXT-BOOKS OF PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY VETERINARY MEDICINE ZOOLOGY OF MEDICINE LONGMANS GREEN & CO. 39 PATERNOSTER ROW LONDON EC. FOURTH AVE. & THIRTIETH ST. NEW YORK 8 HORNBY ROAD BOMBAY 303 BOWBAZAR STREET CALCUTTA 1910INDEX. PAGE ,. 19 Abney's Photography Aikin's The Voice Armitage's A History of Chemistry 20 Armstrong's Simple Carbohydrates anti the Glucosides 24 Arrhenius's Text-book of Electro-Chcmistry 20 Theories of Chemistry 20 Ashby's Health in the Nursery 16 Notes on Physiology 13 and Wright's The Diseases of Children 3 Baly's Spectroscopy ig, 23 Harnett's Making of the Body 13 Bayliss' Nature of Enzyme Action 24 Beddard's Elementary Practical Zoology ... 13 Bell's Principles of Gyniecology 4 Bennett's Abdominal Hernia 3 ^ On the Use of Massage 3 On Varix : Its Causes and Treatment 3 Recurrent Effusion into the Knee- joint after Injury 3 Treatment of Simple Fractures ... 3 —; Varicose Veins 3 Bidgood's Practical Elementary Biology ... 13 Bose's Comparative Electro-Physiology ... 13 Plant Response 13 Response in Living and Non-Living 13 Brodie's Essentials of Physiology 13 Bull's Hints to Mothers 16 Maternal Management of Children ... 16 Bunge's Organic Chemistry for Medical Students 20 Butterworth's Manual of Household Work 16 Cabot's Clinical Examination of the Blood... 4 Campbell's Practical Motherhood 16 Chapman's The Foraminifera 13 Charities Register and Digest 10 Cheyne and Burghard's Manual of Surgical Treatment 4 Coats' Manual of Pathology 5 Colyer's Denial Surgery and Pathology ... 5 Cooke's Aphorisms in Applied Anatomy ... 5 Tablets of Anatomy 5 Corfield's Laws of Health 16 Creighton's Economics of the Household ... 16 Crookes' Methods in Chemical Analysis ... 20 Curtis' Practical Bacteriology 18 Dakin's Handbook of Midwifery 5 Desch's Metallography 23 Dickson's The Bone Marrow 5 Donnan's Thermodynamics 23 Drude's Theory of Optics ig Ellis' Outlines of Bacteriology 18 Findlay's Phase Rule and its Application ... 23 Practical Physical Chemistry 20 Fitzwygram's Horses and Stables 12 Frankland's Bacteria in Daily Life 18 Friend's Theory of Valency 23 Furneaux's Human Physiology 14 Practical Hygiene 16 Gaskell's The Origin of the Vertebrates ... 10 Glazebrook's Physical Optics ig Goadby's Mycology of the Mouth 18 Godfrey's Elementary Chemistry 20 Goodsall and Miles' Diseases of the Anus and Rectum 6 Gray's Anatomy, Descriptive and Applied ... 6 Halliburton's The Essentials of Chemical Physiology 14 Hanson's and Dodgson's Intermediate Course of Laboratory Work in Chemistry 20 Harden's Alcoholic Fermentation 24 Hardy's Colloids 24 Hare's The Food Factor in Disease 6 Hayes' Training and Horse Management ... 12 Hobart's Medical Language of St. Luke ... 10 Hopf's Human Species 10 Hopkins' Development and Present Position of Biological Chemistry 24 Hudson and Gosse's The Rotifera 14 Influence of Heredity on Disease 6 Inquiry into the Phenomena attending Death by Drowning 11 James's Ball Games and Breathing Exercises ifi Kidd's Urinary Surgery 7 King's College Hospital Cooking Recipes ... 11 Klockcr's Fermentation Organisms 18 Lcathes' The I''ats 24 Lehfeldt's Electro-Chcmistry 23 Ling's The Polysaccharides 24 Lloyd and Bicclow s Teaching of Biology ... 14 Luff's Text-book of l-"orensic ^Icdicinc ... 7 Macalister's Systematic Zoology of the Vertebrate Animals 14 Macalister's Zoology of the Invertebrate' Animals ZTZ T^TT,', Vertebrate Animals .!'. Macdougall's Elementary Plant Physiolocv ;; Text-book of Plant Physiology Marshall's Physiology of Reproduction "' Mees' Atlas of Absorption Spectra Mellor's Chemical Statics and Dynamics MendelfSeflf's Principles of Chemistry Meyer's Outlines of Theoretical Chemistry " Monographs on Biochemistry ... Moon's Relation of Medicine to Philosophy " Moore's Elementary Physiology Morgan's Animal Biology Muir's Course of Practical Cheiiiistry Newth's Chemical Lecture Experiments Elementary Practical Chemistry Manual of Chemical Analysis... Smaller Chemical Analysis ... Text-book of Inorganic Chemistry... " Notter and Firth's Hygiene Practical Domestic Hygiene Osborne's Vegetable Proteins .." Ostwald's Principles of Chemistry ... ... Paget's Memoirs and Letters Perkin's Methods of Electro-Chemistry Qualitative Chemical Analysis Pettigrew's Design in Nature Plimmer's Constitution of the Proteins Physiological Chemistry PoUok's Practical Spectographic Analysis Poole's Cookery for the Diabetic Poore's Colonial and Camp Sanitation Essays on Rural Hygiene The Dwelling House The Earth in Relation to Contagia Porter's Sanitary Law School Hygiene Price and Twiss' Organic Chemistry ... ... Probyn-Williams' The Administration of Anaesthetics Proceedings of the Royal Society of Medicine Quain's Dictionary of Medicine Elements of Anatomy (loth Edition)... —(nth Edition)... Radclifie and Sinnatt's Practical Organic Chemistry Rafifety's Science of Radio Activity Reynolds' Experimental Chemistry Robinson's Health of our Children in the Colonies Schafer's Essentials of Histology Practical Physiology Schryi'er's Characters of the Proteins Sheppard and Mees' Photographic Process... Sheppard's Actinochemistry Smiles' Chemical Constitutions and Physical Properties Smith and Hall's Teaching of Chemistr}' and Physics in Secondary School Handbook for Midwives 14 14 14 14 15 19 23 20 20 24 II 15 ... 15 ... 20 ... 21 ,.. 21 .. 21 ... 21 21 .. 17 ,.. 17 .. 24 ... 21 .. II .. 21 .. 21 .. II •• 24 .. 21 19. 23 .. n .. 17 •• 17 .. 17 •■ 17 •• 17 •• 17 21 II 21 17 9 15 24 •9 23 Steel's Diseases of the Ox Stevenson's Wounds in War 9 Stewart's Physical and Inorganic Chemistry 22 Recent Advances in Organic Chemistry ■ Stereochemistry Sutherland.Gower's Cleanliness lersus Cor- ruption Symington and Rankin's Atlas of Skiagrams Text-Books of Physical Chemistry Thomsen's Thermochemistry Thornton's Elementary Biology Practical Physiology Human Physiology Thorpe's Dictionary of Applied Chemistry., Tilden's Chemical Philosophy Practical Chemistry Progress of Scientilic Chemistry Vaccine Therapy Vanderpoel's Colour Problems Watt's Dictionary of Chemistry Webbs" The Slate and the Doctor West's How to Nurse Sick Children Weston's Detection of Carbon Compounds.. Whiteley s Chemical Calculations Organic Chemistry Williams' Rhinology Wilsmorc's lilcclro Chemislry Wright's Optical Projection Vouatt's The Dog The Horse Young's Stoichiomctry 22 23 II 10 23 23 15 15 J5 22 22 22 22 10 >9 22 11 I" 22 22 22 10 23 19 12 12 23MEDICINE, SURGERY, ANATOMY, ETC. ASHBY AND WRIGHT. THE DISEASES OF CHILDEEN MEDICAL AND SUEGICAL. By HENEY ASHBY, M.d'. Lond., F.B.C.P., late Physician to the Manchester Children's Hospital • and G. A. WEIGHT, B.A., M.B. Oxon., F.E.O.S. Eng., Surgeon to the Manchester Eoyal Infirmary; Consulting Surgeon to the Manchester Child- ren's Hospital. With 15 Plates (1 Coloured) and 241 Illustrations in the Text. Fifth Edition. Thoroughly Eevised, 1905. 8vo, 21s. net. BENHETT—WORKS by Sir WILLIAM H. BENNETT, KCVO F.R.C.S., Surgeon to St. George's Hospital. '' EECUEEBNT EFFUSION INTO THE KNEE-JOINT AFTEE INJUEY, WITH ESPECIAL EEFEEENCE TO INTEENAL DEEANGEMENT, COMMONLY CALLED SLIPPED CAE- TILAGE : an Analysis of 750 Cases. A Clinical Lecture delivered at St. George's Hospital. With 13 lUustrations. 8vo, 3s. 6d. CLINICAL LECTUEES ON VAEICOSE VEINS OF THE LOWEE EXTEEMITIES. With 3 Plates. 8vo,6s. CLINICAL LECTUEES ON ABDOMINAL HEENIA : chiefly in relation to Treatment, including the Eadical Cure. With 12 Diagrams in the Text. 8vo, 8s. 6d. B » ON VAEIX, ITS CAUSES AND TEEATMENT WITH ESPECIAL EEFEEENCE TO THEOMBOSIS. Svo, 3s. 6d. LECTUEE ON THE USE OF MASSAGE AND EAELY MOVEMENTS IN EECENT PEACTUEES AND OTHEE COMMON SUEGICAL INJUEIES : SPEAINS AND THEIE CONSEQUENCES : EIGIDITY OF THE SPINE AND THE MANAGEMENT OF STIFF JOINTS GENEEALLY With 23 Illustrations. Svo, 6s. THE PEESENT POSITION OF THE TEEATMENT OF fo^^^- r^^^^^?^^ ™^ L^^^^S : an AddTeS deTiveTe! th« ■ Medica Association. To which is appended a Summary of the Opinions and Practice of about 300 Surgeons. Svo, 2s. 6d.4 MESSRS. LONGMANS' WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY, ETC. MEDICINE, SURGERY, ANATOMY, ETC.—cojitinued. BELL. THE PEINCIPLES OF GYNECOLOGY. By w. BLAIR BELL, B.S., M.D., Assistant Gyn£ecological Surgeon, Royal Infirmary, Liverpool. With 6 Coloured Plates (4 by H. K. Maxwell) and over 350 other Illustrations. 8vo, 'Als. net. A concise, yet complete account of the development, anatomy and physiology of the female genital organs. The methods of physical examination are fully described. The diseases of the special organs and the allied morbid conditions are discussed, special attention being paid to the pathology which is illustrated by numerous photomicrographs and drawings of actual specimens, each of which is carefully described. CABOT. A GUIDE TO THE CLINICAL EXAMINATION OF THE BLOOD FOE DIAGNOSTIC PUEPOSES. By RICHARD C. CABOT, M.D., Physician to Out-Patients, Massachusetts General Hospital. With 3 Coloured Plates and 28 Illus. in Text. 8vo, 16s. CHEYNE AND BURGHARD. A MANUAL OF SUEGIOAL TEBATMENT. By Sir W. WATSON CHEYNE, Bart., C.B., M.B., E.R.C.S., P.R.S., D.Sc, Professor of Clinical Surgery in King's College, London ; Surgeon to King's College Hospital, and the Children's Hospital, Paddington Green, etc.; and P. P. BURGHARD, M.D. and M.S. Lond., P.R.C.S., Teacher of Practical Surgery in King's College, London; Surgeon to King's College Hospital, and the Children's Hospital, Paddington Green, etc. Paet I. The treatment of General Surgical Diseases, including inflam- mation, suppuration, ulceration, gangrene, wounds and their compli- cations, infective diseases and tum- ours; the administration of ansesthe- tics. With 66 Illustrations. Royal 8vo, 9s. net. Paet II. The treatment of the Surgical Afiections of the Tissues, including the skin and subcutaneous tissues, the nails, the lymphatic vessels and glands, the fascise, bursse, muscles, tendons and tendon-sheaths, nerves, arteries and veins ; deformities. With 141 Illustrations. Royal 8vo, 12s. net. Pabt III. The treatment of the Surgical Affections of the Bones. Ampu- tations. With 100 Illustrations. Royal 8vo, 10s. Gd. net. Pabt IV. The treatment of the Surgical Affections of the Joints (including excisions) and the spine. With 138 Illustrations. Royal 8vo, 12s. net. Pabt V. The treatment of the Surgical Affections of the head, face, jaws, lips, larynx and trachea; and the Intrinsic Diseases of the nose, ear and larynx, by H. Lambert Lack, M.D. (Lond.), P.R.C.S., Surgeon to the Hospital for Diseases of the Throat, Golden Square, and to the Throat and Ear Department, the Children's Hospital, Paddington Green. With 145 Illustrations. Royal 8vo, 15s. net. Pabt VI.—Section 1. The Surgical Affections of the tongue and floor of the mouth, the pharj'nx, neck, oesophagus, stomach and intestines. With an Appendix on the Examin- ation of the Blood in Surgical Condition. By W. Este Emery, M.D., D.Sc. (Lond.). With 124 Illustrations. Royal 8vo, 15s. net. Section 2. The Surgical Affections of the rectum, the liver, pancreas and spleen, and genito-urinary organs, the breast and the thorax. With 118 Illustrations. Royal 8vo, IBs. net.MESSRS. LONGMANS' WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY, ETC. 5 MEDICINE, SURGERY, ANATOMY, RTC—continued. COATS. A MANUAL OF PATHOLOGY. By JOSEPH COATS, M.D., late Professor of Pathology in the University of Glasgow. Fifth Edition, 1903. Revised throughout and Edited by LEWIS E. SUTHER- LAND, M.D., Professor of Pathology, University of St. Andrews. With 729 Illustrations and 2 Coloured Plates. 8vo, 28s. net. COLYER. DENTAL SUEGBEY AND PATHOLOGY. By J. F. COLYEB, L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S., L.D.S., Dental Surgeon to Charing Cross Hospital and the Royal Dental Hospital. Being the Third Edition of "Diseases and Injuries of the Teeth," by Mobton Smale and J. P. CoLYER. With Illustrations. 8vo. 25s. net. COOKE.—WOEKS by THOMAS COOKE, F.R.C.S. Eng., B.A.,B.Sc., M.D. Paris, late Senior Assistant Surgeon to the Westminster Hospital. TABLETS OF ANATOMY. Being a Synopsis of demonstrations given in the Westminster Hospital Medical School. Eleventh Edition in three Parts, thoroughly brought up to date, and with over 700 Illustrations from all the best sources, British and Foreign. Post 4to. Part I. The Bones, 7s. 6d. net; Part II. Limbs, Abdomen, Pelvis, 10s. &d. net; Part HI. Head and Neok, Thorax, Brain, 10s. 6d. net. APHOEISMS IN APPLIED ANATOMY AND OPEEATIVE SUEGEEY. Including 100 Typical vivA voce Questions on Surface Marking, etc. Crown 8vo, 3s. Qd. DAKIN. A HANDBOOK OF MIDWIFEEY. By WILLIAM RAD- FORD DAKIN, M.D., F.R.C.P., Obstetric Physician and Lecturer on Midwifery at St. George's Hospital, Examiner in Midwifery and Diseases of Women on the Conjoint Board of the Royal Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons in England, etc. With 400 Illustrations. Large crown 8vo, 18s. DICKSON. THE BONE-MAEEOW : a Cytological study. Forming an Introduction to the Normal and Pathological Histology of the Tissue, more especially with regard to Blood Formation, Blood Destruction, etc. Together with a short account of the Reactions and Degenerations of the Tissue in Disease. By W. E. CARNEGIE DICKSON, M.D., B.Sc. Edin., P.R.C.P. Edin., Lecturer on Pathological Bacteriology and Senior Assistant to the Professor of Pathology in the University of Edinburgh; Assistant Pathologist to the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary. With 12 Coloured Plates and 51 Micro- Photographs by Richard Muir. Medium 4to, £2 2s. net.6 MESSRS. LONGMANS' WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY, MEDICINE, SURGERY, ANATOMY, RTC.-continued.- ^^^pIp™^"^^ I^ISEASES OF THE ANUS AND EECTUM. By D H. GOODSALL, P.R.C.S., late Senior Surgeon ^KJNlibi MILES, F.R.O.S., Assistant Surgeon to the Cancer Hosnital Surgeon (out-patients) to the Gordon Hospital, etc. (In Two Parts° Part I.-Anatomy of the Ano-rectal Region-General Diagnosis-Abscess- Ano-rectal Fistula-Recto-urethral, Recto-vesical and Recto-vaginal T-^ Saero-coccygeal Articulation-Pissure-Hsmorr- hoids (External and Internal). With 91 Illustrations. 8vo, 7s. 6d. net. ^'*^^af~?'^°^^P/^,°^ Rectum—Invagination of the Rectum—Ulceration —Stricture of the Anus and of the Rectum—Malignant Growths of the Anus and Rectum—Benign Tumours of the Anus and Rectum—Poreien wvi^'.]°n, Ani-Syphilis of the Anus and Rectum. With 44 Illustrations. 8vo, 6s. net. GRAY. ANATOMY, DBSCEIPTIVE AND APPLIED Bv HENRY GRAY, P.R.S., late Lecturer on Anatomy at St. George's Hospital Medical School. Seventeenth Edition. Edited bv ROBERT HOWDEN, M.A., M.B., G.M., Professor of Anatomy in the^Unive^fty of Durham. Notes on Apphed Anatomy, revised by A. J. JEX-BLAKB i^/^-^i;?-. M.R.C.P., Assistant Physician to St. George's Hospital; and W. PEDDE PEDDEN,M.S., P.R.C.S., Assistant Surgeon and Lecturer on Surgical Anatomy, St. George's Hospital. With 1,032 Illustrations Royal 8vo, 32s. net. HARE. THE FOOD FACTOE IN DISEASE : Being an investiga- tion into the humoral causation, meaning, mechanism and rational treat- ment, preventive and curative, of the Paroxysmal Neuroses (migraine, asthma, angina pectoris, epilepsy, etc.), bilious attacks, gout, catarrhal and other affections, high blood-pressure, circulatory, renal and other degenerations. By PRANGIS HARE, M.D., late Consulting Physician to the Brisbane General Hospital; Visiting Physician at the Diamantina Hospital for Chronic Diseases, Brisbane; Inspector-General of Hospitals for Queensland. 2 vols. Medium 8vo, 30s. net. INFLUENCE OF HEEEDITY ON DISEASE (THE), WITH SPECIAL EEFERENCE TO TUBEECTJLOSIS, CANCEE AND DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. a Dis- cussion opened by Sir WILLIAM S. CHURCH, Bt., K.C.B., M.D., Sir WILLIAM R. GOWERS. M.D., P.R.S. (Diseases of the Nervous System), ARTHUR LATHAM, M.D. (Tuberculosis), and E. F. BASHFORD, M.D. (Cancer). [From the Proceedings of the Royal Society of Medicine, 1909, Vol. II., No. 3.] 410, 4s. 6d. net.MESSRS. LONGMANS' WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY, ETC. 7 MEDICINE, SURGERY, ANATOMY, RTC—continued. KIDD. UEINAEY SUEGEEY : A EEVIEW. By FEANK KIDD, M.B., B.C. (Cantab.), F.R.C.S., Assistant Surgeon to the London Hospital. 8vo, 7s. 6d. net. LUFF. TEXT - BOOK OF FOEENSIG MEDICINE AND TOXICOLOGY. By ARTHUR P. LUFF, M.D., B.Sc. Lond., Physician in Charge of Out-Patienfcs and Lecturer on Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology in St. Mary's Hospital; Examiner in Forensic Medicine in the University of London; External Examiner in Forensic Medicine in the Victoria University; Official Analyst to the Home Office. With 13 full- page Plates (1 in colours) and 83 Illustrations in the Text. 2 vols., Crown 8vo, 24s. PROBYN-WILLIAMS. A PEACTICAL GUIDE TO THE ADMINISTEATION OF ANAESTHETICS. By R. J. PROBYN-WILLIAMS, M.D., Senior Anaesthetist and Instructor in Anaesthetics at the London Hospital, etc. With 44 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 4s. Qd. net. QUAIN. QUAIN'S (Sm EICHAED) DICTIONAEY OP MEDI- CINE. By Various Writers. Edited by H. MONTAGUE MURRAY, M.D., F.R.C.P., Joint Lecturer on Medicine, Charing Cross Medical School, and Physician to Charing Cross Hospital, and to the Victoria Hospital for Children, Chelsea; Examiner in Medicine to the University of London. Assisted by JOHN HAROLD, M.B., B.Ch., B.A.O., Physician to St. John's and St. Elizabeth's Hospital, and Demonstrator of Medicine at Charing Cross Medical School, and W. CECIL BOSANQUET, M.A., M.D., P.R.C.P., Assistant Physician, Charing Cross Hospital, etc. Third and Cheaper Edition, largely Rewritten, and Revised throughout. With 21 Plates {14 in Colour) and numerous Illustrations in the Text. 8vo, 21s. net., buckram.8 MESSRS. LONGMANS' WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY, ETC. MEDICINE, SURGERY, ANATOMY, ETC.-continued. QUAIN. QUAIN'S (JONES) ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY S^?^ Edition. Edited by EDWARD ALBERT SCHAPEr" -'.-^R-' f-^-f-' Professor of Physiology and Histology in the Univer- sity of Edinburgh; and GEORGE DANCER THANE, Professor of Anatomy m University College, London. \* The several parts of this work form complete Text-Books op thbib BESPECTIVE SUBJECTS. They can be obtained separately as follows :— Vol. L, Part L EMBEYOLOGY. By E. A. SCHAPER MD Sc D P.R.S. With 200 Illustrations. Royal 8vo, 9s. ^-^^J^- iM-L-- bc.U., Vol. L, Paet IL GENEEAL ANATOMY OE HISTOLOGY By E. A. SCHAPER, M.D., Sc.D., P.R.S. With 491 lUustrations. Royai 8vo, 12s. 6d. •' Vol. IL, Part I. OSTEOLOGY—AETHEOLOGY. By G D THANE. With 224 Illustrations. Royal 8vo, lis. Vol. IL, Part IL MYOLOGY—ANGEIOLOGY. By G D THANE. With 199 Illustrations. Royal 8vo, 16s. Vol. III., Part I. THE SPINAL COED AND BEAIN. By E A SCHAPER, P.R.S. With 139 Illustrations. Royal 8vo, 12s. 6d. Vol. III., Part II. THE NEEVES. By G. D. THANE. With 102 Illustrations. Royal 8vo, 9s. Vol. III., Part III. THE OEGANS OF THE SENSES. By E A. SCHAPER, P.R.S. With 178 Illustrations. Royal 8vo, 9s. Vol. III., Part IV. SPLANCHNOLOGY. By E. A. SCHAPER, P.R.S., and JOHNSON SYMINGTON, M.D. With 337 Illustrations. Royal 8vo, 16s. Appendix. SUPEEFICIAL AND SUEGICAL ANATOMY. By Professor G. D. THANE and Professor R. J. GODLEE, M.S. With 29 Illustrations. Royal 8vo, 6s. 6d,MESSRS. LONGMANS' WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY, ETC. 9 MEDICINE, SURGERY, ANATOMY, ETC.—continued. QUAIN. QUAIN'S ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. The Eleventh Edition. Edited by EDWARD ALBEBT SOHlFER, P.R.S., Professor of Physiology and Histology in the University of Edinburgh • JOHNSON SYMINGTON, M.D., P.R.S., Professor of Anatomy in Queen's College Belfast; and THOMAS HASTIE BRYGE, M.A., M.D., Regius Professor of Anatomy in the University of Glasgow. IN POUR VOLUMES. Royal 8vo. Vol. I. EMBEYOLOGY. By T. H. BRYCE, M.A.. M.D. Illustrated by more than 300 Engravings, many of which are coloured. 10s. 6d. net. Vol. III. NEUEOLOGY. By E. A. SCHAPER and J. SYMINGTON, Part I. Containing the General Structure of the Nervous System and the Structure of the Brain and Spinal Cord. With 361 Illustrations many of which are coloured. 15s. net. '' Part II Containing the Descriptive Anatomy of the Peripheral Nerves and of the Organs of Special Sense. With 321 Illustrations, manv of which are coloured. 15s. net. *** The other Volufnes are in preparation. This work has been completely re-edited and brought up to date The volumes will comprise respectively Embryology; General and Visceral Anatomy; the Nervous System and Sense Organs; and the Bones Ligaments, Muscles, and Blood-vessels. Bach volume will be complete in itself and will serve as a text-book for the particular subject or subiects with which it deals^ Thus the first volume is intended to form a com- . plete text-book of Human Embryology, the second a text-book of His tology and Visceral Anatomy, the third a text-book of Neurology the thirl voluSe? '^'"'"^ included in the second and SCHAFER. THE ESSENTIALS OF HISTOLOGY: Descriptive and Practical. By E. A. SCHAPER, M.D., Sc.D., P.R.S., Professor of Physiology and Histology in the University of Edinburgh. With 645 Solos eTneT^ """^ Coloured. Eighth Edition Enlarged, 1910 SMITH. THE HANDBOOK FOE MIDWIVES. Bv hpnrv PLY SMITH, B.A. M.B.. Oxon., M.R.C.S. Second Idition^ WHh « Woodcuts. Crown 8vo, 5s. u'l-iuu. witn 41 STEVENSON. WOUNDS IN WAE • Thn m„->i, • Production and their Treatment By Colonel W P STEVENSON ct K.H.S., R.A.M.C., B.A., M.B.. M.Ch. Dublin Uni;ersitv lafP ^,' - SSi"t,rsi7„lSiS. ^ro!'4.«r ^^^^^^^^^^^^10 MESSRS. LONGMANS' WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY, ETC. MEDICINE, SURGERY, ANATOMY, RTC.—conti7uied. VACCINE THERAPY ; ITS ADMINISTEATION, VALUE, AND LIMITATIONS : a Discussion held by the Eoyal Society of Medicine. Opening Address by Sir ALMROTH WRIGHT, M.D., F.R.S., with Con- tributions by Dr. W. HALE WHITE, Dr. WILLIAM BULLOCH, Sir WILLIAM LEISHMAN, Dr. KINGSTON FOWLER, Dr. ARTHUR LATHAM, and many others. 8vo, 4s. &d. net. SYMINGTON AND RANKIN. AN ATLAS OE SKIAGEAMS, ILLUSTEATING THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEETH. With Explanatory Text. By JOHNSON SYMINGTON, M.D., F.R.S., Professor of Anatomy, Queen's College, Belfast; and J. C. RANKIN, M.D., Physician in charge of the Electrical Department, Royal Victoria Hospital, Belfast. With 12 Plates. Demy 4to. 10s. 6d. net. WILLIAMS. EHINOLOGY : a Text-book of Diseases of the Nose and the Nasal Accessory Sinuses. By PATRICK WATSON WILLIAMS, M.D. (London). With 3 Coloured Plates and 44 Black and White Plates (of which 26 are Stereoscopic) and 140 Illustrations in the Text. 8to, 12s. 6d. net. With Stereoscope, 15s. net. MISCELLANEOUS. ANNUAL CHAEITIES EBGISTBE AND DIGEST: being a Classi- fied Register of Charities in or available for the Metropolis, together with a Digest of Information respecting the Legal, Voluntary, and other Means for the Prevention and Relief of Distress and the Improvement of the Condition of the Poor. With an elaborate Index, and an Introduction, "How to Help Cases of Distress". By C. S. LOCH, Secretary to the Council of the Charity Organisation Society, London. 8vo, 5s. net. GASKELL. THE OEIGIN OF VEETEBEATBS. By WALTER H. GASKELL, M.A., M.D. (Camb.), LL.D. (Edinburgh and McGill Univ., Montreal), P.R.S., Fellow of Trinity Hall and University Lecturer in Physiology, Cambridge. With 168 Illustrations. 8vo, 21s. net. HO BART. THE MEDICAL LANGUAGE OF ST. LUKE. By the Rev. WILLIAM KIRK HOBABT, LL.D. 8vo, 16s. HOPF. THE HUMAN SPECIES : CONSIDEEED FEOM THE STANDPOINTS OF COMPAEATIVE ANATOMY, PHYSI- OLOGY, PATHOLOGY AND BACTERIOLOGY. By Dr. LUDWIG HOPF. Authorised English Translation. With 7 Plates and 217 Illustrations in the Text. Svo, 10s. 6rf. net.MESSRS. LONGMANS' WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY, ETC. 11 MISCELLANEOUS—coKimwe^/. INQUIEY (AN) INTO THE PHENOMENA ATTENDING DEATH BY DEOWNING AND THE MEANS OF PEO- MOTING EESUSGITATION IN THE APPAEENTLY DEOWNED. Report of a Committee appointed by the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society. With 2 Diagrams and 26 Plates. 8vo, 5s. net. KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL BOOK OF COOKING EECIPES : being a Collection of Recipes contributed by Friends of the Hospital and Published in aid of the Fund for the Removal of King's College Hospital to South London. Crown 8vo, Is. net. MOON. THE EELATION OF MEDICINE TO PHILOSOPHY. By R. O. MOON, M.A., M.D. (Oxon.), F.R.C.P., Physician to the National Hospital for Diseases of the Heart, etc. Crown 8vo, 4«. 6d. net. PAGET. MEMOIES AND LETTEES OF SIE JAMES PAGET, Bart., F.R.S., Sergeant-Surgeon to Her late Majesty Queen Victoria. Edited by STEPHEN PAGET, F.R.C.S. With Portrait. Bvo, 6s. net. PETTIGREW. DESIGN IN NATUEE : illustrated by Spiral and other Arrangements in the Inorganic and Organic Kingdoms as exemplified in Matter, Force, Life, Growth, Rhythms, etc., especially in Crystals, Plants, and Animals. With Examples selected from the Reproductive, Alimentary, Respiratory, Circulatory, Nervous, Muscular, Osseous, Loco- motory, and other Systems of Animals. By J. BELL PETTIGREW, M.D., LL.D., F.R.S., F.R.C.P.; Laureate of the Institute of France ; late Chandos Professor of Anatomy and Medicine in the University, St. Andrews; Fellow of the Royal Botanical, Medico-Chirurgical, Royal Medical, Literary and Philosophical, Harveian and other Societies. Illustrated by nearly 2,000 Figures, largely original and from nature. In 3 vols. ito. 63s. net. POOLE. COOKEEY FOE THE DIABETIC. By W. H. and' Mrs. POOLE. With Preface by Dr. PAVY. Fcap. 8vo, 2s. 6d. RAFFETY, AN INTEODUCTION TO THE SCIENCE OF EADIO-ACTIVITY. By CHARLES W. RAFFETY. With 27 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 4s.- 6d. net. SUTHERLAND-GOWER. CLEANLINESS VEBSUS COE- EUPTION. By Lord RONALD SUTHERLAND-GOWER. With 11 Illustrations. Crown Bvo, paper covers, 6d. A plea for the more general adoption of cremation for huTnan bodies. WEBB. THE STATE AND THE DOCTOE. By SIDNEY and' BEATRICE WEBB. 8vo, 6s. net.12 MESSBS. LONGMANS' WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY, ETC. THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF MEDICINE. ^ ,7 '^''f^^°y°'^' Society of Medicine was formed in June, 1907, by the amalgavialion of tlie following London Medical Societies ;— The Royal Medical and Chirargical Society. The Pathological Society. The Epidemiological Society. The Odontologioal Society of Great Britain. The Obstetrical Society. The Clinical Society. The Dermatological Society. The British Gynascological Society. The Neurological Society. The British Laryngological, Rhinologi. cal, and Otological Association. The Laryngological Society. The Dermatological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. The Otological Society of the United Kingdom. The British Electro-therapeutic Society. The Therapeutical Society. The "Proceedings " of the Royal Society of Medicine are published monthly frovi November to July inclusive. The numbers contain the papers of, and the discussions read at each of the Sections during the previous month, and are so arranged that each Section can, if desired, be detached and bound separately at the end of tlie year. The Annual Subscription is £3 3s. net, which may be paid through any bookseller. Tlie price of each monthly number is 7s, 6cl. net. VETERINARY MEDICINE, ETC. FITZWYGRAM. HOESES AND STABLES. By Lieutenant- General Sir P. FITZWYGRAM, Bart. With 56 pages of Illustrations. 8vo, 3s. net. HAYES. TEAINING AND HOESE MANAGEMENT IN INDIA. With Hindustanee Vocabulary. By M. HORACE HAYES, P.R.C.V.S. (late Captain, "The Bufis"). With Portrait. Crown 8vo, 8s. net. STEEL. A TEEATISE ON THE DISEASES OF THE OX; being a Manual of Bovine Pathology. Especially adapted for the use of Veterinary Practitioners and Students. By JOHN HENRY STEEL, F.R.C.V.S., P.Z.S., A.V.D., late Professor of Veterinary Science and Prin- cipal of Bombay Veterinary College. With 2 Plates and 117 Woodcuts. 8vo, 15s. YOUATT.-WOEKS by WILLIAM YOUATT. THE HOESE. Revised and Enlarged by W. WATSON, M.R.C.V.S. With 52 Wood Engravings. 8vo, 7s. 6rf. THE DOG. Revised and Enlarged. With 33 Wood Engravings. 8vo, Cs.MESStlS. LONGMANS' WORKS ON MEDICINE, SUttOEBt, EfC. l3 PHYSIOLOGY, BIOLOGY, ZOOLOGY, ETC. ASH BY. NOTES ON PHYSIOLOGY FOE THE USE OE STUDENTS PEEPAEING EOE EXAMINATION. By HENRY ASHBY, M.D. (Lond.), F.R.C.P., late Physician to the General Hospital for Sick Children, Manchester ; Lecturer and Examiner in Diseases of Children in the Victoria University. Revised by HUGH T. ASHBY, B.A., M.B., B.C. (Camb.), M.R.C.P. (Lend.). With 147 Illus- trations. Crown 8vo, 5s. BARNETT. THE MAKING OF THE BODY: a Children's Book on Anatomy and Physiology. By Mrs. S. A. BARNETT. With 113 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, Is. 9d. BEDDARD. ELEMENTAEY PEACTICAL ZOOLOGY. By FRANK E. BEDDARD, M.A. (Oxon.). With 93 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2s. Gd. BIDGOOD. A COUESB OF PEACTICAL ELEMENTAEY . BIOLOGY. By JOHN BIDGOOD, B.Sc, F.L.S. With 226 Illustra- tions. Crown Svo, is. 6d. BOSE.— WORKS hj JAGADIS GHUNDER BOSE, M.A. (Cantab.), D.Sc. {Lond.), Professor, Presidency College, Calcutta. EESPONSE IN THE LIVING AND NON-LIVING. With 117 Illustrations. Svo, 10s. 6d. PLANT EESPONSE AS A MEANS OF PHYSIOLOGICAL INVESTIGATION. with 278 Illustrations. Svo. 21s. COMPAEATIVE ELECTEO-PHYSIOLOGY: A PHYSICO- PHYSIOLOGICAL STUDY. With 406 Illustrations and Classi- fied List of 321 new Experiments. Svo, 15s. net. BRODIE. THE ESSENTIALS OF EXPEEIMENTAL PHY- SIOLOGY. For the use of Students. By T. G. BRODIE, M.D., Lecturer on Physiology, St. Thomas's Hospital Medical School. With 2 Plates and 177 Illustrations in the Text. Crown Svo, 6s. 6d. CHAPMAN. THE FOEAMINIFEEA : an introduction to the Study of the Protozoa. By FREDERICK CHAPMAN, A.L.S., F.R.M.S. With 14 Plates and 42 Illustrations in the Text. Svo, 9s. net.14 MESSRS. LONGMANS' WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY, PHYSIOLOGY, BIOLOGY, ZOOLOGY, RTC.-continued. FURNEAUX. HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY. By w furneatix F.R.G.S. With 223 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. ' HALLIBURTON. THE ESSENTIALS OF CHEMICAL PHY- SIOLOGY. For the Use of Students. By W. D. HALLIBURTON LL.D., M.D., F.R.S., F.R.C.P., Professor of Physiology in King's College' London. With 71 Illustrations. 8vo, 4s. 6d. net. ' HUDSON AND GOSSE. THE EOTIEEEA OE "WHEEL ANIMALCULES ". By C. T. HUDSON, LL.D., and P. H. GOSSE, F.R.S. With 30 Coloured and 4 Uncoloured Plates. In 6 Parts. 4to, price 10s. 6d. each; Supplement, 12s. 6d. Complete in Two Volumes,' with Supplement, 4to, £4 4s. *,* The Plates in the Supplement contain figures of almost all the Foreign Species, as well as of the British Species, that have been discovered since the original publication of Vols. I. and II. LLOYD AND BIGELOW. THE TEACHING OP BIOLOGY IN THE SECONDAEY SCHOOL. By FRANCIS E. LLOYD, A.M., and MAURICE A. BIGELOW, Ph.D., Professors in Teachers' College, Columbia University. Crown 8vo, 6s. net. MACAUSTER.— rVOBKS by ALEXANDER MAGALISTEB, M.D. AN INTEODUCTION TO THE SYSTEMATIC ZOOLOGY AND MOEPHOLOGY OF VBETEBEATE ANIMALS. With 41 Diagrams. 8vo, 10s. 6d. ZOOLOGY OF THE INVEETEBEATE ANIMALS, with 77 Diagrams. Fcp. 8vo, Is. 6d. ZOOLOGY OF THE VEETEBEATE ANIMALS, with 59 Diagrams. Fcp. 8vo, Is. Gd. I^PkODO\JGM-L—WORKS hy DANIEL TREMBLY MAGDOUGALL, I'll. I). TEXT-BOOK OF PLANT PHYSIOLOGY, with 159 illustra- tions. 8vo, 7s. 6d. net. BLEMENTAEY PLANT PHYSIOLOGY. With IO8 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 3s.MESSRS. LONGMANS' WORKS ON MEDICINE, SUROERT, ETC. 15 trations (6 of which are Coloured). Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. PHYSIOLOGY, BIOLOGY, ZOOLOGY, 'ETC—continued. MARSHALL. THE PHYSIOLOGY OF EEPEODUCTION. By FRANCIS H. A. MARSHALL, M.A. (Cantab.), D.Sc. (Edin.), Fellow of Christ's College, Cambridge, and University Lecturer in Agricultnral Physiology. With Preface by Professor E. A. SCHAFER, Sc.D., LL.D., F.R.S., and Contributions by WILLIAM CRAMER, Ph.D., D Sc., and JAMES LOCHHEAD, M.A., M.D;, B.Sc, F.R.C.S.E. With 154 Illustra- tions. 8vo, 21s. net. MOORE. ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY AND ANATOMY. By BENJAMIN MOORE, D.Sc, Professor of Bio-Chemistry in the University of Liverpool. With 125 Illustrations. Grown 8vo, 3s. Gd. MORGAN. ANIMAL BIOLOGY. An Elementary Text-Book. By C. LLOYD MORGAN, F.R.S., Principal of University College, Bristol. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 8s. 6fZ. SCHAFER. DIRECTIONS FOR CLASS WORK IN PRAC- TICAL PHYSIOLOGY : Elementary Physiology of Muscle and Nerve and of the Vascular and Nervous Systems. By E. A. SCHAFER, LL.D., F.R.S., Professor of Physiology in the University of Edinburgh. With 48 Diagrams. 8vo, 3s. net. THORNTON.—^6iiJ7f,S hy JOHN THORNTON, M.A. HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY. With 284 Illustrations, some of which are Coloured. Crown 8vo, 6s. ELEMENTARY BIOLOGY, Descriptive and Experimental. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. ELEMENTARY PRACTICAL PHYSIOLOGY. With 178 illus-16 MESSRS. LONGMANS' WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY, HEALTH AND HYGIENE, ETC. IPBELL. PE CAMPBELL, L. 7s. 6d. I, M.D. Thoroughly Revised by 9- HINTS TO MOTHEES ON THE MANAGEMENT OE THEIR HEALTH DUEING THE PBEIOD OP PEEGNANCY AND HINTS ON NUESING. Fop. 8vo, sewed, Is. &d.; cloth, gilt edges, THE MATEENAL MANAGEMENT OF CHILDEEN IN HEALTH AND DISEASE. Fop. Svo, sewed, is. Gd. ■ cloth, gilt BUTTERWORTH. MANUAL OF HOUSEHOLD WOEK AND MANAGEMENT. By ANNIE BUTTERWORTH. Grown Svo, 2s. Qd. CORFIELD, THE LAWS OF HEALTH. By w. H. corfield, CREIGHTON. THE ECONOMICS OF THE HOUSEHOLD. Six Lectures given at the London School of Economics during the Winter of 1906. By LOUISE CREIGHTON. Grown Svo, Is. 4d. FURNEAUX. ELEMENTAEY PEAOTICAL HYGIENE. Sec- tion I. By WILLIAM S. FURNEAUX. With 146 Illustrations. Crown JAMES. BALL GAMES AND BEEATHING EXEECISES. By ALICE R. JAMES. With Preface by HARRY CAMPBELL, M.D., B.S. (London), P.R.C.P. With 17 Illustrations. Crown Svo, Is. &d. edges, 2s. net. M.A., M.D. Fcp. Svo, Is. Qd. Svo, 2s. 6d.MESSRS. LONGMANS' WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY, ETC. 17 HEALTH AND HYGIENE, RTC.—conthtued. NOTTER AND F\RTH.-WORKS by J. LANE NOTTEB, M.A., M.D., and R. H. FIRTH, F.R.aS. HYGIENE. With 99 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6^. PEACTICAL DOMESTIC HYGIENE. with 84 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. POORE—WORKS by GEORGE VIVIAN POORE, M.D., F.R.C.P. THE EAETH IN EELATION TO THE PEESEEVATION AND DESTEUCTION OF CONTAGIA: being the Milroy Lectures delivered at the Boyal College of Physicians in 1899, together with other Papers on Sanitation. 13 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 5s. ESSAYS ON EUEAL HYGIENE. With 12 lUustrations. Crown 8vo, 6s. 6d. THE DWELLING HOUSE. With 36 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. COLONIAL AND CAMP SANITATION, with ii lUustrations- Crown 8vo, 2s. net. PORTER—WORKS by CHARLES PORTER, M.D., B.Sc, M.R.C.P. SCHOOL HYGIENE AND THE LAWS OF HEALTH : a Text- Book for Teachers and Students in Training. With 121 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 3s. &d. SANITAEY LAW IN QUESTION AND ANSWEE. For the use of Students of Public Health. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. net. This book is primarily intended to assist candidates for Diplomas in Public Health and the certificates of the various exarhining bodies grant- ing qualifications to Sanitary Inspectors, in their study of the Sanitary Laws of England and Wales. As many of the queries in the book are such as have to be dealt with almost daily in practice, the volume should prove of value also to those already in the Public Health Service, as a reference book and guide to Sanitary Legislation. ROBINSON. THE HEALTH OF OUE CHILDEEN IN THE COLONIES : a Book for Mothers. By LILIAN AUSTEN ROBIN- SON, M.D. Crown 8vo, 2s. Gd. net. WEST. HOW TO NUESE SICK CHILDEEN. By CHARLES WEST, M.D., Founder of and late Physician to the Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormond Street, London. With Preface by GEORGE F. STILL, M.D., Physician to the Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormond Street. Crown Svo, Is. net.18 MESSRS. LONGMANS' WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY, ETC. BACTERIOLOGY, ETC. CURTIS. THE ESSENTIALS OF PEACTICAL BACTEEI- OLOGY: an Elementary Laboratory Work for Students and Practitioners. By H. J. CURTIS, B.S. and M.D. Lond., F.R.C.S., formerly Surgeon to the North-Eastem Hospital for Children; Assistant Surgeon, Royal Hospital for Children and Women, Waterloo Road ; Surgical Registrar and Assistant to the Professor of Pathology, University College, London. With 133- ^ Illustrations. 8vo, 9s. ELLIS. OUTLINES OF BACTEEIOLOGY (Technical and Agri- cultural). By DAVID ELLIS, Ph.D. (Marburg), D.Sc. (London),. P.R.S.B., Lecturer in Bacteriology and Botany to the Glasgow and West of Scotland Technical College, Glasgow. With 134 Illustrations. 8vo, 7s. 6d. net. FRANKLAND. BACTEEIA IN DAILY LIFE. By Mrs. PERCY ERANKLAND, F.R.M.S. Crown 8vo, 5s. net. GOADBY. THE MYCOLOGY OP THE MOUTH: A TEXT- BOOK OF OEAL BACTEEIA. By KENNETH W. GOADBY, L.D.S. Eng., D.P.H. Camb., L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S., Bacteriologist and. Lecturer on Bacteriology, National Dental Hospital, etc. With 82. Illustrations. 8vo, 8s. &d. net. KLbCKER. FEEMENTATION OEGANISMS. a Laboratory Handbook. By ALB. KLOCKER, Assistant in the Carlsberg Laboratory, Copenhagen. Translated from the German by G. B. ALLAN, B.So., Lecturer in the University of Birmingham, and J. H. MILLAR, P.I.C., formerly Lecturer in the British School of Malting and Brewing, and revised by the Author. With 146 Illustrations. 8vo, 12s. net.MESSRS. LONGMANS' WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY, ETC.19 OPTICS, PHOTOGRAPHY, ETC. ABNEY. A TEEATISE ON PHOTOGEAPHY. By Sir WILLIAM DE WIVELESLIE ABNEY, K.C.B., P.R.S. With 134 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 5s. BALY. SPECTEOSOOPY. By E. C. C. BALY, F.I.C., Professor of Chemistry in the University of Liverpool. With 163 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6d. DRUDE. THE THEOEY OF OPTICS. By PAUL DRUDE, Pro- fessor of Physics at the University of Giessen. Translated from the German by C. BIBORG MANN and ROBERT A. MILLIKAN, Professors of Physics at the University of Chicago. With 110 Diagrams. 8vo, 15s. net. GLAZEBROOK. PHYSICAL OPTICS. By R. T. glazebrook, M.A., P.R.S. With 183 Woodcuts of Apparatus, etc. Crown 8vo, 6s. MEES. AN ATLAS OF ABSOEPTION SPECTEA. By C. E KENNETH MEES, D.Sc. Crown Svo, 6s. net. POLLOK. PEACTICAL SPECTEOGEAPHIC ANALYSIS. By J. H. POLLOK, D.Sc. Crown 8vo. SHEPPARD AND MEES. INVESTIGATION ON THE THEOEY OF THE PHOTOGEAPHIC PEOCESS. By S E. SHEPPARD, D.Sc. (Lond.), 1851 Exhibition Scholar of University College, London, and C. E. KENNETH MEES, D.Sc. (Lond.). With 65 Illustrations and Diagrams. Crown Svo, 6s. 6d. net. VANDERPOEL. COLOUE PEOBLEMS : A Practical Manual for the Lay Student of Colour. By EMILY NOYES VANDERPOEL. With 117 Plates in Colour. Square 8vo, 21s. net. WRIGHT. OPTICAL PEOJECTION : a Treatise on the Use of the Lantern in Exhibition and Scientific Demonstration. By, LEWIS WRIGHT, Author of " Light: a Course of Experimental Optics ". With 243 Illustrations. Crown Svo, 6s.20 MESSRS. LONGMANS' WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY, ETC. CHEMISTRY, ETC. ARMITAGE. A HISTOEY OF GHBMISTEY. By P. P. ARMITAGE, M.A., F.O.S. Crown 8vo, 6s. ARRHENIUS.—W'"0J2ir« % SVANTE ARRHENIUS, Director of tlie JVobd Institute, Stockholm. THEOEIBS OF CHEMISTEY: being Lectures delivered at the University of California, in Berkeley. Edited by T. SLATER PRICE, D.Sc, Ph.D., P.I.C. 8vo, 5s. 6d. net. A TEXT-BOOK OF ELEGTEO - CHEMISTEY. Translated from the German Edition by JOHN McCRAE, Ph.D. With 58 Illustra- tions. 8vo, 9s. 6d. net. BUNGE. TEXT-BOOK OF OEGANIC CHEMISTEY FOE MEDICAL STUDENTS. By Dr. G. VON BUNGE, Professor of Physiology in the University of Basel. Translated by R. H. ADBRS PLIMMER, D.Sc. 8vo, 6s. net. CROOKES. SELECT METHODS IN CHEMICAL ANALYSIS (chiefly inorganic). By Sir W. CROOKES, O.M., P.R.S. With 68 lUus- trations. 8vo, 21s. net. FIND LAY. PEACTICAL PHYSICAL CHEMISTEY By alex. EINDLAY, M.A., Ph.D., D.Sc. With 92 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. GODFREY. ELEMENTAEY CHEMISTEY. By HOLLIS GOD- FREY, Head of the Department of Science, Girls' High School of Prac- tical Arts, Boston, Mass. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. net. HANSON AND DODGSON. AN INTEEMEDIATE COUESE OF LABOEATOEY WOEK IN CHEMISTEY. By EDWARD KENNETH HANSON, M.A. (Cant.), P.I.C, Teachers' Diploma (Lond.); Lecturer in Chemistry, University College, Reading; Lecturer to the Cambridge University Local Lecture Syndicate, and JOHN WALLIS DODGSON, B.Sc. (Lond.); Director of Evening Classes and Lecturer in Chemistry, University College, Reading. With Illustrations. 8vo, 3s. 6d. MENDELEEFF. THE PEINCIPLES OF CHEMISTEY. By D. MENDELfiEPP. Translated from the Russian (Seventh Edition) by GEORGE KAMENSKY, A.R.S.M., and Edited by THOMAS H. POPE, B.Sc, P.I.C. With 110 Illustrations. 2 vols. 8vo, 32s. net. MEYER. OUTLINES OF THEOEETICAL CHEMISTEY. By LOTHAR MEYER. Translated by Professors P. PHILLIPS BED- SON, D.Sc, and W. CARLETON WILLIAMS, B.Sc. 8vo, 9s. MUIR. A COUESE OF PEACTICAL CHEMISTEY. By M. M. PATTISON MUIR, M.A., P.R.S.E. Part I. Elementary. Cr. 8vo, 4s. 6d. Part II. Intermediate. Cr. 8vo, 4s. 6d.MESSRS. LONGMANS' WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY, ETCH CHEMISTRY, "ETC.—continued. NEWTH.—TFOE/iTS hy G. S. NEWTH, F.I.C., F.G.S. CHEMICAL LECTUEE EXPEEIMENTS. With 230 illustra- tions. Crown 8vo, 6s. MANUAL OF CHEMICAL ANALYSIS, QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE. With 102 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 6s. 6d. SMALLER CHEMICAL ANALYSIS. Crown 8vo, 2s. A TEXT-BOOK OF INOEGANIC CHEMISTEY. With 15 Illustrations. Crown Svo, 6s. 6d. ELEMENTAEY PEACTICAL CHEMISTEY. with 108 illustra- tions and 254 Experiments. Crown Svo, 2s. Qd. OSTWALD. THE FUNDAMENTAL PEINCIPLES OF CHEMISTEY. An Introduction to all Text-Books of Chemistry. By WILHELM OSTWALD. Authorised Translation by HABBY W. MOBSE. 8vo, 7s. 6d. net. PERK\H.—WORKS by F. MOLL WO PERKIN, Ph.D. QUALITATIVE CHEMICAL ANALYSIS (OEGANIC AND INOEGANIC). With 16 Illustrations and Spectrum Plate. 8vo, 4s. 6rf. PEACTICAL METHODS OF BLECTEO-CHEMISTEY. 8vo, 6s. net. PLIMMER. PEACTICAL PHYSIOLOGICAL CHEMISTEY. By E. H. ADEES PLIMMEB, D.Sc, A.ssistant Professor of Physiological Chemistry, University College, London. With Coloured Plate of Aboorp. tion Spectra and 49 Illustrations in the Text. Boyal 8vo, 6s. net. PRICE AND TWISS. A COUESE OF PEACTICAL OEGANIC CHEMISTRY. By T. SLATEB PBICE, D.Sc, Ph.D., F.LC, Head of the Chemical Department of the Birmingham Municipal Technical School, and D. F. TWISS, M.Sc, A.I.C., Lecturer in Chemistry at the Birmingham Municipal Technical School. 8vo, 3s. 6d. RADCLIFFE AND SINNATT. A SYSTEMATIC COUESE OF PEACTICAL OEGANIC CHEMISTEY. By LIONEL GUY BAD- OLIFEE, F.C.S. With the assistance of FBANK STUEDY SINNATT, F.C.S. 8vo, 4s. 6d. REYNOLDS. EXPEEIMENTAL CHEMISTEY for Junior Students. By J. EMEESON EEYNOLDS, M.D., F.E.S. Foap. Svo, with numerous Illustrations. Part I.—Introductory, Is. Qd. Part III.—Metals and Allied Bodies, 3s. &d. Part II.—Non-Metals, 2s. 6d. Part IV.—Oiemistry of Carbon Compounds, is. SMITH AND HALL. THE TEACHING OF CHEMISTEY AND PHYSICS IN THE SECONDAEY SCHOOL. ByALEX- ANDEE SMITH, B.Sc, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Chemistry in the University of Chicago, and EDWIN H. HALL, Ph.D., Professor of Physics in Harvard University. With 21 Woodcuts, Bibliographies, and Index. Crown Svo, 6s. net.22 MESSRS. LONGMANS' WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY. CHEMISTRY, RTC—continued. STEW ART.-TVORKS by A. W. STEWART, D.Sc. EECENT ADVANCES IN OEGANIC CHEMISTEY witi, an Introduction by J. NORMAN COLLIE, Ph.D., LL D PRS Pm fessor of Organic Chemistry in University CoUege, London. 8vo, 'is 6d EECENT ADVANCES IN PHYSICAL AND INOEGANIC k?r^I^-?P"q ^^"V^J' Introduction by Sir WILLIAM RAMSAY, iv.O.J3., F.R.S. Svo, 7s. 6a. net. THORPE. A DICTIONAEY OF APPLIED CHEMT^TPV By Sir T. E. THORPE, C.B., D.Sc. Vict., Ph E.KS AsSt^W Eminent Contributors. 3 vols. Svo. Vols I and TT £9 o! I (Postage, 3s. id.); Vol. III., £3 3s. "^"^^ TlLDEN.-TForks by Sir WILLIAM A. TILDEN, D.Sc. London, F.R.S. A SHOET HISTOEY OF THE PEOGEESS OF SCIENTIFIC CHEMISTEY IN OUE OWN TIMES. Crown st 5. net INTEODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF CHEMICAL PHILO- w??'?Tn„-?^\^- ^"°°'Pl«« of Theoretical and Systematic Chemistry. Sown Svo 5s 6d°'''" ' "^^^^ ANSWERS to Problems. WATTS' DICTIONAEY OF CHEMISTEY. Revised and entirely Re-written by H. PORSTER MORLEY, M.A., D.Sc, Fellow of. and lately Assistant-Professor of Chemistry in. University College, London • and M M. PATTISON MUIR, M-a' F.R.S.B. Assisted by' Em^neni Contributors. 4 vols. Svo. £5 net. WESTON. A SCHEME FOE THE DETECTION OF THE MOEE COMMON CLASSES OF CAEBON COMPOUNDS. By PRANK E. WESTON. B.Sc. London (First Class Honours). PCS Lecturer in Chemistry at the Polytechnic. Regent Street. W. Svo. 2s'. WHITELEY.-fFOie/iTS bn R. L. Whildey, F.I.C., Principal of the Municipal Science School, West lirmmokh. CHEMICAL CALCULATIONS, with Explanatory Notes. Problems, and Answers, specially adapted for use in Colleges and Science Schools. With a Preface by Professor P. CLOWES. D.Sc. (Loud.), P.I.C. Crown Svo. 2s. OEGANIC CHEMISTEY: the Patty Compounds. With 45 Illustra- tions. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d.MESSRS. LONGMANS' WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY, ETC. 23 TEXT.BOOKS OF PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY. Edited by Sir WILLIAM RAMSAY, K.C.B., F.R.S., D.Sc. Crown 8vo. STOICHIOMETEY. By SYDNEY YOUNG, D.Sc, P.E.S., Professor o Chemistry in the University of Dublin ; together with AN INTRODUC- TION TO THE STUDY OP PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY, by Sib WILLIAM RAMSAY, K.C.B., P.R.S., Editor of the Series. 7s. 6d. CHEMICAL STATICS AND DYNAMICS, INCLUDING THE THEOEIES OF CHEMICAL CHANGE, CATALYSIS, AND EXPLOSIONS. By J. W. MELLOR, D.Sc, B.Sc. 7s. 6d. THE PHASE EULE AND ITS APPLICATIONS. By ALEX. FINDLAY, M.A., Ph.D., D.Sc, Lecturer and Demonstrator in Chemistry, University of Birmingham. With 134 Figures in the Text. 5s. SPBCTEOSCOPY. By E. C. C. BALY, F.I.C., Professor of Chemistry in the University of Liverpool. With 163 Illustrations. 10s. 6d. THEEMOCHEMISTEY. By JULIUS THOMSEN, Emeritus Professor of Chemistry in the University of Copenhagen. Translated by KATHARINE A. BURKE, B.Sc (Lond.), Assistant in the Department of Chemistry, University College, London. 9s. ELECTEO-CHEMISTEY. PAET I.—GENEEAL THEOEY. By R. A. LEHFELDT, D.Sc, Transvaal University College, Johannes- burg. Including a Chapter on the Relation of Chemical Constitution to Conductivity, by T. S. MOORE, B.A., B.Sc, Lecturer in the University of Birmingham. 5s. ELECTEO-CHEMISTEY. PAET II.—APPLICATIONS TO ELECTEOLYSIS, PEIMAEY AND SECONDAEY BAT- TEEIBS, ETC. By N. T. M. WILSMORE, D.Sc. [In preparation. STBEEOCHBMISTEY. By A. W. STEWART, D.Sc, Carnegie Research Fellow of University College, London. With 87 Illustrations. 10s. Qd. THE THEOEY OF VALENCY. By g. newton friend, Ph.D. (Wiirz), D.Sc. (Birmingham). 5s. ' METALLOGEAPHY. By CECIL H. DESCH, D.Sc. (Lond.), Ph.D. (Wurzb.) ; Graham Young Lecturer in Metallurgical Chemistry in the University of Glasgow. With 14 Plates and 108 Diagrams in the Text. 9s. THE EELATIONS BETWEEN CHEMICAL CONSTITUTION AND SOME PHYSICAL PEOPEETIES. By SAMUEL SmLES, D.Sc, Fellow of University College, and Assistant Professor of Organic Chemistry at University College, London University. 14s. THEEMODYNAMICS. By P. G. DONNAN, M.A., Ph.D. [Inpreparati^v. ACTINOCHEMISTEY. By S. E. SHEPPARD, D.Sc. [Inpreparation. PEACTICAL SPECTEOGRAPHIO ANALYSIS. By J. H. POLLOK, [In preparation!.2i MESSRS. LONGMANS' WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY, ETC. MONOGRAPHS ON BIOCHEMISTRY. Edited by E. H. ADERS PLIMMER, D.Sc, and F. GOWLAND HOPKINS D.Sc, F.R.S. Royal 8vo. In these volumes an attempt is being made to make the subject of Bio- chemistry more accessible by issuing a series of monographs upon the various chapters of the subject, each independent of and yet dependent upon the others, so that from time to time, as new material and the demand therefor necessitate, a new edition of each monograph can be issued without reissuing the whole series. The expenses of publication and the expense to the purchaser will thus be diminished, and by a moderate outlay it will be possible to obtain a full account of any particular subject as nearly current as possible. THE DEVELOPMENT AND PEESENT POSITION OF BIO- LOGICAL GHEMISTEY. By F. GOWLAND HOPKINS, M.A., M.B., D.Sc, F.R.S., Prselector in Biochemistry in the University of Cambridge. [In preparation. THE NATUEE OF ENZYME ACTION. By w. M. bayliss, D.Sc, F.R.S., Assistant Professor of Physiology, University College, London. 3s. net. THE CHEMICAL CONSTITUTION OF THE PKOTEINS. By R. H. ADERS PLIMMER, D.Sc, Teacher of Chemistry at University College, London. In 2 Parts. Part 1, 3s. net; Part 2, 2s. 6d. net. THE GENEEAL CHAEACTEES OF THE PEOTEINS. By S. B. SCHRYVER, D.Sc, Ph.D., Lecturer on Physiological Chemistry, University College, London. 2s. 6d. net. THE VEGETABLE PEOTEINS. By THOMAS B. OSBORNE, Ph.D., Research Chemist in the Connecticut Agricultural Experiment Station, New Haven, Connecticut; Research Associate of the Carnegie Institution of Washington, D.C. 3s. 6d. net. THE SIMPLE CAEBOHYDEATES AND THE GLUCOSIDES. By E. FRANKLAND ARMSTRONG, D.Sc, Ph.D., Associate of the City and Guilds of London Institute. 3s. 6d. net. THE FATS. By J. B. LEATHES, D.Sc, Professor of Chemical Pathology in the University of Toronto. 4s.net. [In the press. THE POLYSACCHAEIDBS. By ARTHUR R. LING, F.I.C. [In preparation. COLLOIDS. By W. B. HARDY, M.A., F.R.S. [In preparation. ALCOHOLIC FEEMENTATION. By H. HARDEN, D.Sc, F.R.S. [In preparation. if.—6,000—A. u. p.—x/1910.